{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1948__von_vay___spirit_power_and_matter.pdf","mytitle":"Spirit Power And Matter","mylang":"de"}
SPIRIT, POWER, AND MATTER
Edited By
CATHARINA, ADELMA AND OEDOEN VAY
Translated By
Robert E. Shiller, J.D., M.B.A.,
and
Grace H. Shiller, Ph.D.
COPYRIGHT 1948
BY A. BABOS
P.O. BOX 1980
CL'EVELAND, 6, OHIO
Baroness Adelma Yay, when
"Spirit, Power, and Matter"
was written by her in the year 1869
FIRST PREFACE
The affixed signature confirms that the author has written
the :following chapters in a meclianic way. This means that she
had never before embraced the idea of a law of numbers or
of any posit ive studies of a related nature. She had a pious
Christian education without any special scientific training. She
has learned, by this medianic work, of things which were com-
pletely strange to her before. For three years, guided by this
spiritual influence, her mind was carefully educated and de-
veloped. This book was written as a result of that education
and expcl"icnce. During this time, she could not do anything
but sunender to God's will and to pray continuously. The
author, in writing this book, conveys to humanity t he holy gift
that she has received, sure in the thought that it is God's will.
Baroness Adelma Vay
v
SECOND PREFACE
The person signing this preface confirms that he was an
eyewitness, for th·ree years, of the writing of this book. His
wife, the medium, suddenly felt the irresistible urge to write
spontaneously and mechanically. Inspired by beautiful and up-
lifting words of the spiritual guides and encouraged by many
successful cures .qf sick people, she continued medianic writing
until this book·.. was accomplished. The manifestations came
suddenly, without any preparation, and were thus written so
hastily that organization of the material during its writing
was impossible.
The person signing this preface copied in two hours what
the medium had written in only half an hour. He believes in
the truth of these words, in the purity of their source as well
as in the mechanic mediumism and inspiration, since he has
undeniable proof of theh· existence. He believes he will fulfill
a holy mission by editing this book.
Baron Oedoen Vay
vi
THIRD PREFACE
By the Spiritual Guides of the Medium
In order that this revelation of God's will might be described
to men, it was necessary to use human expressions, words, and
ideas. The latter are clearly incapable of conveying our exact
message of the primordial origin of the universe.
The word v·ibration is defined as the power of progenera-
tion, assimilation is the power of giving birth and of conceiving,
and primO?·dial-light describes the origin and spiritualization
of all matter. Primordial matter seems to be too materialistic
an expression.
The :first creation of the primordial light is the od-light,
which describes a second light. Molecules are defined as very
small parts, and moleculcM· power is the power of these indi-
vidual small parts. Rotctting is defined as a development and
a turning movement. Solar··ic is the particular light, the par-
ticular power, and the particular fluid. T (!)llttr-ic is everything
that was received.
Centr·ifugal power· is a repulsion coming from a center.
Centripetal power is em attraction, also coming from a center.
Att?·action and r·e7ndsion are the general attraction and repul-
sion.
Rea,l means positive and true. Conc?·ete describes something
that exists. It is an explaining and completing real. Abstr·act
is the total explanation and supplement of real. considered and
viewed from all sides. Conclusions are, however, always based
on the real, as the law o:f numbers does prove.
The above definitions, then, were used in the writing of
this book.
61
vii
TABLE OF CONTENTS
BOOK I
Chapter Page
I. Primordial Origin ·········--····································--·-·-·-·--·· I
2. The Life-Principle ·-··------··-··---··--···-·------··---------···-------·----- 7
3. The First-Borns ·····-·----·-···--···-··-······-··-----··-----·-··--·-···-··---· I I
4. The Fracture ·-·····························--·-·····-···-···············--·--··· I6
5. Inclusion of the Contrast into the Law of Nature ........ 21
6. First Grade of the Universe ··············-··········---·······------- 26
7. Second Grade of the Universe ---·-··--·-····-·-···----·-·····---··- 30
8. Third Grade of the Universe ·····-·····--·-··············----------··· 34
9. Fourth Grade of the Universe ·---········-····------------------····- 38
I0. f-ifth Grade of the Universe .......................................... 41
II. Sixth Grade of the Universe --------------------------·······--------- 45
12. Sixth Grade of the Universe (Continued} -------------------- 49
13. Seventh Grade of the Universe, Second Fracture ---·-- 53
BOOK II
14. Development .................................................................... 57
15. Reconciling Development .............................................. 63
16. Embryonic Spirits ............................................................ 67
17. Third Fracture ............................................._
___________
_
________ 71
18. Threefold Disentanglement from the Chaos ................ 79
19. Third, Fourth and Fifth Solaric Systems ------------------------ 83
20. Sixth Suns ........................................................................ 89
21. About the Life-Principle ................................................ 95
22. The Earth as a Microcosm .............................................. 98
23. The Idea of God on Earth ............................................ I02
24. Sensual Incarnations and Death ...................................... I07
25. The Spiritual Abilities of Men ...................................... 116
26. Reflections About Magnetism and Electricity of the
Earth ................................................................................ 122
viii
BOOK Ill
27. Involution ........................................................................ 125
28. 2nd Involution ----------------···--··-····-----·········---···-··············--· 131
29. 3rd Involution ···························--------------------------------------- 132
30. 4i-h Involution ------------------------------------------------------------------ 134
31. 5th Involution ·----------------------------------------------------------------- 135
32. 6th Involution ------------------------------------------------------------------ 136
33. 7th and 8th Involution ---------------------------------------------------- 137
34. 9th and IOth Involution -------------·-···----·-·········--·····----·····- 138
35. II th and 12th Involution ................................................ 139
36. 13th and 14th Involution ................................................ 140
37. Spiritual Missions on Earth ----------------················-··········· 142
38. One More Glance on the Earth ··-·-------------------------------- 144
39. Our Word of Conclusion -------------------·····-·····------------------ 145
Appendix A. Charts I to 15 ·-----------------··············-·····-···---· 147
Appendix B. Charts of Involution, I to I0 ........................ 162
ix
Printed in U. S. A.
1948
THE PROGRESS PRESS
Brea, California
X
BOOK I
CHAPTER I
Primordial Origin
"In the beginning was the Word and the Word was with
God and the Word was God. All things were made by Him, and
without Him was not anything made that was made." This
quotation is found in the Gospel according to Saint John. Ac-
cording to the Old Testament, God was the beginning. These
are significant words-"God was the beginning," meaning that
God was all. In the beginning was the Word. That means it
was something, an idea, an animating principle-a Word!
Where was this Word? It was with God! And who was this
Word? God was this Word! So God and the Word are one.
Everything has been created by the same Word. Nothing
that was made has been made without it. Thus, the inspired
apostle made clear that God is and that He created from the
beginning, but He does not tell us how He is. Nor does he
tell us how it happened and by which powers it was that God
was created.
Jesus calls Him "a spirit," saying, "God is spirit." There-
fore, He is the "beginning," the "Word," and "the spirit" which
is active and which is creative. If He is the creator of every-
thing· to be seen, He must be the Supreme Intelligence, the
Supreme Love, and the Strongest Will. He must be the Utmost
that can be imagined. Only this can be capable of creation.
Only these qualities can bring together a logical completeness.
Yes, He must be absolute and unchangeable in Himself. Only
thus can He be Center and Motor of the universe, Creator of
unchangeable laws of nature. Above all, He must have within
Himself everything that exists. He must have it in the high-
est potency. Only thus can He create everything that is.
Oh men! God! God!
He exists-He is alive. He creates, He guides, and He
conserves the universe through unchangeable laws similar and
relative to Him. Everything follows these laws-the plants,
1
the animals, and the pebbles on the beaches. In the midst of
it, He is the unchangeable absolute God and Creator--eompre-
hending everything within Himself, giving everything out of
Himself- Light, life, and motion.
The more that can be told about His essentiality, in man's
poor mortal language, the more one must be overcome by His
infinite sovereignty! God is so great, so incomprehensible, that
the highest and purest beings cannot perceive Him. God com-
bines in Himself all, in a concentrated spiritual measure.
Therefore, He is spirit and power. He is light, a concentrated,
spiritualized matte1·, the highest material potency.
It can be said that God is spi1'it, powe1·, and matter, since
the primordial-light is also the first spark and sperm to mat-
ter. It is spirit, power , and primordial-light, since by matter is
meant something that can be touched and perceived through
senses. This light is just that, in its highest potency.
God's material expression is the p1·imordial-light. All intel-
ligence expresses itself by something in order to bring out
effects. So God is expressing Himself by vibrations as a power
and by the primordial-light as mattm·. His qualifications are
just as eternal as His spi1
'it. They are forever and for eternity
inseparably one with Him.
A spirit without ability of expression or without organs
(although "organs" is a much too human expression) would be
like powe1· without matte1·. It would be nothing and it would be
ineffective.
The spiritual principle, God, comprises the highest potency,
the highest reason and intelligence, as well as the highest
power which is resting in His unlimited will and vibrations.
It comprises also the highest potency of matter which is pri-
mordial-light.
Everything is born out of these three: spirit, power, and
primordial-light. It is born in intensifications and mutations
which are called creation. From the smallest particle of dust
to the highest intelligence, everything is spirit, power, and
matter. They are, therefore, one, in their effect. Power and
2
matter, alone, without spirit would be dead, since spirit is
their power. Power and matter are, on the other hand, needed
as much by the spirit for his work and creation, as they need
it for their animation.
Spirit without powe · and matter would be inactive and
inapt. Power and matter without spirit would be lifeless-dead.
All three together are one, are life, are creation!
Therefore, all th1
·ee in thei r existence are inseparably one.
They manifest themselves, not only in God, but everywhere, in
everything as a trinity. They appear in worm and in man, in
the molecule and in the most beautiful total work; because
everything is relative to the trinity of God, but God alone is
absolute and positive.
It is the effect of the One highest potency of the three, the
effect of the absolute Holy Trinity of God, that these three are
forming all that exists. They form it logical1y through un-
changeable laws. 'l'hese laws of nature are unchangeable since
God, their creator, is constant. They do not know any miracles
because they do not need them. The unknown appears only to
nearsighted mortals as a miracle. The natural sciences are an
unlimited field to th~ explorer. This is known to any scientist.
These laws, however, are not limited to arbitrary power, and
to matter. Some people may try to make you believe that these
laws are limited, but they have no proof to offer. Science should
not limit itself in any way, especially not where the proof
of God and of the spirit principle are concerned.
Learning is unlimited. It is illogical to deny that. Science
experiences leat·ning daily, since it doest not know the cause,
the truth, and the reason of all existence. Science finds that
time and research refute hypotheses and explain former miracles
as laws. What appears as arbitrary action, is also the effect of
unknown laws. You let yourself be guided, arbitrarily, through
power and matter, instead of searching for what are so far un-
known but important spiritual laws. The goal of our book is to
give logical proof for the hig·hest intelligence is God.
Let us say still more about the primordial-light which may
be referred to as primordial solarity, the center of the universe
3
around which the universe is rotating. The primordial-light
has no turning movement. It works through vibrations. Just as
God is unchangeable and works only through the incomprehen-
sible power of His spirit, and just as God is all-present, the
primordial-light is just so all-present as God. But while God
is spiritually unchangeable in His presence, the primordial-light
is submitted to changes.
Since God is without end, is infinite, He also extends His
primor dial-light eternally. God is therefore present in the
universe not only by His will and by His love, but also by His
matter through primordial-light and its changes of condensa-
tions. God is eternity; time is nothing to Him. He knows only
laws by which He governs the universe. God's working is as
eternal as He is Himself. But in spite of His eternal working,
there is no overcrowding in the universe, because of the law of
unification which forms the third book of this work.
Creation and birth of things would end only with God. Both
are without end, since He is eternal. There are men who deny
this e~ernal continuous life because they cannot connect this
eternal cr eating and new growth with the eternal continuation
of all c1·eation. This thought is very unscientific and it has
caused many incorrect theories and philosophies.
We repeat, in the beginning was God, His power and His
primordial-light. W.e want to prove by this that the universe
had an intelligent beginning, and that this beginning must
have been something utterly complete, the essence of spirit,
power, and matter.
Without primordial intelligence, no logical law and no uni-
verse could be imagined. Spirit, power, and primordial-light
are the parents of the universe. But what was it that they did
create? Where was it that the germ of life has been planted?
This is treated in the second chapter. Eve1·ything streams from
God and everything streams towards Him. We now compare
God, the beginning, with the number one.
4
THE LAW OF NUMBERS WHICH RUNS PARALLEL TO
THE ABSTRACT WORK
There is a source, in its prime existence, from which every-
thing flows. There is an original figure, in its prime existence,
from which all other numbers originate as an orderly law. This
original or basic number is one; you can never think or conclude
correctly unless you begin with God. Also, you cannot figure
c:Jrrectly unless you begin with the basic number one. Without
God and without the original number one, there is no thorough
scier.ce-and no beginning-nothing. All things which can be
perceived are the multiplications of the basic number and belong
to it.
Those people who reach conclusions only after a considera-
tion of data which can be perceived or touched, must stop at the
limits of the perceivable world without further insight. They
will never arrive at unchangeable firm ground, since they
conclude from the mass and not from the unity. It is just the
same as if you would start a computation at its end.
We said in God were three, namely: spirit, power, and
primordial-light. In the number one, there are three: the
beginning, a point which in its expansion goes on to a second
point. This is the basic one which has three within itself. This
is a beginning point, a line and an ending point--1. This means
"1" (God) is the beginning and the end. If 1 were only a
period, it would be only a point and not a number, but because
1 has three in itself, it is an addition capable of multiplication.
The number 1 is absolute. The other numbers are relative.
\Ve explain the law of numbers in three ways:
(l) The real is this
I . It names the absolute 1 (God) .
(2) The concrete 1 describes 1, 2, and 3, or spirit, power,
IA2
and primordial-light, or as a diagram: /......):;.
3
(3) The abstract 1: here are 3 in 1. This means if each
5
triangle is 1 in itself, a triangle will include three, or as a
diagram: ,&
This includes God in double qualities, meaning: spirit and
love, power and vibration, primordial-light and assimilation.
The one is all over .an absolute, number, an absolute whole figure.
real 1 /
Compare: concrete 1 6.
abstract 1 A
The number 1 is a whole, creating out of itself and con-
tracting again into itself. The above diagrams should make per-
ceivable and under standable the logic of what has been said.
The r eal God is-short and simply-one. I The con-
crete God is 3 in a whole, meaning spirit, power, and primordial-
light in God- -three ideas in one. The concrete 1 is 1, 2, 3 in 1 or
6_ ,3 in a diagram.
The abstract God is God, thoug·ht abstractly in His real
and concrete char acter. The abstract 1 is the real and concrete
1 drawn in all its meanings :
The r eal in the abstract is the point of the
beginning ---·············---··--·-----------··-----··---·-···--··--·----- 1 real
The concrete forms the three inner triangles____________ 3 concrete
The abstract are all 6 sides........................................ 6 abstract
10.
The real in the abstract 1 is God or the point. The concrete
ar e spirit, power, and primordial-light as the inside. The
abstract are spirit- love, power- vibration, and primordial-
light- assimilation. Therefore, the abstract 1 includes the real
and the concrete pne. Take away the concrete and the abstract,
and there will r emain the real-the beginning point, God.
6
CHAPTER 2
The Life-Principle
The idea of creation presents itself together with the idea
of God, since there was written: "All things were made by Him"
(by the Word). These "all things" are the universe which was
· powerless and nothing before the act of creation. It was this
nothingness, out of which God has created something.
For it has been written: God created the world out of
nothing. This nothingness means something without life and
without power, something incapable and inactive, just as the
number "0" is without action and power unless one is added.
But zero becomes a complete number, as 10, when the basic
figure number 1 calls it into power and activity. Similarly,
nothingness which is a zero without action and power outside
of God, becomes a creation, a ten, being awakened by God,
the one.
"Nothing," you said without thought. But what is nothing?
Have you perceived its idea? We call in the science of numbers,
a zero, an empty number, which becomes a complete number, a
10, when it is awakened or better counted by 1, the basic number.
In logic, we call "nothing" something without life and power,
a dead matter. Matter without principle of life is nothing, a zero.
Eternities from which God emanated and expired. We take
as the beginning of a period of creation, with the words of Saint
John, the moment when God awakened a dead lifeless nothing
to a living universe.
We base our belief on the word of Saint John who said:
"All things were made by Him." These wo1·ds "all things"
infer the idea that all things originated out of nothing. We call
this nothing a matter without life and power built by incapable,
numb, and lifeless molecules. We refer to atoms of matter
as molecules. We call matter everything capable of becoming
alive and powerful.
God awakened or made capable by His spirit, power, and
primordial-light this dead matter, and it was made a universe
full of life. God is the creator of all life, the generator of the
7
universe. The dead nothing, the matter without life and power,
was the receiver of this spirit, of this power and of this primor-
dial-light. It was thus awakened to life and action. The nothing
became something, namely, the mother of the principle of life.
There was forming itself, under"God's guidance and will and by
His power of generation, a living universe.
The primordial-light streaming from God was streaming
with vibrations through the nothing, the dead matter which
became a living moving ocean of molecules of light.
The enlivening one-spirit, power, and primordial-light-
was penetrating the zero, the nothing. Thus filled by the prin-
ciple of life, the universe, the ten, became powerful and became
the principle of life generated by God's spirit. Streaming
through dead matter, his power of vibration became power
of attraction and His primordial-light became ad-light.
Creation is always brought forward by 3, and by one which
carries three factors in itself. Spirit, power, and primordial-
light bred one, namely, the enlivened universe which again
had in itself 3: the principle of life, the power of attraction,
and the ad-light. We could again name the three: spirit, power,
and matter, which means relating them to God. Or we could
determine them by depotencing, or reducing, numbers. But, we
prefer special terms.
Now, a dualism is developing before you: you have the spirit-
ual principle of God and the life-principle of the universe, the
power of vibrations and attraction, the primordial-light and the
ad-light. The first is the creator God. The second is the conceiver
and receiver, the universe. One and two are the fullfillment
waiting for the third. This dualism projects itself into the
universe which now has in itself generating and conceiving
power, spiritual principle and life-principle, primordial-light
and od-light. Above all of them is the unchangeable absolute
God, the C1·eator.
This universe was made alive by molecules of light, by
creative power of vibrations, by od-molecules, by the power
of conceiving or assimilating attraction.
8
God's spirit, vibration, and primordial-light penetrated the
nothingness and awakened it to something. Thus spirit, power,
and primordial-light were changed, which means they became
two-fold, dualistic. Therefore, we see at the end of this chapter
that the Word created something out of nothingness. The Word
was God. The nothingness was matter without life and power.
The something was an enlivened universe. God created it. Re-
ceiving God's power, warmed and penetrated by His primordial-
light, the nothingness became something, a life-principle, a
universe.
Let us now turn to the law of numbers.·
The sequence of 1 is 2. When we say 2, we feel a dualism,
a twofoldness, longing for a completing number. The real 1 is
followed by the r eal 2 (as a diagram: 1\).
While the 1·eal 1 is called God, the real 2 is named the life-
principle. When 1 had a movement from one point to another,
the 2 had a second movement. The drawing of the real 2 makes
clearly visible the dualism of this number; 2 cannot become 1
anymore, it remains 1-2.
The concrete 1 is followed by the concrete 2. The movement
of the concrete 2 is: life-principle, power of attraction, od-light.
In the sequence 4, 5, 6, two is a sequence, a relative number. It
is incomplete in its diagram.
Compare:&.
The real 2 is shortly the sequence of the real 1, or life-prin-
ciple, the sequence of God. The concrete 2 is two ones following
each other, in addition: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. This means an incomplete
figure, an undisclosed computation. The text of the concrete 2 is
spirit, power, primordial-light, and life-principle, power of at-
traction, and od-light.
The abstract 2 contains its reality in the point or life-prin-
ciple. The concrete 2 is presented in the six inner triangles of
the diagram. The abstract are the 12 sides.
9
If you take away the abstract and the concrete, only the two
points will remain. These are the real 2, placed thus: "
(in its position), or relatively: to I
In the computation this "twice 10 equaling 20" is an un-
finished family of numbers, or a computation waiting for an
end having a certain 10 as the beginning and a second 10 as a
sequence.
10
CHAPTER 3
The First-Borns
In the diagrams of numbers, we have seen rise into existence
out of an absolute 1, a relative 2, which appeared incomplete in
the drawing.
In logic, we see that the absolute God originated a principle
of life and created out of nothingness a something, which means
a dualistic universe calling for a precise 3 or for an individual
creation.
We have God's spirit, power, and primordial-light. Then
we have the life-principle which is a spiritual principle, a power
of attraction and od-light. Animated spirits formed themselves
out of these double effects, and were made up of a rotation, a
spirale movement, and a fluid. The spiritual life-principle con-
tained intelligence, will, and love. This power was vibrating,
attractive and rotating. The matter was primordial-light, od-
light, and fluid.
Out of this threefold 3, sphits originated which we call
the first-born children of God's spirit. Born by intelligence,
love, and will, they were relative to God, gifted with intelligence,
love, and free will. Born by power and matter, they were
capable of power and were fluidal. This meant the intelligent
creation happened through power and fluid.
The fulfillment of 1 and 2, meaning of God and of the uni-
verse, must be a three, corresponding to the one, God. These
were the first-borns, relative to God, intelligent and free spirits
or beings.
A circle ·was closed by rotation. A complete creation is
standing before you, God, the universe, and the first-borns of
this spirit.
God was not alone any more. The universe was filled with
His power and primordial-light. He was surrounded by in-
telligent free beings, relative to Him. Everything was harmony,
threefold harmony.
These first-borns, born by dualism, were divided into two-
fold beings or dualistic spirits. A part of them had a giving
11
nature, giVmg by power of vibration and by light, another
part had a receiving nature, through power of attraction and
od-light. Together they produced a movement of rotation and
fluid.
Nothing is absolute or is unity, except God. From Him
streams a relative dualism. Out of one results a dualistic life.
Out of these two comes a third, which in itself is one. But in this
one lies already twofoldness because it is· third. Thus one is
followed by two; 1 and 2 make 3; 1, 1, 1-the individual ones,
add to three. These three divide themselves into two and one
and are nevertheless three.
The call into existence or the birth of the first-born spirits,
was a logical consequence of God and of creation. The highest
intelligence needed a consequence in order to be understood and
to be intelligently perceived, just as the highest power and
primordial-light needed their consequences. Thus intelligent
spirits were formed in this universe, through God and His laws.
LAW IS A CONSEQUENCE OF POWER, I. E., POWER
IS LAW
Thus, the first-born spirits were the consequences of God and
of the universe and God was the power. Intelligent free beings
are the logical consequences of the highest intelligence and of
the highest will. The first-borns were, therefore, a spiritual
and intelligent consequences of God and of the principle of life.
They were the fluidal consequences of the primordial-light and
of the od-light. They were a third power, bringing with them
rotation as a consequence of vibration and of attraction. What
was the purpose of their existence?
Everything is relative to God. He is the eternal activity;
the universe is of eternal life, streaming from Him. So the
first-borns should be active, which means working according
to laws. They should be intelligent witnesses of God, following
the law of numbers which means the law of the three and of
the two.
To follow the law of the three means to follow God. To
follow the law of the two means to fulfill lawfully the conclu-
sion or ·the circle from 1 to 3. The number 3 follows, also, the
12
primordial one, just as the computation concludes from 1 to 3.
The creation of the first-borns did not absorb the whole
universe and life-principle, just as the three cannot absorb the
two. You see now three before you: God, the enlivened universe,
and the first-borns. With the first-borns there came the third
power, the rotation which means a combination of vibration and
attraction, in a spiral movement.
Thus there grew out of primordial-light and od-light, a
third, namely, the fluid, as an assimilation or union of both.
Out of this followed a rotating, growing movement and fluidal
droplets-agglomerations. Their task was to follow this rotat-
ing movement in agglomeration and formation of fluidal drop-
lets. Their task was to work spiritually and fluidally, to perfect
themselves.
Thus you see God in the center of an enlivened universe
and intelligent first-born spirits. In the center of them, He is
guiding everything through unchangeable laws. He is unchange-
able; He is absolute. The changeable and relative world stems
from Him. God alone has no change.
The three laws to be followed by the first-born spirits were:
First, .to recognize God, to be witnesses to His existence; for
this purpose, they had received intelligence. Second, the dual-
istic law, by which spirit was related to spirit. For this pur-
pose, they had received the quality of love. Third, they should
follow the rotating forming power. For this purpose, .they had
received the gift of a free will to recognize the law of God.
How could they not recognize Him! They had been created out
of His love, will, and spirit. It had been He who had given
them birth and intelligence.
How should they not recognize Him whose splendor and
light they saw everywhere? They could perceive Him, but they
could not comprehend Him! This was to follow in their educa-
tion, and the grooming of their intelligence. They were expected
to perceive Him and to comprehend Him, so that they could
become united with Him, through intelligent work. In their
own intelligence, they had the means to such a development.
What is the dual law of spirit to spirit for which they had
13
been endowed with love? This is a subject which we can make
understood to men only by the power of logic, since it is far
removed from the real of evidence.
We said already that the first-borns who were born in
dualism are forming one but carrying duplicity within them-
selves.
The two gave birth to the third. After that, the one re-
mained unchangeable for itself, and the second and third, in
their duplicity, closed the circle to one.
In the first-borns, there was placed duplicity, which means
a giving principle, a power of vibration, primordial-light com-
ing from God; a conceiving principle, power of attraction and
od-light coming from the universe.
The giving principle is spirit. The receiving principle is
power of animation. This was enclosed in one spirit which we
call dualistic-spirit, because of his double nature. Two lives are
in one life, two powers in one, two matters in one matter.
These dualistic spirits or first-borns shall receive this dualism
in one through love. Two lives in one are like two flames united
at their bases, burning and shining equally, forming one in a
fluidal triangle.
To follow the third law of the rotating and forming power
means not to stop arbitrarily. It means to follow, to work, to
go after the forming of fluidal droplets and agglomerations.
It means to share in the rotation through will and action.
It is for this purpose that they received a free will. A
merely mechanical will coupled with such a high intelligence
and ability would have been illogical. To follow would then not
have had any merit.
Thus, the universe has moved, for millions of years, to speak
in a human tongue, following one movement in a double power.
A sple11did universe penetrated with God! A universe in which
fluidal droplets formed themselves into agglomerations and
first-borns into groups, all around God, in the uni.verse. All was
harmony and unity!
The intelligence of the first-borns grew. The unity of their
love was not dh>turbed by the dualism of their nature. Their
14
free will moved according to the law of rotation and of the
turning in a spiral movement.
We cannot say anymore about this. The law of numbers will
give it positive value. Only logic through its power can bring
faith to people who otherwise laugh about this as a fairy tale.
LAW OF NUMBERS ABOUT THE THREE
The real two (God, life-principle) is followed by the real
three (God, life-principle, first-borns). These real three form,
therefore, a whole.
The concrete two is followed by the concrete three. The
concrete two make 6 in number and addition. r.t is named in
logic: spirit, power, primordial-light, life-principle, attraction,
od-light. The concrete three which complete a whole in the dia-
gram brings in addition 7, 8, and 9 as fulfilling numbers. In
logic, the fulfillment is called: fh-st-borns, rotation, and fluid.
The abstract two is followed by the abstract three which
comprises all in itself and totals to 30. The abstract three con-
tains the whole logic and all numbers. We describe here the
tabulations of the laws of numbers from one to three in their
real, in their concrete, and in their abstract form.
Compare Chart number 1, the primordial three. You see
there in a diagram that the number one is the figure of the
unchangeable absolute. The concrete one equals in the diagram
the real three. This means that God is the real creation. The
abstract one is equal to the concrete three. This means that
God with His whole existence rules the creation. It is always
a similarity of one to three.
One is always a complete number. Two is always the figure
of incompleteness and dualism. Three is the figure of perfec-
tion and is always found in one. You find even the abstract
three in its reality. This means in the three large outer sides,
in the concrete one.
Only the real one remains unchangeable. Nothing equals it
while all other figures and numbers are stemming from it.
The real three is the first spiral circle.
15
CHAPTER 4
The Fracture
All was harmony! How could this ever have been disturbed?
We have explained that intelligent beings must have a free
will capable of development and progress. Their free will was
in danger and on trial. They had to be tried in order to be
closer to perfection. This trial was planted in themselves, in
their free will. If they followed this lawful power, their free
will should have led them to perfection, or if they resisted it,
to the opposite of perfection.
These intelligent beings had to follow three laws and to
receive three spiritual gifts, making them intelligent and think-
ing beings. In intelligence there was placed the possibility of
an intellectual development, as well as of a spiritual resistance.
This intelligence was not unchangeable since it was second and
not first intelligence, because it was not absolute but relative.
In other words, because these spirits were not God but first-
borns of His and of the creation. Their purpose was develop-
ment and perfection. Men call these pure spirits angels, just as
they call the devil a fallen angel, Lucifer. The Old Testament
calls Lucifer the most perfect angel closest to God, the bearer
of light, whose spirit was invaded by arrogance which made
him a demon. This is truth!
One .thought found its way into the mind of the first-borns.
This was the arrogance of becoming equal to God, of starting
out into a new movement, of stepping out of their dualism.
They wanted to be an independent ego, like God. They them-
selves wanted to create. They did not see anything less under
them. They desired to· be the perfection of creation. Only God
stood before them, incomparable, in His unchangeability and
in His unity.
They were His reflection. They were supposed to follow
His law. Thus came into existence, in the midst of perfection of
these spirits, an extreme, the arrogance, the direct aspiration of
becoming equal to God. The third wanted to be onf1.
16
The first false step came from an over-excitement of their
intelligence, of their thinking by wanting to reach God.
The second false step was their going out of the dualistic
life by wanting to use the fluidal unifying tie to self-creation
and condensations.
We said that a dualistic spirit is twofold: a spiritual prin-
ciple and a life-principle, a power of vibration and of attraction,
a primordial-light and od-light, combined in one. Out of this
one the dualism was streaming: spirit, rotation, and fluid. This
streamed from the dualistic spirits into the universe. This
formed fluidal droplets and agglomerations for further creation.
Instead of giving themselves to this emanation or fluids of a
forming rotating movement, they held themselves back. They
concentrated their power in themselves. They wanted to create
absolutely, like God, out of themselves.
This was against the dualistic law. Therefore, the unifying
fluidal tie was burst by this over-exertion and over-excitement.
They became two single spirits, a giving spirit and a receiving
spirit.
Out of the resistence of the dualistic spirits against the ro-
tating power, a repulsion was developed. This means their
power of attraction and vibration became repulsive. Their fluid,
instead of being magnetic and attractive electric, became re-
pulsive.
They fell now, repulsively and electrically into continuous
friction against rotation and against the magnetic fluid, spark-
ling into fluidal droplets which were burst apart and were also
forced out of their dualism into single giving and receiving
molecules.
These contrary spirits could only disturb their dualism. They
derotated them. They could not destroy anything and also they
could not touch the unchangeable one.
Not all first-born spirits followed ,
this contrast, this dero-
tation. Some remained faithful to God and to themselves. They
remained the first-borns rotating in the law and developing a
lawful magnetic fluid. They remained dualistic spirits. Here is
17
the struggle of contrasting spirit, power, and matter against
lawful spirit, power, and matter.
Since the contrasting spirits divided themselves out of their
dualism into single spirits, they were more numerous than the
lawful dualistic spirits. But they were only fractions, disunited
in themselves and therefore less in force than the others. Christ
said, "The evil is disunited." This means it is divided and it
can be divided. Only a dualism can be divided. God endured
the contrast because He had given free will to the first-borns.
He endured all their objections to the unchangeable, until they
weakened, tired and stiffened. The chaos which they had caused
had become so great that they could not find their way through
this confusion anymore. He permitted it until their fluidal
changes had become a condensed opaque fluid. This means that
their cloaks became more and more similar to matter and hin-
dered their movements. So was the contrast hampered by itself.
Unchangeable was God, shining over the universe. His faith-
ful first-borns were around Him, repulsing the impact of the
contrast. The contrast is degeneration of the laws. It is degen-
eration of the good, disharmony instead of harmony. It is the
origin of all evil, of all sin. The over-excitement of his own
light brought obscurity.
We see here contrasts forming. There are lawful dualistic
spirits on one side, and unlawful separated dualistic spirits on
the other. We call them contrast spirits.
To the lawful rotating power, including vibration and attrac-
tion, there comes the contrary power of repulsion. To the lawful
magnetic fluid, including primordial-light and od-light there is
added the contrary electric fluid. These are the contrasts or
counter poles.
The contrast is a fracture of the law. The law includes
always the dualism into one, as: dualistic spirits in one, two
powers in one, primordial- and od-light in one fluid. Also spirit,
power, and matter in one effect.
The contrast of these are separated dualists, the single power
of repulsion and the single electric fluid. We have said that all
18
creations are coming out of a trinity. Therefore, the contrast,
as a fracture, is not able to create anything.
This lack of power and the incapability of creation had to
come to the recognition of the contrary spirits, after a longer
collision against God and against the laws, in their confusion
and exhausHon.
They were divided spirits, disunified in themselves. They
were of a repulsing power wrapped in thick electric fluids, a
darkened light and a condensed fluid.
LAW OF NUM,BERS OF THE FRACTURE
At this point we wish to give you a picture of this fracture
in the law of numbers, by way of diagrams of Chart 2.
The fractures out of the real 3 (God, life-principle, first-
borns) was caused by the first-borns who became four out of
three, by dividing the duals. In the law of numbers, the frac-
ture is placed also into 3 and passes 2 (see Chart 2).
Two divided becomes 4. The diagram shows you, also, that
the fracture could not touch the unchangeable one. It could
divide only 2 and 3. Out of this 4 came into existence, namely,
four fractures.
Every one has two halves. Therefore, the real 2 and 3
have four halves by way of a fracture. One, however, remains
undivided. You see here four halves. The base 3 is divided into
2 spaces. One space forms a fractional triangle which is the
four. This, dividing further the real 2, forms a lawless long
side or an unclosed triangle. The fracture originates from 3
and from 2 and is a fourth. The one remains unchanged. We
say, therefore, that 2 times 2 is four. The law of numbers shows
this also in way of a diagram in which the fracture goes as
a multiplier through 2 and 3.
The concrete 3 must also be divided into concrete fractures,
leaving untouched the triangle of God and the number 3. (See
Chart 2.)
The concrete fracture originates from the first-borns, rota-
tion, fluid or 7, 8, and 9. It passes through 4, 5, and 6. There-
fore, in multiplication, 2 times 6 is 12- fractures. The fractional
19
number here is 12 which comes from 7, 8, 9, and 4, 5, 6, through
the multiplier 2.
The abstract fracture's fractional number is 24. This starts
from 18 through 12. Thus, in multiplication 2 times 12 equals
24. The number-figures have become irregular; the picture of
the fracture.
The law of numbers which was just disclosed includes an
addition and a multiplication. The addition is the isolated count-
ing together of all lines, numbers, and terms. The multiplica-
tion consists in dividing the total into fractures which is done
through the multiplier 2. God, the unchangeable absolute one,
is not counted by the action of the fall and of the fracture. In
the real figure, additions and multiplications are placed clearly
before you.
In the concrete figure, the addition in the triangles is con-
crete, to count multiplications in the bars. In abstraction, the
addition is placed in the bars. Multiplication is to be found
when you place the two contrasting triangles on the twelfth
and eighteenth triangle and count the fractures.
20
CHAPTER 5
Inclusion of the Contrast into the Law of Nature
God stood unchangeable before the chaos caused by the fall
of contrast first-borns. His faithful first-borns were around
Him!
The forces of the contrast were exhausted by their collisions
against the one, the absolute. Their magnetic fluid, upset by the
repulsion, was condensed to an electric fluid which became
opaque and similar to matter. It hampered their movement.
Lost in disunity, they stared, exhausted, at the chaos.
There, God spoke the word of mercy!
What He had created, what had originated from Him and
the universe and had degenerated through its own fault .and
by its own will, He did not want to destroy. This means He
did not permit it, in its numbness, to become nothing. But,
He wanted to bring the contrast through His grace and logic,
into a law of reconciliation. This should potentiate and clean
the contrast through its own efforts.
God included the contrast in the primordial law of three
in one, which means in the law of involution and unification.
The fall itself was a depotentiation of the good which should
become potent again.
You see from the chaotic figures of the fracture that they
are without rule and without harmony. Only the one remains
unchangeable. It was just the same with the truth.
This chapter is important for all living beings, for animals,
plants, and men who are the fulfillment of God's mercy,
opposite the contrast.
How can the contrast now be included in the law of unifica-
tion? By the involution of the depotent, by the attraction of
the repelling or of the poles.
We said the three are divided by two into fractures and
we said that the one remained absolutely for itself. These two
originating from the contrast, are the multiplier, condenser or
multiplier, the contrast.
The contrast spirits divide themselves, by their degenera-
tion, out of their own dualism into two fractures. In the same
21
way, the twofold unified universe divides itself into two frac-
tures. It does that by the power of repulsion and by electric
fluids developing the contrast. The life-principle had worked
before unification, in its dualism, in rotation and fluid. It was
now exploded by r epulsion and by the electric fluid.
There was vibration and primordial-light as a givirig ele-
ment, and attraction and od-light as receiving element, dis-
turbed in its unified lawful effect, by the contrast.
To bring order into this chaos, a reconciliating power, an ·
assimilating fluid, had to arrive. This came from God, from
His eternal love and from His faithful first-borns.
The faithful first-borns had preserved themselves to the
magnetic fluid, in their primordial purity. They had preserved
their power in its primordial strength. Through this preserva-
tion of fluid and powers, the multitude of magnetic droplets
and agglomerations also preserved itself. Rotating undamaged
in the midst of chaos, according to their laws, they became
primordial-suns, through rotation, as containers of the purest
fluid. From them, the first-borns following God's orders and
the orders of the laws, received missions to unravel the chaos.
We make a note here, that this is, naturally, the result of
thousands of years. Thus, the unity and the unified dualism
remained master over the fractures. One remained master over
the multiplier two. In this way, the faithful first-borns remained
the supports of the universe.
In these great trials, in their endurance against the col-
lisions of contrast, their intelligence, their power and their
fluidal purity grew so much that they became more similar
to God. They could, verily, be called God's children, originating
from Him. Therefore, their dualistic spirits were in their
intelligence high above the contrast spirits whose intelligence
had dulled and degenerated.
This is why vibrations, attraction, and rotation remained
a strong lawful power. They were a trifold power to which
repulsion, now a collision and resistence, were no hindrance.
Therefore, primordial-light, od-light, and magnetism remained
the purest fluids, filled with light, moving easily. Compared
22
with them, electric fluids were moving heavily and were
opaque. That is why the law attracted the contrast powerfully
to an involution, namely toward the brightly shining pure
fluidal suns.
The contrast spirits, in the midst of electric fluid which
was generated by them and was opaque, had become numbly
paralyzed. They were almost dead and enfeebled. The chaos
had frightened them. The collisions had exhausted them. The
disorder had weakened them.
The contrast with its fluid and its power of repulsion was
chained to the first-borns, to the primordial-suns, to the power
of rotation, so that nothing was lost. The primordial-suns simply
rotated and attracted the electric ·fluid. But this fluid, re-
pulsively turning itself, moved this way twofold around the
primordial-suns. Out of this rotation, out of attraction and
repulsion, the contrary fluid was divided into droplets or small
balls. Out of these droplets and small balls, whole worlds
have grown-as we will see in the following chapter. In this
chapter, we consider them only as germs.
The law of reconciliation was, therefore, a polaric or con-
trary attraction. In it, the law potentially attracted the contrast,
raised to a higher power. In this three actions are included:
the attraction of the good, the repulsion of the bad, and the
reconciliating new growth and movement. The movement was
twofold, for the contrast: once around itself, and once around
the primordial-suns.
Keep in mind from this chapter: (1) The unraveling of the
chaos which happened through the coming forth of the law,
out of the contrast. This happened by the first-borns separating
themselves from the realm of the contrary first-borns. Rotation
remained a threefold lawful power, in the midst a confusion of
powers. The magnetic fluid stepping out of a darkened con-
glomeration of fluids, remained a threefold pure fluid. This is
the stepping out of the law, from the contrast. (2) Keep in
mind the law of a ttraction which attracted the contrast, re-
conciliating and raising it to a higher power.
The primordial-suns may also be called primordial-solarity,
23
which brought forth the universe out of chaos and which ro-
tatingly attracted the contrary fluid.
You see at the end of this chapter, God as the inner center,
as the absolute One. Rotating simply around Him are the first-
borns of His spirit, His primordial-light and the fluidal suns.
You see the contrast, spiritually paralyzed, intellectually
confused, weakened in power, condensed in fluid, alive only
through the attraction of primordial-suns, divided into fluidal
droplets or germs of worlds rotating in double movement
around themselves and around the primordial-suns. We call this
a polaric movement because it is an attraction of contrasts. The
contrast spirits most morally follow the law of reconciliation.
The contrary power had to follow the law of attraction, the
polaric law, the double rotation. The contrary fluid must follow
the law of fluidal involution.
THE RECONCILIATING LAW OF NUMBERS (CHART 3)
The reconciliating by law of numbers is a division, namely,
dividing four fractures into two wholes-counted as real. The
reconciliation or division is done by three, by the same number
which taken as 2 was the multiplier in the fracture. We say
three is included once in 4, leaving a balance of 1. This is con-
tained in the diagram of a double triangle. By dividing 3 in the
fractional number 4 and saying it is contained once, we see
the second side come into existence, meaning the remaining 1,
the hyphen. In addition, this is called 6. In logic, 4 is the con-
trast. Opposite this, 5 is the law. The base of both 6 means the
reconciliation. The figure of ·real reconciliation is the real
multiplication of 3.
The concrete fracture is followed by the concrete reconcilia-
tion (see Chart 3) ! The case started here with 12. Therefore,
it is said in the division: 9 is contained in 12 once, with a balance
of 3 remaining. Saying this, we find forming itself in contrast
the polaric triangle, and close to the primordial triangle the
reconciliatory triangle; four super-imposed triangles.
The poles of the law are named 13, 14, 15. The reconciliatory
triangle is named 16, 17, 18. Out of the first triangle comes
24
the movement and attracts the reconciliatory triangle into
itself. ~ This is simple rotation. The oppositely placed
triangles of law and contrast t><(]repelled each other.
This is a movement of its own which connected with rotation,
pushes the triangles into each other. That forms four coherent
triangles, in a double movement. The concrete reconciliation is
18 in addition.
The abstract fall 24 passes from 18 to 12. Therefore, we
say in division: 18 is contained once in 24, with a remaining
balance of 6. Out of this, there originates the diagram of the
abstract reconciliation (see Chart 3).
The contrast and the mercy place themselves reconciliating
on the edges of the base of contrast. Out of this are two
triangles. This totals 36 to be counted at the sides. The second
circle is now closed.
25
CHAPTER 6
First Grade of the Universe
The work of reconciliation is beginning. The contrast is
included in the law so that it is raised to a higher power by it.
The contrast brings multiplication and condensation. The law
brings unification and spiritualization.
All our attention is now directed to the development of the
germs of worlds and to the contrast spirits which are paralyzed
and degenerated in a similarity to death.
There had to come an awakening effective life leading to
repentance and recognition. They were paralyzed in their
electric fluid. Their spirits had become confused in the darkness.
It had to become more pure and more light around them.
They had to become awakened and to arrive at the recognition
of their error. The good first-borns were standing powerfully
before them.
Contrary fluid and power, meaning electricity and 1·epulsion,
were included in the new creation, together with the fallen
first-borns. They were attracted to the primordial-suns, giving
them life, light and rotation. The faithful first-borns which
now had come closer to perfection, after having survived their
trial, received missions. They became the messiahs of the new
formation. They solved the contrast by directing the develop-
ment of the germs of worlds through their intelligence, power,
and fluid. They were supposed to reconciliate the contrary
spiritual ties, they who had remained the support of the
universe in the struggle. So, these saviors started immediately
on thei1· tasks, their duties of salvation. They took over the
guidance of the germs of worlds.
We describe the guidance of these worlds according to logic,
after the law of numbers. We omit a geological and genealogical
history, because of confusions of ideas and terms. In our human
language, we could hardly f ind real expressions for all of it,
for the essence of the fluids which we would have to describe,
especially since the evidence of their existence on earth is to be
found only in the most condensed form. It is useless to give
26
names and long descriptions to things, of which the human brain
has no idea and which the human eyes cannot see. Through
a logical narration of the whole, and through the connection
with the law of numbers, we only want to penetrate men's minds
with the truth of these words.
You see the primordial-suns turn simply around the pri-
mordial-light, which does not turn itself, but vibrates. They
are filled with the powers of attraction and vibration, which
means powers of conception and of generating. They passed
these powers on, forming them to embryos of new worlds, to
embryos which started to grow and which developed through
twofold rotation. Primordial-light, od-light, the fluid conveyed
themselves out of these primordial-suns to the embryonic worlds.
This all was guided intelligently by the messiahs. The em-
bryonic worlds received a polaric power, meaning a contrary
repulsion and a lawful attraction, a power of repulsion and of
attraction, an electric and a magnetic fluid.
This happened through communication of the primordial-
suns with the germs of worlds, since the law had unravelled
itself from the contrast. Thus, this contrast was eliminated
from the law. It was separated, as a degeneration.
The law formed itself now to primordial-suns which" held
to themselves the eliminated germs of worlds through fluidal
ties. Through the fluidal tie the germs of world received
life and warmth from the primordial-suns. They received de-
velopment and growth to embryonic worlds.
The light of primordial-suns streamed on the embryonic
worlds and lightened them. The solaric light became telluric,
in the embryonic worlds. The od-light streamed from the
primordial-suns on the condensation of embryonic worlds. It
streamed penetratingly on this condensation! It formed an
atmosphere.
In this way, the od-light became atmosphere in the em-
bryonic worlds. The magnetic f luid of the primordial-suns
assimilated itself through the tie of the separation, with the
electric fluid of the embryonic worlds. Thus, these were filled
with electro-magnetic fluid.
27
All this settled itself into poles, through power of repulsion
inherent in the embryonic worlds. This means it polarized
itself. These embryonic worlds were shaped like eggs, They
were the image of a soft egg in the hen, without a shell. The
magnetic electric fluid is the white of an egg. They formed
embryonic worlds half translucent, pointed and egg-shaped,
lightened and warmed by the light of the primordial-suns,
brought into an atmosphere of their own by the od-light and
impregnated twofolds by the magnetic fluid. They turned
repulsively around themselves and simply rotated around the
primordial-suns.
This is all we have to tell you about these embryonic worlds.
A clearer and concise description is to be found in the diagrams
of the law of numbers, in Chart 4.
Receiving in their darkness the light of primordial-suns,
the embryonic worlds turned it into telluric or relative light.
When od-light streamed into the condensation, filtering it, this
condensation became set on fire and streamed out as an expand-
ing atmosphere of its own. The magnetic fluid changed the
electric one into an electric-magnetic polarizing fluid.
The course or elipse of the embryonic worlds conformed
with the rotation of the primordial-suns, which rotated around
the primordial-light. The telluric light of the embryonic worlds
was relative to the light of the primordial-suns. Its atmosphere
was relative to od-light and its fluid forming the gravity of
bodies was relative to the fluid, and therefore to the gravity
of primordial-suns.
As you see, the embryonic worlds were relative in every
respect to the primordial-suns. Their light was weaker, their
atmosphere denser, their bodies heavier, their motions more
manifold than those of the primordial-suns.
LAW OF NUMBERS OF THE NEW CREATION (CHART 4)
The new creation is no division and no multiplication. It
is a calm, lawful, undisturbed addition. rt adds itself as 7 to
6, as you see in the real figure of new creation. Out of the
real 6 you see 7 coming as a new creation, as a beginning to the
third circle. Search for the first circle in the first real triangle.
28
It is closed after the creation of the first-borns. Look for the
second circle of creation after the fall in the reconciliation or
in the second triangle. The third circle is beginning with the
new creation. The concrete new creation is named 21 in addi-
tion. In its computation, it is the sequence of 18.
You see here the concrete triangle of new creation coming
out of the inner primordial-triangle. Thus came reconciliation
and new creation out of God.
The abstract figure of new creation fills the second triangle
which separated the contrast from the law.
In the addition, the completing numbers are named 37, 38,
39, 40, 41, and 42.
29
CHAPTER 7
Second Grade of the Universe
But what about the life-principle which we defined in the
second and third chapters as an animated universe? Power and
fluid of the first-borns, and with them the whole universe,
were divided into law and contrast. By this partition, the life-
principle was also divided, so that it was a lawful and a
contrary life-principle. Each of them was placed in adequate
fluids and guided by the power which governed them.
Therefore, you have a twofold life-principle after the fall
of the first-borns. One of them remained a lawful moral element
which was separated from the contrast together with the law-
ful first-borns in the magnetic fluid of the primordial-suns.
It followed the rotating power. Then you have a contrary
motory element which was placed with the contrary first-borns
and condensed by them in electric fluid. It followed the re-
pulsion. The motory movement of this life-principle, however,
was not motorily animated by motorily latent and paralyzed
by condensation and therefore limited.
The life-principle is a motory mechancial element which
always causes animation in adequate fluids, which are moved
by power. The magnetic fluid is partly changed by the con-
trast. Rotation degenerated to a repulsive power by the contrast.
All this divided the animating principle of life, following them
mechanically into this contrary degeneration and condensation.
We said that a paralyzation of the contrast spirits was
caused by this condensation. We add now that it meant also a
numbness of the life-principle, a latent motory condition.
The motory movement was hampered and paralyzed in the
chaos of confusion of powers, and of fluidal condensation. But
the lawful motory movement and continuously rotating power
and fluid awakened again the latent motory element in the
embryonic worlds. This life-principle which was without move-
ment and seemed to be dead, was therefore awakened again to
new activity, namely to an activity of reconciliation and
reproduction. This happened with the development of the worlds.
3(i
The paralyzed motory element was warmed and awakened by
the light of primordial-suns which penetrated the embryonic
worlds. It was also changed by the od-light. It received again
motory movement by the magnetic fluid.
The dual quality of the life-principle which was latent in
its numbness, became again begetting and conceiving, a motory
life-principle. By the twofold nature of the life-principle, in
the electro-magnetic fluid, small microcosmic organisms were
developed. We call them little light-animals. These organisms
are much smaller than the smallest known monads or radiates.
They are, however, animated atoms moving in an electro-mag-
netic fluid.
The fluid was completely interwoven and animated by these
organisms. The organisms of these living atoms are of a purely
fluidal nature. They are born by primordial-light and od-light,
therefore by a twofold quality. Therefore, they became twofold:
attractive and repulsive, magnetic and electric. They brought
themselves into life and they consumed themselves, which was
the first step to commutations from the descent.
The life-principle had always followed mechanically the
governing power and matter. Now, the life-principle was
changed into microcosmic organisms, in light animals and or-
ganic light-atoms which were adequate to embryonic worlds and
their fluidal state. In the new creation, God and the saviors
tied the embryonic worlds to the principle of life, by use of a
law of nature. This law acclaims that similarity produces simi-
larity. There are no jumps. Everything is put together, from
link to link, in an unchangeable law of commutations and
descents.
We see this law work here between the life-principle and
the embryonic worlds. The first is the motoric element. We
have, in the second line, all three as power and matter, produc-
ing one effect. We see these three move in a law of nature, step
by step, inseparable from each other. In this way, the organic
atoms of light, called light animals, are embryonic inhabitants
of embryonic worlds.
We mentioned the principle of animation since it follows
31
mechanically the law of nature. The spirit-principle, namely,
the fallen first horns, remained latently asleep. They are veiled
in electric fluid, apparently dead. They must be awakened by
the similar principle. The awakening of the life-principle did
not pull them out of their latent state. They remained paralyzed
spirits.
All that we see develop is relative. Therefore, the law of
nature accepted this sentence: similarity produces similarity,
never something completely the same. This means it creates in
commutations. The light animals, in this development, followed
mechanically the law of nature. This natural law, however,
came from the primordial-law of the three, from God, power,
and primordial-light. It was a consequence of the messiahs who
had kept the law as such. It was the consequence of the recon-
ciliation, therefore a consequence of the three, again. While
the natural law brings commutations, these changes produce
development. We mention this development in the following
chapters, by steps. In this chapter, the following shall emerge
clearly: the awakening motoric life-principle, its dualism, the
natural law binding the life-principle to the embryonic worlds,
the light-animals growing out of these worlds bearing and
consuming themselves, following mechanically the law of nature
and its commutations and finding their development in this.
While, in the following chapters, we will mainly discuss
the law of nature, the life-principle and the descents, we want
to stress here again that all comes from God. The new creation
and the effects present His mercy and His reconciliation. The
law of nature is His reconciliatory power.
Even if we do not mention the work of the messiahs, we
want to say again that they directed the development of the
worlds and of the life-principle through all their qualities.
They remained spiritually powerful. They remained fluidally
the supports of the universe.
LAW OF NUMBERS OF THE 2nd GRADE OF THE
UNIVERSE (CHART 5)
The consequences of new creation are commutations. The
consequence of the former total of 70 as we have seen in
32
Chart 4 of the first step of the universe, is a further addition.
In reality the addition is 8, in concrete it is 24 and in abstract
it is 48. You find the diagrams of this addition in Chart 5,
together with a logical description. In the abstract, the ori-
ginally undrawn 6 becomes drawn and completed.
83
CHAPTER 8
Third Grade of the Universe
We left the embryonic worlds developing according to the
law of nature and moving in equal steps with their organic
light-atoms in commutations. The new creation is a commuta-
tion from the primordial-suns. It is threefold: motoric in the
life-principle, powered in the movement, and fluidic in gravity
and density.
This is the course of milleniums. From the unchangeable
God, the primordial power which moves everything, changing
itself through the also changing fluids which are animated
motorically.
Through long and fast turning a fluidal mass becomes dense
in the egg. This is also a commutation. Commutation and
descent are duals. This means they are inseparable and they
create one together. You must here count thousands of years,
from chapter to chapter and from step to step. These thousands
of years produced these commutations through which primordial
descent brought out its creations from spirit, power, and
matter.
The commutation works by minutes and seconds. It is a
microcosmic eternal movement which produces the great facts
of creation.
We left the embryonic worlds motorically animated by or-
ganic atoms of light. These light-animals were placed in an
electro-magnetic fluid of the white of eggs. In it, they moved,
they absorbed themselves and they brought themselves to life
again. This was the inner life, the inner power of the embryonic
worlds. It was the work or the effect from within to the outside.
The workers from the outside to the inside are the primordial-
light, the od-light, the magnetic fluid, and the power of rotation.
The particular effects of the embryonic worlds are: the
repulsion implanted in them, the telluric light, the atmosphere
and the electric fluid. The inner and the outer impressions met
in the emb1·yonic worlds. In them, they became shattered and
consumed. What in the beginning was all, became worked into
34
an equal electro-magnetic fluid, called an embryonic white of
eggs. This started to separate itself, through longer shattering
and moving, through rotation and repulsion, through the two-
fold nature of the fluid. During this separation, the power of
repulsion became doubled. It concentrated itself more in the
center, towards the middle of the egg. Out of this concentration
of powers, towards the middle of the eggs, we see rise a centri-
fugal power. This power separated and shifted more and more
the electro-magnetic fluid until it settled itself polarically in
the points of the worlds, namely, in one point electrically and
in the other point magnetically.
This shattering or separating started from the middle in
which the germ of the embryonic world placed itself as a
center, or the yolk. It placed itself as an electro-magnetic
center giving off centrifugal power. This can be compared
completely to an egg, prior to the process of a shell.
The yolk or center and two unequal points of the white
of eggs were formed. The major part of the magnetism felt
itself drawn upwards by a related outer influence of the light
coming from primordial-suns. This pole was flat. The major
part of the electricity sank downward and formed a more
pointed pole, with a long electro-magnetic beam.
We call the one point the flat magnetic-electric north pole.
We name the other one the pointed electric-magnetic south
pole. In the yolk or center, there remains a maternal stock
of the original electro-magnetism which had given continously
expansion or enlargement to its world, working through its
centrifugal power, so that the world became more round.
The shattering and separating continued, while rotation
as an outer force gave development and movement to the
worlds. In this way the worlds have threefold movements,
namely, a first and second movement in their power of re-
pulsion and centrifugality, and a third movement, the rotation.
( (1) Repulsion; (2) Power from the center; (3) Rotation.)
You see the first change in the world itself which became
separated out of its fluidal translucent state of the white and
an egg into three, namely, into the center and the two points.
35
If the whole embryonic world was originally filled equally
with an electro-magnetic fluid, it was now fluidally separated
three times through the separation and commutation of the
fluid.
The lesser gravity and density went into the magnetic pole.
The greater gravity and density went into the electric pole.
The fluidal outer cover of the embryonic worlds was also
changed together with its inner changes. This occurred through
an organic cellular tissue which is the fine white skin of a
still soft egg
We said that the worlds were turning and expanding,
broadening evenly from the center into all directions, so that
the eggshape became more like a globe, towing behind it the
long beam of electro-magnetism. You have here before you a
comet moving in trifold rapidity around primordial-suns.
The expansion is the inner growing of world-bodies. The
commutation of embryonic worlds in the comet is a transition
from the undeveloped and non-symmetrical body. The work of
the life-principle kept equal pace with the general commutation
and development. We have mentioned in the last chapter the
microcosmic organisms which animated the electro-magnetic
fluid in the form of light-animals. The separation and coin-
mutation of the general electro-magnetic fluid, separated and
changed also these light-animals, according to the law of descent
and commutation. These light-animals became cellularized in
the fluids.
The general commutation of the collective magnetic fluid as
well as the twofold impressions of the light, the commutation
of repulsion into centrifugal power, cellularized or changed
the light-animals.
The organisms which lived before in the whole fluid as
equal light-animals, were now changed into organic individual
cellular life, out of their general maternal life as their descent.
The light-animals became cellular animals. The light-atoms
became cells and especially twofold cells.
Towards the south pole, this organic cellular life crystallized
and formed pointed cells in their fluidal tissue. In the north
36
pole, however, they formed angled cells. There remained the
maternal stock of organic light-atoms in the center or yolk
of the world. Its commutations, the cellular animals, formed
in their cellular tissue the fluidal fine jacket of comets. They
cellularized themselves according to inner and outer impres-
sions. In this way, they formed the beginning of a bark, a
cellular soft jacket, around the comets.
This organic cellular tissue gave coherence and concentration
to the world. The refraction of beams of light in them gave
warmth to the world and gave it a changed life.
To summarize: First comes the inner work of worlds, the
power of repulsion, which increases to centrifugal power.
Through this, the shattering and polarizing appears, as well
as the formation of unequal poles. Inner expansion, rotation,
and growth occur.
Second come the cellular animals forming a cellular tissue
around the world forming a comet.
Third comes the light falling into these organically living
cells and bringing a further changed light.
You have before you a polaric unsymmetric world. Its
center is the yolk of the embryonic germs. You see this world
towing behind it a yellow beam of light out of its electro-
magnetic south pole, while at the same time the magnetic-
electric flat north pole was gleaming bluely without lustre.
Out of these embryonic worlds comets appear, rotating
quickly in a threefold movement around the primordial-suns.
LAW OF NUMBERS OF THE THIRD GRADE OF
THE UNIVERSE (CHART 6)
It is a simple addition from 80 to 90. As everything in
creation is developing step by step, without any jump, so
lawful arithmetic moves number by number without any frac-
tion. Chart 6, belonging to. this chapter, illustrates to you this
addition, in a real, in a concrete, and in an abstract way. The
real shows you here the conclusion of the 3 circle. Its conse-
quence is a transition.
3'7
CHAPTER 9
Fourth Grade of the Universe
The beams of the primordial-light invaded the cellular
tissue. The cellular animals felt this light as a warming
magnetism.
In the comets, we see worlds moving from the embryonic
state into childhood. They are on the march toward gradual
transition and change. You may see this in a diagram in the
figures of Chart 6.
Since the comets have two unequal poles and a center, a
difference in temperature was caused. The warmth was seated
in the electro-magnetic center, remaining equal as maternal
stock and animated by light-animals. The flat magnetic-electric
pole was agreeably cool. The pointed electro-magnetic pole,
however, was lukewarmly repulsive.
The cellular animals which had enwoven and cellularized
themselves in their tissue all over the comet in all its fluids
brought with them a consolidation of these fluids. It is only
natural that they must also feel the change of temperature,
namely, in the north agreeably cool, in the south lukewarmly
repulsive, and in the cente1' hot.
The light shone differently on the egg which was now
wider. The quicked threefold movement gave different impres-
sions of light . This had also an influence on the light and
cellular animals.
The first were directed out of their descent by the quicker
influence of light, which means by the quicker rotating and
changing influence of light. They were changed in their mole-
cules which means even smaller atoms. This caused a special
molecular power and movement by which these light-animals
dispersed themselves over the whole world of comets, starting
from the center.
The primordial-light was shining on these light-animals
through the telluric light. It penetrated them in vibrations and
it attracted them. In this way the threefold quicker movement,
these changed impressions of light, influenced the light-animals
38
so that they were disintegrated into atomic molecules develop-
ing special attractive or molecular power among themselves.
They scattered themselves in the rotation of the body over it.
Attracted by the primordial-light, they became implanted in
the cellular tissue.
We call these molecules, which were commuted from the
light-animals, a seed of life which was implanted in or scat-
tered over the cellular tissue of the whole heavenly body.
The rotation and attraction of the primordial-light, the
special molecular power, transplanted these molecular atoms of
the light-animals into the cellular tissue of the cellular animals.
We call this the seed of life, since these molecular atoms, locked
in the cells, took root there and came to life there. Germinating
in the cells as a commutation of light-animals which had become
molecular, they started to sprout forth.
We said that the fluid, composing the poles of the world,
were like the white of eggs and were fenced in by cellular-
animals. In this netlike fluid the seed of life found itself locked
in as a living germ which took roots in the cells and which
grew out of them as an organic plant life. Magnificent and
great in the microcosmos you see here the primordial-formation
of plant life, waiting for further development in these child-
worlds or comets.
This plant life awoke in different ways, since temperatures
and impressions of light had already become variable-agree-
ably cool or lukewarm and windy, but hot in the center. There-
fore the plants had also become threefold in their appearance:
a germ coming from an organic center planted in a cellular
life but germinated and sprouted out in different temperatures
and in different impressions of light. It therefore developed
into a threefold plant life. In this, the law of commutation can
be observed. From one descent comes the grafting in accordance
to natural laws, the trinity which is resting in one.
The center scattered this seed of life through the causes
which we have mentioned before. The magnetic north pole
received it attractively, in a slow stretched movement. The
electric south pole, however, grabbed it in a quick repulsive
39
movement. In this way it happened that one seed coming from
one stock and from one pelvis grew as different plants out of
the conceiving cells, since it had been laid in a different tem-
perature, impression of light, and movement.
You have thus the beginning of plant life which is a two-
fold organic life, namely, one receiving and one giving.
Here again is the influx of the begetting power into the
conceiving power, producing the one. An organic plant life grew
out of the wedding of the light-animals with the cellular-
animals united by the seed of life.
The descent of the plants is rooted in the wedding of two
organic kinds of atoms, in on·e cell, in one matter. These plants
were of a fluidal nature since the whole life, the light-animals
and the cellular animals of the seed of life and of the plants,
were moving in one fluid. This was the state of the heavenly
body in which no separation of the fluid had happened as yet.
The awakening of the world of plants is the first growing out
of the fluid. We discussed in a separate chapter the awakening
of this new life, the descent of which is coming from former
chapters, since this is a step of transition in itself.
LAW OF NUMBERS, FOURTH GRADE OF THE
UNIVERSE (TO THE 7th CHART)
The law of numbers of this chapter contains the simple
addition from 90 to 100. It is a new beginning or a transition
to the diagrams of figures.
40
CHAPTER 10
Fifth Grade of the Universe
We followed the development of these child-worlds or comets,
their development or education which was directed by the mes-
siahs. The development of· the life-principle keeps equal step,
in every respect, with the development of power and fluids.
You see the life-principle pass on to the forms of fluidal
plants which developed in threefold movements and in three-
fold temperatures. With the plant world came a great commu-
tation of the general fluids, since these plants were of a drain-
ing and out-growing nature. The cellular tissue attracted the
fluids and formed protuberances which placed themselves in
the form of plants on the surface of the bodies.
We speak here, as we have mentioned previously, about the
course of thousands of years. This outgrowing of the fluids
into the world of plants, this transition of the life of cells on
the surface, had as a consequence a secretion so that the
fluids separated into two kinds--into a stronger moellous fluid
and into a fluid which was more liquid and more transparent.
It is natural that this separation of fluids had again the con-
sequence of commutations and especially commutations of
something already existing, namely, of the seeds of life of the
cellular animals, of the world of plants.
The center with its yolk or maternal stock remained the
same, giving out warmth, movement, and the seed of life. This
activity had caused a changed movement of bodies from the
center, another turning of the axis. This turning movement is
the same in the beginning of the secretion of fluids. Their
commutation first comes slowly, and then gradually with a
more and more developing secretion of fluids. It secreted where
the fluidal plants had settled in the densest way, aided by
the outer impressions of light, atmosphere, and warmth. It
deposited fluidal parts containing slimy white of egg, similar
to starch, from the watery-thin parts.
This is the moment when the egg in the hen forms the
firm white of the egg and where a bluish thinner part is separ-
ated from it. The first becomes in later formation a shell and the
4.1
second the white of the egg placed around the yolk. The fluidal
secretion brought into the worlds different births of cellular
animals, different germinating and hedging of the seed of life
so that according to the law of descent new grafts and com-
mutations occurred. The seed of lifa was placed, at the same
time, in fluid which was more like matter, and fluid which
was more liquid. It germinated, therefore, differently.
In the first, it formed elements which were denser and
more like matter, since adopting the nature of its mother, it
gained coarser and denser forms. It grew to tremendous plant
size in which cellular life and cellular animals were also com-
mutated and enlarged. Those seeds swam as spawn germinating
in the liquid part, similar to cells. By electro-magnetism of the
fluid they developed, using their own molecular power, com-
monly called galvanism. The watery fluid was animated by
millions of these galvanic organisms which were transparent.
It was a teaming multitude and abundance of life, a continuous
consummation and birth so that this everlasting secondary
change, in their change, produced new types according to the
law of descent.
These microcosmic relations mutiplied so that the types
increased a thousandfold. They grafted and commutated so
that out of one seed of life millions of different microcosmic
galvanic organisms and infusorians were living in these watery
fluids. This :fluid is not yet liquid water. We call it watery
stock, just as we call the firmer fluid of the white of eggs
a material stock.
In the material stock, gigantic plants were rooted which
received color through the impression of light and warmth.
These plants had organic life after they carried cellular life
in themselves. They sprouted forth buds, fruits, and seeds by
means of the albumin which was placed in the cells, and by
the yolk which was in the animals. The falling off and throwing
off of seeds in these plants produced something similar to
the original, and therefore different. Thus, here also the plants
multiplied in millions of kinds; big and small bringing buds,
fruits, and seeds.
42
By movements of atmosphere and rotation called wind or
draft, these seeds were scattered over the whole world so that
the same weed, germinating in different places under different
impressions, produced different commutations or descendent
plants.
In the same way, the watery stock had a fall, a streaming
through movement coming from the center, through turning of
bodies, through outer pressure of rotation. Thus mixtures
occurred from one fluid to another, mixtures from egg to egg
which changed the kinds. In this way, you have a life of
organic plants and of animalistic infusorians changing and
developing a thousandfold. The comets gradually lost, through
fluidal secretion as it came gradually, their electric beam on the
south pole, since the electric fluid co~tracted and polarized
through secretions. The child-worlds entered their years of
development.
The magnetic north pole became, through fluidal secretions,
more pointed and more round. The middle became broader and
denser and the south became heavier and more electric and
more compact.
Since the gravity was placed mainly in the point, an un-
symmetric movement developed gradually keeping equal pace
with the fluidal secretion. Instead of a tendency to turn, it pro-
duced a rolling movement which belonged to the development
of the body, to a phase of its growth. This rolling movement was
like the movement of the moon and was a consequence of the
secretions of fluids, of the shrinking or contraction of the fluidal
electric beam into the south pole. This was the reason why the
body, becoming unsymmetrically heavy, fell from the turning
into a rolling. This all happened with the influence of the
primordial-light, with the attraction to the maternal sun, and
with the outer power of rotation.
By the change of movement, the climatic conditions changed
also; this will be discussed in the next chapter.
43
LAW OF NUMBERS, FIFTH GRADE OF THE
UNIVERSE (8th CHART) .
The law of numbers of this chapter consists of an addition
from 100 to 110. The three diagrams give you the picture of a
commutation and of a change which requires a conclusion.
44
CHAPTER II
Sixth Grade of the Universe
Because of the rolling of the world, one side of it was no
longer turned to the maternal-sun and therefore became cold,
since the body did not turn. The other side was hot. The cold
froze and crystallized the fluids of material and watery stock
where the light of the primordial-sun did not penetrate and
warm them.
By the process of crystallization and freezing, the fluids
became heavier and more concentrated. On the side of the
world exposed to the primordial-light, the fluids evaporated.
They were dissipated as particles which made the matter light.
It was an expiration and an absorption. The crystallization,
however, was a condensation in itself. ·
By this twofold production of substances, the unsymmetrical
relations of gravity of bodies were supposed to be equalized.
This inequality of gravity compensated gradually. It coincided
with the change of :matter.
With the elimination of the unsymmetrical gravity, the un-
equal rolling movement ceased at the same time, and fell into
a singular turning around the axis, into a calm rotation around
the maternal-sun.
The uniform rotation and the elimination of the unsymmetri-
cal gravity of poles was, therefore, a single step. A great
change had also occurred in the world of plants and animals,
since the fluids became crystallized and firmer in the north.
They evaporated in the south. The light of primordial-sun
and warmth invading with the turning movement of bodies, was
supposed to equalize the differences by invading one half of
the world, melting it down and warming it, and by cooling and
absorbing the other half.
It is impossible to name all infusorians and microcosmic
.organisms and all kinds of plants which originated anew by
changing movement and impression of light and warmth.
The basic theory of the different existence is based on the
descent from the one which always come forth twofolds. The
45
descent is placed in the cell. The one or the basic types remain
always mother and father. In the midst of these commutations,
the light and cellular animals remained the strong seed of
life of the molecules, as galvanic organisms and cellular plants
and as basic types. Several microcosmic organisms unified into
one large organism which, favored by external impressions,
developed on a large scale.
An agglomeration of several galvanic organisms placed in
greater cells extended by heat, produced great amphibium.
You see here a larger animal, composed of microcosmic or-
ganisms born by agglomerations of eggs, forming a large
organism. The agglomeration of several eggs placed in a capsule
of fluid or a cell, hedged by the outer impressions, first formed
twin organs and, in the course of descent, one larger organism.
The greater amphibia lived in watery stock, consuming
denser parts of it. Their organism was transparent and soft.
Due to -the unsymmetrical rolling movement, the relations of the
worlds were very different. In the crystals of the colder part,
the cellular animals were commuted to crystal animals. Frozen
in the cold, cells and crystallized animals worked concentrating
more toward the inside. The cells in the_ warmer part became
t;tretched and were driven to the surface.
The plants which were of a fluidal nature, frozen by the
rolling movement in the cold zone, and taking root in material
stock, became giant crystals or glaciers in their crystallization.
In the center of the world, the germ or yolk had remained
the same, since the movement was again symmetrical, playing
the role of equalization between cold and warm.
When the conditions for life necessary for the development
of one kind are gone, the kinds change, also, together with the
conditions, and in the same way.
In the hot part of the world plant life in material stock
was growing gigantically and tropically. At the same time big
herbivores, giant cellular animals, presented themselves, through
agglomerations of eggs and through hedgings.
With the cooling down of the heat, came the extinction of the
giant plants, a commutation or pupation of the giant herbivores.
46
In the cold part, the warming light extracted the life-principle
and its elements from the crysallization or coagulation. Here
were, again, through agglomerations, formed microcosmic or-
ganisms and watery animals laying seed.
We saw up to now, vermins form themselves out of micro-
cosmic organisms, amphibias and herbivores, and water-animals,
fishes in the melting of crystals. All this sprang from the egg
and a commutation of seeds, placed in different fluids and
hedged out differently by means of outer impressions.
The life-principle was animating, forming and changing
everything. The same movement of the world brought an equali-
zation of temperature so that the north pole became again
agreeably cool and the south pole lukewarmly repulsive. The
heat had cooled from its steaming state, the cold had melted
from its crystallized state. Through rotation and movement,
the relative temperatures met other relative temperatures in
their fluids. They formed around the belt or yolk of the world
the beginning of a bark. The effect is as if one poured a hot
fluid into a cold one, which was merging twofold. It formed a
beginning of a bark around the body of the world, a porous
cellular skin through which fluids were steaming and sweating
forth.
Comparing and equalizing the maternal-sun, the primordial-
light and the od-light were shining on all of this. They wrapped
it into an atmosphere of its own. They moved it through pressure
of rotation.
We must mention here the origin of carbon, nitrogen, and
hydrogen, in their highest potence.
The material stock, in the hot part of the world which
drove forth gigantic plants, was constantly steaming in atmo-
spheric inflammation and combustion. Out of this state, the
primordial-carbon originated. Here are also the formations of
primordial-carbon deposits which settled in layers in the ma-
terial stock after the carbonization of the giant plants.
Imagine carbonization not as fire and flames, but as an
ignition of air, as an atmospheric fire, as a burning of plants
formed into coal. The herbivores pupated in these deposits
47
of warm coals. The deposits of coal were laid slightly on top of
each other. They were pressed slowly into the material stock
by increased turning of the axis, by oute1· pressure of rotation.
Through this compression the atoms of coal poured like a dense
rain over all parts of the world, circulating in the turning
movement through the air.
This carbon absorbed itself into the watery stock of melting,
warming cold part of the world.
The carbonized plants were also pressed into the warm
material stock, which formed deposits of coal ·with the cooling.
In the cold part were the crystals or cellular deposits of melted
primordial deposits. The hard crystal formations became warm
and soft. In this way, the carbon was added, as an atomic
rain of atomic carbon capable of germination; through circula-
tion of air. This implanted a plant life in the softened crystals
or deposits.
While the watery stock in the warmer part became like
soup and \Vas thick, it became purer and filtrated into the cold
part through freezing· and crystalizing. These two kinds of
waters merged through streamings and movements of the
world. They mixed with it their germs and their eggs.
These worlds are before you in an even greater commutation.
Warm deposits of coal, warmed crystals, material mixtures,
implantations of seeds, watery stock, and mixtures of eggs, all
in streamings of air and fluids. All these met in the center of
the world, which means in their chemical maternal kitchen.
LAW OF NUMBERS, 6th GRADE OF THE UNIVERSE
(CHART 9)
It is simple addition from 110 to 120. In reality, it is the
conclusion of the fourth circle. You see finished figures before
you, since the worlds had now left their childhood and were
in their fullest development.
Chart 9 is also valid for the 12th Chapter, since the de-
velopment of the world is continuing calmly.
48
CHAPTER 12
Sixth Grade of the Universe (Continued)
We treat this chapter only as a paragraph. It is on the
same level with the other chapter, under the same law of
numbers. It is a quiet continuation and addition which is in-
cluded in the completed figures of numbers.
We let now the worlds, in the course of this chapter, which
is the course of thousands of years, develop themselves. We let
them operate their forces and prepare the secretions. Thus, we
have then indeed completed worlds before us. We call them half
materialized, in order to make you halfway understand the dif-
ference of potences which exists between them and the world
which you know and whkh you are inhabHing.
There were warm carbonized deposits which cooled off.
Warmed crystals were there, grown over with and impregnated
by transplantation of sperms and by rain of carbon-dust which
the circulation of air was carrying.
The pupations crept out from their jackets, out of the
deposits of carbon, hatched by outer conditions. They appeared
as flying half-birds and half-worms. Out of the many small
pupae there came small butterflies. Out of the larger ones
came big kinds of birds, like velvet, finely feathered, pliant
without hard beaks or claws since the conditions of . these
half-materialized worlds did not require this.
These worlds of the 6th grade entered into the 7th grade of
worlds, rotating equally in a quiet movement. This was a point
of rest in the computation and in all diagrams which are the
picture of a totality, of a conclusion.
The worlds had reached a degree of order and development
of a fluidal preparation which caused the contrast spirits to
awaken from their lethargic stage.
The heavy fluids, which had pressed their spirits before,
had now become prepared and had been raised to a higher
power. Therefore, the pressure was lifted and the contrast
spirits became awake.
49
The chaos had now developed to new magnificent creations.
There was quietness, light, order, and warmth around them.
Their fluids freed themselves and their spirits awoke from
their latent state. The life-principle, having united in its organic
formations the contrast with the law, had now passed on to the
formation of larger organisms. Birds, amphibia, water-animals,
trees, and plants developed. Mountains of crystals grew. The
watery stock cleared. The material stock fastened itself in
layers. This all was half material, chemical, or like matter,
oscillating in many colors.
In this state of worlds, the contrast spirits should have
come to their senses and to the admiration of God, to a recogni-
tion of the sacrificing love of the messiahs, of their brotherly
spirits. Everything should have disposed them towards repen-
tance and obedience.
The highest intelligence was noticeable in everything. The
hand of love and reconciliation could be felt everywhere. The
messiahs came into these worlds instructing and converting the
constrast spirits. It was spiritual life.
With the awakening of nature out of the struggle and out
of reconciliation, out of the influence of the contrast, grew also
the contrast spirits, the initiators of chaos and of struggle.
The loving word of the messiahs existed for the purpose of
spiritual instruction. In addition to their fluidal purification
they must have repentance and perception. They possessed for
that free will and free choice.
Nature was reconciled. Now, they should also follow this
treconciliation. This logical total idea is also placed figuratively
in the diagrams of the figures.
The repentance was presented to the contrast as a means of
conversion. The contrast should have become obedient and
humble. They should follow the further development, bending
their will to the law and sharing in the rotation. The fraction
or fall had made a law necessary. They should now follow this
law.
They should not use the fluidal densification, the casing
which covered their spirits and which we call nerve-spirit, to
50
electric intensifications or derotations. They should bend their
spirit to the law, and share in the rotation. By this their spirit
of nerves should have been purified.
We can present to you the spirit with his casing or the
nerve-spirit again only in a triangle, or as three: spirit, power,
and matter, or as spirit, nerve-spirit and fluid.
The spirit is the motor which moves. The nerves are the
power which animates. The fluid is the matter in which the
animation and movement are expressed. Therefore, nerves and
fluid are always the expression of individuality or spirit, to
which they are adequately similar.
The messiahs are spirit, attraction, magnetism, figures of
light, complete, strong triangles standing on their base. Con-
trast spirits, however, are toppled triangles with condensed
electric spirit of nerves. The messiahs could attract chemically
the coarser fluids. This had to be done to complete their
mission. Returned into primordial-suns, the condensation dis-
solved again chemically. The messiahs were to be found in their
primordial-magnetism.
The contrast spirits could possibly not go any higher with-
out changing the former intelligence of their spirit. Without
change, the spirit has no power over higher spiritualized fluids.
The spirit as a motor can animate and move only equal
or inferior fluids, but never fluids placed above it, because only
the higher power of the potence can cancel the lower power of
the depotence. Just by those trials of power, the contrast had
originally arisen.
We said that the contrast spirits were paralyzed in a con-
densed electric fluid. This paralysis ceased with electro-magne-
tism, the purification and secretion of fluids. You know now
that microcosmic organisms and cellular animals developed in
all fluids.
The contrast spirits were therefore placed in organic and
cellular fluid which is power and animation, and which we
called, in the jacket of contrast spirits, the nerve-spirit.
Half material, these spirits awoke in half material worlds.
They animated, in their triangular circle, around them a fluid
51
which contained cells. They moved it according to their will by
nerves and by power.
The nature and the law lent also to the contrast spirits in
the general commutation, instead of a paralyzing fluid which
had made them unconscious of an animated movable fluid
named nerve-spit·it, or perisprit.
They were expected to turn now their free will in obedience
towards the law, to share in rotation and not to go astray. In
order to practice their free will they must enjoy freedom.
Therefore, they were made free. To improve intelligently, free
will had again to be given to them. They received example and
instruction, from the sacrificing messiahs. Clothing themselves
chemically denser, which meant a sacrifice to their spirits, they
came from their light-worlds to the contrast spirits and ad-
monished them. The contrast had the great image of God's
mercy before them which should have softened their spirits.
52
CHAPTER 13
Seventh Grade of the Universe, Second Fracture
Compare this with Chapter 4. Now everything is harmony.
The contrast included by the law of nature formed not a chaos
but followed the law, sharing in rotation. Nature also had be-
come harmonized. The moment of awakening of the· intelligent
contrast, which means of the spirits, is decisive. The harmony
existing around them should have disposed them harmonically.
God's mercy should have made them reconciliatory. The love
of their brethren should have tuned them to love. They were
expected to follow spontaneously the law and to become again
unified among themselves with their brethren and with God.
Instead of following the path of the law, a great schism
formed among them. They became disunified among themselves.
Some took repentfully the way of the law. But others stubbornly
and arrogantly became even more enraged and doubled the
contrast, in their spirit, power, and fluid.
Wherever they could, they influenced contrarily, electrically
and repulsively. They attracted fluids, condensed them and used
them in their fight against the law. This fight was now led with
full consciousness, and even with fury, against God and the
messiahs. They wanted to organize the contrast spirits against
the law, an empire of Satan against the empire of God.
God, the Almighty, let the law of nature rule against which
the fury of their contrast was only a collision. God cannot
become angry, because He is unchangeable in all His qualities
and therefore also in His love. He did not destroy the fallen
first-borns who had come from Him. At this second fall, He
quietly let rule the existing law of nature. This law eliminated
them.
There occurred a second fraction, a second fall, a second
separation which, however, did not cause chaos but an elimina-
tion. The law of nature governing the worlds eliminated the con-
trast spirits f:r.om the law.
The contrast spirits began their impenitence by opposing
the movement. By means of their nerve-spirits, they had a circle
53
of power and fluid around them which they used for a con-
densation of their own and a condensation of cellular animals
placed in their fluid. This condensation happened through de-
velopment of electric fluid, by means of repulsion. This conden-
sation proceeded in electric communication to the atmosphere,
through propagation and condensation of cellular animals and
through all fluids. This caused in the still warm deposits and
crystals atmospheric inflammations, volcanic explosions.
The law, in regular rotation and proceeding in regular mag-
netic electric development, eliminated the unlawfully condensed
electric fluid, with the contrast spirits, in the form of fire-
rings. This elimination was according to law of nature since
this law of nature does not tolerate anything contrary to nature.
It eliminates it lawfully.
Naturally, the intelligent principle which animated the
contrast, namely the spirits, were eliminated from the worlds,
together with the fire-rings. The contrast resulted in the
worlds' volcanic revolutions, and was removed from them in
the form of fire-rings.
The fire-rings were not lost in the universe. The fluids found
a support on the spiritual immortality and indestructibleness
of the contrast spirits and of their maternal worlds to which
they were attractively fastened, and to which they remained
connected by the law of gravitation.
Admire God's greatn~ss and unchangeability in that He
preserved the contrast through the law! In this way, the elimin-
ated contrast remained fluidally and atomically separated in
small molecules, which rotated around their maternal worlds.
' This fall was twice greater than the :first one. It was a
fall of spirit, power and fluid. It was a fall of spirits, worlds,
and powers. With the first fall, the spirits lost their self-
consciousness. But, with the second fall, they retained it. With
the first fall, a fluidal chaos, a confusion of powers, was occur-
ring. But with the second fall, the worlds eliminated fire-rings,
after which the former quietness and harmony ruled in them
again.
54
These worlds became maternal suns, since they found their
elimination, the fire-rings, rotating around them as world-seeds.
Thus, these worlds .could be called second class s.uns.
Those contrast spirits who prepared themselves repentantly
to conversion, remained in the second class· suns. .Th\! fight had
tested them and had purified them. They had risen by one step
of perception. They were prepared to follow the law. The lost
seemed doubly dear and doubly valuable to them. Repentance
and perception made them: penitents who were striving for .their
original unity.
The purified fluids were given to the spi~its as nerve-
spirit and as a means of conversion. ThrQugh these same means,
many were converted and many were not.
The second fall was more important than the first one, since
now the spirits retained their consciousness. Their contrary in-
telligence had even become more. developed and had become
very deliberate. They had become more complete in the contrast.
They were what you on earth would call demons. Just as perfect
as the messiahs were in goodness and law, they were now su-
perior in evilness and in the contrast.
They wanted to overthrow, to outwit, to force the l~w. Un-
changeable in His qualities, God opposed them. Unforceable, in
its power, the law was opposite them. And untouchable in purity,
the messiahs were opposite them.
The contrast could not remain anymore latent in the law of
nature, and could not be led anymore mechanically. It had to
be forced lawfully, had to be defeated spiritually, and it had to
be placed in chains.
God thought of a conciliatory link between the contrast and
the law, and He let the Jaw of nature work on a fluid reconciling
both. There had to come an intelligent and reconciling free
fluid adequate to the messiahs.
LAW OF NUMBERS, 7th GRADE OF THE UNIVERSE
(CHART 10)
In the diagram, you see clearly before you the crux of
what has just been said. The elimination is there figuratively
before your eyes. You see, furthermore, the double nature of the
55
fall. In the former lawful addition, always 1 was added to the
real, 3 to the concrete, and 6 to the abstract. Instead of this,
the second fraction works threefold: 3 instead of 1, 9 instead of
3, and 18 instead of 6. This is a multiplication which must
again be divided or simplified in the way of law.
The first fraction was simple. The second fraction is double
this simple one. There comes into existence in the real a con-
trast-triangle. In the concrete three the contrast-triangle came
into existence. In the abstract, the fraction has 18 tangents.
The real multiplication means twice 1 totaling 2 and the
addition of 2 and 1 is three. The diagram also represents this.
In the concrete, the multiplaction means two times three is six
and the addition 6 and 3 is 9 which is made clear by the 3
fractional tangents. In the abstract, the multiplication means
2 times 6 is 12. The addition of 12 and 6 is 18 which you find
in your tangents. Our last total addition of Chart 9 was 120
and is now with the added fraction 150.
56
BOOK II
CHAPTER 14
Development
Since the fraction was double, the reconciliation has to be
double, also.
The second fall is followed by a development going its
lawful way.
The fire-rings which were thrown off by the second class
sun, and which contained the contrast spirits, found themselves
after their offal in a molecular state rotating around the ma-
ternal worlds. In the third condensation they were receiving the
primordial-light through the second suns. Being telluric, they
received a telluric light, the condensed primordial-light which
corresponded to the matters of the fire-rings.
The contrast spirits could not do anything against the law
of nature. They had to obey the forming law of nature. The
formation of these fhe-rings to worlds went according to the
same laws, through the same steps as the embryonic worlds
which have been described. Everything happened only in a
denser and in a more material measure.
Out of the molecular state, embryonic germs sprang up to
new worlds. The germs were loosened from the rings electrically
in a spirally formed movement. In the beginning, t~ey were
suspended as satellites which eventually developed themselves
around the worlds. They were in a planetar relation to their
maternal world. They received tellurically the light of the
second suns, which was their solar light. The world-germs and
embryos did not develop at the same time. These were steps
formed in spiral circles.
There were some which moved quickly, turning into an
egglike state. Others were rotating with long electric light-
streaks. Others again, having an overweight of development
within themselves, were simply rolling. Others, coming out
57
of a state of transition, were rota~ing lawfully. The world-
germs could not find their development from fire-rings, at the
same time. Everything had to move in order, under pressure
of rotation, in the course of a spiral circle.
Thus, the molecules became germs, in the course of a spiral
circle, and were eliminated. These germs became eggs, in con-
tinuation of the course of a spiral circle. These became comets
in the same course and then became simply rolling worlds, and
finally became suns rotating according to law.
The last completed worlds, through the influence of the
contl·ast which caused volcanic revolutions, eliminated the fire-
rings, also. These fire-rings, growing according to the same
law, are satellites or companions of these worlds.
These worlds formed first of fire-rings, were called suns of
th.e third class. This will be explained later in more detail.
Here before your eyes, an infinite life, a continuous forma-
tion of worlds, is unfolding. In a spiral circle, one is replacing
the other. The continuous throwing off and eliminating were
consequences of the working contrast which wanted to surpass
in ,their absurdity the limitations of the universe and of the
l~w. Wherever it could, it hindered by resistance to and stag-
nation of powers, and by electric and volcanic explosions.
In this way, crushes occuned through stagnation of powers
in the spiral circle, which made molecular atoms out of crushed
worlds. Since the law of nature, however, was working on and
on, nothing could get lost or become destroyed. Therefore, these
atoms found themselves rotating, newly accumulating and grow-
ing into ·worlds. These atoms, filled with microcosmic life, ro-
tated around worlds; and the satellites around planets.
Here is the complete great picture before you. We described
it starting with the unmovable· primordial-light, going on in
spiral circles to new creations and to depotence. You have first
the primordial-suns, then as their children the second suns out
of.which the offal happened. Then, the third suns formed them-
selves, and formed solarities in the midst of eliminations and
chil.dre_
n. and planets of their own. These again had satellites
around. them. Among all of these were the world-atoms rotating
1)8
as molecularily flOWered electric flakes in the solar ·systems
of the third suns.
You have different rotations. First the· great simple rota-
tion of the primordial-suns or first suns around the primordial-
light. Then you have the rotation of the second suns with an
axial movement of their ·own around the primordial-suns. To-
gether with these, therefore, threefold around the ·primordial-
light which is the third spiral circle, you have the rotation of the
third suns with an axial movement of their own around the
second suns, and with these around the primordial-suns and
around the primordial-light in the fifth grade of the spiral
circle.
You have finally the turning of the children or offals of the
third suns, around themselves and their maternal worlds and
so on in the course of the spiral circle. The augmentation is re-
moval from God and the primordial-light. Thus the second fall
did not bring chaos or destruction, but condensation and augmen-
tation. Over this stood the unchangeaole great God and His law,
g~1iding, forming, and reconciling.
The contrast spirits ·followed the densest fluids· always.
When solarities projected themselves out of the fite·-rings,
these as purer fluids were left by the Worst contrast spirits· and
the remained inhabited by the less evil ·ones. The spiritual in-
fluence of the contrast affected the development of the life-
principle. Following mechanically, this was exposed to fluida]
influences. In the worlds of coarsest condensation, develop-
ments of various plants and animals came into existence. By
the spiritual and fluidal influence -of the contrast, poisonous
plants and savage animals arose.
. The embryonic development of the ·w·orlds out of th'e· fire-
rings had the same lawful orderly course as that of the second
sun. Only here, from the very beginning, the fluids were densei·,
the cellular animals bigger, the light-animals more condensed.
Everything was the same in origin, in the unity, but different
in the multitude, in apparition. There were therefore in the
worlds formed out of fire-rings, all beginning germs, atoms, and
molecules, denser from the beginning. Later, all formations and
59
carbon deposits were more material, such ·as carbon-rain, c1·ystal
meltings, floods, and a mixture.
The intervals between heat and cold were longer, the level-
ing off more difficult because of the obstacles of the contrast
spirits. Especially the development of animals was very different
in their apparition from the former ones, because sensuality
was developed in the contrary spirits, and it conveyed itself to
the animal organisms which were animated by the life-prin-
ciple. The contrast spirits had intelligence and conscience. They
were conscious and deliberate contrasts. They wanted to create
out of themselves, to augment. They found themselves, however,
alone in their underworlds, a name to be applied to worlds which
belonged to the third suns.
These spirits were disunified among themselves. But in the
memory of their leaving the dual, they aimed now at a union
of nerve-spirit, following their sensual feelings which means
following the degeneration of a spiritual dual love. They
thoug·ht they themselves could thus create.
The decay of the dual love expressed itself in sensual feelings
which searched for an expression in the attraction of nerve-
spiritual fluids. In this way, these spirits formed sensual ap-
paritions, in their casings. They did not, however, find a spir-
itual principle which would have been adequate, outside of the
contrast spirits. Therefore, the contrast spirits did not accom-
plish an intelligent fulfillment. The life-principle, however,
rotating through the worlds and animating all their fluids
in the law of nature, also animated these fluids of the contrast
spirits which were sensually generated. As a result, animals
came into existence which were corresponding to sensuality.
Sensuality is an expanding, augmenting feeling which filled
all molecules and cellular animals of the fluids generated by the
contrast spirits in their sensual attraction of nerve-spirit. The
rotating life-principle which unites the microcosmic in a great
organism animated sensual animals according to the law of
nature, in these fluids. This caused the birth of live young ones,
out of inherent sensuality which was inherited from the contrast.
The mutual fluidal contact of the contrast spirits in their
60
nerve-spirit did not bring forth new life, but new commutations.
They developed an electric matter of albumin-white, molecular, .
animated in cellular kind. This accumulated microcosmic life
in a larger organism and produced a mechanically living form,
or animal. •
These animals augmented then, through sensuality, in var-
ious descents. This coming into life of sensual animals out of
fluids of contrast spirits was animated only by the life-prin-
ciple and was only a consequence of the law of nature. Every-
thing produces similar and relative objects. Therefore, the fluids
of the contrast spirits, after their animation through the life-
principle, had to be similar and relative to them as far as form
and qualities are concerned. This explains the many varied
images of the Greek mythology which created human spirits
out of old memory. This caused the legends of the creative
evil god, in contrast to the good One.
The contrast spirits did not find satisfaction in the kind
of animation and development of their nerve-spiritual emana-
tion and agglomeration. They were angered about their lack of
power to create something spiritually intelligent.
The animals which grew out of their sensuality and their
fluids animated by the rotating life-principle, were wild and
untameable. They were evil and a mirror of their own qualities.
Therefore, the contrast spirits aimed at persecuting them and
destroying them.
A comparison between the second and third suns must be
made here. In the second suns we find beautiful plants and birds,
soft fragrant resting places, bright crystal waters. The in-
habitants are the repentant converting spirits. In the third suns,
we find a material sensual life. It produces unpleasant places
in the planets of their system, such as poisonous plants and
stagnant water. It produces sensual aniinals. The inhabitants
here are unrepentant spirits.
However, life in the third suns themselves was still less
sensual and material than that of planets and satellites. This
is because those contrast spirits which were sensual through
nerve-spiritual contact and which nroa-enerated sensuality,
61
existed mostly in the planets. The·se planets received light, food,
and warmth fr·om the third ·suns which were less sensual and
material in spirit, power, and matter. That was the reason why
they be.came solarities:
You see commutations of kinds occurring first through
accumulations of eggs and incubations. The birth of young
ones occurred in a denser fluid and in its agglomerations, which
generated by spiritual sensuality. .
We conclude this chapter in the stage of underworlds and
higher worlds. Here is a splendid spiritual .life. There is a
sensual augmenting .endeavor. Between both is a crevice which
should be leveled off by a reconciling link.
LAW OF NUMBERS OF THE DEVELOPMEN'],'
(()HART 11)
The double fracture. real 3, concrete 9, and abstract 18, form
in the real figure a contrary ~ . It must form in reconcilia-
tion and development a real 3 or 1 ~· , a concrete 9 or 3
L .,and in the abstract 18 tangents. This is the com-
pensation of the fracture 3, 9, 18 through the development of
3, 9, 18.
The fracture is divided or included in the law through the
same figures. The real double fracture becomes a real double
development, through the inclusion in the law of numbers. The
division here is thus (compare Charts +O · and 11).
Real Concrete· Abstract
15 I 18
I 1
45 1 54 I i 9o 1 108 I 1
I 15 I 45 I .I 90 I
I 3 .I I 9 .I I 18 I
Here, as in Chapter 5 ·of the reconciliation, the .original
figures remain unchangeable, the real 3, the .concrete 3, and the
abstract 3. ·
62
CHAPTER 15
Reconciling Developmeri_
t
Our attention must be focused especially on the development
of the various worlds and of the life-principle. The !ife-principle
was incorporated in the so-called underworlds materially, by the
law of nature, as a mechanically obedient and animating power.
The life-principle was an individuality, an animating power
coming from God, rotating and aniqtating everything in exist-
ence, in the law of nature. It is the pro-generating power
emanating from God and fertilizing mother nature.
Reconciling the contrast :with the law, incorporating and
animating sensual organs in the underworlds, the life-principle
in itself did not become sensual. The sensual spirits remained
the sensual principle. The life-principle agglomerated the sen-
sual organic fluids, by its animation, and bore animals out of
them. By doing this, it did not, however,- in its individuality as a
life-principle, become sensual itself. It remained mechanical,
following the law of nature in its rotation and animating every-
thing according to law.
Life-principle, power, and fluid can only create uniformly.
The one cam;es the other. The life-principle, emanating from
God, has its lawful rotation, its rawful way of formation and
animation, through three realms, namely, the realm of earth,
of plants, and of animals. After that, it becomes a spiritualized
life-principle which grows . in power and in consciousness. It
remains a mechanically obeying principle, during all rotations
and animations, unified with the law. .It grows, however, in
power and consciousness during the course of rotation. This
expresses itself in an instinctive, soulful, but still mechanical
life.
The continuous forming, rotating, and animating develops
the individuality of the life-principle into a psychic principle.
In the course of these two chapters are planets, satellites,
and atoms turning around their maternal worlds, the third
suns, in systems. We call these worlds underworlds because they .
63
form in every respect a striking contrast to the first and second
suns which we call higher-worlds.
We call the contrast spirits demons, and we chose this name
as a contrast to the messiahs. Desiring to create, the demons
saw live young ones, animals, came forth from the densest or-
ganic sensual fluids which were animated by the rotating
life-principle.
Since the fluids were penetrated by sensuality, organically
as well as cellularly, the molecules of the electric magnetic
albumin locked themselves in the cells. This produced clusters
·of sensual embryonic organisms and brought forth live young
ones. The fluidal embryonic development came from the nerve-
spirits of the demons. It was animated by the life-principle
which animated everything. In this way, matter and quality
of the animals came from the demons. They received animation
from the life-principle and came into existence as live young
beings which grew into wild, devastating, angered contrary
animals. These animals had attracted the qualities of demons,
by means of their organic origin. This was the life on the planets
and satellites.
The demons, aware of being immortal, searched for a satis-
faction of their contrary and sensual feelings in the electric
contact and condensation of their nerve-spirit. They knew
neither death nor incorporation. They were outside of the law.
After theh· first fall, they became deathlike and in this way
fluidally purer. But now they condensed their nerve-spirit with
consciousness and deliberation. They commuted it without death,
which means that they condensed it.
The suns of the third class influenced solarically the plan-
ets, through 'their higher potency of light, warmth, and magnetic
centripetal force. These third suns were inhabited by contrast
spirits which we do not call demons since they had not reached
the complete grade of decadence. They were placed, therefore,
according to law, in the third suns as minor contrast spirits, in
a minor contrary fluid.
In the course of our decription you see that what we call
pure magnetism, does exist only in the primordial-light and in
64
the first suns. The first fall condensed already the magnetism
into electricity. The deeper we go into depotence the more the
latter will prevail.
Electricity and magnetism express powers, namely repulsion
and attraction. The effect of both powers together, we describe
by electro-magnetisms and polarities. These rule, you see, in
condensations from the second suns down into the underworlds.
In the underworlds there is mainly electro-magnetism, which
means more electricity than magnetism. This was placed, in the
form of a jelly, connected by cells, in the nerve-spirit of the
·demons, more electrical in the albumin, and more magnetical
in the cells. The denser the nerve-spirit became, the more
magnetism turned into electricity. This electric magnetic jelly
with its duality, working polarically by attraction and repulsion,
was placed not only in the nerve-spirits, but in the whole
earth, in all plants and organisms. This jelly penetrated the
earth holding together everything in cells, as a net.
In the same way, the plants had their electric magnetic jelly
which held together their fibres, nerves and cells. In the same
way, the animals had them in their nervous systems. This jelly,
which evaporated from the earth, formed above it an electro-
magnetic layer of ether and air. Attracted by solarity, these
layers, in their commutations, caused electric apparitions of
light or ether.
In the course of thousands of years which fill this chapter,
you see the intelligent and sensual contrast form itself in the
underworlds. You see the contrast spirits which had not fallen
so deeply in the third suns.
Those fallen spirits which had started on the way of im-
provement had returned to their original purity, in the course
of thousands of years. Following the rotation, in th11ir reconcilia-
tion with the law, they had become repentant dual spirits
which were entrusted with minor missions.
They had found home in the first suns, through spiritualiza-
tion and unification. The second suns, as paradises free of in-
habitants, were there, waiting for a reconciling link.
Two actions shall be stressed here. One is the fall and aug-
65
mentation towards the underworlds. The other is the repentance
and reconciliation, the unification towards the higher worlds
and towards the primordial-light.
We want to emphasize in our words only the logic of the
events. We describe everything only in great outlines, drawing
with undetailed sketches.
Opposing themselves in contrast to God, the demons must
necessarily be in striking contrast to Him. Desiring to create,
they became the originators of sensuality in nature which bore
live offspring. They were the representatives of all that is
materialistic, repulsive, and contrary to law. The forming Jaw
of nature changed it into a reconciling development, because
God, the primordial principle of love, does not destroy anything.
. LAW OF NUMBERS OF THE RECONCILING
DEVELOPMENT (CHART 12)
This addition, from 180 to 210, and Chart 12, is meant for
Chapters 15 and 16. We will mention them in these chapters.
66
CHAPTER 16
Embryonic Spirits
Between demons. and messiahs, you see a gap which is not
filled by any reconciling link. Such a reconciling link, however,
was already forming itself, in the course of all these chapters,
waiting to become awakened to consciousness.
This link .had to be reconciliatory threefold, namely a prin-
ciple of reconciliation which had to be intelligent, united in
po~er and matter, and spiritually self-conscious. This reconciling
link finds its origin in God, in the spiritual principle which
emanates from Him, and in a psychically developed life-prin-
ciple. These two principles clothed in a fluid, bring forth a
whole, namely, embryonic spirits.
We said that the life-principle gained ·power and conscious-
ness in its rotation, and in its growth of formation. This
changed it to a psychic, instinctive principle which always fol-
lowed the law mechanically.
The stronger and the more self-conscious the life-principle
was, the more potent it became, and the closer it came to the
spiritual principle emanating from God.
The peak of its potency produced its melting and its uniting
into the spirit-principle out of which embryonic spirits were
born. The animating principle reaching its highest potency, was
drawn from the underworlds into the second suns, from there
into the primordial-suns and thus gradually into the primordial-
light. While this was taking place, it was animating and work-
ing in a unifying rotating movement. In the primordial-light,
it united with the spiritual principle emanating from God, as a
new creation, or as embryonic spirits, like the first-borns of
God. The more conscious and strong the life-principle was, the
more it became of a psychic nature and the higher it was raised
potentially, until it streamed into the unifying primordial-light
and emerged from there as a new creation. Millions of embryonic
spirits were born out of this merging. Progenerated by the rays
of vibration, they received development and form by rotation.
67
As spiritual embryos, they were progenerated out of the pri-
mordial-light, by the power of vibration. They were born out of
the unified soul-principle, by the power of assimilation. They
came into the primordial-suns through rotation. There, these
spiritual embryos were developed to perfect dual spirits, in-
structed by the messiahs. They also received three spiritual·
gifts: intelligence, dual love, and free will.
They awoke from their embryonic state, in the primordial-
suns, to selfconscious dual spirits, still in the stage of chil-
hood. In the course of their formation and development, they
were led into the second suns or paradises, instructed by the
messiahs. These worlds were adequate for the embryonic spirits,
in their lawful complete fluidal formation.
This is a threefold movement which produced one whole.
First, spiritual embryos were born in the primordial-light, after
unification of the life-principle, through the first movement,
vibration and assimilation. Secondly, they were comprised by
rotation, bringing them into the primordial-suns, where they
were formed dual spirits. Third, the messiahs led them from
the primordial-suns into paradises. There they should, as de-
veloped dual spirits, in the full power of youth, start their lives
of independent development. As dual spirits, they were gifted
with intelligence, free will and love. Their casings or nerve-
spirit corresponded completely to the half-material stage. These
are the three movements.
Be well aware now of an important part of this book. There
is a difference between the coming into existence of these spirits
and the coming into existence of the first-borns of God. These
spirits came forth, not so perfect and not so directly from God,
as the first-borns had. The contrast, in the meantime, had come
to its formation or deformation. These spirits were the recon-
ciling link. They were the filling of a crevice, while the first-
borns had emanated freely from God. Furthermore, the embry-
onic spirits were born half out of the life-principle which had
already passed all phases of nature, of the contrast, of the re-
conciliation, of depotence and potence, and they were born half
68
out of God's emanation. The first-borns, however, were children
of the purest light; "Light of My light."
The first-borns were similar to God, while the embryonic
spirits were similar to the messiahs. Their stage of perfection
was the goal which the embryonic spirits wanted to reach.
These embryonic spirits received the same spiritual gifts or
means of development as the first-borns. The same dual law
united them into one. ·According to their psychic nature and ac-
cording to the fluidal quality of their nerve-spirit, they were
different from the origin of the first-borns.
They received form and development, following the law of
their birth, from the first suns, while the first-borns received
them from the primordial-light.
The embryonic spirits, at their awakening to consciousness,
had already the knowledge that a contrast was existing and
that the temptation was to conquer. They awoke, in accordance
with their psychic nature, as inhabitants of the paradises, with
the consciousness of a forbidding law.
The awakening or incorporation-which are synonymous-
of these spirits in the second suns, occurred according to the
law of rotating, turning, and forming. It followed the law of
nature which emanates from God, the unchangeable.
The life-principle animated everything by forming and as-
similating rotation. This means it attached itself to the power
and the matters. In the same way the spirits, guided by rotation,
came into the second suns, as a spiritual intelligent principle of
animation. They came in forms which were similar to their
originators and adequate to the paradises.
These spirits, therefore, were spiritually similar to the mes-
siahs. They were fluidally adequate to their nerve-spirit, the
worlds which they comprised. The messiahs were the interme-
diaries of their incorporation into the paradises.
We make here a small comparison to the paradise of Moses.
Adam awakens. God inhales his spirit into him. His body i~
made of earth. The spirits awake, out of the life-principle, spir-
itually through God, fluidally in the fluids of the worlds.
Adam is the image of the dual spirit. Eva was taken from
69
his inner body.· She is like· his dual, emanating from him, but
still forming one with him. So are also the dual spirits which
are two in their fluidal form or nerve-spirit, but one in the root.
This is like a triangle, which is one through the unifying base,
and becomes two single ones through the fraction of it. Imagine
that the two lines on the right .and on the left side represent
spirits. The base, represents then the unifying connecting
fluidal tie of dual love. When this tie is torn, the duals are
separated.
The embryonic spirits were conscious of the existence of the
contrast placed in the forbidding law. This is, figuratively, the
tree of knowledge. Angels came to them. This means the con-
verted spirits were assigned to them as guardian spirits. By
doing this they fulfilled minor missions. There were neither evil
animals nor plants in these second suns where an eternal spring
ruled. Their inhabitants knew neither death nor sin. The way
to perfection was open to them. In this way, they lived, develop-
ing with rotation, endowed threefold as unified dual spirits.
In the midst of this peaceful nature, they perceived the con-
h·ast, and they recognized the underworlds. There was the for-
bidding law, the forbidden fruit. Within their view were the
messiahs and the higher worlds. But they also had a view of the
underworlds, with a consciousness of the. forbidding law. They
received life, light, and instruction from above, while the
temptation came from below. This is the link which fills the
crevice, They are free individual spirits, capable of formation
and progress,. well guided by their guardian spirits between the
messiahs and the contrast; aw~tre of the contrast as a forbidding
law. Without intelligence and · free will, there can be no in-
dividual or spiritual development. According to the law of
nature, they had received the three endowments with their exist-
ence. The next chapter will show how th_
ey used them.
THE RECONCILING LAW OF NUMBERS OF
DEVELOPMENT (CHART 12)
The reconciling law of numbers· makes a conclusion in the
figures. We have here a ·simple addition from 180 to 210! It is
again a spot of rest, a totality in the creation.
70
CHAPTER 17
Third Fracture
The embryonic spirits had passed from childhood into ripe
youth without failing. Their spirits were in full development.
Obediently, they rotated with the law. They went on, with their
worlds, to a magnificent accomplishment. Their eyes were turned
upwards and they were turned also toward the underworlds
since they were to be their reconciling link.
They were placed between God and the contrast in the uni-
verse. The expression of dual love was situated in themselves.
Two spirits surrounded by one fluid united in this spiritual love
and embrace, were expected to be parents, or better, fluidic .out-
fitters of newly arising embryonic spirits. This is what they
were expected to become. This was their mission. This is what
the forming rotation was supposed to lead them to when the
influence of the contrast and the fall of the spirits interfered.
The appearance of the pure spirits filled the demons with
fury. They had learned to recognize the impotence of their
opposition :o>.gainst the law of nature and their incapacity to
create. The existence of the spirits shamed them and filled them
with envy, since their deformation contrasted badly with the
perfect formation of the spirits.·
They could not invade personally the second suns, since the
governing law of nature and the pure fluids of the sun·s stood
between, as insurmountable barriers. Therefore, they did what
they could, by means of their free will, of their contrary in-
tellig·ence, and of their ingratiating sensuality, to awaken first
the curiosity of the spirits. They tried, then, to instill into them
the desire for tasting the contrast. The demons developed, up to
the borders of their realm, which means of the underworlds,
electric fire-sparks and iridescencies. They knew that the
eyes of the young spirits were turned toward their worlds. This
awoke cu.?-iosity for the forbidden.
In the midst of the electric lights were the demons, as the
animating principle of these fluids which were sent exploding
and shattering into space. The appearance of the contrast and
71
of the demons with their electric fluorescent nerve-spirit seemed
new to the spirits.
A part of the spirits found these forms disgusting, evil-
smelling and disagreeable. They joined firmly, therefore, their
guardian spirits. They held on with all their might to the soli-
darity of their world.
In other spirits, however, curiosity was aroused. They took
a liking to these forms. Opposing the forming rotation, they
swung out of their circle into space, towards the contrast.
This caused a threefold offal from the second suns; spiritually
with respect to power, and fluidally. It meant a throwing off of
fire-rings. Depending on the way they were thrown off, these
fire-rings placed themselves around the t hird suns. They were
attracted and kept in balance by centripetal power.
This is the first fall of the embryonic spirits. You see the
completely pure dual spirits remaining in their paradises and
continuing in their rotation after the fire-rings had been .
thrown off. The falling spirits are breaking away as duals.
Their first fall was disobedience. This was followed by the
second fall, the sensuality.
Coming closer to the contrast by the offal, the demons de-
veloped sensual emotions in the dual-spirits, out of their nerve-
spirits. The Teceiving pa1·t of the duals tasted first the forbidden
fruit in an unspirited contact with the contrast spirits.
This contact acted upon the duals destructively, like an
electric shock. It conveyed itself to the giving part. In this
way, you see before you separated duals, twofold sensual spirits
being disunited within themselves.
Just as the magnetism changed into electricity, this pure
fluidal nerve-spirit changed into a sensual dense one. Not only
sensuality, but also an·ogance attracted the spirits by the con-
trast. They wanted to create, to progenerate and to surpass God.
Here a separation of the falling spirits occurred. They
separated into sensual disobedient spirits. Frightened by the
consequences of the separ ation, they detached themselves from
the other animalistic sensual spirits, from their electric fluids,
from their nower of repulsion into better fluids. They followed
72
their regular rotation, mechanically, without any will, stunned
and frightened.
The stepping out of these less fallen spirits, out of the other
deeply fallen ones, caused an elimination of spirit, power, and
matter from the fire-rings. This was the consequence of a
fourth solaric formation which was similar to the third forma-
tion of suns.
By this action which occurred in rotation according to the
law of nature, the atoms and molecules-being eliminated from
the fire-rings by the forming fourth suns-fell deeper into
the space of the underworlds with their sensual spiritual prin-
ciple. This elimination found itself attracted by centripetal
power to the maternal worlds which means to the fourth suns
which had just eliminated them.
Through their fall into the space of the underworlds. this
elimination caused cohesions and splinterings. In this you see a
leveling of and a filling in of space through the rising of the
fourth suns. Through the atomic cohesions in the underworlds,
a cramming occurs which concentrates again solarically.
The offal of the spirits was threefold. It was similar to the
first fall, but it caused chaotic convulsions only in the under-
worlds. This happened because the planets, world-atoms and
satellites met the molecules and atoms of eliminations in shatter-
ing cohesions during the complete development of their-maternal
worlds of the fourth suns.
The deeply fallen sensual spirits became paralyzed numbly
in the midst of all these cohesions. The demons, powerless
against God's law, saw themselves pushed to and fro without
any will of their own, by cohesions, bound by the law of nature.
The disentanglement of this chaos, which had come into exist-
ence by augmentation, condensation, and overcrowding as well
as by the offal of the spirits, was effected by a fifth solaric
formation. We see also now the fourth suns turning around the
third suns. They are themselves a solaric system surrounded
during their formation by molecules and atoms until fifth solari-
ties were also forming out of this chaotic cohesion. They turned
around the fourth suns.
73
The contrary spirits inhabiting the third suns found them-
selves in the middle between the completely sensual and the half-
sensual spirits, between the arrogant and the disobedient spirits.
In this way, there was no difference between the fallen first-
borns which before had been in the third suns, and the fallen
spirits. We call all of them fallen spirits with the exception of
the demons.
Thus, in the third suns there were steadfast repentant spir-
its, as a solaric spiritual power. They attracted solarically,
spiritually, and fluidally those embryonic spirits which had
failed half-sensually, through disobedience and dual separa-
tion. The sensual, not arrogant, separated dual spirits drew
chaotic disentanglement which we have described in the forma-
themselves solarically out of the circle of the deeply sunk,
arrogant spirits. These sensual spirits came into the fourth
suns. The spirits fell completely to the contrast, laid in a chaos
of congestions, and were stunned as though dead. Those are in
the fourth suns in an attached stage of a half-sleep. In the
third suns there were frightened repentant spirits.
The spiritual fall was stimulated by curiosity and was caused
by disobedience. It brought spiritual degeneration, degenerated
power, derotation, matter condensation, and dualistic separation.
Look now with us, oh men, who you are just such fallen
spirits, on the threefold mercy and the threefold reconciliation
of God!
Before we go on with a more detailed description of the
The fraction in the law of numbers proceeds simply like the
first one. But it has its double length and size and its double
periphery.
tion of the third suns, we would like to make a comparison of
this fall with the fall of men as it is described in the Old Testa-
ment. Here is told to you how each man of the earth comes into
existence already afflicted with sin.
The genesis of Moses can be neither scientifically correct nor
theologically just, if it would be limited to the earth alone. It is
a pictu1·e drawn of the g1·eat whole.
74
It is said, "In the beginning God created the heaven and the
earth. And the earth was without form and void; and darkness
was upon the face of the deep. And the spirit of God moved upon
the face of the waters. And God said, let there be light; and
there was light. And God saw the light, that it was good; and
God divided the light from the darkness. And God called the
light Day and the darkness He called Night. An the evening
and the morning were the first day."
Look in this for the symbol of the awakening of dead mat-
ter, of the awakening of the universe. Do not let yourself be
confused by the terminology. Look for the spirit of the words.
God, heaven, the waste earth and the sinister depth: God, His
primordial-light, and the dead matter.
God said, "Let there be light"--and the universe became
alive. Out of the primordial-light was brought forth the od-
light. This means day and night. "And the spirit of God moved
upon the face of the waters" means that God is in the pri-
mordial-light.
Moses says quite correctly that God's word, "Let there be
light!" had two effects, day and night, awakening of dead mat-
ter and an animated universe, the od-light and the primordial-
light.
Second day, "And God said, let there be a firmament in
the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the
waters. And God made the firmament and divided the waters
which were under the firmament from the waters which were
above the firmament; and it was so. And God called the firma-
ment Heaven."
The firmament is the primordial-light. The water is the
animated universe which surrounded the primordial-light. Here
is the formation of fluidal droplets. The fall of the messiahs
is meant by the passage: "And God divided the waters which
were under the firmament from the waters which were above the
firmament."
The third day: "And God said, Let the waters under the
Heaven be gathered together unto one place." This· is the for-
mation of the primordial-suns so that one could see the dry land.
'15
The third day is the development of the suns. It is the
separation of the fluidal substances, the cooling down.
Moses does not mention especially the fall of the messiahs.
He assumes this later, however, as an established fact when
he mentions the tempting demons in the paradise.
On the fourth day, God created various stars and the sun
and established days and years. This is the course of the
regular rotation of the suns. This part of the Book of Moses
led, as you will know, to many errors.
Since the worlds did not develop equally fast or at the same
time, as we have told you, there were in this period great lights
and small lights, which means various worlds in the stage of
development.
On the fifth day, it is told, God created the animals of the
water and the birds. These are the great amphibians, herbivores,
and birds which we described to you previously.
On the sixth day, God created the living creature and man.
This is the development of the life-principle in descendence. It
is the awakening of the embryonic ·spirits in the paradises.
It is said, furthermore, that God formed man of the dust
of the ground and breathed into him the breath of life.
The embryonic spirits were truly made by God's breath ap-
plied to an animated spiritual principle. They were clothed in
fluidal nerve-spirit with the fluids of their worlds.
We have said that the taking of Eve out of Adam contained
the idea of dualism in itself. The long sleep of Adam before
Eve's creation is the process of the intimate dualistic union
which the spirits went through in the primordial-suns. His
awakening and discovering of his female companion means the
dualistic consciousne&s of the spirits, the consciousness of two
in one.
In this way, the genesis of Moses can be regarded only as a
draft of the picture of creation on the whole, up to the general
fall of man. His words are primordial truth and God's inspira-
tion if they are applied symbolically to the great whole.
God warns the spirits of the tree of knowledge, which means
the contrast which they saw in the paradise, and in the ·fallen
76
universe. The voice of cherubims and archangels was audible
to them. They warned the spirits of the contact and approach
of the contrast since this would bring them death which means
lethargy and incorporations.
To be confined to the garden of paradise means to be
confined to laws of nature which they should not surpass.
The receiving part of the dualistic spirits failed first by
tasting the forbidden fruit through nerve-spiritual contact of
the contrast. This conveyed itself to the given dual which in
this way also received the contrast in electric communication.
The receiving of the contrast separated the duals. In this way
a nerve-spiritual commutation occurred. This was a formation
of sensual forms. Adam and Eve started to be ashamed because
they recognized these forms as nakedness. That is why they
tried to wrap themselves up in denser fluids. That is the sym-
bolic meaning of their making themselves aprons out of fig
leaves.
After that Adam and Eve were driven out of the paradise
by cherubims. This means that the pure spirits concentrated in
the second suns, eliminating all contrast.
The following condemnation of the serpent and the sentence
against Adam and Eve are all a deep allegoric truth.
The serpent, namely, the demons, had burdened their con-
sciences a hundredfold by the fall of the spirits. From now on,
they should be in the lowest materialistic worlds. There should
be such enmity between the demon and the woman as to cause
her to crush his head under foot. This means a special mission
to conquer the contrast and the sensuality. The eternal tempta-
tion of sensuality surrounds the receiving part of the dual, the
woman. Only she shall conquer the sensuality and destroy the
contrast. Only through her, the giving part of the dual, is
man able to do the same.
LAW OF NUMBERS, THIRD FRACTURE (CHART 13)
The real third fracture is in its size twice that of the first
fracture. In its content it is three times the first fracture. The
length of the tangent of the third fracture is twice the length
of the tangent of the first fracture. This indicates the second
77
individual fracture of the spirits. This tension of the third
fracture is threefold, however, in its action and development.
That is why we count it as three in the addition.
In the concrete, the third fracture is three times as large
as the triangle of the first fracture. The sides of the triangle
are, however, four times as long as those of the first concrete
fractional triangle. In this are included the three concrete frac-
tures and the fourfold individual fracture, concrete, or taken
dualistical in particular. In the addition the concrete fracture is
to be taken as 9.
In the abstract the fractional triangles have remained equal
in size to their "
sides. But they have doubled in their number,
which means in their tangents. The 36 lines represent the
double nature of the fall. The majority of the lines represent the
dimension of the real and of the concrete. They represent the
double nature of the fall, and are counted as 18 in the addition.
What in the real and in the concrete is dimension, is in the
abstract and majority of tangents 36, which, however, count
only as 18.
The real multiplication is called 3 times 1 are 3. In the
concrete 3 times 3 are 9. In the abstract, 3 times 6 are 18.
The total addition of this chart is 240.
78
CHAPTER 18
Threefold Disentanglement from the Chaos
The threefold fallen spirits were distributed according to
spirit, power, and matter. The less contrast spirits had fallen
into the third suns because of their disobedience, which had
caused their dualistic separation. Around them, the thrown-off
fire-rings were rotating first as rings. They were kept in tht
spiral movement through the centripetal power of the third
suns until the solaric germs of them were separated by the
power of the spirit-principle and by rotation, from the molecular
fire-rings. They formed the fourth suns.
Some of the spirits which were eliminated because of disobe-
dience with the fire-rings from their suns and were placed in
the circle of the third suns, felt repentance and fright. They
g·ave in and were included in the third suns, with their fluids,
since these were worlds which were adequate to them. This gave
expansion and extension to the third suns so that they grew in
solarity and centripetal power. Through this addition of power
and enlargement of fluidic magnetism, their occurred the eli-
mination and attractive drawing out of the magnetic electric
better fluids and of the less sensual spirit, from the fire-rings
' into solaric elements. Aided by the power of rotation, this solari-
zation of the atoms was effected according to the law of nature.
This was the elimination of solaric germs and atoms which de-
veloped into fourth suns, rotating around the third suns.
The development of these solaric elements moved gradually
through all the already named grades of development of the
atom, germ, egg, comet, and of the rolling and circling world.
All this happened in different elliptic grades. We now have
fourth suns rotating around the third suns, out of the atoms
of fire-rings in the course of rotation and in terms of millions
of years. In this way the third suns drew solaric elements out
of the fire-rings. In spiral movement, they formed smaller
fourth suns, forming themselves through rotation from the
atoms.
79
The sensual spirits were stagnant in their fluids during
the formation of these fourth suns, as paralyzed, half-asleep,
sensual spiritual principles.
The formation of the fourth suns caused an elimination of
spirit, power, and matter from the other suns. In this way, the
sensual, arrogant spirits fell deeper with their matters, powered
by cohesion. They fell in the elipses of the planets, atomizing
and molecularizing them. They met the planets of the under-
worlds in their eliminating fall. This caused cohesions or
destroying movements.
All this happened according to law, so that it had been
called a chaos brought forth in accordance with the law of na-
ture. This was a natural consequence of the fall, of the
elimination ·of contrast spirit, power, and .matter. The fall
occurred through gravity and moved downwards, into the con-
trast in the opposite direction to spiritualization, which moves
upwards.
The cohesions were consequences of the sensuality and of
the fall. The sensual and arrogant spirits lay stunned and
helpless in these matters. The demons were caught in their
own chains of impotence for opposing the law.
The solarity and the centripetal power of the fourth suns
also started to work. They influenced the underworld's chaos,
by concentrating solarically and attractively. The solaric
germs and elements gathered again into a fifth solaric for-
mation, into a fifth system of suns, out of these atomized
fluids. This searched for the solaric attractive elements out
of atoms and germs, after solarity and full centripetal power
had been reached. This gathered a sixth solaric system ro-
tating around.
The sixth suns are the smallest, heaviest, and most ma-
terial worlds of suns. They have their planetary system, or
a forming element of seventh suns around themselves. Among
these thousands of sixth suns exists the sun of the earth.
Among these millions of solaric germs, the earth is situated.
In the sensual spiritual principle and its power and mat-
ter, there are various steps and shades which were formed in
80
the way of spirals or steps through rotation and solaric power,
up to the formation of suns. In these developments there
are to be found atoms, germs, worlds of eggs, rolling and ro-
tating worlds. They all move on, starting and developing as
solarities. After having reached a solaric centripetally-pow-
ered step, throwing off fire-rings, they eventually found a
system of their own.
The formation of all the millions of worlds took the law-
ful course of spirit, power, and matter. They formed every-
thing as a threefold one, relative to them in the law of
descendence and commutation. Nowhere was arbitrary ac-
tion. Everything came lawfully from God, formed by His
threefold law. In this way the commutations of the beginning
follow each other, step by step, through spirit, power, and
matter. Nothing happens without these sacred three.
You see no change in these principles. Their action is:
change and formation in relatives. The principles' spirit,
power, and matter are in themselves an inseparable law.
So you see God high, above all attacks of the contrast.
Wanting to shatter high heaven three times, it was rendered
out of action three times, and was enclosed in the law. The
contrast stood opposite of spirit, power, and matter, like a
fraction opposite a whole. Continuing calmly to form and
rotate, the law of nature enclosed the contrast in lawful com-
mutations and in polarities.
The 3pirits of the third suns awoke eventually from their
lethargy. With the returning power of life, they became con-
scious of their mistake, of leaving the paradise, of their new
difficult and painful road. The worlds in which they were
placed appeared to them equally painful and coarse in com-
parison with the paradises. But before we go on to a more
detailed description of these worlds, we must mention some-
thing about the underworlds.
In the fifth and sixth circles of suns, all sensual elements
and spirits, which had sunk deepest, had separated in the
planets and satellites. Each system of suns in its animation
and formation, contains scale of its own. with various commu-
81
tations and differences of spirit, power, and matter. These
three work in the microcosm, in the smallest as they work in
the macrocosm, in the largest.
But the spiritual principle is decisive in every way, name-
ly; the power moves according to the potency of the spiritual
principle or of the motor, and the density of matter also forms
itself according to it. Continuous commutations become the
law for those who had sunk deeply, just as equality is the
law of the pure ones. We look now at the commutations of
spirit, power, and matter in all systems of suns.
LAW OF NUMBERS, THREEFOLD DISENTANGLEMENT
FROM THE CHAOS
(CHART 14)
The quantity of figures in this chart have a threefold
reconciling movement. The difference here is caused by the
third fraction in the larger multiplying forms. The addition
of this chart is called 270! This chart is also valid for
Chapters 18 and 19.
82
CHAPTER 19
Third, Fourth and Fifth Solaric Systems
The commutations of spirit, power, and matter keep pace
with each other; what we say now, happens gradually in the
same rhythm. The spiritual commutation is situated in the
spirit itself and in this way in the appearances of the life-
principle, in the movement of power, and in the density of
matter.
The material commutation is placed for the spirits in
their casings or nerve-spirit, in the bodies of animals, in the
plants, and in the density of earth and matter. The com-
mutation of power is placed in the attributes of spirits as
well as in ecliptics and rotation of worlds. Let us look first
upon the commutations of spirit, power, and matter of the
third suns.
Here, the spiritual principle was disobedient, and disunited
twofold. It was repulsive in power and electrically condensed
in matter. Separated dualistically by disobedience, the desire
for sensuality existed in the spirits of this grade.
The qualities expressed by the spirit-principle found an
adequate form. They found it first in the incarnation of
spirits, second in all kinds of embodiment of the life-principle.
In this way, there was in these worlds desire everywhere, yet
no sensuality.
The desire should have been killed, or better sublimated.
Since the dualistic spirits were separated into a receiving and
a giving principle, everything in this world was separated.
Earth, plants, and animals were filled with a separated re-
ceiving and giving principle. The nerve-sp'1rits had incor-
porated themselves in- the fluids of these worlds. This means
that they had acquired more expressive forms.
The spirits were placed latent in the fluids of these worlds.
In this way, the spiritual principle attracted living cells and
albumin organisms through the power of rotation. These de-
veloped more and more and embodied these spirits. Awakened,
83
they became conscious of this embodiment, just as they had
also the memory of their false steps.
A course of rotation always contains a turn of commuta-
tions, up to the most perfect spirituai level. These spirits of
the third suns started the lawful turn of commutations with
their worlds.
This turn of commutations was placed in the assimilation.
This is the assimilation of commutations of bodies to which
the spirits had fallen. They were perfectly conscious of this.
They followed consciously this turn, this assimilation out of
which they burst from the cocoon, like a butterfly.
Those spirits which remained disobedient and did not rotate
with the turn, were brought into a deeper circle, into a de-
potentiated world, by the law of elimination. They suffered
this as individual cases with their individual nerve-spirits and
fluids. The spirits which followed the turn, were developed
into the higher worlds, according to the law of the unifying
attraction and spiritualization.
The relative movement of the third suns around the prim-
ordial light, had been mentioned already. You understand that
a turn of rotation was a very long life and a long development
in which these spirits had time to kill all low desires, and to
strive after the dualistic unity.
The communication of these spirits of the third suns with
the higher spirits occurred directly. This means their bodies
did not hinder them in seeing the higher spirits and in under-
standing their language. Otherwise, however, they could not
see into the other worlds.
The temptation was placed in themselves. They were ex-
pected to develop intelligently. · The recognition of God was
supposed to lead them back to their original purity.
Following the same principles and laws, only in a sensually
denser measure, spirit, power, and matter developed in the
fourth suns. There, also, the fallen spirits existed as a sen-
sual latent principle, in the solarically developing denser
matters of these worlds.
After the fourth suns had become endowed with twofold
84
plants and animals, those spirits awoke from their sleep. Since
everything was materially and organically coarser, this sen-
sual spiritual principle attracted, by means of the nerve-spirit,
coarser organic germinal matter. This gave material bodies
to the spirits. Sensual in form and expression, but still not
what men on earth call sensual, they were relatively sensual,
compared with what they had been before.
The attraction of bodies or the incarnation of spirits occurs
always according to the same law of spiritual and nerve-spir-
itual attraction of the cells existing in the worlds, and of
organic albumin germ-matter. This attraction arranges itself
in forms by rotation. These fourth suns had a mainfold l'ota-
tion of their own. Therefore, the whole turn of commutation
was quicker, but also more manifold.
The inhabitants of these worlds died or commuted them-
selves, but not through sensual death, nor were they born
sensually since their sensuality was not that of earthly men.
They had the dim memory of their mistakes. They were placed
sleeping and pupating in a state of transition, in commutation
of a body and of turn of life into another. When one of their
life-turns came close to the end, their bodies, too, inclined- for
commutation. The spirit then changed to a new turn, and
a new body.
In these worlds, all increase and commutations occurred
through the egg and through pupations. The pupation of
spirits was a chemical commutation of bodies. In this time, the
spirit was latent, sleeping, its surroundings were in a fluidic
pupation, but it was visible in the process of material chemical
commutation. Herein was placed the greatest trial and the
deepest suffering of the spirits.
Their communication with the higher ones did not occur
directly, but indirectly through missions of the better spirits and
through their temporary appearance on these worlds. It oc-
curred through their· own spiritual development, through ac-
complishment of their qualities. This means through unfold-
ing of their spiritual love, their spiritual eyesight, or spiritual
hearing and of feeling. This made them into mediators or
85
higher !':pirits for their brothers. To develop these spiritual
gifts and to compensate thereby for their qualities and to
decrease sensuality in themselves, was the purpose of these
incarnations. These spirits were expected to develop reasoning,
intelligence, and love by use of the means which God had given
to them. To follow the forming rotations and the law, spiri-
tually, and to rise to higher power, brought the spirits to
higher grades. Not to follow, however, to derotate, brought
them spiritually and fluidally into the deeper worlds or into
depotence, according to the law of elimination of all unequal
elements.
In the fifth suns, spirit, power, and matter brought forth
their formations through the detached spirit, power, and mat-
ter of the third and fourth suns. Therefore, here all creations
came into existence in doubly depotentiated commutations. The
spiritual principle of the fifth suns contained disobedience, ar-
rogance, and sensuality. The fall of these spirits was three-
fold. From these fifth suns there came a solaric detachment,
centrifugal repulsion and then again a centripetal attraction
and formation.
The fifth suns were, by the way, worlds of transition to
the completely sensual sixth suns and to the half-sensual fourth
suns. Placed between the circles of the sixth and fourth
suns, the fifth suns were reconciling and connecting worlds
of transition.
Here is the transition from the spiritual to the animalistic
inhabitant of worlds. Here is the transition from the egg to
the live offspring, from the pupation to the painful death,
from depupation to the painful birth.
It is difficult for us to describe to you these steps of transi-
tion in a concrete manner, according to your ideas, since they
cannot be proven. We can support this only by the logic of
words and by the gradually developing figures of the law of
numbers in Chart 14, which are clear pictures of the transition._
Since there are no jumps, as we have said before, it must
exist in this gradual transition which was placed in the fifth
circle of suns. Our descriptions therefore should not appear to
86
you as mythological fables and legends. It is truth after the
law of numbers and as logic. This is truth which does exist
today· exactly as then. There are these suns as worlds of
transition filled with descendant transitions to earth, plants,
and animal-inhabitants. All existence, all organisms, and all
powers and matters are comprised in change.
The inhabitants between sensuality and spiritual beings,
half in spiritual and half in sensual external form, are en- ·
dowed with organs and means of expression which are half
spiritual and half sensual.
Sh~ee the sensual arrogant spirits during their fall wanted
to create, as once did th~ demons, they used for this purpose
the same nerve-spiritual fluidal means. Out of this, sensual
organs came into existence. These organs placed themselves
around the fallen spirits as bodies. This means that there grew
around themselves a sensual body organically animated, con-
densing itself through peri-spiritual or nerve-spiritual con-
tact. Falling into a deathlike sleep, they were awakened by
movement of rotation, in their sensual organic body, by which
they now expressed themselves spiritually. They awoke em-
bodied, just as the life-principle lives and moves in embodi-
ments and commutations. But the spirits were conscious of
the embodiments, while the life-principles were mechanical, un-
consc?.ous of themselves. These sensual spirits attracted the
fluids which were condensed by them, and which were organ-
ic;l.lly animated in cellular kinds. In this way they received
sensual organic embodiments with the help of the forming ro-
tation.
The inhabitants of these fifth suns were expected to change
again, according to the law of their spiritual gifts of intelli-
gence, of reasoning, and of love, which had degenerated so
much. They were, however, closer by one degree to the law
than the eliminated spirits of the sixth suns. Their embodi-
ment was composed of a branching out of spiritual and sensual
nature. Thus all kinds of plants and animals were separated
into branches. There were transitory kinds of animal-plants,
transitory kinds of bird-worms and fish, from crawling crea-
87
tures to walking and flying ones, transitory creatures from
quadrupeds to bipeds. These worlds were filled with transitory
deposits and germs in their fluids and in their earth-deposits.
This general life of transition is the consequence of the con-
cluding spiral movement.
All circles of suns are, as you see, r elative solarities com-
pared with the primordial-suns. But since they have all worlds
and children around them and born by them, we call them
depotenced solarities.
The multiplied movement produces a quicker turn of life
and a quicker assimilation and commutation in the fifth suns.
The inhabitants of these worlds receive only with difficulty
the advice and instruction of the higher spirits, which visit the
fifth suns in toilsome and short missions. Pains, suffering,
toil for inhabitants and animals of these worlds are germin-
ating and coming forth. The intelligence, the reasoning, the
idea of God and the idea of original sin are half developed
since their spirit feels the pressure of sensual organs. Their
normal state is, by the way, what you would call on earth a
somnambulistic state. This is a state of transition of spiritual
and sensual qualities. By this state, the inhabitants of the
fifth suns suffer great pain for their individualism. They
want either to stun themselves sensually or to exempt them-
selves spirtually. This state of transition is the greatest trial
of their arrogance since they feel by this their lower level,
their deep fall to their humiliation. They see higher spirits
around themselves without being able to reach them. They
see around themselves the rush of lower spirits which they
regretfully feel spiritually as well as physically.
The patient tolerating of this painful double state is their
expiation and penitence. Spiritual presumptions and over-es-
timations as well as violent sensual debaucheries rushed them
into deeper worlds through death. This means through a latent
state of the spirit which, embodied in deeper worlds, regains
consciousness again, as man.
Chart 14 accompanies this chapter.
88
CHAPTER 20
(CHART 15)
Sixth Suns
The chart belonging to this chapter shows you that we
have reached a conclusion, or totality.
We said the sixth suns are the smallest ones and the dens-
est ones. Their rotation is multiplied. They have attracted
their solarity from three times detached ones through centri-
petal power. In this way, solaric germs developed into suns.
They became t.he providers of the worlds of their systems.
Among these sixth suns, your sun is situated, having many
sisters, as you see. These sisters are suns of the same rotation
and of the same density. Your sun has sisterly suns of many
grades in atoms, in germs, in embryos, in eggs, in comets, in
a rolling state and in a rotating state.
It has half-sisters. These are suns in a state of transition.
Yes. it has a widely extended group of relatives in other sys-
tems of suns. It has nephews and nieces of all grades. It in
itself has children of all phases and grades of development.
Recognized in your system of the sun the macrocosm in
the microcosm. This means recognize the whole large entity
in this smallest one where you find again all that exists in
relative and small measure.
Now look again, oh men, on the other hand, in your solar
system, on the microcosm in the macrocosm, or upon the small
entity in the large one-upon this one which once seemed all
to men.
Now, however, your eyes should be opened and your reas-
oning should gain ideas, in the turn of life of your microcosmic
worlds. Yes, you shall perceive the end of a thread which
leads you through the principles of spirit, power, and matter
and the law of numbers, all through the universe. And in
this way, you as a spiritual principle will share in the rota-
tion of your world and will follow the lawful turn of life. God
is within these worlds, too, through His all-presence in the
89
depotenced primor.dial-light, and in all manifestations of His
power. In this system, as in all other states of development
of worlds, there are placed atoms, germs, albumin worlds,
comets, rolling worlds, and solarically forming planets.
In these various states of worlds, animated ellipses and
differences of density, everything lives and moves. All this
is moved and formed by spirit, power, and matter.
The highest potency of the sixth circle is situated in these
suns, which are filled with power of all these systems. In the
process of their solaric development, they too, threw off fire-
rings. In this way they got rid of the accumulated and over-
crowding molecular and germanic substance.
Through this solaric development, the better spirits, the
purer magnetism, the greater warmth and power of attraction
of this lower grade, are concentrated in the sixth suns. The
suns developed first through the purifying action of throwing·
off of fire-rings; then gradually the worlds of their system
were formed.
We describe here how the deathlike spiritual sensual prin-
ciple appeared first in the suns. The theory and kind of awak-
ening of all spirits is always the same, namely, in the fluids
or matters of worlds adequate to them.
These sensual and arrogant spirits awoke in the midst of
the matter after they had been lying latent in their develop-
ment. They awoke with these worlds adequate bodies or or-
ganisms which enabled them to realize a sensual life. The
awakening of the most degenerated spirits was in denser and
more material bodies than all embodiments which were de-
scribed up to this point.
Their embodiment came forth by motoric attraction of
the organisms developed in the worlds. These organisms be-
came animalistically human by their degeneration and their
desire for sensual satisfaction. Only after long purifications
of the spirit and after manifold commutations of the bodies,
they formed humanly in the descendences.
In all wo1·lds, the growing· or organisms is guided by the
same laws. In this way occurred the first voluminous in-
90
carnations o£ spirits, as a consequence o£ their spiritual fall
in the existing o1·gcmisms and ma,tte·rs, and took their inde-
pendent individual way of multiplication.
Equal to these material incarnations was the whole nature
of these worlds of the sixth circle. The development of them
is material from the beginning. Principally, the kind of de-
velopment is always the same, even if the commutations are
materially more depotentiated and coarser.
In this way, the so deeply fallen spirits were placed between
coarse material biTth-organisms. According to the law of de-
scendence they became similar to these, organically as well
as materially. They retained their spiritual individual prin~
ciple. They formed a transition, a link between animals and
men and they were called ·animal-men. Such deeply fallen
spirits could not have any other first incarnation, accord'ing
to the law of spirit, power, and matter, which never makes
jumps or exceptions, but creates a just and similar way.
In the course of rotations and of life periods, the first de-
veloped worlds of the sixth circle potentiated or purified them~
selves. However, all over in all planets where the deeply fallen
spirits had arrived at the border of the contrast, the animal-
human incarnation is the first one. ·
Naturally, these spirits have lost all consciousness of their
past during the incarnation. They suffered the pain and strug-
gle of death and a spiritual paralysis before their incarnations.
The woman gives birth with pain. Her turn of life is short
but manifold. The incarnations are permanent, until the spir-
it has again reached a level of intelligence, reason, and good
will.
The separation of duals in these worlds is total. Since they
are united spiritually by law, they must find themselves agai~,
according to law, after many incarnations and after the awak-
ening of and desire for spiritual love.
Blinded by arrogance and stunned by sensuality, these spir-
its forgot the idea of God, and formed idols for themselves,
according to their spiritual level.
· The communication with higher spirits would have been
91
completely discontinued here if God's first-borns, sacrificing
themselves, had not carried through Godly missions in this sixth
circle. These missions are always very short, and happened
in larger intervals. Less failing spirits, receive as a last
purification or atonement, tasks in these worlds.
Receiving in groups incarnations in these worlds, spirits
of the fourth and fifth groups of suns serve as an example
to the deeper placed ones. They fulfill some missionary and
propagating tasks. The communication with higher spirits
proceeds only indirectly through incarnations or mediums. This
is the total picture of the whole sixth system, in all its grades,
among which your earth is included.
We have now reached the border of the contrast, in the
last depotence, and in the last spiral circle. The spiral move-
ment goes on potentiating in the inner circles up to the start-
ing point.
Just as spirit, power, and matter lead the depotence in
the law of numbers, they must also lead the potence. You see
here the spiritual descendence of the animal-men from the
paradisical spirit, step by step downwards through the falls.
You shall now look upon his return and follow it, from the
animal-man upwards to his descendence of the paradisical spir-
it, again step by step.
If the spiritual germ of a high spirit were not placed in the
animal-man and if he were not the product of degeneration, he
would never be able to reach the level of a high spirit, accord-
ing to the law of nature. His spiritual descendence makes him
capable of development. It distinguishes him from the animal.
It helps him to go on by steps and to reach again his level
of paradise. Thus, this is the spiritual ascendency.
If the individual spiritual germ were not implanted in the
animal-man, there would be no progressive commutation and no
progressive descendence. It would otherwise be a continuous
retrogradation. But the spiritual principle, the individual
spirits proceed in groups. They are the decisive motoric ele-
ment between power and matter. Therefore. we see the as-
92
cendency from the animal-man upwards to the developed, well-
formed man.
LAW OF NUMBERS, SIXTH SUNS
(CHART 15)
Chart 15 shows you completed figures totaling in addition
to 300.
The abstract figure shows you that here on the border of
the sensual world, the abstract became a large real trianf:le
carrying in itself the abstractions.
In the way, the former abstract becomes real in the sensual
worlds. This real carries the abstractions in itself. In this
way the former real becomes abstract in the sensual world.
The real total conclusion forms the figure of a large dou-
ble triangle, carrying in itself as a kernel the former real
which is now abstract for the world of perception. The large
triangle standing on the base present spirits, power, and mat-
ter•. The tumbled triangle which is lying on it represents the
threefold fall of spirit, power, and matter.
The concrete total conclusion contains the totality in four
triangles. This is the conclusion of the multiplying spiral
movement which divides itself inward and goes on to the
starting point. You see the primordial three containing thE'
whole creation in three different figures of numbers or de-
scriptions of numbers. What formerly was abstract (in the
addition 300) is now a real, multiplied three, including ab-
stractly the other numbers coming from the three.
In the real figure, we have the star in the double triangle.
This means a real picture of the spiral circles and movements
which were mentioned. This movement starts from the cen-
ter, the three, in the external multiplying movement of the
tumbled triangle, and it goes subtracting in the inner move-
ment of the lawful triangle. The course is double; it is tumbled
outward and it is standing upright inward, in the circle. In
the real seven such circles could be seen, counting the starting
point and the totality of the figure.
In the concrete, you have three stars placed in each other.
This brings clearer to your perception the spiral mov(>ment
93
in 13 circles toward the outside, and in the movement. from
13 to 3 from within. You have here clearly before you the
multiplying and subtracting movement, the depotence and the
potence, and the twofold course of the universe. In the ab-
stract you see the multiplying course of depotence downwards
in the triangles and the unifying course of potenciating up-
wards to the first triangle. All figures show you the creation
fr~m the center and the unification towards it.
94
CHAPTER 21
About the Life-Principle
We have now reached the realm of · everything that is
known and visible to you. We ·have now a total view in the
figures. Embryonic spirits were · created. They were awak-
ened in the paradises and separated into steadfast and fallen
spirits. They fell off ·the paradises in fire-rings. Third,
fourth, fifth, and sixth circles and systems of ·suns were
forming. themselves by the law of numbers, multiplying in
spiral movement toward the outside. Together with these,
the unifying, dividing inner spiral movement returns to the
starting point. But before we go upwards with the spiral
movement, we will fi-
rst look upon the life-principle in all its
pi1ases as well, as ·upon the earth, as the microcosm in the
macrocosms, or the smallest entity in the largest. one.
The way of the life-principle from the primordial-light to
the earth is with and in power and matter. In this way, each
pin·ticle of dust in the air and each kernel of the earth is ani-
mated.
The rotating life-principle is animating and all-present. On
its way downwai·d, in the. outer spiral circle, it animates grad-
ually the ~ondensations in the .turn of rotation. It animates
something that is of a double n"
ature; receiving as well _
as giving.
lri this rotation of i_
ts own, the life-principle comes' into as-
similation with the nerve-spirit of the fallen spirits. By do-
ing this, it comes into an exchange of qualities with them.
The more the life-principle is animating, the more it "
gains
in power and in consciousness. Through the assimilation and
exchange of qualities with the fallen spirits, it gained· expres-
sion and became qualified. It formed, ·thus, a. 1·econciling link
between fallen spirits and natu1·e, the animals.
The sensual, arrogant fallen spirits themselves wanted to
create. In. this way fluidal condensations came forth which,
like all .matter, was animated organically by. the life~principle.
It came, however, into a _
maWrial assimilation ·and change of
matter with the neFVe-siJirit. We call this af:lsimilation and
95;
exchange of qualities between the fallen spirits and the life-
principle, Animating the sensual fluids of the contrast, the
life-principle formed itself into sensually qualified organisms.
Finding incarnations in these organisms through the life-
principle, the fallen spirits attracted this materially. They be-
came instinctively qualified since their own will in the degen-
eration was zero.
Through these principles, the animating and the spiritual
one, and through the twofold assimilation and exchange of
qualities, two lives came into existence, linked by a level of
transition. They are the animalistic-sensual and the animal-
istic-human or sensual-human life.
Through the third fall of the spirits and the following con-
densations, the life-principle received contrary qualities. This
means it animated sensual matters which go down to the
last levels of the animalistic realm. It formed races through
attraction of qualities.
The life-principle as such did not become contrary or evil.
The animalistic sensual qualification of the organisms came
forth through the fall of the spirits. Sensual animals, how-
ever, and races came into existence through animation of con-
densations, in which these animalistic sensual qualities were
latently situated. They received life and movement through
the life-principle. Thus, the animalistic sensual qualification
of the organisms descended from the /all of the spirits, ani-
mated by the life-principle.
Thus, the organic incarnation, the appearance of animal-
men and of men, descends from just this assimilation and ex-
change of qualities.
Just as the life-principle animates downward, condensing,
it animates upward, spiritualizing. On the way upward, an-
imating everything fluidal, it gains in consciousness and power
until it joins a completely purified psychic-principle, melting
with God's primodrial-light. From there, it awakens three-
fold, qualified as a spiritual individual principle. It animates
the universe, in the form of embryonic spirits.
96
Thus, not a single breath of the plant, not an atom of the
air, not a breathing of a man and not the life of an animal,
as small as it may be in the universe, is lost, as far as the
soul is concented. The smallest movement of atoms of the
most microscopic life, belongs to the great whole life-p?-inciple
which in its development becomes psychic. United in the prim-
ordial-light, it returns from there into the universe, animated
again as a spiritual principle, as an individual creation.
97
CHAPTER 22
The Earth as a Microsm
Now we enter this atom of the great whole, and we are on
earth. You know by now that we are to be found on one of
the deepest sunk and most sensual grades. Let us look upon
the depotences of spirit, power, and matter on earth.
The incorporation of the spirit principle on earth started
with the animal-human incarnations. Today there are still
descendents of these to be found on earth in Africa where
human races belong to the deepest impotence.
The human incarnation has reached its point of culmination
of organic perfection and spiritual development in the so-
called civilized nations, in spite of the fact that one also finds
in these classes brutalities, sensualities, and feelings which
men call beastly.
You see here disorder of conceptions and spiritual abilities
stunned to organic sensuality, caused by human lack of knowl-
edge. For we know now that the animal kingdom attracted
it sensuality by the spir·itual fall, and that it is pure as a prin-
ciple. But men in a revolution of ideas call their own worst
failures animality, as if they had attracted it from the animal
realm.
Here occurs the growing together of crudest humanity with
the animal which is most similar to him. This study will keep
occupied the earth and its- inhabats for the years to come.
Here is established not only an external similarity, but also
often a similarity of qualities of the souls of men and animals,
so that th,ese show in their higher 1·aces often more love and
feeling than the crude savage whose reasoning and ideas are
related to developed men as the crudest animal is to themselves.
The man is, therefore, not a developed ape, because a dif-
ferent principle is animating the ape and a different one is
animating the man. The ape as an animal, as a sensual and
carnal being, is a consequence of the fall of the spirits. As an
animated sensual being, he is a pure principle. The animalis-
tic man is a consequence of his own deep fall. The races and
98·
qualities of the animals are a consequence of the degeneration
of the spirits and their condensations. These last ones are
animated in the course of rotation by the life-principle. In
this way, they became qualified r aces of animals.
Thus, everything that is animalistic and sensual, is a con-
sequence of the· spiritual degeneration. It is a consequence
of the fall and of the condensation. Men and animals are
closely connected with each other through matter and assimil-
ation. The descendents of all races, is important, however,
only from a motoric viewpoint, since they are guided a11d formed
just in spiritual descendents, in power, and in matter motor-
ically. •
Look now upon the nations, the most developed ones and the
most savage ones. Consider that a group of animal-men does
still exist in the most unknown parts of Africa. Yes, look
upon all nations in their individualities. Look, for instance,
upon the Chinese who remained the same, or upon the former
Greeks and Egyptians. You will not be able t o explain the
differences and the great inequality and contrast of these
nations on earth, unless you assume the threefold fall of the
spirits in all its splintering and branches, and unless you be-
lieve in the spiritual downfall.
The most powe'rful forming element is the .·correct idea of
God and the consciousness of the spiritual individual develop-
ment and immortality. How is it with these on earth? One
na tion of men received this idea of God hundreds of years
ago. This was the nation of Israel. Out of. their nation came
God's Son or first-born who ·fulfilled His work of mission in
human incarnation.
Since those many hundreds of years of these messiahs, only
a R
mall portion of the inhabitants of the earth has become fol-
lowers, or has the idea of God and of the personal continuation
of the spirit. Not that savages denied it, out of lack of
knowledge. No, the most highly educated men, not knowing
the primordial law of the thr-ee, denied any spiritual and any
divine existence. You see the spirit-principle on earth op-
pressed by · the own ~piritual fall of the innabitants of the
99
earth and by the dense embodiments which followed it. Higher
spirits, also, who incorporate themselves on earth out of repen-
tance or in smaller missions, feel the pressure of the sensual
human body on their spirit, which becomes slave of the human
organs and of external forming conditions. The free spiritual
will is oppressed. If a spirit which may be as high as it can
be, is incarnated in a human body and assimilated to human
organs of thought and of life, it needs external development in
order to express its spiritual abilities.
The contact with higher spirits is very much hampered and
is made very difficult on earth. The spiritual characterisa-
tion of nations, which is divided into grades, should be to you
proof of the spiritually low levels of this planet.
As we have said, the Israelites had retained the idea of God
and a faith in immortality. They we1·e a stereotype picture,
a grade of spir its of their own, from primordial times until to-
day. They are one of those groups of spirits which, falling
equally, has to fulfill equal penitence. Another such group
of stereotype spirits were once the Greeks who had to fulfill
a turn of life in penitence on earth. Coming from higher
worlds with a memory of their magnificent types, they brought
style and art to the earth. In memory of transitory worlds,
they brought with them their mythology, their half-gods and
Gods. In memory of former communication with higher spir-
its, they divined the human element and humanized the animal-
istic element. They obeyed orders coming from oracles. 'I'he
Greek culture stopped after it had completed its rotation, its
turn of embodiment of these spirits on earth. They had com-
pleted their penitence and left the earth for a better circle.
A new turn of life brought the Romans and the Christians,
as former turns had brought the nations of the antique world.
The Chinese are stationary spirits which did not share in
the rotation and could not decide in any state of transition.
There are on earth from an over-all view, from animal-men to
the most developed ones, nations of transition and stationary
spirits.
Since we called the idea of God the basis of all development,
100
we will in the following chapter look more in detail upon the
immortality of the spirit.
See, oh man, in your planet a place of penitence, the con-
sequence of your sensual fall. You must fight against nature
and against yourself, separated from your spiritual dual which
you will find again only with effort and with sacrifice. Born
truly in original sin, brought forth by original sin, you arrive
on earth with pain and you leave it in the dreadful picture of
death.
Search in this for evidence of the fall and for the deep level
of depotence on earth. It proves that the earth is a place of
progress only through repentance and penitence.
101
CHAPTER 23
The Idea of God .on Earth
Let us look now in general on the idea of God on earth,
touching only later in the first chapter of the potentialization,
the Christianity, and its progress. In the course of depotences,
you see the threefold fall of the spirits, the multiplying powers,
the degeneration of their abilities, a11d the condensing matte1·.
Let us look now upon earth itself. It is a material level
connected with the spiritual fall. It is withdrawing from
God. It is a spiritual difficulty of coming closer to Him.
Before Christianity appeared, the idea of God was to be
found only in a small tribe of Israel, in one nation among hun-
dreds. From Israel, the idea of God was conveyed to Chris-
tianity and to Mohammedanism. All other nations on earth
did not know God in His spiritual essence. They worshipped
Him, either symbollically in sensual things, or they searched
for Him in qualities, as a God of vengeance or of war. In
one word. they worshipped power and matter instead of spirit.
Faith in a creative God is also getting lost among Chris-
tians. It is excluded from it by research men of positive
science. These research men, going only after visible evidence,
exclude God from the effect of power and matter, since they
did not find Him in the creation. They did not consider that,
without spirit, without God, without motor, any power and
matter would only be a nothing, not having life or force. If
one would believe only in what can be seen and touched,
science would soon perish. For just the invisible, spirit, and
power animate and move the visible world, the matter. How
could anybody touch spirit since even power as such and in
itself can neither be seen nor touched. Its existence can only
be proven from the action in matter. Search for God in His
trinity, in His unchangeability, as Creator, as Law, and you
will understand Him better. The false ideas about God can-
not be held against the earth, if we consider its deep level of de-
potence in spirit, power, and matter. Its inhabitants are spirits
102
fallen spiritually because of sensuality and arrogance. Its
own body, the globe, is thrown out of a separated matter. Its
powers are the relative ones of the relative.
When, therefore, the men of the earth will have improved
thmselves and will have spiritualized themselves, when they
will have made a step :forward in the development of their
reasoning and in the development of their degenerated spiri-
tual gifts, then they will see before themselves God in His
greatness and His elation. They will then recognize that the
laws of nature, as well as everything else, are emanating from
Him. Until this recognition is reached, there will be no true
and no firmly established knowledge, without hypothesis and
revolutions.
God listens to your calls, to your beggings, oh men, through
His all-present power and through the condensations of His
primordial-light. Search for Him and do try to recognize Him.
You are so far removed from Him, that you can explore
for thousand!'~ of years and you can form and purify your
spirits for thousands of years, before you can come any
closer to Him. The more you recognize Him, the higher and
greater He will stay before you. Your seeing spirit will be-
come more and more filled with fire and with soul; in a poten-
ciation, spiritualization, and development of your own.
Coming closer to a true recognition of God will make Him
only greater.
The fall of the spirits sensualizes the idea of God, since
every human being and every spirit is individually different
according to the level of development and to the prevailing
habits and customs of his surroundings.
What shall be the answer if we would ask why God is at
all symbolized and deformed? If He is Almighty God, why
does not He manifest Himself powerfully and greatly through
miracles?
He becomes sensualized only by men themselves who are
born in sin. This means they are as spirits, al1·eady spiritually
deformed am.il rl<>no.nm·ated when they arrive on earth. Higher
103
spirits are incarnated on earth only as an exception in order
to make you understand God better.
God never imposes on His own laws of nature. That is
the reason why miracles do not happen. The word "miracle"
is a human invention. It describes only their lack of knowledge
of the laws of God. Everything arrives on time, in accordance
with the law, and reaches the goal according to it. It would
have been ill-timed, if Jesus had arrived. in the period of the
flowering Greek culture. It was, however, very timely in the
law that he came later.
There does not exist any imposition on the turn of rotating
life. They must be gained in struggle, step by step and link
by link. Therefore, oh men, do not stop. Work, work, and
start the task of unification and recognition with yourselj, for
the road is long.
To stop in despair, means hindrance and loss of time. On-
ward, in the continuously moving turn of rotation, onward,
threefold, with spirit, power, and matter against spirit, power,
and matter. This means with all your spirit, with all your
will, and with all your senses, against the degeneration of
spirit, will, and senses.
The true recognition· of God comes on earth only in grades,
step by step, through the spirit of revelation or missions,
through power in faith and in love, through research in
thought and matter.
It would surpass the grade of earthly spiritual intelligence,
to make at once a jump into higher levels. Already the little
that men know up to now of spiritual science, they do not com-
prehend. They deny it as fable and legend, or they clothe it
in sensual ideas. It is of course illogical to deny the existence
of something which one can neither touch nor comprehend. Be-
cause you, oh men, cannot believe in the spiritual and do not
comprehend it on your low level, it is nevertheless in existence.
This, however, cannot be held against men, as we have said
before, because of their low spiritual level. For this reason,
they must work and must use with gratitude God's mercy
which is placed in the mission of Jesus.
104
Yes, God exists, in spite of all denying. Just what seems
to you without basis or law, is such only before your eyes,
because of your lack of knowledge of the primordial law of
spirit, power, and matter.
The fall: of arrogance dimmed the reasoning and the intel-
ligence of the spirits. It brought them into dense incarnations
adequate to them. Humility and recognition of God shall, how-
ever, liberate the spirits.
It is very significant that just on earth God is so little rec-
ognized and so much denied, because earth is one of the lowest
grades of the universe, as you see from the law of numbers.
Their own spiritual fall and the arrogance hinder the men,
namely, the fallen spirits, to recognize and to love God, The
true recognition of God is to be found in following God's love.
How few people do therefore exist who can truly recognize Him.
Before Christianity, spiritual laws did not exist on earth.
People lived on earth sensually. There was sensual libert;l.',
except in the tribe of Israel. This tribe kept strictly the
laws of Moses and kept up the idea of God and the faith in
their own immortality and in spiritual laws. Therefore, you
see the purest and highest men of the antique world coming
from this tribe. They called themselves God's nation. They
were this, also, as long as they followed God's laws and ro-
tated with them.
Their first false step was that they did not recognize the
Messiah. In this, only a part of the nation failed, blinded by
arrogance, not wanting to recognize the Nazarene as the
promised messiah. The other part of the nation of Israel,
however, believed in Him. Thus, a friction occurred, a fall
of the arrogant ones into stubborn blindness, and a progress of
the faithful ones who believed and fought for the spiritualizing
principle of Christianity.
Only through individual spiritual improvements, through
elation of spiritual abilities, through perfection in the recogni-
tion of God, through acceptance of His laws, can the earth
progress.
105
The potentiation of spirits moves step by step with the
potentiation of power and matter, infiltrating all members of
the human society, the savage animal-men, the nations in tran-
sition as well as the civilized population.
106
CHAPTER 24
Sensual Incarnations and Death
We said that birth and death in the world of this grade
must be filled with pain. After the first animalistic-human
organic animation of the earth, the base was laid for human
incarnations. After the first incarnation of the fallen spirits
in organisms had occurred, they multiplied among each other.
They formed in descendence many nations and human races.
The spirits sank completely and deeply in their sensual
feelings, stunned. They followed the rotation and the turn
of life mechanically, like the life-principle, since their free will
had become instinct.
The nerve-spirit is raised to higher power by continuous
change of matter and incarnations. This caused the slow awak-
ening of the spirit to consciousness. The change of qualities,
which means the improvement of the spirit, shall proceed by
its own free will.
Through assimilating movements, the sensual spirits awake
in steps or circles, in accordance with the depth to which they
had fallen. These spiritual differences find their material ex-
pression in various races and nations.
Everything moves according to the law of similarity. After
this law of spirit, power, and matter, everything adequate to
the worlds, is animated and moved.
The earth contains mainly crude, sensual, and transitory
levels. It contains, therefore, sensual and arrogant spirits.
Spirits of higher levels arrive at their last repentance in
smaller missions; for instance, in earthly incarnation. This
means spiritual progress to the earth. Such men spread great
thoughts as well as inventions and also virtues. They bring
these down to earth from their own higher worlds. They are
examples for the rest.
The primordial incorporation happens, as we had already
said, by nerve-spiritual ·attraction and condensation of organic
life.
107
The present incorporation or progeneration of men occurs
according to the same laws and principles but in another form.
Now also the nerve-spirit or the fluidal casing of the spirit
assimilates with organic albumin in the cellular life. This is
placed in the giving sperm of the man. The other is placed
in the conceiving cell of the woman, out of which a foetus is
formed.
The spirit assists animatingly, with its nerve-spirit, in this
process. Only when it is animated by spirit, will it form the
beginning of the foetus. The spirit is the animator of the
human foetus which in itself without spiritual principle, is only
animalistically organic. The intrusion of the spiritual princi-
ple, however, forms the sperm to a foetus, and this to a human
embryo to a child.
Here are the same principles of primordial incorporation.
Only the form is now placed in the existing human generations,
as organic albumen and cellular life which is situated in them.
During the formation of the embryo in the maternal body,
the spirit enters more and more the organs of thoughts and
feelings, through its nerve-spirit. It forms these according to
its individuality, adequate to it.
Man is three in one; the spirit or movement, the power or
animation (also called soul), the matter, or the body. Let us
now look at man and his organisms in connection with the spirit
and the effect of the external human development on these.
Man and his organisms. are, indeed, anatomically well
k'nown, and examined by physicians. He is this, however, only
sensually, but not from a motoric or spiritual viewpoint.
The motor of the senses, with all its movements, its ani-
mating force and its law of life, with all its fluidal and nerve-
spiritual qualities, is unknown to the explorers of the earth.
There are three things which influence motorically the senses:
the inner thought, the inner feeling, and the external impres-
sions. These three things, the ability of perceiving them logi-
cally and to reproduce them again, make him a man. Without
thoughts, he would be an unreasonable being. Where then do
108
feelings and thoughts come from? The scientists of the world
trace them to senses and organs.
They deduct the thoughts from the brain, and the feelings
from the nerves or the heart. If one of these organs should
be faulty, the corresponding spiritual quality will be faulty,
also. But how do you want to explain the tremendous grada-
tions of spiritual qualities? They are much more manifold,
beyond comparison, than physical inequalities of organic for-
mation in humanity. Why does not a law of equality govern
here as it does among animals whose organisms are much
more similar than the human ones are?
All classes of.animals have their types, their characterin-
tions, without the changing psychological appearances of in-
sanity and imbecility which occur so often in human organisms.
With men, the spiritual gifts change in great variety~ This is
in no way logically connected with the small differences of
the organic build and of the phosphoric contents of the brain.
This shall prove to men that the motoric element is not only
placed in matter, but that there exists a law above the matter,
a motor and animator which forms the matter.
The brains of men are formed by thinking. They gain in
·sinuous lines and phosphoric contents. They become, there-
fore, capable of changes, through motoric power.
The spirit forms it according to its individuality, through
thoughts. But how powerful must be the thought, if it can ef-
fect that! You know that the transformation of the brain is
happening. This must, however, be brought forth by power and
movement. You call this power thought. But what is the
thought? It cannot be the brain itself since it is transformed
by the brain.
Through more exact investigations you arrive more and
more at the existence of the spirit, as an uninvestigable motor
whose existence in the living body cannot be denied. It is con-
siderably more difficult to find positively the spirit in men
and the soul in animals than to establish it as mere power in
each examination of the brain and the organs.
A spirit, when incarnating, look.s for organs for sensual
109
expression. He finds these in men because they possess organs
for the same thoughts and feelings which correspond to the
thoughts and feelings of the spirit.
Spirit forming the center of the foetus, develops the senses
and organs out of his spiritual center. A lower spirit devel-
ops these less and becomes a less gifted man. A higher spirit
develops them more perfectly and becomes a gifted man.
The human senses and organs identify themselves, after a
normal birth so completely with the spirit, that the same, los-
ing its memory of the past, is thinking and feeling on earth
through human senses and organs.
If you would cut out a part of the brain of a child you
would see that this child becomes incapable of thinking. This
happens, by the way, through dropsy of the brain. The reas-
on for the loss of reasoning is that the spirit is missing an or-
gan in the human body and does not find any more the sensual
expression of the spiritual thought. It does not find any more
the tool of expressing it. It does not, however, lose the reason-
ing power just because of the purely material cause of the
loss of part of the brain, which-some men say-would think
itself and in which alone the thought would be situated.
It is the same with the eunuchs whose spirit, because of
the cutting away of sensual organs, is not less sensual than
the spirit of other people, who have the expression of sensual
feelings in their organs. This leads to the deduction that an
embodied spirit which misses one or the other sensual expres-
sions of spiritual qualities in a human organism, still has these
qualities. They still exist, but are ret1·ove1·ted. The difference
is that they cannot be expressed any more.
It remains a puzzle to men how much education and ex-
ternal impressions contribute to the development of the spirit.
A man who from his childhood did not hear any human voice,
can articulate but not speak. It is the same with all" move-
ments, with the kind of foods, and with spiritual development.
All savage men are, therefore, capable of development, but only
to a relatively low level. This should prove to. you that the
spirit loses its own powm· and its own movement after it is
110
embodied in the organic body of men. Through total assimil-
ation with the organism and with the senses of the body, it
has become completely dependent upon it. Its completely spir-
itual development as a man on earth is dependent not only on
the organs, but also on the external forming power. For the
external development and education influence the senses and
unite in them with the inner forming power of the spi1·it. This
completes the totality of the sensible reasoning man.
A human organism animated by the inner motor, educated
by the external forming power, is a developed man. A human
organism without motoric power is dead and does not need the
external forming power any more. A human organism with
motoric power, but without external development, is a savage
crude man, living according to instincts and capable of devel-
opment only as far as his unpracticed nerves and organs per-
mit.
A faulty organism animated motorically, is an ungifted man
as far as the injury of the brain or of other organs reaches.
When the spirit is incarnated, it becomes the former and
the motor of the organs. But it is, also, depending on them
and on the external forming power (the education).
The latter has the first influence on the senses. It unites
this effect with the effect of the spirit, with the inner forming
power in the senses. This produces totality, thoughts, feeling,
and expressions.
When external impressions are missing, the organs of
thoughts do not receive any work or any movement. They become
inflexible and the man lives like an animal according to in-
stinct, after the necessities of the body.
The spirit has not the power to work independently through
organs so that it could teach man to talk, to 1·ead, or to write
independently without external formation. Such a spirit miss-
ing the external power of formation is mourning about his
organs which he sees becoming inflexible without being able to
help it. This is always a great repentance or punishment.
The spirit brings its talents, qualities, gifts and science into
111
the human organs. They develop, well inspired by external
impressions.
When the spirit has assimilated completely into the organ-
ism and into the senses, it has become a normal healthy hu-
man being. The spirit, in its motoric power, may concentrate
more or less on one or the other organ. This causes dishar-
mony, inequality, disease, and mental disturbance.
Often the spirit conveys only half of himself to the organ-
ism. This makes the man only half alive intellectually, or it
makes him insane. The spirit removes himself half from the
body, leaving the life-principle in it. As a result, an insane but
otherwise healthy human being comes into existence, instead of
a normal man.
The normal man is moved and animated. With the in-
sane person, the mover withdraws from the organic effects,
leaving the animator working alone. The withdrawal of the
mover from the organism does not cause death if the animator
remains still in the body.
We said three comprise man: the spirit or motor, the nerve-
spirit or power of animation, and the body or matter. Now
we know, however, that spirit and nerve-spirit are fluidally
united and that unification conveys itself to the foetus, ani-
mating it. This forms the embryo, under co-operation of the
mover.
Out of this whole, a fluidal tie of life comes into existence,
uniting spirit and body, a phychic life uniting both. This
fluida.l tie of life is .elastic. By this elasticity, the spirit. or
mover can remove from the body but cannot· separate from it.
The body lives then only through power of animation, like ani-
mals. It is living physically insane if this state is permanent.
It is living spiritually only in moments, if the spirit expresses
himself in lucid intervals and assimilates again into the body.
There are two cases of insanity, the one which was just de-
scribed, and the formerly mentioned case of an organic defect.
The flexibility of the fluidal cord of life is of great impor-
tance. It is a necessary law for the human organism and for its
spirits. The law of sleep is placed in it. The motor moves
112
the organs in powers of thought and feeling. The life-power in
the fluidal cord animates the body. Continuous movement
would exhaust the human organism. If this organism be-
comes tired and needs organic rest, the mover withdraws
from it. He leaves the body in an organically resting and
psychically animated state, namely the sleep. The mover him-
self needs this rest which means to him an easier spiritual
movement. There occurs sometimes a relaxation of the life-
cord which we will consider in the next chapter.
The life-cord has a healing power when the body is sick.
It has a destructive and organically confusing power if the
mover tearing on it wants to regain his complete freedom. The
tearing .of this life-cord means death, the separation of nerve-
spirit and spirit from the body which means change of matter
and nature. Change of matter is the decay of the inanimated
body; the change of nature is the alteration of man to spirit and
of the, human organs to nerve-spirit.
Man knows that he is alive and that he dies. But it is a
puzzle to him how and in whc~t way this is happening. Science
denies the spiritual animation of men which it calls shortly
life-power. It knows the chemical decay of the body and of
all its elements. But it does not find the animating spirit.
That is why it denies it.
This is however, acted most unscientifically. If a hundred
years ago,* somebody had described to you a telegraph, or had
told you something about photography, you would perhaps
have him locked up as a fool. But, both are now really exist-
ing things. They were always already existing, in principle,
but there was lacking a man who had found the key to them.
It is, therefore, the first duty of science and of everyone
who calls himself a research man and who wants to learn, to
be humble and not deny the existence of things if they have
not .any sufficient p1·oof for their non-existence.
While the body continues living in chemical commutations,
why should not life which has moved it before and is called
spirit, have the same ability of a continuation of life?
*This was written by Adelma Vay in 1869.
113
Death is the tearing off of the life-cord. It is a drawing
back of the life-power by the spirit and a material change of
matter. It is a psychical change of the life-cord to nerve-spirit
and a spiritual change of spirit in its development. This is,
therefore, a threefold change.
Fallen through sensuality, you spirit of man, became in-
corporated sensually and painfully. You die sensually in pain,
feeling the fraction of the life-cord and sensing sensually the
separation.
The spirits received intelligence, free will and love. Through
the falL the free will degenerated into instinct, the intelligence
into folly. the love into sensuality. Spirits, sunken so deeply,
awake from their spiritual degeneration and stunnedness,
only after a turn of assimilations or incarnations. In this
state of degeneration and stunnedness, they were living me-
chanically like the life-principle.
Awakened to spiritual consciousness, they receive spiritual
instruction and guidance. This is a guidance situated above
thei1· own intelligence, or a guardian spirit. Following this
one continuously and rotating with the law of nature, they
gain again a better spiritual level. They change into more
intelligent nations where also an external instruction is form-
ing and educating. Without changes and without incarnations,
there can be no education and no p1·ogress.
Let us look now upon the dual fracture and upon its con-
sequences. Man and woman are consequences of the separated
dualism. The spiritual dual, expresses itself sensually in two
genders. It produces in their sensual unification a third one,
a birth.
The dualistic separation came from the disobedience and
sensuality of the spirits. The fluidal cord, which united the
duals, was torn. The duals were standing there as two spiri-
tual types, as a giving one and as a receiving one. This
changed in embodiments into two genders, in man and woman.
Since the spirit forms the organism, the giving spirits have
manly organs and the receiving spirits have womanly organs.
Through reversed incarnations of the giving spiritual prin-
114
ciple in receiving organisms and of the rece1vmg principle in
giving organisms, there occur psychic and physical excesses.
There come into existence physical bastard between man and
woman, a hybrid life and physical anomaly. Such tumbled in-
carnations are often the cause of difficult pregnancies, of
false menstruations, and of premature birth. They are an ex-
cess of the law which creates in similarities. Often, the spir-
its use their free will contrarily in excesses a11d in derotations.
A real harmonic incarnation is one which follows the rotat-
ing law, the turn of life and not one which forks in an arbi-
trary way.
After the dualistic fracture, the individual dualistic spirits
remain elated. Thei'r spiritual and fluidal re-unification is a la;w
toward which they must strive. To reach this law, they received
the love. But ·they sensualized love so much that the meeting
of the duals on earth in a sensual marriage causes the spirits
much struggle and effort.
We understand as a turn of life the continuously rotating
law of nature. Life-turn for spirits is a circle of lawful
changes which lead to the attainment of higher levels.
The spirit which fulfills his life-turn lawfully, moving in
rotation, progresses quickly to his spiritual liberation and de-
velopment. The spirits which derotate, however, fall. Those
who do not ·share in rotation, remain stationary.
The law is the mercy of God since it is the enclosure of
the contrast in the law of depotence and potence.
For each spirit, the life-turn is based on a law of numbers
which it must fulfill, number by number, in a triangle of spirit,
power, and matter. The attainment of a peak is the attainment
of a level after a finished life-turn. Excesses are a deviation
from the tangents, a derotation of the straight course. The
stationary means stopping. The sharing in rotation is the form-
ing of the triangle, the fulfillment of the law of numbers.
First the great sensual life-turns must be passed, in all de-
potences. Then the great fluidal life-turns have to be pas~,,d
in all potences
115
CHAPTER 25
The Spiritual Abilities of Men
We told you in the preceding chapter that the motor worked
from within toward the outside, through the organs, and that
the external impressions worked within from the outside,
through senses. This finds a movement and an assimilation
of both effects, an expression in the organs and a physical
life, through thoughts.
Human beings have a spiritual, a physical, and a sensual
life. If these three are in a lawful balance, this means a
healthy, capable, normal man. If the sensual life is predom-
inating, he is a crude man. If the spiritual becomes predom-
inant, it will mean an eminent and very gifted man, mostly with
a weak organism.
Often, the spirit develops an organic freedom through psy-
chic life. This means a spiritual freedom .coming from the or-
gans, through a loosening of the fluidal life-cord.
This brings forth abnormal human beings, hysterical or-
ganisms which live more psychically spiritual than sensually
psychic. Men call these appearances hysterics and somnam-
bulism. These appearances are only to be found in the loosen-
ing and in the flexibility of the fluidal tie caused by the mo-
tor. Nervous cramps are often caused by ·such stepping forth
of the motor through too large extension of the fluidal life-
cord.
The somnambulism is created in the human organism
through such an expansion of this fluidal life-cord. The spirit
becomes more free! Instead of thinking sensually and instead
of feeling the same way, he thinks, feels, sees, and hears spir-
itually and psychically. This is reproduced as a relex in
the organs. In this case always only an individual spirit of
the man is seeing, hearing, and feeling. He uses for this pur-
pose his human organs as reproducers of reflexes. Therefore,
we find in this half-sensual and half-psychic life certain gra-
116
dations. These are individual opm10ns coming /?·om the in-
dividual h·imself which sees, hears, and feels according to h'is
spi1·itual level.
All psychic appearances which express themselves in hu-
man beings through expansion of the fluidal life-cord, are of
a psychic and spiritually individual type. At this stage, the
organism itself is in abnormal condition. It is sick. It is in
disharmony and in an organic state of sleep, with a strong ex-
pansion of the life-cord. It needs only very little food.
This is the condition which requires a cure. The first reas-
on for this is that it is not becoming to the human organism
The second reason is that it means often a derotation of the
own spi1·it which disobediently and also a1·1·ogantly does not
want to acce11t the sensual human life, the incarnation. Like
everything else, this spir~tual psychic stage has its contrasts
and gradations.
Up to now men have not yet comprehended and perceived
this condition or its cure. These are studies of our present
period which bring revolutions and progress into medical
science.
There is still a second kind of psychological appearance
which is very different from this first one. These are the
so-called media who write, read, see, hear, and cure. They are
doing this not under the impulse of their own motor but under
the impulse of a strange motor.
In the media the three parts of man, namely, spirit, soul.
a11d body, must be tuned harmonically and must be healthy if
they shall be good nwdia or conveyors of a pure message. In
this case no expansion of the life-cord occurs. There is only
a strange 1noto1· joining the own motor. The strange motor
expresses itself through the animation and the organism of
the medium. It replaces in this way a natural motor which
becomes a mechanical medium, following mechanically the
strange one.
A disembodied spirit which wants to_ express. himself to
men is using for this purpose the psychic and organic life,
117
namely-'/'YbCI,n. For this reason a spirit can never express him-
self completely, but always more o1· less mechanically.
To be a medium does not mean any organically abnormal
condition of a man. It means replacement of the own motor
with a strange one. For this reason the human being will
think, feel, speak, and write differently, meaning strange to
himself in the moment of a motoric replacement.
All men are more or less media with larger or smaller
motoric replacement. There exist, however, in this respect
great differences and gradations.
Mechanical media present a total motoric exchange so that
the own spirit follows mechanically the replacer without act-
ing and thinking of his own. The own spirit leaves the field
free to the strange one. There are hundreds of gradations in
this stepping back of the own motor which are all caused by
the own motor. With some men the motoric communication
causes only an external organic influence. With others this
influence is psychic. Caused by organic expressions coming
from the outside, men of the first group arrive at feelings
and thoughts which are completely strange to them. Other
men, however, become half-media through psychic impressions
which they receive and which they pass on.
Motoric replacement may bring forth media in men. But
it can also generate in them diseases and cramps of the most
evil type, so-called f1·enzies. This happens when the replace-
ment occurs by evil and lower spirits. This has however always
its spiritual cause in the penitence or atonement of former de-
fects of these men.
But this is a field of separate studies referring to many
cures and proven healings. We plan to demonstrate this to
mankind in another work which shall follow.
The science of spiritual penitence and enchainments and of
organic diseases based on them will throw a great light on
very unknown riddles of psychic sufferings and conditions of
mankind.
That spirits without bodies are expressing themselves and
that they do so through men is an undeniable truth. It is
118
based on a law that they are needing for this end a power and
a matter since everything happens through spirit, power, and
matter. The disembodied ones are using those who have bodies
in order to express themselves. They do this by replacement of
the motoric element, by attacks on orgm1s and on the psychic
life. Up to 1
1ow, they are finding means of their expression
only in the human body. If you could compose complexes
chemically and powerful in another for m, the disembodied
spirits would express themselves through those.
If you could compose a foetus chemically and strongly and
if you could place it in elements capable of life, it would cer-
tainly become slowly an embryo, animated by the always rotat-
ing spiritual principle. The r eason is that spirit and life-
principle are looking for adequate power and matter for their
own animation. They become animated if these do exist. In
this respect we repeat here only the law that everything in
existence becomes a complete living and acting creation only
through spirit, power, and matter.
If you present to the spirit a power and matter which is
adequate to him, and if you present these in a complex, you will
receive an intelligent expression from this formerly silent
complex. Up to now, we have this complex, this possibility of
expression only in men. Ther efore, we express ourselves only
through them.
That "evm·ybocly is a medium" is a sentence very full of
meaning. It means every man has thoughts and feelings
which are not his own and which are strange to him, and
which are outside of his own motoric life. The gr eatest taients
are half-media. They receive inspirations which come half out
of their own motor and half out of a strange motor.
Human beings are sensual, exposed to external impressions.
They are also psychic, exposed to psychic and nerve spiritual
feeling of spirits. You find in this the tempting and the good
voice of conscience. The psychic impression feels both impres-
sions and conveys them to the motor.
In this way, every human being is more or less a medium,
exposed to influences coming from spirits. The influences
119
are more important than men imagine. They are also very dif-
ferent, ranging from the highest purity down to the deepest
contrast; just as there are differences in men and in spirits.
Men received their reasoning as well as the Christian
teaching so that they could distinguish good from evil and
could separate the degeneration from the law.
In some men, the ability of being a medium develops into a
gift. This capacity is caused by a special adaptability of
nerves. This gift must be practiced, like any other gift, in
order to become perfect. Perfection is based here on purity,
simplicity and truth of spiritual messages. Therefore, the de-
velopment of a medium requires self-improvement, humble-
ness, and a strong religious guidance.
To men endowed with such a gift, the praxis of this always
mechanical action as a medium is required for their spirit and
for their health since the flexibility of their nerves tends in
this direction and needs medianic exercise.
The law of similarities and relativities also rules here. Thus,
a good man will attract good spirits and pure high spirits will
express themselves through pure media. The contrast has no
power over the pure persons. It appears to them only as
tempter. A lawful spirit which is incorporated in a human
body can never be replaced motorically by a contrast spirit.
This is fluidally and psychically impossible since the law rules
above the contrast. It cannot replace it. It can only influence
it, as a temptation. This law must also be applied to what we
have called possessions. For the mediumship, the law that
"similar produces similar," must be strongly emphasized.
No human being will follow an evil influence, against his
will. The own motor will always be st1·onger than the strange
one, if the man has such a will. When we spoke about som-
nambulism, we said that this expansion of the fluidal tie is a
condition unhealthy to the organism which must be cured We
say here that being a medium means a talent which does not
tear a man from his normal condition. It is to him a necessary
exercise if the flexibility of the nerves and the gift do exist.
We wanted to explain in this way also the origin of this
120
whole work, according to its law o£ nature. It came into exis-
tence by a total motO?·ic ?
'eplacement and by a completely
mechanical following of the own motor to our motoric guid-
ing movement.
Since there exist spirits and since they live on all levels,
they must also express themselves motorically, through their
nerve-spirits, if they want to become visible and audible to man.
They use for this purpose the human organisms.
We want to see here the mediumship separated from som-
nambulism. The first is a gift which does not disturb human
health. The second is a disharmony or a curable hysteria.
The disembodied ones are separated from the embodied ones
only through senses, and therefore not completely.
121
CHAPTER 26
Reflections About Magnetism and Electricity of the Earth
Knowing the pure origin of magnetism as well as the deep
clepotence of the earth, you see that everything which you call
magnetism on earth is really elect1·o-magnetism. We can speak
here only of more or less electricity in magnetism, but never
of completely unmixed magnetism, according to our ideas and
knowledge.
We said that magnetism is a fluid. The highest potence of
it is placed in the primordial-suns and in the cover of the
completely pure spirits. The magnetism is, in all depotences of
a fluidal spiritual, but not of a fluidal material, kind. It is
invisible on earth as a fluid to the human eye, but is known
to it only as a power. In its coarsest depotence, .magnetism is
also as a fluid invisible to the human eye and is known 01~ly
by its power of attraction. For this reason it is considered
simply a power.
It is, however, spirit, power, and matter. This means spir-
itual magnetism, in the nerve-spirit of the spirits. Material
magnetism, in the organisms of the earth, and power by its
attraction. It is twofold in these three qualities: electric and
magnetic, repulsive and attractive.
The g-radations of things and their commutations remove
men often from their p1-imorclial origin. This is the way with
appearances of magnetism a11d electricity on earth. Coming
from a primordial origin, they often become contrasts in thei·r
de1Jotences. These contrasts are the poles. In the north pole
magnetism is prevalent while in the south pole electricity pre-
vails. This would be proven by an electro-magnetic needle.
There are two different kinds of electro-magnetism: one is
animalistic a11.d the other spiritual. Animalistic and organic
electro-magnetism is placed in earth, plant, animal, and men.
Spiritually, it is located in the nerve-spirit of spirits and in
the fluidal life-cord of men.
Organically it is placed in nerves and blood of men and..
of animals. also it is in the cells of plants and earth. Every-
122
where, it is twofold; giving electrically and rece1vmg magnet-
ically. The magnetism is agreeably cool. It gives flexibility to
the nerves and temperature to the blood. The electricity is
lukewarmly repulsive. It gives elasticity to the nerves and
movement to the blood. We said that electro-magnetism as a
fluid wa:o; invisible to men. But it is not so to them, as an
od-light. You know that the fallen spirits changed their nerve-
spirit into electricity from magnetism, through depotence.
Therefore, all spirits come into incarnation already with
electro-magnetic nerve-spirit. They convey these qualities to the
fluidal life-cord which assimilates them in the human organism.
Higher spirits are more magnetic in their effects, lower spir-
its are more electric.
Both kinds develop capability and mecliumship in men. The
magnetic are tnLe and pure, the electric are contral'Y untnw.
There exist, therefore, as many kinds of mediumship and of
abilities as there are spiritual individuali ties and electro-mag-
netic nerve-spirits. We have, therefore, in men, two kinds
of magnetism and of electricity. One is organic, which gives
flexibility and elast;icity to the nerves and movement as well as
warmth to the blood. This is placed in the human organism.
Then, we have also the spiritual magnetism and electricity
which is located in the fluidal life-cord.
By organic magnetism sensual effects are produced. By
spiritual magnetism, spiritual effects are brought forth, as
for instance, in the mediumship. It may be mentioned here that
the somnambulism is an organic effect of the magnetism. The
loosening of the life-cord is an extraction of the spiritual mag-
netism. There remains alone the organic magnetism which
then stays with the body or as a magnet in the power of mag-
netism.
The psychic organic life without spiritual magnetism is
subject to the influence of the stronger organic magnetism.
The spiritual magnetism, however, is never subject to the
organic one, but it is subject to the hi ghe1· S1Ji?·itual magnetism.
This can be seen in spiritually stronger media which can never
be brought into a somnambulistic condition by organic ma.e;ne-
123
tism. But they can very well become mechanic media, brought
to ecstasy by a higher spiritual magnetism and by a replacing
motor.
We like to mention here the animals which possess soulful
organic electro-magnetism, but not any spiritual magnetism.
All qualities of animals are organic, soulful and mechanical.
The human civilization and development have a reaction on the
taming and training of animals. Men can tame them as far as
their psychical qualities do permit.
Since we will edit, as we have mentioned, a separate book of
our own studies about mediumship, about magnetism and sev-
eral psychological appearances, we have mentioned in this
chapter only briefly the magnetism and the electricity, hinting
at their primordial origin and their twofoldness in spirit,
power, and matter.
124
BOOK Ill
CHAPTER 27
Involution
The course of unification and of involution is beginning.
It begins in logic with the absorbing of the potences, in com-
mutations of spirit, power, and matter. It begins in the law
of numbers with the division and the subtraction of depotences
into involutions.
In the spiral movement toward the outside, we reached the
depotence, with addition and multiplication, through multipli-
cation and condensation. In the same way, we want to return
again to our starting point three, through division and sub-
traction in the internal absorbing spiral movement, through
unifying potences.
The numerical figures change, unifying or subtracting from
step to step, until we arrive in the real, concrete, or abstract
at three. We are in the deepest depotence in the sixth circle of
suns.
Imagine that each of the systems of the sixth circle has
also its depotences, exactly in the same law of numbers and
form of diagrams as that of the 15th Chart. You will then
have an idea of the net of grades which holds together the uni-
verse in one gTeat whole.
Spirit, power and matter animate and guide the potence
as they did animate and guide the depotence.
The involution starts with the spirit, with the motoric
principle, and conveys itself to the power and to the matter.
God sends first-borns on missions into the grades of depotence
in order to bring to those fallen spirits a spiritual awakening
and revival of the contrast.
Such !1 godly mission was filled by Jesus, as God's Son
on ea1·th. He was truly Spirit of His spirit, God's Son, of a
different essence than your spirits and of those pure spirits
of our paradise. Such a mission is a great pa,in to its fulfiller,
125
to the Messiah. It ?
necm s a te?"r·ible sacrifice, which He br ings
only because of love to His F ather, because of love to the
spirits, and in or der to conquer the contrast.
The first-borns of God became one in their love, in their
power, and in their knowledge and in all their qualities. They
form the sons of God in their spiritual unification, in their
similarity. They form the two to the one.
Christ spoke divine truth when He said, "I came forth
from the Father and go to the Father. I and my Father are
one." He never said H e was the Fathe?., He established Him-
self only as a Son who was placed next to the Father, and
so it is.
Jesus brought with Him, in His teachings, spiritual love,
fraternity, sacrifice, destruction of the self, and subdual of
the senses.
Serious and powerful, but filled with mercy, Christianity
is standing before you. It brings with it the power of the spirit
which is love, mercy, and hope.
Yes, oh men, believe in Christ 's words which are the law-
ful divine truth, the most precious of all spiritual gifts which
you possess. Believe in the power of redemption of Christ. Who-
ever believes in it, will be saved.
J esus came, suffered and died not only for the small heap
of earthly human beings. He came for all fallen spi?·its which
had followed the contrast. He came to redeem them from the
gener al original sin, from the contrast, through spiritual r e-
birth and through following His divine teaching. Th1·ough in-
carnations on earth, the fallen spirits will share in the m erit
of Jesus' death. Receiving His baptism on earth and following
His t eaching of love and resignation, they attract God's Mercy.
The Chr istian baptism is not a mere ceremony or non-
sense. It means the entry into Christia11ity, into its teaching·s
and into its laws of love and of perfection. In this way, it
becomes the spiritual r eceiver of God's me?"Cy. The baptism is
the ent?'Y into sha?·ing in J esus' m e?
·it. Every spirit embodies
in himself on earth, consciously, the Christianity. Doubly
heavy those will have to suffer who are showing themselves
126
unworthy of the spiritual mercy, of the received Christian
baptism. Thof\e men who are not willing to repent, do not
comprehend and recognize the mercy of the Father or the
merit of the Son.
Christ brought removal from sensuality. Marriage became
a holy law, its strict and faithful obeyance, down to thoughts,
is a Christian law, since Christ said that even a mere thought
could mean adultery.
Through the holiness of marriage, birth received its con-
secration and its holy seriousness. Birth received its high
responsibility through the receiving of baptism, through the
entry into Christianity.
Death received its salvation and its ecstasy through the
belief in Christ's merit and in Christ's promise of unification
with Him. In this way, sensuality received from Christianity
its first involution, a spiritual consecration in marriage, in
birth, and in death.
An enthusiastic and holy life conquered mankind, at the
beginning of Ch1·istianity. Truly spiritual grades were reached
until rnankind started again to sensualize the spiritual and to
materialize the Word.
Christianity as it was preached by the Messiah and by the
Apostles was a JJowm· which unified. It was an involution up-
wanl to God.
Where is mankind today? The redeeming death of Christ,
His merit and His pure descent from God are today laughed
at, as something that died long ago, and as fairy tales. The
baptism has become an unnecessary form. Its spiritual power
is also fictitious. Marriage has become a tie that can be dis-
solved. Sensuality has become a law, and adultery has become
a necessary consequence of both.
The materialism is the contrast of Christ's word. It wants
to ereate itself . In this, a great movement of the contrast
spirits is to be seen. It tries to catch men in their weak spot
of their thirst for knowledge in order to make them storm
against God's teaching of the spirit. Against this they can
only storm. but they cannot succeed in destroying it. Christ's
127
appearance on earth as a divine mission, is a spiritual involv-
ing- movement inward, toward the One, toward God. This move-
ment has been g-oing- on for centuries. It has to pass stag-es
of transition. The transition seems often to be 1·et1·ogracling,
but it is not so, since there exists only a sharing in rotation
or a forward movement. There is no stopping, or no sharing- in
rotation.
Not to share iri rotation may often appear as a retro-
g-radation, as transition often does appear as a retreat be-
cause it g-oes into extremes and can arrive at the inner spiral
movement of potency only through clearing- contrasts by fer-
mentation. In the spiritual development of men as well, in all
developments, the transitions appear like reg-ressions. However,
they are not really that. They are only the contrasts which
meet as extremes when they repulse each other, rising- them-
selves to higher powers in the state of transition.
The material purification or involution of the worlds oc-
cur throug-h the throwing- off of f ire-rings, as you saw in the
course of the;;e chapters. When the spiritual contrast have
reached their peak, power and matter have also reached their
peak of maturity in their ability to give birth. This manifests
itself by the throwing off of fire-ring·s.
This process of spiritual powerful material elimination and
purification can be compared with the Judgement Day of
which Christ is speaking. On this day, the sheep will really be
separated from the goats, which means the potentiated spirit,
power, and matter will be separated from the depotenciated
contrast through elimination.
Jupiter and Saturn have already passed such a potencia-
tion. The earth has gone throug-h it also, when it threw off
the Moon in the times of old. At such an involution, the bet-
ter spil"it, power, and matter absorbs itself into the kernel
of the world as a hig-her potence, separating the minor spirit,
power, and matter.
The involution of the sixth grade starts g-radually in the
form of a spiral circle, in their suns and planets. The first
which were only solarities relative to the fifth suns, become
128
real fifth suns, while these fifth suns develop into fourth.
The fourth suns are progressing to third suns, and the third
suns to second suns. The second suns develop to be primordial-
suns. Following the same law, the planets become solaric.
THE LAW OF NUMBERS
l. INVOLUTION
(From Chart 15 into 14)
The depotentialities become subtracted. This total deduction
must t ally with the total addition of the following chart.
Subtraction of Chart 15 up to 14
Real Concrete Abstract
30 90 180
3 9 18
Total Addition of
Real
Deductions
27
81
27
Addition
300
30
270 162
270
Division of the depotence through spirit, power, and mat-
ter or through 3:
162
Concrete
Abstract
Division
Real Concrete Abstract
3 I 3 I 1 3 I 9 I 3 3 I 18 I 6
3 9 18
0 0 0
In logic, the added depotence 3, of Chart 15, changes
through division into the depotence of Chart 14. This means
a real 1 equaling repentant spirits.
In concrete the division of Chart 15 into 14, is called 3; this
means: 1. repe11tant spirits ; 2. half-sensual life; 3. fourth suns.
In abstraction, this division is called 6; this means: 1. re-
pentant spirits; 2. threefold potence; 3. half-sensual life; 4.
threefold potenced power; 5. the fourth suns; 6. threefold po-
tentiated matter (compare Chart 1 of the involution.)
Spirit, power, and matter, having passed through this
threefold potence, are an improved penitent spiritual principle.
They are threefold potentiated, less material worlds and mat-
ter and threefold simplified power.
129
The degenerated spirits of the sixth circle which have gone
through change of matter and qualities, must pass through the
fifth circle of disobedient arrogant sensual spirits, improving
gradually. They enter the circle of the less sensual spirits.
This they do as penitent spirits, having gone through all
changes and purif ications, in the transitory worlds.
The dense embodiments of the 6. circle change into the
first, second, and third kinds of embodiments, of the 5. and
4. circle, which we described before in the depotence. In this
way, these repenting spirits have already passed the painful
transitions of death and birth.
The most sensual has changed into half sensual, through
subtraction or absorption and through division. In this way,
the question of cramming annuls itself.
The same principles which depotentiated and multiplied, in
the circularly formed spiral movement towards the outside rise
to higher power and subtracting in circle-formed movement
towards the inside.
This is the course of creation. In this there is placed the
relative eternity of the contrast which consists in continued
threefold eliminations.
After the repentant spirits have reached a grade of pro-
gress, they are sent back to the worlds which they had left
before, entrusted with smaller tasks and missions in order to
convey to their brothers the progress, science, and spiritual
love. Just as the suns send their strengthening light to the
planets, so God is sending these improving spirits into the lower
worlds in order to fulfill their smaller tasks.
130
CHAPTER 28
2nd Involution
(From Chart 14 Into 13)
This is the course of the fifth and fourth in the third
circle of suns. In the f igures, you see the dissolution of the
great contrast-h·iangle into the law.
This is the last difficult step of transition of the fallen
spirits on their way home. They are staying before the en-
trance of the paradise which they have left. They cannot
enter it again, until they have become adequate to these
worlds in spirit, power, and matter.
Filled with longing for spiritual love, the improved spirits
wait for entrance into their home. The worlds of the third
circle are steps of transition to them. Here, their intelligence,
their dual love, a11d their will is still developing. This is a
grade of great spiritual trials, of many tasks which they have
still to fulfill. The step of the fall is always doubly difficult to
pass, in the involution.
Subtraction of Chart 14 Into 13
Total Addition of
Real Concrete Abstract Addition Deductions
27 81 162 270 Real 24
3 9 18 30 Concrete 72
24 72 144 240 Abstract 144
Division 240
Real Concrete Abstract
3 I 3 I 1 3 I 8 1 3 3 I 18 I 6
3 9 18
0 0 0
In log ic this division Is called real; steadfast ~pir·its; in
concrete: steadfast spirits, de-sensualization, third suns.
In the abstract: steadfast spirits, spiritual transitory po-
tence, de-sensualization, potence of transitory power, third suns,
potence of transitory matter.
You see from the diag·ram of numbers of spirits that they
are still two singulars which however progress toward the
dualistic unifi c~.t.inn in all figures of numbers.
131
CHAPTER 29
3rd Involution
(Chart 13 Into 12)
The spirits arriving on this grade of birth are now
equal to this circle in spirit, power, and matter. They have
won in experience, in reasoning, and in intelligence. They shall
now develop in the direction to which they were created and
which was their purpose from the beginning. Their fall hindered
them in the fulfillment of these goals. Now, their true spiritual
development and progress must take first the lawful way,
namely, through all developments of the charts up into the
primordial suns, to the messiahs.
The fallen first-borns who ·had converted and had arrived
on this grade, must first pass the whole process of world for-
mations which had been condensed by their fall. They must
pass these formations working and rising to higher power.
Doing this, they find atonement of their fall and entrance into
their home.
On this grade of paradise, the separated duals of the or-
iginal embryonic spirits become one again as the diagrams are
showing to you. From here on, the dualistic spirits march to-
ward their original development, working and developing
through all phases of creation. This is the original goal of
development toward which they should have gone.
Subtraction of Chart 13 into 12
Total Addition of
Real Concrete Abstract Addition Deductions
24 72 144 240 Real 21
3 9 18 30 Concrete 63
2i 63 126 210 Abstract 126
210
Division
Real Concrete Abstract
3 I 3 I 1 3 I 9 I 3 3 I 18 I a
8 9 18
0 0 -0
132
,- - - - - - - -
In logic, this division is named: real-dualistic spirits;
concrete-dualistic spirits, progress, paradise; abstract--dual-
istic spirits, primordial-spiritual potence, progress, primordial-
power, paradise, primordial-fluid.
133
CHAPTER 30
4th Involution
(From Chart 12 into 11)
We now let the unified dualistic spirits advance up
these grades of progress and perfection. Here, the most diffi-
cult grades are beginning for the fallen first-borns. Ete1·nities
must be made up for, while they went through their double
falls.
While the elevated spirits as duals, pass these grades
easier, the fallen first-borns as separated duals are going
through them with difficulty and trouble. We follow now the
dualistic unification of the repentant first-borns.
Subtraction of Chart 12 into 11
Total Addition of
Real Concrete Abstract Addition Deductions
21 63 126 210 18
3 9 18 30 54
18 54 108 180 108
180
Division
Real Concrete Abstract
3 I 3 I ]_ 3 I 9 I 3 3 I 18 I 6
3 9 18
0 0 -
0
In logic compare Chart, 4th involution: real-penitent first-
borns; concrete-penitent first-borns, rotation, formation of
fluid; abstract-penitent first-borns, repentence, rotation, obed-
ience, formation of fluid, purification of nerve-spirit.
134
CHAPTER 31
5th Involution
(From Chart 11 into 10)
Here the contrast first-borns go obediently towards their
unification. Their course is still difficult and single. Step by
step, they must make up for their fall.
Real
18
3
15
Subtraction of Chart 11 into 10
Concrete
54
9
45
Real
3 I 3 I 1
3
0
Abstract
108
Division
Concrete
3 I 9 I 3
9
0
Total
Addition
180
30
150
Addition of
Deductions
15
45
90
150
Abstract
3 I 18 I 6
18
0
In logic, this means, referring to the fallen first-borns:
real-penitence; concrete-penitence, attraction, magnetism; ab-
stract-penitence, improvement, attraction, vibration, magne-
tism, and assimilation.
•
135
CHAPTER 32
6th Involution
(From Chart 10 into 9)
In this chart, the division is annulled. We go on individually
subtracting from step to step, just as the contrast first-borns
are returning individually on the way, on which they had
fallen individually.
Subtraction of Chart 10 into 9
Total Addition of
Real Concrete Abstract Addition Deductions
15 45 90 150 12
3 9 18 30 36
12 36 72 120 72
120
•
136
CHAPTER 33
7th and 8th Involution
(From Chart 9 into 8 and From Chart 8 into 7)
There follow two charts of subtraction in one chapter.
This is equal to a threefold movement which works in
transitions. From Chart 9 up to 7, you see a threefold move-
ment which is engaged in a transition or passes on to the
following threefold movement. In the logic of Chart 7 which
is the transition, you will see the worlds of comets which are
also transitions. In them, the dual spirits and the tepentant
first-borns are placed, working and rotating. You see a three-
fold movement in the two transitions of these charts.
Real
12
1
l l
Real
11
1
10
Subtraction of Chart 9 into 8
Total
Concrete Abstract Addition
36 72 120
3 6 10
33 66 llo
Subtraction of Chart 8 into 7
Total
Concrete Abstract Addition
33 66 110
3 6 10
30 60 100
137
Addition of
Deductions
11
33
66
110
Addition of
Deductions
10
30
60
100
CHAPTER 34
9th and IOth Involution
(From Chart 7 into 6 and From Chart 6 into 5)
The two transitions contain here the co-operation of the
penitent first-borns and of the dual spirits in the formation of
worlds and in the reparation of their falls. They include the
development of the dualistic spirits to similarity with the law-
ful first-borns. The potentiated life-principle flows here into
these transitions.
Real
10
1
9
Real
9
1
-8
Subtraction of Chart 7 into 6
Total
Concrete Abstract Addition
30 60 100
3 6 10
27 54 9o
Subtraction of Chart 6 into 5
Total
Concrete Abstract Addition
27 54 90
3 6 10
24 48 80
138
Addition of
Deductions
9
27
54
90
Addition of
Deductions
8
24
48
80
CHAPTER 35
II th and 12th Involution
(From Chart 5 into 4 and From Chart 4 into 3)
The three movements here in the two transitions are first
the potentiated life-principle which moves toward its fusion
with the primordial-light; second, the first-borns which long
for their dualistic union; third, the dualistic spirits which
expect their unification with the lawful first-borns. This is
the threefold movement which is situated in the two transitions.
Real
8
1
' f
Real
7
1
-6
Subtraction of Chart
Concr€te Abstract
24 48
3 6
21 42
Subtraction of Chart
Concrete Abstract
21 42
3 6
18 36
139
5 into 4
Total Addition of
Addition Deductions
80 7
10 21
70 42
7()
4 into 3
Total Addition of
Addition Deductions
70 6
10 18
60 36
6o
CHAPTE:R 36
13th and 14th Involution
(From ChaTt 3 into 2 and From Chart 2 into 1)
H~re, in these two trausitions ami in this threefold move-
ment, we find now the last involution. We find here the dual-
istic union uf the fallen first-borns and the unification of the
spirits.
Subtraction of Chart 3 into 2
Total Addition of
Real Concrete Abstract Addition Deductions
6 18 36 60 4
2 6 12 20 12
4 I2 24 40 24
40
Subtraction of Chart 2 into 1
Total Addition of
Real Conerete Abstract Addition Deductions
4 12 24 40 3
1 3 6 10 9
3 9 1s To 18
30
The unification of the fallen first-borns is also described in
forms of tlw diagrams. In logic, it is called: real-unification
of the duals; ('oncrete-unification of the duals, unification of
power, unification of fluid; abstract-unification of duals,
spiritual unification, unification of power, power-union, uni-
fication of fluid, material union.
We have again reached the union. The fallen first-borns
have partly become equal to their origin, as penitents. The
embryonic spirits finishing their course through all grades,
approach again the pure first-borns. The fallen first-borns
become again dualistic spirits at the entrance of their starting
point.
140
Here everything is harmony through unification and sub-
traction which has been the work of eternities. Arriving here
at the unification, after the conclusion of our history of crea-
tion, we have now three spiritual principles: the unchange-
able one, God, the first-bo1·ns relative to Him, and the spirits,
related to the first horns. Recognize in this the spiritual trinity.
God, the Absolute, the first-borns, His sons, derived from
Him and from the universe, forming one with Him in their
spiritual unity and love and their lawful will. In their totality,
they are the image of the Son.
The spirits who were originated after the fall of the first-
borns as a reconciliation, arose out of God, and the already
contrary universe arose out of the purified life-principle. To
the first-borns they were relative according to their origin,
but were entirely different beings from them. These spirits,
too, reached the grade of the first-borns. They were a third
spiritual principle, relative to God. In their unity, in their
love, in their will, forming one with God and the Sons, which
means they are called "Holy Spirit" in relation to the first-
borns in their totality. This is the divine trinity.
The Father from whom everything emanates, is unchange-
able. The Son or the first-bo1·ns, the reconciliators of the con-
trast, accomplished the work of reconciliation between God,
the universe, and the contrast.
The Holy Spirit, the image of the reconciled and saved, the
image of unification and salvation of all spirits, the image of
spirits which elucidate men, of the inspiration, of the Holy
Spirit, which out of its totality, of the unified spirits, man-
ifests itself in individualities.
The Chart 10 of the involution shows you in form of a
diagram the whole content of this chapter. The first-borns
are the salvation. So, the unified spirits are the fulfillment of
the mercy of God. God is the Center from whom all calls are
coming. To grant these calls means mercy. The fulfillment of
this mercy is placed in the Son, in the merit of His love.
The work of mercy is placed in the spirit which means
in the spirits.
141
So, everything moves its threefold way. We can here com-
pare these three individual spiritual principles to spirit, power,
and matter: God is the eternal motor, the animator.
The first-borns are the movers, the saviours, the power.
The unified spirits in their totality, called Holy Spirit, are
the fulfillment, the action.
Thus God sent His Son through co-operation of the spir-
its, into the incarnation on the earth. Here is the activity of
the animation, of the movement, and of the execution. Three
unified principles act as a unity in mutual relativity.
The unified spirits are the media or the mediators of God
.to you men. Call for God, as the motor of the universe, with
faith in Christ the mover, and you will find response through
action, or through mediation of the spirits.
Whoever is filled with the truth of the descents from the
law of this logic, will also recognize the unification as logical
and lawful.
CI1APTER 37
Spiritual Missions on Earth
Look for spiritual missions on earth in all divine illumina-
tions and inspirations. There are, however, minor illuminations
and minor inspirations.
If these unified spirits, out of their totality, as Holy Spir-
it, can illuminate and inspire men, then minor spirits and con-
trast spirits can also express themselves through men.
The pure divine inspiration raises and improves men. It
makes them humble and faithful. Strange improvements are
to be noticed with men when they are following the illumin-
ating voice.
The small inspirations drive from various other spirits,
just as the evil inspiration, that of the lie and sin, which
comes from the contrast. This causes often great spiritual
struggles and often even cramps to the receiver.
The influences of the disembodied ones on the embodied
ones are a lawful truth. This happens in the whole universe
142
and on earth, every day, every minute and every second. The
external spiritual influence exists in all its gradations toward
the. inside of men. Deduct the spiTit from the effects.
The opinions of men, what they say with their knowledge,
are changing. It would be better said, they change with their
lack of knowledge and with their search and research.
Just as the highest influence is possible, so also is the low-
est one. Men are always placed between the good and the
evil. They are expected to recognize and to reject the latter as
a contrast, through their own free will and intelligence. They
are expected to do that by standing at the side of the first one
and to apprehend it with full might.
It should not amaze you in the execution of mediumships,
that the same spirit expresses itself differently through dif-
ferent people. If it remains only the same in its principles, it
may express itself differently. The spirit must adjust itself
according to different organisms and abilities of expression of
men, and according to the movability of the motor. Since this
is very unequal in different men, the same spirit may express
itself in various men more or less individually and clear. When
you blow a horn, it will sound differently from blowing a
flute or a trumpet. But it will be always the same lung and
the same principle which is in the blowing. Beside the spiri-
tual viewpoint, everything must also be viewed according to
power and matter, and according to the three which produce
an effect.
The spiritual missions on earth are in men themselves.
Each of them has to fulfill his own mission of improvement
and perfection. Thus you have your own mission and the mis-
sion of love toward y?.ur fellow men. You have the mission to
use the gifts and talents which God has given to you for
the sake of all humanity, conveying what you have learned and
are thinking, researching and working untiring1y. The spiri-
tual missions on earth are also placed in the disembodied ones
who surround you and who are guiding and inspiring you.
143
CHAPTER 38
One More Glance on the Earth
After you have gone with us down and up the creation,
step by step, look now, oh men, upon your origin, your fall.
and the importance of your progress. Consider especially the
importance of Christianity, its high range, its spiritual laws
and its faith in the merit of salvation and in the truth of the
person of Christ.
You can never exclude from your faith the first-borns
to which you shall become similar, if you want to come closer
to God and if you want to develop completely as unifying spir-
its. For they lead you to God, which means through Christ,
to the Father.
Thus, while on earth, men must believe in the work of sal-
vation. They must do that also as spirits .if they want to pro-
ceed. Without this faith, the1·e can be no progress, since this
belief is a law.
The first-borns of God do exist. They at·e the mediators be-
tween you and God. You must believe in their work of salvation,
not only as men in this short life on earth, but also for all
eternity.
You see it in the whole sequence of the law of numbers
that your spirits find salvation in becoming similar to the
first-borns. God is One and unchangeable. The first-borns of
His spirit are two, relative to Him. The spirits are three, sim-
ilar to the first-borns.
What is man's life in eternity? It is only a small moment,
but precious in every second.
What is death? It is a slipping off of the sensual body, a
continuation of life of the spirit in nerve-spirit! The indivi-
viduality remains. The slipping off of the body is only a
sensual commutation. The gualities of the spirit, however, do
remain. Its education and development· must be set into motion
again and again. Only the spiritual qualities of pure love and
fjlith are forming. They further most the progress of spirit.
144
The less men use the divine truth which they received, the
more they will fall into the ties of a degenerating sensuality.
The spiritual progress of men is also based on studies and on
searching in nature. Blessed be he who concludes in this
after the three.
It is the goal of life and the task of many scientific spirits
to pass on their knowledge on earth. We want to give only to
scientists the advice not to leave out of their conljliderations
the motor, the one. They should not intensely conclude only
from two, from power and matter. The three are an unchange-
able law of nature. The conclusion after two does not find
any basis.
God gave men the intelligence so that they should develop.
He gave them the desire for knowledge so that they should
learn. This desire for knowledge is proof of the motor or spirit.
Animals with their motor do not have this desire. Men, how-
ever, want to know who they are, where they came from,
and where they are going. This thirst for truth is proof of
their spirits.
Therefore, oh men, follow this desire. Learn, and. search,
but look up to the unchangeable God. He has animated, created,
and formed what you see. Recognize the whole in its three
ways. Thus you will come to the unchangeable laws and facts
in the microcosm, after which you can conclude the macrocosm.
Magnificently, splendid and immortal, the universe is then
standing before you.
CHAPTER 39
Our Word of Conclusion
Through which spirit was all this said? The name is not
important. Only the spirit counts. The future will show of
which kind is this spirit who wrote this.
It is enough if we say that the medium in this work was
completely mechanical. Her whole organism and her feeling,
as well as her ability of thought, was guided by us. Her
spirit was motorically replaced by us.
146
We had the mission to tell you this and to talk out of the
holy three, out of God, out of the Son and of the Holy Spirit.
Their influence, their revelation to us, their spiritual orders
were passed on to you. She was prepared by us for this task
f rom her childhood, by surrounding her fluidally with our mag-
netism and spiritually with our influence. Since she followed
us obediently, we could guide her easily toward becoming a
mechanical medium.
She herself, carrying the feeling of an inner mission with-
out being conscious of it, has now fulfilled a task. SJ!e has
served as a conductor. She let out of her own free will her
organs o.f feeling and thought to our influence. She helped us
by her prayer and by her pure calling on God.
We do not mention any name, for what is a name in the
universe?
You will decide yourself whether the spirit is pure or im-
pure.
You shall say yourself whether he spoke out of God or out
of the contrast.
You must feel yourself whether he is Christ's follower
or an Antichrist.
We finish hereby one task of our mission. Now, you will .find
all over here and there falsP. Christs.
When a large portion of Christianity will d•my God, in a
period of confusion, you can find your road to God and to
the spirit only with struggle and conflict.
Now, in the period of a large contrary movement against
God and every spirit, we beseech you-believe in spirit, power,
and matter and in the effect from all three.
Believe in the spiritual holy three-in God the unchange-
able and absolute, in the power of salvation of His Son, and
in the influence of the Spirit.
146
Wny
of
Count-
ing
Heal
One
Con-
cret e
One
Ab-
st ract
One
Real
Two
Con-
c r·ete
Two
A b-
stract
Two
Real
Three
~on -
c rete
Three
Ab-
stract
Three
APPENDIX A
CHART NO.
Abstract 3, Primordial-light and Primordial-three
Diag ram
of Logic Counting
Figures
I God 1
6 Spirit, Power,
Primordial-light 1, 2, 3
A Spirit, Love, Power, Vibra tion 1, 2, 3,
Primordial-light, Assimilation 4, 5, 6
(\ God, Life-principle 2
& Spirit, Power, Primordial-light, 1, 2, 3,
Life-principle, Attraction, 4, 5, 6
Od-lig ht
~
Spirit, Love, Power, Vibration,
1, 2, 3,
Primordial-light, Assimilation, 4, 5, 6,
Life- principle, P rocreation,
7, 8, 9,
Attraction, Conceiving, 10, 11, 12
Givin g Birth
6. God, Life-principle,
First-borns 3
~
Spirit, Power, Primordial-light,
1, 2, 3,
Life-principle, A t traction,
Od-light, First-borns, 4, 5, 6,
Rot ation, F luid 7, 8, 9,
A
Spirit, L ove, Power, Vibration,
1, 2, 3,
Lig ht, Assimila tion, L ife-principle,
Procreation, Attraction. 4, 5, 6,
Conception, Od, Giving Bit·th, 7, 8, 9,
First-borns, Dualistic Love, 10, 11, 12,
Rotation, Free Will, Fluid, 13, 14, 15,
Magnetis m 16, 17, 18
147
·-"
"o
"tl ·-
<( ..
I
3
6
-
10
2
6
12
-
20
3
9
18
-
30
Denom- Diagram of
lnatlon Figures
Real
~
Fracture
A1
Concrete
Fracture
A.bstract
A
E'"racture
~
CHART NO.2
1. Fracture
Multlpll-
Addition cation
4 a
a
-4
6
12 2
-
12
24 u
2
- -
40 24
148
Logic
4. Contrast-spirit
10. Contrast-spirit
11. Power of Repulsion
12. EIP.ctric Fluid
19. Contrast-spirit
20. Arrogance
21. Repulsion
22. Derotation
23. Electricity
24. Condensation
Denom-
Ination
Rea l
R econ-
cilin tion
Concrete
R econ-
cilia tion
A bstra ct
R econ-
cilia tion
Diagram of
Figures
0
CHART NO.3
Reconciliation
Addition
6
18
36
60
Multipli-
cation
3
2
6
I
18
9
4
36
149
Logic
5. L a wful Spirit
6. R econciliation
13. L a wful Spirit
14 . Rotation
15. Ma gnetic Fluid
16. R econcila tion
17. Me rcy
18. Primordial-suns
25. L a wful Spirit
26. ·wisdom
27. Rotation
28. Sola rity
29. Ma gnetic Fluid
30. Anima tion
31. R econcilia tion
:32. Potentiation
33. Me rcy
34. R epentence
35. Primordial-suns
36. Germs of Worlds
Denom-
ination
R eal
New
Creatiol
Concret e
New
Cr eation
Abstract
New
C reation
CHART NO.4
New Creation, Ist Grade of the Universe
Grade
1
Diagram
of F igu res Addition
7
21
42
70
150
Logic
7. E mbryonic Worlds
19. E mbryonic ·w o rlds
2u. T elluric L ight
21. E lect ric Magne ti sm
37. Embryonic ·V\,-onas
38. E lipse
39. T elluric Light
40. Expansion
41. Elec tro-magn etism
42. Weight
CHART NO.5
New Creation, 2nd Grade of the Universe
Denom- Grade Diagram of Add I-
Ination Figures tion Logic
Real
2
¢ 8
New Life-principle
CretJ.tion
Concr·ete
~
22. Life-principle
New 2 24 23. Light-animals
Creation 24. Law of Nature
~ 43. Life-principle
Abstrnct
H. Dualism
2 48 45. Light-animals
New
v - 46. Mechanic Will
Creation 80 47. Law of Nature
48• Development
.
151
Denom-
ination
Real
New
Creation
Concrete
New
Creation
Abstract
Ne\v
Creation
CHART NO.6
New Creation, 3rd Grade of the Universe
Grade
3
3
3
Diagram of Figures Addition
152
9
27
54
90
Logic
9. Commutation
25. Communtation
26. Polarization
27. Power of Expansitm
49. Commutation
50. Comets
51. Polariation
52. Centrifugal Power
53. Power of Expansion
5·1. Gravit,tlon
Denom-
ination
Real
New
Creation
Concrete
New
C:realion
Abstract
New
Creation
CHART NO.7
New Creation, 4th Grade of the Universe
Grade
4
4
4
Diagram of Figures Addition
163
10
30
60
100
Logic
10. Comet
2~. Comet
29. Cellular-life
30. Plant-life
55. Comet
56. 'l'hreefold Movement
57. Cellular Life
58. Impression of Light
59. Plant-life
60. Conso!idation
Der.om-
lnatlon
Real
New
Cren lion
Concrete
Ne\v
Crea tion
Abstract
New
Creation
CHART NO.8
New Creation, 5th Grade of the Universe
Gr~cte Di agrams of Figures Addition
154
11
33
66
110
Logic
11. Fluitla1 Secretion
31. F iuicb l Secretion
32. l\Jutl<•r-stock
33. 'Vate r- s tocl<
61. F luidal Secretion
62. Semi-circular
Movement
63. Matte1·-stock
G4. Commutations of
P la nts
65. \Vater-steck
GO. Galvanic O r·ganisms
Denom·
inatlon
Hea l
New
C t'C<J iiOII
Concrete
New
Crc:a Lio n
A b st nJct
New
Cre::..ti on
CHART NO. 9
New Creation, 6th Grade of the Universe
Grade Di a gram of Figures Addition
12
6 3r.
7 ~
l 21J
155
Logic
10. Sim p le Ilota lion
34. S imple Rotat ion
35. Compensa tion
36. F ormntion of Bark
<i7 . f; impl c llota lion
r.R. Meltin g of Cr·ysla ls
fin. Co mpc nsa lion
70. Ca rbonizn lion
71. F o rmn lion of Bn rk
72. F la tte ning of the
South Pole
CHART NO. 10
Fall of the New Creation, 7th Grade of the Universe
Denomin -
ati on Grade
Real fa ll of
the new
creatiori.
Concrete fa ll
of the ne w
creation
A.bstract fall
of the new
creution
Diagram of
Figures Addition
15
45
90
150
156
Logic
13. Falling C'on lrasl Spirit s
14. Falling Worlds
15. Falling Rotation
37. Falling- Spirit s
:l8. R efusa l of Penitence
~9. Douhl c• Co ncl en ~n.t io n
'10. Fallin,.;· Vv'orld~
il. Fire-ring s
42. A<l lw~ion
-l:l. De rotation
H. Sola rily o f f.":lli e n ""orlds
4!j . Cern1s of world ~;
73. F'allir~g Spirits
74. Evil Intelligence
75. Refusal of Penitence
76. Contrast-will
77. Double Condensation
78. Mutation of ne rve- spirit
79. Falling Worlds
80. Volcanic Revolutions
81. Fire-rings
82. Explosion
83. Adhesion
84. F luidal Mate rnal Tie
85. DeroLHtion
XG. Molecular Power
87. Sola•·ity of Fallen ·world
88. Solaric Development
89. Germs of ·worlds
90. Embryonic ,~··orl ds
CHART NO. II
Double Inclusion of the Contrast
Der.om-
lnatlon Grade Diagram ..of ..Figures
Real
Further
Develop-
ment
\'oncrete
Ji'urt.her
Develop·
ment
Abstract
Further
Develop-
ment
8
8
8
157
Addition
18
54
108
180
Logic
16. Sensuality
17. Condensation of
Nerve-spirit
18. Sensual Organs
46. Sensuality
47. Condensation of
Nerve-spirit
48. Sensual Organs
49. Life-principle
50. Agglomeration
51. Quadrupeds
52. Albuminous Fluid
53. Forming Rotation
54. Live Young Ones
91. Sensuality
92. Organic Development
!)3. Llfe-p1·inciple
94. Animation of Fluid
95. Albuminous l<'luid
96. Cellular Animals
97. Condensation of
Nerve-spirits
98. General Condensation
99. Agglomeration
100. Development of
nirlh Germn
101. l•'ormative Rotation
102. Embodiment of the
103.
Life-principle
Sensual Organs
104. Embryonic Develop-
ment in the Fluid
105. Quadrupeds
106. Sensual Conception
107. Live Young Ones
108. Sensual Birth
Den om.
inatlon
Real
Further
Develop-
ment
Concrete
Fu rth er
Develop-
111e nt
Abstra ct
Further
Develop-
CHART NO. 12
Reconcilliating Further Development
Grade Diagram of Figures Addition
9
and
10
9
a nd
10
9
and
10
21
63
126
210
158
Logic
19. Embryonie
Spirits
20. Paradises
21. Underworlds
5[1 , E mbryonic
Spirits
DG. F •·ee Will
57. Intelligence
58. Paradises
f>9. Higher
\"!oriels
r.o. Messiahs
Gl. Und er
Worlds
G2. Dentons
G3. Contrast-
spirlis
l OU. Embryonic
Spirits
110. Reconcilia-
tion
111. Free '"'ill
112. Tria l
113. Intelligence
114. Development
115. Paradises
116. Immortality
117. Higher
Worlds
118. Instruction
119. Messiahs
120. Guardian
Spirits
121. Under
V\'orlds
122. Temptation
123. Demons
124. Sensuality
125. Contrast-
spi rits
126. Media tion
"'
..._.:....
(.);:l
<0'-'
... (.)
'-'cO
<!) ...
.0"',
..-r..
11
12
13
11
12
13
1.1
12
13
CHART NO. 13
3. Fractur
Di~()r a m of Figures
1;
3
18
159
24
Logic
22. F;dl of Spirits
23. Fall of Fire -rin gs
24. Ste,.diness of the
Spirits
r;.J. F a ll of Spirits
G5. Se pan1tion of the
Duals
6rl. Spi ri LLWI Pat·:~ l_vt:i...;
G7. J";tll of th E"
!.•"ir e ~ rin g~
GS. l"'orma lion of the
4. Suns
f>D. Cohesion Io
72 UndenvorlclR
144
240
70. Steadine3 ~ of lhe
Spirits
71 . .\ttrae li on or lhe
Duals
72. Soln ri ty of the
2. Suns
127. Fall of Spirits
128. Disobedience
129. Separation of the
Duals
130. Sensual Love
13l. Spi ritua l Paralysis
J 'l" Powerless
133: Fa ll of Fire- rill!':~
134. Derotalion
135. Fonnalion of th e
4. Suns
13G. Expa nsion of the
3. Suns
137. Cohesion to the
Underworlds
138. Chaos
139. Steadiness
140. Inc rease of
Intelligence
141. Attraction of Duals
142. Spiritual Marriage
143. Sola rity of the
2. Suns
144. Centripetal Power
"
'0
"'
:;
11
12
13
11
12
13
11
12
13
. CHART NO. 14
Threefold Disentanglement from the Contrast
D iagram of Figures
160
.!c
'Co
'0-
<( ..
27
81
162
270
Logic
25. Disobedient Spirits
26. Sensual Spirits
27. Arrogant Spirits
73. Disobedient Spirits
74. Expansion of the
3. Suns
75. First kind of
Incarnation ·
76. Sen sual Spirits
77. Forma tions of
4. Suns
78. Kintl of fncarnation
79. Arroga nt Spirit '
80. Forma tio n of
5. Suns
81. Third Kind of
Inca rnation
145. Disobedience
14G. 1. Fall
147. Expansion of the
3. su·ns
148. En largement of them
149. First Kind of
Inca rnation
150. Long Turn of Life
151. Sensuality
152. 2. Fall
153. Formation of the
4. Suns
154. Throwing Off of Its
Fire-rings
155. 2. Kind of Inca rna -
tion
156. Shorter Turn of Life
157. Arrogance
158. 3. Fall
159. Forma tion of the
6. Suns
160. Throwing Off of
Their Fire-rings
161. 3. Kind of
Incarnation
162. Turn of Transition
ID
Denom· ,
\nation f
CJ
CHART NO. 15
Sixth Solar System
Dl;tgrams of Figures
161
Total
AddI·
tlon
30
90
180
300
Logic
23. Degenerated Spirits
29. G. Suns
30. Metabolism and
· Change of Qualities
82. Degenerated Spirits
83. Paralyzing
Incarnation
ll4. Painful Death
85. G. Suns
86. Pl:lnet.~ .
S7. Border of the
Sensual World
88. Metabolism nud
Chnnge of Qualities
89. Animal-men
90. Qualification of
Animals
163. Degenerated Spirits
164. Splt·itual Stunning
165. Stunning
Incarnation
166. Loss of Memory
167. Painful Death
1G8. Painful Birth
169. 6. Suns
170. Last Spiral Circle
171. Planets
172. Satellltes
173. Border of the
Sensual World
174. Border of the
Contrast
175. Metabolism and
Change of Qualitie>;
176. Human Races
177. Animal-men
178. Sensual Men
179. Qualification of
Animals
180. Races of Animals
APPENDIX B
CHART OF INVOLUTION, NO.
Diagrams of Chart 15 Diagrams of Chart 14
162
Su btraction
o:;
"
... 000,~
;; «> ..-< <0
.:;
..-< ,...,
<
CHART OF INVOLUTION, NO. I
Division
"'
.,
....
.,
...
""''I Q
(.)
t::
0
(.)
"'
163
Diagrams of Sp irits
R e!l.J
I
1. P enitent Spirits
6
Concrete
R epentant Spirits
1.
2. Half Sensual Life
a. Foul'th Suns
Abs trac t ~
1. P enitent Spirits
2. Threefold Involution
of Spirit
3. H a lf Sensual Life
1. Threefold Involution
of Power
G. fi'ourth Suns
6. Th•·eefold lnvolution
of Matte r
CHART OF INVOLUTION, NO. 2
Diagrams of Chart 14 Di a gra ms of Chart 13
164
Subtraction
CHART OF INVOLUTION, NO. 2
Division
<>
'"
!; 0000 10
"'
,...,,...,
.0
<
"'
165
Diagrams of the Spirits
Rea l
2. Stea dfas t Spirits
Conc rete &
4. Ste,.<Hus l Spirits
5. De-s<·nzunliza Lion
6. Third S till S
Abstract
7. Stearlfnst Spirits
R. fnvoluli on of Rpirit.u ~ l
Trans ition
a. De-sen su~.! i ?.A I.ion
10. Tn volu t ion of Tra.n,;ition
of Pow e r
11. Third Sun s
12. Involution of Tra.nsi lion
of Matter
CHART OF INVOLUTION, NO. 3
Diagrams of Chart 13 Diagrams of Chart 12
166
Subto·action
3
0
E-<
...,
0
"'
!::
~
<
~
~
;)
c
0
v
'"CO I<O
...... ""
~ ~
~C') I ~
'"'
CHART OF INVOLUTION, NO. 3
Division
167
Di agrams of t he Spirits
Rea l
3. Dua l Spirit s
Concrete
7. Dua l -~p irits
8. Devclopmen r
9. ParadiSE'S
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
Abstr!lct
D ua l Spi rits
Primord ia l Spi ritu;J.I
In volution
Developme nt
Primordial Power
P aradi ses
Primord ia l F luid
CHART OF INVOLUTION, NO. 4
Diagrams of Chart 12 Dlaarams of Chart 11
168
CHART OF INVOLUTION, NO. 4
Subtraction Division Diagrams of First-borns
Real I
l. Penitent First-borns
~
Concrete 6_.
()
aj
b <000100
C'>lM 0
"' ..-< .... l. Penitent F irst-borns
.Q
2. Rotation
<>:
"'
a; 3. Forma tion of Fluid
....
"""'lo
()
"
. "'0
"'
() .
Q) M
;..
~C1) 1~
~
0
\..)
Abstra ct
~
... Penilenl First-borns
c;; Repentance
c;j Ql
"""" I= Rota tion
"' ~M ~ ~ p: Obedience
~ Formation of Fluid
M
Purification of Nerve-
spirit
169
CHART OF INVOLUTION, NO. 5
Diagrams of Chart 11 Di a gra ms of Chart 10
170
Subtraction
CHART OF INVOLUTION, NO. 5
Divisi on
.3
~
"'
c
0
u
.
171
Diagrams of First-borns
U eai 1\
2. Atonement
Concrete &
4. Aton ement
5. Attrac tion
6. Magnetism
Abstract
7. Atonem ent
8. 1m provernenl
9. A ttraction
10. Vibration
11. Magnetism
12. Assimilation
CHART OF INVOLUTION, NO. 6
Dlaarams of Chart 10 Diagrams of Ch~rt 9
172
CHART OF INVOLUTION, NO. 6
Subtraction
...
"'
b coo IN
.B O)r-( l t-
<:
!
"'
t LC~ CD
g ..,. I"'
0
173
Diagrams of the First-borns
Real ( \
2. Atonement
Concrete ~
4. Atonement
5. Attraction
6. Magnetism
Abstract
7. Atonement
8. Improvement
9. Attraction
10. Vibration
11. Magnetism
12. Assimilation
Di agrams of
Chart 9
CHART OF INVOLUTION, NO. 7
Di agram s of
Ch a rt 8
174
Subtraction
Diagrams of
Chart 8
CHART OF INVOLUTION, NO. 7
DiaRrams of
Chart 7
175
Subtraction
....
"'
~ ~~ ~ ~
..0
--:
Diagrams of
C hart 7
CHART OF INVOLUTION, NO. 8
Diagrams of
Chart 6 Subtraction
....
"
cd
.!:; fgtDI~
.,
a
,Q
<:
~
"'
....
ge) t ~
:.>
0:
0
[.)
176
Diagrams of
Chart 6
CHART OF INVOLUTION, NO. 8
Diagrams of
Chart 5
177
Subtraction
Diagrams of
Chart 5
CHART OF INVOLUTION, NO. 9
Diagrams of
Chart 4
178
Subtraction
Diagrams of
Chart 4
Z)
-
6·
' /
CHART OF INVOLUTION, NO. 9
Diagrams of
Chart 3 Subtraction
0::
.9
....
tl
;:s
"' ~~ ~ ~
Q)
Q
'2
..,
0
E-<
....
tl
cd
... ~(,Q I ~
....
"'
.a
..:
Q)
....
Q)
... ~M~~
tl
0::
0
0
179
CHART OF INVOLUTION, NO. I0
Diagrams of Chart 3 Diagrams of Chart 2
180
Subtraction
3
0
E-<
Oj
., ''"'' I...
ll:
CHART OF INVOLUTION NO. 10
Diagrams of Diagrams of
Subtraction
Chart 1 Chart 1 Diagrams of the First-borns
/ :::
L
~ Real
"
I}
::;
Union of First-born Duals
~
"" ~~ ~ ~
3.
"'
(:\
3
0
~
E-<
1\ Concrete
~
..... 7. Union of the First- born
" Duals
&.
ol
b ~ccl~ 8.• Union of Power
!1l 9. Union of Fluid
;!(]
,Q
<
~ "'
.....
~
"'
... ~MIOl
~
"
p
0
Abstract
C)
lb.
13. Union of the F irst-born
Duals
14. Spiritual unification
15. Union of Power
16. Unification of Power
17. Union of the Fluid
Ol 18. Unification of Matter
"'
........ 1.,.,
p::
181
SPIRIT, POWER, AND MATTER
was written in the year 18b9 to
give spiritual enlightenment and
wisdom to man, who seeks for the
truth about himself, about the
creation of the Universe, and
about God.
One of its purposes is to prove
that an infinitely small particle, like
the greatest solar system, and the
whole Universe are composed of
spirit, power, and matter. To reach
this goal, the authors of the book
used logic and the law of numbers,
illustrated with descriptive draw-
ings.
(Continued on Back Flap)
PRICE $3.50
SPIRIT, POWER, AND MATTER
discloses th.e creation, step by
step, the way it occurred from the
beginning, the way the Universe
was called into existence, the
creation of spirit entities, and the
cause of innumerable solar sys-
tems. It explains the origin of dif-
ferent kinds of plants and animals.
Throughout the passages of the
whole book God is revealed. His
love, power, and wisdom, with
which everything was created, kept
alive, and was led to perfection,
are to be found within this work.
The book is the result of spir-
itual revelation through the me-
diumship of Baroness Adelma Yay,
who was a distinguished worker of
ethical spiritualism in her earthly
life.
-Frank Szikossy.
NOTE
Spirit, Powerr
and Matterc
by
BARONESS ADELMA VAY,
Is a thoughtful textbook
of quality and depth, and
is not a publication to be
read lightly for entertain-
ment•.
The reader will derive
the best results by first
reading the descriptive
materiaL omitting "Law
of Numbers'' and "Charts".
After the Creation, Frac-
tures, and Involutions are
clearly understood the
reader is ready to proceed
with the study of the more
difficult "Law of Numbers"
and "Charts."
