{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1948__mesmer_frankau___mesmerism.pdf","mytitle":"Mesmerism","mylang":"de"}
MESMERISM
by
DOCTOR MESMER
0779)
Being the first translation of Mesmer's
historic M6moire sur la decouyerte
du Magnetisme Animal to appear in
English
With an Introductory Monograph
t>y
GILBERT FRANKAU
(1948)
MACDONALD : LONDON
First published 1948
WOOD LIBRARY-MUSEUM
Wo
39 1
M
1 ^ * 4 $
Published by Macdonald & Co. (Publishers) Ltd.,
St. Paul's Chambers,19 LudgateHill, E.C.4. Made
and printed in Great Britain by Purnell and Sons,
Ltd., Paulton (Somerset) and London
DR. MESMER
CONTENTS
PAGE
INTRODUCTORY MONOGRAPH BY GILBERT FRANKAU . 7
FOREWORD TO THE PUBLIC . . .27
DISSERTATION ON THE DISCOVERY OF ANIMAL
MAGNETISM . . . .29
PROPOSITIONS ASSERTED . . . .54
APPENDIX : THE CASE OF MISS PARADIS . 58
ILLUSTRATIONS
D r M e s m e r . . . . Frontispiece
Facsimile of original title page . . Facing page 26
INTRODUCTORY MONOGRAPH
By GILBERT FRANKAU
DURING a visit to London's famous " mental institution
Camberwell House, at the invitation of its medical superin­
tendent, that distinguished bibliophile the late Dr Hubert
J. Norman, I obtained on loan from his private library an
original edition of Mesmer's Memoire sur la decomerte dn
Magnetism Animal, printed at Geneva in 1779 and
published in Paris by the Dauphin's Libraire-Imprimeur,
P. Fr.Didotlejeune. The prolonged researches undertaken
for a mere tale, Michael's Wife, enabling me to realise my
find's medico-historical importance, I communicated with
the British Museum; and discovered that it had never
been translated into English.
Tempted by alayman's vanity toundertake the translation
myself, I eventually decided that the task could only be
accomplished by an expert; and was fortunate enough to
secure the services of Captain V. R. Myers of the Berlitz
School of Languages. His. rendering of the eighteenth-
century French—written by a German-thinking Austrian,
and possibly amended by a Swiss proofreader—is all the
more praiseworthy when one considers how rapidly the
commonest words change their meaning. A simple example
of this is our English adjective " dumb ", now generally
understood to convey stupidity rather than muteness ; for a
more complex one, see Captain Myers's footnote on p. 50.
Yet the adjective "mesmeric the substantive " mes­
merism " and the verb to "mesmerise " have not changed
their meanings since they first became current—posterity's
unique tribute to a unique man.
8 MESMER'S BIRTH, HIS EDUCATION
That man, Franz Anton Mesmer, was born in the little
Austrian village of Iznang, Lake Constance, on the 23rd of
May 1734. To realise his significancein medical history, itis
pertinent to remember that the last European neuropath to
suffer death for witchcraft had been burned at the stake in
Leith, Scotland, only twelve years previously, and that the
Abbe Fiard, writing nearly a century later, bracketed Mes­
mer with Cagliostro as a Satanist. Of such stuff can con­
temporary opinions be made 1
Mesmer's father held a good position, head of the woods
and forests department, under the local archbishop. Pro­
fessor O. E. Deutsch, to whom I am indebted for much
information and the loan of Dr Fritz Schiirer-Waldheim's
rare and invaluable life of Mesmer, privately published in
Vienna (1930), notes a brother, Johann, who became a
priest. The other children were girls.
Mesmer,alsointendedfor thepriesthood,went toa monks'
school, apparently till he was fifteen; thence to the Jesuit
University at Dillingen in Bavaria; and from there to
Ingoldstadt University, where he finally decided that the
Church was not for him. "At what university he obtained
his degree in philosophy Schurer-Waldheim tells us, "is
not known". In 1759 he arrived at the University of Vienna
as a law student; but soon abandoned the law for medicine,
passing his final on the 20th of November 1765, three
months after the death of the Queen Empress Maria
Theresa's prolific husband Francis, among whose sixteen
children was Marie Antoinette.
On the 27th of May 1766, just turned thirty-two, Mesmer
publicly read the paper Disputatio de Planetarum Influxu
(" Concerning the influence of the planets ") for which the
faculty awarded him his diploma and which he refers to in
this Mimoire, hereinafter called "The Dissertation", that
being the correct translation of the word. The paper, to
whose title he subsequently added the words in corpus
MESMER—BRAID—BERNHEIM—FREUD 9
humanum(" on die human body "), contains the germ of his
famous Twenty-Seven Propositions, also recorded in the
Dissertation, about animal magnetism.
That these Propositions, however fallacious, fore­
shadowed some of our present-day knowledge about the
afferent and efferent elements in the nervous system seems
to me a possibility. Indubitable, however, is the fact that
they led up, through "somnambulism ",as it was originally
called, to hypnotism, a word coined by the Scottish doctor
James Braid in the eighteen-forties. This fact, I claim,
entitles Mesmer to be regarded as the father of modern
psychotherapy. Because not only was James Braid the first
medical man to formulate the concept of " double con­
sciousness but because it was only after hearing Velpeau
read a paper on "Braidism" that Ambroise-Auguste
Liebault decided to found his clinic at Nancy—from which,
through Lidbault's brilliant pupil Bernheim and the coinci­
dental work of the misguided pathologist Charcot at the
Salpetrifcre, it is the shortest step in medical history to " the
Breuer experiment" under hypnosis, starting-point of the
entire concept that still dominates psychotherapy, Freud's.
Present-day spiritualism, also, owes some debt—in so far
as itis based on theevidence of mediums—to Mesmer. And
so does the Church of Christ Scientist, which was not
founded by Mary Baker Eddy until after her treatment at
the hands of Phinehas Parkhurst Quinby at Boston, Massa­
chusetts, in 1875.
I trust that Christian Scientists will not find this last claim
objectionable, or imagine that I give complete credence to
the late Stefan Zweig, who alleges in his Mental Healers
(1952) that thefirst editionof MrsEddy's Science and Health
was largely a panegyric on Quinby although she subse­
quently enrolled a guard of virgins to protect her from the
malign influence of animal magnetism. That Zweig was apt
to let imagination embroider truth is proved by another
IO " UN BEAU MARIAGE "
passage in the same book which gives currency, almost at
novefistic length, to the legend that Mesmer owed his
original inspiration to the Jesuit Father Hell—a legend
flatly disputed, as you will read, in what follows. That Mrs
Eddy, nevertheless, was treated, shortly before her restora­
tion to complete physicalhealth,by Quinby,and that Quinby
was an avowed practitioner of animal magnetism, are facts.
How much the author of this Dissertation owed to the
iconoclast Paracelsus (1493-1541), first medical man to con­
sider the esoteric properties which might be inherent in the
magnet, and vanHelmont (1577-1644)—if he wasinfluenced
by Malebranche, with whose Communication des Imaginations
fortes he is alleged to have been familiar—whether or no he
had heard tell of the "Stroking Doctor ", Valentine Great-
rakes, born at Affane, Ireland, in 1628, and performer of
many " miraculous " cures in the London of the Restora­
tion, are interesting speculations raised by the perusal of
Margaret Goldsmith's Mesmer,The History of an Idea (1935),1
a book to which I acknowledge my indebtedness, trusting,
nevertheless, that its author will eventually correct one
of its blemishes—the currency she also gives to the legend
of Father Hell.
All such speculations, however, are beyond my thesis;
and I leave it to the reader to decide how far Mesmer's
marriage to the rich and " nobly born " widow, Maria
Anna von Posch(also spelled Bosch),which took placesome
two years after he received his diploma, on the 10th of
January 1768, thus freeing him from material cares and giv­
ing him the entree to the best social circles in Vienna (the
von Stoerck referred to in the Dissertation was one of those
who signed the wedding register), can be taken as evidence
1 As fat as I can discover Margaret Goldsmith's book was the only one
entirely devoted to Mesmer written in our language until the publication
of Nora Wydenbruck's Doctor Mesner in 1947. A curious sidelight on our
insularity 1
WOLFGANG MOZART'S EVIDENCE II
that, howeverfanciful his Propositions, he wasan absolutely
honest clinician, in whose case histories we are bound to
believe.
Such evidence, of course, is at best only circumstantial.
Had we no more, except the man's own words, to sub­
stantiate his contention that he both could and did effect
permanent cures of nervous diseases (Margaret Goldsmith
says he did not claim to cure anyothers) it would be difficult
to dismiss the charge, so constantly levelled against him, of
charlatanry. But, from the day he began his treatments to
the day he retired into exile, independent witnesses, bothlay
and professional, to his success were legion—including
Wolfgang Mozart, who writes from Vienna on the 17th of
March 1780 about that very same " young lady aged
twenty-nine named Oesterline" (factually Fraulein Fran-
ziska von Oesterling) with whose case history the factual
part of the Dissertation opens :
" I write this—where ?—in Mesmer's garden on Land-
strasse 2—the gracious old lady " (Mrs Mesmer was only
ten years older than her husband, then forty-six!) "is not
at home—but the former Fraulein Franzl, nowadays Mrs
von Bosch " (she had married Mesmer's stepson) " is—she
has bidden and is actually still bidding me to send you and
my sister a thousand respects—listen, on my honour I
hardly recognised her she is so large and so fat—she has
three children—two girls and a boy—the eldest girlis called
Nannerl, four years old and one would swear she was six—
the boy's three and one would swear he was seven—and
one would certainly take her three-quarter-year-old baby
for two—they're all growing up so healthy and strong".
Admittedly the young Mozart was under an obligation to
Mesmer—a staunch friend of his father Leopold, an
acquaintance of Gliick and Hadyn, and something of a vir­
tuoso on the musical glasses, or glass-harmonica, which two
Englishwomen named Davis first demonstrated in Vienna.
12 TESTIMONY OF MR PARADIS
Despite the fact stressed by Alfred Loewenberg in his
learned article on Bastien et Bastienne in Music and Letters
(July 1944) that we have no first-hand account of it, there
must be some foundation for the report that the original
performance of that work,Mozart's first effort in opera, took
place in the then fashionable doctor's Viennese garden-
theatre in 1768. But however great the obligation, even if
the story that Mesmer commissioned Bastien et Bastienne be
true, how can one conceive that the composer of Cost Fan
Tutte, in which Mesmer finds honourable mention—though
the "magnetisation" back to lifeof the two pseudo-suicides
pokes gentle fun at his theories—would have attempted
to pay off a twelve-year-old indebtedness by penning a
deliberate lie to his own father ? The mere idea is exploded
by a sentence in an earlier letter, dated the 12th of August
1773, "Fraul. Franrf has again been on the point of death".
The testimony, moreover (printed as a footnote trailing
over many pages in its original edition, which I have trans­
ferred to an appendix), written by the father of that other,
even more famous patient whose case history this Disserta­
tion records at length, Miss Paradis, seems to me even more
confirmatory of Mesmer's abilities as a psychotherapist
than Mozart's letters. Nor am I much impressed by the fact
that this patient was eventually brought blind to Paris as a
living confutation of Mesmer's claim to have cured her.
Because it appears obvious, by the light of modern know­
ledge, that thegirl-pianist andsinger was not suffering from
a "perfect amaurosis "(loss of power in theoptic nerve)but
from what is now known as psychogenic amblyopia (blind­
ness dictated by the unconscious)—and both her pension
and her publicity depended on her inability to see.
Even more obvious, by the same light, appears the fact
that the "imperfect amaurosis, accompanied by paralysis of
the "limbs which was afflicting Mr d'Oesterwald" must
have been psychogenic rather than biogenic—as indeed the
STATEMENT BY CHARLES DU HUSSAY IJ
whole " Collection of Cures effected by Magnetism " re­
ferred to in Mesmer's footnote on p. 44.
Unfortunately neither that Collection nor the letter of the
jth of January 1775 (addressed to Dr J. C. Inser of Altona),
to which the Dissertation makes several allusions, are avail­
able to me for evidenceof my contention that its author was
no charlatan. But further proof that he sincerely believed
his own Propositions to constitutescientific truth isafforded
by his reference to thefamous exorcist JohannGassner," an
ecclesiastic, a man of good faith but excessive zeal", as
" nothing but a tool of Nature" which you will find on
p. 43.
While for complete proof that the discoverer of animal
magnetism did curewhat is now known by that misbegotten
word psychoneurosis, compound of the presumably immor­
tal psyche and the admittedly mortal neuron, I refer you to
t h e a n o n y m o u s p a t i e n t ( p . 52), " a g e d f o r t y w h o
suffered from "a generalparalysis "which produced "every
appearance of old age and drunkenness For, thanks to
the researches of another of Mesmer's English biographers,
R. B. Ince (who, most unfortunately in my opinion,
entitles his book Three Occultists), I am enabled to quote the
publicly sworn statement of that particular patient, Charles
du Hussay, Major of Infantry and Knight of the Royal
Military Order of Saint Louis (a shellshocked officer of
Lafayette's American Expeditionary Force?), which reads
in effect:
" After four years of useless experiments by other doctors
I consulted Mesmer. My head was constantly shaking and
my neck bent forward. My eyes protruded and were greatly
inflamed. My tongue was almost paralysed. I could only
speak with difficulty. Ilaughed, involuntarily, for no reason.
My cheeks and nose were reddish purple and my breathing
difficult. I suffered from a pain between my shoulders and
constant tremors. I staggered when I walked".
14 THE PARIS OF LOUIS XVI
Having sworn to these symptoms, du Hussay details the
mesmeric crises, " ice coming from my limbs, followed by
great heat and foetid perspiration ", several of which seem
tohave occurred duringthe first month of his treatment,and
concludes his statement, " Now, after four months I am
completely cured
Again I am willing to make an admission. The cure may
not have been permanent. I submit, however, that this
extant evidence proves that Mesmer must have had no mean
abilities as a psychotherapist. And the evidence seems all
the more incontrovertible, because it is so curiously sup­
ported by the experiences of the many medieval exorcists
who observed and recorded the same symptom of " foetid
perspiration "after a successful" casting out" of the devil.
Equally incontrovertible, nevertheless, is the fact that Mes­
mer remained in complete ignorance of the main source of
his abilities—almost certainly some form of pre- or post­
hypnotic suggestion—throughout a career whose first
apotheosis synchronised with the appearance of the Disser­
tation, which was put on sale in Paris five years after Louis
XVI succeeded Louis XV, one year after the death of Vol­
taire and the neurotic Rousseau, and ten before the pusil­
lanimous surrender of the Bastille.
I have stressed the historical background because it is
important to realise that the Paris in which Mesmer took
refuge from the setback he admits himself to have suffered
in Vienna, though still the scientific centre of Europe, was
already in an intellectual ferment, a perfect seedbed, there­
fore, for the implantation of a new medical idea. That
strange sect, the Illuminati, founded by Adam Weishaupt
and his colleagues in 1777, had begun operating there; and
it is possible, though not provable, that Mesmer's most
prominent supporter, Dr Charles d'Eslon, physician to the
Count d'Artois, the king's youngest brother—destined to
THE FAMOUS BAQUET 15
become Charles X of France, abdicate to Holyrood and die
in Austria—was one of the "illuminated But that again
is speculation, and beyond my thesis.
Factually, thanks to various other treatments no less suc­
cessful than du Hussay's, to d'Eslon anda few more influen­
tial supporters whose belief in animal magnetism was as
absolute as his own, Mesmer soon became the rage of Paris
and the clinic he established in the Place Vendome a centre
of fashion, not to have patronised which—no matter
whether you weresuffering fromnerves, gout,ennui ormere
curiosity—was to argue yourself unknown.
Chief and mostdiscussed featureof this lavishly furnished,
gorgeously curtained and carpeted clinic—very first for the
practice of group therapy and mass hypnotism?—where
Mesmer, armed with a wand, officiated in" anti-magnetic "
clothes to thestrains of music, wasthe celebrated" baquet
a large vat filled with water and magnetic material such as
iron filings. From this projected metal bars, which the
patients, who also held one another's hands as at table-
turning seances,1 grasped during treatment.
The baquet—Margaret Goldsmith states—had been used
by Mesmer, along with " magnetised " trees, ponds, etc.,
since 177 j. It seems to have been regarded by the ignorant
as a source of electrical energy. The Dissertation, however,
states categorically : "The desire to refute such errors once
and forall, and todo justice to truth,determined me tomake
no further use of electricity or the magnet from 1776 on­
wards "; and it is obvious that Mesmer himself believed
the baquet to be some kind of storage tank, as laid down in
Proposition Seventeen, " This magnetic property may be
stored up, concentrated and transported
His employment of mirrors,with which theclinic wasalso
lavishly provided, and of music, are explained by Proposi-
1 Table-turning was "discovered " and became the rage of Paris in the
early 1850's.
16 MESMER AND RUDYARD KIPLING
tion Fifteen, " It is intensified and reflected by mirrors, just
like light", and Proposition Sixteen, " It is communicated,
propagated and intensified by sound
And here, since I am dealing with the theoretical basis of
Mesmer's activities, I cannot refrain fromalluding toa little-
known tale by Rudyard Kipling, which will be found in his
ultimate volume of short stories, Limits and Renewals, under
the tide Unprofessional, and the verses which follow. The
chances are that Kipling, an omnivorous reader, was
familiar with the Propositions. If not—for they form the
very plinth of the tale—the coincidence is one of the most
remarkable in the whole history of human imagination.
The furore created by the Mesmer's clinic, at which
d'Eslon was also working, may—as some authorities allege
—have led to the immediate foundation of the Society of
Harmony, pledged to the propagationof his principles. The
point, however, is extremely dubious. That rare book,
printed from copper plates, Tbeorie du Monde et des Etres
organises selon les principes de M... which Maggs of Berkeley
Square priced at fifty guineas in 1932, and of which I was
recently shown a copy by Goldschmidt of Bond Street, was
not published until 1784, and is totally incomprehensible
without the separate key-page to the secret cyphers used for
all important words. This proceeding seems to me far more
in accord with the tenets of the Society than with the pub­
licity campaign between 1779 and 1781.
That same year, 1781, Mesmer removed himself, with a
handful of patients, to Spa, which was then under Austrian
suzerainty. Subsequendy, he and d'Eslon quarrelled.
A. V. Arnault's Biograpbie Nouvelledes Contemporains,pub­
lished in 1824, which treats Mesmer throughout as a charla­
tan, alleges (1) that d'Eslon claimed nearly the whole credit
for the cures, and (2) that Mesmer's action was taken in
order to extort money from the government. The first
MESMER QUITS PARIS 17
statement is obviously suspect—d'Eslon was certainly loyal,
and Mesmer tetchy. (One cannot help being reminded of a
slightly similar situation which arose between Freud and
Jung.) The second statement is a downright lie.
What actually happened—my authority is Schiirer-
Waldheim, who gives chapter and verse for all his state­
ments—appears to have been this:
Between them, Mesmer and d'Eslon had roused theoppo­
sition of the entire medical faculty. In vain d'Eslon—under
the threat that his name would be " erased from the regis­
ter " unless he forswore the mesmeric doctrine—appealed
to the King's physician, Dr de Lassonne. Whereupon, on
the 15 th of April 1781, the enraged Mesmer informed his
patients that he intended to leave Paris ; one of them, the
Duchess of Chaulnes, carried the news to Marie Antoinette,
and her Master of the Household (Hausminister) called on
Mesmer to find out on what"conditions"he would remain.
Mesmer's first demand was for "recognition". That
refused, nocashoffer—Arnaultsays he wasbid 20,000 livres1
down and 10,000 annually to found a school of animal
magnetism—could tempt him to stay.
He left Francewhere he had been makinga mint of money
(in hisown words"a streamof silver")immediately; and did
notreturnasa permanentresidentforthreeyears. Inthemean­
timehiswife,anextravagantwoman whomhe wasnever tosee
again—shediedin1790—had dissipatedmostof herfortune.
These facts, I maintain, are more proofs of his intrinsic
honesty. That he was both a disgruntled, and a thoroughly
misled scientist, is beside the argument maintained by me.
Abandoned by his master, deprived of his professorship
for refusing to renounce his beliefs, d'Eslon continued the
fight in Paris. As a mere general practitioner he established
1The word livre is misleading. It means a franc(at the franc's then value)
and should be so understood throughout.
BM
18 BENJAMIN FRANKLIN PRESIDES
another clinic. A year later, having effected various cures,
he asked the faculty fora committee of investigation. Hear­
ing of this in Spa, Mesmer wrote a furious protest to the
faculty: d'Eslon, a mere pupil, had neither the right nor the
knowledge to testify the truth about animal magnetism.
But by then thefight had become a pitched battle; and on
the izth of March 1784 Louis XVI convened a body of nine
commissioners under the presidency of Benjamin Franklin,
newly accreditedambassador of the UnitedStates of America
whose independence had just been recognised by Great
Britain, which included Jean Sylvain Bailly, the most distin­
guished astronomer of his day, Lavater, the scientist, and
Doctor Guillotin, inventor and subsequent victim of the
humane killer that still bears his name. The RoyalSociety of
Medicine protesting that it was not represented, four more
commissioners,makingthirteeninall,wereadded totheorigi­
nal number. Among these four was Antoine Laurent deJus-
sieu, doctor and botanist, whose great book on plants, pub­
lished five years later, is still the basis of their classification.
Despiteanother protestfromMesmer,writtenpersonallyto
BenjaminFranklin,thecommissionersdecidedthataninvesti­
gation of d'Eslon'sclinicand patientswould sufficetheir pur­
pose ; and their subsequent report on d'Eslon's method of
treatment, itssuccesses andits failures,is sucha modelof ob­
jective clarity that one cannot help marvelling why only de
Jussieu dissented from the verdict of the majority, " The
imagination doeseverything, themagnetismnothing'V until
one remembers Charcot's childish dictum, uttered a whole
century later,"Itis faithwhich cures"...and that,as lately
as 1922, our own War Office's Committee of Enquiry into
Shellshock dismissed Freud's entire teaching as contempt­
uouslyasitscivilian successorof 1939, onone'of whosesecret
findings the Ministry of Pensions still relies forits systematic
14 4 Touch " and "imitation " were also given as causes of the pheno­
mena.
THE SOCIETY OF HARMONY 19
refusal of all pensions for nervous disabilities, though thou­
sands of such decisions havealready been reversedon appeal.
From the verdict of Louis XVI's commissioners, need­
less to say, of which 20,000 copies were instantly pub­
lished, there was no legal appeal; and a personal petition
by Mesmer to the King's Parliament did not even receive an
acknowledgement. Seventeen ofd'Eslon's twenty-one medi­
cal assistants,hauled before thefaculty, renouncedmagnetism
rather than-lose their titles of doctor. But d'Eslon himself
remained loyal; and round him gathered a phalanx of en­
thusiasts,Thomas Ongl€e,Louis Varnier,Baptiste Bonnefroy,
Hervier ofthe Sorbonne,whomMesmerhad curedofa serious
illness, Galart de Montjoye of Philadelphia, Orelut, Kotn-
mann, the banker, and the fiery lawyer from Lyons, Nicholas
Bergasse. Thanks largely to Bergasse's efforts Mesmer,
backed by the Society of Harmony, returned to Paris for
his second apotheosis in that same year 1784.
The original members of this Society, mostly laymen,
numbered forty-eight, each of whom subscribed 100 louis1
d'or. What its funds eventually swelled to is conjectural.
Schurer-Waldheim mentions one sum of half a million
francs refused by Mesmer for a lecture tour in the provinces,
and devoted, at his wish, to the establishment of magnetic
clinics throughout France. The Nouvelh liiographie's estimate
is 340,000 francs; and the same figure is given in Lewis
Spence's Encyclopaedia of Occultism from which I have also
borrowed my modicum. The pecuniary point, however—
even if Mesmer's contention, made when he was nearly
eighty, that the French Revolution cost him 400,000 livres
be more than a senile boast—is immaterial to the main
argument of this thesis; and his personal story from 1789
onwards can be told in the fewest words.
1 One louis d'or—24 livres or francs.
zo AN ALMOST FORGOTTEN MAN
From France, in that year, he fled to Baden; from Baden
to Karlsruhe; and thence to Vienna, where the murdered
Marie Antoinette's brother, Joseph II, is said to have taken
the precaution of locking him up for two months as a sus­
pected revolutionary. In 1798heventured backto Paris. The
extant identity card describes him as, "64 years old. Height
1metre 76 centimetres." (jft. io£ in.) "Hair and eyebrows
brown. Eyes ditto. Chin—double. Face—round. Forehead
—high. Nose and mouth—medium ". After nearly three
years in Paris he moved out to Versailles and entered into
negotiations with the Directory; eventually securing, after
five moreyears whichseem tohave beenspentinSwitzerland,
a small annuity (3,000 florins)1 as compensation for j00,000
francs-worth of pre-revolutionary Government bonds.
1803 finds him back inSwitzerland,at Frauenfeld,south of
Lake Constance. To writeof him asa"forgotten man"may
bea slightexaggeration. Hestill receivesan occasionalletter
from old French colleagues, an occasional visit from some
curious Swiss or German doctor. For animal magnetism is
being more andmore practised, especially—thankslargely to
Lavater—in thevarious states of Germany. But his original
doctrine,Mesmerholds—neverdid astumbler towardsscien­
tific truthcling moreobstinately to an unscientificpremise-
has beenperverted; andthe end of1811 finds him refusing an
invitation from Professor Reil, head of the Prussian Faculty
of Medicine, to demonstrate his methods in Berlin.
Not until January1812 does he receive his first letter from
Reil's duly authorised representative, Doctor Karl Christian
Wolfart,whosefriendshipandenthusiasm notonlyirradiated
thelast threeyears ofhis lifebut ensured thepublication ofhis
System der Wechselwirkungen. That book—compiled from a
mass of notes, half in French and half in German, edited and
published by Wolfart—sumsup thewholedoctrineofanimal
magnetism as preached by Mesmer. It appeared towards the
1 The florin or Dutch gelder (value 2/-) was an international currency.
DEATH—AND THE CANARY 21
end of 1814. A fewmonths later,on the jth ofMarch 1815,
he died.
Mesmer died at Meersburg on the northshore of that lake
in which he must have swum when a boy, having moved
to a house in the Vorburg Gasse from his summer chalet at
Riedetsweiler, a village nearby; and his young friend Jus-
tinus Kerner, thanks to whose book, published in Frankfurt
on the Mainein 1856,we know somuch abouthis last years,
tells us that he died smiling. A strange thing.
Strange, too, is the tale of the magnetisable canary which
would fly from its cage, always open, and perch on his head
to sing him awake every morning; perch on the sugar
basin while he ate his breakfast and anticipate his need by
pecking extra lumps into his coffee cup. For the end of that
tale, as Kerner relates it, runs: " Next morning Mesmer
lay as though he were still alive, but never again did the
canarybird fly on to his head to wake him. It ate no more
and sang no more and soon it was found dead in its cage".
Far stranger,however, to mc atany rate,is the impression
I have gathered that, when it came to clinical treatment, the
discoverer of animal magnetism pinned his whole faith to
the therapeutic value of the mesmeric " crisis ", as exempli­
fied by the case of du Hussay, setting little or no value oh
the mesmeric " trance ".
Thisimpressionmaybeerroneous.Schiirer-Waldheimdoes
notseem toagreewithit. Headmits,however,that Lavater's
conversion to animal magnetism was largely due to experi­
mentsofa hypnoticnaturecarriedoutonhisownwife;andlists
amonghismanysourcesofinformationtheMarquisChastenet
de Puys^gur's—though he does not, in my opinion, give its
authorenough creditfor his servicesto science—Researches,
experiencesandphysiologicalobservationsonmaninthestateojnatural
somnambulismandof somnambulismprovokedbythe magneticact.
Both the Marquis and his brother Count Maximus de
22 BUT MESMERISM DID NOT DIE
Puys6gurhad beenmembersof theSocietyof Harmony.Start­
ing in 1784, both carried on their clinical activities—one is
tempted todraw aparallel withPavlovcontinuing hisinvesti­
gation of the conditioned reflexduring theRussian Terror—
throughout theFrench Revolutionand the Napoleonicwars.
But with thepublicationin theyear 1811of theformer's book
—chronicle ofhis experiments onsimple peasantfolk, mainly
women, conducted round an allegedlymagnetised tree inhis
cMteau nearSoissons—thespade work,if Imay be permitted
that expression, done by the Society came to an end; the
mesmeric crisis was as good as forgotten, and the mesmeric
trance focused every investigator's attention.
Held, not altogether erroneously, to be a form of sleep­
walking, the trance retained its name Somnambulism until
the publication of Braid's Neurhypnology or the"Rationale of
Nervous Sleep considered in relation with Animal Magnetism re-
christened it Hypnotism shortly after 1843.
Meanwhile, asearlyas 1819, onlyfour yearsafter hisdeath,
a Portuguese abbot, Jos6 Custodio de Faria, had elaborated
Mesmer's theoryof arapport between thesomnambuliser and
thesomnambulist(note thesimilarity withFreud); abare two
years later the French surgeon, Doctor Recamier, is alleged
to haveperformed thefirst operationona"tranced"patient j1
Alexandre Beftrand, who died untimely, was gathering
material for his Traite du Somnambulisme, which appeared in
1823; anda certainBaron d'H£nin,towhoseforgottenworks
the Nouvelle Biographic makes the mostenthusiastic reference,
branded Mesmer, the Puys6gurs, Johann Gassner, Valentine
Greatrakes,and, orso atleast onegathers, almosteverybody
elsewhose mind had ever gained anysort ofascendancy over
his fellows, as PhantasiScousiastes—an omnibus word which
appears to need the acute accent as little as my English
1 There is some evidence that a M. Dubois painlessly removed a breast
under somnambulism as early as 1797.
THE SOMNAMBULISTS 23
equivalent for it, "imaginationmongers needs a hyphen.
Note once more of what stuff contemporary opinions
can be made 1
Early in the nineteenth century, too, diagnosis by som­
nambulists—which was being practised in this country as
recently as 1941—had become moderately fashionable. And
it was mainly to investigate this feature of the phenomenon
that the French Academy of Medicine appointed two more
commissions of inquiry, the first in 1825—the year, by the
way, which saw Mesmer's vicarious patron, the Count
d'Artois, succeed his brother Louis XVIII as Charles X.
The first commission sat until 1831, the year after Charles
abdicated to Holyrood. Its report, largely favourable,
though it ignored Bertrand, was promptly disowned by the
Academicians, who refused to have it printed, and ap­
pointed the second—under a chairman who hadsworn open
hostility to allforms of mesmerism—with the desired result.
The Academy, however, no longer possessed the powers
of anathema wielded by its predecessor of 1784.
A few yearslater, in1837, Doctor Oudet of the Academy
certified that hehad witnessed thepainlessextraction of teeth
under somnambulism—afeat which seemedsuch news to an
English editor of 1946thatitvery nearlylanded itsperformer
into professional troublefor selfadvertisement. And in 1838,
DrJohn Elliotson,withwhose namemedicalhistory honour­
ably associates that of Dr James Esdaile of Calcutta, was
sacked fromLondon University forpreaching and practising
—both operated on somnambulised patients—the " gross
humbug as the J-aneet stigmatised it shortly before the
publication of Braid's Neurhypnology, of mesmerism.
Braid suffered from various delusions, notably that he
could bring about both psychological and physiological
changes in a tranced patient by stroking certain parts of the
skull. (This process was called phreno-magnetism.) But
24 THE DISCOVERY OF ANAESTHESIA
with his discovery that " hypnosis" could be induced by
the simplest means of fixing the patient's attentionit became
obvious, evento themost academically minded medico,that,
whatever its cause, the mesmeric trance could not be hum­
bug. The hypnoticcondition was too wellestablished afact.
Thecauseof thecondition,nevertheless, remainedobscure;
and although, in 1843, two English periodicals, The Zoist
and The Phreno-Magnet,werelaunched,under theeditorshipof
SpencerT.Hall, insupport of Braidism, the" fluidic theory"
still claimed innumerableadherents. Prominent among these
was a Baron von Reichenbach who maintained that he had
proved the existence of the fluid by various means,including
clairvoyance; and renamed it " odylic force
Odylic force soon went the way of phreno-magnetism, an
untenable hypothesis conceivably hybrid by Franz Josef
Gall's Physiology of the Brain out of Johann Caspar Speerz's
writings on " bumps ", both of which date back to the first
decade of the nineteenth century. The Zotst, however, did
not cease publication till18 j5—by which time James Robin­
son's Treatise on the Inhalation of the Vapour of Ether for the
Prevention of Pain in SurgkalOperations, first English book to
broadcast the discovery of anaesthesia by Dr Bigelow pf
Boston, had been on sale for eight years.
As a surgical aid, hypnosis was now view* jeu. Could it
be of medical aid ? Once again, the academic medicine men
thundered their anathematous, "No ". " Leave mesmerism
and hypnotism and animal magnetism", cried the academi­
cians of all occidental countries, " to conjurers and quacks.
Leave them to the dupes of Mr Sludge the Medium." And
at first not even the young student who was to become his
most fervent disciple, Bernheim, believed the counter-
cry of Li6bault.
Lidbault founded his clinic at Nancy in i860. In 1884 the
appearance of Bernheim's De la Suggestion, one of the most
BERNHEIM DEFEATS CHARCOT *5
important contributions ever made to scientific psychology,
split the schools into three.
The original school, Mesmer's, still preached a modified
form of animal magnetism. They believed in what common
parlance—music-hall comedians of my own youth still made
great play with the word—dubbed " the 'fluence And so
strongly was this belief held that no less an authority on
hypnotism than Moll writes in all seriousness :
" Oberstheimer states that in Austria the law requires
army horses to be mesmerised for the purpose of shoeing
them. This process wasintroduced by anarmy officer named
Balassa, and hence it has been termed and is now known
as the ' balassieren' of horses".
The second school, Charcot's at La Salpetrifere in Paris,
which confined its investigations to a few permanently
employed hypnotic subjects whom one is tempted to class
with mediums, is said to have been still experimenting with
magnets in the eighteen-eighties. Finally making up its
mind, however, that the mesmeric trance was a purely
pathological, and primarily diseased condition, it declared
total war on Nancy—only to be totally defeated by Bern-
heim, ably aided by Heidenhain of Breslau.
It is largely to Bernheim and Heidenhain that we owe the
whole doctrineof"suggestibility "as exemplified bythe late
Professor Cou6, some of whose cures were as indubitable as
they were remarkable.
Nevertheless it is partly to Charcot, under whom he
studied, that we owe the Darwin of modern psychotherapy
—deride some of his theories as you will, you cannot deny
the man's medico-historical importance—Sigmund Freud.
Freud, I contend—he also a "Viennese—is a direct des­
cendant in the Mesmeric line. In final support of the con­
tention, I cite yet one more book, published at Chicago a
whole decade before the coiner of the word psychoanalysis
26 CONCLUSION OF FRANKAU's ARGUMENT
began to formulate his concept of the conscious and un­
conscious elements in the human mind.
The date of that book is 1893 and its author Thomas Jay
Hudson. Itstide page reads: The Law of Psychic Phenomena.
A.Working Hypothesis.
Hudson's hypothesis—briefly that we possess two minds,
the one open to, the other completely closed against andim­
mune fromtheprocess ofinductive reasoning—is,Iclaim, an
unbreakablelinkinmychainofevidence; asitwerethecentral
arch of a bridgespanning three centuries, thelong road over
which conductsthe medicalhistorian straight back from nar­
coanalysis (for whichthe hypnoticstate is induced by drugs)
and electric convulsion therapy (to a form of which, as
you will read, Mademoiselle Paradis was also subjected) as
practised by psychotherapists in 1948, through Freud's
obsolescent psychoanalysis and Bernheim's equally obsoles­
cent suggestion, to Elliotson, Esdaile and Braid. And from
Braid, I claim, the road leads straight back to the author of
this Dissertation whose hand rekindled in eighteenth-
century Europe the torches of a science partly known to its
so-called pagan inhabitants and consistently practised by the
oriental world through coundess centuries. . . .
Once again vanity, both the layman's and the profes­
sional's, tempts a conditioned pen. The pen would fain run
on. But it has never been conditioned to the writing of
medical history. And I must leave the fuller elaboration of
my thesis to some writer of more knowledge, and maybe
of greater objectivity.
In the meantime, let Mesmer speak for himself.
London. G.F.
July 1948.
M E M O I R E
SUE LA DfiCOUVERTE
DU
M A G N f i T I S M E
A N I M A L ;
Par M. MESMER, DocUur in Medccine
de la Faculte de Vienne.
A G E N E V E;
Et ft trouvf
A P A R I S ,
Chez P. FR . DI D O T le jeune, Libraire-
Imprimeur de M ONSIEUR 3 quai
des Auguftins.
M. DC Ct IX XIX.
FOREWORD TO THE PUBLIC
THE DISCOVERY, which has so long been sought, of a prin­
ciple acting on the nerves should be of interest to all. It has
the twofold aimof adding to theirknowledge andof making
them happier, by affording a means of curing the maladies
which have hitherto been treated with but scant success.
The advantages and the singular nature of this system were
responsible, some years ago, for the eagerness of the public
to grasp the first hopes which I held out; andvit is by per­
verting them that envy, presumption and incredulity have
in a very short space of time succeeded in relegating them
to the status of illusions, causing them to fall into oblivion.
I have vainly endeavoured to resuscitate them by the
enormous number of facts ; nevertheless, prejudices won
the day and truth has been sacrificed. But, it will be asked
today, of what does this discovery consist ? how have you
come by it ? what idea may be formed of its advantages ?
and why have you not enriched your fellow-citizens there­
with ? Such are the questions that have been put to me since
my stay in Paris by persons who are highly qualified for
taking up a new question.
It is with the object of giving a satisfactory reply and in
order to provide a general idea of the system I propose, to
free it from the errors with which it has been surrounded
and to make known the vicissitudes which have formed an
obstacle to its being made known, that I am publishing this
Dissertation; which is merely the forerunner of a theory I
shall impart as soon as circumstances enable me to indicate
the practical rules of the method I am announcing.
From this standpoint, therefore, I entreat the reader to
consider this little work. I am well aware that it will raise
28 CONTINUATION OF MESMER'S FOREWORD
many difficulties, but it must be borne in mind that they are
of sucha natureas not to besolved by anyamount of reason­
ing without the assistance of experience.
Experience alone will scatter the clouds and shed light
on this important truth: that NATURE AFFORDS A
UNIVERSAL MEANS OF HEALING AND PRE­
SERVING MEN.
DISSERTATION
ON THE DISCOVERY OF
ANIMAL MAGNETISM
MAN IS by nature an Observer. From his birth, his sole
occupation is to observe in order to learn how to use his
organs. The eye, for instance, would be useless to him if
Nature did not cause him to pay attention to the slightest
variations of which his observation is capable. It is by the
alternating effectof enjoyment and deprivationthat helearns
of the existence of light and its different degrees, but he
would remain in ignorance of the distance, size and shape
of objects if he did not learn, by comparing and combining
the impressions of other organs, how to correct one by the
other. Most sensations are therefore the result of his
reflections on the impressions assembled in his organs.
Thus Man spends his early years in acquiring the prompt
and correct use of his senses. His gift of observation, which
he has from Nature, enables him to form himself, and the
perfection of his faculties depends on its more or less
constant application.
Among the infinite number of objects which come
successively before him, his attention is chiefly attracted by
those which interest him for more particular reasons.
Observation of the effects which Nature is universally
and constantly producing on each individual is not the
exclusive domain of Philosophers ; universal interest makes
an observer of almost every individual. These observations,
multiplied in every age and every place, leave nothing to
be desired as regards their reality.
3° WHAT IS TRUTH?
The activity of the human mind, together with its
ambition for knowledge, which is never satisfied, in seeking
to perfect knowledge previously acquired, abandons
observation, replacing it by vague and often frivolous
speculation. It forms and accumulates systems which have
only the merit of their mysterious abstraction. It departs
imperceptibly from truth, to such an extent as to lose sight
thereof, setting up ignorance and superstiticfti in its stead.
Human knowledge, thus perverted, ceases to possess any of
the reality which it had to begin with.
Philosophy has occasionally made efforts to free itself of
errors and prejudices, but by overturning those edifices with
toomuchvigourithascoveredthe ruinswithdisdain,without
fixing the attentionon the preciousthings contained there.
We see among the different peoples the same opinions
preserved in a form so disadvantageous and dishonourable
for the human mind that it seems improbable that they
could have been set up in that form.
Imposture andaberration of reason would haveattempted
in vain to win over nations and cause them generally to
adopt such obviously absurd and ridiculous systems as we
see today; truth alone and the general interest should
have conferred their universal nature on these opinions.
It may therefore, nevertheless, be asserted that among the
vulgaropinions ofall ages,whose principlesare notrootedin
thehumanheart, therearebutfew which,however ridiculous
and even extravagant they may appear, cannot be regarded
as the remains of an originally recognised truth.
Such are my reflections on knowledge in general, and
more particularly on the fate of the doctrine of the influence
of celestial bodieson theplanet weinhabit. These reflections
have induced me to seek, among the ruins of that science,
brought so low by ignorance, what it might have contained
that was useful and true.
In accordance with my ideas on this subject, I published
INTENSIFICATION AND REMISSION 31
at Vienna in 1766 a thesis on the influence of planets on the
human body. According to thefamiliar principles of univer­
sal attraction, ascertained by observations which teach us
how the planets mutually affect one another in their orbits,
how the sun and moon cause and control the ocean tides
on our globe and in the atmosphere, I asserted that those
spheres also exert a direct action on all the parts that go to
make up animate bodies, in particular on the nervous
system, by an all-penetrating fluid. I denoted this action
by theINTENSIFICATION AND THE REMISSION of the properties
of matter and organic bodies, such as gravity, cohesion,
elasticity, irritability, electricity.
I maintained that just as the alternate effects, in respect of
gravity, produce in the sea the appreciable phenomenon
which we term ebb and flow, so the INTENSIFICATION AND
REMISSION of the said properties, being subject to the action
of the same principle, cause in animate bodies alternate
effects similar to those sustained by the sea. By these con­
siderations I established that the animal body, being sub­
jected to the same action, likewise underwent a kind of ebb
and flow. I supported this theory with different examples
of periodic revolutions. I named the property of the animal
body that renders it liable to the action of heavenly bodies
and of the earth ANIMAL MAGNETISM. I explained by this
magnetism the periodical changes which we observe in sex,
and in a general way those which physicians of all ages
and in all countries have observed during illnesses.
My object then was only to arouse the interest of
physicians; but, far from succeeding, I soon became aware
that I was being taxed with eccentricity, that I was being
treated likea man witha systemand that my tendency toquit
the normal pathof Medicine was beingconstrued as a crime.
I have never concealed my manner of thinking in this
respect, being unable to convince myself that we have made
the progress of which we boast in the art of healing.
32 TRUST NATURE 1
Indeed, I have held that the further we advanced in our
knowledge of the mechanism and theeconomy of the animal
body, the more we were compelled to admit our insuffi­
ciency. The knowledge that we have gained today aboutthe
nature and action of the nerves, imperfect though it be,
leaves us in no doubt in this respect. We know that they are
the principal agents of sensation and movement, but we are
unable to restore them to their natural order when this has
been interfered with. We confess this to our shame. The
ignorance of bygone centuries on this point has sheltered
physicians. The superstitious confidence which they had
and which they inspired in their specifics and formulae
made them despotic and presumptuous.
I have too much respect for Nature to be able to convince
myself that the individual preservation of Man has been left
to the mere chance of discovery and to the vague observa­
tions that have been made in the course of a number of cen­
turies, finally becoming the domain of the few.
Nature has provided everything for the existence of the
individual. Propagation takes place without "system "and
without trickery. Why should preservation be deprived of
the same advantage ? The preservation of animals affords
proof that the contrary is the case.
A non-magnetised needle, when set in motion, will only
take a determined direction by chance,whereas a magnetised
needle, having been given the same impulse, after various
oscillations proportional to the impulse and magnetism
received, will regain its initial position and stay there. Thus
the harmony of organic bodies, when once interfered with,
goes through the uncertainties of my first hypothesis,
unless it is brought back and determined by the GENERAL
AGENT, whose existence I recognise: it alone can restore
harmony in the natural state.
Thus we have seen, in all ages, maladies which become
MESMER'S FIRST CURE 33
worse or are cured with and without the help of Medicine,
in accordance with different systems and by the most con­
flicting methods. These considerations have removed all
doubt frommy mind that thereexists in Naturea universally
acting principle which, independently of ourselves, operates
what we vaguely attribute to Art and Nature.
These reflections have caused me to stray imperceptibly
from the beaten track. I have subjected my ideas to experi­
ence forover twelve years, whichI havedevoted to themost
accurate observations of all types of disease, and I have had
the satisfaction of seeing the maxims I had forecast being
borne out time and time again.
It was chiefly in the years 1773 and 1774 that I undertook
in my house the treatment of a young lady aged twenty-nine
named Oesterline, who for several years had been subject
to a convulsive malady, the most troublesome symptoms of
which were that the blood rushed to her head and there set
up the most cruel toothache and earache, followed by
delirium, rage, vomiting and swooning. For me it was a
highly favourable occasion for observing accurately that
type of ebb and flow to which ANIMAL MAGNETISM subjects
the human body. The patient often had beneficial crises,
followed by a remarkable degree of alleviation; however,
the enjoyment was always momentary and imperfect.
The desire to ascertain the cause of this imperfection and
my own uninterrupted observations brought me time and
time again to the point of recognising Nature's handiwork
and of penetrating it sufficiently to forecast and assert, with­
out hesitation, thedifferent stagesof theillness. Encouraged
by this first success, I no longer had any doubts as to the
possibility of bringing it to perfection, if I were able to dis­
cover the existence, among the substances of which our
globe is made, of an action thatis also reciprocal and similar
to that of the heavenly bodies, by means of which I could
CM
34 THE MAGNETS
imitate artificially the periodic revolutions of the ebb and
flow just referred to.
I possessed the usual knowledge about the magnet: its
action on iron, the ability of our body fluids to receive that
mineral. The various tests carried out in France, Germany
and Britain for stomach ache and toothache were known to
me. These reasons, together with the analogy between the
properties of this substance and the general system, induced
me to regard it as being the most suitable for this type of
test. To ensure the success of this test, inthe intervalof the
attacks, I prepared the patient by the continuous use of
chalybeates.1
My social relations with Father Hell, Jesuit and Professor
of Astronomy at Vienna, then provided me with an oppor­
tunity of asking him to have made for me by his craftsmen
a number of magnetised pieces, of convenient shape for
application. He was kind enough to do this for me and let
me have them.
On 28th July 1774, after the patient had had a renewal of
her usual attacks, I applied three magnetised pieces to the
stomach and both legs. Not long afterwards, this was fol­
lowed by extraordinary sensations; she felt inside her some
painful currents of a subtle material which, after different
attempts at taking a direction, made their way towards the
lower part and caused all the symptomsof the attackto cease
for six hours. Next day, as the patient's condition made it
necessary for me to carry out the same test again, I obtained
the same success with it.
My observation of these effects, coupled with my ideas on
the general system, provided me with fresh information.
While confirming my previous ideas about the influence of
the GENERAL AGENT, it taught me that another principle was
causing the magnet to act, the magnet itself being incapable
of suchaction on thenerves, and Isaw thatIonly hada short
1 Presumably " iron " tonics. G.F.
CONFUTING FATHER HELL 3J
way to go in order to arrive atthe IMITATIVETHEORY, which
formed the subject of my research.
A few days afterwards, having met Father Hell, I men­
tioned to him in the course of conversation that the patient
was in a better state of health, also the good effects of my
process and the hopes that I had, on the strength of this
operation, of soon finding a means of curing nerve sufferers.
I foundout not longafterwards, from the publicand from
the newspapers, that this man of religion, abusing his fame
in astronomy and wishing to appropriate for himself a dis­
covery of whosenature andbenefits he was entirelyignorant,
had taken upon himself to publish the fact that by means of
some magnetised pieces, to which he attributed a specific
virtue depending on their shape, he had obtained the means
of curing the gravest nerve disorders. To lend support to
this opinion, he had sent to a number of Academies some
sets consisting of magnetised pieces of all shapes, mention­
ing according to their outline their analogy with the various
maladies.
This is how he expressed himself: "I have discovered in
these shapes, which agree with the magnetic vortex, a per­
fection on which depends their specific virtue in cases of
illness ; it is owing to the lack of this perfection that the
tests carried out in England and France have met with no
success". And by affecting to confuse the manufacture of
the magnetised shapes with the discovery I had mentioned
to him, he finished by saying " that he had communicated
everything to the physicians, and particularly to myself,
and would continue to avail himself of them for his tests
The repeated writings of Father Hell on this subject
inspired the public, which is always eager for a specific
against nervous disorders, with the illfounded opinion that
the discovery in question consisted in the mere use of the
magnet. I in my turn wrote to refute this error, by publish­
ing the existence of ANIMAL MAGNETISM, essentially distinct
36 BARON DE STOERCK
from the Magnet; however, as the public had received its
information from a man of high repute, it remained in its
error.
I continued my experiments with different disorders so as
to generalise my knowledge and perfect the application
thereof.
I knew particularly well Baron de Stoerck, President of
the Faculty of Medicine at Vienna and Chief Physician to
Her Majesty. It was moreover seemly for him to be ac­
quainted with the nature of my discovery and its purpose. I
consequently placed before him the circumstantial details of
my operations, particularly as regards the communication
and currents of animal magneticmatter, and Iinvited him to
verify them for himself, stating that it was my intention to
report to him infuture all progress that Imight make inthis
new science. To give him certain proof of my good faith, I
made known my methods to him without reserve.
The natural timidity of this physician, no doubt based on
motives which it is not my intention to penetrate, induced
him to reply that hewished to have nothingto dowith what
I was telling him about, and he begged me not to com­
promise the Faculty by giving publicity to an innovation of
this kind.
Public prejudice and uncertainty as to the nature of my
methods decided me to publish, on jth January 1775, a
Letter to a Foreign Physician, in which Igave an exact idea
of my theory, the success I had hitherto obtained and the
success I had reason to hope for. I set forth the nature and
action of ANIMAL MAGNETISM and the analogy between its
properties and those of the magnet and electricity. I added
" that all bodies were, like themagnet, capable of communi­
cating this magnetic principle; that this fluid penetrated
everything andcould be stored upand concentrated, like the
electric fluid; that it acted at a distance; that animate
MR INGENHOUSZE 37
bodies were divided into two classes, one being susceptible
to this magnetism and the other to an opposite quality that
suppresses its action Finally, I accounted for die various
sensations and based these assertions on experiments which
enabled me to put them forward.
A few days prior to the publication of this Letter, I heard
that Mr Ingenhousze, member of the Royal Academy of
London and Inoculator at Vienna, by entertaining the
nobility and distinguished personages with experiments in
electricity, and by the skill with whichhe varied theeffects of
the magnet,had acquired thereputation of being aphysician.
I heard, as I said, that when this gentleman learned of my
operations, he treated them as vain imaginings, going so far
as to say that only the English genius was capable of such a
discovery, if it could be done. He came to see me, not to
gain information, but with the sole intention of persuading
me that I was laying myself open to error and should sup­
press allpublicity witha view toavoiding inevitableridicule.
I replied that he was not sufficiently talented himself to
give me this advice, and that I should moreover have
pleasure in convincing him at the first opportunity. This
presented itself two days afterwards.
Miss Oesterline took fright andcontracted a chill, causing
a sudden stoppage, and she relapsed into her former con­
vulsions. I invited Mr Ingenhousze to call. He came,
accompanied by a young physician. The patient was then in
a fainting fit with convulsions. I told him that it was the
most favourable opportunity for convincing himself of the
existence of the principle I announced, and the property
which it has to communicate. I told him to approach the
patient, while Iwithdrew from her, instructinghim to touch
her. She made no movement. I recalled him to me, and
communicated animal magnetism to him by taking him by
the hands; I then bade him approach the patient once
more, while I kept at a distance, telling him to touch her a
3» PROOF BY EXPERIMENT
second time. This resulted in convulsive movements. I
made him repeat this touching process several times, which
he did with thetop of his finger, changing the direction each
time. Always, to his great astonishment, he brought about
a convulsive effect in the part touched.
When this operation was over, he told me he was con­
vinced, and I suggested a second visit. We withdrew from
the patient, so as not to be perceived even had she been
conscious. I offered Mr Ingenhousze six china cups and
asked him totell meto whichone hewished meto communi­
cate the magnetic quality. I touched the one of his choice
and then applied the six cups to the patient's hand in succes­
sion; on reachingthe cupthat Ihad touched, thehand made
a movement and gave signs of pain. Mr Ingenhousze
obtained the same result when he applied the six cups.
I then had these cups taken back to the place whence they
had corfte, and after a certain interval, holding him by one
hand, Iasked him to touchwith theother anycup hewished;
he did so, the cups were brought to the patient, as before,
with the same result.
The communicability of the principle was now well-
established in Mr Ingenhousze's eyes, and I suggested a
third experiment to showits actionat a distanceand itspene­
trating quality. I pointed my finger at the patient at a dis­
tance of eight paces; the next instant, her body was in
convulsion to the point of raising her on her bed with every
appearance of pain. I continued, in the same position, to
point my finger at the patient, placing Mr Ingenhousze
between herselfand me. She underwentthe samesensations.
Having repeated these tests to Mr Ingenhousze's satis­
faction, I asked him if he was convinced of the marvellous
properties about whichI had told him, offering to repeatour
proceedings if he were not. His reply was to the effect that
he wished for nothing further and was convinced; but
owing to his friendship with me, he entreated me not to
ODIOUS INSINUATIONS 39
make any public statement on this subject, so as not to lay
myself open to public incredulity. We parted, and I went
back to the patient to continue the treatment, which was
most successful That same day I managed to restore the
normal course of nature, thereby putting an end to all the
trouble brought about by stoppage.
Two days later I was astonished to hear that Mr Ingen-
housze was making statements in public that were quite
the reverse of his utterances in my house, and was denying
the success of the different experiments he had witnessed.
He effected to confuse ANIMAL MAGNETISM with the magnet
and was endeavouring to damage my reputation by spread­
ing the report that with the aid of a number of magnetised
pieces which he had brought with him, he had succeeded in
unmasking me, proving thatit was nothing but a ridiculous,
prearranged fraud.
I mustconfess that such words at first seemed to me to be
unbelievable, and I had some difficulty in bringing myself to
regard Mr Ingenhousze as their author. However, his
association with the JesuitHell, and thelatter's irresponsible
writings in support of such odious insinuations, aimed at
ruining theeffect of my Letter of jth January 1775, removed
all doubt from my mind that Mr Ingenhousze was the
guilty party. I refuted Father Hell and was about to draw
up an indictment when Miss Oesterline, who had been
informed of Mr Ingenhousze's procedure, was so affronted
at finding herself thus compromised that she relapsed into
her former state, which was aggravated by a nervous
fever.
Miss Oesterline's condition claimed the whole of my
attention for a fortnight. In these circumstances, by con­
tinuing my research, I was fortunate in overcoming the
difficulties which stood in the way of my progress and of
giving my theory the desired perfection. The cure of this
young lady represented the first fruits of my success, and I
40 DEMAND FOR A COMMISSION
had the satisfaction of seeing her henceforth in excellent
health. She married and had some children.
It was during this fortnight that, being determined to
justify myconduct and togive the publica correctidea of my
abilities by unmasking Mr Ingenhousze's behaviour, I in­
formed Mr de Stoerck, requesting him to obtain orders
from the Court for a Commission of the Faculty to be
acquainted with the facts, so that it might verify and make
them known to the public. This step appeared to be agree­
able to the senior physician; he seemed to share my view­
point and promised to act accordingly, remarking, however,
that he could not be on the Commission.
I suggestedseveral times thathe shouldcome andsee Miss
Oesterline and satisfy himself as to the success of my treat­
ment. His replies in this matter were always vague and
uncertain. I explained to him how it would benefit
humanity to have my method adopted by the hospitals, and
asked him to demonstrate its utility forthwithat theSpanish
Hospital. He agreed to this and gave the necessary instruc­
tions to Mr Reinlein, physician at that hospital.
The latter was a witness of the effects and usefulness of
my visits over a period of eight days. On several occasions
he expressed surprise and reported to Mr de Stoerck. How­
ever, Isoon becameaware that differentimpressions hadbeen
given to this leading physician. I met him almost every day
and insisted on my request for a Commission, reminding
him of the interesting matters about which I had told him,
but saw nothing but indifference, coldness and reservein his
attitude whenever the topic was broached.
Being unable to obtain any satisfaction, and as Mr
Reinlein had ceased reporting to me (I moreover found out
that this change of front was the result of steps taken by Mr
Ingenhousze), I realised my inability to stem the course of
the intrigue, and sought consolation in silence.
FURTHER CURES 41
Emboldened by the success of his plans, Mr Ingenhousze
acquired fresh vigour; he vaunted his incredulity and it was
notlong before hesucceeded inhaving thosewho suspended
judgment or who did not share his opinion classed as
feebleminded. It will readily be understood that all this was
quite enough to alienate the masses and have me looked
upon at least as a visionary, especially as the indifference of
the Faculty appeared to support that opinion.
What I felt to be most strange was that the same opinion
should be shared the following year by Mr Klinkosch,
Professor of Medicine at Prague, who, without knowing me
and without the slightest idea of the true state of the matter,
was sufficiently foolish (to use no stronger term), as to
publish in the public journals the curious details of the
impostures attributed to me by Mr Ingenhousze.1
Whatever public opinion might be, I felt that truth could
not find better support than in facts. I undertook the treat­
ment of various disorders, including a hemiplegia, the
result of apoplexy; stoppages, spitting of blood, frequent
colics and convulsive sleep from childhood, with spitting of
blood and normal ophthalmia. Mr Bauer, Professor of
Mathematics at Vienna and a man of outstanding merit, was
attacked by this latter malady. My work was crowned with
the best possible success, and Mr Bauer himself was honest
enough to make public a detailed report on his cure. How­
ever, prejudice had the upper hand. Nevertheless, I had the
satisfaction of being quite well known to a great Minister,
a Privy Councillor and an Aulic Councillor, friends of
humanity, who had often recognised truth for themselves,
seeing that they upheld and protected it. They even made
several attempts to lighten the shadows in which it was
1 Letter on Animal Magnetism and the Electrophorus, addressed to Count
de Kinszky. It was included in the Proceedings of the Scientists of Bohemia,
Vol. II, 1776. It was also printed separately and published at Vienna in the
following year.—F.A.M.
42 THE MAGNET ABANDONED
being wrapped. They met with little success, however, it
being objected that only the opinion of physicians was
capable of deciding, and their good will was thus confined
to their offers to give my writings the necessary publicity in
foreign lands.
It was through this channel that my explanatory Letter of
5th January 1775 was transmitted to the majority of the
scientific institutions, and to a few scientists. Only the
Berlin Academy, on the 24th March that year, made a
written reply in which by confusing the properties of
ANIMAL MAGNETISM which I had expounded with those of
the magnet, which I only spoke of as a conductor, it in­
curred a number of errors and its opinion was that Iwas the
victim of illusion.
This Academy was not the only one to make the mistake
of confusing ANIMAL MAGNETISM with mineral magnetism,
although I have always stressed in my writings that the use
of the magnet, however convenient, was always imperfect
withbut the assistance of the theory of ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
The physicians and doctors with whom I have been in
correspondence, or who have endeavoured to find out my
methods in order to usurp this discovery, have taken upon
themselves to spread about either that the magnet was the
only means I employed, or else that I used electricity as
well, because it was well known that I had availed myself of
both. Most of them have been undeceived by their own
experience, but instead of realising the truth I was expound­
ing, they have concluded from the fact that they obtained
no success from the use of these two agents that the ctires
announced by myself were imaginary and that my theory
was nothing but an illusion.
The desire to refute such errors once and for all, and to
do justice to truth, determined me to make no further use
of electricity or of the magnet from 1776 onwards.
FATHER GASSNER 43
The poor reception given to my discovery and the slight
hopes it held out to me for the future made me resolve to
undertake nothingof apublicnatureat Vienna,butinsteadto
travel to Swabia and Switzerland and add to my experience,
thus arriving at the truth through facts. Indeed, I had the
satisfaction of making some striking cures in Swabia, and of
operating in the hospitals, before the eyes of doctors from
Berne and Zurich. They were left in no doubt as to the
existence of ANIMAL MAGNETISM and the usefulness of my
theory, which corrected the error into which they had been
led by my opponents.
Between the years 1774 and 1775 an ecclesiastic, a man of
good faith but ofexcessive zeal, was operatingin the diocese
of Ratisbon on various disorders of a nervous nature, using
means that appeared to be supernatural to the less well
informed in that district. His reputation extended to
Vienna, where society was divided into two halves: one
regarded his methods as imposture and fraud, while
the other looked upon them as miracles performed by
Divine power. Both, however, were wrong, and my
experience at once told me that the man in question was
nothing but a tool of Nature. This was because his
profession, assisted by fate, had furnished him with
certain natural talents enabling him to find out the
periodical symptoms of maladies without knowing
their cause. The end of such paroxysms was held to be
a complete cure, and time alone could undeceive the
public.
On returning to Vienna towards the end of 1775, I
passed through Munich, where His Highness the Elector
of Bavaria was kind enough to consult me on this subject,
asking me whether I could account for these pretended
miracles- I carried out before his eyes some experiments
that removed any prejudices he may have had and left him
in no doubtas to the truthI announced. Shortly afterwards,
44 TREATMENT OF MISS PARADIS
the Scientific Institution of that city paid me the honour
of admitting me as a member.
In 17761again visited Bavaria and secured similar success
there in illnesses of different kinds. In particular, I effected
the cureof an imperfectamaurosis, accompanied by paralysis
of the limbs, which was afflicting Mr d'Osterwald (factually
Oesterwald, G.F.) director of the Scientific Institution of
Munich; he was kind enough to make public mention of
this and of the other results he had witnessed.1
After returning to Vienna, I persisted until the end of
that year in undertaking no further work; neither would
I havealtered my mind ifmy friends had notbeen unanimous
in opposing my decision. Their insistances, together with
my desire to see the truth prevail, aroused in me the hope
of accomplishing this by means of fresh successes, particu­
larly through some striking cure. With this end in view,
among other patients I undertook the treatment of Miss
Paradis, aged eighteen, whose parents were well known;
she herself was known to Her Majesty the Queen-Empress,
through whose bounty she received a pension, being quite
blind since the age of four. It was a perfect amaurosis,
with convulsions in the eyes. She was moreover a prey
to melancholia, accompanied by stoppages in the spleen
and liver, which often brought on accesses of delirium
and rage so that she was convinced she was out of her
mind.
I also undertook the treatment of one Zwelferine, a girl
nineteen years of age who had been blind since the age of
two owing to amaurosis accompanied by a very thick,
wrinkled albugo with atrophy of the ball; she was also
afflicted with periodic spitting of blood. I found this girl
1 There was published at the beginning of 1778 a Collection of Cures
effected by Magnetism, printed at Leipzig. This bulky Collection, whose
author is unknown to me, has the sole meritof assembling faithfully,without
partiality, the reports and writings for and against my system.—F.A.M.
MISS PARADIS CURED 45
in the Vienna orphanage and her blindness was attested by
the Governors.
At thesame timeIalso treated Miss Ossine,aged eighteen,
who was in receipt of a pension from Her Majesty, as being
the daughter of an officer in her armies. Her malady con­
sisted of purulent phthisis and irritable melancholia,
accompanied by fits, rage, vomiting, spitting of blood and
fainting. These three patients and others besides were
accommodated in my house so that I might continue my
treatment without interruption. I was fortunate in being
able to cure all three.
The father and mother of Miss Paradis, who witnessed
her cure and the progress she was making in the use of her
eyesight, hastened to make this occurrence known and how
pleased they were. Crowds flocked to my house to make
sure for themselves, and each one, after putting the patient
to some kind of test, withdrew greatly astonished, with the
most flattering remarks to myself.
The two Presidents of the Faculty, at the head of a
deputation of their corps, came to see me at the repeated
instances of Mr Paradis; and, after examining the young
lady, added their tribute to that of the public. Mr de
Stoerck, one of these gentlemen who knew this young
personparticularlywell,havingtreated her for ten yearswith­
out the slightestsuccess, expressedtome hissatisfaction at so
interesting a cure and his regret at having so far deferred his
acknowledgment of the importance of my discovery. A
number of physicians,each forhimself,followed theexample
set by our leaders and paid the same tribute to truth.
After such authentic recognition, Mr Paradis was kind
enough to express his gratitude in his writings, which went
all overEurope. Itwashewhoafterwardspublished theinter­
esting details of hisdaughter's recovery in thenewspapers.5
1 See Appendix.
46 THE CONSPIRATORS
Among the physicians who came to see me to satisfy
their curiosity was Mr Barth, professor of anatomy of
diseases of the eye, and cataract specialist; he had even
admitted on two occasions that Miss Paradis was able to use
her eyes. Nevertheless, this man's envy caused him to state
publicly that the young lady could not see, and that he had
satisfied himself that she could not. He founded this
assertion on the fact that she did not know or confused the
names of objects shown to her. He was answered from all
quarters that he was therein confusing the necessary
inability of those blind from birth or at a very tender age
with the knowledge acquired by blind persons operated on
for cataract. How, he was asked, is it that a man of your
profession can be guilty of so obvious an error ? His
impudence, however, found an answer to everything by
asserting the contrary. It was in vain that the public told
him again and again that a thousand witnesses had given
evidence of the cure; he alone held the opposite view, in
which he was joined by Mr Ingenhousze, the Inoculator of
whom Ihave spoken.
These two individuals, who were at first regarded as
fanatics by sensible, honestfolk, succeeded inweaving a plot
to withdraw Miss Paradis from my care, her eyes still being
in an imperfect state, and made it impossible for her to be
presented to Her Majesty, as was to have been the case.
This inevitablylent credence to their assertionof imposture.
To this effect they worked on Mr Paradis, who began to be
afraid that his daughter's pension and several other advant­
ages held out to him might be stopped. He consequently
asked for his daughter back.
The latter, supported by her mother, showed her un­
willingness and fear lest the cure might be imperfect. The
father insisted,and this disputebrought on her fits again and
led to an unfortunate relapse. However, this had no effect
on her eyes, and she continued to improve the use of them.
RELAPSE OF MISS PARADIS 47
When her father saw she was better, being still egged on by
the conspirators, he returned to the charge. He demanded
his daughter with some heat and compelled his wife to do
likewise.
The girl resisted for the same reasons as before. Her
mother, whohad hithertosupported her,and had apologised
for the lengths to which her husband had gone, came to tell
me on 29th April 1777 that she intended to remove her
daughter instantly. I replied that she was free to do so, but
if fresh accidents were the result, she could not count on my
help.
These words were overheard by the girl, who was so
overcome thatshe went intoa fit. She was assisted by Count
de Pellegrini, one of my patients. Her mother, who heard
her cries, left me abruptly and seized her daughter angrily
from the hands of the person who was assisting her, saying :
" Wretched girl, you too are hand in glove with the people
of this house I" as she flung her in a fury head-first against
the wall.
Immediately all the troubles of that unfortunate girl
recommenced. I hastened towards herto giveher assistance,
but her mother, still livid with rage, hurled herself upon me
to prevent me from doing so, while she heaped insults on
me. I had the mother removed by certain members of my
household and went up to the girlto assist her. While I was
so engaged,I heard moreangry shoutsand repeated attempts
to open andshut the door of the room where Iwas.
It was Mr Paradis who, having been warned by one of
his wife's servants, now invaded my house sword in hand
with the intention of entering the room where I was,
while my servant was trying to remove him by guarding
the door. The madman was at last disarmed, and he
left my house breathing imprecations on myself and my
.household.
Meanwhile, his wife had swooned away. I had her given
48 WICKED INSINUATIONS
the necessary attention, and she left some hours afterwards,
but the unhappy girl was sufferingfrom attacks of vomiting,
fits and rages, which the slightest noise, especially the sound
of bells, accentuated. She had even relapsed into her
previous blind state through the violence of the blow given
her by her mother, and I had some fears for the state of her
brain.
Such were, for my patient and for me, the sinister effects
of that painful scene. It would have been easyfor me to take
the matter to court, on the evidence of Count de Pellegrini
and eight persons who were with me, to say nothing of
other neighbours who could have acted as witnesses too,
but, as I was solely concerned with saving Miss Paradis, if
possible, I refrained from availing myself of legal redress.
My friends remonstratedin vain, pointingout theingratitude
exhibited by her family and the wasted expenditure of my
labours. I adheredto my first decision and would have been
content to overcome the enemies of truth and of my peace
of mind by good deeds.
Next day I heard that Mr Paradis, in an endeavour to
cover up his excesses, was spreading about the most wicked
insinuations regarding myself, always with a view to re­
moving his daughter and proving, by her condition, the
dangerous nature of my methods. I did indeed receive
through Mr Ost, Court physician, a written order from Mr
de Stoerck, in his capacity as head physician, dated Schoen-
brunn, 2nd May 1777, who called upon me " to put an end
to the imposture " (his own expression) " and restore Miss
Paradis to her family, if I thought this could be done with­
out risk".
Who would have believed that Mr de Stoerck, being so
well informed by the same physician of all that had taken
place in my house and, after his first visit, having come
twice to convince himself of the patient's progress and the
MR PARADIS APOLOGISES 49
success of my methods, could have taken upon himself to
use such offensive and contemptuous language to me ? I
had indeed reason to expect the contrary, because being
well placed for recognising a truth of this kind, he should
have been its defender. I would even go so far as tosay that
as the repository of Her Majesty's confidence, one of his
first duties under these circumstances should have been to
protect a member of theFaculty whom heknew to be blame­
less, and to whom he had time and time again given assur­
ances of his affection and esteem. I made answer to this
irresponsible order that the patient was not in a position to
be moved without-running the risk of death.
Miss Paradis's criticalcondition no doubtmade animpres­
sion on her father, and caused him to reflect. Through the
intermediary of two reputable persons, he begged me to
continue attending his daughter. I told him that I would do
so on condition that neither he nor his wife ever again
appeared in my house. My treatment indeed exceeded my
hopes, and nine days sufficed to calm down the fits entirely
and put anend to the disorders. But her blindness remained.
Fifteen days' treatment cured the blindness and restored
the eye to its condition prior to the incident. To this period
I added a further fortnight's attention to improve and re­
store her health. The public then came to obtain proof of
her recovery, and everybody gave me, even in writing,
fresh evidence of satisfaction. Mr Paradis, being assured of
the good health enjoyed by his daughter through Mr Ost,
who, at his request and by my permission, followed the
progress of the treatment, wrote a letter to my wife in which
he thanked her for her motherly care.
He also wrote thanking me and apologising for the past;
he finished by asking me to send back his daughter so that
she might enjoy the benefit of country air. He said that he
would send her back to me whenever I might think
DM
5° BETRAYAL
necessary, so as tocontinue the treatment,and he hoped that
I would attend her. I believed him in all good faith, and
returned his daughter to him on the 8th of June.
Next day I heard that her family asserted that she was
still blind and subject to fits. They showed her thus and
compelled her to imitate fits and blindness. This news
evoked some contradictions by persons whowere convinced
of the contrary, but it was upheld and accredited by the
obscure intriguers who used Mr Paradis as their tool, and I
was unable to checkits spreadby thehighest testimony,such
as that of Mr de Spielmann, Aulic Councillor of Their
Majesties and Director of the State Chancellery; Their
Majesties' Councillors, Messrs de Molitor and de Umlauer,
physician to Their Majesties ; de Boulanger, de Heufeld and
Baron de Colnbach and Mr de Weber, who, independently
of several other persons, had almost every day followed
for themselves my processes and results.
Thus in spite of my perseverance and my work, I have
little by litde seen relegated to the position of a conjecture,
or at least of something uncertain, a truth that has been
authentically proven.
It is easy toimagine how Imight have beenaffected by the
relentlessness of my enemies to do me harm and by the
ingratitude of a family on whichI had showered kindnesses.
Nevertheless, during the last half of 1777 I continued with
the cure of Miss Ossine and the aforementioned Zwelferine
whose eyes, it will be remembered, were in an even more
serious condition than Miss Paradis's. I also persevered
successfully with the treatment of my remaining patients, in
particular Miss Wipior, aged nine, who had in one eye a
growth on the cornea, known by the name of staphyloma;
this cartilaginous excrescence, of 3 to 4 lines,1 prevented
her from seeing with that eye.
1There is nothing which can clear up definitely to what Mesmcr refers
when mentioning " 3 £ 4 lignes This has been translated by " 3 to 4 lines "
DEPARTURE FROM VIENNA 51
I succeeded in removing the excrescence to the extent
that she was able to read sideways. There only remained a
slight albugo in the centre of the cornea, and I have no
doubt that I would have caused it to disappear entirely, had
circumstances permitted me to continue the treatment.
However, being wearied by my labours extending over
twelve consecutive years and still more so by the continued
animosity of my adversaries, without having reaped from
my research and efforts any satisfaction other than that of
which adversity could not deprive me, I felt that I had done
my duty by my fellow-citizens.
With the conviction that justice would one day be done
me, I decided to travel for the sole purpose of securing the
relaxation I so much needed. However, to guard against
prejudice and insinuations as far as possible, I arranged
matters so as to leave at home in my absence Miss Ossine
and the girl Zwelferine. I next took the precautionof telling
the public of the reason for this arrangement, stating that
these persons were in my home so that their condition
could be ascertained at any moment and thereby lend
support to truth. They remained there eight months after
my departure from Vienna and only left on orders from a
higher authority.
On arriving at Paris in February 1778,11 began to enjoy
the delights of repose there, in the interesting company of
but could equally well mean " 3 to 4 lignes " taken in the sense of an old
French measure, in which case the correct translation would be " 7 to 9
millimetres " in present day equivalent measure. V. R. MYERS.
1 My adversaries, who were ever on the watch to harm me, lost no time
in spreading warnings about me on my arrival in France. They went to
the length of compromising the Facultyof London by causingan Anonymous
Letter to be inserted in the Journal Encyclopedique for March 1778, page 506 ;
Mr Hell, bailiff of Hirsingen and Lundzer, did not scruple to lend his name
to this libellous document. Nevertheless, I was not known to him, and I
only saw him afterwards, at Paris, to receive his apologies. The untrust-
worthiness, inconsistency and maliciousness of this Letter are merely
deserving of contempt, as will be found on perusing it.—F.A.M.
52 ARRIVAL IN PARIS
the scientists and physicians of that capital. However,
acceding to their requests and to repay the kindness shown
to me, I decided to satisfy their curiosity by speaking of my
system. They were astonished at its nature and results and
asked me for an explanation. I gave them my concise
assertions innineteen articles.1 They seemed tothem tobear
no relation to established knowledge. I felt indeed how
difficult it was, by reason alone, to prove the existence of a
principle of which people had not the slightest conception.
With this in mind, I therefore yielded to the request made
to me to show the reality and the usefulness of my theory by
the treatment of a few serious maladies.
A number of patients placed their trust in me. Most were
in so desperate a plight that it required all my desire to be of
use to make me decide on attending them. Nevertheless, I
cured a vaporous melancholia with spasmodic vomiting, a
number of longstanding stoppages in the spleen, liver and
mesentery, an imperfect amaurosis, to the extent of prevent­
ing the patient from moving about alone, and a general
paralysis with trembling which gave the patient (aged forty)
every appearance of old age and drunkenness. This malady
was the result of frost-bite ; it had been aggravated by the
effects of a putrid and malignant fever which the patient had
contracted six years before in America.
I alsoobtained the same success ina case of total paralysis
of the legs, with atrophy; one of chronic vomiting, which
reduced the patient to a state of progressive emaciation;
one of general scrofulous debility, and finally in a case of
general decay of the organs of perspiration.
These patients, whose condition was known and verified
by the physicians of the Paris Faculty, were all subject to
considerable crises and evacuation, on a par with the nature
1 These same Assertions had been forwarded in 1776 to the Royal Society
of London by Mr Elliot, English Envoy to the Diet of Ratisbon ; I com­
municated them to that Minister at his own request, after carrying out before
him various experiments at Munich and Ratisbon.—F.A.M.
THE REASON FOR THIS DISSERTATION J 3
of their maladies, without making use of any medicaments.
After completing their treatment, they gave me detailed
declarations.
That should have been more than enough to prove
beyond all doubt the advantages of my method. I had
reason to flatter myself that recognitionwould follow. How­
ever, the persons who had induced me to undertake the
foregoing treatments were not enabled to see their effects,
owing to considerations and reasons which it would be out
of place to enumerate in this dissertation.
The result is that the cures which, contrary to my
expectation, were not communicated to bodies whose duty
it might have been to call the attention of the public to
them, onlyimperfectly fulfilled the task I had set myself, and
for which I had been praised.
This induces me to make a fresh effort today in the cause
of truth, by giving more scope and the publicity which they
have hitherto lacked to my original Assertions.
PROPOSITIONS ASSERTED1
1. There exists a mutual influence between the Heavenly
Bodies, the Earth and Animate Bodies.
2. A universally distributed and continuous fluid, which
is quite without vacuum and of an incomparably rarefied
nature, and which by its nature is capable of receiving, pro­
pagating and communicating all the impressions of move­
ment, is the means of this influence.
3. This reciprocal action is subordinated to mechanical
laws that are hitherto unknown.
4. This action results in alternate effects which may be
regarded as an Ebb and Flow.
j. This ebb and flow is more or less general, more or less
particular, more or less composite according to the nature
of the causes determining it.
6. It is by this operation (the most universal of those
presented by Nature) that the activity ratios are set up
between the heavenly bodies, the earth and its component
parts.
7. The properties ofMatter and the OrganicBody depend
on this operation.
8. The animal body sustains the alternate effects of this
agent, which by insinuating itself into the substance of the
nerves, affects them at once.
9. It is particularly manifest in the human body that the
agent has propertiessimilar to thoseof the magnet; different
and opposite poles may likewisebe distinguished, which can
be changed, communicated, destroyed and strengthened;
even the phenomenon of dipping is observed.
1 The word " asserted" is implied by the context. It has been added
by me. G.F.
PROPOSITIONS IO—21 55
io. This property of the animal body, which brings it
under the influence of the heavenly bodies and the recipro­
cal action of those surrounding it, as shown by its analogy
with the Magnet, induced me to termit ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
ii. The actionand properties of AnimalMagnetism, thus
defined, may be communicated to other animate and
inanimate bodies. Both are more or less susceptible to it.
12. This action and properties may be strengthened and
propagated by the same bodies.
13. Experiments show the passage of a substance whose
rarefied nature enables it to penetrate all bodies without
appreciable loss of activity.
14. Its actionis exerted ata distance, without theaid of an
intermediate body.
1j. Itis intensifiedand reflected by mirrors, just likelight.
16. It is communicated, propagated and intensified by
sound.
17. This magnetic property may be stored up, concen­
trated and transported.
18. I have said that all animate bodies are not equally
susceptible; there are some, although very few, whose
properties are so opposed that their very presence destroys
all the effects of magnetism in other bodies.
19. This opposing property also penetrates all bodies; it
may likewise be communicated, propagated, stored, con­
centrated and transported, reflected by mirrors and propa­
gated by sound; this constitutes not merely the absence of
magnetism, but a positive opposing property.
20. The Magnet, both natural and artificial, together
with other substances, is susceptible to Animal Magnetism,
and even to the opposing property, without its effect on
iron and theneedle undergoing any alterationin either case;
this proves that the principle of Animal Magnetism differs
essentially from that of mineral magnetism.
21. This system will furnish fresh explanations as to the
PROPOSITIONS 21-27
nature of Fire and Light, as well as the theory of attraction,
ebb and flow, the magnet and electricity.
22. It will make known that the magnet and artificial
electricity only have, as regards illnesses, properties which
they share with several other agents provided by Nature,
and that if useful effects have been derived from the use
of the latter, they are due to Animal Magnetism.
23. It will be seen from the facts, in accordance with the
practical rules I shall draw up, that this principle can cure
nervous disorders directly and other disorders indirectly.
24. With its help, the physician is guided in the use of
medicaments; he perfects their action, brings about and
controls the beneficial crises in such a wayas to master them.
2 j. By making known my method, I shallshow by a new
theory of illnesses the universal utility of the principle I
bring to bear on them.
26. With this knowledge, the physician will determine
reliably the origin, nature and progress of illnesses, even the
most complicated; he will prevent them from gaining
ground and will succeed in curing them without ever
exposing the patient to dangerous effects or unfortunate
consequences, whatever his age, temperament and sex.
Women, even in pregnancy and childbirth, will enjoy the
same advantage.
27.. In conclusion, this doctrine will enable the physician
to determine the state of each individual's health and safe­
guard him from the maladies to which he might otherwise
be subject. The art of healing will thus reach its final stage
of perfection.
Although there is not one of these Assertions regarding
which my constant observation over a period of twelve
years leaves me in any uncertainty, I quite realise that com­
pared with old-established principles and knowledge, my
system may appear to contain as much illusion as truth. I
FINAL REQUEST 57
must, however, ask the enlightened to discard their preju­
dices and at least suspend judgment, until circumstances
enable me tofurnish the necessaryevidence of my principles.
Consideration for thoselanguishing in painand unhappiness
through the very inadequacy of known methods is well cal­
culated to inspire the desire for and even the hope of more
useful methods.
Physicians, being the repositories of public trust for
everything connected with thepreservation and happinessof
mankind, are alone enabled, by the knowledge on which
their profession isfounded, to judge of theimportance of the
discovery I have just announced and realise its implications.
In a word, they alone are qualified to put it into practice.
As I have the privilege of sharing the dignity of their
profession, I am in no doubt whatever that they will hasten
to adopt and spread principles intended to alleviate the
sufferings of humanity,as soonas they realisetheimportance
of this Dissertation, written essentially for them, on the true
conception of ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
APPENDIX1
THE CASE OF MISS PARADIS
I GIVE here, for the reader's satisfaction, the historical
summary of this singular cure. It has been faithfully taken
from thereport written inGerman by thefather himself. He
himself sent it to me in March 1777 for publication. I have
it before me now.
Marie-Thdrfcse Paradis, only daughter of Mr Paradis,
Secretary to Their Majesties the King-Emperor and Queen-
Empress, was born at Vienna on the 1 jth May 1759; her
eyesight was perfectly normal.
On the 9th December 1762, it was found that when she
awoke she was unable to see. Her parents were all the more
surprised and afflicted by this sudden infirmity because,
since her birth, there had been no indication of any change
in that organ.
It was ascertained that it was a case of perfect amaurosis,
whose cause might have been a fluid with repercussions, or
some fright the child had had that night, some noise at the
door of her room.
Her parents were indespair and employed all the methods
considered most suitable for curing this infirmity, such as
blistering, leeches and cauterising.
The first of these methods was applied very intensively
as for over two months her head was covered by a plaster,
producing continual suppuration. For a number of years
purgatives and diuretics were used as well, together with
Pulsatilla and valerian root.
1 The colossal footnote to the original edition begins, as indicated,
on p. 45 of this translation.—G.F.
DR MESMER IS CALLED IN 59
These variousmethods met•with nosuccess. The patient's
condition was aggravated by spasms in the eyes and pupils
which, as they approached the brain, gave rise to transports
and awakened fears that she had gone out of her mind. Her
eyes bulged and were so muchout of place thatas a rule only
the whitescould beseen; this,coupled withthespasms,made
her appearancedisagreeableand difficult toendure. Lastyear,
electricity was resorted to;it wasadministered to theeyes by
over three thousand shocks,and she bore up toa hundred in
each treatment. This latter method was fatal for her, and so
much increased her irritability and spasms that it was only
possible to preserve her from harm by repeated bleedings.
Baron de Wenzel, during his last stay in Vienna, was in­
structed by HerMajesty toexamine andassist her,if possible,
after the examination. Hesaid he thoughtshe wasincurable.
In spite of her condition and the pain that accompanied
it, her parents omitted nothing to educate her and provide
distraction from her suffering. She had made great progress
with music, and her talent at the organ and harpsichord had
won for her the happy fate of becoming known to the
Queen-Empress. Her Majesty, being touched by her un­
happy condition, was kind enough to grant her a pension.
Dr Mesmer, a physician who has been known for some
years through the discovery of animal magnetism, and was
present at the first treatment given her in childhood, had
been observing this patient particularly attentively every
time he had an opportunity of meeting her. He obtained
information regarding the circumstances that had accom­
panied the malady and the methods so far used for treating
her. What he found most unsatisfactory and appeared
to give him anxiety was the manner in which use had been
made of electricity.
In spite of the stage reached by this malady, he gave the
parents some hope that he would restore the eyes to their
natural position, by alleviating the spasms and calming the
6o DR MESMER'S TREATMENT
pains, and although it was afterwards known that,he had
then and there entertained the hope of restoring-her eye­
sight, he made no mention of this to the girl's parents,who,
as the result of unhappy experience and many setbacks, had
resolved to make no further attempts at a cure which they
considered impossible.
Mr Mesmer commenced his treatment on 20th January
last; its first effects were of heat and redness in the head,
and then she had a trembling feeling in her legs and arms.
Next she felt a slight tug in the back of her neck, which
forced her head backward and, becomingstronger, increased
the convulsive agitation of her eyes.
On the second day of treatment, Mr Mesmer producedan
effect that greatly surprised the persons who witnessed it.
Seated beside the patient, he held out his stick1 towards her
face reflected in a mirror, and as he moved the stick, so the
patient's head followed its moveihents. This sensation was
so powerful that she herself announced the different move­
ments of the stick. It was soon observed that the agitation
in her eyes increased and decreased alternately in a very
appreciable way; their movements multiplied both outside
andinside,and weresometimes followedbycomplete repose.
She was relieved from the fourth day onwards, and her eyes
resumed their natural positions,it being noticedthat theleft-
hand one was smaller than the right-hand; however, as the
treatment went on, they became the same size again.
The trembling in her limbs ceased a few days afterwards,
but she complained of a pain in the occiput which pene­
trated her head, increasing towards the front. When the
pain reached the part where the optic nerves are connected,
it seemed to her for two days that her head was splitting in
two. This pain followed the optic nerves, dividing like
them. She defined it as a series of pinpricks which, as it
advanced slowly towards the eyeballs, penetrated them and
1 Presumably the famous wand.
THE PATIENT BEGINS TO SEE 6l
multiplied there, spreading through the retina. These sen­
sations were often accompanied by jerks.
The patient's sense of smell had been affected for some
years and there was no further secretion of mucus. Her
treatment caused the inside of her nose to swell, together
with the adjacent parts; this was relieved after eight days
by the copious discharge of a green, viscous substance. At
the same time she had an extraordinarily abundant attack of
diarrhoea, the pains in her eyes increased and she com­
plained of giddiness. Mr Mesmer thought that these were
the effect of the first impressions of light, and he thereupon
had the patient to live in his house, so as to take the neces­
sary precautions.
The sensitivity of her eyes was such that after covering
them with a triple bandage, he was obliged to keep her in a
dark room, as tie slightest sensation of light on any part
of her body affected her to the extent of causing her to fall.
The pain which she felt in her eyes varied continuously.
At first it wasgeneral andsmarted, then ittook the form of a
violent irritation, ending with a sensation similar to that
produced by a fine brush drawn across the retina.
These progressive results gave Mr Mesmer grounds for
supposing that the cure was sufficiently far advanced to give
the patient her first idea of light and its changes. He
removed the bandage, leaving her in the darkened room,
and besought her to payattention tothesensationin hereyes,
before which he placed alternately black and white objects.
She explained the feeling produced in her by theformer asif
fine points were inserted in the eyeball, the painful effect of
which proceeded in the directionof the brain. This pain and
the various sensations that accompanied it increased and de­
creased proportionately to the degree of whiteness of the
objects in front of her. Mr Mesmer then ceased using these
and replaced them by black objects.
Through these successive and opposite effects, he showed
6z THE PATIENT'S VISION IMPROVES
the "patient that the cause of these sensations was external,
and that they differed therein from those shehad had hither­
to; Thus he succeeded in making her realise the different
degrees of lightand itsabsence. To continuehis instruction,
Mr Mesmer exhibited different colours to her. She then
perceived that the light impinged more gently and left her
with some impression, and presently she distinguished
colours by comparing them, but was unable to remember
their names, inspite of possessing a very good memory. On
seeing black, she said sadly that she could see nothing, and
was reminded of her blindness.
In the earlydays, the impression of anobject on the retina
lasted one minute after beholding it, so that to distinguish
another and not to confuse it with the first, she was obliged
to cover up her eyes as long as her first impression lasted.
She was able to distinguish in darkness where other
people had difficulty in seeing, but she gradually lost this
ability as her eyes began to admit more light.
The motor muscles of her eyes had not hitherto been in
use, and she had to be taught their use for controlling the
movements of theeyes in searchingfor objects, seeing them,
focusing on them and giving their position,. This tuition,of
whichitwould beimpossible toenumerate thecountless diffi­
culties, was the more painful in that it wasofteninterrupted
by attacks of melancholia, one consequence of her malady.
On the 9th February Mr Mesmer attempted for the first
time to make her see faces and movements, and he himself
appeared before her in the darkened room. She was
frightened on beholding the human face: the nose seemed
absurd to her and for several days she was unable to look
upon it without bursting into laughter. She asked to see a
dog which she often fondled and the appearance of that
animal seemed more pleasing to her than that of man; Not
knowing the name of the features, she drew the shape of
each with her finger. One of the most difficult parts of the
FULL VISION 63
instruction was teaching her to touch what she saw and
combine the twofaculties. Havingnoideaof distance,every­
thing seemed to her to be within reach, however far away,
and objects appeared to grow larger as she drew near them.
The continual effort she had to make to overcome her
clumsiness and the large number of things she had to learn
sometimes troubled her to the point of causing her to regret
her previous condition, especially as, when blind, people
used to admire her skill and intelligence. However, her
natural gaiety soon got the upper hand, and Mr Mesmer's
continual care encouraged her to make fresh progress.
Little by little she succeeded in supporting daylight, and
distinguishing objects, perfectly at any distance. Nothing
escaped her, even the faces painted on miniatures, whose
expressions and attitudes sheimitated. She even possessed a
singular aptitude for judging with astonishing accuracy the
character of the persons whom she saw, by their physiog­
nomy. The first time she saw the starry heavens she ex­
pressed astonishment and admiration, and since that
moment all objects shown to her as being handsome and
pleasing seemed to her veryinferior to the appearance of the
stars, for which she expressed a decided preference.
The large number of persons of all conditions who came
to see her caused Mr Mesmer to fear that she might become
unduly fatigued, and caution induced him to take precau­
tions to this end. His opponents made use of this, as well
as the lack of dexterity and helplessness of the young lady
to question the genuineness of the cure. However, Mr
Mesmer declares that the organ is in perfect condition and
that she will make the use of it easier by exercising it
diligently and with perseverance.
END OF M. PARADIS'S TESTIMONY.
