{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1948__kullgren___the_dead_speak.pdf","mytitle":"The Dead Speak","mylang":"de"}
''
.....
IJHE
DEAD
.SPEAK
.ll
•
Published By William Kullgren
Atascadero, California
copyright 1948
· By 1'111 iam Kullgren
Price $1. 00
6 copies for $5. 00
Write for special price in quantity lots
Printed in u. s. A,
TABLEOF CONTENTS
PAGE
Foreword ij
lntror!uct ion 7
Preface 11
Letter 12
Letter 2 19
Letter 3 21J
Letter ij 29
Letter 5 31J
Letter 6 39
Letter 7 ijij
Letter 8 -· IJ9
Letter 9 53
Letter 0 57
Letter I 62
Letter 2 r : •
00
Letter 3 71
Letter ij 72
Letter 5 73
Letter 6 71J
Letter 7 75
Letter 8 76
Books For Patriots 79
Books For Christians - 80
4
.FOREWORD
We feel that a little explanation is necessary , in
pr esen tin g this book to the Amer i can public. Th e fol-
low ing l e tter was s ent me by a one - time reader of our
magazinP.;
»near Mr- Kullgreni Und er se pe rat e in0 u ra d cover
·I am mailing to you an unusual man usc ript containing
letters fro m a nu mber o f American Patriots responsible
fo r the for ming and continuance of our great Republic.
Long since dead 5 their ·voic es again speak through a
very great transcriber who f or the p resen t prefers to
rem ain anonymous. In acting as the agent l et it f i rst
be understood that monetary means is t h e last thing t o
be considered; as service to these great men and to
our national destiny i s all that re ally mat ter~ in
these pe rilous d ays."
GJt is coinci d ental t hat much of t he gi ve n mes sages
corro bo rates what you write and dist ri bute ."
I have received and read the manuscript; and it is
the most amazing c omp i lation that it h.as ever been my
privilege to read. It consists of §Orne eighteen chap-
ters , or letters; the first from George Washington ,
follO\l"Bd by tl)e others i_
n the order re _
ceived: ·John
Adams , Thomas ·Je fferson , ·Jam es Madison , ·Jarnes _Monroe,
William H, ·HarrisQn , Martin ·van Buren , Andrew Jackson,
.Abraham Lincoln -
, Grover Cleveland, Theodore Roo seve lt,
,Joh n Marshall, Nathaniel Hawth.9rne, Washington Irving,
Ralph Waldo Emerson, ~orace Greeley, Oliver Wendell
Holmes and Ulysses s. Grant.
Afew day s after receiving the manuscript fron the
transcriber came the following letter; you may imagine
how astounded I was on turDin g the sheet and saw the
signature "Yours .in truth, George Washington,"
We quote the following extracts:
"My De a r Mr, Ku 11 gr en: I am happy t .9 le a r n that
ou r friend, - -- -- -- -- has put THE DEAD SPEAK in your
hands. We have often been with you, when you were .in
Wa shington, and we did what we could to extricate you
from the coil that was in tended to destroy you. It .is
a rare natµre that exhibits such principle and courage
5
as you have shown,
Now as to our Letter Book, The transcriber gave
the strength and time to type enough copies to send to
12 of the State Grand Master Masons . This was in ·No-
vember., 1943, Three only took action beyond reading
aloud from the Book of Letters .in their own lodges,
The three were Massachusetts, California and Wisconsin c
The two ]atter made a resume and sent it in letter form
to its State Lodges. Massachusetts , however. , had a
Grand Master who called a spec i al meetin g of the Board
and had each man read the Book, with the result tha t
they decided to contribute personally, apart fr om the
Treasury funds , and have the whole Book mimeogr aphe d
and bound. Then they sent a copy to every lodge i n
the State.
we saw the result for ourselves when , at the elec-
tion of 1944, Massachusetts and Cal ifornia went Repub~ '
lican for the first time, :1 believe, in recent elec-
t ions, Wisconsin, of course, is .normally Republican,
:1 am .no partisan but :I realize that despite a lot of
Republican New Dealers and sychophants now battening
on the taxpayers through the present ·administration,
it is the Republican Party that must drive out the New
Deal termites, This, if only to atone for t hose Re-
publicans in their party who betrayed the whole people
by ·voting in the ·New De a l in 1932 • .It was their ·vote
that g ave that policy the election then.
I will _ask t hat any -Introduction you ·may write
for THE DEAD SPEAK , in case you publish it, be submit-
ted to me through the transcriber ; the whole group of
wr iters can hear it read, Theri should the~e be any
comments or suggestions from my Spirit Co-Workers they
can be dictated and sent to you through the tr a ns-
criber .
With the profound thanks of us all , lam , as always
Yours in Truth. George Washington . "
I ha:ve been conscious of his leadershi11 for a gre at
many ye ars, also that of Abraham Lincoln and others "
I ha:ve answered this letter , and acQ.epted the assi g n-
ment; we wrote a formal letter to Geor g e .washingtoh
6
and pledged ourselves to do tbe best we .could un de r
the .circumstances.
As you will note from tl ie above, this material was
/written five years ago; but it was not written for t be
gene ral public, but rather for the members of the Ma-
sonic Order. And it was onl y after the writer of the
above quoted lett er suggested that we be g iv en the op-
portunity to publish it and present it to the American
public, that t h i s id ea was entertained.
We believe the material in this book will speak
for itself'; and tliat it cannot fail to .impr ess tliOse
who are students of American history. Compare the ut-
terances .in th e ·various chapters 3 with those of these
men when .in earth life , and you will reco g nize the
similarity of style and sentiment.
This is election year, and we hope that those who
purchase a .copy of this book will place it, or many
copies, .in the hands of their Con g ressmen.
some people will be prejudiced against _
tltis mess-
age, but I would like to remind you that Julia ward
How e, r ec eived The Battle Hymn of the Republic from
the unseen; in fact, if you take away the poetry and
iriventions .and inspirational artistic work that came
from the unseen, you would leave a tremendous gan .in
our .cultural life, includin g a tremendous slice of our
Christian Bible.
The JJO\\' famous Washin g ton'~ Vision, came in just
that way; also, the Vision of General McClellan, wi1
e: 1
Geor g e Washington appeared tp him and warned him. Then
tliere is tlrn Vision of the Ql!aker, Elder Hoag; I men-
tion these~ because they have been accepted and print-
ed in church periodicals and as booklets throughout
tlie land.
So I be g of you, dear reader, . to keep an open mind;
these messages have the ring of truth and sincerity,
and the spirit of fire and patriotism at the back of
them. No one .can question the truth of the state-
ments, no matter what, or where, tlieir source. I ask
you to heln me to get this book in the hands of God-
fearing patriotic Americans. If you do this, America
will be saved from the hordes of the anti-Cl,rist ter-
mites. Thank you and God bless you for your effor.ts
in this noble .cause
William Kullgren
7
INTRODUCTION
In my position as director of ·the method by which
the fqllowin g letters have been received from our
g reat Presidents and early guardians of the Republic,
I wish to make clear the very great responsibility
that rests upon me.
I am what you rni 1;
ht call the connectin g link be-
tween those who hsve dictated and the one who his re-
corded their words,
The vibration of these g reat Souls is so pow e rful
that eveh I am unable to with stand their almost sh a t-
terin g ~~ve len g th, so there is also another linking
personality required between them and me . This .is one
wl10 is able to speak to me by means of lowering his
frequency to mine • .Thus we have a fourfold ~hain a-
long which the masterly words and thou ghts ·which have
been given, reach through to the Earth plan~ .
Of course the ignorant and the self-opinionated
materialist, equally ignorant of occult law, or what
is really natural law, will tell you that these are
the production of a "Vivid imagination" or · 11sub-,con-
scious risin g" or ~ven a ~Wish fulfillment _
;"
These are all part of the jar g on of those who re-
fuse the records of all time as well as the truth of
Communication between the Spiri 1s of the dead ah d liv-
ing mortals .
Again we hsve those who love to make all t~ings
beyond their comprehension the subject of cheap ridi-
cule and say it is simply a trick to overcome those
who are o:,posect to our syste m of g overnment •
.These people we cannot and shall make no effort to
overcome . What is told you here is the truth that you
can easily ·verify if you are sufficiently interested
in your own welfare to do so.
It is not my place to dwell upon what the Great
Ones of this nation have said . Their knowled g e is far
beyond my own though I have been here longer than any
of them. Some of them have been my students. Killed
in 1781 at the age of nineteen, a soldier in the con-
8
tinental Army, I was too young to be of muc:t1service
until ·1 had received a further education, which .is al-
ways possible here.
I have been a recorder· for .20 years. That means
tliat my mind is able to impr.int .u 10n the ether the
names and dates needed to record t.he coming of souls
here aud their departure as they reincarnate. .For 50
)ears I taught those Souls arriving how to make use of
tlie Laws of Life here. .For the past ·24 years I have
been a :'.
1
:aster.
What does Mastership mean?
It .carries with it tlie degree and title and means
one has achi~v~d ·such master1 over his own mind that
be can do many things that to the average So'\11is im-
possible. It depends upou the mental power one gener-
ates and the ability to concentrate this power to be
used ;tu transporting ones self and another.
AU Spirits can learn to mdve by their mental pow-
er. some .can ~ven "flash" to far distant places
through their mental power but onl) a Master .can do
this .and take with him another soul.
We are explaining this ·so tliat 1ou will understand
tbe methods we employ here. By "here" I mean in those
realm which we characterize as "planes."
.we are all a part of this planet Earth. we have
no more knowledg;e of the other planets than you liave.
We find that as one leaves _the mortal body and the
mind occupies another., that at first seems to be a re-
plica of our mortal body, that this is but an appear-
ance. It is like an X-ray and .can pass through solids
as does the X-ray.
This body has oul)' what the mind gives it. How-
ever we image it, thus it appears. Naturally our mind
has a fixed impression of our personalit) and at death,
as the etheric emerges, it seems a counterpart of our
mortal bod).
The mind is the motor power and as it becomes
trained to use the powers of sight, hearing, memory,
emotion and speech., it can in most cases make such use
of its power of concentration as to raise or lower its
9
·vibration.
Thus it .can leave th e Astral , or lower plane that
i s practically one with the Earth plane, and ascend to
tli e 2nd degree or Eth eric plane o
The Etheric plane is where we Mast ers tak e Souls
to be instructed in the hi gher actfvitieso Bey ond
that is what is known as t he Spiritual planeo On this
p lane those stron g minds dwell who wish to be rid pf
the masses and lead a quiet and, I may ·say, practical _
ly
a sta gnant exist en ce , They have fine minds and .could
be of great assistance .in making improvement .in condi-
tions pertaining to the Astral plane , Many hav e re-
cently decided to do this which we9 who work on all
these planes, have been quick to appreciate ,
On and abO've us is what we .call the Invisible
world. There dwell those whose powers of mind and
g reatness of soul have made them ·vibrate so hi gh that
they are not within our ·visiono
Of course we speak of planes and what, perhaps, we
should desi gnate as degrees. All can be in one place
yet ·visible only to those within certain relative ·vib-
rator y power.
Now and quite recently the Invisible ,World has
been manifesting its interest not only in Lincoln, who
remains on the Astral plane and ,is on duty •
.in Washing-
ton, but also we of the .White · Brotherhood have re-
ceived assistance beyond our .comprehension as to the
method by which it .is accomplishedo
we have personally had .contact with one from the
·invisible world who asked me to be their representative
on the three planes, Astral, Etheric and Spiritual , in
order to effect if possible a re generation of our be-
loved country.
Of t his I need not speak, we may be privileged to
hear directly from the Soul who has asked me to call
bim simply by the name - Creon. .who he was in Earth
life I cannot say, But by the power of his mind, the
g lorious and humane character of the aid he has given
our Order of the White Brotherhood, in our service of
recruitin g our war dead on sea and land, we know that
10
Creon is the name shielding a high and powerful in-
dividual.
May we now S"'leak of the work as done by tl1e one
whose hand has transcrioed t .hese words as well as those
from the distinguished Ones rrom the higher realms.
There is no praise too high for this unselfish Amer-
ican. It .is the hand of a patriot. The hand of one
who has put all aside to try to bring this warning to
fellow citizens. We hope no vicious or subversive
acts ag ainst this patriot will follow upon the effort
made .in behalf of the Re~ ublic.
My own prayer is that this hand may be spared to
further indite helpful .counsel from those great and
beneficent Observers and 16vers of our Country.
Wilfred Brandon.
·**
The guid ing Principle of any
foreign t•ol 'icy · s houl d be the
maintenance of peace, so lone
as conditions do not threat-
en . the Jreedorr. of the people
of the United St ates.
-Robert A. Taft.
11
PRE .FACE
When my own Countrymen read this boo .k I trust they
will heed it. We are the one who has been happy to
serve as messenger and to aid, in such ways as ·:iossible
the g etting to mortals the sad coinments and warn-
ings of those who are the Spiritual Guardians of this
Country.
We are not one of the founders of the Republic but
we are one of its devoted sons. We se~ved in three
wars and we came to believe that the Stars and St r ip e s
was the Flag that floats only over free men and wo1nen.
We also watch, with many old comrades, the sad
wastage of our arms and our defense.
We too attend the meetings, secret because of
their treason, and hear the speakers who cu f se the
Flag and take an oath to tear it down.
We ~now the leaders by sight and by name " We
know their motives and their criminal intentiops.
We can but pray that . these warnings, so needed at
this ~our, will be listened to and _acted upon,
Otherwise we shall fear to look upon the disasters
that are now planned o
I sign myself_for the first time,
General George B, McClellan.
(Creon)
12
LETTER 1 .
we, the Souls of the men who founded these United
States, are .concerned now for the nation,
The government is in great danger, and we who have
watched over it all these years are greatl.Y disturbed
and distressed to see the way in which the people are
at present making over their herita g e to Ec1ro ne an
powers.
What guarantee have you that the promises will be
kept? History has shown the complete failure of Euro-
pean nations to abide b.Y their written ag reements when
they wish to ignore them.
Man,Y of ,Your most ·valuable ri ghts as citizens, and
even those of Con g ress and the ri g hts of the States,
have been usurped, and your treasure presented to
other governments. In tl1e e>
case of Britain the usual
indifference to ,Your interests is evident.
:In the instance of Russia it is not ·ver,Y difficult
to rerceive a c ynical disre g ard of anything b u t the
desire to weake n the g r eates t of the Americ an countries.
In China there is a p.:
r eat and abidin g faith in th e
American people. That race has a code of ethics that
we can de pe nd upon . That race, in spite of the degra-
dation i rnr o sed irpon it by the Western World, still
contir iues to cherh;h its hi g h sense of honor.
We who continually watch over th is Country have no
fear of any fa i lur e on China's part to carry out p rom-
ises and to make due re tu rn for all assistance g iven
her b y th ese United States ,
We who guar d the ones who rule Over this Country ,
.in such measure a s is possible, ar e conc erned for Chi-
na. That great p eople, stoic, i dea listic and for onc e
unit ed politically in the main, .is our one friend in
al l the worl d. We are alone in our own hem isphere in
spite of a ll the talk and t he lo ans. The Sout he rn
countries ha ve a differe nt concep t of l ife, and to tha t
i s added a tra d ition anta gonistic to thi s nation.
In the North we have a peaceful n e i ghbor, but one
v,liose f irst alle g iance is to tl ie Britis h Empire . W
e
13
are not making any comment on that ~ We know that
peace on that border depends upon our relations with
Great Britain ., We live in the hope that these rela-
tions may continue undisturbed , However, the moment
we become weak we offer a temptation such as is seldom
resisted by an Imperial government ,
This is not written in criticism of any other sys-
tem of g overnment , Our concern is wholly with the
preservation of these United States ,
We are aware of the dan ge rs within our borders and
the terrible menace of the citizens who have no love
for our ideal and wish to substitute the form an d me-
tho d s of government set up .in certain European States.
Also we realize the danger of what you call the
Class War and the hatred that the conflicting .inter -
ests have engendered ,
We tremble for the future of our beloved Country
and wish to send this warning throu g h - United We
Stand, Divided We Fall ,
We are not trying to alarm you , Most of you have
seen the terrible handwriting on the wall , It in-
scribes a menace to all we, who wrought to found this
nation, strove to give to our people and their de-
scendants ,
we do not pretend to divine powers or to omni -
science but we see and know this p lanet and the peo--
ple ' s ideals . We can say without any fear of contra -
diction that the Constit ution of these United States
and the Bill of Ri ghts is the noblest instrument for
governing a people that ever has been devised ,
In the century and a half since we laid down our
mortal life we have seen it in operation . With all
the difficulties, hardships and challenges, to be met,
the Constitution never failed to protect and serve the
people, It did more, It inspired them to such efforts
as have been a miracle in all fields of endeavor,
We cannot evaluate such an instrument too highly •
.It has no counterpart , The Magna Chartawhich perhaps
was some measure a foundation for our Constitution,
p al es before t _
h e 1at t er •
14
we are not saying these things .in ·vanity or be-
cause it was our great privilege to have been a part
, of the effort that brought forth the Constitution. We
say it because we have known the past history ·of all
such documents and we have known, word by word, all
that followed since we have been in the realm of
Spirit.
What can you find to ·succeed this great protective
instrument? Where is the mind that will conceive one
that gives greater scope to the individual and pro-
tects him in his efforts? We are watching those who
would destroy .it •. we can read their thoughts and
their motives are .clear. They are ·seeking personal
power.
Your Constitution .is the one defense you have. It
leaves no .citizen unguarded however humble, however
great. · It seI'ves all •. Why do you permit it to be as-
sailed? Are you indifferent to your own interests and
fellow-,citizen's? Perhaps you are not even·suf:fici~nt-
ly alert to know the danger that threatens you. Per-
haps .if you are aware of :.this danger you expect ·some
divine interposition of Providence to prese~ve your
rights .in ·spite of the enemies within and without.
Such people have no right to citizenship. They shirk
their ·simple duty that of defending their rights.
Where are the patriots that we hear so much about?
They are ·silent.
The paid prOJ)agandists and the great mass of Flag
wavers are mostly expressing the popular idea of pa-
triotism. But where are the people who put devotion
to the Constitution and the Flag above personal con-
siderations or even partisan politics?
There are many but so far you have departed from
the ideal of freedom of speech and press that few dare
express anything that .is at all out of keeping with
the ideas and ideals expressed b 3 tLe power groups.
Here we have the men w~o made it their duty to
weigh, evaluate and decide, what was best for all.
They watch with horror and amazement the chicanery
that goe::; on under the name of politics. They see the
15
worst elements used as .instruments to attain power,
What sort of a .nation will you have .if this .con-
tinues?
High minded men dare not enter the political arena
because of the sort of men who control what .is called
the machin .
e.
What are you headed for?
You have now spent the earnings of a generation
and you do not know from month to month what ·is coming
to further teduce your financial status.
You are now back where you were after the Civil
-War.
Where can you Americans turn in your tim e of
stress or want? What nation or race of people will
succor you?
So far in your brief history you have been the one
to succor and send immediate ' help whensver a people
met a calamity whether by famine, earthquake or disas-
ter by fire or flood, No nation was Sver so ready to
give when giving was needed.
Where is the nation that has come to our assist -
ance in time of trouble? We cannot find one .
This is not to say we should expect anoiher coun-
try to follow our example . It is merely to say we
have now spent all and more of our savings . Our peo-
ple face a most ~ifficult future . We must now begin
to think of ourselves .
What have we made of all the advantages we were
given? What have we shown the world of all the priv-
ileges that both nature and our system of gbvernment
offered us?
We have shown ourselves to be utterly without wis-
dom or Sven common sense . We squandered our birth -
ri ght and we degraded our political system to the lsv-
el of opportunism and Sven public chicanery in many
instances.
All the suffering of the early years and the ter-
rible personal sacrifices were forgotten in a .cheap
materialism that .caused us tb be the most exploited
nation in all the world ' s history .
16
We had no r.ight ·so to misuse the great r.iches of
our land. Our people are for the most part poor. The
few who are possessed of riches do not represent the
people. Our Country~s resources are r.ich and ·var.ied
but they have not been used to endow the people as a
whole.
Who is to blame?
All must ·share .in the debacle. Each man and now
each woman has a ·share in the gdvermnent by means of
the ballot. The rule of popular education has made.
the great majority of them literate. Howe'ver, the
means of dispensing -.information has now become a sys-
tem for imparting partisan·ideas and motives 0 intb the
people's minds and thus all personal opinion .is chan-
nelled into methods for serving the ambitions of t_hose
who appear to have neither the ambition nor the patri-
otic desire to serve the people as a whole.
We see no great leaders and no ·very intelligent
individuals at the helm of the $hip of State. Many
are mere representatives of social groups and se~ve
their masters.
We make our meaning clear and without ap?logy for
our frankness. We Spirits of those who made it our
.chief aim :in life to se~ve in the forming of this
Country and.in protecting it from enemies from within
and without, watch here .in the Spirit world, hoping al-
ways· to .inspire a renewal of the earl) de'votion to
the Republic.
we dare not reincarnate for it would mean absolute
annihilation of the aims and desires with which our
Soul is filled and since incarnation seals the memory,
we would not be aware of all we had cherished and
wrought in past lives.
The consequence is we wait here in the Itivisible
World, which .is one with your Visible World and watch
with despair your destruction of all we worked to cre-
ate. We were men of a stern period. we faced hard-
ships that few of you .can comprehend. We asked no
quarter of nature, We faced all hazards and all the
exigencies of our time with what strength we .could
17
summon and .in the sublime faith that we were er .eating
a new world and anew opportunity for all men of decent
habits of life ,
We .counted on the .intelligent and manly spirit of
our descendants to carry on the work of expanding the
Republic on the lines laid down by the Constitution
and the ·ideals that it embodied. Our work was founded
on the proposition of equality of opportunity for all
able, mentally and physically 9 to take advantage of it.
We had no .illusions as to the difference .in abili-
ties of .individuals . We were too far along ·in our
concept of mankind as a whole to imagine such a thing
as absolute natural equality in the human species .
Our .ideal was that each citizen, according to his
aptitudes could share the benefits and opportunities
our form of government offered , The freedom of opinion
giving a man his status as a citizen whether his capa-
city was great or small .
We are now watching aCivil War ,inits first stages ,
No one can be blind to the forces that are align-
ing themselves to destroy the Republic. You now even
cease to .call the United States a Republic. -The word
Democracy is substituted. We see no great advantage
in the substitution . We see no gain and no ·very great
distinction to be had except to differentiate between
the rule of those .chosen by the voters to represent
them and the pressure of the masses ·.
in different
groups to gain special privileges at the expense of
other organized masses.
You h a:ve ins tilled by such methods the ·idea of
.class hatred and o_f a .country that ·
.is a house divided
against itself . You are not even united in the war
now going on . Special groups use the conflict to fur-
ther their own interests and with no thought of the
effect of the outcome they may have on the war .
What can move such a people to a higher standard
of thought and conduct?
We find ourselves des1airing of the future because
the American menta1ity seems to ha:ve lost all the
18
qualities that made the founding of the Republic poss-
.ible. So we wait here, get your thoughts and hear
your words. We know the mask and what ds underneath
it when men assume a patriotic ·veneer to ~aver a ·ve-
nal purpose.
Not that there are not patriots .in the land. Men
and women who suffer and .in such ways as are possible
strive to be heard but they are soon·silenced by those
w~ose sole .interest .in the Republic .is to make it a
place for ~elf±sh accumtilation of either money or
power.
·To these true hearted ones we speak now.
Make ~ourself heard!
:Qo not let.Iour r!ght of free sneech and free~!-
nression of oninion be taken from Ioui
·use your franchise as free .citizens to put into
your governing and lawmaking positions those who will
obey_ your will. ·Never mind the special .interests.
You all ha:ve but one ,.interest that .can .continue to
give. you security and that ,is the preservation of the
Constitution_ and the rights you enjoy under it.
AWAKE,MY .FELLOW
AMERICANS,AWAKE:!!!!
Remember we are with you always, even unto the
end.
George Washington •
.First President of the United States of America.
19
LETTER 2
To the Men and Women of our ~eloved United . States,
I, ·John Adams, wish t ·o say these words :
My dear and .cherished land '.is now threatened as
nE!ver in its .infancy. ·The enemy in the days of my ad-
ministration as head of the gdvernment was one that
was easy to discern and we could tell from what direc-
tion to expect the .blows. Now you are in dan ger from
a roost insidious foe that lurks within your own .citi-
zenry.
What are you doin g to protect yourselves and your
nei ghbors? The enemy may be that _·very neighbor or per-
haps even .in your own family . You know him only as a
person of opposin g id eals to those that are your own.
We have no way of pointin g out to you the individ-
uals who compose this army of traitors to the Republic.
They lurk in the ·very .corridors of our Capitol and
their theories are tau ght .in the schools and universi-
ties ..
You know them under several names o One ·is called
Communist, another a Democrat o Still others are Lib-
erals . None of these titles fit them for their true
name is - Enemies of the Republic .
We Spirits of thos e whose earthly lives were gi ven
to the service of foundin g and laboring for the preser-
·vation of the Republic ar e here .i .n the dimension you
call space . That is , we occupy the ~theric realm sur-
roundin g t he planet and as the earth turns on .its axis
we, as you , are carried with it .
We hav e few p owers that make us able to co n trol
the acts of men or even Spirits of men. We must there-
fore use moral suasion . All is free will in the realms
above the Earth plane so we can only use this method
of communicatin g with you . Some fine Souls do manage
to ge t their thou ghts .into the minds of mortal men and
inspire them . We oft en observe the result of this a-
mong those who wish to give an idea to men of science .
Inventors also and poets too , are often fine .channels
for the thou ghts of those Spirits who desire to give
20
to mortals the .ideas or ·.ideals that they have. Thus
many ·valuable contributions to your mental, spiritual
and every day physical life is made.
Why do you not recognize this and give_ to us, who
long to aid, this opportunity to do so? Your preju-
dice against psychics ds ·stupid and dangerous as well.
There are many charlatans who pretend to powers they
. do not possess but you may easily convince yourself of
their tr:l.ckery.
You may perhaps, be aware of the method by which I
am at this moment speaking to you. My collaborator .is
a true psychic. One who desires to aid our people and
devotes both time and a great gift to this ·se~vice.
·This .is done by transcribing the thoughts of us whose
concern .is for the welfare of our fellow.citizens.
What can we-say to you men and women of these
·united States that will make you see you are being led
.into danger? The danger of losing your rights as free
.citizens.
What words can ·1 find to warn you that you are .in
the toils of those who have no ideas in common with
those .inherent .in the Constitution and the Bill of
rights?
They wish to make this Country into the pattern of
the ·Europe we strdve to break away from.
:Not that wedo not appreciate and ·value in full the
greatness of the art and culture that .is the heritage
of Europeans. .we bow before the ancients who gave to
Europe the art and science that was aprecious heritage
to the whole planet. That is not i.rr question.
Our concern js for the freedom of Americans to
pursue each his own way of life and thought within the
bounds of good .conduct and good will.
We cannot see any benefit in the canons of tyran-
nical_ systems of gdvernment or .in the pulling down of
ideals that have been tried and found to be the most
inspiring ever bestowed on a people.
Do you care? Do you know what you can lose?
Do you envisage what the loss of your Constitution
.can submit you to?
21
It .cannot be that you do or you would n-0w be
searching out the enemies of the Republic and demand-
ing that they should be denied the franchise and even
residence on our .soil. They belong to the system they
advocate, They have no business .in a free Republic in
asso .ciation with men and women who are loyal to .it,
What will you do when you are denied freedom to
speak your mind?
What will you do when you are · denied a fair hearing
.in Court?
What will you make of yourself in a regimented so -
ciety?
What can repay you for the loss · of your freedom of
action, freedom of speech, freedom to choose your gov-
ernors and freedom to appeal to the law for your pro-
tection?
·eow can you retain your self respect '.in a society
that takes away your rights now safeguarded by the
Constitution of the United States of America?
Oh, be warned in time! Listen not to the dema-
gogues who prate to you of the blessings of a State
where the Commune .is the Master!
You have lived in a masterless State and you have
known blessings in such measure as never before were
enjoyed by the human race ,
You have grown into a strong, powerful and happy,
nation because of these blessings. Abuses have crept
in and they have been discovered and in large measure
remedied but _
the foundation of your liberties were not
destroyed. You still . retain every right granted you
by your Constitution, You did not lose a single right ,
as you corrected these abuses .
The test of the perfection of your Constitution
was made and proved to be suited to any and every con-
dition that might arise either in an individual or a
.corporation . You have at all times the means to modify
ariy condition seen to be harmful c
Why do you permit the assailing of that great
Charter of your liberties?
Are you insane? Na, you are merely indifferent.
22
You wait for ·some one else to act, to speak and
wr.ite, ·.in your defense.
Your enemies ·speak and write and act. They are .in
every department of your life speaking, writing and
acting, to the harm of your future •
.What will you ·say in defense of your indifference
when your children note the way you :;:iermitted their.
rights to be taken from them? ·How will you excuse
yourself to them when they are made merely a .cog .in
the great· machine that will revolve at the bidding of
those who destroy the Republic.
What p•rt will you play .in the pages of history
_when the fa~e of the Republic of these United States
of America.is written?
Wha,t .contu_mely will be heaped upon the citizens
who lazily amused themselves while the foundations of
the Republic were shattered?
You can see the end of the Republic but you are
not seen to make an effort to ·save it •.
Your answer .is_ "What can I do. 11
'There are still millions of patriotic and earnest
men and women who long to give themselves to the work
of preserving the Republic. They are overborne by
your radio and press propaganda that .is largely con-
trolled by the enemy or by those who are the knowing
or unknowing tools of the enemy, They ha:ve no way of
making themselves heard.
Still you can all speak. You still h•ve that
right.
Every town, village and farm, every home in the
cities, can be a forum where free speech among neigh-
bors and friends can be heard.
Letters .can be written.
Even groups can be formed under the nan1e, say -
"Friends of the Constitution." And all .contribute a
few pennies to print strong words of courage to fight
for our Republican for of government.
We are aware of what l'Our enemies can do and what
they !!!:~ doing •. From end to end the Country rings with
the sound of their ·voices.
~3
You say you are fighting .a foreign war to bring
freedom to men ~verywhere. That too is a diversion
while your own freedom .is .in danger at home o
Are these words too strong? Are my warnings too
drastic?
What would you have me ~ay - SLEEP AWAY? GIVE ALL
TO THOSE WHOCOME
~
TO ROB YOU OF YOUR RIGHTS? BE A.
G0.0.D SORT AND LAUGH WHILE _YOURCHILDREN ARE BEING
T~UGHTDISLOYALTYTO THE .FLAG?
What can a man say who loved to be a part of the
noblest effort designed to give humanity a Charter un-
der which all might march shoulder to shoulder in the
evol11tion of the_ race?
Give_me, Oh God, the words to move my fellow Amer-
icans! Give me, Almi ghty Father, the power to waken
those who dream while their future is .in the balance!
Oh, Almi ghty God, wake my Countrymen to the peril
that now threatens and give them the heart and ·soul to
fight as did their forefathers for the Republic of
these United States.
John Adams o
Second President of the United States of America. _
Enlighten the people gener-
ally and tyranny and op-
pression of both mind and
body will vanish like evil
spirits at the dawn of day .
-Thomas Jefferson .
24
LETTER 3
My own Dear and Cherished Fellow Countr;ymen:
I wish to s~eak to you in the g reatest crisis of
;your short history.
Our Republic, for which I and others labored to
place on a secure basis, .is now in great danger. The
war .is merely the excuse underneath which subversive
and false men can make their designs to move you to
throw away your ptotection that rests .in your Consti-
tution .
I am a spectator to all this. I, now a Spirit,
can read their thou g hts and listen to their words as
they conspire for the overthrow of this Republic ,
There .is need of tbe g reatest ·vigilance on the
pirt of ~very loyal citizen at this time, I do but
call to you to exercise that vi g ilance.
No word of mine is spoken to .cause needless alarm •
.we know your g reat dahger and your complete unaware-
ness of it.
When we speak it is to waken you to your own self-
defense. Never .in the brief time since we wrote the
Constitution has it b e en .in such danger, Our most
bitter and .cruel experiences in the past have never
held such peril for the nation as now confronts it.
War .is the instrument used to weaken a nation ,in
order that it may be overcome by its enemies,
Who is the enemy?
He is the false citizen. The man unfaithful to
his oath of alle giance.
No man need stand a critical examination of his
opinions or his history in or der to become an American
citizen. True there are two or three questions that
are su pp os ed to probe into a mari's past conduct, and
.if he has be e n a convict he cannot be ['.;
iven tl ie ri ght
to citizenship, An unconvicte d criminal or a man who
perjures himself may be g iven the ri g hts of citizen-
shi-p ,
Now you hsve within your citizenry some of the
most dangerous merr in the whole world, Men who .con-
25
spire in secret for the overthrow of the Republic,
This they hope to do .in order to obtain dominion over
the nation. Their plans are made for a reign ofter-
ror which will be more terrible than that of the
French Revolution.
When will you open your eyes to this?
Many of the enemy are ·vigilant and their writings
.in newspapers, the magazines and in books , are to be
seen everywhere. They are breaking down the people's
principles . What the military call "softening up" the
people so that the~ will be too confused to resist
when the hour strikes to overthrow the government .
Will you believe this?
You already know it unless you- are such a dullard
that you neither know or care what becomes of you or
your ri ghts.
The whole public .is being contami,nated ·~by the poi-
son of distrust of your fundamental Instrument that
has been your protection.
All you need to prove the worth of my words .is to
read your daily press. The larger journals sugar~coat
the most subversive ideas and pretend to be the mouth-
piece of a great and tolerant philosophy that is only
the cloak for their opposition to your present Consti-
tution .
You are led by those who seem to be blind to your
interests as well as their own . The man who can and
should stand up for your Constitution is blinded by
the war and does not realize the use he is being put
to.
We see and hear ~11!
Do not ima g ine because we are now Spirits that we
are not still men or that we hgve lost the pow~r to
think .
Our ·vision and our mental capacity is f a r greater
in this realm than when we were encased in a body of
flesh. We are also not merely detached Spirits unor-
ganized and leading an aimless existence . We who made
government our life work never cease to attend your
coulcils, your Congressional sessions, and to listen
26
to all that is said.
Beyond that we go to the thoughts and private
speech of those .in control of your lives. We know al l
the men ·
.in public life. ,We know what they think and
say and do.
Our minds are .clearer and more .capable of concen-
tration than when we were manifesting as mortals.
Do not dismiss us as men of an older time and
therefore unable to comprehend the modern world. We
are more modern than you, We have lived .currently .in
the United States and on this planet ever since ou r
death. We retain our .characteristics of mind but we
have gone step by step with the nat ion ~ver since we
came to this realm.
Your materialistic age has ~ynically refused to
believe i n life as immortalit y. Your degraded social
life ·is the result . The boys on land and sea who ar e
dying in this war are, for the most part, unable to
make an adjustment here where the mind is the thin g
that g iv e s power. Their .ideas in most cases do not
rise above the plane of animal life . They are spirit-
ual morons .
So much for what yo u have done with pop~lar educa-
tion. That was a part of the enemy's plan of campaign.
The religious orders are as blind to the danger as
are the general public . So there .is no antidote bein g
g iven for the poison now pollutin g the public mind . No
•words co~e from the press that g ives the alarm.
The whole nation .is lulled to a false sense of its
security, broken only ~y the th un d ers of war and the
sorrowin g cries of those who must g ive to the conflict
beloved members of their famil y.
Are you children?
Are ;vou too infantile to sense what is so plain to
us?
Do not ima g ine that the forei gn officials station-
ed here .in this Country are blind to what is g oing on.
We hear their private discussions of the danger that
surrounds you. They have rninds trained to appreciate
the most obscure trend of a national course. We are
27
ashamed of their opinion of y-0ur mentality . They
speak of your blindness, your childishness and your
stupidity.
This is hard to listen to when we look back and
think upon the men who have , until rec e nt ti~e , been
known as characteristic Americans "
All we_can say is - rouse ~ourselves!
BE ON GUARD!
GIVE THE ALARM!
TAKE~VERYMEANS
.FORTHE DEFENSEOF YOUR
CONSTITU-
TIONALRIGHTS!
GIVENOHEEDTO THE ENEMY
TO ABANDON
THE O
LD PA
TH
S!
MAKE YOURSELF A CITIZEN :IN 'VERY TRUTHi
ROUSE YOUR FRIENDS!
Make no mistake the hour is lat e and all soon wt ll
be ~ost unless you do these thin g s .
We are usin g the only possible way to warn you .
You are fond of using our name to surport the en-
emy's argument.
I say to you~ YOU LIE!!!
I am the author of the Const~tution and I now ·
stand upon it as I did then. You may not trust its
meanin g to se~ve the en emy's cause . Iou are to_read
tb~ WQrds and tak e thgir cl ear meanin g for what .it is .
You are n ot so far sunk in i gnorance th at you c an-
not understand the meanin g of my words . You c annot be
led astraJ if y ou mak e them y our shield and bu c kler
with whic h to d e fen d the Republi c .
We are not able to sp e ak in terms of thund e r to
you . The hand that has taken down these words is our
onl y we apon . The o wner of it is dedic a ted to this
cause and g iv e s u s this one chanc e b y which we .can
reach you . We as k th a t you sustain an d su p port this
e ffort to ma ke our wor ds kno wn to the p ub l ic c Alone ,
this transcri b er cannot reach t h em"
I call .upon all lo y al citizens to disseminat e what
we and our no b l e comp atrio t s have s ent throu g h this
hand .
~t .1§ A §A£[gd obli g aticin. See to it that JOU do
nQ:t fAi! in it·
,28
I take my leave of you, my Countrymen, but I ·shall
be on watch day and night, as do my great companions
·here, to see how you receive our words and .in what
measure you make them an.instrument for the defense of
our Country.
Thomas ·Jefferson.
TQird President of the United States of .America.
** ***** ·**
When government becomes so
COMPLEX
that the People can
no longer understand it and
::,en government becomes .':so
COSTLYthat the people can
no longer afford it, then
the people can no longer
claim a government of their
own.
-Vernon D. Fulcrut.
My Fellow Countrymen:
29
LETTER 4
My own dear land, the United States of America,
has not for a mo~ent ceased to be my chief interest
and preoccupation since I took up my residence in the
Spirit Realm.
My sweet and lovely wife is also with me, devoted
and as ever mindful of all we left in our old home and
the Country we were so devoted to.
Our time was all too short to enjo y the manifold
benefits of our great and g lorious Countr y o We ha d no
conception of its wonderful future and greatness o We
lbved it for what it was, and .in that were well con-
tent to serve .it with whatever we could contribute ,
Whenever the perils and d ang ers were thick upon us
we sou ght to defend ourselves by such simple means as
were at hand. We had no idea of the means of · annihil-
ation to be invented or of the hatreds to be expressed
in the clash of E·
uropean states . Our aim was to avoid
such .calamities ,
We hoped to rear a State that mi ght make a refuge
from such hazards, Nothin g we we re plannin g was di-
rected by a sin g le thou ght against another people o We
hoped to make our Country a f efu g e for all the op-
pressed .
We had no thou ght of ·ven geance or of reprisal . We
meant well and we sou ght to do well by all men • .we
have never been one to appraise human beings as g ods o
We are but men with all the limitations of men but
within these limitations we strove to be just to our
fellows and to g ive them a more than even chance to
live .in calmness and security within our borders .
Our own part .in the early effort was to try to
compose such le g al bounds to our activities as would
.insure justice to all, .irrespective of status or means ,
Every man wassbvereign under those laws and our courts
were desi gned as a protection for every ·citizen . No
thou ght of making them a political weapon or of using
them for special privilege ever was .considered or even
30
conceived.
All was to be a free and open arena for the contes t
of man against the many har ,iships .inherent .in conquer-
ing the wilderness.
We were only · tool1appy to believe that we might
wake of thes e United States a g reat nation of people
who would .in time come to a comfortable, yet simple
standard of living.
We never dreamed of the extrava g ances and prodi-
g ality that eventually became the avera g e way of Amer-
.ican life. We see from our present ·vantage such waste
and such exuberance of livin g that we cannot under-
stand how the pace can be maintained for long o
No man ap pears to think of the futureo All is
compressed .into the present. Opportunism .is .thus the
order of the dayo We perceive a lack of thrift, of
wise husbandry of resources and the old ·virtue · of pro-
·vidin g for a rainy day.
What security you have appears to be in the pay-
ment of Life ·insurance. That .is all that stands be-
tween the avera ge family and ultimate destitution when
the head of the family is incapacitated or dies ,
The g reat companies who carry this burden are now
under fire. It .is the aim of the enemies of the Re-
public that these life insurance companies will g o
down in the general financial debac le of national debt
and repudiation.
Many believe that day .is not far distant.
What can you do to prevent such a tragedy?
You must not waver for an instant in your defense
of the Constitution of the United States . Under its
wise provisions the insurance companies have been able
to malrn all promises good and to furnish the protection
each ~olicy-holder pays for.
BETRAY THE CONSTITUTION. NULLIFY THE BILL OF
RIGHTS ANDTHE WHOLE.FINANCIAL S:I'RUCTUREWILL COLLAPSE.
True we have been led to f~ lse economy in the mat-
ter of .credit. Our whole business system now rests
upon the national credito We see no way now of chan g-
in g th at system. To preserve it you must preserve the
31
basic laws upon which the system s rest~, which .is the
Charter of your government - Ti.IE CONSTITUTION
,!
Are you aware of the desire to destroy it?
ARE YOUAWARETHAT EUROPE HAS NOW
·DRAINED YOU OF
ALL YOURCREDIT?
You are sin gularly complacent if you are!
The masses are too uninformed in these matters to
understand the danger but surely ther~ must be t~Qse
among you who foreseeTHE DANGEROF ANY LEAST CHANGE
IN TlIE .FUNDAMENTAL
LAW,WHICH IS THE CONSTITUTION
°
Your recent attitude of .indifference to your own
security is manifested by the widely expressed de s ire
to imitate other forms of government holds a f ear ful
menace to your own safety o
No one with the least foresi ght can be blind to
the terrible consequences of a change .in our present
form of government o
Why do you not see yourself where you are being
led?
The leaders of this destructive theory are .not
concerned for your well bein g . What they hope for .is
a .chance to personally conduct the attacking forces
and, when successful and the Republic is betrayed , to
mount to power on the ruins!
To what country can you look for fin anci ·al aid?
You are a cred r tor and where is the nation that
will make good the promise to pay? China, Finland and
possibly a token payment from Britain! No si gn of re-
alization of our financial .isolation seems to penetrate
the minds of our lawmakers o They hide their heads like
ostriches in the sand and ·vote billions of the people ' s
savin gs away !
The general lootin g of this Country has now r e ached
such dimensions th at even those who g aily ·voted all
the treasure away are now be g innin g to see the conse-
quences!
Now .is the time that you must speak before it is
too latet Now .is the time you must demand the one
protection that .can keep you at least in the security
of your legal status and th at of your bankers, ·
.insur-
32
ance companies and your other fiduciary institutions,
One thing is certain the fall of the Republic will
mean the utter ruin of the majority of the people.
Nothing comparable exists .in all history, 'rhe .French
Revolution is a small event compared to what an Ame"'r-
ican _
Revolution would mean today.
You have too much at st ake to be .complacent an y
longer. What you should do is to make your ·voice heard
in your community and also you ·should demand of your
Congress a powerful stand a g ainst any lon g er servin g
the forces that have already despoiled the people. Do
not let them make the war an excuse to destroy th e
national security.
No nation can prate of the beauty of internation-
alism while it is being robbed to buy the favor o f
other nations.
We see no ·very great concern over all I have pic-
tured to you. Everyone repeats a cheap slogan '.is .sued
.in the press or on the radio , inspired by the pro-
paganda machine.
What is to happen?
Are you ever going to grow up ?
Are you still children?
Have you lost the simple .common sense?
Can you no longer see what is clear to men of
other nations?
Have you become a nation of fools?
By that I mean that foolery .is the g reat national
pastime. Even your amusements are of such a childish
nature that one wonders at your preoccupation with
them. Except for those who are able to find solace in
fine music you apparently have sunk into the sixth of
Shakespearets seven Ag es - a Second Childhood without
the tnnocence of that age ,
Give heed while yet the Constitution protects your
rights!
Take notice while still the Republic stands!
Make up your mind to be a man and defend your
ri ghts before they are g one c There will be no chance
for you to defend them once the dear and loved Republic
..
33
falls.
I am only a Spirit but :J:am a part of this Country,
My best mortal years were ·spent i~ the effort to give
safety under the law· to each and every soul under our
.Flag.
Can I look on and be silent when I see the attack
openly and under cover that is now ·so const;ai'ltly being
made on the Republic?
Would ;you expect me to be ·silent?
would you wish me to mutely watch the destructton
of what was built with such devotion, such .courage and
·such·sacrifice? ·
Can you bear to think upon the days of the early
pioneers who wrought with heart and body., mind and
·soul, that you might live .in peace and plenty?
Can you break faith with them as well as with us?
we can only send this warning. We have no power
to force you to defend your future.
Are we to see you·set afire the structure.built
with ·so much suffering and sacrifice only because you
are too indolent to defend .it against those who wish
to put it to the torch?
My countrymen, if you .can still calmly look ~n at
what you know .is threatened you are no longer worthy
to be called a c1tizen of the Republic! You l}a:ve not
·sold but thrown away your birthright and may God f-0r-
give you for .it! We cannot!
·James ~~dison
.Fourth President of the United States of America •
34
LBTTER .5
My dear and much ldved Countrymep:
The hand that .ipdites this .commun;J.cation.is not my
own but my mind directs it. ·1t is r, ·James Monroe, who
speaks .in this way to you. Be sure :1 am not far off
..in these days of peril to our loved land.
Ah, my fellow Americans, what agony it is to ·see
the plight we are in! What deep sorrow to observe the .
cruelties man is inflicting on his fellows! Children,
helpless aged· and women! ·Nothing .is spared when the
engines of modern warfare start on their devastating
errands!
What has come dver the human spirit that ·such
.things can be?
.we were "f)art of a period when war was a part of life
but we could not imagine ·such barbaric cruel ties and
such devastation as now ·is accepted as the highest
military achievement!
In and through all this we watch and observe the
Machiavellian plots and counter plots of those whose
every purpose .is to profit by these cruelties against
both sides .in the conflict. These dastards make no
7retense of caring which side wins. Their one inter-
est is to seize power on the day the end of the war
comes.
Our own beloved United States is not to be spared
machinations!
We ask you, .Fellow Americans, to be on guard! You
may even lose your own freedom when that fearful day
arrivesl We can only plead with you to be ·vigilant%
To make every effort to arouse your fellow citizens to
the danger!
I was your servant once and happy .in.that service.
I was not only a servant but a fellow citizen. I know
the blessings of Amer~can citizenship. I was also per-
mitted to represent you abroad where I was able to ob-·
serve what the citizenship of other nationals mea.nt.
It was there I .came to appreciate to the full the wise
and nobie minds that had planned your Charter of .Free-
35
dom - THH CONSTITUTION °
I was proud to call myself an American Citizen,
That title carried with it, Sven .in those early and
stern days, a special significance, It .inspired re-
spect sverywhere . We were a poor nation .in all but
this - we were the freest .citizens .in the world!
Even in the countries where the franchise was most
gene rously distributed they enjoyed no such part in
the exercise of the suffrage as did weo
Now I .come to you, my dear fellow Americans, I,
James Monroe, as a Spirit . As one who .is now a .citi -
zen of the realm that you also are destined for.
I can only speak to you by the courtesy and collab-
oration of the one whose hand is now transcribin g these
words , This was arranged throu gh the co-operation of
Wilfred Brandon , whose books I understand have been
publishedo
This .is no new occurrence . It is an old, old means
of .communication . The ancients : made ·.
it a - part e·6.f " their
religions , Many great statesmen were helped and gui ded
in olden times by those g ifted with what are now call-
ed "extra sensory perceptions . "
We are, of course, not able to compel , We can only
use moral s uasion here , We deal with men as Spir i ts
and here .in our Realm free will, as with you , is the
Law . No restraints a r e possible hereo It .is the Realm
where th e Mind .is indeed the Man. Thus you may .imagine
the limitations,
Also we are able to use the mind in ways you could
scarcely credit unless you are a student of the works
of those who have made contact with those Realms .in
such ways as are possible.
W- here , see all you do, hear all y ou say and
watch the effect of your decisions and activities .
We can , if we will , be rid of the si ght and sound
of Earth life 3 but we who were a part of the early life
of the Republic cannot divest ourselves of the love of
the Republic we labored for nor of a profound interest
in its welfare .
We are aware that the people have now ~ecome less
36
patr.iotic as a whole and that citizenship .is bestowe~
indiscriminately and with·small concern as to the sin-
cerity of those who take th9 oath of allegiance·.
We are not here trying to reproach you.· It .is .now
too late to .change your habits. We are trying to warn
you that unless you are ·vigilant, unles~ you~guard
~·our precious rights, you will lose them. You can de-
pend upon only one thing - your Constitution and the
Bill of Rights.
I .cannot say when or how the blow will fall to de-
stroy.the Republic. I can only warn you that ,it is now
.in the minds of those who believe they :can do so.
You have taken this Country which you were born .in
or which you came to adopt, for granted. You seem to
believe that automatically its strength must remain
and that it ·.is impregnable. This Country, like all
others .is .no ·stronger than ·.its weakest part. The weak-
ness lies first ·.in the citizenry. You have many men
and women who have the franchise who are ignorant and
even illiterate in spite of your extravagant educa-
tional programme.
You also have, exercising the franchise, hordes of
.criminals and men who use their citizenship to despoil
their fellows.
Worst of all are those who come and seek the pro-
tection of citizenship in order the better to work for
the overthrow of the Republic. This .in order to rear
a form of government which will enslave our people and
gfve them mastership Over the Country.
The past quarter of a century has seen the gradual
breaking down of the old ideals of patriotism and of
the devotion to the Republic. The attacks become ever
bolder. We Spirits of your early public servants have
listened even on the campus and in pulpits, on rostrums
of political meetings, to such attacks on the Constitu-
tion and on all that was designed for the protection
of Americans, as should have aroused you to the danger.
Your press even tolerates these attacks and even
gtves those who lead them equal prominence with the
defenders of your liberties!
37
This is called "Democracy."
That word really means - the MOB,
We are unable to make the significance plainer.
When the time comes that you have to face the con-
sequences of your indifference, when you .can .no longer
protect your home from .invasion or the bodies of your
family or yourself by the provisions of the Constitu-
tion, you will then realize -what you have lost.
Not that you need the experience. In Europe and
elsewhere you have had plainly pictured what happens
to a people when his sovereign rights as an .individual
are merged with those of an autocratic state o You read
daily the horrors that can come upon a' people ~over whelm-
ed by power lustin g leaders .
You lpok on with no idea that you can come to such
a fate . You too -
~~n, from within your own people have
enemies as your newspapers depict .in other lands.
What ails you that you do not take alarm for your
own safety? I cannot see any sign of that alarm , Your
leaders are even more stupid than you, the private
citizen, for they are .in positions of responsibility.
If a leader has made an attempt to warn you, a
thousand of his fellow citizens spring up to pull him
down .
We see the few who do sense the dan ger and who do
sound a warnin g. We also see the devilish attempt to
ruin that patriot and shame him in the eyes of the
public .
All now .is wasted o Our money , our credit and the
sense of protection " We stand naked before the world .
The war g oes on and takes its toll . The military
leaders stand to their dut y an d serve . Those under
them also stand o They are not able to protect you 'when
the enemy within strikes . They are far off . The arms
with which you mi ght .in some fashion fi ght the enemy
are also abroad " You have disarmed yourself ,
You prate loudly of your production that is of no
benefit to you whatever . Of the billions of t h e ".'
peoples
earnings that have been spent . Surely some part of
this treasure, some part of the armament, mi ght have
38
been left for your protection. The war need not have
denuded you of every means of guarding yourself from
the menace at home.
You know that enemy exists. At least you should
know it for he has been bold enough these past few
years.
_:Now
.it .is not my province to be an alarmist. I am
only ·saying what· many of you know to be true" .we pave
even heard Americans say they must cash .in and get out
before the ·storm breaks. Meaning they will realize
what is possible on their holdings and take up resi-
dence elsewhere.
:Now there is no place to go. ·Here is the safest
place if you will but defend the Republjcl And_do not
wait tor the Jtttack. ACT NOWt ROUSE YQUR NEIGHBORS-
WARN
YOURCONGRESSMEN!
WARN
THE STATELEGISLATURES
AND
YOURTOWN·AND
COUNTY
OFFICIALS! Make it your business
to be an American to the full!
Do not give heed to the namby-pamby mouthings of
those who b·abbl"e of "Liberalism" and make it a cloak
for destructive theories.
You have the most liberal Charter of government
ever written. ·Nothing yet conceived by these so-called
liberals has equalled .it for the free action of men
unde~ the decent restrictions of order.
Give no ear to any advocate of these foreign de-
signs.
Keep your Republic!
If you throw it away you will answer to us here and
to the millions of unhappy people who will suffer under
the tyranny you invited by your indolence and stupidity.
The few who have always remained true to the Con-
stitution will come to our aid and sound t~is warning
I am sure~ YOUCANNOTBE "HARMED
:IN SO DOING. _AS LONG
AS THE REPUBLIC STANDSYOUHAVE
THE RIGHT TO PUBLICLY
ANDPRIVATELY DECLARE
..FOR THE CONSTITUTION AND THE
BILL OF RIGHTS PRO'l'ECTYOU:IN SO DOING
I
DO NOTBE AFRAID!
SPEAKUP, AMERICANS!
·James Monroe •
.Fifth President of the United States of America.
39
LETTER 6
My dear fellow Americans :
My tenure of office was br!._ef but my citizenship
.in these United States was long. It .is of that I wish
to speak.
We lived at a time when the wilderness was still to
be conquered , When men and women and even children had
to endure such har .dships as you, .in this softer age,
would be unable to survive.
All were .intent upon one thing - to create "'such a
Countr y as would provide a safe and peaceful home for
their descendants and those who desired tQ share in
that ideal ,
No matter how great the hardships, how .cruel the
miseries of the weather and of the many obstacles to
their survival they went on. Never faltering in their
one great purpose - to make of these United States the
freest home mankind had ever known o
It was my part in this to fight for the right to
settle on the land~ to .clear the plots given to us by
the treaties arranged between the Indians and our gov-
ernment o
We had the great honor to lead .in this movement of
brin g in g civilization to the mid-western lands. We saw
how a.dvanta ge ous were those mammeth ' lakes '1
8.Iid,'r.i:vers o
How beautiful their waters with th e fresh water life
in them , We could envisa ge the many towns that would
be on their borders in the time to come . We hoped , .in
what ways were possible, to make these borders safe for
the settlers .
Our friends amon g the Indians came also and set-
tled with our people in peaceful g roups . No history
ever does justice to the friendly Indian tribes " If .it
were not for them we would have been wiped out before
the Revolution .
Our own ·view is that the American Indian was a~
much a part of our success as were the efforts of our
own people ·. In this brief opportunity given me to ad-
dress you I wish to speak for those native Americans
40
who .in many ways co-operated with the settlers and at
all times showed themselves men of the highest charac-
ter and conduct,
They are here, many of my old friends, and often I
·visit them. Their love for nature and their Spiritual
beliefs keep them bound in affection fot their oli
earthly home place~.
They had enemies among hostile tribes and these
were our enemies also, We hgve often resented t h e
words attached to my name - that of Indian fi ghter.
With me, when I was fi ghtin g , were Indian~ who saw in
us their friends ,
We tried to bring order into those localit i es
where atrocities by savage enemies were too horrible
for description, That dreadful .instinct for .cruelty
that is now sweepin g aver the whole race, was also
present ·in some of our American Indians. They need not
be specially marked for this trait. It .is common to
all ra.ces when the animal instinct in man ·.is unleashed.
No words can say in sufficient meanin g the gr eat
and noble spiritual quality of the American Indian , He
.is brave , his ideas of conduct are those we might well
emulate. His sense of responsibility to his wor d and
oath are unsurpassed ,
The pioneers owed our ·very existence to this type
of American Indian . Let no man forget that who c alls
himself an American.
The abuse and cheatin g by our g overnment of those
confidin g friends .is a blot upon our history that can
never be wiped out , No people were ever so betrayed ,
The remains of the race are even now bein g shov ed out
of every desirable section to make room for men who
come only for what they can get in the way of mon ey or
power . They care n ot ~1
i n ;_;;
· for the Republic o r .its
honor .
What do you people think will be _your future here
.in this Realm when those g reat men, the Chiefs of the
Tribes, face you? Some of th e noblest men of al l time
with souls lofty and minds keen and penetrati ng will
confront you .
I
(
41
Be sure we are all here on one level, You will be
whatever your mind is, What sort of minds have those
men who betrayed our . Indians?
They were like the men of old who buccaneered their
way to riches in other parts of the world but without
endu~in g the hardships of those adventurers. They were
wiley, sneakin g .creatures who by their political af-
filiations committed those crimes against their fellow ·
Americans - the Indians, under the protection of gov-
ernment agencies .
Now you are facin g far worse enemies. +hose who
have .not the Indians ' sense of honor. They co me to
despoil and cheat you of every ri ght. They will do to
you what you did to the Indian. Worse. They will make
such a slave of you as our Indians never have been un-
der the worst maladministration of their affair~ by
our officials ,
You are but paying for your own .crimes . as a people .
welove the Indians because we love them as fellow
Americans . we lived with them, fought with them and
are here united with them .in the SJiritual Realm , They
still keep watch over their people as we do over ours.
In the seance room there are many who matvel at
the fact that .it is the Indians who speak so often .
Why not? The y ar e M
asters of th e Sci ence of Nature .
They kn ew the Laws of 'Vibration before our modern sci-
entists discovered them , The y used these Natural laws
in many ways.
Spiritualists always, they have l~d 0
t h e way .in
teachin g their white brothers and sisters what .i m
mor-
tality means and how to establish communication be -
tween the livin g and the dead .
Aban don your patronizin g airs . You are mere chil -
dren compare d to many of these students of Nat ural Law.
You mi ght well sit at the feet of th e se fine men and
le arn of t hem suc h facts and truths of th e planet you
lfve on that you woul d un d erstand why , .in the past ,
the y have shown contempt for the white mentalit y .
I do not sa y that all Irldians are hi gh minded or
of great mentalit y. I simpl y sa y that you have never
42
understood or tried to understand the:lndian or what
stature he attains .in many .instances.
Will you aver demand justice for the Indian?
You are busily asking it for the Asiatic Indians,
What of your own Americaq-"'IndiaQ? I hear he is now to
be permitted the franchise. Do you think he ·values it
now? You gave it to criminals and illiterates that ~e
would not, .if he .is a typical Indian, associate wi tho
Are .you so ignorant o.f the Americ_an :Indian's
thoughts that you dare not realize how contemptible
you have appeared as a people in his eyes? In the
early days he respected the white man•s courage and
fortitude:, h:is ·sp.irit of fair play and his manly
qualities.
·ue looks on now at an effete civilization driven
·into war and finding a large portion of the manhood
unfit for military duty both mentally and ppysically.
His own race he also perceives is deteriorating
under the white .influence. ·Here he laments this de-
cadence. He wonders of what use are all the modern
.inventions if they only serve to weaken and degrade
the standards of physicals mental and spiritual man-
hood.
Now we h~ve spoken our mind as to the Indian and
your treatment o.f him.
We wish further to comment on the ·very great dis-
posal you make of the resources of the Country. What
do you expect to do when these are exhausted?
You are robbing your descendants and you do so .in
the name of progress!
Take stock of the Country's riches now!
What is left of the riches you inherited?
What sort of people have you become?
Are you able to carry on after this war?
Can you withstand the pressure of the great Em-
pires and States that still have there resources to
call upon?
Are you miracle workers that you can produceend-
lessly from yo~r fast eroding land, your mines that
are not inexhaustible and your oil reserves, the end
43
of which .is already in sight?
Will you become as China became, an exhausted land
requirin g such labor to produce food for your susten-
ance that it becomes a thin g of bitter and heartbreak-
.in g toil to even sustain life?
' : !W
.ill you become the terrible example to the peo-
ples of the world of the nation that squandered its
birthri ght?
I am but a Spirit. I cannot alter in a sin gle re-
spect your way of life. I can only speak thes e few
words from my innermost Soul,
I be g you, my f ellow Countrymen, to turn back the
pa ges of your brief history and take to heart t he ex-
ample of the pioneers, They were indeed men and women
to .inspire any people, Mark their inte g rity and their
devotion to the government,
They were patriotic . Are you one of that breed?
Give us, Oh God, the manhood and womanhood to again
march forwa _
rd as a stron g and upri ght nation!
·Help ~'#
; t -
o put our own house .in order and to show
by our own e~a mple the pattern of a nation once more
loyal to the past!
Only .in that way can you s~ve your self from the
calamities planned aga inst you by those who know your
weakness ,
Be stron g and faithful to your past and you can
still stand ,
William H. ·Harrison,
My loved .AJDericans:
44
LETTER·7
We ·here are in the Realm of Spirit where all is
clear and plain to us of the events on 1our Earth plane.
We watch you and we hear your ·speeches and we get
the thoughts expressed in the newspapers, periodicals
and books. We know all that you think and write and
say.
·can.you.believe this?
You must be ·very dull indeed if you have not ac-
quainted yourself with the records of all time that
explain clearly the many .instances and methods of
Spirit .communication with mortals.
·in this case ·1 am writing you through the hand of
one whose sole use of thi~ gift .is for the purpose of
aiding our Countrymen .in these terrible years. This is
not one who makes a business of this but gives the time
and strength to those patr.iots of our Sp.iri t Realm
whose experience and tried talents .can aid with adv.ice
our hard pressed citizens in these dark days.
We are grateful· for the opportunity of adding our
words and thoug_hts to those of my distinguished fore-
runners in the Presidency of our Country.
· While my administration was in a peaceful time .in
our history, ·1 had the great privilege of ha:v.ing with
me and about me the finest mentalities and noblest of
men.
My work was to keep the peace and to aid, in such
ways as. were possible, the progress of the nation.
Men of inventive power were beginning to give
their thoughts to ways and means of helping the citi-
zens in their drastic labor.
All I could do was to see that such laws as would
protect and foster this spirit, were carried out. Such
work is not spectacular but I like to think that .in the
years of my administration those most ·valuable addi-
tions to the machinery of our peoples was made easier
and the burdens lighter.
Our great friend and counsellor, Washington, was
•
45
in .constant .communication with me at that time, My own
faculty, or what you call extra sensory gift, of clair
audience, made this possible,
The happiness of having his noble Spirit in such
communion was a blessing and a joy I cannot express,
His gre at ·vision and his .constant concern for our peo..:.
ple was demonstrated to me many times. Soldier thou gh
he was, he lon ged for an end to all strife and t~e
peaceful progress of his beloved fellow citizens.
What a day it was!
I was often overcome by a sense of the magnitude of
the future. Even in my day one could see the ever ex-
panding grandeur of the Country o
All had been done to make the borders .clearl y de-
fined and we lived at peace with both our Northern and
Southern neighbors ,
Our shores were lined with shippin g on the Atlantic
and we we~e even then ·venturing to the far west where
the great Pacific lay waitin g for our commerce,
Oh, my dear Americans, do you realize how blessed
you are?
Do you ever take your map and compare your happy
lot with those nations surrounded on every side by
hostile or jealous peoples r eady at all times to :in-
flict injury upon them?
We · have on the North a people who speak the same
lan gua ge o We have no quarrel with them that .is of any
serious moment. Disputes aver boundaries ha:ve~ee n
settled amicably and we enjoy the exchan ge of our prod-
ucts with ever increasin g profit to both.
Th e same can be said, iffsome measure , of our Latin
America n friends to th e South o We had no concern our T
self with the conflict that ensued aver the desire of
Tex as to join our Union . We did , however, have the
privile .
g;e of he lping to make trade agreements that were
of g reat benefit both to the Mex ican people and our
own .
We bad amicable relations with the Islanders in the
Caribbean and so all about us I saw only the happiness
an d prosperity of ourselves and our neighbors o
4-6
At times local matt€rs might ,caus€ concern. We
think of the troubles when th~ people, new to our
shores and our way of life, ~ighj; indulge .in riots to
their own and our harm. But no great calamities, no
great disturbance of the peace occurred,
What .is now called .Fascism was not heard of. So-
cialism was new and only heard of in Europe.:conununisrn
was still to be invented. We were simply Americans
divided .in political ideals only .in the difference of
opinion regardin.g Stl\te Rights ·vs. '.Federal Rule and
the theory of a Protective Tariff for our infant in-
dustries as contrasted with .Free Trade and no ·Tariff.
These differences ga:ve us two parties.-·aepubli-
c an and Whig.
The presence of the two parties, both contesting
for office, in the interest of the whole people, was
wholesome and made a place for the finest minds and
characters.in the public service.
Each strove to serve the common interest according
to his political affiliations. We offer no apology
for this period. Research and a perusal of the history
of events ·.in Congress and .in State Legislatures will
prove the fervor and honest desire to serve that moved
the men of that time.
I myself was often much impressed by the simplicity
and honesty of those elected when the whole Country
lay, .in one sense, in their handsn
May I pay this tribute to those men here? They
seem to be forgotten iri the present and their integ-
rity and sense of service, their high ideals and their
devotion to the common good, appear to be buried in
the dim past.
What a wholesome thing it would be .if in your
schools and universities, .in your press and on your
radio, you reviewed these men 1 s services. Men whose
names are never spoken and whose tasks, so nobly per-
formed, are buried.
Why do you not prize their memory?
Of what good is it to give one's life to public
service if high talent and integrity count for nothing
:'
47
to your descendants?
Can you occupy yourselves with the fame of a·"strip
teaser" or a prize-fi ghter to the extent you d o and
find no place .in your press for the great servants
whose labors built your Country?
A· few writeri have striven to make _you aware of
your g reat and good dead but these have never .come to
reco g nize the g eneral excellence and hi g h mindedness
and probity of the men who carried you dver the diffi-
cult years of your adolescence and made laws which
stand today as beyond imprdvement.
Two birthdays of our most ldved Presidents ar e ob-
serv~d by holiday merry-making and some bio g ra ph ical
articles in the press . Apart from this you have buried
y our public servants in oblivion .
I often ponder these thin g s . I see why you cannot
engage the services of your best men. They know too
well how ·indifferent, how .careless you are even of
your own interest. They see that patriotism is all but
dead except as ·slo gans are .irtvented to support war or
some special g roup .
Disunion .is now rampant in the nation. Those few
who still clin g to the old ideals and early faiths
meet scorn and opposition . A few Societies and Or ders
stand firm .in their loyalties but they a r e made the
object of ridicule by the "moderns ."
These "moderns" are nothin g less than the enemy
within our g ates . They neither ldve nor respect the
Constitution , Within their ranks are those whose dream
it is to annihilate the Republic and seize power to
rule _
,
You seem to feel it a feather .in your cap to be
of these enemies of your Countr y !
You are g reatly concerned for all countries but
y our own , If a man will not p rotect his own house how
can he be truste d with the .care of the house of his
nei ghbors ' ?
All n ow is a fi ght for power , The peopl e seem
d ru gg ed, It is hard to believe they have become so
stupid that they do not see all that is so plain to .us
48
.here.
Weknow you now as a ·very mixed people. You have
ta.ken in all ·so~ts and conditions· of men and not assim-
_ilated them. You bestow .citizenship indiscriminately
and you offer tem:pt~tions to the lowest elements ·to
plot against you. you need a cleaning out of your
franchise holders.
You·should take from those who abuse their liberty
the right to ·vote and return them from wherice they
came.
The iow st.ate of morals among your young is reason
enough to .cause you to take such steps as are needed
to bring a higher l~vel of thought.
We cannot go into this ·subject. The sad spectacle
of depraved youth that you blandly accept as "modern-
.ism" is enough to make the angels wee-p. Certainly ·.it
causes us who remember a far different picture of
adolescence, a heart sickness and dread of your future
as a nation. ·
My dear .Americans, waken to the facts of your pre-
sent way of life and take action!
Abdve all, stand by your heritage - THE REPUBLIC!
·in all the world there .is not its equal for free-
dom and opportunity, Do not be deceived by those who
try to shake your faith .in it, Their designs are all
against your liberty and your protection which lies .in
the Constitution and the Bill of Rights.
BE WARNED
ERE:IT ·1s TOOLATE!!
Martin ·van Buren,
•
!}y .Fellow Americans:
49
LETTER 8
I, Andrew Jackson, once your President, am now
speaking to you through the hand of the one who pow
holds this pencil.
I have been ahundred years in this Spiritual Realm
and the time has been spent .in watching your lives and
the way you have been conducting our gdvernment ,
We were never a politician and we do not pretend to
comprehend much of the statutes now on the books o
We spent our Earth l~fe in defending the young
Republic against .its enemies within and without .
We wer ·e never one to mince matters. Our thoughts
and words were simple and direct and meant what they
said. I have no patience with men who· try to hide un-
der words. My .life was so r1,1gged and my administration
so filled with problems that there was little time for
beating about the bush.
All I asked was simple justice for all and with no
favor asked or given.
We had a great opportunity to become the happiest
people ·.
in the world . Our land and ·.
its wonderful
rivers , l akes and mountains , were the etivy of the Old
World . We were too wasteful and prodigal with ·its
riches .
We made no attempt to conserve these blessings put
were like a herd of swine with our feet :in the trough.
Now you are throwing away what .is left of t,hem .
Asses that you are!
Can I t you see what you are facing?
Do you believe all this nonsense your leaders tell
you about your g reat European friends?
They only lau gh at your chil d ish . credulity •
When all .is spent where will you turn?
What nation has anything to spare for Americans?
Be warned before you sink to the level poor des-
poiled China did .
Oh, my friends, I wish I could stir you to a
sense of 1our g reat dan g er and the perils that sur-
,50
round you!
The war .is an incident .in the great disaster"
Men, and even women, have been boring from within
ever·since the last war to lpldermine your faith .in the
Republico They see .in this Country and its millions of
workers a people to be enslaved under their form of
tyranny.
You, like moles, sit and gape at their speech ma-
kers and read their dressed-up language in the maga-
zines and the ·vile books .issued by respectable pub~
lishers.
They hide under false names. You adore the dirty
lies they tell of your Country and your Countrymeno It
gives you what you call a "Thrill" to believe their
·vtvidly written concoctions.
Where are ,you drifting?
Are you worth the warnings we are trying to gfve
you?
I doubt_.it,!
Thank God, the old true patriots are here safe
from your wretched degeneration. Their descendants
have, for the most part, become so degenerate that it
matters not what fate awaits them.
Still for the sake of the minority, the few who
§till love and serve .in honor their Country, and thank
God there are still such men and women, we here who
have served and love this despoiled land, try to warn
you of what .is being plotted against youo
Now·1 shall tell you what confronts you.
Every day, every night, every hour, men and women
are busily planning to m~ke the_ end Qf the war a signal
to rise ANDTAKE WASHINGTON.YOURPRESIDENT ANDALL
THE CABINET ANDTHE ARSENALS
AND'THE AMMUNITION
.FAC-
'.J,'ORIESt
Every detail .is planned and the labor unions are
to be made the Masters of the Country!
We also see the machinery of your great cities,
transportation, light power plants, and the telephone
and telegraph systems .in their hands.
You~ Army will be abroad still and you will be
!
I
I
j
51
helpless.
Are you able to face this?
Do you wish to be enslaved by the Commune?
Read your history of the French Rsvolution and see
what h appens - when the mob .comes to power.
In the case of France there was g ood reason for
the RSvolution. Here these reasons do not exist. This
is simply a part of the plan to enslave the whole
worl d and let the few men who have planned it rei g n as
world leaders.
What can you do at this late hour?
You can make our warning known to your Le g islatures
and to Con g ress.
You can arm yourselves to defend your homes o
If your Congress refuses to take this seriously
then the State Governments and city officials must
take the res p onsibility of defending their localities .
We do not hesitate to speak plainly . Only plain
words will serve now.
When you can supinel y follow the lead of men who
·vote away your savin g s and tie a debt of billions of
dollars around your neck you are no lon g er intelli g ent
enou gh to use your own minds to penetrate the ultimate
fate bein g pr epare d for you o
What ·c an ·I say to make an American Qitizen of you?
You were once Americans heart and ·souL
Now you l ie~ the boots of those who despise and
lau gh at your servility . '-
Where are the men?
Where are t he women of pioneer stock?
·Have they lost their manhood and womanhood?
Does the chance to b e noticed by some forei g n
aristocrat or some forei g n political boss , repay you
for the loss of your own personal di gnity and your own
decent pride as a citizen of a fr ee Countr y?
WHO IS TO BE YOUR MASTER?
Now you .choose your officials . You are .neither
dili g ent or wise in your selections but you are still
free to ch an g e your office holders.
Do you Q~fg about this p rivile g e any more?
52
Do you prefer a ·Hitler, a Mussolini or a Stalin?
·:i;_twould seem so.
God Almighty! Can anything wake you from your
stupid complacency?
Even this war has not done so.
You send your ·sons to foreign service. and plan to
make public exhibitions of yourselves as parentso
Are you so sunk in ·vanity and self.,.esteem that you
.cannot be awakened to your danger?
Most of you deserve the worst fate that could be.,.
fall you but the minority is worth every effort.
Those steadfast souls who are still proud of their
ancestors, who still are true to the principles upon
which the nation was founded. We are fighting for
thg1r sakes to make you listen and take warning.
Be sure when you come here,AS YOUALL WILL, we
shall know what you are.
Your time is brief on Eartho
·Here you are in Eternity.
Vake your choice now.
Gfve yourself the most rigid examination and then
take your stand.
· Millions of Souls here ha:.ve their eyes upon you,
The Dead Are Npt Dead.
We still are patriots.
AS YOU DEAL WITHTHIS COUNTRYSO SHALL YOU BE
DEALT WITH "HERE.
Andrew ·Jackson.
** ***** **
"The Constitution of the
United ·states was not mere-
ly for the generation that
then. existed, but for pos-
terity - unlimited, unde-
fined, end l es s, · pe rp et ual
Posterity.
-"Henry Clay.
MY Dear Friends:
53
·LETTER 9
I am now going to try to say to you what .is not a
thing I ever hoped to say or even to coptemplate.
My good friends, your former great Presidents ha:ve
spoke .n to you of the danger that . threatens you and I
wish to add my pleas to theirs.
My position is one that is closer than theirs to
·scenes that indicate what .is being .contrived for your
coriversion into a totaiitarian regime.
My post of obse~vation is Washington, My home
still the White ·House, I ha:ve never left it. There I
am able to observe the business of the Country.
I g o to the Senate, the House. I attend the Com-
mittee sessions. I also,., . at times, witness the Supreme
court and its meetin g s and listen to what the people
say who call on the President and what he says to them.
Once .in a while I ·visit the Cabinet Officer~s
meetings and hear their ·views and opinions.
·ram present at press conferences and I watch the
bulletin boards around the newspaper offices. ·r hear
the speeches on the radio and often the commentator's
remarks.
All this is my duty as an ex-President and a loyal
citizen of this land. All these avenues of opinion are
at my disposal. I cannot help knowing what the people
are being tol d, what :,,our gdvernment is doin g and what
is bein g withheld from the public .
Underneath the surface I am aware of the discontent,
the manifested hatred and the ambitions of the laborin g
classes to seize the g overnment, They are the tools
and cannon fodder for those whose hellish schemes are
for the destruction of our form of g overnment and the
substitution _of a Communist · regime under another ··name.
We are una b le now to defend ourselves with our
Army or our other services for they are all abroad, It
is upon t he citizen that the responsibility now rests
for maintainin g this, our Republican form of govern-
ment.
54
we cannot but deplore the way we have been denuded
of our means o~ defense. All has been sent to the
European or the Pacific fronts. Nothing remains but a
few of the .camps and the police force of the cities.
Where can we turn when civil war breaks out?
Many of the enemy are emissaries -of our Allies and
.control· the arms and munitions we sent to that ,Ally.
We have played the fool with our means of defense. Now
we are as· we were when I had the sad task of enlisting
an·army after the south seceded and all our arms and
much of our soldiers seceded with the.Confederacy.
We must now look to the older men and y_oung boys,
to· the women and gir1s, to act as defenders of our
land. wny should this be? Our way of life was fair to
all and open to alL We made no distinction.
Many think these are overstatements and needlessly
alarming. I assure you they are not. We know the
plots and the plotters. We know who the traitors are
arid ·how they intend to strike when the moment comes.
We have attended their secret meetings and heard them
brag of the time when they would seize power· -and how
it was to be done.
· They will be at every post at the signal and from
New York to S~n .Francisco these men and women will
take over the Power Stations, Railroad Stations, Tele-
phone and Telegraph Offices arid Government Buildings •
.Fires will be started in the cities and the firemen
made prisoners.,.
Banks and Post Offices will be looted and made .in-
communicado.
Also the most drastic and terrible punishment will
be meted out to all who resist.
The time set for this is not far off and will be
signalized by all those iQ the conspiracy dowrtigg
tools and quitting work, A GENERALSTRIKE!
The Commander in Chief of this RE:Jvolution .is not
in this Country. ·He .issues his orders from Moscow.
·our Army is to be engaged in war on the Continent
of gurope and our ·Navy scattered over the globe. The
Air .Force will likewise not be available for your
55
protection.
What ·.is to be done? That .is for you to say.
we are sending out this warning. I am but a Spirit
and .can only give you these words of warning. Only an
immediate reco gnition of your dan ger will give you time
to protect yourselves •
.in such ways as you .can.
Get your house in order.
procure what side arms you can.
Get a manifesto out ·
.in every town and ·villa ge.
Train your people to fi ght the fires.
Make your banks safe.
Your food . supply should be looked to.
Get ready for Civil War.
Yo·u are in the majority and if -your Local, State
and Federal gdvernment is with you and not with the
enemy you may be able to quell the Revolution in .its
first stages.
All I can do is to tell you these facts , They have
been getting ready for twenty-five years. You will no"t
have that many months and possibly not many more weeks.
Have no doubt as to the truth as to what I tell
you. You could even hear their threats and prophecies
of their taking aver the Country if you went to the
many meetin g s held under many pretenses such as C. I .O.
or other labor meetin g s, projects of different kinds
and other semi-official ga therin gs .
The Washin g ton au t horities temporize and then g ive
:in to these ·secessionists , These revolutionists be-
lieve the government heads are with them.
That .is not so. But the unhappy fact must be ad-
mitted that - the government has temporized until now
these dan g erous elements beli eve it will not oppose
them.
This warnin g is needed by the government also .
"Liberalism" is one thin g , Red Revolution is
another .
We are not able to say all we could of the machin-
ery that is to be set in motion to take us aver . It is
too awful!
·However, I have said enou gh to make you realize
that .it .is up to you to get read y, to train your fellow
56
citizens, to send your old and infirm , your young and
helpless, where they can b e safe o
No place .is safe in Washin g ton or State Capitols .
Give heed to this warnin g and you wi11 be able t o
handle the situation o
Delay and your Countr y will be lost in blood y
Civil Waro
Now to speak of the way t h i s comes to you o It .i s
b y the ha n d of a pa t riot , a ps ychically g ifted autom a-
tist who has off e red to lend me a h and that I c an writ e
with o It .is no mean setvice and may cost the life o f
the one who now pencils these words o No matter . Th e
writer considers it a privile g e to be the instrumen t
by which fellow citizens are warned of the impen d in g
dan g er o -
May God bless and protect this patriotl
Will you not come at this .call?
Will you han g back and not play a man's pa .rt i n
thi s dr e adf ul hour?
I believe there is still enou gh coura g e and common
sense left to heed my warnin g and those of my grea t
predecessor s o
Oh , Almight y God , g ive the American people th e
will to believe and act upon our warnin g s!
We are only men , Spiri~s of men , but our minds an d
hearts are those of Americans o We have been too lon g
lovers of liberty to see our blessed United States en-
slaved by those whose greed for power is the onl y
motive of thetr acts .
Make, Ob God , the men of our land stron g of hear t
and clear of head in this dark hour!
This prayer I pray daily a hundred times.
Oh, my fellow Americans, save y ourselves and i n
doin g so save our United Stat e s!
THERE IS NO HOPE OF SUCCESS UNLESS YOU ACT PROMPT
-
LY AND :IN UNISONo
We cannot know bow these words will b e received .
We only know your dire need of th em. Take them to
heart and act upon them .
We are . now silent .
IT IS YOU.WHOMUST TAKE UP THE CRYo
Abraham Lincoln .
My .Fellow Countrymen:
57
LETT .ER 10
We take this opportunity of addressing you because
we still feel responsibility for your welfare, All our
life here we have constantly and wfth solicitude made
it our duty to keep informed of all that pertains to
you. _
Perhaps you ~6ubt this, Perhaps you are one of
those, and I, myself at one time in my fi;art {i life, who
cannot believe ·.in immortality. In that case I .cannot
expect to .influence you, You will say it ·.is this
medium's subconsCious mind or a wish fulfillment or
give some other far-fetched theory to account f~r this
message. I can_only declare that it is I, Grdver
Cleveland, · once President of these United States who
is writing these words.
' My dear friends, I was by no means a lofty and
spiritual char~cter. My weaknesses and li~itations
were well known and frequently publicized o I was,
however a good and honest patriot. ·Even my political
opponents always admitted that, and so I make this
effort to again prdve my patriotism by sending you
theae words of warning.
Yo_
u are in dan g er of losin g your liberty.
What has taken place ·since I came to this realm is
beyond my power to describe . I mean the changes .in the
mentality as well - ~s the outward manifestatidn of our
national life.
We had the privile g e of serving you in a most try-
in g time, A great and terrible mistake was made by my
own party in passin g aBill that threw open our own
borders to the products manufactured by other nations
to the utter destruction of our domestic trade in the
same g oods.
Millions of factory workers were idle and many
statved to death in that terrible time. We tried to
remedy the .condition but my own party fought me and so
I was frustrated .in all my attempts to restore, - t o
our people, their right -t o their manufactures. We could
liS
not compete with Europe•s peasant labor and their way
of life and·se we went down for years in a depression
that was both needless and _cruel.
My fate wa~ to see my own party condemn me for
refusing to sign the Bill passed by them to tate off
the protective tariff that had been the shield.of our
working people and those whose means were invested.in
the great mills and factories.
We are .now again talking of trade pacts that
simply .challenge the manufacturers to meet the low
wages of ·Europe and Asia while our working men demand
wages higher than ever.
ls there any ·sense to thi~?
The people who·wish to merge this Country with a
great .international combine foster this .idea .in the
guise of a peace mdvement.
W~ll, it may bring the ·sort of peace that I ·sat
with ·silent mills and empty ·shops and the people ·sick
and dying for want of the necessities of life.
Are you mad?
· Of what use are the examples of past years .if you
take .no lessons from them?
I am known as anemocrat. ·That was always my party.a
And all the wprk I did in public ·service was under
their aegis. Yet when."! realized the-falsitf of the!r
arguments. for free trade and the lowering of our 1-abor
·status I was .called a renegade by my own party.
Repuplicans may have been too drastic in their
protectfve :ideas but under them we did prosper and
grow great. ·1 had never realized the way .in which the
tariff had shielded us until that protection was in
danger. I am quoted quite correctly as ·saying that
the Bill that rem~ved the tar.iff was ~conceived ~n
shame and born .in .iniquity."
·1 refused to ·sign .it.
It was passed dver my ·veto.
The consequence,is history. A people betrayed by
the Democratic __
0 party who always claimed to. be the
working man's party.
59
Now you are again trying to betray your workers.
If you Democrats stay in power you will again bring
ruin upon the nation, for now you have exhausted and
are fast using up all the resources of the Country -
oil, minerals, food, money and credit.
It took many years of residence here for me to
study these matters to a final conclusion. I now see
that _your own .domestic trade must c_
ome first. You are
always willing to give your workers good wages. The
foreign powers are not. ~hey ha:ve grown rich on the
slave labor of conquered peoples.
Such .luxuries a.s are .imported for the rich bore a
hea:vy tariff which they were glad to pay and which
ga:ve _
us financial profit to help support our national
g6vernmen t.
In cases where the imports were not produced · by,
or made by, our manufacturers, these entered the
Country free of all tariff. We were importing, even
in my ti~e, ninety million dollars worth of produce
free of all tax yearly.
No~ you are .in the hands of a ~ot of demagogues
and theorists who have always been a nuisance and who
keep trying to wedge themselves into the government
setvice and political office though they ha:ve no ex-
perience either in politic al or business responsibility .
Mostly they are teachers. They have a title of
some sort that gives them a certain rank in the eyes
of the people. As men of affairs they are like chil-
dren. They have been, .in the past ten years, given
such a ·voice in public affairs as hiis all but ruined
the business of public and ' private affairs.
Now I be g of you to wake up.
A politician, if he is of any use at all, learns
that to be a success his peo p le must find in him a good
servant. One who watches their interest fir. 2.t, that of
his party §g~QllQ•
Now you ha:ve hor d e s of small minded and all but
illiterate men ensconced .in the little positions
created to control their ·votes " You ha:ve suc ·h a
bureaucracy as was never seen on Earth before.
60
This ·.is .nothing ·1ess than a machine f'or keeping in
..power the party ··that controls .it. :1 was .in .control of'
a local machine .in Buff'alo. I know all about the
mechanismc "I used .it and was elected.
Then I resolved to ·make partisanship a secondary
matter. :Ir ·1 .could sel've the whole people and the
party at the ·same time ·1 would willingly and gladly do
so. But when ·.it came to making a .choice between the
well being of the whole people and my own political
party, ·1 did not fee~ the least hesitation .in doing
what I thought was my·Presidential d~ty and the polit-
.ical aspect was put aside f'or the public good.
:Now·1 ·speak to you of' all this because ·1 wish you
to believe that ~Y party, that •is still my party, .is
making the worst and most tragic mistake in all .its
history •
. Your heads of' gov,ernment and your party members
are .contemp1·at1ng merging the Country's interests with
thoi:;e of certain ~ropean powers.
You.are to be made responsible f'or Europe's peace<
Already you have robbed your own Countrymen to .curry
f'a:vor with these powers. :Now·you wish to gfve your
rights and liberty of action as well.
Are you.completely lost to all reason?
Such men as even ·suggest this course should be
treated as traitors. Instead of which they are exalted
and followed~
Any man who speaksupfor the Country'·s interest is
howled down as an ally of "Hitler or else he .is silenced
by the .li'.B.:1. being ·sent to terrorize him.
Do you wonder that we here are in agony over your
stupidity and weakness of character?
.Fellow .Americans, are you all asleep?
Are you·such ignoramuses that you cannot think?
Are you children that you think it amusing to play
with your future to the danger of your. place in the
world?
-Where will you be when you are bound by these
pacts and agreements you a.r_e so :fond of making?
You do not ha:ve to agree to keep the peac·e, You
81
are not .a nation out for .conquest. You have the repu-
tation of.being the most peace-l~ving of all the great
powers. You are tying up with those w~o have no ·such
·.ideals •
.Free yourself!
Protect yourself!. :No one else will do sol
·Now one last word.
All you have read from the m.inds of our greatest
·statesmen is .in your,interest.
Will you heed our words?
Will you begin to understand what the Repubiic is
to you an~ yours?
_ WlLL YOU READ THE CONST.J,:TUTION·ANDTHE BILL.OF
RIGHTS ANl}.TRY TO GET ~INTO YOUR.HEAD-WHAT
:IT ·sAYS?
WHAT_.IT. MEANS AND WHAT.:IT DOES. .FOR YOUR .FREEDOM OF
THOUGHT, SPEECH..AND ACTION EVERY MOMEt,l'TOF YQUR <tIFE
SPENT·uNDER
:I'l'S PROTECTION? ..
.Will you try to think what can, and propably will,
happen to you once its protection .is taken from you
and you are placed under the administr.ation of foreign
domination through .the traitors ·.in your own citizenr.y?
·uave you·sense enough left to do this?
Many of you have.
The minority that you are persecuting ·.in press and
by word of mouth, lmo-wall this and ·strive to warn you.
·1f •it were not for these patriots we here would
not concern ourselves. ·
.we would ·simply try to forget the American Dream
and turn to other thoughts and interests in many di-
·verse places.
·1f you are still worthy of the name American wake
up and take stock of yourself.
Ma~e your ·voice heard as a loyal citizen.
Exercise your privilege of free speech and stand
by your men of integrity who, in and out of Congress
and State office, st;ill are to be counted as DEFENDERS
OF THE AMERICAN
.FAITH,
Grdver Cleveland,
My fellow .Americans:
62
LETTER 11
I ha:ve the honor to speak to you once more, It is
not .in the old way but through the pencil of one who
also laves and serves our fellow .citizens by placing
unusual powers at our disposal - powers that are rare
and of great assistance to us now.
We are not able to go to you in the old way, face
to face, and say with ·vehemence what we wish to say.
Only these written words can bring to you the things
we have .in mind that are most needed to be said at this
time~
Our last .communication was through a fine medium
but it got nowhere and so we are wondering if this will
ha:ve a hearing. We know how you scorn the ·very .id.ea of
psychic powers. ·However., you cannot turn away .if you
use your common sense and your reason.
we ·see now the men who through your negligence or
carelessness, are attaining to power over your fellow
citizerts who are· bound together .in their unions. We
watch with fear the growing army of them and their
hatred of our government.
It started as a personal thing, a feud. :Now it is
a threat to the Republic itself •
.we had no idea of such a situation .in my acµninis-
tration. I counted each worker my friend and co-work-
er in the great body of our citizenry.
This is all a new situation. The example of Russia
is what appears to have made the change in our people.
The American working class have imbibed the theories
and principles of Bolshevism to their harm. They do
not stop to .consider w~at the loss of the Constitution
will mean to them.
The Russians have no such liberty as their Consti-
tution has never been tried .in Russia and even if it
had been it is no instrument to be .compared to our
Constitution and B1ll of Rights •. We have the most
liberal Charter in.all history. The greatest freedom
of any people who ever lived, and the finest balance
63
of gcsverning powers ever tried by man.
,Why should we throw such a safeguard, such an
instrument of progress, away? ,
My own term of office was a happy one and I felt we
lived dn a classless· order that meant no man or woman
need feel discriminated against under the law.
We lcsved the ·various trades and crafts, the pro-
fessions and the almost endless sorts of' businesses.
We took pride in the great ·var-iety of mental· and phys-
·.ical. effort made, all for the .common good.
Oµr aim was to raise the level of the lives of all.
We held no br.ief' f'or any·spec.ial .class. Weknew the
.citizens of every sort and· we shared their feelings in
all ways.
What a·shock to see now the rift that has been made
in the body of the people!
. '
We strove for unity.
Now·.it .is a ·sad and dread .inspiring spectacle of
dissension, animosity and disunion of the citizens.
What will come if all pull .in different directions? ·No
government can ·survive such dissension.
We ask this in the name of those great days when I
worked with and for you all. take ihe warning ~g ~r~
al! giving IOU to heart.
Make ready to defend your own Country and with as
much enthm;fiasm as when we were a part of the machin""".
ery of your government.
·1n spite of al 1 the rabble rousing, .in spite of
all the hatred and pulling .in diverse directions, I
cannot but believe the majority of the people lcsve the
Republic and desire to keep .it as it .is.
Wori't you,· dear. friends, rouse yourselves to the
situation and come to the assistance of those of your
number who will rally in defense of the Republic?
You cannot belie've you will better yourselves by
abandoning your Constitution. You ·seem to have swal-
lowed so much propaganda for making dver the whole
world that you do not realize what is threatening.
Now I wish to say to you something that :is ·very
painful and ·very hard to say.
64
we liked to think our name would always stand for
defenders of the Republic.
It has come to mean a far different thing in these
times. :Not that it is .intentional but the forces that
bear down on the present Administration are all far
from loyal to the .Flag though they do not openly de-
.clare their disloyalty.
I ask all of you - Citizens, men and women, - to
make these words known to those who administer your
.Federal, State and City, Town and County government.
To waken your neighbors to the facts set forth by us
who Jove and watch over our dear Country.
Give heed to our words and mark all we say. You
could know these things for yourself if you were as
diligent as we used to be in my day., not so long ago.
We have no other object than to preserve for you
and all free men in our borders that freedom for which
so much blood has been shed and so many hardships
endured.
!g.!m .!'~1.:thwith ;the :Qast and xour future .is safe.
Betray it, even by indifference and carelessness and
you Ylill rue it.
Your descendants will curse you and here you will
be faced with the ones whose lives have been spent .in
trying to preserve for you what they know to be man's
highest gift to man - a Charter of .Freedom.
Your own children and those who came to take up
their lives with you must not be fooled by the insidi-
ous dastardly propaganda, now filling the air and the
press.
You are still able to compare your Constitution
and your Bill of Rights with the forms under which
European and Asiatic peoples live.
The war is no excuse for you to throw away your
own liberty while you preach of several of the same
freedoms for other nations.
The almost appalling situation is the way we have
backed other people and left ourselves with no defense
against those who by their daily acts display their
disloyalty.
65
All is now said that can b e said.
Now it is ~ou wl10 must take up this cause.
We shall watch and wait for si g ns that you h~ve
·read our words and have taken them to heart. By your
actions we shall know if you are with us in defendin g
our United States or with those who will make Civil
War u-pon them.
I sa y to you - W!KE UP!
MAKEREADY TO .FIGHT .FOR YOUR RIGHTS!
They will soon be a thin g of the -past unless y ou
do, Keep your head and do your pJrt and you can .crus h
the whole plot against . you . Continue to drift and you
will rue it in b itter an guish throu g h a futur e t hat
will be a ·very different thin g from the past lives of
Americans.
I am but a Spirit but I still love and worship and
will defend, in what way I can, my Countr y .
I ask those whose fathers were of my way of think-
.in g , who were also proud to be free men , to stand up
and be counted as patriots and defenders of the
Republic.
Theodore Roosevelt.
My dear CountrY1J1en:
66
LH'l'THR 1,2
I am Chief Justice ·John Marshall who had the honor
to assist at the framing of your Constitution and of
afterwards w~tching .its manifest perfections as the
Charter of your freedom and also as the guardian of
your activities,
we·were privileged also to be in the position on
the Supreme Court where all disputes were ··settled re-
garding the Constitution and more and more, as these
trials of legality came before us, we understood the
perfection of the Constitution and its accompanying
Bill of Rights,
We saw, as time went on, many instances where
efforts were made to ~vade or dvercome the Charter of
the peopl~~s liberties but in no instance was it
possible to make of the words of the Constitution any-
thing but what .its framers ·.intended.
My admiratiop, as a student of the Charters and
·Instruments for Government of other nations, enabled
me to see .clearly how inspired had been our own,
Perhaps no man who came after me ever had to ex-
amine so closely each word and sentence of the Con-
stitution. If it was in any way imperfect we wished to
find out in what respect and to amend it under the law
§lo as to make.it impregnable, Our great and noble
President, Washington, had often said to me in private
cortversation "Watch for any flaws or weakness, Make
sure we have what we intend in this Bill of Rights. We
have, inthe most careful manner endeavored to put into
simple plain words what we have been fighting for,
Keep a 'vigilant eye on all that concerns itc 11
This, of course, itwas my duty to do and my inter-
est as well.
I have only this to say in regard to the present
day conception of the Constitution - you neither
appreciate or ·value it as the protection under which
you bave grown great.
Your judges are chosen to discharge political
67
debts rather than for their legal abilities and their
personal inte grity.
It is my sad task to attend your sessions both in
Chambers and .in the Court and what I am obliged to
listen to is such a stain on the character of the
Supreme Bench that my heart quails before what is to
come .if this degeneration continues,
We could bave ·been the Model Court of the World .
To my fellow Jud ges, with their high merit and their
manly sense of duty to the people, ·it was their dream
to make it so,
We are always in the Court when the Constitution
is on trial, I sit with the Justices, I hear their
side remarks, We marvel at the .choice of some of them
by their President. Always we live in the hope of an
improvement in the g eneral character of the Court, 'Its
.importance is so supremely great that one can but pray
that some understanding of this will soon be manifest.
Now all is the political aspect that .is .considered
by the Bench, Nothing h ut a tendency to avoid the
clear intentions of the Constitution and the _Bill of
Ri gh ts is to be obse~ved. How to defeat the most
simply worded para graphs.
Why is this?
I believe it is because t he men have been put on
the Bench of the Supreme Court of the United States
for that ·very purpose, No other .interpretation is
possible,
We are not abl e to g ive you these opinions .in such
an authoritatfve manner as to reach the whole people.
We are obli g ed to send these words throu gh the hand of
a Soul in mortal flesh who is a b le , by a special
faculty, to lend a hand and pencil to the guidance of
our 111
ind.
Will you take the warning?
Elev en of the greatest Presidents have used this
means to speak to you. Will ;you heed their words? If
not there is small hope that you will re g ard mine
seriously ,
68
Your bestowal of the franchise on any and every one
has now borne fruit. The one weakness of our Consti-
tution was .its .indiscriminate bestowal of the fran-
.chise. It was a natural error. The hardships to be
endured by the citizens were a guarantee that those·
seeking residence here would be of the same honest and
rugged character as those here. As the Country pros-
pered more and more labor was required and we began to
admit those who were able to comprehend what was ex-
pected of them. Their children in many instances, had
no training .in the ideals of citizenship and became
outlaws under cover of the freedom granted them. Many
of. our American children were also lured by these ex-
amples into defiance of the law and became a menace to
the peace.
The national authorities gave small attention to
those young law-breakerso The country was growing rich
and that was the ~ain consideration. The .cost of main-
taining courts, Jails and Prisons .could be afforded
and so the s.verage .citizen made no attempt to. curb this
outlawry beyond the local protests in a few.instances.
What a spectacle for us who ever stand watch!
We then·saw the moral attrition of our people. The
women of the Country lead in their declaration of
their right to such license as is depr•ving their
.children not only in conduct but in health.
A few fine Souls strive to stem this tide of na-
tional degeneration but they are too few to make the
:change of ·standards needed to bring moral, mental and
physical., heal th to the present generation.
ou·r teachers .in schools and in colleges are often
leaders .in their decadence. No thought of your future
here, after mortal life enters in. What you face as
low Spirits .is something you do not comprehend.
You may take our word that "As below, so above,"
.in the words of the ancients.
Make up your minds now to either .clean the stable
you nave made of the house of freedom or suffer such
humiliation and degradation as Sven Rome nSver ex-
perienced.in its decline and fall.
j
69
Now to ~peak of the immediat e reason for my ef-
forts to reach you.
You have now reached the point of weakness and
deterioration that you have delivered your Country and
y our Youth, your Means and your Arms, ovei to the
stron g powers of Europe.
You have never been one to hoard or even to guard
your possessions, You have, like man y gamblers, been
g enerous with yo~r winnin g s an d good of heart whenever
peoples were in distress, This quality , one of your
fe ~ s h inin g ·virtues, at present, has now bee n e x-
ploited to the utmost ,
To this is added the sad fact that your citiz enry
has within it millions of ·voters, men and womeri, who
desire to overthrow your g overnment and make of this
Country an addition to a g reat Empire whose s y stem of
g overnment .is one of absolutism. Your lower working
class has been an easy corivert for these traitors.
The y have .in the past few years been whipped ·into
or g aniz~tions where class h atred has been fostere d,
While y our ar ~ ed services are far away thes e poor
dupes, led b y th e traitors, plan to· seize your govern-
ment,
The alli e s of this movement are even admi nisterin g
tlie la w in ;your Courts , Even t he Su p re me Court of
Jus ·tices h as be en corrupted by these mi_
scr e ants,
We t ell you, citizens of the Repub lic , you will be
e nslaved ve r y soon and all your we e p in g an d wailin g
will av a il you n othin g unless you now tak e to heart
t he s e warnin g s an d act accor din g l y.
You are the ones to s ay what shall be don e , We can
only g ive you t he wor d s of warnin g, If you do not b e -
li e ve us you may suffer th e loss of your Constitution ,
If you ta ke the war n in g to h eart, if you ar e able to
unite to d efen d .Yours e lves an d hol d fast to your form
of r,over nme nt , yo u ma,y b e ab le to p reserve it , Oth er-
wise you are lost .
Clean s e your elective officials of any but tried
patriotic citizens ,
70
Use your suffrage carefully and wisely o
Above all, clear from the Courts the tools of the
enemy and elect such men to administer the law as you
have reason to respe .ct. Make yourself a guardian of
the constitution .in your locality.
Give just due to the men and women . you know to be
true to the Constitution.
Most of your enemies are known by_ their personal
characters or by their affiliations. Give no place to
those who advocate the theories of Communism and other
brands of political comity that have no relation to
the ~rinciples embodied .in your Constitution.
Give your ·vote and your support to Americans.
Now_one last word.
I, John Marshall, First Chief ·Justice of the su-
preme Courts of these United States, do hereby swear
and take oath that every word I have here dictated .is
true, so help me God.
John MarshalL
"At what point, then, is the approach of danger to
be expected? I answer, if it ever reach us, it must
spring up amongst us; it cannot come from abroad . If
destruction be our lot, we must ourselves be its author
and finisher . As a nation of freemen, we must live
throu~h all time ordie by suicide . . • Here then is one
Point at which danger may be expected. The question
recurs, how shall we fortify against it? The answer is
simple, Let every American, every lover of Liberty,
every well-wisher to his Posterity, swear . . .·11
(From
Abraham Lincoln's First Inaugural Address)
·rf we desire to continue as a free people, we should
know the nature of our Constitutional rights and how to
protect them - and that right early, we talk about
freedom. sweet land of Liberty we sing and beat the
drum, But really, how many of us dare pay the price
for Liberty as our fathers did? Do you?
Respe~tfully yours,
John J • .Fleck
71
LETTER 13
My own dear Countrymen:
I wish to add my own testimony to that of our most
loved Presidents and the men who have, through a cen-
tury and a half, been .in public life or before our
people in their particular fieltl.
All is as it has been pictured to you. We here
live in a sort of terror of what is to come and each
day brings .nearer the awful moNent when the hell con-
templated by the enemies of our United States will
undertake to destroy the p~esent regime and start a
reign of terror.
What can I add to their words?
What is yet to be said on this dread subject?
I was a writer of ·stories. I was also a .citizen
and a minor official .in the public service. My own
experience even then showed the tendency of the poli-
ticians to make of the government a great machine to be
manipulated by local political bosses.
I had an onportunity to observe how the .character
of our Eederal administration was, even at that time,
deteriorating, So now we see what it has all come to.
A complete and terrible disaster. The .Fall of Rome was
a small thing by .comparison.
If you can still rally the fine, loyal men and
women, the Republic; can be saved.
Will_you try to make an effort to do this?
.For God's sake act NOW
then,
We only be g you to do this for ~
1our own sake.
We here are safe from the enemies of freedom.
Be sure you will be made a replica of ·the peoples
in Europe if you do not heed our words.
NOW
ACT!
Nathaniel Hawthorne,
My dear countrymen:
72
LETTER i4
What .fs still to be ·said that will move you .in de-
fense ·of your rights and your liberty?
What is sUll unspoken that will fire you with the
zeal needed to make· you·strike first?
What .in our English tongue can :I say that will be
potent to add a spark to the flaming words of those
powerful and wise mentalities that ha:ve been making
, you aware of the Republic's danger?
Oh, my dear Americans, give yourself up to this
wise. and .considered .counsel. Make of their words a
rallying call to all true sons and daughters of the
Republic!
Make your own plans for this work!
Make your own mind and heart and soul the ·shiel~
of oyr most dear land!
God give 'these words the power to move you, .in the
prayer of,
Washington ·1rving.
''"" ''"'""
"'"' ·"'"'
I am not bound to win, but 1
am bound io be true. I amnot
bound to succeed, but I am
bound to live up to what
light I have. I must stand
with ·anybody that stands
right. stand with him while
he is ritht, and part with
hi- when he foes wrone.
-Abraham Lincoln.
73
L E T'J.'E R 15
To my dear and well loved countrymen:
Here I am, Ral ph Waldo Emerson, marking the day
tLis 20tli of November, when for the second time I aru
tq ,ing to speak to my dear and cherished people - m;y
own American men and women who have been so distressed
and liarassed since tllose calm and happ;y days when I
was one with them in Earth life.
How sad to see the si gns of deterioration that
liave come upon them!
How tra g ic the scene I now look upon and mourn-
ful]~ : thin!, upon!
:My gooc. people you are in a very sad pligl1t.
You seem not to realize just how ~ad and how dan-
g erous it is.
My great compatriots have told you in words of
great pith and moment all that these dangers portend.
Can you not take their words to heart? They are spoken
out of the great hearts and splendid minds of those
wise men of yore,
No doubt you are
t his rockin g world.
silly idea.
.convinced of your safe place in
Do not be led astra) by such a
You are , in such dan ger as was never known in our
dear land before o
The tilin g that men aces you is the loss of that
liberty and freedom of speech, thou ght and action,
that has made of you the torch that lighted up the
world.
No matter how you try to convince yourself of the
contrary you are on the edge of an abyss. I but add
my testimony to what has already been told you.
Be warned now and take such steps as will preserve
those dear liberties that may never be yours again
unless you are awake to your dan ger of losing them and
make all read) for their protection.
Alas, I can sa) · no more than - BE ON GUARD!
Ralph ,Waldo Emerson.
74
LETTER 16
We are now a spirit.
we are no· :i~onger able to speak b;y means of a news-
paper. we must ,11a.ke our thoughts known th'..'Ough another
hand. W~ also are able, b;y ttis means, to keep in
touch with the public .in such manner as may be,
All our life as a journalist we fought for the
Republic. we saw .in its constitution the greatest
instrument ever devised to free mankind .from the
shackles of the forms of gdvernment that abroad had
for so long held his mind enctained.
We now see how little Americans have prized this
fre~dom and how easily they can have it taken from
them.
Our best times were when we .cherished and ·valued
those liberties abdve all else. Now it is popular to
.cry down the Republic and exalt those gdvernments who
make the masses slaves to despotic rule.
No man and no woman must hope for a return of our
Republic once it .is lost.
Be sure we would not tell you this unless it was
true.
In all our life as the leader of opinion in the
press we never wrote a word, or even spoke a word,
regardi9g our Republic, that was not said with utter
conviction of its truth!
Be warned!
You will become slaves very soon unless you take
th.is warning!
We never meant to say such words as these. In my
Earth time they would have been ridiculous. Now they
are a solemn duty.
All is said.
Now what can be added?
Only this -
As you deal with this Republic, this God given
Charter of Human Rights, so shall you be dealt_with.
Horace Greeley.
My Fellow Americans:
75
LETTER 17
No wor ds of mine ne ed s ay what ha s b e en so well
said br the great r,en who have spoken to you. Still I
want t he honor of joini n g with t hem in the warnin g to
our fellow citizens.
W
e sh all be always on watch to hel p , if possible,
those Americans who are now in mortal dan ger of losin g
t lle greatest instrument s ver left to a people .
Be your own Masters!
NSver permit the mobsters to take from you your
precious ri ghts - freedorr: of speech, thou ght and action,
Make yourself the Master of your future, To do
this you must take our warning and preserve the Con-
stitution and the Bill of Rights.
No prescription offered you will be the right cure
for the ailment that has afflicted you for fifty years,
That malady is lazy-mindedness,
Now to say only this, we know your danger, We
warn you of it. You will go down ignominiously unless
you heed it.
Oliver Wendell Holmes,
76
LETTER 18
we ·see now and ever since the last war a great and
terrible change .in the minds of the Americaw people,
we cannot make ourselves heard and we do, by tl;e o,1ly
mea ns possible, be g you to turn from the course you
seem bent upon. Unless you oo, all I fought for, all
I prayed and planned for, will be lost,
I fought to save the Republ i c,
I had with me the men wh,o ded icate d themselves to
the task . I was 0 ,-.1~ t ;,e i ;- leader b.Y g race of God,
Tl1ey were equally tlle leaders in that each was faithful
to bis part of our work, Every enl isted man - mere
boys, most of them - was also a leader in his way . No
liardshi"!'1 was spare d them and no task daunted them.
The,Y fou glit when half-starvin g; when in snow and rain
they had no shoes and ha d no shelter.
What was :it all for? It was for the BEElJBLlC•It
was to keep this a Union of Free States .
we neve~ dreamed th~t in l~ss than seventy years
you wou ld be in different, careless and even at times
.contem-ptuous.
we never t hought to hear the cheap jokes and what
you now call "wise cracks" by new citizens who ldve to
belittle the Civil war, Even the few ·veterans wh o
still try to play a man's part on Memorial Day are
food for the vile humor of many citizens who watch
these aged heroes as they hobble by on their canes and
.crutches,
What have you become? Have you sunk to the lev e l
of idiots? can't yo~ realize that it was these men and
their million comrades who are responsible for all you
enjoy toda y? Had the Civil war been lost you wou l d
long ago have been made a colony by one of the Europe an
powers,
All your so-called humor is but a reflection on
,Your own poor minds, Those you choose to make the butt
of it are men, patriots, and of such calibre as you
will . never be.
You do not love this country or you would not act
77
in this way o You ~rg tt~11Qt~· God damn and curse
every mother's son of you who are guilty of such actso
You should be driven from this Country, back to
where you came from.
,Women have become even worse than men ,in this
respect .
When I think of the br~ve and noble girls and
women who worked with such diligence to help us, and
those of the Confederacy as well , I marvel that the
shameless conduct of amny of you "moder n " females doe s
not bring public rebu ke o
Now to speak once more as a man in the s ervi ce o f
the Union o
You can go on as you are and drag down the Flag
and the Republic . You will do this unless those still
loyal men and women wake you to the dangero
the .cowards are the first to yell as the lash
fallso You who think by destroying the Republic you
can rise on the r uins will be the first to face the
firing squad when the despotism replaces the Cons titu-
tion,
Read tlle story of all revolutions and s ee how the
makers of it perish .
Now again to try and wak e you lethargi c Amer i c ans
to a sen_se of du ty .
My God ! Can you conte mplate what .is comin g and
not take action? We are on the brink of the most
terrible disaster that s v er befell a people . The enemy
is within your own citizenry , We war n iou .
May those patri ots among you be heard _and listened
to . Otherwise they must go down with the lazy and the
traitors • .For the traitors ~111 go down " Their battle
cries will turn to howls for mercy from their new
masters ,
Now one word to you who can and will try to save
the Republic.
Take the advice . g iven you and act upon it NOW. No
uod , no Angel , no Prdviden tial In terfere nc e can help
you. You . must help yourself -
.First : Take ever ·y precaution to protect the Capi -
78
tol, also State Capitols.
Sg,g.Q!}g: Make safe what few military posts and stores
we still hav4::, God knows they are little
enough,
t!l1r£l: Every family should regard their home as a
.Ci tidal•
F.Q.Y.r.tlJ:Lay in what stores of food you .can.
E.!~4: Evacuate from the cl ties all helpless peo-
ple and if possible the .children.
Si~tb: Make all as safe as you can and do not let
yourself be diverted by all this talk of the
post-war peace settlement. You will have
no voice in that if you are at the mercy of
a lot of re~oluti9nists,
THE EirEMYIS GETTING READ
Y NOWl
THE G~NERALSTRIKE IS THEIR SIGNAL!
Now to say one t~ in : ' ~or e.
If the Republic falls you know you will have been
equally guilty with those who actively helped to
destroy it.
May you be given the mind and soul and courage to
act at _
once, . _ If iou do 1ou will be victorious.
THE ENEM
Y IS COUNTING ON SURPRISE AS THE GREAT
WEAPON,
.All is in your hands.
If only I had again the mortal p ower and could be
again your commander I could easily defeat the enemy.
Now I can only say what seems all to weak to rouse you
to ;your danger.
Bg YD ~!}QQ.Q1Dg!
I shall be on watch and may you be given the _sense
to act. Ulysses S, Grant.
79
BOOKS ~OR PATRIOTS
A Trial On Trial st. George . & Dennis ,$5. 00
l!l,tJmate Papers of Col. House, .2 ·vols.
Mrc House of Texas
Chas. ' Seymour · 5.00
A• D. Howden 3.50
Free ·Speech in the United states
1he conquest of a Continent
Challenge to Freedom
Zechariah Chafee, ·Jr - 4. -00
·yadison Grant 3.00
Henry -M. Wriston 2.00
The world Hoax Ernest .F. ·Elmhurst ,2.00
we, the People Nathan Boone Williams 1.50
The Rothschild Money Trust George W
• Armstrong ,1, 50
world :E:,rpire II n
Labor ·Honopoly or Freedom John w. Scoville
The Constitution of the United States
Winning war in Europe & pacific; Report of
For Americans Only Samuel
Thomas ·_
Norton
Gen. Marshall
B• . Pettengill
~ htning over the Treasury Building .
Americans' Castle of Freedom
Judaic-Communism vs Christian-Americanism
Zionist J ar-Mongering in the u. s. A·
J. R. Elson
Jeremiah stokes
Marilyn Allen
II
"
1, QO
1. 00
1.00
1,00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
Government by Treason
The case of Tyler Kent
John Howland snow . 1.00
The Jewish Assault on Christianity
~ermany and England
The Soclalist .Network
" " •
Gerald B. Winrod
Mrso Nesta H, Webster _
n n
"
" II
The Surrend er of an Empir e
secret Societies & Subversive
!he French Re~olution (lcopy,
-
..._____
world Revolution ( 11
Movements "
rare, out of pt)
" . " ~)
II
"
"
II
open Letter to C9ngress
The Truth About pearJ Harbor
The Final Secret of pearl Harbor
The Smear Terror
-1' he Jews _Declare war on Germany
William Pitt on the American war
British secret service Report
Union ·Now
Union ·Now
, Treason
Destroying America
·J9seph p . · Kamp
·John T• Flynn
II II
II II
The Beacon Light
II .
" II
II II II
II II II
" II II
• II II
• 50
~ 25
• 25
.2.50
3.50
7,00
10,00
20.00
• 50
• 815
0 25
.25
• 25
• 25
,25
.25
0 25
e 25
England's Efforts to Destroy Our ·Nation " 11 11 ,25
The Bill of Rights, 13 X 16 in Colors Suitable .For Framing 060
80
BOOKS FOR CHRISTIANS
Date of .crucifixion and Era of New Birth D, Davidson $1.00
D
:.;
o
:..:.
m
:;.;
i:;;;
n
aa
a
=-
t_i_o
....
n
--..;
o
_f
a.-:;
B
""
a
;;..
b
..,
Y
""'
l;;..;
o
;.;:
n
"-'
2
'--'L
""
i
=-
t=-
e
_1
""'
·a
"'l---'&
;.;..
·__,
S
""
ym
"-=
b
;;..
o
;;..
l
=-
i
=-
c
;;..
a
""
l
aa---- ft____ " ---=- 1"'-
. 0
=-
0
~ .,_.,,,,,
v' Grt Pyr' s Proph ~cy Cone. Brit, Emp, & America ft ft 1, 00
·Herschel's Geometric Inch · ft ft .75
Exod\ls of lsrae l, its Date §< Historical Setting " , 60
·Judgl)1ent of Nations in Grt Pyr I
s Prophec y ft ft , 60
The Great Pyr runid 1
s Proof of God George ff. Riffert 2.00
Oreat Pyra~id in Light of Arch, Research J . 9. Kinnaman ,25
Judah's Sceptre and J os eph's Birthr ight J, H, Allen 2,00
~ :New World Cowin g
The Russi~n Chapter s of Ez ekie l
U. s. _
in Prophecy or Isaiah's Vision
Coming Events
Washington 1
s Vision in Action
British~Israel ·vs Americ anism
. .
~ e ·Hidden ·Hand of ·Judah
The Ori~in and Destin y of the .Jews
EPARE FOR THE STORM
~e Murder of the U. S,
The Holy Bible in Modern En g lish
..,
~ The Aquarian Gospel of .Jesus the Christ
The Lost Books of the Bible
'Henry D, ' Houghton 2 ,00
W, M
, A, Milner .40
Clarence Wilson ,2 5
The Beacon Light
n n
fl
ft
n
0, B. Good
Rogers & Monson
Willi8111 Kvll ren
Will F, Jenkins
Ferrar Fen on
Levi
, 25
. 25
• 25
. 25
. 25
1. 00
, 25
6.00
Cl ark 's Biblical Law, H, B, Clark: Buckram, $4.00:
4, 00
2 , 50
Clot ·h 3 .0 0
God's Great Plan
The Life and works of ·Josephus
MyWeapon is Love
Bible Mysteries Revealed
we Knew These Men
·7 The Archko Volume
' Reincarn at ion
.(h...,._
Rosicrucian Cosmo-Conception,
T~e End of Da,rs
:NATIONAL
DESTINY
THE BIBLE SPBAKSTO AMERICA
R. L, Williams 1,5u
Complete in 1 vol, 4. 50
El~nor Yorke 2.75
·Johan Wein 2,75
Wilfred Brandon 2.50
Rev. D. w
. Mahan 2.50
George B, Brownell
Heindel: paper, $1.00; Cloth
2.00
2. 00
1. 00
1.00
1. 00
The Visfon of Gen. Mcc;iellan, 11
1¢'; 12 for
Brother !C.~I
Charles Stevems
William Kullgren
$LOO
