{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v12_n2_mar-apr_2016.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V12 N2 Mar-Apr 2016","mylang":"de"}
34
F
—~§~—
—~§~—
035 – The London Spiritualist Alliance: Great Gathering at New Premises – Light
040 – The Survival League – Marjorie Watts
043 – PK-Collection: Academics report as eye-witnesses about psychokinetic
phenomena – Marcus Heymann
045 – Notes of Second Materialization Sitting with Mrs Duncan on 30th October 1930 –
LSA
051 – Independent Voice Development with Mrs. Osborne Leonard – Light
056 – Beaten By The Facts? Assessing the Significance of Séance Phenomena in Mid-
Victorian England – Andy Byng
079– How to obtain this Journal by email
=============================
PSYPIONEER JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
Established 2004
Volume 12, No. 2: March – April 2016
35
Introductory Note by LP: In January 2016, the College of Psychic Studies presented a
successful exhibition to mark 90 years in its building at 16 Queensberry Place, London SW7
2EB. Until 1955 it was known as the London Spiritualist Alliance. It is planned to repeat the
exhibition, with further discoveries, for a week in August 2016. We recall below the original
‘At Home’ held in January 1926 to celebrate moving in.
THE LONDON SPIRITUALIST
ALLIANCE.
GREAT GATHERING AT
NEW PREMISES.
SIR ARTHUR CONAN
DOYLE’S ADDRESS.1
Even standing room was
at a premium in the new
premises of the London
Spiritualist Alliance 16,
Queensberry Place, South
Kensington, on Thursday,
January 21st, in view of the
enthusiastic response of
members and friends who
attended the initial House
Warming. Using the words
quoted during the evening by
Mr. Ernest Hunt, the
gathering was one ﬁtted to
astonish the friends of the
movement and to confound
its enemies. At about eight
o’clock in the evening there
was something almost
resembling a queue
stretching from Harrington
Road to the home of the
Alliance and LIGHT made
[making? Ed] it an easy
matter to find.
It was a representative gathering, including many, such as Mr. F. W. Percival, Mr.
Dawson Rogers, Mr. Wake Cook, Mrs. M. H. Wallis, and Miss McCreadie, who had been
long associated with the movement. The various séance and meeting rooms of the new
building were inspected, and Mr. Harry Price was almost overwhelmed by the number of
visitors who came up to inspect the National Laboratory on the top ﬂoor.
The musical programme was excellent. The Welsh baritone, Owen Bryngwyn,
accompanied by Miss Barbara Thornley, sang “Linden Lea” (Vaughan Williams), “Sigh No
More, Ladies” (Aikin), “Where Hearts are True,” and “The Jolly Black Cobbler.” Miss
1
Taken from LIGHT January 30th 1926 page 52
36
Linette Grayson sang with great charm and sweetness, “O Tell Me Nightingale” (Liza
Lehmann), and “The Fairy Laundry” (Phillips).
Mr. Ernest Hunt, on behalf of the Alliance, welcomed the guests and gave an interesting
resume of the past activities of that body. Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, who was accompanied by
Lady Conan Doyle, was warmly greeted. In a short address he outlined some points on which
he desired, as President, to lay stress.
Refreshments were partaken of, and all agreed that the evening marked an epoch in the
history of the Alliance and the movement. Viscountess Molesworth and other ladies helped in
looking after the comfort of the guests. Miss Mercy Phillimore, the General Secretary, came
in for many congratulations on the result of her efforts in connection with the new building.
After a tour of inspection as many as could gain admittance assembled in the large
meeting hall.
MR. ERNEST HUNT said that night they were
starting a new era. After various vicissitudes they found
themselves in these new premises, which he invited
them to inspect. The premises belonged to the members
of the London Spiritualist Alliance, that was, to those
present.
It had been suggested to him that the present was a
ﬁtting time to review the history of the Alliance and its
pioneers. This year they were forty-two years old. In
1884 the Alliance was founded by Stainton Moses, well
known to many as “M. A. Oxon,” and the author of
“Spirit Teachings,” as well as Editor of LIGHT for some
time; he was prominent among the founders of the
Alliance without any committee and without any
Council. Apparently he had had experience. (Laughter.)
It was conducted by a few of his own nominees. After
his death the President was Edmund Dawson Rogers,
whose name was a land-mark in the history of
Spiritualism. He also was Editor of LIGHT.
The speaker quoted this passage from Mr. E. Dawson Rogers’ presidential address in
1892, as showing that our ideals were the same then as now:—
“As Spiritualists we are, on a few points, all agreed. We believe that death is but the
resurrection to another life . . .
We believe in the possibility, under certain conditions, of communion with dear ones
gone before. We believe that on our entrance into the spirit world we shall ﬁnd ourselves
pretty much what we were here—neither worse nor better. And we believe that growth in
goodness and consequent happiness is in that world still possible to all; that opportunities
of progress are ever open to all, even there; and that even there it will be found, as
Gerald Massey has so well said, that—
‘Heaven is not shut for evermore
Without a knocker left upon the door.’ ”
In 1898 the Alliance held a Congress of world-wide importance: It was ended by what
was described as a reunion without parallel.
Ernest Hunt
37
“Amid the ﬂowers moved . . . about twelve hundred persons of all ranks and of many
nations, all associated to a greater or less extent with a movement which is supposed to be
unpopular, which is reputed to be poor, but which is being tardily—often unwillingly—
recognised as enfolding the germs of some world-shaking truths. And the London Spiritualist
Alliance may be fairly said to have astonished its friends and confounded its enemies.”
History repeated itself, added Mr. Hunt, because now at the present time the Alliance was
astonishing its friends and confounding its enemies. (Applause)
The only speech on that occasion was made by the Rev. John Page Hopps, who said:—
“This is an International Congress. On the first day somebody said that we ought to
have the American and English ﬂags in the Hall. My reply was that if we have any ﬂags
at all, I would like to see the ﬂags of all nations. What we want, as Spiritualists, is to see
a universal brotherhood. We want to make no compacts with particular nations to the
exclusion of others. We want brotherly relations with every people on the face of the
earth. In our Congress we have had very different explanations of different facts, but
there had been one deep faith in some of the ‘simple, grand verities’ which it was the
mission of Spiritualism to make known, namely—that the universe had a spiritual and
ethical basis; that its keynote was life, not death; and that there was progress, or
evolution, for every form of life.”
Looking back to the past, the first building occupied by the Alliance was in Duke-street,
Adelphi. Then came 110, St Martin’s-lane, from which a move was made to Queen-square,
and now they had acquired the present premises in South Kensington.
In 1896, Mr. Edmund Dawson Rogers decided
that the Alliance should be on a more democratic
basis, and in that year it was registered as a
Limited Liability Company. The signatures to the
Memorandum, it was interesting to recall, were E.
Dawson Rogers, Henry Withall, Alfred Russel
Wallace, C. C. Massey, and Lord Radnor. The
ﬁrst officers in 1897 were: Messrs. Rogers,
Withall, Dr. G. Wyld, Rev. J. Page Hopps, T.
Everitt, Major Drayson, Alaric Watts.
In referring to the past, he must not forget to
mention the important services rendered by Mr.
David Gow, who started the Memorial
Endowment Fund, which furnished the nucleus
for the purchase of their premises. Mr. Gow was
ably seconded by their worthy Secretary, Miss
Mercy Phillimore. It was not possible to pay too
high a tribute to the work she had done. She might
almost be said to have grown up with the
Alliance, and the success of her efforts in the
recent Bazaar would be fresh in their minds.
(Applause.)
Edmund Dawson Rogers
38
Members of the London Spiritualist Alliance must remember that it was not the executive,
but they themselves, who must constitute the driving force. They had it in their hands to
make the Alliance the world-power that it should be, and thus enable it to carry out the work
which, under God’s good providence, it was intended to do. (Applause.)
SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE said:—
This is the ﬁrst occasion on which I have
addressed you since I have had the honour of
being your President. I hesitated about accepting
this position, because my life is already very full,
and because I am never satisﬁed to be a mere
ﬁgure head. I found out, however, that the
demand was a unanimous one, and that I had
received what the Scottish clergy describe as “a
call.”
Let me say at the outset that there are one or
two matters of principle which shall certainly
characterise my presidency. One is that we must
have among our members a spirit of supreme
toleration. Everything outside our basic
principles must be dealt within the most lenient
way. When the religious question arose at a
S.N.U. meeting at Halifax, I suggested a formula
which might meet the case. It was that
Spiritualism is a religion to those who have no
other religion, while to those who had, it was a
useful adjunct. That seemed to satisfy both
parties.
The second thing I would strongly insist upon is that we protect our mediums. (Applause)
It is disgraceful to ﬁnd scandalous charges made in the Press and no effort made on our part,
not only to rebut them, but to show our displeasure. We are a powerful body, and I would be
in favour of using that power to the fullest extent We do not object to honest criticism, but
where do we find it? I have hardly ever seen a reasoned article against us. On the contrary,
you have all seen the foolish accusations made and bolstered up by the names of those who
should know better.
We have under this roof Mr. Harry Price. I would implore him to avoid the morass into
which the Society for Psychical Research has fallen. I implore him to avoid that and to go in
for constructive work, such as his excellent work with Stella C. I speak with some warmth,
because in a recent number of the “Journal of the American S.P.R.” Mr. Price put his
honoured name to the statement that Mrs. Deane’s cenotaph picture was a fraud. Now that is
simply not true. Mrs. Dean is one of the best attested mediums in the Kingdom. Sir Arthur
then went into the already known details of this case.
After a reference to the Falconer Brothers and an apparently genuine “extra” obtained by
them, as well as one obtained by Lady Palmer in a Chapel in Paris, Sir Arthur mentioned the
address he had delivered the previous day at Oxford. He had then spoken to an audience of a
thousand, made up of students, dons, and professors. “I have great hopes for these nine
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle
39
hundred young students who listened to me,” said Sir Arthur. “I felt that nothing I said
gripped them more than the story of the Cleophas script.”2
In conclusion, he expressed the hope that he might prove worthy of the high office of their
President. (Applause.) L.C.
—~§~—
LIGHT also carried an editorial comment
Page 54:
THE LONDON SPIRITUALIST ALLIANCE.
The immense gathering at 16, Queensberry Place on Thursday, the 21st inst., when the
London Spiritualist Alliance threw open its new headquarters for the inspection of its
members and their friends, was an outstanding event in its career. True, it was a domestic
rather than a public occasion, but it was full of signiﬁcance. It marked a new stage in the
activities of the Alliance and the ﬁrst step towards a larger and more adventurous phase of
work.
The fact that on the same evening was inaugurated the opening of the National Laboratory
of Psychical Research, which is under the same roof with the Alliance, had also a special
importance. Scientiﬁc testimony to the reality of psychical phenomena is continually cited by
Spiritualists, and Science must have its place, even if we have occasionally to remind it that it
must keep to its place.
Mr. H. E. Hunt, who presided at the meeting in the lecture room, provided an instructive
item in the proceedings by giving in broad outline the career of the Alliance since its
inception in 1884, and the story he related must have been of exceptional interest to those
who were not familiar with the history of its past, although doubtless everybody concerned is
now familiar with its preparations for the future.
The address of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, the new President of the Alliance, bristled with
interesting points, his plea for toleration being not the least important. No one is better aware
than he that we have not yet passed the controversial stages of the subject, and he rightly
emphasised that although such labels as “Christian Spiritualist” or “Unitarian Spiritualist”—
the “hyphenated forms” of Spiritualism—were permissible, the main principle must not be
overlooked that Spiritualism was a buttress for all religious faiths. As a famous writer on the
subject once said, “Spiritualism is the preamble to all religions.”
The London Spiritualist Alliance, it is clear, has entered upon a stage in which it will have
to set itself with single-minded devotion towards the great ideal. It has made a great
emergence from the past but it will not break with its greater traditions, it will more than ever
become a guiding and a leading force in the Spiritual movement at large. It will aim at that
large unity which will comprehend divergences of view and avoid those disruptions which
come of acute disputes on minor points, keeping faithfully to those central principles upon
which alone full agreement is possible.
—~§~—
2
Material received by automatic writing through the medium Geraldine Cummins about the early Church. LP
40
Introductory Note by LP:
In Psypioneer September 2005, we recalled how
the early death of Mrs Dawson Scott was a blow
to the new International Institute.3
We give
below an account of her earlier venture, the
Survival League, taken from Mrs Sappho: The
Life of C. A. Dawson Scott, Mother of
International P.E.N. By Marjorie Watts with a
Foreword by Francis King. Duckworth 1987
chapter 39 pages 167-170:
The Survival League
In 1929, in addition to travelling to the States, Vienna and Prague, Sappho had her last
important idea. On October l3th, 8 years after founding the P.E.N., she founded the Survival
League.
During her journeys abroad and through her social and literary contacts, she had met many
people who had themselves had curious and unexplained experiences and who already half
believed in an ‘after-life’.
Met Sir E. Marshall Hall … he is the fairest, most secretive looking man I’ve seen for
some time. He said if I started a Survival Organisation, he would join.
The idea of the Survival League was not a sudden one. It happened in the same way as the
To-Morrow Club and the P.E.N. Club. The ground had been dug and prepared: it was waiting
for some use to be made of it, and all at once Sappho knew what she was going to do. She
returned from a visit to America (in connection with her Is this Wilson? book) in March 1929
and described her thoughts on the subject three months later:
During the 3 months after my return, the Survival League began to take deﬁnite
shape. It became an afﬁrmation of Survival. People had investigated and experimented
for long enough, and I wanted them to accept Survival as a deﬁnite fact and ﬁnd out
about it. I also wished to unite the many societies who believe in that and other things.
An easy link between large numbers of people would be their common belief that man
survived. To that belief they added dogmas of hoary age, but they did not accept the
modern view that death made very little difference to the individual: it was as if a person
had walked from his friends into another room of the same house … I wished for this
union, but not for uniformity. I wished for all the experimenters and thinkers to come
together and tell the world of their belief in the one fact of survival.
She consulted Dennis Bradley and took the Queen’s Hall for Sunday evening, 13th
October. She had lived in a tent all August in order to acquire the money to hire the hall.
3
http://www.woodlandway.org/PDF/17.PSYPIONEERFoundedbyLesliePrice.pdf
41
The Queen’s Hall meeting was a success since, as 2,400 people bought tickets, it paid its
way. Among those present were Oliver Baldwin, M.P., the Rev. Fielding-Ould, Estelle Stead,
Hannan Swaffer, and many of Sappho’s writer friends — M.P. Willcocks, Anna Wickham,
Constance Holme, H. de Vere Stacpoole, Lind-af-Hagby, Shaw Desmond … There were also
a large number of organisations represented.
About the Queen’s Hall meeting Sappho wrote:
There were 13 or 14 speakers, and Mr Bradley insisted on my speaking too, which I
was sorry to have to do. It was not difficult, however, as we had Marconi microphones...
For 2 hours the audience sat spellbound, listening to the evidence as given by
ordinary men and women of many professions and creeds in proof of survival …
evidence obtained personally, obtained without the aid of mediums. Present on the
platform and speaking were business men, clergymen, a lawyer, Member of Parliament,
poet, chemist, ironmonger, lecturer, novelist …There were Roman Catholics, Church of
England, Theosophists, Spiritualists, Agnostics. That made the meeting impressive.
Sappho must have given the meeting considerable thought previously, for at the Queen’s
Hall gathering an Executive Committee of ten was formed, with Dennis Bradley as
Chairman, and a large Council. She wrote at the bottom of the two lists of names: ‘I am, what
I began by being, the Organiser.’ She had, however, learnt one lesson — to try and arrange an
exit for herself, so that she would not again be responsible for running two big organisations
at the same time, as with the To-Morrow Club and the P.E.N. In the guidelines written down
for the Survival League was the sentence:
As soon as funds permit [the subscription was 5s a year] a paid secretary shall be
employed and the Founder released from the necessity to act as an officer of the League.
This was a nice idea, but did not, of course, work out, and she remained closely involved
— in fact the Organiser —until she died ﬁve years later.
Unfortunately Sappho ceased to keep a journal soon after the birth of the Survival League,
and it has been difficult to ﬁnd out what happened to this ‘Idea’, since everyone who attended
the inaugural meeting has died, except Maurice Barbanell, who became the editor of Psychic
News. And he said: ‘It is a long time ago, and I don’t remember.’
In the library of the British Museum, however, I found two little books entitled The Guide
to Psychic Knowledge, edited by C.A. Dawson Scott, in 1932, which I did not know existed.
The heading in No 1 was ‘Questions from People on This Side of Death. Answers from
People on That Side of Death.’ Sappho had written the foreword, explaining that:
The following questions were propounded at a gathering of about 15 people, most of
whom were writers, musicians, pictorial artists and M.P.s. The answers came through
Mrs Garrett (Medium) who was in a deep trance … and were given by an entity who
called himself McKenzie.
Examples of the questions asked by the group are:
What does it feel like to die? Does it resemble going to sleep? Are people on your
side aware of us? Why is it difficult for us to perceive you?
42
Copies of this booklet could be obtained from the Survival League, McKenzie House (named
after Stewart McKenzie) at 125, Alexandra Road, N.W.8. price 7d.4
I found also The Survival Magazine, but this did not mention the Survival League until in
No. 35, Vol. 4, of December 1932, it is stated for the ﬁrst time: ‘This Magazine is the ofﬁcial
organ of the Survival League, edited by Clifford Potter, from Erlestoke Park, Wilts.’ In this
number there is an article by Sappho, which shows that three years after its foundation the
Survival League was still very much alive, as was her interest in it.
Arthur Lynch died in March 1934, and I wondered if Sappho tried to communicate with
him. My sister-in-law, not then married to my brother Christopher, tells me that she was
persuaded by Sappho to take notes at some of her spiritualistic meetings, and that, certainly
on one occasion, perhaps more, Sappho did make efforts to get in touch with the Lynx,
asking if he were ‘there’? But she thinks the sessions were inconclusive, as she remembers
nothing more, not being herself interested.
When I tried to reconstruct the years 1930-34, a period when I was very much engrossed
in my own domestic affairs, I was puzzled as to how Sappho continued to live such a busy
life. I had plenty of data about the P.E.N. but, after 1929, it seemed as if she had almost
ceased to write seriously. In that year she brought out two more collections of short stories
(with Ernest Rhys), a frivolous novel, Oh, Foolish Kitty, and the psychic book Is This
Wilson? She also completed Any Woman, the semi-autobiographical book that was never
published. There was then nothing creative until 1933, when her last novel, The House in the
Hollow, came out.
There was, of course, the mysterious typed manuscript, or part of a manuscript, called The
Child, chapter one of which is on the first two pages of this book, but from which 100 pages
are missing. Before this came to light I had thought that, during the ﬁve years after the
launching of the Survival League in October 1929, Sappho was so deeply involved in
Spiritualism and the League that, except for her continuing work for the P.E.N. she used her
remaining time and energy to further this great interest.
However, among the copies of letters sent me by the University of Texas, who now own
the P.E.N. Archives, I found two letters, to Hermon Ould, and his dated replies, which show
that in September, 1934, she had nearly completed her last novel, The Child (see p. 198).5
—~§~—
4
We believe this should read Hewat McKenzie not Stewart. Psypioneer
5
When Mrs Dawson Scott started the Survival League, she was reprimanded by Mercy Phillimore at the
London Spiritualist Alliance, which did not think an LSA member should start a competing body! LP
43
PK-Collection:
Academics report as eye-witnesses about
psychokinetic phenomena
In February 2016 an unusual homepage (www.pk-collection.de) from Germany went online
and became a talking point. It displayed testimonies from people who claim to have seen
levitation (floating objects or beings), materialization (formation of objects or beings) or
dematerialization (resolution of objects or beings). The collected quotes are without
exception taken from publications (books, documentaries, TV-interviews/presentations) for
which the sources are given.
Marcus Heymann, the founder of the PK-
Collection, brought this collection into life,
because once he was even an involuntary
witness of a floating object. A table had risen,
remained in the air and fell slowly to the floor
again, as if it was held by invisible hands. He
felt mad to have these experiences.
Fortunately, there were other observers present
with the same horrified look, because it was
not a magic show.
After these experiences he went on a search for
other witnesses of so-called psychokinetic
phenomena (pk phenomena). For him, it was
interesting to get a confirmation from someone
who had an academic background. That was
the beginning of the PK-Collection.
Heymann invented terms of admission for eye-
witness accounts in the PK-Collection, which
should help to prove the credibility and trustworthiness of the eye-witnesses. He believes it´s
important to have the support of such reliable accounts because this subject is so
unbelievable. The accounts can be found in books and films which one can locate online –
these can either be downloaded or ordered there without much trouble. Articles from
newspapers or journals are excluded from the PK-Collection because of the difficulty in
obtaining them. Anyone interested in obtaining a specimen copy is kindly asked to search
through the internet as the PK-Collection doesn´t seek financial gain. The collection takes
only eye-witness reports, which fulfill the following terms:
44
1). The eye-witness is academic.
2). The eye-witness observed a levitation, a materialization or a dematerialization.
3). The observations of the eye-witness were published in book or film form
(documentary film, TV-interview or –lecture).
4). The reporting takes place in the “I” form for example: “I saw the table floating for
a few minutes with all four legs in air“. As an alternative the “we” form or “one” form
can be accepted.
5). The reporting may be too general, as it was in the following case example: “I
observed a number of physical anomalies, which did not fit within the usual scientific
framework”.
Heymann enjoys a reputation with the critics. Some researchers reproach him that his terms
for admission are too restricted and therefore not representative. But PK-Collection counts on
these terms of admission, because they give people a feeling of certainty when they ask
themselves the question: Do paranormal phenomena really exist?
The PK-Collection´s approach is promising. The idea is most remarkable and deserves to be
supported, which could be started with a “like” on Facebook
(www.facebook.com/pkcollectiongermany).
—~§~—
45
NOTES OF SECOND MATERIALIZATION
SITTING WITH MRS DUNCAN
ON 30TH OCTOBER 1930.6
MEDIUM .. Mrs Duncan
DATE .. 30th October 1930
TIME .. 3.40 to 5.5 p.m.
PLACE .. 16 Queensberry Place, S.W. 7
NOTES .. W. A. Shafto
Order of sitters from right of medium---
Dr Rust, Mrs Rust, Dr Fielding-Ould,
Miss Phillimore, Sir Oliver Lodge, Miss
Baggallay, Lord Charles Hope, Mrs
Baggallay, Dr Hector Munro, Sir Ernest
Bennett.
Test conditions of sitting: Previous to
the sitting, all the sitters inspected the
clothing which Mrs Duncan was to
wear, which consisted of the following:-
(hand written note (h.w.n.) The medium
wore) a sateen overall, worn previously,
and a pair of black sateen knickers, a
pair of stockings and a pair of felt shoes.
These last three garments were (h.w.n.
newly) purchased by Mrs Baggallay
(h.w.n. & inspected by sitters before
séance) and were handed to Miss Phillimore as they were purchased at the shop, who kept
them wrapped up until they were opened for the sitters’ inspection. After the inspection of
these new garments, the medium in another room completely undressed before Mrs
Baggallay and Miss Phillimore, and in their presence she put on the above-mentioned
clothing. Immediately after having thus dressed and before, and while Mrs Baggallay and
Miss Phillimore were still with her, Dr Fielding-Ould came into the room and examined her
mouth and nostrils which he found satisfactory. Sir Oliver Lodge then came into the (h.w.n.
dressing) room and conducted Mrs Duncan into the séance room, where she was immediately
put into the sack which she used at the previous séance.
The tapes were tied as at the last sitting, and sealed to the arms of the chair and over the knot
round the neck of the sack.
As before Mr Duncan sitting behind the circle attended to the gramophone.
Seven minutes after the medium was put into the chair a strip of white substance, about a foot
in length, appeared between the curtains.
ALBERT Would anyone care to feel the substance here now?
6
We continue from Psypioneer November/December 2015 the publication of these verbatim records. They
appear by permission of the archivist of the College of Psychic Studies, and should not be quoted without
acknowledgement. The spelling “materialization” is the one used in the records. LP.
46
DR R. Can Sir Oliver feel it now if he comes?
ALBERT Anyone. Ready now.
SIR O.L. You mean that line of light?
DR R. Can Sir Oliver come forward and touch it now, Albert?
ALBERT Certainly.
DR R. Can I draw the curtain a wee bit?
(h.w.n. with permission) Sir Oliver Lodge went up to the medium and held the substance in
his hand, and he and the sitters saw it gradually with a slightly wriggling motion withdraw,
sliding slowly over his hands towards the position of the medium [and] disappear while he
was holding it.
ALBERT Who do you say you were?
DR R. Sir Oliver Lodge.
ALBERT What a nice name, I hope he is quite as nice as his name---Sir Oliver and Mercy---
all nice names.
DR R. Well, we have come here specially for you to give us a good demonstration of the
ectoplasm and anything else you like.
ALBERT I do not like this bag affair.
DR R. Well, take her out.
SIR O.L. Does the bag interfere with you?
ALBERT No, but it interferes with her comfort. You see, when I start to work, the
perspiration and heat are too much.
SIR O.L. She cannot get enough air.
Mr Duncan put on another record and the ectoplasm is again seen at the opening of the
curtains.
DR R. Can another gentlemen feel the ectoplasm now, Albert?
ALBERT Name?
DR R. Lord Charles Hope.
Pause.
ALBERT Is he the third from the end?
DR R. From the left he is…
47
ALBERT I am saying left---one, two, three, and then he is next. Let me have a look at you
now. (Short pause) Come along, son of mine.
DR R. Can you feel the substance?
LORD C.H. Yes, I can feel it.
ALBERT Don’t be afraid.
LORD C.H. I don’t wish to hurt the medium.
(h.w.n. Lord Charles Hope was also permitted to touch the ectoplasm. Then followed from?
Albert complaint about the sack on account of the heat suffered by the medium.)
ALBERT I wish there were someone here to take this blinking bag off.
SIR O.L. The bag interferes with the ectoplasm coming from the body.
ALBERT I don’t want to be sitting an hour waiting for anyone to come. She is really very
warm.
Sir Oliver Lodge, finding it difficult to hear ‘Albert’ asks permission to change places with
Sir Ernest Bennett.
ALBERT (after a short pause) Certainly.
They change places.
DR R. Will you try to get the sack off as you did on Sunday night?
ALBERT You must remember my part of the work is giving the figures, and I must wait for
some person to come and get her out of here and take the atoms to pieces.
One of the sitters asked how long he might have to wait.
ALBERT I don’t know, just till they come---may be short, may be long.
Pause.
I will do everything and leave her where she is. Never mind about her comfort for once. (to
Mr Duncan) What about you and me changing places for a little time?
DR R. We want you to have her out of the bag, Albert.
MR D. I think the light is too bright, how is the light?
ALBERT Very good. But I would like you to come in here and feel how she is.
Sir Oliver goes to the cabinet and feels the head of the medium.
SIR O.L. She is just asleep, she is rather in a perspiration. I don’t see anything else about her.
She was still completely enveloped in the sack.
48
Sir Oliver said that he saw no ectoplasm when he went to examine the medium.
ALBERT Ask Sir Oliver if he would like to come while the ectoplasm is here?
SIR O.L. Yes, I should.
ALBERT Well, I will prepare her.
Very heavy breathing is heard from the cabinet.
ALBERT (after a pause) You can come in now.
SIR O.L. (opening the curtain) I can see it coming from her mouth, it is like a bundle of
strings. (Both times I felt it, it lay on my hand. The first time the visible part was about a foot
long, the second time only a few inches. It was heavy, cold and clammy, its texture was like a
number of the parallel threads forming the bundle two inches thick. It might have been
separated out into strands. It was not like woven material but was stringy. A curiously
unpleasant slight odour remained either on my hand or in my nostrils as an occasional whiff
for 12 hours afterwards. O.L.)
DR R. Warm? Clammy?
SIR O.L. No, it was drier than I expected.
DR R. Do you notice any smell?
SIR O.L. Yes, a kind of smell, but I don’t know how to describe it, it is just like a lot of
threads, there is no formation in it at all. Now it is beginning to go back into the mouth, I
think.
Dr. Rust closes the curtains again and the medium is heard to be breathing heavily and
groaning. Gramophone is playing.
SIR O.L. It does not leave anything on the fingers, it is fairly dry.
Gramophone still playing and medium’s groans and uneasy breathing still heard.
Dr Fielding-Ould goes to the medium, the curtains are pulled back as she appears to be
suffering great discomfort, rolling her head from side to side, and Dr Fielding-Ould finds it
necessary to cut the tape round the neck of the sack which, though not originally drawn too
tightly, has got caught.
When the curtains were open the medium’s hands were outside the sack.
ALBERT Has anyone a handkerchief?
DR R. Yes.
ALBERT You might clean her forehead.
DR R. My goodness, she is perspiring.
49
Pause.
Dr Rust sees a figure at the side of the curtain near him and asks Albert to change it round the
other side so that Sir Oliver can see it.
ALBERT You mustn’t touch until I tell you.
SIR O.L. Right, I won’t touch it unless you tell me, but I don’t see anything yet.
After a short pause a mass of ectoplasm about three feet high was seen by a few of the sitters.
SIR O.L. I can see a sort of luminosity.
ALBERT You are in shadow.
The curtains were opened and a formation is seen standing in the cabinet.
MR D. It looks like a baby’s head.
ALBERT It isn’t a baby’s head, do you think I have no brain!
(Pause)
ALBERT (seeming to talk to an invisible entity) You are what?---Savage? Do you call the
gentleman Savage?
DR R. Does anyone know a gentleman called Savage?
DR F.-O. I can think of half a dozen I know at the moment.
ALBERT Tell them who you are.
Heavy breathing again heard and choking sounds coming from the medium. Gramophone
plays again.
The curtains are opened and a mass of ectoplasm is again seen coming from the medium’s
mouth. Curtains close again.
Sir Oliver and Sir Ernest Bennett change places again.
MR D. I think there is too much light.
ALBERT The light is all right, I want to get it better and better so as to get it in a good light.
You all seem to be under a shade of night to me.
The curtains are opened again and an unformed mass of ectoplasm about three feet high is
showing. The curtains close again.
Pause.
The curtains again open and a small form appears, swaying rhythmically to the music of the
gramophone. Curtains again close. They open again and a large mass of ectoplasm is seen
50
with two pieces hanging down---a sitter remarks that it looks like a cloth over the medium’s
head. Curtains close again.
A smack is heard behind the curtain.
DR R. Good, another one, not too hard now. He hit me with something.
Something dark, rather bigger than a hand, was seen striking Dr. Rust’s hand.
DR R. It might be something like a bundle of cloth.
ALBERT Oh, Rust, you are a fool like all the rest----a bundle of cloth---by gum.
DR. R Give Sir Ernest Bennett a smack now.
ALBERT Yes.
He does so. One of the sitters remarks that it might almost be anything.
ALBERT I have not been able to form a hand, it is only part of an arm---hold it. Now let go.
DR. R. Get a good grip of it.
SIR E.B. Yes, the stuff I had the other night.
DR R. What about asking him to bring the medium out with ectoplasm?
MR D. I don’t think he can get the medium out.
The bag is carefully taken off the medium, and she stands up, slowly walks forward into the
circle, finally lying back in Dr Rust’s chair and gradually waking from her trance.
TIME: 5.5 p.m.
—~§~—
51
Introductory Note by LP: This article, possibly by Conan and Nellie Shaw, is one of a series
we are reprinting from LIGHT of that era about direct voice.
Independent Voice
Development with
Mrs. Osborne
Leonard.7
THE study of this particular kind of sitting
with Mrs. Osborne Leonard opens up so many
different avenues that it is difﬁcult to avoid
confusion if we attempt to touch upon them all
at once, and a complete examination would
take more space than is available now.
Therefore it may be better to select, in the
main, those points which seem likely to
suggest further developments in spirit
communication, which seem to pave the way
for wider facilities in this work of conquering
the sadnesses and the loneliness of the death separation, or of learning, through conscious
contact with souls of greater experience, more of the laws operating in realms psychic and
spiritual.
Nearly one hundred years ago the general trend of objective manifestation was in the
direction of the heavier physical phenomena: materializations, movement of objects, apports,
direct writing. As time went on, these became rariﬁed; and more recently there has been
development of Direct Voice mediumship, mostly with the trumpet. Now there are signs of
an effort to discard the trumpet altogether, and it seems possible that, in some quarters, even
this form of independent Direct Voice may merge into a more etherealized method still, one
in which we shall be able to dispense entirely with darkness, cabinets, trumpets (and the
doubts clinging thereto), one which will provide a clearer channel for the true creative
mentality and Spiritual Whole of the communicators. And that, conceivably, would be as
great a cause for satisfaction among certain pioneer workers on the Other Side as it would be
for us here.
Note to begin, therefore, that Mrs. Leonard does not hold her sittings in darkness. Neither
she nor her spirit co-operators ever ask for it. Streaks of light come at times through chinks in
the curtains. There is a shaded 40 watt electric bulb ﬁxed to the note-taker’s table. There is, in
cold weather, a 2 kilowatt electric ﬁre. All objects in the room (a small one), therefore, are
visible. Mrs. Leonard is only a foot or so from the sitter, and facing a little to the sitter’s left,
so that her movements, her face, her lips, can be clearly distinguished. She has no cabinet of
any kind, no trumpet, no gramophone. There is no singing. She quietly goes into trance.
Occasionally there may be indistinct, muffled whispering about the room while Feda, the
Control, is “taking over.’’ Once, at the beginning, Feda was heard whispering softly through
Mrs. Leonard’s lips as if speaking to herself, words that seemed to be in a foreign language.
7
From LIGHT January 1947 Vol. LXVII No. 3321 Pages 17-22
52
Then, gaining full control, Feda breaks through, talking in her animated, high-pitched voice,
infectiously buoyant, and the sitting has begun.
The Direct Whisper seems as a rule to begin gradually—that is, when there is the requisite
voice power for it to function (supplied in part by the sitters). The ﬁrst page of typed notes
will show, say, only three or ﬁve words heard in the Whisper—words of no great importance
in themselves: “Yes,’’ ‘‘No,’’ ‘‘Not now,’’—and so on. The number increases to about the
middle of the sitting, possibly owing to accumulation of power, possibly to greater ease in
working, or other reasons still to be discovered, and then tends to diminish. Thus the notes of
our last sitting show 5 words in the Direct Whisper on the ﬁrst page; 13 on the second; 20 on
the third—and so on up to the highest numbers of 76 and 71 on pages 7 and 8 respectively.
Page 15 (the last) gives only 7.
In most sittings, the Whisper is heard about two or three feet in front of Mrs. Leonard, and
about one foot lower than the level of her mouth as she is seated in trance. During our last
sitting, however, it came from three different points in the room at different times, and on
several occasions was heard simultaneously with Feda as she spoke through Mrs. Leonard’s
lips. Once, in fact, (to the anxiety and near despair of the recorder!), Feda, the Whisper, and
one sitter, were all three speaking together. Feda stated that the words being transmitted were
from three communicators chieﬂy, but the most frequent speaker was the Rev. W. Stainton
Moses, and the words reported here are attributed to him. (The actual words heard in the
independent Direct Whisper are printed throughout in italics).
No study of any sitting with Mrs. Leonard can be complete without a realization of the
complexity in the whole method of working. Feda, with only part of her own normal
expression free in our earth conditions, is having to employ the only portion of Mrs.
Leonard’s brain available during trance; and, in addition to the ﬁtting together of these two,
she is dependent on what the communicators can bring into the comparative heaviness of our
atmosphere from their inﬁnitely lighter and more rapid existence. Nowhere is the whole
intricate process more clearly explained than in The Modus Operandi of Trance
Communication by the Rev. Drayton Thomas (S.P.R. Proceedings, vol. 38). Mr. Thomas
gives us a sound realization of intelligences, keener far than ours here, contending with
complications and difficulties of communication which only Feda, perhaps, with her special
ability and years of experience, could ever successfully negotiate.
At some moments, even so, in spite of all skill in manipulation, the results may be
imperfect. The communicator may not be able to hold continuously and clearly to
information he had prepared before the sitting. It is possible that extraneous strong thought
may interfere. Or Feda, lighting by some chance on a particular line of subconscious interest,
may have to let things run on for a while without check, although she realizes they are
straying from strict accuracy.
It is here that the Direct Whisper seems of particular value. It confirms the correctness of
what Feda is hearing or seeing or sensing for transmission and it prompts her in uncertain
passages. (In our most recent sitting, she was apparently speaking from the actual dictation of
the communicators nearly all the time, not interpreting picture language). Thus:
FEDA: There is something they feel will be. . . .
WHISPER: Modified.
FEDA: Modiﬁed.
53
WHISPER: Or changed.
FEDA: Or changed. They don’t want—etc. The phenomena, you see, are there—they are
produced—but in a. . . .
WHISPER AND FEDA TOGETHER: More subjective form.
[Feda was having difficulty with the pronunciation of “subjective” while the Whisper
gave it normally].
Further, Feda herself does not appear always able to hear the Whisper, although it is
clearly audible to the sitters:
FEDA: Subject to catarrhal infection—(Well, isn’t that the same as catarrh?).
WHISPER: In a way.
FEDA: In a way, he says.
Again, whispered remarks heard by the sitters are evidently intended sometimes for Feda
alone:
FEDA (her voice suddenly getting louder and more excited as though on account of
some emphasis of power pressure): He says ‘The Divine Spirit. . . through the . . .
depression which has previously’ . . . What?
WHISPER (calm and slow, in contrast to the above): Caused obliteration. (Don’t shout,
my dear!).
The following passage shows signs of a mixture of complications:
FEDA: He says: Had these men whose emotional reactions are setting up such a bad
condition in the belt of the earth—the men . . .
WHISPER: Yes.
FEDA: And those who care for them, for even they . . .
WHISPER: Are loved.
FEDA (Aside): Isn’t it a noosance!
WHISPER: Worse than a nuisance, Feda.
Notice two important points in the above illustration: —
1. The whispered pronunciation of “nuisance” against the vowel habitually used by Feda.
(Incidentally, the depth of feeling conveyed in these few words with, perhaps, a hint of
remonstrance to Feda, cannot be reproduced in print).
2. The natural way in which the communicator, speaking direct, addresses Feda by name. A
little strange, this, if Feda is no more than Mrs. Leonard’s “secondary personality.”
54
Feda herself seemed momentarily to have lost step after this. She continued: “What did
you say? What did you stop for? Wait a minute—you have forgotten something—something
to do with the men.
WHISPER: That is what I was going to say.
The subject was then completed quite smoothly and Feda transmitted as usual.
When the power is sufﬁciently strong, other manifestations may take place while the
trance communication is in progress. There were, during one sitting, occasional raps in the
room in emphasis of certain points, and another time one sitter had good evidence of spirit
healing while the rest of the sitting continued its normal course. He had been aware of slight
chest uneasiness, and halfway through the sitting became conscious of the presence and
activity of a healing inﬂuence. At a suitable moment he questioned Feda, who replied: “Yes,
there is a lot of power. He doing something right through your back. He is clearing
something—a little bit of congestion in your chest [this was unknown to Mrs. Leonard]. They
are having to do something like chimney sweeps only with nice white brushes, not black
ones!” All discomfort had gone at the end of the time, and there was no recurrence. Matters
touching health were of importance, Feda explained later, “because of the power, which
must, to some extent, flow through you.”
The communicators seem at all times able to hear what is said by people in the room, in
fact they often answer before the question is completed, and offer creatively interesting
enlargements. Thus, asked whether they constructed any instruments on their side, Feda
responded for them at once: “They are not entirely dependent on them, and they don’t want to
be. There is something—a kind of stand—(What do you say, Moses Gentleman?)—
Something like a stand on which you would put a camera. They call it a ‘Voice
Substantiator’—something to lend substance to the voice.” Feda also referred to “rods which
were more etheric than ectoplasmic.” But where some processes may be in the experimental
stage, ﬁxed ideas seem to be discouraged, possibly because they cause obstruction. Music, on
the other hand, is declared helpful. Said Feda: “It makes it possible to—what they call
‘register’ the spiritual side of music on the physical plane.”
So much, then, for some of the complications. Returning to smoother passages, we are
able to forget the whirls and eddies of the communicating stream, and open to the contents of
the mind originating—or as much of that mind as can achieve complete communion through
the denser cross-currents of our earth conditions.
“Prayer,” said the reported voice of Stainton Moses, “Prayer will clear the conditions. It
links somehow, too, with the source of power. There is the Great Creator of Power, but we
are not the creators, we are more the directors of it; and prayer links you up with the Source
of Power. It results in your gaining help from the Source to maintain your supply. ‘Our daily
bread,’ which we are told to pray for and work for, does not begin and end with material
sustenance, but with psychic sustenance and faith that it will bring good in response. Prayer
shall we say?—prayer completes the circle. There are many useful methods of activity or
systems of activity which are productive or useful, but they form more a crescent than a circle
because they are not being assisted on your side by prayer. Prayer from your side completes
the circle, forms the crescent into a complete circle. But then the old argument comes up:
Why is it necessary to remind God of what He should know? That, however, is not the point.
That is a superficial point raised by the man who does not want to pray. The men whose
emotional reactions are setting up such a bad condition were not men who lived by prayer—
at least, not by prayer of the right kind. Dictating to God is not prayer. They were men who
55
did not complete the circle in their activities. They formed the crescent, which leaves an
opening for disturbance or confusion.”
After nearly two hours, Feda announced that the power was being lost. The frequency of
the Whisper diminished by degrees, although the strength was maintained. Stainton Moses
continued: “We who are speaking to you, were workers in this cause before we left it. We
continued immediately with our activities, but our work at present and for some time to come
cannot be conﬁned to our own plane entirely, or even to any great extent. It is focussed on
improving the quality of life on earth. That is what we are aiming at. Progress must be made
on earth. The standard of spiritual and moral living on the earth is not high at present. We
must raise it. That is our work, and we can only do it through you—through, that is to say, all
you workers who are willing to combine with us. It is for human progress. Remember that.
Good-bye. God bless you all.”
FEDA: But bless who? There’s only two of them! Oh! He was speaking to those on his
own side as well as over here.
With experimenting always in progress on both sides of the veil, we are bound to meet
difficulties, set-backs, sometimes the necessity for the abandonment of tried methods and the
adoption of new ones. The better the attunement we offer, however, the better is likely to be
the reception. Even if the day comes when discarnate friends may be heard more often
objectively, speaking with the minimum of colouring from earth conditions and minds, even
then something will still have to be provided, we believe, by the medium and sitters; some
etherealized quality of character perhaps, some vital essence or sympathy which no
machinery can manufacture.
Back of it all, however, we have occasional glimpses of a Plan. “We never know,” said the
declared voice of Stainton Moses, “the moment when something may be revealed to us. It
may come at any time, and we shall have to rely on your powers of reception when we
suggest it.”
Here we have, perhaps, a picture of one aspect of the whole process: The Source or the
Plan; the revelation through spirit channels as the right time comes; the working out on earth,
when our receptive powers are equal to the need. Not fruitlessly has Mrs. Osborne Leonard
insisted for many years upon a life removed from the complications of modern town
existence; declining, for the sake of quality in her own receptive powers, the vast quantity of
work which her heart and her sympathies would gladly otherwise have urged her to
undertake. The prophets and the seers of old knew certain facts better than we do, and their
retirement into “places apart” was no whim nor mere question of escape.
It may be recognized one day that, in mediumship, soundness of character—the qualities
of honesty, sympathy and singleness of purpose—may be as strictly scientiﬁc, as necessary to
the pure reception and accurate transmission of truth, as are any rules of the laboratory in
their own specialized province. Present efforts are possibly tending that way; and if they
succeed, we may have taken one more step towards the harmonizing of science and religion,
towards the reconciliation of inexorable law and the way of Charity.
S.C.N.
—~§~—
56
Beaten By The Facts?
Assessing the Significance of Séance
Phenomena in Mid-Victorian England.
By Andy Byng
Andy Byng has worked as a medium since 2004. A tutor of the Arthur Findlay College and
chairman of The Higginson Centre, Andy demonstrates his mediumship, and teaches others
how to discover their own latent potentials, across the UK, Europe and Canada. In 2010,
Andy commenced his research into Religion, Philosophy and Ethics at King’s College
London, and later specialised in Nineteenth-Century History at Birkbeck, a college of The
University of London and a leading research centre for Nineteenth-Century Studies in
Europe. Andy has written and presented papers for academic conferences, including the
British Association for the Study of Religion, and has published articles in spiritualist
magazines and academic journals.
INTRODUCTION
‘The thousands or millions of spiritualists […] represent to a very large extent men who have
witnessed, examined, and tested the evidence for themselves over and over again, till that
which they had first been unable to admit could be true, they have at last been compelled to
acknowledge is true’ (original italics).i
The words of Alfred Russel Wallace, the co-
discoverer of the theory of evolution and an early spiritualist, place séance phenomena at the
centre of Victorian spiritualism. For Wallace, and those who attested the ‘spiritual theory’,ii
physical and mental séance phenomena,iii
which were produced by mediums,iv
provided
adequate evidence of one or more of the following claims: matter and mind, or spirit, which
constituted one’s personality, intelligence and consciousness, were independent; that the
survival and immortality of the spirit followed physical death; that one’s soul progressed
eternally in the hereafter; and that the departed could communicate with the living under
certain conditions.v
Neither the alleged spiritual phenomena nor the spiritualists’ explanation for them were
original, as humankind’s fascination with spirit communication, whether through oracles,
shamans, mediums and so on, has existed for centuries.vi
Georgina Byrne, in her book
Modern Spiritualism and the Church of England, argues that a ‘vivid preternatural discourse
was certainly still in operation in the mid-nineteenth century.’ vii
However, modern
spiritualism was innovative in its ‘naturalisation of the supernatural’:viii
its adherents placed
emphasis on spiritualism’s scientific basis by proposing that the spirit world was governed by
laws akin to those of the physical world, and that its various manifestations were subject to
empirical verification and rational explanation.ix
For several centuries science had cast doubt
over the notion of a spiritual reality by ascribing natural explanations to supernatural events,
and yet spiritualism appealed to science to substantiate the existence of the spirit. Moreover,
spiritualists claimed that the teachings of spiritualism, which were both metaphysical and
moral in nature, were ‘mediated to them through the spirits of the dead.’x
If the alleged spirits
were describing their post-mortem condition, and conveying to the living their notions of
God, sin and salvation, then it necessarily follows that the veracity of spiritualist theology
and the reality of the spirit world are contingent on the genuineness of séance phenomena.
Indeed, spiritualism set itself apart from others religions insofar as it claimed that spiritualist
beliefs were founded on evidence rather than faith.xi
57
Peter Lamont argues that despite the centrality of séance phenomena to spiritualist practice
and belief, historians have tended to focus on other aspects of spiritualism.xii
Until the 1980s
cultural historians and historians of science generally considered Victorian spiritualism to
have been a marginalised religious movement. Martin Fichman, in his book An Elusive
Victorian, argues that this is mainly due to spiritualism being deemed ‘less than reputable by
those historians trained to emphasise the triumph of positivism,xiii
although several historians
during this period did try to remedy the neglect that spiritualism had suffered.xiv
However,
revisionist studies since the 1980s have emphasised the intellectual relevance and cultural
importance of spiritualism. Such studies have typically explored spiritualism in terms of
gender, class, and the epistemological claims of science.xv
Historians have considered
spiritualists’ beliefs to be a more appropriate alternative to Christian eschatology,xvi
a
reaction to the crisis of faith,xvii
and to the prevailing scientific materialism of the Victorian
era. xviii
Although these are undoubtedly productive studies, and worthy contexts for
investigation, I would argue that little attention has been paid to the significance and
problematic nature of séance phenomena themselves. Lamont’s article, ‘Spiritualism and a
Mid-Victorian Crisis of Evidence’, and his book, The First Psychic, attempt to address this
issue. By focusing on the mediumship of D. D. Home, Lamont claims that as scientists could
not provide adequate naturalistic explanations for Home’s phenomena, and conjurers could
not replicate them satisfactorily, it caused a crisis of evidence in mid-Victorian Britain, which
had wider implications for Victorian science.xix
During the course of this paper, whilst I will follow Lamont’s line of inquiry and argue that
séance phenomena were the central features of the Victorian debate about spiritualism, I will
also challenge certain aspects of his thesis.xx
Lamont mentions in passing that ‘séance
phenomena were […] the primary reason given by spiritualists for their conversion’;
however, I will argue that such a claim is problematic.xxi
By using Wallace’s conversion
account as a case study, I will claim that although it was his conviction that the phenomena
were caused by spirit agency that ultimately persuaded him to convert to spiritualism, which
had a transformative effect on aspects of his scientific work, there are also several other
factors that could account for his conversion.xxii
I will then argue that disputes over
spiritualism were due to subtle differences of interpretation. By comparing W. B. Carpenter’s
ideo-motor theory with the report of the London Dialectic Society, I will attempt to show that
the naturalistic explanations that scientists posited were not considered to be wholly
adequate, and that scientists were unable to reach a consensus of opinion regarding the
veracity of the phenomena, which is what sparked the mid-Victorian debate about
spiritualism. Finally, I will argue that the debate about spiritualism had wider implications for
Victorian science. By focusing on the dispute between Sir William Crookes and W. B.
Carpenter, I will argue that disputes over spiritualism were not simply a contest between
science and pseudo-science, or the natural and supernatural. Instead, I will claim that such
disputes were over authority and competing versions of what could be deemed natural, which
posed a threat to the internal development of science.
58
1. A. R. WALLACE: HIS CONVERSION TO SPIRITUALISM
1.1. The Force of Personal Evidence
Although Wallace is primarily remembered
as an evolutionary biologist, his beliefs and
career are inextricably bound up with the
‘scientific, philosophical, social, religious,
political and economic currents that flowed
[…] through the Victorian cultural
landscape.’ xxiii
His varied interests and
independent disposition caused Wallace to
be both an elusive and controversial figure:
he deviated from his own theory of natural
selection, criticised those of his scientific
colleagues who were attempting to further
the New Nature, supported phrenology, and
championed spiritualism for over half a
century.xxiv
It was while Wallace was ‘occupied in the
study of natural history’ in the Malay
Archipelago that he heard of the strange
phenomenon that was allegedly occurring
in America and Europe, under the name of
‘table-turning’ and ‘spirit-rapping’.xxv
On
his return to England he decided to
investigate the phenomenon for himself.
Wallace attended his first séance during the
summer of 1865 at ‘the house of a friend,
— a sceptic, a man of science.’xxvi
The séance was conducted in daylight, and Wallace, his
friend, and his friend’s family, sat around a ‘good-sized round table’, and placed their hands
upon it.xxvii
After a period of approximately thirty minutes Wallace notes that the table began
to move slightly, and faint taps were heard. However, by the end of the séance the taps were
more distinct and the table moved considerably, forcing the sitters to move their chairs. Over
the course of more than a dozen sittings, Wallace began to experiment. For instance, at one
séance, once the taps and motion commenced he asked the other sitters to leave the table one
by one.xxviii
Although the taps and motion became less distinct as each person left the table,
Wallace claims that he heard ‘two dull taps or blows’ when he alone was sitting at the
table.xxix
Consequently, he argues that if wilful deception was the cause of the phenomenon
then everybody present, including himself, must have been involved in it, and yet Wallace
claims that ‘[he] certainly did not make [the noises].’xxx
Although Wallace appears to be
impressed by the phenomenon he witnessed, and rules out the possibility of deception,xxxi
at
this point in his investigation he was not convinced that it was the result of spirit agency.
Instead, he concludes that ‘there is an unknown power developed from the bodies of a
number of persons placed in connection by sitting round a table.’xxxii
However, by 1867 Wallace was finally convinced that discarnate spirits caused the
phenomenon to occur. During this period Wallace had attended a series of séances with Mrs
Marshall and Mrs Guppy, the latter being introduced to Wallace through his sister Fanny,
who was an ardent spiritualist herself.xxxiii
These opportunities enabled Wallace to witness
physical and mental phenomena, either in broad daylight or bright gaslight: furniture
levitated; a guitar played a tune on its own accord before floating over Wallace’s feet,
59
unaided, and rested itself on top of the table; and he experienced a variety of different noises,
which he claims could not have been caused by human agency.xxxiv
Various mental
phenomena also occurred, the most significant of which was the spelling out of various
pieces of information concerning his, and other sitters’, deceased relatives.xxxv
Writing about the phenomena he witnessed during those two years, and his conversion to
spiritualism, Wallace notes: ‘The facts beat me. They compelled me to accept them as facts
long before I could accept the spiritual explanation for them […] By slow degrees a place
was made; but it was made, not by any preconceived or theoretical opinion, but by the
continuous actions of fact after fact, which could not be got rid of in any other way.’xxxvi
By
repeatedly using the word ‘fact’, alongside words like ‘inquiry’ and ‘assured’, Wallace seems
keen to suggest that his conversion was not caused by a subjective, profound experience, but
that it occurred gradually, as a result of a considered investigation into the phenomena. It also
becomes apparent that Wallace is keen to highlight his objectivity: prior to attending his first
séance, Wallace considered himself to be a ‘thorough and confirmed materialist’,xxxvii
who for
‘twenty-five years […] had been an utter sceptic as to the existence of any preter-human or
super-human intelligences.’ xxxviii
Wallace presents himself as an ideologically neutral,
objective inquirer, which, when coupled with his scientific reputation and training, adds
weight to his argument and conversion.
This is significant when one considers that his book, On Miracles and Modern Spiritualism,
is, to some degree, an apologetic work that attempts to legitimise spiritualism by arguing that
it is a genuine field of scientific investigation. Wallace thought that the spiritual hypothesis
could be tested empirically, and that the claims of spiritualism would be verified or refuted in
accordance with the prevailing scientific methodology of the nineteenth- century.xxxix
I would
thus argue that Wallace’s objectivity is a critical factor in achieving this end, especially when
the professionalising elite of the scientific community, known as the X-Club, were
themselves attempting to establish a distinction between a value-neutral, and thus objective,
science, and a value-laden, subjective, pseudoscience. Wallace’s objectivity not only
emphasises the impact of the phenomena on him personally, which led to his conversion, but
also strengthens his argument that spiritualism is a genuine field of scientific investigation.xl
1.2. The Influence of Spiritualism on Wallace’s Scientific Views of Man
Despite Wallace’s apparent objectivity, one ought to treat Wallace’s account with caution: his
book, On Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, was written approximately seven years after his
conversion to spiritualism, clearly has an agenda, and, to a degree, is apologetic in nature.
Due to these factors one could argue that Wallace may be inclined to exaggerate his account
of the phenomena that he witnessed, and the impact that it had on him. However, this does
not take away from the fact that he was convinced by his experiences in the séance room, or
that these experiences influenced his scientific work.xli
The degree to which Wallace’s scientific work is influenced by spiritualism is far from clear.
Frank Turner argues that his most significant works, The Malay Archipelago (1869), Island
Life (1880) and The Geographical Distribution of Animals (1876), contain little or no
mention of spiritualism, and nor do they appear to be influenced by it.xlii
However, he also
notes that spiritualism did influence Wallace’s ‘scientific views of human nature and of the
teleological implications in physical nature’, and it is to this subject that I shall now turn.xliii
It was not until Wallace’s paper, published in 1864, that the role of natural selection in
human evolution was tackled.xliv
Central to Wallace’s thesis is the notion that man, like all
other species, was naturally selected, but that at a particular point in time man’s mind—
particularly his intellectual and moral capacities— became the focus of selection, which
suspended the influence of natural selection on man’s physical body.xlv
For instance, for an
60
animal to survive a change in climate it may require a thicker coat of fur, yet man may
overcome such a change by constructing a better shelter, or manufacturing warmer clothes.xlvi
As man’s moral capacity developed, his ‘social and sympathetic feelings’ ensured that natural
selection did not eliminate the weakest individuals.xlvii
As a result, the evolution of man, once
it had reached a ‘fairly developed’ stage, consisted of the more moral and intellectual races
displacing those with lower mental capacities.xlviii
In 1864 Wallace offers a completely naturalistic explanation of human evolution; one which
Darwin appears to endorse, as he refers to Wallace’s thesis as a ‘great leading idea.’xlix
Prior
to 1869 Wallace was such a staunch defender of natural selection that his peers charged him
of being ‘more Darwinian than Darwin’, a claim that Wallace himself admitted.l
However, it
is only after Wallace converts to spiritualism that he takes issue with the role of natural
selection in human evolution. In April 1869, towards the end of an article on ‘Geological
Time and the Origin of Species’, Wallace argues that natural selection can neither account for
man’s mental or moral nature, nor particular physiological traits—namely brain size, organs
of speech, hands and hairlessness— and that ‘an Overruling Intelligence has watched over
the action of those laws so directing variations’.li
For Wallace, brain size is an adequate measure of intellectual and moral capacity, as he
considers the brain to be the organ of the mind.lii
Wallace notes that ‘the cranial capacity of
the lowest savages is probably not less than five-sixths of that of the highest civilised races’,liii
which suggests that the savage possessed a brain that had the capacity to exhibit the same
refined emotions, degree of morality and pure intellect as the highest civilised races.liv
For
Wallace, such faculties were useless to savage man, as they ‘bear no relation to his wants,
desires or welfare.’lv
However, as ‘all the moral and intellectual faculties do occasionally
manifest themselves […] they are always latent.’lvi
Indeed, by comparing the intellect of
savages and animals, Wallace argues that ‘[a] brain slightly larger than that of the gorilla
would […] fully suffice for the limited mental development of the savage.’lvii
Therefore, for
Wallace, the size of the savage man’s brain is not only too large for his requirements, but it
also suggests the ‘existence of some power, distinct from that which guided the development
of the lower animal’ that provided for the future development of the race, which is something
that natural selection cannot do.lviii
For Darwin, natural selection is a principle of utility: firstly, it does not allow the preservation
of a harmful trait; and secondly, it does not provide for future use, as it is only concerned
with relative perfection. Consequently, a structure would not be preserved, even if it were
valuable for future generations, unless it was also valuable in the present. Favourable
variations would not be accumulated to provide for a more perfect structure if a less perfect
structure would enable a species to presently survive.lix
By introducing the notion of an
‘Overruling Intelligence’, Wallace essentially advocates a theistic teleological evolutionism,
which subverts Darwinism on three counts: firstly, Darwin’s theory of evolution suggests that
evolution is not a linear scale of development, but that single species separate and evolve in
different directions to adapt to their environment; secondly, it reinforces God’s role in
creation, which Darwinism essentially marginalises;lx
and finally, it subverts the notion that
natural selection can best explain the process of adaptive evolution.lxi
Naturally, Darwin rejected Wallace’s argument; the former, in a letter to the latter, wrote: ‘As
you expected, I differ grievously from you and I am very sorry for it.’lxii
However, it is
Wallace’s reply that casts light on the role of spiritualism in influencing Wallace to deviate
from his own theory of natural selection: ‘My opinions on the subject have been modified
solely by the consideration of a series of remarkable phenomena, physical and mental, which
I have now had every opportunity of fully testing, and which demonstrate the existence of
forces and influences not yet recognised by science.’lxiii
It is thus apparent that spiritualism,
61
and in particular séance phenomena, influenced Wallace’s opinion regarding human
evolution. Twenty years later Wallace’s view had not changed, and in a letter to E. B.
Poulton, a friend and evolutionary biologist who proofread the chapter on man in Wallace’s
book Darwinism, Wallace wrote: ‘I […] know that non-human intelligences exist…that there
is, therefore, a spiritual world […] and such knowledge must modify my views as to the
origin and nature of human faculty.’lxiv
1.3. Séance phenomena: the Primary Cause of Wallace’s Conversion to Spiritualism?
Thus far it can be argued that Wallace’s conversion to spiritualism and his subsequent
deviation from his own theory of natural selection were primarily caused by the séance
phenomena that he witnessed. I would argue that the latter adds weight to the notion that
Wallace was converted to spiritualism, as it suggests that the phenomena had a great impact
on his scientific thought, in spite of the reservations outlined above regarding his conversion
account. However, when one begins to look more closely at Wallace’s wider influences this
assertion becomes less clear. Wallace’s interest in phrenology and the socialism of Robert
Owen suggest that prior to his conversion to spiritualism he had already accepted certain
ideals and conceptions that made his conversion more likely.lxv
Wallace was first introduced to phrenology in the late 1830s when he began to attend the
Mechanics’ Institutes in London, where he was apprenticed as a builder to his brother
John.lxvi
Reading George Combe’s essay, A Constitution of Man, ignited in Wallace a
longstanding and unshakeable interest in phrenology.lxvii
Combe’s work introduced Wallace
to the phrenological notion that although the body influences the mind, the latter remains a
separate entity, an idea that is compatible with later theories of spiritualism.lxviii
It is evident that Wallace was influenced by such an idea before his conversion to
spiritualism, as it directly influenced his concept of human evolution, which he published in
1864. Both Frank Turner and Roger Smith argue that Wallace borrowed directly from
Combe’s essay the notion that man possessed interdependent but separate physical, mental
and moral faculties, which, when awakened, transform him from an animal into a human
being.lxix
Indeed, Turner and Smith argue that phrenology enabled Wallace to envisage a
mind that could continue to evolve after natural selection ceased to modify the physical body.
They argued that this was for two reasons: firstly, phrenology claimed that man’s mind
distinguished him from the animal kingdom;lxx
and secondly, phrenology maintained that the
mind was not merely an epiphenomenon of matter.lxxi
This suggests that although the body
influenced the mind, the latter remains a separate, autonomous entity, which is closely
aligned to the spiritualist notion that mind and matter are independent.lxxii
It thus becomes
evident, therefore, that prior to his conversion to spiritualism Wallace may already been open
to certain spiritualistic ideas, making his conversion more likely.lxxiii
Phrenology undoubtedly caused Wallace to consider the relationship between man and
science very differently from those who supported scientific naturalism.lxxiv
Thomas Huxley,
for instance, was only interested in the human body insofar as it could uncover scientific
truths; he was never interested in man as a human being or personality. Conversely, Wallace
was primarily interested in man’s moral personality rather than his physical mechanism.lxxv
As a result, Wallace thought that science should address moral issues and provide the ‘means
to man’s moral development’, an idea that is common to phrenology.lxxvi
John Durant notes
that the ‘ideals of individual improvement and social reform within the context of a
thoroughly secularized natural theology’, were inextricably bound up in Combe’s theory;lxxvii
the notions of social co-operation and a deistic God were thus a central feature of phrenology.
62
Spiritualism brought the moral and scientific together: firstly, as I have already discussed,
spiritualism was, for Wallace, ‘scientific’ in that he thought spiritualistic experiences could
be tested empirically. Spiritualism thus provided Wallace with a final set of scientific laws
that could explain human nature, and thus satisfied his conviction that science should address
man’s moral development. lxxviii
Secondly, the moral teachings of spiritualism also
complemented, in a peculiar way, his theory of natural selection: whereas natural selection
‘removed the necessity for an arbitrary and interfering God of Special Creation’, spiritualism
‘banished the arbitrary God of predestination and replaced Him with a uniform law of
individual moral progress, and of personal moral responsibility’.lxxix
For Wallace, this was significant as he was
introduced to the doctrine of predestination
as a child, and, after hearing the popular
anti-Christian teachings of Robert Owen,
began to find the irrationality and injustice
of predestination abhorrent. lxxx
Owenism
caused Wallace to lose his faith in
Christianity, although he did not deny the
possibility of pure religion or religious
knowledge. lxxxi
Turner argues that
Owenism, which was opposed to ‘all the
mysteries beyond our comprehension—and
to all the miracles opposed to the laws of
nature,’ lxxxii
made Owenites, as well as
Wallace, ‘highly susceptible to a rational
religion, such as spiritualism, that was
based on empirical evidence and that
emphasized social cooperation and
benevolent individualism.’ lxxxiii
Wallace
undoubtedly found this in spiritualism, as he
writes: ‘I prefer […] to rest the claims of
spiritualism on its moral uses. I would point
[…] to the many it has led to deviate their
lives to works of philanthropy […] and to
the grand doctrine of a new ever
progressing future state which it teaches.’lxxxiv
It thus becomes apparent that both the experiential and theoretical aspects of spiritualism
untied different aspects of Wallace’s thought, and complemented his scientific and moral
outlook. Indeed, Wallace’s concept of man, prior to his conversion, seems to complement
certain spiritualist conceptions, and his support of Owenism made Wallace, to some degree,
more susceptible to religions like spiritualism. Furthermore, Wallace’s interest in phrenology
does, in part, account for his dissent from scientific naturalism, which underlines his
independent disposition and his tendency to challenge conventional thought.lxxxv
These are
undoubtedly important factors that made Wallace’s conversion to spiritualism more likely.
Despite this, I still consider the primary cause of Wallace’s conversion to spiritualism to be
as a result of his spiritualistic experiences: his continued testing of the phenomena convinced
Wallace of the veracity of spiritualism; and his claim that séance phenomena could be
empirically tested provided spiritualism with a scientific basis, which is what ultimately
appealed to Wallace.
63
2. The Divisive Nature of Séance Phenomena: Alternative interpretations
Although Wallace attested the spiritual hypothesis, such a theory only represents one possible
interpretation of the phenomena. Individuals did not generally disagree about what actually
took place in the séance room; there is little evidence to suggest that séance-goers disputed
the fact that they had actually heard a noise, or witnessed a table move. Instead, as Richard
Noakes claims, ‘intense disputes over [spiritualism] sprang from only subtle differences of
interpretation.’lxxxvi
For some Victorians who, in their minds at least, had eliminated the possibility of ‘trickery,
self-delusion and other “physical” mechanisms’ as plausible theories, the spiritual hypothesis
explained the ‘facts’ of the séance better than alternative naturalistic explanations.lxxxvii
Conversely, those who were hostile to spiritualism argued that its supernatural claims could
be reduced to natural causes, an alternative interpretation that was vehemently upheld by
many medical practitioners, psychologists, physiologists and other scientists and
intellectuals.lxxxviii
Alternative naturalistic explanations, such as ‘conscious acts of trickery,
unconscious psychological and physiological mechanisms or hitherto unknown forces
associated with the human body’, were unsuccessful at convincing the general public.lxxxix
I will attempt to demonstrate this by comparing W. B. Carpenter’s ideo-motor theory, which
suggests that table-turning was caused by unconscious action, with the systematic
investigation of spiritualism by the London Dialectic Society, a professional society which, in
1869, published a report that challenged Carpenter’s theory. By doing so, I will claim that
séance phenomena were problematic for the Victorians, as the naturalistic explanations that
scientists posited were not considered to be wholly adequate. I would argue that this,
alongside the scientists’ inability to reach a consensus of opinion regarding the veracity of the
phenomena, is what sparked the mid-Victorian debate about Spiritualism.
2.1. W. B. Carpenter’s Ideo-motor Theory, and Faraday’s Table-Turning Experiments
In 1852 W. B. Carpenter, an eminent physiologist, zoologist, medical practitioner and a
prominent scientific critic of spiritualism,xc
delivered a lecture to the Royal Institution,
wherein he postulated a naturalistic explanation for séance phenomena. While Carpenter did
not deny the experiences that séance-goers were reporting, he did not believe that their cause
‘could be found in an unknown physical force, spiritual influences or other supernatural
origins’.xci
Carpenter claims that spirit communications came from within the recipients of the so-called
spirit messages, rather than them being external forces.xcii
He argued that participants of
séances reach a ‘biologized state’, which is akin to the hypnotic state in that the ‘will of the
hypnotised individual is turned off,’ but is also distinct from it insofar as the participants of
séances are still in a waking state.xciii
As a result, the senses of the participants still fully
function, and their memory of the event is generally complete.xciv
The biologized state is
central to Carpenter’s argument, he claims: ‘[all] the phenomena of the “biologized state”,
[…] will be found to consist in the acceptance of the mind by ideas which have been
suggested to it, and in the influence which ideas exert upon the actions of the body.’xcv
For
Carpenter, this is because when in this state the participant’s ‘will is in abeyance, and his
muscles are entirely under the guidance of his ideas.’xcvi
Drawing on the theories of Hermann Lotze (1852)xcvii
and Thomas Laycock (1840, 1845),xcviii
Carpenter employed contemporary psychological knowledge to support his psychological
explanation of séance phenomena. Like Laycock, he made a distinction between excito-motor
reflexes, such as breathing or swallowing, sensori-motor reflexes, such as the closing of the
eyelids due to a flash of light, and ideo-motor reflexes, the ‘triggering of actions by ideas’.xcix
64
Carpenter conceived the ‘processing of stimuli and the generation of action’ to normally take
an upward course:c
external impressions produce sensations, ideas, emotions, and intellectual
processes that determine the will; the will then makes the final decision upon the action to be
executed.ci
If this process path is interrupted at any point, then external stimuli, according to
Carpenter, will exert their power in a transverse direction, which gives rise to a reflex
action.cii
Accordingly, if ‘ideas do not go on to [become] developed into emotions, or to
excite the intellectual operations’, they too may exert their power in a transverse direction,
causing automatic movements to occur, which may express the idea that occupies the mind at
that particular moment in time.ciii
Carpenter thus argues that table-turning is essentially an
ideo-motor phenomenon, which occurs through the temporary suspension of the will, and a
high level of ‘expectant attention’ focused on the completion of the anticipated action to be
executed, which is, in this case, the movement of the table.civ
This causes the ‘will to be
temporarily withdrawn from control over the muscles […] and the anticipation of [the table
moving] being the stimulus which directly and involuntarily prompts the muscular
movements that produce it.’cv
Alison Winter argues that Carpenter’s theory is significant in that it provides a naturalistic
explanation that can not only be applied to table-turning, but also to a range of other
phenomena, such as spirit-rapping, and the mesmeric and electrobiological states, all of
which were allegedly caused by an external force.cvi
This is particularly important because
mesmeric and electric phenomena were also used to account for spirit-rapping. cvii
Spiritualists used mesmeric and scientific vocabulary to reinforce their own claims;cviii
discrediting mesmerism and electric phenomena, thus indirectly discredited the claims of
spiritualism itself. Carpenter’s reputation as a leading physiologist ultimately added weight to
his argument and gave his theory credibility. As Winter notes, ‘[the] notion of unconscious
action quickly became a conventional response to psychical researches of the 1850s and
1860s.’cix
Although Carpenter’s work undoubtedly discouraged some table-turners from
conducting further experiments, his theory neither dissuaded people from undertaking
psychical research, which is exemplified by the formation of the Society of Psychical
Research in 1882, whose membership grew rapidly in the years immediately after its
formation and continued to thrive until the twentieth-century,cx
nor did it stop alternative
theories being considered plausible. In part, as Lamont notes, this was because Carpenter’s
ideo-motor theory was never thought to explain the more impressive phenomena, such as
Home’s reported levitations. Instead, the facts of these reports were simply rejected outright,
rather than being explained by scientific theories.cxi
Moreover, as other scientists and
intellectuals interpreted their spiritualistic experiences differently and expounded
contradicting claims it not only challenged existing scientific theories, but also ensured that
the debate concerning the veracity of spiritualism continued.
2.2 Challenging the Ideo-Motor Theory: The Report of the London Dialectical Society
The London Dialectical Society, a highly regarded British professional association,
undertook what Podmore describes as ‘the only attempt [up till 1882] […] at a systematic
investigation, by any man or body of men having serious pretensions to scientific
qualifications, of the phenomena of [spiritualism].’cxii
This was due to the widespread
popularity of spiritualism in England at the time, which suggests in itself that Carpenter’s
argument had, to some degree, being ineffectual in convincing the general public of the
inveracity of spiritualistic experiences. The committee responsible for the investigation was
divided into a general committee and six sub-committees, and it was the sub-committees that
were charged with the responsibility of conducting rigorous experiments to ascertain if the
phenomena were genuine, or not.cxiii
65
Sub-committee No. 1, which Podmore describes as ‘the most persevering and most
successful of all the sub-committees’,cxiv
conducted forty meetings, all of which were held at
the homes of the members of the committee to avoid the possibility of ‘pre-arranged
mechanism[s] and contrivance[s]’ being used.cxv
The rooms were carefully inspected before
and after each meeting, which were conducted in full gaslight so that the phenomena could be
easily observed.cxvi
The committee also avoided using paid or professional mediums during
their investigations, and those that were used were said to be of ‘good social conduct […]
unimpeachable integrity […] and [had] nothing to gain by deception.’cxvii
At one meeting the members of the committee ‘turned the backs of their chairs to the table’
and knelt upon them.cxviii
Placing their arms upon the backs of their respective chairs, they
then extended their hands over the table ‘at about four inches from its surface’.cxix
As they
had knelt on their chairs, their feet were turned away from the table and could not touch the
floor. In this position, and in ‘less than one minute’, they observed the table move,
untouched, four times; it first moved approximately ‘five inches to one side’, and then about
‘twelve inches to the opposite side’.cxx
This then happened again, ‘four inches and six inches
respectively’.cxxi
Then, placing their hands on the backs of their chairs and moving the chairs
a foot from the table, the table again moved as before; it moved five times. Finally, moving
their chairs back eighteen inches from the table, but this time placing their hands behind their
backs, the table moved four times in varying directions. After the meeting the committee
members examined the table and took it to pieces, but could find nothing to account for the
phenomena.cxxii
The committee thus concluded that under certain bodily or mental conditions a force is
exhibited that could move heavy substances, without the use of physical force, and without
‘contact or material connection of any kind between the bodies of those present and the
substance.’cxxiii
Furthermore, they noted that the force is frequently directed by intelligence,
and can also produce sounds from solid substances, again without bodily contact or material
connection being made.cxxiv
The term ‘force’ is ambiguous in this context, as it could imply
an electric force, an unknown force, or spirit agency. The fact that the members considered
the force to be directed by intelligence could suggest the latter, as spiritualists claimed that
intelligence survived physical death. However, any claim that suggested that an external
force was at work, directly challenged Carpenter’s theory.
The conclusion reached by sub-committee No.1 undoubtedly subverts Carpenter’s ideo-
motor theory and Faraday’s experiments. In both cases their conclusions rest on the notion
that bodily contact with the table is made. It appears from the sub-committee’s report that
involuntary muscular action could not be the cause of the phenomena in this case, as no
contact with the table was made. I would claim that the committee's argument carries more
weight because the report claims that four-fifths of the members of the committee were
wholly sceptical before they undertook the investigation; believed the cause of the
phenomena to be the result of fraud, delusion or involuntary muscular action; and had
investigated the phenomena over forty times under supposedly controlled conditions.cxxv
The overall conclusion of the report was also favourable to spiritualism, as it stated that ‘the
subject is worthy of more serious attention and careful investigation than it has hitherto
received.’cxxvi
What is striking about such a statement is that while it implies that existing
theories do not adequately explain the phenomena, it also suggests that the committee
thought that there was something worth investigating further, which insinuates that both the
spiritual theory, and the existence of an unknown force, are plausible explanations of the
phenomena.
66
Wallace, in his book On Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, boasts that out of the thirty-three
acting committee members, there were only eight believers in the reality of the phenomena,
four of whom accepted the spiritual theory, and yet by the end of the investigation twelve of
the thoroughly sceptical members had become convinced of the reality of many of the
physical phenomena.cxxvii
While one may argue that this suggests that the phenomena had a
significant impact on the committee members, it also casts light on the divisive nature of the
phenomena. The section of the report entitled ‘communication from members of the
committee’ contains letters from Mr Charles Bradlaugh, Dr James Edmunds, Mr Henry
Jeffery and Mr Geary, all of whom declined to concur with the report’s findings.cxxviii
Edmunds claims that the report was biased due to the ‘selection, publication and reviewing of
the evidence […] drifting into the hands of devoted and zealous spiritualists’,cxxix
despite their
being only one spiritualist on the editing committee. Further, Mr H. G. Atkinson noted that
although he did not dispute the conclusion of the report, he was keen to note that the
phenomena were neither caused by spirit intervention nor any ‘new power.’cxxx
It thus becomes apparent that even after a systematic and rigorous investigation into the
phenomena the investigators were unable to reach a consensus of opinion. The conclusions of
a number of the sub-committees, most notably sub-committee No.1, contradicted existing
scientific theories, and the overall conclusion of the report cast doubt over the adequacy of
these theories: as the report recommended the phenomena be given more serious attention, it
implied that existing theories did not adequately account for the phenomena.
The report thus suggests that the committee members interpreted their spiritualistic
experiences differently, which sparked debate. This is evident by the fact that several
members of the committee refused to concur with the report’s conclusion, noted their
reservations, or criticised the way in which the report was compiled and the evidence was
dealt with. Some of these concerns were not unfounded, as there does appear to be a degree
of slovenliness in the way the investigation was conducted and the report compiled.cxxxi
Nevertheless, as the report was published under the authority of a respectable professional
society, and there were several notable figures on the committee, such as Charles Bradlaugh,
the famous atheist leader, Edward William Cox, a Sergeant at law, and A. R. Wallace, the
report undoubtedly carried weight and scientific credibility.
3. Séance Phenomena and their Wider Implications for Science
The inadequacies of alternative naturalistic explanations of the phenomena, and the inability
of the intelligentsia to agree on a definitive explanation, did not help to convince non-
spiritualists that the phenomena were caused by human agency, as Carpenter suggested,
especially since contradictory claims, such as those contained in the report of the London
Dialectical Society, appeared to have an air of scientific credibility.cxxxii
Also, as séance
phenomena appeared to defy adequate naturalistic explanation they provided spiritualists
with the assurance that their claims were valid.cxxxiii
It is therefore of little surprise that the
debate about spiritualism could not be resolved, and that spiritualism, as Geoffrey Nelson
notes, continued to grow in popularity, rapidly and nationally, until the outbreak of World
War II.cxxxiv
Spiritualism also managed to retain its ‘eclectic membership’ into the twentieth-
century, which suggests that naturalistic explanations had little impact on those who attested
the spiritual theory.cxxxv
Noakes and Winter suggest that disputes over the interpretation of
spiritualistic experiences also had wider implications for science, as they were also disputes
over authority.cxxxvi
67
3.1. Sir William Crookes vs. W. B. Carpenter: a Dispute Over Authority
In 1867 Sir William Crookes, an eminent physicist and the editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Science (QJS), a bestselling science journal, began to investigate spiritualism. Three years
later he published an article about his investigation of spiritualism in the QJS, wherein he
argued that the scientist was more suitable than the spiritualist to observe and interpret the
phenomena. cxxxvii
Crookes considered the ‘pseudo-scientific’ spiritualists with their
inadequate séance protocols and theories to be unsuitable to conduct ‘investigations which so
completely baffle the ordinary observer.’cxxxviii
Instead, he claimed that such a task was for
the ‘thorough scientific man’,cxxxix
who possessed the skills necessary to use the sensitive
instruments needed to produce, under controlled conditions and independently of any existing
theory, decisive evidence of the physical manifestations of the séance.cxl
However, it was not
until 1871, after Crookes had conducted a series of experiments with D. D. Home, the most
famous and celebrated medium of the Victorian period, that Crookes announced that he had
discovered a ‘new force, in some unknown manner connected with the human
organisation.’cxli
His conclusion was derived from a series of experiments, which employed
the use of several highly sensitive mechanical instruments to detect the force that allegedly
emanated from Home’s body.cxlii
The response to Crookes’s report was varied: some thought that Crookes’s investigation was
the decisive investigation of spiritualism and were surprised by the research, while others
criticised Crookes of giving scientific respectability to a disreputable subject. Furthermore,
James Burns, the leading plebeian spiritualist, challenged the basis of Crookes’s authority; he
argued that Crookes’s mental training, as a physical scientist, made him inferior to
spiritualists in discerning the psychological laws of the séance.cxliii
While Crookes ignored the
challenges to his authority from outside the scientific community, he reacted to the criticisms
from within it. For instance, due to the criticism of George Gabriel Stokes, Crookes
attempted to demonstrate that his newly discovered force existed independently of the
medium. He did this by experimenting with vacuum apparatus that he was developing in
relation to his work on radiation. However, it was Carpenter’s criticism that provoked the
biggest response.cxliv
In 1871, Carpenter published in the QJS a critique of Crookes’s investigation of spiritualism.
After claiming that he had already adequately explained the cause of spiritualistic phenomena
through his psycho-physiological theories, Carpenter, like Burns, then proceeded to
undermine Crookes’s authority. He argued that Crookes had entered the investigation already
convinced of the objective reality of the phenomena, and that scientific witnesses to ‘powers
unknown to men of science’, were ‘unprofessional, self-deluded and poorly educated
converts to spiritualism’.cxlv
Moreover, like the spiritualist critics, Carpenter argued that
Crookes’s expertise in the physical laboratory did not necessarily mean that he was an expert
in the séance room. However, unlike the spiritualists, Carpenter claimed that the only forces
that Crookes’s investigation provided evidence of were those psychological forces that had
clouded the latter’s judgement.cxlvi
For Carpenter, the fact that Crookes, prior to embarking
on his investigation, was prejudiced in favour of the phenomena suggested that he had not
enjoyed the disciplining effects of a broad scientific education, and was not acquainted with
the conclusions of previous authoritative investigations.cxlvii
Indeed, according to Carpenter,
Crookes should have conceded to the authority of those who specialised in psychological
orders, namely himself and Laycock.cxlviii
Crookes responded to Carpenter’s claims by arguing that both he and Carpenter considered
the cause of the phenomena to be the result of a natural force, and not the spiritual theory,
which in itself suggested that he was not a spiritualist.cxlix
Also, as technical scientific
apparatus was used to register the power that was emanating from Home, Crookes claimed
that he was the ideal person to observe and judge the phenomena, as the investigation itself
68
relied on technical knowledge.cl
Crookes thus argued that it was his technical knowledge that
gave scientists confidence in his work on the physical phenomenon of spectral lines, a
capricious physical phenomenon akin to the psychic force that he was now testing:cli
to
undermine his authority over spiritualism was to also undermine other aspects of his
scientific work that were generally accepted by the scientific community.
It is apparent that Crookes believed that forces existed that had not yet been discovered, as he
writes: ‘[new] forces must be found or mankind must remain sadly ignorant of the mysteries
of nature.’clii
I would argue that Crookes’s research on thallium and radiation bolstered his
conviction that new forces and elements were yet to be discovered. The discovery of a new
psychic force was thus in line with his existing research. However, by linking Crookes’s
work on radiation with his work on spiritualism, Carpenter argued that Crookes’s
preoccupation with the discovery of new forces resulted in him being a victim of automatic
actions of his mind.cliii
Crookes, in Carpenter’s eyes, was a deluded and unreliable witness as
he had been influenced by a ‘strong “prepossession” to believe in the creations of [his] own
visual imagination.’cliv
By undermining Crookes’s authority and his work on radiation and
spiritualism, Carpenter was able to prevent new physical forces entering the scientific milieu,
forces that ultimately undermined the psychological forces that he had advanced twenty years
previously. I would argue that by challenging the authority of physical scientists in
interpreting séance phenomena, Carpenter was attempting to preserve his own authority, and
that of other medical practitioners. clv
However, Ruth Brandon suggests that Carpenter was correct to doubt Crookes’s reliability as
a dispassionate observer. This is because there is clearly a disparity between the ‘cool,
scientific tone’ of Crookes’s QJS articles and his private reports of séances that he had
attended, which are full of enthusiastic and excited passages.clvi
Crookes argued that the only
experiments he considered to be scientifically worthy were those that were conducted at his
own home, under conditions that were dictated by him, and not the medium. However, in an
excited letter to William Huggins, an astronomer who assisted Crookes at the séances where
Home was present, Crookes wrote: ‘Home always refuses to sit in the dark, as he says it is
not so satisfactory to those present. On this occasion, however, we induced him to join our
dark séance’.clvii
Such a disparity between Crookes’s notes and his published articles
suggests, according to Brandon, that it was a conscious policy not to allow in public print his
true involvement with spiritualism. The reason for this she argues is that Crookes knew that
objectivity and credibility were inseparable.clviii
As such, one can argue that Crookes was
consciously attempting to establish and assert his authority to legitimise the existence of a
new force, or even, one could say, spiritualism.
It thus becomes apparent that the dispute between Crookes and Carpenter was not merely a
contest between ‘science’ and ‘pseudo-science’, or the ‘natural’ and ‘supernatural,’ as both
Carpenter and Crookes advanced non-spiritual theories. Instead, I would argue that
spiritualistic disputes were over authority and competing versions of what could be deemed
natural.clix
Séance phenomena were thus significant as they blurred the boundaries between
the natural and the supernatural, which suggests that during the Victorian period there were
differing and competing ideas of what counted as natural and lawful, and what counted as
scientific, as the dispute between Crookes and Carpenter demonstrates.clx
Consequently, I
would argue that spiritualism thus posed a threat to the internal development of science.
3.2. Séance Phenomena: a Threat to the Internal Development of Science.
The notion of scientific authority in the nineteenth-century is significant, as science itself was
going through a process of transformation. As Turner notes, prior to 1850 the ‘major
characteristics of British science were amateurism, patronage, miniscule government support,
limited employment opportunities, and peripheral inclusion within the clerically dominated
69
universities.’clxi
However, the emergence of a professionalising elite in the mid-nineteenth-
century, known as the X-Club, was attempting to transform science into a professional
enterprise.clxii
Part of this transformation included an ‘epistemological redefinition of science
to mean critical research based on empirical verification.’clxiii
However, this was only one
facet of a wider redefinition, which consisted of extensive and on-going discussions over the
‘character of the Victorian scientific community, its function in society, and the values by
which it was judged.’clxiv
From 1850 onwards the number of professional scientists increased, as scientific ideas spread
both at the popular level and within schools and universities, which caused ‘a transfer of
authority from religious to naturalistic belief.’clxv
Turner argues that conflict is a necessary
part of the professionalisation process. This is because such a process creates unavoidable
tension between the professionalisers, and those within and outside the group who refuse to
accept professionalisation.clxvi
According to Turner, internal conflict both stabilises and unites
the professionalising group: it ‘[raises] standards of competence, [fosters] a common bond of
purpose, and [subjects] practitioners to the judgement of peers rather than external social or
intellectual authorities.’clxvii
In addition, in order for the professionalising group to define
itself and its role within the social order it must engage in conflict with the outside.clxviii
Turner’s inter-professional conflict thesis casts light onto the disputes over spiritualism. For
members of the professionalising elite, such as Huxley and John Tyndall, both of who were
also ardent critics of spiritualism, the acceptance of séance phenomena, which were
considered to be ‘capricious, unrepeatable and unverifiable’, subverted the epistemological
redefinition of science.clxix
Indeed, it could be argued that they considered séance phenomena
to be evidence of supernatural beliefs that must be excluded from any definition of
science.clxx
As such, I would argue that scientific supporters of spiritualism, alongside those
who considered séance phenomena to provide evidence of an unknown external force, were
considered to be internal resistors of professionalisation; conflict was therefore inevitable.
This would explain why Carpenter charged those scientists, who witnessed and subsequently
attested ‘powers unknown to men of science’, as being ‘unprofessional, self-deluded and
poorly educated converts to spiritualism’;clxxi
not only did Carpenter perceive them as being
unprofessional, but he banished them from the scientific community altogether. They were all
converts to spiritualism. Moreover, as the character of the Victorian scientific community and
the values by which it was judged were being redefined, it becomes clear why competing
ideas of what counted as natural and lawful, and who counted as scientific, occurred.
However, I would also argue that spiritualism seemed to support some of the claims of those
who opposed professionalisation from the outside, namely the claims of Anglicanism.
Although the degree to which Darwinian evolution and geological evidence for human
origins had an impact on Anglicanism is a matter of debate, it undoubtedly provided an
alternative to the Biblical creation account, and caused theological revision.clxxii
Moreover,
Higher Biblical Criticism and internal conflict within the Anglican Church also undermined
Christian faith in the period.clxxiii
Janet Oppenheim, in her book The Other World, argues that
spiritualism, for some Christians, strengthened Christianity. This is because it not only
‘[proved] once and for all the reality of life after death, but furthermore, in doing so,
[supported] the entire structure of Christian dogma.’clxxiv
Indeed, Noakes also claims that for
some Anglicans spirit manifestations provided ‘empirical evidence of Scriptural
miracles.’clxxv
However, due to its longstanding opposition to spirit communication, the
Church of England rejected spiritualism. clxxvi
Moreover, some spiritualists opposed
Christianity because the central theological concept in spiritualism, namely eternal
progression of the human soul and personal responsibility, alongside spiritualist conceptions
of heaven and hell, were at odds with Christian teachings.clxxvii
70
However, despite this, one could argue that spiritualism was perceived as being a threat to the
cultural and political goals of the professionalising elite. One of the main aims of the X-Club
was to establish Darwinian evolutionism as the accepted account of creation. By doing so
Christianity would have to surrender its intellectual authority to science, as historically the
former had provided the authoritative account of creation. However, as I have already argued
with the case of Wallace, spiritualism not only challenged Darwinian evolution, but, as
Noakes and Oppenheim suggest, it also, to some degree, relieved the effects of Higher
Biblical Criticism.clxxviii
Furthermore, Turner argues that the championing of the empirical
method and a thoroughly naturalistic approach to science was integral to the X-Club’s
professionalising efforts. As séance phenomena blurred the boundaries between the
supernatural and the natural, they also challenged the purely naturalistic approach of the
professionalisers.
This is significant when one acknowledges that prior to 1850 science had been the
handmaiden of Christianity, and that the latter had fettered science insofar as it ‘defined the
scope and intellectual context of scientific work, and frequently determined the kinds of
questions and conclusions deemed appropriate or inappropriate for research.’clxxix
Although
by the middle of the nineteenth-century many scientists had rejected the limitations that
natural theology had posed on science, its influence was still present in large parts of the
scientific community.clxxx
However, by the end of the nineteenth-century not only had the
members of the X-Club established themselves as the elite in that they occupied influential
academic, editorial and governmental positions, but they had also marginalised the influence
of the clergy: the number of clergy who were members of the Royal Society and the British
Association were minimal, and the number of clergymen occupying influential academic
chairs had also declined.clxxxi
The successful professionalisation of science was no mean feat,
and I would argue that the acceptance of spiritualism as a legitimate field of scientific study
would have been seen as a regressive step, and thus a threat to the internal development of
Victorian science.
Conclusion
Séance phenomena were undoubtedly a central component of the Victorian debate about
spiritualism. As the case study of Wallace has illustrated, Wallace considered séance
phenomena to be the primary cause of his conversion to spiritualism. The phenomena that he
witnessed not only provided a scientific basis for Wallace’s beliefs, as he thought the
phenomena could be empirically tested, but they convinced him of the reality of the spirit,
although this was a gradual process. Indeed, for Wallace, it appears that the facts of the
séance forced him to modify his views. Although there are aspects of Wallace’s scientific
work that do not appear to contain any trace or influence of spiritualism, it does appear to
have had a transformative effect on his views concerning human evolution: the emergence of
this theistic teleological evolutionism appears to have been immediately after his conversion
to spiritualism. However, there also appear to be a number of secondary factors, such as
Wallace’s interest in phrenology and Owenism, which made his conversion more likely. The
degree to which séance phenomena had an impact on Wallace’s conversion to spiritualism
and influenced his theory of human evolution is therefore problematic. Nevertheless,
spiritualistic experiences do appear to be a central component to Wallace’s spiritualist
practices and beliefs.
Séance phenomena are also significant in that disputes over spiritualism were caused by
differing and competing interpretations of the phenomena. The comparison between
Carpenter’s ideo-motor theory and the report of the London Dialectical Society underlines
two important factors: firstly, that alternative naturalistic explanations, which were
expounded by scientists, were inadequate at explaining the phenomena; and secondly, that
even when the phenomena were systematically investigated by the intelligentsia, a consensus
71
of opinion could not be reached. As scientists were considered to be professional observers,
and thus the most qualified individuals to observe and judge the phenomena, their inability to
adequately explain and agree on the cause of spiritualistic experiences not only caused
debate, but also failed to convince many non-spiritualists that natural causes could account
for the phenomena. Further, as counter claims had an air of scientific credibility, such of
those contained within the report of the London Dialectical Society, they assured the
spiritualists of the veracity of the spiritual theory; however, they also implied that such a
theory, alongside the notion that the origins of the phenomena were unknown external forces,
was plausible.
These competing interpretations of the phenomena also had wider implications for Victorian
science. Firstly, as the dispute between Crookes and Carpenter suggests, the debate about
spiritualism does not simply represent disputes over the nature of science and pseudo-science,
or the natural and supernatural. Instead, disputes over spiritualism were over authority and
competing versions of what could be deemed natural. Séance phenomena thus blurred the
boundaries between the supernatural and the natural, which, for some scientists, threatened
the internal development of science. This is because it challenged the purely naturalistic
approach that was being championed by the scientific elite, and, as the case study of Wallace
illustrates, subverted aspects of Darwinian evolution, which the elite were trying to establish
as the accepted account of creation. Furthermore, it could also be argued that for some
Christians, séance phenomena strengthened their faith. As such, spiritualism was also caught
up in wider debates concerning the relationship between science and religion, and the
Victorian crisis of faith.
This paper both challenges and provides fresh insights into Peter Lamont’s thesis. Firstly,
although I have agreed with Lamont that séance phenomena are the primary cause of
conversion, Wallace’s conversion account also suggests that there are other influencing
factors that made his conversion more likely, which both problematises and complicates this
notion. More work needs to be conducted to establish if such factors are typical in other
conversion accounts, and if an individual’s gender and class, alongside other socio-economic
factors, affect their conversion narrative. This would undoubtedly shed more light on the
causes of spiritualist conversions, and on the degree to which séance phenomena were a
significant component of such conversions.
Lamont also only focuses on the mediumship of Home, and argues that scientists could not
adequately explain the phenomena he produced. However, the analysis of the report of the
London Dialectic Society, which investigated a number of different mediums, including
Home, suggests that such a claim could be expanded to include other mediums. This suggests
that further investigations are needed on individual mediums in the period in order to
ascertain the degree to which the phenomena they produced contributed to the disputes over
spiritualism.
Finally, I consider this paper to raise more general questions concerning how appropriate it is
for a religion to enter into scientific discourse; if spiritualistic experiences are an appropriate
method to construct theological concepts; and if séance phenomena are effective and
appropriate in providing evidence of an afterlife. Consequently, although I would argue that
séance phenomena were significant in mid-Victorian England, the degree to which they were
significant remains unclear.
72
Bibliography
Primary Sources
Carpenter, W. B., (1852), ‘On the Influence of Suggestion in Modifying and Directing Muscular Movement,
Independently of Volition’, in: Proceedings of the Royal Institution
Carpenter, W. B., (1852a), ‘On the Influence of Suggestion in Modifying and Directing Muscular Movement,
Independently of Volition’, in: Carpenter, W. B., and Carpenter, J. E., (1889), Nature and Man: Essays
Scientific and Philosophical, New York: D. Appleton & Company
Crookes, W., (1871), ‘Experimental Investigation of a New Force’, in: Crookes, W., (1874), Researches into the
Phenomena of Spiritualism, London: James Burns
Crookes, W., (1871a), ‘Psychic Force and Modern Spiritualism: a Reply to the “Quarterly Review” and Other
Critics’, in: Crookes, W., (1874), Researches into the Phenomena of Spiritualism, London: James Burns
Crookes, W., (1870), ‘Spiritualism Viewed by the Light of Modern Science’, in: Crookes, W., (1874),
Researches into the Phenomena of Spiritualism, London: James Burns
Darwin, C., (1859), The Origins of The Species by Means of Natural Selection: Or the Preservation of Favoured
Races in the Struggle for Life, London: reprinted with an introduction by Ernst Mayr., (1964), Massachusetts:
Harvard University Press
Faraday, M., (1854), ‘The Table-Turning Delusion’, in: ‘New Hampshire Journal of Medicine, Vol. IV-V
Hughes, T., (1863), Spiritualism and Common Sense, in: Cowen Tracts, London: Hodder and Stoughton
London Dialectical Society, (1871), Report on Spiritualism, London: Longmans, Green, Reader and Dyer
Marchant, J., (1916), Alfred Russel Wallace: Letters and Reminiscences, Vol. 2, New York: Cassell & Co
Poulton, E. B., (1924), ‘Alfred Russel Wallace’, in: Proceedings of the Royal Society of London, Series B, 95
Wallace, A. R., (1905), My Life: A Record of Events and Opinions, Vol. 2, New York: Dodd, Mead & Co.
Wallace, A. R., (1905a), My Life: A Record of Events and Opinions, Vol. 1, London: Chapman & Hall Ltd
Wallace, A. R., (1875), On Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, London: James Burns
Wallace, A. R., (1871), Contributions To The Theory Of Natural Selection: A Series of Essays, London:
Macmillan and Co.
Wallace. A. R. (1869), ‘Sir Charles Lyell on Geological Climates and the Origin of Species’, in: Quarterly
Review, April
Wallace, A. R., (1864), ‘The Origin of Human Races and the Antiquity of Man Deduced from the Theory of
‘Natural Selection’’, in: Journal of the Anthropological Society of London, Vol. 2
Secondary Sources
Barnard, G. W., (1997), Exploring Unseen Worlds: William James and the Philosophy of Mysticism, New York:
State University of New York
Barrow, L., (1986), Independent spirits: Spiritualism and English plebeians, 1850-1910, London: Routledge
and Kegan Paul
Barton, R., (1998), ‘“Huxley, Lubbock, and Half a Dozen Others”: Professionals and Gentlemen in the
Formation of the X Club, 1851-1864’, in: Isis, Vol. 89, No. 3
Bowler, P., (2007), Monkey Trials and Gorilla Sermons, Massachusetts: Harvard University Press
Bowler, P., (2003), Evolution: History of an Idea, California: University of California Press
73
Bown, N., Burdett, C., & Thurschwell, P., (eds.), (2004), The Victorian Supernatural, Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press
Brandon, R., (1983), The Spiritualists: The Passion of the Occult in the Nineteenth and Twentieth Centuries,
London: Weidenfel and Nicolson
Byrne, G., (2010), Modern Spiritualism and the Church of England, Woodbridge: The Boydell Press
Cerullo, J. J., (1982), The Secularisation of the Soul: Psychical Research in Modern Britain, Philadelphia:
Institute for the Study of Human Issues
Durant, J. R., (1979), ‘Scientific Naturalism and Social Reform in the Thought of Alfred Russel Wallace’, in:
The British Journal for the History of Science, Vol.12, No.1
Hazelgrove, J., (1999), ‘Spiritualism after the Great War’, in: Twentieth Century British History, Vol. 10, Issue
4
Glickman, S. E., (2009), ‘Charles Darwin, Alfred Wallace Russel, and the Evolution/ Creation of the Human
Brain And Mind’, in: Gayana, Vol. 73
Fichman, M., (2004), An Elusive Victorian: The Evolution of Alfred Russel Wallace, Chicago: The University of
Chicago Press
Jones, G., (2002), ‘Alfred Russel Wallace, Robert Owen and the Theory of Natural Selection’, in: The British
Journal for the History of Science, Vol.35, No.1
Kottler, M. J, (1974), ‘Alfred Russel Wallace, the Origin of Man, and Spiritualism’, in: Isis, Vol. 65, No. 2
Lamont, P., (2004), ‘Spiritualism and a Mid-Victorian Crisis of Evidence’, in: Historical Journal, 47
Dec
Larsen, T., (2006), Crisis of Doubt: Honest Faith in Nineteenth-Century England, Oxford: Oxford University
Press
Morsella, A., Bargh, J. A., Gollwitzer, P. M., (eds.), (2009), Oxford Handbook of Human Action, Oxford:
Oxford University Press
Nelson, G. K., (1969), Spiritualism and Society, London: Routledge and Kegan Paul
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in Mid-Victorian Britain’, in: Bown, N.,
Burdett, C., & Thurschwell, P., (eds.), (2004), The Victorian Supernatural, Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press
Noakes, R., (2002), ‘“Instruments to Lay Hold of Spirits”: Technologizing the Bodies of Victorian
Spiritualism’, in: Morus, I. R., (ed.), (2002), Bodies/Machines, London: Berg
Oppenheim, J., (1985), The Other World: Spiritualism and Psychical Research in England, 1850-1914,
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press
Owen, A., (1990), The Darkened Room: Women, Power, and Spiritualism in Late Victorian Thought,
Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press
Podmore, F., (1908), Naturalisation of the Supernatural, London: G. P. Putnam’s Sons
Podmore, F., (1902), Modern Spiritualism: A History and a Criticism, Vol. I, London: Mehuen & Co.
Podmore, F., (1902a), Modern Spiritualism: a History and a Criticism, Vol. II, London: Methuen & Co.
Rawson, D., (1978), ‘Mendeleev and the Claims of Spiritualism’, in: Proceedings of the American
Philosophical Society, Vol. 122, No. 1, Feb
Rowell, G., (1974), Hell and the Victorians: A Study of the Nineteenth-Century Theological Controversies
Concerning Eternal Punishment and The Future Life, Oxford: Oxford University Press
74
Seligmann, K., (1983), The History of Magic and the Occult, New York: Harmony Books
Slotten, R. A., (2004), The Heretic in Darwin’s Court: The Life of Alfred Russel Wallace, New York: Columbia
University Press
Smith, R., (1972), ‘Alfred Russel Wallace: Philosophy Nature and Man’, in: The British Journal for the History
of Science, Vol. 6, Issue 2
Stock, A., & Stock, C., (2004), ‘A Short History of Ideo-Motor Action’, in: Psychological Research, Vol. 60,
Issue 2-3
Turner, F. M., (1978), ‘The Victorian Conflict Between Science and Religion: a Professional Dimension’, in:
Isis, Vol. 69, No. 3
Turner, F. M, (1974), Between Science and Religion: The Reaction to Scientific Naturalism in Late Victorian
England, London: Yale University Press
Wegner, D. M., (2004), ‘Précis of the Illusion of Conscious Will’, in: Behavioral and Brain Sciences, Vol. 27,
Issue 5
Winter, A., (1998), Mesmerized: Powers of Mind in Victorian Britain, Chicago: Chicago University Press
i
Wallace, A. R., (1875), On Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, p.153.
ii
The ‘spiritual theory’ claims that it is the spirits of the deceased that cause the various séance phenomena to
occur (see, Wallace, A. R., (1875), On Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, p.vii). Alternative theories were also
in circulation: Sir William Crookes thought that he had discovered a new ‘psychic force’ after his early
investigations into spiritualism. According to Crookes, the ‘psychic force’ was ‘in some unknown manner
connected with the human organisation’, and only occurred under certain conditions, which ultimately ruled out
spirit agency (see, Crookes, W., (1871), ‘Experimental Investigation of a New Force’, p.9). Moreover, Michael
Faraday considered table-turning to be the result of ‘involuntary muscular action’ (see, Faraday, M., (1854),
‘The Table-Turning Delusion’, in: ‘New Hampshire Journal of Medicine, Vol. IV-V), whilst others offered a
range of opinions from telepathy and mass delusion to simple charlatanism (see, Podmore, F., (1902), Modern
Spiritualism: A History and a Criticism, Vol. I, p.284; and Slotten, R. A., (2004), The Heretic in Darwin’s
Court, p.232).
iii
Séance phenomena can be broadly divided into two categories: physical and mental. The physical variety
involves the alleged discarnate spirit physically affecting an inanimate or animate object. Conversely, mental
phenomena are characterised by a medium subjectively experiencing a discarnate spirit or spirits. See, Nelson,
G. K., (1969), Spiritualism and Society, pp.28-40, Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the
Supernatural in Mid-Victorian Britain’, p.27; William Barnard, G., (1997), Exploring Unseen Worlds, pp.44-
48; Byrne, G., (2010), Modern Spiritualism and the Church of England, p.4; Oppenheim, J., (1985), The Other
World, p.8; Wallace, A. R., (1875), On Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, pp.69-100; Crookes, W., (1871),
‘Experimental Investigation of a New Force’, pp.9-43; and Crookes, W., (1870), ‘Spiritualism Viewed by the
Light of Modern Science’, pp.3-8. Crookes, W., (1874), Researches into the Phenomena of Spiritualism, pp.4-
43.
iv
Mediums, for the purpose of this essay, are defined as ‘men, women and children who claimed to function as
channels of communication between the living and the dead.’ See Oppenheim, J., (1985), The Other World, p.7.
v
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘ Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in Mid-Victorian Britain’, p.27. For a more
in-depth examination of spiritualist theology, see, Byrne, G., (2010), Modern Spiritualism and the Church of
England, pp. 80-110; and Wallace, A. R., (1875), On Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, pp.100-119.
vi
Rawson, D., (1978), ‘Mendeleev And The Claims of Spiritualism’, in: Proceedings of the American
Philosophical Society, Vol. 122, No. 1, Feb, p.1; Barrow, L., (1986), Independent Spirits: Spiritualism and
English Plebeians, 1850-1910, p.1. For a survey of the history of the occult and magic in the Western world see,
Seligmann, K., (1983), The History of Magic and the Occult, New York: Harmony Books.
vii
Byrne, G., (2010), Modern Spiritualism and the Church of England, p.24. Byrne goes on to argue that early
spiritualists set spiritualism within a preternatural discourse, by distinguishing spiritualism from other examples
of preternatural wonders (p.25).
viii
This term was coined by Frank Podmore, a historian and prominent psychical researcher: Podmore, F.,
(1908), Naturalisation of the Supernatural, London: G. P. Putnam’s Sons.
75
ix
Rawson, D., (1978), ‘Mendeleev And The Claims of Spiritualism’, p.1; Rowell, G. (1974), Hell and the
Victorians, p.10; Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in Mid-Victorian Britain’,
p.24; and Slotten, R. A., (2004), The Heretic in Darwin’s Court, p.235.
x
Byrne, G., (2010), Modern Spiritualism and the Church of England, p.81.
xi
Hughes, T., (1868), Spiritualism and Common Sense, pp.1-4.
xii
Lamont, P., (2004), ‘Spiritualism and a mid-Victorian Crisis of Evidence’, in: Historical Journal, 47,
Dec., p.897-921.
xiii
Fichman, M, (2004), An Elusive Victorian, p.139.
xiv
For instance, Nelson, G. K., (1969), Spiritualism and Society, London: Routledge and Kegan Paul; and
Turner, F. M., (1974), Between Science and Religion: The Reaction to Scientific Naturalism in Late Victorian
England, London: Yale University Press.
xv
Owen, A., (1990), The Darkened Room: Women, Power, and Spiritualism in Late Victorian Thought,
Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press; Barrow, L., (1986), Independent spirits: Spiritualism and
English plebeians, 1850-1910, London: Routledge and Kegan Paul; Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science
and the Supernatural in Mid-Victorian Britain’, in: Bown, N., Burdett, C., & Thurschwell, P., (eds.), (2004), The
Victorian Supernatural, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
xvi
Rowell, G., (1974), Hell and the Victorians, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
xvii
Oppenheim, J., (1985), The Other World, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
xviii
Cerullo, J. J., (1982), The Secularisation of the Soul: Psychical Research in Modern Britain, Philadelphia:
Institute for the Study of Human Issues.
xix
Lamont, P., (2004), ‘Spiritualism and a mid-Victorian Crisis of Evidence’, in: Historical Journal, 47,
Dec., pp.897-921.
xx
The role of the professional stage conjurer in the debate about Victorian spiritualism will fall outside the
scope of this paper. The reason for this is that I consider it to be more productive to focus on the relationship
between spiritualism and the scientific community, as I consider the spiritualists’ claim that spiritualism had a
scientific basis to a defining feature of spiritualism.
xxi
Lamont, P., (2004), ‘Spiritualism and a mid-Victorian Crisis of Evidence’, p.898.
xxii
Due to Wallace’s position in both the scientific and spiritualist communities and his unrelenting support for
spiritualism, I would argue that Wallace is an interesting case study that can shed light on the nature of
spiritualist conversions more generally.
xxiii
Fichman, M., (2004), An Elusive Victorian, p.141.
xxiv
Turner, F. M., (1974), Between Science and Religion: The Reaction to Scientific Naturalism in Late
Victorian England, pp.68-9; and Fichman, M, (2004), An Elusive Victorian, p.139.
xxv
Wallace, A. R., (1875), On Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, p.124.
xxvi
Wallace, A. R., (1875), On Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, p.125.
xxvii
Wallace, A. R., (1875), On Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, p.125.
xxviii
Wallace, A. R., (1875), On Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, p.126.
xxix
Wallace, A. R., (1875), On Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, p.126.
xxx
Wallace, A. R., (1875), On Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, p.126.
xxxi
Wallace, A. R., (1875), On Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, p.127.
xxxii
Wallace, A. R., (1875), On Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, p.127.
xxxiii
Wallace, A. R., (1875), On Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, p.132.
xxxiv
Wallace, A. R., (1875), On Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, p.128-37.
xxxv
Wallace, A. R., (1875), On Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, p.130-31.
xxxvi
Wallace, A. R., (1875), On Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, p.vii.
xxxvii
Wallace, A. R., (1875), On Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, p.vi.
xxxviii
Wallace, A. R., (1875), On Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, p.125.
xxxix
Fichman, M., (2004), An Elusive Victorian, p.157; and Wallace, A. R., (1875), On Miracles and Modern
Spiritualism, pp.221-2.
xl
Fichman, M., (2004), An Elusive Victorian, p.2
xli
Turner, F. M., (1974), Between Science and Religion: The Reaction to Scientific Naturalism in Late Victorian
England, p.94; Kottler, M. J., (1974), ‘Alfred Russell Wallace, the Origin of Man, and Spiritualism’, p.162;
Fichman, M., (2004), An Elusive Victorian, p.198; and Glickman, S. E., (2009), ‘Charles Darwin, Alfred
Wallace Russell, and the Evolution/Creation of the Human Brain And Mind’, p.39.
xlii
Turner, F. M., (1974), Between Science and Religion: The Reaction to Scientific Naturalism in Late Victorian
England, p.94.
xliii
Turner, F. M., (1974), Between Science and Religion: The Reaction to Scientific Naturalism in Late
Victorian England, p.94.
xliv
Darwin’s book The Origin of the Species contains little discussion of human evolution, see Glickman, S. E.,
(2009), ‘Charles Darwin, Alfred Russel Wallace, and the Evolution/Creation of the Human Brain And Mind’,
p.33; for Wallace’s paper see, Wallace, A. R., (1864), ‘The Origin of Human Races and the Antiquity of Man
Deduced from the Theory of ‘Natural Selection’’, in: Journal of the Anthropological Society of London, Vol. 2.
76
xlv
Kottler, M. J., (1974), ‘Alfred Russel Wallace, the Origin of Man, and Spiritualism’, p.147; Fichman, M.,
(2004), An Elusive Victorian, p.192; and Turner, F. M., (1974), Between Science and Religion: The Reaction to
Scientific Naturalism in Late Victorian England, pp.94-95.
xlvi
Kottler, M. J., (1974), ‘Alfred Russel Wallace, the Origin of Man, and Spiritualism’, p.148.
xlvii
Kottler, M. J., (1974), ‘Alfred Russel Wallace, the Origin of Man, and Spiritualism’, p.148; and Wallace, A.
R., (1864), ‘The Origin of Human Races and the Antiquity of Man Deduced from the Theory of ‘Natural
Selection’’, p.clxiv.
xlviii
Wallace, A. R., (1864), ‘The Origin of Human Races and the Antiquity of Man Deduced from the Theory of
‘Natural Selection’’, p.clxix.
xlix
Kottler, M. J., (1974), ‘Alfred Russell Wallace, the Origin of Man, and Spiritualism’, pp.147-48; and
Glickman, S. E., (2009), ‘Charles Darwin, Alfred Russel Wallace, and the Evolution/Creation of the Human
Brain And Mind’, p.33-4.
l
Wallace, A. R., (1905), My Life: A Record of Events and Opinions, Vol.2, p.22.
li
Wallace, A. R. (1869), ‘Sir Charles Lyell on Geological Climates and the Origin of Species’, p.391.
lii
Kottler, M. J., (1974), ‘Alfred Russel Wallace, the Origin of Man, and Spiritualism’, p.151.
liii
Wallace, A. R., (1871), Contributions To The Theory Of Natural Selection, p.338.
liv
Kottler, M. J., (1974), ‘Alfred Russel Wallace, the Origin of Man, and Spiritualism’, p.151.
lv
Kottler, M. J., (1974), ‘Alfred Russel Wallace, the Origin of Man, and Spiritualism’, p.151.
lvi
Wallace, A. R., (1871), Contributions To The Theory Of Natural Selection, p.341.
lvii
Wallace, A. R., (1871), Contributions To The Theory Of Natural Selection, p.343.
lviii
Wallace, A. R., (1871), Contributions To The Theory Of Natural Selection, p.343.
lix
Wallace, A. R., (1871), Contributions To The Theory Of Natural Selection, p.343; Kottler, M. J., (1974),
‘Alfred Russel Wallace, the Origin of Man, and Spiritualism’, p.150; and Fichman, M., (2004), An Elusive
Victorian, p.198.
lx
Kottler, M. J., (1974), ‘Alfred Russel Wallace, the Origin of Man, and Spiritualism’, p.151; Darwin does not
completely omit God from his theory. In fact, Darwin considers nature to be the ‘expression of the Creator’s
power’, and claims that the Creator ‘breathed’ life into the first organic beings (See, Darwin, C., (1859), The
Origins of The Species, p.490). However, Darwin suggests that after this point God no longer intervened in the
affairs of life. See, Bowler, P., (2007), Monkey Trials and Gorilla Sermons, p.95; and Bowler, P., (2003),
Evolution: History of an Idea, p.183.
lxi
Bowler, P., (2007), Monkey Trials and Gorilla Sermons, p.95; and Bowler, P., (2003), Evolution: History of
an Idea, p.183.
lxii
Marchant, J., (1916), Alfred Russel Wallace: Letters and Reminiscences, Vol.2, p.243.
lxiii
Marchant, J., (1916), Alfred Russel Wallace: Letters and Reminiscences, Vol.2, pp.243-4.
lxiv
Poulton, E. B., (1924), ‘Alfred Russell Wallace,’ p.xxviii.
lxv
While I acknowledge that Wallace was also influenced by the ‘extreme individualist’ Herbert Spencer, as the
concluding paragraph of Wallace’s 1864 essay demonstrates, Spencer’s influence began to wane in the years
after 1864 (See, Durant, J. R., (1979), ‘Scientific Naturalism and Social Reform in the Thought of Alfred Russel
Wallace’, pp. 42-7; and Jones, G., (2002), ‘Alfred Russel Wallace, Robert Owen and the Theory of Natural
Selection’, p.74). Indeed, between 1867-69, when Wallace had converted to spiritualism, his ‘Spencerian
optimism […] had vanished’ (See, Durant, J. R., (1979), ‘Scientific Naturalism and Social Reform in the
Thought of Alfred Russel Wallace’, p.47). As such, while Spencer undoubtedly influenced Wallace’s scientific
work, I consider his influence on Wallace’s conversion to spiritualism to be limited.
lxvi
Wallace, A. R., (1905a), My Life: A Record of Events and Opinions, Vol. 1, p.79.
lxvii
Wallace, A. R., (1905a), My Life: A Record of Events and Opinions, Vol. 1, p.234.
lxviii
Turner, F. M., (1974), Between Science and Religion: The Reaction to Scientific Naturalism in Late
Victorian England, p.81; and Smith, R., (1972), ‘Alfred Russel Wallace: Philosophy of Nature and Man’, p.185.
lxix
Turner, F. M., (1974), Between Science and Religion: The Reaction to Scientific Naturalism in Late
Victorian England, p.79; and Smith, R., (1972), ‘Alfred Russel Wallace: Philosophy of Nature and Man’, p.185.
lxx
Turner, F. M., (1974), Between Science and Religion: The Reaction to Scientific Naturalism in Late Victorian
England, p.79; and Smith, R., (1972), ‘Alfred Russel Wallace: Philosophy of Nature and Man’, pp.185-6.
lxxi
Turner, F. M., (1974), Between Science and Religion: The Reaction to Scientific Naturalism in Late
Victorian England, p.82; and Smith, R., (1972), ‘Alfred Russel Wallace: Philosophy of Nature and Man’, p.183.
lxxii
Turner, F. M., (1974), Between Science and Religion: The Reaction to Scientific Naturalism in Late
Victorian England, p.82.
lxxiii
Smith, R., (1972), ‘Alfred Russel Wallace: Philosophy of Nature and Man’, p.183; and Turner, F. M.,
(1974), Between Science and Religion: The Reaction Scientific Naturalism in Late Victorian England, p.81.
lxxiv
Turner, F. M., (1974), Between Science and Religion: The Reaction Scientific Naturalism in Late Victorian
England, p.79.
lxxv
Turner, F. M., (1974), Between Science and Religion: The Reaction to Scientific Naturalism in Late
Victorian England, p.80.
lxxvi
Turner, F. M., (1974), Between Science and Religion: The Reaction to Scientific Naturalism in Late
Victorian England, p.83.
77
lxxvii
Durant, J. R., (1979), ‘Scientific Naturalism and Social Reform in the Thought of Alfred Russel Wallace’,
p.36.
lxxviii
Turner, F. M., (1974), Between Science and Religion: The Reaction to Scientific Naturalism in Late
Victorian England, p.88.
lxxix
Turner, F. M., (1974), Between Science and Religion: The Reaction to Scientific Naturalism in Late
Victorian England, p.88.
lxxx
Robert Owen’s influence on Wallace is unquestionable, as Wallace considered Owen to be his ‘first teacher
in the philosophy of human nature.’ See, Wallace, A. R., (1905a), My Life: A Record of Events and Opinions,
Vol. 1, p.104.
lxxxi
Turner, F. M., (1974), Between Science and Religion: The Reaction to Scientific Naturalism in Late
Victorian England, p.90.
lxxxii
Weekly Tribune, 1 June 1850, p.5; citied in, Larsen, T., (2006), Crisis of Doubt, p.273.
lxxxiii
Turner, F. M., (1974), Between Science and Religion: The Reaction to Scientific Naturalism in Late
Victorian England, p.90; this is also confirmed by Jenny Hazelgrove. See Hazelgrove, J., (1999), ‘Spiritualism
After the Great War’, ‘Spiritualism after the Great War’, in: Twentieth Century British History, Vol. 10, Issue 4,
p.406.
lxxxiv
Wallace, A. R., (1896), Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, p.124.
lxxxv
Turner, F. M., (1974), Between Science and Religion: The Reaction to Scientific Naturalism in Late
Victorian England, p.70; Fichman, M., (2004), An Elusive Victorian, p.144.
lxxxvi
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in Mid-Victorian Britain’, p.25.
lxxxvii
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in Mid-Victorian Britain’, p.27.
lxxxviii
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in Mid-Victorian Britain’, p.31.
lxxxix
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in Mid-Victorian Britain’, p.28.
xc
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in mid-Victorian Britain’, p.30; and Lamont,
P., (2004), ‘Spiritualism and a Mid-Victorian Crisis of Evidence’, p.908.
xci
Stock, A., & Stock, C., (2004), ‘A Short History of Ideo-Motor Action’, p.178. To view Carpenter’s original
essay please see http://www.sgipt.org/medppp/psymot/carp1852.htm
xcii
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in mid-Victorian Britain’, p.32.
xciii
Stock, A., & Stock, C., (2004), ‘A Short History of Ideo-Motor Action’, p.178.
xciv
Stock, A., & Stock, C., (2004), ‘A Short History of Ideo-Motor Action’, p.178.
xcv
Carpenter, W. B., (1852), ‘On the Influence of Suggestion in Modifying and Directing Muscular Movement,
Independently of Volition’, p.148.
xcvi
Carpenter, W. B., (1852), ‘On the Influence of Suggestion in Modifying and Directing Muscular Movement,
Independently of Volition’, p.148.
xcvii
Morsella, A., Bargh, J. A., Gollwitzer, P. M., (eds.), (2009), Oxford Handbook of Human Action, p.38.
xcviii
Stock, A., & Stock, C., (2004), ‘A Short History of Ideo-Motor Action’, p.178; and Noakes, R., (2004),
‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in mid-Victorian Britain’, p.31.
xcix
Stock, A., & Stock, C., (2004), ‘A Short History of Ideo-Motor Action’, p.178; and Carpenter, W. B.,
(1852a), ‘On the Influence of Suggestion in Modifying and Directing Muscular Movement, Independently of
Volition’, p.169.
c
Stock, A., & Stock, C., (2004), ‘A Short History of Ideo-Motor Action’, p.178.
ci
Stock, A., & Stock, C., (2004), ‘A Short History of Ideo-Motor Action’, p.178; Carpenter, W. B., (1852a), ‘On
the Influence of Suggestion in Modifying and Directing Muscular Movement, Independently of Volition’,
p.169.
cii
Carpenter, W. B., (1852a), ‘On the Influence of Suggestion in Modifying and Directing Muscular Movement,
Independently of Volition’, p.171.
ciii
Carpenter, W. B., (1852a), ‘On the Influence of Suggestion in Modifying and Directing Muscular Movement,
Independently of Volition’, p.171.
civ
Stock, A., & Stock, C., (2004), ‘A Short History of Ideo-Motor Action’, p.179; and Carpenter, W. B.,
(1852a), ‘On the Influence of Suggestion in Modifying and Directing Muscular Movement, Independently of
Volition’, p.172.
cv
Carpenter, W. B., (1852a), ‘On the Influence of Suggestion in Modifying and Directing Muscular Movement,
Independently of Volition’, p.172.
cvi
Winter, A., (1998), Mesmerized, p.287. For instance, it was alleged that the phenomenon of spirit-rapping
was caused by disembodied spirits who spelt out messages by tapping out a code on the table; mesmeric states
were said to be made possible by an ‘invisible, universally distributed fluid [or force] that flowed everywhere
and served as a vehicle for influence between heavenly and earthly bodies’ (See, Byrne, G., (2010), Modern
Spiritualism and the Church of England, p.34); and electrobiology claimed that by producing an electric current
in the air, by means of a coin made up of a core of copper and encased by zinc, an individual’s will could be
suspended, while the individual remained fully conscious and cognisant (see, Winter, A., (1998), Mesmerized,
p.281).
cvii
Winter, A., (1998), Mesmerized, p.293.
cviii
Byrne, G., (2010), Modern Spiritualism and the Church of England, pp.36-37.
78
cix
Winter, A., (1998), Mesmerized, p.293.
cx
Byrne, G., (2010), Modern Spiritualism and the Church of England, p.51; and Winter, A., (1998),
Mesmerized, p.304.
cxi
Lamont, P., (2004), ‘Spiritualism and a mid-Victorian Crisis of Evidence’, p.910.
cxii
Podmore, F., (1902a), Modern Spiritualism: a History and a Criticism, p.151.
cxiii
London Dialectical Society, (1871), Report on Spiritualism, pp.1-2.
cxiv
Podmore, F., (1902a), Modern Spiritualism: a History and a Criticism, Vol. II, p.149.
cxv
London Dialectical Society, (1871), Report on Spiritualism, p.7.
cxvi
London Dialectical Society, (1871), Report on Spiritualism, p.7.
cxvii
London Dialectical Society, (1871), Report on Spiritualism, p.7.
cxviii
London Dialectical Society, (1871), Report on Spiritualism, pp.10.
cxix
London Dialectical Society, (1871), Report on Spiritualism, pp.10.
cxx
London Dialectical Society, (1871), Report on Spiritualism, pp.10.
cxxi
London Dialectical Society, (1871), Report on Spiritualism, pp.10-11.
cxxii
London Dialectical Society, (1871), Report on Spiritualism, pp.10-11.
cxxiii
London Dialectical Society, (1871), Report on Spiritualism, p.13.
cxxiv
London Dialectical Society, (1871), Report on Spiritualism, p.13.
cxxv
London Dialectical Society, (1871), Report on Spiritualism, p.7.
cxxvi
London Dialectical Society, (1871), Report on Spiritualism, p.6.
cxxvii
Wallace, A. R., (1896), On Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, p.178.
cxxviii
London Dialectical Society, (1871), Report on Spiritualism, pp.50-109.
cxxix
London Dialectical Society, (1871), Report on Spiritualism, p.51.
cxxx
London Dialectical Society, (1871), Report on Spiritualism, p.104.
cxxxi
Podmore, F., (1902a), Modern Spiritualism: a History and a Criticism, Vol. II, p.150.
cxxxii
Winter, A., (1998), Mesmerized, p.293; and Lamont, P., (2004), ‘Spiritualism and a mid-Victorian Crisis
of Evidence’, p.901.
cxxxiii
Winter, A., (1998), Mesmerized, pp.292-3.
cxxxiv
Nelson, G. K., (1969), Spiritualism and Society, p.160.
cxxxv
Hazelgrove, J., (1999), ‘Spiritualism After the Great War’, ‘Spiritualism after the Great War’, in: Twentieth
Century British History, Vol. 10, Issue 4, p.406.
cxxxvi
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in mid-Victorian Britain’, pp.32-9; and
Lamont, P., (2004), ‘Spiritualism and a mid-Victorian Crisis of Evidence’, pp.901-3.
cxxxvii
Crookes, W., (1870), ‘Spiritualism Viewed by the Light of Modern Science’, pp.4-5; and Noakes, R.,
(2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in mid-Victorian Britain’, p.34.
cxxxviii
Crookes, W., (1870), ‘Spiritualism Viewed by the Light of Modern Science’, p.5.
cxxxix
Crookes, W., (1870), ‘Spiritualism Viewed by the Light of Modern Science’, p.5.
cxl
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in mid-Victorian Britain’, p.34.
cxli
Crookes, W., (1871), ‘Experimental Investigation of a New Force’, p.9.
cxlii
Crookes, W., (1871), ‘Experimental Investigation of a New Force’, pp.11-17; and Noakes, R., (2004),
‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in mid-Victorian Britain’, p.34.
cxliii
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in mid-Victorian Britain’, p.35.
cxliv
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in mid-Victorian Britain’, p.35.
cxlv
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in mid-Victorian Britain’, p.35-6.
cxlvi
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in mid-Victorian Britain’, p.36.
cxlvii
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in mid-Victorian Britain’, p.36.
cxlviii
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in mid-Victorian Britain’, p.36.
cxlix
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in mid-Victorian Britain’, p.36.
cl
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in mid-Victorian Britain’, p.37.
cli
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in mid-Victorian Britain’, p.37.
clii
Crookes, W., (1871a), ‘Psychic Force and Modern Spiritualism: a Reply to the “Quarterly Review” and Other
Critics’, p.48-9.
cliii
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in mid-Victorian Britain’, p.37.
cliv
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in mid-Victorian Britain’, p.37.
clv
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in mid-Victorian Britain’, p.37.
clvi
Brandon, R., (1983), The Spiritualists, p.83.
clvii
Brandon, R., (1983), The Spiritualists, p.86.
clviii
Brandon, R., (1983), The Spiritualists, p.85.
clix
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in mid-Victorian Britain’, p.39.
clx
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in mid-Victorian Britain’, p.39.
clxi
Turner, F. M., (1978), ‘The Victorian Conflict Between Science and Religion: a Professional Dimension’,
p.360.
79
clxii
Barton, R., (1998), ‘“Huxley, Lubbock, and Half a Dozen Others”: Professionals and Gentlemen in the
Formation of the X Club, 1851-1864’, p.411; and Turner, F. M., (1978), ‘The Victorian Conflict Between
Science and Religion: a Professional Dimension’, p.362.
clxiii
Turner, F. M., (1978), ‘The Victorian Conflict Between Science and Religion: a Professional Dimension’,
p.358.
clxiv
Turner, F. M., (1978), ‘The Victorian Conflict Between Science and Religion: a Professional Dimension’,
p.358.
clxv
Turner, F. M., (1978), ‘The Victorian Conflict Between Science and Religion: a Professional Dimension’,
p.360.
clxvi
Turner, F. M., (1978), ‘The Victorian Conflict Between Science and Religion: a Professional Dimension’,
p.360.
clxvii
Turner, F. M., (1978), ‘The Victorian Conflict Between Science and Religion: a Professional Dimension’,
p.360.
clxviii
Turner, F. M., (1978), ‘The Victorian Conflict Between Science and Religion: a Professional Dimension’,
p.360.
clxix
Bown, N., Burdett, C., & Thurschwell, P., (eds.), (2004), The Victorian Supernatural, p.13.
clxx
Bown, N., Burdett, C., & Thurschwell, P., (eds.), (2004), The Victorian Supernatural, p.13.
clxxi
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in mid-Victorian Britain’, p.35-6.
clxxii
Bowler, P., (2003), Evolution: History of an Idea, pp.202-205.
clxxiii
Bowler, P., (2003), Evolution: History of an Idea, pp.202-205.
clxxiv
Oppenheim, J., (1985), The Other World, p.67.
clxxv
Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in mid-Victorian Britain’, p.26.
clxxvi
Oppenheim, J., (1985), The Other World, p.68.
clxxvii
Byrne, G., (2010), Modern Spiritualism and the Church of England, p.88-95; Noakes, R., (2004),
‘Spiritualism, Science and the Supernatural in mid-Victorian Britain’, p.27; Oppenheim, J., (1985), The Other
World, p.92-3.
clxxviii
Oppenheim, J., (1985), The Other World, p.68; Noakes, R., (2004), ‘Spiritualism, Science and the
Supernatural in mid-Victorian Britain’, p.27; and Bowler, P., (2003), Evolution: History of an Idea, pp.202-205.
clxxix
Turner, F. M., (1978), ‘The Victorian Conflict Between Science and Religion: a Professional Dimension’,
p.361.
clxxx
Turner, F. M., (1978), ‘The Victorian Conflict Between Science and Religion: a Professional Dimension’,
p.361.
clxxxi
Turner, F. M., (1978), ‘The Victorian Conflict Between Science and Religion: a Professional Dimension’,
p.362-7.
—~§~—
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web site
http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for
hosting and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail
entitled “Subscribe” or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue, or to contact Psypioneer please e-mail:
psypioneersub@icloud.com
Paul J. Gaunt
—~§~—
