{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/psypioneer.iapsop.com\/psypioneer_v12_n3_may-jun_2016.pdf","mytitle":"Psypioneer V12 N3 May-Jun 2016","mylang":"de"}
80
F
—~§~—
—~§~—
081 – Major Advance in Digitising American Spiritualism – statement by IAPSOP and
NSAC
084 – Conan Doyle & the Mysterious World of Light – Matt Wingett - Preface by
Leslie Price
086 – Edward Lewis Gardner– Science Group Journal, Theosophical Research Centre
089 – Some Reflections on the Queen’s Hall Meeting – Light
091 – Book review; C.C. Massey, The Man who was there – Leslie Price
093 – Notes of Third Materialization Seance with Mrs Duncan on Sunday 2nd
November 1930 – LSA
098 – Where was the London Spiritualist Alliance? – Leslie Price
100 – Esoteric Sections and the Historian – Leslie Price – Theosophical History
106 – Joan of Arc and Dr. Lamond – Graham Moffat
111 – How to obtain this Journal by email
=============================
PSYPIONEER JOURNAL
Founded by Leslie Price
Edited by
Paul J. Gaunt
Archived by
Garth Willey
Established 2004
Volume 12, No. 3: May – June 2016
81
MAJOR ADVANCE IN DIGITISING
AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM
Psypioneer is extremely grateful to IAPSOP and NSAC for the update below on an
important project.
The literature of Spiritualism, especially its
newspapers and journals, is vast and
fascinating, but it is also relatively
unknown, unavailable, and rapidly
deteriorating. Between 1848 and the
Second World War there were more than
1,300 journals worldwide devoted to
Spiritualism, but many are now either
critically endangered or have disappeared
entirely. This is the primary material of the
history and development of Spiritualism,
and as a whole is badly in need of
preservation. The major libraries in the
world, faced with deteriorating physical
copies of journals and books and
oftentimes limited funding, are digitizing
their collections through archive.org,
hathitrust.org, Google Books, and others, but their collections include Spiritualist material
only incidentally, and smaller, more specialized collections are often beneath their notice.
One of the world’s finest collections of these journals is at the National Spiritualist
Association of Churches (NSAC) library in Lily Dale, New York. This is not an
accident. In the late 1890s, W.H. Bach, an early NSAC member, bemoaned in the pages of
The Banner of Light the disappearance of the early spiritualist journals, and energetically
solicited copies of these journals and other early works for the organization’s library. The
effort was a success, and the NSAC library has copies of more than 70 early journals—often
the only issues still in existence. Notable holdings of the NSAC library, in addition to the
better-known national journals, include such unique rarities as runs of The Ohio Spiritualist
(Cleveland, 1868-1869), The Voice of Angels (Boston, 1876-1883), Lyceum Banner
(Liverpool, 1930), and The Better Way (Cincinnati, 1886-1893), the latter of which is itself
a unique contribution to the research community. And among these periodicals are archived
a host of smaller journals, early pamphlets, rare books, spirit slates, rare broadsides, spirit
communication apparatus, photographs, and artifacts from the lives of famous Spiritualists.
In October, 2015, IAPSOP, the International Association for the Preservation of Spiritualist
and Occult Periodicals (www.iapsop.com), entered into a collaboration with the NSAC to
preserve and digitize the NSAC’s deteriorating holdings. The partnership is a natural one:
IAPSOP has long been devoted to digitizing the literature of the Spiritualist movement and
to making these collections available to all, without charge, in a digitized, keyword-
searchable, easy-to-use pdfs. The organization has already sought out and digitized a great
number of otherwise inaccessible materials from the British Library, the New York Public
Library, Harvard University, Princeton University, Northwestern University, and other large
repositories, and has retrieved missing issues of rare journals from Spiritualist holdings,
including the collections of the Golden Gate Spiritualist Church, with the help of Rev. Del
Lauderback of San Francisco. At present, IAPSOP’s website already hosts, free for digital
82
download, over 500 journals and 6,000 books and pamphlets in many languages, amounting
to over 22,000 individual documents and several million pages worth of historical data
devoted principally to Spiritualism.
With their new partnership, IAPSOP and the NSAC will digitize and make available to
NSAC members and to the general public, free of charge, the library’s vast holdings and
precious literature of Spiritualism that is rapidly deteriorating and badly in need of
preservation, and hope the collaboration serves as an example of the sort of cooperation
needed in order to preserve and promote our shared history. In many cases, the periodicals
digitized were available nowhere else in the world, but selected holdings of the NSAC
library at Lily Dale will now be available as a separate collection at nsac.iapsop.com, and
the entire collection will be available on the NSAC’s website and at the Lily Dale library.
This will attract many visitors, both scholars and those curious about spiritualism generally,
to the NSAC website and will stimulate a renewed interest in Spiritualism. Both the NSAC
and IAPSOP hope that this collaboration will encourage NSAC members and its member
churches to contribute copies of their own holdings to the enterprise, and for other
organizations to see the value in this type of historic preservation and contribute to it.
At present, IAPSOP attracts approximately 3,400 unique visitors a month and supports
approximately 10,000 downloads a month. In addition, its pages are automatically mirrored
to many libraries, helping to assure the preservation of these materials. IAPSOP is regularly
cited in scholarly literature and in academic papers, and the interest in its work is
worldwide: in August 2015 alone it attracted visitors from 83 countries.
Those principally involved in
IAPSOP’s digitization of the
NSAC’s holdings are: Marc
Demarest, the author of
Chasing Down Emma
http://ehbritten.blogspot.com),
a blog devoted to Spiritualist
and occult research; John
Patrick Deveney, author of
Paschal Beverly Randolph: A
Nineteenth Century Black
American Spiritualist, a
lengthy study of Spiritualist
camps (including Lily Dale
itself), and creator of a
descriptive database of more
than 4,500 journals devoted to Spiritualism and related subjects; John Benedict Buescher,
author, most lately, of Empress of Swindle; and Brandon Hodge, curator of
http://mysteriousplanchette.com and Historian of the Talking Board Historical Society
(www.tbhs.org), a group devoted to the physical apparatus of Spiritualism. Inquiries about
the work of IAPSOP and information about donations can be addressed to:
inquiries@iapsop.com.
Photographs
Image at head of the article: A montage of the NSAC headquarters and library in Lily
Dale, New York, and a brief glimpse of its vast and valuable Spiritualist holdings.
Second image: The IAPSOP team takes a rare pause for a photograph while documenting
the NSAC archives (left to right): Marc Demarest, founder, Brandon Hodge, Pat Deveney,
and John Buescher.
83
Unfortunately, the cheap paper on which
many Spiritualist periodicals were printed
is highly acidic and now extremely brittle,
stressing the need for digital preservation
before these works are lost entirely.
IAPSOP founder Marc Demarest
reassembles a fragile document to prepare it
for photographing, where it will afterward
live on in the digital realm, available to all.
NSAC librarian Marilyn Awtry displays a
rare séance slate with original spirit
writing preserved. Such objects are
documented for future inclusion in
IAPSOP’s ephemera page at
ephemera.iapsop.com.
—~§~—
84
Introductory Note by Psypioneer: We reprint below the ‘Preface’ written by Leslie Price
for the first volume of Conan Doyle & the Mysterious World of LIGHT, a three part study
of the psychic work of Arthur Conan Doyle, based largely on the weekly newspaper
LIGHT.1
PREFACE
by Leslie Price
(Archivist, College of Psychic Studies,
London)
Modern Spiritualism began in the United
States about 1848, and spread across the
world, reaching a peak of cultural influence
around 1875, when the naturalist Alfred
Russel Wallace and chemist William
Crookes published influential supportive
works. It was based on mental mediumship
(communication with those who had died
who gave information via mediums) and
physical mediumship (the movement of
objects by spirits, and the production of
ectoplasm, a mysterious substance about
which Doyle was later to lecture on the radio.)
The London Spiritualist Alliance, the most
reputable Spiritualist body, was formed in
1884; it considered Spiritualism as the
preamble to religion, rather than a new
religion. The LSA leaders were also involved
in the weekly newspaper LIGHT, started in
1881, which Doyle evidently began reading, and to which in 1887 he wrote two letters,
(reproduced here) identifying himself as a Spiritualist. In the 1890s, Doyle was a major
private donor to LIGHT, and it was primarily to LIGHT and the LSA that he turned in 1916
when he gradually came out as a Spiritualist. To what extent he had retained his Spiritualist
convictions in the intervening years since 1887 is a moot point. The accounts he gave of
how he came to faith (in this book and elsewhere) are at times conflicting.
In 1882, a number of Spiritualists and independent investigators formed a Society for
Psychical Research. Doyle was listed as a new member in February 1893, but never became
prominent in its affairs. Its scientific concerns were clearly not central to him. It was the
implications of mediumship for religion that moved him.
So, we see him in LIGHT from 1916 assembling the building blocks of his missionary
faith. He could have preached just survival and communication as scientific facts, but he
went further, making a central assault on orthodox Christianity. This endeared him to the
rapidly growing Spiritualist churches, but aroused additional hostility. One wonders if his
memory of his boyhood membership of the Roman Church caused him to seek its overthrow.
Since the time of its first president, Stainton Moses, (the medium for the classic book
Spirit Teachings), the LSA had always favoured a Unitarian2
interpretation of Christianity,
but had not been belligerent, preferring the diplomatic approach of Sir Oliver Lodge, who
was a liberal Christian and keen survivalist. Lodge was a good friend of the LSA, though he
did not join this or any other Spiritualist body.
1
The book is available from Amazon.
2
The belief that Christ was human, rather than divine.
85
There was a palpable hope among radical Spiritualists in that immediate post war era that
survival might now be accepted generally, and that orthodox religion could quickly be
overthrown. We detect that mood in these pages - the sorrow of the grieving with the hope
that a new age was dawning.
National Spiritualism, centred on the churches of the Spiritualists National Union, was
also growing in those years. Conan Doyle supported them, especially their leader Ernest
Oaten, editor of the weekly newspaper Two Worlds published in Manchester. But Doyle
wanted the leadership3
of Jesus Christ to be accepted by the SNU. The Union debated this,
but shortly before his death in 1930, voted against this addition to their Seven Principles.
This significant defeat showed the limitations of Conan Doyle's leadership of the Spiritualist
Movement.
From 1916, when Sir Arthur Conan Doyle went public with his convictions, until 1920,
he was at the height of his powers in the psychic field. Through Sherlock Holmes, he had
earned by proxy a reputation as an astute investigator. He had the energy to lecture
persuasively up and down the country. The people in the audiences were in an emotionally
heightened state because of the trauma of the Great War. An estimated 7000 attended one
event in this work.
Doyle’s opponents soon emerged. There were the Rationalists, who usually denied all
psychic phenomena. There were the orthodox religious leaders who saw his new revelation
as subversive of the old. At least one Christian Spiritualist, Rev. Fielding-Ould became
alarmed at the assault by Doyle on the biblical faith. Later in life, Doyle became also critical
of the Society for Psychical Research, the non-committed body of which he was a member,
but at first it was Lodge, an SPR leader who tried tactfully to restrain Doyle.
Later, Lodge could not dissuade Doyle from his most disastrous case, the Cottingley
fairies, which were brought to his attention in 1920 by an LSA friend, Felicia Scatcherd, and
which he very publicly endorsed. In the 1920s Doyle was also to be injured by his
friendship with the illusionist Houdini, and by another investigator, Harry Price. In his home
circle, through his wife’s mediumship, Doyle began to be haunted by prophecies of
planetary disaster and it is fair to say that his powers declined. But in the years covered by
this volume, Arthur Conan Doyle was a commanding figure. LIGHT recognised how he had
transformed the prospects of Spiritualism, and supported him in his efforts, while printing
the occasional letter of sympathetic dissent. Spiritualists could be forgiven if they could
scarcely believe that so famous a name, so energetic a worker, had come to support them.
It is remarkable how Doyle, though lecturing so often, managed to say new things. Many
of the questions, such as the problems of mediumship, and how it relates to religion, are
with us still. Doyle and those who debated with him in LIGHT and elsewhere, continue to
illuminate the issues.
There are many books about Conan Doyle, and a few about the history of Spiritualism.
There’s even a useful book about the link between the two – Kelvin I. Jones, "Conan Doyle
and the Spirits: The Spiritualist Career of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle" (Wellingborough,
England: Aquarian Press, 1989.) This new book, however, provides a valuable perspective
on the formative years of that link.
In Matt Wingett’s book we are able to share in the discussions and controversies in a
detailed way that is not possible in ordinary biographies; and it is only thus that we can
come to a just assessment of Conan Doyle’s thought.
LESLIE PRICE
3
I.e: a recognition of the primacy of Christ as a medium, and the importance of his teachings as recorded in
the Gospels.
86
Introductory Note by LP. In August 2015, we reprinted an account by E.L. Gardner on
how he became a Theosophist. The obituary takes us to the end of his career.4
Gardner made
an important contribution to the study of psychic phenomena from a Theosophical
perspective.
EDWARD LEWIS GARDNER
1869 - 1969
The principal inspirer of the movement
to link science and theosophy was Mr.
Gardner, known by us affectionately as
E.L.G. Although he was 3½ months past his
100th birthday, his death on the 30th June
1969, will have been felt by members of the
Science Group as a great loss, for he was
still giving us the benefit of his wisdom
right up to the time of his passing.
He was born at Coggeshall, Essex, 19th
March 1869 and is survived by the two sons
of his marriage to Clara Beard in 1892. He
joined the Society in 1907 and quickly
showed evidence of his intuitive powers in
the study of The Secret Doctrine. A builder
by profession, as a hobby he had taken a
practical interest in microscopy. This
brought him into touch with the scientific
world and he used this in his theosophical
studies.
After the death of his first wife, Mr.
Gardner married Adelaide Draper in 1922
and both of them worked to encourage scientifically-minded members of the Society “to
study and pursue scientific research in relation to theosophical knowledge”. Under this
object he inaugurated the Scientific Group of the Theosophical Society in England in 1922.
In 1925 Annie Besant put forward the idea of a Theosophical World University “to co-
ordinate existing theosophical educational activities in various parts of the world”. Mr.
Gardner was appointed Chairman of the Council and members of his Scientific Group
worked with him and Prof. Marcault on a progressive programme of lectures,
correspondence courses and research in the field of science, art, education, medicine,
psychology, symbology, mythology (Greek and Indian) and philosophy. During part of this
time, l924-l928, Mr. Gardner also held the onerous position of General Secretary of the
English Section with many visits to Adyar and a lecture tour of the United States and
Canada.
By 1934 it was generally realised that the university idea was too grandiose and Mr.
Gardner used his influence to arrange the transfer of its activities to a newly formed
Theosophical Research Centre of which he was chairman. The T.W.U. thus went into the
4
Taken from: Science Group Journal Theosophical Research Centre Vol. XIII No. 3 Autumn 1969 pages
67/68
87
background as a council only, meeting once a year, as a body to inspire the formation in
other countries of theosophical research centres. He continued as chairman of the T.W.U.
until his death, although he inspired a change of name to Theosophical World Trust for
Education and Research, as a more realistic title for this world body.
From its inception he took an active part in the work of the T.R.C. and particularly in the
Science Group. He had a special ability to inspire other people to work in a wide variety of
branch of modern scholarship, including those of which he was not specially well-informed;
he was so interested in everything that could help forward the theosophical movement and
was so quick to grasp the essentials of a new subject.
From 1926 to 1940 he founded and presided over a theosophical community at Stamford
House, Wimbledon, where members of the Science Group often met him for inspiration and
advice. He was also one of the founders of the Tekels Park Estate, Camberley, in 1928 as a
theosophical community, and where the T.R.C. has held a study week-end every year in
May or June since 1952. The last 16 years of his life were spent in a charming house in
Tekels Park. Many of us will retain happy memories of valuable personal and group
discussions that we were privileged to have with him there.
Readers of this Journal may be interested to have a list of his principal publications.
These are mostly presented as students’ notes and will long continue as a valuable
contribution to the literature on basic theosophy.
1913 The Fourth Creative Hierarchy (Transactions of Blavatsky Lodge)
1918 Matter is the Shadow of Spirit (Blavatsky Lecture)
1924 Chains and Rounds
1929 Notes on the Secret Doctrine Vo1.III.
1936 The Web of the Universe
1939 The Play of Consciousness
1941 This World and the Next
1942 A Mystery Scroll and its Key
1945 Fairies: The Cottingley Photographs & Their Sequel
1945 The Mysteries
1946 The Nature and Function of the Soul
1948 The Imperishable Body
1951 This Dynamic Universe (T.R.C. Transaction) Chapter III: Fohat and Intuitional
Research.
1952 The Heavenly Man (The Divine Paradigm)
88
1953 This Ordered Universe (T.R.C. Transaction) Chapter V: Man, the Measure of All
Things.
1959 Whence Come the Gods?
1960 A Mind to embrace the Universe
1962 The Wider View. A collection of articles previously published between 1944 &
1959 in Theosophy in Action
1963 There is No Religion Higher than Truth
1964 Thyself Both Heaven & Hell (Gods, the many and the One)
V. W. S.5
—~§~—
5
Victor Wallace Slater, a scientific colleague in the Theosophical Research Centre
89
Introductory Note by Psypioneer: We are reprinting the short note below because of the
sidelight it throws on the medium Madame D’Esperance,6
who is to be the subject of a
major scientific paper now in the press.
SOME REFLECTIONS ON THE
QUEEN’S HALL MEETING
It is well over forty years ago that, at a hall in the neighbourhood of Oxford Street, a
meeting was held to present some of the evidences for a life after death. The speakers were
not obscure men: they were well known in their day. They were Mr. Joseph Cowen, M.P., a
newspaper proprietor; the Hon. Percy Wyndham, father of George Wyndham who was later
the Secretary for Ireland; Alderman Barkas, the geologist, and the Rev. John Page Hopps, a
Nonconformist minister, well known as an orator and journalist. The main purpose of the
meeting was to give an account of some surprising results gained through the mediumship
of a Newcastle medium, who, it afterwards transpired, was the famous Mme. d’Esperance,
of whom so much has been said and written of late. Alderman Barkas related that the
medium, although a woman of no high educational attainments, answered the most abstruse
scientiﬁc questions put by experts in various branches of science. The audience listened
with little enthusiasm: most of them seemed to regard the meeting as something queer and
freakish. Some of the questions put at the close of the addresses revealed not only the
densest ignorance but a certain contemptuous jocularity. The event was as a voice crying in
the wilderness.
We look around to-day and can hardly take in the magnitude of the change. We think of
several great public assemblies in the Albert Hall and the Queen’s Hall held in recent years,
of the meetings continually held in Manchester with audiences numbered by the thousand.
Forty years ago such things would have been regarded as impossible. But the meaning and
extent of the message has grown with the years; the times have changed and we have
changed with them. A subject that was once discussed almost apologetically and with a
fearful deference to public opinion is now proclaimed in the greatest public halls by people
of eminence in every department of public life, no man making them afraid. The great
meeting at the Queen’s Hall on Sunday, 11th
inst., by the London Spiritualist Alliance is the
latest instance in point. In addition to Mr Bradley as principal speaker, it included amongst
the speakers such celebrities as Miss Violet Loraine, Sir Frank Benson, Lord Dewar, Mr.
Hannen Swaffer, Mr. Shaw Desmond, Mr. Hugh Walpole, Dr. Neville Whymant, Mr.
Hewitt K.C., and Mr. Frank Romer.
Spiritualism, however, still has its handicaps. It relates neither to Sport, nor to
Commerce; it is not a political matter. It deals with the “most important subject in the
world,” to quote Mr. Gladstone’s dictum but the most important subjects are not those held
in high popular esteem, as a glance at any daily newspaper will amply confirm. The men
who stand for Spiritualism are not actuated by any motive of self-interest. They are moved
chiefly by a sense of duty and are responding to a great spiritual urge, a deep underlying
impulse, the evidences of which the keen observer of the world to-day can trace in every
direction.
6
Taken from: LIGHT March 24th 1928 page138 under the heading “Then and Now”
90
Mr. Dennis Bradley and his friends have made a new and striking addition to the history
of spiritual propaganda, and we may all be properly grateful, never forgetting, however, the
labours, the suffering and the sacrifices of the old pioneers who in earlier years bore their
testimony to the truth of a life after death. Most of them were obscure men and women who
braved the opposition of the Churches, the contempt of the men of Science, and the ridicule
and sometimes active persecution of the mob. Let us honour their work in our hearts and let
them be in these times freshly remembered. But for them the victories of to-day could never
have been won. Meanwhile, it is encouraging to trace the growth of the great Idea behind
Spiritualism, by a comparison of the past with the present, by citing the two events – the
little public meeting in the ‘eighties, the great public meeting of Sunday, March 11th, 1928,
each typical of its period and each inspired by the same motive. All the speakers at the first
meeting have long ago passed from the earth, and probably most of their audience likewise.
In forty years’ time those who are able to look back to-day may be able to note an even
more tremendous change. By that time it may well be that spirit-communication will be as
widely accepted as is “Wireless” to-day.
—~§~—
91
C.C. MASSEY, THE MAN
WHO WAS THERE
Have you ever wished you had lived in the
golden age of mediumship? One man
lived through it, but felt it was a step and
not a destination. The London barrister
C.C. Massey was in America investigating
the phenomena of the Eddy family when
the Theosophical Society was formed in
1875; he was the first president of the
British Theosophical Society in 1878. He
defended Henry Slade’s manager when the
medium was prosecuted in London in
1876. In 1882, Massey was an S.P.R.
founder; as Professor Barrett wrote in his
JSPR June 1905 obituary “It was in his
rooms we used to meet for consultation
and Committee work, and to his
generous hospitality and ungrudging
expenditure of time we were constantly
indebted.” Massey was also a stalwart
of the London Spiritualist Alliance
which opened in 1884, and a frequent
contributor to LIGHT, which became its
newspaper.
Massey, a retiring person, has now been
rescued from obscurity by a scholarly
study A Search for Meaning in Victorian Religion; the spiritual journey and esoteric
teachings of Charles Carleton Massey (Lehigh University Press, Maryland, 2015). The
author Jeff Lavoie is already known to students for his study of the early Theosophical
Society and its Spiritualist interests,7
and to Psypioneer readers for his February 2013
paper about Emmette Coleman and plagiarism.
The clue to Massey was his personal mystical experience and aspiration. He was aware
that mediumship had many mysteries. However one cannot help feeling regret that he
largely withdrew from public work. Thus he was an early vice-president of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, but stepped back from experimental work with
them in 1879. (p.19) He became disillusioned with Madame Blavatsky and resigned
from the T.S.in 1884. His contributions to SPR publications were few after the internal
crisis of 1886 (p.22) which was centred on the genuineness or otherwise of the physical
medium Eglinton; a number of other Spiritualists, such as Stainton Moses, also moved
away from the SPR in that year.
7
The Theosophical Society: The History of a Spiritualist Movement:
https://books.google.co.uk/books/about/The_Theosophical_Society.html?id=X1VvIS8AJ0oC&redir_esc=y
92
Jeff Lavoie provides a considerable sampling of Massey’s own thoughts on the psychic
and spiritual. Though he made some valuable translations of German metaphysical
books, he wrote no major studies in psychical research. An impediment of obscure
origin sometimes made his prose difficult to read, though from an early age he was a
notable orator, and even more than his father (a Member of Parliament) he could have
achieved high political office.
Massey was a representative figure in the psychic ferment of his time. First he inherited
the mainstream Christian faith, which he interpreted increasingly in a symbolic fashion.
He had excellent opportunities to witness mediumship, but became aware of its
uncertainties. After investigating and discarding the Theosophical approach to
knowledge, he remained a keen student of theosophy in the sense used by Boehme and
Swedenborg, and his regular letters in LIGHT signed C.C.M. often dealt with mystical
matters.
The author deploys some hitherto unpublished letters from Massey, but perhaps Massey
is best summed up by an extract published in LIGHT just after his death:
“That love of truth for its own sake carries us certainly to it - into it, into its perfect
peace and blessedness, is my profound faith. In the philosophy I follow “truth” is no
intellectual abstraction; it is integral, concrete, personal –it is God” (p.139)
LP
—~§~—
93
Introductory Note by LP: We continue our
series of verbatim séance reports with Mrs
Duncan from the series held at the London
Spiritualist Alliance. Readers will notice that
among the sitters was Lord Charles Hope, a
wealthy supporter of research into physical
mediumship of that era, but about whom we
know much less than we would like.
NOTES OF THIRD
MATERIALIZATION SEANCE
WITH MRS DUNCAN ON
SUNDAY, 2ND NOVEMBER
1930
MEDIUM: Mrs Duncan
DATE: 2nd November 1930
TIME: 6.45 to 7.50 p.m.
PLACE: 16 Queensberry Place, S.W.7.
NOTES: W. A. Shafto.
ORDER OF SITTERS from left of medium: -
Mrs Baggallay, Mr Baggallay, Lord Charles Hope, Miss Phillimore, Dr Fielding-Ould, Mrs
Fielding-Ould, Dr Hector Munro.
Temp: 60° Fahr. Time: 6.45 p.m.
The preparation for the séance was the same as on the last occasion. Mrs Duncan stripped in
the presence of Miss Phillimore and Miss [misprint for Mrs?] Baggallay. She put on the
clothes worn at the previous séance, namely stockings, shoes and knickers; over these she
wore a new black overall similar in pattern to her old one, but a larger size. She then went
into the séance room and was immediately p1aced in a new bag, or sack made of dark blue
net with open meshes. *(Hand Written Note – to avoid discomforture [sic] from head as was
occasional by the bag more of thick material)* It was made to exactly the same pattern as
her own, the meshes being three-sixteenth of an inch square. The bag was again sealed as
before, namely at the neck and to each arm of the chair, by means of the tapes.
The room was darker than at the previous sitting and at 6.50 Albert asked for more light,
which was given by Mr Duncan.8
ALBERT Will one of the ladies take something from me?
MISS P. What am I to take, Albert? Do you wish me to touch the ectoplasm?
Mrs Duncan’s artificial dentures are gently put into Miss Phillimore’s hand.
6.55: a mass of ectoplasm showing. Medium is heard to be breathing heavily.
8
Garth Willey notes that Mr Duncan was not on the sitters list. Probably he was in his usual position looking
after the music, but this reminds us that such lists are not always complete.
Henry & Helen Duncan
94
Dr Fielding-Ould and Dr Hector Munro see a white patch on the floor.
Albert again asks for more light, says it is a terrible light. Mr Duncan again gives more
light.
ALBERT Why are you afraid of the light?
DR F.-O. You can have what you like.
A mass of ectoplasm showing which looks rather like the shape of a figure.
Curtain seen to be opening on the right.
ALBERT (to Mrs Baggallay) You have a nice boy sitting next to you, lady.
MRS B Yes, I have, Albert, he is my boy, thank you for telling me.
The curtains open again in the centre and a mass of ectoplasm is showing about 2.5 feet
long.
ALBERT Everything depends on the lady being comfortable.
Albert was asked whether he liked the new bag.
ALBERT Very nice.
MRS B. Is it not too hot?
ALBERT No, it is much better in every way.
MR D. Try to get her out of the bag if you can.
ALBERT I will do my very best.
Whistling heard coming from behind the curtain.
(Pause)
Unshaped ectoplasm showing from the right of the curtain, moving---dropping downwards.
Soft whistling heard again, and then again much more distinctly. Then Albert is heard first
whistling again and then singing.
Ectoplasm again showing at the side of the curtain, about three feet in length, hanging
downwards---it looks like a half formed figure.
CHILD’S VOICE (whispering) I don’t know where I am. What is wrong?
MRS B. There is nothing wrong.
MR D. Come way out and show yourself. Who are you?
CHILD (to Mrs Baggallay) Please don’t stare at me like that?
95
MRS B. I am awfully sorry, I shall not do it again.
CHILD I don’t know where my mammy is.
Mr D. Come way out and tell us who you are.
Movement of feet heard behind curtain.
CHILD (to Dr Munro) You look a funny man.
DR F.-O. What is your name?
CHILD Rosie. I am not a girl.
DR F.-O. Are you a grown-up woman?
CHILD No, I am not. Wait till I come out.
A snapping sound heard from behind the curtains.
ALBERT I have pulled the lady a little forward and I think a little of the stuff is broken
one side of the chair.
DR F.-O. We are not disturbed about that, that will be all right, there are two other seals.
ALBERT They won’t be broken. You see it is from the stretching of the cord.
DR F.-O. Quite.
A sitter asked why the children came.
ALBERT It is to help them forward. They are very good assets and help us later on.
DR F.-O. You are gathering a group to help you?
ALBERT Yes, I always want to get on. I like to do my best.
LORD C.H. It seems a very good best.
ALBERT Are you feeling bored, gentlemen?
The sitters reassured Albert---‘not in the slightest’, ‘most interested’.
LORD C.H. If you only know how we had to sit with other people, and nothing
happening.
Another snapping sound heard from behind curtain.
DR D. Could I ask a question? Can you tell me the reason these figures are not coming
outside and why they are not building up properly---why cannot these people come outside
the cabinet?
96
ALBERT I will jolly quick bring them out now.
Ectoplasm showing---gramophone playing.
ALBERT Stop.
Gramophone stops.
ALBERT Now I want you to see the reason I am not able to bring them right out. When I
get the substance in bulk I can stretch it to enormous lengths. You will notice it is very flat,
and it is coming from the ears of the lady.
We cannot see it very well.
Ectoplasm again showing like an arm and a hand, this moves very quickly in and out of the
curtain.
ALBERT Look here, I am going to give you one box on the ear with this.
Albert is berating the curtain.
MR D. Can anyone go and feel that hand, Albert?
MRS B. May I, Albert?
ALBERT May you what?
MRS B. Feel that hand?
ALBERT Here is one.
MRS B. Whereabouts?
ALBERT I want to be prepared first. (Pause) (to Dr Munro) Hold out your hand.
DR M. Yes.
ALBERT I see it all right. Hold it down a bit. Hold it as if you were having the strap.
DR M. My word, that was a smack.
MRS B. I wish I could have one. I have never been smacked.
(Pause)
Ectoplasm again seen. Sitters agree with Miss Phillimore who says it looks like a distorted
figure in the water.
The ectoplasm now looks luminous and is over the head of the medium, hanging right
down, and disappearing again, the medium breathing heavily all the time.
Ectoplasm again seen to the right of the curtain swaying in time with the gramophone. A
fleshy arm showing underneath the ectoplasm.
97
The rings on the curtains heard as if they are being pulled back.
Ectoplasm seen again in the form like a bandaged hand.
Curious sounds heard from behind the curtain, like the drop of water.
ALBERT Did you see the stuff behind the hand?
Someone says it seems a bluey luminous substance, and that the bag is blue.
ALBERT I am afraid I will have to go.
DR F.-O. No more for tonight, Albert. Can you get her out of the bag?
MR D. I will play some music.
Groans heard from behind curtain. D. Fielding-Ould goes to the medium, who is slowly
coming out of trance, and is still fastened securely in the bag in the chair. The seals are
again examined by the sitters, who are all quite satisfied with regard to them.
—~§~—
98
WHERE WAS THE
LONDON
SPIRITUALIST
ALLIANCE?
[Note by L.P. The LSA, once the most eminent
Spiritualist body in the world, for its first decades
had no fixed abode. The note below was
handwritten inside an old LSA minute book, and is
made available by permission of the CPS archivist.
In December 1925, the LSA moved to 16
Queensberry Place, London SW7 2EB, when its
wanderings ceased! The “Craven Street” text that
follows is taken from an advertisement which
appeared in an early LSA pamphlet.]
The London Spiritualist Alliance was first established in March 1884 and was incorporated
under the Companies Acts 1862 to 1893 on the 19th
day of August 1896, under its present
title or name of “The London Spiritualist Alliance Limited”.
From March to June 1884 it occupied temporary offices in Great James Street, Bedford
Row, W.C., subsequently using the offices of Mr. R. M. Theobald in St. Swithins Lane.
In April 1885 the Alliance opened Chambers at 16, Craven Street, Charing Cross. In
November 1888 the Society moved from Craven Street to 2, Duke Street, Adelphi, where it
remained till May 1897 when a further removal was made to 110, St Martin’s Lane.
This continued to be the home of the Alliance till March 1918, when the Government
requiring the premises for the payment of War Pensions through Parr’s Bank, the Alliance
became tenants of Messrs Smith & Brewer architects at 6 Queen Square, Bloomsbury,
W.C1. In June 1920 the Society purchased of Mr Max Clarke the premises No 5 Queen
Square for £2500 and paid £300 deposit on the purchase money (£3,750) for No. 4. It
moved into No 5 in May 1921.
—~§~—
THE LONDON SPIRITUALIST ALLIANCE.
CHAMBERS: 16, CRAVEN STREET, CHARING CROSS, S.W.
This Society of Spiritualists, founded for the purpose, primarily, of uniting those who share
a common faith—known as Members—and then of giving information respecting that faith
to those inquirers who seek for it—designated Associates—has now occupied Chambers at
the above address. There will be found an extensive Library of works especially attractive to
Spiritualists; the various Journals of Spiritualism published in this and other countries; and
opportunities of converse with friends like-minded. The Alliance holds periodical Soirées at
the Banqueting Hall, St. James’s Hall, where papers on interesting phases of the subject are
read, and the Spiritualists of London have a ready opportunity of meeting their friends.
99
[One or more Members of Council attend on Tuesday evenings in each week, from Six to
Seven, to receive friends and answer inquiries]
Minimum Annual Subscription of Members and Associates, One Guinea. Further particulars
may be obtained from the Honorary Secretary
____________
Council.
President.
W. STAINTON MOSES, M.A.
Vice-Presidents.
E. DAWSON ROGERS.
STANHOPE SPEER, M.D.
HON. PERCY WYNDHAM.
T. A. AMOS.
W. PAICE, M.A.
GENERAL DRAYSON.
M. THEOBALD.
JNO. S. FARMER.
ALARIC A. WATTS.
C. C. MASSEY.
H. WITHALL.
J. H. MITCHINER.
GEO. WYLD, M.D.
W. PAICE, Hon. Sec. for Foreign Correspondence.
M. THEOBALD, Hon. Sec. for General Purposes.
H. WITHALL, Hon. Treasurer.
—~§~—
100
Leslie Price writes:
The article below appeared in the quarterly journal
Theosophical History January 1986 Vol.1 No.5
pages 90-96:
Thirty years later little has changed, but some
updates are made in the footnotes, and in a note at
the end.
ESOTERIC SECTIONS AND THE HISTORIAN
An Esoteric Section of the Theosophical Society was announced by Madame Blavatsky in
1888, though attempts at such a section had been made before. Almost all Theosophists
believe that this was one of H.P.B.’s personal projects, and that she was carrying through a
suggestion of the Brothers. But notwithstanding the publication of some new material in
H.P.B. C.W. Vol. XII,9
the origins of the E.S. remain obscure, and the whole subject
deserves a new, thorough, and impartial examination. The suggestion may in fact have come
from Mr. Judge, who then persuaded both H.P.B. and the Brothers to support it.10
Writing of
the E.S. Mr. G.R.S. Mead, who had been H.P.B.’s private secretary, claimed;
“This had been started by Mme. Blavatsky in about 1890. She, however, had not
done this willingly, but had been over-persuaded by some of her most enthusiastic and
credulous followers. She herself really disliked the idea.” (The Quest April 1926
p.293)11
Mead was writing long afterwards, when his distaste for H.P.B.’s heirs had become
great, so his claim is of limited value. Moreover, there is a celebrated mahatmic letter,
printed as letter 19 (p. 44-8) of “Letters from the Masters of the Wisdom” (First series) in
which K. H. warns Col. Olcott to leave occult matters to H.P.B. Mr. Jinarajadasa elsewhere
explains;
“Here it can be frankly stated, with no sense of depreciation of the services of the
Society’s first great President, that Col. Olcott viewed with displeasure the creation in
the Society of an imperium in imperio, a kind of Secret Society whose fiat might
dominate the outer Society to its detriment. There arose then a most difficult situation.
H.P.B. held that the salvation of the Society lay in the resuscitation of its occult
nucleus. But the President of the Society was hostile to such a situation, as he was
afraid that such a secret nucleus might try in Jesuitical ways to control the Society.”
9
The Collected Writings of H.P. Blavatsky, edited by Boris De Zirkoff, was a major scholarly endeavour See:
http://www.blavatskyarchives.com/collectedwritings.htm
10
However William Judge, the American TS leader got into heated disputes with HPB about ES
administration. See for example a letter from her published by Michael Gomes, in “Theosophical History”
April 1996.
11
For the full text of Mead’s article, see Psypioneer March 2015
101
(From his introduction to H.P. Blavatsky “The Original Programme of The
Theosophical Society” (T.P.H. 1931 Reprinted 1966) p. XI.)
The mahatmic letter is held to have significantly influenced Col. Olcott to support the
establishment of the E. S. but it does not explicitly mention the E. S. and I am not sure if it
did have such influence. (A further important question is the relation between the E. S. and
the Golden Dawn which emerged at the same time, and on this we hope to have some new
data at our July conference!)12
Madame Blavatsky died in
1891. At this point, theological
differences between Theosophists
emerge with full force, since some
would claim that when the teacher
died the school automatically
ceased to exist. The historian
however notes that at least an
external organisation did continue,
and that Mrs. Besant and Mr.
Judge administered it in increasing
discord, until there was
fragmentation. Under various
names, esoteric sections persisted
under the leadership of Mr. Judge,
Mrs. Tingley, Dr. Steiner, Mrs.
Bailey and others. But the largest
was that led by Mrs. Besant and
Mr. Leadbeater – so far as one can
judge, since these bodies do not
publish membership figures. The
various groups and leaders, did not
give mutual recognition to each
other, and sometimes repudiated
each other's teaching.
The historian is bound to pay
attention to such bodies as the E.
S. because of their claimed
substantial influence on events. Mr. Jinarajadasa, for example, in his presidential address
printed in “The Theosophist” January 1953 said;
“Before the beginning of the third seven-year cycle in 1889, a most important event
took place, in 1888. This was the creation by H.P.B. of “The Esoteric Section of the
Theosophical Society”, a year later changed to “The Eastern School of Theosophy”, so
that the Theosophical Society might not in any way be involved in the occult
organization founded by her. It is this body, known today as “The Esoteric School”, that
has been most vital in the development of the Society, because the E. S. has been like
the steel framework of the Society” (p. 220)
12
See Robert Gilbert “The Golden Dawn and the Esoteric Section “Theosophical History Centre, London
1987. Now available free in digital form via www.theohistory.org
HELENA PETROVNA BLAVATSKY
102
Mr. Jinarajadasa associates a conversation between K. H. and H.P.B. with the decision to
found the E. S. (apparently letter 47 in “Letters” cited above)
“It was then that H.P.B. determined on creating the steel framework of the Society.
“It is true that to accept the Theosophical Philosophy does not involve a belief in the
existence of the Masters, or in “The Path”. Nevertheless, since H.P.B. founded the
Esoteric School in 1888, the staunchest workers for the Society, those who have made
the greatest sacrifices for the Society’s sake, have been members of this School.
Certainly there are some who do not care for esotericism in any form, and are fully
devoted to the study of Theosophy; but on the other hand, the growth of the Society has
had definitely as one factor not merely the dissemination of Theosophical ideals, but the
personal devoted effort and dedication to Lodges, in maintaining their strength, which
has been due to the members of the Esoteric School in various parts of the world. This
has been my experience during the last forty-eight years.” (p. 220)13
A similar claim was made by Mr. Geoffrey Hodson in an article “The Theosophical
Society and the Esoteric Section” (“Theosophy in New Zealand” July-Sept.1979)
“The majority of the most devoted, reliable and effective workers at Headquarters at
Adyar, in Section Headquarters, in Lodges and in their family and business lives, are
members of the E. S. and for the most part will so remain until the end of their lives.”
Mr. Hodson also suggests that devoted members of the E. S. may attract the attention of
the Masters, though without denying that other aspirants may make the necessary inner
contacts who are not E. S. or even T. S. members. He compares the E.S. to an ashram in the
spiritual help it gives.
“Almost from the beginning, the E. S. has been described as the “heart” of the T.S.
and if the above descriptions are accepted it does indeed become for many of its
members the very “heart” of their lives in the truest sense. To divide these two – the T.
S. and the E. S. – would, I submit inevitably remove a great deal – if admittedly not all
– of the mystical and spiritual “heart” from the Theosophical Movement in the world of
today.” (p. 59 ff.)
On the negative side, we find an inverse, but equally important role ascribed to the E. S.
In the eyes of some old students of H.P.B. it became a political vehicle used to introduce
Neo-Theosophy, a spurious teaching quite different from her own “Practical Occultism” and
channelled especially through Mr. Leadbeater, not an E.S. member so long as H.P.B. lived,
who was briefly head of the E. S. before his death in 1934 and whose teachings had for
many years been circulated to E. S. members. For such critics the claim of the later E. S. to
be the continuation of the Blavatsky E. S. would be like that of the Roman see to have the
teaching and authority of the early Christian church. The quotation we made earlier from
Mr. Mead about H.P.B. and the E. S., for example, continues;
“She herself really disliked the idea. And in this her intuition had been right; for this
Section speedily developed into a great danger and became the inner rot to the whole
movement, seeing that it was based on blind obedience to (so-cal1ed) ‘esoteric orders’.
In the hands of Annie Besant, later on, this “Esoteric” cabal became a camouflaged
13
Mr Jinarajadasa had been outer head of the E.S. since the death of C.W. Leadbeater in 1934.
103
political caucus, ‘pulling’ every crisis in the Society from within to suit A. B.’s own
views and purposes.” (p. 293)
The vehemence of these sentiments – and they could be paralleled with others from
persons who stayed within the T. S. – set in contrast to the enthusiasm from the defenders of
the E. S., but added in both cases to the immense role ascribed to the E. S. by defenders and
critics alike, makes the task of the historian difficult. There are strong feelings on both sides.
The historian is interested in charting what happened. He cannot write a history of
Theosophy as if the E. S. was not there – that would be fantasy history. It is significant that
in her 1938 history, Mrs. Ransom did mention E.S. developments, however briefly – though
the E.S. disappears from the index of “The Seventy-Fifth Anniversary Book” which she
published in 1950.14
This brings us to a delicate point. Esoteric bodies do not like their affairs to be discussed,
either by historians or anyone else. This is particularly the case when the earlier history of
the esoteric school has been racked by controversy, and it is still regarded with suspicion
and even hostility by some Theosophists in the wider world. So the discussion of the history
of the E. S. is not encouraged in the T. S., either in meetings or in print. Apart from a
valuable and long-running discussion in “The Canadian Theosophist” in the mid-l960s, to
which the then Outer Head of the E. S. contributed, there are only the incidental and
infrequent references in most T. S. journals. One may naturally sympathise with this policy.
Any kind of training can be disrupted by controversy, and so can any wider Society. In no
time such a discussion may get on to such questions as whether Mr. Leadbeater was a very
great occultist or apostate; whether Mr. Judge was fairly treated or numerous other undead
issues smouldering in Theosophical breasts. Far better to focus on things that unite.
Other organisations have come up with various compromises to accommodate the
attempts of historians to study the sensitive past. Most British public records are made
available in the Public Record Office after 30 years. Lambeth Palace Library, which holds
the papers of the Archbishop of Canterbury, has a 40 year rule. Even the Jesuits, who have
played a prominent role in the history of Theosophy as the alleged inspirers of those who
annoyed the leaders of the time, have made changes. J. C. H. Aveling, in his book “The
Jesuits” (London, Blond & Briggs, 1981) notes;
“Of recent years the Society has, to some degree, significantly modified its
traditional rules of rigid secrecy about its internal affairs. The Jesuit Constitutions, for
centuries printed (like the Society’s other book of rules) privately and for limited
circulation among members, are now for sale to the public. Today the shelving of all
major public libraries contains the fifty large volumes of the continuing series of the
Monumenta Historica Societatis Jesu. This is a vast compendium of published private
records of the early, formative days of the society. An increasing number of Jesuit
archives in Rome and elsewhere have recently been opened to outsiders: hitherto they
were shut even to the generality of Jesuits.
This new attitude of openness, and the effects of the training of some Jesuit
historians in the spirit and techniques of modern research, has started to produce
marked changes in Jesuit historical writing. In the past, with few exceptions, their
historians, were untrained and had very little access to archives. The superiors had what
then seemed to be excellent reasons for a distinct distrust of history. The calls on their
manpower were so great that historical writing came very low on the official list of
priorities. Archives were primitive, dirty, uncatalogued storerooms. Their contents were
14
Since the foundation of the E.S., all presidents of the TS have been ES members.
104
frequently scattered or lost when persecution of the Society led to confiscation of its
houses and expulsion of the inmates. Moreover the old Society had long been
accustomed to, even trained to, a posture of defensiveness. Ordinary prudence seemed
to dictate locking up archives and using Jesuit historians largely as defenders of the
good name of the Society from calumnies. Hence Jesuit historians automatically
worked within the narrow bounds of officially-approved traditions. Today they are
emerging from the old catacomb. It is not surprising that some still shrink from the
unaccustomed glare of the light of day, and others are enebriated by it and launch out
into radical reassessments of Jesuit history, treating tradition as so much legend.
At present the Esoteric School for Adyar T. S. members is a good deal more secret than
the Jesuits in its history. In fact, it has preserved secrecy more effectively than the Golden
Dawn in many respects. Sometime members such as Mead and Ernest Wood, (“Is This
Theosophy?”) were careful even in their critical comments to respect undertakings of
secrecy, especially about methods of training.15
The historian, as I have said, sympathises
with this wish to preserve confidentiality, but cannot be expected to avoid discussion of
events of decades ago because of their controversial nature. Let us therefore suggest for
discussion some things to be desired. (Our remarks apply firstly to the Adyar E. S. but could
be extended to other esoteric bodies in the Theosophical world, from California to New
York to Dornach.)
1) There should be some public one-volume histories of the E. S. written by members and
non-members of the E. S.
2) There should be a rule of a certain number of years, say 50 years, before which archival
material is normally made available.
3) Letters from historians to the E. S. should receive replies, even if the reply is (as it is
sometimes bound to be) “No”. Mr. Tillett’s claim (in “The Elder Brother”) that some of his
letters were not answered is disquieting.16
4) It would be useful if there were a public statement, even if only a few hundred words, of
what the E. S. today is: a school for yoga; a school of initiation; under the Inner Headship of
H.P.B.’s Mahatmas or just the humble Headship of the senior Theosophist who at present
has to bear that heavy responsibility? This will help historians to place the E. S. in context.17
Meanwhile, the attitude of this journal is one of neutrality between the critics and
defenders of the E. S. as a factor in Theosophy. We do believe however that it is a factor
15
When this article was published in 1985, it was not publicly known that the Mahatma K.H. had warned in a
letter of 1900 “Misleading secrecy has given the death blow to numerous organizations.” This was one of
several sentences censored by the then head of the E.S. when he published it for the first time. In 1987, what
purported to be the uncensored text was published – see for example
http://www.katinkahesselink.net/lastkh.htm
16
Geoffrey Farthing, a leading English Theosophist, called for the closure of the E.S. in 1976. I am not aware
that he received any reply.
See http://www.blavatskytrust.org.uk/html/articles/to%20outer%20head%20adyar%20es.htm When Geoffrey saw my
draft 1985 article on the E.S. he advised me not to publish it, as he feared it would jeopardise the newly started
TH journal. However TH survived, and has recently celebrated 30 years of publication. See www.theohistory.org
A recent vociferous criticism has been made by a Brazilian Theosophist.
http://www.helenablavatsky.org/2014/09/the-fraud-in-adyar-esoteric-school.html
17
In recent years, Adyar TS journals have carried several explanatory articles about what the E.S. does, for
example, “Quest” in the USA https://www.theosophical.org/publications/quest-magazine/2951
105
that, because of its importance – extending even to the belief sometimes expressed that the
E. S. has de facto control of the T.S. – must have a place in historical discussion.
LESLIE PRICE
Update for Psypioneer (2016)
If you are chiefly involved with the study of pioneer Spiritualists or psychical researchers,
you may well wonder about the wider relevance of these Theosophical matters. Of course
disagreement over subject matter is not unknown. What J. B. Rhine considered fell within
parapsychology was rather narrower that many parapsychology bodies would admit. And
Christian Spiritualism has some distinct differences from, say, National Spiritualism.
That there are varying kinds of Theosophy is not surprising. What is distinctive in the
Theosophical bodies has been the existence of special groups, often controlling significant
archival remains (important for studying such pioneers as Madame Blavatsky, William
Judge or Annie Besant), which recruit from the wider membership, but which are outside
the control of the wider body.
It is not surprising that an elite group of members should exercise power in such bodies. But
in the Adyar Society, lodges have considerable autonomy in national Sections, and Sections
within the international structure. Moreover the power of the international president is
limited by a general council. But historians may ponder if the Adyar TS is controlled by its
ES, especially when the TS president is also outer head of the ES [not currently the case] or
when a person who has served as head of the ES goes on to be president of the TS too, as
has happened at least three times, and may do so again. LP.
—~§~—
106
Introductory Note by LP: Interior experiences sometimes have dramatic political
consequences, seldom more than in the case of Joan of Arc. We reprint below evidence that
Joan influenced one of her modern biographers.18
JOAN OF ARC AND DR. LAMOND
A witch in life, a saint when dead,
And those good folk are strangely blind,
Who see the halo round Jeanne’s head,
Yet ban and persecute her kind.
ONE AFTERNOON, IN THE LATER
TWENTIES, I WAS WAITING for a friend to
join me in the public room of the London
Spiritualist Alliance, when the Rev. John
Lamond, D.D., ﬂopped down into an easy
chair by my side. After a brief greeting, he sat
for a few moments silently regarding me with a
quizzical, speculative smile on his broad,
benevolent, old face. I could see that he had
something to tell, but that he was not quite sure
about trusting a comparative stranger, such as I
was at that time.
“Mr. Moffat,” he ventured at last. “I am
wondering if you will think me mad when I tell
you that I have just come from having an
hour’s talk with Joan of Arc?”
I sat up! Spiritualism was comparatively
new to me then, and every fresh phase of its
phenomena that I encountered was apt to give
me a jolt. Such a statement coming from this
hard-headed old Scottish minister was startling enough in all conscience.
“Well,” I replied, “if you had asked me that question two years ago, before I had
experience of Spiritualism, I would certainly have thought that you had gone a bit crazy in
your old age, but I would have done my best not to hurt your feelings. Now, however, I am
quite prepared to take your word for it.”
He seemed pleased with my answer for he opened out and gave me his conﬁdence. I
think he was glad to have found a sympathetic listener for his story. He told me that for
several consecutive years he had spent his holidays at the little French village of Domremy
where Joan was born. He had sat in Joan’s room in the little house her parents had occupied,
and had spent hours in contemplation beside the famous “fairy tree” where she saw her
visions and heard the voices of her guides. He frequented the little church, and listened to its
bells. He had wandered about the countryside that had been so familiar to “the maid”; and
sometimes went farther aﬁeld to visit places associated with her story. By this means,
18
Taken from: Towards Eternal Day – The psychic memoirs of a playwright by Graham Moffat Published by
Rider and Company (1948) Chapter eleven pages 85-91. Photograph of painting taken from the frontispiece of
Joan of Arc and England (1927) by John Lamond published by Rider & Co, London
107
though he himself was devoid of psychic gifts, he hoped, somehow or other, to get into
touch with the still living spirit of the “Maid of Orleans”. In the end, back in London, he
reaped the full reward of his earnest seeking. Through the trance mediumship of Mrs.
Mason he had had many interviews with Joan. She had spoken freely, giving details of
incidents in her early days at Domremy, imparting much interesting information that was
entirely unknown to her biographers. From the facts that he had thus accumulated he was
writing a play.
“She is helping me to write it,” he said. “Indeed, it is more her play than mine.”
That may be true, but Dr. Lamond’s book, Joan of Arc and England, clearly shows that
he had made a profound study of Joan and her times.
Subsequently, I met Dr. Lamond quite a
number of times. He was deeply interested
in spiritual healing, and I found him several
times at “The Seekers’” headquarters. At
the Fortune Theatre I, on several occasions,
took the chair at the Mrs. Meurig Morris
Sunday trance lectures, and Lamond was
nearly always there. He regarded Mrs.
Meurig Morris as a kind of modern Joan of
Arc, and during that extraordinary and
almost tragic trial,19
when her manager, Mr.
Lawrence Cowen, challenged the powerful
Daily Mail, he hardly ever left her side.
I bless the fortunate occasion when I missed the last bus one night after a “Seekers”
meeting at the Kensington town hall, where Dr. Lamond was chairman and I was one of the
speakers. He invited me to his Kensington ﬂat for a cup of tea and what we Scotsmen call “a
crack”. He ’phoned for accommodation for me at a local hotel, so that we were free to talk
far into the morning. Joan of Arc and Spiritualism were, of course, the main themes, and I
took the script of his play away with me to read. While it must be admitted that G. B. S.20
has given us a drama more skilfully constructed and more intensely dramatic, Dr. Lamond’s
work depicts the real Joan. When we consider that it was written by a Scottish parson whose
knowledge of theatrical technique cannot have been very profound, the play is an
astonishing ﬁne piece of work. Here is no credulous village girl deceived by church bells
into thinking that she hears voices; no victim of hallucinations; but a clairvoyant and
clairaudient maid directly inspired from the spirit world and raised up by Heaven-given
power to be the saintly heroine of France, carrying through her sacred mission to defeat a
ruthless aggressor nation that was devastating her beloved country.
Those who have witnessed the clairaudient powers of such mediums as Mrs. Estelle
Roberts and Mrs. Helen Hughes cannot doubt for a moment that Lamond’s estimate of the
source of Joan of Arc’s inspiration is the correct one. Joan saw her heavenly guides
clairvoyantly, and heard their voices clairaudiently just as our best mediums see and hear
those whom we have loved and lost. Speaking through Mrs. Mason, the Maid of Orleans
informed Dr. Lamond that her early faith in her visions had been greatly strengthened by a
village boy who, on one occasion, had shared her clairvoyance and clairaudience, seeing the
“angel” messengers and hearing them speak to her concerning her mission.
19
Photograph shows Sir Oliver Lodge (left) and John Lamond leaving the Meurig Morris trial.
20
George Bernard Shaw
108
During the period that I and my folk lived in Berkshire we occasionally motored to the
delightfully quaint and historically interesting town of Winchester. I came to have a real
affection for its old buildings and especially for its beautiful Cathedral. Within its stately
walls there are two contrasts that have never failed to appeal to my sense of the dramatic.
Entering by a side door we ﬁnd ourselves in a very old part of the cathedral that seems to
retain the gloomy atmosphere of the Middle Ages. The place always gives me a cold chill as
though it might be haunted by the ghosts of hooded monks and other earthbound old-timers.
But I hurry on and the uncanny grue is presently succeeded by a thrill of pure delight as I
pass out of the semi-darkness into the brilliant light of the beautiful main building where the
sun is streaming down from the long, high windows upon the glorious architecture and
artistic decorations.
But it is the other dramatic contrast that appeals to me the most. In the full light of the
Nave representations of those forces of light and darkness which contributed to the
occurrence of a tragic, historical event have been brought into realistic juxtaposition,
probably by the action of some Bishop with a high regard for truth and justice. The Spiritual
is symbolized by the statue of a maid in armour—Joan of Arc—the dark material forces by
the lordly tomb of the crafty statesman-priest, Cardinal Beaufort. These two, the maid and
the Churchman, once faced each other in the Market Square at Rouen. Beaufort represented
the English King. Seated in state, and dressed in his gorgeous vestments, he officiated at the
burning. Joan, tied to the stake, high above the faggots, offered up her last prayer to God;
but the Bishop—for he was only a Bishop then—growing impatient at the prayers of the
supposed witch, hastily gave the signal for the ﬁre to be lit below the maid who is to-day the
most beloved of all French saints. Then, through the curling smoke, as the cruel ﬂames
leaped up on all sides towards her frail body, the voice of Joan was heard to cry out in
triumph:
“My visions were true! I was not deceived!”
We can guess what Joan was seeing to call forth that exultant cry, rather than the shrieks
of agony which, no doubt, the Bishop and her other judges fully expected to hear; not devils
waiting to claim the soul of a witch condemned by mother Church; but Angels and ministers
of grace, her guides whose voices she had heard in Domremy; her comrades who had fought
and died by her side, and a host of other spirits. All would be there to welcome home the
martyr who had accomplished her mission to ﬁght and die for her country.
And now in Winchester Cathedral these two face each other again, but their positions are
reversed. The witch is now a Saint; the Cardinal who, no doubt, thought himself a Saint
when on earth, is now known to be the sinner; for time's ever-sitting court of appeal has
given its judgment against him.
Now let us see what the Church of England has to say about Joan to-day. I quote from
Doctrine in the Church of England:
There is a real sense in which guilt attaches to the society and to individuals as its
members. Thus an Englishman of to-day may feel that he has a share in the guilt of the
nation which burnt Joan of Arc, or which took a leading share in the slave trade, just as
in the latter case he may feel himself to share the credit which belongs to the nation
which took a lead in abolishing the slave trade.
Well, we can all heartily agree with that; but surely the little list should be greatly
extended. Joan was far from being the only witch burned. There were great numbers of
109
them. I do not say that they were all Saints, far from it, but they were burnt or drowned
because they possessed psychic powers—“spiritual gifts”, St. Paul calls them—and were
potential Saints, since these gifts might have been cultivated to the furtherance of God’s
Kingdom on earth.
Dr. Lamond, in the course of that midnight “crack” that we had together, told me,
apropos of this, that in an old church register of his native parish he had found a statement to
the effect that, on a certain Sabbath, no services were held in the church as the minister was
away at a witch-burning.
In the earlier part of the seventeenth century Kenneth Mackenzie, the great highland
prophet and seer, was put to death by being thrust into a barrel of boiling tar, the so-called
Christian Clergy assisting the proceedings with their distinguished presence.
Taking the hint from the book of doctrine, I think we are all sharers in the guilt of our
forbears for such deeds. Would it not be to our beneﬁt, then, if we made sure that our
descendants, in their turn, should not have to share our guilt for the persecution of spiritually
gifted men and women to-day?
How truly Christian it would be if, by our belated action, those who live after us could
claim some share in the credit which would accrue to us were we to restore true mediumship
to the honoured place it undoubtedly had in the Churches founded by St. Paul!
The recognition of Joan of Arc as a Saint is an acknowledgment that, she being divinely
inspired, her campaign against the English invaders of her country was designed and carried
out with the aid of her spirit guides. To grant this is to admit that the dogma, held by all the
Protestant Churches, that all direct manifestations of the spirit ceased with the writing of the
Scriptures, can no longer be maintained.
We have had recent proof that God still defends the right. Spiritualists are assured that
He does this through His willing servants; the risen dead. There is an element of the
miraculous in the escape of the British Army from Dunkirk and in The Battle of Britain.
That gallant Spiritualist, the leader of those brave “few to whom the many owe so much”—
Lord Dowding—has told us how the dead, on one occasion at least, fought alongside the
living to turn the world-be invaders back. The Bible tells how Elisha had a whole host of
invisible warriors to protect him. God is the same to-day as when He sent His messenger to
save St. Peter from prison two thousand years ago: the same to-day as when Joan of Arc
listened to her voices ﬁve hundred years ago: “the same yesterday, to-day and for ever”.
I take the following quotation from Miss Helen A. Dallas’ book Comrades on the
Homeward Way: About the year 1897 or 1898 the following communication was made
through Mrs. Piper. It claimed to come from a band of spirits. It was posted to the editor of
LIGHT by Miss Lilian Whiting (a well-known authoress in the United States) in the
summer of I914 and was published on July 25th, 1914. I quote only the last paragraph of
the communication:
“Before the clear revelation of spirit communications there will be a terrible war in
different parts of the earth. The entire world must be puriﬁed and cleansed before
mortal man can see, through his spiritual vision, his friends on the other Side, and it will
take just this line of action to bring about this perfection. Friend, kindly think on this.”21
21
There are some slight verbal changes from the original version of this in LIGHT July 25th 1914, p.350.
110
In 1914-18 war has come and gone, “the revelation of spirit communications” has been
given abundantly, but the purifying and cleansing effect has not been anything like
sufficient—so now we have had another terrible war. Will the world be purified and
cleansed this time? We can only hope and pray. At present the prospect is rather hopeless.
The Churches have been given their proofs, but the “blind brothers” prefer to remain blind,
yet continue obdurately to lead. The modern sisters of Joan of Arc daily give comfort to the
bereaved and proclaim the truths concerning the after life. The teaching that is given to the
world through their mediumship is Christianity brought up to date, “puriﬁed and cleansed”
from the mistakes of unguided theologians. Must it take still another war to make Church
and State wake up to the fact that Spiritualism is of God, and mediumship the open door for
ministers of grace; the Jacob’s ladder by which Angels descend to talk with men?
The grand soul who was the Rev. John
Lamond, D.D., is one of those ministering Angels,
and he does not disdain to use the humble ouija
board to spell out his messages to me. No one has
a better right to speak to his fellowmen than this
Doctor of Divinity who dared to preach
Spiritualism from his pulpit, and gave up his
Church and a good stipend for conscience’ sake. I
know that in his later years, while he rejoiced in
his freedom from orthodox fetters, he gladly
shared what little he had of wordly gear with those
who needed help. His was no belief in Salvation
by mere believing; he knew that only by love can
any man ever raise himself to unity with his
Creator. “Parson John” has gone to his reward,
and he comes back in the strength of a fuller
knowledge to speak with all the vehemence of a
translated Jeremiah.
His first message through my daughter’s
mediumship was:
“I am working on the book. You cement past friendship by co-operation.”
I welcome his help most gladly. He is the third famous literary man to offer inspiring aid
to my awkward pen. I am painfully aware that with W. T. Stead, the Rev. George Vale
Owen, and “Parson John” at my elbow my output ought to show some semblance of their
combined genius. I ought to be as sure of my prose as Burns was of his verse when he wrote
to Davie:
The words come skelpin’ rank and ﬁle,
Amaist before I ken!
The ready measure rins as ﬁne,
As Phoebus and the famous nine,
Were glourin’ o’er my pen.
I feel sure that as my spirit helpers “glour o’er my pen” they find me a very
unsatisfactory instrument. But, as a well-known literary man once said to me when he asked
me to write an article for a magazine, “No one expects the author of Bunty Pulls the Strings
to write except in a simple way!” Perhaps my spirit helpers will not expect it either.
—~§~—
Rev. John Lamond
111
How to obtain this free Journal
The Psypioneer journal is at present available, complete with all back issues on the web site
http://www.woodlandway.org and we are greatly indebted to our Australian friends for
hosting and posting this Journal. You can obtain it free and direct by sending an e-mail
entitled “Subscribe” or “Unsubscribe” to discontinue, or to contact Psypioneer please e-
mail: psypioneersub@icloud.com
Paul J. Gaunt
—~§~—
