{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1948__barker___mahatma_letters.pdf","mytitle":"Mahatma Letters","mylang":"de"}
THE
MAHATMA LETTERS
To A. P. SINNETT from
THE MAHATMAS M. & K. H.
Transcribed, Compiled, and with an
Introduction by A. T. BARKER
EIGHTH IMPRESSION
RIDER AND COMPANY
Bouverie House, Fleet Street, London, E.C.\
NEWVORK MELBOURNE SYDNEY CAPETOWN
^Published . . . December, 1923
Second Impression May, 1924
Third Impression June, 1924
Fourth Impression . . . November, 1924
Second Edition (Fifth Impression) March, 1926
Second Edition (Sitth Impression) January, 1930
Second Edition (Seventh Impression) March, 1933
Second Edition (Eighty Impression) . .1948
PRINTED BY THE REPLIKA PROCESS
IN GREAT BRITAIN BY
LUND HUMPHRIES
LONDON '
BRADFORD
COMPILER'S PREFACE
IT will be seen, if reference is made to the
" Contents
*'
that the
letters have been arranged in 7 Sections and an Appendix.
The former contain nothing but Mahatma letters, while in the
latter some letters have been added from three pupils of The
Mahatmas M. and K.H. : H. P. Blavatsky, T. Subba Row, and
Damodar K. Mavalankar, not only for their intrinsic merit, but
because they help to make clear questions arising in the main
part pf the book which would otherwise be left obscure.
The seven Sections suggest themselves as more or less natural
divisions, but it should be remembered that as letters in one
section often contain matter which also relates to the other
Sections, considerable overlapping is unavoidable. However, an
attempt has been made and that is the best that can be said.
The contents of each Section are arranged where possible
chronologically, in the order of their receipt. The reader must
bear in mind that with only one or two exceptions none of the
letters were dated by the writers thereof. On many of them,
however, the dates and places of receipt have been noted in Mr.
Sinnett's handwriting, and these appear in small type immediately
under the Letter Numbers.
It should be understood clearly that unless otherwise stated:
i. Each letter has been transcribed direct from the original.
a. Every letter was written to A. P. Sinnett.
3. All footnotes are copies of notes which appear in and belong
to the letters themselves, unless signed (Ed.) in which case they
have been added by the compiler.
Throughout this volume there are a great many words used
which belong to Buddhist, Hindu, and Theosophical terminology.
Those who are unfamiliar with such terms are referred to the ex-
cellent glossary in H. P. Blavatsky's
"
Key to Theosophy
" and
also to
" The Theosophical Glossary/' a separate publication by
the same author. The reader is asked to believe that the greatest
care has been taken in the work of transcription ; the whole MS.
has been checked word for word with the originals, and every-
Til
viii COMPILER'S PREFACE
thing possible done to prevent errors. It is however probably too
much to expect that the printed book will contain no mistakes, they
are almost inevitable. In case any doubt should arise in the
reader's mind as to whether any particular passage has been cor-
rectly copied from the original, the compiler wishes to intimate,
that he will be happy to deal with any correspondence on the sub-
ject addressed to him care of the Publishers.
In conclusion the compiler's thanks are due and most gratefully
acknowledged to those who by their assistance have made his task
possible of accomplishment.
A. T. B.
NOTE TO SIXTH IMPRESSION
The last impression of the Revised Edition published by T. Fisher
Unwin, in March, 1926, having been out of print for some time the
book is now reprinted and published by Rider & Co. by means of
the photographic process, as the constant enquiries received seem to
indicate that the demand continues to be sufficiently great to render
such a course desirable.
A. T. B.
LONDON, January, 1930.
PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION
SOME explanation is due to the reader as to why a revised edition
of this book has been considered necessary, and also as to the
nature and extent of the corrections made in the text of the
original edition. The book was offered to the public in good faith
as an accurate transcription of the original documents, verbatim
and without omission. Having had occasion recently to check
certain letters with the originals, the Compiler made- the discovery
that an unduly large number of errors had somehow crept in, so
many in fact as to necessitate a complete and thorough revision
of the whole work from beginning to end.
The result of rechecking the text with the originals has dis-
closed the following :
I. The majority of the differences are petty and trifling, affect-
ing in no way the sense of the passages concerned i.e., a question
of capitals, punctuation, etc. Abbreviations are sometimes
written out in full, e.g., "through" instead of "thro'"; and
words sometimes take the place of numerals, e.g., fourth instead
of 4th. There are also five or six instances of mistakes in para-
graphing.
II. On the other hand there is a long list of corrections
which unfortunately do affect the meaning :
(a) words wrongly
italicised ; (b) words omitted or wrongly transcribed, and (c) most
serious of all, Letter No. XIII, in which one page of the original
was transcribed out of its proper position, necessitating the re-
arrangement of Answers 4 and 6.
The original intention was to present the letters in print exactly
as in the originals, and the present Edition is an attempt to realize
the original intention as far as it is practically possible. But it
must be borne in mind that the material has to be arranged for
the Press, for which the originals were not written and a mini-
mum amount of editing is essential to make the volume readable.
The corrections made in the Revised Edition as compared with
the first edition are therefore as follows :
(a) Punctuation. Where the printed text differs from the
originals to the detriment of the latter, correction has been made
ix
A*
x PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION
in accordance with the originals. In a few sentences, otherwise
devoid of it, punctuation has been added to make the passage
more easily comprehensible.
Capitals have been altered in accordance with originals as far as
possible, but it is frequently difficult to determine whether a
capital was intended or not, and the Compiler has used his
discretion in this particular.
Abbreviations. Where these have been written out in full they
have not been changed.
Numerals. Where the text has the exact equivalent in words
no change has been made.
Paragraphs have been altered in two or three places where it
could be done without affecting the pagination.
Spelling. Where a word is correctly spelt in the text and
obviously misspelt in the original no change has been made.
(b) Omissions and Italics. All words previously omitted have
been inserted and all mistakes in italics and words wrongly
transcribed have been corrected.
Occasionally a word will be found in small square brackets ;
this always indicates that the word is not in the original but is
necessary to the comprehension of the passage.
Notes. Where a note on the envelope or cover of a letter has
been omitted, this has been included either under the Letter No.
or as a footnote.
Sanskrit. In Letters No. I, IV, CXXXII, and LXXXVII, a
phrase in Sanskrit or oriental characters occurs under the signa-
tures. Photographic reproductions of the three former appear on
p. xlvii, while in the latter the phrase has been inserted in its
correct position.
On p. 346, the Sanskrit equivalents of the words
"
Mahakasha "
and "
gunas
"
have been added as in the originals and also a
word on p. 401.
A photographic reproduction of a slip in K.H.'s writing which
was in the same envelope as Letter No. XCII, has been included
on p. xlvii.
Letter No. XIII. Answers 4 and 6 have been re-arranged in
accordance with the original.
Appendix. Three fragments in K.H.'s writing inadvertently
omitted in the first edition have been added, and the treatment of
the Mars and Mercury controversy has been slightly changed.
Index. This has been revised in accordance with the corrected
text.
It is with the greatest regret and concern that the Compiler
PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION xi
has to confess that the inefficiency of his work has rendered the
revised edition necessary, and in extenuation it can only be said
that the difficulties of transcription were very great. He alone
is to blame for the mistakes made, and considers that his action
in revising the whole work is the only one consistent with his
duty and responsibility.
A.T.B.
January, 1926.
PREFACE TO THE EIGHTH IMPRESSION
The Mahaima Letters to A. P. Sinnett, compiled and edited by the
late A. Trevor Barker, was first published by T. Fisher Unwin in
1923. A Second Edition as revised by the original Editor was
published by Rider and Company in 1926.
In 1939 the manuscript of the Letters themselves was handed
to the British Museum on terms which prevent any person other
than Mr. Barker or his Executors from further examination of the
manuscript for a period of ten years.
In 1941 large quantities of the new and revised Second Edition
were destroyed by fire in the City of London, and later the same
year Mr. Barker died.
Mr. Barker's Executors were his brother and myself, but in the
absence of the former on war service I took over the mass of
correspondence, notes and other material relating to the Mahatrna
Letters which I found among Mr. Barker's effects.
In due course I
approached Miss Maud Hoffman, the owner of
the copyright in the volume compiled by Mr. Barker, with a view
to a Third, and as far as possible final, Edition. To save herself
the burden of much editorial and business detail, Miss Hoffman,
who had acquired the Letters under the will of Mr. A. P. Sinnett
executed a Trust Deed appointing myself and Mrs. Elsie Benjamin
(nee Savage) to control the future of the Mahatma Letters for the
remainder of the copyright of the book.
Mrs. Benjamin and I at once appealed to all members of the
Theosophical Movement for suggestions for correction in the form
xii PREFACE TO THIRD EDITION
and matter of the Second Edition. The response to the appeal
was so large, and the proposed corrections so numerous, that it
became obvious that it would need a long period of time to prepare
the new edition for the Press. Meanwhile the demand for the book
was steadily increasing, and it was thought better to issue without
delay a reprint of the Second Edition as it stands.
We take this opportunity, however, of renewing our appeal to
all students of the Mahatma Letters to send in suggested improve-
ments on this Second Edition, all of which will be considered for
incorporation in the Third.
At least three attempts have been made to achieve the correct
chronology of the Letters, many of which are undated. The late
Mrs. Margaret Conger published a version in 1939 which interleaved
the Mahatma Letters to A. P. Sinnett with the Letters of H. P.
Blavatsky to A. P. Sinnett, while Miss Mary Neff's suggested
chronology of the two sets of Letters was published separately in
1940. Now another student, using the pen-name of James Arthur,
is analysing the Letters from the viewpoint of chronology, giving
full reasons for each debatable entry, and there may be others
working in the same field unknown to the Trustees. I f circumstances
permit, these three versions will be published together in booklet
form with a view to adding the best chronology available as an
Appendix to the Third Edition.
All suggestions for correction, improvement or chronology should
be sent to the Trustees at 58 Marlborough Place, London, N.W.8.
CHRISTMAS HUMPHREYS
ELSIE BENJAMIN
Trustees for the Mahatma Letters Trust.
INTRODUCTION
IT is well known, among students of Theosophy and Occultism,
that the philosophical doctrines and ethics which were given to
the world through the Theosophical Society during the 16 years
immediately following its foundation in 1875, emanated from
certain Eastern Teachers said to belong to an Occult Brotherhood
living in the trans-Himalayan fastnesses of Tibet. H. P.
Blavatsky who, together with Colonel Olcott founded the Theo-
sophical Society, acknowledged these Eastern Brothers as her
Teachers, stating not only that They existed, but that she herself
had received training and instruction at their hands during her
sojourn in Tibet, and was therefore able to speak from her own
knowledge and personal experience. It was not until 1880 that
further testimony became available. In that year the late A. P.
Sinnett, then living in India, was enabled through the agency of
Madame Blavatsky, to enter into correspondence with her own
Teachers, whom she referred to variously under the terms,
"The Brothers,"
" The Mahatmas," and later
" The Masters of
Wisdom." During the course of this correspondence which ex-
tended over the years 1880 to 1884 Mr. Sinnett received many
letters from The Mahatmas M. and K.H., the Teachers in ques-
tion, and it is these original communications which are published
in the present volume under the title of
" The Mahatma Letters/
The circumstances attending their receipt were fully dealt with
by Mr. Sinnett in his
" Occult World " and they need not there-
fore be restated here.
They are now published with the permission of the Executrix
of the late A. P. Sinnett, to whom they were bequeathed solely
and unconditionally; she, in her turn at the suggestion of the
writer of this Introduction, allowed him the great privilege of
undertaking the whole responsibility for the transcription,
arrangement and publication of the Letters in book form.
The writer undertook the task with the fullest sense of the
grave responsibility attending his action, convinced that the
moment had come when the highest interests of The Theosophical
xffl
xiv INTRODUCTION
Society demanded the lull publication of The Teachings of The
Masters given to Mr. Sinnett. He feels the responsibility the
more keenly since there is a passage in one of the letters in this
volume in which The Master K.H. says that neither he nor his
brother M., would ever permit the publication thereof. Though
there can be no doubt that these letters were not intended for pub-
lication at the time they were written, it may also be fairly
assumed that the present impasse in the affairs of the Society was
not anticipated either. At a time when there is so much con-
troversy in regard to what was, and what was not the original
Teaching of The Masters, the publication of the words of its own
Teachers can do nothing less than serve the highest interests of
the great movement which claims for its motto that
" There is no
religion higher than Truth.*' The Masters are what they are;
what they have written they have written, and neither they nor
their doctrines need the acclamation or apology of lesser minds.
It is almost impossible to arrive at the facts, or even to form a
trustworthy opinion upon a subject so far reaching, by studying
an edited book of extracts. Therefore, that the members of the
Theosophical Society and the world at large, should be enabled
to study the truth for themselves concerning The Masters and
their doctrines as set forth in these letters signed by their own
hands, has been the aim of the compiler. To this end, the whole
of the Mahatma Letters left by Mr. Sinnett have been transcribed
verbatim from the originals and without omission.
Mr. Sinnett 's books The Occult World and Esoteric Buddhism
were based almost entirely on the material contained in
Sections I. and II. of this volume. A careful study of the ex-
position of the teaching given in those early works, as in that of
more modern Theosophical writers, yields some interesting results
when compared with the original teaching as contained in these
letters. Many theories which have become the accepted dogmas
of modern Theosophical doctrines, are clearly shown to be in-
accurate and misleading, and it may therefore be profitable if the
principal points of difference are indicated to the reader.
It must be admitted that there has been an increasing tendency
in the Society during the last twelve years, to place an undue
reliance on ceremonial, orders, Churches, creeds and their
equivalent, thereby sacrificing the virility of individual effort and
freedom of thought, which was so noticeable in the early days of
the movement. The Master K.H. writes in very clear terms on
this subject, and it may be well to quote his own words.
" And
now after making due allowance for evils that are natural and can-
INTRODUCTION *v
not be avoided ... I will point out the greatest, the chief
cause of nearly two-thirds of the evils that pursue humanity ever
since that cause became a power. It is religion under whatever
form and in whatsoever nation. It is the sacerdotal caste, the
priesthood and the Churches ;
it is in those illusions that man
looks upon as sacred, that he has to search out the source of that
multitude of evils which is the great curse of humanity, and that
almost overwhelms mankind. Ignorance created Gods, and
cunning took advantage of the opportunity."
1
And again
" Far
from our thoughts may it ever be to erect a new hierarchy for
the future oppression of a priestridden world.
"a
The inference
and the message of these words in our own times is sufficiently
clear.
There has been a noticeable tendency also for sections of the
Society to drift towards what Master K.H. calls "that most
insane and fatal of superstitions Spiritualism."
3
In another
letter he says
"
a psychic Society is being founded . . .
,
it
will grow and develop and expand and finally the Theos.
Soc. of London will be swamped in it, and lose first its
influence then its name until Theosophy in its very name
becomes a thing of the Past." It is regrettable that these
words are as true to-day, as when they were written. The
whole question is thrashed out from every point of view in
these letters, so that no misunderstanding is possible to the mind
of the impartial student. The mischief lies, then as now, in the
misunderstanding of the real nature of spiritualistic phenomena.
Those who adhere to the methods of Spiritualism claim that
communication can be established with the souls and spirits
of the departed by means of properly qualified mediums. That
communication of a kind between the living and the dead can be
made, is accepted as a demonstrable fact in these letters, and is
not challenged in any way. But communication with what?
Here lies the crux of the whole matter. Master K.H. states not
once, but over and over again, that communication with the
souls and spirits of the dead is an impossibility. At death, con-
sciousness which pertains to the seventh, sixth, and fifth prin-
ciples of man, (and in these are included the soul, and spirit and
all that makes man human) withdraws into an unconscious gesta-
tion period which precedes re-birth in the Deva Chan or heaven-
world. It leaves behind it, the physical corpse, the etheric
counterpart or double, and lastly the emotional and mental shell
which is the correspondence in subtler matter of the physical
i
Letter No. X. Letter No. LXXXVII.
a Letter No. XLIX.
xvi INTRODUCTION
body, and which may be termed the vehicle of consciousness on
its own plane, just as the physical body is the vehicle of con-
sciousness in the physical world. It must be understood clearly
however, that each of these empty shells has a certain illusory
awareness or consciousness of its own, which is the collective
consciousness of the aggregation of atoms and molecules of which
they are composed, and quite distinct from the consciousness of
the individual, or real entity, which informed them in life. The
physical body has a similar consciousness which is purely animal
and instinctive in nature. At death the consciousness of even the
shell leaves it for a time, and does not return to it until the with-
drawal of 5th, 6th, and 7th principles is complete. Not until after
that is accomplished, does a certain awareness of existence return
to the empty shells. It is these disintegrating corpses which can
be temporarily galvanized into activity by the efforts of a medium ;
these can and do communicate, but only as it were from memory
of what has been, and not from consciousness of present facts.
This is the reason for the often stupid, meaningless, wnspirituai
messages from the other side of death which so disgust the seeker
for real knowledge. The brief analysis given above, is the rule
for all humanity, with the exception of the victims of accident and
suicide on the one hand, and on the other those rare individuals
(only the trained occultist knows how rare they are) who have
won for themselves immortality.
Those students of
"
occultism
" who believe themselves
guided, by disincarnate entities ranging in degree from departed
Theosophists to
"
Adepts who have relinquished the use of
physical bodies on earth,"
1
by means of the methods of mediums,
ouija boards and their equivalent, will do well to consider their
position in the light of these letters. Communication with de-
parted Theosophists (i.e. the real entities) as already shown is an
impossibility, for alas !
they cannot be included among those who
have achieved immortality, the exceptions to the general rule
governing humanity being- so very few ;
and with regard to the
guidance of disembodied
"
Adept Spirits
" it may be asked, how
those who have not deserved individual instruction from Adepts
in the flesh, can possibly expect to receive direct help from Their
superiors the Planetary Spirits, the Dhyan Chohanic Host?
It cannot be too strongly emphasized that in thus externalizing
the source from which he seeks inspiration, the student sacrifices
all possibility of the grand realities of spiritual attainment and
direct knowledge.
" The ever unknowable and incognizable
* Esoteric Buddhism, p. 133. Eighth Edition.
INTRODUCTION xvii
KArana alone, the Causeless Cause of all causes, should have its
shrine and altar on the holy and untrodden ground of our heart
invisible, intangible, unmentioned, save through the
'
still small
voice
'
of our spiritual consciousness. Those who worship before
it, ought to do so in the silence and the sanctified solitude of their
Souls, making their Spirit the sole mediator between them and
The Universal Spirit, their good actions their only priests, and
their sinful intentions the only visible and objective sacrificial
victims to the
" Presence."1
The importance of the correct understanding of the doctrines
relating to post mortem conditions, may be judged by the sig-
nificant phrase of Master K.H. " that he who holds the keys to
the Secrets of Death is possessed of the Keys of Life." The dual
meaning and application of the theosophical doctrines relating to
Death would seem to have been missed passed by. The entrance
to the Mysteries has ever been through the Gate of Death ;
and
as in the Egyptian
" Book of The Dead "
under the symbolism
of the passage of the Soul from life through Death to Devachan,
lies hid the precious teaching which rightly understood will bring
to rebirth the aspirant who has passed through the agonies of
Death in Life.
The letters in the Section entitled Probation and Chelaship
make a profound appeal to the heart of both mystic, and
occultist. The wisdom, the instruction, the many intimate de-
tails, all combine to throw a new light not only on The
Masters themselves, but on the whole question of discipleship.
As one reads these pages written 40 years ago, the conviction
is reached that the way to The Masters is open to-day as it was
then. But the possibility of achievement for the individual lies
not in following and pledging loyalty to any personal leader, but
by uncompromising devotion to the Idea, to principles. Mas*
K.H. writes on this subject :
"
There is a hero-worshipping
> ^
ency clearly showing itself, and you my friend are not qui;
^
from it yourself. ... If you would go on with you/
studies and literary work, then learn to be loyal to ^
than to my poor self. When something is to b'
whether I wish it, before acting; . . .
-
J
perfect, hence infallible in all I do. . . .
even an Adept when acting in his body, 1
due to human carelessness. Mf
In extenuation of the many anomalier
discrepancy which exists between
i The Secret Doctrine, v^1
xviii INTRODUCTION
sophical Society and their practice by individual members, it
must be remembered that as emphasized in these letters, the
Masters neither guide nor control the actions of their disciples.
By the rules of the Brotherhood, pupils must be given
"
the
fullest liberty and freedom of action, the liberty of creating
causes, even if those causes become in time their
*
scourge and
public pillory.'"
"
Our chelas are helped but when they are
innocent of the Causes which led them into trouble." 1
The path of discipleship leads into the heart of Nature itself;
the condition of entrance an obedience to her laws complete
and absolute. Before those Immutable Laws even the highest
Adept must bow in humility. To the candidate for discipleship
all things are permitted which are natural to Man. No simple
natural act can defile. But
"
Occult Science is a jealous mistress,
which allows not even the shadow of self-indulgence," and if the
higher levels of spiritual attainment are to be reached the disciple
must be prepared to sacrifice and transcend the natural desires of
the body, and lead a life which, in the Master K.H.'s own words
" is fatal not only to the ordinary course of married life, but even
to flesh and wine drinking."
2
Those who would hope to solve the
problem of sex by means of formulae which controvert laws that
are obvious and known, dig with their own hands the pit which
must ultimately engulf all that is human in them. To dare to
suggest that such doctrines could have the sanction of The
Masters of Wisdom (who are one with Nature) is to utter not
only a blasphemy, but a self-evident absurdity which only a fool
or a madman could be guilty of. If this question admits of any
doubt in the minds of students of occultism in general, the same
cannot be said of those who know anything of the inner mysteries
of Astrology. That ancient Science can and will prove that no
ich formulae exist in the book of Nature, and any theories
t are based on them can only be regarded as Sorcery of
lost vicious description. That such doctrines exist is one of
Basons for the lack of virility in the Society to-day.
'*'->n of the inner condition of The Theosophical
^ne irresistibly of all that was written in the
the sublime allegory of Prometheus the
in his suffering towards his own " heaven
-akles," but so far alas ! in vain. At this
>
history of the Society, those pages of
a message full of the profoundest sig-
* Letter No. XVIII.
409-415.
INTRODUCTION xix
nificance for all who are not too blind or too unwilling to see the
truth contained in it.
It is remarkable, more than thirty years after her death, how
Madame Blavatsky is justified at almost every point in these
letters. Few people have been more unjustly reviled, and even
some of those who knew her intimately preferred to believe that
she had committed every kind of error rather than admit for an
instant that they themselves could be in the wrong. How far
she was ever the deceiver depicted by Mr. Sinnett in his post-
humous publication
"
The Early Days of Theosophy in Europe,"
may be judged by the reader if he will study the letter from Master
K.H, 1
in which he gives his own opinion on her delinquencies.
Those who love the memory of H. P. Blavatsky for her work
and the gifts she gave them, cannot but feel after reading that
letter that after all she was worthy of their high regard ;
and
those who have tried to blacken that memory and minimise the
value of the work she did, will rise to heights indeed if the prayer
be granted that they may never deserve worse condemnation.
In nothing is Madame Blavatsky more completely vindicated
than in the explanation and refutation she gave in the Secret
Doctrine, of the misconceived theory in regard to Mars and
Mercury, which was originally published in Esoteric Buddhism.
The details of that old controversy are well-known to Theoso-
phists, and it is fortunate that the publication in this volume of
the letter originally so misunderstood by Mr. Sinnett, refutes
finally the imputations made against Madame Blavatsky in regard
to it. It is indeed amazing that Theosophists have continued to per-
mit the promulgation of the idea that Mars and Mercury belonged
to the same planetary chain as The Earth, for the facts are
evident that they do not. It is obvious to the eye of the
Astrologer, if not to students of other branches of occult science,
that such a theory must throw into confusion every system and
scale of correspondence in the Solar System a fact which a'one is
enough to show that it must be false.
But the mere assertion of facts is not sufficiervV ***d' '* is neces-
sary to examine the whole controversy 1*1 detail from the
beginning. Those who wish to go further into the matter are re-
ferred to the paper which has been included in the Appendix at the
end of this volume. There, all the facts have been dealt with
fully by the present writer, and he believes conclusively.
In the life of the Theosophical Society a cycle is closing, and
ere the reader opens this volume it will have run to its inevitable
Letter No. LIV.
xx INTRODUCTION
conclusion. It leaves behind it a legacy of things done which
had better have been left undone, and a record of mistaken
zeal and wasted opportunity of which few can be proud.
The vigorous new life of the dawning cycle which is beginning
to course through the veins of the old body, has of necessity
objectivised and made apparent, all that was contained in it of a
nature subversive of true progress. If Master K.H. has said
that,
" the Society can never perish, though Branches and indi-
viduals in it may," the words of that other Teacher must also be
remembered,
" that new wine cannot be poured into old bottles
and that he who would find his life must first lose it. Be on your
guard against hypocrisy, for nothing is hidden that shall not be
revealed, and nothing concealed that shall not be made known ;
and all that has been uttered in darkness shall be heard in the
light, and what has been whispered in chambers shall be pro-
claimed from the house-tops. There are days that are coming
when one stone shall not be left upon another without being torn
down. Take care that you are not deceived, for many shall come
in My Name saying,
" I am He, and the time is near
" but do
not go after them. And when you hear of wars and disturbances,
do not be scared ; these have to come first, but the end is not yet.
For these are the days of Divine vengeance. And there will be
signs in the Sun and Moon and Stars, while on Earth there will
be dismay and bewilderment at the roar of the sea and the waves,
men's hearts failing them for fear and foreboding of what is to
befall the universe. For the orbs of the heavens will be shaken,
and then they will see the Son of Man coming with power and
great glory. When these things begin to happen, look up for
your release is not far distant."
Out of the wreck that is inevitable a shape shall arise that may
be worthy of immortality. Let those who have climbed the hill
and seen the vision, and in that clean, sweet air have heard the
key-n*te of the dawning cycle hold fast and remember in the
days tMt are coming the sweetness, and the beauty, and the
truth the) n** ~^een.
A. TREVOR BARKER,
Fellow of the Theosophical Society.
1
London, September, 1923.
* The state of affairs in the Theosophical Society having become progres-
sively worse, the writer resigned his membership in April, 1925.
CONTENTS
Pag<?
COMPILER'S PREFACE ---...... vii
PREFACE TO 2ND EDITION U
INTRODUCTION . .. . . xiii
SECTION 1
THE OCCULT WORLD SERIES
LETTER No. I. London newspaper Test; i. Solomons of Science experi-
mental knowledge vril of the coming age skeletons of giants ; a. Hooke
Newton position of Science Human nature the same for a million years
value of occult phenomena ; 3. Science and Copernicus Robert Recorde
Wm. Gilbert Galileo Baconcharlatans the shield of the
"
Adept
"
the rewards of the Goddess Saraswati ; 4. The phenomenon of the Ascen-
sion ; 5.
LETTER No. II. Methods of research in Occult Science the mysteries not for
the public Conditions of communication with the Mahatmas the mode
of life demanded ; 6. Motives the object of the Theos. Society signific-
ance of selfishness the T.S. and Universal Brotherhood the study of
occultism path of occultism Schools Teachers, etc. ; 8. Beneficent
powers of knowledge seal of the mysteries ; the life of the aspirant
Anglo-Indian Branch T.S. conditions for good test phenomena ; 9.
LETTER No. III.
**
Brooch "
phenomenon postal address ia N.W.P. Pillow
incidents ; 10.
LETTER No. IV. Crisis in Tibet danger of invasion by Russia; n. Menac-
ing destiny of T.S. Avalanche in the Karakorum Mts. H.P.J3. demands
assistance telepathically her condition the state of K.H.'s countrymen;
12. Accelerated modes of delivery Anglo-Indian world agitation caused
by the Bombay publications ; 13. Col. Olcott the feelings of the English
to the Mahatmas O.'s devotion and self-sacrifice unequalled independent
A.I. Branch an impossibility mortal blow to T.S. non-interference with
Branches by Parent Society Arbitrator when specially called upon trust
in word of honour ; 14. Different habits of Tibetans and Hindus lack of
understanding national prejudices learned in Yog-Vidya but unfit for
drawing-rooms essentials and non-essentials ; 15. Difficulties of the
Mahatmas prejudice unwashed Christian Saints responsibility for
Sinnett and Hume interference only by the Mahatmas policy of A.I.
Society to be submitted to Chief ;
16. Attitude of Mahatmas to the aspirant
marriage and Raja Yoga different ways of acquiring occult knowledge
encouragement given to Sinnett
" Universal Brotherhood
" not an idle
phrase the paramount claim of Humanity ; only secure foundation for
universal morality aspiration of the true Adept ; 17.
LETTER No. V. Inaccuracies of H.P.B. A.I. Branch Hume'a letter-
haughtiness of English race prejudice personal habits ; 18. The test of
the ayth Jhelum despatch impossibility of deception ; 19. The methods
of Hume his letter a monument of pride further encouragement to
Sinnett necessity of Universal Brotherhood in Europe ; 20. Position of
Olcott in relation to the T.S.a professor of occultism letter to Lord
Lindsay H.P.B. not to give practical instruction to A.I. Branch; 21.
xxii CONTENTS
LETTER No. VI. Methods of correspondence occultists copy naturesugges-
tions for group study ;
22. Analysis of Hume's character truths and
mysteries of occultism phenomena will prove destructive of bigotry but
constructive for Brotherhood of Humanity; 23. Planetary spirits phe-
nomenal manifestations ideas rule the world revolutions creeds will be
crushed Man's position in the Universe The Eternal Now the choice
highest philosophy or phenomena the wish of the Chiefs ; 24.
LETTER No. VII. Sinnett disappointed in expectations of training apprecia-
tion of his efforts for T.S. interest in him of one higher than K.H. ; 25,
LETTER No. VIII. Personal observations re Sinnett reasons for K.H.'s
actions ;
26. Lord Crawford character and possibilities direct communi-
cation refused ; 27. Methods of establishing communication unscientific
absurdity ;
28. Velocity of mechanical force Sinnett 's inability to under-
stand explanations of phenomena the only way Past, Present and Future
grossness of western mind ; 29. The Colour rays beyond visible spectrum
realities appear absurdities insurmountable difficulties ; 30. Grades of
intelligence Superstition the world repudiates what it cannot grasp the
novice in occult science must reach the goal or perish to doubt is to risk
insanity; 31. The Mahatmas attitude to humanity and the world not
dried up mummies; 32. K.H.'s personal attachments erroneous ideas
about Mahatmas Yogis difference between Hatha and Raja Yoga; 33.
Advice regarding Occult World-manner of dealing with letters ; 34. Prob-
lems of mystical phenomena the Forlorn Hope uses of spiritualism ;
35. Unity gives strength importance of co-operation Damodar's letter
value of concentration ; 36. Home, the medium ; 37.
SECTION 11
PHILOSOPHICAL AND THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 1881-1883
LETTER No. IX. Observations on The Occult World; 38. Criticism of mem-
bers of T.S. and others ; 39. Stainton Moses ; 40. Planetary spirits and
the Earth their mission S.M. and occultism abundant proof new
phase of Truth explanations re experiences of S.M. ; 41. Imperator
mediumship The " Dweller on the Threshold
"
; 42 and 43. Conscious
life in spirit reply to Fechner ; 44. Psychic Communication with spirits
an impossibility universal laws cycle of intelligent existences cosmic
matter Anima mundi ; 45. The progress of man The Great Cycle
evolution of the Ego the circle of necessity ; 46-7. The world of Causes
and of Effects Self Conscious Egos hell and purgatory ; 48. The lower
world of effects a definition of Truth Brothers not permitted to control
the will of the neophyte The Brethren of the Shadow; 49. K.H.'s rela-
tions with Sinnett observations on the Occult World its effect on H.P.B.
and others Wallace and Crookes ; 50. Willingness of Adepts to enlighten
mankind their mission to reveal Truth; 51.
LETTER No. X. The philosophy of the Mahatmas with regard to
" God "
the God of the theologians; 52-3. Dyan Chohans definition of
"
nothing
"
logical conclusions the Universal Mind ; 54. The belief in
Planetary Spirits matter is Eternal no-one has ever seen God cannot
accept an extra-cosmic deity ; 55. Phlogiston belief in matter alone
its unceasing motion which is life ideas on Evil ; 56. The cause of evil
is in human intelligence and action natural laws and necessary evils
the sacerdotal caste and churches the chief cause of evil ; 57. Buddhist
priests God not worshipped in Buddhist Temples the lour noble truths
the 12 Nidanas the chain of causation; 58. The words of the Buddha r
5*9-
CONTENTS xxiii
LBITER No. XL K.H. has misgivings in role of instructor the eternal
Essence Forceimmutability non-existent in Solar System; 61. Inappro-
priate terms used by Sciencethis teaching opposed to all accepted theories
observations on the fallacies and incompleteness of Science energy inde-
structible gravitychemical attraction electricity ;
62. Chelas are mag-
netisedonly one element in Nature, Akasa spirit and matter, one the
tetracktis the sacred seven ; 63 ; the Greek Brother necessity of serenity
of mind for occult study; 64. Psychical powers of hearing our Zoo-
phagous friend questions of diet transmission of letters; 65. Schopen-
hauer and the
" Arhat
"
doctrines,
LETTER No. XI L Explanations re Mahayuga Pralaya cyclic evolution
Manvantaras dead worlds; 67. An eternity of action Ethnographical
details Esquimaux Neolithic age the Basks of Spain the early traces
of man Geike, Dawkins, Fiske five races evolution of speech ; 69.
LETTER No. XIII. Cosmological notes and queries esoteric cosmogony; 70.
Nature works with positive and negative forces the worlds of effects; 71.
Man's principles return to their source at death the planet and man not
created; 72. The seven-headed serpent Ananda of Vishnu the musical
scale and the planetary chain man has potentiality of all 7 principles as
a germ ; 73.
**
Life
" no responsibility except in man ; 74. 7th principle
latent in all the principles cause of pollution not in the body the evolu-
tion of animal-man; 75. Man's development follows that of planet-
Biblical analogies the anthropoids ; 76. Buddhas and Avatars ; 77. The
object of initiations ; 78.
LETTER No. XIV. 7 objective and 7 subjective globes ; 78. The 7 kingdoms
the descent of the monad occult divisions of mineral kingdom rounds
and rings divisions and classifications the whole truth not permitted to
be given ; 79-81. numbers the key to knowledge rounds, races, and the
number of incarnations in eachthe problem of the 777 incarnations Plato
and Confucius 5th Round men Buddha a 6th rounder ; 82-4. Explanatory
notes of the diagram
"
Man on a Planet ''ascending and descending arcs
of evolution the Dhyan Chohans Devas increasing intelligence as the
Rounds proceed what happens in each Round ; 85-8.
LETTER No. XV. Germ of future entity history of the human foetus the key
to the mysteries of nature the cosmic atom aggregations of atoms be-
coming man-bearing globes ; 89. Their indestructibility and growth Adi-
Buddhi, Force, or Infinite Life in manifestation; 90. One seven-fold
element the permanent cause of all manifestation examples the five cog-
nisable elements the sixth principle; 91. Observations on the
" fire
"
element primal igneous principle 7 manifestations of fire the Tree of
Life ; 92. A mineral contains a spark of the One the Law of formation,
birth, etc. of a globe the same as for a child the 3 kinds of Manvantaras
and Pralayas; 93. Life impulse and formation of Globe
"
A "passage of
Essence from one globe to another and one kingdom to another; 94.
Further observations on the evolution of man increased spirituality of the
5th Race man kingdoms re-entering Globe*
4 '
A"; 95. Law of equili-
brium manifesting 6th and 7th senses the Lord Buddha a 6th Race man
his appearance a mystery individuals can only outstrip humanity by one
Round; 96. Surya Manwantaras and Pralayas the Cosmic night; 97.
Elementals Flammarion a Theosophist his splendid intuition ; 98. Per-
nidouf influence of the Moon the Sun is the first to disintegrate at the
Solar Pralaya the 6th principle of the Universe and man, the greatest
of all mysteries; 99.
LETTER No. XVI. The Devtchan Letter Devachan atlegorically
described
xxiv CONTENTS
by Buddha who goes to Devachan ;
100. The Ego enjoys perfect bliss
Karma stands aside he is the dreamer and the dream souls of the de-
parted unable to descend to those on earth pure, loving sensitives can be-
come raised in consciousness to contact those in Devachan some Subjec-
tive spiritual communications real
"
rapport,*' identity of molecular
vibration; 101. Great varieties in the Devachan state the Dhyan-Chohans
do not commit mistakes ;
102. Degrees of spirituality
" the planet of
Death " when man dies his and and 3rd principles die with him the
gestation state ; 103. Elementaries and "
angel-guides
" Kama-Loka a
torn out page in the Book of Lives the 6th and yth principles, the un-
conscious and eternal Monad ; 104. The ethereal Ego the Monad remains
untainted by evil for ever the karma of evil deeds accrues to the new
personality varying periods between Death and Devachan depending on
spiritual stamina and karma ; 105. Devachan not solely for Adepts ;
106.
A classification of Devas, elementals, sorcerers, etc. ; 107. The territory
of doubt things acceptable and non-acceptable to Spiritualists ;
108.
Post mortem conditions of Suicides and those killed by accident ; 109.
Psychic vampires mediums create new and evil Karma and Skandhas for
their victims study deeply the doctrines of Karma and Nirvana; no. The
Recording Angel meaning of Skandhas identity of the Ego; in. Justice
of Karma causes producing the new being suicide and violent death ;
112. How mediums and Spiritualists multiply the causes of human
misery the reason why the Masters oppose Spiritualism indiscriminate
mediumship and materialisations especially objectionable; 113. Individual
and personal immortality divisions of the 7 principles and 7 elements;
114. Hume and Sinnett receive more information than ever given before
to non-initiates the teaching to be regarded as a trust for the Society ;
115. The Chohan forbids H.P.B. to go further than the Black Rock
Damodar's foolish austerities the body of Occultists in Egypt K.H.
sighs for Nirvana; 116.
LETTER No. XVII. Natural seers and clairvoyance 5th round men the
Buddha a 6th round man his future incarnations Buddha overshadowed
some chosen individuals sex a mere accident of birth, guided by Karma ;
117. The superior classes course of higher Nature's law peoples of India
belong to oldest branchlet of the 5th human race
"
Ernests
" and
"Joeys" and soulless mediums; 118. Subba Row's reverence for H.P.B.
LETTER No. XVIII. The evolutionary journey of the monad 7 ramifications
of the 7 races man passes through all 7 times Manvantaric chains exist-
ing in and out of our Solar System; 119. Man's earth cycle the counter-
part of great cycle mistakes of Anthropologists Pritchard nearest the
mark the test of true progress; 120. The present 5th human race began
in Central Asia over one million years ago; 121. Occult Science a jealous
mistress fatal to ordinary course of marriage ; 122.
LETTER No. XIX. Post mortem conditions of suicides and victims of acci-
dents ; 123.
LETTER No. XXA. From A. O. Hume to K.H. Queries re spiritualistic phe-
nomena shells suicides and accidents ; 123. Death by drink over-study
diseases, tc. suggestion that phenomena of spiritualism may be pro-
duced by spirits, not by shells some teach higher moralityAllan Kardec's
books ;
1 24.
LETTER No. XXu. From A.P.S. to H.P.B. EHphas Levi's statements re
annihilation queries in regard to survival of spiritual monad obscuration
of planets and annihilation ; 125.
LETTER No. XXc. Meaning of the terms God and Christ candidates for
CONTENTS xxv
Devachan death and re-birth in Kama-Loka love and hatred the only
immortal feelings only those we have loved exist for us in Devachan the
memories which only affect personality blotted out duration of Devachan
no perception of time Devachan and Avitchi created by ourselves during
life; 127. Importance of predominant feeling at moment of death the
events of whole life seen in vision at death only adepts and sorcerers know
they are dead they only are immortal co-workers with nature for good
or evji definition of Immortality self-consciousness memory regained by
even good men only in Devachan *'
soul
**
becomes unconscious at death
in all cases faculties of perception, cogitation and volition, become ex-
tinct for ever at death ; 128. Apparitions no essential difference
between doctrines of Eliphas Levi and those of K.H. what immortality
signifies to initiates and occultists several kinds of immortality the full
adept in relation to death; 129. Chohans, Planetary spirits and immor-
tality E. Levi speaks of personal not spiritual Egos co-workers with
nature annihilation and the eighth sphere potentiality for evil in man
greater than for good Sorcerers and immortality ; 130. Suicides separated
from higher principles by a gulf not so in victims of accidental death
Dhyan Chohans do not guide living human Egos but protect victims of
accidental death victims sleep but to awake at the hour of last judgment
the struggle between the 6th and 7th and 5th and 4th principles ; 131.
Reborn on earth immediately if insufficient material for Devachan-^-only
shells and suicides can be attracted to a Seance suicide a question of
motive and responsibility effect of suicide during temporary insanity
Guiteau ; 132. Bulk of phenomena of spiritualists due to shells uncon-
scious 5th principle (soul) cannot communicate with a living organism
Allan Kardec not quite immaculate even Dugpas capable of teaching the
highest morality preaching with an end in view proves little ; 133. The
time for the obscuration of a planet a man must love or hate well to be
in either Devachan or Avichi
"
Nature spues the luke warm out of her
mouth "
; 134.
LETTER No. XXI. From A.P.S. to K.H. Queries in regard to post mortem
conditions of accidents and suicides; 135. K.H.'s replies to same the
teaching given is the rule exceptions enforce the rule K.H. accused of
contradictions and inconsistencies ; 136.
LETTER No. XXII. To A. O. Hume. Dual attributes of Universal and
human Mind conscious and mechanical functions the conscious attribute
of Universal Mind a hypothesis only, but scientific fact in finite mind
the human brain voluntary and involuntary nervous systems man poten-
tially more powerful than
"
God "
contrary to finite, infinite mind ex-
hibits only mechanical functions of Cerebellum ; 137. The extent of the
knowledge of an adept and of a planetary spirit laws of Nature mechani-
cal Motion the eternal and uncreated deity ;
*'
God " cannot be both
intelligent and wholly material a God with intelligence would be a fiend
in view of the existence of evil ; 138. The Mosaic deity,
" No Being
"
Vedantic Acosmism greatest adepts have not penetrated beyond the
Solar System but they know with certainty of other Solar Systems
Motion governs laws of Nature no room for a moral Governor of the
Universe darkness does not comprehend light because it is annihilated by
it whence the Immutable Laws and their supposed Creator ; 139.
Nepaulese Swabbhavikas Swabbhavat is force a force of limitless
potentiality, but yet not
" God " because man can use it the multiform
manifestations of life made perceptible by force; 140. Man can become
his own creator and ruler Immutable Laws eternal and uncreated only
one law in the Universe Nature disproves the theory of an all-loving,
xxvi CONTENTS
omniscient, omnipotent God eternal progressions of cycles and evoltition
spirit and matter are one only distinct in manifestation the Absolute the
only reality; 141. Ice, water, and vapour as an illustration of the Trinity
the Pyramids matter indestructible and coeval with Spirit matter,
force, and motion the Trinity of physical Nature Evil mental attitude of
the pupil must learn alphabet in order to read the world of occultism i$
the world of force only the initiate can know; 143. The Chela becomes
the Master mystery and miracle vanish occultism an exact science its
methods laid down in a code as old as humanity ; 144.
LETTER No. XXIIlA. Queries by A.P.S. in numbered paragraphs; (i) cause
of rush of modern progress (2) civilisation as great as our own (3) what
was the Fifth Race about for the 998,000 years preceding the last 2,000
(4) to what epoch did the Continent of Atlantis belong (5) the origin of
evil ; 145. (6) the use of the whole cylic process endured by the spirit
(8) scientific questions cause of precipitation of rain magnetic conditions
(9) the composition of the sun's corona (10) photometric value of light
star magnitudes (n) atmospheric disturbances in atmosphere of Jupiter
(12) the Siemen's theory of Solar combustion (13) cause of magnetic
variation (14) the possibility of the discovery of more planets; 146.
(15) a moment of the highest bliss (16) Devachan and Avitchi (17) the
effect of the last thought in the mind before death (18) full remembrance
of all our lives (19 & 20) nature of the memory of the
" shell
"
(21) the
spiritual Ego evolution of its personalities the shell of A. P. Sinnett and
the nature of its consciousness ; 147. (22) the Planet of Death (23) Mar*
and Mercury (24) is the sun the habitation of spiritualised beings (25 &
26) the case of the Ego who has not sufficient material for rebirth in
Devachan (27) the case of the murderer Guiteau (28 & 29) planetary
obscurations and the evolution of forms ; 148.
LETTER No. XXllIe. K.H.'s replies to queries in XXIIlA. End of an import-
ant cycle cyclic law for race and sub-race Cortez sub-races of Peru and
Mexico ; 149. Zodiacal records civilization an inheritance Europe rejects
testimony of antiquity the Western Cendrillon Eocene Age the sinking
of Poseidonis Lemuria our present Continents have been submerged and
will be again; 151. Greek, Roman and Egyptian civilisations less than
those of the 3rd race history all at sea; 152. Copernicus avails himself
of a Pythagorean MSS. the children of the
" Fire Mist "ancient
civilizations ; 153 ; the Chinese Ireland strewn with gigantic bones of
mammoths and monsters Malayans, Tibetans, Javanese, the Miocene
times ; 154. Egyptian priests and Atlantis the inhabitants of Sham-
ballah Baron d'Holbach; 155. Atlantis connected with the origin of evil
obscurations heralded by cataclysms; the premises of Science wrong
the future Fate of British Isles, France, etc. ; 156. Progress towards
absolute evil arrested by cataclysmic changes Tree of Knowledge in safe
keeping of the Mahatmas the Planetaries every race has its Adepts ;
157. The cyclic process Spirit an abstraction in union with matter it
is life the mystery and problem of life; 158. To solve the problem one
must become an Occultist all forms mask but one all-pervading Force
one life, one law, one element the conclusions of greatest scientific mind*
force can be infused into artificial man Spirit, life and matter do not
exist independently of each other ; 159. No phenomenon in Nature dis-
connected from magnetism and electricity phenomena of earth currents
due to Akasic magnetism rain can be induced artificially some calcula-
tions for physicists; 160. Magnetic attractionatmospheric change
CONTENTS xxvii
meteoric dust; 161. Meteors sun little to do with heat and nothing with
rain Reichenbach's crystals the sun's corona head of a man in ecstatic
condition aureoles hydrogen ; 162. Sun spots sun not the central
planet of our Universe the difficulties confronting Scientists in studying
Solar phenomena atmospheric tremours no obstacle to the Adept sun
full of iron vapours the demonstration by the spectroscope comets ; 163.
44
Store-house
" of our system its blood corpuscles its electro-magnetic
aura misconceptions of Science ; 164. Forces of which the sun is com-
posed it feeds the smallest atom as well as the greatest genius the dis-
tance of the stars from us no trustworthy basis for calculating magni-
tudes and distances observations with Pickering Photometre astronomi-
cal predictions of Chaldees and Rishis faultless ; 165. Light not an
independent principle every phenomenon the effect of diversified Akasic
motion velocity of light methods adopted by French experimenters ; 166.
The condition of Jupiter the whole Solar System moving in space
Jupiter hides a Raja-Sun disturbances in its atmosphere ; 167.
Siemen's statements matter in all its 7 states radiant energy absorption
of Solar forces chemical power lost in transit ;
168. Jenkins Sir James
Ross the magnetic theory planets not yet discovered Edison's tasimeter
discoverer an F.T.S. ; 169. The moment of death influence of last
thoughts and desires the whole life seen in memory no man dies insane
or unconscious ; 170. Advice to those assisting at a death-bed retributive
justice the eighth sphere Avitchi Nirvana the consciousness of the
4
'shell"; 171. That which becomes for ever extinct at death Karma
of the personality immediate incarnation of children ; 172. Nature of
remembrance of shell animal's memory not perceptive faculty shell in
aura of medium perception through borrowed organs challenge to
Spiritualists ; 173. The 4<
Spirit
" of Zollner knows no more than in life
the recollections of the "Shell" complete insanity; 174. The shell of
A. P. Sinnett and the nature of its consciousness; 175. Sorcerers Mars
and 4 other planets ; 176. Obscurations not Pralayas their duration the
children 5th round men beget questions pertaining to the highest
initiations men become Gods ; 177.
LBTTBR No. XXIVA. The famous
" Contradictions." Sinnett 's
questions in
regard to supposed contradictions and inconsistencies in the teaching re-
received ; 178-9.
LETTER No. XXIVB. K.H. states what an Adept is his Occult powers; 180.
Pleads guilty to an
**
omission
"
but not a
* 4
contradiction
"
beware of
trusting I sis Unveiled too implicitly H.P.B. herself not permitted to under-
stand all that is treated of In Isis it conceals but does not distort
reincarnation as treated in Iris Astral monad personal Ego; 183. Sin-
nett 's chilly mental condition G.K. produces a portrait of K.H. phe-
nomenally M. prefers to go to sleep ; 184. Replies to the contradictions ;
185. Accusations of inconsistency unjust due to the conditions under
which he writes his letters K.H. regarded by his colleagues and the
Chohans as a lunatic; 186. What happens to every being at death the
shell no two states in Devachan alike; 187. The Ego in Devachan
Avitcha love and hatred the only immortal feelings ; 188. Wagner and
musicians K.H. pleads guilty to one sin; 189. The impossibility of deal-
ing with Hume his remarks a sentimental Becky Sharp; 190.
LETTBR No. XXV. Devachan additional explanations Bacon the fruition of
all aspirations; 191. Attempting to describe the indescribable requires
xxviii CONTENTS
perceptions of a trained Chela; 192. Time does not exist in Devachan-*
disapprobation of a lay Chela ; 193. Time sense created by ourselves the
bliss of Devachan woes of Avitchi space and time according to Kant;
194. Further explanations of Devachanic existence pandering to pre-
judices of Western readers; 195. Explanations of Devachanic states
weary round of birth and death a colourless personality gets a colourless
Devachan Avitchi the antithesis of Devachan ; 196. Hell and Heaven
misconception of terms Spirit and Soul individuality personality all
bliss in Devachan no failure or disappointment ; 197. The Great Reward,
Nirvana Rupa-Loka Arupa-Loka Kama-Loka the summer-land of the
Spiritualists ; 198. From Kama-Loka to Devachan or Avitchi infinite dif-
ferentiation of those states reviving consciousness ; 199. How to under*
stand the doctrine fully the reward of benevolent men social status the
result of Karma ; 200. LHIie's
"
Buddha and early Buddhism "
proposed
scheme for personal intercourse impracticable; 201. Selfishness of T.S.
members sacrifices made by H.P.B. and Olcott money matters; 202.
SECTION III
PROBATION AND CHELASHIP
LETTER No. XXVI. Observations regarding H.P.B. and her psychological
condition reasons causing it one principle left behind ; 203. K.H.
strongly disapproves of their cruelty to H.P.B.
LETTER No. XXVII. Necessity of frank speech danger threatening Theo-
sophical Society Stainton Moses ; 204. The mediumship of S.M. in-
spiration not required from disembodied Spirits truth stands alone ; 205.
Skeletons in family closets dangerous to handle a cause once created can-
not be unmade management of the Society difficult ; 206. Translation of
the Grand Inquisitor desirable Mahatma K.H. disheartened at the pros-
pect before him the brandy atmosphere in the house; 207.
LETTER No. XXVIII. Englishmen incapable of assimilating Hindu thought*
K.H. speaks frankly to Hume; 208. Erroneous ideas regarding T.S.
branches of T.S. as harbingers of Universal Brotherhood Occult instruc-
tion by the Brothers ; 209. Attempt to establish secret school of magic in
London complete failure Lord Lytton British T.S., of the Universal
Brotherhood in name only gravitates at best towards Quietism; 210.
Observations on the attitude of Sinnett and Hume towards K.H. His
exposition of truth; 211. Thorough criticisms of statements made in
Hume's letter distortion of K.H.'s motives complete lack of understand-
ing; 212. Patience and courtesy of K.H. in dealing with subject a quiet
reproof Hindus will always be the Masters of the West in Spiritual
Sciences; 213. That which they value most highly the kind of men the
Masters want and do not want their characteristics; 214. The keepers
of the sacred Light their knowledge the gift of the Gods the Kantian
note Hume the type of the Spiritual failure and unconscious egotism of
this Age; 215. Observations on mesmerism what conscience will and
will not do; 216. Imagination as well as will creates the monster of
suspicion; 217.
LETTER No. XXIX. M. condones Hume's attitude gratitude a sacred debt;
217; no quarrelling among the Adeptsthe value of primary facts-
thoughts before words; 218. K.H. speaks to M. of his pupils before de-
parture M.'s promise the love of M. for his Brother he watches over
CONTENTS xxix
the work; 219. Hume's feelings misunderstood words but not by M. ;
220. Further observations on Hume's statements injustice of his treat-
ment of H.P.B. ;
221. The necessity of knowing oneself need of a clear
understanding Hume the embodiment of pride ; 222. The standards of
the Mahatmas Hume's words to M. and K.H. his constant attitude
will not be contradicted ; 223. Hume considers himself slighted and
wronged his defence of the weak M.'s generous estimate of his charac-
ter Mahatmas untouched by personal pain or pleasure M.'s Rajput blood
resents hurt to a woman's feelings; 224. Hume makes further communi-
cation impossible by his attitude cannot realise the motives or the actions
of the Mahatmas blinded by pride ; 225. No permission given for
phenomena their appreciation of both Sinnett and Hume hopes for the
T.S. law is law Mahatmas will do their duty ; 226. Phenomena will
never shake the erroneous beliefs of Western mind so long as men doubt
there will be curiosity and enquiry trying to read the things of the Spirit
with the eyes of the flesh ; 227. The mark of the Adept ;
228.
LETTER No. XXX. K.H. speaks out criticism of Hume's letter re Fern;
Hume mistaken from first to last Hume's letter to K.H. quoted; 229.
Fern endeavours to "humbug" M. the ordeals of a Chela what pro-
bation means ; 230. The freedom of the Chela's choice his freedom of
expression methods of training absolutely opposite to those of the Jesuits
the latter false to truth and to humanity; 231. The searching of a
Chela's weak points how the Masters regard truth examples given
M.'s method of expressing himself; 232. K.H. makes some observations
on Mahatma M. also on Hume's faults; 233. A temperate reproof to
Hume ; 234. What is expected of a Chela the true value of a man ; 235.
The unworthiness of certain friends underhand methods the sincerity of
those who protect Hume how a Chela is tested Damodar H.P.B.
Olcott tests applied to Fern nobody humbugged H.P.B.'s opinion of
Fern her advice to him ; 237. Words of appreciation to Hume his dis-
satisfaction his claims and demands ; 238. 2nd class minds friendly
truths not to be resented gratitude of the Mahatmas for all H. has
done ; 239.
LETTER No. XXXI. From Terich-Mir. The key to the phenomena of Occult
Sciences reason elevated to supersensuous wisdom perfect comprehension
of the Adept his reward the culmination of knowledge and wisdom; 241.
K.H.'s years of labour the would-be disciple encouraged to pass on the
truth to his fellow-creatures H.P.B. ill; 242.
LETTER No. XXXII. Hume puts his foot in a hornet's nest; 242. Unsatis-
factory relations between Europeans Hume's insulting expressions to-
wards even K.H.'s great Master; 243. Hume's accusations the
Mahatmas' patience; 244.
LETTER No. XXXIII. Apparent contradiction between notes from M. and
K.H. approve of plan to form nucleus of honest scientific enquirers no-
one works in vain requests Sinnett to work in sympathy with A. Besant ;
244-5-
LETTER No. XXXIV. Mahatmas complain of being constantly misunderstood
impossibility of satisfying Hume the Society will never perish as an
Institution ; 245.
LETTER No. XXXV. -Observations on phenomena Sinnett *s disappointment-
methods for development of Occult faculties no culture will supply psychic
idiosyncrasy if lacking ; 247. M. deals with some spooks.
LETTER No. XXXVI. M. refuses to make puja to Hume; 248.
xxx CONTENTS
LETTER No. XXXVII. Written by the
"
Disinherited
" at K.H.'s bidding-
words of approval and encouragement to Sinnett the power of projecting
and feeling force; 249. Observations on Hume's work and his unchanged
state of selfishness his professed love of humanity ; 350.
LETTER No. XXXVIII. Disappointment in store for K.H. the libel law-
reflections on female branch and females the secret cause of events; 251.
The Brothers Brotherhood the love of humanity essential qualifications
of a Chela selfishness and exclusiveness of all peoples ; 252.
LETTER No. XXXIX. The Arhat vows defence of H.P.B. M. creates his
dinner the
"
Disinherited"; 253.
LETTER No. XL. Nothing can help T.S. while Founders are under a cloud;
254. Incessant attacks a devotee of error forced psychic vision by
Hathayog general law of vision determined by grade of man's spirit and
soul ; 255. A Society whose Guru was no initiate idolaters permission
to join them to study remembering promise to K.H. ; 256.
LETTER No. XLI. H.P.B.'s condition only a shell at times encouragement
to Sinnett ; 256.
LETTER No. XLI I. M. repeats that no regular instruction is possible much
that can be done with K.H.'s help Hume disinclined to disabuse public
mind ; 257. A solitary pearl is soon out-shone in a heap of false diamonds
the trials of earth life their conquest
" fuller introduction into the
mysteries depends on yourself
"
; 258.
LETTER No. XLIII. "
My impatient friend" M.'s attitude an Adept's duty
not controlled by social affections Sinnett forced himself on K.H. ; 259.
No right to influence one who is not a Chela Sinnett the victim of Maya
Hume's selfishness the personality and the Ego ;
260. Bennett superior
to many in spite of unpolished exterior K.H.'s attitude to Bennett Jesus
and Magdalene the inner man alone counts with the Mahatmas friendly
confidences; 261. The dangers of phenomena wisdom gives all things
in time food for the mind must be assimilated slowly ; 262.
LETTER No. XLIV.The Septenary trial of the T.S. H.P.B. and Olcott
begin their work their qualifications ; 263. Only those who have proved
themselves faithful to truth allowed further intercourse with the Mahatmas.
LETTER No. XLV. K.H. returns from a journey ; 264. The " three poisons
"
the five obscurities try to cherish less lust and desire
" a psychic
Society is being founded in our midst
"
265. One indiscretion ruins
work of 7 years the danger of such action must be counteracted drawing
closer to the Masters by purified heart and developing will advice and
consolation Sinnett belongs to the Masters the imperishable record of
the Master ; 266.
"
Your Karma is ours "the man of the world the
soul searching for the Masters ; 267. The "
Tathagata
"
light kind
advice apprehensions must be set aside regarding his co-worker's
enmity; 268.
LETTER No. XLVI. M. comments on Hume's behaviour neither reverence
or common sense in his head abominable attitude towards Mahatmas and
H.P.B. what they desire of him and wish him to know; 269. Further
comments on Hume M.'s ultimatum H.P.B.'s illness caused by Hume's
behaviour M.'s displeasure; 270.
LETTER No. XLVI I. Work of T. S. secretly linked on to other work through-
out the world the Greek Brother ; 271. Crookes and " radiant matter "
H.P.B. wrongfully accused of being untruthful frank opinions and some
advice cycles ; 272. Martyrdom pleasant to look at, hard to bear ; aft.
CONTENTS xxxi
LETTER No. XLVIII. Knowledge and the path the Adamantine Rocks of
Occult Laws the heights to be i cached before the whole truth can be
seen the keeping and the breaking of the Law the man who would
obtain all must be cold Oxley has possibilities his mistakes ; 274. The
limitations of the ordinary seers incredible statements of Maitland and
Mrs. K. ; 275. Vegetarians and flesh eaters the effects of wine on seers
effect of emanations on Mahatmas seers and their revelations no two
agree mediums and clairvoyance ; 276. We do not require a passive mind ;
277. The Journal of the Society worth Sinnett's attention its hidden
beauties and values our ways are the ways of madmen ; 278. "Sinnett
begins his studies at the wrong end key to the writing of the ancient
Occultists ; 279.
LETTER No. XLIX. Correspondence established for the good of the many
Eliphas Levi's Haute Magie St. Germain; 280. Pythagorean doctrines
" the limit of the natural
"
the
"
Spiritualist
" its fight against Theoso-
phists on Adepts; 281. K.H. not annoyed by newspaper ribald notices
sacrilegious utterances of J.K. difficulty of accepting pledges Occult
Science communicated by degrees ;
282. Conditions governing the communi-
cation of secrets illumination comes from within means to this end known
publicly for ages self sacrifice of Guru ; 283. Dangers of giving more
knowledge than man is ready for like an infernal machine in ignorant
hands time approaching for Triumph of Truth Shammars active in
Europe Spiritualism the Adepts delay progress to Eternal Rest ; 284.
The price to be paid the willingness of K.H. to pay it pupils would be
more thankful and patient if they knew the true facts Lamaism power
of great Adepts Sinnett gropes in the dark ; 285. Occult World discussed
at Galaring-Tcho Lamasery ;
286.
OBITER No. L. An unreasonable man filled with pride Mahatma K.H. ex-
presses his mind weariness and disheartened feelings ; 287.
"LETTER No. LI. Phenomenon for Colonel Chesney ; 287. Further remarks
on production of this phenomenon probations hard all round deception a
test for those of unclean heart ;
288.
JLETTER No. LIT. Hume's jealousy and abusiveness ;
288. Remarks on his
self-satisfaction constant accusations H.P.B. and C.C.M. explanation
of teaching given in Isis Christians and Spiritualists only mention body
and soul; 289. Two "
souls
" in man H.P.B. obeyed orders further re-
marks concerning Hume; 290. Hume's reasons for writing offensive
article in Theosophist K.H. 's frank criticism of his real and alleged
motives; 291. Dishonest methods refuses to recognise powers or know-
ledge of Brotherhood the penalty of publicity ; 292. Facts to be trans-
mitted to Hume in what light he is considered by the Chelas the protest
of the Chelas S. stands far higher in estimation of Mahatmas M.'s
opinion ; 293. Hume's punishment must be complete anti-European
rules Dugpas wrote letters to Fern ; 294.
LETTER No. LIII. An account of a doubtful story and incidents connected
with Fern his deceptions believed implicitly by Hume ; 295. Ways of
communication with outer worlds M.'s views do not agree with K.H.'s
regarding Hume refuses to satisfy his whims M. 's arguments in detail ;
296-7. Manner in which letters have been transmitted Dugpa methods
Fern's fall deceptions practised on Hume; 298-9. Mahatma K.H.'s like-
ness its delivery ; 300. Sinnett is advised not to judge by appearances
great crisis in November; 301. K.H. never trusts women generally hia
reason ; 303.
xxxii CONTENTS
LEFTER No. LIV. Hume's deposition and abdication subsequent events; 309.
"
good old Swami " his tirade against the Mahatmas reasons for not
wishing his severance from the Society Tibetan proverb applied to Hume
Fern to be watched ; 303. Regarding C. C. Massey, his chief fault,
weakness K.H. objects to his letters being circulated Hume disparages
their sacred philosophy ; 304. The European stand-point Western people
cannot grasp wisdom the wealth of the mind Massey readiness to learn
K.H. willing to help him much information in S.'s hands, useful to
all C.C.M. prejudiced against H.P.B. ; 305, St. Germain Cagliostro
Dr. and Mrs. Hollis-Billing traducers of innocent women ; 306. Ex-
posure of dishonest enemies their unworthy conduct wish to ruin
H.P.B. ; 307. The Swami 's attack en the Founders S. Moses and his
suspicions H.P.B. and phenomena produced for C.C.M. ; 308; H.P.B.
believed to be arch-plotterdeceiver, etc. Swami was an initiated Yogi
H.C. a Chela preferred left path system of the Mahatmas ; 309. The
experiences by which a Chela becomes efficient H.P.B. and her one fault
C.C.M. shaken, suspicious and lacks self-confidence H.P.B. 's phenomena;
310. C.C.M. victim of wicked plot how far H.P.B. is really guilty of
deceit; 311. H.P.B. over-zealous her desire to give credit to the
Mahatmas for all phenomena her impulsive nature creating causes her
real powers of a very high order; 312. Self-abnegation cannot be called
dishonesty her generosity terribly punished her exalted friends traitors
and impostors true history of so-called deception enthusiasm for those
she loves her description of M.'s beauty makes him swear and break his
pipe description of meeting between Mahatmas and H.P.B. her pas-
sionate devotion their appreciation of all her splendid qualities; 314.
The subject of probation repulsive to Sinnett's mind reasons why certain
men failed when tested ; 315. H.P.B. a helpless, broken-hearted woman
the testing of Fern every postulant thus tested the conqueror crowns
himself; 316. Reform in which Sinnett's help is desired impartiality to-
wards all creeds Eastern and Western ; 317. Remodelling of branches
objects for lodge work religious, educational, philosophical paper for the
Theosophist solidarity of thought and action ; 318. Independent action in
everything which does not clash with the principles of the Society Hume
condemns the faulty system of the Mahatmas; 319. Theosophist should
be made distinctive cyclic crisis a goat eats Sinnett's letter to K.H.
amusing incident; 320. The Chohan repairs the letter; 321.
LETTER No. LV. The ordeal of the aspirant to occult knowledge the opposi-
tion of the Church and Anglo-Indian officials to the T.S. Dugpas in
Bhootan and the Vatican personal opposition and ridicule bogus letters
of H.P.B.'s the death struggle between Truth and Error the light-bearers
of preceding generations lost their lives necessity for courages-ultimate
success certain ; 322. Mediumistic sensitives elementa ries unwholesome
influences wood and incense burning for fumigation and protection clean
living the best protection talismans H.P.B. takes a step heavy responsi-
bility of Olcott and Sinnett Karma of the Occult World and Esot:-
Buddhism advised to stand by the T.S. original policy must be vindi-
cated the Society cannot stand based upon phenomena and Thibetan
Brothers alone the latter should be kept secret loyalty to the Idea and
not to a personal leader; 323. What a Mahatma Is not beyond human
mistakes phenomena of thought transference and precipitations Akasic
libraries the Kiddle case; 324. Christian-mission-CouIomb conspiracy
CONTENTS xxxiii
correspondence with the
"
Inner Circle
M
pledge themselves to K.H. the
Maha-Chohan communication through Damodar and H.P.B. her phe-
nomena must be disconnected from T.S.
LETTER No. LVI. Condition of A. O. Hume maddened by evil powers a
fakir; 325. Evil effects of Pranayan produces mediumship Hume's
selfish vanity and combativeness danger to the T.S. Dayanand S. ; 326.
**
Mr. Isaacs
"
K.H. and "
Ram lal "; 327.
LETTER No. LVII. Adepts and their methods not understood; 328; C.C.M.
ort the list of failures not a medium the best of men but lacking in
intuition ; 4. Europeans on probation 3 fail probation of societies Anna
Kingsford's inspirers THE PERFECT WAY A.K. a fifth rounder her
vanity latent sense of Messiahship Reincarnation a la Allan Kardec
A.K.'s allegiance to Brothers not expected danger to the British T.S.
C.M.'s delusions in regard to K.H. and H.P.B. ; 329. Hume and Fern
probation brings out both virtues and vices Fern's characteristics western
code of honour Hume's characteristics; 330. Criterion of a "gentle*
man " vilification of M. and K.H. a dangerous
"
friend
" the struggle
for adeptship the delusions of self and vanity; 331. Adepts do nothing
without a purpose ;
Hume opposed to the system of
" The Brothers
"
finds Them wicked selfish men their message tainted by deception and
sorcery their chclas slaves and untrustworthy their Society a whited
sepulchre, etc. ; 332. Hume's cunning and diplomacy accused of falsifica-
tion T. Subba Row Hume claims added powers practice of Pranayan
makes of him a yogi serious charge and evidence against tKime ; 334-5.
A.P.S. advised to go to England ; 336.
LETTER No. LVIII.D.K.'s personal interest in A.P.S. ; 336. Apathy of
K.H.'s countrymen K.H. asks two favours is prepared to teach British
T,S. through agency of A.P.S. but not to give proofs of the existence of
the Masters ordered to sweep away every vestige of such proof ; 337.
LETTER No. LIX. The altruist of Rothney ; 338. Change of
"
being
" in
A.P.S. difficulty in understanding the doctrines re Devachan the fickle-
ness of
4<
Society
" the Theosophist's duty ; 339. Chelas who demand
more power a necromantic Guru the downfall and despair of a Chela
his condition an "
animated poison bag"; 340. Chelas and lay Chelas
in July Theosophist William Crookes joins the Society his discoveries
three additional states of matter still to be found by Science the word
"
impossible
"
not in occultist's vocabulary no man living can make
claims on Adepts their attractions are spiritual not intellectual Bacon
and Aristotle; 341. Spiritual development the Adepts* standard of great-
ness sincere hunger for the truth the work of the S.P.R. mesmeric
cures the purity of the psychopathist his motives a lock of the hair of
an Adept ; 342. The Buddhistic speculations of Rhys Davids unable to
understand Esotericism his definition of
" Avalokiteshvara
" an absurdity
K.H. explains the term fully Kwan-shai-yin ; 343-4. The origin of the
Christian Trinity, transubstantiation, Immaculate Conception Buddhism
and a personal God the meaning of the interlaced triangles geometri-
cal synthesis of whole occult doctrine contains the squaring of the circle
problems of Life and Death mystery of Evil; 345. The 6 pointed star
is the perfect seven the number 6 the Macrocosm and Microcosm the
centre of a circle and its circumference the three Gunas Jivatma the 7th
Principle Avalokitesvara THE GREAT ACTIVE and THE GREAT
PASSIVE Purusha and Prakriti THE PERFECT WAY Adonai ; 346.
Pythagoras and the number 2 the dual monad in manifestation the per-
xxxiv CONTENTS
feet square the WORD The Great Deep Maya Mulaprakriti the one
reality Mr. Roden Noel The Unmanifested Circle Absolute Life non-
existent outside the triangle and perfect square a Gnostic treatise ; 347.
No amateur can rival the proficient in occult research the pseudo-Saviours
of the world are legion nothing was ever lost by trying ; 348.
LETTER No. LX. "
Our doubts are traitors
" Chelas of contrary magnetisms
during development portrait by Schmiechen artist helped by "M."; 349.
LETTER No. LXI. Mohini a Chela not a free man he suffered from the cold
his tour through European countries Arundales justice in the Kings-
ford row personal spite ; 350.
LETTER No. LXI I. Unfit for practical occultism immutable laws an effort
to open the intuition duty, stronger than friendship or love to the Masters
the indestructable cement of the Brotherhood the delusions of the intel-
lect cold spiritually blind reason the path to the occult sciences sur-
rounded with pitfalls; 351. The furies to be conquered and destroyed by
the aspirant the qualities demanded in the disciple his freedom for the
work rigidity of the regulations never relaxed the real reason of the
failure of the
"
Phoenix
"
newspaper venture the Ilbert Bill the working
of Karmic Law contempt for the dark races no exhibition of psychic
or occult powers permitted the London Lodge and Anna Kingsford
A.P.S. finds H.S.O. unfit socially and intellectually for London
treats him and H.P.B. cruelly M.'s natural brusqueness carelessness
A.P.S. not unjustly treated his spite against A.K. ; 353. Unjust suspicion
of H.P.B. and H.S.O. Mohini and Mrs. Gebhard ; 354. H.S.O. accused
by A.P.S. of falsehood slander, etc. Olcott's work gives good results-
suspicion occult truth must be found in the soul Mrs. H. an excellent but
untrained clairvoyant ; 355. A.P.S. attempts to defy occult laws and gets
hurt intellect alone not all-powerful A.P.S. asked to be present and
speak at meeting.
LETTER No. LXIII. The publication of these letters the questions involved
the real vital errors in Esoteric Buddhism and Man much made purposely
obscure in the letters they were not written for publication or public com-
ment neither K.H. or M. would ever consent to the letters being pub-
lished; 357. Would-be Chelas and dangers of probation.
LETTER No. LX1V. The mysteries of Chelaship the uncharted ocean of
occultism necessity of full confidence in the Adepts beware of a preju-
diced mind occult laws often seem cruel and unjust ; 358. Cataclysms are
necessary unselfishness physical and spiritual vanity and conceit more
serious when harboured in the higher principles the shield of the disciple
the mass of human sin and frailty gathered into one period of the life of a
Chela ; 359. Selfishness in inner aspirations the Lord Buddha ; 360. The
Chela must not judge on mere appearances; 361.
LETTER No. LXV. A. Gebhard 's accusation failure and success distressing
incidents the attempt to open the eyes of the world fails the conspiracy
of the Missionaries against theosophy
"
Christ or the Founders "
the
S.P.R. and Mr. Hodgson; 362. Mr. Lane Fox and the T.S. Chelas de-
test European Theosophists the end of projected occult instructions the
refusal of Europeans to receive instruction through Damodar and Subba
Row Damodar goes to Thibet -Subba Row suspected Count St. Ger-
main and Cagliostro current ideas of the Masters and laws of occultism
inaccurate K.H.'s ivestern education Sir C. Grandison western etiquette
and Thibetan customs ^363. Accused of plagiarism the dictionary of Pai-
CONTENTS xxxv
Wouen-Yen-Fu works of referenceKiddle incident" Lai Singh
" a
nom de plume not always infallible Mahatmas knowledge of occult forces
the fruit of generations of research occultists risk their livesmagic and
superstition ; 364. The teaching of Devachan criticised the keys of Life
and Death crisis in T.S. a question of perdition or salvation to thousands
progress or retrogression of human race doubts and foul suspicions beset
the neophyte the old Masonic Lodges tests of courage, etc. psychological
and other tests Raj-yog tests develop every germ of good and bad ; 365.
the rule inflexible, no-one escapes few Europeans have stood the test
failure in Europe with few exceptions henceforth neutrality of T.S.
in occult teaching to be enforced instruction will be given only to indi-
viduals from individuals teachings given must be under pledge of secrecy
T.S. not to be held responsible or compromised by phenomena the ship
is sinking its precious cargo desecrated by profane handling; 366.
LETTER No. LXVI. Common post used instead of H.P.B. Sinnett's relations
with H.P.B. necessary to watch himself correspondence may have to
be broken uncharitable spirit narrow sympathies the crisis fanned from
Tchigadze A.P.S. laughs at probation the guardians of occult know-
ledge M. and K.H. the only Brothers in favour of disseminating their
knowledge; 367. H.P.B. sometimes dangerous the best agent available-
letters will cease at her death
" our ways not your ways
" H.P.B. Com-
plains of A.P.S. to her Master A.P.S. resents the personal wishes of the
Masters ; 368. His pride must be protected at all costs dugpas and
psychic shocks pride and egotism A.P.S. denies applying to be accepted
as a Chela; 369. H.P.B. and H.S.O. not perfect adversity discovers the
real man karma of the group sinking the personality higher instruction
only given to the true Thcosophist ; 370.
LETTER No. LXVI I. K.H. to H.S. Olcott. Ordered home the state of India
agitations Bishenlal's attempt to cross the Himalayas the Kingsford
Maitland party; 371. Dugpas provoke his vanity three cases of insanity
among lay Chelas few men know themselves the ordeal of crude Chela-
ship; 372.
LETTER No. LXVIH. Discipline of family life conquest of self spiritual
progress the most important; 372.-
LETTER No. LXIX. The terms Brahma Pitri Devalokas defined Nirvana
Devachan real knowledge a spiritual state absolute light and dark-
ness ; 373.
LETTER No. LXX. The probation of A.P.S.
LETTER No. LXXI. M.'s
"
tobacco-machine
"
clouds on the horizon.
LETTER No. LXXI I. Chelas never guided; 374. Taught by experience.
LETTER No. LXXIIL Bad feeling against K.H.
LETTER No. LXXIV. No-one cares for real objects of the Society personal
devotion only
" M '*
erases a part of one of his letters ; 375.
LETTER No. LXXV. A.P.S, accuses H.P.B. unjustly.
LETTER No. LXXVL Subba Row and Chela training initiated Brahmin and
Hume the Genius of Pride; 376.
SECTION IV
THE PH(ENIX VENTURE AND THE CONDITION OF INDIA
LETTER No. LXXVII. Colonel Gordon a Howrah Branch Eclectic K.H.
not born for diplomacy and intrigue ; 377. Funds for the
"
Phoenix
"
K.H. loses some of his optimism women as angels or furies.
xxxvi CONTENTS
LETTER No. LXXVIIL The Chohan's views on the
"
Phcenix
"
project
the journal desirable effort must be made by outsiders Masters not
separated from the world of action as long as T.S. exists ; 378. May effect
the destiny of a nation questions of capital and finance personal re-
muneration control of the journal; 379. Sir Ashley Eden a Sinking
Fund the Nizam Holkar Benares Baroda ; 380. Questions of manage-
mentHume and dugpas; 381.
LETTER No. LXXIX. K.H, no business man Mr. Dare the Brotherhood
will help the enterprise the attractions of India to the mystic A, P.S.
wrong in acting for K.H.'s sake good actions bring own reward a new
cycle begins ; 382.
LETTER No. LXXX. Chance a squinting jade Hume delineates the true
character of the Brothers A. P.S. advised to act on his own judgment.
LETTER No. LXXXI. The condition of the people of India ; 383. Govindan
Lai Olcott sees Baroda and Holkar little patriotism rekindling the
beacon of Aryan occultism the task of the T.S. impeded by would-be
Chelas the breath of the world's furnaces ; 384. The Masters first duty
of gaining knowledge English prejudices Massey" Ski "and the
Scotch Brother M. sends glove by occult means Dr. and Mrs. Billing a
bogus spook a false
"
Ski
"
; 385.
"
Supprtssio veri suggestis falsi
"
the Masters judge men by their motives no respect for the world's
standards ; 386.
LETTER No. LXXXI I. Le quart d'heure de Rabelais the crisis in the affairs
of the
"
Phoenix
"
Sinnett's choice asked to oppose the work of the
Masters apparently the Bengal Rent Bill European notions of right and
wrong receive a shock occult antidotes the Jesuitical
"
end justifies the
means "
the words of the Lord Buddha K.H. explains the situation
"Phcenix" to oppose the Bengal Rent Bill; 387. In the event of re-
fusal a new editor to be found the Zemindars Lord Cornwallis ; 388.
The issues at stake the future of the
"
Phcenix
"
and future relationship
of A. P.S. with K.H. bringing the national boil to a head Lord Corn-
wallis 's mistake Mussulman rulers and East India Company; 389. The
Ryots the Chohan in India perpetual agreement the real aim of Lord
Ripon's reforms not meant for India; 390. Protestant England aimed at
the invisible coils of Rome the pledges of the Government Khirajee
land Mussulman laws spirit of Khiraj and Ooshr; 391. The brightest
jewel in the crown of England the Chohan and K.H. the real Viceroy
of India not at Simla but at Rome "Esoteric Buddhism" correct, if
incomplete; 392. Obscurations inner and outer rounds Massey con-
cludes the Masters have no God each man's God within himself.
LETTER No. LXXXIIL K.H. gives A.P.S. his freedom of choice success of
11
Phcenix "
doubtful A.P.S. must take his own responsibility; 393. Mis-
understands law of Karma the strong feelings in the national soul ; 394.
The good of humanity the only consideration of the Chela personal feel-
ings and reputation not considered the financial prospects of the
"
Phcenix "; 395. Black clouds on the political sky further correspond-
ence permitted to H.P.B. the eighth sphere mystery; 396.
CONTENTS xxxvii
SECTION V
THE LONDON LODGE OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
LETTER No. LXXXIV. Paralytic calm of the L.L. C. C. Massey Anna
Kingsford Olcott's visit; 397. Mohini a Chela.
LETTER No. LXXXV. Addressed to members of the *L.L. A.K. to remain
President of L.L. the Chohan's wish A.K. 's personal predilections of no
consequence dissemination of truth Hermetic Philosophy ; 398. The
boundless ocean of Truth three, centres of the occult Brotherhood
H.P.B. and Subba Row pupils of the same Masterthe Chaldean Mage
West requires different presentation of occult sciences to the East the
amelioration of man's condition the object Truth has no ear-mark; 399.
A. Kingsford and Sinnett opposite poles both necessary for T.S. in Eng-
land A.K.'s presentation better adapted to Christian ears her strife
against anti-vivisection the teaching of Northern Buddhist Schools ; 400.
More caution necessary in exposition of secret teachings wise toleration
of differing opinions and beliefs in Indian T.S. harmonious discord the
key note in Nature A.K. loyal to Truth" return good for good, for evil
justice "; 401. A.K. and A.P.S. expected to work on parallel lines
agree to disagree in details.
LETTER No. LXXXVL A.K.'s apologetic letter to H.P.B. L.L. a tail for
her to wag her anti-vivisection and vegetarianism win over the Chohan
personal vanity letter contains an occult influence to be read at a
General Meeting ; 403. Devachan Nirvana the Ego space is infinity it-
self the relation of the number of incarnations to the cleverness of an
individual Darwin's law of heredity; 404. The condition of C.C.M. -
Charles Bradlaugh not immoral Mrs. Besant the
'*
Fruits of Phil-
osophy
"
pernicious the fruits of Sodom and Gomorrah ; 405.
LETTER No. LXXXVIL The postponement of L.L. election the question of
personal loyalty and authority of names ; 406. Gravest evil neutralised by
hastening a crisis oppression of a priest-ridden world psychic growth
accompanies individual effort Massey Ward Kingsford A.K.'s mistrust
of appeals to authority ; 407. Too much talk of the Masters disloyalty to
principles of the Society would not be tolerated usefulness of a Lodge
largely depends on President and Secretary ; 408.
SECTION VI
SPIRITUALISM AND PHENOMENA
LETTER No. LXXXVIII. Magnetic conditions necessary for test phenomena.
LETTER No. LXXXIX. Objections to spiritualistic phenomena and mediums ;
410. Occult science the extinguisher of superstitions K.H. arranges to
appear to the medium Eglinton on the
"
Vega
"
his reasons.
LETTER No. XC. From Stainton Mcses to Sinnett. S.M. is puzzled says
Brothers are mistaken In regard to him; 412. His guide Imperator docu-
mentary evidence of communications, etc. Imperator knows nothing of
the Lodge or Brotherhood; 413. S.M.'s guide his own sixth principle-
finds spiritualism and occultism incompatible; 413. Comment by K.H.
What is a
" Brother "? can be ignorant of many things not so with an
omniscient Planetary Spirit Russian child medium Jesus and John the
BaptistJesus a spiritual abstraction Mrs. Kingsford converses with
xxxviii CONTENTS
LETTER No. XCI.-C. C. Massey Mrs. Billing.
LETTER No. XCII. Actions of Founders and Chelas not controlled by the
Masters Hurrychund Wimbridge Mrs. Billing a medium; 416.
Materialization phenomena truth rarely wanted a loyal Theosophist
phenomena the playthings of the tyro the Masters offer their knowledge
to be accepted or rejected on its merits
"
Ski
"
used as a mouth-piece by
the Brothers; 417. H.P.B. asks an exception for C.C.M. "Ski" a
medium for 20 years her phenomena pass the most crucial tests several
false
" Skis
"
; 418. An occult forger.
LETTER No. XCIII. Mediums and Spooks permitted to personate the
Brothers and forge their hand-writing; 419. K.H.'s explanation of
the Kiddle incident" M.A. Oxon "
K.H. accused of plagiarism
the Banner of Light ; 420. Woman a calamity in the fifth race ;
421. K.H. dictates a letter mentally psychic chemistry precipitation
by a young Chela American Spiritualists experiments of S.P.R.
in "mental telegraphy"; 422. The modus operandi of precipitation
psychic printing machine ; 423. The medium and the Chela dia-
metrically dissimilar discrepancy in "Occult World" H.P.B. denies
that K.H.'s first letter was written by himself; 424. K.H. born into a
new and higher light Omniscience and infallible prevision exist but for
the highest Chohans the restored version of page 139 Occult World
Spiritualists and Spiritualism the Rosetta Stone of the Kiddle incident ;
426. The Kiddlites and the Koothumites an Adept does not cease to be
a man ignorant surmise and personal insult distrust and prejudice con-
tagious A.K. invokes K.H. in trance; 427. She takes a fruitless ramble
through space K.H. unaware of search move in different astral circles
too haughty and imperious Mrs. Gebhard a genuine sterling nature
K.H. en route for Madras, Singapore and Burma H.P.B. not in dis-
grace; 428. Subba Row's writings.
LETTER No. XCIV. Kiddle incident poking fun at Occult Science; 429.
LETTER No, XCV. Preparation and training of Eglinton the
"
Vega experi-
ment "
bigotry and blindness of the Spiritualists professional mediums
Hume has great possibilities in front of him reviewing The Perfect Way
attracting the Chohan's attention and its significance; 430.
LETTER No. XCVI. M. smokes his pipe Piccadilly spooks phenomena-
Karma of the spiritualists M. prefers Eglinton 's clairvoyance to Mrs.
Kingsford's ; 431-2.
LETTER No. XCVII. The defects of young disciples few true to original
programme; 433.
SECTION VII
MISCELLANEOUS LETTERS
LETTER No. XCVI 1 1. K.H.'s comments on a letter of Hume's the people of
Tibet untainted by vices of civilization A.O.H. a friend of perishing
humanity General Schoolmaster for Tibet the Adept the freest of men ;
434-
LETTER No. XCIX. From A. O. Hume to K.H. Says K.H. does not under-
stand him Russia and Tibet ; 435. Advocates repeated phenomena H. S.
Olcott Jesuit organisation blind obedience; 437.
LETTER No. C. Hume thinks of going to Tibet insane plan the Chohans
against him dangers of every step ; 438.
LETTER No. CI.
"
Blessed is he who knows and appreciates Koothoomi."
CONTENTS xxxix
LETTER No. CII.
"
Ou tout ou rien "; 439.
LETTER No. CII I. Chelas neglect orders Maharajah of Kashmir.
LETTER No. CIV. Hume annoys K.H. 440 New Year Festivals in Tibet
K.H. goes a journey M. takes his place
"
the Disinherited "; 441.
LETTER No. CV. Hume accuses the Masters of being liars H.P.B. quarrels
with D.K. "K.H. no gentleman"; 442. Hume's infallibility.
LETTER No. CVI. Measures for protecting Tibet the priestly King ; 443.
LETTER No. CVIL H.P.B. 's ill-healthmental anxiety.
LETTER No. CVIII. A Ladakee Chela.
LETTER No. CIX. K.H. and a seance; 444.
LETTER No. CX. Dharbagiri Nath the best punishment for an accepted
Chela dodging the Masters' eye young Chelas Hume's articles ; 445.
H.P.B. not safe in Sikkim a Chela's indiscretion.
LETTER No. CXI. K.H. 's two Chelas to A.P.S. :
446.
LETTER No. CXI I. Colonel Chesney's letter to K.H. Fern a humbug en-
deavours to test the Masters lay Chelas Hume alienates the Chohan
and M ; 447. W. Oxley.
LETTER No. CXIII. Funny notions about honour Fern hallucinated Fern's
trap for M. ; 448.
LETTER No. CXIV. Zenana women of India ; 449.
LETTER No. CXV. A.P.S. advised to act on his own judgment Occult in-
fluences.
LETTER No. CXVL K.H.'s disgust with Hume.
LETTER No. CXVIL Mohini.
LETTER No. CXVIII. Fraudulent intrusion; 450 Children's diseases K.H.
sends a lock of his hair.
LETTER No. CXIX. Newspaper cutting and K.H.'s comment; 451.
LETTER No. CXX. Action of hatred.
LETTER No. CXXI. The Occult World presented to the Chohan 's notice.
LETTER No. CXXII. Eglington at Calcutta; 452.
LETTER No. CXXIIL K.H.'s difficulties.
LETTER No. CXXIV. A.P.S. asked to find three coloured pebbles in Venice.
LETTER No. CXXV. K.H. issues a denial of the claims of W. Oxley medium ;
453. He never conversed with K.H. three secret words.
LETTER No. CXXVI. A Post Office address in N.W. Provinces; 454.
LuTTBfe No. CXXVII. Extracts from letters to A.P.S. and A.O.H. tfth and
7th principles never were within man Anaxagoras the
" Nous "
Pytha-
goras the permanent and impermanent words of Buddha lucidity too
much sugar in diet method of developing lucidity ; 455.
LETTER No. CXXVIII. Telegram announcing Damodar's departure.
LETTER No. CXXIX. Telegram re Damodar.
APPENDIX
LETTER No. CXXX. -From T. Subba Row. States the conditions on
which he will give A.P.S. instruction in Occult Science wavering state of
mind fatal ; 457.
LETTER No. CXXXI. From T. Subba Row. Sinnett gives qualified consent-
impossible to give him practical instruction rules inflexible the sacrifices
demanded by Occult Science acquisition of psychic powers not the object
of occult training they alone will never secure immortality ; 458. The
true aim of Occult Science prepared to give theoretical instruction only.
xl CONTENTS
LETTER No. CXXXII. T. Subba Row the Rishi M. f
s system of training
the first three initiations; 459. K.H.'s comment.
LETTER No. CXXXIII. From H.P.B. Warns A.P.S. of self-deception dis-
cusses his attitude to K.H.'s letter
4i
Olcott behaved like an ass
"
why
the Masters liked Olcott; 460. The S.P.R. and its bugbear Theosophy.
LETTER No. CXXX1V. ,4 dictated letter from M. All Theosophists endeavour
to correspond with him do not deserve such privilege; 461. What is ex-
pected of them thousands of Fakirs, Sannyasis, etc., have never seen or
heard of them they are on the path of error bad physical magnetic
emanations not insurmountable faith in God and Gods attract the worst
influences the Chohans of darkness preside at Pralayas ; 462. All is con-
trast in the Universe the Gods of the bigoted Hindus, Christians, and
Mohammedans the work of the Red-caps Brothers can prolong life but
cannot destroy death or evil details about H.P.B. 's identity; 462.
LETTER No. CXXXV. From H.P.B. Explains what she said about seven
objective planets and septenary chains ; 464.
LETTER No. CXXXVI. From H.P.B. Sinnett's invitation to herreasons for
refusing what she endured &.H. and M. prepare to work H.P.B. 's
hour of triumph approaches Sinnett does not know the real H.P.B. ; 465.
Her inner real self imprisoned prophecies that Sinnett will one day blas-
pheme against K.H. their benevolent contempt for H.P.B. ; 466.
LETTER No. CXXXVI I.D.K. precipitates a letter phenomenally in H.P.B.'s
cabin ; 467.
LETTER No. CXXXVIIL From H.P.B. New battle to be fought- K.H.'s
observations on the T.S. H.P.B. now accused of fraud Mahatmat
dragged before the public Hodgson's attitude hopeless situation happy
Damodar the land of Bliss ; 468. Hume wants to save the Society
meeting called his plans his suggestions rejected phenomena must be
prohibited ; 469. Her physical condition transmission of letters Arthur
Gebhard dying people do not tell lies H.P.B. never a deceiver explains
the methods of occult transmission of letters; 470-1. H.P.B. " a fraud
with excellent qualities
"
explains what happened to Gebhard 's letter no
fraud ; 472. T.S. will live in India but seems doomed in Europe Hodg-
son's investigation the opposition of the PadrJs her trials cannot trust
her friends ; 473. Propaganda against the Founders Oakleys advise
H.P.B. to resign pledges herself not to mention the Masters* names try
to deserve personal communication with the Master ; 474. Probably her
last letter.
LETTER No. CXXXIX. From H.P.B. She urges Sinnett to develop his
intuition explains about a letter of K.H. which Sinnett suspected; 475.
S. asked not to be ungrateful and not to misunderstandwhat H.P.B. saw
in K.H.'s aura Prince's Hall meeting a failure; 476. Chelas take the
left-hand path nearing the end Gladstone the Jesuits ; 477.
LETTER No. CXL. From H.P.B. The Countess a great clairvoyant H.P.B.
describes a vision K.H. teaches her English M. sends her back to Europe
parting words of K.H. she writes Isis Unveiled at K.H.'s dictation
her English; 479. The writing of K.H.'s letters did he write them him-
self? precipitation either H.P.B. invented the Mahatmas or she did not;
480. The Secret Doctrine truth will triumph Hume's lies; 481.
LETTER No. CXLI. H.P.B. in Sinnett's hands Mrs. Leadbeater Gladstone
a Roman Catholic; 482. The condition of the T.S. in Europe India-
America the indestructibility of the Society the efforts of the dugpas
CONTENTS xli
the T.S. in need of quality and not quantity of members the two courses
before the London Lodge by their fruits shall ye know them ; 483.
Worldly society in the L.L. A.P.S. incapable of perceiving the truth no
inner group consecrated to the truth the last trial of a Chela ; 484. The
necessity of spiritual discernment nothing can kill the London Lodge ex-
cept passivity human dirt never sticks ; 485. Sinnett urged to develop his
intuition ; 486.
LETTER No. CXLIlA. Memorandum by Damodar. The Theosophical Society
considered a religious sect if based upon universal Brotherhood the occult
study should be secret sacred knowledge should not be vulgarised un-
consciously misleading the public as to management of the Society the
Adepts do not control the Society admission of members fees phe-
nomena hunters ; 486-488.
LETTER No. CXLlIB. Comment by K.H. on Damodar's memorandum; 488.
LETTER No. CXLIII. Reply of K.H. to a query of A. P. Sinnett.
LETTER No. CXLIV. A fragment from K.H.
LETTER No. CXLV. A fragment from K.H.
MARS AND MERCURY. Sinnett reopens the controversy implications
against H.P.B. Mrs. Besant's statements in Lucifer on the subject the
facts in the light of K.H.'s letter the misunderstood passage Mrs.
Besant's
"
categorical statement that Mars and Mercury belong to Earth
Chain "quotations
" from the Secret Doctrine
" the whole theory
prove false ; 489-92.
e
A specimen of
4<
M.'s
M
handwriting and signature, which appears
in all the letters either in red ink, or red pencil.
xliii
j2<#r<&r
<HjuU.
A specimen of the handwriting of "K.H." precipitated in blue
ink, beneath a note from Damodar K. Mavalanker. The majority
of the
"
K.H." Letters are written either in blue ink or blue pencil.
xlv
I
Fragment found in the envelope of Letter No. XCII.
II, III and IV. Reproductions of the signatures of Letters No. I, IV and
CXXXII respectively.
xlvii
THE MAHATMA LETTERS
SECTION I
"
THE OCCULT WORLD SERIES "
1880-1881
LETTER No. I
Received Simla about October I5th, 1880.
Esteemed Brother and Friend,
Precisely because the test of the London newspaper would close
the nfbuths of the skeptics it is unthinkable. See it in what light
you will the world is yet in its first stage of disenthralment if not
development, hence unprepared. Very true, we work by natural
not supernatural means and laws. But, as on the one hand
Science would find itself unable (in its present state) to account for
the wonders given in its name, and on the other the ignorant
masses would still be left to view the phenomenon in the light of
a miracle ; everyone who would thus be made a witness to the
occurrence would be thrown off his balance and the results would
be deplorable. Believe me, it would be so especially for yourself
who originated the idea, and the devoted woman who so foolishly
rushes into the wide open door leading to notoriety. This door,
though opened by so friendly a hand as yours, would prove very
soon a trap and a fatal one indeed for her. And such is not
surely your object?
Madmen are they, who, speculating but upon the present, wil-
fully shut their eyes to the past when made already to remain
naturally blind to the future ! Far be it from me, to number you
with the latter therefore will I endeavour to explain. Were we
to accede to your desires know you really what consequences would
follow in the trail of success? The inexorable shadow which fol-
lows all human innovations moves on, yet few are they, who are
ever conscious of its approach and dangers. What are then to
expect they, who would offer the world an innovation which, owing
to human ignorance, if believed in, will surely be attributed to
2 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
those dark agencies the two-thirds of humanity believe in and
dread as yet? You say half London would be converted if you
could deliver them a Pioneer on its day of publication. I beg to
say that if the people believed the thing true they would kill you
before you could make the round of Hyde Park ;
if it were not
believed true, the least that could happen would be the loss of
your reputation and good name, for propagating such ideas.
The success of an attempt of such a kind as the one you pro-
pose, must be calculated and based upon a thorough knowledge
of the people around you. It depends entirely upon the social and
moral conditions of the people in their bearing on these deepest
and most mysterious questions which can stir the human mind
the deific powers in man and the possibilities contained in nature.
How many, even of your best friends, of those who surround you,
who are more than superficially interested in these abstruse
problems? You could count them upon the fingers of your right
hand. Your race boasts of having liberated in their century, the
genius so long imprisoned in the narrow vase of dogmatism and
intolerance the genius of knowledge, wisdom and freethought.
It says that in their turn ignorant prejudice and religious bigotry,
bottled up like the wicked Jin of old, and sealed up by the
Solomons of science rests at the bottom of the sea and can rtever,
escaping to the surface again, reign over the world as it did in
days of old ;
that the public miad is quite free, in short, and ready
to accept any demonstrated truth. Aye ; but is it verily so, my
respected friend? Experimental knowledge does not quite date
from 1662, when Bacon, Robert Boyle and the Bishop of Chester
transformed under the royal charter their
"
Invisible College
"
into
a Society for the promotion of experimental science. Ages before
the Royal Society found itself becoming a reality upon the plan of
the
"
Prophetic Scheme "
an innate longing for the hidden, a
passionate love for and the study of nature had led men in every
generation to try and fathom her secrets deeper than their neigh-
bours did. Roma ante Romulum fuit is an axiom taught to us
in your English schools. Abstract enquiries into the most
puzzling problems did not arise in the brain of Archimedes as a
spontaneous and hitherto untouched subject, but rather as a reflec-
tion of prior enquiries in the same direction and by men separated
from his days by as long a period and far longer than the one
which separates you from the great Syracusian. The vril of the
"
Coming Race "
was the common property of races now extinct.
And, as the very existence of those gigantic ancestors of ours is
now questioned though in the Himava's, on the very territory
belonging to you we have a cave full of the skeletons of these
giants and their huge frames when found are invariably regarded
as isolated freaks of nature, so the vril or Akds as we call it-^-is
"THE OCCULT WORLD SERIES" 3
looked upon as an impossibility, a myth. And, without a thorough
knowledge of Akds, its combinations and properties, how can
Science hope to account for such phenomena? We doubt not but
the men of your science are open to conviction ; yet facts must be
first demonstrated to them, they must first have become their own
property, have proved amenable to their own modes of investi-
gation, before you find them ready to admit them as facts. If you
but look into the Preface to the
"
Micrographia
"
you will find in
Hooke's suggestions that the intimate relations of objects were of
less account in his eyes than their external operation on the senses
and Newton 's fine discoveries found in him their greatest
opponent. The modern Hookeses are many. Like this learned
but ignorant man of old your modern men of science are less
anxious to suggest a physical connexion of facts which might un-
lock for them many an occult force in nature, as to provide a con-
venient
" classification of scientific experiments
"
;
so that the most
essential quality of an hypothesis is not that it should be true but
only plausible in their opinion.
So far for Science as much as we know of it. As for human
nature in general, it is the same now as it was a million of years
ago :
Prejudice based upon selfishness ;
a general unwillingness to
give up an established order of things for new modes of life and
thought and occult study requires all that and much more ;
pride and stubborn resistance to Truth if it but upsets their pre-
vious notions of things, such are the characteristics of your age,
and especially of the middle and lower classes. What then would
be the results of the most astounding phenomena, supposing we
consented to have them produced? However successful, danger
would be growing proportionately with success. No choice would
soon remain but to go on, ever crescendo, or to fall in this endless
struggle with prejudice and ignorance killed by your own weapons.
Test after test would be required and would have to be furnished ;
every subsequent phenomenon expected to be more marvellous
than the preceding one. Your daily remark is, that one cannot be
expected to believe unless he becomes an eye-witness. Would the
lifetime of a man suffice to satisfy the whole world of skeptics?
It may be an easy matter to increase the original number of
believers at Simla to hundreds and thousands. But what of the
hundreds of millions of those who could not be made eye-wit-
nesses? The ignorant unable to grapple with the invisible
operators might some day vent their rage on the visible agents at
work ; the higher and educated classes would go on disbelieving as
ever, tearing you to shreds as before. In common with many,
you blame us for our great secrecy. Yet we know something of
human nature for the experience of long centuries aye, ages has
taught us. And, we know, that so long as science has anything
4 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
to learn, and a shadow of religious dogmatism lingers in the hearts
of the multitudes, the world's prejudices have to be conquered
step by step, not at a rush. As hoary antiquity had more than
one Socrates so the dim Future will give birth to more than one
martyr. Enfranchised science contemptuously turned away her
face from the Copernican opinion renewing the theories of Aris-
tarchus Samius who "
affirmeth that the earth moveth circularly
about her own centre
"
years before the Church sought to sacrifice
Galileo as a holocaust to the Bible. The ablest mathematician at
the Court of Edward VI Robert Recorde was left to starve in
jail by his colleagues, who laughed at his Castle of Knowledge,
declaring his discoveries
" vain phantasies.
" Wm. Gilbert of
Colchester Queen Elisabeth's physician died poisoned, only be-
cause this real founder of experimental science in England has
had the audacity of anticipating Galileo ;
of pointing out Coper-
nican 's fallacy as to the
"
third movement," which was gravely
alleged to account for the parallelism of the earth 's axis of rota-
tion ! The enormous learning of the Paracelsi, of the Agrippas
and the Deys was ever doubted. It was science which laid hei
sacrilegious hand upon the great work M De Magnete
" "
The
Heavenly White Virgin
"
(Akds) and others. And it was the
illustrious
"
Chancellor of England and of Nature
"
Lord
Verulam-Bacon who having won the name of the Father of In-
ductive Philosophy, permitted himself to speak of such men as the
above-named as the
"
Alchemicians of the Fantastic philosophy."
All this is old history, you will think. Verily so ;
but the
chronicles of our modern days do not differ very essentially from
their predecessors. And we have but to bear in mind the recent
persecutions of mediums in England, the burning of supposed
witches, and sorcerers in South America, Russia and the frontiers
of Spain to assure ourselves that the only salvation of the
genuine proficients in occult sciences lies in the skepticism of the
public : the charlatans and the jugglers are the natural shields of
the
"
adepts." The public safety is only ensured by our keeping
secret the terrible weapons which might otherwise be used against
it, and which, as you have been told became deadly in the hands
of the wicked and selfish.
I conclude by reminding you that such phenomena as you crave,
have ever been reserved as a reward for those who have devoted
their lives to serve the goddess Saraswati our Aryan Isis. Were
they given to the profanes what would remain for our faithful
ones? Many of your suggestions are highly reasonable and will
be attended to. I listened attentively to the conversation which
took place at Mr. Hume's. His arguments are perfect from the
standpoint of exoteric wisdom. But, when the time comes and
he is allowed to have a full glimpse into the world of esoterism,
"THE OCCULT WORLD SERIES "
5
with its laws based .
upon mathematically correct calculations of
the future the necessary results of the causes which we are
always at liberty to create and shape at our will but are as unable
to control their consequences which thus become our masters
then only will, both you and he understand why to the uninitiated
our acts must seem often unwise, if not actually foolish.
Your forthcoming letter I will not be able to fully answer with-
out taking the advice of those who generally deal with the Euro-
pean mystics. Moreover the present letter must satisfy you on
many points you have better defined in your last ;
but it will no
doubt disappoint you as well. In regard to the production of
newly devised and still more startling phenomena demanded of
her with our help, as a man well acquainted with the strategy, you
must remain satisfied with the reflection that there is little use in
acquiring new positions until those that you have already reached
are secured, and your Enemies full aware of your right to their
possession. In other words, you had a greater variety of
phenomena produced for yourself and friends than many a regular
neophyte has seen in several years. First, notify the public of
the production of the note, the cup and the sundry experiments
with the cigarette papers, and let them digest these. Get them to
work for an explanation. And as except upon the direct and
absurd accusation of deceit they will never be able to account for
some of these, while the skeptics are quite satisfied with their
present hypothesis for the production of the brooch you will then
have done real good to the cause of truth and justice to the woman
who is made to suffer for it. Isolated as it is, the case under
notice in the Pioneer becomes less than worthless it is positively
injurious for all of you for yourself as the Editor of that paper
as much as for anyone else, if you pardon me for offering you that
which looks like advice. It is neither fair to yourself nor to her,
that, because the number of eye-witnesses does not seem sufficient
to warrant the public attention, your and your lady's testimony
should go for nothing. Several cases combining to fortify your
position as truthful and intelligent witness to the various occur-
rences, each of these gives you an additional right to assert what
you know. It imposes upon you the sacred duty to instruct the
public and prepare them for future possibilities by gradually open-
ing their eyes to the truth. The opportunity should not be lost
through a lack of as great confidence in your own individual right
of assertion as that of Sir Donald Stewart. One witness of well
known character outweighs the evidence of ten strangers ; and if,
there is anyone in India who is respected for his trustworthiness it
is the Editor of the Pioneer. Remember that there was but one
hysterical woman alleged to have been present at the pretended
ascension, and that the phenomenon has never been corroborated
6 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
by repetition. Yet for nearly 2,000 years countless milliards have
pinned their faith upon the testimony of that one woman and she
not over trustworthy.
TRY and first work upon the material you have and then we
will be the first to help you to get further evidence. Until then,
believe me, always your sincere friend,
ROOT' HOOMI LAL SINGH.
LETTER No. II
Received Simla, October i9th, 1880.
Much Esteemed Sir and Brother,
We will be at cross purposes in our correspondence until it has
been made entirely plain that occult science has its own methods
of research as fixed and arbitrary as the methods of its antithesis
physical science are in their way. If the latter has its dicta so also
has the former ; and he who would cross the boundary of the un-
seen world can no more prescribe how he will proceed than the
traveller who tries to penetrate to the inner subterranean recesses
of, L'Hassa the blessed, could show the way to his guide. The
mysteries never were, never can be, put within the reach of the
general public, not, at least, until that longed for day when our
religious philosophy becomes universal. At no time have more
than a scarcely appreciable minority of men possessed nature's
secret, though multitudes have witnessed the practical evidences
of the possibility of their possession. The adept is the rare efflor-
escence of a generation of enquirers ; and to become one, he must
obey the inward impulse of his soul irrespective of the prudential
considerations of worldly science or sagacity. Your desire is to
be brought to communicate with one of us directly, without the
agency of either Mad. B. or any medium. Your idea would be,
as I understand it, to obtain such communications either by letters
as the present one or by audible words so as to be guided by
one of us in the management and principally in the instruction of
the society. You seek all this, and yet, as you say yourself,
hitherto you have not found
" sufficient reasons
" to even give up
your "modes of life" directly hostile to such modes of com-
munications. This is hardly reasonable. He who would lift up
high the banner of mysticism and proclaim its reign near at
hand, must give the example to others. He must be the first to
change his modes of life ; and, regarding the study of the occult
mysteries as the upper step in the ladder of Knowledge must
loudly proclaim it such despite exact science and the opposition of
society.
" The Kingdom of Heaven is obtained by force
"
say
"THE OCOT7LT WORLD SERIES "
7
the Christian mystics. It is but with armed hand, and ready to
either conquer or perish that the modern mystic can hope to achieve
his object.
My first answer covered, I believed, most of the questions con-
tained in your second and even third letter. Having then ex-
pressed therein my opinion that the world in general was unripe
for any too staggering proof of occult power, there but remains to
deal with the isolated individuals, who seek like yourself to pene-
trate behind the veil of matter into the world of primal causes, i.e.,
we need only consider now the cases of yourself and Mr. Hume.
This gentleman also, has done me the great honour to address me
by name, offering to me a few questions and stating the conditions
upon which he would be willing to work for us seriously. But
your motives and aspirations being of diametrically opposite
character, and hence leading to different results I must reply to
each of you separately.
The first and chief consideration in determining us to accept or
reject your offer lies in the inner^motive which propels you to seek
our instructions, and in a certain sense our guidance. The latter
in all cases under reserve as I understand it, and therefore re-
maining a question independent of aught else. Now, what are
your motives? I may try to define them in their general aspect,
leaving details for further consideration. They are :
(i) The
desire to receive positive and unimpeachable proofs that there
really are forces in nature of which science knows nothing ; (2) The
hope to appropriate them some day the sooner the better, for you
do not like to wait so as to enable yourself (a) to demonstrate
their existence to a few chosen western minds ; (b) to contemplate
future life as an objective reality built upon the rock of Knowledge
not of faith ; and (c) to finally learn most important this, among
all your motives, perhaps, though the most occult and the best
guarded the whole truth about our Lodges and ourselves ; to get,
in short, the positive assurance that the
" Brothers
" of whom
everyone hears so much and sees so little are real entities not
fictions of a disordered hallucinated brain. Such, viewed in their
best light appear to us your
" motives " for addressing me. And
in the same spirit do I answer them, hoping that my sincerity will
not be interpreted in a wrong way or attributed to anything like
an unfriendly spirit.
To our minds then, these motives, sincere and worthy of every
serious consideration from the worldly standpoint, appear selfish.
(You have to pardon me what you might view as crudeness of
language, if your desire really is, that which you profess to learn
truth and get instruction from us who belong to quite a different
world from the one you move in.) They are selfish because you
must be aware that the chief object of the T.S. is not so much to
8 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
gratify individual aspirations as to serve our fellow men : and the
real value of this term
"
selfish," which may jar upon your ear,
has a peculiar significance with us which it cannot have with you ;
therefore, and to begin with, you must not accept it otherwise, than
in the former sense. Perhaps you will better appreciate our mean-
ing when told that in our view the highest aspirations for the wel-
fare of humanity become tainted with selfishness if, in the mind
of the philanthropist there lurks the shadow of desire for self bene-
fit or a tendency to do injustice, even when these exist uncon-
sciously to himself. Yet, you have ever discussed but to put down
the idea of a universal Brotherhood, questioned its usefulness, and
advised to remodel the T.S. on the principle of a college for the
special study of occultism. This, my respected and esteemed friend
and Brother will never do !
Having disposed of "personal motives," let us analyze your
" terms
" for helping us to do public good. Broadly stated these
terms are first: that an independent Anglo-Indian Theosophical
Society shall be founded through your kind services, in the
management of which neither of our present representatives shall
have any voice; and second, that one of us shall take the new
body
" under his patronage," be " in free and direct communi-
cation with its leaders," and afford them " direct proof that he
really possessed that superior knowledge of the forces of nature
and the attributes of the human soul which would inspire them
with proper confidence in his leadership." I have copied your
own words, so as to avoid inaccuracy in defining the position.
From your point of view then, those terms may seem so very
reasonable as to provoke no dissent ; and, indeed, a majority of
your countrymen if not of Europeans might share that opinion.
What, will you say, can be more reasonable than to ask that
teacher anxious to disseminate his knowledge, and pupil offer-
ing him to do so should be brought face to face and the one give
the experimental proofs to the other that his instructions were
correct? Man of the world, living in, and in full sympathy with it
you are undoubtedly right. But the men of this other world of
ours, untutored in your modes of thought, and who find very hard
at times to follow and appreciate the latter, can hardly be blamed
for not responding as heartily to your suggestions as in your
opinion they deserve. The first and most important of our objec-
tions is to be found in our Rules. True, we have our schools
and teachers, our neophytes and shaberons (superior adepts), and
the door is always opened to the right man who knocks. And,
we invariably welcome the new comer; only, instead of going
over to him he has to come to us. More than that : unless he has
reached that point in the path of occultism from which return is
impossible, by his having irrevocably pledged himself to our asso-
" THE OCCULT WORLD SERIES 9
elation, we never except in cases of utmost moment visit him
or even cross the threshold of his door in visible appearance.
Is any of you so eager for knowledge and the beneficent powers
it confers as to be ready to leave your world and come into ours ?
Then let him come ; but he must not think to return until the seal
of the mysteries has locked his lips even against the chances of
his own weakness or indiscretion. Let him come by all means, as
the pupil to the master, and without conditions ;
or let him wait,
as so many others have, and be satisfied with such crumbs of
knowledge as may fall in his way.
And supposing you were thus to come as two of your own
countrymen have already as Mad. B. did, and Mr. O. will ; sup-
posing you were to abandon all for the truth ; to toil wearily for
years up the hard steep road, not daunted by obstacles, firm under
every temptation ;
were to faithfully keep within your heart the
secrets entrusted to you as a trial ;
had worked with all your
energy and unselfishly to spread the truth and provoke men to
correct thinking and a correct life would you consider it just, if,
after all your efforts, we were to grant to Mad. B. or Mr. O. as
" outsiders
"
the terms you now ask for yourselves? Of these
two persons one has already given three-fourths of a life, the other
six years of manhood's prime to us, and both will so labour to the
close of their days. Though ever working for their merited re-
ward, yet never demanding it, nor murmuring when disappointed.
Even though they respectively could accomplish far less than they
do, would it not be a palpable injustice to ignore them as pro-
posed in an important field of Theosophical effort? Ingratitude is
not among our vices, nor do we imagine you would wish to advise
it. ...
Neither of them has the least inclination to interfere with the
management of the contemplated Anglo-Indian Branch, nor dictate
its officers. But, the new society, if formed at all, must (though
bearing a distinctive title of its own) be, in fact, a Branch of the
Parent body as is the British Theosophical Society at London, and
contribute to its vitality and usefulness by promoting its leading
idea of a Universal Brotherhood, and in other practicable ways.
Badly as the phenomena may have been shown, there have still
been as yourself admit certain ones that are unimpeachable.
The "
raps on the table when no one touches it," and the
"
bell
sounds in the air
"
have, you say, "always been regarded as
satisfactory," etc., etc. From this, you reason that good
" test
phenomena" may easily be multiplied ad infinitum." So they
can in any place where our magnetic and other conditions are
constantly offered ; and where we do not have to act with and
through an enfeebled female body in which, as we might say,
a vital cyclone is raging much of the time. But, imperfect as may
io THE MAHATMA LETTERS
be our visible agent and often most unsatisfactory and imperfect
she is yet, she is the best available at present, and her phenomena
have for about half a century astounded and baffled some of the
cleverest minds of the age. If ignorant of
"
journalistic etiquette
"
and the requirements of physical science, we still have an intuition
of the effects of causes. Since you have written nothing about
the very phenomena you properly regard as so convincing we have
the right to infer that much precious power may be wasted with-
out better results. By itself the
"
brooch
" affair is in the eyes
of the world completely useless, and time will prove me right.
Your kind intention has entirely failed.
To conclude : we are ready to continue this correspondence if
the view given of occult study as above suits you. Through the
ordeal described, each of us, whatever his country, or race, has
passed. Meanwhile, hoping in the best yours faithfully as ever
KOOT' HOOMI LAL SING.
LETTER No. IIlA.
I saw K.H. in astral form on the night of igth of October, 1880 waking
up for a moment but immediately afterwards being rendered unconscious again
(in the body) and conscious out of the body in the adjacent dressing-room where
I saw another of the Brothers afterwards identified with one called
"
Serapis
"
by Olcott,
" the youngest of the chohans."
The note about .the vision came the following morning, and during that
day, the aoth, we went for a picnic to Prospect Hill, when the
"
pillow
incident
" occurred.
My Good "
Brother,"
In dreams and visions at least, when rightly interpreted there
can hardly be an
"
element of doubt.
M .... I hope to prove to
you my presence near you last night by something I took away
with me. Your lady will receive it back on the Hill. I
keep no
pink paper to write upon, but I trust modest white will do as well
for what I have to say. T . , TT T _
7
KOOT' HOOMI LAL SWG.
LETTER No.
My
" Dear Brother,"
This brooch No. 2 is placed in this very strange place simply
to show to you how very easily a real phenomenon is produced
and how still easier it is to suspect its genuineness. Make of it
what you like even to classing me with confederates.
The difficulty you spoke of last night with respect to the inter-
change of our letters I will try to remove. One of our pupils will
shortly visit Lahore and the N.W.P. and an address will be sent
to you which you can always use ; unless, indeed, you really would
"THE OCCULT WORLD SERIES" 11
prefer corresponding through pillows. Please to remark that the
present is not dated from a
"
Lodge
"
but from a Kashmir valley.
Yours, more than ever,
ROOT* HOOMI LAL SING.
LETTER No. IIIc.
A few words more :
why should you have felt disappointed at
not receiving a direct reply to your last note? It was received in
my room about half a minute after the currents for the production
of the pillow-ddfe had been set ready and in full play. And unless
I had assured you that a man of your disposition need have little
fear of being
"
fooled
"
there was no necessity for an answer.
One favour I will certainly ask of you, and that is, that now that
you the only party to whom anything was ever promised are
satisfied that you should endeavour to disabuse the mind of the
amorous Major and show to him his great folly and injustice.
Yours faithfully,
KOOT' HOOMI LAL SINGH.
LETTER No. IV
Apparently received 5th November.
Madam and Colonel O. arrived at our house, Allahabad, on December the
ist, 1880. Col. O. went to Benares on the 3rd Madam joined him on the nth.
Both returned to Allahabad on 2Oth and stayed until 28th.
My Dear Brother,
Amrita Saras> Oct 2*
I could assuredly make no objection to the style which you have
kindly adopted, in addressing me by name, since it is, as you say,
the outcome of a personal regard even greater than I have as yet
deserved at your hands. The conventionalities of the weary
world, outside our secluded
"
Ashrums," trouble us but little at
any time ; least of all now, when it is men not ceremony-masters,
we seek, devotion, not mere observances. More and more a dead
formalism is gaining ground, and I am truly happy to find so
unexpected an ally in a quarter where, hitherto there have not been
too many among the highly educated classes of English Society.
A crisis, in a certain sense, is upon us now, and must be met.
I might say two crises one, the Society's, the other for Tibet.
For, I may tell you in confidence, that Russia is gradually mass-
ing her forces for a future invasion of that country under the pre-
text of a Chinese War. If she does not succeed it will be due to
us ; and herein, at least we will deserve your gratitude. You see
then, that we have weightier matters than small societies to think
about; yet, the T.S. must not be neglected. The affair has taken
12 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
an impulse, which, if not well guided, might beget very evil issues.
Recall to mind the avalanches of your admired Alps, that you have
often thought about, and remember that at first their mass is
small and their momentum little. A trite comparison you may
say, but I cannot think of a better illustration, when viewing the
gradual aggregation of trifling events, growing into a menacing
destiny for the Theos. Soc. It came quite forcibly upon me the
other day as I was coming down the defiles of Kouenlun Kara-
korum you call them and saw an avalanche tumble. I had gone
personally to our chief to submit Mr. Hume's important offer, and
was crossing over to Lhadak on my way home. What other
speculations might have followed I cannot say. But just as I was
taking advantage of the awful stillness which usually follows such
cataclysm, to get a clearer view of the present situation and the
disposition of the
"
mystics
ft
at Simla, I was rudely recalled to
my senses. A familiar voice, as shrill as the one attributed to
Saraswati's peacock which, if we may credit tradition, frightened
off the King of the Nagas shouted along the currents
"
Olcott
has raised the very devil again ! . . . The Englishmen are going
crazy. . . . Koot Hoomi, come quicker and help me !
"
and in
her excitement forgot she was speaking English. I must say,
that the
"
Old Lady's
"
telegrams do strike one like stones from a
catapult'!
What could I do but come? Argument through space with one
who was in cold despair, and in a state of moral chaos was useless.
So I determined to emerge from the seclusion of many years and
spend some time with her to comfort her as well as I could. But
our friend is not one to cause her mind to reflect the philosophical
resignation of Marcus Aurelius. The fates never wrote that she
could say :
" It is a royal thing, when one is doing good to hear
evil spoken of himself." ... I had come for a few days, but now
find that I
myself cannot endure for any length of time the stifling
magnetism even of my own countrymen. I have seen some of
our proud old Sikhs drunk and staggering over the marble pave-
ment of their sacred Temple. I have heard an English-speaking
Vakil declaim against Yog Vidya and Theosophy, as a delusion
and a lie, declaring that English Science had emancipated them
from such
"
degrading superstitions/' and saying that it was an
insult to India to maintain that the dirty Yogees and Sunnyasis
knew anything about the mysteries of nature ;
or that any living
man can or ever could perform any phenomena ! I turn my face
homeward to-morrow.
The delivery of this letter may very possibly be delayed for a
few days, owing to causes which it will not interest you for me
to specify. Meanwhile, however, I have telegraphed you my
thanks for your obliging compliance with my wishes in the matters
" THE OCCULT WORLD SERIES "
13
you allude to in your letter of the 24th inst. I see with pleasure,
that you have not failed to usher me before the world as a possible
"
confederate.'* That makes our number ten, I believe? But I
must say, that your promise was well and loyally fulfilled. Re-
ceived at Umritsur on the 27th inst., at 2 p.m., I
got your letter
about thirty miles beyond Rawul Pindee, five minutes later, and
had an acknowledgment wired to you from Jhelum at 4 p.m. on
the same afternoon. Our modes of accelerated delivery and quick
communications are not then, as you will see, to be despised by
the Western world, or even the Aryan, English-speaking and
skeptical Vakils.
I could not ask a more judicial frame of mind in an ally than
that in which you are beginning to find yourself. My Brother,
you have already changed your attitude toward us in a distinct
degree : what is to prevent a perfect mutual understanding one
day !
Mr. Hume's proposition has been duly and carefully considered.
He will, no doubt, advise you of the results as expressed in my
letter, to him. Whether he will give our
"
modes of action
"
as
fair a trial as yourself is another question. Our Maha (the
"
Chief ") has allowed me to correspond with both of you, and
even in case an Anglo-Indian Branch is formed to come some
day in personal contact with it. It now depends entirely on you.
I cannot tell you more. You are quite right as to the standing of
our friends in the Anglo-Indian world having been materially
improved by the Simla visit ; and, it is also true, though you
modestly refrain from saying so, that we are mainly indebted to
you for this. But quite apart from the unlucky incidents of the
Bombay publications, it is not possible that there should be much
more at best than a benevolent neutrality shown by your people
toward ours. There is so very minute a point of contact between
the two civilisations they respectively represent, that one might
almost say they could not touch at all. Nor would they but for
the few shall I say eccentrics? who, like you, dream better and
bolder dreams than the rest ;
and provoking thought, bring the
two together by their own admirable audacity. Has it occurred
to you that the two Bombay publications, if not influenced, may
at least have not been prevented, by those who might have done
so, because they saw the necessity for that much agitation to effect
the double result of making a needed diversion after the Brooch
Grenade, and, perhaps, of trying the strength of your personal
interest in occultism and theosophy? I do not say it was so; I
but enquire whether the contingency ever presented itself to your
mind. I have already caused it to be intimated to you that if the
details given in the stolen letter had been anticipated in the
Pioneer a much more appropriate place, and where they would
I
4 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
have been handled to better advantage that document would not
have been worth anyone's while to purloin for the Times of India,
and therefore no names would have appeared.
Colonel Olcott is doubtless
' '
out of time with the feelings of
English people" of both classes; but nevertheless more in time
with us than either. Him we can trust under all circumstances,
and his faithful service is pledged to us come well, come ill.
My
clear Brother, my voice is the echo of impartial justice. Where
can we find an equal devotion? He is one who never questions,
but obeys ;
who may make innumerable mistakes out of excessive
zeal but never is unwilling to repair his fault even at the cost of
the greatest self-humiliation ;
who esteems the sacrifice of comfort
and even life something to be cheerfully risked whenever neces-
sary; who will eat any food, or even go without; sleep on any
bed, work in any place, fraternise with any outcast, endure any
privation for the cause. ... I admit that his connection with
an A.I. Branch would be
" an evil
"
hence, he will have no more
to do with it than he has with the British, (London Branch). His
connection will be purely nominal, and may be made more so, by
framing your Rules more carefully than theirs ;
and giving your
organization such a self-acting system of Government as would
seldom if ever require any outside interference. But to make an
independent A.I.B. with the self-same objects, either in whole or
apart, as the Parent Society and with the same directors behind
the scenes would be not only to deal a mortal blow at the Theos.
Soc. but also put upon us a double labour and anxiety without the
slightest compensating advantage that any of us can perceive.
The Parent S. has never interfered in the slightest degree with
the British T.S., nor indeed with any other Branch, whether
religious or philosophical. Having formed, or caused to be
formed a new branch, the Parent S. charters it (which it cannot
now do without our Sanction and signatures), and then usually
retires behind the scenes, as you would say. Its further connec-
tion with the subject branches is limited to receiving quarterly
accounts of their doings and lists of the new Fellows, ratifying ex-
pulsionsonly when specially called upon as an arbitrator to
interfere on account of the Founders* direct connection with us
etc., etc. ; it never meddles otherwise in their affairs except when
appealed to as a sort of appelate court. And the latter depending
on you, what is there to prevent your Society from remaining
virtually independent? .We are, even more generous than you
British are to us. We will not force upon, nor even ask you to
sanction a Hindu "
Resident
" in your Society, to watch the
interests of the Parent Paramount Power when we have once de-
clared you independent; but will implicitly trust to your loyalty
and word of honour. But if you now so dislike the idea of a purely
"THE OCCULT WORLD SERIES" 15
nominal executive supervision by Col. Olcott an American of
your own race you would surely rebel against dictation from a
Hindu, whose habits and methods are those of his own people, and
whose race, despite your natural benevolence, you have not yet
learnt even to tolerate, let alone to love or respect. Think well
before you ask for our guidance. Our best, most learned, and
holiest adepts are of the races of the
"
greasy Tibetans
M
; and the
Penjabi Singhs you know the lion is proverbially a dirty and
offensive beast, despite his strength and courage. Is it certain
that your good compatriots would more easily forgive our Hindu
solecisms in .manners than those of their own kinsmen of
America? If my observations have not misled I should say this
was doubtful. National prejudices are apt to leave one's
spectacles undimmed. You say
'*
how glad we should be, if that
one (to guide you) were yourself/* meaning your unworthy cor-
respondent. My good Brother, are you certain, that the pleasant
impression you now may have from our correspondence, would not
instantly be destroyed upon seeing me? And which of our holy
Shaberons has had the benefit of even the little university educa-
tion and inkling of European manners that has fallen to my
share? An instance : I desired Mad. B. to select among the two
or three Aryan Punjabees who study Yog Vidya, and our natural
mystics, one, whom -without disclosing myself to him too much I
could designate as an agent between yourself and us, and whom
I was anxious to despatch to you, with a letter of introduction,
and have him speak to you of Yoga and its practical effects. This
young gentleman who is as pure as purity itself, -whose aspirations
and thoughts are of the most spiritual ennobling kind, and who
merely through self-exertion is able to penetrate into the
regions of the formless worlds this young man is not fit for a
drawing-room. Having explained to him that the greatest good
might result for his country if he helped you to organize a Branch
of English mystics by proving to them practically to what wonder-
ful results led the study of Yog, Mad. B. asked him in guarded
and very delicate terms to change his dress and turban before
starting for Allahabad for, though she did not give him this
reason, they were very dirty and slovenly. You are to tell Mr.
Sinnett she said that you bring him a letter from our Brother
K., with whom he corresponds. But, if he asks you anything*
either of him or the other Brothers answer him simply and truth-
fully that you are not allowed to expatiate upon the subject. Speak
of Yog and prove to him what powers you have attained. This
young man who had consented wrote later on the following
curious letter :
"
Madam," he said,
"
you who preach the highest
standards of morality, of truthfulness, etc., you would have me
play the part of an impostor. You ask me to change my clothes
16 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
at the risk of giving a false idea of my personality and mystifying
the gentleman you send me to. And what if he asks me if I per-
sonally know Koot'hoomi, am I to keep silent and allow him to
think I do? This would be a tacit falsehood, and guilty of that,
I would be thrown back into the awful whirl of transmigration !
"
Here is an illustration of the difficulties under which we have to
labour. Powerless to send to you a neophyte before you have
pledged yourself to us we have to either keep back or despatch
to you one who at best would shock if not inspire you at once
with disgust ! The letter would have been given him by my own
hand ; he had but to promise to hold his tongue upon matters he
knows nothing about and could give but a false idea of, and
to make himself look cleaner. Prejudice and dead letter again.
For over a thousand years, says Michelet, the Christian Saints
never washed themselves ! For how long will our Saints dread
to change their clothes for fear of being taken for Marmaliks and
the neophytes of rival and cleaner sects !
But these, our difficulties, ought not to prevent you from begin-
ning your work. Colonel O. and Mad. B. seeming willing to
become personally responsible for both yourself and Mr. Hume, if
you yourself are ready to answer for the fidelity of any man your
party may choose as the leader of the A.I.T.S., we are content
that the trial shall be made. The field is yours and no one will
be allowed to interfere with you except myself on behalf of our
Chiefs when you once do me the honour to prefer me to the others.
But before one builds the house he makes the plan. Suppose you
draft a memorandum as to the constitution and policy of manage-
ment of the A.I. Society you have in mind and submit it for con-
sideration? If our Chiefs agree to it and it is not surely they
who would show themselves obstructive in the universal onward
march, or retard this movement to a higher goal then you will at
once be chartered. But they must first see the plan ;
and I must
ask you to remember that the new Society shall not be allowed to
disconnect itself with the Parent Body, though you are at liberty
to manage your affairs in your own way without fearing the
slightest interference from its President so long as you do not
violate the general Rules. And upon this point I refer you to
Rule 9. This is the first practical suggestion coming from a Cis
and Trarw-Himalayan
" cave-dweller
" whom you have honoured
with your confidence.
And now about yourself personally. Far be it from me to dis-
courage one so willing as yourself by setting up impossible barriers
to your progress. We never whine over the inevitable but try to
make the best of the worst. And though we neither push nor
draw into the mysterious domain of occult nature those who are
unwilling; never shrink from expressing our opinions freely
i
THE OCCULT WORLD SERIES" 17
and fearlessly, yet we are ever as ready to assist those who come
to us; even to agnostics who assume the negative position of
"
knowing nothing but phenomena and refuse to believe in any-
thing else." It is true that the married man cannot be an
adept, yet without striving to become "
a Raja Yogi
"
he can
acquire certain powers and do as much good to mankind and
often more, by remaining within the precincts of this world of his.
Therefore, shall we not ask you to precipitately change fixed
habits of life, before the full conviction of its necessity and advan-
tage has possessed you. You are a man to be left to lead himself,
and may be so left with safety. Your resolution is taken to
deserve much : time will effect the rest. There are more ways
than one for acquiring occult knowledge.
"
Many are the grains
of incense destined for one and the same altar : one falls sooner
into the fire, the other later the difference of time is nothing,"
remarked a great man when he was refused admission and
supreme initiation into the mysteries. There is a tone of com-
plaint in your question whether there ever will be a renewal of the
vision you had, the night before the picnic day. Methinks, were
you to have a vision nightly, you would soon cease to
" treasure
"
them at all. But there is a far weightier reason why you should
not have a surfeit it would be a waste of our strength. As often
as I, or any of us can communicate with you, whether by dreams,
waking impressions, letters (in or out of pillows) or personal visits
in astral form it will be done. But remember that Simla is 7,000
feet higher than Allahabad, and the difficulties to be surmounted
at the latter are tremendous. I abstain from encouraging you to
expect too much, for, like yourself, I am loathe to promise what,
for various reasons, I may not be able to perform.
The term
" Universal Brotherhood
" is no idle phrase.
Humanity in the mass has a paramount claim upon us, as I try
to explain in my letter to Mr. Hume, which you had better ask
the loan of. It is the only secure foundation for universal
morality. If it be a dream, it is at least a noble one for mankind :
and it is the aspiration of the true adept.
Yours faithfully,
KOOT' HOOMI LAL SINGH.
LETTER No. V
My Dear Friend,
I have your letter of November igth, abstracted by our special
osmosis from the envelope at Meerut, and yours to our
" old lady
"
in its half empty registered shell safely sent on to Cawnpore, to
make her swear at me But she is too weak to play at the
astral postman just now. I am sorry to see that she has once more
18 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
proved inaccurate and led you into error; but this is chiefly my
own fault, as I often neglect to give her an extra rub over her poor
sick head, now, when she forgets and mixes up things more than
usual. I did not ask her to tell you
"
to give up the idea of the
A.I. Branch as nothing would come of it," but ''to give up
the idea of the Anglo-Indian Branch in co-operation with Mr.
Hume, as nothing would come of it." I will send you his answer
to my letter and my final epistle and you will judge for yourself.
After reading the latter, you will please seal and send it to him,
simply stating that you do so on my behalf. Unless he asks the
question you better not let him know you have read his letter.
He may be proud of it, but should not.
My dear, good friend, you must not bear me a grudge for what
I say to him of the English in general. They are haughty. To
us especially, so that we regard it as a national feature. And, you
must not confound your own private views especially those you
have now with those of your countrymen in general. Few, if
any__( f course with such exceptions as yourself, where intensity
of aspirations makes one disregard all other considerations) would
ever consent to have
4<
a nigger
" for a guide or leader, no more
than a modern Desdemona would choose an Indian Othello
nowadays. The prejudice of race is intense, and even in free
England we are regarded as an
" inferior race.*' And this same
tone vibrates in your own remark about
"
a man of the people
unused to refined ways
" and
" a foreigner but a gentleman/
1
the
latter being the man to be preferred. Nor would a Hindu be likely
to have such a lack of
"
refined ways
"
disregarded in him were
he
"
an adept
"
twenty times over again ;
and this very same trait
appears prominent in Viscount Amberley's criticism on the
44
underbred Jesus.
" Had you paraphrased your sentence and
said: "a foreigner but no gentleman" (according to English
notions) you could not have added as you did, that he would be
thought the fittest. Hence, I say it again, that the majority of
our Anglo-Indians, among whom the terms
" Hindu " or
44
Asiatic
" is generally coupled with a vague yet actual idea of
one who uses his fingers instead of a bit of cambric, and who
abjures soap would most certainly prefer an American to
4 *
a
greasy Tibetan." But you need not tremble for me. Whenever
I make my appearance whether astrally or physically before my
friend A. P. Sinnett, I will not forget to invest a certain sum in a
square of the finest Chinese silk to carry in my chogga pocket,
nor to create an atmosphere of sandal-wood and cashmere roses.
This is the least I could do in atonement for my countrymen.
But then, you see, I am but a slave of my masters ;
and if, allowed
to gratify my own friendly feeling for you, and attend to you
individually, I may not be permitted to do as much for others.
"THE OCCULT WORLD SERIES" 19
Nay, to tell truth, I know I am not permitted to do so, and
Mr. Hume's unfortunate letter has contributed much to it. There
is a distinct group or section in our fraternity who attend to our
casual and very rare accessions of another race and blood, and who
brought across the threshold Captain Remington and two other
Englishmen during this century. And these
" Brothers
" do not
habitually use floral essences.
So the test of the 271*1 was no test phenomenon? Of course, of
course. But did you try to get, as you said you would, the original
MSS. of the Jhelum dispatch? Though our hollow but plethoric
friend, Mrs. B., were even proved to be my multum in parvo, my
letter-writer, and to manufacture my epistles, yet, unless she were
ubiquitous or had the gift of flying from Amritsar to Jhelum a
distance over 200 miles in two minutes, how could she have
written for me the dispatch in my own hand-writing at Jhelum
hardly two hours after your letter was received by her at Amritsar?
This is why I was not sorry that you said you would send for it,
for, with this dispatch in your possession, no " detractors
" would
be very strong, nor even the sceptical logic of Mr. Hume prevail.
Naturally you imagine that the "nameless revelation "which
now re-echoes in England would have been pounced upon far
more eagerly than even it was, by the Times of India, if it revealed
the names. But here again, I will prove you wrong. Had you
first printed the account, the T, of L could never have published
"A day with Madame B./' since that nice bit of American
"
sensationalism
" would not have been written by Olcott at all.
It would not have had its raison d'etre. Anxious to collect for his
Society every proof corroborative of the occult powers of what he
terms the ist Section, and seeing that you remained silent, our
gallant Colonel felt his hand itch until it brought everything to
light, andplunged everything into darkness and consternation!
44
Et voici pourquoi nous n'irons plus au bois," as the French
song goes.
Did you write
" tune
" ? Well, well; I must ask you to^buy
me a pair of spectacles in London. And yet out of
" time
" or
out of
"
tune
" is all one, as it seems. But you ought to adopt
my old fashioned habit of
" little lines
" over the
" m's." Those
bars are useful, even though
"
out of tune and time
" with modern
caligraphy. Besides, bear in mind, that these my letters, are not
written but impressed or precipitated
and then all mistakes
corrected. .
We will not discuss, at present, whether your aims and objects
are so widely different from those of Mr. Hume's ;
but if he may be
actuated by
" a purer and broader philanthropy,
" the way he sets
to work to achieve these aims will never carry him beyond pure
theoretical disquisitions upon the subject. No use now in trying
20 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
to represent him in any other light. His letter that you will soon
reacj j
Sf as I say to himself,
"
a monument of pride and uncon-
scious selfishness.
" He is too just and superior a man to be guilty
of petty vanities ;
but his pride climbs like that of the mythical
Lucifer ; and, you may believe me if I have any experience in
human nature when I say, that this is Hume au naturel. It is
no hasty conclusion of mine based upon any personal feeling, but
the decision of the greatest of our living adepts the Shaberon of
Than La. Of whatever question he touches his treatment is the
same : a stubborn determination to make everything either fit his
own foregone conclusions or sweep it
away by a rush of ironical
and adverse criticism. Mr. Hume is a very able man and Hume
to the core. Such a state of mind offers little attraction, as you
will understand, to any of us who might be willing to come and
help him.
No; I do not and never will "despise" any
4I
feeling
" how-
ever it may clash with my own principles, when it is expressed as
frankly and openly as yours. You may be, and undoubtedly are,
moved by more egotism than broad benevolence for mankind.
Yet as you confess it without mounting any philanthropical stilts,
I tell you candidly that you have far more chances than Mr. Hume
to learn a good bit of occultism. I, for one, will do all I can for
you, under the circumstances and restrained as I am by fresh
orders. I will not tell you to give up this or that, for, unless you
exhibit beyond any doubt the presence in you of the necessary
germs it would be as useless as it would be cruel. But I say
TRY. Do not despair. Unite to yourself several determined men
and women and make experiments in mesmerism and the usual
so-called
"
spiritual
"
phenomena. If you act in accordance with
prescribed methods you are sure to ultimately obtain results.
Apart from this, I will do my best and who knows !
Strong will
creates and sympathy attracts even adepts, whose laws are
antagonistic to their mixing with the uninitiated. If you are will-
ing I will send you an Essay showing why in Europe more than
anywhere else a Universal Brotherhood, i.e., an association of
II
affinities
" of strong magnetic yet dissimilar forces and polarities
centred around one dominant idea, is necessary for successful
achievements in occult sciences. What one will fail to do the
combined many will achieve. Of course you will have in case
you organise to put up with Olcott at the head of the Parent
Society, hence nominally the President of all the existing
Branches. But he will be no more your
" leader
" than he is the
leader of the British Theos. Society, which has its own President,
its own Rules and Bye-laws. You will be chartered by him, and
that's all. In some cases he will have to sign a paper or two
4 times a year the accounts sent in by your Secretary ; yet he has
"THE OCCULT WORLD SERIES" 21
no right to interfere either with your administration or modes of
action, so long- as these do not clash with the general Rules, and
he certainly has neither the ability nor the desire of being your
leader. And, of course, you (meaning the whole Society) will
have besides your own President chosen by yourselves,
"
a quali-
fied professor of occultism M to instruct you. But, my good friend,
abandon all notion that this
"
Professor
"
can bodily appear and
instruct you for years to come. / may come to you personally
unless you drive me off, as Mr. Hume did I cannot come to ALL.
You may get phenomena and proofs, but even were you to fall into
the old error and attribute them to
"
Spirits
"
we could but show
you your mistake by philosophical and logical explanations ;
no
adept would be allowed to attend your meetings.
Of course you ought to write your book. I do not see, why in
any case it should be impracticable. Do so, by all means, and
any help I can give you I will. You ought to put yourself imme-
diately in correspondence with Lord Lindsay, and take the Simla
phenomena and your correspondence with me as the subject. He
is intensely interested in all such experiments, and being a
theosophist and upon the General Council is sure to welcome your
overtures. Take the ground that you belong to the T.S., that
you are the widely known Editor of the
"
Pioneer/' and that,
knowing how great an interest he takes in the
"
spiritual
"
phenomena you submit to his consideration the very extraordinary
things which took place at Simla, with such additional details as
have not been published. The best of the British Spiritualists
could, with proper management, be converted into Theosophists.
But neither Dr. Wyld, nor Mr. Massey, seem to have the requisite
force. I advise you to confer personally with Lord Lindsay upon
the theosophical situation at home and in India. Perhaps you
two might work together : the correspondence I now suggest will
pave the way.
Even if Madame B. might
"
be induced
" to give the A.I.
Society any
"
practical instruction
" I am afraid she has remained
too long a time outside the adytum to be of much use for practi-
cal explanations. However, though it does not depend upon me,
I will see what I can do in this direction. But I fear she is sadly
in need of a few months of recuperative villagiatura on the
glaciers, with her old Master before she can be entrusted with
such a difficult task. Be very cautious with her in case she stops
with you on her way down home. Her nervous system is terribly
shaken, and she requires every care. Will you please spare me
needless trouble by informing me of the year, date, and hour of
Mrs. Sinnett's birth?
Ever yours sincerely,
KOOT' HOOMI.
22 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
LETTER No. VI
Received at Allahabad about December ioth, 1880.
No you do not
" write too much." I am only sorry to have
so little time at my disposal ;
hence to find myself unable to
answer you as speedily as I otherwise would. Of course I have
to read every word you write : otherwise I would make a fine
mess of it. And whether it be through my physical or spiritual
eyes the time required for it is practically the same. As much
may be said of my replies. For, whether I
"
precipitate
" or dic-
tate them or write my answers myself, the difference in time
saved is very minute. I have to think it over, to photograph
every word and sentence carefully in my brain before it can be
repeated by
"
precipitation." As the fixing on chemically pre-
pared surfaces of the images formed by the camera requires a
previous arrangement within the focus of the object to be repre-
sented, for otherwise as often found in bad photographs the
legs of the sitter might appear out of all proportion with the head,
and so on, so we have to first arrange our sentences and impress
every letter to appear on paper in our minds before it becomes fit
to be read. For the present, it is all I can tell you. When,
science will have learned more about the mystery of the lithophyl
(or lithobiblion) and how the impress of leaves comes originally
to take place on stones, then will I be able to make you better
understand the process. But you must know and remember one
thing : we but follow and servilely copy nature in her works.
No ;
we need argue no longer upon the unfortunate question of
a
"
Day with Mad: B.
M It is the more useless, since you say,
you have no right to crush and grind your uncivil and often
blackguardly opponents in the
" Pioneer
" even in your own
defence your proprietors objecting to the mention of occultism
altogether. As they are Christians it is no matter of great
wonder. Let us be charitable and hope they will get their own
reward : die and become angels of light and Truth winged
paupers of the Christian heaven.
Unless you join several, and organize somehow or other, I am
afraid I will prove but of little help for you practically. My dear
friend, I have my
"
proprietors
" also. For reasons best known
to themselves they have set their foot upon the idea of teaching
isolated individuals. I will correspond with you and give you
proofs from time to time of my existence and presence. To teach
or instruct you is altogether another question. Hence to sit
with your lady is more than useless. Your magnetisms are too
similar and you will get nothing.
I will translate my Essay and send it to you as soon as I can.
"THE OCCULT WORLD SERIES" 23
Your idea of corresponding with your friends and fellows is the
next best thing to do. But do not fail to write to Lord Lindsay.
I am a little
"
too hard
"
upon Hume, you say. Am I? His
is a highly intellectual and, I confess, a spiritual nature too. Yet,
he is every bit of him M Sir Oracle.
" It may be that it is the
very exuberance of that great intellect which seeks issue through
every chink, and never loses an opportunity to relieve the fulness
of the brain, which overflows with thought. Finding in his quiet
daily life too meagre a field with but
"
Moggy
"
and Davison to
sow upon his intellect bursts the dam and pounces upon every
imagined event, every possible though improbable fact his
imagination can suggest, to interpret it in his own conjectural
way. Nor do I wonder that such a skilled workman in intellectual
mosaic as he, finding suddenly, the most fertile of quarries, the
most precious of colour-stores in this idea of our Fraternity and
the T.S. should pick out ingredients from it to daub our faces
with. Placing us before a mirror which reflects us as he finds us
in his own fertile imagination he says :
"
Now, you mouldy relics
of a mouldy Past, look at yourselves how you really are !
" A
very, very excellent man our friend Mr. Hume, but utterly unfit
for moulding into an adept.
As little, and far less than yourself does he seem to realize
our real object in the formation of an A.I. Branch. The truths
and mysteries of occultism constitute, indeed, a body of the
highest spiritual importance, at once profound and practical for
the world at large. Yet, it is not as a mere addition to the
tangled mass of theory or speculation in the world of science that
they are being given to you, but for their practical bearing on the
interests of mankind. The terms
"
unscientific,"
"
impossible,"
"
hallucination,"
"
impostor," have hitherto been used in a very
loose, careless way, as implying in the occult phenomena some-
thing either mysterious and abnormal, or a premeditated impos-
ture. And this is why our chiefs have determined to shed upon
a few recipient minds more light upon the subject, and to prove
to them that such manifestations are as reducible to law as the
simplest phenomena of the physical universe. The wiseacres say :
" The age of miracles is past," but we answer,
" it never existed !
"
While not unparalleled, or without their counterpart in universal
history, these phenomena must and WILL come with an overpower-
ing influence upon the world of sceptics and bigots. They have
to prove both destructive and constructive destructive in the
pernicious errors of the past, in the old creeds and superstitions
which suffocate in their poisonous embrace like the Mexican weed
nigh all mankind ; but constructive of new institutions of a
genuine, practical Brotherhood of Humanity where all will become
co-workers of nature, will work for the good of mankind with and
24 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
through the higher planetary Spirits the only
"
Spirits
" we
believe in. Phenomenal elements, previously unthought of
undreamt of will soon begin manifesting themselves day by day
with constantly augmented force, and disclose at last the secrets
of their mysterious workings. Plato was right : ideas rule the
world ; and, as men's minds will receive new ideas, laying aside
the old and effete, the world will advance :
mighty revolutions will
spring from them ;
creeds and even powers will crumble before
their onward march crushed by the irresistible force. It will be
just as impossible to resist their influx, when the time comes, as
to stay the progress of the tide. But all this will come gradually
on, and before it comes we have a duty set before us ;
that of
sweeping away as much as possible the dross left to us by our
pious forefathers. New ideas have to be planted on clean places,
for these ideas touch upon the most momentous subjects. It is
not physical phenomena but these universal ideas that we study,
as to comprehend the former, we have to first understand the
latter. They touch man's true position in the universe, in rela-
tion to his previous and future births ;
his origin and ultimate
destiny ;
the relation of the mortal to the immortal ; of the tem-
porary to the eternal ;
of the finite to the infinite ;
ideas larger,
grander, more comprehensive, recognising the universal reign of
Immutable Law, unchanging and unchangeable in regard to which
there is only an ETERNAL Now, while to uninitiated mortals time
is past or future as related to their finite existence on this material
speck of dirt. This is what we study and what many have solved.
And now it is your province to decide which will you have : the
highest philosophy or simple exhibitions of occult powers. Of
course this is by far not the last word between us and you will
have time to think it over. The Chiefs want a
"
Brotherhood of
Humanity,*' a real Universal Fraternity started; an institution
which would make itself known throughout the world and arrest
the attention of the highest minds. I will send you my Essay.
Will you be my co-worker and patiently wait for minor
phenomena? I think I foresee the answer. At all events the holy
lamp of spiritual light burning in you (however dimly) there is
hope for you, and for me, also. Yes ; put yourself in search
after natives if there are no English people to be had. But think
you, the spirit and power of persecution gone from this enlightened
age? Time will prove. Meanwhile, being human I have to rest.
I took no sleep for over 60 hours.
Ever yours truly,
KOOT' HOOML
"THE OCCULT WORLD SERIES" 25
LETTER No. VII
Enclosed in Mad. B.'s from Bombay. Received January 3oth, 1881.
There is no fault on your part in the whole matter. I am sorry
you should think I am imputing any fault to you. If anything,
you might almost feel you had to blame me for giving you hopes
without having the shadow of such a right. I ought to have been
less optimistic and then you would have been less sanguine in your
expectations. I really feel as if I had wronged you !
Happy,
thrice happy and blessed are they, who have never consented to
visit the world beyond their snow-capped mountains ;
whose
physical eyes have never lost sight of for one day of the endless
ranges of hills, and the long unbroken line of eternal snows !
Verily and indeed, do they live in, and have found their Ultima
Thule. . . .
Why say, you are a victim of circumstances, since nothing is
yet seriously changed and that much, if not all, depends upon
future developments? You were not asked or expected to revo-
lutionise your life habits, but at the same time you were warned
not to expect too much as you are. If you read between the lines
you must have remarked what I said about the very narrow
margin left to me for doing as / choose in the matter. But
despond not, for it is all but a matter of time. The world was
not evolved between two monsoons, my good friend. If you had
come to me as a boy of 17, before the world had put its heavy
hand upon you, your task would have been twenty-fold easier.
And now, we must take you, and you must see yourself as you
are, not as the ideal human image which our emotional fancy
always projects for us upon the glass. Be patient, friend and
brother ;
and I must repeat again-r-be our helpful co-worker ; but
in your own sphere, and according to your ripest judgment.
Since our venerable Hobilgan has decreed in his wise prevision
that I had no right to encourage you to enter a path, where you
would have to roll the stone of Sisyphus, held back as you surely
would be by your previous and most sacred duties we really
must wait. I know your motives are sincere and true, and that
a real change, and in the right direction, has come over you,
though even to yourself that change is imperceptible. And the
chiefs know it too. But, say they motives are vapours, as
attenuated as the atmospheric moisture :
and, as the latter de-
velops its dynamic energy for man's use only when concentrated
and applied as steam or hydraulic power, so the practical value of
good motives is best seen when they take the form of deeds.
. . .
"
Yes, we will wait and see
"
they say. And now I have
told you as much as I ever had the right to say. You have more
26 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
than once already helped this Society, even though you did not
care for it
yourself, and these deeds are upon record. Nay they
are even more meritorious in you, than they would [be] in anyone
else, considering your well grounded ideas of that poor organiza-
tion at present. And, you have thereby won a friend one, far
higher and better than myself and one who will in future help
me to defend your cause, able as he is, to do it far more effectu-
ally than I can, for he belongs to the
"
foreign Section."
I believe I have laid down for you the general lines on which
we wish the work of organizing if possible the Anglo-Indian
Branch to proceed : the details must be left to you if you are
still willing to help me.
If you have anything to say or ask any questions, you better
write to me and I will always answer your letters. But, ask for
no phenomena for a while, as it is but such paltry manifestations
which now stand in your way.
Yours ever truly,
K. H.
LETTER No. VIII
Received through Mad. B. About February 2oth, 1881.
My dear friend, you are certainly on the right path : the path of
deeds and actions, not meie words may you live long and keep
on ! ... I hope this will not be regarded by you as an
encouragement to be
"
goody goody
"
a happy expression which
made me laugh but you indeed step in as a kind of Kalka Avatar
dispelling the shadows of
"
Kali-yug
" the black night of the
perishing T.S. and driving away before you the fata morgana of
its Rules. I must cause the word fecit to appear after your
name in invisible but indelible characters on the list of the General
Council, as it may prove some day a secret door to the heart of
the sternest of Hobilgans. . . .
Though a good deal occupied alas, as usual, I must contrive
to send you a somewhat lengthy farewell epistle before you take
up a journey that may have most important results and not alone
for our cause. . . . You understand, do you not, that it is
no fault of mine if I cannot meet you as I would ? Nor is it yours,
but rather that of your life-long environment and a special delicate
task I have been entrusted with since I knew you. Do not blame
me then, if I do not show myself in more tangible shape, as not
you alone, but I
myself might desire I When I am not permitted to
do so for Olcott who has toiled for us these five years, how could
I be for others who have undergone none of his training as yet?
This applies equally to the case of the Lord Crawford and Bal-
carres, an excellent gentleman imprisoned by the world. His is
"THE OCCULT WORLD SERIES "
27
a sincere and noble, though may be a little too repressed nature.
He asks what hope he may have? I
say every hope. For he
has that within himself that so very few possess : an exhaustless
source of magnetic fluid which, if he only had the time, he could
call out in torrents and need no other master than himself. His
own powers would do the work and his own great experience be a
sure guide for him. But, he would have to guard against, and
avoid every foreign influence especially those antagonistic to the
nobler study of MAN as an integral Brahm, the microcosm free and
entirely independent of either the help or control of the invisible
agencies the
" new dispensation
"
(bombastic word !) calls
"
Spirits." His Lordship will understand my meaning without
any further explanation : he. is welcome to read this if he chooses,
if the opinions of an obscure Hindu interest him. Were he a
poor man, he might have become an English Dupotet, with the
addition of great scientific attainments in exact science. But
alas ! what the peerage has gained psychology has lost. . . .
And yet it is not too late. But see, even after mastering magnetic
science and giving his powerful mind to the study of the noblest
branches of exact science, how even he has failed to lift more than
a small corner of the veil of mystery. Ah ! that whirling, showy,
glittering world, full of insatiable ambition, where family and the
State parcel out between them a man's nobler nature, as two
tigers a carcase, and leave him without hope or light ! How many
recruits could we not have from it, if no sacrifice were exacted !
His Lordship 's letter to you exhales an influence of sincerity
tinged with regret. This is a good man at heart with latent
capacity for being a far better and a happier one. Had his lot
not been cast as it has, and had his intellectual power all been
turned upon Soul-culture, he would have achieved much more than
he ever dreamt. Out of such material were adepts made in the
days of Aryan glory. But I must dwell no longer upon this case ;
and I crave his Lordship's pardon if, in the bitterness of my
regret I over-stepped in any way the bounds of propriety, in this
too free
"
psychometrical delineation of character" as the
American mediums would express it ... full measure only
bounds excess
" but I dare go no further. Ah, my too positive
and yet impatient friend, if you but had such latent capacities !
The " direct communication
" with me of which you write in
your supplement note, and the "enormous advantage" that it
would bring
" to the book itself, if it can be conceded," would be
so conceded at once, did it depend but of me alone. Though it is
not often judicious to repeat oneself, yet I am so anxious that you
should realize the present impracticability of such an arrangement,
were it even conceded by our Superiors, that I will indulge in a
brief retrospect of principles stated.
28 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
We might leave out of the question the most vital point one,
you would hesitate perhaps to believe that the refusal con-
cerns as much your own salvation (from the standpoint of
your worldly material considerations) as my enforced com-
pliance with our time honoured Rules. Again I might cite the
case of Olcott (who, had he not been permitted to communicate
face to face and without any intermediary with us, might have
subsequently shown less zeal and devotion but more discretion)
and his fate up to the present. But, the comparison would doubt-
less appear to you strained. Olcott would you say is an
enthusiast, a stubborn, unreasoning mystic, who goes headlong
before him, blindfolded, and who will not allow himself to look
forward with his own eyes. While you are a sober, matter-of-
fact man of the world, the son of your generation of cool thinkers ;
ever keeping fancy under the curb, and saying to enthusiasm :
14
Thus far shalt thou go and no farther." . . .
Perhaps you
are right perhaps not.
" No Lama knows where the ber-chhtn
will hurt him until he puts it on," says a Tibetan proverb. How-
ever, let that pass, for I must tell you now that for opening
" direct communication "
the only possible means would be :
(i) For each of us to meet in our own physical bodies. I being
where I am, and you in your own quarters, there is a material
impediment for me. (2) For both to meet in our astral form
which would necessitate your
*'
getting out
M
of yours, as well as
my leaving my body. The spiritual impediment to this is on your
part. (3) To make you hear my voice either within you or near
you as
"
the old lady
"
does. This would be feasible in either of
two ways :
(a) My chiefs have but to give me permission to set
up the conditions and this for the present they refuse ;
or (b) for
you to hear my voice, i.e., my natural voice without any psycho-
physiological tamasha being employed by me (again as we often
do among ourselves). But then, to do this, not only have one's
spiritual senses to be abnormally opened, but one must himself
have mastered the great secret yet undiscovered by science of,
so to say abolishing all the impediments of space ;
of neutralising
for the time being the natural obstacle of intermediary particles
of air and forcing the waves to strike your ear in reflected sounds
or echo. Of the latter you know as yet only enough to regard
this as an unscientific absurdity. Your physicists, not having
until recently mastered acoustics in this direction, any further than
to acquire a perfect (?) knowledge of the vibration of sonorous
bodies and of reverberations through tubes, may sneeringly ask :
"
Where are your indefinitely continued sonorous bodies, to con-
duct through space the vibrations of the voice?
"
We answer that
our tubes, though invisible, are indestructible and far more per-
fect than those of modern physicists, by whom the velocity of the
"THE OCCULT WORLD SERIES "
29
transmission of mechanical force through the air is represented as
at the rate of 1,100 feet a second and no more if I mistake not.
But then, may there not be people who Have found more perfect
and rapid means of transmission, from being* somewhat better
acquainted with the occult powers of air (akas) and having plus
a more cultivated judgment of sounds? But of this we will argue
later on.
There is still more serious inconvenience ;
an almost insur-
mountable obstacle for the present, and one, under which I
my-
self am labouring, while even I do no more than correspond with
you, a simple thing that any other mortal could do. It is my
utter inability to make you understand my meaning in my ex-
planation of even physical phenomena, let alone the spiritual
rationale* This is not the first time I mention it. It is, as
though a child should ask me to teach him the highest problems of
Euclid before he had even begun studying the elementary rules of
arithmetic. Only the progress one makes in the study of Arcane
knowledge from its rudimental elements, brings him gradually to
understand our meaning. Only thus, and not otherwise, does it,
strengthening and refining those mysterious links of sympathy
between intelligent men the temporarily isolated fragments of
the universal Soul and the cosmic Soul itself bring them into full
rapport. Once this established, then only will these awakened
sympathies serve, indeed, to connect MAN with what for the want
of a European scientific word more competent to express the idea,
I am again compelled to describe as that energetic chain which
binds together the material and Immaterial Kosmos, Past,
Present, and Future and quicken his perceptions so as to clearly
grasp, not merely all things of matter, but of Spirit also. I feel
even irritated at having to use these three clumsy words past,
present and future ! Miserable concepts of the objective phases of
the Subjective Whole, they are about as ill adapted for the pur-
pose as an axe for fine carving. Oh, my poor, disappointed
friend, that you were already so far advanced on THE PATH,
that this simple transmission of ideas should not be encumbered
by the conditions of matter, the union of your mind with ours
prevented by its induced incapabilities ! Such is unfortunately the
inherited and self-acquired grossness of the Western mind ;
and
so greatly have the very phrases expressive of modern thoughts
been developed in the line of practical materialism, that it is now
next to impossible either for them to comprehend or for us to
express in their own languages anything of that delicate seemingly
ideal machinery of the Occult Kosmos. To some little extent that
faculty can be acquired by the Europeans through study and medi-
tation but that's all. And here is the bar which has hitherto pre-
vented a conviction of the theosophical truths from gaining wider
30 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
currency among Western Nations; caused theosophical study to
be cast aside as useless and fantastic by Western philosophers.
How shall I teach you to read and write or even comprehend a
language of which no alphabet palpable, or words audible to you
have yet been invented ! How could the phenomena of our
modern electrical science be explained to say, a Greek philosopher
of the days of Ptolemy were he suddenly recalled to life with
such an unbridged hiatus in discovery as would exist between his
and our age? Would not the very technical terms be to him an
unintelligible jargon, an abracadabra of meaningless sounds, and
the very instruments and apparatuses used, but
"
miraculous
"
monstrosities? And suppose, for one instant, I were to describe
to you the hues of those colour rays that lie beyond the so-called
" visible spectrum
"
rays invisible to all but a very few even
among us ;
to explain, how we can fix in space any one of the so-
called subjective or accidental colours the complement, (to speak
mathematically) moreover, of any other given colour of a dichro-
matic body (which alone sounds like an absurdity), could you
comprehend, do you think, their optical effect or even my mean-
ing? And, since you see them not, such rays, nor can know them,
nor have you any names for them as yet in Science, if I were to
tell you :
"
My good friend Sinnett, if you please, without mov-
ing from your writing desk, try search for, and produce before
your eyes the whole solar spectrum decomposed into fourteen pris-
matic colours (seven being complementary), as it is but with the
help of that occult light that you can see me from a distance as I
see you
" . . . . what think you, would be your answer?
What would you have to reply ? Would you not be likely enough
to retort by telling me in your own quiet, polite way, that as there
never were but seven (now three) primary colours, which, more-
over, have never yet by any known physical process been seen
decomposed further than the seven prismatic hues my invitation
was as
" unscientific
" as it was "
absurd
" ? Adding that my
offer to search for an imaginary solar
"
complement
"
being no
compliment to your knowledge of physical science I had better,
perhaps, go and search for my mythical
"
dichromatic
" and solar
'
pairs
" in Thibet, for modern science has hitherto been unable to
bring under any theory even so simple a phenomenon as the
colours of all such dichromatic bodies. And yet truth knows
these colours are objective enough !
So you see, the insurmountable difficulties in the way of attain-
ing not only Absolute but even primary knowledge in Occul
Science, for one situated as you are. How could you make your
self understood command in fact, those semi-intelligent Forces,
whose means of communicating with us are not through spoken
words but through sounds and colours, in correlations between the
"THE OCCULT WORLD SERIES" 31
vibrations of the two? For sound, light and colours are the main
factors in forming these grades of Intelligences, these beings, of
whose very existence you have no conception, nor are you allowed
to believe in them Atheists and Christians, materialists and
Spiritualists, all bringing forward their respective arguments
against such a belief Science objecting stronger than either of
these to such a
"
degrading superstition
" !
Thus, because they cannot with one leap over the boundary
walls attain to L,e pinnacles of Eternity ; because we cannot take
a savage from the centre of Africa and make him comprehend at
once the Principia of Newton or the
"
Sociology
" of Herbert
Spencer; or make an unlettered child write a new Iliad in old
Achai&n Greek ; or an ordinary painter depict scenes in Saturn or
sketch the inhabitants of Arcturus because of all this our very
existence is denied ! Yes ;
for this reason are believers in us pro-
nounced impostors and fools, and the very science which leads to
the highest goal of the highest knowledge, to the real tasting of
the Tree of Life and Wisdom is scouted as a wild flight of
Imagination !
Most earnestly do I ask you not to see in the above a mere ven-
tilation of personal feeling. My time is precious and I have none
to lose. Still less ought you to see in this an effort to disgust or
dissuade you from the noble work you have just begun. Nothing
of the kind ;
for what I now say may avail for as much as it can
and no more ;
but vera pro gratis I WARN you, and will say no
more, apart from reminding you in a general way, that the task
you are so bravely undertaking, that Missio in partis infidelium
is the most ungrateful, perhaps, of all tasks !
But, if you believe
in my friendship for you, if you value the word of honour of one
who never never during his whole life polluted his lips with an
untruth, then do not forget the words I once wrote to you (see my
last letter) of those who engage themselves in the occult sciences;
he who does it
" must either reach the goal or perish. Once
fairly started on the way to the great Knowledge, to doubt is to
risk insanity ;
to come to a dead stop is to fall ; to recede is to
tumble backward, headlong into an abyss." Fear not, if you
are sincere, and that you are now. Are you as sure of yourself,
as to future ?
But I believe it quite time to turn to less transcendental and
what you would call less gloomy and more mundane matters.
Here, no doubt, you will be much more at home. Your experi-
ence, your training, your intellect, your knowledge of the exterior
world, in short, all combine to aid you in the accomplishment of
the task you have undertaken. For, they place you on an infinitely
higher level than myself as regards the consideration of writing a
book, after your Society's
" own heart.
M
Though the interest I take
32 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
in it may amaze some who are likely to retort on me and my col-
leagues with our own arguments, and to remark that our
"
boasted
elevation over the common herd
"
(our friend Mr. Hume's words)
above the interests and passions of ordinary humanity, must
militate against our having any conception of the ordinary affairs
of life yet I confess that I do take an interest in this book and
its success, as great as in the success in life of its future author.
I hope that at least you will understand that we (or most of us)
are far frofn being the heartless, morally dried up mummies some
would fancy us to be.
"
Mejnoor
"
is very well, where he is
as an ideal character of a thrilling in many respects truthful
story. Yet, believe me, few of us would care to play the part in
life of a dessicated pansy between the leaves of a volume of solemn
poetry. We may not be quite the
"
boys
" to quote Olcott's
irreverent expression when speaking of us yet none of our
degree arc like the stern hero of Bulwer's romance. While the
facilities of observation secured to some of us by our condition
certainly give a greater breadth of view, a more pronounced and
impartial, as a more widely spread humaneness for answering
Addison, we might justly maintain that it is . . .
" the
business of
4
magic
'
to humanise our natures with compassion
" for
the whole mankind as all living beings, instead of concentrating
and limiting our affections to one predilected race yet few of us
(except such as have attained the final negation of Moksha) can
so far enfranchise ourselves from the influence of our earthly con-
nection as to be insusceptible in various degrees to the higher
pleasures, emotions, and interests of the common run of humanity.
Until final emancipation reabsorbs the Ego, it must be conscious
of the purest sympathies called out by the esthetic effects of high
art, its tenderest cords respond to the call of the holier and
nobler human attachments. Of course, the greater the progress
towards deliverance, the less this will be the case, until, to crown
all, human and purely individual personal feelings blood-ties and
friendship, patriotism and race predilection all will give away, to
become blended into one universal feeling, the only true and holy,
the only unselfish and Eternal one Love, an Immense Love for
humanity as a IV hole ! For it is
"
Humanity" which is the
great Orphan, the only disinherited one upon this earth, my friend.
And it is the duty of every man who is capable of an unselfish
impulse, to do something, however little, for its welfare. Poor,
poor humanity ! It reminds me of the old fable of the war between
the Body and its members : here too, each limb of this huge
"
Orphan
M fatherless and motherless selfishly cares but for it-
self. The body uncared for suffers eternally, whether the limbs
are at war or at rest. Its suffering and agony never cease.
. . . And who can blame it as vour materialistic philosophers
"THE OCCULT WORLD SERIES" 33
do if, in this everlasting isolation and neglect it has evolved
gods, unto whom "
it ever cries for help but is not heard !
"
. . . Thus
"
Since there is hope for man only in man
I would not let one cry whom I could save ! . . .
"
Yet I confess that I, individually, am not yet exempt from some
of the terrestrial attachments. I am still attracted toward some
men more than toward others, and philanthropy as preached by
our Great Patron
"
the Saviour of the World the Teacher of
Nirvana and the Law . . . ." has never killed in me either
individual preferences of friendship, love for my next of kin,
or the ardent feeling of patriotism for the country in which 1
was last materially individualized. And, in this connection, I
may
some day, unasked, offer a bit of advice to my friend Mr. Sinnett,
to whisper into the ear of the Editor of the PIONEER En
attendant
"
May I
beg the former to inform Dr. Wyld, the
Prest. of the British T.S., of the few truths concerning us as
shown above? Will you kindly undertake to persuade this ex-
cellent gentleman, that not one of the humble
"
dew drops
M
which, assuming under various pretexts the form of vapour, have
at various periods disappeared in the space to congeal in the white
Himalayan clouds, have ever tried to slip back into the shining
Sea of Nirvana through the unhealthy process of hanging by the
legs or by making unto themselves another
"
coat of skin
" out
of the sacred cow-dung of the
"
thrice holy cow " I The British
President labours under the most original ideas about us, whom
he persists in calling
"
Yogis," without allowing the slightest
margin to the enormous differences which exist even between
"
Hatha and Raj Yog." This mistake must be laid at the door
of Mrs. B. the able editor of
" The Theosophist "; who fills up
her volumes with the practices of divers Sannyasis and other
" blessed ones " from the plains, without ever ^troubling herself
with a few additional lines of explanation.
And now, to still more important matters. Time is precious
and material (I mean writing material) is still more so.
" Pre-
cipitation
" in your case having become unlawful; lack of
whether ink or paper standing no better chance for
"
Tamasha,
M and I, being far away from home, and at a place
where a stationer's shop is less needed than breathing air, our
correspondence threatens to break very abruptly, unless I
manage my stock in hand judiciously. A friend promises to
supply me in case of great need with a few stray sheets, memento
relics of his grandfather's will, by which he disinherited him and
thus made his "fortune." But, as he never wrote one line but
34 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
once, he says for the last eleven years, except on such
" double
superfin glace
"
made at Thibet as you might irreverently mis-
take for blotting paper in its primitive days, and that the will is
drawn upon a Uke material we might as well turn to your book
at once. Since you do me the favour of asking my opinion, I
may tell you that the idea is an excellent one. Theosophy needs
such help, and the results will be what you anticipate in England
as well. It may also help our friends in Europe generally.
I lay no restrictions upon your making use of anything I may
have written to you or Mr. Hume, having full confidence in your
tact and judgment as to what should be printed and how it should
be presented. I must only ask you for reasons upon which I
must be silent (and I am sure you will respect that silence) not to
use one single word or passage front my last letter to you the
one written after my long silence, no date, and the first one for-
warded to you by our
"
old lady." I just quoted from it at
page 4. Do me the favour, if my poor epistles are worth pre-
serving, to lay it by in a separate and sealed envelope. You may
have to unseal it only after a certain period of time has elapsed.
As to the rest I relinquish it to the mangling tooth of criticism.
Nor would I interfere with the plan you have roughly sketched
"out in your mind. But I would strongly recommend you in its
execution to lay the greatest stress upon small circumstances
(could you oblige me with some receipt for blue ink? !)
which tend
to show the impossibility of fraud or conspiracy. Reflect well, how
bold a thing it is to endorse phenomena as adeptic which the
Spirits**, have already stamped as proofs of mediumship and
skeptics as legerdemain. You should not omit one jot or tittle
of collateral evidence that supports your position, something you
have neglected doing in your
" A " letter in the Pioneer. For
instance, my friend tells me that it was a thirteenth cup and the
pattern unmatchable, in Simla at least.* The pillow was
chosen by yourself and yet the word "
pillow
" occurs in my note
to you, just as the word "
tree
" or anything else would have
been substituted, had you chosen another depository, instead of
the pillow. You will find. all such trifles serving you as the most
powerful shield for yourself against ridicule and sneers. Then
you will of course, aim to show that this Theosophy is no new
candidate for the world's attention, but only the restatement of
*
So, at least, Mrs. S. says.; I myself did not search the crockery
shops ; so too, the bottle filled with water I filled with my own hand was one
of the four only that the servants had in the baskets, and these four bottles had
but just been brought back empty by these peons from their fruitless search
after water, when you sent them to the little brewery with a note. Hoping to
be excused for the interference and with my most respectful regards to the lady.
Yours, etc., THE "DISINHERITED."
"THE OCCULT WORLD SERIES" 35
principles which have been recognised from the very infancy of
mankind. The historic sequence ought to be succinctly yet
graphically traced through the successive evolutions of philosophi-
cal schools, and illustrated with accounts of the experimental
demonstrations of occult power ascribed to various thau-
maturgists. The alternate breakings-out and subsidences of
mystical phenomena, as well as their shiftings from one centre to
another of population, show the conflicting play of the opposing
forces of spirituality and animalism. And lastly it will appear
that the present tidal-wave of phenomena, with its varied effects
upon human thought and feeling, made the revival of Theosophical
enquiry an indispensable necessity. The only problem to solve is
the practical one, of how best to promote the necessary study, and
give to the spiritualistic movement a needed upward impulse. It
is a good beginning to make the inherent capabilities of the inner,
living man better comprehended. To lay down the scientific
proposition that since akrshu (attraction) and Prshu (repulsion)
are the law of nature, there can be no intercourse or relations
between clean and unclean Souls embodied or disembodied ;
and
hence, ninety-nine hundredths of supposed spiritual communica-
tions, are, prima facie false. Here is as great a fact to work
upon as you can find, and it cannot be made too plain. So, while
a better selection might have been made for the Theosophist in
the way of illustrative anecdotes, as, for instance, well authenti-
cated historical cases, yet the theory of turning the minds of
phenomenalists into useful and suggestive channels away from
mere mediumistic dogmatism was the correct one.
What I meant by the
" Forlorn Hope
" was that when one re-
gards the magnitude of the task to be undertaken by our theo-
sophical volunteers, and especially the multitudinous agencies
arrayed, and to be arrayed, in opposition, we may well compare
it, to one of those desperate efforts against overwhelming odds
that the true soldier glories to attempt. You have done well to
see the
"
large purpose
" in the small beginnings of the T.S. Of
course, if we had undertaken to found and direct it in propria
persona very likely it would have accomplished more and made
fewer mistakes, but we could not do this, nor was it the plan : our
two agents are given the task and left as you now are to do
the best they could under the circumstances. And much has been
wrought. Under the surface of Spiritualism, runs a current that
is wearing a broad channel for itself. When it reappears above
ground its effects will be apparent. Already many minds like
yours are pondering the question of occult law forced upon the
thinking public by this agitation. Like you, they are dissatisfied
with what has been hitherto attainable and clamour for better.
Let this encourage you.
36 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
It is not quite accurate that by having such minds in the Society
they would be
"
under conditions more favourable for observa-
tion
"
for us. Rather put it, that by the act of joining other
sympathisers in this organization they are stimulated to effort and
incite each other to investigate. Unity always gives strength :
and since Occultism in our days resembles a
"
Forlorn Hope,"
union and co-operation are indispensable. Union does indeed
imply a concentration of vital and magnetic force against the
hostile currents of prejudice and fanaticism.
I wrote a few words in the Maratha boy's letter, only to show
you that he was obeying orders in submitting his views to you.
Apart from his exaggerated idea about huge fees, his letter is in
a way worth considering. For Damodar is a Hindu and knows
the mind of his people at Bombay ; though the Bombay Hindus
are about as unspiritual a group as can be found in all India.
But, like the devoted enthusiastic lad he is, he jumped after the
misty form of his own ideas even before I could give them the
right direction. All quick thinkers are hard to impress in a flash
they are out and away in
"
full cry," before half understanding
what one wants to have them think. This is our trouble with
both Mrs. B. and O. The frequent failure of the latter to carry
out the suggestions he sometimes receives even when written, is
almost wholly due to his own active mentality preventing his dis-
tinguishing our impressions from his own conceptions. And
Missus B. 's trouble is (apart from physical ailment) that she
sometimes listens to two or more of our voices at once; e.g., this
morning while the
"
Disinherited," whom I have accommodated
with space for a footnote was talking with her on an important
matter, she lent an ear to one of ours, who is passing through
Bombay from Cyprus, on his way to Thibet and so got both in
an inextricable confusion. Women do lack the power of con-
centration.
And now, my good friend and co-worker an irremediable paper-
less condition obliges me to close. Farewell, until your return,
unless you will be content, as hitherto, to pass our correspondence
through the accustomed channel. Neither of us would prefer this.
But until authority is given to change it must be even so. Were
she to die to-day and she is really sick you would not receive
more than two, or at most three more letters from me (through
Damodar or Olcott, or through already established emergent
agencies), and then, that reservoir of force being exhausted our
parting would be FINAL. However, I will not anticipate; events
might bring jus together somewhere in Europe. But whether we
meet or not, during your trip, be assured that my personal good
wishes will attend you. Should you actually need now and again
the help of a happy thought as your work progresses, it
may,
"THE OCCULT WORLD SERIES" 37
very likely be, osmosed into your head if
sherry bars not the
way, as it has already done at Allahabad.
May the
"
deep Sea "
deal gently with you and your house.
Ever yours,
K. H.
P.S. The "
friend
" of whom the Lord Lindsay speaks in his
letter to you, is, I am sorry to say, a true skunk mephitis, who
managed to perfume himself with ess-bouquet in his presence dur-
ing- their palmy days of friendship, and so avoided being recog-
nised by his natural stench. It is Home the medium, a convert
to Roman Catholicism, then to Protestantism, and finally to the
Greek Church. He is the bitterest and most cruel enemy O. and
Mad. B. have, though he has never met either of them. For a
certain time he succeeded in poisoning the Lord's mind, and
prejudiced 'him against them. I do not like saying anything be-
hind a man's back, for it looks like back-biting. Yet in view of
some future events I feel it my duty to warn you, for this one is
an exceptionally bad man hated by the Spiritualists and mediums
as much as he is despised by those who have learned to know
him. Yours is a work which clashes directly with his. Though
a poor sickly cripple, a paralysed wretch, his mental faculties are
as fresh and as alive as ever to mischief. He is no man to stop
before a slanderous accusation however vile and lying. So
beware. K. H.
SECTION II
PHILOSOPHICAL AND THEORETICAL TEACHINGS
1881-1883
LETTER No. IX
From K.H., first letter received on return to India, July 8th, 1881, while
staying with Madame B. at Bombay for a few days.
Welcome good friend and brilliant author, welcome back !
Your letter at hand, and I am happy to see your personal .experi-
ence with the
"
Elect
" of London proved so successful. But, I
foresee, that more than ever now, you will become an incarnate
note of interrogation. Beware ! If your questions are found
premature by the powers that be, instead of receiving my answers
in their pristine purity you may find them transformed into yards
of drivel. I am too far gone to feel a hand on my throat when-
ever trenching on the limits of forbidden topics ;
not enough to
avoid feeling myself uncomfortably so like a worm of yesterday
before our
" Rock of Ages." My Cho-Khan. We must all be
blindfolded before we can pass onward ;
or else, we have to re-
main outside.
And now, what about the book? Le quart d'heure de Rabelais
is striking, and, finds me, if not quite insolvent, yet quasi-
trembling at the idea that the first instalment offered may be found
below the mark ; the price claimed inadequate with my poor
resources ; myself led pro bono publico to trespass beyond the
terrible
"
hitherto shalt thou go, and no further," and the angry
wave of the Cho-Khan's wrath swamping me blue ink and all ! I
fondly hope you will not make me lose
"
my situation."
Quite so. For, I have a dim notion that you will be very
impatient with me. I have a very clear notion that you need not
be. It is one of the unfortunate necessities of life that imperial
needs do sometimes force one apparently to ignore the claims of
friendship, not to violate one's word, but to put off and lay aside
for a while the too impatient expectations of neophytes as of
inferior importance. One such need that I call imperial is the
need of your future welfare ;
the realization of the dream dreamt
by you in company with S.M. That dream shall we call it a
vision? was, that you, and Mrs. K. why forget the Theos.
Soc. ? "are all parts of a large plan for the manifestations of
3*
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 39
occult philosophy to the world." Yes; the time must come, and
it is not far when all of you will comprehend aright the appar-
ently contradictory phases of such manifestations ; forced by the
evidence to reconcile them. The case not being so at present,
meanwhile remember : it is because we are playing a risky game
and the stakes are human souls that I ask you to possess yours
in patience. Bearing in mind that I have to look after your
"
Soul
"
and mine too, I
propose to do so at whatever cost,
even at the risk of being misunderstood by you as I was by Mr.
Hume. The work is made the more difficult by my being a lonely
labourer in the field, and that, as long as I fail to prove to my
superiors that you, at least mean business ; that you are in right
good earnest. As I am refused higher help, so will you fail to
easily find help in that Society in which you move, and which you
try to move. Nor will you find, for a certain time much joy in those
directly concerned. Our old lady is weak and her nerves are
worked to a fiddle string; so is her jaded brain. H.S.O. is far
away in exile fighting his way back to salvation compromised
more than you imagine by his Simla indiscretions and establish-
ing theosoph. schools. Mr. Hume who once promised to be-
come a champion fighter in that Battle of Light against Darkness
now preserves a kind of armed neutrality wondrous to behold.
Having made the mirific discovery that we are a body of anti-
diluvian Jesuits of fossiles self-crowned with oratorial flourishes,
he rested but to accuse us of intercepting his letters to H.P.B. !
However, he finds some comfort by thinking
"
what a jolly argu-
ment he shall have elsewhere (Angel Linnean ornithological
Society, perhaps) with the entity which is represented by the name
Koothoomi.
"
Verily has our very intellectual, once mutual
friend, a flood of words at his command which would suffice to
float a troop ship of oratorious fallacies. Nevertheless I respect
him. . . . But who next? C. C. Massey? But then he is
the hapless parent of about half a dozen of illegitimate brats. He
is a most charming, devoted friend ;
a profound mystic ; a
generous, noble minded man, a gentleman as they say every
inch of him; tried as gold; every requisite for a student of
occultism, but none for an adept, my good friend. Be it as it
may, his secret is his own, and I have no right to divulge it. Dr.
Wyld? a Christian to the back bone. Hood? a sweet nature,
as you say ; a dreamer, and an idealist in mystic matters, yet no
worker. S. Moses? Ah ! here we are. S,M. has nearly upset
the theosoph. ark set afloat three years back : and, he will do
his level best to do it over again our Imperator notwithstanding.
You doubt? Listen.
His is a weird, rare nature. His occult psychical energies are
tremendous; but they have lain dormant, folded up within him
40 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
and unknown to himself, when, some eight years or so, Imperator
threw his eye upon him and bid his spirit soar. Since then, a new
life has been in him, a dual existence, but his nature could not
be changed. Brought up as a theological student, his mind was
devoured by doubts. Earlier, he betook himself to Mount Athos,
where, immuring himself in a monastery, he studied Greek
Eastern religion, and it is there that he was first noticed by his
"
Spirit guide
"
(
!
!)
Of course, Greek casuistry failed .to solve
his doubts, and he hurried on to Rome, popery satisfying him as
little. From thence he wandered to Germany with the same
negative results. Giving up dry Christian theology he did not give
up its presumable founder with all that. He needed an ideal and
he found it in the latter. For him Jesus is a reality, a once
embodied, now a disembodied Spirit, who,
"
furnished him with
an evidence of his personal identity
"
he thinks, in no less a
degree than other
"
Spirits
'*
Imperator among the rest have.
Nevertheless, neither the religions of Jesus nor yet his words, as
recorded in the Bible and believed by S.M. authentic are fully
accepted by that restless Spirit of his. Imperator, on whom the
same fate devolved later on, fares no better. His mind is too
positive. Once impressed it becomes easier to efface characters
engraved upon titanium than impressions made upon his brain.
Whenever under the influence of Imperator he is all alive to
the realities of Occultism, and the superiority of our Science over
Spiritualism. As soon as left alone and under the pernicious
guidance of those he firmly believes having identified with dis-
embodied Souls all becomes confusion again ! His mind will
yield to no suggestions, no reasonings but his own, and those are
-all for Spiritualistic theories. When the old theological fetters
had dropped off, he imagined himself a free man. Some months
later, he became the humble slave and tool of the
"
Spirits
"
! It
is but when standing face to face with his inner Self that he
realizes the truth that there is something higher and nobler than
the prittle-prattle of pseudo Spirits. It was at such a moment
that he heard for the first the voice of Imperator, and it was, as
he himself puts it :
"
as the voice of God speaking to his inner
Self." That voice has made itself familiar to him for years, and
yet he very often heeds it not. A simple query : Were Imper.
what he believes, nay knows him to be, he thinks, would not
he have made S.M.'s will completely subservient to his own by
this time? Alone the adepts, i.e. the embodied spirits are for-
bidden by our wise and intransgressible laws to completely subject
to themselves another and a weaker will, that of free born man.
The latter mode of proceeding is the favourite one resorted to
by the
" Brothers of the Shadow,
1 '
the Sorcerers, the Elementary
Spooks, and, as an isolated exception by the highest Planetary
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 41
Spirits, those, who can no longer err. But these appear on
Earth but at the origin of every new human kind ;
at the junction
of, and close of the two ends of the great cycle. And, they re-
main with man no longer than the time required for the eternal
truths they teach to impress themselves so forcibly upon the plas-
tic minds of the new races as to warrant them from being lost or
entirely forgotten in ages hereafter, by the forthcoming genera-
tions. The mission of the planetary Spirit is but to strike the
KEY NOTE OF TRUTH. Once he has directed the vibration of the
latter to run its course uninterruptedly along the catenation of that
race and to the end of the cycle the denizen of the highest in-
habited sphere disappears from the surface of our planet till the
following
"
resurrection of flesh." The vibrations of the Primi-
tive Truth are what your philosophers name "
innate ideas."
Imperator, then, had repeatedly told him that
" in occultism
alone he should seek for, and will find a phase of truth not yet
known to him." But that did not prevent S.M. at all from turn-
ing his back upon occultism whenever a theory of it clashed with
one of his own preconceived Spiritualistic ideas. To him medium-
ship appeared as the Charter of his Soul's freedom, as resurrec-
tion from Spiritual death. He had been allowed to enjoy it only
so far as it was necessary for the confirmation of his faith :
promised that the abnormal would yield to the normal ;
ordered to
prepare for the time when the Self within him will become con-
scious of its spiritual, independent existence, will act and talk face
to face with its Instructor, and will lead its life in Spiritual
Spheres normally and without external or internal mediumship at
all. And yet once conscious of what he terms M external Spirit
action
" he recognised no more hallucination from truth, the false
from the real :
confounding at times Elementals and Elementaries,
embodied from disembodied Spirit, though he had been oft
enough told of, and warned against
"
those spirits that hover
about the Earth's sphere "by his "Voice of God." With all
that he firmly believes to have invariably acted under Imper's
direction, and that such spirits as have come to him came by his
"
guide's
"
permission. In such a case H.P.B. was there by
Imper's consent? And how do you reconcile the following contra-
dictions. Ever since 1876, acting under direct orders, she tried
to awake him to the reality of what was going on around and in
him. That she must have acted either according to or against
Imper's will he must know, as in the latter case she might boast
of being stronger, more powerful than his
"
guide
"
who never
yet protested against the intrusion. Now what happens?
Writing to her from Isle of Wight, in 1876, of a vision lasting for
over 48 consecutive hours he had, and during which he walked
about, talked as usual, but did not preserve the slightest remem-
42 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
brance of anything external, he asks her to tell him whether it
was a vision or a hallucination. Why did he not ask +I-r?
11
You can tell me for you were there/' he says. ..." You
-changed, yet yourself if you have a Self. ... I suppose
you have, but into that I do not pry." ... At another time
he saw her in his own library looking at him, approaching and
giving him some masonic signs of the Lodge he knows. He
admits that he " saw her as clearly as lie saw Massey who was
there." He saw her on several other occasions, and sometimes
knowing it was H.P.B. he could not recognise her.
" You seem
to me from your appearance as from your letters so different at
times, the mental attitudes so various, that it is quite conceivable
to me, as I am authoritatively told, that you are a bundle of
Entities. ... I have absolute faith in you." In every letter
of his he clamoured for a
"
living Brother
" to her unequivocal
statement that there was one already having charge of him, he
strongly objected. When helped to get free from his too material
body, absent from it for hours and days sometimes his empty
machine run during that period from afar and by external, living
influence, as soon as back, he would begin labouring under the
irradicable impression of having been all that time the vehicle for
another intelligence, a disembodied not embodied Spirit, truth
never once flashing across his mind.
"
Imperator," he wrote to
her,
" traverses your idea about mediumship. He says there
shoHd be no real antagonism between the medium and the adept."
Had he used the word " Seer
" instead of
"
medium " the idea
would have been rendered more correctly, for a man becomes
rarely an adept without being born a natural Seer. Then again.
In September, 1875, ^e knew nothing of the Brothers of the
Shadow our greatest, most cruel, and why not confess our
most potential Enemies. In that year he actually asked the old
lady whether Bulwer had been eating underdone pork chops and
dreaming when he described
" that hideous Dweller of the
Threshold."
" Make yourself ready," she answered
" in about
twelve months more you will have to face and fight with them."
In October, 1876, they had begun their work upon him.
" I am
fighting
" he wrote
" a hand to hand battle with all the legions
of the Fiend for the past three weeks. My nights are made hideous
with their torments, temptations and foul suggestions. I see
them all around, glaring at me, gabbling, howling, grinning !
Every form of filthy suggestion, of bewildering doubt, of mad and
shuddering fear is upon me ... I can understand Zanoni's Dweller
now ... I have not wavered yet . . . and their temptations are
fainter, the presence less near, the horror less. . . ."
One night she had prostrated herself before her Superior, one
of the few they fear, praying him to wave his hand across the
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 43
ocean, lest S.M. should die, and the Theos. Soc. lose its best
subject.
"
He must be tried
M was the answer. He imagines
that + Imper. had sent the tempters because he S.M. was one
of those Thomases who must see; he would not believe that +
could not help their coming. Watch over him he did he could
not drive them away unless the victim, the neophyte himself,
.proved the strongest. But did these human fiends in league with
the Elementaries prepare him for a new life as he thought they
would ? Embodiments of those adverse influences which beset the
inner Self struggling to be free and to progress, they would never
have returned had he successfully conquered them by asserting his
own independent WILL, by giving up his mediumship, his passive
will. Yet they did.
You say of 4-
*'
Imperator is certainly not his (S.M.'s)
astral soul, and assuredly, also, he is not from a lower world than
our own not an earth-bound Spirit." No one ever said he was
anything of the kind. H.P.B. never told you he was S.M.'s astral
soul, but that what he often mistook for -f was his own higher
Self, his divine atman not linga Sarira or astral Soul, or the
Kama rupa the independent doppelganger again. 4- cannot con-
tradict himself; 4- cannot be ignorant of the truth, so often mis-
represented by S.M. ; + cannot preach the occult Sciences and
then defend mediumship, not even in that highest form described
by his pupil. Mediumship is abnormal. When in further develop-
ment the abnormal has given way to the natural, the controls are
shaken off, and passive obedience is no longer required, then the
medium learns to use his will, to exercise his own power, and be-
comes an adept. The process is one of development and the
neophyte has to go to the end. As long as he is subject to occa-
sional trance he cannot be an adept. S.M. passes the two-thirds
of his life in Trance.
To your question Is Imperator
"
a Planetary Spirit
" and
"
may a Planetary Spirit have been humanly incarnated," I will
first say that there can be no Planetary Spirit that was not once
material or what you call human. When our great Buddha the
patron of all the adepts, the reformer and the codifier of the occult
system, reached first Nirvana on earth, he became a Planetary
Spirit; i.e. his spirit could at one and the same time rove the
interstellar spaces in full consciousness, and continue at will on
Earth in his original and individual body. For the divine Self had
so completely disfranchised itself from matter that it could create
at will an inner substitute for itself, and leaving it in the human
form for days, weeks, sometimes years, affect in no wise by the
change either the vital principle or the physical mind of its body.
By the way, that is the highest form of adeptship man can hope
for on our planet. But it is as rare as the Buddhas themselves,
44 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
the last Khobilgan who reached it
being Sang-Ko-Pa of Kokonor
(XIV Century), the reformer of esoteric as well as of vulgar
Lamaism. Many are those who "
break through the egg-shell,"
few who, once out are able to exercise their Nirira namastaka
fully, when completely out of the body. Conscious life in Spirit
is as difficult for some natures as swimming, is for some bodies.
Though the human frame is lighter in its bulk than water, and
that every person is born with the faculty, so few develop in them-
selves the art of treading water that death by drowning is the
most frequent of accidents. The planetary Spirit of that kind (the
Buddha like) can pass at will into other bodies of more or less
etherialised matter, inhabiting other regions of the Universe.
There are many other grades and orders, but there is no separate
and eternally constituted order of Planetary Spirits. Whether
Imperator is a
"
planetary
" embodied or disembodied, whethei
he is an adept in flesh or out of it, I am not at liberty to say, any
more than he would himself to tell S.M. who I am, or may be,
or even who H.P.B. is. If he himself chooses to be silent on that
subject S.M. has no right to ask me. But then our friend, S.M.
ought to know. Nay : he firmly believes he does. For in his
intercourse with that personage there came a time when not satis-
fied with + assurances, or content to respect his wishes that he,
Imperator & Co. should remain impersonal and unknown save by
their assumed titles, S.M. wrestled with him, Jacob-like, for
months on the point of that spirit 's identity. He was the Biblical
flim-flam all over again.
" I pray thee tell me thy name " and
though answered :
"
Wherefore is it that thou dost ask after my
name? "
what's in a name? he allowed S.M. to label him like
a portmanteau. And so, he is Tat rest now, for he has
"
seen God
face to face
"
; who, after wrestling, and seeing that he prevailed
not, said
M let me go
" and was forced to come to the terms
offered by Jacob. S. Moses. I strongly advise you for your own
information to put that question to your friend. Why should he
be
"
anxiously awaiting/' my reply, since he knows all about -f ?
Did not that
"
Spirit
" tell him a story one day, a queer story,
something what he may not divulge about himself and forbid him
ever mentioning it? What more does he want? That fact, that
he seeks to learn through me the true nature of -f, is a pretty
good proof in itself that he is not as sure of his identity as he
believes he is, or rather would make believe he is. Or is the
question a blind? which?
I
may answer you, what I said to G. H. Fechner one day,
when he wanted to know the Hindu view on what he had written
"
You are right; ... *
every diamond, every crystal, every plant
and star has its own individual soul, besides man and animal . . .'
and.
'
there is a hierarchy of souls from the lowest forms of matter
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 45
up to the World Soul
'
. . .
; but, you are mistaken when adding
to the above the assurance that
*
the spirits of the departed hold
direct psychic communication with Souls that are still connected
with a human body
'
for, they do not." The relative position of
the inhabited worlds in our Solar System would alone preclude
such a possibility. For I trust you have given up the queer idea
a natural result of early Xtian training that there can pos-
sibly be human intelligences inhabiting purely spiritual regions?
You will then as readily understand the fallacy of the Christians
who would burn immaterial souls in a material physical hell as the
mistake of the more educated spiritualists, who lullaby themselves
with the thought that any other but the denizens of the two worlds
immediately interlinked with our own can possibly communicate
with them? However etherial and purified of gross matter they
may be, the pure Spirits are still subject to the physical and uni-
versal laws of matter. They cannot if even they would span the
abyss that separates their worlds from ours. They can be visited
in Spirit, their Spirit cannot descend and reach us. They attract,
they cannot be attracted, their Spiritual polarity being an insuper-
able difficulty in the way. (By-the-bye you must not trust Isis
-literally. The book is but a tentative effort to divert the atten-
tion of the Spiritualists from their preconceptions to the true state
of things. The author was made to hint and point out in the true
direction, to say what things are not, not what they are. Proof
reader helping, a few real mistakes have crept in as on page i,
chapter i, volume i, where divine Essence is made emanating
from Adam instead of the reverse.)
Once fairly started upon that subject, I will endeavour to ex-
plain to you still clearer where lies the impossibility. You will
thus be answered in regard to both Planetary Spirits and seance
room "
Spirits."
The cycle of intelligent existences commences at the highest
worlds or planets the term
"
highest
"
meaning here the most
spiritually perfect. Evoluting from cosmic matter which is
akasa, the primeval not the secondary plastic medium, or Ether
of Science instinctively suspected, unproven as the rest man
first evolutes from this matter in its most sublimated state,
appearing at the threshold of Eternity as a perfectly Etherial
not Spiritual Entity, say a Planetary Spirit. He is but one
remove from the universal and Spiritual World Essence the
Anima Mundi of the Greeks, or that which humanity in its
spiritual decadence has degraded into a mythical personal
God. Hence, at that stage, the Spirit-man is at best an active
Power, an immutable, therefore an unthinking Principle (the term
" immutable
"
being again used here but to denote that state for
the time being, the immutability applying here but to the inner
4e> THE MAHATMA LETTERS
principle which will vanish and disappear as soon as the speck
of the material in him will start on its cyclic work of Evolution
and transformation). In his subsequent descent, and in propor-
tion of the increase of matter he will assert more and more his
activity. Now, the congeries of the star-worlds (including our
own planet) inhabited by intelligent beings may be likened to an
orb or rather an epicycloid formed of rings like a chain worlds
inter-linked together, the totality representing an imaginary end-
less ring, or circle. The progress of man throughout the whole
from its starting to its closing points meeting on the highest
point of its circumference is what we call the Maha Yug or
Great Cycle, the Kuklos, whose head is lost in a crown of absolute
Spirit, and its lowest point of circumference in absolute matter
to viz. the point of cessation of action of the active principle. If
using a more familiar term we call the Great Cycle the Macro-
kosm and its component parts or the inter-linked star worlds
Microkosms, the occultists' meaning in representing each of the
latter as perfect copies of the former will become evident.. The
Great is the Prototype of the smaller cycles : and as such, each
star world has in its turn its own cycle of Evolution which starts
with a purer and ends with a grosser or more material nature.
As they descend, each world presents itself naturally more and
more shadowy, becoming at the
"
antipodes
" absolute matter.
Propelled by the irresistible cyclic impulse the Planetary Spirit
has to descend before he can reascend. On his way he has to
pass through the whole ladder of Evolution, missing no rung, to
halt at every star world as he would at a station ; and, besides the
unavoidable cycle of that particular and every respective star
world to perform in it his own "
life-cycle
"
to, viz. :
returning
and reincarnating as many times as he fails to complete his round
of life in it, as he dies on it before reaching the age of reason as
correctly stated in Isis. Thus far Mrs. Kingsford's idea that the
human Ego is being reincarnated in several successive human
bodies is the true one. As to its being reborn in animal forms
after human incarnation it is the result of her loose way of ex-
pressing things and ideas. Another WOMAN all over again.
Why, she confounds " Soul and Spirit," refuses to discriminate
between the animal and the spiritual Egos the Jiv-atma (or Linga-
Sharir) and the Kama-Pupa (or Atma-Rupa), two as different
things as body and mind, and mind and thought are ! That is
what happens. After circling, so to say, along the arc of the
cycle, circling along and within it (the daily and yearly rotation
of the Earth is as good an illustration as any) when the Spirit-man
reaches our planet, which is one of the lowest, having lost at every
station some of the etherial and acquired an increase of material
nature, both spirit and matter have become pretty much equi-
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 47
Jibrized in him. But then, he has the Earth's cycle to perform ;
and, as in the process of involution and evolution downward,
matter is ever striving to stifle spirit, when arrived to the lowest
point of his pilgrimage, the once pure Planetary Spirit will be
found dwindled to what Science agrees to call a primitive or
Primordial man amidst a nature as primordial speaking geo-
logically, for physical nature keeps pace with the physiological as
well as the spiritual man, in her cyclic career. At that point the
great Law begins its work of selection. Matter found entirely
divorced from spirit is thrown over into the still lower worlds
into the sixth
" GATE " or
"
way of rebirth
"
of the vegetable and
mineral worlds, and of the primitive animal forms. From thence,
matter ground over in the workshop of nature proceeds soulless
back to its Mother Fount ;
while the Egos purified of their dross
are enabled to resume their progress once more onward. It is
here, then, that the laggard Egos perish by the millions. It is
the solemn moment of the
" survival of the fittest," the annihila-
tion of those unfit. It is but matter (or material man) which is
compelled by its own weight to descend to the very bottom of the
*'
circle of necessity" to there assume animal form; as to the
winner of that race throughout the worlds the Spiritual Ego,
he will ascend from star to star, from one world to another,
circling onward to rebecome the once pure planetary Spirit, then
higher still, to finally reach its first starting point, and from thence
to merge into MYSTERY. No adept has ever penetrated beyond
the veil of primitive Kosmic matter. The highest, the most per-
fect vision is limited to the universe of Form and Matter.
But my explanation does not end here. You want to know why
it is deemed supremely difficult if not utterly impossible for pure
disembodied Spirits to communicate with men through mediums
or Phantomosophy. I say, because :
(a) On account of the antagonistic atmospheres respectively
surrounding these worlds ;
(b) Of the entire dissimilarity of physiological and spiritual con-
ditions; and
(c) Because that chain of worlds I have just been telling you
about, is not only an epicycloid but an elliptical orbit of existences,
having, as every ellipse, not one but two points two foci, which
can never approach each other ;
Man being at one focus of it and
pure Spirit at the other.
To this you might object. I can neither help it, nor change
the fact, but there is still another and far mightier impediment.
Like a rosary composed of white and black beads alternating with
each other, so that concatenation of worlds is made up of worlds
of CAUSES and worlds of EFFECTS, the latter the direct result pro-
duced by the former. Thus it becomes evident that every sphere
48 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
of Causes and our Earth is one is not only inter-linked with, and
surrounded by, but actually separated from its nearest neighbour
the higher sphere of Causality by an impenetrable atmosphere
(in its spiritual sense) of effects bordering on, and even inter-
linking, never mixing with the next sphere : for one is active,
the other passive, the world of causes positive, that of effects
negative. This passive resistance can be overcome but under
conditions, of which your most learned Spiritualists have not the
faintest idea. All movement is, so to say polar. It is very diffi-
cult to convey my meaning to you at this point ;
but I will go to
the end. I am aware of my failure to bring before you these to
us axiomatical truths in any other form but that of a simple
logical postulate if so much they being capable of absolute and
unequivocal demonstration, but to the highest Seers. But, I'll
give you food for thinking if nothing else.
The intermediary spheres, being but the projected shadows of
the Worlds of Causes are negatived by the last. They are the
great halting places, the stations in which the new Self-Conscious
Egos to be the self-begotten progeny of the old and disembodied
Egos of our planet are gestated. Before the new phoenix, re-
born of the ashes of its parents can soar higher, to a better, more
spiritual, and perfect world still a world of matter it has to
pass through the process of a new birth, so to say ; and, as on our
earth, where the two-thirds of infants are either still-born or die
in infancy, so in our
"
world of effects. On earth it is the
physiological and mental defects, the sins of the progenitors which
are visited upon the issue : in that land of shadows, the -new and
yet unconscious Ego-foetus becomes the just victim of the trans-
gressions of its old Self, whose karma merit and demerit will
alone weave out its future destiny. In that world, my good
friend, we find but unconscious, self-acting, ex-human machines,
souls in their transition state, whose dormant faculties and indi-
viduality lie as a butterfly in its chrysalis ;
and Spiritualists would
yet have them talk sense !
Caught at times, into the vortex of
the abnormal " mediumistic "
current, they become the uncon-
scious echoes of thoughts and ideas crystallized around those
present. Every positive, well-directed mind is capable of
neutralizing such secondary effects in a seance room. The world
below ours is worse yet. The former is harmless at least ;
it is
more sinned against by being disturbed, than sinning; the latter
allowing the retention of full consciousness as being a hundred-
fold more material, is positively dangerous. The notions of hells
and purgatory, of paradises and resurrections are all caricatured,
distorted echoes of the primeval one Truth, taught humanity in
the infancy of its races by every First Messenger the Plane-
tary Spirit mentioned on the reverse of page the third and whose
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 49
remembrance lingered in the memory of man as Elu of the
Chaldees, Osiris the Egyptian, Vishnu, the first Buddhas and so
on.
The lower world of effects is the sphere of such distorted
Thoughts ;
of the most sensual conceptions, and pictures ;
of
anthropomorphic deities, the out-creations of their creators, the
sensual human minds of people who have never out-grown their
brutehood on earth. Remembering thoughts are things have
tenacity, coherence, and life, that they are real entities the rest
will become plain. Disembodied the creator is attracted naturally
to its creation and creatures ;
sucked in by the Maelstrom dug
out by his own hands. . . . But I must pause, for volumes
would hardly suffice to explain all that was said by me in this
letter.
In reference to your wonder that the views of the three mystics
"
are far from being identical," what does the fact prove? Were
they instructed by disembodied, pure, and wise Spirits even by
those of one remove from our earth on the higher plane would
not the teachings be identical? The question arising:
"
May not
Spirits as well as men differ in ideas?
"
Well, then their teach-
ing aye, of the highest of them since they are the
"
guides
"
of the three great London Seers will not be more authoritative
than those of mortal men.
"
But, they may belong to different
spheres?" Well; if in the different spheres contradictory doc-
trines are propounded, these doctrines cannot contain the Truth,
for Truth is One, and cannot admit of diametrically opposite
views ;
and pure Spirits who see it a5 it is, with. the veil of matter
entirely withdrawn from it cannot err. Now, if we allow of
different aspects or portions of the Whole Truth being visible to
different agencies or intelligences, each under various conditions,
as for example various portions of the one landscape develop
themselves to various persons, at various distances and from
various standpoints if we admit the fact of various or different
agencies (individual Brothers for instance) endeavouring to de-
velop the Egos of different individuals, without subjecting entirely
their wills to their own (as it is forbidden) but by availing them-
selves of their physical, moral, and intellectual idiosyncracies ;
if
\ve add to this the countless kosmical influences which distort and
deflect all efforts to achieve definite purposes : if we remember,
moreover, the direct hostility of the Brethren of the Shadow
always on the watch to perplex and haze the neophyte's brain, I
think we shall have no difficulty in understanding how even a
definite spiritual advance may to a certain extent lead different
individuals to apparently different conclusions and theories.
Having confessed to you that I had no right to interfere with
Imperator's secrets and plans, I must say that so far, however,
50 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
he has proved the wisest of us. Had our policy been the same,
had I, for instance allowed you to infer and then believe (without
stating anything positive myself) that I was a
"
disembodied
angel
"
a Spirit of pellucid electroidal essence, from the Super-
Stellar phantasmatical zone we would both be happier. You
you would not have worried your head as to
"
whether agencies
of that sort will always remain necessary
"
and I would not
find myself under the disagreeable necessity of having to refuse
a friend a
"
personal interview and direct communication." You
might have implicitly believed anything coming from me ;
and I
would have felt less responsible for you before my "GUIDES."
However, time will show what may or may not be done in that
direction. The book is out, and we have to patiently wait for
the results of that first serious shot at the enemy. Art Magic and
Isis emanating from women and as it was believed, Spiritualists
could never hope for a serious hearing. Its effects will at first
be disastrous enough, for the gun will recoil and the shot re-
bounding will strike the author and his humble hero, who are not
likely to flinch. But it will also graze the old lady, reviving in
the Anglo-Indian press last year's outcry. The Hersites and
literary Philistines will go hard to work, the flings, squibs and
coups de bee falling thick upon her though aimed at you alone,
as the Editor of the Pioneer is far from being beloved by his
colleagues of India. Spiritualistic papers have already opened the
campaign in London and the Yankee editors of the Organs of
"
Angels
"
will follow suit, the heavenly
"
Controls
"
ejaculating
their choicest scandalum magnatum. Some men of science least
of all their admirers the parasites who bask in the sun and
dream they are themselves that sun are not likely to forgive
you the sentence really much too flattering which ranges the
comprehension of a poor, unknown Hindoo "
So far beyond the
science and philosophy of Europe, that only the broadest minded
representatives of either will be able to realize the existence of
such powers in man, etc." But what of that? It was all fore-
seen and was to be expected. When the first hum and ding-
dong of adverse criticism is hushed, thoughtful men will read
and ponder over the book, as they have never pondered over the
most scientific efforts of Wallace and Crookes to reconcile modern
science with Spirits, and the little seed will grow and thrive.
In the meantime I do not forget my promises to you. As soon
as installed in your sleeping chamber I will try and1
....
I hope to be permitted to do so much for you. If, for genera-
tions we have
"
shut out the world from the Knowledge of our
Knowledge,*' it is on account of its absolute unfitness ;
and if,
1 Here three lines in the original letter have been completely erased appar-
ently by the writer thereof. ED.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 51
notwithstanding proofs given, it still refuses yielding to evidence,
then will we at the End of this cycle retire into solitude and our
kingdom of silence once more. . . . We have offered to
exhume the primeval strata of man's being, his basic nature, and
lay bare the wonderful complications of his inner Self something
never to be achieved by physiology or even psychology in its
ultimate expression and demonstrate it scientifically. It matters
not to them, if the excavations be so deep, the rocks so rough
and sharp, that in diving into that, to them, fathomless ocean,
most of us perish in the dangerous exploration ;
for it is we who
were the divers and the pioneers and the men of science have but
to reap where we have sown. It is our mission to plunge and
bring the pearls of Truth to the surface; theirs to clean and set
them into scientific jewels. And, if they refuse to touch the ill-
shapen, oyster-shell, insisting that there is, nor cannot be any
precious pearl inside it, then shall we once more wash our hands
of any responsibility before human-kind. For countless genera-
tions hath the adept builded a fane of imperishable rocks, a giant's
Tower of INFINITE THOUGHT, wherein the Titan dwelt, and will
yet, if need be, dwell alone, emerging from it but at the end of
every cycle, to invite the elect of mankind to co-operate with him
and help in his turn enlighten superstitious man. And we will
go on in that periodical work of ours ;
we will not allow ourselves
to be baffled in our philanthropic attempts until that day when the
foundations of a new continent of thought are so firmly built that
no amount of opposition and ignorant malice guided by the*
Brethren of the Shadow will be found to prevail.
But until that day of final triumph someone has to be sacrificed
though we accept but voluntary victims. The ungrateful task
did lay her low and desolate in the ruins of misery, misappre-
hension, and isolation : but she will have her reward in the here-
after for we never were ungrateful. As regards the Adept not
one of my kind, good friend, but far higher you might have
closed your book with those lines of Tennyson's
"
Wakeful
Dreamer "
you knew him not
"
How could ye know him? Ye were yet within
The narrower circle ;
he had well nigh reached
The last, which, with a region of white flame,
Pure without heat, into a larger air
Up-burning, and an ether of black blue,
Invests and ingirds all other lives. . . ."
I'll close. Remember then on the i7th of July and1
. . .
,
to you will become the sublimest of realities.
Farewell.
Sincerely yours,
K. H.
1 Here again six lines in the original have been deleted. ED.
52 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
LETTER No. X1
NOTES BY K.H. ON A
" PRELIMINARY CHAPTER "
HEADED "
GOD "
BY HUME, INTENDED TO PREFACE AN EXPOSITION OF OCCULT PHIL-
OSOPHY (ABRIDGED).
Received at Simla, 1881 ? '82.
Neither our philosophy nor ourselves believe in a God, least of
all in one whose pronoun necessitates a capital H. Our
philosophy falls under the definition of Hobbes. It is pre-
eminently the science of effects by their causes and of causes by
their effects, and since it is also the science of things deduced
from first principle, as Bacon defines it, before we admit any such
principle we must know it, and have no right to admit even its
possibility. Your whole explanation is based upon one solitary
admission made simply for argument's sake in October last. You
were told that our knowledge was limited to this our solar
system :
ergo as philosophers who desired to remain worthy of
the name we could not either deny or affirm the existence of what
you termed a supreme, omnipotent, intelligent being of some sort
beyond the limits of that solar system. But if such an existence
is not absolutely impossible, yet unless the uniformity of nature's
law breaks at those limits we maintain that it is highly improb-
able. Nevertheless we deny most emphatically the position of
agnosticism in this direction, and as regards the solar system.
Our doctrine knows no compromises. It either affirms or denies,
for it never teaches but that which it knows to be the truth.
Therefore, we deny God both as philosophers and as Buddhists.
We know there are planetary and other spiritual lives, and we
know there is in our system no such thing as God, either personal
or impersonal. Parabrahm is not a God, but absolute immutable
law, and Iswar is the effect of Avidya and Maya, ignorance based
upon the great delusion. The word "
God " was invented to
designate the unknown cause of those effects which man has
either admired or dreaded without understanding them, and since
we claim and that we are able to prove what we claim i.e. the
knowledge of that cause and causes we are in a position to
maintain there is no God or Gods behind them.
The idea of God is not an innate but an acquired notion, and
we have but one thing in common with theologies we reveal the
infinite. But while we assign to all the phenomena that proceed
from the infinite and limitless space, duration and motion,
material, natural, sensible and known (to us at least) cause, the
theists assign them spiritual, super-nafwraJ and unintelligible and
1 Transcribed from a copy in Mr. Sinnett's handwriting. ED.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 53
tin-known causes. The God of the Theologians is simply an
imaginary power, un loup garou as d'Holbach expressed it a
power which has never yet manifested itself. Our chief aim is to
deliver humanity of this nightmare, to teach man virtue for its
own sake, and to walk in life relying on himself instead of lean-
ing on a theological crutch, that for countless ages was the
direct cause of nearly all human misery. Pantheistic we may be
called agnostic NEVER. If people are willing to accept and to
regard as God our ONE LIFE immutable and unconscious in its
eternity they may do so and thus keep to one more gigantic
misnomer. But then they will have to say with Spinoza that
there is not and that we cannot conceive any other substance than
God ; or as that famous and unfortunate philosopher says in his
fourteenth proposition,
"
praeter Deum neque dari neque concepi
potest substantia
" and thus become Pantheists .... who but a
Theologian nursed on mystery and the most absurd super-
naturalism can imagine a self existent being of necessity infinite
and omnipresent outside the manifested boundless universe. The
word infinite is but a negative which excludes the idea of bounds.
It is evident that a being independent and omnipresent cannot be
limited by anything which is outside of himself; that there can
be nothing exterior to himself not even vacuum, then where is
there room for matter? for that manifested universe even though
the latter limited. If we ask the theist is your God vacuum,
space or matter, they will reply no. And yet they hold that their
God penetrates matter though he is not himself matter. When
we speak of our One Life we also say that it penetrates, nay is
the essence of every atom of matter ;
and that therefore it not
only has correspondence with matter but has all its properties
likewise, etc. hence is material, is matter itself. How can intel-
ligence proceed or emanate from non-intelligence you kept ask-
ing last year. How could a highly intelligent humanity, man the
crown of reason, be evolved out of blind unintelligent law or
force ! But once we reason on that line, I may ask in my turn,
how could congenital idiots, non-reasoning animals, and the rest
of
"
creation
" have been created by or evoluted from, absolute
Wisdom, if the latter is a thinking intelligent being, the author
and ruler of the Universe? How? says Dr. Clarke in his
examination of the proof of the existence of the Divinity.
"
God
who hath made the eye, shall he not see? God who hath made
the ear shall he not hear?
" But according to this mode of
reasoning they would have to admit that in creating an idiot
God is an idiot ;
that he who made so many irrational beings, so
many physical and moral monsters, must be an irrational being. . . .
. . .We are not Adwaitees, but our teaching respecting the one life
is identical with that of the Adwaitee with regard to Parabrahm.
54 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
And no true philosophically brained Adwaitee will ever call him-
self an agnostic, for he knows that he is Parabrahm and identical
in every respect with the universal life and soul the macrocosm
is the microcosm and he knows that there is no God apart from
himself, no creator as no being. Having found Gnosis we can-
not turn our backs on it and become agnostics.
.... Were we to admit that even the highest Dyan Chohans are
liable to err under a delusion, then there would be no reality for
us indeed and the occult sciences would be as great a chimera as
that God. If there is an absurdity in denying that which we do
not know it is still more extravagant to assign to it unknown
laws.
According to logic
"
nothing
"
is that of which everything can
truly be denied and nothing can truly be affirmed. The idea
therefore either of a finite or infinite nothing is a contradiction in
terms. And yet according to theologians
"
God, the self existent
being is a most simple, unchangeable, incorruptible being; with-
out parts, figure, motion, divisibility, or any other such proper-
ties as we find in matter. For all such things so plainly and
necessarily imply finiteness in their very notion and are utterly
inconsistent with complete infinity.** Therefore the God here
offered to the adoration of the XlXth century lacks every quality
upon which man's mind is capable of fixing any judgment. What
is this in fact but a being of whom they can affirm nothing that is
not instantly contradicted. Their own Bible their Revelation
destroys all the moral perceptions they heap upon him, unless in-
deed they call those qualities perfections that every other man's
reason and common sense call imperfections, odious vices and
brutal wickedness. Nay more he who reads our Buddhist scrip-
tures written for the superstitious masses will fail to find in
them a demon so vindictive, unjust, so cruel and so stupid as the
celestial tyrant upon whom the Christians prodigally lavish their
servile worship and on whom their theologians heap those perfec-
tions that are contradicted on every page of their Bible. Truly
and veritably your theology has created her God but to destroy
him piecemeal. Your church is the fabulous Saturn, who begets
children but to devour them.
(The Universal Mind) A few reflections and arguments ought
to support every new idea for instance we are sure to be taken
to task for the following apparent contradictions, (i) We deny
the existence of a thinking conscious God, on the grounds that
such a God must either be conditioned, limited and subject to
change, therefore not infinite, or (2) if he is represented to us as
an eternal unchangeable and independent being, with not a par-
ticle of matter in him, then we answer that it is no being but an
immutable blind principle, a law. And yet, they will say, we
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 55
believe in Dyans, or Planetaries (" spirits
"
also), and endow
them with a universal mind, and this must be explained.
Our reasons may be briefly summed up thus :
(1) We deny the absurd proposition that there can be, even in
a boundless and eternal universe two infinite eternal and omni-
present existences.
(2) Matter we know to be. eternal, i.e., having had no begin-
ning (a) because matter is Nature herself (b) because that which
cannot annihilate itself and is indestructible exists necessarily
and therefore it could not begin to be, nor can it cease to be
(c) because the accumulated experience of countless ages, and that
of exact science show to us matter (or nature) acting by her own
peculiar energy, of which not an atom is ever in an absolute state
of rest, and therefore it must have always existed, i.e., its
materials ever changing form, combinations and properties, but its
principles or elements being absolutely indestructible.
(3) As to God since no one has ever or at any time seen him
or it unless he or it is the very essence and nature of this bound-
less eternal matter, its energy and motion, we cannot regard him
as either eternal or infinite or yet self existing. We refuse to
admit a being or an existence of which we know absolutely
nothing ;
because (a) there is no room for him in the presence of
that matter whose undeniable properties and qualities we know
thoroughly well (b) because if he or it is but a part of that matter
it is ridiculous to maintain that he is the mover and ruler of that
of which he is but a dependent part and (c) because if they tell us
that God is a self existent pure spirit independent of matter an
extra-cosmic deity, we answer that admitting even the possibility of
such an impossibility, i.e., his existence, we yet hold that a purely
immaterial spirit cannot be an intelligent conscious ruler nor can
he have any of the attributes bestowed upon him by theology
and thus such a God becomes again but a blind force. Intel-
ligence as found in our Dyan Chohans, is a faculty that can
appertain but to organized or animated being however imponder-
able or rather invisible the materials of their organizations. In-
telligence requires the necessity of thinking; to think one must
have ideas ;
ideas suppose senses which are physical material, and
how can anything material belong to pure spirit? If it be
objected that thought cannot be a property of matter, we will ask
the reason why? We must have an unanswerable proof Of this
assumption, before we can accept it. Of the
theplogtan^we
would enquire what was there to prevent his
Go^^n^^
alleged creator of all to endow matter vfcjtti the faculty
thought; and when answered that evide$^'4t<ffasf9<ft Efcled
Him to do so, that it is a mystery as well ^as^ ^TOfraimnfty, wfl
would insist upon being told why it is more
1
impossible that matter
56 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
should produce spirit and thought, than spirit or the thought of
God should produce and create matter.
We do not bow our heads in the dust before the mystery of
mind for we have solved it ages ago. Rejecting with contempt
the theistic theory we reject as much the automaton theory, teach-
ing that states of consciousness are produced by the marshalling
of the molecules of the brain ;
and we feel as little respect for
that other hypothesis the production of molecular motion by
consciousness. Then what do we believe in? Well, we believe
in the much laughed at phlogiston (see article
"
What is force
and what is matter?
"
Theosophist, September), and in what
some natural philosophers would call nisus the incessant though
perfectly imperceptible (to the ordinary senses) motion or efforts
one body is making on another the pulsations of inert matter
its life. The bodies of the Planetary spirits are formed of that
which Priestley and others called Phlogiston and for which we
have another name this essence in its highest seventh state
forming that matter of which the organisms of the highest and
purest Dyans are composed, and in its lowest or densest form
(so impalpable yet that science calls it energy and force) serving
as a cover to the Planetaries of the ist or lowest degree. In other
words we believe in MATTER alone, in matter as visible nature and
matter in its invisibility as the invisible omnipresent omnipotent
Proteus with its unceasing motion which is its life, and which
nature draws from herself since she is the great whole outside of
which nothing can exist. For as Bellinger truly asserts
" motion
is a manner of existence that flows necessarily out of the essence
of matter ;
that matter moves by its own peculiar energies ;
that
its motion is due to the force which is inherent in itself ;
that the
variety of motion and the phenomena that result proceed from the
diversity of the properties of the qualities and of the combinations
which are originally found in the primitive matter
" of which
nature is the assemblage and of which your science knows less
than one of our Tibetan Yak-drivers of Kant's metaphysics.
The existence of matter then is a fact ;
the existence of motion
is another fact, their self existence and eternity or indestruct-
ibility is a third fact. And the idea of pure spirit as a Being or
an Existence give it whatever name you will is a chimera, a
gigantic absurdity.
Our ideas on Evil. Evil has no existence per se and is but the
absence of good and exists but for him who is made its victim.
It proceeds from two causes, and no more than good is it an
independent cause in nature. Nature is destitute of goodness or
malice ; she follows only immutable laws when she either gives
life and joy, or sends suffering [and] death, and destroys what she
has created. Nature has an antidote for every poison and her
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 57
laws a reward for every suffering*. The butterfly devoured by a
bird becomes that bird, and the little bird killed by an animal
goes into a higher form. It is the blind law of necessity and the
eternal fitness of things, and hence cannot be called Evil in
Nature. The real evil proceeds from human intelligence and its
origin rests entirely with reasoning man who dissociates himself
from Nature. Humanity then alone is the true source of evil.
Evil is the exaggeration of good, the progeny of human selfish-
ness and greediness. Think profoundly and you will find that
save death which is no evil but a necessary law, and accidents
which will always find their reward in a future life the origin of
every evil whether small or great is in human action, in man
whose intelligence makes him the one free agent in Nature. It
is not nature that creates diseases, but man. The latter's mission
and destiny in the economy of nature is to die his natural death
brought by old age ;
save accident, neither a savage nor a wild
(free) animal die of disease. Food, sexual relations, drink, are
all natural necessities of life ; yet excess in them brings on
disease, misery, suffering, mental and physical, and the latter
are transmitted as the greatest evils to future generations, the
progeny of the culprits. Ambition, the desire of securing happi-
ness and comfort for those we love, by obtaining honours and
riches, are praiseworthy natural feelings but when they trans-
form man into an ambitious cruel tyrant, a miser, a selfish egotist
they bring untold misery on those around him ;
on nations as
well as on individuals. All this then food, wealth, ambition,
and a thousand other things we have to leave unmentioned, be-
comes the source and cause of evil whether in its abundance or
through its absence. Become a glutton, a debauchee, a tyrant,
and you become the originator of diseases, of human suffering
and misery. Lack all this and you starve, you are despised as
a nobody and the majority of the herd, your fellow men, make of
you a sufferer your whole life. Therefore it is neither nature nor
an imaginary Deity that has to be blamed, but human nature
made vile by selfishness. Think well over these few words ; work
out every cause of evil you can think of and trace it to its origin
and you will have solved one-third of the problem of evil. And
now, after making due allowance for evils that are natural and
cannot be avoided, and so few are they that I challenge the
whole host of Western metaphysicians to call them evils or to
trace them directly to an independent cause I will point out the
greatest, the chief cause of nearly two thirds of the evils that
pursue humanity ever since that cause became a power. It is
religion under whatever form and in whatsoever nation. It is the
sacerdotal caste, the priesthood and the churches; it is in those
illusions that man looks upon as sacred, that he has to search out
58 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
the source of that multitude of evils which is the great curse of
humanity and that almost overwhelms mankind. Ignorance
created Gods and cunning took advantage of the opportunity. Look
at India and look at Christendom and Islam, at Judaism and
Fetichism. It is priestly imposture that rendered these Gods so
terrible to man ;
it is religion that makes of him the selfish bigot,
the fanatic that hates all mankind out of his own sect without
rendering him any better or more moral for it. It is belief in
God and Gods that makes two-thirds of humanity the slaves of
a handful of those who deceive them under the false pretence of
saving them. Is not man ever ready to commit any kind of evil
if told that his God or Gods demand the crime?; voluntary victim
of an illusionary God, the abject slave of his crafty ministers.
The Irish, Italian and Slavonian peasant will starve himself and
see his family starving and naked to feed and clothe his padre
and pope. For two thousand years India groaned under the
weight of caste, Brahmins alone feeding on the fat of the land,
and to-day the followers of Christ and those of Mahomet are
cutting each other's throats in the names of and for the greater
glory of their respective myths. Remember the sum of human
misery will never be diminished unto that day when the better
portion of humanity destroys in the name of Truth, morality, and
universal charity, the altars of their false gods.
If it is objected that we too have temples, we too have priests
and that our lamas also live on charity ... let them know
that the objects above named have in common with their Western
equivalents, but the name. Thus in our temples there is neither
a god nor gods worshipped, only the thrice sacred memory of the
greatest as the holiest man that ever lived. If our lamas to
honour the fraternity of the Bhikkhus established by our blessed
master himself, go out to be fed by the laity, the latter often to
the number of 5 to 25,000 is. fed and taken care of by the
Samgha (the fraternity of lamaic monks) the lamassery providing
for the wants of the poor, the sick, the afflicted. Our lamas
accept food, never money, and it is in those temples that the
origin of evil is preached and impressed upon the people. There
they are taught the four noble truths ariya sakka, and the chain
of causation, (the 12 niddnas) gives them a solution of the
problem of the origin and destruction of suffering.
Read the Mahavagga and try to understand not with the pre-
judiced Western mind but the spirit of intuition and truth what
the Fully Enlightened one says in the ist Khandhaka. Allow me
to translate it for you.
" At the time the blessed Buddha was at Uruvella on the
shores of the river Nerovigara as he rested under the Boddhi
tree of wisdom after he had become Sambuddha, at the end
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 59
of the seventh day having his mind fixed on the chain of
causation he spake thus :
*
from Ignorance spring the sam-
kharas of threefold nature productions of body, of speech,
of thought. From the samkharas springs consciousness,
from consciousness springs name and form, from this spring
the six regions (of the six senses the seventh being the
property of but the enlightened) ;
from these springs contact
from this sensation ;
from this springs thirst (or desire,
Kama, tanha) from thirst attachment, existence, birth, old
age and death, grief, lamentation, suffering, dejection and
despair. Again by the destruction of ignorance, the Sank-
haras are destroyed, and their consciousness name and form,
the six regions, contact, sensation, thirst, attachment
(selfishness), existence, birth, old age, death, grief, lamenta-
tion, suffering, dejection, and despair are destroyed. Such
is the cessation of this whole mass of suffering."
Knowing this the blessed one uttered this solemn utterance.
" When the real nature of things becomes clear to the meditating
Bikshu, then all his doubts fade away since he has learned what
is that nature and what its cause. From ignorance spring all the
evils. From knowledge comes the cessation of this mass of
misery, and then the meditating Brahmana stands dispelling the
hosts of Mara like the sun that illuminates the sky."
Meditation here means the superhuman (not supernatural)
qualities, or arhatship in its highest of spiritual powers.
Copied out Simla, Sept. 28, 1882.
LETTER No. XI 1
Received by A.O.H., June 3oth, 1882.
Simple prudence misgives me at the thought of entering upon
my new role of an
"
instructor.*
1
If M. satisfied you but little I
am afraid of giving you still less satisfaction since besides being
restrained in my explanations, for there are a thousand things
I will have to leave unrevealed by my vow of silence I have far
less time at my disposal than he has. However, I'll try my
best. Let it not be said that I failed to recognise your present
sincere desire to become useful to the Society, hence to Humanity,
for I am deeply alive to the fact that none better than yourself
in India is calculated to disperse the mists of superstition and
popular error by throwing light on the darkest problems. But
* Transcribed from a copy in Mr. Sinnett's handwriting. ED.
6o THE MAHATMA LETTERS
before I answer your questions and explain our doctrine any
further, I'll have to preface my replies with a long introduction.
First of all and again I will draw your attention to the tremendous
difficulty of finding appropriate terms in English which would
convey to the educated European mind even an approximately
correct notion about the various subjects we will have to treat
upon. To illustrate my meaning I'll underline in red the technical
words adopted and used by your men of Science and which
withal are absolutely misleading not only when applied to such
transcendental subjects as on hand but even when used by them-
selves in their own system of thought.
To comprehend my answers you will have first of all to view
the eternal Essence, the SwabAvat not as a compound element
you call spirit-matter, but as the one element for which the Eng-
lish has no name. It is both passive and active, pure Spirit
Essence in its absoluteness, and repose, pure matter in its
finite and conditioned state, even as an unponderable gas or
that great unknown which science has pleased to call Force.
When poets talk of the
"
shoreless ocean of immutability
"
we
must regard the term but as a jocular parodox, since we maintain
that there is no such thing as immutability not in our Solar
system at least. Immutability say the theists and Christians
" is
an attribute of God M
and forthwith they endow that God with
every mutable and variable quality and attribute, knowable as
unknowable, and believe that they have solved the unsolvable and
squared the circle. To this we reply if that which the theists call
God, and science
" Force " and " Potential Energy," were to be-
come immutable but for one instant even during the Maha-
Fralaya a period when even Brahm the creative architect of the
world is said to have merged into non-being, then there could be
no manwantara, and space alone would reign unconscious and
supreme in the eternity of time. Nevertheless, Theism when
speaking of mutable immutability is no more absurd than
materialistic science talking of
" latent potential energy," and
the indestructibility of matter and force. What are we to
believe as indestructible? Is it the invisible something that
moves matter or the energy of moving bodies ! What does
modern science know of force proper, or say the forces, the
cause or causes of motion. How can there be such a thing as
potential energy, i.e.> an energy having latent inactive power
since it is energy only while it is moving matter, and that if it
ever ceased to move matter it would cease to be, and with it
matter itself would disappear. Is force any happier term?
Some thirty-five years back a Dr. Mayer offered the hypothesis
now accepted as an axiom that force in the sense given it by
modern science, like matter is indestructible namely when it
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 61
ceases to be manifest in one form it still exists and has only
passed into some other form. And yet your men of science have
not found a single instance where one force is transformed into
another, and Mr. Tyndall tells his opponents that
"
m no case is
the force producing- the motion annihilated or changed into any-
thing else." Moreover we are indebted to modern science for
the novel discovery that there exists a quantitative relation
between the dynamic energy producing something and the
"
some-
thing
"
produced. Undoubtedly there exists a quantitive relation
between cause and effect, between the amount of energy used in
breaking one's neighbour's nose, and the damage done to that
nose, but this does not solve one bit more the mystery of what
they are pleased to call correlations, since it can be easily proved
(and that on the authority of that same science) that neither
motion nor energy is indestructible and that the physical forces
are in no way or manner convertible one into another. I will
cross-examine them in their own phraseology and we will see
whether their theories are calculated to serve as a barrier to our
"
astounding doctrines." Preparing as I do to propound a teach-
ing diametrically opposed to their own it is but just that I should
clear the ground 'of scientific rubbish lest what I have to say
should fall on a too encumbered soil and only bring forth weeds.
11
This potential and imaginary materia prima cannot exist with-
out form," says Raleigh, and he is right in so far that the materia
prima of science exists but in their imagination. Can they say
the same quantity of energy has always been moving the matter
of the Universe? Certainly not so long as they teach that when
the elements of the material cosmos, elements which had first to
manifest themselves in their uncombined gaseous state, were
uniting the quantity of matter-moving energy was a million times
greater than it is now when our globe is cooling off. For where
did the heat that was generated by this tremendous process of
building up a universe go to? To the unoccupied chambers of
space they say. Very well, but if it is gone for ever from the
material universe and the energy operative on earth has never
and at no time been the same, then how can they try to maintain
the
"
unchangeable quantity of energy," that potential energy
which a body may sometimes exert, the FORCE which passes from
one body to another producing motion and which is not yet
4 '
annihilated or changed into anything else." Aye, we are
answered, "but we still hold to its indestructibility; while it re-
mains connected with matter, it can never cease to be, or less or
more." Let us see whether it is so. I throw a brick up to a
mason who is busy building the roof of a temple. He catches it
and cements it in the roof. Gravity overcame the propelling
energy which started the upward motion of the brick, and the
62 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
dynamic energy of the ascending brick until it ceased to ascend.
At that moment it was caught and fastened to the roof. No
natural force could now move it, therefore it possesses no longer
potential energy. The motion and the dynamic energy of the
ascending brick are absolutely annihilated. Another example
from their own text books. You fire a gun upward from the foot
of a hill and the ball lodges in a crevice of the rock on that hill.
No natural force can, for an indefinite period move it, so the ball
as much as the brick has lost its potential energy.
"
All the
motion and energy which was taken from the ascending ball by
gravity is absolutely annihilated, no other motion or energy suc-
ceeds and gravity has received no increase of energy." Is it
not true then that energy is indestructible ! How then is it that
your great authority teaches the world that
" in no case is the
force producing the motion annihilated or changed into anything
else
" ?
I am perfectly aware of your answer and give you these illus-
trations but to show how misleading are the terms used by
scientists, how vacillating and uncertain their theories and finally
how incomplete all their teachings. One more objection and I
have done. They teach that all the physical forces rejoicing in
specific names such as gravity, inertia, cohesion, light, heat,
electricity, magnetism, chemical affinity, are convertible one into
another? If so the force producing must cease to be as the
force produced becomes manifest.
"
A flying cannon ball moves
only from its own inherent force of inertia/* When it strikes it
produces heat and other effects but its force of inertia is not the
least diminished. It will require as much energy to start it again
at the same velocity as it did at first. We may repeat the pro-
cess a thousand times and as long as the quantity of matter
remains the same its force of inertia will remain the same in
quantity. The same in the case of gravity. A meteor falls and
produces heat. Gravity is to be held to account for this, but the
force of gravity upon the fallen body is not diminished. Chemical
attraction draws and holds the particles of matter together, their
collision producing heat. Has the former passed into the latter?
Not in the least, since drawing the particles again together when-
ever these are separated it proves that it, the chemical affinity is
not decreased, for it will hold them as strongly as ever together.
Heat they say generates and produces electricity yet they find no
decrease in the heat in the process. Electricity produces heat
we are told? Electrometers show that the electrical current passes
through some poor conductor, a platinum wire say and heats
the latter. Precisely the same quantity of electricity, there being
no loss of electricity, no decrease. What then has been con-
verted into heat? Again, electricity is said to produce magnetism.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 63
I have on the table before me primitive electrometers in whose
vicinity chelas come the whole day to recuperate their nascent
powers. I do not find the slightest decrease in the electricity
stored. The chelas are magnetized, but their magnetism or
rather that of their rods is not that electricity under a new mask.
No more than the flame of a thousand tapers lit at the flame of
the Fo lamp is the flame of the latter. Therefore if by the uncertain
twilight of modern science it is an axiomatic truth
"
that during
vital processes the conversion only and never the creation of
matter or force occurs
"
(Dr. J. R. Mayer's organic motion in
its connection with nutrition) it is for us but half a truth. It
is neither conversion nor creation, but something for which
science has yet no name.
Perhaps now* you will be prepared to better understand the
difficulty with which we will have to contend. Modern science
is our best ally. Yet it is generally that same science which is
made the weapon to break our heads with. However you will
have to bear in mind (a) that we recognise but one element in
Nature (whether spiritual or physical) outside which there can be
no Nature since it is Nature itself,
1
and which as the Akasa per-
vades our solar system every atom being part of itself pervades
throughout space and 15 space in fact, which pulsates as in pro-
found sleep during the pralayas and the universal Proteus, the
ever active Nature during the Manwantaras ; (b) that consequently
spirit and matter are one, being but a differentiation of states not
essences, and that the Greek philosopher who maintained that the
Universe was a huge animal penetrated the symbolical significance
of the Pythagorean monad (which becomes two, then three A
and finally having become the tetracktis or the perfect square
(thus evolving out of itself four and involuting three Q forms
the sacred seven) and thus was far in advance of all the scientific
men of the present time ; (c) that our notions of
" cosmic matter
"
are diametrically opposed to those of western science. Per-
chance if you remember all this we will succeed in imparting to
you at least the elementary axioms of our esoteric philosophy
more correctly than heretofore. Fear not my kind brother ; your
life is not ebbing away and it will not be extinct before you have
completed your mission. I can say no more except that the
Chohan has permitted me to devote my spare time to instruct
those who are willing to learn, and you will have work enough to
II
drop
"
your Fragments at intervals of two or three months.
My time is very limited yet I will do what I can. But I can
*
Not in the sense of Natus "
born
" but Nature as the sum total of every-
thing visible and invisible, of forms and minds, the aggregate of the known
(and unknown), causes and effects, the universe in short infinite and un-
created and endless, as it is without a beginning.
64 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
promise nothing beyond this. I will have to remain silent as to
the Dyan Chohans nor can I
impart to you the secrets concerning
the men of the seventh round. The recognition of the higher
phases of man's being on this planet is not to be attained by mere
acquirement of knowledge. Volumes of the most perfectly con-
structed information cannot reveal to man life in the higher
regions. One has to get a knowledge of spiritual facts by per-
sonal experience and from actual observation, for as Tyndall puts
it
"
facts looked directly at are vital, when they pass into words
half the sap is taken out of them." And because you recognise
this great principle of personal observation, and are not slow to
put into practice what you have acquired in the way of useful
information, is perhaps the reason why the hitherto implacable
Chohan my Master has finally permitted me to devote to a certain
extent a portion of my time to the progress of the Eclectic. But
I am but one and you are many, and none of my Fellow Brothers
with the exception of M. will help me in this work, not even our
semi-European Greek Brother who but a few days back remarked
that when '*
every one of the Eclectics on the Hill will have be-
come a Zetetic then will he see what he can do for them." And
as you are aware there is very little hope for this. Men seek
after knowledge until they weary themselves to death, but even
they do not feel very impatient to help their neighbour with their
knowledge ; hence there arises a coldness, a mutual indifference
which renders him 'who knows inconsistent with himself and
inharmonious with his surroundings. Viewed from our stand-
point the evil is far greater on the spiritual than on the material
side of man : hence my sincere thanks to you and desire to urge
your attention to such a course as shall aid a true progression and
achieve wider results by turning your knowledge into a permanent
teaching in the form of articles and pamphlets.
But for the attainment of your proposed object, viz. for a
clearer comprehension of the extremely abstruse and at first in-
comprehensible theories of our occult doctrine never allow the
serenity of your mind to be disturbed during your hours of literary
labour, nor before you set to work. It is upon the serene and
placid surface of the unruflled mind that the visions gathered
from the invisible find a representation in the visible world.
Otherwise you would vainly seek those visions, those flashes of
sudden light which have already helped to solve so many of the
minor problems and which alone can bring the truth before the
eye of the soul. It is with jealous care that we have to guard
our mind-plane from all the adverse influences which daily arise
in our passage through earth-life.
Many are the questions you ask me in your several letters, I
can answer but few. Concerning Eglinton I will beg you to -wait
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 65
for developments. In regard to your kind lady the question is
more serious and I cannot undertake the responsibility of making
her change her diet as ABRUPTLY as you suggest. Flesh and meat
she can give up at any time as it can never hurt ;
as for liquor
with which Mrs. H. has long been sustaining her system, you
yourself know the fatal effects it may produce in an enfeebled con-
stitution were the latter to be suddenly deprived of its stimulant.
Her physical life is not a real existence backed by a reserve of
vital force, but a factitious one fed upon the spirit of liquor how-
ever small the quantity. While a strong constitution might rally
after the first shock of such a change as proposed, the chances
are that she would fall into a decline. So would she if opium
or arsenic were her chief sustenance. Again I promise nothing
yet will do in this direction what I can.
" Converse with you and
teach you through astral light?
M Such a development of your
psychical powers of hearing, as you name, the Siddhi of hearing
occult sounds would not be at all the easy matter you imagine.
It was never done to any one of us, for the iron rule is that what
powers one gets he must himself acquire. And when acquired
and ready for use the powers lie dumb and dormant in their
potentiality like the wheels and clockwork inside a musical box ;
and only then does it become easy to wind up the key and set
them in motion. Of course you have now more chances before
you than my zoophagous friend Mr. Sinnett, who were he even
to give up feeding on animals would still feel a craving for such
a food, a craving over which he would have no control and,
the impediment would be the same in that case. Yet every
earnestly disposed man may acquire such powers practically. That
is the finality of it ; there are no more distinctions of persons in
this than there are as to whom the sun shall shine upon or the
air give vitality to. There are the powers of all nature before
you ;
take what you can.
Your suggestion as to the box I will think over. There would
have to be some contrivance to prevent the discharge of power
when once the box was charged, whether during transit or sub-
sequently : I will consider and take advice or rather permission.
But I must say the idea is utterly repugnant to us as everything
else smacking of spirits and mediumship. We would prefer by
far using natural means as in the last transmission of my letter to
you. It was one of M's chelas who left it for you in the flower-
shed, where he entered invisible to all yet in his natural body, just
as he had entered many a time your museum and other rooms,
unknown to you all, during and after the
" Old Lady's
"
stay.
But unless he is told to do so by M. he will never do it, and that
is why your letter to me was left unnoticed. You have an unjust
feeling towards my Brother, kind sir, for he is better and more
66 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
powerful than I at least he is not as bound and restricted as I am
I have asked H. P. B. to send you a number of philosophical
letters from a Dutch Theosophist at Penang one in whom I take
an interest :
you ask for more work and here is some. They are
translations, originals of those portions of Schoppenhauer which
are most in affinity with our Arhat doctrines. The English is not
idiomatic but the material is valuable. Should you be disposed
to utilise any portion of it, I would recommend your opening a
direct correspondence with Mr. Sanders, F.T.S. the translator.
Schoppenhauer's philosophical value is so well known in the
western countries that a comparison or connotation of his teachings
upon will, etc., with those you have received from ourselves might
be instructive. Yes I am quite ready to look over your 50 or 60
pages and make notes on the margins : have them set up by all
means and send them to me either through little
"
Deb " or
Damodar and Djual Kul will transmit them. In a very few days,
perhaps to-morrow, your two questions will be amply answered by
me.
Meanwhile
Yours sincerely,
K. H.
P.S. The Tibetan translation is not quite ready yet.
LETTER No. XII
Your hypothesis is far nearer the truth than Mr. Hume's. Two
factors must be kept in view (a) a fixed period, and (b) a fixed
rate of development nicely adjusted to it. Almost unthinkably
long as is a Mahayug, it is still a definite term, and within it must
be accomplished the whole order of development, or to state it in
occult phraseology : the descent of Spirit into matter and its return
to the re-emergence. A chain of beads, and each bead a world
is an illustration already made familiar to you. You have already
pondered over the life impulse beginning with each Manvantara
to evolve the first of these worlds ;
to perfect it ; to people it suc-
cessively with all the aerial forms of life. And after completing
on this first world seven cycles or revolutions of development
in each kingdom as you know passing forward down the arc
to similarly evolve the next world in the chain, perfect it, and
abandon it. Then to the next and next and next until the seven-
fold round of world-evolutions along the chain is run through and
the Mahayug comes to its end. Then chaos again the Pralaya.
As this life-impulse (at the seventh and last round from planet to
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 67
planet) moves on it leaves behind it dying and very soon
" dead
planets."
The last seventh round man having passed on to a subsequent
world, the precedent one with all its mineral, vegetable and animal
life (except man) begins to gradually die out, when with the exit
of the last animalcula it is extinguished, or as H.P.B. has it
snuffed out (minor or partial pralaya). When the Spirit-man
reaches the last bead of the chain and passes into final Nirvana,
this last world also disappears or passes into subjectivity. Thus
are there among the stellar galaxies births and deaths of worlds
ever following each other in the orderly procession of natural Law.
And as said already the last bead is strung upon the thread of
the
"
Mahayuga."
When the last cycle of man-bearing has been completed by that
last fecund earth ;
and humanity has reached in a mass the stage
of Buddhahood and passed out of the objective existence into the
mystery of Nirvana then
" strikes the hour;" the seen becomes
the unseen, the concrete resumes its pre-cyclic state of atomic
distribution.
But the dead worlds left behind the on-sweeping impulse do not
continue dead. Motion is the eternal order of things and affinity
or attraction its handmaid of all works. The thrill of life will
again re-unite the atoms, and it will stir again in the inert planet
when the time comes. Though all its forces have remained statu
quo and are now asleep, yet little by little it will when the hour
re-strikes gather for a new cycle of man-bearing maternity, and
give birth to something still higher as moral and physical types
than during the preceding manvantara. And its
" cosmic atoms
already in a differentiated state
"
(differing in the producing
force, in the mechanical sense, of motions and effects) remain statu
quo as well as globes and everything else in the process of forma-
tion." Such is the
"
hypothesis fully in accordance with (your)
(my) note." For, as planetary development is as progressive as
human or race evolution, the hour of the Pralaya 's coming catches
the series of worlds at successive stages of evolution; (i.e.) each
has attained to some one of the periods of evolutionary progress
each stops there, until the outward impulse of the next manvantara
sets it going from that very point like a stopped time-piece re-
wound. Therefore, have I used the word "
differentiated."
At the coming of the Pralaya no human, animal, or even
vegetable entity will be'alive to see it, but there will be the earth
or globes with their mineral kingdoms ; and all these planets will
be physically disintegrated in the pralaya, yet not destroyed ;
for
they have their places in the sequence of evolution and their
"
privations
"
coming again out of the subjective, they will find
the exact point from which they have to move on around the chain
68 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
of
"
manifested forms." This, as we know, is repeated endlessly
throughout ETERNITY. Each man of us has gone this cease-
less round, and will repeat it for ever and ever. The deviation
of each one's course, and his rate of progress from Nirvana to
Nirvana is governed by causes which he himself creates out of the
exigencies in which he finds himself entangled.
This picture of an eternity of action may appal the mind that
has been accustomed to look forward to an existence of ceaseless
repose. But their concept is not supported by the analogies of
nature, nor and ignorant though I may be thought of your
Western Science, may I not say? by the teachings of that
Science. We know that periods of action and rest follow each
other in everything in nature from the macrocosm with its Solar
Systems down to man and its parent-earth, which has its seasons
of activity followed by those of sleep ;
and that in short all nature,
like her begotten living forms has her time for recuperation. So
with the spiritual individuality, the Monad which starts on its
downward and upward cyclic rotation. The periods which inter~
vene between each great manvantarian " round
"
are proportion-
ately long to reward for the thousands of existences passed on
various globes ; while the time given between each
"
race birth
"
or rings as you call them is sufficiently lengthy to compensate
for any life of strife and misery during that lapse of time passed
in conscious bliss after the re-birth of the Ego. To conceive of
an eternity of bliss or woe, and to offset it to any conceivable deeds
of merit or demerit of a being who may have lived a century or
even a millenium in the flesh, can only be proposed by one who
has never yet grasped the awful reality of the word Eternity, nor
pondered upon the law of perfect justice and equilibrium which
pervades nature. Further instructions may be given you,- which
will show how nicely justice is done not to man only but also his
subordinates, and throw some light, I hope, upon the vexed
question of good and evil.
And now to crown this effort of mine (of writing) I may as well
pay an old debt, and answer an old question of yours concerning
earth incarnations. Koot'humi answers some of your queries
at least began writing yesterday but was called off by duty
but I may help him anyhow. I trust you will not find much
difficulty not as much as hitherto in making out my letter. I
have become a very plain writer since he reproached me with
making you lose your valuable time over my scrawlings. His
rebuke struck home, and as you see I have amended my evil
ways.
Let us see what your Science has to tell us about Ethnography
and other matters. The latest conclusions to which your wise
men of the West seem to have arrived briefly stated are the
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 69
following. The theories even approximately correct I venture to
underline with blue. 1
(1) The earliest traces of man they can find disappear beyond
the close of a period of which the rock-fossils furnish the only
clue they possess.
(2) Starting thence they find four races of men who have suc-
cessively inhabited Europe (a) The race of the river Drift mighty
hunters (perchance Nimrod?) who dwelt in the then sub-tropical
climate of Western Europe, who used chipped stone implements
of the most primitive kind and were contemporary with the
rhinoceros and the mammoth; (b) the so-called cave-men, a race
developed during the glacial period (the Esquimaux being nou),
they say, its only type) and which possessed finer weapons and
tools of chipped stone since they made with wondrous accuracy
pictures of various animals they were familiar with, simply with
the aid of sharp pointed flints on the antlers of reindeer and on
bones and stones ; (c) the third race the men of the Neolithic age
are found already grinding their stone implements, building houses
and boats and making pottery, in short the lake dwellers of
Switzerland ; and finally (d) appears the fourth race, coming from
Central Asia. These are the fair complexioned Aryans who inter-
marry with the remnant of the dark Iberians now represented
by the swarthy Basks of Spain. This is the race which they
consider as the progenitors of you modern peoples of Europe.
(3) They add moreover, that the men of the river Drift, preceded
the glacial period known in geology as the Pleistocene and
originated some 240,000 years ago, while human beings generally
(see Geikie, Dawkins, Fiske and others) inhabited Europe at least
100,000 years earlier.
With one solitary exception they are all wrong. They come
near enough yet miss the mark in every case. There were not
four but five races ; and we are that fifth with remnants of the
fourth. (A more perfect evolution or race with each mahacyclic
round) ; while the first race appeared on earth not half a million of
years ago (Fiske's theory) but several millions. The latest
scientific theory is that of the German and American professors
who say through Fiske:
" we see man living on the earth for
perhaps half a million years to all intents and purposes dumb."
He is both right and wrong. Right about the race having
been "
dumb," for long ages of silence were required, for the
evolution and mutual comprehension of speech, from the moans
and mutterings of the first remove of man above the highest
anthropoid (a race now extinct since
" nature shuts the door
behind her" as she advances, in more than one sense) up to
the first monosyllable uttering man. But he is wrong in saying
all the rest.
i These passages appear in bold type italics. ED.
70 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
By the bye, you ought to come to some agreement as to the
terms used when discussing- upon cyclic evolutions. Our terms
are untranslateable ;
and without a good knowledge of our com-
plete system (which cannot be given but to regular initiates)
would suggest nothing definite to your perceptions but only be a
source of confusion as in the case of the terms "Soul" and
"
Spirit
" with all your metaphysical writers especially the
Spiritualists.
You must have patience with Subba Row. Give him time. He
is now at his tapas and will not be disturbed. I will tell him not
to neglect you but he is very jealous and regards teaching an Eng-
lishman as a sacrilege.
Yours M.
P.S. My writing is good but the paper rather thin for penman-
ship. Cannot write English with a brush though ; would be
worse.
LETTER No. XIII 1
Cosmological Notes and Queries and M.'s Replies. Received January,
1882. Allahabad.
(i) I conceive that at the close of a pralaya the impulse given
by the Dhyan Chohans does not develop from chaos, a succession
of worlds simultaneously, but seriatim. The comprehension of
the manner in which each in succession ensues from its predeces-
sor as the impact of the original impulse might perhaps be better
postponed till after I am enabled to realize the working of the
whole machine the cycle of worlds after all its parts have come
into existence.
( 1 ) Correctly conceived. Nothing in nature springs into existence
suddenly all being subjected to the same law of gradual evolu-
tion. Realize but once the process of the maha cycle, of one
sphere and you have realized them all. One man is born like
another man, one race evolves, develops, and declines like
another and all other races. Nature follows the same groove
from the
*'
creation of a universe down to that of a moskito.
In studying esoteric cosmogony, keep a spiritual eye upon the
physiological process of human birth; proceed from cause to
effect establishing
2
go along, analogies between the
* Mr, Sinnett's Queries in ordinary type with M.'s Replies in bold type.
En.
9 The original letter has a small portion missing at this point, hence the
Incompleteness of the following lines. ED.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 71
man and that of a world. In our doctri
will find necessary the synthetic me
you will have to embrace the whole
that is to say to blend the macrocosm
cosm together before you are ena
to study the parts separately or analyze them with profit to your
understanding. Cosmology is the physiology of the universe
spiritualized, for there is but one law.
(2) Taking the middle of a period of activity between two
pralayas, i.e., of a manvantara what I understand to happen is
this. Atoms are polarized in the highest region of spiritual efflux
from behind the veil o primitive cosmic matter. The magnetic
impulse which has accomplished this result flits from one mineral
form to another within the first sphere till having run the round
of existence in that kingdom of the first sphere it descends in a
current of attraction to the second sphere.
(2) Polarize themselves during the process of motion and
propelled by the irresistible Force at work. In Cosmogony and
the work of nature the positive and the negative or the active
and passive forces correspond to the male and female principles.
Your spiritual efflux comes not from
"
behind the veil
"
but is
the male seed falling info the veil of cosmic matter. The active
is attracted by the passive principle and the Great Nag, the
serpent emblem of the eternity, attracts its tail to its mouth
forming thereby a circle (cycles in the eternity) in that incessant
pursuit of the negative by the positive. Hence the emblem of
the lingam the phallus and the eteis. The one and chief attribute
of the universal spiritual principle the unconscious but ever
active life-giver is to expand and shed; that of the universal
material principle to gather in and fecundate. Unconscious and
non-existing when separated, they become consciousness and
life when brought together. Hence, again Brahma, from the
root
"
brih
"
the Sanskrit for
"
to expand, grow or to fructify.
Brahma being but the vivifying expansive force of nature in its
eternal evolution.
(3) Do worlds of effects intervene between the worlds of activity
in the series of descent?
(3) The worlds of effects are not lokas or localities. They are
the shadow of the world of causes their souls worlds having
like men their seven principles which develop and grow simul-
taneously with the body. Thus the body of man is wedded to
and remains for ever within the body of his planet; his in-
dividual jivatma life principle that which is called in physiology
72 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
animal spirits returns after death to its source Fohat; his
linga shariram will be drawn into A^asa; his Kamarupa will
recommingle with the Universal Sakti the Will-Force, or uni-
versal energy; his
*'
animal soul
"
borrowed from the breath of
Universal Mind will return to the Dhyan Chohans; his sixth
principle whether drawn into or ejected from the matrix of
the Great Passive Principle must remain in its own sphere
either as part of the crude material or as an individualized entity
to be reborn in a higher world of causes. The seventh will
carry it from the Devachan and follow the new Ego to its place
of re-birth. . . .
(4) The magnetic impulse which cannot yet be conceived of as an
individuality enters the second sphere in the same (the mineral)
kingdom as that to which it
belonged in sphere I and runs
the round of mineral incarnations there passing on to sphere III.
Our earth is still a sphere of necessity for it. Hence it passes into
the upward series and from the highest of these passes into the
vegetable kingdom of sphere I.
Without any new impulse of creative force from above, its
career round the cycle of worlds as a mineral principle has de-
veloped some new attractions or polarization which cause it to
assume the lowest vegetable form in vegetable forms it passes
successively through the cycle of worlds, the whole being still a
circle of necessity (as no responsibility can yet have accrued to an
unconscious individuality, and therefore it cannot at any stage of
its progress do anything to select one or other of divergent paths).
Or is there something in the life even of a vegetable which, though
not responsibility, may lead it up or down at this critical stage of
its progress?
Having completed the whole cycle as a vegetable the growing
individuality expands on the next circuit into an animal form.
(4) The evolution of the worlds cannot be considered apart
from the evolution of everything created or having being
on these worlds. Your accepted conceptions of cosmogony
whether from the theological or scientific standpoints
do not enable you to solve a single anthropological, or
even ethnical problem and they stand in your way whenever
you attempt to solve the problem of the races on this planet.
When a man begins to talk about creation and the origin of
man, he is butting against the facts incessantly. Go on saying :
"
Our planet and man were created
"
and you will be fighting
against hard facts for ever, analyzing and losing time over
trifling details unable to ever grasp the whole. But once
admit that our planet and ourselves are no more creations than
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 73
the iceberg now before me (in our K.H.'s home) but that both
planet and man are states for a given time; that their present
appearance geological and anthropological is transitory and
but a condition concomitant of that stage of evolution at which
they have arrived in the descending cycle and all will become
plain. You will easily understand what is meant by the
**
one
and only
"
element or principle in the universe and that
androgynous; the seven-headed serpent Ananda of Vishnu, the
Nag around Buddha the great dragon eternity biting with its
active head its passive tail, from the emanations of which
spring worlds, beings and things. You will comprehend the
reason why the first philosopher proclaimed ALL Maya but
that one principle, which rests during the maha-pralayas only
the
"
nights of Brahm." . . .
Now think : the Nag awakes. He heaves a heavy breath
and the latter is sent like an electric shock all along
the wire encircling Space. Go to your fortepiano and
execute upon the lower register of keys the seven notes of
the lower octave up and down. Begin pianissimo; crescendo
from the first key and having struck fortissimo on the last
lower note go back diminuendo getting out of your last
note a hardly perceptible sound
"
morendo pianissimo
"
(as
I luckily for my illustration find it printed in one of the musick
pieces in K.H.'s old portmanteau). The first and the last notes
will represent to you the first and last spheres in the cycle of
evolution the highest ! the one you strike once is our planet.
Remember you have to reverse the order on the fortepiano :
begin with the seventh note, not with the first. The seven
vowels chanted by the Egyptian priests to the seven rays of
the rising sun to which Memnon responded, meant but that.
The one Life-principle when in action runs in circuits even as
known in physical science. It runs the round in human body,
where the head represents, and is to the Microcosmos (the
physical world of matter) what the summit of the cycle is to
the Macrocosmos (the world of universal spiritual Forces); and
so with the formation of worlds and the great descending and
ascending
"
circle of necessity." All is one Law. Man has
his seven principles, the germs of which he brings with him
at his birth. So has a planet or a world. From first to last
every sphere has its world of effects, the passing through
which will afford a place of final rest to each of the human
principles the seventh principle excepted. The world No. A
is born; and with it, clinging like barnacles to the bottom of
a ship in motion evolute from its first breath of life, the living
beings of its atmosphere, from the germs hitherto inert, now
awakening to life with the first motion of the sphere. With
74 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
sphere A, begins the mineral kingdom and runs the round of
mineral evolution. By the time it is completed sphere B
comes into objectivity and draws to itself the life which has
completed its round on sphere A, and has become a surplus.
(The fount of life being inexhaustible, for it is the true Arachnea
doomed to spin out its web eternally save the periods of
pralaya). Then comes vegetable life on sphere A, and the
same process takes place. On its downward course
'*
life
"
becomes with every state coarser, more material; on its upward
more shadowy. No there is, nor can there be any responsi-
bility until the time when matter and spirit are properly
equilibrized. Up to man
"
life
"
has no responsibility in what-
ever form; no more than has the foetus who in his mother's
womb passes through all the forms of life as a mineral, a
vegetable, an animal to become finally Man.
(5) Where does it get the animal soul, its fifth principle, from?
Has the potentiality of this resided from the first in the original
magnetic impulse which constituted the mineral, or at every
transition from the last world on the ascending* side to sphere I
does it, so to speak, pass through an ocean of spirit and assimilate
some new principle?
(5) Thus you see his fifth principle is evolved from within
himself, man having as you well say
**
the potentiality
"
of all
the seven principles as a germ, from the very instant he appears
in the first world of causes as a shadowy breath, which
coagulates with, and is hardened together with the parent
sphere.
Spirit or LIFE is indivisible. And when we speak of the
seventh principle it is neither quality nor quantity nor yet form
that are meant, but rather the space occupied in that ocean
of spirit by the results or effects (beneficent as are all those
of a co-worker with nature) impressed thereon.
(6) From the highest animal (non-human) form in sphere I-
how does it get to sphere II? It is inconceivable that it can
descend to the lowest animal form there, but otherwise how can it
go through the whole circle of life on each planet in turn?
If it runs its cycle in a spiral (i.e., from form i of sphere I to
form i of sphere II, etc: then to form 2 of sphere I, II, III, etc.,
and then to form 3 of sphere I. ... n*h) then it seems to
me that the same rule must apply to the mineral and vegetable
individualities if
they have such, and yet some things I have been
told seem to militate against that. (State them and they will be
answered and explained.)
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 75
For the moment I must work on that hypothesis however.
(Having swept through the cycle in the highest animal form
the animal soul in its next plunge into the ocean of spirit acquires
the seventh principle which endows it with a sixth. This
determines its future on Earth, and at the close of the earth life
has sufficient vitality to keep an attraction of its own for the
seventh principle, or loses this and ceases to exist as a separate
entity. All this misconceived.)
Seventh principle always there as a latent force in every one
of the principles even body. As the macrocosmic Whole it is
present even in the lower sphere, but there is nothing there to
assimilate it to itself.
(6) Why,
"
inconceivable?
"
The highest animal fona in
sphere I or A being irresponsible, there is no degradation for
it to merge into sphere II or B as the most infinitesimal of that
sphere. While on its upward course, as you were told, man
finds even the lowest animal form there higher than he was
himself on earth. How do you know that men and animals
and even life in its incipient stage is not a thousand times higher
there, than it is here? Besides which, every kingdom (and we
have seven while you have but three) is subdivided into seven
degrees or classes. Ma -
(physically) is a compound of all the
kingdoms, and spiritually his individuality is no worse for being
shut up within the casing of an ant than it is for being inside
a king. It is not the outward or physical shape that dishonours
and pollutes the five principles but the mental perversity.
Then it is but at his fourth round when arrived at the full pos-
session of his /Cama-energy and is completely matured, that
man becomes fully responsible, as at the sixth he may become
a Buddha and at the seventh before the Pralaya a
*'
Dyan
Chohan." Mineral, vegetable, animal-man, all of these have to
run their seven rounds during the period of earth's activity
the Maha Yug. I will not enter here on the details of mineral
and vegetable evolution, but I will notice only man or animal-
man. He starts downward as a simply spiritual entity an
unconscious seventh principle (a Parabrahm in contradistinction
to Para-parabrahm) with the germs of the other six principles
lying latent and dormant in him. Gathering solidity at every
sphere his six pr. when passing through the worlds of
effects, and his outward form in the worlds of causes (for these
worlds or stages on the descending side we have other names)
when he touches our planet he is but a glorious bunch of light
upon a sphere itself yet pure and undefiled (for mankind and
every living thing on it increase in their materiality with the
76 THE MA HATMA LETTERS
planet). At that stage our globe is like the head of a newly
born babe soft, and with undefined features, and man an
Adam before the breath of life was breathed into his nostrils
(to quote your own bungled up Scriptures for your better
comprehension). For man and (our planets) nature it is day
the first (see distorted tradition in your Bible). Man No. I
makes his appearance at the apex of the circle of the spheres
on sphere No. 1 , after the completion of the seven rounds or
periods of the two kingdoms (known to you) and thus he is
said to^be created on the eighth day (see Bible Chapter II; note
verses 5 and 6 and think what is meant there by
"
mist
"
and
verse 7 wherein LAW the Universal great fashioner is termed
"
God
"
by Christians and Jews, and understood as Evolution
by Kabalists). During this first round
"
animal-man
"
runs, as
you say, his cycle in a spiral. On the descending arc whence
he starts after the completion of the seventh round of animal
life on his own individual seven rounds he has to enter every
sphere not as a lower animal as you understand it but as a lower
man. Since during the cycle which preceded his round as a
man he performed it as the highest type of animal. Your
"
Lord God/* says Bible, chapter I, verses 25 and 26 after
having made all said :
*'
Let us make man in our image/* etc.,
and creates man an androgyne ape! (extinct on our planet) the
highest in intelligence in the animal kingdom and whose descend-
ants you find in the anthropoids of to-day. Will you deny the
possibility of the highest anthropoid in the next sphere being
higher in intelligence than some men down here savages for
instance, the African dwarf-race and our own Veddahs of
Ceylon. But man has no such
"
degradation
**
to go through
as soon as he has reached the fourth stage of his cyclic rounds.
Like the lower lives and beings during his first, second and
third round and while he is an irresponsible compound of pure
matter and pure spirit (none of them as yet defiled by the
consciousness of their possible purposes and applications) from
sphere I, where he has performed his local sevenfold round of
evolutionary process from the lowest class of the highest species
of say anthropoids up to rudimentary man certainly enters
No. 2 as an ape (the last word being used for your better
comprehension). At this round or stage his individuality is as
dormant in him as that of a foetus during his period of gesta-
tion. He has no consciousness, no sense, for he begins as a
rudimentary astral man and lands on our planet as a primitive
physical man. So far it is a meie passing on of mechanical
motion. Volition and consciousness are at the same time self-
determining and determined by causes, and the volition of man
his intelligence and consciousness will awake but whet! his
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 77
fourth principle Kama is matured and completed by its
(seriatim) contact with the Kamas or energizing forces of all the
forms man has passed through in his previous three rounds.
The present mankind is at its fourth round (mankind as a genus
or a kind not a RACE nota bene) of the posr-pra/ayan cycle of
evolution; and as its various races, so the individual entities in
them are unconsciously to themselves performing their local
earthly sevenfold cycles hence the vast difference in the
degrees of their intelligence, energy and so on. Now every
individuality will be followed on its ascending arc by the Law
of retribution Karma and death accordingly. The perfect
man or the entity which reached full perfection, (each of his
seven principles being matured) will not be reborn here.
His local terrestrial cycle is completed and he has to either
proceed onward or be annihilated as an individuality. (The
incomplete entities have to be reborn or reincarnated).
1
On their fifth round after a partial Nirvana when the zenith
of the grand cycle is reached, they will be held responsible
henceforth in their descents from sphere to sphere, as they will
have to appear on this earth as a still more perfect and intellec-
tual race. This downward course has not yet begun but will
soon. Only how many oh, how many will be destroyed on
their way !
The above said is the rule. The Buddhas and Avatars form
the exception as verily we have yet some Avatars left to us
on earth.
(7) The animal soul having in successive passages round the
cycle lost, so to speak, the momentum which previously carried it
past the divergent path downward which strikes off here, falls
into the lower world, in the relatively brief cycle in which its
individuality is dissipated.
But this would only be the case with the animal soul which had
not, in its union with spirit, developed a durable sixth principle.
If it had done this, and if the sixth principle drawing to itself the
individuality of the complete man, had withered the inferior fifth
principle by so doing as the aloe's flower, when thrown up,
withers its leaves then the animal soul would not have cohesion
enough to enter on another existence in a lower world and would
be soon dissipated in the sphere of this earth's attraction.
(7) Reforming your conceptions on what I gave you above
you will understand now better.
The whole individuality is centred in the three middle or 3rd,
4th and 5th principles. During earthly life it is all in the fourth
1
By-the-bye, I'll re-write for you pages 345 to 357, Vol. I., of I sis -much
jumbled, and confused by Olcott, who thought he was improving it !
7 8 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
the centre of energy, volition will. Mr. Hume has perfectly
defined the difference between personality and individuality.
The former hardly survives the latter, to run successfully its
seven-fold downward and upward course has to assimilate to
itself the eternal life-power residing but in the seventh and then
blend the three (fourth, fifth and seventh) into one the sixth.
Those who succeed in doing so become Buddhs, Dyan Chohans,
etc. The chief object of our struggles and initiations is to
achieve this union while yet on this earth. Those who will be
successful have nothing to fear of during the fifth, sixth and
seventh rounds. But this is a mystery. Our beloved K.H. is
on his way to the goal the highest of all beyond as on this
sphere.
I have to thank you for all you have done for our two
friends. It is a debt of gratitude we owe you.
M.
For some short time you will not hear of, or from me
PREPARE.
LETTER No. XIV 1
Letter from K.H. Answering Queries. Received by A.O.H., July gth, 1882.
(i) We understand that the man-bearing cycle of necessity of
our solar system consists of thirteen objective globes, of which
ours is the lowest, six above *. in the ascending*, and six in the
descending cycle with a fourteenth world lower still than ours.
Is this correct?
(1) The number is not quite correct. There are seven ob-
jective and seven subjective globes (1 have been just permitted
for the first time to give you the right figure), the worlds of
causes and of effects. The former have our earth occupying
the lower turning point where spirit-matter equilibrates. But
do not trouble yourself to go into calculations even on this
correct basis for it will only puzzle you, since the infinite
ramifications of the number seven (which is one of our greatest
mysteries) being so closely allied and interdependent with the
seven principles of Nature and man this figure is the only one
1 am permitted (so far) to give you. What I can reveal I do
so in a letter I am just finishing.
(2) We understand that below man you reckon not three king-
doms as we do (mineral, vegetable and animal) but seven. Please
enumerate and explain these.
1
Transcribed from a copy in Mr. Sinnett's handwriting, ED.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 79
(2) Below man there are three in the objective and three in
the subjective region, with man a septenary. Two of the
three former none but an initiate could conceive of; the third
is the Inner kingdom below the crust of the earth which we
could name but would feel embarrassed to describe. These
seven kingdoms are preceded by other and numerous septenary
stages and combinations.
(3) We understand that the monad, starting in the highest
world of the descending series, appears there in a mineral encase-
ment, and there goes through a series of seven encasements repre-
senting the seven classes into which the mineral kingdom is
divided, and that this done it passes to the next planet and does
likewise (I purposely say nothing of the worlds of results, where it
takes on the development the result of what it has gone through
in the last world and the necessary preparation for the next) and
so on right through the thirteen spheres, making altogether 91
mineral existences, (a) Is this correct? (b) If so, what are the
classes we are to reckon in the mineral kingdom ? Also (c) How
does the monad get out of one encasement into another ;
in the
case of inherbations and incarnations, the plant and animal dies,
but so far as we know the mineral does not die, so how does the
monad in the first round get out of one into another inmetalliation ?
(d) And has every separate molecule of the mineral a monad or
only those groups of molecules where definite structure is observ-
able such as crystals?
(3) Yes; in our string of worlds it starts at globe
**
A "
of the
descending series and passing through all the preliminary evolu-
tions and combinations of the first three kingdoms it finds itself
encased in its first mineral form (in what 1 call race when speak-
ing of man and what we may call class in general) of class I
there. Only it passes through seven instead of
'*
through the
thirteen spheres
"
even omitting the intermediate
"
worlds of
results.** Having passed through its seven great classes of
inmetalliation (a good word this) with their septenary ramifica-
tions the monad gives birth to the vegetable kingdom and
moves on to the next planet
"
B."
(a) As you now see, except as to the numbers, (b) Your
geologists divide, I believe, stones into three great groups of
Sandstone, granite and chalk; or the sedimentary, organic, and
igneous, following their physical characteristics just as the
psychologists and spiritualists divide man into the trinity of
body, soul, and spirit. Our method is totally different. We
divide minerals (also the other kingdoms) according to their
occult properties, i.e., according to the relative proportion of
8o THE MAHATMA LETTERS
the seven universal principles which they contain. 1 am sorry
to refuse you, but I cannot, am not permitted to answer your
question. To facilitate for you a question of simple nomen-
clature, however, I would advise you to study perfectly the
seven principles in man, and thus to divide the seven great
classes of the minerals correspondentially. For instance, the
group of the sedimentary would answer to the compound
(chemically speaking) body of man or his first principle; the
organic to the second (some call it third) principle or jiva, etc.,
etc. You must exercise your own intuitions in that. Thus you
might also intuite certain truths even as to their properties. I
am more than willing to help you but things have to be divulged
gradually, (c) By occult osmosis. The plant and animal leave
their carcases behind when life is extinct. So does the
mineral only at longer intervals, as its rocky body is more
lasting. It dies at the end of every manwantaric cycle, or at
the close of one
"
Round
"
as you would call it. It is explained
in the letter I am preparing for you. (d) Every molecule is
part of the Universal Life. Man's soul (his fourth and fifth
principle) is but a compound of the progressed entities of the
lower kingdom. The superabundance or preponderance of one
over another compound will often determine the instincts and
passions of a man, unless these are checked by the soothing
and spiritualizing influence of his sixth principle.
(4) Please note, we call the Grand Cycle that the monad has
performed in the mineral kingdom a
"
round
"
which we under-
stand to contain thirteen (seven) stations, or objective, more or
less material worlds. At each of these stations it performs what
we call a
"
world ring*,*' which includes seven inmetalliations, one
in each of the seven classes of that kingdom. Is this accepted
for nomenclature and correct?
(4) 1 believe it will lead to a further confusion. A Round we
are agreed to call the passage of a monad from globe
**
A
to globe
"
Z "
(or
"
G ") through the encasement in all and
each of the four kingdoms, viz., as a mineral, a vegetable, an
animal and man or the Deva kingdom. The
*
world ring
"
is
correct. M. advised Mr. Sinnett strongly to agree upon a
nomenclature before going any further. A few stray facts were
given to you par contrebande and on the smuggling principle
hitherto. But now since you seem really and seriously deter-
mined to study and utilize our philosophy it is time we should
begin to work seriously. Because we are constrained to deny
to our friends an insight into the higher Mathematics it is no
reason why we should refuse to teach them arithmetic. The
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 81
monad performs not only
**
world rings
"
or seven major in-
metalliations, inherbations, zoooisations (?) and incarnations
but an infinitude of sub-rings or subordinate whirls all in series
of sevens. As the geologist divides the crust of the earth into
great divisions, sub-divisions, minor compartments and zones;
and the botanist his plants into orders, classes and species, and
the zoologist his subjects into classes, orders and families, so
we have our arbitrary classifications and our nomenclature.
But besides all this being incomprehensible to you, volumes
upon volumes out of the Books of Kiu-te and others would
have to be written. Their commentaries are worse still. They
are filled with the most abstruse mathematical calculations the
key to most of which are in the hands of our highest adepts
only, since showing as they do the infinitude of the phenomenal
manifestations in the side projections of the one Force they are
again secret. Therefore 1 doubt whether 1 will be allowed to
give you for the present anything beyond the mere unitary or
root idea. Anyhow I will do my best.
(5) We understand that in each of your other six kingdoms, a
monad similarly performs a complete round, in each round stop-
ping in each of the thirteen stations, and there performing in each
a world ring of seven lives, one in each of the seven classes into
which each of the 6 said kingdoms are divided. Is this correct,
and, if so, will you give us the seven classes of these six
kingdoms?
(5) If by kingdoms the seven kingdoms or regions of the earth
are meant and I do not see how it can mean anything else
then the query is answered in my reply to your Question (2)
and if so then the five out of the seven are already enumerated.
The first two are related as well as the third, to the evolution
of the elementals and of the Inner kingdom.
(6) If we are right then the total existences prior to the man-
period is 637. Is this correct? Or are there seven existences in
each class of each kingdom, 4,459? Or what are the total
numbers and how divided? One point more. In these lower
kingdoms is the number of lives, so to speak, invariable, or does
it vary, and, if so, how, why, and within what limits?
(6) Not being permitted to give you the whole truth, or divulge
the number of isolated fractions, I am unable to satisfy you by
giving you the total number. Rest assured my dear Brother,
that to one who does not seek to become a practical occultist
these numbers are immaterial. Even our high chelas are re-
fused these particulars to the moment of their initiation into
82 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
adeptship. These figures as I have already said are so inter-
woven with the profoundest psychological mysteries that to
divulge the key to such figures, would be to put the rod of
power within the reach of all the clever men who would read
your book. All that I can tell you is that within the Solar
Manwantara the number of existences or vital activities of the
monad is fixed, but there are local variations in number in
minor systems, individual worlds, rounds, and world rings,
according to circumstances. And in this connexion remember
also that human personalities are often blotted out, while the
entities whether single or compound complete all the minor and
major circles of necessities under whatsoever form.
(7) vSo far we hope we are tolerably correct, but when we come
to Man we have got muddled.
(7) And no wonder, since you were not given the correct
information.
(ya) Does the monad as Man (ape-man and upwards) make one
or seven rounds as above defined ? We gathered the latter.
(7a) As a man-ape he performs just as many rounds and
rings as every other race or class; i.e., he performs one Round
and in every planet from
"
A "
to
*'
Z "
has to go through
seven chief races of ape-like man, as many sub-races, etc., etc.
(See Supplementary Notes) as the above described race.
At each round does his world circle consist of seven lives in
seven races (49) or of only seven lives in one race? We are not
certain how you use the word race, whether there is only one
race to each station of each round, i.e., one race to each world
circle or whether there are seven races (with their seven branch-
lets and a life in each in either case) in each world circle? Nay,
from your use of the words
"
and through each of these Man has
to evolute before he passes on to the next higher race and that
seven times," we are not sure that there are not seven lives in
each branchlet as you call it, sub-race we will, if you like, say.
So now there may be seven rounds each with seven races, each
with seven sub-races, each with seven incarnations = 13 x7 x 7 x
^ x ^__3i, ^j^ lives, or one round with seven races and seven sub-
races and a life in each= 13 x 7 x 7 = 637 lives or again 4,459
lives. Please set us right here stating the normal number of
lives (the exact numbers will vary owing to idiots, children, etc.,
not counting) and how divided.
(7b) As the above described race : i.e., at each planet our
earth included he has to perform seven rings through seven
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 8.3
races (one in each) and seven multiplied by seven offshoots.
There are seven root-races, and seven sub-races or offshoots.
Our doctrine treats anthropology as an absurd empty dream of
the religionists and confines itself to ethnology. It is possible
that my nomenclature is faulty :
you are at liberty in such a case
to change it. What I call
*'
race
"
you would perhaps term
'*
stock
"
though sub-race expresses better what we mean than
the word family or division of the genus homo. However, to
set you right so far I will say one life in each of the seven root-
races; seven lives in each of the 49 sub-races or 7 x 7x 7 = 343
and add 7 more. And then a series of lives in offshoot and
branchlet races; making the total incarnations of man in each
station or planet 777. The principle of acceleration and re-
tardation applies itself in such a way, as to eliminate all the
inferior stocks and leave but a single superior one to make the
last ring. Not much to divide over some millions of years that
man passes on one planet. Let us take but one million of
years suspected and now accepted by your science to repre-
sent man's entire term upon our earth in this Round; and al-
lowing an average of a century for each life, we find that
whereas he has passed in all his lives upon our planet (in this
Round) but 77,700 years he has been in the subjective spheres
922,300 years. Not much encouragement for the extreme
modern re-incarnationists who remember their several previous
existences !
Should you indulge in any calculations do not forget that we
have computed above only full average lives of consciousness
and responsibility. Nothing has been said as to the failures
of Nature in abortions, congenital idiots, death of children in
their first septenary cycles, nor of the exceptions of which I
cannot speak. No less have you to remember that average
human life varies greatly according to the Rounds. Though I
am obliged to withhold information about many points yet if
you should work out any of the problems by yourself it will be
my duty to tell you so. Try to solve the problem of the 777
incarnations.
(8)
" M " said all mankind is in the fourth round, the fifth has
not yet commenced but soon will. Was this a slip? If not, then
collating this with your present remarks we gather that all man-
kind is on the fourth round (though in another place you seemed to
say we are on the fifth round). That the highest people now on
earth belong to the first sub-race of the fifth race, the majority to
the seventh sub-race of the fourth race but with remnants of the
other sub-races of the fourth race and the seventh sub-race of the
third race. Pray set us quite right on this.
84 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
(8)
"
M "
knows very little English and hates writing. But
even I might have used very well the same expression. A few
drops of rain do not make a monsoon though they presage it.
The fifth round has not commenced on our earth and the races
and sub-races of one round must not be confounded with those
of another round. The fifth round mankind may be said to
have
'*
commenced
"
when there shall not be left on the planet
which precedes ours a single man of that round and on our
earth not one of the fourth round. You should know also that
the casual fifth round men (and very few and scarce they are)
who come in upon us as avant couriers do not beget on earth
fifth round progeny. Plato and Confucius were fifth round men
and our Lord a sixth round man (the mystery of his avatar is
spoken of in my forthcoming letter) and not even Gautama
Buddha's son was anything but a fourth round man.
Our mystic terms in their clumsy re-translation from the
Sanskrit into English are as confusing to us as they are to you
especially to
"
M unless in writing to you one of us takes
his pen as an adept and uses it from the first word to the last,
in this capacity he is quite as liable to
**
slips
"
as any other
man. No, we are not in the fifth round, but fifth round men
have been coming in for the last few thousand years. But what
is such a petty stretch of time in comparison with even one
million of the several millions of years embraced in man's
occupancy of earth in a single round.
K.H.
Please examine carefully the few additional things I give you
on the fly-leaves. Damodar has received orders to send you
No. 3 of Terry's letters a good material for pamphlet No. 3
of Fragments of Occult Truth.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 85
MAN ON A PLANET1
> For explanatory notes see page 86.
86 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
This figure roughly represents the development of humanity
on a planet say our earth. Man evolves in seven major or
root-races; 49 minor races; and the subordinate races or off-
shoots, the branchlet races coming from the latter are not shown.
The arrow indicates the direction taken by the evolutionary
impulse.
I, II, III, IV, etc., are the seven major or root-races.
I, 2, 3, etc., are the minor races.
a, a, a, are the subordinate or offshoot races.
N, the initial and terminal point of evolution on the planet.
S, the axial point where the development equilibrates or
adjusts itself in each race evolution.
E, the equatorial points where in the descending arc intellect
overcomes spirituality and in the ascending arc spirituality
outstrips intellect.
(N.B. The above in D.K.'s hand the rest in K.H.'s.A.P.S.)
P.S. In his hurry D.J.K. has made his figure incline some-
what out of the perpendicular but it will serve as a rough
memorandum. He drew it to represent development on a
single planet; but I have added a word or two to make it apply
as well (which it does) to a whole manwantaric chain of worlds.
K.H.
Supplementary Notes.
Whenever any question of evolution or development in any
Kingdom presents itself to you bear constantly in mind that
everything comes under the Septenary rule of series in their
correspondences and mutual relation throughout nature.
In the evolution of man there is a topmost point, a bottom
point, a descending arc, and an ascending arc. As it is
**
Spirit
"
which transforms itself into
*'
matter
"
and (not
"
matter
"
which ascends but) matter which resolves once
more into spirit, of course the first race evolution and the last
on a planet (as in each round) must be more etherial, more
spiritual, the fourth or lowermost one most physical (pro-
gressively of course in each round) and at the same time as
physical intelligence is the masked manifestation of spiritual
intelligence each evoluted race in the downward arc must be
more physically intelligent than its predecessor, and each in the
upward arc have a more refined form of mentality commingled
with spiritual intuitiveness.
The first race (or stock) of the first round after a solar
manwantara (kindly wait for my forthcoming letter before you
allow yourself to be repuzzled or remuddled. It will explain
a good deal) would then be a god man race of an almpst inv
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 87
palpable shape, and so it is; but then comes the difficulty to
the student to reconcile this fact with the evolution of man from
the animal however high his form among the anthropoids.
And yet it is reconcilable, for whomsoever will hold religiously
to a strict analogy between the works of the two worlds, the
visible and the invisible one world, in fact, as one is working
within itself so to say. Now there are there must be
failures
*'
in the etherial races of the many classes of Dyan
Chohans or Devas as well as among men. But still as these
failures are too far progressed and spiritualized to be thrown
back forcibly from their Dyan Chohanship into the vortex of a
new primordial evolution through the lower kingdoms this
then happens. When a new solar system is to be evolved these
Dyan Chohans are (remember the Hindu allegory of the Fallen
Devas hurled by Siva into Andarah who are allowed by Para-
brahm to consider it as an intermediate state where they may
prepare themselves by a series of rebirths in that sphere
for a higher state a new regeneration) born in by the influx
**
ahead
"
of the elementals and remain as a latent or inactive
spiritual force in the aura of the nascent world of a new system
until the stage of human evolution is reached. Then Karma
has reached them and they will have to accept to the last drop
in the bitter cup of retribution. Then they become an active
Force, and commingle with the Elementals, or progressed
entities of the pure animal kingdom to develope little by little
the full type of humanity. In this commingling they lose their
high intelligence and spirituality of Devaship to regain them in
the end of the seventh ring in the seventh round.
Thus we have :
1st Round. An ethereal being non-intelligent, but super-
spiritual. In each of the subsequent races and sub-races and
minor races of evolution he grows more and more into an
encased or incarnate being, but still preponderatingly etherial.
And like the animal and vegetable he develops monstrous
bodies correspondential with his coarse surroundings.
2nd Round. He is still gigantic and etherial, but growing
firmer and more condensed in body a more physical man,
yet still less intelligent than spiritual; for mind is a slower and
more difficult evolution than the physical frame and the mind
would not develop as rapidly as the body.
3rd Round. He has now a perfectly concrete or compacted
body; at first the form of a giant ape, and more intelligent (or
rather cunning) than spiritual. For in the downward arc he has
now reached the point where his primordial spirituality is
eclipsed or over-shadowed by nascent mentality. In the last
half of this third round his gigantic stature decreases, his body
88 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
improves in texture (perhaps the microscope might help to
demonstrate this) and he becomes a more rational being
though still more an ape than a Deva man.
4th round. Intellect has an enormous development in this
round. The dumb races will acquire our human speech, on
our globe, on which from the 4th race language is perfected
and knowledge in physical things increases. At this half-way
point of the fourth round, Humanity passes the axial point of
the minor manWantaric circle. (More-over, at the middle point
of every major or root race evolution of each round, man passes
the equator of his course on that planet, the same rule applying
to the whole evolution or the seven rounds of the minor
Manwantara 7 rounds -f2 = 3 ]
/2 rounds). At this point then the
world teems with the results of intellectual activity and spiritual
decrease. In the first half of the fourth race, sciences, arts,
literature and philosophy were born, eclipsed in one nation,
reborn in another. Civilization and intellectual development
whirling in septenary cycles as the rest; while it is but in the
latter half that the spiritual Ego will begin its real struggle with
body and mind to manifest its transcendental powers. Who
will help in the forthcoming gigantic struggle? Who? Happy
the man who helps a helping hand.
5th Round. The same relative development, and the same
struggle continues.
6th Round.
7th Round.
Of these we need not speak.
LETTER No. XV1
From K.H. to A.O.H. Received July ioth, 1882.
(i) Does every mineral form, vegetable, plant, animal, always
contain within it that entity which involves the potentiality of
development into a planetary spirit? At this present day in this
present earth is there such an essence or spirit or soul the name
is immaterial in every mineral, etc.
(1) Invariably; only rather call it the germ of a future entity,
which it has been for ages. Take the human foetus. From
the moment of its first planting until it completes its seventh
month of gestation it repeats in miniature the mineral,
vegetable, and animal cycles it passed through in its previous
i Transcribed from a copy in Mr. Sinnett's handwriting. ED.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 89
encasements, and only during the last two, develops its future
human entity. It is completed but towards the child's seventh
year. Yet it existed without any increase or decrease aeons
on aeons before it worked its way onward, through and in the
womb of mother nature as it works now in its earthly mother's
bosom. Truly said a learned philosopher who trusts more to
his intuitions than the dicta of modern science.
"
The stages
of man's intra-uterine existence embody a condensed record
of some of the missing pages in Earth's history." Thus you
must look back at the animal, vegetable and mineral entities.
You must take each entity at its starting point in the manvantaric
course as the primordial cosmic atom already differentiated by
the first flutter of the manvantaric life breath. For the poten-
tiality which develops finally in a perfected planetary spirit
lurks in, is in fact that primordial cosmic atom. Drawn by its
*'
chemical affinity
"
(?) to coalesce with other like atoms the
aggregate sum of such united atoms will in time become a man-
bearing globe after the stages of the cloud, the spiral and sphere
of fire-mist and of the condensation, consolidation, shrinkage
and cooling of the planet have been successively passed
through. But mind, not every globe becomes a
"
man bearer.'*
I
simply state the fact without dwelling further upon it in this
connection. The great difficulty in grasping the idea in the
above process lies in the liability to form more or less incom-
plete mental conceptions of the working of the one element,
of its inevitable presence in every imponderable atom, and its
subsequent ceaseless and almost illimitable multiplication of
new centres of activity without affecting in the least its own
original quantity. Let us take such an aggregation of atoms
destined to form our globe and then follow, throwing a cursory
look at the whole, the special work of such atoms. We will
call the primordial atom A. This being not a circumscribed
centre of activity but the initial point of a manwantaric whirl
of evolution, gives birth to new centres which we may term B,
C, D, etc., incomputably. Each of these capital points
gives birth to minor centres, a, b, c, etc. And the latter in
the course of evolution and involution in time develops into
A's, B's, C's, etc., and so form the roots or are the developing
causes of new genera, species, classes, etc., ad infinitum. Now
neither the primordial A and its companion atoms, nor their
derived a's, b's, c's, have lost one tittle of their original force
or life-essence by the evolution of their derivatives. The force
there, is not transformed into something else as I have already
shown in my letter, but with each development of a new centre
of activity from Within itself multiplies ad infinitum without
ever losing a particle of its nature in quantity or quality. Yet
90 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
acquiring as it progresses something plus in its differentiation.
This
"
force
"
so-called, shows itself truly indestructible but
does not correlate and is not convertible in the sense accepted
by the Fellows of the R.S., but rather may be said to grow
and expand into
**
something else
"
while neither its own
potentiality nor being are in the least affected by the trans-
formation. Nor can it well be called force since the latter is but
the attribute of Yin Sin (Yin Sin or the one
**
Form of exist-
ence
"
also Adi-Buddhi or Dharmakaya the mystic, universally
diffused essence) when manifesting in the phenomenal world
of senses namely only your old acquaintance Fohat. See in
this connexion Subba Row's article
"
Aryan Arhat Esoteric
Doctrines
"
on the seven-fold principles in man; his review
of your Fragments, pp. 94 and 95. The initiated Brahmin
calls it (Yin Sin and Fohat) Brahman and Sakti when mani-
festing as that force. We will perhaps be nearer correct to call
it infinite life and the source of all life visible and invisible, an
essence inexhaustible ever present, in short Swabhavat. (S. in
its universal application, Fohat when manifesting throughout
our phenomenal world or rather the visible universe hence in
its limitations). It is pravritti when active, nirvritti when pas-
sive. Call it the Sakti of Parabrahma, if you like, and say with
the Adwaitees (Subba Row is one) that Parabrahm plus Maya
becomes Iswar the creative principle a power commonly
called God which disappears and dies with the rest when
pralaya comes. Or you may hold with the northern Buddhist
philosophers and call it Adi-Buddhi the all-pervading supreme
and absolute intelligence with its periodically manifesting
Divinity
"
Avalokiteshvara
"
(a manwantaric intelligent nature
crowned with humanity) the mystic name given by us to the
hosts of the Dyan Chohans (N.B., the solar Dyan Chohans or
the host of only our solar system) taken collectively,, which host
represents the mother source, the aggregate amount of all the
intelligences that were are or ever will be whether on our string
of man-bearing planets or on any part or portion of our solar
system. And this will bring you by analogy to see that in its
turn Adi-Buddhi (as its very name translated literally implies)
is the aggregate intelligence of the universal intelligences in-
cluding that of the Dyan Chohans even of the highest order.
That is all I dare now to tell you on this special subject, as I
fear I have already transcended the limit. Therefore when-
ever I speak of humanity without specifying it you must under-
stand that I mean not humanity of our fourth round as we see
it on this speck of mud in space but the whole host already
evoluted.
Yes as described in my letter there is but one element and
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 91
it is impossible to comprehend our system before a correct con-
ception of it is firmly fixed in one's mind. You must therefore
pardon me if I dwell on the subject longer than really seems
necessary. But unless this great primary fact is firmly grasped
the rest will appear unintelligible. This element then is the
to speak metaphysically one sub-stratum or permanent cause
of all manifestations in the phenomenal universe. The ancients
speak of the five cognizable elements of ether, air, water, fire,
earth, and of the one incognizable element (to the uninitiates)
the 6th principle of the universe call it Purush Sakti, while to
speak of the seventh outside the sanctuary was punishable
with death. But these five are but the differentiated aspects of
the one. As man is a seven-fold being so is the universe the
septenary microcosm being to the septenary macrocosm but as
the drop of rainwater is to the cloud from whence it dropped
and whither in the course of time it will return. In that one
are embraced or included so many tendencies for the evolution
of air, water, fire, etc. (from the purely abstract down to their
concrete condition) and when those latter are called elements
it is to indicate their productive potentialities for numberless
form changes or evolution of being. Let us represent the un-
known quantity as X; that quantity is the one eternal im-
mutable principle and A, B, C, D, E, five of the six minor
principles or components of the same; viz., the principles of
earth, water, air, fire and ether (akasa) following the order of
their spirituality and beginning with the lowest. There is a
sixth principle answering to the sixth principle Buddhi, in man
(to avoid confusion remember that in viewing the question
from the side of the descending scale the abstract All or eternal
principle would be numerically designated as the first, and the
phenomenal universe as the seventh, and whether belonging to
man or to the universe viewed from the other side the
numerical order would be exactly reversed) but we are not
permitted to name it except among the initiates. I may how-
ever hint that it is connected with the process of the highest
intellection. Let us call it N. And besides these, there is under
all the activities of the phenomenal universe an energizing
impulse from X, call this Y. Algebraically stated, our equation
would therefore read A+B+C+D+E+N+Y=X. Each of
these six letters represents, so to speak, the spirit or abstraction
of what you call elements (your meagre English gives me no
other word). This spirit controls the entire line of evolution,
around the whole manwantaric cycle in its own department.
The informing, vivifying, impelling, evolving cause, behind the
countless phenomenal manifestations in that department of
Nature. Let us work out the idea with a single example. Take
92 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
fi re> D the primal igneous principle resident in X is the
ultimate cause of every phenomenal manifestation of fire on
all the globes of the chain. The proximate causes are the
evoluted secondary igneous agencies which severally control
the seven descents of fire on each planet. (Every element
having its seven principles and every principle its seven sub-
principles and these secondary agencies before doing so, have
in turn become primary causes.) D is a septenary compound
of which the highest fraction is pure spirit. As we see it on
our globe it is in its coarsest, most material condition, as gross
in its way as is man in his physical encasement. In the next
preceding globe to ours fire was less gross than here : on the
one before that less still. And so the body of flame was more
and more pure and spiritual less and less gross and material on
each antecedent planet. On the first of all in the manwantaric
chain, it appeared as an almost pure objective shining the
Maha Buddhi, sixth principle of the eternal light. Our globe
being at the bottom of the arc where matter exhibits itself in
its grossest form along with spirit when the fire element
manifests itself on the globe next succeeding ours in the
ascending arc it will be less dense than as we see it. Its
spiritual quality will be identical with that which fire had on
the globe preceding ours in the descending scale; the second
globe of the ascending scale will correspond in quality with
that of the second anterior globe to ours in the descending
scale, etc. On each globe of the chain there are seven mani-
festations of fire of which the first in order will compare as to
spiritual quality with the last manifestation on the next preceding
planet : the process being reversed, as you will infer, with the
opposite arc. The myriad specific manifestations of these six
universal elements are in their turn but the offshoots, branches
or branchlets of the one single primordial
"
Tree of Life."
Take Darwin's genealogical tree of life of the human race
and others and bearing ever in mind the wise old adage,
**
As
below so above
"
that is the universal system of correspond-
ences try to understand by analogy. Thus will you see that
in this day on this present earth in every mineral, etc., there
is such a spirit. I will say more. Every grain of sand, every
boulder or crag of granite, is that spirit crystallized or petrified.
You hesitate. Take a primer of geology and see what science
affirms there about the formation and growth of minerals.
What is the origin of all the rocks, whether sedimentary or
igneous. Take a piece of granite or sandstone and you find
one composed of crystals, the other of grains of various stones
(organic rocks or stones formed out of the remains of once
living plants and animals, will not serve our present purpose :
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 93
they are the relics of subsequent evolutions while we are con-
cerned but with the primordial ones). Now sedimentary and
igneous rocks are composed, the former of sand gravel and
mud, the latter of lava. We have then but to trace the origin
of the two. What do we find? We find that one was com-
pounded of three elements or more accurately three several
manifestations of the one element, earth, water and fire, and
that the other was similarly compounded (though under different
physical conditions) out of cosmic matter the imaginary
materia prima itself one of the manifestations (6th principle) of
the one element. How then can we doubt that a mineral
contains in it a spark of the One as everything else in this
objective nature does?
(2) When tiie pralaya commences what becomes of the Spirit
that has not worked its way up to man?
(2) ... The period necessary for the completion of the seven
local or earthly or shall we call it globe-rings (not to speak of
the seven Rounds in the minor manwantaras followed by their
seven minor pralayas) the completion of the so-called mineral
cycle is immeasurably longer than that of any other kingdom.
As you may infer by analogy every globe before it reaches its
adult period, has to pass through a formation period also
septenary. Law in Nature is uniform and the conception,
formation, birth, progress and development of the child differs
from those of the globe only in magnitude. The globe has
two periods of teething and of capillature its first rocks which it
also sheds to make room for new and its ferns and mosses
before it gets forest. As the atoms in the body change [every]
seven years so does the globe renew its strata every seven
cycles. A section of a part of Cape Breton coalfields shows
seven ancient soils with remains of as many forests, and could
one dig as deep once more seven other sections would be
found following. . . .
There are three kinds of pralayas and manwantara :
1. The universal or Maha pralaya and manwantara.
2. The solar pralaya and manwantara.
3. The minor pralaya and manwantara.
When the pralaya No. I is finished the universal manwantara
begins. Then the whole universe must be re-evoluted de novo.
When the pralaya of a solar system comes it affects that solar
system only. A solar pralaya = 7 minor pralayas. The minor
pralayas of No. 3 concern but our little string of globes, whether
man-bearing or not. To such a string our Earth belongs.
94 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
Besides this within a minor pralaya there is
a^
condition of
planetary rest or as the astronomers say
"
death," like that of
our present moon in which the rocky body of the planet
survives but the life impulse has passed out. For example.
Let us imagine that our earth is one of a group of seven planets
or man-bearing worlds more or less eliptically arranged. Our
earth being at the exact lower central point of the orbit of
evolution, viz., half way round we will call the first globe A,
the last Z. After each solar pralaya there is a complete de-
struction of our system and after each solar p. begins the
absolute objective reformation of our system and each time
everything is more perfect than before.
Now the life impulse reaches
"
A "
or rather that which is
destined to become
"
A "
and which so far is but cosmic dust.
A centre is formed in the nebulous matter of the condensation of
the solar dust disseminated through space and a series of three
evolutions invisible to the eye of flesh occur in succession, viz.,
three kingdoms of elementals or nature forces are evoluted : in
other words the animal soul of the future globe is formed; or
as a Kabalist will express it, the gnomes, the salamanders, and
the undines are created. The correspondence between a
mother-globe and her child-man may be thus worked out.
Both have their seven principles. In the Globe, the elementals
(of which there are in all seven species) form (a) a gross body,
(b) her fluidic double (linga sariram), (c) her life principle (jiva);
(d) her fourth principle kama rupa is formed by her creative
impulse working from centre to circumference; (e) her fifth
principle (animal soul or Manas, physical intelligence) is em-
bodied in the vegetable (in germ) and animal kingdoms; (f) her
sixth principle (or spiritual soul, Buddhi) is man (g) and her
seventh principle (atma) is in a film of spiritualized akasa that
surrounds her. The three evolutions completed :
palpable
globe begins to form. The mineral kingdom fourth in the whole
series, but first in this stage leads the way. Its deposits are
at first vaporous soft and plastic, only becoming hard and con-
crete in the seventh ring. When this ring is completed it
projects its essence to globe B which is already passing
through the preliminary stages of formation and mineral
evolution begins on that globe. At this juncture the evolution
of the vegetable kingdom commences on globe A. When the
latter has made its seventh ring its essence passes on to globe
B. At that time the mineral essence moves to globe C and the
germs of the animal kingdom enter A. When the animal has
seven rings there, its life principle goes to globe B, and the
essences of vegetable and mineral move on. Then comes man
on A, an ethereal foreshadowing of the compact being he is
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 95
destined to become on our e.arth. Evolving seven parent races
with many offshoots of sub-races, he, like the preceding king-
doms completes his seven rings and is then transferred suc-
cessively to each of the globes onward to Z. From the first
man has all the seven principles included in him in germ but
none are developed. If we compare him to a baby we will
be right; no one has ever, in the thousands of ghost stories
current, seen the ghost of an infant, though the imagination of
a loving mother may have suggested to her the picture of her
lost babe in dreams. And this is very suggestive. In each of
the rounds he makes one of the principles develop fully. In
the first round his consciousness on our earth is dull and but
feeble and shadowy, something like that of an infant. When
he reaches our earth in the second round he has become re-
sponsible in a degree, in the third he becomes so entirely. At
every stage and every round his development keeps pace, with
the globe on which he is. The descending arc from A to our
earth is called the shadowy, the ascending to Z the
"
lumin-
ous/' . . . We men of the fourth round are already reaching the
latter half of the fifth race of our fourth round humanity, while
the men (the few earlier comers) of the fifth round, though only
in their first race (or rather class), are yet immeasurably higher
than we are spiritually if not intellectually; since with the com-
pletion or full development of this fifth principle (intellectual
soul) they have come nearer than we have, are closer in contact
with their sixth principle Buddhi. Of course many are the dif-
ferentiated individuals even in the fourth r. as germs of prin-
ciples are not equally developed in all, but such is the rule.
. . . Man comes on globe
"
A "
after the other kingdoms have
gone on. (Dividing our kingdoms into seven, the last four are
what exoteric science divides into three. To this we add the
kingdom of man or the Deva kingdom. The respective entities
of these we divide into germinal, instinctive, semi-conscious, and
fully conscious). . . . When all kingdoms have reached globe
Z they will not move forward to re-enter A in precedence of
man, but under a law of retardation operative from the central
point or earth to Z and which equilibrates a principle of
acceleration in the descending arc they will have just finished
their respective evolution of genera and species, when man
reaches his highest development on globe Z in this or any
round. The reason for it is found in the enormously greater
time required by them to develop their infinite varieties as
compared with man; the relative speed of development in the
rings therefore naturally increases as we go up the scale from
the mineral. But these different rates are so adjusted by man
stopping longer in the inter-planetary spheres of rest, for weal
96 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
or woe that all kingdoms finish their work simultaneously on
the planet Z. For example, on our globe we see the
equilibrating law manifesting. From the first appearance of
man whether speechless or not to his present one as a fourth
and the coming fifth round being the structural intention of his
organization has not radically changed. Ethnological char-
acteristics however varied, affecting in no way man as a human
being. The fossil of man or his skeleton whether of the period
of that mammalian branch of which he forms the crown, whether
cyclop or dwarf can be still recognised at a glance as a relic
of man. Plants and animals meanwhile have become more and
more unlike what they were. . . , The scheme with its septenary
details would be incomprehensible to man had he not the power
as the higher Adepts have proved of prematurely developing
his 6th and 7th senses those which will be the natural endow-
ment of all in the corresponding rounds. Our Lord Buddha
a 6th r. man would not have appeared in our epoch, great
as were his accumulated merits in previous rebirths but for a
mystery. . . . Individuals cannot outstrip the humanity of their
round any further than by one remove, for it is mathematically
impossible you say (in effect) : if the fountain of life flows
ceaselessly there should be men of all rounds on the earth at all
times, etc. The hint about planetary rest may dispel the mis-
conception on this head.
When man is perfected qua a given round on Globe A he
disappears thence (as had certain vegetables and animals). By
degrees this Globe loses its vitality and finally reaches the moon
stage, i.e., death, and so remains while man is making his seven
rings on Z and passing his inter-cyclic period before starting
on his next round. So with each Globe in turn.
And now as man when completing his seventh ring upon A
has but begun his first on Z and as A dies when he leaves it
for B. etc., and as he must also remain in the inter-cyclic sphere
after Z, as he has between every two planets, until the impulse
again thrills the chain, clearly no one can be more than one
round ahead of his kind. And Buddha only forms an exception
by virtue of the mystery. We have fifth round men among us
because we are in the latter half of our septenary earth ring.
In the first half this could not have happened. The countless
myriads of our fourth round humanity who have outrun us and
completed their seven rings on Z, have had time to pass their
inter-cyclic period begin their new round and work on to globe
D (ours). But how can there be men of the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 6th
and 7th rounds? We represent the first three and the sixth
can only come at rare intervals and prematurely like Buddhas
(only under prepared conditions) and that the last-named the
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 97
seventh art not yet evolved ! We have traced man out of a
round into the Nirvanic state between Z and A. A was left
in the last round dead. As the new round begins it catches
the new influx of life, reawakens to vitality and begets all its
kingdoms of a superior order to the last. After this has been
repeated seven times comes a minor pralaya; the chain of globes
are not destroyed by disintegration and dispersion of their
particles but pass in abscondito. From this they will re-emerge
in their turn during the next septenary period. Within one
solar period (of a p. and m.) occur seven such minor periods,
in an ascending scale of progressive development. To re-
capitulate there are in the round seven planetary or earth rings
for each kingdom and one obscuration of each planet. The
minor manwantara is composed of seven rounds, 49 rings and
7 obscurations, the solar period of 49 rounds, etc.
The periods with pralaya and manwantara are called by
Dikshita
**
Surya manwantaras and pralayas." Thought is
baffled in speculating how many of our solar pralayas must
come before the great Cosmic night but that will come.
... In the minor pralayas there is no starting de novo yonly
resumption of arrested activity. The vegetable and animal
kingdoms which at the end of the minor manwantara had
reached only a partial development are not destroyed. Their
life or vital entities, call some of them nati if you will find also
their corresponding night and rest they also have a Nirvana
of their own. And why should they not, these foetal and infant
entities. They are all like ourselves begotten of the one ele-
ment. . . . As we have our Dyan Chohans so have they in their
several kingdoms elemental guardians and are as well taken
care of in the mass as is humanity in the mass. The one ele-
ment not only fills space and is space, but interpenetrates every
atom of cosmic matter.
When strikes the hour of the solar pralaya though the
process of man's advance on his last seventh round is precisely
the same, each planet instead of merely passing out of the
visible into the invisible as he quits it in turn is annihilated.
With the beginning of the seventh Round of the seventh minor
manwantara, every kingdom having now reached its last cycle,
there remains on each planet after the exit of man but the
maya of once living and existing forms. With every step he
takes on the descending and ascending arcs as he moves on
from Globe to Globe the planet left behind becomes an empty
chrysaloidal case. At his departure there is an outflow from
every kingdom of its entities. Waiting to pass into higher
forms in due time they are nevertheless liberated : for to the
day of that evolution they will rest in their lethargic sleep in
98 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
space until again energized into life in the new solar man-
wantara. The old elementals will rest until they are called
to become in their turn the bodies of mineral, vegetable and
animal entities (on another and a higher string of globes) on
their way to become human entities (see Isis) while the
germinal entities of the lowest forms, and in that time of
general perfection there will remain but few of such will hang
in space like drops of water suddenly turned to icicles. They
will thaw at the first hot breath of a solar manwantara and form
the soul of the future globes. . . . The slow development
of the vegetable kingdom provided for by the longer inter-
planetary rest of man. . . . When the solar pralaya comes
the whole purified humanity merges into Nirvana and from that
inter-solar Nirvana will be reborn in higher systems. The
string of worlds is destroyed and vanishes like a shadow from
the wall in the extinguishment of light. We have every in-
dication that at this very moment such a solar pralaya is taking
place while there are two minor ones ending somewhere.
At the beginning of the solar manwantara the hitherto sub-
jective elements of the material world now scattered in cosmic
Just receiving their impulse from the new Dyan Chohans of
the new solar system (the highest of the old ones having gone
higher) will form into primordial ripples of life and separating
into differentiating centres of activity combine in a, graduated
scale of seven stages of evolution. Like every other orb of
space our Earth has before obtaining its ultimate materiality
and nothing now in this world can give you an idea of what
this state of matter is to pass through a gamut of seven stages
of density. I say gamut advisedly since the diatonic scale best
affords an illustration of the perpetual rythmic motion of the
descending and ascending cycle of Swabhavat graduated as
it is by tones and semi-tones.
You have among the learned members of your society one
Theosophist who without familiarity with our occult doctrine,
has yet intuitively grasped from scientific data the idea of a
solar pralaya and its manwantara in their beginnings. I mean
the celebrated French astronomer Flammarion
'*
La Resur-
rection et la Fin des Mondes
"
(Chapter 4 res.). He speaks
like a true seer. The facts are as he surmises with slight
modifications. In consequence of the secular refrigeration (old
age rather and loss of vital power), solidification and desicca-
tion of the globes, the earth arrives at a point when it begins
to be a relaxed conglomerate. The period of child-bearing is
gone by. The progeny are all nurtured, its term of life is
finished. Hence
*'
its constituent masses cease to obey those
laws of cohesion and aggregation which held them together/'
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 99
And becoming like a cadaver which abandoned to the work
of destruction would leave each molecule composing it free to
separate itself from the body for ever to obey in future the
sway of new influences. The attraction of the moon (would
that he could know the full extent of its pernicious influence)
would itself undertake the task of demolition by producing a
tidal wave of earth particles instead of an aqueous tide.
His mistake is that he believes a long time must be devoted
to the ruin of the solar system : we are told that it occurs in
the twinkling of an eye but not without many preliminary
warnings. Another error is the supposition that the earth will
fall into the sun. The sun itself is first to disintegrate at the
solar pralaya.
. . . Fathom the nature and essence of the sixth principle of
the universe and man and you will have fathomed the greatest
mystery in this our world and why not are you not surrounded
by it? What are its familiar manifestations, mesmerism, Od
force, etc. all different aspects of one force capable of good
and evil applications.
The degrees of an Adept's initiation mark the seven stages
at which he discovers the secret of the sevenfold principles in
nature and man and awakens his dormant powers.
LETTER No. XVI 1
(I) The remarks appended to a letter in the last Thcoaophiat,
page 226, col. 1, strike me as very important and as qualifying
I do not say contradicting a good deal of what we have
hitherto been told in re Spiritualism.
We had heard already of a spiritual condition of life in which
the redeveloped Ego enjoyed a conscious existence for a time
before reincarnation in another world; but that branch of the
subject has hitherto been slurred over. Now some explicit
statements are made about it; and these suggest further
enquiries.
In the Deva Chan (I have lent my Theosophist to a friend;
and have not got it at hand to refer to but that if I remember
rightly is the name given to the state of spiritual beatitude
described) the new Ego retains complete recollection of his life
on earth apparently. Is that so or is there any misunderstanding
on that point on my part?
(i) The Deva-Chan, or land of
"
Sukhavati," is aUegorically
i Mr. Sinnett's queries lo which K.H. replies in this letter are printed in
bold type. ED.
ioo THE MAHATMA LETTERS
described by our Lord Buddha himself. What he said may be
found in the Shan-Mun-yi-Tung. Says Tathgata :
"
Many thousand myriads of systems of worlds beyond this
(ours) there is a region of Bliss called Sukhavati. . . . This
region is encircled with seven rows of railings, seven rows of vast
curtains, seven rows of waving trees ;
this holy abode of Arahats
is governed by the Tath&gatas (Dhyan Chohans) and is possessed
by the Bodhisatwas. It hath seven precious lakes, in the midst
of which flow crystaline waters having
'
seven and one
'
properties,
or distinctive qualities (the 7 principles emanating from the ONE).
This, O, Sariputra is the
4
Deva Chan.
1
Its divine Udambara
flower casts a root in the shadow of every earth, and blossoms
for all those who reach it. Those born in the blessed region are
truly felicitous, there are no more griefs or sorrows in that cycle
for them. . . .
Myriads of Spirits (Lha) resort there for rest
and then return to their own regions.
1
Again, O, Sariputra, in
that land of joy many who are born in it are Avaivartyas . . ." 3
etc., etc.
(2) Now except in the fact that the duration of existence in
the Deva Chan is limited/ there is a very close resemblance
between that condition and the Heaven of ordinary religion
(omitting anthropomorphic ideas of God).
(2) Certainly the new Ego once that it is reborn, fetains for a
certain time proportionate to its Earth-life, a
"
complete recol-
lection of his life on earth/' 3
(See your preceding query.) But
it can never return on earth, from the Deva Chan, nor has the
latter even omitting all
"
anthropomorphic ideas of God "
any
resemblance to the paradise or heaven of any religion, and it is
H.P.B.'s literary fancy that suggested to her the wonderful com-
parison.
(3) Now the question of importance is who goes to Heaven
or Deva Chan? Is this condition only attained by the few
who are very good, or by the many who are not very bad,
after the lapse in their case of a longer unconscious incubation
or gestation.
(3)
"
Who goes to Deva Chan? " The personal Ego of course,
but beatified, purified, holy. Every Ego the combination of the
sixth and seventh principles which, after the period of uncon-
scious gestation is reborn into the Deva-Chan, is of necessity as
innocent and pure as a new-born babe. The fact of his being
1
Those who have not ended their earth rings.
2
Literally those who will never return the seventh round men, etc.
J See back (i) of your questions.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 101
reborn at all, shows the preponderance of good over evil in his old
personality. And while the Karma (of evil) steps aside for the
time being to follow him in his future earth-reincarnation, he
brings along with him but the Karma of his good deeds, words,
and thoughts into this Deva-Chan. " Bad "
is a relative term for
us as you were told more than once before, and the Law of
Retribution is the only law that never errs. Hence all those who
have not slipped down into the mire of unredeemable sin and
bestiality go to the Deva Chan. They will have to pay for their
sins, voluntary and involuntary, later on. Meanwhile, they are
rewarded ;
receive the effects of the causes produced by them.
Of course it is a state, one, so to say, of intense selfishness,
during which an Ego reaps the reward of his unselfishness on
earth. He is completely engrossed in the bliss of all his personal
earthly affections, preferences and thoughts, and gathers in the
fruit of his meritorious actions. No pain, no grief nor even the
shadow of a sorrow comes to darken the bright horizon of his
unalloyed happiness :
for, it is a state of perpetual
"
Maya."
Since the conscious perception of one's personality on
earth is but an evanescent dream that sense will be equally that
of a dream in the Deva-Chan only a hundred fold intensified.
So much so, indeed, that the happy Ego is unable to see through
the veil the evils, sorrows and woes to which those it loved on
earth may be subjected to. It lives in that sweet dream with its
loved ones whether gone before, or yet remaining on earth ; it
has them near itself, as happy, as blissful and as innocent as the
disembodied dreamer himself; and yet, apart from rare visions,
the denizens of our gross planet feel it not. It is in this, during
such a condition of complete Maya that the Souls or astral Egos
of pure, loving sensitives, labouring under the same illusion, think
their loved ones come down to them on earth, while it is their
own Spirits that are raised towards those in the Deva-Chan.
Many of the subjective spiritual communications most of them
when the sensitives are pure minded are real ;
but it is most
difficult for the uninitiated medium to fix in his mind the true
and correct pictures of what he sees and hears. Some of the
phenomena called psychography (though more rarely) are also
real. The spirit of the sensitive getting odylised, so to say, by
the aura of the Spirit in the Deva-Chan, becomes for a few minutes
that departed personality, and writes in the hand writing of the
latter, in his language and in his thoughts, as they were during-
his life time. The two spirits become blended in one; and, the
preponderance of one over the other during such phenomena
determines the preponderance of personality in the characteristics
exhibited in such writings, and
"
trance speaking.
" What you
call
"
rapport
"
is in plain fact an identity of molecular vibration
102 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
between the astral part of the incarnate medium and the astral
part of the disincarnate personality. I have just noticed an article
on smell by some English Professor (which I will cause to be
reviewed in the Theosophist and say a few words), and find in it
something that applies to our case. As, in music, two different
sounds may be in accord and separately distinguishable, and this
harmony or discord depends upon the synchronous vibrations and
complementary periods; so there is rapport between medium and'
11
control
" when their astral molecules move in accord. And the
question whether the communication shall reflect more of the one
personal idiosyncracy, or the other, is determined by the relative
intensity of the two sets of vibrations in the compound wave of
Akasa. The less identical the vibratory impulses the more
mediumistic and less spiritual will be the message. So then,
measure your medium's moral state by that of the alleged
" con-
trolling
M
Intelligence, and your tests of genuineness leave nothing
to be desired.
(4) Or are there great varieties of condition within the limits,
so to speak, of Deva Chan, so that an appropriate state is
dropped into by all, from which they will be born into lower
and higher conditions in the next world of causes. It is no use
multiplying hypotheses. We want some information to go upon.
(4) Yes ;
there are great varieties in the Deva-Chan states, and,
it is all as you say. As many varieties of bliss, as on earth there
are shades of perception and of capability to appreciate such
reward. It is an ideated paradise, in each case of the Ego's own
making, and by him filled with the scenery, crowded with the
incidents, and thronged with the people he would expect to find in
such a sphere of compensative bliss. And it is that variety which
guides the temporary personal Ego into the current which will
lead him to be reborn in a lower or higher condition in the next
world of causes. Everything is so harmoniously adjusted in
nature especially in the subjective world, that no mistake can
be ever committed by the Tath^gatas or Dhyan Chohans who
guide the impulses.
(5) On the face of the idea, a purely spiritual state would
only be enjoyable to the entities highly spiritualized in this life.
But there are myriads of very good people (morally) who are
not spiritualized at all. How can they be fitted to pass, with
their recollections of this life from a material to a spiritual
condition of existence.
($) It is "a spiritual condition
"
only as contrasted with our
3wn grossly
"
material condition/
1
and, as already stated it is
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 103
such degrees of spirituality that constitute and determine the
great
"
varieties'* of conditions within the limits of Deva-Chan.
A mother from a savage tribe is not less happy than a mother
from a regal palace, with her lost child in her arms; and although
as actual Egos, children prematurely dying before the perfection
of their septenary Entity do not find their way to Deva-Chan, yet
all the same the mother's loving fancy finds her children there,
without one missing that her heart yearns for. Say it is but a
dream, but after all what is objective life itself but a panorama of
vivid unrealities? The pleasures realized by a Red Indian in his
"
happy hunting grounds
" in that Land of Dreams is not less
intense than the ecstasy felt by a connoisseur who passes ceons in
the wrapt delight of listening to divine Symphonies by imaginary
angelic choirs and orchestras. As it is no fault of the former,
if born a
"
savage
M
with an instinct to kill though it caused the
death of many an innocent animal why, if with it all, he was a
loving father, son, husband, why should he not also enjoy his share
of reward? The case would be quite different if the same cruel
acts had been done by an educated and civilized person, from a
mere love of sport. The savage in being reborn would simply
take a low place in the scale, by reason of his imperfect moral
development ;
while the Karma of the other would be tainted with
moral delinquency. . . .
Every one but that ego which, attracted by its gross magnetism,
falls into the current that will draw it into the
"
planet of Death "
the mental as well as physical satellite of our earth is fitted to
pass into a relative
"
spiritual
" condition adjusted to his previous
condition in life and mode of thought. To my knowledge and
recollection H.P.B. explained to Mr. Hume that man's sixth
principle, as something purely spiritual could not exist, or have
conscious being in the Deva-Chan, unless it assimilated some of
the more abstract and pure of the mental attributes of the fifth
principle or animal Soul : its manas (mind) and memory. When
man dies his second and third principles die with him ;
the lower
triad disappears, and the fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh principles
form the surviving Quaternary. (Read again page 6 in Fragments
of O.T.)
1
Thenceforth it is a
4<
death
"
struggle between the
Upper and Lower dualities. If the upper wins, the sixth, having
attracted to itself the quintessence of Good from the fifth its
nobler affections, its saintly (though they be earthly) aspirations,
and the most Spiritualised portions of its mind follows its divine
elder (the 7th) into the
"
Gestation
"
State; and the fifth and
fourth remain in association as an empty sfceK-(the expression
is quite correct) to roam in the earth's atmosphere, with half the
O.T. stands for Ocrult Truth. ED.
104 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
personal memory gone, and the more brutal instincts fully alive
for a certain period an
"
Elementary
"
in short. This is the
"
angel guide
"
of the average medium. If, on the other hand,
it is the Upper Duality which is defeated, there, it is the fifth
principle that assimilates all that there may be left of personal
recollection and perceptions of its personal individuality in the
sixth. But, with all this additional stock, it will not remain in
Kama-Loka " the world of Desire
"
or our Earth's atmosphere.
In a very short time like a straw floating within the attraction of
the vortices and pits of the Maelstrom, it is caught up and drawn
into the great whirlpool of human Egos ;
while the sixth and
seventh now a purely Spiritual, individual MONAD, with nothing
left in it of the late personality, having no regular
"
gestation
"
period to pass through :
(since there is no purified personal Ego
to be reborn), after a more or less prolonged period of uncon-
scious Rest in the boundless Space will find itself reborn in
another personality on the next planet. When arrives the period
of
" Full Individual Consciousness
"
which precedes that of
Absolute Consciousness in the Pari-Nirvana this lost personal
life becomes as a torn out page in the great Booh of Lives, with-
out even a disconnected word left to mark its absence. The
purified monad will neither perceive nor remember it in the series
of its past rebirths which it would had it gone to the
" World of
Forms >f
(rupa-loka) and its retrospective glance will not perceive
even the slightest sign to indicate that it had been. The light of
SammA-Sambuddh
"
. . . that light which shines beyond our mortal ken
The line of all the lives in all the worlds
"
throws no ray upon that personal life in the series of lives fore-
gone.
To the credit of mankind, I must say, that such an utter oblitera-
tion of an existence from the tablets of Universal Being does not
occur often enough to make a great percentage. In fact, like the
much mentioned "
congenital idiot" such a thing is a lusus
naturae an exception, not the rule.
(6) And how is a spiritual existence in which everything has
merged into the sixth principle, compatible with that conscious-
ness of individual and personal material life which must be
attributed to the Ego in Deva-Chan if he retains his earthly
consciousness as stated in the Theosophist Note.
(6) The question is now sufficiently explained, I believe : the
sixth and seventh principles apart from the rest constitute the
eternal imperishable, but also unconscious
"
Monad. "
To awaken
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 105
in it to life the latent consciousness, especially that of personal
individuality, requires the monad plus the highest attributes of the
fifth the
" animal Soul
"
; and it is that which makes the ethereal
Ego that lives and enjoys bliss in the Deva-Chan. Spirit, or the
unalloyed emanations of the ONE the latter forming with the
seventh and sixth principles the highest triad neither of the two
emanations are capable of assimilating but that which is good,
pure and holy ; hence, no sensual, material or unholy recollection
can follow the purified memory of the Ego to the region of Bliss.
The Karma for these recollections of evil deeds and thought will
reach the Ego when it changes its personality in the following
world of causes. The Monad, or the
"
Spiritual Individuality,
"
remains untainted in all cases.
**
No sorrow or Pain for those
born there (in the Rupa-Loka of Deva-Chan) ;
for this is the Pure-
land. All the regions in Space possess such lands (Sakwala), but
this land of Bliss is the most pure. In the Djnana Prasthdna
Shaster, it is said :
"
by personal purity and earnest meditation,
we overleap the limits of the World of Desire, and enter in the
World of Forms."
(7) The period of gestation between Death and Deva-Chan
has hitherto been conceived by rne at all events as very long.
Now it is said to be in some cases only a few days, in no cases
(it is implied) more than a few years. This seems plainly stated,
but I ask if it can be explicitly confirmed because it is a point
on which so much turns.
(7) Another fine example of the habitual disorder in which Mrs.
H.P.B.'s mental furniture is kept. She talks of
" Bardo " and
does not even say to her readers what it means ! As in her
writing room confusion is ten times confounded, so in her mind
are crowded ideas piled in such a chaos that when she wants to
express them the tail peeps out before the head.
"
Bardo "
has
nothing to do with the duration of time in the case you are referring
to.
" Bardo M is the period between death and rebirth and may
last from a few years to a kalpa. It is divided into three sub-
periods (i) when the Ego delivered of its mortal coil enters into
Kama-Loka1
(the abode of Elementaries) ; (2) when it enters into
its
"
Gestation State
"
; (3) when it is reborn in the Rupa-Loka of
Deva-Chan. Sub-period (i) may last from a few minutes to a
number of years the phrase
" a few years" becoming puzzling
and utterly worthless without a more complete explanation ;
Sub-
period (2) is "very long"; as you say, longer sometimes than
you may even imagine, yet proportionate t*> the Ego's spiritual
stamina ; Sub-period (3) lasts in proportion to the good KARMA,
i Tibetan : Yuh-Kai.
io6 THE MAHATMA LETTEKS
after which the monad is again reincarnated. The Agama Sutra
saying :
"
in all these Rupa-Lokas, the Devas (Spirits) are
equally subjected to birth, decay, old age, and death,'* means
only that an Ego is borne thither then begins fading out and
finally
"
dies/' i.e., falls into that unconscious condition which
precedes rebirth ;
and ends the Sloka with these words :
" As the
devas emerge from these heavens, they enter the lower world
again :
"
i.e, they leave a world of bliss to be reborn in a world
of causes.
(8) In that case, and assuming that Deva-Chan is not solely
the heritage of adepts and persons almost as elevated, there
is a condition of existence tantamount to Heaven actually going
on, from which the life of Earth may be watched by an immense
number of those who have gone before !
(9) And for how long?
Does this state of spiritual beatitude endure for years? for
decades? for centuries?
(8) Most emphatically
"
the Deva-Chan is not solely the
heritage of adepts," and most decidedly there is a
" heaven
" if
you must use this astro-geographical Christian term for
" an
immense number of those who have gone before/' But " the life
of Earth
"
can be watched by none of these, for reasons of the
Law of Bliss plus Maya, already given.
(9) For years, decades, centuries and milleniums, oftentimes-
multiplied by something more. It all depends upon the duration
of Karma. Fill with oil Den's little cup, and a city Reservoir of
water, and lighting both see which burns the longer. The Ego is
the wick and Karma the oil : the difference in the quantity of the
latter (in the cup and the reservoir) suggesting to you the great
difference in the duration of various Karmas. Every effect must
be proportionate to the cause. And, as man's terms of incarnate
existence bear but a small proportion to his periods of inter-natal
existence in the manvantaric cycle, so the good' thoughts, words,
and deeds of any one of these
"
lives
" on a globe are causative of
effects, the working out of which requires far more time than the
evolution of the causes occupied. Therefore, when you read in
the Jts and other fabulous stories of the Buddhist Scriptures that
this or the other good action was rewarded by Kalpas of several
figures of bliss, do not smile at the absurd exaggeration, but bear
in mind what I have said. From a small seed, you know, sprung
a tree whose life endures now for 22 centuries; I mean the
Anuradha-pura Bo tree. Nor must you laugh, if ever you come
across Pindha-Dhana or any other Buddhist Sutra and read :
"
Between the Kama-Loka and the Rupa-Loka there is a locality,
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 107
the dwelling of
*
Mara '
(Death). This Mara filled with passion
and lust, destroys all virtuous principles, as a stone grinds corn. 1
His palace is 7000 yojanas square, and is surrounded by a seven-
fold wall," for you will feel now more prepared to understand the
allegory. Also, when Beal, or Burnouf, or Rhys Davids in the
innocence of their Christian and materialistic souls indulge in such
translations as they generally do, we do not bear them malice
for their commentaries, since they cannot know any better. But
what can the following mean :
" The names of the Heavens "
(a
mistranslation ;
lokas are not heavens but localities or abodes)
of Desire, Kama-Loka so called, because the beings who occupy
them are subject to desires of eating, drinking, sleeping and
love. They are otherwise called the abodes of the five (?) orders
of sentient creatures Devas, men, asuras, beasts, demons "
(Lan-
tan Sutra, trans, by S. Beal). They mean simply that, had the
reverend translator been acquainted with the true doctrine a little
better he would have (i) divided the Devas into two classes and
called them the
"
J?w/>a-devas
" and the
"
Arupa-devas
"
(the
44
form
" or objective, and the
"
formless
M or subjective Dhyan
Chohans ; and (2) would have done the same for his class of
44
men,'* since there are shells, and 44
Mara-rupas
"
i.e. bodies
doomed to annihilation. All these are :
(i)
"
Rupa-d6vas
"
Dhyan Chohans *
having forms; |
_,
(2)
"
Arupa-devas
"
,, ,, having no forms ;'
(3)
" Pisachas
"
(two-principled) ghosts.
(4)
"
Mara-rupa
" Doomed to death (3 principled).
(5) Asuras Elementals having human form
(6) Beasts ,, 2nd class animal Elementals f
(7) Rakshasas (Demons) Souls or Astral Forms of sorcerers;
men who have reached the apex of knowledge in the for-
bidden art. Dead or alive they have, so to say cheated
nature ;
but it is only temporary until our planet goes into
obscuration, after which they have nolens volens to be
annihilated.
It is these seven groups that form the principal divisions of the
Dwellers of the subjective world around us. It is in stock No. i,
that are the intelligent Rulers of this world of Matter, and who,
1 This Mara, as you may well think, is the allegorical image of the sphere
called the
" Planet of Death
" the whirlpool whither disappear the lives
doomed to destruction. It is between Kama and Rupa-Lokas that the struggle
takes place.
a The Planetary Spirits of our Earth are not of the highest, as you may
well imaginesince, as Subba Row says in his criticism upon Oxley's work
that no Eastern Adept would like to be compared with an angel or a Dtva.
See May Theosophist.
io8 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
with all this intelligence are but the blindly obedient instruments
of the ONE ;
the active agents of a Passive Principle.
And thus are misinterpreted and mistranslated nearly all our
Sutras ; yet even under that confused jumble of doctrines and
words, for one who knows even superficially the true doctrine,
there is firm ground to stand upon. Thus, for instance in
enumerating the seven lokas of the
" Kama-Loka " the Avatatn-
saka Sutra, gives as the seventh, the
"
Territory of Doubt." I
will ask you to remember the name as we will have to speak of
it hereafter. Every such "
world
"
within the Sphere of Effects
has a Tathagata, or
4<
Dhyan Chohan "
to protect and watch
over, not to interfere with it. Of course, of all men, spiritualists
will be the first to reject and throw off our doctrines to
"
the limbo
of exploded superstitions." Were we to assure them that every
one of their
"
Summerlands " had seven boarding houses in it,
with the same number of
"
Spirit Guides
M
to
"
boss
"
in them,
and call these
"
angels," Saint Peters, Johns, and St. Ernests,
they would welcome us with open arms. But whoever heard of
Tathagats and Dhyan Chohans, Asuras and Elementals? Pre-
posterous !
Still, we are happily allowed by our friends (Mr.
Eglinton, at least) to be possessed
'*
of a certain knowledge of
Occult Sciences
"
(Vide
"
Light "). And thus, even this mite of
11
Knowledge
"
is at your service, and is now helping me to
answer your following question :
Is there any intermediate condition between the spiritual
beatitude of Deva-Chan, and the forlorn shadow life af the
only half conscious elementary reliquiae of human beings who
have lost their sixth principle. Because if so that might give
a locus standi in imagination to the Earnests and Joeys of the
spiritual mediums the better sort of controlling
"
spirits." If
so surely that must be a very populous world? from which any
amount of
"
spiritual
"
communications might come.
Alas, no; my friend ;
not that I know of. From " Sukhavati
"
down to the
"
Territory of Doubt "
there is a variety of Spiritual
States; but I am not aware of any such
"
intermediate condition."
I have told you of the Sakwalas (though I cannot be enumerating
them since it would be useless) ;
and even of Avitchi the
"
Hell
"
from which there is no return 1
,
and I have no more to tell about.
"
The forlorn shadow "
has to do the best it can. As soon as it
has stepped outside the Kama-Loka, and crossed the
"
Golden
1 In Abidharma Shastra (Metaphysics) we read:
'*
Buddha taught that
on the outskirts of all the Sakwalas, there is a black interval, without Sun or
moonlight for him who falls into it. There is no re-birth from it.. It is the
cold Hell, the great Naraka." This is Avitchi.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 109
Bridge
"
leadiog to the
" Seven Golden Mountains " the Ego can
confabulate no more, with easy-going mediums. No "
Earnest
"
or
"
Joey
" has ever returned from the Rupa Loka let alone the
Arupa-Loksi to hold sweet intercourse with mortals.
Of course there is a
"
better sort
" of reliquiae; and the
" shells
" or the
" earth-walkers
f>
as they are here called, are
not necessarily all bad. But even those that are good, are made
bad for the time being by mediums. The " shells
M
may well not
care, since they have nothing to lose, anyhow. But there is
another kind of
"
Spirits,** we have lost sight of: the suicides
and those killed by accident. Both kinds can communicate, and
both have to pay dearly for such visits. And now I have again
to explain what I mean. Well, this class is the one that the
French Spiritists call
" les Esprits Souffrants." They are an
exception to the rule, as they have to remain within the earth's
attraction, and in its atmosphere the Kama-Loka till the very
last moment of what would have been the natural duration of
their lives. In other words, that particular wave of life-evolution
must run on to its shore. But it is a sin and cruelty to revive
their memory and intensify their suffering by giving them a
chance of living an artificial life ;
a chance to overload their
Karma, by tempting them into open doors, viz., mediums and
sensitives, for they will have to pay roundly for every such
pleasure. I will explain. The suicides, who, foolishly hoping to
escape life, found themselves still alive, have suffering enough
in store for them from that very life. Their punishment is in the
intensity of the latter. Having lost by the rash act their seventh
and sixth principles, though not for ever, as they can regain both
instead of accepting their punishment, and taking their chances
of redemption, they are often made to regret life and tempted to
regain a hold upon it by sinful means. In the Kama-Loka, the
land of intense desires, they can gratify their earthly yearnings
but through a living proxy ;
and by so doing, at the expiration of
the natural term, they generally lose their monad for ever. As
to the victims of accident these fare still worse. Unless they
were so good and pure, as to be drawn immediately within the
Akasic Samadhi, i.e. to fall into a state of quiet slumber, a sleep
full of rosy dreams, during which, they have no recollection of
the accident, but move and live among their familiar friends and
scenes, until their natural life-term is finished, when they find
themselves born in the Deva-Chan a gloomy fate is theirs. Un-
happy shades, if sinful and sensual they wander about (not
shells, for their connection with their two higher principles is not
quite broken) until their death-hour comes. Cut off in the full
flush of earthly passions which bind them to familiar scenes, they
are enticed by the opportunities which mediums afford, to gratify
i io THE MAHATMA LETTERS
them vicariously. They are the Pisachas, the Incubi, and
Succubi of mediaeval times. The demons of thirst, gluttony, lust
and avarice, elementaries of intensified craft, wickedness and
cruelty ; provoking- their victims to horrid crimes, and revelling in
their commission !
They not only ruin their victims, but these
psychic vampires, borne along by the torrent of their hellish
impulses, at last, at the fixed close of their natural period of life
they are carried out of the earth's aura into regions where for
ages they endure exquisite suffering and end with entire destruc-
tion.
But if the victim of accident or violence, be neither very good,
nor very bad an average person then this may happen to him.
A medium who attracts him, will create for him the most un-
desirable of things : a new combination of Skandhas and a new
and evil Karma. But let me give you a clearer idea of what I
mean by Karma in this case.
In connection with this, let me tell you before, that since you
seem so interested with the subject, you can do nothing better
than to study the two doctrines of Karma and Nirvana as pro-
foundly as you can. Unless you are thoroughly well acquainted
with the two tenets the double key to the metaphysics of Abid-
harma you will always find yourself at sea in trying to compre-
hend the rest. We have several sorts of Karma and Nirvana in
their various applications to the Universe, the world, Devas,
Buddhas, Bodhisatwas, men and animals the second including
its seven kingdoms. Karma and Nirvana are but two of the
seven great MYSTERIES of Buddhist metaphysics ;
and but four of
the seven are known to the best orientalists, and that very
imperfectly.
If you ask a learned Buddhist priest what is Karma? he will
tell you that Karma is what a Christian might call Providence (in
a certain sense only) and a Mahomedan Kismet, fate or destiny
(again in one sense). That it is that cardinal tenet which teaches
that, as soon as any conscious or sentient being, whether man,
deva, or animal dies, a new being is produced and he or it re-
appears in another birth, on the same or another planet, under
conditions of his or its own antecedent making. Or, in other
words that Karma is the guiding power, and Trishna (in Pali
Tanha) the thirst or desire to sentiently live the proximate force
or energy, the resultant of human (or animal) action, which,
out of the old Skandhas1
produce the new group that form the
1 I remark that in the second as well as in the first edition of your
Occult World the same misprint appears, and that the word Skandha is spelt
Shandba on page 130. As it now stands I am made to express myself in a
very original way for a supposed Adept.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS in
new being and control the nature of the birth itself. Or to make
it still clearer, the new being, is rewarded and punished for the
meritorious acts and misdeeds of the old one ; Karma represent-
ing an Entry Book, in which all the acts of man, good, bad, or
indifferent, are carefully recorded to his debit and credit by him-
self, so to say, or rather by these very actions of his. There,
where Christian poetical fiction created, and sees a
"
Recording
"
Guardian Angel, stern and realistic Buddhist logic, perceiving
the necessity that every cause should have its effect shows its
real presence. The opponents of Buddhism have laid great stress
upon the alleged injustice that the doer should escape and an
innocent victim be made to suffer, since the doer and the suf-
ferer are different beings. The fact is, that while in one sense
they may be so considered, yet in another they are identical.
The " old being
" is the sole parent father and mother at once
of the
" new being. It is the former who is the creator and
fashioner, of the latter, in reality ;
and far more so in plain
truth, than any father in flesh. And once that you have well
mastered the meaning of Skandhas you will see what I mean.
It is the group of Skandhas, that form and constitute the
physical and mental individuality we call man (or any being).
This group consists (in the exoteric teaching) of five Skandhas,
namely :
Pupa the material properties or attributes ;
Vedana
sensations ;
Sanna abstract ideas ;
Sankhdrd tendencies both
physical and mental ;
and Vinnana mental powers, an amplifi-
cation of the fourth meaning the mental, physical and moral
predispositions. We add to them two more, the nature and
names of which you may learn hereafter. Suffice for the present
to let you know that they are connected with, and productive of
Sakkayaditthi, the
"
heresy or delusion of individuality
" and of
Attavada "
the doctrine of Self," both of which (in the case of the
fifth principle the soul) lead to the maya of heresy and belief in
the efficacy of vain rites and ceremonies ; .in prayers and inter-
cession.
Now, returning to the question of identity between the old and
the new "
Ego." I may remind you once more, that even your
Science has accepted the old, very old fact distinctly taught by
our Lord,
1
viz. that a man of any given age, while sentiently
the same, is yet physically not the same as he was a few years
earlier (we say seven years and are prepared to maintain and
1
See the Abhidharma Kosha Vyakhya, the Sutta Pitaka, any Northern
Buddhist book, all of which show Gautama Buddha saying that none of these
Skandhas is the soul; since the body is constantly changing, and that neither
man, animal, nor plant is ever the same for two consecutive days or even
minutes. "
Mendicants 1 remember that there is within man no abiding, frit*'
ciple whatever, and that only the learned disciple who acquires wisdom, in
saying
'
/ am' knows what he is saying."
H2 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
prove it) :
burldhistically speaking, his Skandhas have changed.
At the same time they are ever and ceaselessly at work in prepar-
ing the abstract mould, the
"
privation
M of the future new being.
Well then, if it is just that a man of 40 should enjoy or suffer for
the actions of the man of 20, so it is equally just that the being
of the new birth, who is essentially identical with the previous
being since he is its outcome and creation should feel the con-
sequences of that begetting Self or personality. Your Western
law which punishes the innocent son of a guilty father by depriv-
ing him of his parent, rights and property ; your civilized Society
which brands with infamy the guileless daughter of an immoral,
criminal mother ; your Christian Church and Scriptures which
teach that the
"
Lord God visits the sins of the fathers upon the
children unto the third and fourth generation
" are not all these
far more unjust and cruel than anything done by Karma? In-
stead of punishing the innocent together with the culprit, the
Karma avenges and rewards the former, which neither of your
three western potentates above mentioned ever thought of doing.
But perhaps, to our physiological remark the objectors may reply
that it is only the body that changes, there is only a molecular
transformation, which has nothing to do with the mental evolu-
tion ;
and that the Skandhas represent not only a material but also
a set of mental and moral qualities. But is there, I ask, either a
sensation, an abstract idea, a tendency of mind, or a mental
power, that one could call an absolutely non-molecular phe-
nomenon? Can even a sensation or the most abstractive thoughts
which is something, come out of nothing, or be nothing? *
Now, the causes producing the
" new being
M and determining
the nature of Karma are, as already said Trishna (or
"
Tanha ")
first, desire for sentient existence and Upadana which is the
realization or consummation of Trishna or that desire. And both
of these the medium helps to awaken and to develop nee plus
ultra in an Elementary, be he a suicide or a victim. 1
The rule is,
that a person who dies a natural death, will remain from "
a few
hours to several short years,
" within the earth's attraction, i.e.,
in the Kama-Loka. But exceptions are, in the case of suicides
and those who die a violent death in general. Hence, one of
such Egos, for instance, who was destined to live say 80 or 90
years, but who either killed himself or was killed by some acci-
dent, let us suppose at the age of 20 would have to pass in the
Kama Loka not
" a few years," but in his case 60 or 70 years,
as an Elementary, or rather an
"
earth-walker
"
; since he is not,
unfortunately for him, even a "shell." Happy, thrice happy, in
1 Alone the Shells and the Elementals are left unhurt, though the morality
of the sensitives can by no means be improved by the intercourse.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 113
comparison, are those disembodied entities, who sleep their long
slumber and live in dream in the bosom of Space ! And woe to
those whose Trishna will attract them to mediums, and woe to
the latter, who tempt them with such an easy Upadana. For in
grasping them, and satisfying their thirst for life, the medium
helps to develop in them is in fact the cause of a new set of
Skandhas, a new body, with far worse tendencies and passions
than was the one they lost. All the future of this new body will
be determined thus, not only by the Karma of demerit of the
previous set or group but also by that of the new set of the future
being. Were the mediums and Spiritualists but to know, as 1
said, that with every new "
angel guide
"
they welcome with
rapture, they entice the latter into an Upadana which will be pro-
ductive of a series of untold evils for the new Ego that will be
born under its nefarious shadow, and that with every seance
especially for materialization they multiply the causes for misery,
causes that will make the unfortunate Ego fail in his spiritual
birth, or be reborn into a worse existence than ever they would,
perhaps, be less lavishing their hospitality.
And now, you may understand why we oppose so strongly
Spiritualism and mediumship. And, you will also see, why, to
satisfy Mr. Hume, at least in one direction, I got myself into
a scrape with the Chohan, and mirabile dictu! with both the
sahibs,
" the young men by the name of" Scott and Banon.
To amuse you I will ask H.P.B. to send you with this a page of
the
" Banon papyrus,
"
an article of his that he winds up with a
severe literary thrashing of my humble self. Shadows of the
Asuras, in what a passion she flew upon reading this rather dis-
respectful criticism ! I am sorry she does not print it, upon con-
siderations of
"
family honour "
as the
"
Disinherited
>f
ex-
pressed it. As to the Chohan, the matter is more serious ; and,
he was far from satisfied that I should have allowed Eglinton to
believe it was myself. He had permitted this proof of the power
in living man to be given to the Spiritualists through a medium
of theirs, but had left the programme and its details to ourselves;
hence his displeasure at some trifling consequences. I tell you,
my dear friend, that I am far less free to do as I like than you are
in the matter of the Pioneer. None of us but the highest
Chutuktus are their full masters. But I digress.
And now that you have been told much and had explained a
good deal, you may as well read this letter to our irrepressible
friend Mrs. Gordon. The reasons given may throw some cold
water on her Spiritualistic zeal, though I have my reasons to
doubt it. Anyhow it may show her that it is not against true
Spiritualism that we set ourselves, but only against indiscriminate
mediumship and physical manifestations, materializations and
ii 4 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
trance-possessions especially. 9
Could the Spiritualists be only
made to understand the difference between individuality and per-
sonality, between individual and personal immortality and some
other truths, they would be more easily persuaded that Occultists
may be fully convinced of the monad's immortality, and yet deny
that of the soul the vehicle of the personal Ego; that they can
firmly believe in, and themselves practice spiritual communications
and intercourse with the disembodied Egos of the Rupa-Loka,
and yet laugh at the insane idea of
"
shaking hands " with a
"Spirit !; that finally, that as the matter stands, it is the
Occultists and the Theosophists who are true Spiritualists, while
the modern sect of that name is composed simply of materialistic
phenomenalists.
And once that we are discussing
"
individuality
M
and
"
per-
sonality,'* it is curious that H.P.B. when subjecting poor Mr.
Hume's brain to torture with her muddled explanations, never
thought until receiving the explanation from himself, of the dif-
ference that exists between individuality and personality that it
was the very same doctrine she had been taught : that of Paccika-
Yana, and of Amita-Yana. The two terms as above given by
him are the correct and literal translation of the Pali, Sanskrit,
and even of the Chino-Tibetan technical names for the many
personal entities blended in one Individuality the long string of
lives emanating from the same Immortal MONAD. You will have
to remember them :
(1) The Paccika Yana (in Sanskrit
"
Pratyeka ") means
literally the
"
personal vehicle
" or personal Ego, a combination
of the five lower principles. While
(2) The Amita-Yana (in Sanskrit
" Amrita ") is translated :
"The immortal vehicle," or the Individuality, the Spiritual Soul,
or the Immortal monad a combination of the fifth, sixth and
seventh. 1
It appears to me that one of our great difficulties in trying to
understand the progress of affairs turns on our ignorance so far
of the divisions of the seven principles. Each has in turn its
seven elements we are told : can we be told something more
concerning the seven-fold constitution of the fourth and fifth
principles especially. It is evidently in the divisibility of these
that the secret of the future and of many psychic phenomena
here during life, resides.
Quite right. But I must be permitted to doubt whether with
the desired explanations the difficulty will be removed, and you
1
To avoid a fresh surprise and confusion at the news of the fifth keeping
company with the sixth and seventh, please turn to page 3, et sec. p. '103. ED.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 1
15
will become able to penetrate
"
the secret of psychic phenomena."
You, my good friend, whom I had once or twice the pleasure of
hearing playing on your piano in the quiet intervals between dress-
coating and a beef-and-claret dinner *ell me, could you favour
me as readily, as with one of your easy waltzes with one of
Beethoven's Grand Sonatas? Pray, pray have patience! Yet, I
would not refuse you by any means.. You will find the fourth and
the fifth principles, divided into roots and Branches on a fly-sheet
herein enclosed, if I find time. 1
And now, how long do you
propose to abstain from interrogation marks?
Faithfully,
K. H.
P.S. I hope I have now removed all cause for reproaches
my delay in answering your queries notwithstanding, and that
my character is re-established. Yourself and Mr. Hume have
received now more information about the A.E. Philosophy than
was ever given out to non-initiates within my knowledge. Your
sagacity, my kind friend, will have suggested long ago, that it
is not so much because of your combined personal virtues though
Mr. Hume I must confess, has run up a large claim since his
conversion or my personal preferences for either of you, as for
other and very apparent reasons. Of all our semi-chelas you
two are the most likely to utilise for the general good the facts
given you. You must regard them received in trust for the bene-
fit of the whole Society; to be turned over, and employed and
re-employed in many ways and in all ways that are good. If
you (Mr. Sinnett) would give pleasure to your trans-Himalayan
friend, do not suffer any month to pass without writing a Frag-
ment, long or short for the magazine, and then, issuing it as a
pamphlet since you so call it. You may sign them as
" A Lay-
Chela of K.H.,
M or in any way you choose. I dare not ask the
same favour of Mr. Hume, who has already done more than his
share in another direction.
I will not answer your query about your Pioneer connection just
now :
something may be said on both sides. But at least take no
rash decision. We are at the end of the cycle, and you are con-
nected with the T.S.
Under favour of my Karma I mean to answer to-morrow Mr.
Hume's long and kind personal letter. The abundance of MSS.
from me of late shows that I have found a little leisure, their
blotched, patchy and mended appearance also proves that my
leisure has come by snatches, by constant interruptions, and that
my writing has been done in odd places here and there, with such
materials as I could pick up. But for the RULE that forbids our
1 I did not find time. Will send it a day or two later.
n6 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
using one minim of power until every ordinary means has been
tried and failed, I
might, of course, have given you a lovely
"
precipitation
" as regards chirography and composition. I
console myself for the miserable appearance of my letters with
the thought that perhaps, you may not value them the less, for
these marks of my personal subjection to the way-side annoyances
which you English so ingeniously reduce to a minimum with your
appliances of sorts. As your lady once kindly remarked, they
take away most effectually the flavour of miracle, and make us as
human beings, more thinkable entities, a wise reflection for
which I thank her.
H.P.B. is in despair: the Chohan refused permission to M. to
let her come this year further than the Black Rock, and M. very
coolly made her unpack her trunks. Try to console her, if you
can. Besides, she is really wanted more at Bombay than Pen-
lor. Olcott is on his way to Lanka and Damodar packed up to
Poona for a month, his foolish austerities and hard work having
broken down his physical constitution. I will have to Io6k after
him, and perhaps, to take him away, if it comes to the worst.
Just now I am able to give you a bit of information, which
bears upon the so often discussed question of our allowing
phenomena. The Egyptian operations of your blessed country-
men involve such local consequences to the body of Occultists
still remaining there and to what they are guarding, that two of
our adepts are already there, having joined some Druze brethren
and three more on their way. I was offered the agreeable privi-
lege of becoming an eye-witness to the human butchery, ^but
declined with thanks. For such great emergency is our Force
stored up, and hence we dare not waste it on fashionable
tamasha.
In about a week new religious ceremonies, new glittering
bubbles to amuse the babes with, and once more I will be busy
night and day, morning, noon, and evening. At times I feel a
passing regret that the Chohans should not evolute the happy
idea of allowing us also a
"
sumptuary allowance
" in the shape
of a little spare time. Oh, for the final Rest ! for that Nirvana
where "to be one with Life, yet to live not." Alas, alas!
having personally realized that :
11
. . . the Soul of Things is sweet,
The Heart of Being is celestial Rest,"
one does long for eternal REST !
Yours,
K. H
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 117
LETTER No. XVIF
Received Simla, June, 1882.
(i) Some fifth round men have already begun to appear on
earth. In what way are they distinguishable from fourth round
men of the seventh earthly incarnation? I suppose they are in
the first incarnation of the fifth round and that a tremendous
advance will be achieved when the fifth round people get to their
seventh incarnation.
(1) The natural-born Seers and clairvoyants of Mrs. A.
Kingsford's and Mr. Maitland's types; the great adepts of what-
soever country; the geniuses whether in arts, politics or re-
ligious reform. No great physical distinction yet : too early and
will come later on.
Quite so. If you turn to Appendix No. I
2
you will find it
explained.
(2) But if a ist-5th round man devoted himself to occultism
and became an adept, would he escape further earthly incarna-
tions?
(2) No; if we except Buddha a sixth round being, as he had
run so successfully the race in his previous incarnations as to
outrun even his predecessors. But then such a man is to be
found in a billion of human creatures. He differed from other
men as much in his physical appearance as in spirituality and
knowledge. Yet even he escaped further reincarnations but
on this earth; and, when the last of the sixth round men of the
third ring is gone out of this earth, the Great Teacher will have
to get reincarnated on the next planet. Only, and since He
sacrificed Nirvanic bliss and Rest for the salvation of his fellow
creatures He will be re-born in the highest the seventh ring
of the upper planet. Till then He will overshadow every
decimillenium (let us rather say and add
"
has overshadowed
already
"
a chosen individual who generally overturned the
destinies of nations. See Isis, Vol. I, pp. 34 and 35 last and
first para, on the pages).
(3) Is there any essential spiritual difference between a man and
a woman, or is sex a mere accident of each birth the ultimate
future of the individual furnishing the same opportunities?
(3) A mere accident as you say. Generally a chance work
yet guided by individual Karma, moral aptitudes, char-
acteristics and deeds of a previous birth.
1
K.H.'s Replies to Mr. Sinnett's queries are printed in bold type. ED.
a See Letter No. XVI 1 1. ED.
n8 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
(4) The majority of the superior classes of civilized countries on
earth now, I understand to be seventh "
ring-
"
people (i.e. of the
seventh earthly incarnation) of the fourth round. The Australian
aborigines I understand to be of a low ring? which? and are the
lower and inferior classes of civilized countries of various rings
or of the ring just below the seventh. And are all seventh ring
people born in the superior cfasses or may not some be found
among the poor?
(4) Not necessarily. Refinement, polishedness, and brilliant
education, in your sense of these words have very little to do
with the course of higher Nature's Law. Take a seventh ring
African or a fifth ring Mongolian and you can educate him
if taken from the cradle save his physical appearance, and
transform him into the most brilliant and accomplished English
lord. Yet, he will still remain, but an outwardly intellectual
parrot. (See Appendix No. II).
(5) The Old Lady told me that the bulk of the inhabitants of this
country are in some respects less advanced than Europeans though
more spiritual. Are they on a lower ring of the same round or
does the difference refer to some principle of national cycles which
has nothing to do with individual progress?
(5) Most of the peoples of India belong to the oldest or the
earliest branchlet of the fifth human Race. I have desired M.
to end his letter to you with a short summary of the last scientific
theory of your learned Ethnographers and Naturalists, to save
myself work. Read what he writes and then turn to No. Ill
of my Appendix.
What is the explanation of
" Ernest
"
and Eglinton's other
guide? Are they elementaries drawing their conscious vitality
from him or elementals masquerading? When " Ernest" took
that sheet of
"
Pioneer
"
notepaper how did he contrive to get it
without mediumship at this end?
I can assure you it is not worth your while now to study the
true natures of the
**
Ernests
"
and
"
Joeys
"
and
"*
other
guides
"
as unless you become acquainted with the evolution of
the corruptions of elemental dross, and those of the seven prin-
ciples in man you would ever find yourself at a loss to under-
stand what they really are; there are no written statutes for
them, and they can hardly be expected to pay their friends and
admirers the compliment of truth, silence or forbearing. If
some are related to them as some soulless physical mediums
are they shall meet. If not better leave them alone. They
gravitate but to their likes the mediums; and their relation is
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 119
not made but forced by foolish and sinful phenomena-mongers.
They are both elementaries and elementals at best a low,
mischievous, degrading jangle. You want to embrace too
much knowledge at once, my dear friend; you cannot attain at
a bound all the mysteries. See however Appendix which is
in reality a letter.
I do not know Subba Rao who is a pupil of M. At least
he knows very little of me. Yet 1 know, he will never con-
sent to come to Simla. But if ordered by Morya will teach
from Madras, i.e., correct the MSS. as M. did, comment upon
them, answer questions, and be very, very useful. He has a
perfect reverence and adoration for H.P.B.
K. H.
LETTER No. XVIII
Received Simla, June, 1882.
APPENDIX
(I) Every Spiritual Individuality has a gigantic evolutionary
journey to perform, a tremendous gyratory progress to accomplish.
First at the very beginning of the great Mahamanvantaric rota-
tion, from first to last of the man-bearing planets, as on each of
them, the monad has to pass through seven successive races of
man. From the dumb offshoot of the ape (the latter strongly
differentiating from the now known specimens) up to the present
fifth race, or rather variety, and through two more races, before
he has done with this earth only ;
and then on to the next, higher
and higher still. . . . But we will confine our attention but to this
one. Each of the seven races send seven ramifying branchlets from
the Parent Branch : and through each of these in turn man has to
evolute before he passes on to the next higher race ;
and that
seven times. Well may you open wicle your eyes, good friend,
and feel puzzled it is so. The branchlets typify varying speci-
mens of humanity physically and spiritually and no one of us
can miss one single rung of the ladder. With all that there is
no reincarnation as taught by the London Seeress Mrs. A.K., as
the intervals between the re-births are too immeasurably long to
permit of any such fantastic ideas. Please, bear in mind, that
when I say
"
man," I mean a human being of our type. There
are other and innumerable manvantaric chains of globes bearing
intelligent beings both in and out of our solar system the crowns
or apexes of evolutionary being in their respective chains, some
physically and intellectually lower, others immeasurably higher
than the man of our chain. But beyond mentioning them we will
not speak of these at present.
120 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
Through every race then, man has to pass making seven suc-
cessive entrances and exits and developing intellect to degrees from
the lowest to the highest in succession. In short, his earth-cycle
with its rings and sab-rings is the exact counterpart of the Great
Cycle only in miniature. Bear in mind again, that the intervals
even between these special
"
race re-incarnations
" are enormous,
as, even the dullest of the African Bushmen has to reap the reward
of his Karma, equally with his brother Bushman who may be six
times more intelligent.
Your Ethnographers and anthropologists would do well to ever
keep in their minds this, unvarying septenary law which runs
throughout the works of nature. From Cuvier the late grand
master of Protestant Theology whose Bible-stuffed brain made
him divide mankind into but three distinct varieties of races
down to Blumenbach who divided them into five they were all
wrong. Alone Pritchard, who prophetically suggested seven
comes near the right mark. I read in the Pioneer of June i2th
forwarded to me by H.P.B. a letter on the Ape Theory by A.P.W.
which contains a most excellent exposition of the Darwinian
hypothesis. The last paragraph page 6 column i would be
regarded barring a few errors as a revelation in a millenium or
so, were it to be preserved. Reading the nine lines from line 21
(counting from the bottom) you have a fact of which few
naturalists are yet prepared to accept the proof. The fifth, sixth
and seventh races of the Fifth Round each succeeding race
evoluting with and keeping pace, so to say with the
" Great
Cycle
" rounds and the fifth race of the fifth round, having to
exhibit a perceptible physical and intellectual as well as moral
differentiation towards its fourth
" race
M
or "earthly incarna-
tion
"
you are right in saying that a
" tremendous advance will
be achieved when the fifth round people get to their seventh
incarnation.'
1
(II) Nor has wealth nor poverty, high or low birth any influence
upon it, for this is all a result of their Karma. Neither has what
you call civilization much to do with the progress. It is the
inner man, the spirituality, the illumination of the physical brain
by the light of the spiritual or divine intelligence that is the test.
The Australian, the Esquimaux, the Bushmen, the Veddahs, etc.,
are all side-shooting branchlets of that tiranch which you call
"
cave-men*' the third race (according to your Science the
second) that evoluted on the globe. They are the remnants of the
seventh ring cave-men, remnants
"
that have ceased to grow and
are the arrested forms of life doomed to eventual decay in the
struggle of existence
" in the words of your correspondent?
See
"
Isis
"
Chapter i,
"
the Divine Essence
(Purusha) like a luminous arc
"
proceeds to form a circle the
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 121
mahamanvantaric chain ; and having attained the highest (or its
first starting point) bends back again and returns to earth (the
first globe) bringing a higher type of humanity in its vortex
" thus seven times. Approaching our earth it grows more and
more shadowy until upon touching ground it becomes as black as
night
"
i.e. it is matter outwardly, the Spirit or Purusha being
concealed under a quintuple armour of the first five principles.
Now see underlined three lines on page 5 for the word " mankind "
read human races, and for that of
"
civilization
M read Spiritual
evolution of that particular race and you have the truth which had
to be concealed at that incipient tentative stage of the Theosophical
Society.
See again pp. 13 last paragraph and 14 first paragraph, and
note the underlined lines about Plato. Then see p. 32 remember-
ing the difference between the Manvantaras as therein calculated
and the MAHAMANVANTARAS (complete seven round between two
Pralayas, the four Yugs returning seven times, once for each
race. Having done so far take your pen and calculate. This
will make you swear but this will not hurt your Karma much :
lip-profanity finds it deaf. Read attentively in this connection
(not with the swearing process but with that of evolution) pp. 301
last line
" and now comes a mystery . . ." and continue on to
p. 304.
" Isis
" was not unveiled but rents sufficiently large were
made to afford flitting glances to be completed by the student's
own intuition. In this curry of quotations from various philo-
sophic and esoteric truths purposely veiled, behold our doctrine,
which is now being partially taught to Europeans for the first time.
(Ill) As said in my answer on your notes, most of the peoples
of India with the exception of the Semitic (?) Moguls belong
to the oldest branchlet of the present fifth Human race, which was
evoluted in Central Asia more than one million of years ago.
Western Science finding good reasons for the theory of human
beings having inhabited Europe 400,000 years before your era this
cannot so shock you as to prevent your drinking wine to-night at
your dinner. Yet Asia, has as well as Australia, Africa, America
and the most northward regions its remnants of the fourth
even of the third race (cave-men and Iberians). At the same time,
we have more of the seventh ring men of the fourth race than
Europe and more of the first ring of the fifth round, as, older
than the European branchlets, our men have naturally come in
earlier. Their being
" less advanced
" in civilization and refine-
ment trouble their spirituality but very little, Karma being an
animal which remains indifferent to pumps and white kid gloves.
Neither your knives nor forks, operas and drawing-rooms will
any more follow you in your onward progress than will the dead-
leaf coloured robes of the British Esthetics prevent the proprietors
122 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
thereof and wearers from having* been born among* the ranks of
those, who will be regarded do what they may by the forth-
coming sixth and seventh round men as flesh-eating- and liquor-
drinking
"
savages
"
of the
"
Royal Society Period." It depends
on you, to so immortalize your name, as to force the future higher
races to divide our age and call the sub-division the
"
Pleisto-
Sinnettic Period
" but this can never be so long as you labour
under the impression that
"
the purposes we have now in view
would be met by reasonable temperance and self-restraint."
Occult Science is a jealous mistress and allows not a shadow of
self-indulgence; and it is
" fatal
"
not only to the ordinary course
of married life but even to flesh and wine drinking. I am afraid
that the archaeologists of the seventh round, when digging out and
unearthing the future Pompeii of Punjab Simla, one day, instead
of finding- the precious relics of the Theosophical
"
Eclectic," will
fish out but some petrified or vitreous remains of the
"
Sumptuary
allowance." Such is the latest prophecy current at Tzigadze.
And now to the last question. Well, as I
say, the
"
guides
"
are both elementals and elementaries and not even a decent
"
half
and half
"
but the very froth in the mug of the mediumistic beer.
The several "privations" of such sheets of notepaper were
evoluted during E's stay in Calcutta in Mrs. G's atmosphere
since she frequently received letters from you. It was then an
easy matter for the creatures in following E's unconscious desire
to attract other disintegrated particles from your box, so as to
form a double. He is a strong medium, and were it not for an
inherent good nature and other good qualities, strongly counter-
acted by vanity, sloth, selfishness, greediness for money and with
other qualities of modern civilization a total absence of will, he
would make a superb Dugpa yet, as I said he is
"
a good fellow
"
every inch of him ; naturally truthful, under control the reverse.
I would if I could save him from ....
NOTE. The rest of the original letter is missing. It is in K.H.'s hand
writing. ED.
LETTER No. XIX1
Attached to Proofs of Letter on Theosophy. Received August 12th, 1882.
Yes ; verily known and as confidently affirmed by the adepts from
whom
'*
No curtain hides the spheres Elysian,
Nor these poor shells of half transparent dust ;
For all that blinds the spirit's vision
Is pride and hate and lust. . . .
ff
(Not for publication)
1
Fragments in K.H.'s writing. ED.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 123
Exceptional cases, my friend. Suicides can and generally do,
but not so with the others. The good and pure sleep a quiet
blissful sleep, full of happy visions of earth-life and have no con-
sciousness of being already for ever beyond that life. Those who
were neither good nor bad, will sleep a dreamless, still a quiet
sleep ;
while the wicked will in proportion to their grossness suffer
the pangs of a nightmare lasting years : their thoughts become
living things, their wicked passions real substance, and they
receive back on their heads all the misery they have heaped upon
others. Reality and fact if described would yield a far more
terrible Inferno than even Dante had imagined !
LETTER No. XXA1
Received August, 1882.
10 [X]
My dear Master,
In speaking of Fragments No. Ill of which you will receive
proofs soon, I said it was far from satisfactory though I had done
my best.
It was necessary to advance the doctrine of the Society another
stage, so as gradually to open the eyes of the spiritualists so I
introduced as the most pressing matter the Suicide etc. view
given in your last letter to S.
Well it is this that seems to me most unsatisfactory and it will
lead to a number of questions that I shall feel puzzled to reply
to.
Our first doctrine is that the majority of objective phenomena
were due to shells. i and 2\ principled shells, i.e. principles
entirely separated from their sixth and seventh principles.
But as a further (1) development we admit that there are some
spirits, i.e. 5th and 4th principles not wholly dissevered from their
sixth and seventh which also may be potent in the seance room.
These are the spirits of suicides and the victims of accident or
violence. Here the doctrine is that each particular wave of life
must run on to its appointed shore and with the exception of the
very good, that all spirits prematurely divorced from the lower
principles, must remain on earth, until the foredestined hour of
what would have been the natural death strikes.
Now this is all very well but this being so, it is clear that in
opposition to our former doctrine, shells will be few and spirits
many (2).
For what difference can there be to take the case of suicides,
1 The original letter of A.O.H. to K.H. has some passages numbered and
underlined with blue pencil by K.H. These are printed in bold type italics.
The numbers refer to K.H.'s replies, for which see post Letter No. XXc. ED.
124 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
whether these be conscious or unconscious, whether the man blows
his brains out, or only drinks or womanizes himself to death, or
kills himself by over-study? In each case equally the normal
natural hour of death is anticipated and a spirit and not a shell
the result or again what difference does it make whether a man
is hung for murder, killed in battle, in a railway train or a powder
explosion, or drowned or burnt to death, or knocked over by
cholera or plague, or jungle fever or any of the other thousand
and one epidemic diseases of which the seeds were not ab initio
in his constitution, but were introduced therein in consequence of
his happening to visit a particular locality or undergo a given
experience, both of which he might have avoided? Equally in
all cases the normal death hour is anticipated and a spirit instead
of a shell the result.
In England it is calculated that not 15% of the population reach
their normal death period and what with fevers and famines and
their sequclce, I fear the percentage is not much larger here even
where the people are mostly vegetarian and as a rule live under
less unfavourable sanitary conditions.
So then the great bulk of all the physical phenomena of
spiritualists ought apparently to be due to these spirits and not
to shells. I should be glad to have further information on this
point.
There is a second point (3) very often as I understand the spirits
of very fair average good people dying natural deaths, remain
some time in the earth 's atmosphere from a few days to a few
years why cannot such as these communicate? And if they- can
this is a most important point that should not have been over-
looked.
(4) And thirdly it is a fact that thousands of spirits do appear
in pure circles and teach the highest morality and moreover tell
very closely the truths as to the unseen world (witness Alan
Kardec's books pages and pages of which are identical with what
you yourself teach) and it is unreasonable to suppose that such are
cither shells or bad spirits. But you have not given us any open-
ing for any large number of pure high spirits and until the whole
theory is properly set forth and due place made for these which
seem to me a thoroughly well established fact, you will never win
over the spiritualists. I dare say it is the old story only part of
the truth being told to us and the rest reserved if so it is merely
cutting the Society's throat. Better tell the outside world nothing
than to tell them half truths the incompleteness of which they
detect at once, the result being a contemptuous rejection of what
is truth and though they cannot accept it. in this fragmentary state.
Yours affectionately,
A. O. HUME.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 1
25
LETTER No. XXs1
Received August 1882.
Simla, July 2$th.
My Dear Old Lady,
I began to try to answer N.D.K.'s letter at once so that if
K.H. really meant the note to appear in this immediately
" next
"
appearing Theosophist for August it might just be in time. But
I soon got into a tangle. Of course we have received no informa-
tion that distinctly covers the question now raised, though I sup-
pose we ought to be able to combine bits into an answer. The
difficulty turns on giving the real explanation of Eliphas Levi's
enigma in your note in the October Theosophist.
If he refers to the fate of this, at present existing race of man-
kind his statement that the intermediate majority of Egos are
ejected from nature or annihilated, would be in direct conflict with
K.H.'s teaching.} They do not die without remembrance, if they
retain remembrance in Devachan and again recover remembrance
(even of past personalities as of a book's pages) at the period of
full individual consciousness preceding that of absolute conscious-
ness in Pari-Nirvana.
But it occurred to rne that E.L. may have been dealing with
humanity as a whole, not merely with the fourth round men.
Great numbers of fifth round personalities are destined to perish
I understand, and these might be his intermediate useless portion
of mankind. But then the individual spiritual monads, as I
understand the matter, do not perish whatever happens, and if a
monad reaches the fifth round with all his previous personalities
preserved in the pages of his book awaiting future perusal, he
would not be ejected and annihilated because some of his fifth-
round pages were " unfit for publication.*' So again there is a
difficulty in reconciling the two statements.
X. But again is it conceivable that a spiritual monad though
surviving the rejection of its third and fourth round pages, cannot
survive the rejection of fifth and sixth round pages. That failure
to lead good lives in these rounds means the annihilation of the
whole individual who will never then get to the seventh round at
all.
But on the other hand if that were so the Eliphas Levi case
would not be met by such a hypothesis, for long before then the in-
dividuals who had become co-workers with nature for evil would
have been themselves annihilated by the obscuration of the planet
1 Letter from Mr. Sinnett to H.P.B. on the backs of the pages of which is
part of a long letter from K.H. (No. XXc) re queries of Hume's. The pas-
sages in bold type italics have been underlined in blue by K.H. ED.
126 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
X. between the fifth and sixth rounds if not by the obscuration
between the fourth and the fifth, for to every round there is one
obscuration we are told. (5) There is another difficulty here be-
cause some fifth rounders being- here already it is not clear when
the obscuration comes on. Will it be behind the (want couriers of
the fifth round, who will not count as commencing the fifth, that
epoch only really beginning after the existing race has totally
decayed out but this idea will not work.
Having- got so far in my reflections yesterday, I went up to
Hume to see if he could make out the puzzle and so enable me
to write what was wanted for this post. But on looking* into it
and looking- back to the October Theosophist we came to the
conclusion that the only possible explanation was that the October
Theosophist note was utterly wrong and totally at variance with
all our later teaching-. Is that really the solution? I do not
think so or K.H. would not have set me to reconcile the two.
But you will see that at present, with the best will in the world
I am utterly unable to do the job set me, and if my dear Guardian
and Master will kindly look at these remarks he will see the
dilemma in which I am placed.
And then in the way which will be the least trouble to himself
either through you or directly he will perhaps indicate the line
which the required explanation ought to take. Manifestly it can-
not be done for the August number, but I am inclined to believe
he never intended this as the time is now so short.
We all feel so sorry for you, over-worked amid the heat and the
flies. When you have got the August number off your hands you
might perhaps be able to take flight for here, and get a little rest
amongst us. You know how glad at any time we should be to see
you. Meanwhile my own individual plans are a little uncertain.
I may have to return to Allahabad, in order to Ifeave Hensman free
to go as special correspondent to Egypt. I am fighting my pro-
prietors tooth and nail to avert this result but for a few days still
the issue of the struggle will be uncertain.
Ever Yours,
A. P. S,
P. S. As you may want to print the letter in this number, I
return it herewith, but hope that this may not be the case and
that you will send it me back again so that I
may duly perform
my little task with the help of a few words as to the line to be
followed.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 127
LETTER No. XXc
Received August, 1882.
JExcept in so far, that he constantly uses the terms
"
God " and
" Christ" which taken in their esoteric sense simply mean
"
Good "
in its dual aspect of the abstract and the concrete and
nothing more dogmatic, Eliphas Levi is not in any direct conflict
with our teachings. It is again a straw blown out of a hay-stack
and accused by the wind to belong to a hay-rick. Most of those,
whom you may call, if you like, candidates for Deva Chan die and
are reborn in the Kama-Loka " without remembrance*'; though
(and just because) they do get some of it back in the Deva-Chan.
Nor can we call it a full, but only a partial remembrance. You
would hardly call
"
remembrance" a dream of yours; some
particular scene or scenes, within whose narrow limits you would
find enclosed a few persons those whom you loved best, with an
undying love, that holy feeling that alone survives, and not the
slightest recollection of any other events or scenes? Love and
Hatred are the only immortal feelings, the only survivors from the
wreck of Ye-damma, or the phenomenal world. Imagine your-
self then, in Deva-Chan with those you may have loved with such
immortal love; with the familiar, shadowy scenes connected with
them for a background and a perfect blank for everything else
relating to your interior, social, political, literary and social life.
And then, in the face of that spiritual, purely cogitative existence,
of that unalloyed felicity which, in proportion with the intensity
of the feelings that created it, last from a few to several thousand
years, call it the
"
personal remembrance of A. P. Sinnett
" if
you can. Dreadfully monotonous !
you may think. Not in the
least I answer. Have you experienced monotony during say
that moment which you considered then and now so consider it
as the moment of the highest bliss you have ever felt? Of course
not. Well no more will you experience it there, in that passage
through Eternity in which a million of years is no longer than a
second. There, where there is no consciousness of an external
world there can be no discernment to mark differences, hence,
no perception of contrasts of monotony or variety ; nothing in
short, outside that immortal feeling of love and sympathetic
attraction whose seeds are planted in the fifth, whose plants
blossom luxuriantly in and around the fourth, but whose roots
have to penetrate deep into the sixth principle, if it would survive
the lower groups. (And now I propose to kill two birds with one
stone to answer your and Mr. Hume's questions at the same time)
remember, both, that we create ourselves our devachan as our
avitchi while yet on earth, and mostly during the latter days and
even moments of our intellectual, sentient lives. That feeling
128 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
which is the strongest in us at that supreme hour; when, as in a
dream, the events of a long life, to their minutest details, are
marshalled in the greatest order in a few seconds in our vision,
1
that feeling will become the fashioner of our bliss or woe, the
life principle of our future existence. In the latter we have no
substantial being, but only a present and momentary existence,
whose duration has no bearing upon, as no effect, or relation to
its being which as every other effect of a transitory cause will
be as fleeting, and in its turn will vanish and cease to be. The
real full remembrance of our lives will come but at the end of the
minor cycle not before. In Kama Loka those who retain their
remembrance, will not enjoy it at the supreme hour of recollection.
Those who know they are dead in their physical bodies can
only be either adepts or sorcerers ;
and these two are the excep-
tions to the general rule. Both having been "
co-workers with
nature," the former for good, the latter for bad, in her work of
creation and in that of destruction, they are the only ones who
may be called immortal in the Kabalistic and the esoteric sense
of course. Complete or true immortality, which means an un-
limited sentient existence, can have no breaks and stoppages, no
arrest of Sel/-consciousness. And even the shells of those good
men whose page will not be found missing in the great Book of
Lives at the threshold of the Great Nirvana, even they will regain
their remembrance and an appearance of Self-consciousness, only
after the sixth and seventh principles with the essence of the 5th
(the latter having to furnish the material for even that partial
recollection of personality which is necessary for the object in Deva
Chan) have gone to their gestation period, not before. Even in
the case of suicides and those who have perished by violent death,
even in their case, consciousness requires a certain time to establish
its new centre of gravity, and evolve, as Sir W. Hamilton would
have it its
"
perception proper
M henceforth to remain distinct
from " sensation proper/
1
Thus, when man dies, his
" Soul"
(fifth prin.) becomes unconscious and loses all remembrance of
things internal as well as external. Whether his stay in Kama
Loka has to last but a few moments, hours, days, weeks, months
or years ; whether he died a natural or a violent death ; whether it
occurred in his young or old age, and, whether the Ego was good,
bad, or indifferent, his consciousness leaves him as suddenly as
the flame leaves the wick, when blown out. When life has retired
from the last particle in the brain matter, his perceptive faculties
become extinct forever, his spiritual powers of cogitation and
volition (all those faculties in short, which are neither inherent
in, nor acquirable by organic matter) for the time being*. His
* That vision takes place when a person is already proclaimed dead. The
brain is the last organ that dies.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 129
Mayavi rupa may be often thrown into objectivity, as in the cases
of apparitions after death ; but, unless it is projected with the
knowledge of (whether latent or potential), or, owing- to the
intensity of the desire to see or appear to someone, shooting
through the dying brain, the apparition will be simply auto-
matical ; it will not be due to any sympathetic attraction, or to any
act of volition, and no more than the reflection of a person passing
unconsciously near a mirror, is due to the desire of the latter.
Having thus explained the position, I will sum up and ask again
why it should be maintained that what is given by Eliphas Levi
and expounded by H.P.B., is
"
in direct conflict
"
with my teach-
ing? E.L. is an Occultist, and a Kabalist, and writing for
those who are supposed to know the rudiments of the Kabalistic
tenets, uses the peculiar phraseology of his doctrine, and H.P.B.
follows suit. The only omission she was guilty of, was not to
add the word
"
Western "
between the two words
"
Occult
" and
doctrine (see third line of Editor's note). She is a fanatic in her
way, and is unable to write with anything like system and calm-
ness, or to remember that the general public needs all the lucid
explanations that to her may seem superfluous. And, as you are
sure to remark
"
but this is also our case; and you too seem to
forget it," I will give you a few more explanations. As re-
marked on the margin of the October Theosophist the word
"
immortality
" has for the initiates and occultists quite a dif-
ferent meaning. We call
"
immortal " but the one Life in its
universal collectivity and entire or Absolute Abstraction; that
which has neither beginning nor end, nor any break in its con-
tinuity. Does the term apply to anything else? Certainly it
does not. Therefore the earliest Chaldeans had several prefixes
to the word "
immortality,
"
one of which is the Greek, rarely-
used term panaeonic immortality, i.e. beginning with the man-
vantara and ending with the pralaya of our Solar Universe. It
lasts the aeon, or
"
period
" of our pan or
"
all nature." Im-
mortal then is he, in the panaeonic immortality whose distinct
consciousness and perception of Self under whatever form under-
goes no disjunction at any time not for one second, during the
period of his Egoship. Those periods are several in number, each
having its distinct name in the secret doctrines of the Chaldeans,
Greeks, Egyptians and Aryans, and, were they but amenable to
translation, which they are not, at least so long as the idea in-
volved remains inconceivable to the Western mind I could give
them to you. Suffice for you, for the present to know, that a man,
an Ego like yours or mine, may be immortal from one to the
other Round. Let us say I begin my immortality at the present
fourth Round, i.e., having become a full adept (which unhappily I
am not) I arrest the hand of Death at will, and when finally
i 3o THE MAHATMA LETTERS
obliged to submit to it, my knowledge of the secrets of nature puts
me in a position to retain my consciousness and distinct percep-
tion of Self as an object to my own reflective consciousness and
cognition ;
and thus avoiding all such dismemberments of prin-
ciples, that as a rule take place after the physical death of average
humanity, I remain as Koothoomi in my Ego throughout the
whole series of births and lives across the seven worlds and
Arupa-lokas until finally I land again on this earth among the
fifth race men of the full fifth Round beings. I would have been,
in such a case
" immortal "
for an inconceivable (to you) long
period, embracing many milliards of years. And yet am.
"
I
"
truly immortal fpr all that? Unless I make the same efforts as I
do now, to secure for myself another such furlough from Nature's
Law, Koothoomi will vanish and may become a Mr. Smith or an
innocent Babu, when his leave expires. There are men who be-
come such mighty beings, there are men among us who may
become immortal during the remainder of the Rounds, and
then take their appointed place among the highest Chohans, the
Planetary conscious
"
Ego-Spirits." Of course the Monad
"
never perishes whatever happens,*' but Eliphas speaks of the
personal not of the Spiritual Egos, and you have fallen into the
same mistake (and very naturally too) as C.C.M.; though I must
confess the passage in Isis was very clumsily expressed, as I had
already remarked to you, about this same paragraph in one of
my letters long ago. I had to
"
exercise my ingenuity
"
over it
as the Yankees express it, but, succeeded in mending the hole,
I believe, as I will have to many times more, I am afraid, before
we have done with Isis. It really ought to be re-written for the
sake of the family honour.
X It is certainly inconceivable, therefore, there is no mortal
use to discuss the subject.
X You misconceived the teaching, because you were not aware
of what you are now told :
(a) who are the true co-workers with
nature ;
and (b) that it is by no means all the evil co-workers, who
drop into the eighth sphere and are annihilated. 1
The potency for evil is as great in man aye greater than
the potentiality for good. An exception to the rule of nature,
that exception, which in the case of adepts and sorcerers becomes
in its turn a rule, has again its own exceptions. Read carefully the
passage that C.C.M. left unquoted on pp. 352-353, Isis Volume
i, Para. 3. Again she omits to distinctly state that the case
mentioned relates but to those powerful sorcerers whose co-part-
nership with nature for evil affords to them the means of forcing
1 Annihilated suddenly as human Egos and personalities, lasting in that
world of pure matter under various material forms an inconceivable length of
time before they can return to primeval matter.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 131
her hand, and thus accord them also panaeonic immortality.
But oh, what kind of immortality, and how preferable is annihila-
tion to their lives ! Don't you see that everything* you find in
Isis is delineated, hardly sketched nothing- completed or fully
revealed. Well the time has come, but where are the workers
for such a tremendous task?
Says Mr. Hume (see affixed letter
1
marked passages 10 [X]
and I, 2, 3). And now when you have read the objections
to that most unsatisfactory doctrine as Mr. Hume calls it a
doctrine which you had to learn first as a whole, before proceed-
ing to study it in parts, at the risk of satisfying you no better,
I will proceed to explain the latter.
(i) Although not
*'
wholly dissevered from their sixth and
seventh principles
" and quite
'*
potent
" in the seance room,
nevertheless to the day when they would have died a natural
death, they are separated from the higher principles by a gulf. The
sixth and seventh remain passive and negative, whereas, in cases of
accidental death the higher and the lower groups mutually attract
each other. In cases of good and innocent Egos, moreover, the
latter gravitates irresistibly toward the sixth and seventh, and
thus either slumbers surrounded by happy dreams, or, sleeps a
dreamless profound sleep until the hour strikes. With a little
reflection, and an eye to eternal justice and fitness of things,
you will see why. The victim whether good or bad is irresponsible
for his death, even if his death were due to some action in a
previous life or an antecedent birth ; was an act, in short, of the
Law of Retribution, still, it was not the direct result of an act
deliberately committed by the personal Ego of that life during
which he happened to be killed. Had he been allowed to live
longer he may have atoned for his antecedent sins still more
effectually : and even now, the Ego having been made to pay off
the debt of his maker (the previous Ego) is free from the blows
of retributive justice. The Dhyan Chohans who have no hand
in the guidance of the living human Ego, protect the helpless
victim when it is violently thrust out of its element into a new
one, before it is matured and made fit and ready for it. We tell
you what we know, for tve are made to learn it through personal
experience. You know what I mean and I CAN SAY NO MORE !
Yes ; the victims whether good or bad sleep, to awake but
at the hour of the last Judgment, which is that hour of the supreme
struggle between the sixth and seventh, and the fifth and fourth
at the threshold of the gestation state. And even after that,
when the sixth and seventh carrying off a portion of the fifth have
gone into their Akasic Samadhi, even then it may happen that
the spiritual spoil from the fifth will prove too weak to be reborn
l See ante Letter No. XXA. ED.
i
32 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
in Deva-Chan ;
in which case it will there and then reclothe itself
in a new body, the subjective
"
Being
"
created from the Karma
of the victim (or no-victim, as the case may be) and enter upon
a new earth-existence whether upon this or any other planet. In
no case then, with the exception of suicides and shells, is there
any possibility for any other to be attracted to a seance room.
And it is clear that
"
this teaching is not in opposition to our
former doctrine
"
and that while
"
shells
" will be many, Spirits
very few.
(2) There is a great difference in our humble opinion. We,
who look at it from a stand-point which would prove very un-
acceptable to Life Insurance Companies, say, that there are very
few if any of the men who indulge in the above enumerated
vices, who feel perfectly sure that such a course of action will
lead them eventually to premature death. Such is the penalty of
Maya. The '*
vices
"
will not escape their punishment; but it is
the cause not the effect that will be punished, especially an un-
foreseen though probable effect. As well call a suicide a man
who meets his death in a storm at sea, as one who kills himself
with
"
over-study.
"
Water is liable to drown a man, and too
much brain-work to produce a softening of the brain which may
carry him away. In such a case no one ought to cross the
Kalapani nor even to take a bath for fear of getting faint in it
and drowned (for we all know of such cases ;)
nor should a man
do his duty, least of all sacrifice himself for even a laudable and
highly-beneficent cause, as many of us (H.P.B. for one) do.
Would Mr. Hume call her a suicide were she to drop down dead
over her present work? Motive is everything and man is
punished in a case of direct responsibility, never otherwise. In
the victim's case the natural hour of death was anticipated accf-
dentally, while in that of the suicide, death is brought on volun-
tarily and with a full and deliberate knowledge of its immediate
consequences. Thus a man who causes his death in a fit of
temporary insanity is not a felo de se to the great grief and often
trouble of the Life Insurance Companies. Nor is he left a prey
to the temptations of the Kama Loka but falls asleep like any
other victim. A Guiteau will not remain in the earth's atmosphere
with his higher principles over him inactive and paralysed,
still there. Guiteau is gone into a state during the period of
which, he will be ever firing at his President, thereby tossing into
confusion and shuffling the destinies of millions of persons ;
where he will be ever tried and ever hung. Bathing in the reflec-
tions of his deeds and thoughts especially those he indulged in
on the scaffold,
1
his fate.
1 Two lines in original have been deleted here. ED.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 133
As for those who were
"
knocked over by cholera, or plague, or
jungle fever
"
they could not have succumbed had they not the
germs for the development of such diseases in them from birth.
"
So then, the great bulk of the physical phenomena of
Spiritualists
"
my dear brother, are not
*'
due to these Spirits
"
but indeed to
" shells.*'
(3)
" The Spirits of very fair average good people dying natural
deaths remain . . .in the earth's atmosphere from a few days to a
few years," the period depending on their readiness to meet their
creature not their creator ;
a very abstruse subject you will learn
later on, when you too are more prepared. But why should they
" communicate " ? Do those you love communicate with you
during their sleep objectively? Your Spirits, in hours of danger,
or intense sympathy, vibrating on the same current of thought
which in such cases, creates a kind of telegraphic spiritual wires
between your two bodies may meet and mutually impress your
memories ;
but then you are living, not dead bodies. But how
can an unconscious 5th principle (see supra) impress or communi-
cate with a living organism, unless it has already become a shell?
If, for certain reasons they remain in such a state of lethargy for
several years, the spirits of the living may ascend to them, as
you were already told ;
and this may take place still easier than in
Deva Chan, where the Spirit is too much engrossed in his per-
sonal bliss to pay much attention to an intruding element. I say
they cannot.
(4) I am sorry to contradict your statement. I know of no
" thousands of spirits
"
who do appear in circles and moreover
positively do not know of one
"
perfectly pure circle
" and
" teach the highest morality." I hope I may not be classed with
slanderers in addition to other names lately bestowed upon me,
but truth compels me to declare that Allan Kardec was not quite
immaculate during his lifetime, nor has become a very pure Spirit
since. As to teaching the
"
highest morality," we have a Dugpa-
Shammar not far from where I am residing. Quite a remarkable
man. Not very powerful as a sorcerer but excessively so, as a
drunkard, a thief, a liar, and an orator. In this latter role he
could give points to and beat Messrs. Gladstone, Bradlaugh,
and even the Rev. H. W. Beacher than whom, there is no more
eloquent preacher of morality, and no greater breaker of his
Lord's Commandments in the, U.S.A. This Shapa-tung Lama,
when thirsty, can make an enormous audience of
"
yellow-cap
"
laymen weep all their yearly supply of tears, with the narrative
of his repentance and suffering in the morning, and then get
drunk in the evening and rob the whole village by mesmerising
them into a dead sleep. Preaching and teaching morality with
i 34 THB MAHATMA LETTERS
an end in view proves very little. Read 4<
J.P.T.'s" article in
Light and what I say wiJl be corroborated.
(To A.P.S. (5).) The "obscuration" comes on only when
the last man of whatever Round has passed into the sphere
of effects. Nature is too well, too mathematically adjusted to
cause mistakes to happen in the exercise of her functions. The
obscuration of the planet on which are now evoluting the races of
the fifth Round men will, of course
"
be behind the few avant
couriers
" who are now here. But before that time comes we
will have to part, to meet no more, as the Editor of the Pioneer
and his humble correspondent.
And now having shewn that the October Number of the
Theosophist was not utterly wrong, nor was it at
"
variance with
the later teaching,*
1
may K.H. set you to
"
reconcile the two ", ?
To reconcile you still more with Eliphas, I will send you a
number of his A/55. that have never been published, in a large,
clear, beautiful handwriting with my comments all through.
Nothing better than that can give you a key to Kabalistic
puzzles.
I have to write to Mr. Hume this week ; to give him consola-
tion, and to show, that unless he has a strong desire to live, he
need not trouble himself about Deva-Chan. Unless a man loves
well or hates as. well, he will be neither in Deva-Chan nor in
Avitchi.
"
Nature spews the luke-warm out of her mouth "
means only that she annihilates their personal Egos (not the
shells, nor yet the sixth principle) in the Kama Loka and the
Deva-Chan. This does not prevent them from being immediately
reborn and, if their lives were not very very bad, there is no
reason why the eternal Monad should not find the page of that
life intact in the Book of Life.
K. H.
LETTER No. XXI 1
Received back 22.8.82.
August 1 2th.
My dear Guardian,
I am afraid the present letters on Theosophy are not worth
much, for I have worked on too literal an acceptance of some
passages in your long letter about Deva-Chan. The bearing of
that seemed to be that the
"
accidents
" as well as the suicides,
were in danger from the attraction of the seance room. You
wrote :
Letter from Mr. Sinnctt to K.H. With K.H.'s Comments printed in
bold type. ED.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 135
" But there is another kind of spirit we have lost sight of,
the suicides and those killed by accidents. Both kinds can com-
municate and both have to pay dearly for such visits. . . ."
Correct.
And later on after speaking of the case of the suicides in detail
you say :
"
As to the victims of accident these fare still worse . . .
unhappy shades . . . cut off in the full flush of earthly
passions . . .
they are the pisachas etc. . . .
They not
only ruin their victims etc. . . ." Again correct. Bear in
mind that the exceptions enforce the rule.
And if they are neither very good nor very bad the
"
victims of
accident or violence,
"
derive a new set of skandhas from the
medium who attracts them. I have explained the situation on
the margin of proofs. See note.
It was on this text that I have been working.
If this is not to be maintained or if in some way that as yet I
cannot understand the words bear a different signification from
that which seems to belong to them, it might be better to cancel
these two letters altogether or hold them over for complete
alteration. The warning is delivered in too solemn a tone and the
danger is made too much of if it is merely to apply to suicides, and
in the last slip of the proof the elimination of
"
the accidents and "
makes the rest rather ridiculous because then we are dividing
suicides only into the very pure and elevated I and the medium
people etc.
It seems to me that it would hardly do to let even letter (i)
stand alone, though it does not include the mistake, for it would
have no rats on d'etre unless followed up by letter (2).
Both letters have gone home to Stainton Moses for trans-
mission to Light the first by the mail from here of July 21, the
second by last mail yesterday. Now if you decide that it is
better to stop and cancel them I shall just be in time to telegraph
home to Stainton Moses to that effect, and will do this directly
I receive a telegram from you or from the Old Lady to that
effect.
If nothing is done they will appear in Light as written i.e. as
the MS. sent with the present proof stood barring a few little
mistakes which I see my wife has made in copying them out.
It is altogether a very awkward tangle. I was precipitate
apparently in sending them home, but I thought I had followed
the statements of your long devachan letter so faithfully. Await-
ing orders,
Ever your devoted
'
A. P. S.
I 36 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
On margin I said
'*
rarely
"
but I have not pronounced the
word
"
never." Accidents occur under the most various
circumstances; and men are not only killed accidentally, or die
as suicides but are also murdered something we have not even
touched upon. 1 can well understand your perplexity but can
hardly help you. Bear always in mind that there are exceptions
to every rule, and to these again and other side exceptions,
and be always prepared to learn something new. I can easily
understand we are accused of contradictions and inconsistencies
aye, even to writing one thing to-day and denying it to-morrow.
What you were taught is the RULE. Good and pure
**
accidents
"
sleep in the Akasa, ignorant of their change; very wicked and
impure suffer all the tortures of a horrible nightmare. The
majority neither very good nor very bad, the victims of
accident or violence (including murder) some sleep, others
become Nature pisachas, and while a small minority may fall
victims to mediums and derive a new set of skandhas from the
medium who attracts them. Small as their number may be,
their fate is to be the most deplored. What 1 said in my notes
on your iVISS. was in reply to Mr. Hume's statistical calculations
which led him to infer that
**
there were more Spirits than
shells in the seance rooms
"
in such a case.
You have much to learn and we have much to teach nor
do we refuse to go to the very end. But we must really beg
that you should not jump at hasty conclusions. I do not blame
you, my dear faithful friend, I would rather blame myself, were
anyone here to be blamed except our respective modes of
thought and habits so diametrically opposed to each other.
Accustomed as we are to teach chelas who know enough to
find themselves beyond the necessity of
"
i/'s
"
and
"
but's
"
during the lessons I am but too apt to forget that 1 am doing
the work with you generally entrusted to these chelas. Hence-
forth, I will take more time in answering your questions. Your
letters to London can do no harm, and are sure, on the con-
trary to do good. They are admirably written and the excep-
tions may be mentioned and the whole ground covered in one
of the future letters.
I have no objection to your making extracts for Colonel
Chesney except one he is not a Theosophist. Only be care-
ful, and do not forget your details and exceptions whenever
you explain your rules. Remember still even in the case of
suicides there are many who will never allow themselves to be
drawn into the vortex of mediumship, and pray do not accuse
me of
"
inconsistency
"
or contradiction when we come to that
point. Could you but know how I \v\ite my letters and the
time I am enabled to give to them, perchance you would feel
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 13?
less critical if not exacting. Well, and how do you like Djual
Khcol's idea and art? I have not caught a glimpse of Simla for
the last ten days.
Affectionately yours,
K.H.
LETTER No. XXII1
Extract from Letter by K.H. to Hume. Received for my perusal towards
the end of season 1882. (A.P.S.)
Did it ever strike you, and now from the standpoint of your
Western science and the suggestion of your own Ego which has
already seized up the essentials of every truth, prepare to deride
the erroneous idea did you ever suspect that Universal, like
finite, human mind might have two attributes, or a dual power
one the voluntary and conscious, and the other the involuntary and
unconscious or the mechanical power. To reconcile the difficulty
of many theistic and anti-theistic propositions, both these powers
are a philosophical necessity. The possibility of the first or the
voluntary and conscious attribute in reference to the infinite mind,
notwithstanding the assertions of all the Egos throughout the
living world will remain for ever a mere hypothesis, whereas in
the finite mind it is a scientific and demonstrated fact. The
highest Planetary Spirit is as ignorant of the first as we are,
and the hypothesis will remain one even in Nirvana, as it is a
mere inferential possibility, whether there or here.
Take the human mind in connexion with the body. Man has
two distinct physical brains ;
the cerebrum with its two hemi-
spheres at the frontal part of the head the source of the voluntary
nerves ;
and the cerebellum, situated at the back portion of the
skull the fountain of the involuntary nerves which are the agents
of the unconscious or mechanical powers of the mind to act
through. And weak and uncertain as may be the control of man
over his involuntary, such as the blood circulation, the throbbings
of the heart and respiration, especially during sleep yet how far
more powerful, how much more potential appears man as master
and ruler over the blind molecular motion the laws which govern
his body (a proof of this being afforded by the phenomenal powers
of the Adept and even the common Yogi) than that which you will
call God, shows over the immutable laws of Nature. Contrary in
that to the finite, the
" infinite mind," which we name so but
for agreement sake, for we call it the infinite FORCE exhibits but
the functions of its cerebellum, the existence of its supposed
cerebrum being admitted as above stated, but on the inferential
hypothesis deduced from the Kabalistic theory (correct in every
1 Transcribed from a copy in Mr. Sinnett's handwriting. ED.
138 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
other relation) of the Macrocosm being the prototype of the
Microcosm. So far as we know the corroboration of it by modern
science receiving- but little consideration so far as the highest
Planetary Spirits have ascertained (who remember well have the
same relations with the trans-cosmical world, penetrating behind
the primitive veil of cosmic matter as we have to go behind the
veil of this, our brute physical world )
the infinite mind displays
to them as to us no more than the regular unconscious throbbings
of the eternal and universal pulse of Nature, throughout the
myriads of worlds within as without the primitive veil of our solar
system.
So far WE- KNOW. Within and to the utmost limit, to the very
edge of the cosmic veil we know the fact to be correct owing to
personal experience ; for the information gathered as to what takes
place beyond we are indebted to the Planetary Spirits, to our
blessed Lord Buddha. This of course may be regarded as second-
hand information. There are those who rather than to yield to
the evidence of fact will prefer regarding even the planetary gods
as
"
erring
M disembodied philosophers if not actually liars. Be
it so. Everyone is master of his own wisdom says a Tibetan
proverb and he is at liberty either to honour or degrade his slave .
However I will go on for the benefit of those who may yet seize
my explanation of the problem and understand the nature of the
solution.
It is the peculiar faculty of the involuntary power of the infinite
mind which no one could ever think of calling God, to be
eternally evolving subjective matter into objective atoms (you will
please remember that the two adjectives are used but in a relative
sense) or cosmic matter to be later on developed into form. And
it is likewise that same involuntary mechanical power that we see
so intensely active in all the fixed laws of nature which governs
and controls what is called the Universe or the Cosmos. There
are some modern philosophers who would prove the existence of
a Creator from motion. We say and affirm that that motion
the universal perpetual motion which never ceases never slackens
nor increases its speed not even during the interludes between the
pralayas, or
"
nights of Brahma "
but goes on like a mill set in
motion, whether it has anything to grind or not (for the pralaya
means the temporary loss of every form, but by no means the
destruction of cosmic matter which is eternal) we say this per-
petual motion is the only eternal and uncreated Deity we are able
to recognise. To regard God as an intelligent spirit, and accept
at the same time his absolute immateriality is to conceive of a
nonentity, a blank void ;
to regard God as a Being, an Ego and
to place his'intelligence under a bushel for some mysterious reasons
is a most consummate nonsense ; to endow him with intelligence
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 139
in the face of blind brutal Evil is to make of him a fiend a most
rascally God. A Being however gigantic, occupying space and
having length breadth and thickness is most certainly the Mosaic
deity; "No-being
1 *
and a mere principle lands you directly in
the Buddhistic atheism, or the Vedantic primitive Acosmism.
What lies beyond and outside the worlds of form, and being, in
worlds and spheres in their most spiritualized state (and you will
perhaps oblige us by telling us where that beyond can be, since
the Universe is infinite and limitless) is useless for anyone to search
after since even Planetary Spirits have no knowledge or perception
of it. If our greatest adepts and Bodhisatvas have never pene-
trated themselves beyond our solar system, and the idea seems
to suit your preconceived theistic theory wonderfully, my respected
Brother they still know of the existence of other such solar
systems, with as mathematical a certainty as any western
astronomer knows of the existence of invisible stars which he can
never approach or explore. But of that which lies within the
worlds and systems, not in the trans-infinitude (a queer expres-
sion to use) but in the cis-infinitude rather, in the state of the
purest and inconceivable immateriality, no one ever knew or will
ever tell, hence it is something non-existent for the universe. You
are at liberty to place in this eternal vacuum the intellectual or
voluntary powers of your deity if you can conceive of such a
thing.
Meanwhile we may say that it is motion that governs the laws
of nature; and that it governs them as the mechanical impulse
given to running water which will propel them either in a direct
line or along hundreds of side furrows they may happen to meet
on their way and whether those furrows are natural grooves or
channels prepared artificially by the hand of man. And we main-
tain that wherever there is life and being, and in however much
spiritualized a form, there is no room for moral government, much
less for a moral Governor a Being which at the same time has
no form nor occupies space !
Verily if light shineth in darkness,
and darkness comprehends it not, it is because such is the natural
law, but how more suggestive and pregnant with meaning
for one who knows, to say that light can still less comprehend
darkness, nor ever know it since it kills wherever it penetrates and
annihilates it instantly. Pure yet a volitional Spirit is an absurdity
for volitional mind. The result of organism cannot exist inde-
pendently of an organized brain, and an organized brain made out
of nihil is a still greater fallacy. If you ask me " Whence then
the immutable laws? laws cannot make themselves
"
then in
my turn I will ask you and whence their supposed Creator? a
creator cannot create or make himself. If the brain did not make
itself, for this would be affirming that brain acted before it existed,
140 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
how could intelligence, the result of an organized brain, act before
its creator was made.
All this reminds one of wrangling for seniorship. If our
doctrines clash too much with your theories then we can easily
give up the subject and talk of something else. Study the laws
and doctrines of the Nepaulese Swabhavikas, the principal
Buddhist philosophical school in India, and you will find them the
most learned as the most scientifically logical wranglers in the
world. Their plastic, invisible, eternal, omnipresent and uncon-
scious Swabhavat is Force or Motion ever generating its elec-
tricity which is life.
Yes : there is a force as limitless as thought, as potent as
boundless will, as subtile as the essence of life so inconceivably
awful in its rending force as to convulse the universe to its centre
would it but be used as a lever, but this Force is not God, since
there are men who have learned the secret of subjecting it to their
will when necessary. Look around you and see the myriad mani-
festations of life, so infinitely multiform ;
of life, of motion, of
change. What caused
1
these? From what inexhaustible source
came they, by what agency? Out of the invisible and subjective
they have entered our little area of the visible and objective.
Children of Akasa, concrete evolutions from the ether, it was
force which brought them into perceptibility and Force will in
time remove them from the sight of man. Why should this plant in
your garden to the right, have been produced with such a shape
and that other one to the left with one totally dissimilar? Are
these not the result of varying action of Force unlike correla-
tions? Given a perfect monotony of activities throughout' the
world, and we would have a complete identity of forms, colours,
shapes and properties throughout all the kingdoms of nature. It
is the motion with its resulting conflict, neutralization, equilibra-
tion, correlation, to which is due the infinite variety which pre-
vails. You speak of an intelligent and good (the attribute is
rather unfortunately chosen) Father, a moral guide and governor
of the universe and man. A certain condition of things exists
around us which we call normal. Under this nothing can occur
which transcends our every-day experience
"
God's immutable
laws.
" But suppose we change this condition and have the best
of him without whom even a hair of your head will not fall, as
they tell you in the West A current of air brings to me from
the lake near which, with my fingers half frozen I now write to
you this letter I change by a certain combination of electrical
magnetic odyllic or other influences the current of air which
benumbs my fingers into a warmer breeze ; I have thwarted the
intention of the Almighty, and dethroned him at my will ! I can
do that, or when I do not want Nature to produce strange and too
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 141
visible phenomena, I force my nature-seeing, nature-influencing
self within me, to suddenly awake to new perceptions and feelings
and thus am my own Creator and ruler.
But do you think that you are right when saying that
" the laws
arise." Immutable laws cannot arise, since they are eternal and
uncreated, propelled in the Eternity and that God himself if such
a thing existed, could never have the power of stopping them.
And when did I say that these laws were fortuitous per se. I
meant their blind correlations, never the laws, or rather the law
since we recognise but one law in the Universe, the law of
harmony, of perfect EQUILIBRIUM. Then for a man endowed with
so subtle a logic, and such a fine comprehension of the value of
ideas in general and that of words especially for a man so
accurate as you generally are to make tirades upon an
" all wise,
powerful and love-ful God "
seems to say at least strange. I do
not protest at all as you seem to think against your theism, or a
belief in an abstract ideal of some kind, but I cannot help asking
you, how do you or how can you know that your God is ail wise,
omnipotent and love-ful, when everything in nature, physical and
moral, proves such a being, if he does exist to be quite the reverse
of all you say of him ? Strange delusion and one which seems to
overpower your very intellect.
The difficulty of explaining the fact that
"
unintelligent Forces
can give rise to highly intelligent beings like ourselves," is covered
by the eternal progression of cycles, and the process of evolution
ever perfecting its work as it goes along. Not believing in
cycles, it is unnecessary for you to learn that which will create but
a new pretext for you, my dear Brother, to combat the theory and
argue upon it ad infinitum. Nor did I ever become guilty of the
heresy I am accused of in reference to spirit and matter. The
conception of matter and spirit as entirely distinct, and both eternal
could certainly never have entered my head, however little I may
know of them, for it is one of the elementary and fundamental
doctrines of Occultism that the two are one, and are distinct
but in their respective manifestations, and only in the limited
perceptions of the world of senses. Far from "
lacking philo-
sophical breadth
"
then, our doctrines show, but one principle in
nature, spirit-matter or matter-spirit, the third the ultimate
Absolute or the quintessence of the two, if I
may be allowed to
use an erroneous term in the present application losing itself
beyond the view and spiritual perceptions of even the " Gods " or
Planetary Spirits. This third principle say the Vedantic Philo-
sophers is the only reality, everything else being Maya, as none
of the Protean manifestations of spirit-matter or Purusha and
Prakriti have ever been regarded in any other light than that of
temporary delusions of the senses. Even in the hardly outlined
i
42 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
philosophy of /sis this idea is clearly carried out. In the book of
Kiu-te, Spirit is called the unultimate sublimation of matter, and
matter the crystallization of spirit. And no better illustration
could be afforded than in the very simple phenomenon of ice, water,
vapour and the final dispersion of the latter, the phenomenon being
reversed in its consecutive manifestations and called the Spirit
falling into generation or matter. This trinity resolving itself
into unity, a doctrine as old as the world of thought was seized
upon by some early Christians, who had it in the schools of Alex-
andria, and made up into the Father, or generative spirit ;
the Son
or matter, man ;
and into the Holy Ghost, the immaterial essence,
or the apex of the equilateral triangle, an idea found to this day
in the pyramids of Egypt. Thus once more it is proved that you
misunderstand my meaning entirely, whenever for the sake of
brevity I use a phraseology habitual with the Western people.
But in my turn I have to remark that your idea that matter is but
the temporary allotropic form of spirit differing from it as char-
coal does from diamond is as unphilosophical as it is unscientific
from both the Eastern and the Western points of view, charcoal
being but a form of residue of matter, while matter per se is in-
destructible, and as I maintain coeval with spirit that spirit
which we know and can conceive of. Bereaved of Prakriti,
Purusha (Spirit) is unable to manifest itself, hence ceases to exist
becomes nihil. Without spirit or Force, even that which Science
styles as
"
not living" matter, the so-called mineral ingredients
which feed plants, could never have been called into form. There
is a moment in the existence of every molecule and atom of matter
when, for one cause or another, the last spark of spirit or motion
or life (call it by whatever name) is withdrawn, and in the same
instant with the swiftness which surpasses that of the lightning
glance of thought the atom or molecule or an aggregation of mole-
cules is annihilated to return to its pristine purity of intra-
cosmiic matter. It is drawn to the mother fount with the velocity
of a globule of quicksilver to the central mass. Matter, force,
and motion are the trinity of physical objective nature, as the
trinitarian unity of spirit-matter is that of the spiritual or sub-
jective nature. Motion is eternal because spirit is eternal. But
no modes of motion can ever be conceived unless they be in con-
nection with matter.
And now to your extraordinary hypothesis that Evil with its
attendant train of sin and suffering is not the result of matter,
but may be perchance the wise scheme of the moral Governor of
the Universe. Conceivable as the idea may seem to you trained
in the pernicious fallacy of the Christian,
" the ways of the Lord
are inscrutable" it is utterly inconceivable for me. Must I
repeat again that the best Adepts have searched the Universe
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 143
during milleniums and found nowhere the slightest trace of such a
Machiavellian schemer but throughout, the same immutable, in-
exorable law. You must excuse me therefore if I positively decline
to lose my time over such childish speculations. It is not
"
the
ways of the Lord "
but rather those of some extremely intelligent
men in everything but some particular hobby, that are to me incom-
prehensible.
As you say this need "make no difference between us
"
per-
sonally. But it does make a world of difference if you propose
to learn and offer me to teach. For the life of me I cannot make
out how I could ever impart to you that which I know since the
very A. B.C. of what I know, the rock upon which the secrets of
the occult universe, whether on this or that side of the veil, are
encrusted, is contradicted by you invariably and a priori. My
very dear Brother, either we know something or we do not know
anything. In the first case what is the use of your learning, since
you think you know better? In the second case why should you
lose your time? You say it matters nothing whether these laws
are the expression of the will of an intelligent conscious God, as
you think, or constitute the inevitable attributes of an unintelligent,
unconscious
"
God," as I hold. I say, it matters everything, and
since you earnestly believe that these fundamental questions (of
spirit and matter of God or no God)
" are admittedly beyond both
of us
"
in other words that neither I nor yet our greatest adepts
can know no more than you do, then what is there on earth that I
could teach you ? You know that in order to enable you to read
you have first to learn your letters yet you want to know the
course of events before and after the Pralayas, of every event here
on this globe on the opening of a new cycle, namely a mystery
imparted at one of the last initiations, as Mr. Sinnett was told,
for my letter to him upon the Planetary Spirits was simply inci-
dental brought out by a question of his. And now you will say
I am evading the direct issue. I have discoursed upon collateral
points, but have not explained to you all you want to know and
asked me to tell you. I
"
dodge
"
as I always do. Pardon me
for contradicting you, but it is nothing of the kind. There are
a thousand questions I will never be permitted to answer, and it
would be dodging were I to answer you otherwise than I do. I
tell you plainly you are unfit to learn, for your mind is too full and
there is not a corner vacant from whence a previous occupant
would not arise, to struggle with and drive away the newcomer.
Therefore I do not evade, I only give you time to reflect and
deduce and first learn well what was already given you before you
seize on something else. The world of force, is the world of
Occultism and the only one whither the highest initiate goes to
probe the secrets of being. Hence no-one but such an initiate
144 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
can know anything of these secrets. Guided by his Guru the
chela first discovers this world, then its laws, then their centrifugal
evolutions into the world of matter. To become a perfect adept
takes him long years, but at last he becomes the master. The
hidden things have become patent, and mystery and miracle have
fled from his sight forever. He sees how to guide force in this
direction or that to produce desirable effects. The secret
chemical, electric or odic properties of plants, herbs, roots,
minerals, animal tissue, are as familiar to him as the feathers of
your birds are to you. No change in the etheric vibrations can
escape him. He applies his knowledge, and behold a miracle ! And
he who started with the repudiation of the very idea that miracle
is possible, is straightway classed as a miracle worker and either
worshipped by the fools as a demi-god or repudiated by still greater
fools as a charlatan ! And to show you how exact a science is
occultism let me tell you that the means we avail ourselves of are
all laid down for us in a code as old as humanity to the minutest
detail, but everyone of us has to begin from the beginning, not
from the end. Our laws are as immutable as those of Nature,
and they were known to man and eternity before this strutting
game cock, modern science, was hatched. If I have not given
you the modus operandi or begun by the wrong end, I have at
least shown you that we build our philosophy upon experiment and
deduction unless you choose to question and dispute this fact
equally with all others. Learn first our laws and educate your
perceptions, dear Brother. Control your involuntary powers and
develop in the right direction your will and you will become a
teacher instead of a learner. I would not refuse what I have a
right to teach. Only I had to study for fifteen years before I came
to the doctrines of cycles and had to learn simpler things at first.
But do what we may, and whatever happens I trust we will have
no more arguing which is as profitless as it is painful.
LETTER No. XXIIU1
Received at Simla : Oct. 1882.
Herewith apologizing for their number, I send a few notes of
interrogation. Perhaps you will be so kind as to take them up
from time to time and answer them by ones and twos as leisure
and time allow.
Memo At convenience to send A.P.S. those unpublished notes
of Eliphas Levi's with annotations by K.H.
Sent long ago to our
**
Jacko
"
friend.
1 K.H.'s Comments etc. appear in bold type. ED.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 145
I
(1) There is a very interesting* allusion in your last, when
speaking of Hume you speak of certain characteristics he brought
back with him from his last incarnation.
(2) Have you the power of looking back to the former lives of
persons now living-, and identifying- them?
(3) In that case would it be improper personal curiosity to ask
for any particulars of my own?
1
(1) All of us, we bring some characteristics from our previous
incarnations. It is unavoidable.
(2) Unfortunately, some of us have. I, for one do not like to
exercise it.
(3)
"
Man know thyself," saith the Delphian oracle. There
is nothing
**
improper
"
certainly in such a curiosity. Only
would it not be still more proper to study our own present
personality before attempting to learn anything of its creator,
predecessor, and fashioner, the man that was? Well, some
day I may treat you to a little story no time now only I
promise no details; a simple sketch, and a hint or two to test
your intuitional powers.
IP
(1) Is there any way of accounting for what seems the curious
rush of human progress within the last two thousand years, as
compared with the relatively stagnant condition of the fourth
round people up to the beginning of modern progress?
(2) Or has there been at any former period during the habitation
of the earth by fourth round men, civilizations as great as our own
in regard to intellectual development that have utterly passed
away?
(3) Even the fifth race (own) of the fourth round began in Asia
a million years ago. What was it about for the 998,000 years
preceding the last 2,000? During that period have greater
civilizations than our own risen and decayed?
(4) To what epoch did the existence of the Continent of Atlantis
belong, and did the cataclysmical change which produced its ex-
tinction come into any appointed place in the evolution of the
round, corresponding to the place occupied in the whole man-
vantaric evolution by obscurations?
(5) I find that the most common question asked about occult
philosophy by fairly intelligent people who begin to enquire about
it is
"
Does it give any explanation of the origin of evil?
" That
is a ,
point on which you have formerly promised to touch, and
which it might be worth while to take up before long.
* For K.H.'s replies to these queries see post Letter XXIIlB. ED.
146 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
(6) Closely allied to this question would be another often put.
" What is the good of the whole cyclic process if spirit only
emerges at the end of all things pure and impersonal as it was at
first before its descent into matter? "
(And the portions taken
away from the fifth?) My answer is that I am not at present
engaged in excusing, but in investigating the operations of
Nature. But perhaps there may be a better answer available.
(7) Can you, i.e., is it permitted ever to answer any questions
relating to matters of physical science? If so here are some
points, that I should greatly like dealt with.
(8) Have magnetic conditions anything to do with the precipi-
tation of rain, or is that due entirely to atmospheric currents at
different temperatures encountering other currents of different
humidities, the whole set of motions being established by
pressures, expansions, etc., due in the first instance to solar
energy? If magnetic conditions are engaged, how do they
operate and how could they be tested?
(9) Is the sun's corona, an atmosphere? of any known gases?
and why does it assume the rayed shape always observed in
eclipses?
(10) Is the photometric value of light emitted by stars a safe
guide to their magnitude,* and is it true as astronomy assumes
faute de mieux in the way of a theory, that per square mile the
sun's surface emits as much light as can be emitted from any
body?
(n) Is Jupiter a hot and still partially luminous body and to
what cause, as solar energy has probably nothing to do with' the
matter, are the violent disturbances of Jupiter's atmosphere due?
(12) Is there any truth in the new Siemens theory of solar
combustion, i.e., that the sun in its passage through space
gathers in at the poles combustible gas (which is diffused through
all space in a highly attenuated condition), and throws it off again
at the equator after the intense heat of that region has again dis-
persed the elements which combustion temporarily united?
(13) Could any clue be given to the causes of magnetic varia-
tions, the daily changes at given places, and the apparently
capricious curvature of the isogonic lines which show equal
declinations? For example why is there a region in Eastern
Asia where the needle shows no variation from the true north,
though variations are recorded all round that space? (Have your
Lordships anything to do with this peculiar condition of things?)
(14) Could any other planets besides those known to modern
astronomy (I do not mean mere planetoids) be discovered by
physical instruments if
properly directed?
*
Considered of course in connection with distance as guessed by parallax.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 147
(15). When you wrote
"
Have you experienced monotony dur-
ing* that moment which you considered then and now so con-
sider it, as the moment of the highest bliss you have ever felt?
"
Did you refer to any specific moment and any specific event in
my life, or were you merely referring to an X quantity the hap-
piest moment whatever it might have been?
(16) You say :
"
Remember we create ourselves, our Deva
Chan, and our Avitchi and mostly during the latter days and even
moments of our sentient lives.
' '
(17) But do the thoughts on which the mind may be engaged at
the last moment necessarily hinge on to the predominant character
of its past life? Otherwise it would seem as if the character of
a person's Deva Chan or Avitchi might be capriciously and un-
justly determined by the chance which brought some special
thought uppermost at last?
(18)
"
The full remembrance of our lives will come but at the
end of the minor cycle."
Does " minor cycle
"
here mean one round, or the whole Man-
vantara of our planetary chain?
That is, do we remember our past lives in the Deva Chan of
world Z at the end of each round, or only at the end of the seventh
round ?
(19) You say :
"
And even the shells of those good men whose
pages will not be found missing in the great book of lives : even
they will regain their remembrance and an appearance of self con-
sciousness only after the sixth and seventh principles with the
essence of the fifth have gone to their gestation period.'*
(20) A little later on :
"
Whether the personal Ego was good,
bad or indifferent, his consciousness leaves him as suddenly as the
flame leaves the wick his perceptive faculties become extinct for
ever." (Well? can a physical brain once dead retain its percep-
tive faculties : that which will perceive in the shell is something
that perceives with a borrowed or reflected light. See notes.)
Then what is the nature of the remembrance and self-conscious-
ness of the bhell? This touches on a matter I have often thought
about wishing for further explanation the extent of personal
identity in elementaries.
(21) The spiritual Ego goes circling through the worlds, retain-
ing what it possesses of identity and self-consciousness, always
neither more nor less (a) But it is continually evolving personali-
ties, in which at all events the sense of identity while it remains
united with them is very complete, (b) Now these personalities
I understand to be absolutely new evolutions in each case. A. P.
Sinnett is, for what it is worth, absolutely a new invention:
Now it will leave a shell behind which will survive for a time
(c) assuming that the spiritual monad temporarily engaged in this
148 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
incarnation will find enough decent material in the fifth to lay hold
of. (d) That shell will have no consciousness directly after death,
because
"
it requires a certain time to establish its new centre of
gravity and evolve its perception proper.
1 '
(e) But how much
consciousness will it have when it has done this? (f) Will it still
be A. P. Sinnett of which the spiritual Ego, will think, even at
the last, as of a person it had known or will it be conscious that
the individuality is gone? Will it be able to reason about itself
at all, and to remember anything of its once higher interests.
Will it remember the name it bore? (g) or is it only inflated with
recollections of this sort in mediumistic presence, remaining
asleep at other times? (h) And is it conscious of losing anything
that feels like life as it gradually disintegrates?
(22) What is the nature of the life that goes on in the
" Planet
of Death?" Is it a physical reincarnation with remembrance of
past personality, or an astral existence as in Kama Loka? Is it
an existence with birth, maturity and decay, or a uniform pro-
longation of the old personality of this earth under penal con-
ditions ?
(23) What other planets of those known to ordinary science,
besides Mercury, belong to our system of worlds?
Are the more spiritual planets (A, B & Y, Z) visible bodies
in the sky or are all those known to astronomy of the more
material sort?
(24) Is the Sun (a) as Allan Kardec says : a habitation of
highly spiritualized beings? (b) Is it the vertex of our Manvan-
taric chain? and of all the other chains in this solar system also?
(25) You say : it
may happen
"
that the spiritual spoil from
the fifth will prove too weak to be reborn in Deva Chan, in which
case it's sixth will then and there reclothe itself in a new body
and enter upon a new earth existence, whether upon this or any
other planet."
(26) This seems to want further elucidation. Are these excep-
tional cases in which two earth lives of the same spiritual monad
may occur closer together than the thousand years indicated by
some previous letters as the almost inevitable limit of such suc-
cessive lives?
(27) The reference to the case of Guiteau is puzzling. I can
understand his being in a state in which the crime he committed
is ever present to his imagination, but how does he
"
toss into
confusion and shuffle the destinies of millions of persons?
M
(28) Obscurations are a subject at present wrapped in obscurity.
They take place after the last man of any given round has
passed on to the next planet. But I want to make out how the
next superior round forms are evolved. When the fifth round
spiritual monads arrive what fleshly habitations are ready for
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 149
them? Going back to the only former letter in which you have
dealt with obscurations I find :(a)
"
We have traced man out of
a round into the Nirvanic state between Z and A.
" A " was left
in the last round dead. (See note.) As the new round begins
it catches the new influx of life, reawakens to vitality, and begets
all its kingdoms of a superior order to the last."
(29) But has it to begin at the beginning again between each
round, and evolve human forms from animal, these last from vege-
table, etc. If so to what round do the first imperfectly evolved
men belong? Ex hypothesi to the fifth; but the fifth should be
a more perfect race in all respects.
LETTER No. XXIIIe1
II
(i) The latter end of a very important cycle. Each Round,
each ring, as every race has its great and its smaller cycles, on
every planet that mankind passes through.
Our fourth Round Humanity has its one great cycle, and so
have her races and sub-races. The "
curious rush
1 *
is due to
the double effect of the former the beginning of its downward
course ;
and of the latter (the small cycle of your
' *
sub-race
'
')
running on to its apex. Remember, you belong to the fifth Race,
yet you are but a Western 5b-race. Notwithstanding your
efforts, what you call civilization is confined only to the latter and
its off-shoots in America. Radiating around, its deceptive light
may seem to throw its rays on a greater distance than it does in
reality. There is no " rush
" in China, and of Japan you make
but a caricature.
A student of occultism ought not to speak of the
"
stagnant
condition of the fourth Race people
"
since history knows next
to nothing of that condition
"
up to the beginning of modern pro-
gress
M
of other nations but the Western. What do you know
of America, for instance, before the invasion of that country by
the Spaniards? Less than two centuries prior to the arrival of
Cortez there was as great a
"
rush
" towards progress among
the sub-races of Peru and Mexico as there is now in Europe and
the U.S.A. Their sub-race ended in nearly total annihilation
through causes generated by itself ;
so will yours at the end of its
cycle. We may speak only of the
"
stagnant conditions
" into
which, following the law of development, growth, maturity and
decline every race and sub-race falls into during its transition
periods. It is that latter condition your Universal History is
acquainted with, while it remains superbly ignorant of the con-
dition even India was in, some ten centuries back. Your sub-
i K.H.'s Replies to the Queries in Letter XXIIU II. ED.
150 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
races are now running toward the apex of their respective cycles,
and that History goes no further back than the periods of decline
of a few other sub-races belonging most of them to the preceding
fourth Race. And what is the area and the period of time em-
braced by its Universal eye? At the utmost stretch a few,
miserable dozens of centuries. A mighty horizon, indeed !
Beyond all is darkness for it, nothing but hypotheses
(2) No doubt there was. Egyptian and Aryan records and
especially our Zodiacal tables furnish us with every proof of it
besides our inner knowledge. Civilization is an inheritance, a
patrimony that passes from race to race along the ascending and
descending paths of cycles. During the minority of a sub-race,
it is preserved for it by its predecessor, which disappears, dies out
generallyt when the former "comes to age.'
1
At first, most of
them sqirander and mismanage their property, or leave it un-
touched in the ancestral coffers. They reject contemptuously the
advices of their elders and prefer, boy-like, playing in the streets
to studying and making the most of the untouched wealth stored
up for them in the records of the Past. Thus during your
transition period the middle ages Europe rejected the testimony
of Antiquity, calling such sages as Herodotus and other learned
Greeks the Father of Lies, until she knew better and changed
the appellation into that of
"
Father of History." Instead of
neglecting, you now accumulate and add to your wealth. As
every other race you had your ups and downs, your periods of
honour and dishonour, your dark midnight and you are now
approaching your brilliant noon. The youngest of the fifth race
family you were for long ages the unloved and the uncared for,
the Cendrillon in your home. And now, when so many of your
sisters have died ;
and others still are dying, while the few of the
old survivors, now in their second infancy, wait but for their
Messiah the sixth race to resurrect to a new life and start anew
with the coming stronger along the path of a new cycle now that
the Western Cendrillon has suddenly developed into a proud
wealthy Princess, the beauty we all see and admire how does she
act? Less kind hearted than the Princess in the tale, instead of
offering to her elder and less favoured sister, the oldest now, in
fact since she is nearly
" a million years old
" and the only one
who has never treated her unkindly, though she may have
ignored her, instead of offering her, I say, the
"
Kiss of peace
"
she applies to her the lex talionis with a vengeance that does not
enhance her natural beauty. This, my good friend, and brother,
is not a far stretched allegory but history.
(3) Yes ; the fifth race ours began in Asia a million years
ago. What was it about for the 998,000 years preceding the last
2,000? A pertinent question; offered moreover in quite a
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 151
Christian spirit that refuses to believe that any good could ever
have come out from anywhere before and save Nazareth. What
was it about? Well, it was occupying itself pretty well in the
same way as it does now craving Mr. Grant Allen's pardon, who
would place our primitive ancestor the
"
hedgehoggy
"
man, in
the early part of the Eocene Age !
Forsooth, your scientific
writers bestride their hypothesis most fearlessly, I see. It will
really be pity to find their fiery steed kicking and breaking their
heads some day ; something that is unavoidably in store for them.
In the Eocene -Age even in its
"
very first part," the great cycle
of the fourth Race men, the Atlanteans had already reached its
highest point, and the great continent, the father of nearly all the
present continents showed the first symptoms of sinking a pro-
cess that occupied it down to 11,446 years ago, when its last
island, that, translating its vernacular name, we may call with
propriety Poseidonis went down with a crash. By the bye,
'whoever wrote the Review of Donnelly's Atlantis is right :
Lemuria can no more be confounded with the Atlantic Continent
than Europe with America. Both sunk and were drowned with
their high civilizations and "
gods," yet between the two catas-
trophes, a short period of about 700,000 years elapsed ;
"
Lemuria "
flourishing and ending her career just at about that trifling lapse
of time before the early part of the Eocene Age, since its race
was the third. Behold, the relics of that once great nation in
some of the flat headed aborigines of your Australia ! No less
right is the review in rejecting the kind attempt of the author
to people India and Egypt with the refuse of Atlantis. No doubt
your geologists are very learned ;
but why not bear in mind that,
under the continents explored and fathomed by them, in the bowels
of which they have found the
"
Eocene Age
" and forced it to
deliver them its secrets, there may be, hidden deep in the fathom-
less, or rather unfathomed ocean beds, other, and far older con-
tinents whose stratums have never been geologically explored ;
and
that they may some day upset entirely their present theories, thus
illustrating the simplicity and sublimity of truth as connected with
inductive
"
generalization
" in opposition to their visionary con-
jectures. Why not admit true no one of them has ever thought
of it that our present continents, have like
" Lemuria " and
"
Atlantis
" been several times already, submerged and had the
time to reappear again, and bear their new groups of mankind
and civilization ;
and that, at the first great geological upheaval,
at the next cataclysm in the series of periodical cataclysms thai
occur from the beginning to the end of every Round, our already
autopsized continents will go down, and the Lemurias and Atlan-
tises come up again. Think of the future geologists of the sixth
and seventh races. Imagine them digging deep in the bowels ol
i
52 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
what was Ceylon and Simla, and finding implements of the Ved-
dahs, or of the remote ancestor of the civilized Pahari every
object of the civilized portions of humanity that inhabited those
regions having been pulverized to dust by the great masses of
travelling glaciers, during the next glacial period imagine him
finding only such rude implements as now found among those
savage tribes ;
and forthwith declaring that during that period
primitive man climbed and slept on the trees, and sucked the
marrow out of animal bones after breaking them as civilized
Europeans no less than the Veddahs will often do hence jumping
to the conclusion that in the year 1882 A.D., mankind was com-
posed of
"
man-like animals," black-faced, and whiskered,
"
with
prominent prognathous and large pointed canine teeth." True, a
Grant Allen of the sixth race, may be not so far from fact and
truth in his conjecture that during the
"
Simla period
"
these
teeth were used in the combats of the
"
males
"
for grass widows
but then metaphora has very little to do with anthropology and
geology. Such is your Science. To return to your questions.
Of course the 4th race had its periods of the highest civilization.
Greek and Roman and even Egyptian civilization are nothing
compared to the civilizations that began with the 3rd race.
Those of the second were not savages but they could not be called
civilized. And now, reading one of my first letters on the races
(a question first touched by M.) pray, do not accuse either him or
myself of some new contradiction. Read it over and see, that it
leaves out the question of civilizations altogether and mentions
but the degenerate remnants of the fourth and third races, and
gives you as a corroboration the latest conclusions of your own
Science. Do not regard an unavoidable incompleteness as incon-
sistency. You now ask me a direct question, and, I answer it.
Greeks and Romans were small sub-races, and Egyptians part and
parcel of our own "
Caucasian " stock. Look at the latter and
at India. Having reached the highest civilization and what is
more: learning both went down. Egypt as a distinct sub-race
disappearing entirely (her Copts are a hybrid remnant). India
as one of the first and most powerful off-shoots of the mother
Race, and composed of a number of sub-races lasting to these
times, and struggling to take once more her place in history
some day. That History catches but a few stray, hazy glimpses
of Egypt, some 12,000 years back; when, having already reached
the apex of its cycle thousands of years before, the latter had
begun going down. What does, or can it know of India 5,000
years ago, or of the Chaldees whom it confounds most charm-
ingly with the Assyrians, making of them one day
"
Akkadians,"
at another Turanians and what not? We say then, that your
History is entirely at sea.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 153
We are refused by the Journal of Science words repeated and
quoted by M.A. (Oxon) with a rapture worthy of a great medium
any claim whatever for
"
higher knowledge." Says the re-
viewer :
"
Suppose the Brothers were to say
'
point your telescope
to such and such a spot in heavens, and you will find a planet
yet unknown to you; or dig into the earth, . . .
etc., and you will
find a mineral,' etc." Very fine, indeed, and suppose that was
done, what would be the result? Why a charge of plagiarism
since everything of that kind, every
"
planet and mineral
"
that
exists in space or inside the earth, are known and recorded in our
books thousands of years ago ;
more ; many a true hypothesis was
timidly brought forward by their own scientific men and as con-
stantly rejected by the majority with whose preconceptions it
interfered. Your intention is laudable but nothing that I may
give you in answer will ever be accepted from us. Whenever
discovered that "it is verily so," the discovery will be attributed
to him who corroborated the evidence as in the case of Coper-
nicus and Galileo, the latter having availed himself but of the
Pythagorean MSS.
But to return to "civilizations." Do you know that the
Chaldees were at the apex of their Occult fame before what you
term as the
"
bronze Age "? That the
"
Sons of Ad " or the
children of the Fire Mist preceded by hundreds of centuries the
Age of Iron, which was an old age already, when what you now
call the Historical Period probably because what is known of it
is generally no history but fiction had hardly begun. We hold
but then what warrant can you give the world that we are right?
that far
"
greater civilizations than our own have risen and
decayed." It is not enough to say as some of your modern
writers do that an extinct civilization existed before Rome and
Athens were founded. We affirm that a series of civilizations
existed before, as well as after the Glacial Period, that they
existed upon various points, of the globe, reached the apex of
glory and died. Every trace and memory had been lost of the
Assyrian and Phoenikean civilizations until discoveries began to
be made a few years ago. And now they open a new, though not
by far one of the earliest pages in the history of mankind. And
yet how far back do those civilizations go in comparison with the
oldest? and even them, history is shy to accept. Archaeology
has sufficiently demonstrated that the memory of man runs back
vastly further than history has been willing to accept, and the
sacred records of once mighty nations preserved by their heirs are
still more worthy of trust. We speak of civilizations of the ante-
glacial period ; anc| (not only in the minds of the vulgar and the
profane but even in the opinion of the highly learned geologist)
the claim sounds preposterous. What would you say then to our
154 THE MAHATMA LETTEES
affirmation that the Chinese I now speak of the inland, the true
Chinaman, not of the hybrid mixture between the fourth and the
fifth Races now occupying- the throne the aborigines, who belong
in their unallied nationality wholly to the highest and last branch
of the fourth Race, reached their highest civilization when the fifth
had hardly appeared in Asia, and that its first off-shoot was yet a
thing of the future. When was it? Calculate. You cannot
think that we, who have such tremendous odds against the accept-
ance of our doctrine would deliberately go on inventing Races and
sub-races (in the opinion of Mr. Hume) were not they a matter of
undeniable fact. The group of islands off the Siberian coast dis-
covered by Nordeneskjol of the
"
Vega
"
was found strewn with
fossils of horses, sheep, oxen, etc., among gigantic bones of
elephants, mammoths, rhinoceroses and other monsters belonging
to periods when man says your science had not yet made his
appearance on earth. How came horses and sheep to be found
in company with the huge
"
ante-diluvians "? The horse, we are
taught in schools is quite a modern invention of nature, and no
man ever saw its pedactyl ancestor. The group of the Siberian
islands may give the lie to the comfortable theory. The region
now locked in the fetters of eternal winter uninhabited by man
that most fragile of animals, will be very soon proved to have
had not only a tropical climate something your science knows
and does not dispute, but having been likewise the seat of one
of the most ancient civilisations of that fourth race, whose highest
relics now we find in the degenerated Chinaman, and whose lowest
are hopelessly (for the profane scientist) intermixed with the
remnants of the third. I told you before now, that the highest
people now on earth (spiritually) belong to the first sub-race of
the fifth root Race ;
and those are the Aryan Asiatics ;
the highest
race (physical intellectuality) is the last sub-race of the fifth
yourselves the white conquerors. The majority of mankind be-
longs to the seventh sub-race of the fourth Root race, the above
mentioned Chinamen and their off-shoots and branchlets (Malayans,
Mongolians, Tibetans, Javanese, etc., etc., etc.) and remnants of
other sub-races of the fourth and the seventh sub-race of the
third race. All these, fallen, degraded semblances of humanity
are the direct lineal descendants of highly civilized nations neither
the names nor memory of which have survived except in such
books as Popalvul and a few others unknown to Science.
(4) To the Miocene times. Everything comes in its appointed
time and place in the evolution of Rounds, otherwise it would be
impossible for the best seer to calculate the exact hour and year
when such cataclysms great and small have to occur. AH an adept
could do would be to predict an approximate time; whereas now
events that result in great geological changes may be predicted
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 155
with as mathematical a certainty as eclipses and other revolutions
in space. The sinking of Atlantis (the group of continents and
isles) begun during the Miocene period as certain of your con-
tinents are now observed to be gradually sinking and it cul-
minated first, in the final disappearance of the largest continent
an event coincident with the elevation of the Alps ;
and second
with that of the last of the fair Islands mentioned by Plato. The
Egyptian priests of Sais told his ancestor Solon, that Atlantis (i.e.
the only remaining large island) had perished 9,000 years before
their time. This was not a fancy date, since they had for
milleniums preserved most carefully their records. But then, as
I say, they spoke but of the
" Poseidonis
"
and would. not reveal
even to the great Greek legislator their secret chronology. As
there are no geological reasons for doubting, but on the contrary,
a mass of evidence for accepting the tradition, Science has finally
accepted the existence of the great continent and Archipelago
and thus vindicated the truth of one more "
fable." It now
teaches, as you know that Atlantis, or the remnants of it lingered
down to post-tertiary times, its final submergence occurring with-
in the palaeozoic ages of American history !
Well, truth and fact
ought to feel thankful even for such small favours in the previous
absence of any, for so many centuries. The deep sea explora-
tions especially those of the Challenger have fully confirmed the
reports of geology and palaeontology. The great event the
triumph of our
"
Sons of the Fire Mist
" the inhabitants of
"
Shambullah M
(when yet an island in the Central Asian Sea) over
the selfish but not entirely wicked magicians of Poseidonis
occurred just 11,446 ago. Read in this connection the incom-
plete and partially veiled tradition, in /si's, Volume I, p. 588-94,
and some things may become still plainer to you. The corrobora-
tion of tradition and history, brought forward by Donnelly I find
in the main correct ; but you will find all this and much more in
Isis.
(5) It certainly does, and I have touched upon the subject long
ago. In my notes on Mr. Hume's MSS.,
" On God " that he
kindly adds to our Philosophy, something the latter had never con-
templated before the subject is mentioned abundantly. Has he
refused you a look into it? For you I may enlarge my explana-
tions, but not before you have read what I say of the origin of
good and evil on those margins. Quite enough was said by me
for our present purposes. Strangely enough I found a European
author the greatest materialist of his times, Baron d'Holbach
whose views coincide entirely with the views of our philosophy.
When reading his Essais sur la Nattire, I might have imagined
I had our book of Kiu-ti before me. As a matter of course and
of temperament our Universal Pundit will try to catch at those
156 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
views and pull every argument to pieces. So far he only threatens
me to alter his Preface and not to publish the philosophy under his
own name. Cuneus cuneum tradit: I
begged him not to publish
his essays at all.
M. thinks that for your purposes I better give you a few more
details upon Atlantis since it is greatly connected with evil if not
with its origin. In the forthcoming Theosophist you will find a
note or two appended to Hume's translation of Eliphas Levi's
Preface in connection with the lost continent. And now, since I
am determined to make of the present answers a volume bear
your cross with Christian fortitude and then, perhaps, after reading
the whole you will ask for no more for some time to come. But
what can I add to that already told? I am unable to give you
purely scientific information since we can never agree entirely
with Western conclusions; and that ours will be rejected as
" un-
scientific." Yet both geology and palaeontology bear witness to
much we have to say. Of course your Science is right in many
of her generalities, but her premises are wrong, or at any rate
very faulty. For instance she is right in saying that while the
new America was forming the ancient Atlantis was sinking, and
gradually washing away ; but she is neither right in her given
epochs nor in the calculations of the duration of that sinking. The
latter is the future fate of your British Islands the first on the
list of victims that have to be destroyed by fire (submarine
volcanos) and water, France and other lands "will follow suit.
When they reappear again, the last seventh Sub-race of the sixth
Root race of present mankind will be flourishing on " Lemuria "
and ' '
Atlantis
' '
both of which will have reappeared also (their
reappearance following immediately the disappearance of the
present isles and continents), and very few seas and great waters
will be found then on our globe, waters as well as land appearing
and disappearing and shifting periodically and each in turn.
Trembling at the prospect of fresh charges of
" contradictions
n
at some future incomplete statement I rather explain what I mean
by this. The approach of every new "
obscuration
" is always
signalled by cataclysms of either fire or water. But, apart from
this, every
"
Ring
"
or Root Race has to be cut in two, so to say,
by either one or the other. Thus, having reached the apex of its
development and glory the fourth Race the Atlanteans were
destroyed by water; you find now but their degenerated, fallen
remnants, whose sub-races, nevertheless, aye each of them, had
its palmy days of glory and relative greatness. What they are
now you will be some day the law of cycles being one and
immutable. When your race the fifth will have reached at its
zenith of physical intellectuality, and developed the highest civiliza-
tion (remember the difference we make between material and
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 157
spiritual civilizations) ;
unable to go any higher in its own cycle
its progress towards absolute evil will be arrested (as its pre-
decessors the Lemurians and Atlanteans, the men of the third
and fourth races were arrested in their progress toward the same)
by one of such cataclysmic changes ;
its great civilization destroyed,
and all the sub-races of that race will be found going down their
respective cycles, after a short period of glory and learning. See
the remnants of the Atlanteans, the old Greeks and Romans (the
modern belong all to the fifth Race) ;
see how great and how short,
how evanescent were their days of fame and glory !
For, they
were but sub-races of the seven off-shoots of the
" root race.'*
No mother Race, any more than her sub-races and off-shoots, is
allowed by the one Reigning Law to trespass upon the preroga-
tives of the Race or Sub-race that will follow it ; least of all to
encroach upon the knowledge and powers in store for its successor.
" Thou shalt not eat of the fruit of Knowledge of Good and Evil
of the tree that is growing for thy heirs
M we may say with more
right than would be willingly conceded us by the Humes of your
Sub-race. This
" tree
M is in our safe-keeping, entrusted to us by
the Dhyan Chohans, the protectors of our Race and the Trustees
for those that are coming-. Try to understand the allegory, and
to never lose sight of the hint given you in my letter upon the
Planetaries.* At the beginning of each Round, when humanity
reappears under quite different conditions than those afforded for
the birth of each new race and its sub-races, a "
Planetary
"
has
to mix with these primitive men, and to refresh their memories,
and reveal to them the truths they knew during the preceding
Round Hence the confused traditions about Jehovahs, Ormazds,
Osirises, Brahms, and the tutti quanti. But that happens only
for the benefit of the first Race. It is the duty of the latter to
choose the fit recipients among its sons, who are " set apart
" to
use a Biblical phrase as the vessels to contain the whole stock
of knowledge, to be divided among the future races and genera-
tions until the close of that Round. Why should I say more
since you must understand my whole meaning ;
and that I dare
not reveal it in full. Every race had its adepts; and with every
new race, we are allowed to give them out as much of our know-
ledge as the men of that race deserve it. The last seventh Race
will have its Buddha as every one of its predecessors had ; but, its
adepts will be far higher than any of the present race, for among
them will abide the future Planetary, the Dhyan Chohan whose
duty it will be to instruct or
" refresh the memory
" of the first
race of the fifth Round men after this planet's future obscuration.
En passantf to show to you that not only were not the
" races
"
*
The letter in answer to yours, I believe, where you question me about
C.C.M., S.M. and Mrs. K.
I58 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
invented by us, but that they are a cardinal dogma with the Lama
Buddhists and with all who study our esoteric doctrine, I send you
an explanation on a page or two in Rhys Davids
"
Buddhism/'
otherwise incomprehensible, meaningless and absurd. It is
written with the special permission of the Chohan (my Master)
and for your benefit. No Orientalist has ever suspected the
truths contained in it, and you are the first Western man (outside
Tibet) to whom it is now explained.
(6) What emerges at the end of all things is not only
"
pure
and impersonal spirit," but the collective "personal'* remem-
brances skimmed off every new fifth principle in the long series of
being. And, if at the end of all things say in some million of
millions years hence, Spirit will have to rest in its pure, impersonal
non-existence, as the ONE or the absolute, still there must be
"
some good
**
in the cyclic process, since every purified Ego has
the chance in the long interims between objective being upon the
planets to exist as a Dhyan Chohan from the lowest
"
Deva-
Chanee
*'
to the highest Planetary, enjoying the fruits of its
collective lives.
But what is "Spirit** pure and impersonal per se? Is it
possible that you should not have realized yet our meaning? why,
such a Spirit is a nonentity, a pure abstraction, an absolute blank
to our senses even to the most spiritual. It becomes something
only in union with matter hence it is always something since
matter is infinite and indestructible and non-existent without ^Spirit
which, in matter is Life. Separated from matter it becomes the
absolute negation of life and being, whereas matter is inseparable
from it. Ask those who oifer the objection, whether they know
anything of
"
life
**
and "
consciousness
**
beyond what they now
feel on earth. What conception can they have unless natural
born seers of the state and consciousness of one's individuality
after it has separated itself from gross earthly body? What is
the good of the whole process of life on earth you may ask them,
in your turn if, we are as good as
"
pure** unconscious entities
before birth, during sleep, and, at the end of our career? Is not
death, according to the teachings of Science, followed by the same
state of unconsciousness as the one before birth? Does not life
when it quits our body become as impersonal as it was before it
animated the foetus? Life, after all, the greatest problem
\vjlhin the ken of human conception is a mystery that the greatest
or your men of Science will never solve. In order to be correctly
comprehended, it has to be studied in the entire series of its mani-
festations, otherwise it can never be, not only fathomed, but even
comprehended in its easiest form life, as a state of being on this
earth. It can never be grasped so long as it is studied separately
and apart from universal life. To solve the great problem one
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEOEETICAL TEACHINGS 159
has to become an occultist ; to analyze and experience with it per-
sonally, in all its phases, as life on earth, life beyond the limit of
physical death, mineral, vegetable, animal and spiritual life; life
in conjunction with concrete matter as well as life present in the
imponderable atom. Let them try and examine, or analyze life
apart from organism, and what remains of it? Simply a mode
of motion ; which, unless our doctrine of the all-Pervading, infinite,
omnipresent Life is accepted though it be accepted on no better
terms than a hypothesis only a little more reasonable than their
scientific hypotheses which are all absurd has to remain unsolved.
Shall they object? Well, we will answer them by using their
own weapons. We will say that it is, and will remain for ever
demonstrated that since motion is all-pervading and absolute rest
inconceivable, that under whatever form or mask motion may
appear, whether as light, heat, magnetism, chemical affinity or
electricity all these must be but phases of One and the same
universal omnipotent Force, a Proteus they bow to, as the Great
"
Unknown "
(See Herbert Spencer) and we, simply call the
11
One Life
"
the
"
One Law "
and the
"
One Element/' The
greatest, the most scientific minds on earth, have been keenly
pressing forward toward a solution of the mystery, leaving no bye-
path unexplored, no thread loose or weak in this darkest of laby-
rinths for them, and all had to come to the same conclusion
that of the Occultists when given only partially namely, that life
in its concrete manifestations is the legitimate result and conse-
quence of chemical affinity ;
as to life in its abstract sense, life
pure and simple well, they know no more of it to-day, than they
knew in the incipient stage of their Royal Society. They only
know that organisms in certain solutions previously free from life
will spring up spontaneously (Pasteur and his biblical piety not-
withstanding) owing to certain chemical compositions of such
substances. If, as I hope, in a few years, I am entirely my own
master I may have the pleasure of demonstrating to you on your
own writing table that life as life is not only transformable into
other aspects or phases of the all-pervading Force, but that, it can
be actually infused into an artificial man. Frankenstein is a myth
only so far as he is the hero of a mystic tale ;
in nature he is a
possibility ;
and the physicists and physicians of the last sub-race
of the sixth Race will inoculate life and revive corpses, as they
now inoculate small-pox, and often less comely diseases. Spirit,
life and matter, are not natural principles existing independently
of each other, but the effects of combinations produced by eternal
motion in Space ;
and they better learn it.
(7) Most undoubtedly I am so permitted. But then comes the
most important point : how far satisfactory will my answers appear
even to you? That not every new law brought to light is
160 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
regarded as adding* a link to the chain of human knowledge
is shown by the ill-grace with which every fact unwelcome for
some reasons to science, is received by its professors. Neverthe-
less, whenever I can answer you I will try to do so, only hoping
that you will not send it as a contribution from my pen to the
Journal of Science.
(8) Most assuredly they have. Rain can be brought on in a
small area of space artificially and without any claim to miracle
or superhuman powers, though its secret is no property of mine
that I should divulge it. I am now trying to obtain permission
to do so. We know of no phenomenon in nature entirely un-
connected with either magnetism or electricity since, where there
are motion, heat, friction, light, there magnetism and its alter ego
(according to our humble opinion) electricity will always appear,
as either cause or effect or rather both if we but fathom the
manifestation to its origin. All the phenomena of earth currents,
terrestrial magnetism and atmospheric electricity, are due to the
fact that the earth is an electrified conductor, whose potential is
ever changing owing to its rotation and its annual orbital motion,
the successive cooling and heating of the air, the formation of
clouds and rain, storms and winds, etc. This you may perhaps,
find in some text book. But then Science would be unwilling
to admit that all these changes are due to akasic magnetism inces-
santly generating electric currents which tend to restore the dis-
turbed equilibrium. By directing the most powerful of electric
batteries, human frame electrified by a certain process, you can
stop rain on some given point by making
" a hole in the rain
cloud," as the occultists term it. By using other strongly
magnetized implements within, so to say, an insulated area rain
can be produced artificially. I
regret my inability to explain to you
the process more clearly. You know the effects produced by trees
and plants on rain clouds ;
and how their strong magnetic nature
attracts and even feeds those clouds over the tops of the trees.
Science explains it otherwise, maybe. Well, I cannot help it, for
such is our knowledge and the fruits of milleniums of observa-
tions and experience. Were the present to fall into the hands of
Hume, he would be sure to remark that I am vindicating the charge
publicly brought by him against us :
" Whenever unable to answer
your arguments ( ?) they (we) calmly reply that their (our) rules do
not admit of this or that." Charge notwithstanding, I am com-
pelled to answer that since the secret is not mine I cannot make
of it a marketable commodity. Let some physicists calculate the
amount of heat required to vaporize a certain quantity of water.
Then, let them compute the quantity of rain needed to cover an
area say, of one square mile to a depth of one inch. For this
amount of vaporization they will require, of course, an amount
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 161
of heat that would be equal to at least five million tons of coal.
Now the amount of energy of which this consumption of heat
would be the equivalent corresponds (as any mathematician could
tell you) to that which would be required to raise a weight of
upwards of ten million tons, one mile high. How can one man
generate such amount of heat and energy? Preposterous,
absurd ! we are all lunatics, and you who listen to us will be
placed in the same category if you ever venture to repeat this
proposition. Yet I say, that one man alone can do it, and very
easily if he is but acquainted with a certain
"
physico-spiritual
"
lever in himself, far more powerful than that of Archimedes. Even
simple muscular contraction is always accompanied with electric
and magnetic phenomena, and there is the strongest connection
between the magnetism of the earth, the changes of weather and
man, who is the best barometer living, if he but knew to decipher
it properly ; again, the state of the sky can always be ascertained
by the variations shown by magnetic instruments. It is now
several years that I had an opportunity of reading the deductions
of science upon this subject ; therefore, unless I go to the trouble
of catching up what I may have remained ignorant of, I do not
know the latest conclusions of Science. But with us, it is an
established fact that it is the earth's magnetism that produces
wind, storms, and rain. What science seems to know of it, is but
secondary symptoms always induced by that magnetism and she
may very soon find out her present errors. Earth's magnetic
attraction of meteoric dust, and the direct influence of the latter
upon the sudden changes of temperature especially in the matter
of heat and cold, is not a settled question to the present day, I
believe. 1
It was doubted whether the fact of our earth passing
through a region of space in which there are more or less of
meteoric masses has any bearing upon the height of our
atmosphere being increased or decreased, or even upon the state
of weather. But we think we could easily prove it; and since
they accept the fact that the relative distribution and proportion
of land and water on our globe may be due to the great accumula-
tion upon it of meteoric dust; snow especially in our northern
regions being full of meteoric iron and magnetic particles; and
deposits of the latter being found even at the bottom of seas and
oceans, I wonder how Science has not hitherto understood that
every atmospheric change and disturbance was due to the com-
bined magnetism of the two great masses between which our
atmosphere is compressed ! I call this meteoric dust a
"
mass "
for it is really one. High above our earth's surface the air is
impregnated and space filled with magnetic, or meteoric dust,
1 Dr. Phipson in 1867 and Cowper Ranyard in 1879 both urged the theory
but it was rejected then.
162 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
which does not even belong to our solar system. Science having
luckily, discovered, that, as our earth with all the other planets is
carried along through space, it receives a greater proportion of
that dust matter on its northern than on its southern hemisphere,
knows that to this are due the preponderating number of the con-
tinents in the former hemisphere, and the greater abundance of
snow and moisture. Millions of such meteors and even of the
finest particles reach us yearly and daily and all our temple knives
are made of this
"
heavenly
"
iron, which reaches us without
having undergone any change the magnetism of the earth keep-
ing them in cohesion. Gaseous matter is continually added to
our atmosphere from the never ceasing fall of meteoric strongly
magnetic matter, and yet it seems with them still an open question
whether magnetic conditions have anything to do with the pre-
cipitation of rain or not ! I do not know of any
" set of motions
established by pressures, expansions, etc., due in the first instance
to solar energy." Science makes too much and too little at the
same time of
"
solar energy
"
and even of the Sun itself; and the
Sun has nothing to do whatever with rain and very little with heat.
I was under the impression that science was aware that the glacial
periods as well as those periods when temperature is
" like that
of the carboniferous age
' *
are due to the decrease and increase
or rather to the expansion of our atmosphere, which expansion
is itself due to the same meteoric presence? At any rate, we all
know, that the heat that the earth receives by radiation from the
sun is at the utmost one third if not less of the amount received by
her directly from the meteors.
(9) Call it a chromosphere or atmosphere, it can be called
neither ;
for it 13 simply the magnetic and ever present aura of the
sun, seen by astronomers only for a brief few moments during
the eclipse and by some of our chelas whenever they like of
course while in a certain induced state. A counterpart of what
the astronomers call the red flames in the
" corona
"
may be seen
in Reichenbach's crystals or in any other strongly magnetic body.
The head of a man in a strong ecstatic condition, when all the
electricity of his system is centred around the brain, will represent
especially in darkness a perfect simile of the Sun during such
periods. The first artist who drew the aureoles about the heads
of his Gods and Saints, was not inspired, but represented it on the
authority of temple pictures and traditions of the sanctuary and
the chambers of initiation where such phenomena took place.
The closer to the head or to the aura-emitting body the stronger
and the more effulgent the emanation (due to hydrogen science
tells us, in the case of the flames) ; hence the irregular red flames
around the Sun or the
"
inner corona." The fact that these are not
always present in equal quantity shows only the constant, fluctua-
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 163
tion of the magnetic matter and its energy, upon which also
depend the variety and number of spots. During periods of
magnetic inertia the spots disappear, or rather remain invisible.
The further the emanation shoots out the more it loses in intensity,
until gradually subsiding it fades out; hence the "outer
corona,
M its rayed shape being due entirely to the latter
phenomenon whose effulgence proceeds from the magnetic nature
of the matter and the electric energy and not at all from intensely
hot particles as asserted by some astronomers. All this is terribly
unscientific, nevertheless a fact, to which, I may add another by
reminding you that the Sun we see is not at all the central planet
of our little Universe, but only its veil or it's reflection. Science
has tremendous odds against studying that planet which luckily
for us we have not : foremost of all the constant tremours of our
atmosphere which prevent them from judging correctly the little
they do see. This impediment was never in the way of the
ancient Chaldee and Egyptian astronomers ;
nor is it an obstacle
to us, for we have means of arresting, or counteracting such
tremours acquainted as we are with all the akasic conditions.
No more than the rain secret, would this secret supposing we do
divulge it be of any practical use to your men of Science unless
they become Occultists and sacrifice long years to the acquire-
ment of powers. Only fancy a Huxley or a Tyndall studying Yog-
vidya! hence the many mistakes into which they fall and the con-
flicting hypotheses of your best authorities. For instance : the
Sun is full of iron vapours a fact that was demonstrated by the
spectroscope showing that the light of the corona consisted largely
of a line in the green part of the spectrum, very nearly coinciding
with an iron line. Yet Professors Young and Lockyer rejected
that, under the witty pretext, if I remember, that, if the corona
were composed of minute particles like a dust cloud (and it is this
that we call
**
magnetic matter ") these particles would (i) fall
upon the sun's body, (2) comets were known to pass through this
vapour without any visible effect on them ; (3) Professor Young's
spectroscope showed that the coronal line was not identical with
the iron one, etc. Why they should call those objections
"
scientific
" is more than we can tell.
(i) The reason why the particles since they call them so do
not fall upon the sun's body, is self-evident. There are forces
co-existent with gravitation of which they know nothing ;
besides
that other fact that there is no gravitation properly speaking ; only
attraction and repulsion. (2) How could comets be affected by
the said passage since their
"
passing through
" is simply an
optical illusion ; they could not pass within the area of attraction
without being immediately annihilated by that force, of which no
vril can give an adequate idea, since there can be nothing on earth
164 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
that could be compared with it. Passing as the comets do through
a
" reflection
" no wonder that the said vapour has
"
no visible
effect on these light bodies.
"
(3) The coronal line may not seem
identical through the best
"
grating spectroscope," nevertheless,
the corona contains iron as well as other vapours. To tell you
of what it does consist is idle, since I am unable to translate the
words we use for it, and that no such matter exists (not in our
planetary system, at any rate) but in the sun. The fact is, that
what you call the Sun is simply the reflection of the huge
*'
store-
house
" of our System wherein ALL its forces are generated and
preserved ; the Sun being the heart and brain of our pigmy
Universe, we might compare its faculae those millions of small,
intensely brilliant bodies of which the Sun's surface away from
the spots is made up with the blood corpuscles of that luminary
though some of them as correctly conjectured by science are as
large as Europe. Those blood corpuscles are the electric and
magnetic matter in its sixth and seventh state. What are those
long white filaments twisted like so many ropes, of which the
penumbra of the Sun is made up? What the central part that
is seen like a huge flame ending in fiery spires, and the transparent
clouds, or rather vapours formed of delicate threads of silvery
light, that hangs over those flames what but magneto-electric
aura the phlogiston of the Sun? Science may go on speculating
for ever, yet so long as she does not renounce two or three of her
cardinal errors she will find herself groping for ever in the dark.
Some of her greatest misconceptions are found in her limited
notions on the law of gravitation ; her denial that matter may be
imponderable; her newly invented term " force" and the absurd
and tacitly accepted idea, that force is capable of existing per se,
or of acting any more than life, outside, independent of, or in any
other wise than through matter : in other words that force is any-
thing but matter in one of her highest states, the last three on
the ascending scale being denied because only science knows
nothing of them ;
and her utter ignorance of the universal Proteus,
its functions and importance in the economy of nature magnetism
and electricity. Tell Science that even in those days of the decline
of the Roman Empire, when the tatooed Britisher used to offer to
the Emperor Claudius his nazzitr of
"
electron
M
in the shape of a
string of amber beads that even then, there were yet men re-
maining aloof from the immoral masses, who knew more of
electricity and magnetism than they, the men of science, do now,
and science will laugh at you as bitterly as she now does over your
kind dedication to me. Verily, when your astronomers speaking of
sun-matter, term those lights and flames as
"
clouds of vapour
"
and "
gases unknown to science" (rather!) chased by mighty
whirlwinds and cyclones whereas we know it to be simpty
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 165
magnetic matter in its usual state of activity we feel inclined to
smile at the expressions. Can one imagine the
" Sun's fires fed
with purely mineral matter
"
with meteorites highly charged with
hydrogen giving the
"
Sun a far-reaching atmosphere of ignited
gas "? We know that the invisible Sun is composed of that which
has neither name, nor can it be compared to anything known by
your science on earth; and that its "reflection" contains still
less of anything like
"
gases," mineral matter, or fire, though
even we when treating of it in your civilized tongue are compelled
to use such expressions as "
vapour
" and *'
magnetic matter."
To close the subject, the coronal changes have no effect upon the
earth's climate, though spots have and Professor N. Lockyer is
mostly wrong in his deductions. The Sun is neither a solid nor a
liquid, nor yet a gaseous glow; but a gigantic ball of electro-
magnetic Forces, the store-house of universal life and motion,
from which the latter pulsate in all directions, feeding the smallest
atom as the greatest genius with the same material unto the end
of the Maha Yug.
(10) I believe not. The stars are distant from us, at least
500,000 times as far as the Sun and some as many times more.
The strong accumulation of meteoric matter and the atmospheric
tremours are always in the way. If your astronomers could
climb on the height of that meteoric dust, with their telescopes
and havanas they might trust more than they can now in their
photometers. How can they? Neither the real degree of intensity
of that light can be known on earth hence no trustworthy basis
for calculating magnitudes and distances can be had, nor have
they hitherto made sure in a single instance (except in the matter
of one star in Cassiopeia) which stars shine by reflected and which
by their own light. The working of the best double star photo-
meters is deceptive. Of this I have made sure, so far back as in
the spring of 1878 while watching the observations made through
a Pickering photometer. The discrepancy in the observations
upon a star (near Gamma Ceti) amounted at times to half a magni-
tude. No planets but one have hitherto been discovered outside
of the solar system, with all their photometers, while we know
with the sole help of our spiritual naked eye a number of them ;
every completely matured Sun-star having like in our own system
several companion planets in fact. The famous "
polarization of
light
"
test is as about trustworthy as all others. Of course, the
mere fact of their starting from a false premise cannot vitiate
either their conclusions or astronomical prophecies, since both are
mathematically correct in their mutual relations, and that it
answers the given object. The Chaldees nor yet our old Rishis
had either your telescopes or photometers ; and yet their astrono-
mical predictions were faultless, the mistakes, very slight ones in
166 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
t ruth fathered upon them by their modern rivals proceeding
from the mistakes of the latter.
You must not complain of my too long- answers to your very
short questions, since I answer you for your instruction as a
student of occultism, my
"
lay
"
chela, and not at all with a view
of answering the Journal of Science. I am no man of science
with regard to, or in connection with modern learning. My know-
ledge of your Western Sciences is very limited in fact ;
and you
will please bear in mind that all my answers are based upon, and
derived from, our Eastern occult doctrines regardless of their
agreement or disagreement with those of exact science. Hence,
I say :
" The Sun's surface emits per square mile, as much light (in
proportion) as can be emitted from any body." But what can
you mean in this case by
"
light "? The latter is not an inde-
pendent principle ; and, I rejoiced at the introduction, with a view
to facilitate means of observation of the
"
diffraction spectrum;"
since by abolishing all these imaginary independent existences,
such as heat, actinism, light, etc., it rendered to Occult Science
the greatest service, by vindicating in the eyes of her modern sister
our very ancient theory that every phenomenon being but the effect
of the diversified motions of what we call Akasa (not your ether)
there was, in fact, but one element, the causative Principle of all.
But since your question is asked with a view to settling a disputed
point in modern science I will try to answer it in the clearest way
I can. I say then, no, and will give you my reasons why. They
cannot know it, for the simple reason that heretofore they have in
reality found no sure means of measuring the velocity of light.
The experiments made by Fizeau and Cornu known as the two best
investigators of light in the world of science, notwithstanding- the
general satisfaction at the results obtained, are not a trustworthy
data neither in respect to the velocity with which sunlight travels
nor to its quantity. The methods adopted by both these French-
men are yielding correct results (at any rate approximately cor-
rect, since there is a variation of 227 miles per second between the
result of the observations of both experimenters albeit made with
the same apparatus) only as regards the velocity of light between
our earth and the upper regions of its atmosphere. Their toothed
wheel, revolving at a known velocity records, of course, the strong
ray of light which passes through one of the niches of the wheel,
and then has its point of light obscured whenever a tooth passes
accurately enough. The instrument is very ingenious and can
hardly fail to give splendid results on a journey of a few thousand
metres there and back ; there being between the Paris observatory
and its fortifications no atmosphere, no meteoric masses to impede
the ray's progress ; and that ray finding quite a different quality
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 167
of a medium to travel upon than the ether of Space, the ether
between the Sun and the meteoric continent above our heads, the
velocity of light will of course show some 185,000 and odd miles
per second, and your physicists shout
"
Eureka "
! Nor do any
of the other devices contrived by science to measure that velocity
since 1887 answer any better. All they can say is that their cal-
culations are so far correct. Could they measure light above our
atmosphere they would soon find that they were wrong.
(n) It is so far; but is fast changing. Your science has a
theory, I believe, that if the earth were suddenly placed in
extremely cold regions for instance where it would exchange
places with Jupiter all our seas and rivers would be suddenly
transformed into solid mountains ;
the air, or rather a portion of
the aeriform substances which compose it would be metamor-
phosed from their state of invisible fluid owing to the absence of
heat into liquids (which now exist on Jupiter, but of which men
have no idea on earth). Realize, or try to imagine the reverse
condition, and it wilt be that of Jupiter at the present moment.
The whole of our system is imperceptibly shifting its position
in space. The relative distance between planets remaining ever
the same, and being in no wise affected by the displacement of
the whole system ;
and the distance between the latter and the
stars and other suns being so incommensurable as to produce but
little if any perceptible change for centuries and milleniums to
come ;
no astronomer will perceive it telescopically, until Jupiter
and some other planets, whose little luminous points hide now
from our sight millions upon millions of stars (all but some 5000
or 6000) will suddenly let us have a peep at a few of the Raja-
Suns they are now hiding. There is such a king-star right behind
Jupiter, that no mortal physical eye has ever seen during this, our
Round. Could it be so perceived it would appear, through the
best telescope with a power of multiplying its diameter ten
thousand times, still a small dimensionless point, thrown into
the shadow by the brightness of any planet ; nevertheless this
world is thousands of times larger than Jupiter. The violent dis-
turbance of its atmosphere and even its red spot that so intrigues
science lately, are due (i) to that shifting and (2) to the influence
of that Raja-Star. In its present position in space imperceptibly
small though it be the metallic substances of which it is mainly
composed are expanding and gradually transforming themselves
into aeriform fluids the state of our own earth and its six sister
globes before the first Round and becoming part of its
atmosphere. Draw your inferences and deductions from this, my
dear
"
lay
"
chela, but beware lest in doing so you sacrifice your
humble instructor and the occult doctrine itself, on the altar of your
wrathful Goddess modern science.
168 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
(12) I am afraid not much, since our Sun is but a reflection.
The only great truth uttered by Siemens is that inter-stellar space
is filled with highly attenuated matter, such as may be put in air
vacuum tubes, and which stretches from planet to planet and from
star to star. But this truth has no bearing upon his main facts.
The sun gives all and takes back nothing from its system. The
sun gathers nothing
" at the poles
"
which are always free even
from the famous " red flames
" at all times, not only during the
eclipses. How is it that with their powerful telescopes they have
failed to perceive any such
"
gathering
"
since their glasses show
them even the
"
superlatively 'fleecy clouds
M on the photosphere?
Nothing can reach the sun from without the boundaries of its own
system in the shape of such gross matter as
"
attenuated gases."
Every bit of matter in all its seven states is necessary to the vitality
of the various and numberless systems worlds in formation, suns
awakening anew to life, etc., and they have none to spare even for
their best neighbours and next of kin. They are mothers, not
stepmothers, and would not take away one crumb from the
nutrition of their children. The latest theory of radiant energy
which shows that there is no such thing in nature, properly
speaking, as chemical light, or heat ray is the only approximately
correct one. For indeed, there is but one thing radiant energy
which is inexhaustible and knows neither increase nor decrease
and will go on with its self-generating work to the end
of the Solar manvantara. The absorption of Solar Forces by the
earth is tremendous ; yet it is, or may be demonstrated that the
latter receives hardly 25 per cent, of the chemical power of its
rays, for these are despoiled of 75 per cent, during their vertical
passage through the atmosphere at the moment they reach the
outer boundary
"
of the aerial ocean.
1 '
And even those rays lose
about 20 per cent, in illuminating and caloric power we are told.
What with such a waste must then be the recuperative power of
our Father-Mother Sun? Yes; call it
" Radiant Energy
"
if you
will : we call it Life all-pervading, omnipresent life, ever at work
in its great laboratory the SUN.
(13) None can ever be given by your men of Science, whose
"
bumptiousness
" makes them declare that only to those for
whom the word magnetism is a mysterious agent the supposition
that the Sun is a huge magnet can account for the production by
that body of light, heat and the causes of magnetic variations as
perceived on our earth. They are determined to ignore and thus
reject the theory suggested to them by Jenkins of the R.A.S. of
the existence of strong magnetic poles above the surface of the
earth. But the theory, is the correct one nevertheless, and one of
these poles revolves around the north pole in a periodical cycle of
several hundred years. Halley and Handsteen besides Jenkins
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 169
were the only scientific men that ever suspected it. Your
question is again answered by reminding- you of another exploded
supposition. Jenkins did his best some three years ago to prove
that it is the north end of the compass needle that is the true
north pole, and not the reverse as the current scientific theory
maintains. He was informed that the locality in Boothia where
Sir James Ross located the earth's north magnetic pole, was
purely imaginary : it is not there. If he (and ive) are wrong, then
the magnetic theory that like poles repel and unlike poles attract,
must also be declared a fallacy ; since if the north end of the dip-
ping needle is a south pole then its pointing to the ground in
Boothia as you call it must be due to attraction? And if there
is anything there to attract it, why is it that the needle in London
is attracted neither to the ground in Boothia nor to the earth's
centre? As very correctly argued, if the north pole of the needle
pointed almost perpendicularly to the ground in Boothia, it is
simply because it was repelled by the true north magnetic pole
when Sir J. Ross was there about half a century ago.
No; our
"
Lordships" have nothing to do with the inertia of
the needle. It is due to the presence of certain metals in fusion
in that locality. Increase of temperature diminishes magnetic
attraction, and a sufficiently high temperature destroys it often
altogether. The temperature I am speaking of is, in the present
case rather an aura, an emanation than anything science knows
of. Of course, this explanation will never hold water with the
present knowledge of science. But we can wait and see. Study
magnetism with the help of occult doctrines, and then that which
now will appear incomprehensible, absurd in the light of physical
science, will become all clear.
(14) They must be. Not all of the Intra-Mercurial planets, nor
yet those in the orbit of Neptune are yet discovered, though
they are strongly suspected. We know that such exist and
where they exist; and that there are innumerable planets
<4
burnt
out
"
they say, in obscuration we say ; planets in formation
and not yet luminous, etc. But then
"
we know M is of little use
to science, when the Spiritualists will not admit our knowledge.
Edison's tasimeter adjusted to its utmost degree of sensitiveness
and attached to a large telescope may be of great use when per-
fected. When so attached the
"
tasimeter
" will afford the pos-
sibility not only to measure the heat of the remotest of visible
stars, but to detect by their invisible radiations stars that are
unseen and otherwise undetectable, lience planets also. The dis-
coverer, an F.T.S., a good deal protected by M. thinks that if, at
any point in a blank space of heavens a space that appears blank
even through a telescope of the highest power the tasimeter
indicates an accesion of temperature and does so invariably, this
170 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
will be a regular proof that the instrument is in range with the
stellar body either non-luminous or so distant as to be beyond
the reach of telescopic vision. His tasimeter, he says,
"
is
affected by a wider range of etheric undulations than the eye can
take cognizance of." Science will hear sounds from certain
planets before she sees them. This is a prophecy. Unfortunately
I am not a Planet, not even a
"
planetary." Otherwise I would
advise you to get a tasimeter from him and thus avoid me the
trouble of writing to you. I would manage then to find myself
" in range
" with you.
(15) No, good friend; I am not as indiscreet as all that, I left
you simply to your own reminiscences. Every mortal creature,
even the less favoured by Fortune, has such moments of relative
happiness at some time of his life. Why shouldn't you?
Yes, it was an X quantity I referred to.
(16) It is a widely spread belief among all the Hindus that a
person's future pre-natal state and birth are moulded by the last
desire he may have at the time of death. But this last desire,
they say, necessarily hinges on to the shape which the person
may have given to his desires, passions, etc., during his past
life. It is for this very reason, viz. that our last desire may not
be unfavourable to ou"r future progress that we have to watch
our actions and control our passions and desires throughout our
whole earthly career.
(17) It cannot be otherwise. The experience of dying men by
drowning and other accidents brought back to life, has cor-
roborated our doctrine in almost every case. Such thoughts are
involuntary and we have no more control over them than we
would over the eye's retina to prevent it
perceiving that
colour which affects it most. At the last moment, the whole life
is reflected in our memory and emerges from all the forgotten
nooks and corners picture after picture, one event after the other.
The dying brain dislodges memory with a strong supreme
impulse, and memory restores faithfully every impression
entrusted to it
during the period of the brain's activity. That
impression and thought which was the strongest naturally be-
comes the most vivid and survives so to say all the rest which
now vanish and disappear for ever, to reappear but in Deva Chan. 1
No man dies insane or unconscious as some physiologists assert.
Even a madman, or one in a fit of delirium tremens will have his
instant of perfect lucidity at the moment of death, though unable
to say so to those present. The man may often appear dead.
Yet from the last pulsation, from and between the last throbbing
of his heart and the moment when the last spark of animal heat
1
Good gracious ! had I forgotten in my hurry to add the last five words,
would not I have caught it as a charge of fiat contradiction !
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 171
leaves the body the brain thinks and the Ego lives over in those
few brief seconds his whole life over again. Speak in whispers,
ye, who assist at a death-bed and find yourselves in the solemn
presence of Death. Especially have you to keep quiet just after
Death has laid her clammy hand upon the body. Speak in
whispers, I say, lest you disturb the quiet ripple of thought, and
hinder the busy work of the Past casting on its reflection upon
the Veil of the Future.
(18) Yes; the
" full
M remembrance of our lives (collective
lives) will return back at the end of all the seven Rounds, at the
threshold of the long, long Nirvana that awaits us after we
leave Globe Z. At the end of isolated Rounds, we remember but
the sum total of our last impressions, those we had selected, or
that have rather forced themselves upon us and followed us in
Deva Chan. Those are all
"
probationary
"
lives with large in-
dulgences and new trials afforded us with every new life. But at
the close of the minor cycle, after the completion of all the seven
Rounds, there awaits us no other mercy but the cup of good
deeds, of merit, outweighing that of evil deeds and demerit in the
scales of Retributive Justice. Bad, irretrievably bad must be that
I$go that yields no mite from its fifth Principle, and has to be
annihilated, to disappear in the Eighth Sphere. A mite, as I say,
collected from the Personal Ego suffices to save him from the
dreary Fate. Not so aftei the completion of the great cycle :
either a long Nirvana of Bliss (unconscious though it be in the,
and according to, your crude conceptions) ;
after which life as a
Dhyan Chohan for a whole Manvantara, or else "Avitchi Nir-
vana " and a Manvantara of misery and Horror as a you
must not hear the word nor I
pronounce or write it. But
" those
" have nought to do with the mortals who pass through
the seven spheres. The collective Karma of a future Planetary
is as lovely as the collective Karma of a is terrible. Enough.
I have said too much already.
(19) Verily so. Until the struggle between the higher and
middle duad begins (with the exception of suicides who are not
dead but have only killed their physical triad, and whose Elemen-
tal parasites, therefore, are not naturally separated from the Ego
as in real death) until that struggle, I say, has not begun and
ended, no shell can realize its position. When the sixth and
seventh principles are gone, carrying off with them the finer,
spiritual portions of that, which once was the personal conscious-
ness of the fifth, then only does the shell gradually develop a
kind of hazy consciousness of its own from what remains in the
shadow of personality. No contradiction here, my dear friend,
only haziness in your own perceptions.
(20) All that which pertains to the materio-psychological attri-
172 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
butes and sensations of the five lower skandhas ; all that which
will be thrown off as a refuse by the newly born Ego in the Deva
Chan, as unworthy of, and not sufficiently related to the purely
spiritual perceptions, emotions and feelings of the sixth,
strengthened, and so to say, cemented by a portion of the fifth,
that portion which is necessary in the devachan for the retention
of a divine spiritualized notion of the
4I
I
"
in the Monad which
would otherwise, have no consciousness in relation to object and
subject at all all this
"
becomes extinct for ever": namely at
the moment of physical death, to return once more, marshalling
before the eye of the new Ego at the threshold of Deva Chan and
to be rejected by It. It will return for the third time fully at the
end of the minor cycle, after the completion of the seven Rounds
when the sum total of collective existences is weighed
" merit
"
in one cup,
"
demerit
" in the other cup of the scales. But in
that individual, in the Ego
"
good, bad, or indifferent
" in the
isolated personality, consciousness leaves as suddenly as
" the
flame leaves the wick." Blow out your candle, good friend.
The flame has left that candle
" for ever "; but are the particles
that'moved, their motion producing the objective flame annihilated
or dispersed for all that? Never. Relight the candle and the
same particles drawn by mutual affinity will return to the wick.
Place a long row of candles on your table. Light one and blow
it out ;
then light the other and do the same ;
a third and fourth,
and so on. The same matter, the same gaseous particles repre-
senting in our c^se the Karma of the personality will be called
forth by the conditions given them by your match, to produce a
new luminosity ; but can we say that candle No. i has not had its
flame extinct for ever? Not even in the case of the
" failures of
nature," of the immediate reincarnation of children and congenital
idiots, etc., that so provoked the wrath of C.C.M., can we call
them the identical ex-personalities ; though the whole of the same
life-principle and identically the same MANAS (fifth principle) re-
enters a new body and may be truly called a
" reincarnation of
the personality
"
whereas, in the rebirth of the Egos from deva-
chans and avitchis into Karmic life it is only the spiritual attributes
of the Monad and its Buddhi that are reborn. All we can say of
the reincarnated
"
failures
"
is, that they are the reincarnated
Manas, the fifth principle of Mr. Smith or Miss Grey, but not
certainly that these are the reincarnations of Mr. S. and Miss G.
Therefore, the explanation, clear and concise (though perhaps less
literary than you might make it) given to C.C.M. in the
Theosophist in answer to his spiteful hit in Light, is not only cor-
rect but candid also; and both yourself and C.C.M. were
unjust
to Upasika and even to myself who told her what to write ; since
even you mistook my wail and lament at the confused and tor-
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 173
tured explanations in Isis (for its incompleteness no one but we,
icr inspirers are responsible) and my complaint of having had to
exercise all my
"
ingenuity
"
to make the thing plain, for an
ivowal of ingeniousness in the sense of cunning and craft, where-
is ingenuousness a sincere desire (though very difficult of
realization) to mend and clear up the misconception was meant
by me. I do not know of anything since the very beginning of
Dur correspondence that displeased the Chohan so much as that.
But we must not return to the subject again.
But what is then
" the nature of the remembrance and self-
:onsciousness of the shell?
"
you ask. As I said in your note
10 better than a reflected or borrowed light.
*'
Memory
" is one
thing, and "
perceptive faculties
"
quite another. A madman
may remember very clearly some portions of his past life ; yet he
is unable to perceive anything in its true light for the higher por-
tion of his Manas and his Duddhi are paralysed in him, have left
him. Could an animal a dog, for instance speak, he would
prove you that his memory in direct relation to his canine per-
sonality, is as fresh as yours ;
nevertheless his memory and
instinct cannot be called
"
perceptive faculties." A dog remem-
bers that his master thrashed him when the latter gets hold of his
stick at all other times he has no remembrance of it. Thus with
a shell ;
once in the aura of a medium, all he perceives through
the borrowed organs of the medium and of those in magnetic
sympathy with the latter, he will perceive very clearly but not
further than what the shell can find in the perceptive faculties
and memories of circle and medium hence often the rational and
at times highly intelligent answers ;
hence also a complete oblivion
of things known to all but that medium and circle. The shell of
a highly intelligent, learned, but utterly unspiritual man who died
a natural death, will last longer and the shadow of his own
memory helping that shadow which is the refuse of the sixth
principle left in the fifth he may deliver discourses through
trance speakers and repeat parrot-like that which he knew of
and thought much over it, during his life-time. But find me one
single instance in the annals of Spiritualism where a returning
shell of a Faraday or a Brewster (for even they were made to fall
into the trap of mediumistic attraction) said one word more than
it knew during its life-time. Where is that scientific shell, that
ever gave evidence of that, which is claimed on behalf of the
"disembodied Spirit" namely, that a free Soul, the Spirit dis-
enthralled from its body's fetters perceives and sees that which is
concealed from living mortal eyes? Challenge the Spiritualists
fearlessly, I
say !
Defy the best, the most reliable of mediums
Stainton Moses for one to give you through that high dis-
embodied shell, that he mistakes for the
"
Imperator
"
of the
174 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
early days of his mediurnship, to tell you what you will have
hidden in your box, if S.M. does not know it; or to repeat to you
a line from a Sanskrit manuscript unknown to his medium, or
anything of that kind. Prohpudor !
Spirits they call them?
Spirits with personal remembrances? As well call personal re-
membrances the sentences screeched out by a parrot. Why don't
you ask C.C.M. to test + ? Why not settle his and your mind
at rest by suggesting to him to ask a friend or an acquaintance
unknown to S.M. to select an object the nature of which will
remain in its turn unknown to C.C.M., and then see whether +
will be able to name that object something possible even to a
good clairvoyant. Let the
"
Spirit
"
of Zollner now that he is
in the "fourth dimension of space," and has put up an appear-
ance already with several mediums tell them the last word of
his discovery, complete his astro-physical philosophy. No ;
Zollner when lecturing through an intelligent medium, surrounded
with persons who read his works, are interested in them will
repeat on various tones that which is known to others (not even
that which he alone knew, most probably), the credulous,
ignorant public confounding the post-hoc with the propter-hoc and
firmly convinced of the Spirit's identity. Indeed, it will be worth
your while to stimulate investigation in this direction. Yes ;
personal consciousness does leave everyone at death ;
and when
even the centre of memory is re-established in the shell, it will
remember and speak out its recollections but through the brain of
some living human being. Hence
(21) A more or less complete, still dim recollection of its per-
sonality, and of its purely physical life. As in the cases of com-
plete insanity the final severance of the two higher duads (yth 6th
and 5th 4th) at the moment of the former going into gestation,
digs an impassable gulf between the two. It is not even a portion
of the fifth that is carried away least of all 2\ principles as Mr.
Hume crudely puts it in his Fragments that go into Deva Chan
leaving but i\ principles behind. The Manas shorn of its finest
attributes, becomes like a flower from which all the aroma has
suddenly departed, a rose crushed, and having been made to yield
all its oil for the attar manufacture purposes ;
what is left behind
is but the smell of decaying grass, earth and rottenness.
(a) Question the second is sufficiently answered, I believe.
(Your second para.) The Spiritual Ego goes on evolving per-
sonalities, in which " the sense of identity
" is very complete while
living. After their separation from the physical Ego, that sense
returns very dim, and belongs wholly to the recollections of the
physical man. The shell may be a perfect Sinnett when wholly
engrossed in a game of cards at his club, and when either losing
or winning a large sum of money or a Babu Smut Murky Dass
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 175
trying to cheat his principal out of a sum of rupees. In both
cases ex-editor and Babu will as shells, remind anyone who
will have the privilege of enjoying an hour's chat with the illus-
trious dis-embodied angels, more of the inmates of a lunatic
asylum made to play parts in private theatricals as means of
hygienic recreation, than of the Caesars and Hamlets they would
represent. The slightest shock will throw them off the track and
send them off raving.
(b) An error. A. P. Sinnett is not
"
an absolutely new inven-
tion.
" He is the child and creation of his antecedent personal
self; the Karmic progeny for all he knows, of Nonius Asprena,
Consul of the Emperor Domitian (94 A.D.) together with Arri-
cinius Clementus, and friend of the Flamen Dealis of that day
(the high priest of Jupiter and chief of the Flamenes) or of that
Flamens himself which would account for A. P. Sinnett's sud-
denly developed love for mysticism. A.P.S. the friend and
brother of K.H. will go to Deva Chan; and A.P.S., the Editor and
the lawn-tennis man, the Don Juan, in a mild way, in the palmy
days of
"
Saints, Sinners and Sceneries," identifying himself by
mentioning a usually covered mole or scar, will, perhaps, be
abusing the Babus through a medium to some old friend in Cali-
fornia or London.
(c) It will find
"
enough decent material
" and to spare. A few
years of Theosophy will furnish it.
(d) Perfectly correctly defined.
(e) As much as there is of the personality in A.P.S.'s reflec-
tion in the looking glass of the real, living A.P.S.
(f) The Spiritual Ego will not think of the A.P.S. the shell,
any more than it will think of the last suit of clothes it wore ;
nor will it be conscious that the individuality is gone, since that
only individuality and Spiritual personality it will then behold in
itself alone. Nosce te ipsum is a direct command of the oracle
to the Spiritual monad in Deva Chan; and the
"
heresy of Indi-
viduality
" is a doctrine propounded by Tathagdtha with an eye
to the Shell. The latter whose bumptiousness is as proverbial as
that of the medium when reminded that it is A.P.S. will echo
out : "Of course, no doubt, hand me over some preserved
peaches I devoured with such an appetite for breakfast, and a
glass of claret !" and who after this who knew A.P.S. at
Allahabad, will dare doubt his identity? And, when left alone for
one short instant by some disturbance in the circle, or the thought
of the medium wandering for a moment to some other person
that shell will begin to hesitate in its thoughts whether it is A.P.S.,
S. Wheeler, or Ratigan ; and end by assuring itself it is Julius
Caesar, (g) and by finally
"
remaining asleep."
(h) No ; it is not conscious of this loss of cohesion. Besides,
176 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
such a feeling in a shell being quite useless for nature's purposes,
it could hardly realize something that could be never even dreamed
by a medium or its affinities. It is dimly conscious of its own
physical death after a prolonged period of time though that's
all. The few exceptions to this rule cases of half successful
sorcerers, of very wicked persons passionately attached to Self
offer a real danger to the living. These very material shells,
whose last dying thought was Self, Self, Self and to live, to
live ! will often feel it instinctively. So do some suicides
though not all. What happens then is terrible for it becomes a
case of post mortem licanthropy. The shell will cling so
tenaciously to its semblance of life that it will seek refuge in a
new organism in any beast in a dog, a hysena, a bird when no
human organism is close at hand rather than submit to annihila-
tion.
(22) A question I have no right to answer.
(23) Mars and four other planets of which astronomy knows
yet nothing. Neither A, B, nor Y, Z, are known ;
nor can they
be seen through physical means however perfected.
(24) Most decidedly not. Not even a Dhyan Chohan of the
lower orders could approach it without having its body consumed,
or rather annihilated. Only the highest
"
Planetary
"
can scan
it. (b) Not unless we call it the vertex of an angle. But it is
the vertex of all the
"
chains
"
collectively. All of us dwellers
of the chains we will have to evolute, live and run the up and
down scale in that highest and last of the septenaries chains (on
the scale of perfection) before the Solar Pralaya snuffs out our
little system.
(25 & 26) . . . "in which case it" the "it" relates to
the sixth and seventh principles, not to the fifth, for the manas
will have to remain a shell in each case ; only in the one in hand it
will have no time to visit mediums : for it begins sinking down to
the eighth sphere almost immediately.
"
Then and there
" in the
eternity may be a mighty long period. It means only that the
monad having no Karmic body to guide its rebirth falls into
non-being for a certain period and then reincarnates certainly
not earlier than a thousand or two thousand years. No, it is not
an "exceptional case." Save a few exceptional cases in the
case of the initiated such as our Teshu-Lamas and the Boddhi-
satwas and a few others, no monad gets ever reincarnated before
its appointed cycle.
(27)
" How does he toss into confusion." ... If instead
of doing to-day something you have to do you put it off till the
next day^-does not even this invisibly and imperceptibly at first,
yet as forcibly throw into confusion many a thing, and in some
cases even shuffle the destinies of millions of persons, for good,
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 177
for evil, or simply in connection with a change, may be unim-
portant in itself still a change? And do you mean to say that
such an unexpected, horrid murder has not influenced the
destinies of millions?
(28) Here we are, again. Verily ever since I had the folly of
touching upon this subject i.e. of harnessing the cart before the
horse my nights are bereft of their hitherto innocent sleep!
For Heaven 's sake take into consideration the following facts and
put them together, if
you can. (i) The individual units of man-
kind remain 100 times longer in the transitory spheres of effects
than on the globes ; (2) The few men of the fifth Round do not
beget children of the fifth but of your fourth Round. (3) That the
"
obscurations
M
are not Pralayas, and that they last in a pro-
portion of i to 10, i.e., if a Ring or whatever we call it, the period
during which the seven Root races have to develop and reach
their last appearance upon a globe during that Round lasts say
10 millions of years, (of course it lasts far longer) then the
"
obscuration
M will last no longer than one million. When our
globe having got rid of its last fourth Round men and a few,
very few of the fifth, goes to sleep, during the period of its rest
the fifth Round men will be resting in their devachans and
Spiritual lokas far longer at any rate than the fourth Round
"
angels
" in theirs since they are far more perfect. A contra-
diction, and a "lapsus calami of M." says Hume; because M.
wrote something quite correct though he is no more infallible than
I am and might have expressed himself, more than once, very
carelessly.
"
I want to make out how the next superior Round forms
are evolved." My friend, try to understand that you are putting
me questions pertaining to the highest initiations. That I can give
you a general view, but that I dare not nor will I enter upon
details though I would if I could satisfy you. Do not you feel
that it is one of the highest mysteries than which there is no
higher one?
(a)
" Dead " but to resurrect in greater glory. Is not what I
say, plain?
(29) Of course not, since it is not destroyed, but remains
crystallized, so to say statu quo. At each Round there are less
and less animals the latter themselves evoluting into higher
forms. During the first Round it is they that were the
"
kings
of creation." During the seventh men will have become Gods
and animals intelligent beings. Draw your inferences. Begin-
ning with the second Round, already evolution proceeds on quite
a different plan. Everything is evolved and has but to proceed
on its cyclic journey and get perfected. It is only the first Round
that man becomes from a human being on Globe B. a mineral, a
178 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
plant, an animal on Planet C. The method changes entirely from
the second Round ;
but I have learned prudence with you ;
and
will say nothing before the time for saying it has come. And
now, you had a volume; when will you digest it? Of how many
contradictions will I have to be suspected before you understand
the whole correctly?
Yours nevertheless, and very sincerely,
K. H.
LETTER No. XXIVA1
THE FAMOUS " CONTRADICTIONS
"
Received Autumn 1882.
I hope you will give me great credit for obedience in having
laboriously and against my inclination endeavoured to compile a
case f6r the plaintiff in re the alleged contradictions. As I have
said elsewhere these appear to me not much worth worrying about ;
though for the present they leave me cloudy in my ideas about
Deva Chan and the victims of accident. It is because they do not
fret me that I have never hitherto acted on your suggestion that
I should make notes of them.
M
Hume has been inclined to trace contradictions in some letters
referring" to the evolution of man, but in conversation with him
I have always contended that these are not contradictions at all,
merely due to a confusion about rounds and races a matter of
language. Then he has pretended to think that you have built
up the philosophy as you have gone on, and got out of the difficulty
by inventing a great many more races than were contemplated at
first, which hypothesis I have always ridiculed as absurd.
(2)
I have not re-copied here the passages about victims of accident
quoted in my letter of the i2th August and in apparent conflict
with the corrections on the proof of my Letter on Theosophy.
You have already said apropos to these quotations, on back of
mine dated August i2th :
(3)
II
I can easily understand we are accused of contradictions and
inconsistencies aye even to writing one thing to-day and denying-
it to-morrow. Could you but know how I write my letters and
the time I am enabled to give to them perchance you would feel
less critical if not exacting
"
1 The numbers in brackets refer to K.H.'s replies, for which see Letter
XXIVs. page 185 et seq. ED.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 179
(4)
This passage it was which led me to think it might be that
some of the earlier letters had been perhaps the
"
victim of
accident
" itself.
But to go on with the case for the plaintiff :
(5)
"
Most of those whom you may call, if you like, candidates
for Deva Chan die and are reborn in the Kama loka without re-
membrance. . . . You can hardly call remembrance a dream
of yours, some particular scene or scenes within whose narrow
limits you would find enclosed a few persons . . .
etc., call
it the personal remembrance of A. P. Sinnett if
you can." Notes
on back of mine to Old Lady.
(6)
"
Certainly, the new Ego, once that it is reborn in the Deva
Chan retains for a certain time proportionate to its Earth life, a
'
complete recollection of his spiritual life on Earth.' Long Deva-
chan letter.
(7)
All those who have not slipped down into the mire of unredeem-
able sin and bestiality go to the Deva chan, ibid.
(8)
It (Devachan) is an idealed paradise in each case of the Ego's
own making and by him filled with the scenery crowded with the
incidents and thronged with the people he would expect to find in
such a sphere of compensative bliss. Ibid.
(9)
Nor can we call it a full but only a partial remembrance.
X. Love and hatred are the only immortal feelings, the only sur-
vivors from the wreck of the Ye-damma or phenomenal world.
Imagine yourself in Devachan then, with those you may have
loved with such immortal love, with the familiar shadowy scenes
connected with them for a background, and a perfect blank for
everything else relating to your interior social political and literary
life Former letter: i.e. Notes.
.
" Since the conscious perception of one's personality on Earth
is but an evanescent dream, that sense will be equally that of a
dream in the Devachan only a hundred fold intensified." Long
Devachan letter.
" . . . . a connoisseur who passes aeons in the rapt delight
of listening to divine symphonies by imaginary angelic choirs and
orchestras.
"
Long letter. See (9) X ante. See my notes 10 and
1 1 about Wagner etc.
i8o THE MAHATMA LETTERS
You say:
( ^
" In no case then, with the exception of suicides and shells is
there any possibility for any other to be attracted to a seance
room." Notes.
(\2 \
" On margin I said rarely but I have not pronounced the word
never." Appended to mine of i2th Aug.
LETTER No. XXIVn
[A]
At this stage of our correspondence, misunderstood as we
generally seem to be, even by yourself, my faithful friend, it may
be worth our while and useful for both, that you should be posted
on certain facts and very important facts connected with adept-
ship. Bear in mind then, the following points.
(1) An adept the highest as the lowest is one only during the
exercise of his occult powers.
(2) Whenever these powers are needed, the sovereign will un-
locks the door to the inner man (the adept,) who can emerge and
act freely but on condition that his jailor the outer man will be
either completely or partially paralyzed as the case may require ;
viz : either (a) mentally and physically ; (b) mentally, but not
physically ; (c) physically but not entirely mentally ; (d) neither,
but with an akasic film interposed between the outer and the inner
man.
(3) The smallest exercise of occult powers then, as you will
now see, requires an effort. We may compare it to the inner
muscular effort of an athlete preparing to use his physical
strength. As no athlete is likely to be always amusing himself
at swelling his veins in anticipation of having to lift a weight, so
no adept can be supposed to keep his will in constant tension and
the inner man in full function, when there is no immediate necessity
for it. When the inner man rests the adept becomes an ordinary
man, limited to his physical senses and the functions of his
physical brain. Habit sharpens the intuitions of the latter, yet is
unable to make them supersensuous. The inner adept is ever
ready, ever on the alert, and that suffices for our purposes. At
moments of rest then, his faculties are at rest also. When I sit
at my meals, or when I am dressing, reading or otherwise occupied
I am not thinking even of those near me ; and, Djual Khool can
easily break his nose to blood, by running in the dark against a
beam, as he did the other night (just because instead of throwing
a
" film
" he had foolishly paralyzed all his outer senses .while
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 181
talking to and with a distant "friend) and I remained placidly
ignorant of the fact. / was not thinking of him hence my
ignorance.
From the aforesaid, you may well infer, that an adept is an
ordinary mortal, at all the moments of his daily life but those
when the inner man is acting.
Couple this with the unpleasant fact that we are forbidden to
use one particle of our powers in connexion with the Eclectics (for
which you have to thank your President and him alone )and that
the little that is done, is, so to say, smuggled in and then
syllogize thusly :
K. H. when writing to us is not an adept.
A non-adept is fallible.
Therefore, K. H. may very easily commit mistakes ;
Mistakes of punctuation that will often change entirely the
whole sense of a sentence ; idiomatic mistakes very likely to occur
especially when writing as hurriedly as I do ;
mistakes arising from
occasional confusion of terms that / had to learn from you since
it is you who are the author of
" rounds " "
rings
" "
earthly
rings
" etc. etc. Now with all this, I beg leave to say,
that after having carefully read over and over our " Famous
Contradictions
"
myself; after giving them to be read to M. ;
and
then to a high adept whose powers are not in the Chohan's
chancery sequestered by Him to prevent him from squandering
them upon the unworthy objects of his personal predilections;
after doing all this I was told by the latter the following :
" It is
all perfectly correct. Knowing what you mean, no more than
any other person acquainted with the doctrine, can I find in these
detached fragments anything that would really conflict with each
other. But, since many sentences are incomplete, and the subjects
scattered about without any order, I do not wonder that your
"
lay chelas
"
should find fault with them. Yes; they do require
a more explicit and clear exposition.
Such is the decree of an adept and I abide by it ;
I will try to
complete the information for your sake.
In one and only case marked on your pages and my answers
(i2A) and (i2B), the last is the
"
plaintiff
"
entitled to a hearing,
but not to a farthing even for damages ; since, as in law, no one
either plaintiff or defendant has a right to plead ignorance of
that law, so in Occult Sciences, the lay chelas ought to be forced
to give the benefit of the doubt to their gurus in cases, in which,
owing to their great ignorance of that science they are likely to
misinterpret the meaning instead of accusing them point blank
of contradiction! Now I beg to state, that, with regard to the
two sentences marked respectively i2A and I2B there is a plain
contradiction but for those who are not acquainted with that tenet ;
182 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
you were not, and therefore I plead
"
guilty
" of an omission, but
" not guilty
"
of a contradiction. And even as regards the former,
that omission is so small that, like the girl accused of infanticide,
who when brought before the Judge said in her excuse that the
baby was so very very little that it was not worth his while calling
it a
"
baby
" at all I could plead the same for my omission, had I
not before my eyes your terrible definition of my
4<
exercising
ingenuity.*' Well, read the explanation given in my
" Notes and
Answers "
and judge.
By the bye, my good Brother, I have not hitherto suspected in
you such a capacity for defending and excusing the inexcusable
as exhibited by you in my defence, of the now famous " exercise
of ingenuity." If the article (reply to C. C. Massey) has been
written in the spirit you attribute to me in your letter; and if I,
or any one of us has
"
an inclination to tolerate subtler and more
tricksy ways of pursuing an end "
than generally admitted as
honourable by the truth-loving, straight-forward European (is Mr.
Hume included in this category?) indeed you have no right to
excuse such a mode of dealing, even in me; nor to view it
"
merely
in the nature of spots in the sun," since a spot is a spot whether
found in the bright luminary or upon a brass candlestick. But
you are mistaken, my dear friend. There was no subtle, no
tricky mode of dealing, to get her out of the difficulty created by
her ambiguous style and ignorance of English, not her ignorance
of the subject which is not the same thing and alters entirely the
question. Nor was I ignorant of the fact that M. had written
to you previously upon the subject since it was in one of his letters
(the last but one before I took the business off his hands) in which
he touched upon the subject of
" races" for the first and spoke
of reincarnations. If M. told you to beware trusting Isis too
implicitly, it was because he was teaching you truth and fact
and that at the time the passage was written we had not yet
decided upon teaching the public indiscriminately. He gave you
several such instances if you will but re-read his letter adding
that were such and such sentences written in such a way they
would explain facts now merely hinted upon, far better.
Of course
" to C.C.M." the passage must seem wrong and con-
tradictory for it is "misleading" as M. said. Many are the
subjects treated upon in Isis that even H.P.B. was not allowed to
become thoroughly acquainted with ; yet they are not contradictory
if
"
misleading." To make her say as she was made by me
to say that the passage criticized was "
incomplete, chaotic,
vague . . .
clumsy as many more passages in that work " was a
sufficiently
"
frank admission
" I should think, to satisfy the most
crotchetty critic. To admit " that the passage was wrong," on
the other hand, would have amounted to a useless falsehood, for
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 183
/ maintain that it is not wrong; since if it conceals the whole
truth, it does not distort it in the fragments of that truth as given
in Isis. The point in C.C.M. 's complaining criticism was not
that the whole truth had not been given, but that the truth and
facts of 1877 were represented as errors and contradicted in 1882 ;
and it was that point damaging for the whole Society, its
"
lay
"
and inner chelas, and for our doctrine that had to be shown under
its true colours ; namely that of an entire misconception due to the
fact that the
"
septenary
"
doctrine had not yet been divulged to
the world at the time when Isis was written. And thus it was
shown. I am sorry you do not find her answer written under
my direct inspiration
"
very satisfactory," for it proves to me only
that up to this you have not yet grasped very firmly the difference
between the sixth and seventh and the fifth, or the immortal and
the astral or personal
"
Monads = Egos." The suspicion is cor-
roborated by what H X gives in his criticism of my explanation
at the end of his
"
letter
"
in the September number; your letter
before me completing the evidence thereupon. No doubt the
" real Ego inheres in the higher principles which are reincarnated
"
periodically every one, two, or three or more thousands of years.
But the immortal Ego the
"
Individual Monad,
*'
is not the personal
monad which is the 5th ;
and the passage in Isis did not answer
Eastern reincarnationists who maintain in that same Isis had
you but read the whole of it that the individuality or the immortal
"
Ego
" has to re-appear in every cycle but the Western
especially the French reincarnationists, who teach that it is the
personal, or astral monad, the
" moi fluidique
" the manasf or the
intellectual mind, the 5th principle in short, that is reincarnated
each time. Thus, if you read once more C.C.M.'s quoted passage
from Isis against the
"
Reviewer of the Perfect Way/* you will
perhaps find that H.P.B. and myself were perfectly right in main-
taining that in the above passage only the
"
astral monad **
was
meant. And, there is a far more "
unsatisfactory shock
**
to my
mindt upon finding that you refuse to recognise in the astral monad
the personal Ego whereas, all of us call it most undoubtedly by
that name, and have so called it for millenniums than there could
ever be in yours when meeting with that monad under its proper
name in E. Levi*s Fragment on Death !
The "
astral monad "'is the
"
personal Ego,'* and therefore, it
never reincarnates, as the French Spirites will have it, but under
"
exceptional circumstances;'* in which case, reincarnating, it does
not become a shell but, if successful in its second reincarnation
will become one, and then gradually lose its personality, after
being so to say emptied of its best and highest spiritual attributes
by the immortal monad or the "Spiritual Ego/- during the last
and supreme struggle. The "
jar of feeling" then ought to
184 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
be on my side, as indeed it only
" seemed to be another illustra-
tion of the difference between eastern and western methods," but
was not not in this case at any rate. I can readily understand,
my dear friend, that in the chilly condition you find yourself
(mentally) in, you are prepared to bask even in the rays of a
funereal pile upon which a living- siitti is being performed; but
why, why call it a Sun, and excuse its spot the corpse?
The letter addressed to me, which your delicacy would not permit
you to read, was for your perusal and sent for that purpose. I
wanted you to read it.
Your suggestion concerning G.K. 's next trial in art is clever,
but not sufficiently, as to conceal the white threads of the
Jesuitically black insinuation. G.K. was however caught at it :
" Nous verrons, nous verrons
" !
says the French song.
G. Khool says presenting his most humble salaams that you
have
"
incorrectly described the course of events as regards the
first portrait." What he says is this :
(i)
" the day she came "
she did not ask you
"
to give her a piece of
" etc. (page 300) but
after you had begun speaking to her of my portrait, which she
doubted much whether you could have. It is but after half-an-
hour's talk over it in the front drawing room you two forming
the two upper points of the triangle, near your office door, and
your lady the lower one (he was there he says) that she told you
she would try. It was then that she asked you for
" a piece of
thick white paper
" and that you gave her a piece of a thin letter
paper, which had been touched by some very anti-magnetic person.
However he did, he says, the best, he could. On the day follow-
ing, as Mrs. S. had looked at it just 27 minutes before he did it, he
accomplished his task. It was not " an hour or two before
" as
you say for he had told the
"
O.L." to let her see it just before
breakfast. After breakfast, she asked you for a piece of Bristol
board, and you gave her two pieces, both marked and not one as
you say. The first time she brought it out it was a failure, he
says,
il
with the eyebrow like a leech," and it was finished only
during the evening, while you were at the Club, at a dinner at
which the old Upasika would not go. And it was he again G.K.
"
great artist
" who had to make away with the "
leech," and to
correct cap and features, and who made it
" look like Master "
(he will insist giving me that name though he is no longer my
chela in reality), since M. after spoiling it would not go to the
trouble of correcting it but preferred going to sleep instead. And
finally, he tells me, my making fun of the portrait notwithstanding,
the likeness is good but would have been better had M. sahib not
interfered with it, and he, G.K. allowed to have his own " artistic
"
ways. Such is his tale, and he therefore, is not satisfied with your
description and so he said to Upasika who told you something:
quite different. Now to my notes.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 185
(D
l
Nor do they fret me particularly. But as they furnish our
mutual friend with a good handle against us, which he is likely to
use any day in that nasty way, so pre-eminently his own, I rather
explain them once more with your kind permission.
(2)
Of course, of course ;
it is our usual way of getting out of difficul-
ties. Having been " invented
"
ourselves, we repay the inventors
by inventing imaginary races. There are a good many things
more we are charged with having invented. Well, well, well ;
there's one thing, at any rate, we can never be accused of invent-
ing ;
and that is Mr. Hume himself. To invent his like transcends
the highest Siddhi powers we know of.
And now good friend, before we proceed any further, pray read
the appended No. [A]. It is time you should know us as we are.
Only, to prove to you, if not to him, that we have not invented
those races, I will give out for your benefit that which has never
been given out before. I will explain to you a whole chapter
out of Rhys Davids work on Buddhism, or rather on Lamaism,
which, in his natural ignorance he regards as a corruption of
Buddhism ! Since those gentlemen the Orientalists presume to
give to the world their soi-disant translations and commentaries
on our sacred books, let the theosophists show the great ignorance
of those
"
world "
pundits, by giving the public the right doctrines
and explanations of what they would regard as an absurd, fancy
theory.
And because I admit the superficial or apparent inconsistency
and even that in the case only of one who is so thoroughly
unacquainted with our doctrines as you are is that a reason why
they should be regarded as conflicting in reality? Suppose I had
written in a previous letter
"
the moon has no atmosphere
"
and
then went on talking of other things ;
and told you in another
letter
" for the moon has an atmosphere of its own " etc. : no
doubt but that I should stand under the charge of saying to-day
black and to-morrow white. But where could a Kabalist see in
the two sentences a contradiction? I can assure you that he
would not. For, a Kabalist who knows that the moon has no
atmosphere answering in any respect to that of our earth, but one
of its own, entirely different from that your men of science would
call one, knows also that like the Westerns we Easterns, and
Occultists especially, have our own ways of expressing thought
as plain to us in their implied meaning as yours are to yourselves.
Take for instance into your head to teach your Bearer astronomy.
1 K.H.'s replies to the "Famous Contradictions"; the numbers corre-
spond to those which appear in the text of Mr. Sinnett's Queries. See ante
Utter XX1VA. ED,
186 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
Tell him to-day
"
see, how gloriously the sun is setting see how
rapidly it moves, how it rises and sets etc. ;" and to-morrow try
to impress him with the fact that the sun is comparatively motion-
less and that it is but our earth that loses and then again catches
sight of the sun in her diurnal motion ;
and tea to one, if your pupil
has any brains in his head, he will accuse you of flatly contradicting
yourself. Would this be a proof of your ignorance of the helio-
centric system? And could you be accused with anything* like
justice of
"
writing one thing to-day and denying it to-morrow,"
though your sense of fairness should prompt you to admit that you
**
can easily understand
" the accusation.
Writing my letters, then, as I do, a few lines now and a few
words two hours later ; having to catch up the thread of the same
subject, perhaps with a dozen or more interruptions between the be-
ginning and the end, I cannot promise you anything like western
accuracy. Ergo the only
"
victim of accident
" in this case is
myself. The innocent cross examination to which I am subjected by
you and that I cfo not object to and the positively pre-determined
purpose of catching me tripping whenever he can, on Mr. Hume's
part, a proceeding regarded as highly legal and honest in
western law, but to which we, Asiatic savages, object most
emphatically has given my colleagues and Brothers a high
opinion of my proclivities to martyrdom. In their sight I have
become a kind of Indo-Tibetan Simon Stylites. Caught by the
lower hook of the Simla interrogation mark and impaled on it, I
see myself doomed to equilibrize upon the apex of the semicircle
for fear of slipping down at every uncertain motion either back-
ward or forward. Such is the present position of your humble
friend. Ever since I undertook the extraordinary task of teaching
two grown up pupils with brains in which the methods of western
science had crystallized for years ;
one of whom is willing enough
to make room for the new iconoclastic teaching, but who, never-
theless, requires a careful handling while the other will receive
nothing but on condition of grouping the subjects as he wants
them to group, not in their natural order I have been regarded
by all our Chohans as a lunatic. I am seriously asked whether
my early association with Western "
Pelings
" had not made of
me a half-Peling and turned me also into a
"
dzing-dzing
"
visionary. All this had been expected. I do not complain ;
I
narrate a fact, and humbly demand credit for the same, only hoping
it will not be mistaken again for a subtle and tricky way of getting
out of a new difficulty.
(5)
Every just disembodied four-fold entity whether it died a
natural or violent death, from suicide or accident, mentally sane
or insane, young or old, good, bad, or indifferent loses at the
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 187
instant of death all
recollection, it is
mentally annihilated; it
sleeps it's akasic sleep in the Kama-loka. This state lasts from a
few hours, (rarely less) days, weeks, months sometimes to
several years. All this according to the entity, to its mental
status at the moment of death, to the character of its death, etc.
That remembrance will return slowly and gradually toward the
end of the gestation (to the entity or Ego), still more slowly but
far more imperfectly and incompletely to the shell, and fully to the
Ego at the moment of its entrance into the Devachan. And now
the latter being a state determined and brought by its past life,
the Ego does not fall
headlong but sinks into it
gradually and by
easy stages. With the first dawn of that state appears that life
(or rather is once more lived over by the Ego) from its first day of
consciousness to its last. From the most important down to the
mpst trifling event, all are marshalled before the spiritual eye of
the Ego ; only, unlike the events of real life, those of them remain
only that are chosen by the new liver (pardon the word) clinging
to certain scenes and actors, these remain permanently while all
the others fade away to disappear for ever, or to return to their
creator the shell. Now try to understand this highly important,
because so highly just and retributive law, in its effects. Out of
the resurrected Past nothing remains but what the Ego has felt
spiritually that was evolved by and through, and lived over by
his spiritual faculties they be love or hatred. All that I am now
trying to describe is in truth indescribable. As no two men,
not even two photographs of the same person, nor yet two leaves
resemble line for line each other, so no two states in Deva-Chan
are like. Unless he be an adept, who can realize such a state in
his periodical Deva-chan how can one be expected to form a
correct picture of the same?
(6)
Therefore, there is no contradiction in saying, that the ego once
reborn in the Devachan,
"
retains for a certain time proportionate
to its earth life a complete recollection of his (Spiritual) life on
earth." Here again the omission of the word "
Spiritual
M
alone,
produced a misunderstanding !
(7)
All those that do not slip down into the 8th sphere go to the
Devachan. Where's the point made or the contradiction?
(8)
The Devachan State, I repeat, can be as little described or ex-
plained, by giving a however minute and graphic description of
the state of one ego taken at random, as all the human lives col-
lectively could be described by the
" Life of Napoleon
" or that of
any other man. There are millions of various states of happiness
and misery, emotional states having their source in the physical
i88 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
as well as the spiritual faculties and senses, and only the latter
surviving. An honest labourer will feel differently from an honest
millionaire. Miss Nightingale's state will differ considerably from
that of a young bride who dies before the consummation of what
she regards as happiness. The two former love their families ; the
philanthropist humanity ;
the girl centres the whole world in her
future husband ;
the melomanic knows of no higher state of bliss
and happiness than music the most divine and spiritual of arts.
The devachan merges from its highest into its lowest degree by
insensible gradations ;
while from the last step of devachan, the
Ego will often find itself in Avitcha's faintest state, which, towards
the end of the
"
spiritual selection
M of events may become a bona
fide
"
Avitcha.
"
Remember, every feeling is relative. There is
neither good nor evil, happiness nor misery per se. The tran-
scendent, evanescent bliss of an adulterer, who by his act murders
the happiness of a husband, is no less spiritually born for its
criminal nature. If a remorse of conscience (the latter proceeding
always from the Sixth Principle) has only once been felt during
the period of bliss and really spiritual love, born in the sixth and
fifth, however polluted by the desires of the fourth, or Kamarupa
then this remorse must survive and will accompany incessantly
the scenes of pure love. I need not enter into details, since a
physiological expert, as I take you to be, need hardly have his
imagination and intuitions prompted by a psychological observer
of my sort. Search in the depths of your conscience and memory,
and try to see what are the scenes that are likely to take their
firm hold upon you ;
when once more in their presence you find
yourself living them over again ;
and that, ensnared, you will have
forgotten all the rest this letter among other things, since in the
course of events it will come far later on in the panorama of your
resurrected life. I have no right to look into your past life.
Whenever I may have caught glimpses of it, I have invariably
turned my eyes away, for I have to deal with the present A. P.
Sinnett (also and by far more " a new invention
M than the ex
A.P.S.) not with the ancient man.
Yes ;
Love and Hatred are the only immortal feelings ;
but the
gradations of tones along the seven by seven scales of the whole
key-board of life, are numberless. And, since it is those two feel-
ings (or, to be correct, shall I risk being misunderstood again
and say those two poles of man's " Soul
"
which is a unity?)
that mould the future state of man, whether for devachan or
Avitcha then the variety of such states must also be inexhaustible.
And this brings us to your complaint or charge, number
(9)
for, having eliminated from your past life the Ratigans and
Reeds who with you have never transcended beyond the
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 189
boundaries of the lower portion of your fifth principle with its
vehicle the kama what is it but the
"
partial remembrance "
of a life? The lines marked with your reddest pencil are also
disposed of. For how can you dispute the fact that music and
harmony are for a Wagner, a Paganini, the King of Bavaria and
so many other true artists and melomans, an object of the pro-
foundest spiritual 'love and veneration? With your permission I
will not change one word in clause 9.
(10)
Pity you have not followed your quotations with personal com-
mentaries. I fail to comprehend in what respect you object to
the word "
dream " ? Of course both bliss and misery are but
a dream; and as they are purely spiritual they are "intensified."
(ii)
Answered.
(12A & I2e)
Had I but written, when answering Mr. Hume's objections,
who after statistical calculations made with the evident intention
of crushing our teaching, maintained that after all spiritualists
were right and the majority of seance rooms spooks were
41
Spirits
" "
In no case then, with the exception of suicides and
shells
"
and those accidents who die full of some engrossing
earthly passion is there any possibility for any other, etc., etc."
I would have been perfectly right and pucka as a
* 4
professor
* '
?
To think that, eager as you are to accept doctrines that contra-
dict in some most important points physical science from first
to last you should have consented at Mr. Hume's suggestion to
split hairs over a simple omission !
My dear friend, permit me to
remark that simple common sense ought to have whispered you
that one who says one day :
" in no case -then etc. :" and a few
days later denies having ever pronounced the word never is not
only no adept but must be either suffering from softening of the
brain or some other
"
accident."
" On margin I said rarely but
I have not pronounced the word never
"
refers to the margin of
the proof of your letter N. II ;
that margin or rather to avoid a
fresh accusation the piece of paper I had written upon some
remarks referring to the subject and glued to the margin of your
proof you have cut out as well as the four lines of poetry. Why
you have done so is known better to yourself. But the word
never refers to that margin.
To one sin though I do, plead
"
guilty." That sin, was a very
acute feeling of irritation against Mr. Hume upon receiving his
triumphant statistical letter ;
the answer to which you found in-
corporated in yours when I wrote for you the materials for your
answer to Mr. Khandallawala's letter that you had sent back to
H.P.B. Had I not been irritated I would not have become guilty
THE MAHATMA LETTERS
of the omission, perhaps. This now is my Karma. I had no
business to feel irritated, or lose my temper ;
but that letter of
his was I believe the seventh or the eighth of that kind received
by me during that fortnight. And I must say, that our friend
has the most knavish way of using his intellect in raising the
most unexpected sophisms to tickle people's nerves with, that I
have ever known ! Under the pretext of strict logical reasoning,
he will perform feigned thrusts at his antagonist whenever un-
able to find a vulnerable spot, and then, caught and exposed, he
will answer in the most innocent way :
"
Why, it is for your own
good, and you ought to feel grateful ! If I were an adept I would
always know what my correspondent really meant," etc. etc.
Being an
"
adept
M
in some small matters I do know what he
really means ;
and that his meaning amounts to this : were we to
divulge to him the whole of our philosophy leaving no inconsist-
ency unexplained, it would still do no good, whatever. For, as
in the observation embodied in the Hudibrasian couplet :
" These fleas have other fleas to bite 'em,
And these their fleas ad infinitum . . . ."
so with his objections and arguments. Explain him one, and
he will find a flaw in the explanation ; satisfy him by showing
that the latter was after all correct, and he will fly at the
opponent for speaking too slow or too rapidly. It is an IMPOS-
SIBLE task and I
give it up. Let it last until the whole breaks
under its own weight. He says
" I can kiss no Pope's toe," for-
getting that no one has ever asked him to do so ;
"I can love,
but I cannot worship
" he tells me. Gush he can love no one,
and nobody but A. O. Hume, and never has. And that really,
one could almost exclaim
"
Oh Hume, gush is thy name !
" is
shown in the following that I transcribe from one of his letters :
"
If for no other reason, I should love M. for his entire devotion
to you and you I have always loved ( !).
Even when most cross
with you as one always is most sensitive with those one cares
most about even when I was fully persuaded you were a myth,
for even then my heart yearned to you as it often does to an
avowedly fictitious character." A sentimental Becky Sharp
writing to an imaginary lover, could hardly express her feelings
better !
I will see to your scientific questions next week. I am not at
home at present, but quite near to Darjeeling, in the Lamasery,
the object of poor H.P.B.'s longings. I
thought of leaving by
the end of September but find it rather difficult on account of
Nobin's boy. Most probably, also I will have to interview in my
own skin the Old Lady if M. brings her here. And he has to
bring her or lose her for ever at least, as far as the physical
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 191
triad is concerned. And now good-bye, I ask you again do not
frighten my little man; he may prove useful to you some day
only do not forget he is but an appearance.
Yours,
K. H.
LETTER No. XXV
Devachan Notes Latest Additions. Received Feb. 2nd, 1883.
ANSWERS TO QUERIES
(i) Why should it be supposed that devachan is a monotonous
condition only because some one moment of earthly sensation is
indefinitely perpetuated stretched, so to say, throughout aeons?
It is not, it cannot be so. This would be contrary to all
analogies and antagonistic to the law of effects under which results
are proportioned to antecedent energies. To make it clear you
must keep in mind that there are two fields of causal manifesta-
tion, to wit : the objective and subjective. So the grosser
energies, those which operate in the heavier or denser conditions
of matter manifest objectively in physical life, their outcome being
the new personality of each birth included within the grand cycle
of the evoluting individuality. The moral and spiritual activities
find their sphere of effects in
<c
devachan." For example: the
vices, physical attractions, etc. say, of a philosopher may result
in the birth of a new philosopher, a king, a merchant, a rich
Epicurean, or any other personality whose make-up was inevitable
from the preponderating proclivities of the being in the next pre-
ceding birth. Bacon, for inst : whom a poet called
" The greatest, wisest, meanest of mankind "
might reappear in his next incarnation as a greedy money-getter,
with extraordinary intellectual capacities. But the moral and
spiritual qualities of the previous Bacon would also have to find
a field in which their energies could expand themselves. Deva-
chan is such field. Hence all the great plans of moral
reform of intellectual and spiritual research into abstract prin-
ciples of nature, all the divine aspirations, would, in devachan
come to fruition, and the abstract entity previously known as the
great Chancellor would occupy itself in this inner world of its
own preparation, living, if not quite what one would call a
conscious existence, at least a dream of such realistic vividness
that none of the life-realities could ever match it. And this
44
dream " lasts until Karma is satisfied in that direction, the
ripple of force reaches the edge of its cyclic basin, and the being
192 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
moves into the next area of causes. This, it may find in the
same world as before, or another, according to his or her stage
of progression through the necessary rings and rounds of human
development.
Then how can you think that
"
but one moment of earthly
sensation only is selected for perpetuation
" ? Very true, that
"
moment" lasts from the first to last; but then it lasts but as
the key-note of the whole harmony, a definite tone of appreciable
pitch, around which cluster and develop in progressive variations
of melody and as endless variations on a theme, all the aspirations,
desires, hopes, dreams, which, in connection with that particular
"
moment " had ever crossed the dreamer's brain during his life-
time, without having ever found their realization on earth, and
which he now finds fully realized in all their vividness in devachan,
without ever suspecting that all that blissful reality is but the
progeny begotten by his own fancy, the effects of the mental
causes produced by himself. That particular one moment which
will be most intense and uppermost in the thoughts of his dying
brain at the time of dissolution will of course regulate all the
other
" moments "
; still the latter minor and less vivid though
they be will be there also, having their appointed plan in this
phantasmagoric marshalling of past dreams, and must give
variety to the whole. No man on earth, but has some decided
predilection if not a domineering passion ;
no person, however
humble and poor and often because of all that but indulges in
dreams and desires unsatisfied though these be. Is this monotony?
Would you call such variations ad infinitum on the one theme,
and that theme modelling itself, on, and taking colour and its
definite shape from, that group of desires which was the most
intense during life
"
a blank destitution of all knowledge in the
devachanic mind" seeming
"
in a measure ignoble"? Then
verily, either you have failed, as you say, to take in my meaning,
or it is I who am to blame. I must have sorely failed to convey
the right meaning, and have to confess my inability to describe
the indescribable. The latter is a difficult task, good friend.
Unless the intuitive perceptions of a trained chela come to the
rescue, no amount of description however graphic will help.
Indeed, no adequate words to express the difference between
a state of mind on earth, and one outside of its sphere of
action ;
no English terms in existence, equivalent to ours ; nothing
but unavoidable (as due to early Western education) preconcep-
tions, hence lines of thought in a wrong direction in the
learner's mind to help us in this inoculation of entirely new
thoughts! You are right. Not only "ordinary people*' your
readers but even such idealists and highly intellectual units as
Mr. C. C. M. will fail,I am afraid, to seize the true idea, will
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 193
never fathom it to its very depths. Perhaps, you may some day,
realize better than you do now, one of the chief reasons for our
unwillingness to impart our Knowledge to European candidates.
Only read Mr. Roden Noers disquisitions and diatribes in Light!
Indeed, indeed, you ought to have answered them as advised by
me through H.P.B. Your silence is a brief triumph to the pious
gentleman, and seems like a desertion of poor Mr. Massey.
44
A man in the way to learn something of the mysteries of
nature seems in a higher state of existence to begin with on
earth than that which nature apparently provides for him as a
reward for his best deeds.
"
Perhaps
"
apparently
"
no* so in reality. When the modus
operandus of nature is
correctly understood. Then that other
misconception :
"
The more merit, the longer period of devachan.
But then in Devachan ... all sense of the lapse of time is lost : a
minute is as a thousand years . . . a quoi bon then, etc."
This remark and such ways of looking at things might as well
apply to the whole of Eternity, to Nirvdna, Pralaya, and what not.
Say, at once that the whole system of being, of existence separate
and collective, of nature objective and subjective are but idiotic,
aimless facts, a gigantic fraud of that nature, which meeting with
little sympathy with Western philosophy, has, moreover, the cruel
disapprobation of the best
"
lay-chela.
" A quoi bon, in such a
case, this preaching of our doctrines, all this uphill work and
swimming in adversum flumen? Why should the West be so
anxious then to learn anything from the East, since it is evidently
unable to digest that which can never meet the requirements of
the special tastes of its Esthetics. Sorry outlook for us, since
even you fail to take in the whole magnitude of our philosophy,
or to even embrace at one scope a small corner the devachan of
those sublime and infinite horizons of
"
after life. I do not want
to discourage you. I would only draw your attention to the
formidable difficulties encountered by us in every attempt we make
to explain our metaphysics to Western minds, even among the
most intelligent. Alas, my friend, you seem as unable to
assimilate our mode of thinking, as to digest our food, or enjoy
our melodies !
No; there are no clocks, no timepieces in devachan, my
esteemed chela, though the whole Cosmos is a gigantic chro-
nometer in one sense. Nor do we, mortals, id bas m$me take
much, if any, cognizance of time during periods of happiness and
bliss, and find them ever too short; a fact that does not in the
least prevent us from enjoying that happiness all the same when
it does come. Have you ever given a thought to this little possi-
bility that, perhaps, it is because their cup of bliss is full to its
brim, that the
"
devachanee
" loses
"
all sense of the lapse of
194 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
time
"
;
and that it is something that those who land in Avitchi
do not, though as much as the devachanee, the Avitchee has no
cognizance of time i.e., of our earthly calculations of periods of
time? I may also remind you in this connection that time is
something created entirely by ourselves; that while one short
second of intense agony may appear, even on earth, as an
eternity to one man, to another, more fortunate, hours, days, and
sometimes whole years may seem to flit like one brief moment ;
and that finally, of all the sentient and conscious beings on earth,
man is the only animal that takes any cognizance of time, although
it makes him neither happier nor wiser. How then, can I ex-
plain to you that which cannot feel, since you seem unable to
comprehend it? Finite similes are unfit to express the abstract
and the infinite ;
nor can the objective ever mirror the subjective.
To realize the bliss in devachan, or the woes in Avitchi, you have
to assimilate them as we do. Western critical idealism (as
shown in Mr. Roden Noel's attacks) has still to learn the differ-
ence that exists between the real being of super-sensible objects,
and the shadowy subjectivity of the ideas it has reduced them to.
Time is not a predicate conception and can, therefore, neither be
proved nor analysed, according to the methods of superficial
philosophy. And, unless we learn to counteract the negative re-
sults of that method of drawing our conclusions agreeably to the
teachings of the so-called
"
system of pure reason,'* and to dis-
tinguish between the matter and the form of our knowledge of
sensible objects, we can never arrive at correct, definite con-
clusions. The case in hand, as defended by me against your (very
natural) misconception is a good proof of the shallowness and
even fallacy of that
"
system of pure (materialistic) reason."
Space and time may be as Kant has it not the product but the
regulators of the sensations, but only so far, as our sensations on
earth are concerned, not those in devachan. There we do not find
the a priori ideas of those
"
space and time
"
controlling the per-
ceptions of the denizen of devachan in respect to the objects of his
sense; but, on the contrary, we discover that it is the devachanee
himself who absolutely creates both and annihilates them at the
same time. Thus, the
"
after states" so called, can never be
correctly judged by practical reason since the latter can have
active being only in the sphere of final causes or ends, and can
hardly be regarded with Kant (with whom it means on one page
reason and on the next will) as the highest spiritual power in
man, having for its sphere that WILL. The above is not dragged
in as you may think for the sake of an (too far stretched, per-
haps) argument, but with an eye to a future discussion
" at
home," as you express it, with students and admirers of Kant
and Plato that you will have to encounter.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 195
In a plainer language, I will now tell you the following, and,
it will be no fault of mine if you still fail to comprehend its full
meaning. As physical existence has its cumulative intensity from
infancy to prime, and its diminishing energy thenceforward to
dotage and death, so the dream-life of devachan is lived corre-
spondentially. Hence you are right in saying that the
"
Soul
"
can
never awake to its mistake and find itself
"
cheated by nature
"
the more so, as strictly speaking, the whole of the human
life and its boasted realities, are no better than such
"
cheating."
But you are wrong in pandering to the prejudices and preconcep-
tions of the Western readers (no Asiatic will ever agree with you
upon this point) when you add that
**
there is a sense of unreality
about the whole affair which is painful to the mind," since you
are the first one to feel that, it is no doubt due much more to "an
imperfect grasp of the nature of the existence
M in devachan
than to any defect in our system. Hence my orders to a chela
to reproduce in an Appendix to your article extracts from this
letter and explanations calculated to disabuse the reader, and to
obliterate, as far as possible, the painful impression this confes-
sion of yours is sure to produce on him. The whole paragraph is
dangerous. I do not feel myself justified in crossing it out, since
it is evidently the expression of your real feelings, kindly, though
pardon me for saying so a little clumsily white-washed with
an apparent defence of this (to your mind) weak point of the
system. But it is not so, believe me. Nature cheats no more
the devachanee than she does the living, physical man. Nature
provides for him far more real bliss and happiness there, than
she does here, where all the conditions of evil and chance are
against him, and his inherent helplessness that of a straw
violently blown hither and thither by every remorseless wind
has made unalloyed happiness on this earth an utter impossibility
for the human being, whatever his chances and condition may
be. Rather call this life an ugly, horrid nightmare, and you
will be right. To call the devachan existence a
" dream " in any
other sense but that of a conventional term, well suited to our
languages all full of misnomers is to renounce for ever the know-
ledge of the esoteric doctrine the sole custodian of truth. Let
me then try once more to explain to you a few of the many states
in Devachan and Avitchi.
As in actual earth-life, so there is for the Ego in devachan
the first flutter of psychic life, the attainment of prime, the gradual
exhaustion of force passing into semi-unconsciousness, gradual
oblivion and lethargy, total oblivion and not death but birth :
birth into another personality, and the resumption of action which
daily begets new congeries of causes, that must be worked out in
another term of Devachan, and still another physical rebirth as a
1
96 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
new personality. What the lives in devachan and upon Earth
shall be respectively in each instance is determined by Karma.
And this weary round of birth upon birth must be ever and ever
run through, until the being reaches the end of the seventh round,
or attains in the interim the wisdom of an Arhat, then that of a
Buddha and thus gets relieved for a round or two, having learned
how to burst through the vicious circles and to pass periodically
into the Paranirvana.
But suppose it is not a question of a Bacon, a Goethe, a Shelley,
a Howard, but of some hum-drum person, some colourless, flack-
less personality, who never impinged upon the world enough to
make himself felt : what then ? Simply that his devachanic state
is as colourless and feeble as was his personality. How could it
be otherwise since cause and effect are equal. But suppose a
case of a monster of wickedness, sensuality, ambition, avarice,
pride, deceit, etc. : but who nevertheless has a germ or germs of
something better, flashes of a more divine nature where is he to
go? The said spark smouldering under a heap of dirt will
counteract, nevertheless, the attraction of the eighth sphere,
whither fall but absolute nonentities ;
"
failures of nature
" to be
remodelled entirely, whose divine monad separated itself from the
five principles during their life-time, (whether in the next pre-
ceding or several preceding births, since such cases are also on
our records), and who have lived as soulless human beings.
1
These persons whose sixth principle has left them (while the
seventh having lost its vahan (or vehicle) can exist independently
no longer) their fifth or animal Soul of course goes down " the
bottomless pit." This will perhaps make Eliphas Levi's hints
still more clear to you, if you read over what he says, and my
remarks on the margin, thereon (see Theosophist, October, 1881,
Article
"
Death ") and reflect upon the words used : such as
drones, etc. Well, the first named entity then, cannot, with all
its wickedness go to the eighth sphere since his wickedness 15 of
a too spiritual, refined nature. He is a monster not a mere
Soulless brute. He must not be simply annihilated but PUNISHED;
for, annihilation, i.e. total oblivion, and the fact of being snuffed
out of conscious existence, constitutes per se no punishment, and
as Voltaire expressed it :
" le ne'ant ne laisse pas d'avoir du bon."
Here is no taper-glimmer to be puffed out by a zephyr, but a
strong, positive, maleficent energy, fed and developed by circum-
stances, some of which may have really been beyond his control.
There must be for such a nature a state corresponding to Deva-
chan, and this is found in Avitchi the perfect antithesis of deva-
1
Sec Isis Vol. 2, pp. 368 and 369 the word Soul standing there for
"
Spiritual
"
Soul, of course, which, whenever it leaves a person
" Soul-
loss
"
becomes (he cause cf the fifth principle (Animal Soul) sliding down into
the eighth sphere.
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 197
chan vulgarized by the Western nations into Hell and Heaven,
and which you have entirely lost sight of in your
"
Fragment."
Remember :
" To be immortal in good one must identify himself
with Good (or God) ;
to be immortal in evil with evil (or
Satan)." Misconceptions of the true value of such terms as
4 *
Spirit," "Soul,"
"
individuality,"
"
personality," and "
im-
mortality
"
(especially) provoke wordy wars between a great
number of idealistic debaters, besides Messrs. C.C.M. and Roden
Noel. And, to complete your Fragment without risking to fall
again under the mangling tooth of the latter honourable gentle-
man's criticism I found it necessary to add to devachan
Avitchi as its complement and applying to it the same laws as to
the former. This is done, with your permission, in the Appendix.
Having explained the situation sufficiently I may now answer
your query No. i directly. Yes, certainly there is
"
a change of
occupation,'* a continual change in Devachan, just as much and
far more as there is in the life of any man or woman who happens
to follow his or her whole life one sole occupation whatever it may
be ;
with that difference, that to the Devachanee his special occupa-
tion is always pleasant and fills his life with rapture. Change
then there must be, for that dream-life is but the fruition, the
harvest-time of those psychic seed-germs dropped! from the tree
of physical existence in our moments of dreams and hopes, fancy-
glimpses of bliss and happiness stifled in an ungrateful social soil,
blooming in the rosy dawn of Devachan, and ripening under its
ever fructifying sky. No failures there, no disappointments ! If
man had but one single moment of ideal happiness and experience
during his life as you think even then, if Devachan exists, it
could not be as you erroneously suppose, the indefinite prolonga-
tion of that
"
single moment," but the infinite developments, the
various incidents and events, based upon, and outflowing from,
that one
"
single moment " or moments, as the case may be ;
all in
short that would suggest itself to the
" dreamer's
"
fancy. That
one note, as I said, struck from the lyre of life, would form but
the Key-note of the being's subjective state, and work out into
numberless1
harmonic tones and semi-tones of psychic phantasma-
goria. There all unrealized hopes, aspirations, dreams, become
fully realized, and the dreams of the objective become the realities
of the subjective existence. And there behind the curtain of Maya
its vapours and deceptive appearances are perceived by the adept,
who has learnt the great secret how to penetrate thus deeply into
the Arcana of being.
Doubtless my question whether you had experienced monotony
during what you consider the happiest moment of your life has
entirely misled you. This letter thus, is the just penance for my
laziness to amplify the explanation.
198 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
Query (2) What cycle is meant?
The "
minor cycle
"
meant is, of course, the completion of the
seventh Round, as decided upon and explained. Besides that at
the end of each of the seven rounds come a less
" full
M remem-
brance ; only of the devachanic experiences taking" place between
the numerous births at the end of each personal life. But the
complete recollection of all the lives (earthly and devachanic)
omniscience in short comes but at the great end of the full
seven Rounds (unless one had become in the interim a Bodhisatwa,
an Arhat) the
"
threshold
"
of Nirvana meaning an indefinite
period. Naturally a man, a Seventh-rounder (who completes his
earthly migrations at the beginning of the last race and ring) will
have to wait longer at that threshold than one of the very last of
those Rounds. That Life of the Elect between the minor Pralaya
and Nirvana or rather before the Pralaya is the Great Reward,
the grandest, in fact, since it makes of the Ego (though he may
never have been an adept, but simply a worthy virtuous man in
most of his existences) virtually a God, an omniscient, conscious
being, a candidate for eternities of aeons for a Dhyan Chohan.
. . .
Enough I am betraying the mysteries of initiation. But
what has NIRVANA to do with the recollections of objective
existences? That is a state still higher and in which all things
objective are forgotten. It is a State of absolute Rest and assimi-
lation with Parabrahm it is Parabrahm itself. Oh, for the sad
ignorance of our philosophical truths in the West, and for the
inability of your greatest intellects to seize the true spirit of those
teachings. What shall we what can we do !
Query (3) You postulate an intercourse of entities in devachan
which applies only to the mutual relationship of physical existence.
Two sympathetic souls will each work out its own devachanic
sensations making the other a sharer in its subjective bliss, but
yet each is dissociated from the other as regards actual mutual
intercourse. For what companionship could there be between
two subjective entities which are not even as material as that
ethereal body-shadow the Mayavi~rupa?
Query 4. Deva Chan is a state, not a locality. Rupa Loka,
Arupa-Loka, and Kama-Loka are the three spheres of ascending
spirituality in which the several groups of subjective entities find
their attractions. In the Kama-Loka (semi-physical sphere) dwell
the shells, the victims and suicides ;
and this sphere is divided into
innumerable regions and sub-regions corresponding to the mental
states of the comers at their hour of death. This is the glorious
"Summer-land " of the Spiritualists, to whose horizons is limited
the vision of their best seers vision imperfect and deceptive
because untrained and non-guided by Alaya Vynydna (hidden
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 199
knowledge). Who in the West knows anything- of true Sdhalo-
Kadhatu, the mysterious Chiliocosm out of the many regions of
which but three can be given out to the outside world, the
Tribuvana (three worlds) namely :
Kama, Rupa, and 4rupa-Lokas.
Yet see the sadness produced in the Western minds by the mention
of even those three ! See "
Light
"
of January 6th !
Behold your friend (M. A. Oxon) notifying the world of his
readers that on your assumption in your
"
Secret doctrine
M
" no graver indictment could be brought against any man by his
bitterest foe "
than the one you bring against us "these
mysterious unknown. "
It is not such bitter criticisms that are
likely to draw out more of our knowledge, or to make the
" unknown " more known. And then, the pleasure of teaching
1
a
public one of whose great authorities (Roden Noel) says a few
pages further on, that, theosophists are endowing
" shells" with
simulated consciousness. See the difference one word will make.
If the word '*
assimilated
"
instead of
"
simulated
"
had been
written the true idea would have been conveyed that the shells'
consciousness is assimilated from the medium and living persons
present, whereas now ! But of course, it is not our European
critics, but our Asiatic chelas' expositions that
"
seem absolutely
Protean in their ever shifting variety." The man has to be
answered and set right anyhow, whether by yourself or Mr.
Massey. But alas ! the latter knows but little, and you, you
look at our conception of devachan with more than " discom-
fort
" ! But to resume.
From Kama Loka then in the great Chiliocosm, once
awakened from their post-mortem torpor,, the newly translated
" Souls
"
go all (but the shells) according to their attractions,
either to Devachan or Avitchi. And those two states are again
differentiating ad infmitum their ascending degrees of spirituality
deriving their names from the lokas in which they are induced.
For instance : the sensations, perceptions and ideation of a deva-
chanee in Rupa-Loka, will, of course, be of a less subjective nature
than they would be in 4rupa-Loka, in both of which the devachanic
experiences will vary in their presentation to the subject-entity,
not only as regards form, colour, and substance, but also in their
formative potentialities. But not even the most exalted experi-
ence of a monad in the highest devachanic state in 4rupa-Loka
(the last of the seven states) is comparable to that perfectly
subjective condition of pure spirituality from which the monad
emerged to "descend into matter," and to which at the com-
pletion of the grand cycle it must return. Nor is Nirvana itself
comparable to Para Nirvana.
Query 5. Reviving consciousness begins after the struggle in
Kama-Loka at the door of devachan, and only after the
"
gestation
200 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
period." Please turn to my responses upon the subject in your
"
Famous contradictions.
"
Query 6. Your deductions as to the indefinite prolongation in
Devachan of some one moment of earthly bliss having been un-
warranted, your question in the last paragraph of this interrogatory
need not be considered. The stay in Devachan is proportioned
to the unfinished psychic impulses originating in earth-life : those
persons whose attractions were preponderatingly material will
sooner be drawn back into rebirth by the force of Tanha. As
our London opponent truly remarks : these subjects (metaphysical)
are only partly for understanding. A higher faculty belonging
to the higher life must see, and it is truly impossible to force it
upon one's understanding merely in words. One must see with
his spirftual eye, hear with his Dharmakayic ear, feel with the
sensations of his Ashta-vijnyAna (spiritual
"
I ") before he cajn
comprehend this doctrine fully ;
otherwise it may but increase one's
"
discomfort," and add to his knowledge very little.
Query 7. The " reward provided by nature for men who are
benevolent in a large, systematic way
"
and who have not focussed
their affections upon an individual or speciality, is that if pure
they pass the quicker for that through the Kama and Rupa Lokas
into the higher sphere of Tribuvana, since it is one where the
formulation of abstract ideas and the consideration of general
principles fill the thought of its occupants. Personality is the
synonym for limitation, and the more contracted the person's ideas,
the closer will he cling to the lower spheres of being, the longer
loiter on the plane of selfish social intercourse. The social status
of a being is, of course, a result of Karma ; the law being that
41
like attracts like." The renascent being is drawn into the
gestative current with which the preponderating attractions
coming over from the last birth make him assimilate. Thus one
who died a ryot may be reborn a king, and the dtead sovereign
may next see the light in a coolie's tent This law of attraction
asserts itself in a thousand
"
accidents of birth
" than which there
could be no more flagrant misnomer. When you, realize, at least,
the following that the skandas are the elements of limited
existence then will you have realized also one of the conditions of
Devachan which has now such a profoundly unsatisfactory out-
look for you. Nor are your inferences (as regards the well-being
and enjoyment of the upper classes being due to a better Karma)
quite correct in their general application. They have a eudae-
monistic ring about them which is hardly reconcilable with Karmic
Law, since those
"
well-being and enjoyment
"
are oftencr the
causes of a new and overloaded Karma than the production or
effects of the latter. Even as a
"
broad rule
"
poverty and humble
condition in life are less a cause of sorrow than wealth and high
PHILOSOPHICAL & THEORETICAL TEACHINGS 201
birth, but of that later on. My answers are once more assuming
the shape of a volume rather than the decent aspect of a letter.
11
Writing a new book, or for the Theosophist?
"
Well do you
not think that (since your desire is to reach not merely the most
but also the most receptive minds) you had better write the former,
as well as for the latter? You might put into Esoteric Buddhism
an excellent title by the bye such matter as would be a sequel
to, or amplification of what has appeared in the Theosophist, a
systematic, thoughtful exposition of what was and will be given
in the Journal in snatched out brief Fragments. I am specially
anxious on M's account that the Journal should be made as
much as possible a success; should be circulated more than it is
now in England. Your new book drawing as it is sure to the
attention of the most educated, thoughtful portion of the Western
public to the* organ of
"
Esoteric Buddhism "
par excellence
would thus do it a world of good, and both would prove of mutual
assistance. Do not lose sight of Lillie's
"
Buddha and Early
Buddhism " when you write it. With its host of fallacies, un-
warranted assumptions and distortion of facts and even Sanskrit
and Pali words, this snobbish volume had nevertheless the greatest
success with Spiritualists and even mystically inclined Christians.
I will have it slightly reviewed by Subba Row or H.P.B. furnish-
ing them with notes myself, but of this more in some future letter.
You have ample materials to work upon in my notes and papers.
You have given but a few of the many points touched by me and
amplified and re-amplified in heaps of letters, as I do now. You
could work out of them any number of new articles and Frag-
ments for the magazine, and have enough and to spare left over
for the book. And these in their turn may be followed up in a
third volume later on. It may be well to always keep this plan
in mind. \
Your "
wild scheme " with Darjeeling, good friend, as its ob-
jective point, is not wild, but simply impracticable. The time has
not yet come. But the drift of your energies is carrying you
slowly yet steadily in the direction of personal intercourse. I
will not say that "I desire it as much as you do, for seeing you
nearly every day of my life I care very little for objective inter-
course; but for your sake I would if I could, precipitate that inter-
view. However ? Meanwhile, be happy in knowing that
you have done more real good to your kind within the two past
years than in many previous years. And to yourself also.
I am quite sure that you do not sympathize with the selfish
feeling that prompts the London Branch to wish to withhold even
their small proportion of pecuniary support amounting to a few
guineas a year from the Parent Society. Who of the members
would ever think of refusing, or trying to avoid payment of fees
202 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
to any other Society, Club, or Scientific Association he may
happen to belong- to? It is this indifference and selfishness that
have permitted them to stand by idle and calm from the first, and
see the two in India giving their last rupee (and the Upasika
actually selling her jewellery for the honour of the Society)
though many of the British members are far better able to afford
the necessary sacrifices than they. Mr. Olcott's sister is actually
starving in America, and the poor man, loving her dearly as he
does, would not nevertheless spare Rs. 100 from the Society's,
or rather the Theosophist's fund to relieve her with six small
children had not H.P.B. insisted upon, and M. given a small sum
for it.
However, I have told Mr. Olcott to send you the necessary
official authority to compound the fees or make any other business
agreement at London that you may think best. But remember,
my very valued brother, that if poor Hindu clerks on Rs. 20
or 30 salaries are expected to help pay the Society's expenses with
that fee, it is sheer injustice to totally exempt the far richer London
members. Do justice,
"
though the heavens fall." Yet, if con-
cessions are required to local prejudices, you are certainly better
qualified than we, to see, and hence to negotiate according to the
fitness of things. By all means put
" the money relations on a
better footing
"
than at present, if the financial wind has to be
tempered for the shorn Peling-lamb. I have faith in your wisdom
my friend, though you would have a certain right to be fast losing
yours in mine, considering how tight the negotiations for the
Phoenix-capital prove. You must have understood that I am still,
and notwithstanding the Chohan's approval of my
"
Lay-Chela
"
under last year's restrictions, and cannot bring to bear on the
parties concerned all the psychic powers that I otherwise could.
Besides, our laws and restrictions with regard to money or any
financial operations whether within or outside our Association, are
extremely severe inexorable on some points. We have to pro-
ceed very cautiously ;
hence the delay. But I do hope that you
yourself think, that something has already been done in that
direction.
Yes;
" K.H. did
"
mean that the review of
" Mr. Isaacs should
appear in the Theosophist," and "
By the Author of the Occult
World,
"
so do send it before you go. And, for the sake of old
" Sam Ward" I would like to see it noticed in the
" Pioneer."
But that does not matter much, now that you leave it.
Thereupon Salam, and best wishes. I am extremely busy
with preparations of initiation. Several of my chelas Gjual-khool
among others are striving to reach
" the other shore,"
Yours faithfully,
K. H.
SECTION III
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP
LETTER No. XXVI
K.H.'s Confidential Memo about Old Lady. Received Simla, Autumn, 1881.
I am painfully aware of the fact that the habitual incoherence
of her statements especially when excited and her strange ways
make her in your opinion a very undesirable transmitter of our
messages. Nevertheless, kind Brothers, once that you have
learned the truth ;
once told, that this unbalanced mind, the
seeming incongruity of her speeches and ideas, her nervous ex-
citement, all that in short, which is so calculated to upset the
feelings of sober minded people, whose notions of reserve and
manners are shocked by such strange outbursts of what they
regard as her temper, and which so revolt you, once that you
know that nothing of it is due to any fault of hers, you may, per-
chance, be led to regard her in quite a different light. Notwith-
standing that the time is not quite ripe to let you entirely into
the secret ;
and that you are hardly yet prepared to understand the
great Mystery, even if told of it, owing to the great injustice and
wrong done, I am empowered to allow you a glimpse behind the
veil. This state of hers is intimately connected with her occult
training in Tibet, and due to her being sent out alone into the
world to gradually prepare the way for others. After nearly a
century of fruitless search, our chiefs had to avail themselves of
the only opportunity to send out a European body upon European
soil to serve as a connecting link between that country and our
own. You do not understand? Of course not. Please then,
remember, what she tried to explain, and what you gathered
tolerably well from her, namely the fact of the seven principles in
the complete human being. Now, no man or woman, unless he
be an initiate of the
" fifth circle,
"
can leave the precincts of
Bod-Las and return back into the world in his integral whole
if I may use the expression. One, at least of his seven satel-
lites has to remain behind for two reasons : the first to form the
necessary connecting link, the wire of transmission the second
as the safest warranter that certain things will never be divulged.
She is no exception to the rule, and you have seen another
303
204 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
exemplar a highly intellectual man who had to leave one of his
skins behind ; hence, is considered highly eccentric. The bearing
and status of the remaining six depend upon the inherent qualities,
the psycho-physiological peculiarities of the person, especially
upon the idiosyncracies transmitted by what modern science calls
*'
atavism." Acting in accordance with my wishes, my brother
M. made to you through her a certain offer, if
you remember.
You had but to accept it, and at any time you liked, you would
have had for an hour or more, the real baitchooly to converse with,
instead of the psychological cripple you generally have to deal
with now. Yesterday it was his mistake. He ought not to have
sent her to deliver the message to Mr. Sinnett in the state she
was in. But to hold her responsible for her purely physiological
excitement, and to let her see your contemptuous smiles was
positively sinful. Pardon me, my Brothers and good Sirs, my
plain talk. I act but in accord with what was asked from me by
yourself in your letter. I took the trouble to
"
ascertain the spirit
and meaning
"
with which everything in Mr. Sinnett 's room was
said and done; and though having no right to
"
condemn "
you-
since you were ignorant of the true state of things I cannot other-
wise but strongly disapprove of that, which, however much
polished outwardly would have been even under quite ordinary
circumstances CRUELTY still. Buss !
LETTER No. XXVII
Received Simla, Autumn, 1881.
I foresaw that which now happens. In my Bombay letter I
advised you to be prudent as to what you allowed S.M. to learn
of + and his own mediumship, suggesting that he should be told
merely the substance of what I said. When, watching you at
Allahabad I saw you making instead copious extracts for him from
my letter, I again saw the danger but did not interfere for several
reasons. One of them is, that I believe the time fully come when
social and moral safety demands that someone of the Theos. Soc.
should speak the truth though the Himalaya fall on him. The un-
veiling of the ugly truth has to be done with the greatest dis-
cretion and caution though ;
and I see that instead of getting
friends and supporters in the camp of the Philistines whether on
that or this side of the Oceans many of you yourself with the
rest breed but enemies by making too much of me and my per-
sonal opinions. On that side, the irritation is great and you will
soon find flashes of it in the Light and elsewhere ; and, you
" shall
lose S.M." The copious extracts have done their work for they
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 205
were much too copious. No powers whether human or super-
human can ever open the eyes of S.M. it was useless to tear
them open. On this side it is still worse. The good people at
Simla are not very metaphorically inclined and allegory will no
more stick to their epidermis than would water to the feathers of
a goose. Besides, no one likes to be told that he
"
smells bad "
and the joke extracted from a remark but too full of deep psycho-
logical meaning has produced incalculable harm in quarters where
otherwise, the S.E.T.S. might have recruited more than one con-
vert. ... I must return once more to the letter.
The strongest basis of complaint against me is the fact that
my statement implies (a) a kind of challenge to S.M. to prove -f
a
"
Spirit
"
(b) I am severely denounced by our friend for mak-
ing out H -a liar. Now, I mean to be explanatory but not apolo-
getic. 1 most certainly meant both ; only I meant it for you, who
had asked me for the information, by no means for him. He has
not proved his case, nor did I expect he would, even if he thought
he could, as the claim rests entirely upon his own personal asser-
tion due to his unwavering faith in his own impressions. It would
be easy for me, on the other hand, to prove + no disembodied
Spirit at all, had I not very good reasons for not doing so at
present. I had worded my letter very carefully, so, that, while
letting you have a glimpse of the truth, I showed you most clearly
that I had no right to divulge the "secret of a Brother." But,
my very good friend, I had never told you in so many words who
and what he was. I might, perhaps, have advised you to judge
-f by his alleged writings, for more fortunate in that than Job, our
"
enemies " all
"
write books." They are very fond of dictating
"
inspirational
"
gospels and so get caught at the glue of their
own rhetorics. And who of the most intellectual Spirit^, who
have read the complete works fathered upon + would dare main-
tain that with the exception of a few extremely remarkable pages
the rest is not below what S.M. could have himself written, and
far better? Rest assured that no intelligent, clever arid truthful
medium needs
"
inspiration
" from a disembodied
"
Spirit."
Truth will stand without inspiration from Gods or Spirits, and
better still will stand in spite of them all;
"
angels
"
whispering
generally but falsehoods and adding to the stock of superstition.
It is in view of such little unpleasantnesses that I have to abstain
from satisfying C.C.Massey. I will not avail myself of his
"
authority/' nor fulfil his
"
desire,
" and I refuse most decidedly
to
"
communicate his secret
"
as it is of a nature which stands in
his way for the attainment of adeptship, but has nothing whatever
to do with his private character. This information again was
meant for you, as an answer to your surprised query whether
there could be any impediments for my communicating with him
206 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
and guiding him to the Light, but it was never intended for his
ears. He may have a page or two in his life's history which he
would rather see obliterated ; but, his loyal and faithful instincts
will always give him precedence and place him far above many a
man who remained chaste and virtuous only because he never
knew what temptation was. I will abstain, then, with your
kind permission. In the future, my very dear friend, we will
have to limit ourselves entirely to philosophy and avoid family
gossip. Skeletons in family closets, are at times, more dangerous
to meddle with, than even dirty turbans, my illustrious and dear
friend. And let not your too sensitive heart be troubled, or your
imagination lead you to suppose that one single word of what I
have now said is meant to convey a reproach. We, half savage
Asiatics judge a man by his motives, and yours were all that is
sincere and good. But you have to remember that you are at a
hard school, and dealing now with a world entirely distinct from
your own. Especially have you to bear in mind that the slightest
cause produced, however unconsciously, and with whatever motive,
cannot be unmade, or its effects crossed in their progress by
millions of gods, demons, and men combined. Therefore, you
must not think me too hypercritical when I say, that all of you
have been more or less imprudent, when not indiscreet the latter
word applying so far but to one of the members. Hence you
will perhaps see, that the mistakes and blunders of H. Steel
Olcott, are of a lighter hue than they at first appear, since even
Englishmen, far more intelligent and versed in the world's ways
than he is, are as liable to err. For you have erred, individually
and collectively, as will be made apparent in a very near future ;
and the management and success of the Society will prove as a
result far more difficult in your case, since none of you is as ready
to admit that he has done so, nor are you as prepared as he is, to
follow any advice offered you, though in each case, it is based on
foresight of impending events, even when foretold in a phrase-
ology which may not always come "
up to the mark " of the adept
as he should be in accordance with your own views.
You may tell Massey what I now say of him, and the reasons
given. You may though I would not advise you read this
letter to Mr. Hume. But I would strongly urge upon you the
necessity of a greater caution than ever. Notwithstanding the
purity of motives, the Chohan might one day consider but the
results, and these may threaten to become too disastrous for him
to overlook. There should be a constant pressure brought to
bear upon the members of the S.E.S. to keep their tongues and
enthusiasm at bay. And yet there is an increasing concern in
the public mind, in regard to your Society and you may soon be
called upon to define your position more clearly. Very soon I
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 207
will have to leave you to yourselves for the period of three months.
Whether it will begin in OctobeV or January will depend on the
impulse given to the Society and its progress.
I would feel personally obliged to you were you to kindly
cqnsent to examine a poem written by Padshah, and give your
opinion on its merits. I believe it too long for the Theosophical
Journal, nor do its literary merits warrant exactly or justify the
claim. However, I leave it to your better judgment. I am
anxious that the Journal should be more successful this year
than it has heretofore been. The suggestion to translate the
Grand Inquisitor is mine ;
for its author, on whom the hand of
Death was already pressing when writing it, gave the most
forcible and true description of the Society of Jesus than was
ever given before. There is a mighty lesson contained in it for
many and even you may profit by it.
My dear friend, you must not feel surprised if I tell you, that
I really feel weary and disheartened at the prospect I have before
me. I am afraid you never will have the patience to wait for the
day when I am permitted to satisfy you. Ages ago our people
began to make certain rules, according to which they intended to
live. All these rules have now become LAW. Our predecessors
had to learn everything they know by themselves, only the
foundation was laid for them. We offer to lay for you such a
foundation but you will accept nothing short of the complete
edifice, ready for you to take possession of. Do not accuse me
of indifference or neglect when not receiving for days any reply
from me. Very often I have nothing to say, for you ask ques-
tions which I have no right to answer.
But I must conclude here, as my time is limited and I have
some other work to do.
Yours sincerely,
K. H.
The brandy atmosphere in the house is dreadful.
LETTER No. XXVIII
K.H. to A.O. Hume written towards final break-off. (1881 ?)
My dear Sir,
If no other good ever came of our correspondence than that of
showing us once more how essentially opposed are our two
antagonistic elements the English and the Hindu, our few
letters will not have been exchanged in vain. Sooner can oil
and water mingle their particles than an Englishman however
208 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
intelligent, noble-minded and sincere to be made to assimilate
even the exoteric Hindu thought, let alone its esoteric spirit.
This will, of course provoke you to a smile. You will say
"
I
expected this." So be it. But if so, it shows no more than the
perspicacity of a man of thought and observation who intuitively
anticipated an event which his own attitude must precipitate. . . ,
You will pardon me if I have to speak frankly and sincerely of
your long letter. However cogent its logic, noble some of its
ideas, ardent its aspiration, it
yet lies here before me a very
mirror of that spirit of this age, against which we have fought
during our whole lives ! At best it is the unsuccessful endeavour
of an acute intellect trained in the ways of an exoteric world,
to throw light on, and judge of the modes of life and thought in
which it is unversed, for they belong to quite a different world
from that it deals with. You are no man of petty vanities. To
you it is safe to say :
"
My dear friend, apart from all this, study
your letter impartially ; weigh some of its sentences, and on the
whole you will not feel proud of it." Whether or not you will
ever fully appreciate my motives, or misconceive the true causes
which make me decline for the present any further correspond-
ence, I
yet am confident that some day you will confess that
this last letter of yours under the garb of a noble humility, of
confessions of
" weaknesses and failings, shortcomings and
follies
" was yet no doubt quite unconsciously to yourself a
monument of pride, the loud echo of that haughty and imperative
spirit which lurks at the bottom of every Englishman 's heart. In your
present state of mind, very likely even after reading this answer,
you will hardly perceive, that not only have you entirely failed to
understand the spirit in which my last letter was written to you,
but even, in some instances to catch its evident sense. You were
preoccupied by one single, all-absorbing idea :
and, failing to
detect any direct reply to it in my answer, before taking time to
think it over, and see its general not personal applicability, you
sat down and accused me right away of giving you a stone when
you asked for bread ! No need of being
"
a lawyer
" in this or
any previous existence to state simple facts. No need to
" make
the bad appear the better cause" when truth is so very simple
and so easily told. My remark
"
you take up the position that
unless a proficient in arcane knowledge will waste upon your
embryonic Society an energy ..." etc :
you applied to yourself,
whereas it was never so meant. It related to the expectations of
all those who might desire to join the Society under certain con-
ditions exacted before-hand and that were firmly insisted upon,
by yourself and Mr. Sinnett. The letter as a whole was meant
for you two, and this special sentence applied to all in general.
You sav that I have
M
to a certain extent mistaken
"
your
"
posi-
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 209
tion," and that I
"
clearly misunderstand" you. This is so
evidently incorrect that it will suffice for me to quote a single
paragraph from your letter to show that it is you who have
entirely
"
mistaken my position
" and "
clearly misunderstood
me." What else do you do but labour under an erroneous
impression, when, in your eagerness to repudiate the idea of
having ever dreamt of originating a
"
school
"
you say of the
proposed
"
Anglo-Indian Branch " "
it is no Society of mine.
. . . I understood it to be the wish of yourself and chiefs that
the Society should be started and that I should assume a leading
position in it." To this I replied that if it has been constantly
our wish to spread on the Western Continent among the foremost
educated classes
" Branches " of the T.S. as the harbingers of a
Universal Brotherhood it was not so in your case. We (the
Chiefs and I) entirely repudiate the idea that such was our hope
(however we might wish it) in regard to the projected A.I.
Society. The aspiration for brotherhood between our races met
no response nay, it was pooh-poohed from the first and so, was
abandoned even before I had received Mr. Sinnett's first letter.
On his part and from the start, the idea was solely to promote
the formation of a kind of club or
" school of magic.." It was
then no 4<
proposal
" of ours, nor were we the
"
designers of the
scheme." Why then such efforts to show us in the wrong? It
was Mad. B. not we, who originated the idea ;
and it was Mr.
Sinnett who took it up. Notwithstanding his frank and honest
admission to the effect that being unable to grasp the basic idea
of Universal Brotherhood of the Parent Society, his aim was but
to cultivate the study of occult Sciences, an admission which
ought to have stopped at once every further importunity on her
part, she first succeeded in getting the consent a very reluctant
one I must say of her own direct chief, and then my promise of
co-operation as far as I could go. Finally, through my media-
tion, she got that of our highest CHIEF, to whom I submitted the
first letter you honoured me with. But, this consent, you will
please bear in mind, was obtained solely under the express and
unalterable condition that the new Society should be founded as
a Branch of the Universal Brotherhood, and among its members,
a few elect men would if they chose to submit to our conditions,
instead of dictating theirs be allowed to BEGIN the study of the
occult sciences under the written directions of a
" Brother." But
a " hot-bed of magick
" we never dreamt of. Such an organiza-
tion as mapped out by Mr. Sinnett and yourself is unthinkable
among Europeans ; and, it has become next to impossible even in
India unless you are prepared to climb to a height of 18,000 to
20,000 amidst the glaciers of the Himalayas. The greatest as well
as most promising of such schools in Europe, the last attempt
210 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
in this direction, failed most signally some 20 years ago in
London. It was the secret school for the practical teaching of
magick, founded under the name of a club, by a dozen of
enthusiasts under the leadership of Lord Lytton's father. He
had collected together for the purpose, the most ardent and enter-
prising as well as some of the most advanced scholars in mes-
merism and "ceremonial magick," such as Eliphas Levi, Regaz-
zoni, and the Kopt Zergvan-Bey. And yet in the pestilent
London atmosphere the
"
Club
" came to an untimely end. I
visited it about half a dozen of times, and perceived from the first
that there was and could be nothing in it. And this is also the
reason why, the British T.S. does not progress one step prac-
tically. They are of the Universal Brotherhood but in name, and
gravitate at best towards Quietism that utter paralysis of the
Soul. They are intensely selfish in their aspirations and will get
but the reward of their selfishness.
Nor did we begin the correspondence upon this subject. It
was Mr. Sinnett who, of his own motion addressed to a
" Brother
M
two long letters, even before Mad. B. had obtained
either permission or promise from any of us to answer him, or
knew to whom of us to deliver his letter. Her own chief having
refused point blank to correspond, it was to me that she applied.
Moved by regard for her, I consented even telling her she might
give you all my Thibetan mystic name, and I answered our
friend's letter. Then came yours as unexpectedly. You did not
even know my name ! But your first letter was so sincere, its
spirit so promising, the possibilities it opened for doing general
good seemed so great, that if, I did not shout Eureka after read-
ing it, and thrown my Diogenes' lantern into the bushes at once,
it was only because I knew too well human and you must excuse
me Western nature. Unable, nevertheless, to undervalue the
importance of this letter I carried it to our venerable Chief. All
I could obtain from Him, though, was the permission to tem-
porarily correspond, and let you speak your whole mind, before
giving any definite promise. We are not gods, and even they,
our chiefs they hope. Human nature is unfathomable, and
yours is perhaps, more intensely so than any other man I know
of. Your last favour was certainly if not quite a world of revela-
tion, at least, a very profitable addition to my store of observa-
tion of the Western character, especially that of the modern,
highly intellectual Anglo-Saxon. But it would be a revelation,
indeed, to Mad. B. who did not see it, (and for various reasons
had better not) for it might knock off much of her presumption
and faith in her own powers of observation. It might prove to
her amongf other things that she was as much mistaken in rela-
tion to Mr. Sinnett's attitude in this matter as your own ;
and
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 211
that I, who had never had the privilege of your personal acquaint-
ance as she had, knew you far better than she did. I had posi-
tively foretold to her your letter. Rather than have no Society
at all, she was willing to have it upon any terms at first, and then
take her chances afterwards. I had warned her that you were
not a man to submit to any conditions but your own ;
or even
take one step towards the foundation of an organization however
noble and great unless you received first such proofs as we
generally give but to those, who by a trial of years have proved
themselves thoroughly trustworthy. She rebelled against the
notion and assured that were I but to give you one unimpeachable
test of Occult powers you would be satisfied, whereas Mr. Sinnett
never would. And now, that both of you have had such proofs
what are the results? While Mr. Sinnett believes and will never-
repent of it, you have allowed your mind to become gradually
filled with odious doubts and most insulting suspicions. If you
will kindly remember my first short note from Jhelum you will see
to what I then referred in saying that you would find your mind
poisoned. You misunderstood me then as you have ever since ;
for in it, I did not refer to C. Olcott's letter in the Bombay
Gazette but to your own state of mind. Was I
wrong? You not
only doubt the
"
broach phenomenon
"
you positively disbelieve it.
You say to Mad. B. that she may be one of those who believe
that bad means are justified by good ends and instead of crush-
ing her with all the scorn such an action is sure to awaken in a
man of your high principles you assure her of your unalterable
friendship. Even your letter to me is full of the same suspicious
spirit, and that which you would never forgive in yourself the
crime of deception you try to make yourself believe you can
forgive in another person. My dear Sir, these are strange con-
tradictions !
Having favoured me with such a series of priceless
moral reflexions, advice, and truly noble sentiments, you may
perhaps, allow me in my turn, to give you the ideas of an humble
apostle of Truth, an obscure Hindu, upon that point. As man
is a creature born with a free will and endowed with reason,
whence spring all his notions of right and wrong, he does not
per se represent any definite moral ideal. The conception of
morality in general relates first of all to the object or motive, and
only then to the means or modes of action. Hence, if we do not
and would never call a moral man him, who following the rule
of a famous religious schemer uses bad means for a good object,
how much less would we call him moral who uses seemingly good
and noble means to achieve a decidedly wicked or contemptible
object? And according to your logic, and once that you confess
to such suspicions, Mad. B. would have to be placed in the first
of these categories, and I in the second. For, while giving her
212 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
to a certain extent the benefit of the doubt, with myself you use
no such superfluous precautions and, you accuse me unequivocally
of setting up a system of deceit. The argument used in my
letter, in regard to
"
the approbation of the Home Government "
you term as
"
such very low motives
"
;
and you add to it the fol-
lowing crushing and direct accusation :
"
You do not want this
Branch (the Anglo-Indian) for work. . . . You merely want it
as a lure to your native brethren. You know it will be a sham,
but it will look sufficiently like the real thing," etc., etc. This is
a direct and positive accusation. I am shown guilty of the pur-
suit of a wicked, mean object through low and contemptible
means, i.e., false pretences. . .
In penning these accusations did you stop to think, that as the
projected organization had something grander, nobler and far
more important in view than the mere gratification of the desires
of one solitary person however worthy namely in case of success
to promote the security and welfare of a whole conquered nation
it is just barely possible that that which to your individual pride
may appear a
"
low motive
" is after all but the anxious search
for means which would be the salvation of a whole country ever
distrusted and suspected, the protection by the conqueror of the
conquered ! You pride yourself upon not being a
"
patriot
"
/ do not; for, in learning to love one's country one but learns to
love humanity the more. The lack of that you term
" low
motives
" in 1857 caused my country-men to be blown by yours
from the mouths of their guns. Why then should I not fancy
that a real philanthropist would regard the aspiration for a better
understanding between the Govt. and people of India as a most
commendable instead of an ignoble one? " A fig
"
say you
"
for the knowledge and the philosophy on which it is based," if
"
it would not be of any good to mankind," would not
" enable
me to be more useful to my generation,'
1
etc. etc. But when you
are offered the means of doing such good you turn away in scorn
and taunt us with a
"
lure
" and a
"
sham " !
Truly wonderful
are the contradictions contained in your remarkable letter. . . .
And then, you laugh so heartily at the idea of a
"
reward
"
or the
14
approval" of your fellow-creatures.
"
The reward to which I
shall look will be," you say
"
in earning my own self-approval."
"
Self-approval
"
which cares so little for the corroborative verdict
of the better part of the world at large, to which the good and
noble deeds of one serve as high ideals and the most powerful
stimulants to emulation, is little else than proud and arrogant
egotism. It is HIMSELF against all criticsm ;
"
apr&s moi le
deluge"! exclaims the Frenchman with his usual flippancy.
11
Before Jehovah was, I AM " !
says Man the ideal of every
modern intellectual Englishman. Gratified as I feel at the idea
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 213
of being the means of affording -you so much merriment, namely
in asking you to draft a general plan for the formation of the A.I.
Branch, I yet am bound to say again that your laugh was prema-
ture in as much you once more misunderstood entirely my
meaning. Had I asked for your help in the organization of a
system for teaching the occult sciences, or a plan for a " school
of magick
"
the instance brought by you of an ignorant boy asked
to work out " an abstruse problem regarding the motion of a fluid
inside another fluid
M
might be a happy one. As it is, your com-
parison falls short of the mark and the bit of irony hits no one ;
for my mentioning the subject related merely to the general plan
and outward administration of the projected Society and not in
the least to its esoteric studies ;
to the Branch of the Universal
Brotherhood not to the
"
School of Magick
"
the formation of the
former being the sine qua non for the latter. Most assuredly in
such matter as this one the organization of an A.I. Branch, to
be composed of Englishmen and meant to serve as a link between
the British and the natives (the condition being that they who
want to share in the secret knowledge, the inheritance of the
children of the soil, must be prepared to accord at least some
privileges hitherto refused to these natives) you English people
are far more competent than we to draft a general plan. You
know the conditions you would be likely to accept or reject as we
might not. I asked for a skeleton plan, and you imagined I
clamoured for co-operation in the instructions to be given in
spiritual sciences ! Most unfortunate qui pro quo and yet Mr.
Sinnett seems to have understood my wish at a glance.
Again you seem to show an unfamiliarity with the Hindu mind
when you say :
"
not one in ten thousand native minds is as well
prepared to realize and assimilate transcendental truths as mine."
However much you may be right in thinking that
"
amongst Eng-
lish men of Science there are not half a dozen even whose minds
are more capable of receiving these rudiments (of occult know-
ledge) than mine M
(yours) you are mistaken as to the natives.
The Hindu mind is pre-eminently open to the quick and clear
perception of the most transcendental, the most abstruse meta-
physical truths. Some of the most unlettered ones will seize at
a glance that which would often escape the best Western meta-
physician. You may be, and most assuredly are our superiors in
every branch of physical knowledge ;
in spiritual sciences we were,
are and always will be your MASTERS.
But let me ask you, what can I, a half civilized native, think
of the charity, modesty and kindness of one belonging to a superior
race ; one, whom I know as a noble minded, just, and kind hearted
man in most circumstances of his life, when, with an ill-disguised
scorn he exclaims :
" if you want men to rush on blind-fold, heed-
214 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
less of ulterior results
1
stick to your Olcotts if you want men
of a HIGHER CLASS, whose brains are to work effectually in your
cause, remember . . ." etc. My dear sir, we neither want
men to rush on blind-fold, nor are we prepared to abandon tried
friends who rather pass for fools, than reveal what they may
have learnt under a solemn pledge of never revealing- it unless
permitted even for the chance of getting men of the very highest
class, nor are we especially anxious to have anyone work for
us except with entire spontaneity. We want true and unselfish
hearts ;
fearless and confiding souls, and are quite willing to leave
the men of the
"
higher class
"
and far higher intellects to grope
their own way to the light. Such will only look upon us as sub-
ordinates.
I believe that these few quotations from your letter and the frank
answers they have called forth, are sufficient to show how far we
are from anything like an entente cordiale. You show a spirit of
fierce combativeness and a desire pardon me to fight shadows
evoked by your own imagination. I had the honour of receiving
three long letters from you even before I had barely time to answer
in general terms your first one. I had never positively refused
to comply with your wishes, never had answered as yet one single
question of yours. How did you know what Future held in
store for you, had you but waited one week? You invite me to
a conference only, as it would seem, that you may show me the
defects and weaknesses in our modes of action, and the causes for
our supposed failure to convert humanity from their evil ways.
And in your letter you show plainly that you are the beginning,
the middle and the end of the law to yourself. Then why trouble
yourself to write to me at all? Even that, which you call a
"
Parthian arrow
"
was never meant as such. It is not I, who,
unable to get the absolute will depreciate or undervalue the rela-
tive good. Your " little birds
"
have, no doubt, since you so
believe, done much good in their way and I certainly never dreamt
of giving offence by my remark that the human race and its wel-
fare, were at least as noble a study, and the latter as desirable an
occupation as ornithology. But, I am not quite sure that your
parting remark as to our not being invulnerable as a body is quite
free of that spirit which animated the retreating Parthians. Be
it as it may, we are content to live as we do unknown and un-
disturbed by a civilization which rests so exclusively upon
intellect. Nor do we feel in any way concerned about the revival
of our ancient arts and high civilization, for these are as sure to
come back in their time, and in a higher form as the Plesiosaurus
and the Megatherium in theirs. We have the weakness to believe
in ever recurrent cycles and hope to quicken the resurrection of
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 215
what is past and gone. We could not impede it even if we would.
The " new civilization
"
will be but the child of the old one, and
we have but to leave the eternal law to take its own course to
have our dead ones come out of their graves ; yet, we are certainly
anxious to hasten the welcome event. Fear not ; although we do
"cling superstitiously to the relics of the Past" our knowledge
will not pass away from the sight of man. It is the
"
gift of the
gods
" and the most precious relic of all. The keepers of the
sacred Light did not safely cross so many ages but to find them-
selves wrecked on the rocks of modern scepticism. Our pilots
are too experienced sailors to allow us [to] fear any such disaster.
We will always find volunteers to replace the tired sentries, and
the world, bad as it is in its present state of transitory period, can
yet furnish us with a few men now and then. You "
do not pro-
pose moving further in the matter
" unless we make " some
further sign
"
? My dear sir, we have done our duty : we have
responded to your appeal, and now propose to take no further
step. We, who have studied a little Kant's moral teachings,
analyzed them somewhat carefully, have come to the conclusion
that even this great thinker's views on that form of duty (das
Sollen) which defines the methods of moral action notwithstand-
ing his one-sided affirmation to the contrary falls short of a full
definition of an unconditional absolute principle of morality as we
understand it. And this Kantian note sounds throughout your
letter. You so love mankind, you say, that were not your genera-
tion to benefit by it, you would reject
"
Knowledge
M itself. And
yet, this philanthropic feeling does not even seem to inspire you
with charity towards those you regard as of a*i inferior intelli-
gence. Why? Simply because the philanthropy you Western
thinkers boast of, having no character of universality; i.e. never
having been established on the firm footing of a moral, universal
principle ;
never having risen higher than theoretical talk ; and
that chiefly among the ubiquitous Protestant preachers, it is but a
mere accidental manifestation but no recognised LAW. The most
superficial analysis will show, that, no more than any other
empirical phenomenon in human nature, can it be taken as an
absolute standard of moral activity; i.e. one productive of efficient
action. Since, in its empirical nature this kind of philanthropy
is like love, but something accidental, exceptional, and like that
has its selfish preferences and affinities ;
it
necessarily is unable to
warm all mankind with its beneficent rays. This, I think is, the
secret of the spiritual failure and unconscious egotism of this age.
And you, otherwise a good and a wise man, being unconsciously
to yourself the type of its spirit, nre unable to understand our ideas
upon the Society as a Universal Brotherhood, and hence turn
away your face from it,
216 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
Your conscience revolts you say to be made "
a stalking horse;
the puppet of a score or more of hidden wire-pullers." What
do you know of us since you cannot see us ;
what do you know
of our aims and objects ;
of us, of whom you cannot judge? . . .
you ask. Strange arguments. And do you really suppose you
would " know "
us, or penetrate any better our " aims and objects
"
were you to see me personally? I am afraid, that with no past
experience of this kind, even your natural powers of observation
however acute would have to be confessed more than useless.
Why, my dear Sir, even our Baharoopias can prove a match any
day for the acutest political Resident ;
and never yet one was
detected or even recognised ;
and their mesmeric powers are not
of the highest order. However suspicious you might ever feel
about the details of the
"
brooch*' there is one prime feature in
the case which your astuteness has already told you can only be
accounted for on the theory of a stronger will influencing Mrs.
Hume to think after that particular object and no other. And if
Mad. B., a sickly woman, must be credited with such powers,
are you quite sure that you yourself would not also be made to
succumb to a trained will, ten times stronger than hers? I could
come to you to-morrow, and installing myself in your house as
invited get an entire domination over your whole mind and body
in 24 hours, and you never aware of it for one moment. I may be
a good man, but so I may, for all you know, as easily be a wicked,
plotting schemer, hating profoundly your white race which sub-
jugated and daily humiliates mine, and take revenge on you
one of the best representatives of that race. If the power of
exoteric mesmerism alone were employed a power acquired with
equal ease by the bad as by the good man even then you could
hardly escape the snares laid out for you, were the man you invited
but a good mesmeriser, for you are a remarkably easy subject
from the physical stand-point.
" But my conscience my
intuition !
M
you may argue. Poor help in such a case as mine.
Your intuition would make you feel but that which really was
for the time being; and as to your conscience you then accept
Kant's definition of it? You, perhaps, believe with him that
under all circumstances, and even with the full absence of definite
religious notions, and occasionally even with no firm notions about
right and wrong at all, MAN has ever a sure guide in his own inner
moral perceptions or conscience? The greatest of mistakes!
With all the formidable importance of this moral factor, it has one
radical defect. Conscience as it was already remarked may be
well compared to that demon, whose dictates were so zealously
listened to and so promptly obeyed by Socrates. Like that demon,
conscience, may perchance, tell us what we must not do; yet, it
never guides us as to what we ought to perform, nor gives any
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 217
definite object to our activity. And nothing can be more easily
lulled to sleep and even completely paralyzed, as this same con-
science by a trained will stronger than that of its possessor. Your
conscience will NEVER show you whether the mesmeriser is a true
adept or a very clever juggler, if he once has passed your threshold
and got control of the aura surrounding your person. You speak
of abstaining from any but an innocent work like bird-collecting,
lest there be danger of creating another Frankenstein's monster.
Imagination as well as will creates. Suspicion is the
most powerful provocative agent of imagination. . . .
Beware ! You have already begotten in you the germ of a future
hideous monster, and instead of the realization of your purest and
highest ideals you may one day evoke a phantom, which, barring
every passage of light will leave you in worse darkness than
before, and, will harass you to the end of your days.
Again expressing the hope that my candour may not give offence,
I am, dear Sir, as ever,
Your most obedient Servant,
KOOT' HOOMI LAL SINT
A. O. Hume, Esq.
LETTER No. XXIX
In answer to yours I will have to reply by a rather lengthy
letter. To begin with I can say the following : Mr. Hume
thinks and speaks of me in a way which need only be noticed
so far as it affects the frame of mind in which he proposes
to apply to me for philosophical instruction. For his respect
I care as little as he for my displeasure. But passing over his
superficial disagreeableness I recognize fully his goodness of
motive, his abilities, his potential usefulness. We had better
get to work again without further parley, and while he per-
sevei *, he will find me ready to help but not to flatter, nor
to dispute.
So utterly has he misunderstood the spirit in which both the
Memo and P.S. were written, that had he not placed me during
the three last days under a debt of profound gratitude for what
he is doing for my poor old chela, I would have never gone to
the trouble of doing what might seem as an excuse, or an ex-
planation, or both. However that may be, that debt of grati-
tude is so sacred, that I now do for her sake, what I might
have refused doing even for the Society : I crave the Sahibs'
permission to acquaint them with some facts. With our Indo-
Tibetan ways the most sagacious English official is not yet
218 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
acquainted. The information now offered may be found useful
in our future transactions. I will have to be sincere and out-
spoken and Mr. Hume will have to excuse me. If 1 once am
forced to speak I must say ALL, or say nothing.
I am not a fine scholar, Sahibs, like my blessed Brother; but
nevertheless, I believe, I understand the value of words. And
if I do, then am I at a loss to understand, what in my P.S.
could have so provoked the ironical displeasure against me of
Mr. Hume? We of the Indo-Tibetan hovels never quarrel
(this in answer to some expressed thoughts in relation to the
subject). Quarrels and even discussions we leave to those, who
unable to take in a situation at a glance are thereby forced
before making up their final decision to anything to analyse
and weigh one by one, and over and over again every detail.
Whenever we at least those of us who are dikshita seem,
therefore to an European not
"
quite sure of our facts
"
it may
be often due to the following peculiarity. That which is re-
garded by most men as a fact
"
to us may seem but a simple
RESULT, an after thought unworthy of our attention, generally
attracted but to primary jacts. Life, esteemed Sahibs, when
even indefinitely prolonged, is too short to burden our brains
with flitting details mere shadows. When watching the pro-
gress of a storm we fix our gaze upon the producing Cause and
leave the clouds to the whims of the breaze which shapes them.
Having always the means on hand whenever absolutely
needed of bringing to our knowledge minor details we con-
cern ourselves but with the main facts. Hence we can hardly
be absolutely wrong as we are often accused by you, for our
conclusions are never drawn from secondary data but from the
situation as a whole.
On the other hand, the average man even among the most
intellectual giving all their attention to the testimony of appear-
ance and outward form, and disabled as they are from pene-
trating a priori to the core of things are but too apt to misjudge
of the whole situation left to find out their mistake but when
too late. Owing to complicated politics, to debates and what
you term, if 1 mistake not, social talk and drawing-room con-
troversies and discussions, sophistry has now become in Europe
(hence among the Anglo-Indians)
"
the logical exercise of the
intellectual faculties," while with us it has never outgrown its
pristine stage of
**
fallacious reasoning." the shaky, insecure
premises from which most of the conclusions and opinions are
drawn, formed and forthwith jumped at. Again, we ignorant
Asiatics of Tibet, accustomed to rather follow the thought of
our interlocutor or correspondent than the words he clothes it
in concern ourselves generally but little with the accuracy of
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 219
his expressions. Now this preface will seem as unintelligible
as useless to you, and you may well ask : what is he driving
at. Patience, pray, for 1 have something more to say before
our final explanation.
A few days before leaving us, Koot'hoomi speaking of you
said to me as follows :
**
I feel tired and weary of these never
ending disputations. The more 1 try to explain to both of
them the circumstances that control us and that interpose be-
tween us so many obstacles to free intercourse, the less they
understand me ! Under the most favourable aspects this cor-
respondence must always be unsatisfactory, even exasperatingly
so, at times; for nothing short of personal interviews, at which
there could be discussion and the instant solution of intellectual
difficulties as they arise, would satisfy them fully. It is as
though we were hallooing to each other across an impassable
ravine and only one of us seeing his interlocutor. In point of
fact, there is nowhere in physical nature a mountain abyss so
hopelessly impassable and obstructive to the traveller as that
spiritual one, which keeps them back from me."
Two days later when his
*'
retreat
"
was decided upon in
parting he asked me :
'*
Will you watch over my work, will you
see it falls not into ruins?
"
I promised. What is there I would
not have promised him at that hour ! At a certain spot not to
be mentioned to outsiders, there is a chasm spanned by a frail
bridge of woven grasses and with a raging torrent beneath.
The bravest member of your Alpine clubs would scarcely dare
to venture the passage, for it hangs like a spider's web and
seems to be rotten and impassable. Yet it is not; and he who
dares the trial and succeeds as he will if it is right that he
should be permitted comes into a gorge of surpassing beauty
of scenery to one of our places and to some of our people, of
which and whom there is no note or minute among European
geographers. At a stone's throw from the old Lamasery stands
the old tower, within whose bosom have gestated generations
of Bodhisatwas. It is there, where now rests yonr lifeless friend
my brother, the light of my soul, to whom I made a faithful
promise to watch during his absence over his work. And is it
likely, I ask you, that but two days after his retirement I, his
faithful friend and brother would have gratuitously shown dis-
respect to his European friends? What reason was there, and
what could have caused such an idea in Mr. Hume's and even
in your mind? Why a word or two entirely misunderstood and
misapplied by him. I'll prove it.
Don't you think that had the expression used
'*
coming to
hate the sut-phana
"
been changed into and made to read
"
coming to feel again flashes of dislike or of temporary
220 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
irritation this sentence alone would have wonderfully changed
the results? Had it been so phrased Mr. Hume would hardly
have found an opportunity for denying the fact as vigorously
as he did. For there he is right and the WORD is wrong. It is
a perfectly correct statement when saying that such a feeling
as hatred has never existed in him. Whether he will be as able
to protest against the statement in general remains to be seen.
He confessed to the fact that he was
*'
irritated/' and to a
*'
feeling of distrust
"
created by H.P.B. That
"
irritation/'
as he will no longer deny, lasted for several days? Where does
he then find the misstatement? Let us moreover admit, that
the word to use was an incorrect one. Then, since he is so
particular in the choice of words, so desirous that they should
always convey the correct meaning, why not apply the same
rule of action to himself? What might be well excused in an
Asiatic ignorant of English and one, moreover, who never was
in the habit of choosing his expressions, for reasons given
above, and because among his people he cannot be misunder-
stood ought to become inexcusable in an educated, highly
literary Englishman. In his letter to Olcott he writes :
"
He
(I) or she (H.P.B.), or both between them, so muddled and
misunderstood a letter written by Sinnett and myself as to lead
to our receiving a message wholly inapplicable to the circum-
stances and such as necessarily to create distrust." Humbly
soliciting permission to put a question when did either /, or
she or both of us, see, read and hence
"
muddled and misunder-
stood
"
the letter in question? How could she, or I, have
muddled that, which she had never seen, and I, having neither
inclination nor right to look into and mix myself in an affair
concerning but the Chohan and K.H. never paid the slightest
attention to? Did she infoim you on the day in question, that
it was in consequence of that letter of yours that I had sent her
into Mr. Sinnett's room with the message? 1 was there re-
spected Sahibs, and can repeat to you every word she said :
"
What is it? . . . What have you been doing, or saying
to K.H/' she shouted in her usual excited nervous way to
Mr. Sinnett who was alone in the room "that M., (naming
me) that he should be so angry should tell me to prepare to
go and settle our headquarters at Ceylon?
"
were the first words
she said, thus showing that she knew nothing certain, was told
still less, and simply surmised from what I had told her. And
what I had told her, was simply that she had better prepare
for the worse and depart to settle in Ceylon than make a fool
of herself, trembling so over every letter given to her to forward
to K.H.; that unless she learned to control herself better than
she did, I would put a stop to that dak business. These words
PROBATION, AND CHELASH1P 221
were said by me to her not because I had anything to do with
your or any letter, nor in consequence of any letter sent, but
because I happened to see the aura all around the new Eclectic
and herself, black and pregnant with future mischief, and I sent
her to say so to Mr. Sinnett not to Mr. Hume. My remark and
message upsetting her (owing to that unfortunate disposition and
shattered nerves) in the most ridiculous way, the well known
scene ensued. Is it because of the phantoms of theosophical
ruin evoked by her unbalanced brain that she is now accused
in my company to have muddled and misunderstood a letter
she had never seen? Whether there is in Mr. Hume's state-
ment one single word that might be called correct the term
"
correct
"
being now applied by me to the actual meaning of
the whole sentence, not merely to isolated words 1 leave to
the judgment of minds superior to those of Asiatics. And if
I am permitted to question the correctness of opinion in one,
so vastly superior to myself in education, intelligence and
acuteness in the perception of the eternal fitness of things in
view of the above explanation, why should I be held as
'*
ab-
solutely wrong
"
for the following statement :
"
I have also
seen the growing up of a sudden dislike (say irritation) begotten
of distrust (Mr. Hume confessing to, and using the identical
expression in his answer to Olcott please compare quotation
from his letter as given above) on the day I sent her with a
message to Mr. Sinnett's room/* Is this incorrect? And
further :
**
they know how excitable and ill balanced she is, and
this hostile feeling on his part was almost cruel. For days he
barely looked at her let alone speaking to her and inflicted up-
on her supersensitive nature severe and unnecessary pain ! And
when told of it by Mr. Sinnett he denied the fact! ..." This
last sentence, continued on page 7 with many other like truths,
I tore out with the rest (as upon enquiry you can ascertain from
Olcott, who will tell you that originally there were 12 pages,
not 10, and that he had sent the letter with far more details
than you now find in it, for he is unaware of what I have done,
and why it was done. Unwilling to remind Mr. Hume of details
long forgotten by him and irrelevant to the case in hand, I tore
out the page and obliterated much of the rest. His feelings
had already changed and I was satisfied.)
Now the question is not whether Mr. Hume
"
cares a two-
pence
"
if his feelings are pleasing to me or not, but rather
whether he was warranted by facts to write to Olcott as he did,
i.e., that I had entirely misunderstood his real feelings. I say
he was not. He can no more prevent me from being
*'
dis-
pleased,'* than I can go to the trouble of making him feel other-
wise than what he now feels, namely, that he does
"
not care
222 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
a twopence whether his feelings are pleasing to me or not/*
All this is childishness; and he who is desirous to learn how to
benefit humanity, and believes himself able to read the char-
acters of other people, must begin first of all, to learn to fenou)
himself, to appreciate his own character at its true value. And
this, 1 venture to say, he has never learned yet. And he has
also to learn in what particular cases results may in their turn
become important and primary causes, when the result becomes
a /(yen. Had he hated her with the most bitter hatred, he
could not have tortured her foolishly sensitive nerves more
effectually than he has, while
*'
still loving the dear old woman."
He has done so with those he loved best, and, unconsciously
to himself, he will do so more than once in the hereafter; and
yet his first impulse will be always to deny it, for he is indeed
fully unconscious of the fact, the extreme kindness of his heart,
being in such cases entirely blinded and paralyzed by another
feeling, which, if told of, he will also deny. Undismayed by his
epithets of
"
goose
"
and
"
Don Quichote," true to my promise
to my Blessed Brother, I will tell him of it whether he likes it
or not; for now that he has openly given expression to his feel-
ings, we have either to understand each other or break off.
This is
*'
no half veiled threat
"
as he expresses it for
**
a threat
in a man is like the bark in a dog
"
it means nothing. I say,
that unless he understands how utterly inapplicable to us is the
standard according to which he is accustomed to judge Western
people of his own society, it would simply be a loss of time
for me or K.H. to teach and for him to learn. We never re-
gard a friendly warning as a
"
threat," nor do we feel
irritated when it is offered to us. He says that personally he
does not care in the least,
*'
were the Brothers to break with
him to-morrow," the more reason then that we should come
to an understanding. Mr. Hume prides himself in the thought
that he never had
"
a spirit of veneration
"
for anything but
his own abstract ideals. We are perfectly aware of it. Nor
could he possibly have any veneration for anyone or anything,
as all the veneration his nature is capable of is concentrated
upon himself. This is a fact and the cause of all his life-
troubles. When his numerous official
'*
friends
"
and his own
family say that it is conceit they misstate and say a very
foolish thing. He is too highly intellectual to be conceited :
he is simply and unconsciously to himself the embodiment of
pride. He would have no veneration for even his God, were
not that God of his own creation and making; and that is why
he could neither be made amenable to any established doctrine,
nor would he ever submit to a philosophy that did not come all
armed, like the Grecian Sarasu)ari or Minerva, out of his own
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 223
her father's brain. This may throw light upon the fact why
I refused giving him during the short period of my instruction
anything but half problems, hints and puzzles to solve for
himself. For only then would he believe, when his own extra-
ordinary capacity for grasping at the nature of things, would
clearly show him that it must be so, since it dovetails with what
HE conceives to be mathematically correct. If he accused and
so unjustly ! K.H. whom he really affections of feeling
"
huffish
"
at his lack of reverence for him it is because he
built his ideal of my brother in his own image Mr. Hume
accuses us of treating him de haut en basl If he but knew
that in our sight an honest boot-black was as good as an honest
king, and an immoral sweeper far higher and more excusable
than an immoral Emperor he would have never uttered such
a fallacy. Mr. Hume complains (thousand pardons
**
laughs
"
is the correct term) that we show a desire of sitting upon him.
I venture to suggest most respectfully that it is absolutely vice
versa. It is Mr. Hume who (again unconsciously and yielding
but to a life-long habit) tried that most uncomfortable posture
with my brother in every letter he wrote to Koothoomi. And
when certain expressions denoting a fierce spirit of self-appro-
bation and confidence which reached the apex of human pride,
were noticed and mildly contradicted by my brother, Mr. Hume
forthwith gave them another meaning and accusing K.H. of
having misunderstood them, called him to himself puffed up
and
"
huffish." Do I accuse him then, of unfairness, injustice
or worse ? Most decidedly not. A more honest, sincere or a
kinder man never breathed on the Himalayas. I know actions
of his of which his own family and lady are utterly ignorant
of so noble, so kind and grand, that even his own pride re-
mains blind to their full worth. So that anything he might do
or say, is unable to diminish my respect for him; but with all
this, I am forced to tell him the truth; and while that side of
his character has all my admiration, his pride will never win
my approbation, for which once more, Mr. Hume will not
care one twopence, but that matters very little, indeed. The
most sincere and outspoken man in India, Mr. Hume is unable
to tolerate a contradiction; and, be that person Dev or mortal,
he cannot appreciate or even permit without protest the same
qualities of sincerity in any other than himself. Nor can he
be brought to confess that anyone in this world can know
better than himself anything that HE has studied and formed his
opinion thereupon.
"
They will not set about the joint work
in what seems to ME the best way/* he complains of us in his
letter to Olcott, and that sentence alone gives to us the key
to his whole character; it gives us the clearest insight into the
224 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
working of his inner feelings. Having a right he thinks to
regard himself as slighted and wronged, in consequence of such
an
"
ungenerous,"
**
selfish
"
refusal to work under his
guidance, he cannot help thinking himself at the bottom of his
heart, as a most forgiving, generous man, who, instead of re-
senting our refusal is nevertheless
*'
willing to go on in their
(our) way." And this irreverence of ours for his opinions can-
not be pleasing to him; and thus the feeling of this great wrong
we do him rises, and becomes proportional to the magnitude
of our
"
selfishness
"
and
**
huffishness." Hence his disen-
chantment, and the sincere pain he feels at finding the Lodge
and all of us so much below the mark of his ideal. He laughs,
for my defending H.P.B.; and giving way to a feeling unworthy
of his nature, very unfortunately forgets that his is just the
disposition to warrant friends and foes at calling him
"
pro-
tector of the poor
"
and like names, and that his enemies
among others, never fail to apply such epithets to himself; and
yet, far from falling upon him as an insult, that chivalrous
feeling which has ever prompted him to take the defence of
the weak and the oppressed and to redress the wrongs done by
his colleagues as in the last instance of the Simla municipality
row it covers him with a garment of undying glory spun out
of the gratitude and affection for him of the people he so fear-
lessly defends. Both of you labour under the strange impres-
sion that we can, and even Jo care for anything that may be
said or thought of us. Disabuse your minds, and remember
that the first requisite in even a simple fakir, is that he should
have trained himself to remain as indifferent to moral pain as
to physical suffering. Nothing can give US personal pain or
pleasure. And what I now say is, rather to bring you to under-
stand US than yourselves which is the most difficult science to
learn. That Mr. Hume's intention prompted by a feeling as
transient as it was hasty, and due to a sense of growing irrita-
tion against me whom he accused of a desire
**
to sit upon
him
**
was to revenge himself by an ironical, hence (to the
European mind) an insulting fling at me is as certain as that
he missed the mark. Ignorant, or rather forgetful of the fact
that we Asiatics, are utterly devoid of that sense of the
ridiculous which prompts the Western mind to caricature the
best, the noblest aspirations of mankind could ! yet feel
offended or flattered by the world's opinion I would have felt
rather complimented than otherwise. My Rajput blood will
never permit me to see a woman hurt in her feelings though
she be a visionary,'* and the now called
**
imaginary
"
wrong but another of her
"
fancies
"
without defending her;
and Mr. Hume knows enough of our traditions and customs
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 225
to be sufficiently aware of that remnant of chivalrous feeling
for .our women in our otherwise degenerated race. Therefore
do I say, that whether hoping that the satirical epithets would
reach and hurt me, or aware of the fact that he was apostrophiz-
ing a granite pillar the feeling that prompted him was un-
worthy of his nobler and better nature, as in the first case it
was to be regarded as a petty feeling of revenge, and in the
second as childishness. Then in his letter to O. he complains
of or denounces (you must forgive the limited number of
English words 1 have at my command) the attitude of
**
half
threat
"
to break with you that he imagines he finds in our
letters. Nothing could be more erroneous. We have no more
the intention of breaking with him, than an orthodox Hindu
has of leaving the house he is visiting until told that his com-
pany is no more wanted. But when the latter is hinted to him
he leaves. So with us. Mr. Hume quite prides himself at
repeating that personally he has no desire to see us, no
curiosity to meet us; that our philosophy and teaching cannot
benefit him in the least, him who has learnt and knows all that
can be learnt; that he cares not a snap whether we break with
him or not, nor is he in the least concerned whether we are
pleased with him or not. Qui bono then? Between the (by
him) imagined reverence we expect from him, and that uncalled
for combativeness, which may degenerate at any day with him,
into unexpressed yet real hostility, there is an abyss and no
middle ground that even the Chohan can see. Though he
cannot now be accused of not making, as in the past, any
allowance for circumstances and our own peculiar rules and
laws, yet he is always hurrying towards that black borderland
of amity, where trust is obscured and dark suspicions and
erroneous impressions cloud the whole horizon. I, am as I was;
and, as I was and am, so am I likely always to be the slave of
my duty to the Lodge and mankind; not only taught, but de-
sirous to subordinate every preference for individuals to a love
for the human race. It is gratuitous, therefore, to accuse me
or any one of us of selfishness, and desire to regard or treat
you as
"
paltry Pelingis
"
and to
**
ride donkeys," only
because we are unable to find convenient horses. Neither the
Chohan, nor K.H., nor myself ever under valued Mr. Hume's
worth. He has done invaluable service to the Th. Soc. and
to H.P.B. and is alone capable of making the Society an
efficient agent for good. When the spiritual soul is left to
guide him, no purer, no better, nor kinder man can be found.
But, when his fifth principle rises in irrepressible pride, we will
always confront and challenge it. Unmoved by his excellent
worldly counsel as to how you should be armed with proofs
226 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
of our reality, or how you should set about the joint work in
the way that seems the best to HIM, 1 will remain so unmoved,
till I receive contrary orders. Referring to your last letter (Mr.
Sinnett's) clothe your ideas as you may, in the pleasantest of
phrases, you are nevertheless surprised and as regards Mr.
Sinnett disappointed, that I should neither accord permission
for phenomena nor yet any of us make one step towards you.
I cannot help it, and whatever the consequences there will be
no change in my attitude until my Brother's return among the
living. You know both of us love our country and our race;
that we regard the Theos. Society as a great potentiality for
their good in proper hands; that he has joyfully welcomed Mr.
Hume's identification with the cause and that I have placed
a high but only a proper value upon it. And so you ought
to realize that whatever we could do to bind you and him
closer to us we would do with all our heart. But still if the
choice lies between our disobeying the lightest injunction of
our Chohan as to when we may see either of you, or what we
may write, or how, or where, and the loss of your good
opinion, even the feeling of your strong animosity and the
disruption of the Society, we should not hesitate a single in-
stant. It may be considered unreasonable, selfish, huffish and
ridiculous, denounced as Jesuitical and the blame all lain at
our door, but law is LAW with us, and no power can make us
abate one jot or tittle of our duty. We have given you a chance
to obtain all you desired by improving your magnetism, by
pointing you to a nobler ideal to work up to and Mr. Hume
has been shown what he already knew how he may benefit
immensely some millions of his fellow men. Choose according
to your best light. Your choice is made 1 know but Mr.
Hume may yet change his ideas more than once; I shall be the
same to my group and promise whatever he may determine.
Nor, do we fail to appreciate the great concessions made al-
ready by him; concessions the more great in our sight, as he
becomes less interested in our existence, and makes a violence
to his feelings solely in the hope of benefitting humanity. No
one in his place would have accommodated himself to his
situation with such a good grace as he has, or stood more
strictly upon the declaration
"
of primary objects
"
at the
meeting of 2 1st Aug.; while
**
proving to the native community
that members of the ruling class
"
also are desirous of pro-
moting the commendable projects of the T.S., he bides his
time, for even the obtaining of our metaphysical truths. He
has already done an immense good and has yet received nothing
in return. Nor does he expect anything. Reminding you that
the present is an answer to all your letters, and to all your ob-
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 227
jections and suggestions, I may add that you are right and that
in spite of all
**
your earthiness
"
my blessed Brother certainly
entertains a real regard for you, and Mr. Hume, who I am happy
to find has some good feeling for him, though he is not like
you and really is
"
too proud to look for his reward in our
protection/' Only where you are and will be ever wrong, my
dear sir, it is in entertaining the idea that phenomena can ever
become
"
a powerful engine
"
to shake the foundations of
erroneous beliefs in the Western mind. None but those who
see for themselves will ever believe do what you may.
"
Satisfy us and then we will satisfy the world," you once said.
You were satisfied and what are the results? And I wish I
could impress upon your minds the deep conviction that we do
not wish Mr. Hume or you to prove conclusively to the public
that we really exist. Please realize the fact that so long as
men doubt there will be curiosity and enquiry, and that enquiry
stimulates reflection which begets effort; but let our secret be
once thoroughly vulgarized and not only will sceptical society
derive no great good but our privacy would be constantly en-
dangered and have to be continually guarded at an unreasonable
cost, of power. Have patience, friend of my friend. It took
Mr. Hume years to kill enough birds to make up his book; and
he did not command them to leave their leafy retreats, but had
to wait for them to come and let him stuff and label them : so
must you be patient with us. Ah, Sahibs, Sahibs ! if you
could only catalogue and label us and set us up in the British
Museum, then indeed might your world have the absolute, the
dessicated truth.
And so it all comes around again as usual to the starting
point. You have been chasing us around your own shadows,
just catching a vanishing glimpse of us now and again, but
never coming near enough to escape the gaunt skeleton of
suspicion that is at your heel and stares you in the future. So
1 fear may be to the end of the chapter, as you not have the
patience to read the volume to its end. For you are trying
to penetrate the things of the spirit with the eyes of the flesh,
to bend the inflexible to your own crude model of what should
be, and finding it will not bend, you are as likely as not to
break that model and bid good-bye for ever to the dream.
And now for a few parting words of explanation. O's memo,
which produced such disastrous results and a most unique qui
proquo, was written on the 27th. On the night of the 25th,
my beloved Brother told me, that having heard Mr. Hume aay
in H.P.B.'s room that he had never himself heard O. state to
him that, he, O., had personally seen us, and also had heard
add, that were Olcott to tell him so, he had confidence enough
228 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
in the man to believe in what he said, he, K.H. thought of
asking me to go and tell O. to do so; believing it might please
Mr. Hume to learn some of the details. K.H. wishes are
law to me. And that is why Mr. Hume received that letter
from O., at a time when his doubts were already settled. At
the same time as I delivered my message to O., 1 satisfied his
curiosity as to your Society and told what 1 thought of it. O.
asked my permission to send to you these notes which 1 ac-
corded. Now, that is the whole secret. For reasons of my
own I desired you should know what 1 thought of the situation,.
a few hours after my beloved Brother, went out of this world.
When the letter reached you my feelings were somewhat
changed and 1 altered, as said before, the memo a good deal.
As O's style had made me laugh, I added my posfcrfpfum which
related solely to Olcott, but was nevertheless applied wholly
by Mr. Hume to himself !
Let us drop it. I close the longest letter 1 have ever written
in my life; but as I do it for K.H. I am satisfied. Though Mr.
Hume may not think it, the
"
mark of the adept
"
is kept at
not at Simla, and 1
try to keep up to it, however poor
1 may be as a writer and a correspondent.
M.
LETTER No. XXX1
Private.
My dear Brother.
Perhaps, a week ago, I would have hardly failed to embrace this
available opportunity and say that your letter concerning- Mr. Fern
is as complete a misrepresentation of the spirit, and above all, of
the attitude of M. towards the said young gentleman, as your
complete ignorance of the aim he is pursuing could produce
and I would have said no more. But now, things have changed ;
and though you have
"
come to know "
that we "
did not really
possess the power of reading minds " as had been pretended,
nevertheless, we know enough of the spirit in which my last letters
were received, and of the dissatisfaction produced, to suspect, if
not to know that unwelcome as truth may often come, yet the time
has arrived for me to speak frankly and openly with you. Lying
is a refuge to the weak, and we are sufficiently strong, even
with all the shortcomings you are pleased to discover in us, to
dread truth very little ;
nor are we likely to lie, only because it is
* The portion of A. O. Hume's letter quoted by K.H. pp. 229-30, is a
facsimile precipitation of A.O.H.'s own writing, and the passages in italics in
it have been underlined by K.H. En.
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 229
to our interest to appear wise concerning matters of which we
are ignorant. Thus, perchance it
might have been more prudent
to remark that you knew that we did not really possess the power
of reading minds, unless we brought ourselves thoroughly en rap-
port with, and concentrated an undivided attention on, the person
whose thoughts we wanted to know since that would be an
undeniable fact, instead of a gratuitous assumption as it now
stands in your letter. However it may be, I now find but two
ways before us, with not the smallest path for compromise.
Henceforth, if your desire is that we should work together, we
must do so on a footing of perfect understanding. You will be at
perfect liberty to tell us since you seem, or rather have brought
yourself to sincerely believe it that most of us, owing to the
mystery that enshrouds us, live by getting credit for knowing
what we really do not know; while I, for instance, will be as
entitled as you are, to let you know what I
may think of you,
yourself meanwhile promising, that you will not laugh at it out-
wardly, and bear a grudge for it inwardly (something that not-
withstanding your efforts you can rarely help) but that, in case
I am mistaken you will prove it by some demonstration weightier
than a mere denial. Unless you bind yourself by such a promise,
it is utterly useless for any of us to be losing our time in con-
troversies and correspondences. Better shake hands astrally,
across space, and wait until either you have acquired the gift of
discerning truth from falsehood to a greater degree than you now
have it ; or, that we are shown to be no better than impostors (or
still worse tying spooks) ;
or finally, that some one of us is in a
position to demonstrate our existence to yourself or Mr. Sinnett
not astrally, for that might only strengthen the
"
Spirit theory
but by visiting you personally.
Since it becomes quite hopeless to convince you that even we
occasionally, do read other people's thoughts, may I hope that you
will credit us, at least, with a sufficient knowledge of the English
language not to have entirely misunderstood your very plain letter ?
And, to believe me, when I say, that having perfectly understood
it, I answer you as plainly
"
My dearest Brother, you are
egregiously mistaken from first to last !
"
Your whole letter is
based upon a misconception, an entire ignorance of
"
missing
links,
" which alone may have given you a true key to the whole
situation. What can you mean by the following?
My dear Master.
Amongst you you are utterly spoiling Fern it is a thousand
pities for he is really a good fellow at heart and he has an
intense desire for occult knowledge and strong will and a
great capacity for self-mortification he would I am sure be
useful for your purposes ;
but his self-conceit is growing in-
230 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
tolerable and he is becoming* a confirmed fabricator of fiction
and this is due to you all. He has thoroughly humbugged
Morya! ! from the first and he has gone persistently lying to
Sinnett to keep up the delusion he has got Morya to entrust
him with secrets and to accept him as a chela and he now
thinks himself a match for anyone. . . .
Morya replies
quite falling into the trap . . . this fraud no doubt com-
menced in (y)our interests . . . etc. etc. etc.
It is unnecessary for me to repeat once more what I have said
before ; namely, that up to receiving your first letter concerning
Mr. Fern, I had never given him one moment's attention. Who
then, amongst us spoils that young gentleman? Is it Morya?
Well, it is easy to see, that you know still less of him, than he
knows, in your conceptions, of what you have in your mind.
"
He has thoroughly humbugged Morya." Has he? I am sorry
to be obliged to confess that, in accordance with your Western
code it would look rather the reverse; that it was my beloved
Brother who "
humbugged
"
Mr. Fern had not the ill-sounding
term another meaning with us, as also another name. The latter
of course, may appear to you still more "
revolting," since even
Mr. Sinnett, who is but the echo in that of every English Society
man, regards it as thoroughly revolting to the feelings of the
average Englishman. That other name is PROBATION; something
every chela who does not want to remain simply ornamental, has
nolens volens to undergo for a more or less prolonged period ;
something that for this very reason that it is undoubtedly based
upon what you Westerns would ever view as a system of humbug
or deception that I, who knew European ideas better than Morya,
have always refused to accept or even to regard any of you two
as chelas. Thus, what you have now mistaken for
"
humbug
"
as coming from Mr. Fern, you would have charged M. with it,
had you only known a little more than you do of our policy;
whereas the truth is, that one is utterly irresponsible for much he
is now doing, and that the other is carrying out that of which he
has honestly warned Mr. Fern beforehand ; that, which, if you
have read, as you say, the correspondence you must have learned
from H.P.B.'s letter to Fern from Madras, that in her jealousy
for M. 's favours, she wrote to him to Simla, hoping she would
thereby frighten him off. A chela under probation is allowed to
think and do whatever he likes. He is warned and told before-
hand :
you will be tempted and deceived by appearances ; two paths
will be open before you, both leading to the goal you are trying to
attain ;
one easy, and that will lead you more rapidly to the fulfil-
ment of orders you may receive ;
the other more arduous, more
long ;
a path full of stones and thorns that will make you stumble
more than once on your way ; and, at the end of which you may,
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 231
perhaps, find failure after all and be unable to carry out the orders
given for some particular small work, but, whereas the latter
will cause the hardships you have undergone on it to be all carried
to the side of your credit in the long run, the former, the easy
path, can offer you but a momentary gratification, an easy fulfil-
ment of the task. The chela is at perfect liberty, and often quite
justified from the standpoint of appearances to suspect his Guru
of being
" a fraud
"
as the elegant word stands. More than that :
the greater, the sincerer his indignation whether expressed in
words or boiling in his heart the more fit he is, the better qualified
to become an adept. He is free to, and will not be held to account
for using the most abusive words and expressions regarding his
guru's actions and orders, provided he comes out victorious from
the fiery ordeal ; provided he resists all and every temptation ;
rejects every allurement, and proves that nothing, not even the
promise of that which he holds dearer than life, of that most
precious boon, his future adeptship is unable to make him deviate
from the path of truth and honesty, or force him to become a
deceiver. My dear Sir, we will hardly ever agree in our ideas of
things, and even of the value of words. You have once upon a time
called us Jesuits ; and, viewing things as you do, perhaps, you were
right to a certain extent in so regarding us, since apparently our
systems of training do not differ much. But it is only externally.
As I once said before, they know that what they teach is a lie;
and we know that what we impart is truth, the only truth and
nothing but the truth. They work for the greater power and
glory (!) of their order ; we for the power and final glory of indi-
viduals, of isolated units, of humanity in general, and we are con-
tent, nay forced to leave our Order and its chiefs entirely in the
shade. They work, and toil, and deceive, for the sake of worldly
power in this life; we work and toil, and allow our chelas to be
temporarily deceived, to afford them means never to be deceived
hereafter, and to see the whole evil of falsity and untruth, not
alone in this but in many of their after lives. They the Jesuits
sacrifice the inner principle, the Spiritual brain of the ego, to feed
and develop the better the physical brain of the personal evanescent
man, sacrificing the whole humanity to offer it as a holocaust to
their Society the insatiable monster feeding on the brain and
marrow of humanity, and developing an incurable cancer on every
spot of healthy flesh it touches. We the criticized and misunder-
stood Brothers we seek to bring men to sacrifice their personality
a passing flash for the welfare of the whole humanity, hence
for their own immortal Egos, a part of the latter, as humanity is
a fraction of the integral whole, that it will one day become.
They are trained to deceive ; we to undeceive ; they do the
scavenger's work themselves barring a few poor sincere tools of
232 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
theirs con amore, and for selfish ends ; we leave it to our
menials the dugpas at our service, by giving them carte blanche
for the time being, and with the sole object of drawing out the
whole inner nature of the chela, most of the nooks and corners of
which, would remain dark and concealed for ever, were not an
opportunity afforded to test each of these corners in turn. Whether
the chela wins or loses the prize depends solely of himself. Only,
you have to remember that our Eastern ideas about
"
motives
"
and " truthfulness
M and "
honesty
" differ considerably from your
ideas in the West. Both we believe that it is moral to tell the
truth and immoral to lie; but here every analogy stops and our
notions diverge in a very remarkable degree. For instance it
would be a most difficult thing for you to tell me, how it is that
your civilized Western Society, Church and State, politics and
commerce have ever come to assume a virtue that it is quite impos-
sible for either a man of education, a statesman, a trader, or any-
one else living in the world to practice in an unrestricted sense?
Can any one of the above mentioned classes the flower of Eng-
land's chivalry, her proudest peers and most distinguished com-
moners, her most virtuous and truth speaking ladies can any of
them speak the truth, I ask, whether at home, or in Society,
during their public functions or in the family circle? What would
you think of a gentleman, or a lady, whose affable politeness of
manner and suavity of language would cover no falsehood ; who,
in meeting you would tell you plainly and abruptly what he thinks
of you, or of anyone else? And where can you find that pearl of
honest tradesmen or that god-fearing patriot, or politician, or a
simple casual visitor of yours, but conceals his thoughts the whole
while, and is obliged under the penalty of being regarded as a
brute, a madman to lie deliberately, and with a bold face, no
sooner he is forced to tell you what he thinks of you ;
unless for a
wonder his real feelings demand no concealment? All is lie, all
falsehood, around and in us, my brother; and that is why you
seemed so surprised, if not affected, whenever you find a person,
who will tell you bluntly truth to your face ;
and also why it
seems impossible for you to realize that a man may have no ill
feelings against you, nay even like and respect you for some
things, and yet tell you to your face what he honestly and sincerely
thinks of you. In noticing NTs opinion of yourself expressed in
some of his letters (you must not feel altogether so sure that
because they are in his handwriting, they are written by him,
though of course every word is sanctioned by him to serve certain
ends) you say he has
" a peculiar mode of expressing himself to
say the least." Now, that
"
way
" is simply the bare truth, which
he is ready to write to yourself, or even say and repeat to your
face, without the least concealment or change (unless he has pur-
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 233
posely allowed the expressions to be exaggerated for the same
purposes as mentioned above) ; and he is of all the men I know
just the one to do it without the least hesitation ! And for this,
you call him "
an imperious sort of chap very angry if he is
opposed," but add, that you
"
bear him for it no malice, and like
him none the less for that." Now THIS is NOT so, my brother,
and YOU KNOW IT. However, I am prepared to concede the
definition in a limited sense, and to admit and repeat with you
(and himself at my elbow) that he is a very imperious sort of chap,
and certainly very apt sometimes to become angry, especially if he
is opposed in what he knows to be right. Would you think more
of him, were he to conceal his anger ;
lo lie to himself and the out-
siders, and so permit them to credit him with a virtue he has not?
If it is a meritorious act to extirpate with the roots all feelings of
anger, so as to never feel the slightest paroxysm of a passion we
all consider sinful, it is a still greater sin with us to pretend that
it is so extirpated. Please read over the
" Elixir of Life
"
No. 2
(April, p. 169 col. i, paras. 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6). And yet in the
ideas of the West, everything is brought down to appearances
even in religion. A confessor does not inquire of his penitent
whether he felt anger, but whether he has shown anger to anyone.
" Thou shalt in lying, stealing, killing, etc. avoid being detected
"
seems to be the chief commandment of the Lord gods of civiliza-
tion Society and Public opinion. That is the sole reason why
you, who belong to it, will hardly if ever be able to appreciate
such characters as Morya's : a man as stern for himself, as severe
for his own shortcomings, as he is indulgent for the defects of
other people, not in words but in the innermost feelings of his
heart ; for, while ever ready to tell you to your face anything he
may think of you, he yet was ever a stauncher friend to you than
myself, who may often hesitate to hurt anyone's feelings, even in
speaking the strictest truth. Thus, were M. one to ever descend
to an explanation he could have told you :
"
My Brother, in my
opinion you are intensely egotistical and haughty. In your appre-
ciation and self-adulation you generally lose sight of the rest of
mankind, and I verily believe that you regard the whole universe
created for man, and that man yourself. If I cannot bear to be
opposed when I know I am right, you can bear contradiction still
less, even when your conscience plainly tells you that you are
wrong. You are unable to forget though I admit that you are
one to forgive the smallest slight. And, sincerely believing
yourself to have been so slighted, by me (sat upon as you once
expressed it) to this day the supposed offence exercises a silent
influence over all your thoughts in connexion with my humble
individual. And though your great intellect will ever prevent any
vindictive feelings from asserting themselves and thus4
over-ruling
234 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
your better nature, yet they are next without a certain influence
even over your reasoning faculties, since you find pleasure (though
you will hardly admit it to yourself) in devising means to catch
me tripping to the length of representing me in your imagination
a fool, a credulous ignoramus capable of falling into the* traps of
a Fern ! Let us reason, my Brother. Let us put entirely aside
the fact of my being an initiate, an adept and reason out the
position your imaginative faculties have created for me, like two
common mortals with a certain dose of common sense in mine,
and a great dose of the same in your head. If you are prepared
to concede me even so little, I am prepared to prove to you that
it is absurd to think that I could have been taken in in the meshes
of so poor a scheme ! You write that in order to test me, Fern
wanted to know " if
Morya wished it
(his vision) published and
Morya replies quite falling into the trap that he did wish it.
M
Now, to credit the last assertion is rather hard ;
and it needs a
man of but moderate good sense and reasoning powers to perceive
that there are two insuperable difficulties in the way of reconciling
your foregoing opinion of myself and the belief that I was actually
caught in the trap. ist : The substance and text of the vision.
In that vision there are three mysterious beings the
**
guru
"
the "Mighty one
"
and the
"
Father
"
; the latter one being
your humble servant. Now it is hard to believe unless I am
credited with faculties of a hallucinated medium that I, knowing
well that I had never approached; until then, the young gentle-
man from within a mile's distance, nor had I ever visited him in
his dreams that I should believe the reality of the vision
described, or that, at least, my suspicions should not have been
aroused by such a strange assertion.
2nd. The difficulty of reconciling the double fact of my being
tl
an imperious chap
"
who gets very angry when opposed, and,
my quiet submission to the disobedience, the rebellion of a chela
under probation, who upon learning that
"
Morya did wish it
i.e. to have his vision published and had actually promised to re-
write it, never thought of obeying the wish after that, nor had
the poor fatuous guru and " Father
"
thought any more of the
matter. Now the whole of the foregoing would be made quite
plain even to a man of an average intellect. The reverse having
happened, and a man of undoubtedly great intellectual and still
greater reasoning powers, having been caught in the poorest cob-
web of falsehoods ever imagined the conclusion is imperative and
no other can be formed : that man allowed, unknown to himself,
to have his little vindictive feeling gratified at the expense of
his logic and good sense. Buss, and we will talk no more of it.
With all that, and while openly expressing my dislike for your
haug-htiness and selfishness in many things, I franklv recoenise
PROBATION, AND CHELABHIP 235
and express my admiration for your many other admirable quali-
ties, for your sterling merits, and good sense in everything uncon-
nected directly with yourself, in which cases you become as
imperious as myself, only far more impatient and heartily hope
you will pardon me for my blunt and according to your western
code of manners rude talk. At the same time, like yourself, I
will say, that not only do I not bear you malice, and like you
none the less for that but that what I say is a strict reality, the
expression of my genuine feelings, not merely words written to
satisfy a sense of assumed duty."
And now, that I have made myself the spokesman unto you for
Morya, I may, perhaps permitted to say a few words for myself.
I will begin by reminding you, that at different times, especially
during the last two months, you have repeatedly offered yourself
as a chela, and the first duty of one is to hear without anger or
malice anything the guru may say. How can we ever teach or
you learn if we have to maintain an attitude utterly foreign to us
and our methods : that of tw Society men? If you really want
to be a chela i.e. to become the incipient of our mysteries, you have
to adapt yourself to our ways, not we to yours. Until you do
so, it is useless for you to expect any more than we can give under
ordinary circumstances. You wanted to teach Morya, and you
may find out, (and will if I am allowed by M. to have my own way)
that he has taught you one, which will either make us friends and
brothers for ever, or, if there is more of the Western gentleman in
you, than of the Eastern chela and future adept you will break with
us in disgust and perhaps proclaim it all over the world. For
this we are all prepared and are trying to hurry on the crisis one
way or the other. November is fast approaching and by that time
everything has to be settled. The second question : do not you
think good Brother, that the uncivilized, imperious chap who
would tell you his mind, honestly and for your own good, and,
at the same time would be carefully though unseen protecting
yourself, family and reputation from any possible harm aye,
brother, to the length of watching for nights and days a ruffian
Mussulman menial bent upon having his revenge of you and
actually destroying his evil plans do not you think him worth
ten times his weight in gold, a British Resident, a gentleman, who
tears down your reputation to shreds behind your back and will
smile upon and heartily shake hands with you whenever he meets
you? Do not you think that it is far nobler to say what one thinks,
and having said that even which you will naturally regard as an
impertinence and then render to the person so treated all manner
of services of which he is never likely to hear not only to find
them out than to do what the highly civilized Colonel or General
Watson and especially his lady have done, when upon seeing for
236 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
the first time in their lives the two strangers in their house
Olcott and a native judge in Baroda took a pretext to disparage
the Society because you were in it ! I will not repeat to you the
lies they were guilty of, the exaggerations and slanders directed
against you by Mrs. Watson, and corroborated by her husband
the gallant soldier, so struck and unruffled was poor Olcott, by
the unexpected attack he who feels so proud of your belonging
to the Society that he appealed in his dismay to M. Had you
heard what was told by the latter of you, how much he appre-
ciated your present work and frame of mind you would have
willingly conceded him the right of being occasionally apparently
rude. He forbade him telling any more than what he had already
told to H.P.B. and which woman-like she immediately imparted
to Mr. Sinnett though angry as she was with you at the time
even she resented the insult and offence done to you deeply and
went actually to the trouble of looking back into that past when as
Mrs. Watson said you were receiving the hospitality at their house.
Such is then, the difference between alleged well wishers and
friends of Western superior origin, and the as alleged ill-wishers
of the Eastern inferior race. Apart from this I concede to you
the right of feeling angry with M. ;
for he has done something
that though it is in strict accordance with our rules and methods,
will, when known be deeply resented by a Western mind, and,
had I known it in time to stop it, I would have certainly prevented
it from being done. It is certainly very kind of Mr. Fern to
express his intention
"
to catch" us
" not of course to expose
the Old Lady," for what has the poor
" Old Lady
" to do with
all this? But he is quite welcome to catch us and even to expose
us, not only for his and your protection but for that of the whole
world if it can in any way console him for his failure. And
fail he will, that's certain, if he goes on in that way playing a
double game. The option of receiving him or not as a regular
chela remains with the Chohan. M. has simply to have him
tested, tempted and examined by all and every means, so as to
have his real nature drawn out. This is a rule with us as inexor-
able as it is disgusting in your Western sight, and I could not
prevent it even if I would. It is not enough to know thoroughly
what the chela is capable of doing or not doing at the time and
under the circumstances during the period of probation. We
have to know of what he may become capable under different and
every kind of opportunities. Our precautions are all taken. None
of our Upasika or Yu-posah, neither H.P.B. nor O., nor even
Damodar, nor any of them can be incriminated. He is welcome
to show every letter in his possession, and to divulge that, which
was offered to him to do, (the choice between the two paths being
left at his option) and that which he has actually done, or rather
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 237
not done. When the time comes if it ever comes to his mis-
fortune we have the means to show how much of it is true, and
how much wrong* and invented by him. In the meanwhile, I have
an advice to offer. Watch and do not say a word. He was, is,
and will be tempted to do all manner of wrong things. As I
say, I knew nothing of what was going on till the other day ;
when learning that even my name was indirectly mixed in the
probation, I warned whom I had to warn, and forbid strictly my
own business being mixed up with it. Yet, he is a magnificent
subject for clairvoyance, and not at all as bad as you think him.
He is conceited but who is not? Who of us is entirely free from
this defect. He may imagine and say what he likes, but that you
should allow yourself to be so carried away with a prejudice the
existence of which you are not even prepared to admit, is sur-
passingly strange ! You sincerely crediting the statement that
M. was humbugged and caught into the trap by Mr. Fern is
something really too ludicrous, when even O. not only the
" Old
Lady
"
never believed in it, since they knew he was to be under
probation, and also knew what the thing meant. M. took pains
a few days ago, to prove to you that he was never taken in, as
you hoped, and that he laughed at the very idea; and most
certainly Olcott will give you a good proof of it, albeit he is in
the interior of Ceylon at this moment, where no letters let alone
telegrams can reach. Nor was this
" fraud
"
if you will call
it so, ever commenced in our interests, for the simple reason that
we have no interest in it but in that of Mr. Fern and the Society,
in the ideas of H.P.B. But why call it fraud? He asked her
advice, he worried and supplicated her, and she told him " Work
for the cause; try to enquire and search and so to obtain every
evidence you can of the existence of the Brothers. You see they
will not come this year, but there are plenty of Lamas descending
every year to Simla and the neighbourhood, and so, get all the
evidence you can for yourself and Mr. Hume, etc." Is there any-
thing wrong in this? When she received the MSS containing
his vision, she asked M. and he who is called in it
" the mighty
One " and the
"
Father
"
and what not, told her the truth and
then ordered her to ask Mr. Fern whether he would publish it,
telling her and O. beforehand that he would not. What Morya
knows of this and other visions, he alone knows and even I will
never interfere in his ways of training, however distasteful they
may be to me personally. The " Old Lady
" since you ask me,
will of course know nothing. But you must know that since she
went to Baroda, she has a worse opinion of Fern than even your-
self. She learned there certain things of him and of Brookes,
and heard others from the latter, he being as you know the
Baroda Mejnoor of Fern's. She is a woman though she be an
238 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
Upd-si-ka (female disciple) and except on occult matters can hardly
hold her tongue. I believe we had enough of this. Whatever
has or will yet happen it will aflect but Fern no one else.
I hear of the projected grand theosophical Conversazione and
if, at that time you are still theosophists, of course it is better that
it should be in your house. And now, I would like to say to you
a few parting words. Notwithstanding the painful knowledge I
have of your chief and almost one defect one that you have your-
self confessed to in your letter to me, 1 wish you to believe me,
my dearest Brother, when 1 say that my regard and respect for
you in all other things is great and very sincere. Nor, am I likely
to forget, whatever happens, that for many months past, with-
out expecting or asking for any reward or advantage for yourself
you have worked and toiled, day after day, for the good of the
Society and of humanity at large in the only hope of doing good.
And, I
pray you, good Brother, not to regard as
"
reproaches
"
any simple remarks of mine. If, I have argued with you, it was
because I was forced to do so, since the Chohan regarded them
(your suggestions) as something quite unprecedented ; claims, in
his position, not to be listened to for one moment. Though you
may now regard the arguments directed against you in the light
of
" undeserved reproaches/' yet you may recognise some day,
that you were really
"
wanting unreasonable concessions." The
fact that, your pressing proposals, that you (not anyone else)
should, if possible be allowed to acquire some phenomenal gift,
which would be used in convincing others, though it may be
accepted as standing simply, in its dead letter sense
"
as a sug-
gestion for (my) consideration
"
and that it,
"
in no way constituted
a claim
"
yet for anyone who could read beneath the surface of
the lines, it appeared as a definite claim, indeed. I have all your
letters, and there is hardly one that does not breathe the spirit of a
determined claim, a deserved request, i.e., a demand of that which
is due and the rejection of which gives you a right to feel your-
self wronged. I doubt not, that such was not your intention in
penning them. But such was your secret thought and that inner-
most feeling was always detected by the Chohan, whose name
you several times used, and who took note of it. You undervalue
what you got so far on the ground of inconsistency and incom-
pleteness? I have asked you : take notes of the former, beginning
with the inconsistencies as you regard them in our first argu-
ments pro and COM the existence of God and ending with the sup-
posed contradictions in respect to
"
accidents" and
"
suicides."
Send then to me and I will prove to you that there is not one for him
who knows well the whole doctrine. It is strange to accuse one,
in the full possession of his brains that on Wednesday he wrote
one thing, and on Saturday or Sunday next had all forgotten
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 239
about it and contradicted himself point blank ! I do not think
even our H.P.B. with her ridiculously impaired memory could be
guilty of such a complete oblivion. In your opinion
4 *
it is not
worth while to be working merely for the second class minds,
" and
you propose following out the line of such an argument, either to
get all, or leave of the work entirely if you cannot get out
immediately
"
a scheme of philosophy, which will bear the
scrutiny and criticism of such men as Herbert Spencer." To
this I
reply that you sin against the multitudes. It is not among
the Herbert Spencers and Darwins or the John Stuart Mills that
the millions of Spiritualists now going intellectually to the dogs
are to be found, but it is they who form the majority of the
44
second class minds/' If you had but patience, you would have
received all that you would like to get out of our speculative
philosophy meaning by
"
speculative
"
that it would have to
remain such, of course, to all but adepts. But really, my dear
brother you are not overloaded with that virtue. However I still
fail to see, why you should be disheartened with the situation.
Whatever happens, I hope you may not resent the friendly
truths you have heard from us. Why should you? Would you
resent the voice of your conscience whispering to you that you
are at times unreasonably impatient, and not at all as forbearing
as you yourself should like to be? True, you have been labouring
for the cause without remission for many months and in many
directions ;
but you must not think that because we have never
shown any knowledge of what you have been doing, nor that,
because we have never acknowledged or thanked you for it in our
letters that we are either ungrateful for, or ignore purposely or
otherwise what you have done, for it is really not so. For,
though no one ought to be expecting thanks, for doing his duty
by humanity and the cause of truth, since, after all, he who
labours for others, labours but for himself nevertheless, my
Brother I feel deeply grateful to you for what you have done. I
am not very demonstrative by nature but I do hope to prove to
you some day, that I am not an ingrate, as you think. And you
yourself, though you have been, indeed, forbearing in your letters
to me, in not complaining about what you call the flaws and incon-
sistencies in our letters, yet, you have not carried so far that
forbearance, as to leave to time and further explanations the task
of deciding whether such flaws were real or only apparently so
upon their surface. You have always complained to Sinnett and
even, in the beginning-, to Fern. If you but consented for five
minutes or so to fancy yourself- in the position of a native guru
and a European chela, you would soon perceive how monstrous
must appear any such relations as ours to a native mind ;
and you
would blame no one for disrespect. Now, pray, understand me ;
240 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
/ do not complain ; but the bare fact of your addressing me as
" Master
"
in your letters makes me the laughing-stock of all
our Tchutuktus who know anything of our mutual relations. I
would never have mentioned this fact, but that I am in a position
to demonstrate to you by enclosing here a letter from Subba Row
to myself full of excuses, and another to H.P.B. as full of sin-
cere truths t since they are both chelas, or rather disciples. I hope
I am not committing an indiscretion in the Western sense. You
will please return to me both after reading them and noting what
they say. This is sent to you in strict confidence and only for
your personal instructions. You will perceive therein, how much
you English have to undo in India, before you can* hope to do any-
thing good in the country. Meanwhile, I must close, reiterating
to you once more the assurance of my sincere regards and esteem.
Yours
K. H.
Believe me you are too severe upon and) unjust to Fern.
LETTER No. XXXI
Received London, March 26th, 1881.
It is from the depths of an unknown valley, amid the steep
crags and glaciers of Terich-Mir a vale never trodden by Euro-
pean foot since the day its parent mount was itself breathed out
from within our Mother Earth 's bosom that your friend sends
you these lines. For, it is there K.H. received your "Affec-
tionate homages,
" and there he intends passing his
"
summer
vacations." A letter
"
from the abodes of eternal snow and
purity
" sent to and received
"
At the abodes of vice
"
! . . .
Queer, nf
est-ce pas? Would, or rather could I be with you at
those " abodes "? No; but I was at several different times,
elsewhere, though neither in
" astral
" nor in any other tangible
form, but simply in thought. Does not satisfy you? Well, well,
you know the limitations I am subjected to in your case, and you
must have patience.
Your future book is a little jewel ; and, small and tiny as it is,
it may, one day, be found to soar as high as Mount Everest over
your Simla hills. Among all other works of that class, in the
wild jungle of Spiritualistic literature, it shall undoubtedly prove
the Redeemer, offered as a sacrifice for the sin of the world of
Spiritualists. They will begin by rejecting nay vilifying it;
but, it will find its faithful twelve and the seed thrown by your
hand into the soil of speculation will not grow up as a weed. So
PROBATION, AND CHELAgHIP 241
far may be promised. You are oft too cautious. You remind
too often the reader of your ignorance ;
and presenting but as a
modest theory, that, which at the bottom of your heart you know
and feel to be an axiom, a primary truth instead of helping, you
but perplex him and create doubt. But it is a spirited and dis-
criminative little memoir, and, as a critical estimate of the phe-
nomena witnessed by you personally far more useful than Mr.
Wallace's work. It is at this sort of springs that Spiritualists
ought to be compelled to slake their thirst for phenomena and
mystic knowledge instead of being left to swallow the idiotic gush
they find in the Banners of Light and others. The world mean-
ing that of individual existences is full of those latent meanings
and deep purposes which underlie all the phenomena of the
Universe, and Occult Sciences i.e., reason elevated to super-
sensuous Wisdom can alone furnish the key wherewith to unlock
them to the intellect. Believe me, there comes a moment in the
life of an adept, when the hardships he has passed through are
a thousandfold rewarded. In order to acquire further knowledge,
he has no more to go through a minute and slow process of in-
vestigation and comparison of various objects, but is accorded an
instantaneous, implicit insight into every first truth. Having
passed that stage of philosophy which maintains that all funda-
mental truths have sprung from a blind impulse it is the phil-
osophy of your Sensationalists or Positivists ; and left far behind
him that other class of thinkers the Intellectualists or Skeptics
who hold that fundamental truths are derived from the intellect
alone, and that we, ourselves, are their only originating causes ;
the adept sees and feels and lives in the very source of all funda-
mental truths the Universal Spiritual Essence of Nature, SHIVA
the Creator, the Destroyer, and the Regenerator. As Spiritualists
of to-day have degraded
"
Spirit," so have the Hindus degraded
Nature by their anthropomorphistic conceptions of it. Nature
alone can incarnate the Spirit of limitless contemplation.
*'
Absorbed in the absolute self-unconsciousness of physical Self,
plunged in the depths of true Being, which is no being but
eternal, universal Life," his whole form as immoveable and white
as the eternal summits of snow in Kailasa where he sits, above
care, above sorrow, above sin and worldliness, a mendicant, a
sage, a healer, the King of Kings, the Yogi of Yogis," such is
the ideal Shiva of Yoga Shastras the culmination of Spiritual
Wisdom. . . .
Oh, ye Max Mullers and Monier Williamses,
what have ye done with our Philosophy !
But you can hardly be expected to enjoy or even understand the
above phanerosis of our teachings. Pardon me. I write but
seldom letters; and whenever compelled to do so follow rather
my own thoughts than strictly hold to the subject I ought to
THE MAHATMA LETTERS
have in view. I have laboured for more than a quarter of a cen-
tury night and day to keep my place within the ranks of that
invisible but ever busy army which labours and prepares for a
task which can bring no reward but the consciousness that we are
doing our duty to humanity ; and, meeting you on my way I have
tried to do not fear, not to enroll you, for that would be im-
possible, but to simply draw your attention, excite your curiosity
if not your better feelings to the one and only truth. You
proved faithful and true, and have done your best. If your efforts
will teach the world but one single letter from the alphabet of
Truth that Truth which once pervaded the whole world your
reward will not miss you. And now that you have met the
"
mystics
"
of Paris and London what do you think of them? . . .
Yours,
K. H.
p.S. Our hapless
"
Old Lady
" is sick. Liver, kidneys, head,
brain, legs, every organ and limb shows fight and snaps its fingers
at her efforts to ignore them. One of us will have to
"
fix her
"
as our worthy Mr. Olcott says, or it will fare bad with her.
LETTER No. XXXII
I am sorry for all that has happened, but it was to be expected.
Mr. Hume has put his foot in a hornet's nest and must not com-
plain. If my confession has not altered your feelings I am deter-
mined not to influence you and therefore will not look your way
to find out how the matter stands with you, my friend and if
you are not entirely disgusted with our system and ways ;
if in
short it is still your desire to carry on a correspondence and learn,
something must be done to check the irresponsible
"
Benefactor."
I prevented her sending to Hume a worse letter than she wrote
to yourself. I cannot force her to transmit his letters to me nor
mine to him ;
and since it is no longer possible for me to trust
Fern, and that G.K. can hardly be sacrificed with any sense of
justice, to a man who is utterly unable to appreciate any service
rendered except his own, what shall we do about it? Since we
have mixed ourselves with the outside world, we have no right to
suppress the personal opinion of its individual members, nor
eschew their criticisms, however unfavourable to us hence the
positive order to H.P.B. to publish Mr. Hume's article. Only, as
we would have the world see both sides of the question, we have
also allowed the joint protest of Deb, Subba Row, Damqdar and
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 243
a few other chelas to follow his criticism of ourselves and our
System in the Theosophist.
I gave you but hints of what at some other time I will write
more at length. Think in the meantime of the difficulties that lie
naturally in our way, and let us not, if your friendship for me is
sincere, by struggling with our chains, make them straiter
and heavier. For my part I will run willingly the hazard of being
thought a self-contradicting ignoramus, and criticized in un-
measured terms by Mr. Hume in print, provided you really profit
by the tuition, and share from time to time your knowledge with
the world. But to give you my thoughts without disguise I am
never like to risk myself again with any other European but your-
self. As you now see, connection with the outside world, can
bring but sorrow to those who so faithfully serve us, and dis-
credit to our Brotherhood. No Asiatic is ever likely to be affected
by Mr. Hume's egotistical thrusts against us (the result of my last
letter, and of the promise exacted that he will write to me more
rarely and less than he has done) but these thrusts and criticisms
that the European readers will accept as a revelation and a con-
fession, without ever suspecting from whence they have arisen
and by what a deeply egotistical feeling they have been generated
these thrusts are calculated to do a great harm in a direction
you have not hitherto dreamt of. Resolved not to lose so useful a
tool (useful in one direction, of course) the Chohan permitted
himself to be over-persuaded by us, into giving sanction to my
intercourse with Mr. Hume. I had pledged my word to him that
he had repented, was a changed man. And now how shall I
ever face my Great Master, who is laughed at, made the object of
Mr. Hume's wit, called Rameses the Great, and such like in-
decent remarks? And he used terms in his letters, the brutal
grossness of which prevents me from repeating them, which have
revolted my soul when I read them ;
words so filthy as to pollute
the very air that touched them, and that I hastened to send to you
with the letter that contained it, so as not to have those pages in
my house, full of young and innocent chelas, that I would prevent
from ever hearing such terms.
Then you yourself, my friend influenced in this by him more
than you know or suspect of you yourself deduce but too readily
from incompleteness "contradiction." The novelty or inexplic-
able aspect of any asserted fact in our science is not a sufficient
reason for setting it
immediately down as a contradiction, and
proclaim as Hume does in his article that he could teach in one
week that which he succeeded in drawing out of us in eighteen
months, for your knowledge is as yet so limited that it would be
difficult for him to say how much we do or do not know.
But I have lingered too long over this irrational, unphilosophi-
244 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
cal and illogical attack upon ourselves and System. One day we
will show the invalidity of the objections preferred by Mr. H. He
may be regarded as a sapient councillor in the municipality, but
he could hardly be regarded in such a light by us. He accuses
me of giving through him "
false ideas and facts
M
to the world ;
and adds that he would willingly keep aloof from break with us
but for his desire of benefitting the world !
Verily a most easy
method of burking all the sciences, for there is not one in which
44
false facts
"
and wild theories do not abound. Only while the
Western Sciences make confusion still more confused our Science
explains all the seeming discrepancies and reconciles the wildest
theories.
However, if you do not bring him to his senses there will be
soon an end to all this time irrevocable. I need not assure you
of my sincere regard for you and our gratitude for what you have
for the Society here indirectly for us two. Whatever happens,
I am at your service. I would, could I but see my way, do all
that can be done for your friend Colonel Chesney. For your sake,
if the crisis is avoided and the black cloud blows off I will in-
struct him as far as I can. But may it not be too late?
Yours in good faith,
K. H.
LETTER No. XXXIII
K.H. Letter received through M, shown to A.B.
I am sincerely afraid that you may have been perplexed by the
apparent contradiction between the notes received by you from
my Brother M. and myself. Know my friend that in our world
though we may differ in methods we can never be opposed in
principles of action and the broadest and most practical application
of the idea of the Brotherhood of Humanity is not incompatible
with your dream of establishing a nucleus of honest scientific
enquirers of good repute, who would give weight to the T.S.
organization in the eyes of the multitude, and serve as a shield
against the ferocious and idiotic attack of sceptics and materialists.
There are even among English men of Science those who are
already prepared to find our teachings in harmony with the results
and progress of their own researches, and who are not indifferent
to their application to the spiritual needs of humanity at large.
Amongst these it may be your task to throw the seeds of Truth
and point out the path. Yet as my brother reminded you, not one
of those who have only tried to help on the work of the Society,
however imperfect and faulty their ways and means, will have done
PROBATION, AND CHELA8HIP 245
so in vain. The situation shall be more fully explained to you by
and by.
Meanwhile use every effort to develop such relations with A.
Besant that your work may run on parallel lines and in full
sympathy ; an easier request than some of mine with which you
have ever loyally complied. You may, if you see fit show this
note to her, only. In travelling- your own thorny path I say again
courage and hope. This is not an answer to your letter.
Yours ever truly,
K. H.
LETTER No. XXXIV
It is positively distressing
1
to find oneself so systematically mis-
understood, one's intentions misconceived, and the whole plan
imperilled by this endless hurrying on. Are we never then to be
granted any credit for knowing- what we are about, or allowed
the benefit of the doubt in the absence of any reasonable proof
whatever that we have determined to
" bar the progress" of the
Theos :
Society ? Mr. Hume maintains that he does not say
" K.H. or any other brother is wrong
" withal every line of his
numerous letters to myself and H.P.B. breathes the spirit of com-
plaint and bitter accusation. I tell you, my good friend, he will
never be satisfied do what we may ! And as, we cannot consent
to over flood the world at the risk of drowning them, with a
doctrine that has to be cautiously given out, and bit by bit like a
too powerful tonic which can kill as well as cure the result will
be a reaction in that insatiable craving of his, and then well you
yourself know the consequences. Enclosed two letters written
and addressed to her with an eye to myself. Well, we can do no
better for the present. The Society will never perish as an institu-
tion, although branches and individuals in it may. I have done
to humour him lately more than I have ever done for you ;
and you
may judge of the situation in the chaotic but on the whole reason-
able remarks that H.P.B. addresses to-day to Mr. H.
We must be left to judge for ourselves and be permitted to be
the best judges. Everything will be explained and given out, in
good time if we are but allowed our own ways. Otherwise, rather
give up the Eclectic. I had volumes from him during the past
week ! I send you a few notes through her. Keep this con-
fidential
Yours,
K. H.
246 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
LETTER No. XXXV
Letter from K.H. Received Allahabad, March i8th, 1882.
You did not quite apprehend the meaning of my note, good
friend, of March 1 1th. I said it was easy to produce phenomena,
when the necessary conditions were given, but not that even
the presence of Olcott and %
Mallapura at your house brought
such an accession of force as would suffice for the tests you
propose.
These latter were reasonable enough from your point of view,
I do not at all blame you for asking them. I, myself, would
perhaps wish you to have them for your personal gratification,
not that of the public for, as you know, conviction in these
cases must be reached by individual experience. Secondhand
testimony never really satisfied any but a credulous (or rather
non-sceptical) mind. No Spiritualist who should read in your
second edition even a narrative of the very tests you have
named to me, would for one moment ascribe the facts to aught
but mediumship; and your lady and yourself would probably
be included by them in the sum of the mediumistic factors.
Fancy that ! No bide your time; you are slowly gathering
together the materials for what we here call, as you know, real
dgiii, make the best of it. It is not physical phenomena that
will ever bring conviction to the hearts of the unbelievers in the
Brotherhood
"
but rather phenomena of intellectuality, phil-
osophy and logic, if I may so express it. See
*'
Spirit teachings"
by + as given out by Oxon the most intellectual as the best
educated of all mediums. Read and pity! Do you not see
then where we are
'*
driving at
"
as O. says? Do you not
realize that were it not for your exceptional intellect and the
help to be derived therefrom the Chohan would have long ago
closed every door of communication between us? Yes, read
and study, my friend; for there is an object. You seemed an-
noyed, disappointed, when reading the words,
**
Impossible :
no power here, will write through Bombay." Those eight
words will have cost me eight days recuperative work in the
state I am in at present. But you ^nou> not what I mean; you
are absolved.
You will not disguise from yourself the difficulties of working
out your scheme of
"
Degrees." I wanted you to develop it
at your leisure,
"
as the spirit moved you." For even though
you should not quite succeed in forming a scheme that would
fit the needs of Asia and Europe, you might hit upon something
that would be good for either the one or the other, and another
hand might then supply the lacking portion. Asiatics are so poor,
as a rule, and books are so inaccessible to them in these de-
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 247
generate days, that you can see plainly how different a plan
of intellectual culture in preparation for practical experiments
to unfold psychic power in themselves must be thought. In
the olden time, this want was supplied by the Guru, who guided
the chela through the difficulties of childhood and youth, and
afforded him in oral teaching as much as, or more than through
books the food for mental and psychic growth. The want of
such a
*'
guide, philosopher and friend," (and who so well de-
serves the tripartite title?) can never be supplied, try as you
may. All you can do is to prepare the intellect : the impulse
toward
**
soul-culture
"
must be furnished by the individual.
Thrice fortunate they who can break through the vicious circle
of modern influence and come up above the vapours I
To recur to your Degrees : Are you not drawing the lines too
vaguely between the first three or four groups? What test do
you apply to decide their respective mental states. How guard
against mere
'*
cramming? and copying? and substitute writ-
ing?'* Many clever Jesuits might pass all your Degrees, even
up to the 6th and 7th : would you, then, admit him into the
second section? Remember the lessons of the past and Carter
Black. It is quite possible as Moorad Ali Bey said and Olcott
confirmed to you for one who had passed the first five stages
to acquire
**
occult faculties
"
in the 6th. Nay, it can be done
without the help of either by adopting either the method of
the Arhats, the Dasturs, the Yogis, or the Sufis; among each of
which groups of mystics there have been many who did not
even read or write. If the psychic idiosyncracy is lacking, no
culture will supply it. And the highest theoretical as also
practical school of this kind, is that one in which we associates
your interested correspondents were taught.
All that precedes has been said not for your discouragement
but as a stimulus. If you are a true Anglo-Saxon, no obstacle
will daunt your zeal; and unless my Eye has been dimmed this
is your character au fond. We have one word for all aspirants :
TRY.
And now, to your laugh in September last as to the imaginary
dangers to him who produces phenomena, dangers growing in
size in proportion to the magnitude of the phenomena so
produced, and the impossibility to refute them. Remember
the proposed test of the Times to be brought here. My good
friend, if the trifling phenomena (for they are trifling in com-
parison with what could and might be done) shown by Eglington
provoked such bitter hatred evoking before him scenes of im-
prisonment owing to false witnesses what would not be the fate
of the poor
"
Old Lady
"
! You are yet barbarians with all
your boasted civilization.
248 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
And now to Morya. (This strictly between us and you must
not breathe it even to Mrs. Gordon). Eglington was preparing
to depart leaving on poor Mrs. G. mind the fear that she had
been deceived; that there were no
"
Brothers
"
since Eglington
had denied their existence and that the
"
Spirits
"
were silent
as to that problem. Last week then M., stalking in, into the
motley crowd took the spooks by the skin of their throats and,
the result was the unexpected admission of the Brothers, the
actual existence and the honour claimed of a personal acquaint-
ance with the
"
Illustrious." The lesson for you and others,
derived from the above, may be useful in future events having
to grow and to develop.
Yours faithfully,
K.H.
LETTER No. XXXVI
Received about January, 1882.
My impatient friend allow me, as one having some authority in
your theosophical mella, to empower you to
"
ignore the rules
"
for a short time. Make them fill
up the forms and initiate the
candidates right away. Only whatever you do, do it without
delay. Remember, you are the only one now. Mr. Hume is
fully engrossed in his index and expects me to write to him and
make puja first. I am rather too tall for him to reach so easily
as that my head if he has any intention to cover it with the
ashes of contrition. Nor will I put a sack-cloth to show repent-
ance for what I have done. If he writes and puts questions all
well and good I'll answer them if not I will keep my lectures
for someone else. Time is no object with me.
Had your letter. I know your difficulties. Will see to them.
Great will be the disappointment of K.H. if
upon returning to
us he finds so little progress done. You you are sincere, others
put their pride above all. Then those Prayag theosophists the
Pundits and Babus !
They do naught and expect us to correspond
with them. Fools and arrogant men.
M.
LETTER No. XXXVII
Received at Allahabad, January, 1882.
,o- Private.
Honoured Sir,
The Master has awaked and bids me write. To his great regret
for certain reasons He will not be able until a fixed period has
PBOBATION, AND CHELASHIP 249
passed to expose Himself to the thought currents inflowing so
strongly from beyond the Himavat. I am therefore, commanded
to be the hand to indite His message. I am to tell you that He
is
"
quite as friendly to you as heretofore and well satisfied with
both your good intentions and even their execution so far as it lay
in your power. You have proved your affection and sincerity by
your zeal. The impulse you have personally given to the Cause
we love, will not be checked ;
therefore the fruits of it (the word
" reward
" is avoided being used but for the "
goody-goody ") will
not be withheld when your balance of causes and effects your
Karma is adjusted. In unselfishly and at personal risk labouring
for your neighbour, you have most effectually worked for yourself.
One year has wrought a great change in your heart. The man
of 1880 would scarcely recognise the man of 1881 were they con-
fronted. Compare them, then, good friend and Brother, that you
may fully realize what time has done, or rather what you have
done with time. To do this meditate alone, with the magic
mirror of memory to gaze into. Thus shall you not only see the
lights and shadows of the Past, but the possible brightness of the
Future, as well. Thus, in time, will you come to see the Ego of
aforetime in its naked reality. And thus also you shall hear from
me direct at the earliest, practicable opportunity, for we are not
ungrateful and even Nirvana cannot obliterate GOOD."
These are the Master's words, as with His help I am enabled
to frame them in your language, honoured Sir. I am personally
permitted, at the same time to thank you very warmly for the
genuine sympathy which you felt for me at the time when a
slight accident due to my forgetfulness laid me on my bed of
sickness.
Though you may have read in the modern works on mesmerism
how, that which we call
" Will-Essence " and you
" fluid
" is
transmitted from the operator to his objective point, you perhaps
scarcely realize how everyone is practically, albeit unconsciously,
demonstrating this law every day and every moment. Nor, can
you quite realize how the training for adeptship increases both
one's capacity to emit and to feel this forme of force. I assure
you that I, though but a humble chela as yet, felt your good
wishes flowing to me as the convalescent in the cold mountains
feels from the gentle breeze that blows upon him from the plains
below.
I am also to tell you that in a certain Mr. Bennett of America
who will shortly arrive at Bombay, you may recognise one, who,
in spite of his national provincialism, that you so detest, and his
too infidelistic bias, is one of our agents (unknown to himself) to
carry out the scheme for the enfranchisement of Western thoughts
from superstitious creeds. If you can see your way towards
250 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
giving him a correct idea of the actual present and potential future
state of Asiatic but more particularly of Indian thought, it will
be gratifying to my Master. He desires me to let you know, at
the same time, that you should not feel such an exaggerated
delicacy about taking out the work left undone from Mr. Hume's
hands. That gentleman chooses to do but what suits his personal
fancy without any regard whatever to the feelings of other people.
His present work also a pyramid of intellectual energy misspent
his objections and reasons, are all calculated but to exonerate
himself only. Master regrets to find in him the same spirit of
utter, unconscious selfishness with no view to the good of the
Cause he represents. If he seems interested in it at all, it is
because he is opposed and finds himself roused to combativeness.
Thus the answer to Mr. Terry's letter sent to him from Bombay
ought to have been published in the January number. Will you
kindly to see to it Master asks? Master thinks you can do it
as well as Mr. Hume if you but tried, as the metaphysical faculty
in you, is only dormant but would fully develop were you but to
awake it to its full action by constant use. As to our reverenced
M : he desires me to assure you that the secret of Mr. Hume's
professed love for Humanity lies in, and is based upon, the chance
presence in that word of the first syllable; as for
"
mankind
" he
has no sympathy for it.
Since Master will not be able to write to you himself for a month
or two longer (though you will always hear of him) He begs you
to proceed for his sake with your metaphysical studies ;
and not
to be giving up the task in despair whenever you meet with in-
comprehensible ideas in M. Sahib's notes, the more so, as M.
Sahib's only hatred in his life, is for writing. In conclusion
Master sends you His best wishes and praying you may not forget
Him, orders me to sign myself, your obedient servant,
THE " DISINHERITED."
P. S. Should you desire to write to Him though unable to
answer Himself Master will receive your letters with pleasure ; you
can do so through D. K. Mavalankar.
44
Do."
LETTER No. XXXVIII
Received Allahabad. About February, 1882.
Your "
illustrious
"
friend did not mean to be
"
satirical,"
whatever other construction might be put on his words. Your
"
illustrious
" friend was simply feeling sad at the thought of
the great disappointment K,H, is sure to experience when he
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 251
returns among us. The first retrospective glance at the work he
has so much at heart, will show him such samples of mutual feel-
ing exchanged as the two herein enclosed. The undignified,
bitter, sarcastic tone of one will give him as little cause to rejoice
as the undignified, foolish and childish tone of the other. I would
have left the subject untouched had you not so misunderstood the
feeling that dictated my last. It is better I should be frank with
you. The term
"
Highness
" to which I am not in the least
entitled is far more suggestive of satire than anything I have
hitherto said. Yet as
"
no epithet will hang to the shirt-collar of
a Bod-pa
" I heed it not advising you to do the same and see no
satire where none is meant and which is but frankness in speech,
and the correct definition of the general state of your feelings
toward the natives.
Your solicitor knows better of course. If the paragraph in
question is not libellous then all I can say is, that a complete re-
codification of your libel law is very much needed.
You will certainly have trouble with her about the
"
female
branch." Her scorn for the sex has no bounds and she can
hardly be persuaded that any good can ever come from that
quarter. I will be frank with you again. Neither myself nor
any of us K.H. being entirely left out of the question would
consent to become the founders, let alone the conductors of a
female branch we all having had enough of our anis. Yet we
confess that a great good may result of such a movement, the
females having such an influence over their children and the men
in the houses, you being such an old and experienced hand in that
direction could with Mr. Hume's help be of immense use to K.H.,
from within the area of whose "
loveable nature," with the ex-
ception of his sister females were always excluded and love for
his country and humanity reigned alone. He knows nothing of
the creatures you do. He always felt the need of enrolling
women yet would never meddle with them. There's a chance
for you to help him.
On the other hand we claim to know more of the secret cause
of events than you men of the world do. I
say then that it is the
vilification and abuse of the founders, the general misconception
of the aims and objects of the Society that paralyses its progress
nothing else. There's no want of definitiveness in these objects
were they but properly explained. The members would have
plenty to do were they to pursue reality with half the fervour they
do mirage. I am sorry to find you comparing Theosophy to a
painted house on the stage whereas in the hands of true philan-
thropists and theosophists it might become as strong as an
impregnable fort. The situation is this : men who join the Society
with the one selfish object of reaching power making occult
252 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
science their only or even chief aim may as well not join it they
are doomed to disappointment as much as those who commit the
mistake of letting them believe that the Society is nothing else.
It is just because they preach too much '*
the Brothers
" and too
little if at all Brotherhood that they fail. How many times had
we to repeat, that he who joins the Society with the sole object of
coming in contact with us and if not of acquiring at least of
assuring himself of the reality of such powers and of our objec-
tive existence was pursuing a mirage? I say again then. It is
he alone who has the love of humanity at heart, who is capable
of grasping thoroughly the idea of a regenerating practical
Brotherhood who is entitled to the possession of our secrets. He
alone, such a man will never misuse his powers, as there will be
no fear that he should turn them to selfish ends. A man who
places not the good of mankind above his own good is not worthy
of becoming our chela he is not worthy of becoming higher in
knowledge than his neighbour. If he craves for phenomena let
him be satisfied with the pranks of spiritualism. Such is the real
state of things. There was a time, when from sea to sea, from
the mountains and deserts of the north to the grand woods and
downs of Ceylon, there was but one faith, one rallying cry to
save humanity from the miseries of ignorance in the name of Him
who taught first the solidarity of all men. How is it now?
Where is the grandeur of our people and of the one Truth?
These, you may say, are beautiful visions which were once
realities on earth, but had flitted away like the light of a summer's
evening. Yes; and now we are in the midst of a conflicting
people, of an obstinate, ignorant people seeking to know the
truth, yet not able to find it for each seeks it only for his own
private benefit and gratification, without giving one thought to
others. Will you, or rather they, never see the true meaning and
explanation of that great wreck and desolation which has come to
our land and threatens all lands yours first of all? It is selfish-
ness and exclnsiveness that killed ours, and it
[is] selfishness and
exclusiveness that will kill yours which has in addition some
other defects which I will not name. The world has clouded the
light of true knowledge, and selfishness will not allow its resur-
rection, for it excludes and will not recognise the whole fellow-
ship of all those who were born under the same immutable natural
law.
You are mistaken again. I
may blame your
M
curiosity
" when
I know it to be profitless. I am unable to regard as an
II
impertinence
M that which is but the free use of intellectual
capacities for reasoning. You may see things in a false light and
you do often so see them. But you do not concentrate all the
light in yourself as some do, and that's one superior quality you
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 253
possess over other Europeans we know. Your affection for K.H.
is sincere and warm and that is your redeeming quality in my
eyes. Why should you then await my reply with any
"
nervous-
ness
"
at all. Whatever happens we two will ever remain your
friends, as we would not blame sincerity even when it is mani-
fested under the somewhat objectionable form of trampling upon
a prostrated enemy the hapless Babu.
Yours,
M.
LETTER No. XXXIX
Received Allahabpd, about February, 1882.
If my advice is sought and asked, then first of all the real and
true situation has to be defined. My
" Arhat " vows are pro-
nounced, and I can neither seek revenge nor help others to obtain
it. I can help her with cash only when I know that not a mace,
not a fraction of a tael will be spent upon any unholy purpose :
and revenge is unholy. But we have defence and she has a right
to it. Defence and full vindication she must have, and that is
why I telegraphed to offer option before proceeding to file a suit.
Demand retraction and threaten with a law suit she has a right ;
and she can also institute proceedings for he will retract. For
that reason have I laid a stress upon the necessity of an article
touching upon no other subject but that of the alleged
" debt."
This alone will prove sufficient to frighten the traducer for it will
reveal him before the public as a
"
slanderer
"
and show to him-
self that he was in the wrong box. The mistake is due to the very
illegible and ugly handwriting of Macoliffe (a caligrapher and
scribe of my kind) who sent in the information to Statesman.
This was a lucky mistake for on that may be built the whole vindi-
cation if you act wisely. But the most has to be made of it now
or you will lose the opportunity. So, if you condescend once
more to take my advice since you have opened the first shot in
Pioneer, seek out the accounts in Theosophist and on that data
and the Tuesday article write for her a nice pungent letter signed
with her name and Olcott's. This can be published first in the
Pioneer or, if you object to it in some other paper but at all
events they will have to print it in the form of a circular letter and
send it to every paper in the land. Demand retraction in it
from Statesman and threaten with law suit. If you do that I
promise success.
The Odessa Old Lady the Nadijda is quite anxious for your
autograph that of
l4
a great and celebrated writer
" she says she
254 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
was very undisposed to part with your letter to the General but
had to send you a proof of her own identity. Tell her I the
"
Khosyayin
'*
(her niece's Khosyayin she called me as I went to
see her thrice) gossiped the thing to you advising you to write
to her furnishing her thus with your autograph also send back
through H.P.B. her portraits as soon as shown to your lady, for
she at Odessa is very anxious to have them back especially the
young face. . . . That's her, as I knew her first
"
the lovely
maiden."
I'm a little busy just now but will furnish you with explanatory
appendix as soon as at leisure say in two three days. The
"
Illustrious
" will look to all that needs watching. What about
Mr. Hume's superb address? Can't you have it ready for your
January Number? Ditto your editorial answer to Spiritualist's
editorial. Hope y'll not accuse me of any desire to sit upon you
nor will you view my humble request in any other light than the
true one. My object is twofold to develop your metaphysical
intuitions and help the journal by infusing into it a few drops of
real literary good blood. Your three articles are certainly praise-
worthy, the points well taken and as far as I can judge calcu-
lated to arrest the attention of every scholar and metaphysician
especially the ist. Later on you will learn more about creation.
Meanwhile I have to create my dinner you would scarcely like
it I'm afraid.
M.
Your youn.g friend the Disinherited is on his legs again.
Would you really care for his writing to you? In such case,
better ventilate in Pioneer the question as to the advisability of
coming to terms with China in regard to the establishment of a
regular postal service between Prayag and Tzigadzi.
LETTER No. XL
Received about February, 1882.
To your first there's little to answer :
"
Can you do anything
to help on the Society?
"
Want me to speak frankly? Well I
say No : neither yourself nor the Lord Sang-yias Himself so long
as the equivocal position of the Founders is not perfectly and
undeniably proved due to fiendish malice and a systematic in-
trigue could help it on. That's the situation as I found it, as
ordered by the chiefs. Watch the papers all except two or three ;
the
"
dear old lady
"
ridiculed when not positively libelled, Olcott
attacked by all the hell-hounds of the press and missions. A
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 255
pamphlet headed
"
Theosophy
"
printed and circulated by the
Christians at Tinevelly October 2jrd on the day of O.'s arrival
there with the Buddhist delegates a pamphlet containing the
Saturday Review article and another filthy, heavy attack by an
American paper. The C. and M. of Lahore hardly missing a day
without having some attack and other papers reprinting them,
etc., etc. You English have your notions we have our own
upon the subject. If you keep the clean kerchief in your pocket
and throw but the soiled one into the crowd who will pick it up?
Enough. We must have patience and do what, meanwhile, we
can. My opinion is, that if
your Rattigan is not quite a scoundrel,
one of his papers having thrown and throwing daily dishono
upon an innocent woman, he would be the first to suggest you
the idea of translating and publishing her uncle's letters (to you
and herself) in the Pioneer; with a few words in a leader, to say,
that a still more substantial official proof is shortly expected from
the Prince D. which will settle the vexed question as to her
identity for ever at rest. But you know best. This idea may
have struck you; but will it ever be seen in such a light by
others?
Suby Ram a truly good man yet a devotee of another error.
Not his guru's voice his own. The voice of a pure, unselfish,
earnest soul, absorbed in misguided, misdirected mysticism. Add
to it a chronic disorder in that portion of the brain which responds
to clear vision and the secret is soon told : that disorder was
developed by forced visions ; by hatha yog and prolonged
asceticism. S. Ram is the chief medium and at same time the
principal magnetic factor, who spreads his disease by infection
unconsciously to himself; who innoculates with his vision all the
other disciples. There is one general law of vision (physical and
mental or spiritual) but there is a qualifying special law proving
that all vision must be determined by the quality or grade of man's
spirit and soul, and also by the ability to translate divers qualities of
waves of astral light into consciousness. There is but one general
law of life, but innumerable laws qualify and determine the
myriads of forms perceived and of sounds heard. There are those
who are willingly and others who are unwillingly blind. Mediums
belong to the former, sensitives to the latter. Unless regularly
initiated and trained concerning the spiritual insight of things
and the supposed revelations made unto man in all ages from
Socrates down to Swedenborg and "
Fern
" no self-tutored seer
or clairaudient ever saw or heard quite correctly.
No harm and much instruction may come to you by joining his
Society. Go on until he demands what you will be obliged to
refuse. Learn and study. You are right :
they say and affirm
that the one and only God of the Universe was incarnated in their
256 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
guru, and were such an individual to exist he would certainly be
higher than any
"
planetary." But they are idolaters, my friend.
Their guru was no initiate only a man of extraordinary purity of
life and powers of endurance. He had never consented to give
up his notions of a personal god and even gods though offered
more than once. He was born an orthodox Hindu and died a
self-reformed Hindu, something like Kechub-Ch-Sen but higher
purer and with no ambition to taint his bright soul. Many of us
have regretted his self-delusion but he was too good to be forcibly
interfered with. Join them and learn but remember your sacred
promise to K.H. Two months more and he will be with us. I
think of sending her to you. I believe you could persuade her
for I do not wish to use my authority in this case.
M.
LETTER No. XLI
Received about February, 1882.
I believe verily I am unfit to express my ideas clearly in your
language. I never thought of giving any importance to the
circular letter I had asked you to draft for them appearing in
the Pioneer, or ever meant to imply that it should so appear. I
had asked you to compose it for them, send your drafted copy to
Bombay and make them issue it as a circular letter ; which, once
out, and on its round in India might be copied in your journal as
other papers would be sure to copy it. Her letter E.G. was
foolish, childish and silly. I have overlooked it. But you must
not so labour under the impression that it will undo all the good
yours has done. There are a few sensitive persons on whose
nerves it will jar, but the rest will never appreciate its true spirit ;
nor is it in any way libellous only vulgar and foolish. I will
force her to stop.
At the same time I must say she suffers acutely and I am
unable to help her for all this is effect from causes which cannot
be undone occultism in theosophy. She has now to either con-
quer or die. When the hour comes she will be taken back to
Tibet. Do not blame the poor woman, blame me. She is but a
41
shell
"
at times and I, often careless in watching her. If the
laugh is not turned on the Statesman the ball will be caught up
by other papers and Hung at her again.
Do not feel despondent. Courage my good friend and remem-
ber you are working off by helping her your own law of retri-
bution for more than one cruel fling she receives is due to K.H. '3
PBOBATION, AND CHELASHIP 257
friendship for you, for his using her as the means of communi-
cation. But Courage.
I saw the lawyer's papers and perceive he is averse to taking
up the case. But for the little he is needed for, he will do. No
law suit will help but publicity in the matter of vindication as
much as in the question of accusation 10,000 circular letters sent
throughout to prove the accusations false.
Yours till the morrow.
M.
LETTER No. XLII1
Received about February, 1882.
I say again what you like me not to say, namely that no regular
instruction, no regular communication is possible between us
before our mutual path is cleared of its many impediments. The
greatest being the public misconception about the Founders. For
your impatience you cannot nor will you be blamed. But if
you
fail to make a profitable use of your newly-acquired privileges,
you would indeed be unworthy, friend. Three, four weeks more
and I will retire to give room with you all, to him to whom that
room belongs, and whose place I could but very unadequately
occupy, for I am neither a scribe nor a Western scholar. Whether
the Chohan finds yourself and Mr. Hume more qualified than he
did before to receive instructions through us is another question.
But you ought to prepare for it. For much remains yet to break
forth. You perceived, hitherto but the light of a new day you
may, if you try, see with K.H.'s help the sun of full noon-day
when it reaches its meridian. But you have to work for it, work
for the shedding of light upon other minds through yours. How,
will you say? Hitherto of you two, Mr. H. was positively
antagonistic to our advice, you passively resisting it at times
often yielding against what you conceived your better judgment
such is my answer. The results were what they had to be
expected. No good or very little came out of a kind of spas-
modic defence the solitary defence of a friend presumably pre-
judiced in favour of those whose champion he had come out and
a member of the Society. Mr. Hume would never listen to
K.H.'s suggestion of a lecture in his house during which he
might have well disabused the public mind of a part of the pre-
judice at least, if not entirely. You thought it was unnecessary
to publish and spread among the readers as to who she was.
1 This letter is unsigned but is in M.'s handwriting. ED.
258 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
Think ye, Prinrose and Rattigan are likely to spread the know-
ledge and give out reports of what they know to be the case?
And so on. Hints are all sufficient to an intelligence like yours.
1 tell you this for I know how profound and sincere is your feel-
ing for K.H. I know how bad y'll feel, if when among us again
you find that communication between you has not improved. And
its sure to pass when the Chohan finds no progress since he made
him have you. See what the Fragments the most superb of
articles has done ;
how little effect it will produce unless the
opposition is stirred up, discussion provoked and spiritualists
forced to defend their foolish claims. Read editorial in Spiritualist
November 18,
"
Speculation-Spinning
"
she cannot answer it
as either he or you might and the result will be that the most
precious hints will fail to reach the minds of those craving for
truth for a solitary pearl is soon outshone in the midst of a heap
of false diamonds, when there's no jeweller to point out its worth.
So on again. What can we do! I hear already K.H. exclaiming.
It is so, friend. The pathway through earth-life leads through
many conflicts and trials, but he who does naught to conquer
them can expect no triumph. Let then the anticipation of a fuller
introduction into our mysteries under more congenial circum-
stances the creation of which depends entirely upon yourself
inspire you with patience to wait for, perseverance to press on to,
and full preparation to receive the blissful consummation of all
your desires. And for that you have to remember that when
K.H. shall say to you, Come up hither you should be ready.
Otherwise the all powerful hand of our Chohan will appear once
more between you and Him.
Send both portraits sent to you from Odessa back to H.P.B.,
the O.L. when you done with them. Write a few lines to the
old Generatess to Odessa for she sorely wants your autograph
I know. Remind her that both you belong to one Society and
are Brothers and promise help for her niece.
LETTER No. XLIII
Received Allahabad, February, 1882.
Before another line passes between us we must come to an agree-
ment, my impulsive friend. You will have first to promise me
faithfully never to judge of either of us, nor of the situation, nor
of anything else bearing any relation to the
"
mythical Brothers
"
tall or short thick or thin by your worldly experience or you
will never come at the truth. By doing so until now you have
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 259
only disturbed the solemn quiet of my evening meals several nights
running and made my snake-like signature what with your writing
it and thinking about it to haunt me even in my sleep as by
sympathy I felt it being pulled by the tail at the other side of the
hills. Why will you be so impatient? You have a life time be-
fore you for our correspondence; though while the dark clouds
of the Deva-Lok "
Eclectic
"
are lowering on the horizon of the
"
Parent " it has to be a spasmodic and an uncertain one. It may
even suddenly break off owing to the tension given it by our too
intellectual friend. Oy-hai, Ram Ram ! To think that our very
mild criticism upon the pamphlet, a criticism reported by you to
Hume Sahib should have brought the latter to kill us at a blow !
to destroy, without giving us one moment to call a Padri in or
even time to repent ; to find ourselves alive, and yet so cruelly
deprived of our existence is truly sad, tho' not quite unexpected.
But it is all our own fault. Had we instead prudently sent a
laudatory hymn to his address we might now have been alive and
well, waxing in health and strength if not in wisdom for long
years to come and finding in him our Ved-Vyasa to sing the occult
prowess of the Krishna and Arjuna on the desolate shores of
Tsam-pa. Now that we are dead and dessicated tho', I may as
well occupy a few minutes of my time to write as a bhut to you, in
the best English I find lying idle in my friend's brain ; where also
I find in the cells of memory the phosphorescent thought of a short
letter to be sent by himself to the Editor of the Pioneer to soothe
his English impatience. My friend's friend K.H. has not for-
gotten you; K.H. does not intend breaking off with you unless
Hume Sahib should spoil the situation beyond mending. And
why should he? You have done all you could, and that is as
much as we ever intend asking of any one. And now we will
talk.
You must thoroughly put aside the personal element if you would
get on with occult study and for a certain time even with him-
self. Realize, my friend, that the social affections have little, if
any, control over any true adept in the performance of his duty.
In proportion as he rises towards perfect adeptship the fancies
and antipathies of his former self are weakened :
(as K.H. in sub-
stance explained to you) he takes all mankind into his heart and
regards them in the mass. Your case is an exceptional one. You
have forced yourself upon him, and stormed the position, by the
very violence and intensity of your feeling for him and once he
accepted he has to bear the consequences in the future. Yet it
cannot be a question with him what the visible Sinnett may be
what his impulses, his failures or successes in his world, his
diminished or undiminished regard for him. With the
"
visible
"
one we have nothing to do. He is to us only a veil that hides
260 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
from profane eyes that other ego with whose evolution we are
concerned. In the external rupa do what you like, think what
you like :
only when the effects of that voluntary action are seen
on the body of our correspondent is it incumbent upon us to
notice it.
We are neither pleased nor displeased because you did not attend
the Bombay meeting. If you had gone, it would have been better
for your
" merit
"
: as you did not go you lost that little point. I
could and had no right to influence you any way precisely because
you are no chela. It was a trial, a very little one, tho' it seemed
important enough to you to make you think of
"
wife and child's
interests." You will have many such; for though you should
never be a chela, still we do not give confidences even to cor-
respondents and "
proteges
" whose discretion and moral pluck
have not been well tested. You are the victim of maya. It
will be a long struggle for you to tear away the
"
cataracts
" and
see things as they are. Hume Sahib is a maya to you as great
as any. You see only his mounds of flesh and bones, his official
personality, his intellect and influences. What are these, pray,
to his true self that you cannot see, do what you may? What
has his ability to shine in a Durbar or as the leader of a scientific
society to do with his fitness for occult research, or his trust-
worthiness to keep our secrets? If we wanted anything about
our lives and work to be known is not the Theosofhtst columns
open to us? Why should we dribble facts thro' him, to be dressed
for the public meal with a currie of nauseous doubts and biting
sarcasm fit to throw the public stomach into confusion. To him
there is nothing sacred, either within, or without occultism. His
is a bird-killing and a faith-killing temperament ;
he would sacri-
fice his own flesh and blood as remorselessly as a singing bulbul ;
and would dessicate yourself and us, K.H. and the
"
dear Old
Lady
" and make us all bleed to death under his scalpel if he
could with as much ease as he would an owl, to put us away in
his
" museum " with appropriate labels outside and then recount
our necrologies in
"
Stray Feathers
"
to the amateurs. No
Sahib ;
the outside Hume is as different (and superior) from the
inside Hume, as the outside Sinnett is different (and inferior) to
the nascent inside
"
protege/' Learn that and sit the latter to
watching the editor, least he play him a bad trick some day. Our
greatest trouble is to teach pupils not to be befooled by appear-
ances.
As you have already been notified by Damodar thro' the D ,
I
did not call you a chela examine your letter to assure yourself
of it I but jokingly asked O. the question whether he recognised
in you the stuff of which chelas are made. You saw only that
Bennett had unwashed hands, uncleaned nails and used coarse
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 261
language and had to you a generally unsavoury aspect. But
if that sort of thing is your criterion of moral excellence or
potential power, how many adepts or wonder producing lamas
would pass your muster? This is part of your blindness. Were
he to die this minute and I'll use a Christian phraseology to make
you comprehend me the better few hotter tears would drop from
the eye of the recording Angel of Death over other such ill-used
men, as the tear Bennett would receive for his share. Few men
have suffered and unjustly suffered as he has ;
and as few have
a more kind, unselfish and truthful a heart. That's all : and the
unwashed Bennett is morally as far superior to the gentlemanly
Hume as you are superior to your Bearer.
What H.P.B. repeated to you is correct :
"
the natives do not
see Bennett's coarseness and K.H. is also a native." What did
I mean? Why simply that our Buddha-like friend can see thro
9
the 'varnish, the grain of the wood beneath and inside the slimy,
stinking oyster the
"
priceless pearl within !
" B is an honest
man and of a sincere heart, besides being one of tremendous moral
courage and a martyr to boot. Such our K.H. loves whereas
he would have only scorn for a Chesterfield and a Grandison. I
suppose that the stooping of the finished
"
gentleman
"
K.H., to
the coarse fibred infidel Bennett is no more surprising than the
alleged stooping of the
"
gentleman
"
Jesus to the prostitute
Magdalene : There's a moral smell as well as a physical one good
friend. See how well K.H. read your character when he would
not send the Lahore youth to talk with you without a change of
dress. The sweet pulp of the orange is inside the skin Sahib :
try to look inside boxes for jewels and do not trust to those lying
in the lid. I
say again : the man is an honest man and a very
earnest one ;
not exactly an angel they must be hunted for in
fashionable churches, parties at aristocratical mansions, theatres
and clubs and such other sanctums but as angels are outside our
cosmogony we are glad of the help of even honest and plucky tho*
dirty men.
All this I say to you without any malice or bitterness, as you
erroneously imagine. You have made progress during the past
year and therefore nearer to us hence I talk with you as with a
friend, whom I hope of finally converting to some of our ways of
thinking. Your enthusiasm for our study has a tinge of selfish-
ness in it ;
even your feeling for K.H. has a mixed character : still
you are nearer. Only you trusted Hume too much, and mis-
trusted him too late, and now his bad karma reacts upon yours,
to your detriment. Your friendly indiscretions as to things con-
fided to you alone by H.P.B. the cause produces his rash
publicities
the effect. This I am afraid must count against you.
Be wiser hereafter. If our rule is to be chary of confidences it is
262 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
because we are taught from the first that each man is personally
responsible to the Law of Compensation for every word of his
voluntary production. Mr. Hume would of course call it Jesuitry.
Also try to break thro' that great maya against which occult
students, the world over, have always been warned by their
teachers the hankering after phenomena. Like the thirst for
drink and opium, it grows with gratification. The Spiritualists
are drunken with it; they are thaumaturgic sots. If you cannot
be happy without phenomena you will never learn our philosophy.
If you want healthy, philosophic thought, and can be satisfied with
such let us correspond. I tell you a profound truth in saying
that if you (like your fabled Shloma) but choose wisdom all other
things will be added unto it in time. It adds no force to our
metaphysical truths that our letters are dropped from space on to
your lap or come under your pillow. If our philosophy is wrong
a wonder will not set it
right.
'
Put that conviction into your con-
sciousness and let us talk like sensible men. Why should we
play with Jack-in-the-box ;
are not our beards grown.
And now it is time to put a stop to my abominable penmanship
and so relieve you from the task. Yes your
"
cosmogony
" !
Well, good friend, your cosmology is between the leaves of my
Khuddaka Patha (my family Bible) and making a supreme effort
I will try to answer it as soon as I am relieved, for just now I
am on duty. It is a life long task you have chosen, and some-
how instead of generalizing you manage always to rest upon those
details that prove the most difficult to a beginner. Take warning
my good Sahib. The task is difficult and K.H. in remembrance
of old times, when he loved to quote poetry, asks me to close my
letter with the following to your address :
"Does the road wind up-hill all the way?
1 '
"Yes to the very end.'*
44
Will the day's journey take the whole long day?
"
"
From morn to night, my friend."
Knowledge for the mind, like food for the body, is intended to
feed and help to growth, but it requires to be well digested and
the more thoroughly and slowly the process is carried out the
better both for body and mind.
I saw Olcott and instructed him what to say to our Simla Sage.
If the O.L. rushes into epistolary explanations with him, stop her
as O. covered all the ground. I have no time to look after her,
but I made her promise never to write to him without showing her
letter first to you.
Namascar.
Yours M.
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 263
LETTER No. XLIV
Received Allahabad, February, 1882.
Your letter was addressed to me, as you were not aware that
K.H. had again put himself in relations with you. Nevertheless,
as I am addressed I will answer. " Do so; by all means :
go
ahead." The result may be disastrous to Spiritualism, though
the reality of the phenomena be proved; hence beneficial to
Theosophy. It does seem cruel to allow the poor sensitive lad to
risk himself inside the lion's den; but as the acceptance or
rejection of the kind invitation is with the medium under the
counsel and inspiration of his mighty and far-seeing
" Ernest"
why should others worry themselves !
As we are not likely, worthy sir, to correspond very often now
I will tell you something you should know, and may derive profit
from. On the i7th of November next the Septenary term of trial
given the Society at its foundation in which to discreetly
"
preach
us
"
will expire. One or two of us hoped that the world had so
far advanced intellectually, if not intuitionally, that the Occult
doctrine might gain an intellectual acceptance, and the impulse
given for a new cycle of occult research. Others wiser as it
would now seem held differently, but consent was given for the
trial. It was stipulated, however, that the experiment should be
made independently of our personal management ;
that there
should be no abnormal interference by ourselves. So casting
about we found in America the man to stand as leader a man
of great moral courage, unselfish, and having other good qualities.
He was far from being the best, but (as Mr. Hume speaks in
H.P.B.'s case) he was the best one available. With him we
associated a woman of most exceptional and wonderful endow-
ments. Combined with them she had strong personal defects,
but just as she was, there was no second to her living fit for this
work. We sent her to America, brought them together and the
trial began. From the first both she and he were given to clearly
understand that the issue lay entirely with themselves. And
both offered themselves for the trial for certain remuneration in
the far distant future as as K.H. would say soldiers volunteer
for a Forlorn Hope. For the 6 years they have been struggling
against such odds as would have driven off any one who was not
working with the desperation of one who stakes life and all he
prizes on some desperate supreme effort. Their success has not
equalled the hopes of their original backers, phenomenal as it has
been in certain directions. In a few more months the term of
probation will end. If by that time the status of the Society as
regards ourselves the question of the
" Brothers
" be not
264 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
definitely settled (either dropped out of the Society's programme
or accepted on our own terms) that will be the last of the
"
Brothers
"
of all shapes and colours, sizes or degrees. We will
subside out of public view like a vapour into the ocean. Only
those who have proved faithful to themselves and to Truth
through everything, will be allowed further intercourse with us.
And not even they, unless, from the President downward they
bind themselves by the most solemn pledges of honour to keep
an inviolable silence thenceforth about us, the Lodge, Tibetan
affairs. Not even answering questions of their nearest friends,
though silence might seem likely to throw the appearance of
11
humbug
"
upon all that has transpired. In such a case effort
would be suspended until the beginning of another septenary cycle
when, if circumstances should be more auspicious, another attempt
might be made, under the same or another direction.
My own humble impression is that Hume Sahib's present
pamphlet, highly intellectual as it is, might be improved so as to
help enormously in giving the needed turn to Society affairs. And
if he would trust more to his personal intuitions which when he
heeds them are strong and less to the voice of one who neither
represents entirely as you seem to think public opinion nor
would he believe though he were to have a 1000 proofs the
pamphlet would be converted into one of the most powerful works
that this modern movement has evolved.
Your cosmological questions will be attended to when I am
not harassed with mightier business. Health and prosperity.
M.
LETTER No. XLV
First received after revival In February, 1882.
My Brother I have been on a long journey after supreme
knowledge, I took a long time to rest. Then, upon coming back,
I had to give all my time to duty, and all my thoughts to the
Great Problem. It is all over now : the New Year's festivities
are at an end and I am "
Self" once more. But what is Self?
Only a passing guest, whose concerns are all like a mirage of the
great desert. . . .
Anyhow this is my first moment of leisure. I offer it to you,
whose inner Self reconciles me to the outer man who but too often
forgets that great man is he who is strongest in the exercise of
patience. Look around you, my friend : see the
"
three poisons
"
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 265
raging within the heart of man anger, greed, delusion, and the
five obscurities envy, passion, vacillation, sloth, and unbelief
ever preventing them seeing truth. They will never get rid of
the pollution of their vain, wicked hearts, nor perceive the
spiritual portion of themselves. Will you not try for the sake
of shortening the distance between us to disentangle yourself
from the net of life and death in which they are all caught, to
cherish less lust and desire? Young Portman is seriously
meditating to leave all, to come over to us, and
"
become a
Tibetan monk M
as he puts it. His ideas are singularly mixed
upon the two entirely different characteristics and qualifications
of the
"
Monk " or Lama and the living
"
Lha," or Brother: but
let him try by all means.
Aye I am only now able to correspond with you. At the same
time let me tell you that it is more difficult than before to ex-
change letters with you, though my regard for you has sensibly
increased, instead of being lessened as you feared and will not
diminish unless but as the consequence of your own acts. That
you will try to avoid in raising any such obstacle, I know well ;
but man, after all, is the victim of his surroundings while he lives
in the atmosphere of society. We may be anxious to befriend
such as we have an interest in, and yet be as helpless to do so, as
is one who sees a friend engulfed in a stormy sea when no boat
is near to be launched and his personal strength is paralysed by
a stronger hand that keeps him back. Yes, I see your thought
. . but you are wrong. Blame not the holy man for strictly
doing his duty by humanity. Had it not been for the Chohan and
his restraining influence you would not be reading now again a
letter from your trans-Himalayan correspondent. The world of
the Plains is antagonistic to that of the mountains, that you
know ;
but what you do not know is the great harm produced by
j ir own unconscious indiscretions. Shall I give you an instance?
Remember the wrath produced on Stainton Moses by your too im-
prudent letter quoting ad libitum and with a freedom pregnant with
the most disastrous results from my letter to you about him. . . .
The cause generated at that time has now developed its results :
not only has S.M. completely estranged himself from the Society
some of whose members believe in us, but he has determined in
his heart the utter annihilation of the British Branch. A psychic
Society is being founded and he has succeeded in bringing over to
it Wyld, Massey and others. Shall I also tell you the future of
that new body? It will grow and develop and expand and finally
the Theos. Soc. of London will be swamped in it, and lose first
its influence then its name, until Theosophy in its very name
becomes a thing of the Past. It is you alone, the simple action
of your swift pen which will have produced the nidana and the
266 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
ten-del, the
"
cause
" and its
" effect
M and thus the work of
seven years, the constant untiring efforts of the builders of the
Theos. Society will perish killed by the wounded vanity of a
medium.
This simple act on your part is silently digging out a chasm
between us. The evil may yet be averted let the Society exist
but in name till the day it can get members with whom we can
work de facto and by the creation of another counteracting cause
we may save the situation. The hand of the Chohan alone can
bridge it, but it must be yours that places the first stone for the
work. How will you do it? How can you do it? Think of it
well, if you care for further intercourse. They want something
new. A Ritual to amuse them. Consult with Subba Row, with
San Kariah the Dewan Naib of Cochin, read attentively his
pamphlet extracts from which you will find in the last Theosophist
tsee,
"
A Flash of Light upon Occult Free Masonry." Page 35).
i can come nearer to you, but you must draw me by a purified
heart and a gradually developing will. Like the needle the adept
follows his attractions. Is this not the law of the disembodied
Principles? Why then not of the living also? As the social ties
of the carnal man are too weak to call back the
"
Soul
M
of the
deceased except where there is a mutual affinity which survives
as a force in the region within the terrestrial region, so the calls
of mere friendship or even enthusiastic regard are too feeble to
draw the "Lha M
who has passed on a stage of the journey to
him he has left behind, unless a parallel development goes on.
M. spoke well and truthfully when saying that a love of collective
humanity is his increasing inspiration ; and if any one individual
should wish to divert his regards to himself, he must overpower
the diffusive tendency by a stronger force.
All this I say, not because its substance has not been told you
before, but because I read your heart and detect in it a shade of
sadness, not to say disappointment, that hovers there. You have
had other correspondents but are not perfectly satisfied. To
gratify, I write you therefore with some effort to bid you keep a
cheerful frame of mind. Your strivings, perplexities and fore-
bodings are equally noticed, good and faithful friend. In the
imperishable RECORD of the Masters you have written them all.
There are registered your every deed and thought ; for, though
not a chela, as you say to my Brother Morya, nor even a
"
prote"g
" as you understand the term still, you have stepped
within the circle of our work, you have crossed the mystic line
which separates your world from ours, and now whether you
persevere or not ;
whether we become later on, in your sight, still
more living real entities or vanish out of your mind like so many
dream fictions perchance an ugly night-mare you are virtually
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 267
OURS. Your hidden Self has mirrored itself in our Akasa ; your
nature is yours, your essence is ours. The flame is distinct
from the log- of wood which serves it
temporarily as fuel ;
at the
end of your apparitional birth and whether we two, meet face to
face in our grosser rupas you cannot avoid meeting us in Real
Existence. Yea, verily good friend your Karma is ours, for you
imprinted it daily and hourly upon the pages of that book where
the minutest particulars of the individuals stepping inside our
circle are preserved ;
and that your Karma is your only per-
sonality to be when you step beyond. In thought and deed, by
day, in soul-struggles by nights, you have been writing the story
of your desires and your spiritual development. This, every one
does who approaches us with any earnestness of desire to become
our co-worker, he himself
"
precipitates
M
the written entries by
the identical process used by us when we write inside your closed
letters and uncut pages of books and pamphlets in transit. (See
PP- 3 2 35 Report sent by Olcott, once more.) I tell you this
for your private information and it must not figure in the next
pamphlet from Simla. During the past few months, especially,
when your weary brain was plunged in the torpor of sleep, your
eager soul has often been searching after me, and the current
of your thought been beating against my protecting barriers of
Akas as the lapping wavelets against a rocky shore. What that
41
inner Self," impatient, anxious has longed to bind itself to,
the carnal man, the worldlings' master has not ratified : the ties
of life are still as strong as chains of steel. Sacred, indeed,
some of them are, and no one would ask you to rupture them.
There below, lies your long-cherished field of enterprise and use-
fulness. Ours can never be more than a bright phantom-world
to the man of thorough
"
practical sense
"
;
and if your case be
ir some degree exceptional, it is because your nature has deeper
inspirations than those of others, who are still more "
business-
like
" and the fountain-head of whose eloquence is in the brain
not in the heart, which never was in contact with the mysteriously
effulgent, and pure heart of Tath^gata.
If you hear seldom from me, never feel disappointed, my
Brother, but say "It is my fault." Nature has linked all parts
of her Empire together by subtle threads of magnetic sympathy,
and, there is a mutual correlation even between a star and
a man ; thought runs swifter than the electric fluid, and your
thought will find me if projected by a pure impulse, as mine will
find, has found, and often impressed your mind. We may
move in cycles of activity divided not entirely separated from
each other. Like the light in the sombre valley seen by the
mountaineer from his peaks, every bright thought in your mind,
my Brother, will sparkle and attract the attention of your distant
268 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
friend and correspondent. If thus we discover our natural Allies
in the Shadow-world your world and ours outside the precincts
and it is our law to approach every such an one if even there be
but the feeblest glimmer of the true
4<
TathSgata light within
him then how far easier for you to attract us. Understand this
and the admission into the Society of persons often distasteful to
you will no longer amaze you.
"
They that be whole need not
the physician, but they that be sick
'*
is an axiom, whoever may
have spoken it.
And now, let me bid you farewell for the present until the next.
Indulge not in apprehensions of what evil might happen if things
should not go as your worldly wisdom thinks they ought ; doubt
not, for this complexion of doubt unnerves and pushes back one's
progress. To have cheerful confidence and hope is quite another
thing from giving way to the fool's blind optimism : the wise
ijian never fights misfortune in advance. A cloud does lower over
your path it gathers about the hill of Jakko. He whom you
made your confidant I advised you to become but his co-worker,
not to divulge things to him that you should have kept locked with-
in your bosom is under a baneful influence, and may become
your enemy. You do right to try to rescue him from it, for it
bodes ill to him, to you and to the Society. His greater mind
fumed by vanity and charmed by the pipings of a weaker but
more cunning one, is for the time under a spell of fascination.
You will easily detect the malign power that stands behind both
and uses them as tools for the execution of its own nefarious
plans. The intended catastrophe can be averted by redoubled
vigilance and increased fervour of pure will on the part of the
friends of S.B.L. Work then, if you still will, to turn the blow
aside ;
for if it falls you will not escape unhurt however great my
Brothers' efforts. The cause will never be ruined though albeit
the Sisyphus' rock may crush a good many toes. Farewell,
again, my friend for longer or shorter, as you may determine.
I am called to duty.
Yours faithfully,
K. H.
LETTER No. XLVI
Received Simla, 1882.
I will thank you, my dear Sinnett Sahib, for a personal favour.
Since K.H. is too much of a perfect Yogi-Arhat, to stop the hand
that undaunted by failure keeps on trying to catch the Tibetan
yak by the neck to bend it under its yoke, then all that remains
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 269
for me to do is to make once more my appearance on the nataka-
shala to put a stop to a performance that threatens to become
monotonous even to us well trained in patience. I cannot avail
myself of your kind advice to write to Mr. Hume in my brightest
red since it would be opening a new door for an endless cor-
respondence, an honour I would rather decline. But I write to
you instead, and send you a telegram and answer on back on't,
for your perusal. What talk of his is this? Reverence may not
be in his nature, nor does any one claim or care for it any way !
But I should have thought that his head, that is capacious enough
to hold anything, had a corner in it for some common sense.
And that sense might have told him that either we are what we
claim, or we are not. That in the former case, however exag-
gerated the claims made on behalf of our powers still if our know-
ledge and foresight do not transcend his, then we are no better
than shams and impostors and the quicker he parts company with
us the better for him. But if we are in any degree what we
claim to be, then he acts like a wild ass. Let him remember, that
we are not Indian Rajahs in need of and compelled to accept
political Ayahs, and nurses to lead us on by the string. That
the Society was founded, went on and will go on with or without
him let him suit himself as to the latter.
So far his help, that he thrusts on us, much after the fashion
of Spanish mendicant hidalgos, who offer their sword to protect
the traveller with one hand and clutch him by the throat with the
other, has not as far as I can find very beneficial to the Society
so far. Not to one of its founders, at any rate, whom he has
nigh killed last year at Simla and whom he now harasses, sticking
to her like grim death turning her blood into water and eating
her liver out.
Therefore I expect you to impress upon his mind that all we
should
'*
give thanks for," would be to see him take care of his
Eclectic and to leave the Parent Society to take care of itself. His
advice and help to the editor of the Theosophist has no doubt been
advantageous to the editor, and she does feel grateful to him for
it after deducting the large share she owes to yourself. But we
beg leave to state, that some line ought to be drawn somewheres
between said editor and ourselves ; for we are not quite the Tibetan
triplets he takes us to be. Therefore, whether we be the ignorant
savages and Orientals of his making every wolf being master in
his own den we claim the right to know our own business best,
and respectfully decline his services as a captain to steer our
Theosophical ship even on
"
the ocean of worldly life
"
as he
metaphorizes in his sloka. We have allowed him, under the good
pretext of saving the situation with the British theosophists to
ventilate his animosity against us in the organ of our own
270 THE MAUATMA LETTERS
Society and to draw our portrait-likenesses, with a brush dipped in
haughty bile what more does he want? As I ordered the old
woman to telegraph him back he is not the only skilful navigator
in the world ;
he seeks to avoid Western breakers, and we to steer
our canoe clear off Eastern sandbanks. Does he mean in addi-
tion to this to dictate from the Chohan down to JuaJa Khool and
Deb what we shall and what we shall not do? Ram, Ram and
the holy Nag-as ! is it after centuries of independent existence
that we have to fall under a foreign influence, to become the
puppets of a Simla Nawab? Are we school boys, or what, in his
fancy to submit to the rod of a Peling schoolmaster.
Notwithstanding his sulks I beg you will tell him that you
heard from me and that I have asked you to let him know my
ultimatum: if he would not break with the whole shop altogether,
and for ever I will not suffer him to interfere with his wisdom
between our ignorance and the Parent Society. Nor shall he ease
his bad humour on one who is not responsible for anything we
may do or say a woman so sick that as in 1877 I am again forced
to carry her away when she is so needed where she now is,
at Headquarters for fear she will fall all to pieces. And that
this state of hers was brought on lately by him owing to constant
anxiety for the Society, and partially if not wholly by his behaviour
at Simla you can take my word for it. The whole situation and
future of the Eclectic hangs on Koothumi if you will not help
him. If notwithstanding my advice and the Chohan's evident
displeasure he will persist making a fool of himself sacrificing him-
self for a man who is the evil genius of the Society in one
direction well it's his own business, only I will have nothing to
do with it. Your true friend I will ever remain though you turn
against me one of these days. Fern was tested and found a
thorough Dugpa in his moral nature. We will see, we will see ;
but very little hope left notwithstanding his splendid capacities.
Had I hinted to him to deceive his own father and mother he
would have thrown in their fathers and mothers in the bargain.
Vile, vile nature yet irresponsible. Oh ye Westerns, who boast
of your morality !
May the bright Chohans keep you and all
yours from the approaching harm is the sincere wish of your
friend M.
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 271
LETTER No. XLVII
Received Allahabad, 3rd March, 1882.
Reply to my remonstrance against treatment of Europe.
(Through Damodar.)
Well, say I am an ignoramus in your English ways, and I'll say
you are one in our Tibetan customs and we will split the difference
and shake our astral hands over Barnaway and square the discus-
sion.
The old woman? Of course she will be frantic but who
cares? It's kept from her however secret. No use making
her more miserable than what she is. Cook is a pump of
filth, with perpetually working pistons and the sooner he
screws them up the better for him. Your last letter to
me is less a "petition" than a protest, my respected Sahib.
It's voice is that of the war sankh of my Rajput ancestors,
rather than the cooing of a friend. And I like it all the more I
promise you. It has the right ring of honest frankness. So let
us talk for sharp as your voice may be, your heart is warm and
you end by saying
" Whether you decree that what seems to me
right be done or not
"
you are ever ours faithfully etc. Europe
is a large place but the world is bigger yet. The sun of Theosophy
must shine for all, not for a part. There is more of this move-
ment than you have yet had an inkling of, and the work of the
T.S. is linked in with similar work that is secretly going on in
all parts of the world. Even in the T.S there is a division,
managed by a Greek Brother about which not a person in the
Society has a suspicion excepting the old woman and Olcott ;
and even he only knows it is progressing, and occasionally executes
an order I send him in connection with it. The cycle I spoke of
refers to the whole movement. Europe will not be overlooked,
never fear ;
but perhaps you even may not anticipate how the light
will be shed there. Ask your Seraph K.H. to let you have details
thereof. You speak of Massey and Crookes : do you not recollect
that Massey was offered 4 years ago, the chance to head the Eng-
lish movement and declined? In his place was set up that old
grim idol of the Jewish Sinai -Wild, who with his Christian rant
and fanatical rot shut us out of the movement altogether. Our
Chohan forbade us absolutely to take any part in it. Massey
has to thank but himself for it, and you may tell him so. You
ought to have learned by this time our ways. We advise and
never order. But we do influence individuals. Ransack the
Spiritualistic literature if you will till the year 1877. Search and
find in it if you can, one single word about occult philosophy, or
esotericism or anything of that element now so largely infused in
the spiritual movement. Ask and enquire whether the very word
of " occultism
" was not so completely unknown in America, that
272 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
we find Cora of the 7 husbands, the Zappan woman and talking
medium inspired in her lectures to say that the word was one just
coined by the Theosophists then dawning" ;
that no one ever
heard of elementary spirits and " astral
"
light save the
petroleum manufacturers and so on and on. Well ascertain this
and compare. This was the first war cry, and the battle kept
raging hot and fierce to the very day of the departure for India.
To say and point out to Edison and Crookes and Massey would
sound much like boasting of that which can never be proven. And
Crookes has he not brought science within our hail in his
"
radiant matter" discovery? What but occult research was it
that led him first to that. You know K.H. and me buss ! know
you anything of the whole Brotherhood and its ramifications?
The Old Woman is accused of untruthfulness, inaccuracy in her
statements.
" Ask no questions and you will receive no lies."
She is forbidden to say what she knows. You may cut her to
pieces and she will not tell. Nay she is ordered in cases of need
to mislead people; and, were she more of a natural born liar
she might be happier and won her day long since by this time.
But that's just where the shoe pinches, Sahib. She is too truthful,
too outspoken, too incapable of dissimulation : and now she is
being daily crucified for it. Try not to be hasty, respected Sir.
The world was not made in a day ;
nor has the tail of the yak
developed in one year. Let evolution take its course naturally
lest we make it deviate and produce monsters by presuming to
guide it. Massey talks of coming to India does he not? And
supposing that after coming here and doing what is right and
spending the needed time for disciplinary training he should be
sent back with a message? And supposing that Crookes and
Edison and others have other things to discover? So I say,
"WAIT/' Who knows what may be the situation in November?
You might think it such as to justify us in carrying out our
11
threat
"
to
"
lock the door," while it might seem very different
to us. Let us all do our best. There are cycles of 7, n, 21, 77,
107, 700, 11,000, 21,000 etc. ; so many cycles will make a major
and so on. Bide your time the record book is well kept. Only,
look out sharp : the Dugpas and the Gelupkas are not fighting but
in Tibet alone, see their vile work in England among the
"Occultists and seers"/ Hear your acquaintance Wallace
preaching like a true
"
Hierophant
"
of the
" left hand " the mar-
riage of
" soul with the spirit" and getting the true definition
topsy-turvy seek to prove that every practicing Hierophant must
at least be spiritually married if for some reasons he cannot do
so physically there being otherwise a great danger of Adulteration
of God and Devil ! I tell you the Shammars are there already
and their pernicious work is everywhere in our way. Do not
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 273
regard this as metaphorical but as a real fact, which may be
demonstrated to you some day.
Its quite useless to say anything more about Olcott's eccen-
tricity and the inferiority of America to England; all that is real
in your point we recognise and knew long ago; but you do not
know how much that is mere superficial prejudice glares in your
eyes like the reflection of a thin taper on deep water. Take care
lest we should some day take you at your thought and put you
in Olcott's place, after taking him to our own, as he has longed
to have us do these several years. Martyrdom is pleasant to look
at and criticise, but harder to suffer. There never was a woman
more unjustly abused than H.B. See the infamous insulting
letters she was sent from England for publication against herself
and us and the Society. You may find them undignified perhaps.
But the
" Answers to Correspondents
"
in Supplement are written
by myself. So do not blame her. I'm curious to know your
frank opinion on them. Perchance you might think she might
have done herself better.
M.
LETTER No. XLVIII
Received Allahabad, March 3rd, 1882.
Good friend, I
" know "
of course. And knowing, without
your telling "me I would, were I but authorized to influence you in
any one direction answer most gladly :
"
that knowledge thou
shalt share with me some day." When, or how "
is not for me
to say, nor for myself to know," as you, aye, you alone, have to
weave your destiny. Perhaps soon and perchance never : but
why feel
"
despairing," or even doubting? Believe me : we may
yet walk along the arduous path together. We may yet meet :
but if at all, it has to be along and on those
"
adamantine rocks
with which our occult rules surround us
" never outside them,
however bitterly we may complain. No, never can we pursue our
further journey if hand in hand along that high-way, crowded
thoroughfare, which encircles them, and on which Spiritualists
and mystics, prophets and seers elbow each other now-a-day. Yea,
verily, the motley crowd of candidates may shout for an eternity
to come, for the Sesam to open. It never will, so long as they
keep outside those rules. Vainly do your modern seers and their
prophetesses, creep into every cleft and crevice without outlet or
continuity they chance to see ;
and still more vainly, when once
within do they lift up their voices and loudly cry :
"
Eureka ! We
274 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
have gotten a Revelation from the Lord !
"
for verily have they
nothing of the kind. They have disturbed but bats, less blind than
their intruders ; who, feeling them flying about, mistake them as
often for angels as they too, have wings ! Doubt not, my
friend : it is but from the very top of those
4l
adamantine rocks
"
of ours, not at their foot, that one is ever enabled to perceive
the whole Truth, by embracing the whole limitless horizon. And
though they may seem to you to be standing in your way, it is
simply because you have hitherto failed to discover or even so
much as suspect the reason and the operation of those laws ;
hence
they appear so cold and merciless and selfish in your sight ;
although yourself have intuitionally recognised in them the out-
come of ages of wisdom. Nevertheless, were one but to
obediently follow them out, they could be made to gradually yield
to one's desire and give to him all he asks of them. But no one
could ever violently break them,- without becoming the first victim
to his guilt; yea, to the extent of risking to lose his own, his hard
won share of immortality, here and there. Remember : too
anxious expectation is not only tedious, but dangerous too. Each
warmer and quicker throb of the heart wears so much of life away.
The passions, the affections are not to be indulged in by him,
who seeks TO KNOW; for they
"
wear out the earthly body with
their own secret power ;
and he, who would gain his aim must be
cold." He must not even desire too earnestly or too passionately
the object he would reach :
else, the very wish will prevent the
possibility of its fulfilment, at best retard and throw it back. . . .
You will find in the forth-coming number, two articles which
you must read, I need not tell you why, as I leave it with your
intuitions. As usual, it is an indiscretion, which however, I have
allowed to remain as there are few, if any, who will understand
the hint contained but you. There are more than one such
hint though; hence your attention is asked to the
" Elixir of
Life" and W. Oxley's
"
Philosophy of Spirit." The former
contains references and explanations, the haziness of which, may
remind you of a man who stealthily approaching one gives him
a hit upon his back, and then runs away ;
as they most undeniably
belong to the genus of those
"
Fortunes
"
that come to one like
the thief by night and during one's sleep, and go back, finding
no one to respond to the offer of which you complain in your
letter to Brother. This time, you are warned, good friend, so
complain no more. Article No. 2, is penned by the Manchester
Seer Oxley. Having received no reply to his summons to
K.H., he criticises mildly so far the utterances of that
"
Internal Power " for which new title I feel rather obliged to
him. At the sight of the gentle rebuke, our blunderbuss Editor
failed not to explode. Nor would she be soothed, until Piwal-
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 275
Khul, with whom the famous review was concocted (one by-the-
bye, which seen by, ought to have never been permitted to see
the day by you) was authorized, under the safe nom-de-plwne
of
" Reviewer
"
to answer (by correcting- some of his blunders)
the Seer, in a few innocent foot-notes. Yet, I must say, that of
all the present English
"
prophets," W. Oxley is the only one who
has an inkling of truth ;
hence the only one calculated to effectu-
ally help our movement. The man runs constantly in and out of
the straight road, deviating from it
every time he thinks he per-
ceives a new path ;
but finding himself in a cul-de-sac as invariably
returns to the right direction. I must admit, there is much
sound philosophy here and there in what he writes ; and, though
his story of
"
Busiris
" in its anthropomorphic presentation is
ridiculous nonsense, and, his rendering of Sanskrit names is mostly
wrong ;
and though he seems to have but very hazy notions about
what he calls the
"
astro-masonic basis of Bhagavat Gita
" and
Mahabharata to both of which he evidently attributes the same
author yet he is positively and absolutely the only one, whose
general comprehension of Spirit, and its capabilities and func-
tions after the first separation, we call death, are on the whole if
not quite correct, at least approximating very nearly Truth.
Read it, when it
^omes out, especially Par. 3, Col. I, page 152 et
seq, where you will find them. You may then understand, why,
instead of answering your direct question I
go into a subject, so
far, perfectly indifferent to you. Follow, for instance his defini-
tion of the term
"
Angel
"
(it will be on line 30,) and try to
follow and comprehend his thought, so clumsily yet withal so
correctly expressed and then, compare it with the Tibetan teach-
ing. Poor, poor Humanity, when shalt thou have the whole and
unadulterated Truth !
Behold, each of the
"
privileged
"
ones
saying: "I alone am right! There is no lacuna. . . ."
No ;
none : not on that one special page opened before him, and
which he alone is reading in the endless volume of
"
Spirit
Revelation," called Seership. But why such stubborn oblivion
of the important fact that there are other and innumerable pages
before and after that one solitary page that each of the
"
Seers
"
has so far hardly learnt to decipher? Why is it, that every one
of those
"
Seers" believes himself the Alpha and the Omega of
Truth? Thus S.M. is taught that there are no such
"
Beings
"
as Brothers, and to reject the doctrine of frequent annihilation
and that of the Elementary and of the non-human Spirits. Mait-
land and Mrs. K. have revealed to them by Jesus and GOD them-
selves (that alone would beat + )
that many of the supposed
<4
Spirits
"
which control mediums and converse with visitors-
Spiritualists, are no
"
disembodied
"
spirits at all, but only
"
flames," and the reliquiae of dogs, rats and pigs, helped to
276 THE MAHATMA LETTEB8
communicate with mortals by the spirits of
"
trees,'* vegetables
and minerals. Though more hazy than the human, cautious dis-
courses of the alleged + those teachings are nearer to the mark
than anything uttered so far by the mediums, and I will tell you
why. When the
"
Seeress
" is made to reveal that
"
immor-
tality is by no means a matter of course for all
"
. . . that
*'
souls shrink away and expire," it being
"
the nature of them to
burn out and expand themselves
"
. . .
etc., she is deliver-
ing herself of actual, incontrovertible facts. And why? Be-
cause both Maitland and herself as well as their circle are strict
vegetarians, while S.M. is a flesh-eater and a wine and liquor
drinker. Never will the Spiritualists find reliable, trustworthy
mediums and Seers (not even to a degree) so long as the latter
and their
"
circle
M will saturate themselves with animal blood,
and the millions of infusoria of the fermented fluids. Since my
return I found it impossible for me to breathe even in the atmos-
phere of the Headquarters! M. had to interfere, and to force
the whole household to give up meat ;
and they had, all of them,
to be purified and thoroughly cleansed with various disinfecting
drugs before I could even help myself to my letters. And I am
not, as you may imagine, half as sensitive to the loathsome
emanations as a tolerably respectable disembodied shell would
be, leaving out of question a real PRESENCE, though but a
"
pro-
jecting
"
one. In a year or so, perchance earlier, I may find
myself hardened again. At present I find it impossible do what
I may.
And now, with sjuch a Preface instead of answering I will put
you a question. You know, S. Moses, and you know Maitland
and Mrs. K. personally. And, you have heard of and read about
a good many Seers, in the past and present centuries, such as
Swedenborg, Boehme, and others. Not one among the number
but thoroughly honest, sincere, and as intelligent, as well
educated ; aye, even learned. Each of them in addition to these
qualities, has or had an -f- of his own; a "
Guardian "
and a
Revelator under whatever "mystery" and "mystic name"
whose mission it is or has been to spin out to his spiritual ward
a new system embracing all the details of the world of Spirit.
Tell me, my friend, do you know of two that agree? And why,
since truth is one, and that putting entirely the question of dis-
crepancies in details aside we do not find them agreeing even
upon the most vital problems those that have either
" to be, or
not to be
M and of which there can be no two solutions?
Summed up, it comes to the following : All the
"
Rosicrucians/'
all the mediceval mystics, Swedenborg, P.B.Randolf, Oxley,
etc., etc. :
"
there are secret Brotherhoods of Initiates in the East,
especially in Tibet and Tartary ; there only can the LOST. WORD
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 277
(which is no Word) be found
"
; and, there are Spirits of the
Elements, and Spirit-Flames, that were never incarnated (in this
cycle), and immortality is conditional.
Mediums and clairvoyants, (of the type of S. Moses ;) there
are no Brothers in Tibet or India, and the
'
Lost Word *
is in
the sole keeping of my
'
Guardian
'
who knows the word but
knows of no Brothers. And, immortality is for all and uncon-
ditional, there being no Spirits but the human and the dis-
embodied, etc. etc." a system of radical denial of the first one
and in complete antagonism with it. While Oxley and Mrs. H.
Billing are in direct communication with the
"
Brothers,*' S.M.
rejects the very idea of one. While "
Busiris
"
is an
"
angel
M
au pluriel, or the Spirit of a congeries of Spirits (Dhyan Chohans)
the + is the soul of a disembodied Sage solo. His teachings are
authoritative, yet we always find a ring of uncertainty and hesi-
tation in them :
" We are not able to say now M . . .
" It is
doubtful
"
. . .
"
We do not understand whether it is pre-
tended
"
. . . it
"
seems that
" . . .
"
we do not feel
sure," etc. Thus 'speaketh a man, conditioned and limited in his
means of obtaining absolute knowledge; but why should a
"
Soul
within the Universal Soul
"
a
"
Spirit Sage
" use such a cautious,
uncertain phraseology if the truth is known to him? Why not,
in answer to her direct, fearless, and challenging remark :
"
You
want objective proof of the Lodge? Have you not + ? and can
you not ask him whether I speak the truth?
"
why not answer
(if it is + who answers) either one way or the other, and say :
"
the poor wench is hallucinated
"
; or, (as there cannot be another
or a third alternative if S.M. is right)
"
she lies intentionally,
with such and such an object, beware of her!
"
Why so hazy?
Aye, verily, because
"
he ( + ) knows," and
'*
his name be blessed,"
but he (S.M.) knowcth not; for, as his
"
spirits," + he thinks
repeatedly remind him :
"
You do not appear to have gathered
rightly what we said . . ." controversy stirs up your mind
and feeling, and in place of a transparent medium, gives us one
thaf is turpid. ... we require a passive mind, and cannot
act without it
"
. . .
(see Light February 4th).
As we do not
"
require a passive mind "
but on the contrary are
seeking for those most active, which can put two and two to-
gether once that they are on the right scent, we will, if you please,
drop the subject. Let your mind work out the problem for itself.
Yes ;
I am indeed, satisfied with your last article, though it will
satisfy no Spiritualist. Yet there is more philosophy and sound
logic in it than in a dozen of their most pretentious publi-
cations. Facts will come later on. Thus, little by little, the
now incomprehensible will become the self-evident ;
and many a
sentence of mystic meaning, will shine yet out before your Soul-
278 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
eye, like a transparency, illuminating the darkness of your mind.
Such is the course of gradual progress ;
a year or two back you
might have written a more brilliant, never a more profound
article. Neglect then, not, my good Brother, the humble, the
derided Journal of your Society, and mind not either its quaint,
pretentious cover, nor the
"
heaps of manure " contained in it
to repeat the charitable, and to yourself the too familiar remark
used often at Simla. But let your attention be rather drawn to
the few pearls of wisdom and occult truths to be occasionally
discovered under that
"
manure.
M
Our own ways and manners
are, perchance, as quaint and as uncouth nay more so. Subba
Rao is right ; he who knows aught of the ways of the Siddhas
shall concur with the views expressed on the third page of his
incomplete letter :
many of us would be mistaken for Madmen,
by you English gentlemen. But he, who would become a son
of Wisdom can always see beneath the rugged surface. So, with
the poor old Journal. Behold, its mystically bumptious clothing !,
its numerous blemishes and literary defects, and with all that
cover the most perfect symbol of its contents : the main portion
of its original ground, thickly veiled, all smutty and as black as
night, through which peep out grey dots, and lines, and words,
and even sentences. To the truly wise those breaks of grey,
may suggest an allegory full of meaning, such as the streaks of
twilight, upon the Eastern sky, at morning's early dawn, after a
night of intense darkness; the aurora of a more "
spiritually in-
tellectual
"
cycle. And who knows, how many of those, who,
undismayed by its unprepossessing appearance, the hideous intri-
cacies of its style, and the other many failures of the unpopular
magazine will keep on tearing its pages, who may find themselves
rewarded some day for their perseverance ! Illuminated sentences
may gleam out upon them, at some time or other, shedding a
bright light upon some old puzzling problems. Yourself, some
fine morning, while poring over its crooked columns with the
sharpened wits of a well rested brain, peering into what you now
view as hazy, impalpable speculations, having only the consist-
ency of vapour, yourself you may, perchance, perceive in them
the unexpected solution of an old, blurred, forgotten
"
dream "
of yours, which once recalled will impress itself in an indelible
image upon your outer from your inner memory, to never fade
out from it
again. All this is possible and may happen ; for our
ways are the ways of
"
Madmen " . .
Then why feel
"
unhappy" and "disappointed
M ? My good,
my faithful friend, remember that hope deferred is no hope lost.
"
Conditions
"
may change for the better for we too spook-
like need our conditions, and can hardly work without them ;
and
then, the va^ue depression of Spirit, which is now settling down
PROBATION, AND OHELASHIP 279
upon you like a heavy cloud on a landscape may be blown away
at the first favourable breeze. Bhavani Shanker is with O., and
he is stronger and fitter in many a way more than Damodar or
even our mutual
"
female
"
friend.
No ; you will not be snatched away from your study before
you have thoroughly mastered the alphabet, so as to learn to read
by yourself; and, it depends but on you alone to nail for ever
"
the
too attractive vision
"
which seems to you now to be fading
away. .... . . .....
-
1
whole situation. That I am not a
"
Seraph
"
yet, is shown in the fact of my writing to you this endless letter.
When it is proved that you have not misunderstood my meaning,
I may say more. Morya, to enable you as he says to confront
your enemies, the believers in the materialisation of
"
individual
souls/* wanted me, to acquaint you with the totality of the sub-
tile bodies and their collective aggregate, as well as with the
distributive aggregate or the sheaths. I believe it is premature.
Before the world can be made to understand the difference between
the "Sutratma" (thread-soul) and
"
Taijasa," (the brilliant or
the luminous) they have to be taught the nature of the grosser
elements. What I blame him for, is that he allowed you to
begin from the wrong end the most difficult unless one has
thoroughly mastered the preparatory ground. I have looked over
you(r) MS. to him ;
and more than once have I detected on the
white margin the shadow of your face, with its earnest, enquiring
gaze in the eyes :
your thought having projected your image on
the spot you had on your mind, and which you longed to receive
back filled
"
thirsting
"
as you say for more notes and in-
formation. Well, if his laziness overcomes his goocj intentions
much longer, I will have to do it myself, though my time is
limited. At all events to write for you is no ungrateful task, as
you make the best use of the little you may pick up here and
there. Indeed, when you complain of being unable to compre-
hend the meaning of Eliphas Levi, it is only because you fail like
so many other readers to find the key to their way of writing. On
close observation, you will find that it was never the intention of
the Occultists really to conceal what they had been writing from
the earnest determined students, but rather to lock up their in-
formation for safety-sake, in a secure safe-box, the key to
which is intuition. The degree of diligence and zeal with which
the hidden meaning is sought- by the student, is generally the
test how far he is entitled to the possession of the so buried
treasure. And certainly if you are able to make out that which
was concealed under the red ink of M. you need despair of
nothing. I believe, it is time now to bid you farewell, hoping
1 One whole page of the original letter is missing here. ED.
280 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
you will find less trouble to read the blue than the red hiero-
glyphics. O. will be with you shortly, and you ought to make
the best of this opportunity which may be the last for both. And
now, need I remind you that this letter is STRICTLY private?
Yours, whatever may come of it,
K. H.
LETTER No. XLIX
From K.H. Received at Umballa on the way to Simla, August 5, 1881.
Just home. Received more letters than I care to answer yours
excepted. Having nothing particular to say, I will simply attend
to your questions; a task which may seem an easy one, but is not
so, in reality, if we but remember that similar in that to the deity
described in Upanishad
"
Sokdmayata bahuh sym prajye yeti
"
they
"
love to be many and to multiply.*' At any rate, thirst
for knowledge was never regarded as a sin and you will always
find me prompt to answer such queries that can be answered.
Certainly I am of opinion that since our correspondence was
established for the good of the many it would! prove very little
profitable to the world at large unless you do recast the teachings
and ideas contained therein
"
in the form of an essay,
"
not only
on the occult philosophical view of creation but upon every other
question. The sooner you begin your
" future book "
the better ;
for who can answer for unexpected incidents? Our correspondence
may break off suddenly the obstacle coming from those who know
best. THEIR mind as you know, is a sealed book for many of
us, and which no amount of
"
art magic" can break open.
Further "aids to reflection
"
will however come in good time;
and the little I am permitted to explain, may, I hope, prove more
comprehensive than Eliphas Levi's Haute Magie. No wonder
you find it
cloudy, for it was never meant for the uninitiated
reader. Eliphas studied from the Rosicrucian MSS. (now reduced
to three copies in Europe). These expound our eastern doctrines
from the teachings of Rosencrauz, who, upon his return from
Asia dressed them up in a semi-Christian garb intended as A shield
for his pupils, against clerical revenge. One must have the key
to it and that key is a science per se. Rosencrauz taught orally.
Saint Germain recorded the good doctrines- in figures and his only
cyphered MS. remained with his staunch friend and patron the
benevolent German Prince from whose house and in whose pre-
sence he made his last exit HOME. Failure, dead failure !
Speaking of
"
figures
" and "
numbers "
Eliphas addresses those
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 281
who know something of the Pythagorean doctrines. Yes ;
some
of them do sum up all philosophy and include all doctrines. Isaac
Newton understood them well ;
but withheld) his knowledge very
prudently for his own reputation, and very unfortunately for the
writers of Saturday Review and its contemporaries. You seem
to admire it I do not. However talented from the literary point
of view, a paper which gives vent to such unprogressive and
dogmatic ideas as the one I came across in it, lately, ought to
lose caste among its more liberal confreres. Scientific men, it
thinks " do not make at all good observers'* at exhibitions of
modern magic, spiritism and other
" nine days wonders." This
is certainly not as it should be, it adds :
for,
"
knowing as well
as they do the limits of the natural (
? !
!) they should begin by
assuming that what they see, or what they think they see, cannot
be done, and should next look for the fallacy
" etc. etc. Circula-
tion of the blood, electric telegraph, railway and steamer argu-
ment all over again. They know "
the limits of the natural
" ! !
Oh, century of conceit and mental obscuration ! And we are
invited to London, .among these academical rags whose pre-
decessors persecuted Mesmer and branded St. Germain as an
impostor ! All is secret for them as yet in nature. Of man
they know but the skeleton and form ; hardly are they able to out-
line the paths through which the invisible messengers they call
" senses
"
pass on their way to man's perceptions; their school
science is a hot-bed of doubts and conjectures ;
it teaches but for
its own sophistry, infects with its emasculation, its scorn for truth,
its false morality and dogmatism, and its representatives would
boast knowing
" the limits of the natural." Bus my good
friend; I would forget you belonged to this generation, and are
an admirer of your
"
modern Science." Her behests and oracular
verdicts are on a level with the papal non possumus. Yes ;
the
Saturday Review has let us off easily enough to be sure. Not so
the Spiritualist. Poor perplexed, wee paper ! You gave it a
tremendous blow. Losing its footing on mediumistic ground, it
fights its death struggle for supremacy of English adeptship over
Eastern knowledge. I almost hear its sub rosa cry :
"
If we
Spiritualists are shown to be in the wrong box so are you
theosophists." The great "Adept," the formidable J.K. is
certainly a dangerous enemy ;
and I am afraid, our Boddhisatwas
will have to confess some day their profound ignorance before his
mighty learning.
4<
Real Adepts like Gautama Buddha or Jesus
Christ did not shroud themselves in mystery, but came and talked
openly," quoth our oracle. If they did it's news to us the
humble followers of the former. Gautama is qualified the " Divine
Teacher" and at the same time
" God's messenger" ! !
(See
Spt., July 8th, p. 21. para 2.) Buddha has now become the
282 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
messenger of one, whom He, Sankia K'houtchoo, the precious
wisdom, has dethroned 2,500 years back, by unveiling the Taber-
nacle and showing its emptiness. Where did that cockney adept
learn his Buddhism, I wonder? You really ought to advise your
friend Mr. C. C. Massey to study with that London Jewel who so
despises Indian occult knowledge
" The Lotus of the Good Law/'
and " Atma Boddha " in the light of Jewish Kabalism.
I, "annoyed at newspaper ribald notices?" Certainly not.
But I do feel a little wrathful at the sacrilegious utterances of J.K. ;
that I confess. I felt like answering the conceited fool but
" so far shalt thou go and no further
"
again. The Hobilghan
to whom I showed the passage laughed till the tears streamed
down his old cheeks. I wish I could. When the
" Old Lady
n
reads it, there will be a cedar or two damaged at Simla. Thanks
indeed for your kind offer to let me have possession of the Review
scraps; but I rather you should preserve them yourself, as these
notices may prove unexpectedly valuable to you in a few years
hence.
To your offer to give a solemn pledge never to divulge anything
without permission, I can give no answer, at present. Neither its
acceptance nor rejection depend of me, to tell you the truth, since
it would be quite an unprecedented event to pledge an outsider
to our own particular form of oath or promise, and that no other
would hold good in my Superior's opinion. Unfortunately for
both of us, once or rather twice upon a time you made use of
an expression which was recorded, and but three days ago, when
pleading for some privileges for you, it was brought out before
me very unexpectedly, I must say. Upon hearing it repeated and
seeing it recorded, I had but to turn, as gently as I could, the other
cheek to still more unexpected buffets of fortune dealt out by the
respected hand of him whom I so revere. Cruel as the reminder
seemed to me it was just, for you have pronounced these words at
Simla :
" I am a member of the Theosophical Society but in no
way a Theosophist/' you said. I am not breaking confidence
in revealing this result of my plaidoyer to you, as I am even
advised to do so. We have to travel then, at the same slow rate
at which we have hitherto gone, or halt at once and write Finis
at the bottom of our letters. I hope you will give preference to the
former.
Once we are upon the topic, I wish you would impress upon your
London friends some wholesome truths that they are but too apl
to forget, even, when they have been told of them over and over
again. The Occult Science is not one, in which secrets can be
communicated of a sudden, by a written or even verbal communica-
tion. If so, all the
" Brothers
"
should have to do, would be tc
publish a Hand-book of the art which might be taught in schools
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 283
as grammar is. It is the common mistake of people that we
willingly wrap ourselves and our powers in mystery that we wish
to keep our knowledge to ourselves, and of our own will refuse
"
wantonly and deliberately" to communicate it. The truth is
that till the neophyte attains to the condition necessary for that
degree of Illumination to which, and for which, he is entitled and
fitted, most if not all of the Secrets are incommunicable. The
receptivity must be equal to the desire to instruct. The illumina-
tion must come from within. Till then no hocus pocus of in-
cantations, or mummery of appliances, no metaphysical lectures or
discussions, no self-imposed penance can give it. All these are
but means to an end, and all we can do is to direct the use of
such means as have been empirically found by the experience of
ages to conduce to the required object. And this was and has
been no secret for thousands of years. Fasting, meditation,
chastity of thought, word, and deed; silence for certain periods
of time to enable nature herself to speak to him who comes to her
for information ; government of the animal passions and impulses ;
utter unselfishness of intention, the use of certain incense and
fumigations for physiological purposes, have been published as
the means since the days of Plato and lamblichus in the West,
and since the far earlier times of our Indian Rishis. How these
must be complied with to suit each individual temperament is of
course a matter for his own experiment and the watchful care of
his tutor or Guru. Such is in fact part of his course of discipline,
and his Guru or initiator can but assist him with his experience
and will power but can do no more until the last and Supreme
initiation. I am also of opinion that few candidates imagine the
degree of inconvenience nay suffering and harm to himself the
said initiator submits to for the sake of his pupil. The peculiar
physical, moral, and intellectual conditions of neophytes and Adepts
alike vary much, as anyone will easily understand ; thus, in each
case, the instructor has to adapt his conditions to those of the
pupil, and the strain is terrible for to achieve success we have to
bring ourselves into a full rapport with the subject under training.
And as, the greater the powers of the Adept the less he is in
sympathy with the natures of the profane who often come to him
saturated with the emanations of the outside world, those animal
emanations of the selfish, brutal, crowd that we so dread the
longer he was separated from that world and the purer he has
himself become, the more difficult the self-imposed task. Then
knowledge, can only be communicated gradually ; and some of
the highest secrets if actually formulated even in your well pre-
pared ear might sound to you as insane gibberish, notwithstand-
ing all the sincerity of your present assurance that
" absolute tiust
defies misunderstanding.'
1
This is the real cause of our reticence.
284 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
This is why people so often complain with a plausible show of
reason that no new knowledge is communicated to them, though
they have toiled for it for two, three or more years. Let those
who really desire to learn abandon all and come to us, instead of
asking or expecting us to go to them. But how is this to be done
in your world, and atmosphere?
" Woke up sad on the morning
of the 1 8th." Did you? Well, well, patience, my goocl brother,
patience. Something has occurred, though you have preserved
no consciousness of the event ;
but let this rest. Only what more
can I do? How am I to give expression to ideas for which you
have as yet no language? The finer and more susceptible heads
get like yourself, more than others do, and even when they get
a little extra dose it is lost for want of words and images to fix
the floating ideas. Perhaps, and undoubtedly you know not to
what I now refer to. You will know it one day Patience. To
give more knowledge to a man than he is yet fitted to receive is a
dangerous experiment; and furthermore, other considerations go
to restrain me. The sudden communication of facts, so transcend-
ing the ordinary, is in many instances fatal not only to the
neophyte but to those directly about him. It is like delivering an
infernal machine or a cocked and loaded revolver into the hands
of one who had never seen such a thing. Our case is exactly
analogous. We feel that the time is approaching, and that we
are bound to choose between the triumph of Truth or the Reign of
Error and Terror. We have to let in a few chosen ones into the
great secret, or allow the infamous Shammars to lead Europe's
best minds into the most insane and fatal of superstitions
Spiritualism ;
and we do feel as if we were delivering a whole cargo
of dynamite into the hands of those, we are anxious to see defend-
ing themselves against the Red Capped Brothers of the Shadow.
You are curious to know where I am travelling about ;
to learn
more of my great work and mission? Were I to tell you, you
could hardly make anything of it. To test your knowledge and
patience, I may answer you though this once. I now come from
Sakkya-Jong. To you the name will remain meaningless.
Repeat it before the
" Old Lady
"
and observe the result. But
to return. Having then, to deliver with one hand the much needed
yet dangerous weapon to the world, and with the other to keep
off the Shammars (the havoc produced by them already being
immense) do you not think we have a right to hesitate, to pause
and feel the necessity of caution, as we never did before? To
sum up : the misuse of knowledge by the pupil always reacts upon
the initiator ; nor, do I believe you know yet, that in sharing his
secrets with another, the Adept by an immutable Law, is
delaying
his own progress to the Eternal Rest. Perhaps, what I now tell
you, may help you to a truer conception of things, and to appreci-
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 285
ate our mutual position the better. Loitering- on the way, does not
conduce to a speedy arrival at the journey's end. And, it must
strike you as a truism, that a Price must be paid for everything and
every truth by somebody and in this case WE pay it. Fear not ;
I am willing to pay my share, and I told so those who put me
the question. I will not desert you ;
nor will I show myself less
self-sacrificing than the poor, worn out mortality we know as the
" Old Lady.*' The above must remain between us two. I expect
you to regard this letter as strictly confidential for it is neither
for publication nor your friends. I want you alone to know it.
Only, if all this was more generally known to candidates for
initiation, I feel certain they would be both more thankful
and more patient as well as less inclined to be irritated at what
they consider our reticence and vacillations. Few possess your
discretion ;
fewer still know to appreciate at their true value the
results obtained. . . . Your two letters to S.M. will lead to no
result whatever. He will remain as immovable and your trouble
will have been taken in vain. You will receive a letter from him
full of suspicion and with no few unkind remarks. You cannot per-
suade him that + is a living Brother for that was tried and
failed ; unless, indeed, you convert him to popular exoteric
Lamaism ;
which regards our ' '
Byang-tzyoobs
"
and "
Tchang-
chubs "
the Brothers who pass from the body of one great Lama
to that of another as Lhas or disembodied Spirits. Remember
what I said in my last of Planetary Spirits. The Tchang-chub
(an adept who has, by the power of his knowledge and soul
enlightenment, become exempt from the curse of UNCONSCIOUS
transmigration) may, at his will and desire, and instead of re-
incarnating himself only after bodily death, do so, and repeatedly
during his life if he chooses. He holds the power of choosing
for himself new bodies whether on this or any other planet while
in possession of his old form, that he generally preserves for pur*
poses of his own. Read the book of Khiu-tee and you will find in
it these laws. She might translate for you some paras, as she
knows them by rote. To her you may read the present.
Do I often laugh at
" the helpless way in which you grope in
the dark? " Most decidedly not. That would be as unkind and
about as foolish for me to do as for you to laugh at a Hindu for his
pidgin English, in a district, where your Government will not
teach people English. Whence such a thought? And whence
that other to have my portrait? Never had but one taken, in my
whole life; a poor ferrotype produced in the days of the
"Gaudeamus" by a travelling female artist (some relative, I
suppose, of the Munich beer hall beauties that you have inter-
viewed of late) and from whose hands I had to rescue it. The
ferrotype is there, but the image itself has vanished : the nose
286 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
peeled off and one of the eyes gone. No other to offer. I dare
not promise for I never break my word. Yet I may try some
day to get you one.
Quotation from Tennyson? Really cannot say. Some stray
lines picked up in the astral light or in somebody's brain and re-
membered, I never forget what I once see or read. A bad habit.
So much so, that often and unconsciously to myself I string
together sentences of stray words and phrases, before my eyes
and which may have been used hundred years ago or will be
hundred years hence, in relation to quite a different subject.
Laziness and real lack of time. The " Old Lady
"
called me a
" brain pirate
"
and a plagiarist, the other day for using a whole
sentence of five lines, which, she is firmly convinced, I must have
pilfered from Dr. Wilder's brain as three months later, he repro-
duced it in an essay of his on prophetic intuition. Never had a
look into the old philosopher 's brain cells. Got it somewhere in
a northern current don't know. Write this for your informa-
tion as something new for you, I suppose. Thus a child may be
born bearing the greates resemblance and features to another
person, thousands of miles off, no connexion to the mother, never
seen by her, but whose floating image was impressed upon her
soul-memory, during sleep or even waking hours, and reproduced
upon the sensitized plate of living flesh she carries in her. Yet, I
believe, the lines quoted, were written by Tennyson years ago, and
they are published. I hope these disjointed reflections and explana-
tions may be pardoned in one, who, remained for over nine days
in his stirrups without dismounting. From Ghalaring-Tcho
Lamasery (where your Occult World was discussed and commented
upon) Heaven save the mark ! will you think. I crossed to the
Horpa Pa La territory,
'*
the unexplored regions of Turki tribes
"
say your maps ignorant of the fact that there are no tribes there
at all and thence home. Yes; I am tired, and therefore will
close.
Yours faithfully,
K. H.
In October I will be in Bhutan. I have a favour to ask of you :
try and make friends with Ross Scott. / need him.
LETTER No. L
Received August, 1883.
My dear friend,
I feel terribly pulled down (mentally) with this unceasing atti-
tude of unavoidable opposition, and as continual attacks on our
strongholds !
During the whole of my quiet, contemplative life, I
PROBATION, AND OHELASHIP 287
have never met with a man more tenacious and unreasonable ! I
cannot go on like that, passing my life in useless protest ;
and if
you cannot bring to bear upon him your friendly influence, we will
have all of us to part company, at some not distant day. I was
with the Chohan when I received the letter I now enclose, and
the Chohan was perfectly disgusted, and called the whole thing the
Tibetan name for
"
comedy.
M It is not that he is anxious to
" do
good
"
or
"
help the progress of the T.S." It is simply, believe
me or not insatiable pride in him ;
a ferocious, intense desire to
feel and show to others that he is the
"
one elect," that he knows
that which all others are barely allowed to suspect. Do not pro-
test for it is useless. We know, and you do not. The Chohan
heard the other day the idiotic but painfully sincere lamentations
of the "wife" and took note of them. Such is not a man
who aims at becoming a
"
perfect soul
"
and he, who would write
of a brother Theosophist what he has written to me of Fern is no
theosophist. Let this be strictly private, and do not let him know
but what he will read himself in my letter. I want you to read
the two letters before you take them to him, and I
beg of you to be
present when he reads them.
I will see what can be done for Colonel Chesney and I believe
Djual Khool is after him. For the first time during my life I
think I feel really disheartened. Yet for the sake of the Society,
I would not lose him. Well I will do all I can, but I am seriously
afraid, that he will spoil the broth himself some day.
Yours with sincere affection,
K. H.
LETTER No. LI
Received 22 8 82.
Private.
My good friend,
Remember that in the phenomenon intended for Colonel Chesney
there was, is, and will be but one real phenomenal thing, or rather
an act of occultism the likeness of your humble servant the
best of the two productions of D. Khool, I am sorry to say for
you. The rest of the performance is, notwithstanding its
mysterious character, something but too natural, and, of which I
do not at all approve. But I have no right to go against the
traditional policy however much I would like to avoid its practical
application.
Keep this strictly within your own friendly heart until the day
comes to let several persons know that you were warned of it. I
288 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
dare not say more. The probations are hard all round and are
sure not to meet your European notions of truthfulness and
sincerity. But reluctant as I do feel to use such means or even
to permit them to be used in connection with my chelas, yet I
must say that the deception, the lack of good faith, and the
traps (
!
!)
intended to inveigle the Brothers, have multiplied so
much of late; and there is so little time left to that day that will
ctecide the selection of the chelas, that I cannot help thinking that
our chiefs and especially M. may be after all right. With an
enemy one has to use either equal or better weapons. But do
not be deceived by appearance. Were that I could be as frank
with Mr. Hume whom I as sincerely respect for some of his
genuine, sterling, qualities as I cannot help blaming for some
others. When will any of you know and understand what we
really are, instead of indulging in a world of fiction !
In case Col. Chesney speaks to you of certain things tell him
not to trust to appearances. He is a gentleman, and ought not
to be allowed to labour under a deception, never meant for him
but only as a test for those who would impose themselves upon
us with an unclean heart. The crisis is near at hand. Who will
win the day !
K. H.
LETTER No. LII
Received Simla, Autumn, 1882.
There is nothing "below the surface, my faithful friend
absolutely nothing. Hume is simply furiously jealous of any-
one who received, or is likely to receive any information, favours
(?) attention, or anything of the sort, emanating from us. The
word "
jealous
"
is ridiculous, but correct unless we call it
envious, which is still worse. He believes himself wronged, be-
cause he fails to become our sole centre of attraction ;
he atti-
tudinises before himself and feels maddened to fury in finding no
one who would admire him ;
writes out a Hebrew passage which
means in Eliphas Levi's book as I have rendered it, and failing to
catch me in a new contradiction, for the purpose of which he went
to the trouble of quoting it, he impresses himself with the illusion
that he is
"
far more of an Adivaitee
" than either M. or myself
ever were (an easy thing to prove since we never were Adwaitees).
And writes an abusive letter directed against our system and our-
selves to the O.L. by way of soothing his feelings.
Are you really so generous as not to have .suspected long ago
the whole truth ? Did I not warn you ;
and is it possible that
you should not have perceived that he will never allow even an
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 289
adept to know more or better than himself !
;
that his was a false
humility ;
that he is an actor, who enacts a part for his own benefit,
regardless of the pleasure or displeasure of his audience though
when the latter is manifested to the slightest degree, he turns
round, concealing admirably his rage and hisses and spits
internally. Every time I contradict and prove him wrong,
whether in a question of Tibetan terms, or in any other trifle, the
record he keeps against me swells, and he comes out with some
new accusation. It is idle, my dear brother, to be always repeat-
ing that there are, nor can there be any contradictions in what
was given to you. There may be inaccuracy of expression, or
incompleteness of detail ;
but to accuse us of blundering is
really
too funny. I have asked you several times to make notes and to
send them to me, but neither Mr. Hume nor you have thought of
doing it ;
and indeed, I have very little time to explore back letters,
compare notes, look into your heads, etc.
I confess my ignorance, in one thing at any rate. I am per-
fectly at a loss to understand why the expression used by me with
regard to H.P.B.'s answer to C.C.M. should have so shocked
you; and why you should object to my
"
exercising my in-
genuity "? If, perchance, you give it another meaning than I do,
then we are again both at sea faut de s' entendre. Put yourself
for a moment in my place, and see whether you would not have
to exercise all the ingenuity you had at your command, in a case
like that between C.C.M. and H.P.B. In reality, there is no con-
tradiction between that passage in Isis and our later teaching ;
to
anyone, who never heard of the seven principles constantly re-
ferred to in Isis as a trinity, without any more explanation
there certainly appeared to be as good a contradiction as could
be.
"
You will write so and so, give so far, and no more "
she
was constantly told by us, when writing her book. It was at the
very beginning of a new cycle, in days when neither Christians
nor Spiritualists ever thought of, let alone mentioned, more than
two principles in man body and Soul, which they called Spirit.
If you had time to refer to the spiritualistic literature of that
day, you would find that with the phenomenalists as with the
Christians, Soul and Spirit were synonymous. It was H.P.B.,
who, acting under the orders of Atrya (one whom you do not
know) ws the first to explain in the Spiritualist the difference
there was between psyche and nousf nefesh and ruach Soul and
Spirit. She had to bring the whole arsenal of proofs with her,
quotations from Paul and Plato, from Plutarch and James, etc.
before the Spiritualists admitted that the theosophists were right.
It was then that she was ordered to write Isis just a year after
the Society had been founded. And, as there happened such a
war over it, endless polemics and objections to the effect that
ago THE MAHATMA LETTERS
there could not be in man two souls we thought it was prema-
ture to give the public more than they could possibly assimilate,
and before they had digested the "two souls"; and thus the
further sub-division of the trinity into 7 principles was left un-
mentioned in Isis. And is it because she obeyed our orders, and
wrote, purposely veiling some of her facts that now, when we
think the time has arrived to give most of, if not the whole truth
that she has to be left in the lurch? Would I, or any of us,
ever leave her as a target for the Spiritualists to shoot at, and
laugh at the contradictions when these were entirely apparent,
and proceeded but from their own ignorance of the whole truth ;
a truth they would not listen to, nor will they accept it even now,
except under protest and with the greatest reservations? Cer-
tainly not. And when I use the word "
ingenuity
"
that may
be an American slang expression for all I know, and that I
suspect has with the English another meaning I meant neither
"
cunning
"
nor anything like a "dodge," but simply to show
the difficulty I had to labour under, to explain the right meaning
with an endless and clumsy paragraph before me, that insisted
upon non-reincarnation without inserting one word in it to show
that the latter had reference but to the animal soul, not Spirit, to
the astral, not the Spiritual monad.
Will you kindly explain to me at the first opportunity what you
mean by referring to my expression as "an unhappy phrase
" ?
If you asked a friend to draw for the Pioneer a cow, and that
friend starting with the intention of reproducing a cow would
owing to his inability in drawing sketch instead an ox or a
buffalo, and the engraving would so appear perhaps, because
you were crowded with other work, and had no time to perceive
the short-comings would you not
"
exercise your ingenuity
"
and
try your best to set the readers right, to prove to them that in
truth a cow was meant by the artist : and confessing your friend's
inability, do whatever you could, at the same time, to screen him
from unmerited humiliation? Yes, you are right. H. has
neither delicacy of perception and feeling, nor any real, genuine
kindness of heart. He is one to sacrifice his own family, those
nearest and dearest to him (if there are such for him, something
I doubt) for any whim of his own ;
and he would be the first to
allow a hecatomb of victims if he needed one drop of blood ;
to
insist upon the advisability of Sutee if it were the only thing that
would keep him warm, help his benumbed fingers to do their
work, and he diligently writing a treatise upon some philan-
thropic subject during that time and sing sincerely
"
Hosanna "
to himself in his own thought. Exaggeration, you think? Not
so ;
for you have no conception of the potential selfishness there is
in him; of the cruel, remorseless egotism he brought back with
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 291
him from his last incarnation a selfishness and egotism which
remained latent only owing to the uncongenial soil of the sphere
he is in, of his social status and education and we have. Can
you believe he wrote his famous article in the Theosophist simply
for the reason he gives you to help breaking the unavoidable
fall? to save the situation, and by answering Davidson and
C.C.M., etc. to make the work of answering in the future and
reconciling the contradictions in the past easier? Not at all.
If, he sacrifices in it
remorselessly H.P.B., and the author of the
Review of the "Perfect Way," and shows the "Brothers" as
inferior in intelligence to the
"
educated European gentlemen,"
and devoid of any correct notions about honesty or right and
wrong in the European sense selfish and cold, stubborn and
domineering it is not at all because he cares one button for
either of you, least of all for the Society ;
but simply because in
view of certain possible events, that he is too highly intelligent
not to have fore-shadowed in his mind he wants to screen him-
self ; to be the only one to come out unscarred if not immaculate
in case of a crush, and to dance, if need be, the
"
death dance
"
of
the Maccabreans over the prostrate body of the T.S. rather than
risk one little finger of the great Simla
"
I am " to be sneered at.
Knowing him as we do, we say that Mr. Hume is at perfect
liberty to quote the
"
unhappy phrase
" as many times a day as
his breath will allow him to, if tt can in any way soothe his
ruffled feelings. And, it is just because Morya saw through him
as plainly as I see my writing before me, that he allowed the
"
sell
M
as you call it. Nay more; for the things are so pre-
pared, that in the case the
" Eclectic
" has to sink, he will be
the only one to go down with it; the only one laughed at, and
thus his selfishness and carefully prepared plans will prove of no
avail. Believing he knew better than I did, he was kind and
considerate enough to add his explanations to mine in H.P.B.'s
answer to C.C.M. and with the exception of Karma that he
explained correctly enough made a mess of the rest. And now,
the first time I contradict what he says in his article, he will turn
round in fury and express his disgust at what he will call my
(not his) contradictions. I am sorry to have to what will appear
to you denounce him. But I must draw your attention to the
fact, that nine times out of ten, when he accuses me of having
entirely misconceived his meaning he says, what anyone has a
right to regard as a deliberate falsehood. The instance of
E. Levi's 1
is a good instance. In order to prove me at
fault, he had to become an Adwaitee and deny his
"
moral
Governor and Ruler of the Universe," by throwing him over-
i A phrase in Hebrew characters appears here in the original, which trans-
lated means '*
I am that I am." ED.
292 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
board
" for the last 20 years.
" This is not honest, my friend, and
I do not see any help for it. For who can prove when he says
that the arguments embodied in his letters to me were not the
expressions of his own personal belief and opinions, but brought
forward simply to answer the probable objections of a theistic
public that it is no better than cheating? With such an intel-
lectual acrobat, ever ready to perform the
"
grand trapeze
"
whether in reference to what he states verbally, or puts on paper
even we have to appear beaten. For the latter we care very little
personally. But then he is ever ready to crow victory in his
private letters, and even in print. He is willing that we should
exist he is too clever to risk at this hour being caught in a want
of sagacity, since he knows through correspondents who are dead
against the
" Founders "
of the actual existence of our Brother-
hood but, he will never submit to the recognition of such powers
or knowledge in us, as would render his unasked advice and inter-
ference as ridiculous as they are useless ;
and he works on that
line.
I had no right to suppress the
"
offensive" article as you call
it, for several reasons. Having allowed our name to be con-
nected with the T.S. and ourselves dragged into publicity, we
have to suffer (the verb, a simple figure of speech if you please)
as Olcott would put it
"
the penalty of our greatness.
M We must
permit the expression of every opinion whether benevolent or
malevolent ;
to feel ourselves picked to pieces one day ;
"
preached
"
on the following, worshipped on the next; and
trampled down in the mud on the fourth. Reason No. 2 the
Chohan has so ordained it. And with him this means fresh de-
velopments, unexpected results, and DANGER, I am afraid. The
two names that you find heading the signatures of the 12 chelas
who protest, belong to the confidential chelas of the Chohan him-
self. In this direction there is no more hope for Mr. Hume
consummatum est. He has overdone the thing, and, I will never
have any more opportunities of pronouncing his name before our
venerable chief. On the other hand, the denunciation has done
good. The Chohan gave orders that the young Tyotirmoy a
lad of 14, the son of Babu Nobin Banerjee whom you^know
should be accepted as a pupil in one of our lamaseries near
Chamto-Dong about 100 miles off Tchigadze, and his sister, a-
virgin Yoginn of 18, at the female monastery of Palli. Thus, the
Founders will have two witnesses in good time, and will not
depend upon the caprice of Mr. Hume to kill and resurrect us at
pleasure. As to proving whether we do, or do not know more
of the mysteries of nature than your men of Science and your
theologians do, it rests with you and those you will select to help
you in the important task.
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 293
I hope, my dear friend, that you will undertake to impress upon
Mr. Hume the following- facts :
Though the work done by him
for the Society would become ultimately most important, and
that it
might have borne the most useful fruits, yet his
denunciatory article has nigh upset the labour done by him.
People will now regard him more than ever a lunatic Hindu
members will blame him for years, and our chelas can never be
made to look upon him but in the light of a iconoclast, a haughty
intruder, incapable of any gratitude, hence unfit to be one of
them. This you must give out as your personal opinion of
course not unless it meets your own views, and may be given as
the expression of your real feelings in the matter for I, personally
am ordered not to break with him until the day of the crisis
comes. If he desires to retain his official position in the Eclectic,
help him to do so. If not, I
beg you most urgently to accept the
position of President yourself. But I leave all this to your tact
and discretion. Let him also know that the Protest of the Chelas
is no work of ours, but the result of. a positive order emanating
from the Chohan. The Protest was received at the Headquarters,
two hours before the postman brought the famous article, and
telegrams were received from several chelas in India on the same
day. Together with the foot-note sent by Djual Khoul to be
appended to W. Oxley's article the September Number is calcu-
lated to create a certain sensation among the mystics of England
and America not only among our Hindus. The "
Brothers
"
question is kept up pretty alive, and may bear its fruit. Mr.
Hume's graphic pen spurts under the mask of philanthropy, the
bitterest gall, assailing us with weapons which for being repre-
sented or rather imagined as lawful and legitimate, and used for
the most honest of purposes wield by turns ridicule and abuse.
And, yet he has so preserved the- semblance of a sincere belief in
our knowledge, that we are more than likely to be thenceforth
remembered as he has painted us, and not as in reality we are.
What I once said of him, I maintain. He may, outwardly, some-
times sincerely forgive, he can never forget. He is that which
Johnson is said to have much admired,
"
a good hater.*'
Oh, my friend, with all your faults, and your rather too lively
past, how much, how immeasureably much higher you stand in
our sight than our "I am/' with all his high
"
splendid mental
capacity," and outwardly pathetic nature concealing the inward
absence of anything like real feeling and heart !
M. wants me to tell you that he refuses most decidedly to take
any precaution of the nature you suggest. He despises H.
thoroughly ; yet in a case of any real danger would be the first to
protect him for the pains and labour given by him for the T.S.
He says that in case H. comes to know of his ridiculous blunder,
294 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
he will be ready to prove to others the existence of occult powers,
but will not leave H. one leg to stand upon. His punishment
must be allowed to be complete or else it will have no effect upon
him, and he will only retaliate upon innocent victims. H. has
shown us to the world as dishonest and lying, before he ever had
one single undeniable proof that we were that, and that he was
justified in his denunciation by even an appearance, a semblance
of dishonesty. If H. chooses to-morrow to represent us as
murderers M. will try to raise a maya to make the words good,
and then destroy it, and show him a calumniator. I am afraid
he is right, from the standpoint of our rules and customs. They
are anti-European, I confess. With the exception of the telegram,
M. never wrote Fern but one letter, the five or six other letters in
his handwriting emanating from the Dugpa who has charge of
Fern. He hopes that you will not spoil his work, and that you
will ever remain a loyal and true friend to him, as he will be one
to you. Fern will never repeat any experiment a la napkin, for
the simple reason that he will be trusted with no more letters.
I have received a letter from Colonel Chesney and will answer
it in a few days with a young chela who will deliver it to your
care with my respectful greeting. Do not frighten the boy. He
is ordered to answer all the questions he can answer, but no more.
From Simla he will proceed to Budda Guya
1
and Bombay, on busi-
ness, and will be back home about November.
With sincere friendship,
Yours,
K. H.
LETTER No. LIII
Strictly private and confidential
My patient friend :
Yesterday, I had a short note posted to
you, and it accompanied a long letter to Hume I had it
regis-
tered somewhere in Central P. by a happy, free friend ; to-day, it
is a long letter to yourself, and it is intended to be accompanied
by a tolling of jeremiades, a doleful story of a discomfiture, which
may, or may not make you laugh as it does that bulky brother of
mine but which makes me feel like the poet : who could not
sleep aright,
*'
For his soul kept up too much light
Under his eyelids for the night."
I hear you uttering under breath :
"
Now what in the world does
he mean!" Patience, my best Anglo-Indian friend, patience;
and when you have heard of the disreputable conduct of my
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 295
wicked, more than ever laughing Brother, you will plainly see,
why, I come to regret, that instead of tasting in Europe, of the
fruit of the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil I have not
remained in Asia, in all the sancta simplicitas of ignorance of
your ways and manners for then I would be now grinning too !
I wonder what you will say when you will have learned the
dreadful secret ! I long tcwknow it, to be delivered of a night-
mare. Were you to meet me now, for the first time, in the
shadowy alleys of your Simla, and demanded of me the whole
truth, you would hear me tell it to you, most unfavourably for
myself. My answer to you, would remind the world if you were
cruel enough to repeat it of the famous answer given by Warren
Hastings to
"
dog Jennings
"
on his first meeting with the ex-
governor after his return from India !
"
My dear Hastings
"
asked Jennings
"
is it possible you are the great rascal Burke
says, and the whole world is inclined to believe?
" 4<
I can
assure you, Jennings,'* was the sad and mild reply,
"
that though
sometimes obliged to appear rascal for the Company, I was never
one for myself." I am the W.H. for the sins of the Brotherhood.
But to facts.
Of course you know the
" O.L. "
told you I think that when
we take candidates for chelas, they take the vow of secrecy and
silence respecting every order they may receive. One has to
prove himself fit for chelaship, before he can find out whether he is
fit for adeptship. Fern is under such a probation ;
and a nice mess
they have prepared for me between them two ! As you already
know from my letter to Hume, he did not interest me, I knew
nothing of him, beyond his remarkable faculties, his powers for
clairaudience and clairvoyance, and his still more remarkable
tenacity of purpose, strong will, and other etcs. A loose, immoral
character for years, a tavern Pericles with a sweet smile for
every street Aspasia, he had entirely and suddenly reformed after
joining the Theosoph :
Society, and
" M." took him seriously in
hand. It is no business of mine to tell even yourself, how much
of his visions is truth and how much hallucination, or even per-
chance fiction. That he bamboozled our friend Hume consider-
ably, must be so, since Mr. Hume tells me the most marvellous
yarns of him. But the worst of all this business is, the following.
He bamboozled him so well, indeed, that whereas H. did not
believe one word when Fern was speaking the truth, nearly every
lie uttered by F. was accepted by our respected Prest. of the
Eclectic as gospel truth.
Now you will readily understand, that it is impossible for me
to try and set him (H) right, since F. is M.'s chela, and that I
have no right whatever either legal, or social, according to our
code to interfere between the two. Of the several grievances,
296 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
however, it is the smallest. Another of our customs, when cor-
responding with the outside world, is to entrust a chela with the
task of delivering" the letter or any other message ;
and if not
absolutely necessary to never give it a thought. Very often our
very letters unless something very important and secret are
written in our handwritings by our chelas. Thus, last year, some
of my letters to you were precipitated, and when sweet and easy
precipitation was stopped well I had but to compose my mind,
assume an easy position, and think, and my faithful
"
Disin-
herited
" had but to copy my thoughts, making only occasionally
a blunder. Ah, my friend, I had an easy life of it unto the very
day when the Eclectic sprung into its checkered existence. . . .
Anyhow, this year, for reasons we need not mention, I have to
do my own work the whole of it, and I have a hard time of it
sometimes, and get impatient over it. As Jean Paul Richter says
somewhere, the most painful part of our bodily pain is that which
is bodiless or immaterial, namely our impatience, and the delusion
that it will last for ever. . . .
Having one day permitted my-
self to act as though I were labouring under such a delusion, in
the innocence of my unsophisticated soul, I trusted the sacredness
of my correspondence into the hands of that alter ego of mine,
the wicked and
"
imperious
"
chap, your
"
Illustrious," who took
undue advantage of my confidence in him and placed me in the
position I am now in ! The wretch laughs since yesterday, and
to confess the truth I feel inclined to do the same. But as an
Englishman, I am afraid you will be terror-struck at the
enormity of his crime. You know, that notwithstanding his faults
Mr. Hume is absolutely necessary, so far, to the T.S. I grow
sometimes very irritated at his petty feelings and spirit of vin-
dictiveness ; yet withal, I have to put up with his weaknesses,
which lead him at one moment to vex himself that it is not yet
and at another that it is already mid-day. But our
"
Illustrious
"
is not precisely of that opinion. Mr. Hume's pride and self-
opinion he argues wish as our saying goes that all mankind
had only two bent knees, to make puja to him ;
and he M. is not
going to humour him. He will do nothing, of course, to harm or
even to vex him purposely ;
on the contrary, he means to always
protect him as he has done until now ;
but he will not lift his
little finger to disabuse him.
The substance and pith of his argument are summed up in the
following :
" Hume laughed and chuckled at real, genuine phenomena (the
production of which have brought us well nigh into the Chohan's
disgrace) only and solely because the manifestations were not
sketched by himself, nor were they produced in his honour or for
his sole benefit. And now let him feel happy and proud over
mysterious manifestations of his own making and creation. Let
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 297
him taunt Sinnett in the depths of his own proud heart, and even
by throwing out hints to others that even he, Sinnett, was hardly
so favoured. No one has ever attempted a deliberate deception,
nor would anyone be permitted to attempt anything- of the sort.
Everything was made to follow its natural, ordinary course.
Fern is in the hands, of two clever
*
dwellers of the threshold
'
as Bulwer would call them two dngpas kept by us to do our
scavengers* work, and to draw out the latent vices if there be
any from the candidates ;
and Fern has shown himself on the
whole, far better and more moral than he was supposed to be.
Fern has done but what he was ordered to do ;
and he holds his
tongue because it is his first duty. As to his posing with Hume,
and attitudinizing before himself and others as a seer, since he
has brought himself to believe it, and that it is but certain details
that can be really called a fiction, or to put it less mildly fibs
there is no real harm done but to himself. Hume's jealousy and
pride will ever be in the way, to prevent him swallowing truth as
much as ornamental fiction; and Sinnett is shrewd enough to sift
very easily Fern's realities and dreams. . . .
Why then,
should I, or you or any one else
" concludes M. "
offer advice to
one who is sure not to accept it, or, which will be still worse, in
case he learns for a certainty that he has been permitted to make
a fool of himself is still more sure to become an irreconcilable
enemy to the Society, the Cause, the much suffering Founders and
all. Let him, then, strictly alone. . . . He will not be
thankful for undeceiving him. On the contrary. He will forget
that no one is to be blamed but himself; that no one had ever
whispered him one word that could have led him into his extra
delusions ;
but will turn more fiercely than ever on chose chaps
the adepts and he will call them publicly impostors, Jesuits and
pretenders. You (I) gave him one genuine pucka phenomenon
and that ought to satisfy him as to the possibility of everything
else."
Such is M. *s reasoning ;
and were I not indirectly mixed in the
quiproquo it would be also mine. But now, owing to the
plants of that little double-dealing monkey Fern, I am com-
pelled to disturb you for a friendly advice, since our ways are not
your ways and vice versa.
But now see what happened. Hume has lately received a good
many letters from me ;
and I hope you will kindly follow with me
the fate and various fortunes of three of them, ever since he began
to receive them in a direct way. Try also, to well understand
the situation and to thus realize my position. Since we had
three chelas at Simla, two regular ones and one an irregular
one the candidate Fern, I conceived the unfortunate idea of
saving power, of economizing, as though I had a
"
Savings
bank." To tell truth, I sought to separate as much as it was
possible under the circumstances, the suspected
"
Headquarters
"
from every phenomenon produced at Simla ;
hence from the cor-
respondence that passed between Mr. Hume and myself. Unless
298 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
H.P.B., Damodar, and Deb were entirely disconnected, there
was no saying what might, or might not, happen. The first
letter the one found in the conservatory I gave to M. to have
it left at Mr. H.'s house by one of the two regular chelas. He
gave it to Subba Row for he had to see him on that day; S.R.
passed it in the ordinary way (posted it) to Fern, with instructions
to either leave it at Mr. Hume's house, or to send it to him
through post, in case he were afraid that Mr. H. should ask him
since Fern could not, had not the right to answer him
and thus would be led to telling an untruth. Several times D.Kh.
had tried to penetrate into Rothney Castle, but suffered each time
so acutely, that I told him to give it up. (He is preparing for
initiation and might easily fail as a consequence). Well, Fern
did not post it but sent a friend his dugpa to leave it at the
house and the latter placed it in the conservatory about 2 a.m.
This was half of a phenomenon but H. took it for an entire thing,
and got very mad when M. refused as he thought to take up his
answer in the same way. Then I wrote to console him, and told
him as plainly as I could say, without breaking M.'s confidence
in relation to Fern that D.K. could do nothing for him, at
present, and that it was one of Morya's chelas that had placed
the letter there, etc., etc. I believe the hint was quite broad
enough and no deception practiced? The second letter, I think,
was thrown on his table by Dj. Khool (the real spelling of whose
name is Gjual, but not so phonetically) and, as it was done by
himself it was a pucka orthodox phenomenon and Hume has no
need to complain. Several were sent to him in various ways
and he may be sure of one thing : however ordinary the means
by which the letters reached him, they could not be but phe-
nomenal in reaching India from Tibet. But this does not seem
to be taken into any consideration by him. And now we come
to the really bad part of it, a part for which I blame entirely M.
for permitting it and exonerate Fern, who could not help it.
Of course you understand that I write you this in strict con-
fidence, relying upon your honour that whatever happens you will
not betray Fern. Indeed (and IxJiave, looked most attentively into
the thing) the boy was led to become guilty of a deliberate
Jesuitical deception rather through Hume's constant insults,
suspicious attitude and deliberate slights at meals, and during
the hours of work, than from any motives in consequence of his
loose notions of morals. Then M. 's letters (the production of the
amiable dug-pa, in reality e#-dugpa, whose past sins will never
permit him to fully atone for his misdeeds) distinctly say :
"
do,
either so and so, or in such a way "; they tempt hirft, and lead
him to imagine that in doing no injury to any human being and
when the motive is good every action becomes legal ! ! 7 was
PEOBATION, AND CHELASHIP 299
thus tempted in my youth, and had nearly succumbed twice to the
temptation, but was saved by my uncle from falling into the
monstrous snare ;
and so was the Illustrious who is a pucka
orthodox Occultist and holds religiously to the old traditions and
methods ;
and so would be any one of you had I consented to
accept you for chelas. But as I was aware from the first, of
what you have confessed to, in a letter to H.P.B., namely that
there was something supremely revolting to the better class of
European minds in that idea of being tested, of being under pro-
bation I therefore had always avoided the acceptance of Mr.
Hume's often expressed offer to become a chela. This may, per-
haps, give you the key to the whole situation. However this is
what happened. Fern had received a letter of mine through a
chela, with the injunction of causing it to reach its destination
immediately. They were going to take breakfast, and there was
no time to lose. Fern had thrown the letter on a table and ought
to have left it there, since there would have been no occasion for
him then, to lie. But he was vexed with H., and he devised
another dodge. He placed the letter in the folds of Mr. H.'s
napkin, who at breakfast took it up and accidentally shook out
the letter on to the floor ;
it appears, to the terrible fright of
"
Moggy
"
and the contented surprise of Hume. But, his old
suspicion returning to him, (a suspicion he had always harboured
since I wrote to him that my first letter was brought into the
conservatory by one of M.'s chelas, and that my chela could do
little, though he had visited invisibly every part of the house
before) Hume looks at Fern full and asks him whether it was
he who had placed it there. Now I have the entire picture be-
fore me of F.'s brain at that moment. There's the rapid flash
in it
"
this saves me . . . for I can swear I never put it
there
"
(meaning the spot on the floor where it had fallen) No
he boldly answers.
"
I have never put it THERE" he adds
mentally. Then a vision of M. and a feeling of intense satis-
faction and relief for not having been guilty of a direct lie. Con-
fused pictures of some Jesuits he had known, of his little child
a disconnected thought of his room and beams in Mr. H.'s
garden, etc. not a thought of se//-deception !
Truly then, our
friend was taken in but once, but I would pay any price could I
but recall the event and replace my letter with somebody else's
message. But you see how I am situated. M. tells me he gives
me carte blanche to tell anything I like to you, he will not have
me say a word to Hume ;
nor would he ever forgive you he says,
were you to interfere between the punishment of Hume's pride,
and fate. Fern is not really to be blamed, for thinking that so
long tfs the result is accomplished the details are of no account,
since he was brought at such a school, and that he really has the
300 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
welfare of the Cause at heart, whereas, with Hume it is really
bona fide Selfishness, egotism the chief and only motive power.
"
Egotistic philanthropist
" is a word which paints his portrait
at full length.
Now for Col. Chesney. Since he really and sincerely was kind
enough, it appears, to discern something in the outlines of your
poor, humble friend's face; an impression drawn, most probably,
from the depths of his imagination rather than from any real
presence of such an expression as you say, in Dj. Khool's or M.'s
production the former felt quite proud and begged my permis-
sion to precipitate another such likeness, for Col. Chesney. Of
course, the permission was granted, though I laughed at the idea,
and M. told D.K. that the Col. would also laugh at what he
will suspect as my conceit. But D.K. would try and then went
and begged permission to present it himself to Col. Chesney ; a
permission which was, as a matter of course, refused by the
Chohan and he himself reprimanded. But the picture was ready
three minutes after I had consented to it, and D.K. seemed
enormously proud of it. He says and he is right, I think, that
this likeness is the best of the three. Well, it went the usual
way, via Djual Khool, Deb and Fern the H.P.B. and Damodar
being both at Poona at that time. M. was training and testing
Fern for a phenomenon of course a genuine one so that a
pucka manifestation could be produced in Col. Chesney's house
by Fern ; but, while Fern swore he needed but three months'
preparation, M. knew he would never be ready for this season
nor do I think he will be ready next year. Anyhow, he entrusted
the new picture to Fern, telling him again to better send it by
post, for were the Colonel to ever learn that Fern was concerned
in it, he would disbelieve even in its precipitated production. But
D.K. wanted it delivered immediately, and while the Col. as he
said
"
had Master hot in his head still
"
and Fern, the con-
ceited young fool, answers "
No; before I do anything in con-
nection with the
*
packet
'
I must study him (Col. Chesney) more
fully (
!
!)
I want, this time, to obtain the highest possible re-
sults at the first onset. From what I have seen of the author of
the
'
Battle of Dorkin '
I have not been able to satisfy myself
about him. . . . Father told me to be his
*
eyes
'
and '
ears
'
he not having always the time I must find out the character
we have to deal with"!!
In the interval, I, fearing that Master Fern may, perhaps,
place the portrait in the folds of Col. Chesney's
"
napkin," and
produce some "spiritual manifestation with his foot" I wrote
to you from Poona through Damodar, giving you a very broad
hint I believe, which, of course, you did not understand but will
now. Meanwhile, yester morning D.K. came and told me that
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 301
Fern still had his picture and that he feared that some trick had
or would be played. Then I
immediately aroused my too indif-
ferent Brother from his apathy. I showed to him how dangerous
was the situation left in the unscrupulous hands of a boy, whose
sense of morality was still more blunted, by the
"
probation
"
tests and deceit which he regarded nigh as legal and permissible
and aroused him finally into action. A telegram was sent to Fern
in M.'s own handwriting, this time, from the Central Provinces
(Bussawla, I believe where lives a chela) ordering Fern to
send on immediately the packet he had for the Colonel to his
address by post and Fern, as I see received it, yesterday, in the
forenoon, by our time (Tuesday, 22). And thus when you hear of
it, you will know the whole truth.
I have strictly forbidden my letters or anything connected
with my business to ever be given to Fern. Thus Mr. H. and
yourself or anyone else at Simla may take my word of honour
that Fern will have nothing more to do with my business. But,
my dearest friend, you must promise me faithfully, and for my
sake, never to breathe one word of what I told you to anyone
least of all to Hume or Fern ;
unless Fern forces you by his fibs
to stop him, in which case you may use what you think proper
of it, to force him to shut upf yet, without ever allowing him to
know how, and from whom you have learnt it. Apart from this,
use of the knowledge, at your discretion. Read my letter, regis-
tered and sent to your name from Bussawla yesterday or rather
my letter to Hume carefully and think well over before sending it
to him ;
for this letter may provoke him to a fit of madness and
hurt pride and make him quit the Society at once. Better keep
it, as means for future emergency to prove to him that at least,
I, am one, who will not permit even my enemies to be won over
by unfair means. At least, I so regard the means that Mr. Fern
seems but too ready to use. But above all, good and faithful
friend, do not allow your self to misconceive the real position of
our Great Brotherhood. Dark and tortuous as may seem to your
Western mind the paths trodden, and the ways by which our
candidates are brought to the great Light you will be the first
to approve of them when you know all. Do not judge on appear-
ances for you may thereby do a great wrong, and lose your own
personal chances to learn more. Only be vigilant and watch.
If Mr. Hume but consents to wait he will have more, and far
more extraordinary phenomena to silence the critics than he
hitherto had. Exercise your influence with him. Remember in
November comes the great crisis, and September will be full of
dangers. Save at least our personal relations from the great
wreck. Fern is the queerest psychological subject I have ever met.
The pearl is inside, and truly profoundly hidden by the unattractive
302 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
oyster-shell. We cannot break it at once ;
nor can we afford to
lose such subjects. While protecting yourself protect him from
Hume. Generally I never trust a woman, any more than I would
an echo ;
both are of the female gender because the goddess Echo
like woman will always have the last word. But with your lady
it is otherwise, and I
firmly believe that you can trust her with
the above if you think proper. But beware of poor Mrs.
Gordon. An excellent lady but would talk Death herself to death.
And now I have done.
Yours ever faithfully,
K. H.
Please do not regard it as a compliment but believe me when
I
say that your two Letters and especially
"
The Evolution of
Man " is simply SUPERB. Do not fear any contradictions or incon-
sistencies.
I say again make notes of them and send them to me and
you will see.
I pray you, kind sir, to lock the foolish letter sent on yesterday
to Hume-Sahib into your trunk and leave it there to roost until
in demand. I tell you it will create mischief and no better.
K.H. is too sensitive by far he is becoming in your Western
Society a regular Miss
Yours,
M.
LETTER No. LIV
Received Simla, October, 1883.
My dear friend : the deposition and abdication of our great
44
I am "
is one of the most agreeable events of the season for
your humble servant. Mea culpa ! I exclaim, and willingly
place my guilty head under a shower of ashes from the Simla
cigars if you like for it was my doing ! Some good has come
of it in the shape of excellent literary work (though, indeed, I
prefer your style) for the Parent body, but none whatever for
the hapless
<4
Eclectic.** What has he done for it? He com-
plains in a letter to Shishir Koomar Gosh (of the A.B. Patrikd)
that owing to his (?) Hume's incessant efforts, he had nearly
14
converted Chesney to Theosophy
"
when the great anti-
Christian spirit of the Theosophist threw the Colonel violently
back. This is what we may call tampering with historical facts.
I send you his last letter to me, in which you will find him
entirely under the influence of his new guru
<4
the good Vedantin
Swami "
(who offers to teach him the Adwaita philosophy with a
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 303
god in it by way of improvement) and of the Sandaram Spirit.
His argument is, as you will find, that with the
"
good old
Swami "
he will at any rate learn something, while with us, it is
impossible for him to
"
ever learn anything." I
'*
never gave
him the assurance that all the letters were not evolved out of the
Old Lady's fertile brain." Even now, he adds, when he has
obtained subjective certainty, that we are distinct entities from
Mad. B 4<
I cannot tell what you are you might be Djual Kul,
or a spirit of the high Eastern plane
"
etc. in like strain. In
the letter enclosed he says we "
may be tantrikists
"
(better
ascertain the value of the compliment paid) and, he is preparing,
nay all prepared to plunge from extreme Adwaitism into
transcendental theism, once more. Amen. I hand him over to
the Salvation Army.
I would not like to see him sever his connection with the
Society altogether, though ;
first for his own intrinsic literary
worth, and then because you would be sure to have an indefatig-
able though a secret enemy, who would pass his time in writing out
his ink dry against theosophy, denouncing all and everyone in
the Society to all and everyone outside of it, and making himself
disagreeable in a thousand ways. As I once said before, he may
seem to forgive, and he is just the man to bamboozle himself
before his own reflection in the looking-glass into magnanimous
forgiveness, but in reality he neither forgives nor ever forgets. It
was pleasant news for M. and all of us to hear how unanimously
and quietly you were elected President, and we all
4<
masters
"
and chelas greet fraternally and warmly your ascension to the
office ; an accomplished fact which reconciles us even with the sad
and humiliating tidings that Mr. Hume expressed his utter indif-
ference to chelas and even to their masters, adding that he cared
very little to meet either. But enough of him who may better be
described in the words of the Tibetan proverb :
<c
. . . Like the bird of night: by day a graceful cat, in
darkness an ugly rat."
One word of advice an earnest warning from both of us :
trust not little Fern beware of him. His placid serenity and
smiles when talking to you of the
" mild scolding tempered with
mercy," and that it is better to be scolded than cast off are all
assumed. His letter of penitence and remorse to M which he
sends you to keep is not sincere. If you do not watch him
closely, he will mix the cards for you in a way that may lead the
Society to ruin, for he swore a great oath to himself that the
Society will either fall or rise with himself. If he fails next year
again and with all his great gifts, how can such an incurable
little Jesuit and liar help failing? he will do his best to pull down
the Society with him as regards belief in the
" Brothers
"
at
304 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
least. Try to save him, if possible, my dearest friend ;
do your
best to convert him to truth and unselfishness. It is real pity that
such gifts should be drowned in a mire of vice so strongly
engrafted upon him by his early tutors. Meanwhile, beware of
ever allowing him to see any of my letters.
And now to C. C. Massey and your letters. Both answer and
your reply are excellent. Doubtless a more sincere, truthful or a
more noble minded man (S. Moses not excepted) could hardly be
found among the British theosophists. His only and chief fault
is weakness. Were he to learn some day how deeply he has
wronged H.P.B. in thought no man would feel more miserable
over it than himself. But of this anon. If you remember in my
letter to H. upon the subject I "forbade all arrangements
M
for
the simple reason that the Bsh. Theos. Soc. had collapsed, and
virtually was no more. But, if I remember right I added that
if they re-established it on a firm basis with such members as Mrs.
K. and her scribe that we would have no objection to teach them
through you or words to that effect. I certainly objected having
my letters printed and circulated like those of Paul in the bazaars
of Ephesus for the benefit (or perchance derision and criticism)
of isolated members who hardly believed in our existence. But I
have no objection, in case of an arrangement, as proposed by
C.C.M. Only let them first organize, leaving out such bigots as
Wyld strictly out in the cold. He refused to admit Mr. Hume's
sister Mrs. B. because, having never seen any mesmeric phe-
nomena she disbelieved in mesmerism ;
and refused to admit
Crookes, recommended by C.C.M., as I was told. I will never
refuse my help and co-operation to a group of men sincere and
ardent to learn ;
but if again, such men as Mr. Hume are to be
admitted, men who generally delight in playing in every organized
system they get into, the parts played by Typhon and Ahriman
in the Egyptian and Zoroastrian systems then the plan had
better be left aside. I dread the appearance in print of our
philosophy as expounded by Mr. H. I read his three essays or
chapters on God (?) cosmogony and glimpses of the origin of
things in general, and had to cross out nearly all. He makes of
us Agnostics! ! We do not believe in God because so far, we
have no proof, etc. This is preposterously ridiculous : if he pub-
lishes what I read, I will have H.P.B. or Djual Khool deny the
whole thing; as I cannot permit our sacred philosophy to be so
disfigured. He says that people will not accept the whole truth ;
that unless we humour them with a hope that there may be a
"
loving Father and creator of all in heaven
" our philosophy will
be rejected a priori. In such a case the less such idiots hear of
our doctrines the better for both. If they do not want the whole
truth and nothing but the truth, they are welcome. k
But never
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 305
will they find us (at any rate) compromising with, and pander-
ing to public prejudices. Do you call this
"
candid
"
and honest
t
from a European standpoint
" ? Read his letter and judge.
The truth is, my dear friend, that notwithstanding the great tidal
wa've of mysticism that is now sweeping over a portion of the
intellectual classes of Europe, the Western people have as yet
scarcely learned to recognise that which we term wisdom in its
loftiest sense. As yet, he only is esteemed truly wise in his
world, who can most cleverly conduct the business of life, so
that it may yield the largest amount of material profit honours
or money. The quality of wisdom, ever was, and will be yet for
a long time to the very close of the fifth race denied to him
who seeks the wealth of the mind for its own sake, and for its
own enjoyment and result without the secondary purpose of
turning it to account in the attainment of material benefits. By
most of your gold worshipping countrymen our facts and
theorems would be denominated fancy-flights, the dreams of mad-
men. Let the Fragments and even your own magnificent letters
now published in Light, fall into the hands, and be read by the
general public whether materialists or theists or Christians;
and ten to one every average reader will curl his lip with a sneer ;
and with the remark
" all this may be very profound and
learned but of what use is it in practical life?
" dismiss letters and
Fragments from his thoughts for ever.
But now your position with C.C.M. seems changing, and you
are gradually bringing him round. He longs sincerely to give
Occultism another trial and is
"
open to conviction
M
;
we must
not disappoint him. But, I cannot undertake to furnish either
them or even yourself with new facts until all I have already
given is put into shape from the beginning, (vide Mr. Hume's
Essays) and taught to them systematically, and by them learned
and digested. I am now answering your numerous series of
questions scientific and psychological and you will have
material enough for, a year or two. Of course I will be always
ready with further explanations, hence unavoidably, additions but
I positively refuse to teach any further before you have under-
stood and learned all that is already given. Nor do I want you
to print anything from my letters unless previously edited by you,
and put into shape and form. I have no time for writing regular
14
papers," nor does my literary ability extend so far as that.
Only how, about C.C.M.'s mind so prejudiced against the
author of Isis and ourselves, who have dared an attempt to intro-
duce Eglinton into the sacred precincts of the B.T.S. and to
denominate -fa" Brother
" ? Shall not our joint sins and
transgressions
" from a European standpoint" be sorely in the
way of mutual confidence; and will they not lead to endless
jo6 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
suspicions and misconceptions? I am not prepared just now to
afford the British Theosophists the proof of our existence in flesh
and bones, or that I am not altogether H.P.B.'s
"
confederate
"
;
for all this is a question of time jnd Karma. But, even sup-
posing it very easy to prove the former, it would be far less
easy to disprove the latter. A "
K.H.," i.e. a mortal of very
ordinary appearance and acquainted tolerably well with the Eng-
lish, Vedanta and Buddhist philosophy, and with even a bit of
drawing-room juggling is easily found and furnished, so as to
demonstrate his objective existence beyond doubt or cavil. But
how about giving the positive, moral certitude that the individual,
who may thus make his appearance is not a bogus K. H., a "con-
federate
" of H.P.B.? Were not St. Germain, and Cagliostro,
both gentlemen of the highest education and achievements and
presumably Europeans not
"
niggers
M of my sort regarded at
the time, and still so regarded by posterity as impostors, con-
federates, jugglers and what not? Yet I am morally bound to
set his mind at rest through your kind agency with regard to
H.P.B. deceiving and imposing upon him. He seems to think he
has obtained proofs of it absolutely unimpeachable. I
say he has
not. What he has obtained is simply proof of the villainy of
some men, and ex-theosophists such as Hurrychund Chinta-
mon of Bombay now of Manchester and elsewhere; the man
who robbed the Founders and Dayanand of Rs. 4,000, deceived
and imposed upon them from the first (so far back as New
York), and then exposed and expelled from the Society ran
away to England and is ever since seeking and thirsting for his
revenge. And such other as Dr. Billing, the husband of that
good', honest woman, the only really and thoroughly reliable and
honest medium I know of Mrs. M. Hollis-Billing ;
whom he
married for her few thousands pounds, ruined her during the first
year of his married life, went into concubinage with another
medium; and when vehemently reproached by H.P.B. and Olcott,
left his wife and Society and turned with bitter hatred against
both women ;
and since then is ever seeking to secre Jy poison the
minds of the British Theosophists and Spiritualists against his wife
and H.P.B. Let C.C.M. put all those facts together; fathom
the mystery and trace the connection between his informants and
the two traducers of the two innocent women. Let him investi-
gate thoroughly and patiently, before he believes in certain reports
and even proofs brought forward lest he overloads his Karma
with a heavier sin than any. There is not a stone these two men
leave unturned in order to succeed in their evil design. While
Hurrychund Chintamon never failed once during the last three
yuars to take into his confidence every theosophist he met, pour-
ing into his ears pretended news from Bombay about the duplicity
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 307
of the Founders; and to spread reports among the spiritualists
about Mad. B's pretended phenomena, showing them all as simply
"
impudent tricks
"
since she has no real idea of the Yoga
powers ;
or again showing letters from her, received by him while
she was in America ;
and in which she is made to advise him to
pretend he is a
"
Brother
"
and thus deceive the British theoso-
phists the better; while H.C. is doing all this and much more,
Billing is "working" the London mystics. He attitudinizes
before them as a victim of his over confidence in a wife whom he
found out as a false tricky medium, helped and supported in this
by H.P.B. and H.S.O. ; he complains of his cruel fate and swears
on his honour (!) he left her only because he had found her an
impostor, his honesty revolting at such a union. Thus, it is on
the strength and authority of the reports of such men, and the
too confiding persons, who, believing in them help them that
C.C.M. gradually came to disown and repudiate the disgusting
and deformed changeling which was imposed upon him under the
guise of H.P.B. Believe me it is not so. If he tells you he
was shown documentary proof answer him that a letter in his
own handwriting and over his own signature, which, if placed in
the hands of law would send him in 24 hours on the bench of
criminals, may be forged as easily as any other document. A
man who was capable of forging on a bogus will the signature of
the testator and then getting hold of the hand of the already dead
man, put a pen into it and guide it over the ready signature, to
afford the witnesses a chance of taking their oath that they had
seen the man sign it is ready to do more serious work than simply
slandering an unpopular foreigner.
When, smarting under the exposure and bent upon revenge H.
Ch. arrived three years ago from Bombay, C.C.M. would neither
receive nor see him, nor would he listen to his justification, for
Dayanand whom he recognised and accepted at that time as his
spiritual chief had sent him word to hold no communication with
the thief and traitor. Then it was that the latter and C. Carter
Black, the Jesuit expelled from the Society for slandering in the
Pott Mall Gazette both Swami and Hurrychund became fast
friends. Carter Black had for over two years moved heaven and
earth to get readmitted into the Society but H.P.B. had proved a
Chinese Wall against such readmission. Both the ex-fellows made
peace, put their heads together and worked since then in a most
charming accord. This made secret enemy No. 3. C.C.M. *s
devotion was in their way they went to work to break the object
of that devotion H.P.B. by shaking his confidence in her.
Billing who could never hope to achieve success in that direction
for C.C.M. knew him too well, having legally defended his ruined
and forsaken wife succeeded to arouse his suspicions against Mrs.
308 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
Billing as a medium and against her friend H.P.B. who had
defended and supported her against him. Thus was the ground
well prepared for sowing in it any kind of weed. Then came
like a thunderbolt Swami's unexpected attack upon the Founders
and proved the death blow to C.C.M.'s friendship. Because
Swami had been represented by her to them as a high chela, an
initiate, he imagined he had never been one, and that in her mis-
guided zeal to advance the cause H.P.B. had deceived them all !
After the April row, his and her enemies made an easy prey of
him. Take Light; compare dates and the various cautious and
covered attacks. Behold C.C.M.'s hesitation, and then his sudden
pouncing upon het. Cannot you read between the lines, friend?
But what of S. Moses? Ah he at least, is never the man to
utter a deliberate falsehood, much less repeat a slanderous report.
He, at least, as well as C.C.M., is a gentleman every inch of
him, and an honest man. Well; and what of that? You forget
his profound, sincere irritation with us and H.P.B., as a
Spiritualist the chosen vessel of election of Imperator? C.C.M.
is ignorant of the laws and mysteries of mediumship and he is his
staunch friend. Take again Light and see, how plainly his irrita-
tion grows and becomes louder in his Notes By The Way. He
has entirely misconceived your meaning, or rather quotations (fol-
lowed by no explanations) from a letter of mine to yourself, who,
in your turn have never correctly understood the situation. What
I then said I now repeat : There is an abyss between the highest
and lowest degrees of Planetaries (this to your query Is -I- a Plane-
tary Spirit?) and then my assertion that "+ is a Brother.
"
But
what is a
"
Brother," in reality -do you know? For what H.P.B.
has added out of the depths of her own consciousness, perhaps, I
do not hold myself responsible ;
for she knows nothing for a dead
certainty about + ,
and often "dreaming dreams
"
she draws her
own original conclusions therefrom. Result: S.M. regards us as
impostors and liars, unless we be but a fiction; in which case the
compliment returns to H.P.B.
Now what are the facts and what the accusations against H.P.B.
Many are the shadowy points against her in C.C.M's mind and,
with every day they become blacker and uglier. I will g'fve you
an instance. While in London, at the Billings, Jan. 1879, H.P.B.
who had produced a china pot from under the table, was asked
by C.C.M. to give him some phenomenally produced object too.
Consenting she caused a small card-case, as carved in Bombay to
appear in the pocket of his overcoat hung in the hall. Inside
whether then or later in the evening, was found a slip of paper,
with the facsimile of Hurrychund C's signature on it. At the
time, no suspicion entered his mind, since there really was no
ground for any. But now you see, he believes it if not all a
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 309
trick, at any rate a half-deception. Why? Because at that time
he believed H.C. a chela, all but a great adept, as allowed and led
to suppose by H.P.B. ;
and now he knows that H.C. was never
a chela since he himself denies it ; that, he never had any powers,
denies any knowledge of, or belief in such ;
and tells to everyone
that even Dayanand has never been a Yogi but is simply
" an
ambitious impostor
"
like Mohamet. In short so many lies
brought and left at the Founders' door. And then her letters,
and the reports by trustworthy witnesses of her confederacy with
Mrs. Billing. Hence confederacy between her and Eglinton.
She is proved, at any rate, an arch plotter, a deceiver, a crafty
character ;
either that or a visionary lunatic, an obsessed medium !
European, western logic. Letters? Very easy to alter words, hence
the whole meaning of a sentence in letters. So has the Swami
letters from her, which he freely translates, quotes from and com-
ments upon in the face of the July Supplement. Now pray, oblige
me by carefully reading over again the
4<
Defence." Note the
bare-faced lies of India's
"
great Reformer." Remember what
was admitted to you and then denied. And if my word of honour
has any weight with you, then know that D. Swami was an
initiated Yogi, a very high chela at Badrinath, endowed some
years back with great powers and a knowledge he has since for-
feited, and that H.P.B. told you but the truth, as also that H.C.
was a chela of his, who preferred to follow the
<c
left path." And
now see what has become of this truly great man, whom we all
knew and placed our hopes in him. There he is a moral wreck,
ruined by his ambition and panting for breath in his last struggle
for supremacy, which, he knows we will not leave in his hands.
And now, if this man ten times greater morally and intellectually
than Hurrychutid could fall so low, and resort to such a mean
course, of what his ex-friend and pupil Hurrychund may not be
capable to satisfy his thirst for revenge ! The former has at
least an excuse his ferocious ambition that he mistakes for
patriotism ;
his once alter ego hns no excuse but his desire to harm
those who exposed him. And, to achieve such results he is pre-
pared to do anything. But you will perhaps enquire, why we
have not interfered? Why we, the natural protectors of the
Founders, if not of the Society, have not put a stop to the shame-
ful conspiracies? A pertinent question ; only I doubt whether
my answer with all its sincerity will be clearly understood. You
are thoroughly unacquainted with our system, and could I succeed
in making it clear to you, ten to one your
"
better feelings
"
the
feelings of a European would be ruffled, if not worse, with such
a
"
shocking
"
discipline. The fact is, that to the last and supreme
initiation every chela (and even some adepts) is left to his own
device and counsel. We have to fight our own battles, and the
3 io THE MAHATMA LETTERS
familiar adage
" the adept becomes, he is not made M is true to
the letter. Since every one of us is the creator and producer of the
causes that lead to such or some other results, we have to reap but
what we have sown. Our chelas are helped but when they are
innocent of the causes that lead them into trouble; when such
causes are generated by foreign, outside influences. Life and
the struggle for adeptship would be too easy, had we all
scavengers behind us to sweep away the effects we have generated
through our own rashness and presumption. Before they are
allowed to go into the world they, the chelas are everyone of
them endowed with more or less clairvoyant powers ; and, with
the exception of that faculty that, unless paralyzed and watched
would lead them perchance to divulge certain secrets that must
not be revealed they are left in the full exercise of their powers
whatever these may be: why don't they exercise them? Thus,
step by step, and after a series of punishments, is the chela taught
by bitter experience to suppress and guide his impulses ;
he loses
his rashness, his self sufficiency and never falls into the same
errors. All that now happens is brought on by H.P.B. herself;
and to you, my friend and brother, I will reveal her shortcomings,
for you were tested and tried, and you alone have not hitherto
failed at any rate not in one direction that of discretion and
silence. But before I reveal her one great fault to you (a fault,
indeed, in its disastrous results, yet withal a virtue) I must remind
you of that, which you so heartily hate :
namely, -that no one
comes in contact with us, no one shows a desire to know more of
us, but has to submit being tested and put by us on probation.
Thus, C.C.M. could no more than any other escape his fate. He
has been tempted and allowed to be deceived by appearances, and
to fall but too easily a prey to his weakness suspicion and lack
of self-confidence. In short, he is found wanting in the first
element of success in a candidate unshaken faith, once that his
conviction rests upon, and has taken root in knowledge, not simple
belief in certain facts. Now C.C.M. knows that certain
phenomena of hers are undeniably genuine ;
his position with
regard to that, being precisely the position of yourself and your
lady, in reference to the yellow ring-stone. Thinking you had
reasons to believe the stone in question was simply brought (like
the doll) not doubled as she asserted, and disliking in the depths
of your soul such a useless deception as you always thought on
her part, you have not repudiated her for all that, nor exposed
or complained of her in the papers as he has. In short, even
when refusing her the benefit of the doubt in your own hearts, you
have not doubted the phenomenon but only her accuracy in ex-
plaining it; and while being utterly wrong, you were undeniably
right in acting with such a discretion in that matter. Not so, in
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 311
his case. After entertaining- during the period of three years a
blind faith, in her, amounting almost to a feeling of veneration,
at the first breath of successful calumny, he, a staunch friend and
an excellent lawyer falls a victim to a wicked plot, and, his regard
for her is changed into positive contempt and a conviction of her
guilt ! Instead of acting as you would have acted in such a case,
namely either never mentioning the fact to her or else, asking her
for an explanation, giving the accused the opportunity of defend-
ing herself, and thus acting consistently with his honest nature,
he preferred giving vent to his feelings in public print, and to
satisfy his rancour against herself and us by adopting an indirect
means of attacking her statements in Isis. By the bye, and
begging your pardon for this digression, he does not, it seems
regard her answer in the Theosophist
'*
candid
" !
Funny logic,
when coming from such an acute logician. Had he proclaimed
in M the papers and at the top of his voice that the author or
authors of Isis have not been candid while writing the book ;
that
they often and purposely mislead the reader by withholding the
necessary explanations and have given but portions of the truth,
had he even declared, as Mr. Hume does that the work teems
with
"
practical errors
"
and deliberate misstatements he would
have been gloriously acquitted, because he would have been right
" from a European standpoint," and heartily excused by us*
again because of his European way of judging something innate
in him and that he cannot help. But to call a correct and truthful
explanation not " candid
"
is something I can hardly realize,
though I am quite aware that his view is shared even by yourself.
AUs, my friends, I am very much afraid that our respective
standards of right and wrong will never agree together, since
motive is everything for us, and that you will never go beyond
appearances. However, to return to the main question.
Thus C.C.M. knows ; he is too intelligent, too acute an observer
of human nature to have remained ignorant of that, most important
of facts, namely that the woman has no possible motive for decep-
tion. There is a sentence in his letter which, framed in a little
kinder spirit, would go far to show how well he could appreciate
and recognise the real motives, had not his mind been poisoned
by prejudice, due, perhaps, more to S. Mores' irritation, than to
the efforts of her three above enumerated enemies. He remarks
en passant that the system of deception may be due to her seal,
but regards it as a dishonest zeal. And now, do you want to know
how far she is guilty? Know then, that if she ever became guilty
of real, deliberate deception, owing to that
"
zeal," it was when
in the presence of phenomena produced, she kept constantly deny-
ing except in the matter of such trifles as bells and raps that
she had anything to do with their production personally. From
3 i2 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
your
"
European standpoint" it is downright deception, a big
thundering lie; from our Asiatic standpoint, though an imprudent,
blamable zeal, an untruthful exaggeration, or what a Yankee
would call
" a blazing cock-a-hoop
"
meant for the benefit of the
"
Brothers/' yet withal, if we look into the motive a sublime,
self-denying, noble and meritorious not dishonest zeal. Yes;
in that, and in that alone, she became constantly guilty of
deceiving her friends. She could never be made to realize the
utter uselessness, the danger of such a zeal ;
and how mistaken
she was in her notions that she was adding to our glory, whereas,
by attributing- to us very often phenomena of the most childish
nature, she but lowered us in the public estimation and sanctioned
the claim of her enemies that she was " but a medium "
! But
it was of no use. In accordance with our rules, M. was not per-
mitted to forbid her such a course, in so many words. She had
to be allowed full and entire freedom of action, the liberty of
creating causes that became in due course of time her scourge,
her public pillory. He could at best forbid her producing
phenomena, and to this last extremity he resorted as often as he
could, to her friends and theosophists great dissatisfaction. Was,
or rather is, it lack of intellectual perceptions in her? Certainly
not. It is a psychological disease, over which she has little if
any control at all. Her impulsive nature as you have correctly
inferred in your reply is always ready to carry her beyond the
boundaries of truth, into the regions of exaggeration ;
neverthe-
less without a shadow of suspicion that she is thereby deceiving
her friends, or abusing of their great trust in her. The stereotyped
phrase : "It is not I ; I can do nothing by myself . . . it is
all they the Brothers. ... I am but their humble and
devoted slave and instrument
" is a downright fib. She can and
did produce phenomena, owing to her natural powers combined
with several long years of regular training and her phenomena are
sometimes better, more wonderful and far more perfect than those
of some high, initiated chelas, whom she surpasses in artistic
taste and purely Western appreciation of art as for instance in
the instantaneous production of pictures : witness her portrait of
the "fakir" Tiravalla mentioned in Hints, and compared with
my portrait by Gjual Khool. Notwithstanding all the superiority
of his powers, as compared to hers ;
his youth as contrasted
with her old age ;
and the undeniable and important advantage
he possesses of having never brought his pure unalloyed mag-
netism in direct contact with the great impurity of your world
and society yet do what he may, he will never be able to produce
such a picture, simply because he is unable to conceive it in his
mind and Tibetan thought. Thus, while fathering upon us all
manner of foolish, often clumsy and suspected phenomena, she
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 313
has most undeniably been helping us in many instances ; saving us
sometimes as much as two-thirds of the power used, and when
remonstrated for often we are unable to prevent her doing it on
her end of the line answering- that she had no need of it, and
that her only joy was to be of some use to us. And thus she kept
on killing herself inch by inch, ready to give for our benefit and
glory, as she thought her life-blood drop by drop, and yet in-
variably denying before witnesses that she had anything to do
with it. Would you call this sublime, albeit foolish self-abnega-
tion
" dishonest*'? We do not; nor shall we ever consent to
regard it in such a light. To come to the point : moved by that
feeling, and firmly believing at the time (because allowed to) that
Hurrychund was a worthy chela1
of the Yogee Dayanand, she
allowed C.C.M. and all those who were present to labour under
the impression that it was Hurrychund who had produced the
phenomena ;
and then went on rattling for a fortnight of Swami's
great powers and of the virtues of Hurrychund, his prophet. How
terribly she was punished, every one in Bombay (as you your-
self) well knows. First the
" chela
"
turning a traitor to his
Master and his allies, and a common thief; then the "great
Yogin," the
"
Luther of India
"
sacrificing her and H.S.O. to his
insatiable ambition. Very naturally, while Hurrychund' s treason
shocking as it appeared at the time to C.C.M. and other theoso-
phists left her unscarred, for Swami himself having been robbed
took the defence of the
M
Founders " in hand, the treachery of the
"
Supreme Chief of the Theosophists of the Arya Samaj
" was not
regarded in its true light ;
it was not he that had played false, but
the whole blame fell upon the unfortunate and too devoted woman,
who, after extolling him to the sky, was compelled in self-defence
to expose his mala fides and! true motives in the Theosophist.
Such is the true history, and facts with regard to her
"
decep-
tion
"
or, at best
" dishonest zeal." . No doubt she has merited
a portion of the blame ;
most undeniably she is given to exaggera-
tion in general, and when it becomes a question of
"
puffing up"
those she is devoted to, her enthusiasm knows no limits. Thus
she has made of M. an Apollo of Belvedere, the glowing descrip-
tion of whose physical beauty, made him more than once start in
anger, and break his pipe while swearing like a true Christian ;
and thus, under her eloquent phraseology,. I, myself had the
pleasure of hearing myself metamorphosed into an "
angel of
purity and light
' '
shorn of his wings. We cannot help feeling
at times angry, with, oftener laughing at, her. Yet the feeling
that dictates all this ridiculous effusion, is too ardent, too sincere
and true, not to be respected or even treated with indifference.
1 The latter he certainly was, though never very
"
worthy
" for he had
always been a selfish, plotting rascal, in the secret pay of the late Gyeckwar.
3H THE MAHATMA LETTERS
I do not believe I was ever so profoundly touched by anything
I witnessed in all my life, as I was with the poor old creature's
ecstatic rapture, when meeting us recently both in our natural
bodies, one after three years, the other nearly two years absence
and separation in flesh. Even our phlegmatic M. was thrown
off his balance, by such an exhibition of which he was chief
hero. He had to use his power, and plunge her into a profound
sleep, otherwise she would have burst some blood-vessel including
kidneys, liver and her
" interiors
"
to use our friend Oxley's
favourite expression in her delirious attempts to flatten her nose
against his riding mantle besmeared with the Sikkim mud ! We
both laughed ; yet could we feel otherwise but touched ? Of
course, she is utterly unfit for a true adept : her nature is too
passionately affectionate and we have no right to indulge in
personal attachments and feelings. You can never know her as
we do, therefore none of you will ever be able to judge her
impartially or correctly. You see the surface of things ;
and what
you would term
"
virtue," holding but to appearances, we judge
but after having fathomed the object to its profoundest depth, and
generally leave the appearances to take care of themselves. In
your opinion H.P.B. is, at best, for those who like her despite
herself a quaint, strange woman, a psychological riddle :
impul-
sive and kindhearted, yet not free from the vice of untruth. We,
on the other hand, under the garb of eccentricity and folly we
find a profounder wisdom in her inner Self than you will ever find
yourselves able to perceive. In the superficial details of her
homely, hard-working, common-place daily life and affairs, you
discern but unpracticality, womanly impulses, often absurdity and
folly; we, on the contrary, light daily upon traits of her inner
nature the most delicate and refined, and which would cost an
uninitiated psychologist years of constant and keen observation,
and many an hour of close analysis and efforts to draw out of the
depth of that most subtle of mysteries human mind and one of
her most complicated machines, H.P.B.'s mind and thus learn
to know her true inner Self.
All this you are at liberty to tell C.C.M. I have closely watched
him, and feel pretty certain that what you will tell him will have
far more effect upon him than what a dozen
"
K.H.'s "
might tell
him personally.
"
Imperator
" stands between us two, and will,
I am afraid, stand thus for ever. His loyalty to, and faith in
the assertions of a European living friend can never be shaken by
the assurances to the contrary, made by Asiatics, who to him if
not mere figments, are unscrupulous
" confederates." But I would,
if possible, show to you his great injustice, and the wrong done
by him to an innocent woman at any rate comparatively inno-
cent. However crazy an enthusiast, I
pledge to you my word
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 315
of honour, she was never a deceiver; nor has she ever wilfully
uttered an untruth, though her position often becomes untenable,
and that she has to conceal a number of things, as pledged to by
her solemn vows. And now I have done with the question.
I am now going to approach once more a subject, good friend,
I know is very repulsive to your mind, for you have told and
written so repeatedly. And yet, in order to make some things clear
to you, I am compelled to speak of it. You have often put the
question
"
why should the Brothers refuse turning their attention
to such worthy, sincere theosophists as C.C.M. and Hood, or such
a precious subject as S. Moses? Well, I now answer you very
clearly, that we have done so -ever since the said gentleman came
into contact and communication with H.P.B. They were all
tried and tested in various ways, and, not one of them came up
the desired mark. M. gave a special attention to
" C.C.M." for
reasons I will now explain, and, with results as at present known
to you. You may say that such a secret way of testing people
is dishonest; that we ought to have warned him, etc. Well,
all I can say is, that it may be so from your European standpoint,
but that, being Asiatics, we cannot depart from our rules. A
man's character, his true inner nature can never be thoroughly
drawn out if he believes himself watched, or strives for an object.
Besides, Col. O. had never made a secret of that way of ours, and
all the Bsh. theosophists ought to if they did not know that
their body was, since we had sanctioned it, under a regular pro-
bation. As for C.C.M. of all the theosophists, he was the one
selected by M. and with a definite purpose, owing to H.P.B.'s
importunities and his special promise.
"
He will turn back on
you some day, punw !
" M. repeatedly told her, in answer to her
prayers to accept him as a regular chela with Olcott
" That he
never, never will!" she exclaimed in answer. "C.C.M. is the
best, most noble, etc., etc., etc." a string of laudatory and
admiring adjectives. Two years later, she said the same of Ross
Scott.
"
Such two staunch, devoted friends I never had! M she
assured her
" Boss " who only laughed in his beard, and bid
me arrange the
"
theosophical
"
marriage. Well ;
one was tested
and tried for three years, the other for three months, with what
results I hardly need remind you. Not only NO temptations were
ever put in the way of either, but the latter was furnished with
a wife amply sufficient for his happiness, and connections that
will prove beneficent to him some day. C.C.M had but objective,
undoubted phenomena to stand upon ;
R. Scott had moreover, a
visit in astral shape from M. In the case of one the revenge
of three unprincipled men ;
in the case of the other the jealousy
of a petty-minded fool made short work of the boasted friendship,
and showed the
"
O,L," what it was worth. Oh, the poor,
3 i6 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
trusting, credulous nature ! Take away from her her clairvoyant
powers ; plug up in a certain direction her intuitions as in duty
bound was done by M. and what remains? A helpless, broken-
hearted woman!
Take another case, that of Fern. His development, as occurring
under your eye, affords you a useful study and a hint as to even
more serious methods adopted in individual cases to thoroughly
test the latent moral qualities of the man. Every human being
contains within himself vast potentialities, and it is the duty of
the adepts to surround the would-be chela with circumstances
which shall enable him to take the Bright-hand path," if he
have the ability in him. We are no more at liberty to withhold
the chance from a postulant than we are to guide and direct him
into the proper course. At best, we can only show him after his
probation period was successfully terminated that if he does this
he will go right ;
if the other, wrong. But until he has passed
that period, we leave him to fight out his battles as best he may ;
and have to do so occasionally with higher and initiated chelas
such as H.P.B., once they are allowed to work in the world, that
all of us more or less avoid. More than that and you better learn
it at once, if
my previous letters to you about Fern have not
sufficiently opened your eyes we allow our candidates to be
tempted in a thousand various ways, so as to draw out the whole
of their inner nature and allow it the chance of remaining con-
queror either one way or the other. What has happened to Fern
has befallen every one else who has preceded, will befall with
various results every one who succeeds him. We were all so
tested ;
and while a Moorad Ali failed I, succeeded. The
victor's crown is only for him who proves himself worthy to wear
it; for him who attacks Mara single handed and conquers the
demon of lust and earthly passions ;
and not we but he himself
puts it on his brow. It was not a meaningless phrase of the
Tathagata that
"
he who masters Self is greater than he who con-
quers thousands in battle
"
: there is no such other difficult
struggle. If it were not so, adeptship would be but a cheap
acquirement. So, my good brother, be not surprised, and blame
us not, as readily as you have already done, at any development
of our policy towards the aspirants past, present or future. Only
those who can look ahead at the far remote consequences of
things are in a position to judge as to the expediency of our own
actions, or those we permit in others. What may seem present
bad faith may in the end prove the truest, most benevolent
loyalty. Let time show who was right and who faithless. One,
who is true and approved to-day, may to-morrow prove, under
a new concatenation of circumstances a traitor, an ingrate, a
coward, an imbecile. The reed, bent beyond its limit of flexi-
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 317
bility, will have snapped in twain. Shall we accuse it? No; but
because we can, and do pity it, we cannot select it as part of those
reeds that have been tried and found strong, hence fit to be
accepted as material for the indestructible fane we are so care-
fully building.
And now to other matters.
We have a reform in head, and I look to you to help me. Mr.
H. 's annoying- and indiscreet interference with the Parent Society,
and his passion of domineering all and everything, have made us
come to the conclusion that it would be worth our while to attempt
the following. Let it be made known "
to nil concerned
"
through
the Theosophist and circulars issued to every Branch, that hitherto
they have looked too often and too unnecessarily to the Parent
Body for guidance and as an examplar to follow. This is quite
impracticable. Besides the fact, that the Founders have to show
themselves and try earnestly to be all to everyone and all things
since there is such a great variety of creeds, opinions and
expectations to satisfy, they cannot possibly and at the same
time satisfy all as they would like to. They try to be impartial,
and never to refuse one what they may have accorded to another
party. Thus they have repeatedly published criticisms upon
Vedantism, Buddhism and Hinduism in its various branches, upon
the Veda Bashya of Swami Dayanand their staunchest and at
that time most valued ally ; but, because such criticisms were all
directed against non-Christian faiths, no one ever paid the slightest
attention to it. For over a year and more, the journal came out regu-
larly with an advertisement inimical to that of the Veda Bashya
and was printed side by side with it to satisfy the Benares
Vedantin. And now Mr. Hume comes out with his public castiga-
tion of the Founders and seeks to prohibit the advertisement of
anti-Christian pamphlets. I want you, therefore, to please bear
this in mind, and point out these facts to Col. Chesney, who seems
to imagine that theosophy is hostile but to Christianity ;
whereas
it is but impartial, and whatever the personal views of the two
Founders, the journal of the Society has nothing to do with them,
and will publish as willingly criticism directed against Lamaism as
against Christianism. At all events, willing as we both are, that
H.P.B. should always and gratefully accept your advice in the
matter, it was I, who advised her to
" kick
" as she says against
Mr. H's attempts at authority, and you are at liberty to inform
him of the fact.
Now in view to mending matters, what do you think of the idea
of placing the Branches on quite a different footing? Even
Christendom, with its divine pretensions to a Universal Brother-
hood has its thousand and one sects, which, united as they all
may be under one banner of the Cross are yet essentially inimical
3 i8 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
to each other, and the authority of the Pope is set to naught by
the Protestants, while the decrees of the Synods of the latter are
laughed at by the Roman Catholics. Of course, I would never
contemplate, even in the worst of cases such a state of things
among the theosophical bodies. What I want, is simply a paper
on the advisability of remodelling the present formation of
Branches and their privileges. Let them be all chartered and
initiated as heretofore by the Parent Society, and depend of it
nominally. At the same time, let every Branch before it is char-
tered, choose some one object to work for, an object, naturally, in
sympathy with the general principles of the T.S. yet a distinct
and definite object of its own, whether in the religious, educational
or philosophical line. This would allow the Society a broader
margin for its general operations ;
more real, useful work would
be done ; and, as every Branch would be so to say, independent
in its modus operandus, there would remain less room for com-
plaint and par consequence for interference. At any rate, this
hazy sketch, I hope, will find an excellent soil to germinate and
thrive in, in your business-like head ;
and if you could, meanwhile,
write a paper based on the aforesaid explanations of the Theoso-
phist's true position, giving all the reasons as above-mentioned
and many more for the December, if not for the November
number you would, indeed, oblige M. and myself. It is impos-
sible, and dangerous, to entrust with such a subject, which
requires the most delicate handling either one or the other of our
Editors. H.P.B., would never fail to break the padri's heads
on such a good opportunity, or H.S.O. to turn a neat extra com-
pliment or two to the Founders address, which would be useless,
for I strive to show the two entities of Editor and Founder quite
distinct and apart from each other blended though they be in one
and same person. I am no practical business man and there-
fore, I feel utterly unable for the task. Will you help me, friend?
It would be better, of course, if the
" feeler
"
would be made to
appear in the November, as though in answer to Mr. Hume's very
impolite letter, which, of course, I will not permit to be published.
But you could take it for your ground-work and basis to frame
your editorial answer upon. To return to the reform of Branches
this question will have of course to be seriously considered and
weighed before it is finally settled. There must be no more dis-
appointment in members once they have joined. Each Branch
has to choose its well defined mission to work for, and the greatest
care should be taken in the selection of Presidents. Had the
14
Eclectic
M been placed from the first, on such a footing of dis-
tinct independence, it
might have fared better. Solidarity of
thought and action within the broad outline of the chief and
general principles of the Society there must always be between
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 319
the Parent and Branch bodies ; yet the latter must be allowed each
their own independent action in everything- that does not clash
with those principles. Thus a Branch composed of mild Christians
sympathizing with the objects of the Society might remain neutral
in the question of every other religion, and utterly indifferent to
and unconcerned with the private beliefs of the
"
Founders,'* the
Theosophist making room as willingly for hymns on the Lamb, as
for slokas on the sacredness of the cow. Could you but work out
this idea, I would submit it to our venerable Chohan, who now
gently smiles from the corner of an eye, instead of frowning as
usual ever since he saw you become President. Had I not, last
year, owing to the ^-President's truculence, been
"
sent to bed
"
earlier than at first contemplated, I was going to propose it. I
have a letter of lofty reproach, dated October 8th, from the
" I
am.'
1
In it, he sends for you on the 5th and explains his
" un-
willingness to continue to hold office
"
and his
"
great desire
"
that
you should take his place. He condemns "
altogether the system
and policy," of our order. It seems to him "
quite wrong." He
winds up by :
" Of course I shall ask you to get the O.L. to refrain
from proposing me for the council of the Society.
' '
No fear, no
fear of this ;
he may sleep soundly and undisturbed and see him-
self in dream the Dalai Lama of the Theosophists. But I must
hasten to enter my indignant and emphatic protest against his
definition of our
"
faulty
"
system. Because, he succeeded in
catching but a few stray sparks of the principles of our Order,
and could not be allowed to examine and remodel the whole, we
must all need bewhat he would represent us ! If we could
hold such doctrines as he would impose upon us; if we in ought
resembled the picture he has drawn ;
if we could submit for a
single hour to stand silently under the load of such imputations
as he has thrown upon us in his September letter ; verily we should
deserve to lose all credit with the Theosophists ! We ought to
be dismissed and hunted out of the Society and people's thoughts
as charlatans and impostors wolves in sheep's clothing, who
come to steal away men's hearts with mystic promises, entertain-
ing all the while the most despotic intentions, seeking to enslave
our confiding chelas and turn the masses away from truth and
the
" divine revelation of nature's voice" to blank and "
dreary
atheism
"
; i.e. a thorough disbelief in the "
kind, merciful Father
and Creator of all
"
(evil and misery, we must suppose?) who
lolls from the eternity, reclining* with his backbone supported on a
bed of incandescent meteors, and picks his teeth with a lightning
fork. . . .
Indeed, indeed, we have enough of this incessant jingle on the
Jew's harp of Christian revelation !
M. thinks that the Supplement ought to be enlarged if neces-
320 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
sary, and made to furnish room for the expression of thought of
every Branch, however diametrically opposed these may be. The
Theosophist ought to be made to assume a distinct colour and
become a unique specimen of its own. We are ready to furnish
the necessary extra sums for it. I know you will catch my idea
however hazily expressed. I leave our plan entirely in your own
hands. Success in this will counteract the effects of the cyclic
crisis. You ask what you can do? Nothing better or more
efficient than the proposed plan.
I cannot close without telling you of an incident which, how-
ever ludicrous, has led to something that makes me thank my
stars for it, and will please you also. Your letter, enclosing that
of C.C.M. was received by me on the morning following the
date you had handed it over to the
"
little man." I was then in
the neighbourhood of Pari-Jong, at the gun-pa of a friend, and
was very busy with important affairs. When I received intima-
tion of its arrival, I was just crossing the large inner courtyard
of the monastery ; bent upon listening to the voice of Lama T6n-
dhiib Gyatcho, I had no time to read the contents. So, after
mechanically opening the thick packet, I merely glanced at it, and
put it, as I thought, into the travelling bag I wear across the
shoulder. In reality though, it had dropped on the ground ;
and
since I had broken the envelope and emptied it of its contents,
the latter were scattered in their fall. There was no one near me at
the time, and my attention being wholly absorbed with the conver-
sation, I had already reached the staircase leading to the library
door, when I heard the voice of a young gyloong calling out from
a window, and expostulating with someone at a distance. Turn-
ing round I understood the situation at a glance ; otherwise your
letter would have never been read by me for I saw a venerable
old goat in the act of making a morning meal of it. The creature
had already devoured part of C.C.M. 's letter, and was thought-
fully preparing to have a bite at yours, more delicate and easy for
chewing with his old teeth than the tough envelope and paper of
your correspondents epistle. To rescue what remained of it took
me but one short instant, disgust and opposition of the animal
notwithstanding but there remained mighty little of it ! The
envelope with your crest on had nearly disappeared, the contents
of the letters made illegible in short I was perplexed at the sight
of the disaster. Now you know why I felt embarrassed : / had
no right to restore it, the letters coming from the
"
Eclectic
" and
connected directly with the hapless
"
Pelings
" on all sides.
What could I do to restore the missing parts ! I had already
resolved to humbly crave permission from the Chohan to be
allowed an exceptional privilege in this dire necessity, when I saw
his holy face before me, with his eye twinkling in quite an unusual
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 321
manner, and heard his voice:
4<
Why break the rule? I will do
it
myself." These simple words Kam mi ts'har
"
I'll do it,"
contain a world of hope for me. He has restored the missing
parts and done it quite neatly too, as you see, and even trans-
formed a crumpled broken envelope, very much damaged, into a
new one crest and all. Now I know what great power had to
be used for such a restoration, and this leads me to hope for a
relaxation of severity one of these days. Hence I thanked the
goat heartily ;
and since he does not belong to the ostracised
Peling race, to show my gratitude I strengthened what remained
of teeth in his mouth, and set the dilapidated remains firmly in
their sockets, so that he may chew food harder than English
letters for several years yet to come.
And now a few words about the chela. Of course you must
have suspected that since the Master was prohibited the slightest
tamasha exhibition, so was the disciple. Why should you have
expected then, or
*'
felt a little disappointed
"
with his refusing
to forward to me your letters via Space in your presence? The
little man is a promising chap, far older in years than he looks,
but young in European wisdom and manners and hence commit-
ting his several indiscretions, which, as I told you put me to the
blush and made me feel foolish for the two savages. The idea of
coming to you for money was absurd in the extreme !
Any other
Englishman but you would have regarded them after that as two
travelling charlatans. I hope you have received by this time the
loan I returned with many thanks.
Nath is right about the phonetic (vulgar) pronunciation of the
word " Kiu-ti "; people usually pronounce it as Kiu-to, but it is
not correct ;
and he is wrong in his view about Planetary Spirits.
He does not know the word, and thought you meant the
"
devas
"
the servants of the Dhyan-Chohans. It is the latter who are
the
"
Planetary
" and of course it is illogical to say that Adepts
are greater than they, since we all strive to become Dhyan-
Chohans in the end. Still there have been adepts
"
greater
"
than the lower degrees of the Planetary. Thus your views are
not against our doctrines, as he told you, but would be had you
meant the
" devas
" or angels,
"
little gods." Occultism is cer-
tainly not necessary for a good, pure Ego to become an
"
Angel
"
or Spirit in, or out of the Devachan since Angelhood is the result
of Karma. I believe you will not complain of my letter being
too short. It is going to be soon followed by another voluminous
correspondence "Answers to your many Questions." H.P.B. is
mended, if not thoroughly at least for some time to come.
With real affectionate regaid,
Yours,
K.H.
322 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
LETTER No. LV1
And now, friend, you have completed one of your minor cycles ;
have suffered, struggled, triumphed. Tempted, you have not
failed, weak you have gained strength, and the hard nature of
the lot and ordeal of every aspirant after occult knowledge is now
better comprehended by you, no doubt. Your flight from London
and from yourself was necessary ;
as was also your choice of the
localities where you could best shake off the bad influences of
your social
" season
"
and of your own house. It was not best
that you should have come to Elberfeld sooner ;
it is best that
you should have come now. For you are better able now to bear
the strain of the present situation. The air is full of the pestilence
of treachery ;
unmerited opprobrium is showering upon the
Society and falsehood and forgery have been used to overthrow
it. Ecclesiastical England and official Anglo India have secretly
joined hands to have their worst suspicions verified if possible and
at the first plausible pretext to crush the movement. Every in-
famous device is to be employed in the future as it has in the
present to discredit us as its promoters, and yourselves as its
supporters. For the opposition represents enormous vested
interests, and they have enthusiastic help from the Dugpas in
Bhootan and the Vatican !
Among the
"
shining marks" at which the conspirators aim,
you stand. Tenfold greater pains than heretofore will be taken
to cover you with ridicule for your credulity, your belief in me
especially, and to refute your arguments in support of the esoteric
teaching. They may try to shake still more than they already
have your confidence with pretended letters alleged to have come
from H.P.B.'s laboratory, and others, or with forged vdocuments
showing and confessing fraud and planning to repeat it. It has
ever been thus. Those who have watched mankind through the
centuries of this cycle, have constantly seen the details of this
death-struggle between Truth and Error repeating themselves.
Some of you Theosophists are now only wounded in your
" honour " or your purses, but those who held the lamp in pre-
ceding generations paid the penalty of their lives for their know-
ledge.
Courage then, you all, who would be warriors of the one divine
Verity ; keep on boldly and confidently ; husband your moral
strength not wasting it upon trifles but keeping it against great
occasions like the present one. I warned you all through Olcott
in April last of what was ready to burst at Adyar, and told him
1 The envelope is addressed in K.H.'s writing to
" A. P. Sinnett, Esq.,
c/of L.C.H." ED.
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 323
not to be surprised when the mine should be fired. All will come
right in time only you, the great and prominent heads of the
movement be steadfast, wary and united. We have gained our
object as regards L.C.H. She is much improved, and her whole
life hereafter will be benefited by the training she is passing thro*.
To have stopped with you would have been to her an irreparable
psychic loss. She had this shown her, before I actually consented
to interfere at her own passionate prayer, between you ;
she was
ready to fly to America, and but for my intervention would have
done so. Worse than that ;
her mind was being rapidly unsettled
and made useless as an occult instrument. False teachers were
getting her into their power and false revelations misled her and
those who consulted her. Your house, good friend, has a colony
of Elementaries quartering in it, and to a sensitive like her, it was
as dangerous an atmosphere to exist in as would be a fever ceme-
tery to one subject to morbific physical influences. You should
be more than ordinarily careful when you get back not to
encourage sensitiveness in your household, not to admit more than
can be helped the visits of known mediumistic sensitives. It
would be well also to burn wood-fires in the rooms now and then,
and carry about as fumigators open vessels (braziers?) with burn-
ing wood. You might also ask Damodar to send you some
bundles of incense-sticks for you to use for this purpose. These
are helps, but the best of all means to drive out unwelcome guests
of this sort, is to live purely in deed and thought. The talismans
you have had given you, will also powerfully aid you if you keep
your confidence in them and in us unbroken. (?)
You have heard of the step H.P.B. was permitted to take. A
fearful responsibility is cast upon Mr. Olcott ;
a still greater
owing to O.W. and Esot: Buddhism upon you. For this step
of hers is in direct relation with and as direct a result of the
appearance of these two works. Your Karma, good friend, this
time. I hope you will understand my meaning rightly. But if
you remain true to and stand faithfully by the T.S. you may count
upon our aid and so may all others to the full extent that they
shall deserve it. The original policy of the T.S. must be vindi-
cated, if you would not see it fall into ruin and bury your reputa-
tions under it. I have told you long ago. For years to come the
Soc. will be unable to stand, when based upon
" Tibetan
Brothers
"
and phenomena alone. All this ought to have been
limited to an inner and very SECRET circle. There is a hero-wor-
shipping tendency clearly showing itself, and you, my friend, are
not quite free from it yourself. I am fully aware of the change
that has lately come over you, but this does not change the main
question. If you would go on with your occult studies and literary
work then learn to be loyal to the Idea, rather than to my poor
324 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
self. When something is to be done never think whether I wish
it, before acting : I wish everything that can, in great or small
degree, push on this agitation. But I am far from being perfect
hence infallible in all I do; tho' it is not quite as you imagine
having now discovered. For you know or think you know, of
one K.H. and can know but of one, whereas there are two dis-
tinct personages answering to that name in him you know. The
riddle is only apparent and easy to solve, were you only to know
what a real Mahatma is. You have seen by the Kiddle incident
perchance allowed to develop to its bitter end for a purpose that
even an "
adept
"
when acting in his body is not beyond mistakes
due to human carelessness. You now understand that he is as
likely as not to make himself look absurd in the eyes of those
who have no right understanding of the phenomena of thought-
transference and astral precipitations and all this, thro* lack of
simple caution. There is always that danger if one has neglected
to ascertain whether the words and sentences rushing into the
mind have come all from within or whether some may have been
impressed from without. I feel sorry to have brought you into
such a false position before your many enemies and even your
friends. That was one of the reasons why, I had hesitated to
give my consent to print my private letters and specifically excluded
a few of the series from the prohibition. I had no time to verify
their contents nor have I now. I have a habit of often quoting,
minus quotation marks from the maze of what I get in the
countless folios of our Akasic libraries, so to say with eyes shut.
Sometimes I
may give out thoughts that will see light years later ;
at other times what an orator, a Cicero may have pronounced ages
earlier, and at others, what was not only pronounced by modern
lips but already either written or printed as in the Kiddle case.
All this I do (not being a trained writer for the Press) without the
smallest concern as to where the sentences and strings of words
may have come from, so long as they serve to express, and fit in
with my own thoughts. I have received a lesson now on the
European plane on the danger of corresponding with western
literati! 'But my
"
inspirer
"
Mr. Kiddle is none the less un-
grateful, since to me alone he owes the distinguished honour of
having become known by name, and having his utterances
repeated even by the grave lips of Cambridge
" Dons." If fame
is sweet to him why will he not be consoled with the thought, that
the case of the
"
Kiddle K.H. parallel passages
" has now
become as much a cause celebre in the department of
" who is
who" and
"
which plagiarized from the other?
"
as the Bacon-
Shakespeare mystery ; that in intensity of scientific research if not
of value, our case is on a par with that of our two great pre-
decessors.
PROBATION, AND CHELASH1P 325
But the situation however amusing in one way is more
serious for the Society; and the
"
parallel passages
"
must yield
first place to the
"
Christian-mission-Coulomb
"
conspiracy. Turn
then to the latter all your thoughts, good friend if friend all not-
withstanding. You are very wrong to contemplate absence from
London the coming winter. But I shall not urge you, if you do
not feel equal to the situation. At any rate, if you do desert the
14
Inner Circle" some other arrangement has to be made: it is
out of question for me to be corresponding with, and teaching
both. Either you have to be my mouthpiece and secretary in the
Circle, or I shall have to use somebody else as my delegate, and
thus have positively no time to correspond with you. They have
pledged themselves (most of them) to me for life and death the
copy of the pledge is in the hands of Maha-Chohan and I am
bound to them.
I can now send my occasional instructions and letters with any
certainty only thro* Damodar. But before I can do even so much
the Soc. especially the H.Qrs. will have to pass first thro* the
coming crisis. If you still care to renew the occult teachings
save first our post-office. H.P.B. I say again is not to be
approached any longer without her full consent. She has earned
so much, and has to be left alone. She is permitted to retire for
three reasons (i) to disconnect the T.S. from her phenomena, now
tried to be represented all fraudulent ; (2) to help it by removing
the chief cause of the hatred against it ; (3) to try and restore
the health of the body, so it may be used for some years longer.
And now as to the details consult all of you together : for that I
have asked them to send for you. The sky is black now, but for-
get not the hopeful motto " Post nubila Phosbus !
"
Blessings
upon you, and your ever loyal lady.
K.H.
LETTER No. LVI
Received January, 1883, Allahabad.
It is my turn, kind friend, to intercede for lenient treatment,
especially a very prudent one of Mr. Hume, and I ask you to give
me a hearing. You must not overlook an element which has
much to do with his moral turpitude, one, which certainly does
not excuse though it mitigates in a degree, his offence. He is
pushed on and half maddened by evil powers, which he has
attracted to himself and come under subjection to by his innate
moral turbulence. Near him lives a fakir who has an animalizingr
aura about him ;
the parting curses I dare not say they were
unjust or unprovoked of Mr. Fern have produced their effect ;
and while his own self-painted ndeptship is entirely imaginary, he
326 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
has nevertheless, by the injudicious practice of pranayam, de-
veloped in himself to some extent mediumship is tainted for
life with it. He has opened wide the door to influences from the
wrong quarter, and is, henceforth almost impervious to those
from the right. So, he must not be sweepingly judged as one
who has sinned with thorough and entirely unmixed deliberation.
Avoid him, but do not madden him still more, for he is more than
dangerous now, to one, who is unable like yourself, to fight him
with his own weapons. Suffice that you should know him as
he is, and so be forewarned and prudent in future, since for the
present he has succeeded in spoiling our plans in the most hopeful
quarters. He is now in his days which will extend for weeks
and perhaps months of the most selfish vanity and combative-
ness during which he is capable of doing most desperate things.
So, think twice, my good friend before you precipitate a crisis
the results of which might thus be very severe.
As regards his connection with Theosophical matters, he is
largely your chela, the captive of your spear and bow ; but, since
you have thus acted under my own instructions I take the blame
upon myself the whole blame, understand me well ;
and I would
not allow a single speck of the present disastrous results to taint
your Karma. But the latter is a thing- of the future, and in the
meanwhile he can play the deuce with yourself and Society. It
cost you no little trouble to get him in and now you must beware
how you prematurely hurl him out. For, you have seen from his
correspondence, what malice he is capable of, and how indus-
triously he can work to breed suspicion and discontent so as to
centre interest and loyalty upon himself. The T.S. has just tided
safely through a tempest raised by another vain and ambitious
malcontent Dayanand S. and if the issue has been favourable
it is because D.S. had a short memory and was made to forget
all about the documents he had issued. It is the prudent part,
therefore, to wait, and watch, and lay by the materials for the
defence against the time when this new iconoclast shall
"
charge
upon your entrenchments
"
if he ever does, which up to this
moment, is not determined, but which would be almost inevitable
if he were suddenly denounced by yourself. I do not ask you to
evince friendship for him, (nay, I would strongly advise you not
to even write to him yourself for some time to come, and when
pressed for an explanation, ask your good lady of whom he is
afraid and whom he is forced to respect to tell him bluntly and
honestly the truth in a way only women are capable of) but
simply to postpone an open breach until the hour comes when
longer delay would be unpardonable. Neither of us ought to
imperil a cause whose promotion is a duty paramount to con-
siderations of Self.
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 327
I must not close my letter with this black image, but tell you
that in Madras there are fairer prospects of success than at Cal-
cutta. In a few days you will hear the results of Subba Row's
work.
How do you like
" Mr. Isaacs
M
? As you will see (for you
must read and review it) the book is the Western echo of the
Anglo-Indian
"
Occult world.
"
The ex-editor of the
"
Indian
Herald
M
has not quite grown up to the size of the editor
of the Pioneer, but something is being done in the same
direction. The cruel enemy of 1880-1 is turned in quasi an
admirer in 1882. I think it rather hard to see people finding
K.H. "Lai Singh
"
mirrored in
"
Ram Lai "the "
all-grey
"
adept, of Mr. Marion Crawford. Had the book been written a
year ago, I
might have said the author was himself gris when
making
"
Ram Lai
"
talk of eternal love and bliss in the realms
of the world of Spirit. But since a certain vision procured for
him by the famous 4<
Ski " in whom Mr. C. C. M. does not
believe the man gave up entirely drinking. One man more
saved. I
forgive him my very
"
grey
"
appearance and even
Shere-Ali !
Yours affectionately,
K. H.
LETTER No. LVII
Received 6/1/83.
My dear friend,
I approach a subject which I have purposely avoided for several
months, until furnished with proofs that would appear conclusive
even in your sight. We are not as you know always of the same
way of thinking ;
nor has that which to us is FACT any weight in
your opinion unless it violates in no way the Western methods of
judging it. But now the time has come for us, to try to have
you, at least, understand us better than we hitherto have been
even by some of the best and most earnest amongst western
Theosophists such for instance as C. C. Massey. And though I
would be the last man living to seek to make you follow in my
wake as your
"
prophet
"
and
"
inspirer," I would, nevertheless,
feel truly sorry were you ever brought to regard me as a
" moral
paradox," having to suffer me either as one guilty of a false
assumption of powers I never had, or of misusing them to screen
unworthy objects and, as unworthy persons. Mr. Massey's letter
explains to you what I mean ;
that which seems conclusive proof
to him and unimpeachable evidence, is neither for me who know
the whole truth. On this last day of your year 1882, his name
328 THE MAHATMA LETTEB8
comes third on the list of failures, something (I hasten to say
for fear of a new misconception) that has nothing to do whatever
with the present arrangement regarding the proposed new Branch
in London, yet everything with his personal progress. I
deeply
regret it, but have no right to bind myself so securely to any
person or persons by ties of personal sympathy and esteem that
my movements shall be crippled, and I, unable to lead the rest to
something grander and nobler than their present faith. There-
fore, I choose to leave him in his present errors. The brief mean-
ing of this is the following : Mr. Massey labours under the
strangest misconceptions, and (literally)
"
dreams dreams
"
though no medium, as his friend, Mr. S. Moses. With all he is
the noblest, purest, in short, one of the best men I know, though
occasionally too trusting in wrong directions. But he lacks
entirely correct intuition. It will come to him later on, when
neither H.P.B. or Olcott will be there. Until then remember,
and tell him so : we demand neither allegiance, recognition
(whether public or private) nor will we have anything to do with,
or say to the British Branch, except through you. Four Euro-
peans were placed on probation twelve months ago ;
of the four
only one, yourself, was found worthy of our trust. This year it
will be Societies instead of individuals that will be tested. The
result will depend on their collective work, and Mr. Massey errs
when hoping that I am prepared to join the motley crowd of Mrs.
K.'s
"
inspirers." Let them remain under their masks of St.
John the Baptists and like Biblical aristocrats. Provided the latter
teach our doctrines however muddled up with foreign chaff a
great point will be gained. C.C.M. wants light he is welcome
to it through you. Since it is all he wants what matters it
whether he regards the
"
light-bearer
M
handing his torch to you
as a man of clean or unclean hands, so long as light itself is not
affected by it? Only let me give you a warning. An affair now
so trivial as to seem but the innocent expression of feminine
vanity may, unless at once set aright, produce very evil conse-
quences. In a letter from Mrs. Kingsford to Mr. Massey con-
ditionally accepting the presidentship of the British T.S. she ex-
presses her belief nay, points it out as an undeniable fact that
before the appearance of
"
The Perfect Way
"
no one
" knew
what the Oriental school really held about Reincarnation
"
; and
adds that
"
seeing how much has been told in that book the
adepts are hastening to unlock their own treasures, so
'
grudg-
ingly doled out hitherto
'
(as H.X. puts it)." Mr. Massey, there-
upon gives in reply a full adherence to this theory, and blossoms
into an adroit compliment to the lady that would not discredit a
plenipotentiary.
"
Probably/
1
says he, "it is felt (by the
Brothers) that a community among whom such a work,as
"
The
PEOBATION, AND CHELASHIP 329
Perfect Way
" can be produced and find acceptance is
ready for
the light !
"
Now, let this idea gain currency, and it will tend
to convert into a sect the school of the highly estimable
authoress, who, albeit a fifth rounder, is not exempt from quite a
considerable dose of vanity and despotism, hence bigotry. Thus,
elevate the misconception into an undue importance ; impair there-
by her own spiritual condition by feeding the latent sense of
Messiahship ; and you will have obstructed the cause of free and
general independent enquiry which her
"
Initiators
" as well as
we would wish promoted. Write then, good friend, to Mr.
Massey the truth. Tell him that you were possessed of the
Oriental views of reincarnation several months before the work in
question had appeared since it is in July (18 months ago) that,
you began being taught the difference between Reincarnation A
la Allan Kardec, or personal rebirth and that of the Spiritual
Monad ;
a difference first pointed out to you on July 5th at Bom-
bay. And to allay another uneasiness of hers, say that no
allegiance by her to the
"
Brothers " will be expected, (nor even
accepted if offered) in as much as we have no present intention of
making any further experiments with Europeans and will use no
other channel than yourself to impart our Arhat philosophy. The
intended experiment with Mr. Hume in 1882 failed most sadly.
Better than your Wren are we entitled to the motto, festina lente !
And now, you will please follow me into still deeper waters.
An unsteady, wavering, suspicious candidate at one end of the
line; a declared unprincipled, (I say the word and maintain it)
vindictive enemy at the other end ;
and you will agree that
between London and Simla we are not very likely to appear in
either a very attractive or anything like a true light. Personally
such a state of things is
hardly calculated to deprive us of sleep ;
as regards the future progress of the British T.S. and a few other
Theosophists, the current of enmity travelling between the two
places is sure to affect all those who will find themselves on its
way even yourself, in the long run, perchance. Who of you
could disbelieve the explicit statements of two "
gentlemen
"
both
noted for their intellectual eminence, and one of whom, at least,
is as incapable of uttering an untruth as of flying in the air.
Thus, end of the cycle notwithstanding, there is a great personal
danger for the Bsh-T.S. as for yourself. No harm can come now
to the Society ;
much mischief is in store for its proposed Branch
and itSv supporters, unless yourself and Mr. Massey are furnished
with some facts and a key to the true situation. Now, if for
certain and very good reasons, I have to leave C.C.M. to his
delusions of guilt, regarding H.P.B., and my own moral
shakiness, the time is ripe to show to you Mr. Hume in his true
light, thus making* way with one false witness against us, while
330 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
deeply regretting the fact that I am bound by the rules of our
Order and my own sense of honour (however little it may be
worth in the eyes of a European) not to divulge at present certain
facts that would show C.C.M. at once, how deeply he is in error.
I may tell you no news if I say that it was Mr. Hume's attitude
when the Eclectic was formed that caused our chiefs to bring Mr.
Fern and Mr. Hume together. The latter reproached us
vehemently for refusing to take in as chelas himself, and that,
sweet, handsome, spiritual and truth aspiring boy Fern. We
were daily dictated laws, and as daily taken to task for being un-
able to realize our own interests. And it will be no news though
it may disgust and shock you, to learn that the two were brought
into the closest relationship in order to bring out their mutual
virtues and defects each to shine in his own true light. Such
are the laws of Eastern probation. Fern was a most remarkable
psychic subject, naturally very spiritually inclined, but cor-
rupted by Jesuit masters, and with his sixth and seventh Prin-
ciples completely dormant and paralysed within him. No idea of
right and wrong whatever ;
in short irresponsible for anything
but the direct and voluntary actions of the animal man. I would
not have burdened myself with such a subject knowing before-
hand that he was sure to fail. M. consented, for the chiefs have
so wished it ;
and he deemed it useful and good to show to you
the moral stamina and worth of him whom you regarded and
called a friend. Mr. H. you think, though lacking the finer,
better feelings of a gentleman is yet one by his instincts as well
as by birth. I do not pretend to be thoroughly well acquainted
with the code of honour of Western nations. Yet, I doubt,
whether a man who, during the absence of the proprietor of
certain private letters, avails himself of the key from the pocket
of a waistcoat carelessly left on the verandah during work, opens
with it the drawer of a writing desk, reads the private letters
of that person, takes notes from them and then uses those con-
tents as a weapon to satisfy his hatred and vindictiveness against
their writer I doubt, I
say, whether even in the West such a
man wo"ld be regarded as the ideal of even the average gentle-
man. And this and much more, I maintain, was done by Mr.
Hume. Had I told you of it last August you would have never
believed me. And now I am prepared to prove it over his own
signature. Having been caught in the same honest occupation
by M. twice, my Brother wrote purposely (or rather caused
Damodar purposely to write) a certain letter to Fern enclosing a
copy of a letter of Mr. H.'s to me. The knowledge of their
contents was to bring out to light, when the time came, the true
gentlemanly instincts and the honesty of him, who sets himself
so high above humanity. He is now caught in his owri meshes.
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 331
Hatred, and the irresistible thirst of abusing* and vilifying in a
letter to Olcott one, who. is so immeasurably higher than all his
detractors, have led Mr. Hume into an imprudent confession.
When caught and cornered he resorts to a down-right, bare-
faced LIE.
I am going, after this preliminary entree en mature and neces-
sary explanation to make you acquainted with certain extracts
from private letters not intended for your eye, nevertheless, far
from
"
confidential,*
1
since in nearly every one of them Mr. H.
begs the addressee to have them read by other theosophists. I
hope this will not be imputed to me as a mark of
"
ungentlemanly
instincts
"
by you. As to every other man, since, now-a-days, a man
universally recognised as a
"
gentleman
>f
is often a low wretch,
and gentleman-like externals often hide the soul of a villain
he is welcome to regard me in any light he pleases. These
extracts I give you because it becomes absolutely necessary that
you should be correctly informed of the true nature of him, who
now passes his time in writing letters to the London theosophists
and candidates for membership^ with the determined object of
setting every mystic in the West against a Brotherhood of
"atheists, hypocrites and sorcerers." It will help to guide your
action in the event of possible contingencies, and mischief caused
by your friend and our well-wisher, who, while denouncing my
Brother, my more than friend, as a pilferer, coward, liar, and the
incarnation of baseness, insults me with words of pitying praise
which he thinks I am traitor enough to accept and imbecile
enough not to weigh at their value. Remember such a friend
is to be guarded against as one takes precautions against a
duellist who wears a corslet beneath his shirt. His good actions
are many, vices far more numerous ;
the former have always been
largely controlled and promoted by his inordinate self-love and
combativeness ;
and if it is not yet determined which will finally
control the impetus whose outcome will be his next birth, we may
prophesy with a degree of perfect assurance, that he will never
become an adept either in this or his future life. His
"
Spiritual
M
aspirations received a full chance to develop. He was tested, as
all have to be as the poor moth was, who was scorched in the
candle of Rothney Castle and its associations but the victor in
the struggle for adeptship was ever Self and Self alone. His
cerebral visions have already painted for him the image of a new
Regenerator of Mankind in place of the
" Brothers
"
whose
ignorance and black magical dealings he has found out. That
new Avatar does not live at Almorah but on Jakko. And so the
demon Vanity which has ruined Dayanand is ruining our
quondam friend
" and preparing him to make an assault upon us
and the T.S. far more savage than the Swami's. The future
332 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
however may take care of itself ;
I shall only have to trouble you
now with the data above indicated. You will now realize, per-
chance, why I was made to collect evidence ot his untruthful,
cunning nature, in October last- Nothing, my friend, even
apparently absurd and reprehensible actions is done by us with-
out a purpose.
On the ist of December, Mr. H. writing to Colonel O. said of
us :
"
As for the Brothers, I have a sincere affection for K.H. and
always shall have, and as for the others / have no doubt that they
are very good men, and acting according to their lights. But as
to their system, I am, of course, entirely opposed, . . . but
that has nothing to do with the exoteric practical aims of the
T.S. in which and in their furtherance I can as cordially and
cheerfully co-operate with your good Brothers as etc. etc.
M
Eight days earlier (22nd November,) he had written to P.
Sreenevas Row, Judge S.C.C. at Madras,
"
I find the Brother-
hood a set of wicked selfish men, caring as a body for nothing
but their own spiritual development (mind, in this respect K.H.
is an exception but he is I believe the only one) and their system
one of deception and tainted largely with sorcery (!) in that they
employ spooks, i.e. elementals to perform their phenomena. As
to deception, once a man has become a chela and bound himself
by the vows they exact, you cannot believe a word he says;
. . . he will lie systematically ;
as for sorcery, the fact is that
until the time of Sonkapa, . . .
they were a set of unmiti-
gated, vile sorcerers. . . .
Every chela is a slave a slave of
the most abject description a slave in thought, as well as in
word and deed .
;
our Society ... is an edifice
noble in outside show but built not on the rock of ages, but on
the shifting sands of atheism, a whited sepulchre all bright
. . . inside full of deceit and the dead bones of a pernici us,
Jesuitical system. . . . You are at liberty to make what use
you please of this letter inside the Society/' etc.
On the Qth of the same month he wrote to Mr. Olcott of the
"
manifest selfishness of the Brotherhood, intent solely on their
spiritual development."
On the 8th of September in a letter to 12 chelas (the very ones
he was referring to in the letter to Judge Sreenavas Row of
November 22nd after having received from them an exasperat-
ingly candid joint reply to the aforesaid diplomatic letter as liars
and bound slaves) he said, as you know, he
"
should not have
expected any European to read between the lines,
M of his plot in
the HX letter in the Theosophist ; but
"
a set of Brahmins . . .
the subtlest minds, in the world . . . not ordinary Brahmins, but
men of the highest, noblest training, etc "(!!). They
"
may rest
assured that I (he) shall never say or do anything that is not for
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 333
the advantage of the Brothers, the Society and all its objects.
11
. . .
(Thus it seems the charges of sorcery and dishonesty is
to the "advantage" of Asiatic adepts). In this same letter, if
you remember, he adds that it
"
is the most efficient weapon for
the conversion of the infidels at home yet forged,
1 '
and that he
"of course expected
"
(by writing this letter in the Theosophist)
" to take our dear old lady in / could not take her into the
plot/' etc. etc.
With all his cunning and diplomacy he really seems to suffer
from a loss of memory. Not only had he taken the
"
dear old
lady
"
into the plot in a long private letter written to her a few
hours after the said
"
efficient weapon
" had been sent for
publication, (a letter sent by her to you and which you lost in
your packing up at Simla to come down) but he had actually gone
out of his way to put a few words of explanation on the back of
the said
"
Letter." It is preserved as every other MSS. by
Damodar and the note runs thus . . .
"
Please print this carefully
and without alteration. It answers admirably Davison's and
other letters from home." . . .
(Extracts from these letters
were enclosed in his manuscript). ..." We can't long, I fear,
bolster up but hints like these will help to break the fall
"
etc. . . .
Having thus himself forged this most efficient weapon for the
conversion of the infidels at home, as to our actual existence, and
unable henceforth to deny it, what better antidote than to add
to the hints therein contained full and well defined charges of
sorcery, etc.?
When accused by the 12 Chelas in their joint answer to his
letter to them, of a deliberate falsification of facts with reference
to the
"
dear Old Lady
" whom he had, notwithstanding all he
could say to the contrary,
" taken into the plot
"
he writes in a
letter to Subba Row that he had never done so. That his letter to
the
'*
Madam "
explaining to her the whys and reasons for that
"
Letter*' of his by
" H.X." was written and sent to her long
after the said denunciatory Letter
" was already in print.
1 '
To this
Subba Row, in his letter to whom he had bitterly abused and
vilified M. answered by quoting to him the very words he had
written on the back of the manuscript thus showing to him how
useless was any further falsehood. And now you may judge of
his love for Subba Row !
And now comes the bouquet. Writing on the ist of December
to Mr. Olcott (letter first above referred to), he distinctly claims
adept powers.
"
I am very sorry I cannot join you in the body
in Bombay but if allowed I may nevertheless perhaps assist you
there ..." Yet in Fern's case he says
" it is a perfect chaos
and no one can tell what is really owing and what is not;" and
334 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
several letters upon the same topic teem with acknowledgment
that he had no power to see what was going on "
during the past
six months.
1 *
Quite the contrary, it would seem, since in a letter
to me within this period he describes himself as
4<
not on a level
spiritually with him (Fern) Sinnett
" and others. He did not
dare brag to me of his spiritual clairvoyance ;
but now, having
" broken forever with the Tibetan Sorcerers
"
his potential adept
powers have suddenly developed into monstrous proportions.
They must have been from birth marvellously great since, he in-
forms Olcott (same letter) that
" a certain amount of Pranayam
for a few months (six weeks in all) was necessary to ensure con-
centration at first. . . . / have passed that stage and I AM
A YOGI."
The charge preferred now against him is of so grave a
character, that I would have never asked you to believe it on my
simple assertion. Hence this long letter, and the following
evidence which, please read with the utmost care and drawing
your conclusions solely on that evidence.
In his July letter to me he imputes to us the blame for Fern's
course of falsehood, his pretended visions and pretended inspira-
tions from us; and in the letter to Mr. Olcott (December ist) he
charges Morya, my beloved brother, with acting
" in a most dis-
honourable manner," adding that he has
"
never since looked
upon him as a gentleman, for having caused Damodar . .
to send Fern a transcript of my confidential report on him.
. ." This he regards as
"
a dishonourable breach of con-
fidence
"
so gross that
" Moriar was afraid (
! !
)
to let even K.H.
know how he had stolen and made a bad use of my letter to him.
K.H. is a gentleman I believe and would scorn so base an act."
No doubt, I would had it been done without my knowledge and
were it not absolutely necessary in view of clearly foreseen
events to bring Mr. Hume to betray himself and thus counteract
the influence and authority of his vindictive nature. The letter so
transcribed was not marked confidential, and the words " I am
ready to say so to Fern's face, at any day
"
are there. How-
ever the unmeasured abuse and his truly saintly and gentlemanly
indignation at M.'s treachery are followed by these words of con-
fession ;* very startling as you will see :
"
. . . Fern does not, let
me do him that justice, know to this day that I knew of this
" i.e.
of the letter pilfered by M. and sent to Fern through Damodar.
In short, then Mr. Hume had means of reading the contents of a
private letter addressed to Fern registered, sent to his (Mr.
Hume's) care, kept in a drawer of a table belonging to the house.
The proof is complete since it is himself who furnishes it. How
i Fern was at Bombay and he dreaded the just denial of even a M rascal.
"
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 335
then? Of course, either by reading its physical substance with
his natural eyes, or, its astral essence by transcendental power.
If the latter, then by what brief forcing system was the psychic
power of this "yogi," who, in July last, was " not on a level
spiritually
"
with yourself, or even with Fern, suddenly shot out
into such full flower and fruitage, whereas it takes even us,
trained
"
sorcerers" ten or fifteen years to acquire it? Besides,
if, this and other letters to Fern, were presented to him in the
11
astral light
"
(as he maintains in his letter in reply to Colonel
O.'s query, herein enclosed), how comes it that the benevolent
Almorah genius (through whose help he suddenly acquired such
tremendous powers) could cause him to take note of the contents,
to read word for word and to remember ONLY such letters as were
kept by Fern in accordance ivith M's positive orders in his
desk in Mr. Hume's house? While, WE DEFY HIM to repeat one
word of other and (for him) far more important letters sent by my
Brother to the
"
probationary chela
" in which the latter was for-
bidden to keep them at Rothney Castle, but had them securely
shut up in a locked desk at his own house? These queries,
arising at M.'s will in Olcott's mind he flatly put the question to
Mr. Hume. As M.'s chela revering him, of course, as a Father
as well as Teacher he very properly put to this Censor Elegan-
tiarum the direct question whether he had been himself guilty of
the very "dishonourable" breach of gentlemanlike conduct of
which he was complaining in Morya's case. (And unjustly as you
now see ;
for what he did had my approval, since it was a neces-
sary part of a preconceived plan to bring out besides Mr. H.'s
true nature, of a disgraceful situation, itself developed by the
wicked appetites, follies and Karma of sundry weak men
ultimate good, as you will find).
We have no gentlemen now at all events, that would come up
to the Simla standard! in Tibet, though many honest and truthful
men. To Mr. Olcott's question came a reply so reeking with
deliberatet bare falsehoodf foolish vanity, and so miserable an
attempt to explain away the only possible theory that without the
owner's knowledge he had read his private correspondence, that
I have asked Morya to procure it for me for you to read. After
doing this you will kindly return it to me through Dharbagiri
Nath who will be at Madras within this week.
I have done an unpleasant and distasteful task, but a great
point will be achieved if it helps you to know us better whether
your European standard of right and wrong inclines the scales
in your opinion either one way or the other. Perchance, you may
find yourself in C.C.M.'s attitude deploring to find yourself
obliged to either accept or reject for ever such a
"
distressing
moral paradox
" as myself. No one would regret it more deeply
336 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
than I ; but our Rules have proved wise and beneficient to the
world in the long run, and the world in general and its individual
units especially are so terribly wicked that one has to fight each
one with his or her own weapons.
As the situation stands at present, and though we would not
allow too much "
procrastination," it does seem desirable that
you should go for a few months home say till June. But unless
you go to London and with C.C.M. 's help explain the true situa-
tion and establish the Society yourself, Mr. Hume's letters will
have done too much harm to undo the mischief. Thus your
temporary absence will have achieved a dual good purpose : the
foundation of a true theosophical occult Society, and the salvation
of a few promising individuals for future careers, now jeopardized.
Besides, your absence from India will not be an unmixed evil,
since the friends of the country will feel your loss, and perhaps
be all the more ready for your recall :
especially if the
" Pioneer
"
changes its tone. Some of your holiday time it might be agree-
able to you to utilize in one form or another of theosophical
writing. You have now a large store of materials, and if you
would contrive to get copies of the didactic papers given to Mr.
Hume it would be a timely precaution. He is a prolific letter
writer and now that he has disburdened himself of all restraints
he will bear close watching. Remember the Chohan's prophesy.
Yours ever sincerely, K. H.
LETTER No. LVIII
Received at Madras, March, 1883.
My Dear "
Ward,"
We will not, if you please, deal at present with the situation
concerning
"
stars
"
and obscurations for reasons very plainly
told to you this morning by H.P.B. My task becomes with every
letter more dangerous. It becomes exceedingly difficult to teach
you and hold at the same time strictly to the original programme :
" so far shall we go and no further." Yet hold to it we must
and will.
You have entirely mistaken my meaning in the telegram. The
words :
"
more at Adyar
"
related to the true explanation of your
vision, not by any means, to a promise of some further psycho-
logical experiments made in that direction by myself. The vision
was due to an attempt by D.K. who is extremely interested in
your progress. While he succeeded in getting you out of your
body, he failed entirely in his effort to open your inner vision,
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 337
for reasons correctly surmised at the time by yourself. I took no
personal active part in the attempt. Hence my answer "
sur-
mises correct more at Adyar." I am in a very false position
just now, and have in order not to jeopardise the possibilities of
the future to be doubly cautious.
The probable date of your departure? Well on or about
April 7th. If your impatience disagrees with this desire of mine
you are free to do as you like. Yet, I would look upon it as a
personal favour. I am profoundly disgusted with the apathy of
my countrymen in general. More than ever I trust but in the
few staunch workers of the luckless and hapless T.S. The
Viceroy's letter would be of the greatest help if it could be but
judiciously used. But in such matters, I see I am no judge, as I
now augur from the impression left on your mind by R. Srinavasa
Rao and others.
The incident of February the 7th being explained, your ques-
tion relating to
"
earlier restrictions*
1
is already covered.
May I
beg of you two more personal and important favours?
First to ever bear in mind that whenever and whatever is pos-
sible will be always done for you unurged ; hence never te either
ask for, or suggest it, yourself since it will amount to simply
avoiding to me the supremely disagreeable task of having to
refuse a friend's request without, moreover, being in a position
to explain the reason why ;
and second to remember that
though personally and for your own sake I may be prepared
to do a great deal I have in no way bound myself to
do anything of the sort for the Fellows of the British
T.S. I have pledged my word to you to teach them through
your kind agency our philosophy and whether they accept
it or not. But I have never undertaken to convince any
of them of the extent of our powers nor even of our personal
existence. Their belief or disbelief in the latter is a matter of
very trifling importance to us indeed. If they are ever to be
benefitted by our promise, it must be through you, alone and your
own personal efforts. Nor can you ever see me (in flesh), not
even in a clearly defined vision unless you are prepared to pledge
your honour never to reveal the fact to anyone, so long as you live,
(save you receive permission to that effect). That the consequence
of such a pledge will be a never satisfied as an ever recurring
doubt in the minds of your British Fellows is just what we want
for the present. Too much, or too little was said and proved of
us as M.A. (Oxon) justly remarked. We are ordered to set our-
selves to work to sweep away the few vestiges for which fresh
policy you are indebted to the incessant underground intrigues of
our ex-friend Mr. Hume (now entirely in the hands of the
Brothers of the Shadow) and the more our actual existence be
338 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
doubted the better. As to tests and convincing proofs to the
Sadducees of Europe generally and those of England especially
this is something to be left entirely out of our future programme.
Unless allowed to use our own judgment and means the course
of future events will by no means run smooth. Thus you should
never use such phrases as
"
for the sake of strength with friends
at home " as they would be sure to do no good and would simply
irritate the more the other
"
powers that be
"
to use the ridicu-
lous phrase. It is not always flattering, good friend, to be placed
even by those one likes the best on the same level with shells
and mediums for the purpose of tests. I thought you had
luckily outgrown that stage. Let us hold at present to the simply
intellectual aspect of our intercourse and busy ourselves but with
philosophy and your future paper and leave the rest to time and
its unforeseen developments.
It is precisely because I follow and perceive the dual working
of your mind in making such requests that I sign myself invari-
ably
Your affectionate friend,
K. H.
LETTER No. LIX
Recpived London about July, 1883,
With whatever shortcomings my always indulgent
"
lay-chela
"
may have to charge me, he will, it appears, credit me with having
given him a new source of enjoyment. For even the sombre
prophecy of Sir Charles Turner (a recent obscuration of his) that
you would fall into Roman Catholicism as the inevitable outcome
of your dabbling in Theosophy and believing in the
"
K.H." maya
has not dampened the ardour of your propaganda in the gay
world of London. If this zeal should be cited by the Altruist of
Rothney, in support of his declaration that your grey vesicles are
surcharged with Tzigadze AkAsa, it will still dtmbtless be balm
to your wounded feelings to know that you are essentially aiding
to build the bridge over which the British metaphysicians may
come within thinking distance of us I
It is the custom among some good people to glance back at
their life's path from the hillocks of time they annually surmount.
So, if my hope has not betrayed me you must have been mentally
comparing your present
"
greatest pleasure
" and
"
constant occu-
pation
* '
with that which was so in the olden time, when you
threaded the streets of your metropolis, where the houses are as
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 339
if
"
painted in Indian ink," and a day's sunshine is an event to
remember. You have measured yourself against yourself, and
found the Theosophist an " Anak "
morally, as compared with the
" old man "
(the beau valseur) ; is it not so? Well, this is, per-
haps, your reward the beginning- of it : the end you will realize
in Devachan, when "
floating along
M in the circumambient ether,
instead of the circummuded British Channel foggy though that
state may now appear to your mind's eye. Then only will you
" see thyself by thyself
"
and learn the true meaning of Atmdnam,
atmand pasya :
"
To know itself e'en as a shining light
Requires no light to make itself perceived. . . ."
of the great Vedanta Philosophy.
Again and once more, an attempt has been made to dispel some
of that great mist that I find in Mr. Massey's Devachan. It will
appear as a contribution to the August number of the Theosophist,
and to that I shall refer Mr. Massey and yourself. Quite possibly
even then the
"
obscuration
" will not be removed and it may be
thought that the intended explanation is nothing of the kind; and
that, instead of winding the clock, a clumsy hand has but broken
out some cogs. This is our misfortune, and I doubt if we shall
ever get quite free of these obscurities and alleged contradictions ;
since there is no way to bring the askers and respondents face to
face. Still at the worst it must be conceded that there is some
satisfaction in the fact that there is now a ford across this river
and you are building spans for a royal bridge. It is quite right
that you should baptize your new brain-babe with the waters of
Hope; and, within the limits of possibility that by it "a further
and very sensible impulse will be imparted to the present move-
ment." But, friend, even the "green cheese" of the shining
moon is periodically lunched upon by RaJiu; so do not think your-
self altogether above the contingency of popular fickleness, that
would put out your light in favour of some new man's "
farthing
dip." The culture of Society more often inclines to lawn-tennis
philosophy than to that of the banned "
adepts," whose wider
game has worlds for balls, and etheric space for its shaven lawn.
The pldt of your first book was spiced with phenomena to tickle
the spiritualistic palate : this second one is a dish of cold
philosophy, and in your
"
large section of London Society
"
you
will scarcely find enough of the wine of sympathy to wash it down.
Many, who now think you mildly mad will buy the book to find
out if a commission De lunatico should issue to prevent your doing
more damage ; but of all your readers few are likely to follow your
lead towards our ashrum. Still the theosophist's duty is like that
of the husbandman ; to turn his furrows and sow his grains as
340 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
best he can : the issue is with nature, and she, the slave of Law.
I shall waste no condolences upon the poor
* *
lay-chelas
' '
because of the
" delicate weapons they can alone work with."
A sorry day it would be for mankind if any sharper or deadlier ones
were put in their unaccustomed hands ! Ah !
you would concur
with me, my faithful friend, if you could but see the plaint one
of them has just made on account of the agonizing results of the
poisoned weapons he got the wielding of, in an evil hour, through
the help of a sorcerer. Crushed morally, by his own selfish
impetuosity ; rotting physically from diseases engendered by the
animal gratifications he snatched with
"
demon M
help; behind
him a black memory of wasted chances and hellish successes ;
before him a pall of dark despair, of avitchi, this wretched man
turns his impotent rage against our "starry science*' and our-
selves, and hurls his ineffectual curses at those he vainly besieged
for more powers in chelaship, and whom he deserted for a necro-
mantic
" Guru "
who now leaves the victim to his fate. Be
satisfied, friend, with your
" delicate weapons "; if not as lethal
as the discus of Vishnu, they can break clown many barriers if
plied with power. The poor wretch in question confesses to a
course of
"
lies, breaches of faith, hatreds, temptings or mislead-
ing of others, injustices, calumnies, perjuries, false pretences,"
etc. The "
risk
"
he
"
voluntarily took," but he adds,
" if they
(we) had been good and kind as well as wise and powerful, they
(we) would have certainly prevented me from undertaking a task
to which they knew I was unequal." In a word, we, who have
gained our knowledge, such as it is, by the only practicable
method, and who have no right to hinder any fellow man from
making the attempt (though we have the right to warn, and we
do warn every candidate), we are expected to take upon our own
heads the penalty of such interference, or try to save ourselves
from the same by making incompetents into adepts in spite of
themselves ! Because we did not do this, he is
" left to linger
out a wretched existence as an animated poison bag, full of mental,
moral, and physical corruption." This man has, in despair,
turned from a
"
heathen " an atheist and a free-thinker a
Christian, or rather a theist, and now humbly
" submits " to Him
(an extra cosmical God for whom he has even discovered a local)
and to all delegated by Him with lawful authority." And we,
poor creatures, are
"
traitors, Liars, Devils, and all my (his) crimes
(as enumerated above) are as a shining robe of glory compared to
Theirs :" his capitals and underscorings being quoted as well
as his words ! Now friend, put away that thought that I ought
not to compare your case with his, for I do not. I have only given
you a glimpse into the hell of this lost soul, to show you what
disaster may come upon the M
lay-chela
" who snatches at for-
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 341
bidden power before his moral nature is developed to the point of
fitness for its exercise. You must think well over the article
" Chelas and Lay Chelas
M
which you will find in the Supplement
of the July Theosophist.
So the great Mr. Crookes has placed one foot across the thres-
hold for the sake of reading- the Society's papers? Well and
wisely done, and really brave of him. Heretofore he was bold
enough to take a similar step and loyal enough to truth to dis-
appoint his colleagues by making his facts public. When he was
seeing his invaluable paper smothered in the
"
Sections" and the
whole Royal Society trying to cough him down, metaphorically
if not actually, as its sister Society in America did to that martyr,
Hare he little thought how perfect a revenge Karma had in store
for him. Let him know that its cornucopia is not yet emptied,
and that Western Science has still three additional states of matter
to discover. But he should not wait for us to condense ourselves up
to the stethescopic standard as his Katy did ;
for we men are sub-
ject to laws of molecular affinity and polaric attraction which that
sweet simulacrum was not hampered with. We have no
favourites, break no rules. If Mr. Crookes would penetrate
Arcana beyond the corridors the tools of modern science have
already excavated, let him Try. He tried and found the Radio-
meter; tried again, and found Radiant matter; may try again and
find the
"
Kama-rupa
" of matter its fifth state. But to find it's
Manas he would have to pledge himself stronger to secrecy than
he seems inclined to. You know our motto, and that its practical
application has erased the word "
impossible
' ?
from the occultist's
vocabulary. If he wearies not of trying, he may discover that
that most noble of all facts, his true SELF. But he will have to
penetrate many strata before he comes to It. And to begin with
let him rid himself of the maya that any man living can set up
"claims" upon Adepts. He may create irresistible attractions
and compel their attention, but they will be spiritual, not mental
or intellectual. And this bit of advice applies and is directed to
several British theosophists, and it may be well for them to know
it. Once separated from the common influences of Society,
nothing draws us to any outsider save his evolving spirituality.
He may be a Bacon or an Aristotle in knowledge, and still not
even make his current felt a feather's weight by us, if his power
is confined to the Manas. The supreme energy resides in the
Buddhi; latent when wedded to Atman alone, active and irre-
sistible when galvanized by the essence of
" Manas " and when
none of the dross of the latter commingles with that pure essence to
weigh it down by its finite nature. Manas, pure and simple, is of
a lower degree, and of the earth earthly : and so your greatest
men count but as nonentities in the arena where greatness is
342 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
measured by the standard of spiritual development. When the
ancient founders of your philosophical schools came East, to
acquire the lore of our predecessors, they filed no claims, except
the single one of a sincere and unselfish hunger for the truth. If
any now aspire to found new schools of science and philosophy
the same plan will win if the seekers have in them the elements
of success.
Yes ; you are right about the Society for Psychic Research : its
work is of a kind to tell upon public opinion by experimentally
demonstrating the elementary phases of Occult Science. H. S.
Olcott has been trying to convert each of the Indian Branches
into such a school of research, but the capacity for sustained inde-
pendent study for knowledge's sake is lacking, and must be
developed. The success of the S.P.R. will greatly aid in this
direction and we wish it well.
I also go with you in your views as to the choice of the new
President of the B.T.S. ;
in fact I concurred, I believe, before the
choice was made.
There is no reason why you should not
"
attempt mesmeric
cures
"
by the help not of your locket but the power of your own
will. Without this latter in energetic function, no locket will do
much good. The hair in it is in itself but an " accumulator* 1
of
the energy of him, who grew it, and can no more cure of itself
than stored electricity can turn a wheel until liberated and con-
ducted to the objective point. Set your will in motion and you
at once draw upon the person upon whose head it (the hair not
the will) grew, through the psychic current which ever runs between
himself and his severed tress. To heal diseases it is not indis-
pensable, however desirable, that the psychopathist should be abso-
lutely pure ;
there are many in Europe and elsewhere who are not.
If the healing be done under the impulse of perfect benevolence,
unmixed with any latent selfishness, the philanthropist sets up a
current which runs like a fine thrill through the sixth condition of
matter, and is felt by him whom you summon to your help, if not
at that moment engaged in some work which compels him to be
repellent to all extraneous influences. The possession of a lock
of any adept's hair is of course a decided advantage, as a better
tempered sword is to the soldier in battle ;
but the measure of its
actual help to the psychopathist will be in ratio with the degree
of will power he excites in himself, and the degree of psychic purity
in his motive. The talisman and his Buddhi are in sympathy.
Now that you are at the centre of modern Buddhistic exegesis,
in personal relations with some of the clever commentators (from
whom the holy Devas deliver us !) I shall draw your attention to
a few things which are really as discreditable to the perceptions
of even non-initiates, as they are misleading to the general public.
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 343
The more one reads such speculations as those of Messrs. Rhys
Davids, Lillie, etc. the less can one bring himself to believe that
the unregenerate Western mind can ever get at the core of our
abstruse doctrines. Yet hopeless as their cases may be, it would
appear well worth the trouble of testing the intuitions of your
London members of some of them, at any rate by half expound-
ing through you one or two mysteries and leaving them to com-
plete the chain themselves. Shall we take Mr. Rhys Davids as
our first subject, and show that indirectly as he has done it yet
it is himself who strengthened the absurd ideas of Mr. Lillie, who
fancies to have proved belief in a personal God in ancient
Buddhism. Mr. Rhys Davids'
" Buddhism " is full of the sparkle
of our most important esotericism ;
but always, as it would seem,
beyond not only his reach but apparently even his powers of intel-
lectual perception. To avoid
" absurd metaphysics
" and its
inventions, he creates unnecessary difficulties and falls headlong
into inextricable confusion. He is like the Cape Settlers who
lived over diamond mines without suspecting it. I shall only
instance the definition of " Avalokitesvara
" on p.p. 202 and 203.
There, we find the author saying that which to any occultist seems
a palpable absurdity :
41
The name Avalokitesvara, which means '
the Lord who looks
down from on high,' is a purely metaphysical invention. The
curious use of the past particle passive
*
avalokita
'
in an active
sense is clearly evident from the translations into Tibetan and
Chinese."
Now saying that it means :
" the Lord who looks down from
on high," or, as he kindly explains further
" the Spirit of the
Buddhas present in the church," is to completely reverse the sense.
It is equivalent to saying
" Mr. Sinnett looks down from on high
(his Fragments of Occult Truth) on the British Theos. Society,"
whereas it is the latter that looks up to Mr. Sinnett, or rather to
his Fragfnents as the (in their case only possible) expression and
culmination of the knowledge sought for. This is no idle simile
and defines the exact situation. In short, Avalokita Isvar literally
interpreted means " the Lord that is seen.
1 ' " Iswara "
implying
moreover, rather the adjective than the noun, lordly, self-existent
lordliness, not Lord. It is, when correctly interpreted, in one
sense
" the divine Self perceived or seen by Self/' the Atman or
seventh principle ridded of its mayavic distinction from its
Universal Source which becomes the object of perception for, and
by the individuality centred in Buddhi, the sixth principle, some-
thing that happens only in the highest state of Samadhi. This is
applying it to the microcosm. In the other sense Avalokitesvara
implies the seventh Universal Principle, as the object perceived
by the Universal Buddhi " Mind" or Intelligence which is the
344 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
synthetic aggregation of all the Dhyan Chohans, as of all other
intelligences whether great or small, that ever were, are, or will
be. Nor is it the
"
Spirit of Buddhas present in the Church,
"
but the Omnipresent Universal Spirit in the temple of nature in
one case; and the seventh Principle the Atman in the temple
man i n the other. Mr. Rhys Davids might have, at least re-
membered, the (to him) familiar simile made by the Christian
Adept, the Kabalistic Paul :
" Know ye not that ye are the temple
of God, and that the Spirit of God dweUeth in 'you" and thus
avoided to have made a mess of the name. Though as a gram-
marian he detected the use of the
"
past particle passive
"
yet he
shows himself far from an inspired
"
Panini
"
in overlooking the
true cause and saving his grammar by raising the hue and cry
against metaphysics. And yet, he quotes Beale's Catena as his
authority, for the invention, when, in truth, this work is perhaps
the only one in English that gives an approximately correct
explanation of the word, at any rate, on page 374.
"
Self-mam-
fested
"
How? it is asked.
"
Speech or Vach was regarded as
the Son or the manifestation of the Eternal Self, and was adored
under the name of Avalokitesvara, the manifested God." This
shows as clearly as can be that Avalokitesvara is both the un-
manifested Father and the manifested Son, the latter proceeding
from, and identical with, the other ; namely, the Parabrahm and
Jivdtman, the Universal and the individualized seventh Principle,
the Passive and the Active, the latter the Word, Logos, the
Verb. Call it by whatever name, only let these unfortunate,
deluded Christians know that the real Christ of every Christian
is the Vdch, the
"
mystical Voice," while the man Jeshu was
but a mortal like any of us, an adept more by his inherent purity
and ignorance of real Evil, than by what he had learned with his
initiated Rabbis and the already (at that period) fast degenerating
Egyptian Hierophants and priests. A great mistake is also made
by Beale who says :
" this name (Avalokiteswara) in Chinese took
the form of Kwan-Shai-yin, and the divinity worshipped under that
name (was) generally regarded as a female." (374) Kwan-shai-
yin or the universally manifested voice
" is active male; and
must not be confounded with Kwan-yin, or Buddhi the Spiritual
Soul (the sixth Pr.) and the vehicle of its
"
Lord." It is Kwan-
ym that is the female principle or the manifested passive, mani-
festing itself
" to every creature in the universe, in order to deliver
all men from the consequences of sin
"
as rendered by Beale,
this once quite correctly (383), while Kwan-shai-yint
" the Son
identical with his Father
" is the absolute activity, hence having
no direct relation to objects of sense is Passivity.
What a common ruse it is of your Aristoteleans ! with the
sleuth hound's persistence they track an idea to the very ver^e
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 345
of the
"
impassable chasm/' and then brought to bay leave the
metaphysicians to take up the trail if they can, or let it be lost. It
is but natural that a Christian theologian, a missionary, should act
upon this line, since as easily perceived even in the little I
gave
out just now a too correct rendering of our Avalokitesvara and
Kwan-Shai-Yin might have very disastrous effects. It would
simply amount to showing Christendom, the true and undeniable
origin of the
" awful and incomprehensible
"
mysteries of its
Trinity, Transubstantiation, Immaculate conception, as also
whence their ideas of the Father, Son, Spiritus and Mother. It
is less easy to shuffle al piaccere the cards of Buddhistic
chronology than those of Chrishna and Christ. They cannot place
however much they would the birth of our Lord Sangyas
Buddha A.D. as they have contrived to place that of Chrishna.
But why should an atheist and a materialist like Mr. Rhys Davids
so avoid the correct rendering of our dogmas even when he
happens to understand them, which does not happen every day
is something surpassingly curious ! In this instance the blind
and guilty Rhys Davids leads the blind and innocent Mr. Lillie
into the ditch ; where the latter catching at the proffered straw
rejoices in the idea that Buddhism teaches in reality a personal
God!!
Does your B.T.S. know the meaning of the white and black
interlaced triangles, of the Parent Society's seal that it has also
adopted? Shall I explain? the double triangle viewed by the
Jewish Kabalists as Solomon's Seal, is, as many of you doubt-
less know the Sri-antaYa of the archaic Aryan Temple, the
11
mystery of Mysteries," a geometrical synthesis of the whole
occult doctrine. The two interlaced triangles are the Buddhan-
gums of Creation. They contain the
"
squaring of the circle,"
the
"
philosophical stone," the great problems of Life and Death,
and the Mystery of Evil. The chela who can explain this sign
from every one of its aspects is virtually an adept. How is it
then that the only one among you, who has come so near to
unravelling the mystery is also the only one who got none of her
ideas from books? Unconsciously she gives out to him who
has the key the first syllable of the Ineffable name ! Of course
you know that the double-triangle the Satkiri Chakram of
Vishuu or the six-pointed star, is the perfect seven. In all the
old Sanskrit works Vedic and Tantrik you find the number 6
mentioned more often than the 7 this last figure, the central
point being implied, for it is the germ of the six and their matrix.
It is then thus . . .* the central point standing for seventh,
1 At this point in the original there is a rough drawing of the interlaced
triangles inscribed in a circle. ED.
346 THE MAHATMA LETTEKS
and the circle, the MahakAsha ^T^^T^T endless space for
the seventh Universal Principle. In one sense, both are
viewed as Avalokitesvara, for they are respectively the
Macrocosm and the microcosm. The interlaced triangles
the upper pointing one is Wisdom concealed, and the
downward pointing one Wisdom revealed (in the pheno-
menal world). The circle indicates the bounding, circum-
scribing quality of the All, the Universal Principle which, from
any given point expands so as to embrace all things, while
embodying the potentiality of every action in the Cosmos. As
the point then is the centre round which the circle is traced they
are identical and one, and though from the standpoint of Maya
and Avidya (illusion and ignorance) one is separated from the
other by the manifested triangle, the 3 sides of which represent
the three gunas JW finite attributes. In symbology the
central point is JivAtma (the 7th principle), and hence Avalokites-
vara, the Kwan-Shai-yin, the manifested
"
Voice
"
(or Logos), the
germ point of manifested activity ;
hence in the phraseology of
the Christian Kabalists
"
the Son of the Father and Mother," and
agreeably to ours
*'
the Self manifested in Self Yih-sin, the
" one form of existence," the child of Dharmakaya (the universally
diffused Essence), both male and female. Parabrahm or
" Adi-
Buddha "
while acting through that germ point outwardly as an
active force, reacts from the circumference inwardly as the
Supreme but latent Potency. The double triangles symbolize the
Great Passive and the Great Active ;
the male and female ;
Purusha
and Prakriti. Each triangle is a Trinity because presenting a
triple aspect. The white represents in its straight lines : Gnanam
(Knowledge) ;
Gnata (the Knower) ;
and Gnayam (that which
is known). The black form, colour, and substance, also the
creative, preservative, and destructive forces and are mutually
correlating, etc., etc.
Well may you admire and more should you wonder at the mar-
vellous lucidity of that remarkable seeress, who ignorant of
Sanskrit or Pali, and thus shut out from their metaphysical
treasures, has yet seen a great light shining from behind the dark
hills of exoteric religions. How, think you, did the " Writers of
the Perfect Way
" come to know that Adonai was the Son and
not the Father ;
or that the third Person of the Christian Trinity
is female? Verily, they lay in that work several times their
hands upon the keystone of Occultism. Only does the lady
who persists using without an explanation the misleading term
"
God " in her writings know how nearly she comes up to our
doctrine when saying :
"
Having for Fatherr Spirit which is Life
(the endless Circle or Parabrahm) and for Mother the Great Deep,
which is Substance (Prakriti in its undifferentiated condition)
Adonai possesses the patency of both and wields the dual powers
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 347
of all things." We would say trifle, but in the sense as given
this will do. Pythagoras had a reason for never using the finite,
useless figure 2, and for altogether discarding it. The ONE,
can, when manifesting, become only 3. The unmanifested when
a simple duality remains passive and concealed. The dual monad
(the 7th and 6th principles) has, in order to manifest itself as a
Logos, the
"
Kwan-shai-yin
"
to first become a triad (7th, 6th and
half of the 5th); then, on the bosom of the
"
Great Deep"
attracting within itself the One Circle form out of it the perfect
Square, thus "
squaring the circle
"
the greatest of all the mys-
teries, friend and inscribing within the Jatter the WORD (the
Ineffable name) otherwise the duality could never tarry as such,
and would have to be reabsorbed into the ONE. The "
Deep
" is
Space both male and female.
" Purush (as Brahma) breathes
in the Eternity : when *
he
'
m-breathes Prakriti (as manifested
Substance) disappears in his bosom ;
when '
he
'
ou^-breathes
she reappears as Maya/' says the Sloka. The One reality is
Mulaprakriti (undifferentiated Substance) the
" Rootless root,"
the . . . But we have to stop, lest there should remain but
little to tell for your own intuitions.
Well may the Geometer of the R.S. not know that the apparent
absurdity of attempting to square the circle covers a mystery in-
effable. It would hardly be found among the foundation stones
of Mr. Roden Noel's speculations upon the
"
pneumatical body
... of our Lord," nor among the debris of Mr. Farmer's *'
A
New Basis of Belief in Immortality
"
; and to many such
metaphysical minds it would be worse than useless to divulge
the fact, that the Unmanifested Circle the Father, or Abso-
lute Life is non-existent outside the Triangle and Perfect
Square, and is only manifested in the Son; and that it
is when, reversing the action and returning to its absolute
state of Unity, and the square expands once more into
the Circle that
" the Son returns to the bosom of the Father."
There it remains until called back by his Mother the
"
Great
Deep," to remanifest as a triad the Son partaking at once,
of the Essence of the Father, and of that of the Mother
the active Substance, Prakriti in its differentiated condition.
"
My
Mother (Sophia the manifested Wisdom) took me "
says
Jesus in a Gnostic treatise ;
and he asks his disciples to tarry
till he comes. . . . The true "Word" may only be found
by tracing the mystery of the passage inward and outward of the
Eternal Life, through the states typified in these three geometric
figures.
The criticism of
"
A Student of Occultism" (whose wits are
sharpened by the mountain air of his home) and the answer of
"S.T.K. . . .
Chary" (June Theosophist) upon a part of
348 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
your annular and circular expositions need not annoy or disturb
in any way your philosophic calm. As our Pondichery chela
significantly says, neither you nor any other man across the thres-
hold has had or ever will have the
"
complete theory
"
of Evolu-
tion taught him ; or get it unless he guesses it for himself. If
anyone can unravel it from such tangled threads as are given him,
very well ;
and a fine proof it would indeed be of his or her spiritual
insight. Some have come very near it. But yet there is always
with the best of them just enough error, colouring and mis-
conception ;
the shadow of Manas projecting across the field of
Bnddhi to prove the eternal law that only the unshackled Spirit
shall see the things of the Spirit without a veil. No untaught
amateur could ever rival the proficient in this branch of research ;
yet the world's real Revelators have been few, and its pseudo-
Saviours
'
legion ;
and fortunate it is if their half-glimpses of the
light are not, like Islam, enforced at the sword's point, or like
Christian Theology, amid blazing faggots and in torture chambers.
Your Fragments contain some still very few errors, due solely
to your two preceptors of Adyar, one of whom would not, and the
other could not tell you all. The rest could not be called mistakes
rather incomplete explanations. These are due, partly to your
own imperfect education in your last theme I mean the ever-
threatening obscurations partly to the poor vehicles of language
at our disposal, and in part again, to the reserve imposed upon
us by rule. Yet, all things considered, they are few and trivial ;
while as to those noticed by
" A Student, etc." (the Marcus Aure-
lius of Simla) in your No. VII, it will be pleasant for you to know
that every one of them, however now seeming to you contradictory,
can (and if it should seem necessary shall) be easily reconciled
with facts. The trouble is that (a) you cannot be given the real
figures and difference in the Rounds, and (b) that you do not open
doors enough for explorers. The bright Luminary of the B.T.S.
and the Intelligences that surround her (embodied I mean) may
help you to see the flaws : at all events Try.
"
Nothing was ever
lost by trying." You share with all beginners the tendency to
draw too absolutely strong inferences from partly caught hints,
and to dogmatize thereupon as though the last word had been
spoken. You will correct this in due time. You may misunder-
stand us, are more than likely to do so, for our language must
always be more or less that of parable and suggestion, when
treading upon forbidden ground ;
we have our own peculiar modes
of expression and what lies behind the fence of words is even
more important than what you read. But still TRY. Perhaps
if Mr. S. Moses could know just what was meant by what was
said to him, and about his Intelligences, he would find all strictly
true. As he is a man of interior growth, his dav mav come and
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 349
his reconciliation with
" the Occultists be complete. Who
knows?
Meanwhile. I shall, with your permission, close this first volume.
K. H.
LETTER No. LX
My good friend Shakespeare said truly that
" our doubts are
traitors." Why should you doubt or create in your mind ever
growing monsters ? A little more knowledge in occult laws would
have set your mind at rest long ago, avoided many a tear to your
gentle lady and pang to yourself. Know then that even the
chelas of the same guru are often made to separate and keep
apart for long months while the process of development is going
on simply on account of the two contrary magnetisms that
attracting each other prevent mutual and INDIVIDUALIZED develop-
ment in some one direction. There is no offence meant or even
possible. This ignorance has caused of late immense suffering
on all sides. When shall you trust implicitly, in my heart if not in
my wisdom for which I claim no recognition on your part? It is
extremely painful to see you wandering about in a dark labyrinth
created by your own doubts every issue of which, moreover, you
close with your own hands. I believe you are now satisfied with
my portrait made by Herr Schmiechen and as dissatisfied with the
one you have? Yet all are like in their way. Only while the
others are the productions of chelas, the last one was painted with
M.'s hand on the artist's head, and often on his arm.
K. H.
Pray remain for the Wednesday meeting if
you feel you are
not to leave the INNER CIRCLE. Otherwise go, remembering my
friendship had WARNED YOU. Only avoid, if you do, hurting the
feelings of those who sin thro* an excess, not lack of devotion.
LETTER No. LXI
Sinnett Sahib is, my respectful salams informed that his
"
guardian" is so occupied upon official business that he cannot
give even a moment's consideration to the L.L. or its members;
nor to write him individually whether by pen or precipitation
the more difficult, not to say costly, method of the two to our
reputations in the west anyhow.
350 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
Mohini cannot stop in London indefinitely nor for any greater
length of time as he has duties to perform elsewhere duties to
his family as well as others to the Theosophical Society. Besides
being a chela and so not a free man in the ordinary acceptation
of the term, he has numerous mouths to feed at Calcutta and more-
over must earn enough more to repay the friend who advanced
him 12$ money toward the expenses of his present mission,
whatever K.H. may or may not do for him something he is pro-
hibited counting upon as every other chela. At the same time
let it be known to you that he needs temporary change of climate.
He suffered greatly from cold in that high room where there is no
fireplace in your house and K.H. had to surround him with a double
shell against a death cold that threatened him. Remember
Hindus are exotic plants in your inclement pays and cold, and
those who need them have to take care of them. (If when annoy-
ing Olcott on Sunday last to tell you this information, I did not
make him tell you, and add this it is, because I wanted to spare
him in your mind already prejudiced against him and inclining
towards a belief that he spoke out of his head.)
Again if you need Mohini's help at London the Theosophists
at Paris require it even more since their occult education is inferior
to yours. It is planned that he should divide his time equally
among all the European
"
centres of spiritual activity
"
and if he
is now required at Paris on the i ith inst. he will also be allowed
to come back to London when the Continental movement is fairly
inaugurated. In any event you will have Olcott the better part
of the time. But fear not : if
Henry is allowed to prolong his
stay in London he will not
"
worry
"
either of you by coming
down in his extravagant Asiatic undresses for he will not stop
with you but with the Arundales ladies as ordered before now,
the order being reiterated by me when Madame Sahib remarked
it was better he should stop where he was after Upasika had left.
Nor is Olcott worse than many others, and though some persons
may not concede it there are worse wranglers than he. I must
not close without letting you know that in the Kingsford row
justice is no longer on your side. Though unwilling to confess
you show spile Sahib, personal spite. You have defeated her and
you now would mortify and punish her. This is not right. You
ought to learn to dissociate your consciousness from your external
self more than you do if ye would not lose K.H. For he is much
annoyed at what goes on. Excuse my remarks but it is for your
own benefit. So begging pardon.
M.
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 351
LETTER No. LXII
Received 18.7.84.
My poor, blind friend you are entirely unfit for practical
occultism ! Its laws are immutable ;
and no one can go back on
an order once given. She can send on no letters to me, and the
letter ought to have been given to Mohini. However, I have read
it ; and I am determined to make one more effort (the last that
I am permitted) to open your inner intuition. If my voice, the
voice of one who was ever friendly to you in the human principle
of his being fails to reach you as it has often before, then our
separation in the present and for all times to come becomes un-
avoidable. It pains me for you, whose heart I read so well
every protest and doubt of your purely intellectual nature, of your
cold Western reason notwithstanding. But my first duty is to
my Master. And duty, let me tell you, is for us, stronger than any
friendship or even love ;
as without this abiding principle which is
the indestructible cement that has held together for so many
milleniums, the scattered custodians of nature's grand secrets
our Brotherhood, nay, our doctrine itself would have crumbled
long ago into unrecognisable atoms. Unfortunately, however
great your purely human intellect, your spiritual intuitions are
dim and hazy, having been never developed. Hence, whenever
you find yourself confronted by an apparent contradiction, by a
difficulty, a kind of inconsistency of occult nature, one that is
caused by our time honoured laws and regulations (of which you
know nothing, for your time has not yet come) forthwith your
doubts are aroused, your suspicions bud out and one finds that
they have made mock at your better nature, which is finally
crushed down by all these deceptive appearances of outward
things ! You have not the faith required to allow your Will to
arouse itself in defiance and contempt against your purely worldly
intellect, and give you a better understanding of things hidden
and laws unknown. You are unable I see, to force your better
aspirations fed at the stream of a real devotion to the Maya you
have made yourself of me (a feeling in you, that has always
profoundly touched me) to lift up the head against cold,
spiritually blind reason ;
to allow your heart to pronounce loudly
and proclaim that, which it has hitherto only been allowed to
whisper:
"
Patience, patience. A great design has never been
snatched at once." You were told, however, that the path to
Occult Sciences has to be trodden laboriously and crossed at the
danger of life ;
that every new step in it leading to the final goal,
is surrounded by pit-falls and cruel thorns; that the pilgrim who
ventures upon it is made first to confront and conquer the
352 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
thousand and one furies who keep watch over its adamantine
gates and entrance furies called Doubt, Skepticism, Scorn,
Ridicule, Envy and finally Temptation especially the latter; and
that he, who would see beyond had to first destroy this living
wall ; that he must be possessed of a heart and soul clad in steel,
and of an iron, never failing determination and yet be meek and
gentle, humble and have shut out from his heart every human
passion, that leads to evil. Are you all this? Have you ever
begun a course of training which would lead to it? No; you
know it as I do. You are not born for it ;
nor are you in a posi-
tion, a family man with wife and child to support, with work
to do fitted in any way for the life of an ascetic, not even of a
Mohini. Then why should you complain that powers are not
given you, that even proof of our own powers begins to fail you,
etc.? True you have offered several times to give up meat
and drink, and I have refused. Since you cannot become a
regular chela why should you? I thought you had understood all
this long ago ;
that you had resigned yourself, satisfied to wait
patiently for future developments and for my personal freedom.
You know I was the only one to attempt and persevere in my idea
of the necessity of, at least, a small reform, of however slight a
relaxation from the extreme rigidity of our regulations if we
would see European theosophists increase and work for the
enlightenment and good of humanity. I failed in my attempt,
as you know. All I could obtain was to be allowed to communi-
cate with a few you, foremost of all, since I had chosen you as
the exponent of our doctrine that we had determined to give out
to the world to some extent at least. Unable on account of
work to continue my teaching regularly, I was decided to resume
it after my work had been done, and I had a few hours of leisure
at my disposal. I was tied hand and foot when I made that
attempt to let you have a paper of your own. I was not per-
mitted to use any psychical powers in that matter. You know
the results. Yet, I would have succeeded even with the small
means of action I had at my disposal had it not been for the
Ilbert Bill excitement. Have you ever given a thought, or ever
suspected the real reason of my failure? No; for you know
nothing of the ins and outs of the work of karma of the
" side-
blows
"
of this terrible Law. But you do know that there was a
time when you felt the profoundest contempt for us all, of the
dark races ; and had regarded the Hindus as an inferior race. I
will say no more. If you have any intuition, you will work out
cause and effect and perhaps realize whence the failure. Then
again you had against you the command of our Supreme Chief
not to interfere with the natural growth of the L.L. and the de-
velopment psychic and spiritual of its members especially with
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 353
yours. You know that even to write to you occasionally, has
been permitted only as a special favour after the Phoenix failure.
As to the exhibition of any psychic or occult powers that was,
and still is, entirely out of question. You felt astonished at the
interference in the quarrel between the L.L. and Kingsford? And
you are unable yet to realize, why we did this and that? Believe
me that you will learn some day when you know better that it
was all brought on BY YOURSELF.
You also resent the apparent absurdity of entrusting H.S.O.
with a mission you find him unfit for, in London at any rate
socially and intellectually. Well some day, perchance, you may
also learn that you were equally wrong in this, as in many other
things. Coming results may teach you a better lesson.
And now to the latest development, to the proof that you were
not "
unjustly treated
"
as you complain in your letter tho*
you have treated both H.S.O. and H.P.B. in a very cruel way.
Your greatest grievance is caused by your perplexity. It is
agonizing you say to be ever kept in the dark, etc. You feel
profoundly Iiurt at what you choose to call an evident and grow-
ing
"
unfriendliness, the change of tone
" and so on. You are
mistaken from first to last. There was neither
"
unfriendliness,"
nor any change of feeling. You simply mistook M.'s natural
brusqueness whenever he speaks or writes seriously.
As for my short remarks about you to H.P.B. who appealed to
me and who was in her right you never thought of the real and
true reason : I had no time ;
I could hardly give a passing thought
to yourself or the L.L. As well said by her
"
No one has ever
thought of accusing you of any intentional wrong
" to either
ourselves or chelas. As to an unintentional one happily pre-
vented in time by me there was one certainly : carelessness.
You never thought of the difference between the constitution of a
Bengali and that of an Englishman, the power of endurance of
one, and the same power in the other. Mohini was left for days
in a very cold room without a fireplace. He never uttered one
word of complaint, and I had to protect him from a serious illness,
to give him my time and attention, to him I so needed to bring
about certain results, to him who had sacrificed everything for
me. . . .
Hence, M.'s tone you complain of. Now you have
it explained, that you were not
"
unjustly treated
" but simply had
to submit to a remark which it was impossible for you to avoid,
since the mistake might have happened again. Then you deny
there ever was any spite in you against K. Very well ;
call it by
any other name you like ; yet it was a feeling that interfered with
strict justice, and made O. commit a still worse blunder than he
had already committed but which was allowed to take its course
for it suited our purposes, and did no gieat harm except to him-
354 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
self-_alone, who was so ungenerously snubbed for it. You
accuse him of having done mischief to your Society and perhaps,
41
irretrievably
"
? Where is the harm done? . . - You are
again mistaken. It is your nerves that made you write to H.P.B.
words I would you had never utteredfor your own sake. Shall
I prove to you at any rate in one case how utterly unjust you
have been in suspecting either of them, of having either complained
or told falsehoods to us about you? I trust, however, that
you will never repeat what I will tell you : i.e. who it was (or
might have been but was not, for she came too late)- my innocent
informer about Mohini. You are at liberty to verify it one day,
but I would not have that most excellent woman feel discomforted
or miserable on my account. It was Mme. Gebbard whom I had
promised to visit subjectively. I saw her one morning, when I
was busy with Mohini making him impermeable descending the
stairs. She had heard his teeth chatter, as he was also coming
down from the floor above. She knew he was still in his little
fireless room days after Olcott had gone and when he might have
been easily placed in the next room. She had stopped to wait
for him and as I looked into her I heard the words pronounced
mentally:
"
Well, well ... if his Master only knew!
. ." and then stopping on the landing she asked him if he
would not have some additional warm clothing and such other
kind words.
" His master knew " and had already remedied the
evil; and knowing also, that it was unintentional felt no un-
friendliness
" at the time for he knows Europeans too well to
expect from them more than they can give. Nor was it the only
mute reproach I found addressed to you in Mme. Gebhard's heart,
as in the minds of several others of your friends : and it is but
right that you should know it remembering that like yourself
they judge nearly everything on appearance.
I will say no more. But, if you would have another look at
Karma ponder over the above, and remember that it ever works
in the most unexpected ways. And now put yourself the question
how far you were justified in entertaining suspicions against
Olcott who knew nothing of the circumstances whatever, and
against H.P.B. who was at Paris and knew still less. Never-
theless, mere suspicion degenerated into conviction (
\
)
and became
objectivised in written reproaches and very ungenerous expres-
sions which were, moreover, from first to last, undeserved. All
this notwithstanding, you complained bitterly yesterday to Miss
A. of Mme. B. 's answer to you which was making every allow-
ance for the peculiar circumstances, and her own temper was sur-
prisingly mild when confronted with your letter to her. Nor can
I approve of your attitude to Olcott if my advice and opinion are
wanted. Had you been in his place and guilty you would have
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 355
hardly permitted him to accuse you in such terms of falsification,
slandering, lies, falsehoods and the most idiotic incompetency for
his work. And Olcott is entirely innocent of any such sin ! As
to his work we really must be permitted to know better. What
we want is good results and you will find that we have them.
Verily
"
suspicion overturns what confidence builds
" ! And
if, on the one hand, you have some reasons to quote Bacon
against us, and say that
" there is nothing that makes a man
suspect much, more than to know little,
1 '
on the other hand you
ought also to remember that our Knowledge and Science cannot
be pursued altogether on the Baconian methods. We are not per-
mitted come what may to offer it as a remedy against, or to
cure people from suspicion. They have to earn it for themselves,
and he who will not find our truths in his soul and within himself
has poor chances of success in Occultism. It is certainly not
suspicion that will mend the situation for it is
" . . . a heavy armour, and
with its own weight impedes more than it protects."
With this last remark we may, I think, let this matter drop for
ever. You have brought suffering upon yourself, upon your lady
and many others which was quite useless and might have been
avoided had you only abstained from creating yourself most of its
causes. All that Miss Arundale told you was right and well said.
You are yourself ruining that which you have so laboriously
erected ; but then, the strange idea that we are quite unable to
see for ourselves ;
that our only data is that, which we find in our
chela's minds; hence that we are not the "powerful beings"
you have represented us, seems to haunt you with every day
more. Hume has begun in the same way. I would gladly help
you and protect you from his fate, but unless you shake off your-
self the ghastly influence that is upon you I can do very little.
You ask me if
you can tell Miss Arundale what / told you thro*
Mrs. H. You are quite at liberty to explain to her the situation,
and thereby justify in her eyes your seeming disloyalty and re-
bellion against us as she thinks. You can do so the more since
I have never bound you to anything thro* Mrs. H. ; never com-
municated with you or any one else thro* her nor have any
of my, or M.'s chelas, to my knowledge, except in America, once
at Paris and another time at Mrs. A.'s house. She is an ex-
cellent but quite undeveloped clairvoyante. Had she not been
imprudently meddled with, and had you followed the old woman's
and Mohini's advice indeed, by this time I might have spoken
with you thro' her and such was our intention. It is again your
own fault, my good friend. You have proudly claimed the privi-
lege of exercising your own, uncontrolled judgment in occult
356 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
matters you could know nothing about and the occult laws you
believe you can defy and play with, with impunity have tuined
round upon you and have badly hurt you. It is all as it should
be. If, throwing aside every preconceived idea, you could TRY
and impress yourself with this profound truth that intellect is not
all powerful by itself ; that to become ' *
a mover of mountains ' '
it has first to receive life and light from its higher principle
Spirit, and then would fix your eyes upon everything occult
spiritually trying to develop the faculty according to the rules,
then you would soon read the mystery right. You need not tell
Mrs. H. that she has never seen correctly, for it is not so. Many
a time she saw correctly when left alone to herself, never has
she left one single statement undisfigured.
And now I have done. You have two roads lying before you ;
one leading thro' a very dreary path toward knowledge and
truth the other . . . but really 1 must not influence your
mind. If you are not prepared to break with us altogether then
I would ask you not only to be present at the meeting but also
to speak as it will otherwise produce a very unfavourable
impression. This 1 ask you to do for my sake and also for your
own.
Only whatever you do let me advise you not to stop midway: it
may prove disastrous to you.
So far my friendship for you remains the same as ever for we
never were yet ungrateful for services rendered.
K. H.
LETTER No. LXIII
Received London, Summer, 1884.
Good friend
When our first correspondence began, there was no idea then of
any publications being issued on the basis of the replies you might
receive. You went on putting questions at random, and the
answers being given at different times to disjointed queries, and
so to* say, under a semi-protest, were necessarily imperfect, often
from different standpoints. When the publication of some of
these were permitted for the Occult World, it was hoped that
among your readers some may be able, like yourself, to put all the
different pieces together and evolve out of them the skeleton, or a
shadow of our system, which, although not exactly the original
this would be an impossibility would be as near an approach to
it as could be made by a non-initiate. But the results have proved
quasi-disastrous ! We had tried an experiment and sadly failed !
PROBATION, AND CHBLASHIP 357
Now we see that none but those who have passed at least their
third initiation are able to write upon those subjects compre-
hensively. A Herbert Spencer would have made a mess of it
under your circumstances. Mohini is certainly not quite right, in
some details he is positively wrong, but so are you my old friend,
though the outside reader is none the wiser for it and no one, so
far, has noticed the real vital errors in Esoteric Buddhism and
Man; nor are they likely to. We can give no further information
on the subject already approached by you and have to leave the
facts already communicated to be woven into a consistent and
systematic philosophy by the chelas at the Headquarters. The
Secret Doctrine will explain many things, set to right more than
one perplexed student.
Therefore, to put before the world all the crude and compli-
cated materials in your possession in the shape of old letters, in
which, I confess, much was purposely made obscure, would only
be making confusion worst confounded. Instead of doing any
good thereby to yourself and others it would only place you in a
still more difficult position, bring criticism upon the heads of the
"
Masters
" and thus have a retarding influence on human progress
and the T.S. Hence I protest most strongly against your new
idea. Leave to the Secret Doctrine the task of avenging you.
My letters must not be published, in the manner you suggest, but
on the contrary if you save Djual K. trouble copies of some
should be sent to the Literary Committee at Adyar about which
Damodar has written to you so that with the assistance of
S.Y.K. Charya, Djual K., Subba Row and the Secret Committee
(from which H.P.B. was purposely excluded by us to avoid new
suspicions and calumnies) they might be able to utilise the in-
formation for the realization of the object with which the Com-
mittee was started, as explained by Damodar in the letter written
by him under orders. It is neither new " Kiddle developments
"
that I seek to avoid, nor criticism directed against my personality,
which indeed can hardly be reached ;
but I rather try to save your-
self and Society from new troubles which would be serious this
time. The letters, in short, were not written for publication or
public comment upon them, but for private use, and neither M.
nor I will ever give our consent to see them thus handled.
As regards youi
4
first letter Dj.K. has been instructed to attend
to it. In such delicate matters I am still less competent to give
advice than to satisfy aspiring
" chelas
" of the
" L.C.H." sort. I
am afraid the
"
poor, dear Mrs. Holloway
" is showing her white
teeth and would hardly be found now " a charming companion.
"
Under instructions Olcott wrote a letter to Finch which gives
the key to the little problem. It is Fern, Moorad AH, Bishen
Lai and other wrecks, over again. Why shall "would-be"
358 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
chelas with such intense self personalities, force themselves
within the enchanted and dangerous circle of probation 1 Pardon-
ing my short letter, I am very busy just now with the coming
new year.
K. H.
LETTER No. LXIV
Received London, Summer, 1884.
Entirely private except for Mohini and F.A.
Good friend
This is not an answer to your last. The letter to my address
sent by you through Mohini was never written by yourself.
Verily it was penned by one, at that time, entirely under the in-
fluence of a creature of Attavda
"
The sin of Self, who in the Universe
As in a mirror sees her fond face shown M
and only hers ; whose every word he then implicitly trusted ; per-
haps, (this is to a certain extent a justification) because there came
no half expected interference, no word of warning from our quar-
ters. Thus no response to it, for we rather turn a new page.
Ah, how long shall the mysteries of chelaship overpower and
lead astray from the path of truth the wise and perspicacious, as
much as the foolish and the credulous ! How few of the many
pilgrims who have to start without chart or compass on that
shoreless Ocean of Occultism reach the wished for land. Believe
me, faithful friend, that nothing short of full confidence in us, in
our good motives if not in our wisdom, in our foresight, if not
omniscience which is not to be found on this earth can help one
to cross over from one's land of dream and fiction to our Truth
land, the region of stern reality and fact. Otherwise the ocean
will prove shoreless indeed ; its waves will carry one no longer on
waters of hope, but will turn every ripple into doubt and
suspicion; and bitter shall they prove to him who starts on that
dismal, tossing sea of the Unknown, with a prejudiced mind !
Nevertheless, feel not too much perplexed. The hour of trial
is half over; try rather to understand the
"
whys and whatfors
"
of the situation, to study more seriously the laws that govern our
41
Occult World. " I grant you, those laws do seem very often
unjust, even, at times cruel. But this is due to the fact that they
were never meant either for the immediate redress of wrongs, or
the direct help of those who offer at random their allegiance to
the legislators. Still, the seemingly real, the evanescent and
quick passing evils they bring about are as necessary to the
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 359
growth, progress and final establishment of your small Th.
Society as those certain cataclysms in nature, which often deci-
mate whole populations, are necessary to mankind. An earth-
quake may, for all the world knows, be a bliss and a tidal wave
prove salvation to the many at the expense of the few. The
'*
fittest
"
were seen to survive in the destruction of every old
race and made to merge into, and assimilate with, the new, for
nature is older than Darwin. Say rather, then, to yourself
"
whatever happened, there can be no cause for regret
"
; for it is
not so much that new facts should be revealed to the
" inner
group
"
as that old puzzles and mysteries should have been ex-
plained and made clear to its few entirely staunch members.
Even an innocent quotation mark fallen from under my pencil and
by you objected to, would have had a world of meaning for one,
less beclouded than you were in writing your last letter based
entirely on the crafty insinuations of your would-be sibyl. It was
absolutely necessary that within the personal experience of those
few staunch members (yourself included) the secret working of
Karma should take place ;
that its deeper meaning should be prac-
tically illustrated (as also its effects) on those self-opinionated
volunteers and candidates for chelaship who will rush under the
dark shadow of her wheels.
As against the above some will say how then about her great
clairvoyance, her chelaship, her selection among the many by the
Masters?
Her clairvoyance is a fact, her selection and chelaship, another.
However well fitted psychically and physiologically to answer
such selection, unless possessed of spiritual, as well as of physical
unselfishness a chela whether selected or not, must perish, as a
chela in the long run. Self personality, vanity and conceit har-
boured in the higher principles are enormously more dangerous
than the same defects inherent only in the lower physical nature
of man. They are the breakers against which the cause of chela-
ship, in its probationary stage, is sure to be dashed to pieces un*
less the would-be disciple carries with him the white shield
of perfect confidence and trust in those he would seek out
through mount and vale to guide him safely toward the light of
Knowledge. The world moves and lives under the shadow of the
deadly upas-tree of Evil ; yet its dripping is dangerous to, and can
reach only those whose higher and middle natures are as much
susceptible of infection as their lower one. Its venomous seed
can germinate but in a willing, well prepared soil. Bring to your
memory the cases of Fern, Moorad All and Bishen Lai, good
friend, and remember what you have learnt. The mass of human
sin and frailty is distributed throughout the life of man who is
content to remain an average mortal. It is gathered in and
36o THE MAHATMA LETTERS
centred, so to say, within one period of the life of a chela the
period of probation. That, which is generally accumulating to
find its legitimate issue only in the next rebirth of an ordinary
man, is quickened and fanned into existence in the chela especi-
ally in the presumptuous and selfish candidate who rushes in
without having calculated his forces.
14
One who dug so many and deep pit-falls for her friends and
brothers fell into them herself
'
'said M. to H.P.B. on the night
of the mutual revelations. I tried to, but could not save her. She
had entered, or rather I should say forced herself into the
dangerous path, with a double purpose in view :
(1) To upset the whole structure in which she had no part, and
thus obstruct the path to all others, if she did not find the system
and Society at the level of her expectations ;
and
(2) To remain true and work out her chelaship and natural
gifts, that are considerable indeed, only if those expectations were
all answered. It is the intensity of that resolution that first
attracted my attention. Led on gradually and gently into the
right direction the acquisition of such an individuality would have
been invaluable. But there are persons, who, without ever show-
ing any external sign of selfishness, are intensely selfish in their
inner spiritual aspirations. These will follow the path once
chosen by them with their eyes closed to the interests of all but
themselves, and see nothing outside the narrow pathway filled
with their own personality. They are so intensely absorbed in the
contemplation of their own supposed
"
righteousness
"
that nothing
can ever appear right to them outside the focus of their own vision
distorted by their self-complacent contemplation, and their judg-
ment of the right and wrong. Alas, such an one is our new
mutual friend L.C.H. "
The right in thee is base, the wrong a
curse," was said by our Lord Buddha for such as she; for right
and wrong
"
cheat such as love themselves," and the others only
in proportion to the benefits derived though these benefits be
purely spiritual. Aroused some 18 months ago to spasmodic,
hysterical curiosity by the perusal of your Occult World and later
on by that of Esoteric Buddhism to enthusiastic envy, she deter-
mined to
" find out the truth
" as she expressed it. She would
either become a chela herself first and foremost, to write books,
thus eclipsing her 'May
M
rival, or upset the whole imposture in
which she had no concern. She decided to go to Europe and
seek you out. Her surexcited fancy, putting a mask on every
stray spook, created the
"
Student
"
and made him serve her pur-
pose and desire. She believed in it
sincerely. At this juncture
foreseeing the new danger I interfered. Darb : Nath was
despatched and made to impress her thrice in my name. Her
thoughts were for a certain period guided, her clairvoyance made
PROBATION, AND OHELASHIP 361
to serve a purpose. Had her sincere aspirations conquered the
intense personality of her lower self I would have given the T.S.
an excellent help and worker. The poor woman is naturally
good and moral ;
but that very purity is of so narrow a kind, of so
Presbyterian a character, if I may use the word, as to be unable
to see itself reflected in any other but her own Self. She alone
is good and pure. All others must and shall be suspected. A
great boon was offered her her wayward spirit would allow her
to accept of none that was not shaped in accordance with her own
model.
And now she will receive a letter from me which will contain
my ultimatum and conditions. She will not accept them, but will
complain bitterly to several among you, suggesting new hints and
insinuations against one whom she professed to adore. Prepare.
A plank of salvation is offered to her but there is very little hope
that she will accept it. However, I will try once more ;
but I
have no right to influence her either way. If you will accept my
advice, abstain from any serious correspondence with her until
some fresh development. Try to save
" Man M
by looking it
over with Mohini, and by erasing from it the alleged inspirations
and dictation by
" Student." Having had also
" an object and a
purpose
" in view, I had to leave her under her self-delusion that
this new book was written with the view of
"
correcting the
mistakes
"
of Esoteric Buddhism ( of killing it was the true
thought) ; and it was only on the eve of her departure that
Upasika was ordered to see that Mohini should carefully expunge
from it all the objectionable passages. During her stay in Eng-
land Mrs. H. would have never permitted you to see her book
before the final publication. But I would save five months labour
of Mohini and will not permit it to remain unpublished.
Much as remains unexplained, the little you may have gathered
from this letter will serve its purpose. It will start your thoughts
in a new direction and will have unveiled another corner in the
domain of psychological Isis.
If you would learn and acquire Occult Knowledge, you have,
my friend, to remember that such tuition opens in the stream of
chelaship many an unforeseen channel to whose current even a
"
lay
" chela must perforce yield, or else strand upon the shoals;
and knowing this to abstain for-ever judging on mere appearance.
The ice is broken once more. Profit by it if you may.
K. H.
362 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
LETTER No. LXV
. * .
Received London, Summer, 1884.
You ask me "to throw light
M
upon the
" new distressing
event
M
arising from Mr. A. GebharcPs fanciful accusation? For
the matter of that, dozens of events of a far more distressing
character, each of them calculated to crush the hapless woman
chosen as victim, are ripe and ready to burst over her head wound-
ing as badly the Society. Again, I should have imagined that,
after my signal failure to satisfy your rigorous logicians in the
"
Billing Massey
" and "
Kiddle Light
"
incidents, my personal
opinion and explanations were held in small honour at the West?
You seem, however, to think with Whewell that
"
every failure is
a step to success
" and your confidence in me must alarm
seriously your friends?
With your permission, I have left the explanation of the
" dis-
tressing incident
"
to Mad. B. herself. As she wrote to you,
however, only simple truth, there is very little chance for her of
being believed, save perhaps, by her few immediate friends if
she has any left by the time this reaches you.
You must have understood by this time, my friend, that the
centenial1
attempt made by us to open the eyes of the blind world
has nearly failed : in India partially, in Europe with a few
exceptions absolutely. There is but ene chance of salvation
for those who still believe : to rally together and face the storm
bravely. Let the eyes of the most intellectual among the public
be opened to the foul conspiracy against theosophy that is going
on in the missionary circles and in one year's time you will have
regained your footing. In India it is :
"
either Christ or the
Founders (II) Let us stone them to death !
"
They have
nearly finished killing one they are now attacking the other
victim Olcott. The padris are as busy as bees. The P.R.S.
has given them an excellent opportunity of making capital of
their ambassador. Mr. Hodgson fell quite easily a victim to
false evidence ;
and the scientific a priori impossibility of such
phenomena helping the reality of the phenomena he was sent to
investigate and report upon is utterly and totally discredited.
He may plead as an excuse the personal disappointment he felt,
which made him turn in a fury against the alleged authors of the
"gigantic swindle"; but there is no doubt that if the Society
collapses it will be due to him. We may add the praise-
worthy efforts of our mutual friend of Simla (A. O. Hume) who
has not, however, resigned, and those of Mr. Lane Fox. What
Society could withstand in its integrality the effects of two such
1
Clearly meant for "centennial." In the original the words
"
every cen-
tury
"
appear after*' us," but have been crossed out. ED.
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 363
tongues as those of Messrs. H. and L. F. ! While the former
taking into his confidence every theosophist of note, assures him
that since the beginning of the Society no* one of the letters
alleged to have come from the Masters was genuine, Mr. L. Fox
goes about preaching that he is only carrying out the wishes of
the Master (M.) in acquainting the theosophists with all the
defects of the T.S. and the mistakes of its Founders whose
Karma it is to betray the sacred trust they had received from
their Gurus.
After this you will, perhaps, blame less our chelas for detesting
the Europeans at H.Q,, and saying that it is they who have
ruined the Society.
Thus, my friend, there comes a forcible end to the projected
occult instructions. Everything was settled and prepared. The
secret Committee, appointed to receive our letters and teachings
and to convey them to the Oriental group, was ready, when a
few Europeans for reasons I prefer not mentioning took upon
themselves the authority of reversing- the decision of the whole
Council. They declined (though the reason they gave was
another one) to receive our instructions through Subba Row and
Damodar, the latter of whom is hated by Messrs. L. Fox and
Hartmann. Subba R. resigned and Damodar went to Tibet.
Are our Hindus to be blamed for this?
And now Hume and Hodgson have goaded Subba Row to
fury by telling him, that as a friend and fellow occultist of
Madam B.'s he was suspected by the Government of being also
a spy. It is the history of the
"
Count St. Germain*' and
Cagliostro told over again. But I may tell to you, who have
ever been faithful and true to me that the fruits of your devotion
shall not be allowed to decay and crumble down into dust from
the tree of action. And now, may I not say a few words that
may prove useful?
It is an old truism that none of you have ever formed an
accurate idea of either the
"
Masters
*'
or the laws of Occultism
they are guided by. For instance, I, because I have received a
bit of Western education must needs be fancied as the type of
a
"
gentleman
" who strictly conforms his action to the laws of
etiquette and regulates his intercourse with Europeans, after the
regulations of your world and Society !
Nothing could be more
erroneous : the absurd picture of an Indo-Tibetan ascetic playing
at Sir C. Grandison need hardly be noticed. Nevertheless, hav-
ing failed to answer to the said description, I was hung in effigy,
and publicly branded and degraded, as Mad. B. would say.
What a poor parody ! When shall you realize that I am nothing
of the kind? That if, to a certain extent, I may be familiar with
your (to me) peculiar notions about the propriety of this thing
364 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
or another, and the obligations of a Western gentleman, so are
you, to a degree, acquainted with the manners and customs of
China and Tibet. For all that, as you would decline to conform
yourself to our habits and live according to our customs so do
I, preferring our modes of life to yours, and our ideas to those
of the West. I am accused of
"
plagiarism." We, of Tibet and
China, know not what you mean by the word. / do, but this is
no reason, perhaps, why I should accept your literary laws. Any
writer has the privilege of taking out whole sentences from the
dictionary of Pai Wouen Yen Fu the greatest in the world,
full of quotations from every known writer, and containing all
the phrases ever used and to frame them to express his thought.
This does not apply to the Kiddle case which happened just as
I told you. But you may find, perchance throughout my letters
twenty detached sentences which may have been already used in
books or MSS. When you write upon some subject you sur-
round yourself with books of references etc. : when we write upon
something the Western opinion about which is unknown to us,
we surround ourselves with hundreds of paras :
upon this particu-
lar topic from dozens of different works impressed upon the
Akasa. What wonder then, that not only a chela entrusted with
the work and innocent of any knowledge of the meaning of
plagiarism, but even myself should use occasionally a whole
sentence already existent applying it only to another our own
idea? I have told you of this before and it is no fault of mine
if your friends and enemies will not remain satisfied with the
explanation. When I shall undertake to write an original prize-
essay I may be more careful. For the Kiddle business it is your
own fault. Why have you printed the Occult World before send-
ing it to me for revision? I would have never allowed the
passage to pass; nor the "Lai Sing*' either foolishly invented
as half a nom de plume by Djwal K. and carelessly allowed by me
to take root without thinking of the consequences. We are not
infallible, all-foreseeing
" Mahatmas " at every hour of the day,
good friend : none of you have even learned to remember so
much. And now for Occultism.
We were expected to allow the Occult forces to be treated in
the same manner as their rind physical forces in nature. We
are taken to task for not giving out to every man of learning who
had joined the T.S. the fruits of the researches of generations of
occultists who had all devoted their lives to it, and who had as
often lost them in the great struggle of wrenching her secrets
from the heart of Nature. Unless we did that Occultism could
not be recognised : it has to remain within the lir
"
j of magic
and superstition, spiritualism in the sight of some- -fraud in the
opinion of others. Who thought for one instant that an occult
PROBATION, AND CHELA8HIP 365
law revealed ceased to be occult to become public property, unless
it was given to an Occultist who dies before he betrays the secret.
What grumblings, what criticism on Devachan and kindred
subjects for their incompleteness and many a seeming contradic-
tion ! Oh blind fools !
They forget or never knew that he
who holds the keys to the secrets of Death is possessed of the
keys of Life? That could everyone become a creative God in
this race, acquiring knowledge so easily that there would be no
necessity for a 6th and 7th races? And that we, we should have
perverted the programme of BEING, garbled the accounts in the
Book of Life, defeated in a word the ETERNAL WILL !
My friend, I have little if anything more to say. I regret
deeply my inability to satisfy the honest, sincere aspirations of a
few chosen ones among your group not at least, for the present.
Could but your L.L. understand, or so much as suspect, that the
present crisis that is shaking the T. S. to its foundations is a ques-
tion of perdition or salvation to thousands ;
a question of the pro-
gress of the human race or its retrogression, of its glory or
dishonour, and for the majority of this race of being or not being,
of annihilation, in fact perchance many of you would look into
the very root of evil, and instead of being guided by false appear-
ances and scientific decisions, you would set to work and save
the situation by disclosing the dishonourable doings of your mis-
sionary world.
Meanwhile accept my best wishes.
K. H.
I believe I better tell you once more what I would have you
remember always. I should be glad if every question could be
answered as easily as your query about the
"
distressing event."
Why is it that doubts and foul suspicions seem to beset every
aspirant for chelaship? My friend, in the Masonic Lodges of old
times the neophyte was subjected to a series of frightful tests of
his constancy, courage and presence of mind. By psychological
impressions supplemented by machinery and chemicals, he was
made to believe himself falling down precipices, crushed by rocks,
walking spider-web bridges in mid-air, passing through fire,
drowned in water and attacked by wild beasts. This was a
reminiscence of and a programme borrowed from the Egyptian
Mysteries. The West having lost the secrets of the East, had, as
I say, to resort to artifice. But in these days the vulgarization of
science has rendered such trifling tests obsolete. The aspirant is
now assailed entirely on the psychological side of his nature. His
course of testing in Europe and India is that of Raj-yog and
its result is as frequently explained to develop every germ good
and bad in him in his temperament. The rule is inflexible, and
366 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
not one escapes whether he but writes to us a letter, or in the
privacy of his own heart's thought formulates a strong
1
desire for
occult communication and knowledge. As the shower cannot
fructify the rock, so the occult teaching has no effect upon the
unreceptive mind ; and as the water develops the heat of caustic
lime so does the teaching bring into fierce action every unsuspected
potentiality latent in him.
Few Europeans have stood this test. Suspicion, followed by self-
woven conviction of fraud seems to have become the order of the
day. I tell you with a very few exceptions we have failed in
Europe. Henceforth, the policy of absolute neutrality of the T.S.
in occult teachings and phenomena will be rigidly enforced :
whatever is imparted will be to individual members from
individuals. For inst : if Mad. B. finds the necessary strength
to live (and this depends entirely on her will and its powers of
exertion) and is willing under the guidance of her guru, or even
myself, to serve us as an amanuensis for you, (Sinnett, not for
the group) she can, if she likes, send you weekly or monthly in-
structions. Mohini could do the same but under the pledge
that neither our names, or that of the sender will be ever made
public; nor shall the T.S. be made responsible for these teach-
ings. If the Oriental group survives, something could be yet
done for it. But never, henceforth, shall the Society in India be
allowed to be compromised again by phenomena that are de-
nounced wholesale as fraud. The good ship is sinking, friend,
because its precious cargo has been offered to the public at large ;
because some of its contents have been desecrated by profane
handling and its gold received as brass. Henceforth, I say, no
such profane eye will see its treasures, and its outer decks and
rigging must be cleansed of the impurity and dross that was
accumulated on them by the indiscretion of its own members.
Try to remedy the evil done. Every step made by one in our
direction will force us to make one toward him. But it is not by
going to Ladak that one shall find us, as Mr. Lane Fox imagines.
Once more, accept my blessing and parting greeting if they
have to be my last.
K. H.
LETTER No. LXVI
Received London, Oct. loth, 1884.
For reasons perfectly valid though not necessary fo> me to enter
into in detail, I could neither answer your letter at Elberfeld, nor
transmit it to you through L. C. H. Since it has become impos-
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 367
sible to utilize the main channel H.P.B. thro* which I have
hitherto reached you, because of your personal and mutual rela-
tions with her I employed the common post. Even this required
more expenditure of power from a friend, than you can imagine.
It would not be the part of a friend to withhold the truth when
the speaking of it can do good, so I must tell you that you ought
to put a close watch upon yourself, if
you would not put an end
for ever to my letters. Insensibly to yourself you are encourag-
ing a tendency to dogmatism and unjust misconception of persons
and motives. I am well aware of your ideas upon that what you
call the
"
goody goody
"
absurdity; and I feel as painfully con-
fident that since in your world no one is allowed to moralize the
other and that you are very likely to resent it, these words are
probably written in vain. But I also know your sincere desire
that our correspondence should not be broken ;
and knowing this,
I point out to your notice that which is certain to have that result.
Beware then, of an uncharitable spirit, for it will rise up like
a hungry wolf in your path, and devour the better qualities of your
nature which have been springing into life. Broaden instead of
narrowing your sympathies; try to identify yourself with your
fellows, rather than to contract your circle of affinity. However
caused whether by faults at Adyar, or Allahabad, or by my
negligence, or H.P.B.'s viciousness a crisis is here, and it is a
time for the utmost practicable expansion of your moral power.
It is not the moment for reproaches or vindictive recriminations,
but for united struggle. Whomsoever has sown the seeds of the
present tempest, the whirlwind is strong, the whole Society is
reaping it and it is rather fanned than weakened from Tchigadze.
You laugh at probations the word seems ridiculous as applied to
you? You forget that he who approaches our precincts even in
thought, is drawn into the vortex of probation. At any rate your
temple totters, and unless you put your strong shoulders against
its wall you may share the fate of Samson. Pride and "
dignified
contempt
' '
will not help you in the present difficulties. There
is such a thing when understood allegorically as treasures
guarded by faithful gnomes and fiends. The treasure is our occult
knowledge that many of you are after you foremost of all ;
and
it may not be H.P.B. or Olcott or anyone else individually who
have awakened the guardians thereof, but yourself, more than
they and the Society collectively. Such books as the Occult World
and Esoteric Buddhism do not pass unnoticed under the eyes of
those faithful guardians, and it is absolutely necessary that those
who would have that knowledge should be thoroughly tried and
tested. Infer from this what you will ; but remember that my
Brother and I, are the only among the Brotherhood who have at
heart the dissemination (to a certain limit) of our doctrines, and
368 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
H.P.B. was hitherto our sole machinery, our most docile agent.
Granting that she is all you describe her and I have already
told you that the ricketty old body becomes sometimes positively
dangerous still it does not excuse in you the smallest relaxation
of effort to save the situation and push on the work (and especially
protect our correspondence) all the faster. Deem it, what it is,
a positive advantage to the rest of you that she should have been
what she is, since it has thrown upon you the greater stimulus to
accomplish in spite of the difficulties you believe she has created.
1 do not say we should have preferred her had a more tractable
agent been available, still, so far as yourselves are concerned it
has been an advantage, yet you have alienated her for a long time
if not for ever and thereby thrown tremendous difficulties in my
way. Remember what I said to you some two years ago
"
were
H.P.B. to die before we found a substitute," the powers through
which we work in our communications! with the outside world may
permit the transmission of two or three letters more, then it would
die out and you would have no more letters from me. Well she
is virtually dead ;
and it is yourself pardon me this one more
truth who have killed the rude but faithful agent, one moreover
who was really devoted to you personally. Let us drop the sub-
ject if it is distasteful to you. I have done my best to stop the
evil but I have neither jurisdiction or control over her, nor shall I
have any better chance with Mrs. H. She is a magnificent subject
naturally but so distrustful of herself and others, so apt to take
the real for hallucination and vice versa that it will require a long
time before she becomes thoroughly controllable even by herself.
She is far, far from being ready ;
moreover she understands neither
herself, nor us. Verily our ways are not your ways, hence there
remains but little hope for us in the West.
Do not, I pray you, attribute the above to any influence from
H.P.B. She has doubtless) complained bitterly to her Master
and says so openly, but this does not alter his opinion nor affect
my own attitude towards you in the least. Not alone we two,
but even she knows how important to the Society's welfare are
your services, and no personal grievances of hers would be allowed
to stand in the way of your receiving strict justice; or to prevent
our according it to her either. Her Master and I directed her to
do and say att that she did concerning Mrs. H. Any unpleasant-
ness resulting, was due to the execution of her orders. We had
found Mrs. H. in America, we impressed her to prepare for the
writing of the book she has produced with the aid of Mohim. Had
she consented to stop at Paris, as requested, a few days longer
and come over to England with H.P.B. the later Complication
could have been averted. The effect of her coming 10 your house
has been described to you by her before : and in resentine what
PROBATION, AND CHELA8HIP 369
Mohini and H.P.B. were saying- to you and Mrs. H. you have been
simply resenting our personal wishes. You will resent my words
even now when I tell you that you have been unconsciously, I
agree in my way, in her development. Yet you would have
been the first one to profit thereby. But not understanding our
ways and the occult methods you insisted upon knowing the cause
and reason for everything done especially things that did not suit
you. You even demanded that the reason why you have been
asked to come to Elberfeld should be thoroughly explained to you.
This is unreasonable from the occult point of view, good friend.
You either trust in me, or do not. And I must frankly tell you
that my friendly regard suffered a shock from the hearing of your
" ultimatum "
which may be condensed thus :
" Either Mrs. H.,
passes a week or so at our house, or I (you) leave the L.L. to
get on as best it can." It almost meant this;
" Masters
" or no
Masters to the contrary notwithstanding, I must and shall show
the L.L. that anything* they may have heard about this affair was
false, and that the
" Masters "
would never consent to any action
hurtful to my pride : that must be protected in any event." My
friend, this is treading- upon dangerous ground. In our mountains
here, the Dugpas lay at dangerous points, in paths frequented by
our Chelas, bits of old rag, and other articles best calculated to
attract the attention of the unwary, which have been impregnated
with their evil magnetism. If one be stepped upon a tremendous
psychic shock may be communicated to the wayfarer, so that he
may lose his footing and fall down the precipice before he can
recover himself. Friend, beware of Pride and Egoism, two of
the worst snares for the feet of him who aspires to climb the
high paths of Knowledge and Spirituality. You have opened a
joint of your armour for the Dugpas do not complain if they
have found it out and wounded you there. Mrs. H. did not
really want to go to your house, for, as she said to you very
truthfully, I had told her not to do so far reasons that you must
know yourself by this time ; you also should have known, that if
we were worth anything in our individuality, and not mere power-
less puppets, we were not to be influenced by H.P.B., nor driven
by threats to do anything contrary to our light and the necessities
of Karma. I am sorry that you did not recall these facts before
speaking, as this makes my position still more embarrassing before
my chief, who, of course has had the " ultimatum
"
put on record.
You deny, having ever applied to be accepted as a chela : Ah !
my
friend, with such feelings smouldering in your heart, you could
not be even a "
lay chela." But once more I say let us drop the
subject. Words will not obliterate deeds, and what is done is
done. My brother M. who has more authority than I, has just
written the promised letter to the " Inner Circle." Your
370 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
" honour "
good friend, is saved at what price read and you
shall see.
You do not find certain recent letters and notes of mine includ-
ing the one to the treasurer of the L.L.,
"
philosophical
"
and in
my usual style. It could scarcely be helped : I wrote but on the
business of the moment as I am doing now and had no time
for philosophy. With the L.L. and most of the other Western
Branches of the T.S. in a deplorable state, philosophy may be
invoked to restrain one's impatience, but the chief thing called for
at present, is some practicable scheme for dealing with the situa-
tion. Some, most unjustly, try to make H.S.O. and H.P.B., solely
responsible for the state of things. Those two are, say, far from
perfect in some respects, quite the opposite. But they have
that in them (pardon the eternal repetition but it is being as con-
stantly overlooked) which we have but too rarely found elsewhere
UNSELFISHNESS, and an eager readiness for self-sacrifice for the
good of others ;
what a ' '
multitude of sins
* '
does not this cover !
It is but a truism, yet I say it, that in adversity alone can we
discover the real man. It is a true manhood when one boldly
accepts one's share of the collective Karma of the group one
works with, and does not permit oneself to be embittered, and to
see others in blacker colours than reality, or ro throw all blame
upon some one " black sheep," a victim, specially selected. Such
a true man as that we, will ever protect and despite his short-
comings, assist to develop the good he has in him. Such an one
is sublimely unselfish; he sinks his personalty in his cause, and
takes no heed of discomforts or personal obloquy unjustly
fastened upon him.
I have done, my good friend, and have nothing more to say.
You have too much intelligence not to see clearly, as the Americans
would say the fix I am in, and that I, personally can do very
little. The present situation, as you will find from M's letter
has been gradually created by all of you as much as by the
wretched
"
Founders." Yet without at least one of them we can
hardly do, for several years more to come. You have treated the
old body too cruelly and it now has its dlay. You will never agree
in this fully with me but it is fact, nevertheless. All I can do
for you personally <I will do it, unless you make the situation
still worse by not changing your policy. One who would have
higher instruction given to him has to be a true theosophist in
heart and soul, not merely in appearance.
Meanwhile, receive my poor blessings.
K. H.
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 371
LETTER No. LXV1I
Written to Colonel Olcott.
You have been ordered home for a rest that you need so, you
should decline any further healings until you hear from M. The
Maha-Chohan will intimate when, you are to go to the Punjab.
As the English mail goes to-morrow, you might do well to give
Mr. Sinnett a friendly caution against being surprised if his paper
project should have checks upon checks. The state of India is
just now almost comparable to a great body of dry matter in
which sparks are smouldering. Agitators of both races have been
and are doing their best to stir up a great flame. In the mad
fanaticism of the hour there is hardly patience enough to think
soberly upon any matter, least of all one that appeals like this to
conservative men. Capitalists are more ready like Holkar to
horde away their rupees than put them into share companies.
So "
miracles
"
being barred from the first as you and Mr.
Sinnett know I see delays, disappointments, trials of patience,
but (as yet) no failure. The lamentable issue of Bishenlal's
rapid scramble up the Himalayas as would be chela has sadly com-
plicated matters. And your eminent Simla correspondent has
made matters worse. Tho* unaware of it he has helped precipi-
tate Bishenlal's insanity and (here, consciously) is plotting and
scheming in many ways to make us all into a holocaust from out
whose vapours may loom the giant spectre of the Jakko. Already
he tells you that Sinnett is a credulous imbecile to be led by the
nose (pardon my worthy friend the bad taste which compelled me
to duplicate for my
M ward " A. P. Sinnett that last long letter of
Mr. H. to yourself which you have at the bottom of your dispatch
box and did not intend H.P.B. to see in full). I had it neatly
copied and for your fiery colleague he has had a deadly mine long
prepared. Mr. Sinnett is now able to verify my old warning that
he meant to set all your friends in London against the Society.
The turn of the Kingsford-Maitland party has come. The diabolical
malice which breathes thro* his present letter comes straight
from the Dugpas who provoke his vanity and blind his reason.
When you open M.'s letter of 1881 you will find the key to many
mysteries this included. Intuititve as you naturally are chela-
ship is yet almost a complete puzzle for you as for my friend
Sinnett and the others they have scarcely an inkling of it yet.
Why must I even now (to put your thoughts in the right channel)
remind you of the three cases of insanity within seven months
among
"
lay chelas," not to mention one's turning a thief? Mr.
Sinnett may consider himself lucky that his lay chelaship is in
44
fragments" only, and that I have so uniformly discouraged his
372 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
desires for a closer relationship as an accepted chela. Few men
know their inherent capacities only the ordeal of crude chelaship
develops them. (Remember these words :
they have a deep
meaning.)
M. sends you thro' me these vases as a home greeting.
You had better say plainly to Mr. Sinnett that his quondam
friend of Simla has no matter under what influence distinctly
injured the newspaper project not only with the Maharajah of
Cashmere but with many more in India. All he hints at in his
letter to you and more he has done or is preparing to do.
This is "a K.H. letter'* and you may say to Mr. S. from
K. H.
LETTER No. LXVIII
I have just taken your note from where it was placed by her as,
although I
might take cognisance of its contents otherwise, you
will prefer that the paper itself should pass into my own hand.
Does it seem to you a small thing that the past year has been
spent only in your
"
family duties "? Nay, but what better cause
for reward, what better discipline, than the daily and hourly per-
formance of duty? Believe me my
"
pupil," the man or woman
who is placed by Karma in the midst of small plain duties and
sacrifices and loving-kindnesses, will through these faithfully ful-
filled rise to the larger measure of Duty, Sacrifice and Charity to
all Humanity what better path towards the enlightenment you are
striving after than the daily conquest of Self, the perseverence in
spite of want of visible psychic progress, the bearing of ill-fortune
with that serene fortitude which turns it to spiritual advantage
since good and evil are not to be measured by events on the lower
or physical plane. Be not discouraged that your practice falls
below your aspirations, yet be not content with admitting this,
since you clearly recognise that your tendency is too often towards
mental and moral indolence, rather inclining to drift with the
currents of life, than to steer a direct course of your own. Your
spiritual progress is far greater than you know or can realize, and
you do well to believe that such development is in itself more
important than its realization by your physical plane conscious-
ness. I will not now enter into other subjects since this is but a
line of sympathetic recognition of your efforts, and of earnest
encouragement to hold a calm and brave spirit t' ard outward
events in the present, and a hopeful spirit for the future on all
planes truly yours, K. H.
PROBATION, AND CHELASHIP 373
LETTERING. LXIX
I am sincerely pleased my
"
pupil
"
that you should write to
me as agreed whether you have or have not any special ques-
tion to put to me. It is impossible under your present health con-
ditions that you should bring back to your physical brain the
consciousness of higher planes of existence, yet remember, that
the sense of magnetic refreshment is no true measure of spiritual
benefit, and you may even attain greater spiritual progress whilst
your psychic development appears to stand stilt.
Now to answer your questions.
(1) In esoteric teachings
"
Brahma,
" "
Pitri," and "
Deva "
lokas, are states of consciousness belonging to the various
ethereal hierachies or classes of Dhyanis and Pitris (the
"creators
" and "
ancestors
" of Humanity) and of Devas some
far higher than man (spiritually) some among the Deva classes
far behind on the descending arc of evolution, and only destined
to reach the human stage in a future Manvantara. Exoterically
these lokas represent Nirvana, Devachan and the Astral world.
The meaning of the terms Devachan and Deva-loka, is identical ;
" chan " and
" loka
"
equally signifying place or abode.
"
Deva " is a word too indiscriminately used in Eastern writings,
and is at times merely a blind.
(2) You will be right in referring the
" Real Knowledge" and
"True Cause " of the verse' quoted to the highest plane of
spiritual enlightenment; the *'
O reater darkness
M
into which the
perfected
" Siddha
" is finally merged thereby, is that Absolute
Darkness, which is Absolute Light. The Real Knowledge here
spoken of is not a mental but a spiritual state, implying full union
between the Knower and the Known.
I
hope that these brief replies may throw all the light you needed
upon these .points.
With sincere good-will,
Yours truly, K. H.
LETTER No. LXX
You will have learned ere now my friend that I was not deaf
to your appeal to me, altho' I was unable to answer it as you
and I too could have wished, by lifting for a moment the ever-
thinning veil between us
" When? " do you ask me? I can
but reply
" not yet." Your probation is not ended, patience a little
longer. Meanwhile you know the path to travel, it lies plainly
before you for the present, tho' the choice of an easier if longer
way may await you in the distant future.
Farewell my Brother.
Ever yours in sympathy K. H.
374 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
LETTER No. LXXI
Very kind Sinnett Sahib many thanks and salams for the
tobacco-machine. Our frenchified and pelingized Pandit tells me
the little short thing has to be cooloted whatever he may mean
by this and so I will proceed to do so. The pipe is short and my
nose long, so we will agree very well together] I hope. Thanks
many thanks.
The situation is more serious than you may imagine and we
will want our best forces and hands to work at pushing away bad
luck. But our Chohan willing and you helping we will scramble
out somehow or another. There are clouds which are below your
horizon and K.H. is right the storm is threatening. Could you
but go to Bombay to the Anniversary you would confer upon K.H.
and myself a great obligation a lasting one but that you know
best. This meeting will be either the triumph or the downfall
of the Society and a gulf. You are wrong too about the Peling
Sahibhe is as dangerous as a friend as an enemy very very bad
as both I know him best. Anyhow you Sinnett Sahib reconciled
me to a good many things you are true and true I will be.
Yours always
M.
LETTER No. LXXII
My good Brother the little Doctor and the chela Mohini will
explain to you the object of their visit and a serious conference
which 1 believe necessary. The objections of last year are creeping
out also, you have a letter from me in which I explain why we
never guide our chelas (the most advanced even) ;
nor do we fore-
warn them leaving the effects produced by causes of their own
creation to teach them better experience. Please bear in mind
that particular letter. Before the cycle ends every misconception
ought to be swept away. I trust in and rely upon you to clear
them entirely in the minds of the Prayag Fellows. They are a
troublesome lot especially Adityaram, who influences the whole
group. But what they say of last night is right. You were a
little bit too much carried away with your enthusiasm for occultism
and mixed it up very imprudently with Universal Brotherhood.
They will explain to yew* all.
Yours
PROBATION, AND OHELASHIP 375
LETTER No LXXIII
Mr. Sinnett you will receive a long letter posted Sunday at
Bombay from the Brahmin boy. Koot-hoomi went to see him
(as he is his chela) before going into
"
Tong-pa-ngi
"
the state
in which he now is and left with him certain orders. The boy
has a little bungled up the message so be very careful before you
show it to Mr. Hume lest he should again misunderstand my
Brother's real meaning. I will not stand any more nonsense, or
bad feeling against him, but retire at once.
We do the best we can.
LETTER No. LXXIV
If you are so anxious to find out the particular spot where I
erased and precipitated instead another sentence last night at
post-office I can satisfy your curiosity Mr. Sinnett,
" but that it
was the Chohan's KNOWLEDGE that neither you nor anyone cared
for the real object of the Society, nor had any respect for the
BROTHERHOOD but only a personal feeling for a few of the Brothers.
So you cared only for K.H. personally and phenomena; Mr. Hume
to get at the secrets of their philosophy and to assure himsielf that
the Tibetan Mahatmas the Lhas if at all existing outside of
Mme. B. 's imagination were connected any way with certain
adepts he had in his mind."
All this is what K.H. said, what I had to write and precipitate
instead of that which stood then written by the boy in a
phraseology which would have called out from Mr. Hume a whole
torrent of fine words and the word "
ignorance
"
applied to my
Brother. I would not have even the desert wind listen to a word
said at low breath against him who now sleeps. Such is the
cause of the tamacha produced by me and for no other cause.
Yours M>
LETTER No. LXXV
The right is on her side. Your accusations are extremely unjust,
and coming from you pain me the more. If after this distinct
statement you still maintain the same attitude I shall have to
express my deep regret at this new failure of ours and wish you
with all my heart better success with more worthy teachers. She
certainly lacks charity, but indeed, you lack discrimination.
Regretfully yours
K. H.
376 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
LETTER No. LXXVI1
X. . . . Chela training. Poor Subba Row is "in a fix
"
that is why he does not , answer you. On one hand he has the
indomitable H.P.B. who plagues Morya's life to reward you and
M. himself who would if he could gratify your aspirations ;
on the
other he encounters the unpassable Chinese wall of rules and
Law. Believe me, good friend, learn what you can under the
circumstances to viz. the philosophy of the phenomena and our
doctrines on -Cosmogony, inner man, etc. This Subba Row will
help you to learn, though his terms he being an initiated
Brahmin and holding to the Brahmanical esoteric teaching will
be different from those of the
"
Arhat Buddhist
"
terminology.
But essentially both are the same identical in fact. My heart
melts when I read Mr. Hume's sincere noble letter especially
what I perceive between the lines. Yes ;
to one from his stand-
point our policy must seem selfish and cruel. I wish I were the
Master ! In five or six years I hope to become my own "
guide
"
and things will have somewhat to change, then. But even
Caesar in irons cannot shuffle off the irons and transfer them to
Hippo or Thraso the turnkey. Let us wait. I cannot think of
Mr. Hume without remembering each time an allegory of my
own country : the genius of Pride watching over a treasure, an
inexhaustible wealth of every human virtue, the divine gift of
Brahma to man. The Genius has fallen asleep over its treasure
now, and one by one the virtues are peeping out. . . . Will
he awake before they are all freed from their life long bonds?
That is the question
K. H.
1 The first part of this letter will be found on p. 460 at the end of a
letter of Subba Row to H.P.B. which was written on thin rice paper, whereas
the continuation is upon rough parchment-like paper entirely dissimilar. ED.
SECTION IV
THE " PHCENIX " VENTURE AND THE CONDITION
OF INDIA
LETTER No. LXXVII
Received Madras, March, 1883.
Pray, convey to Col. Gordon the expression of my sympathy
and friendly esteem. He is indeed a loyal friend and trust-
worthy ally. Tell him that with every allowance for the motives
given and his own quiet modesty I yet believe he may do
much good in his own unassuming way. A Howrah Branch is
really needed and he alone can create the nucleus. Why not try?
He cares not for the service and is ready at any moment to throw
it up. But this is unnecessary so long as it lasts and gives him
a strength and authority with some native members which other-
wise he would not have. At any rate then he is going to be
taken to Simla and will have plenty of
"
nothing-to-do
" time.
Why not use his opportunities for putting the Eclectic and Hima-
layan in order of course in his official capacity, as a member of
Council and Vice-President of the Eclectic. I will have Olcott
send him an official paper to that effect and write instructions for
him myself. I am anxious to remove the Anglo-Indian
"
Eclectic
"
to Calcutta, and have its Headquarters (though it be
nominal for a while) announced through the journal hitherto as
established in the capital the native members of the Eclectic
incorporated in the Himalayan and a para : inserted to notify all
those who would join the Anglo-Indian Branch that in your
absence they would have to address themselves to Col. W.
Gordon, Acting President in your place. Some are born for
diplomacy and intrigue : I rather think that it is not my particular
province. Withal, I believe the arrangement calculated to
impede the disastrous effects of Mr. Hume's intrigue and his
endeavours to have the Society (Eclectic) dead and buried, thus
showing those concerned with it, that he was its Creator and
Preserver, and that his retirement was its death-knell. Thanks
for Col : G. 's letter.
The 3oth is as good as any other day after the 27th. No ; a
Branch at Madras is not absolutely necessary from the very
starting. But it does stand to reason that if it is Madras that is
to furnish the largest share of the funds that it would also have
377
378 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
the preference after Calcutta. So long as the money is not in
it is useless to fix any dates. Our paper once established I will
never concern myself any more with any worldly enterprise. Yes,
I have worry and annoyance indeed ;
but then it had to be ex-
pected, and no fish undertaking a ramble on the river's bank and
outside its own element need complain of catching a lumbago.
We are near the end now, one way or the other, and once I take
my leap back into the crystal wave few will ever have a chance
of seeing me peeping out again. Mankind are not always what
they seem and I have lost much of my optimism in the late
affray. Mankind was somewhere named the poetry of creation
and woman the poetry of earth. When she is not an angel she
must be a fury. It is in the latter capacity that I have ever met
her on my way when Rajahs and Zemindars were quite ready to
disburse the necessary funds. Well well, the affray is still
raging and we may yet win brilliantly the day.
Yours truly,
K. H.
LETTER No. LXXVIII
My dear friend : do not accuse me after having started it
myself of indifference to, or oblivion of, our little speculation.
The Chohan is not to be consulted every day on such
"
worldly
"
matters, and that is my excuse for the unavoidable delay.
And now, I am permitted by my venerated Chief to convey to
you a memorandum of His views and ideas upon the fortune and
destinies of a certain paper upon which his foresight was asked
by your humble friend and his servant. Putting them into busi-
ness shape I have noted his views as follows.
I. The establishment of a new journal of the kind described is
desirable, and very feasible with proper effort.
II. That effort must be made by your friends in the world,
and every Hindu theosophist who has the good of his country at
heart, and not very afraid to spend energy and his time. It has
to be made by outsiders i.e. those who do not belong to our
Order irretrievably ;
as for ourselves
III. We can direct and guide their efforts and the movement,
in general. Tho' separated from your world of action we are not
yet entirely severed from it so long as the Theosophical Society
exists. Hence, while we cannot inaugurate it publicly and to the
knowledge of all theosophists and those concerned, we may, and
will so far as practicable, aid the enterprise. In jt, we have
begun already to do so. Moreover, we are permitted to reward
those who will have helped the most effectually to realize this
THE "PHCENIX" VENTURE 379
grand idea (which promises in the end to change the destiny of a
whole nation, if conducted by one like yourself).
IV. In proposing to capitalists, especially to natives, the risk
(as they are likely to think) of so large a sum, special inducements
should be held out to them. Therefore, we are of opinion that
you should ask no more compensation than you now receive, until
your exertions have made the journal a decided success some-
thing that must and shall happen, if I am good for anything. For
a certain time, then, it is desirable that the affair should be
stripped in the eyes of the future shareholders of every objection-
able feature. Capital may now be invested in various ways so as
to secure moderate interest with little or no risk. But for the
ordinary speculator, there is much risk in founding a new journal
of high cost, which is to favour the side of just native interests in
those too frequent cases of injustice (which can hardly be proven
to you under ordinary circumstances, but that will) which always
occur when a country is held by foreign conquerors. Cases
which, as regards India, tend to multiply with the gradual
entrance of officials of a lower social origin under the competitive
system of appointment ; and increased friction due to a selfish re-
sentment of the admission of natives to Civil Service. To your
capitalists, therefore, you should hold out the inducement that you
will unselfishly labour, for the same emolument as at your dis-
posal now to make their venture more than ordinarily profitable,
and only claim a share of profits as delineated by yourself with
a slight change when that point will be reached. I am ready to
offer myself as a guarantee that it speedily will.
V. My suggestion is therefore, agreeably with the Chohan's
opinion, that you should offer to accept the consolidated monthly
pay you mention, (with the usual and necessary personal expenses
of travel when on business for the journal) until the capital shall
be earning 8 per cent. Of the profits between 8 and 12 per cent
you should have one quarter share. Of all above 12 per cent,
one half share.
VI. You should have certainly entire control over the journal;
with some reassuring provisos that that power should not be
transferable to a successor without the consent of a majority of
the capital represented in the ownership ;
and that it should cease
when it became apparent that the journal was being used against
the interests to promote which it was founded. Without some
such reservation, my venerable Chohan, and we too, think that
deep-seated prejudices and suspicions would cause native
capitalists especially the rajahs to hesitate not for fear to
make the large risks of this undertaking, but owing to doubts as
to its success. The whole Anglo-European community now
suffers in native opinion for the commercial sins of dishonest
38o THE MAHATMA LETTERS
houses who have heretofore broken faith with the capitalists ; and
there are several Rajahs, who now follow in pensive gloom the
far distant form of Sir Ashley Eden, who walks off with one
pocket full of never fulfilled promises and the other loaded with
the remembrance of several lakhs of rupees borrowed from and
never returned to his friends the rajahs. At the same time,
these provisos should be so framed as to protect your interests as
well. Some offer on your part, spontaneous of course, inviting
the occasional inspection of books and papers at reasonable times
for the verification of accounts rendered, should be given, since
your personal integrity cannot be guaranteed for all your servants.
But this is not to diminish your authority over the management of
the journal in all departments.
VII. It is better that the whole capital should be paid in before
the journal is begun, as it is always unpleasant and troublesome
to call in assessments on top of original losses. But it should be
provided that so much as was not immediately needed should be
kept at interest; and that a Sinking Fund should be created out
of the income of the journal, to provide for any unforseen
exigency. The surplus capital as well as earnings, to be dis-
tributed from time to time.
VIII. The usual contracts and copartnership papers might be
executed from the beginning, but deposited in confidential hands
mutually agreeable and their nature kept secret until the arrival
of a certain specified contingency. This would show good faith
on both sides and inspire confidence.
IX. No remark upon the other features of your programme
seems called for. Therefore to something else now.
Two or three nights ago, the following conversation, or rather,
profession of independent opinion was listened to by myself, and
approved, as far as wordly reasoning goes. Olcott was talking
with several influential theosophists concerned with, and in-
terested in our future journalistic operations. Your colleague and
brother, the good and sincere Norendro Babu of the Mirror said
wise words to this effect :
41
Of the several princes, whom Mr. Sinnett's friends have in
view in India, probably not one would be influenced to subscribe
the capital from patriotic motives. The Nizam wants the Berars,
and is hoping that England will be as generous to him as she is to
Cetewayo. Holkar wants cent per cent or as nearly that as pos-
sible. Kashmir fears the C. and M. Gazette and the cupidity that
has long yearned to annex his rich province (to this, my conserva-
tive and patriotic friend A.P.S. is sure to demur); Benares is
orthodox and would spend freely to abolish cow- (no* *#-) killing.
Baroda is a boy, with a colt's restiveness and no clear idea, as
yet, about life. With proper agents and discreet negotiations
THE "PHCENIX" VENTURE 381
the 5 lakhs may ( ?) be raised, but it cannot be said how soon ;
(right, there, especially he who has little if any faith in our help-
ing them).
H.P.B. forwarded me since then your letter. In case my
advice is asked I should counsel (i) the keeping of your Pro-
prietors in suspense as to your actual chances, so as to give you
the option of doing what may develop into the best thing. I, for
one, confess to you now that I have two strings to my bow.
When the new capital is raised, in case even it is so very soon
it will make no very great difference whether your paper be
started next cold weather or the following so long as you are at
the head of the Pioneer. You would be at it's helm until Novem-
ber and meanwhile your friends would have time to manage their
difficult and delicate negotiations, and provisions might be made
for you to receive an equitable proportion of salary while perfect-
ing your arrangements at home, to begin in the cold weather of
1884. On the. other hand, if the capital could be secured shortly
you could put it at interest, and draw no pay until you leave the
Pioneer. Of course, without forcing the events in violation of
our laws, save the Chohan's permission all this is an uncertainty
and a dilemma in some sort. Yet I can help your friends, and
they will find it out very quick no sooner they begin. No : I
would not promise, if I were you, not to start another paper ; for,
to begin with, you do not know what might turn up ;
and then it
is always useful to have a sword of Damocles hanging over such
heads as Rattigan's and Walker's. They are frightened to
death I tell you. They might even make it pleasant and profit-
able to you to continue directing the Pioneer, with increased
editorial powers and salary, for this they could better afford than
to have you compete with them with 5 lakhs at your back. As to
the advisability of such a thing time will show. As advised at
present I still hold to the original programme. You must be com-
plete and sole master of a paper devoted to the interests of my
benighted countrymen. The "
Indo-British nation
M is the pulse
I go by. More anon.
I enclose a letter kindly lent to me without his knowledge tho*
by the Colonel. Our friend foams with rage in the most tm-
yogi like manner, and Subba Row is right in his opinions of him.
Such letters and worse will be received by C. C. M., S.M. and
others. And this is the man who swore his word of honour but
the other day that he would never injure the Society, whatever
may be his opinion of us personally ! The close of the cycle good
friend the very last efforts. . . . Who will win the day?
Of the Dugpas, under whose influence he has now placed himself
altogether, whom he attracts in every way and manner or
But that will do ! Yours sincerely,
K. H.
382 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
LETTER No. LXXIX,
Since you did not
"
deal exhaustively with the case
" in your
previous note I said only what I did, for I am no business man.
One used to mercantile affairs would doubtless have deduced the
entire plan from even smaller fragments than you have. But now
that you have opened out the question I may say (holding at the
same time my amateur opinion in very light esteem) that your
scheme appears reasonable and just enough. Mr. Dare, no less
than yourself should be substantially rewarded for his valuable
and devoted services. Your proposal that the alienated 4-i2th's
of shares shall not participate in profits until their respective
owners have made the remaining 8-i2th's yield fair remuneration
to capital is a fair one to both parties.
Whether you shall or shall not eventually issue a duplex, or
quadruplex journal, I still think that if practicable, the larger
amount of capital should be sought after, for, when you are fully
equipped for any emergency you may deliberately adopt such plan
as cool judgment and a calculation of all the chances may indi-
cate as best.
And now, before quitting my novel relation of a business
adviser, I must repeat that while we will help the enterprise from
first to last as fully as possible within our rules, the initiative
must be taken by your friends and ought to be guided and sympa-
thised with by yourself, and I will just tell you why. While the
greatest good ought to result from the successful establishment of
such a journal, the strict law of justice forbids us to do aught to
lessen in the slightest degree the merit to which he who shall
make the dream a reality will be entitled. Few are those who
know their future or what is best for them. No doubt, life on the
European continent and in England possesses charms lacked by
poor, dull India. But the latter can, on the other hand, offer
privileges and attractions undreamt of by the average mystic. I
dare not say more ; but, you are wrong, friend, very wrong in con-
senting to stop here ONLY for my sake. I, at least, do not feel
myself selfish enough to accept the sacrifice, had I not known
what I do.
For your obliging compliance with our wishes that you should
attend the anniversary celebration accept our best thanks. The
effects of your presence and speech will be greater and better than
you can now conceive. And, like all good actions, they will bring
abundant reward for yourself here and hereafter. Let it be a
consolation to you that you helped in a positive degree to
neutralize the evil influences which the enemies of Truth had con-
centrated upon the Society. The dead-point of the r olving cycle
is past : a new one begins for the Theosophical Society on the
1 7th of December. Watch and see. Ever your friend,
K. H.
THE "PHCBNIX" VENTURE 383
LETTER No. LXXX
M. "
son's
"
impression convexing lens being not yet ground
to a perfect surface, he puts the matter in a somewhat crooked
shape. M. did not want him to say there was anything like a
possibility of failure, but just the usual possibility of delay in every
business transaction left with our countrymen alone :
plus, the
malevolent (or if you prefer eccentric) meddling of the Rothney
Swedenborg and other artists in calamity. From all I know of the
situation and I claim to watch it as closely as I am permitted to
the chances are that the money will be raised, by the end of
March; but Chance being a squinting jade, according to report
the time of collection is not yet written in the memorandum book
of Fate. Much depends upon contingencies but still more upon
the Simla Yogi leaving us for awhile alone. 3 lakhs of rupees
have been just as good as lost, owing to a letter written by him
to an editor at Calcutta with a delineation of our true character
(Jesuits, sorcerersf a deceitful, selfish set, etc.) and by that editor
shown to a rajah, hitherto well disposed and ready to do the
bidding of the
" Mahatma Brothers " of patriotism in this trans-
action there will be very little if any. I will send you in a day
or two, facts which will show to you persons in their true light.
Meanwhile if I advise your acting entirely upon your own judg-
ment as to your departure, it is because of the false light in which
nearly all our actions are viewed by the Europeans who are how-
ever indirectly concerned with us. I do not want to be misjudged
by you even for one moment. But strange and crooked as our
ways may appear at first sight I hope you will never allow your
European mind to get influenced by your Rothney friend. Well
more anon,
Yours ever faithfully,
K. H.
LETTER No. LXXXI
Received London about July, 1883.
Private but not very Confidential.
I have, you observe, left for a separate private letter in case
you should like to read the other to your British
" Brethren and
Sistern
" and to the last any reference to the proposed new
journal, about whose prospects Col. Gordon has written you so
encouragingly. I scarcely knew until I had begun to watch the
development of this effort to erect a bulwark for Indian interests,
how deeply my poor people had sunk. As one who watches the
signs of fluttering life beside a dying bed, and counts the feeble
384 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
breaths to learn if there may still be room for hope, so we Aryan
exiles in our snowy retreat have been attentive to this issue.
Debarred from using any abnormal powers that might interfere
with the nation's Karma, yet by all lawful and normal means
trying to stimulate the zeal of those who care for our regard, we
have seen weeks grow into months without the object having been
achieved. Success is nearer than ever before, yet still in doubt.
The letter of Gwindan Lai, which I shall ask Upasika to send you,
shows that there is progress. In a few days a meeting of native
capitalists is to be held at Madras, which Mr. Olcott is to attend
and from which there may be fruits. He will see the Geikwar at
Baroda and Holkar at Indore, and do his best as he has already
at Behar and in Bengal. There was never a time when the help
of a man like yourself was more needed by India. We foresaw
it, as you know and patriotically tried to make your way easy for
a speedy return. But, alas ! that it must be confessed the word
Patriotism has now scarcely any electric power over the Indian
heart. The "Cradle Land of Arts and Creeds
" swarms with
unhappy beings, precariously provided for, and vexed by dema-
gogues who have everything to gain by chicane and impudence.
We knew all this in the mass, but not one of us Aryans had
sounded the depths of the Indian question as we have of late. If
it be permissible to symbolize things subjective by phenomena
objective, I should say that to the psychic sight India seems
covered with a stifling grey fog a moral meteor the odic emana-
tion from her vicious social state. Here and there twinkled a
point of light which marks a nature still somewhat spiritual, a
person who aspires and struggles after the higher knowledge. If
the beacon of Aryan occultism shall ever be kindled again, these
scattered sparks must be combined to make it's flame. And this
is the task of the T.S., this the pleasant part of it's work in which
we would so gladly assist, were we not impeded and thrown back
by the would-be chelas themselves. I stepped outside our usual
limits to aid your particular project from a conviction of its neces-
sity and its potential usefulness :
having begun I shall continue
until the result is known. But in this uncongenial experience
of meddling in a business affair, I have ventured within the very
breath of the world's furnace. I have suffered so much from
the enforced insight at short distance into the moral and spiritual
condition of my people ;
and been so shocked by this5
nearer view
of the selfish baseness of human nature (the concomitant, always,
of the passage of humanity through our stage of the evolutionary
circuit) : I have seen so distinctly the certainty that it cannot be
helped that I shall henceforth abstain from any repetition of the
unbearable experiment. Whether your paper should succeed or
not and if the latter, it will be due to yourself exclusively, to the
THE "PH(ENIX" VENTURE 385
unfortunate inspiration on the i7th, published in the Times I
shall have no more to do with the financial side of these worldly
affairs; but confine myself to our prime duty of gaining know-
ledge and disseminating through all available channels such frag-
ments as mankind in the mass may be ready to assimilate. I
shall, of course, be interested in your journalistic career here if
I am able to overcome and soothe the bitter feelings you have just
awakened in those who confided in you most, by that unfortunate
and UNTIMELY confession, honest as its object may have been and
you may always depend upon my practical sympathy; but the
genius of Mr. Dare must preside in your Counting Room as your
own in the Editor's office. The great pain you have inflicted
upon me, shows clearly that either I understand nothing in the
fitness of political duties and therefore, could hardly hope to be a
wise business and political
"
control
"
or that the man whom I
regard as a true friend, however honest and willing, will never
rise above English prejudices and the sinful antipathy towards our
race and colour.
" Madame "
will tell you more.
Though you do not
' *
ask me to deal with it afresh
' *
yet I will
say two words more about Mr. Massey's difficulty as regards the
letter from our Brother H then in Scotland, sent him cir-
cuituously through
" Ski." Be just and charitable to a Euro-
pean at least. If Mr. Massey had " declared to the English
spiritualists that he was in communication with the BROTHERS by
Occult means "
he would have spoken the simple truth. For not
only once but twice had he such occult relationship once with
his Father's glove, sent him by M. through
"
Ski
" and again with
the note in question, for the delivery of which the same practical
agency was employed, though without an equal expenditure of
power. His, you see, is one more example of the ease with which
even a superior intellect may deceive itself in occult matters, by
the maya-of its own engendering. And, as regards the other case,
may it not be noted I am no barrister and therefore speak
Under reserve as a mitigating circumstance for the accused that
Mr. Massey is not even to this day sure that Dr. Billing did not
intercept the Simpson letter to his wife, keep it to use against
her at a fortunate time and actually so use it in this instance? Or,
even allowing the letter to have been delivered to the addressee,
know what was the answer if any written ? Has the idea struck
your observant friend that, at that very time there was a womanly
worse than that medium's spite far worse than the odium
theologicum between the Simpson and Hollis-Billing, concerning
their respective claims to the favours shown by Ski? That Mrs.
Billing called the Ski of her
" friend
"
Simpson
" a bogus spook ;"
that Dr. Billing complained bitterly to Olcott and H.P.B. of the
fraud perpetrated by the Simpson who tried to palm off a false Ski
386 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
as the genuine one the oldest as the most faithful
" control
" of
his wife. The row got even into the papers. Strange, that at
the time when she was publicly reproached by Mrs. B. with pre-
tending- to be controlled by her Ski Mrs. S. should have asked
her for such a delicate and dangerous service ! I say again I
speak under reserve 1 have never looked into the accusation
seriously, and know of it by having caught a glimpse of the situa-
tion in Olcott's head when reading Mr. C. C. M.'s letter. But
the hint may, perchance, be of some service. But this I do know,
and say ; the long and short of the matter is, that your friend has
hastily suspected and unjustly condemned the innocent and done
himself harm spiritually. He really has no right to accuse even
H.P.B. of deliberate deceit. I protest most emphatically against
the woman being dealt with so uncharitably. She had no inten-
tion to deceive unless^ withholding a fact be a direct deceit and lie,
on the theory suppressio veri, suggestis falsi a legal maxim
which she knows nothing about. But then on this theory we all
(Brothers and Chelas) ought to be regarded as liars. She was
ordered to see that the letter should be delivered ; she had no
other means of doing so at that time but through
" Ski." She
had no power of sending it direct, as was the glove ;
M. would
not help her, for certain reasons of his and very weighty too as
I have found out later ; she knew Mr. C. C. M. distrusted Ski,
and was foolish enough to believe that Mr. Massey separated the
medium from the
"
spirit
" as proved by her letter; she was
anxious out of pure and unselfish devotion for him that he should
see that he was noticed at last by a real Brother. Hence she
tried to conceal the fact that Ski had a hand in it. Moreover, an
hour after having sent her letter to Mrs. B. to be delivered by
Ski, a letter read at the time, not found accidentally as alleged
she forgot all about it as she forgets everything. No idea, no
thought of the slightest deceit on her part had ever crossed her
mind. Had Mr. Massey asked her to tell him honestly the truth,
after the letter had been shown to him she would have probably,
either sent him to a very hot place, and said nothing, or honestly
confessed the truth. She simply thought it best that the intended
good effect of the Brother's message should not be cancelled by
arousing in Mr. C. C. M. 's mind a hostile disposition the fruit of
such unwarranted suspicion. We, my dear sirs, always judge
men by their motives and the moral effects of their actions : for
the world's false standards and prejudice we have no respect.
K. H.
THE "PHOENIX" VENTURE 387
LETTER No. LXXXII
Strictly Confidential
The "
quart d'heure de Rabelais
"
has come. On your answer,
consent or refusal depends the resurrection of the Phoenix
prostrated in a death-like Samadhi, if not in actual death. If you
believe in my word, and, leaving the Ryots to our care are pre-
pared for a somewhat unclean work from the European stand-
point though and consent to oppose our work apparently, serv-
ing our ends in reality and thus saving our respective countries
from a great evil that overhangs both then consent to the pro-
posal that will be made to you from India.
You may work to all intents and purposes to oppose The
Bengal Rent Bill, for do whatever you or others may, you will
never be able to impede our work in the opposite direction.
Therefore, one scruple less as one non-permitted confidence
more. A riddle, verily.
And now good friend, I must explain. Only you have to pre-
pare your European, cultured notions of right and wrong to re-
ceive a shock. A plan of action of a purely Asiatic character is
laid bare before you ;
and since I may not move one finger nor
would I if I could in this case to guide your understanding or
feelings it
may be found too Jesuitical, to suit your taste. Alas
for all ! that you should be so little versed in the knowledge of
occult antidotes, as not to be able to perceive the difference
between the Jesuitical
*'
tout chemin est bon qui m&ne Rome "
added to the cunning and crafty
"
the end justifies the means "
and the necessity of the practical application of these sublime
words of our Lord and Master :
"
O ye Bhikkhus and Arhats
be friendly to the race of men our brothers I Know ye all, that
he, who sacrifices not his one life to save the life of his fellow-
being ;
and he who hesitates to give up more than life his fair
name and honour to save the fair name and honour of the many,
is unworthy of the sin-destroying, immortal, transcendent Nir-
vana." Well, it cannot be helped.
Allow me to explain to you the situation. It is very compli-
cated ;
but to him who, without any previous training was able to
assimilate so well some of our doctrines as to write Esoteric
Buddhism the inner springs that we have to use ought to become
intelligible.
(i) The Behar Chiefs propose one and a half lakhs down for the
Price nix ; as much when they see you back to India, if the Bengal
Rent Bill is opposed by the new paper and you promise to give
them your support. Unless the proposition is accepted by you we
may prepare for the final incremation of our Phcenix and for
388 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
good. Exclusive of this sum Rs. 150,000 we can count but
upon Rs. 45,000 in shares so far. But let the Races put down
cash and all will follow.
(2) If you refuse they will secure another editor : were there
any danger for the ryots and the Bill they the Races or
Zemindars would lose nothing thereby, except in the degree of
cleverness of their editor ;
but they hope and are thoroughly un-
aware of being doomed in the long run. The only and real loser
in the case of refusal will be India and your own country
eventually. This is prophecy.
(3) The resistance to, and the intrigues set on foot by the
Zemindars against the Bill are infamous in their nature, yet very
natural. Those who examine things at the core, perceive the real
culprit in Lord Cornwallis and the long line of his successors.
However it may be infamous, as I say, there it is and cannot be
helped for it is human nature itself; and, there is no more dis-
honour to support their claims from a legal standpoint on the
part of an Editor, who knows them to be doomed, than there is
for a Counsel to defend his client a great criminal sentenced to
be hung. I am now trying to argue from your European stand-
point, for fear, and lest you should not be able to see things from
our Asiatic point of view, or rather in the light we, who are
enabled to discern future events see them.
(4) A conservative Editor whose field of action will be found to
run on parallel lines with that of a conservative Viceroy, will find
himself having lost nothing in fact, for a slight opposition that
cannot last long after all. There are great flaws in the present
Bill, examined from its legal, dead-letter aspect.
(5) Owing to the idiotically untimely
"
Ilbert's Bill,'* and the
still more idiotic
"
Saligram-Surendro
"
Contempt case, the agita-
tion is carrying the population of India to the verge of self-
destruction. You must not feel as tho' I were exaggerating if I
say more : the English and especially Anglo-Indians are running
the same course from an opposite direction. You are at liberty
to refuse my warning: you will show yourself wise if you do not.
To return to our direct object
(6) There are several Englishmen of great intellect and ability,
who feel ready to defend (and even to ally themselves with) the
Zemindars and oppose the Bill, against their own principles and
feelings simply because the Races hate and oppose the man
whom the rest of the Hindus profess, for the time being, to
adore, and whom they are exalting with all the ardour of simple-
minded, short-sighted savages. Thus the ryots cannot escape
their fate for a few months longer whether you ?
;ept the offer
or not. In the latter case, of course the paper scheme is at an
end.
THE " PHOENIX" VENTURE 389
(7) At the same time it is better that you should be prepared to
know the unavoidable results : there are ninety-nine chances
against one, that if the offer of the Zemindars is rejected the
Phoenix will ever come into existence ; not so long at any rate as
the present agitation is going on. And when it finally fails as the
project is bound to unless we become masters of the situation,
then we will have to part. In order to obtain from the Chohan
permission to defend the teeming millions of the poor and the
oppressed in India bringing on to bear all our knowledge and
powers I had to pledge myself, in case of the Phoenix's failure
to interfere no more with such worldly matters and to bid an
eternal farewell to the European element. M. and Djual Khool
would have to take my place. On the other hand, should you
consent to the offer, your opposition to the Rent Bill would have
no more effect on our work for the Ryots than a straw to save
a vessel from sinking; whereas, if another editor is selected we
would have no pretext to exercise our influence on their behalf.
Such is the situation. It is a curious medley with no rat's on
d'etre in your opinion. You can hardly be expected by us to see
clearly through it at present, nor is there much likelihood that
you will judge it fairly owing to this Egyptian darkness of cross
purposes ; nor is there any special need you should, if the offer
has to fall to the ground. But, if your answer is favourable, I
may perhaps as well add a few particulars. Know then, that
opposition notwithstanding, and just because of it, you will bring
the great national boil to a head sooner than it could be other-
wise expected. Thus, while carrying out strictly your pro-
gramme and promise made to the Races, you will be helping the
events that have to be brought about to save the unfortunate
population that has been sat upon ever since 1793 the year of
Lord Cornwallis's great political mistake. At the same time you
may be doing immense good in every other direction. Recall the
past and this will help you to see clearer into our intentions.
When you took over Bengal from the native Rulers, there were
a number of men who exercised the calling of Tax Collectors
under their Government. These men received, as you are aware,
a percentage for collecting the rents. The spirit of the letter of
the tithe and tribute under the Moossulman Rulers was never
understood by the East India Company ;
least of all the rights of
the ryots to oppose an arbitrary interchange of the Law of
Wuzeefa and Mookassimah. Well, when the Zemindars found
that the British did not exactly understand their position they
took advantage of it, as the English had taken advantage of their
force :
they claimed to be Landlords. Weekly enough, you con-
sented to.recognise the claim, and admitting it notwithstanding
the warning of the Moossulman who understood the real situation
390 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
and were not bribed as most of the Company were you played
into the hands of the few against the many, the result being the
"
Perpetual Settlement" documents. It is this that led to every
subsequent evil in Bengal. Seeing how the unfortunate ryots
are regarded by your proud nation in the full progress of the
igth Century, being in your sight of far less value than a horse or
cattle, it is not difficult to imagine how they were regarded by your
countrymen then a century ago when every Englishman was a
pious Christian at heart and ordered by the Bible to draw a broad
distinction between the descendants of Ham and themselves
the heirs of the chosen people. The agreement drawn between
Lord Cornwallis and the Races which stipulated that the
" black
human cattle
"
should be treated by the Zemindars kindly and
justly, and that they should not raise the rents of the ryots, etc.
was a legal farce. The Chohan was then in India and he was an
eye-witness to the beginning of horrors. No sooner had they
secured the Perpetual Settlement Agreement that the Races began
to disregard their engagements. Failing to fulfil any of these
they brought yearly ruin and starvation on the miserable Ryots.
They exacted tribute, sold them up, and trumped up false charges
against them under the name of Abwab. These "
doors
M and
"
openings
" led them wherever they wanted and they levied for
over 50 years most extraordinary taxes. All this the Zemindars
have done and much more and they will be surely made to account
for it. Things too horrible to mention were done under the eyes
and often with the sanction of the Company's servants, when the
Mutiny put a certain impediment by bringing as its result another
form of Government. It is to redress the great wrong done, to
remedy to the now irremediable that Lord Ripon took it into his
head to bring forward the new Bill. It was not thought expedient
by his Councillors (not those you know of) to crush the Zemindary
system without securing at the same time popularity among the
majority in another direction: hence
"
Ilbert's Bill
1 *
and some
other trifles. We say then that to all appearance it is to redress
the wrongs of the Past, that is the object of the present Bengal
Rent Bill. My friend you are a remarkably clever Editor and an
astute and observant politician ; and no one, perhaps, in all India
goes as deep as you do into the inner constitution of the Anglo-
Indian coups d'ttat. Still you do not go far enough and the
original primitive layers of the political soil as the genesis of some
acts of my Lord Ripon were and are terra incognita to yourself as
to so many others, perhaps still older hands in politics than you
are. Neither Lord Ripon nor his Councillors (those behind the
veil) anticipate any great results during his povter
"
India. They
are more Occultists than you may imagine. Their liberal reforms
are not meant for India, to the weal or woes of which they are
THE "PHCENIX" VENTURE 391
quite indifferent :
they look far off to future results and Press
acts, Ilbert's Bills, Bengal Rent Bills and the rest are aimed at
Protestant England which, very soon, too soon if Somebody or
Something does not interfere, will find itself suffocating in the
invisible coils of the Romish Apophis. Friend and Brother, the
only one of your race whom I regard with a warm, sincere affec-
tion, take care ! Do not reject too lightly my warning for it is a
solemn one, and but a hint I am permitted to make. Political
skepticism, like every other, scorns and laughs at the observations
of those who do not belong to its factions. It finds out its mis-
takes when in a ditch. Beware for it is no more a simple ditch,
but an abyss that is being prepared for you !
But let us see on what grounds an honest Englishman can
oppose the Rent Bill. However great the misery of the Ryots
even at present, however just the reprisals that are in store for
the Zemindars, however human and generous, in short, on its
surface the object of the Rent Bill, yet no honest Government
strictly speaking has the right to break at will and its own pleasure
solemn pledges and engagements. Because, it is found that the
Races have not fulfilled their part of the Agreement, it
gives no
right to the other party to make away with their signature and
tear in shreds the Perpetual Settlement Agreement. The sins of
the few cannot well be visited upon the many. There are heavy
flaws in the present Rent Bill as there were in the old System ;
and, there is no clause in the old documents stipulated to the effect
that the Settlement becomes nil at the will of the British. I will
not enter upon the defects of the dead-letter meaning in either the
one or other, but will limit myself by telling you that there are
such flaws and that, until modified you have a perfect right to
object to them. You are not expected to cause the Bill to be with-
drawn but to simply support the Zemindars analysis of its defects.
And this you can freely promise. However I must not seem try-
ing to influence you one way or the other. Some of the claims of
the Races are infamous and no honest man can be made to sup-
port them ;
while others are not without a strong legal foundation
in their favour. The Ruling power, for instance, was never yet
and in no case the proprietor of the Khirajee land not even
under the Moossulman laws and sway. You have thus the Spirit
of Khiraj and Ooshr to work upon, in order to redeem your
promise to the landowners and amuse them for a few months unto
the day of the
4<
almighty smash " that is in store for them. All
that you are asked to do for the benefit of (your as well as) my
country is, to overlook the ugly frontispiece of the edifice, taking
into consideration only the real nature of the situation and the
future good results, in case you should get over your very natural
squeamishness. In a few days you may receive a formal pro*
392 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
posal. Think well over it. Do not allow yourself to be influenced
by any consideration in connection with my desires. If you
honestly believe the offer inconsistent with your European notions
and criterion of truth and honour refuse its acceptance without
any hesitation and let me bid you a sad, tnough ever grateful and
friendly farewell. I cannot expect to see you looking* at things
from my own standpoint. You look without, I see within. This
is no hour for sentimentalities. The whole future of the
"
brightest ( !) jewel
"
oh, what a dark satire in that name!
in the Crown of England is at stake, and I am bound to devote
the whole of my powers as far as the Chohan will permit me to
help my country at this eleventh hour of her misery. I cannot
work except with those who will work with us. Accuse me not,
my friend, for you do not know you cannot know, the extent of
the limitations I am placed under. Think not, that I am seeking
to place a bait an inducement, for you to accept that which would
refuse under other circumstances, for I am not. Having pledged
my solemn word of honour to Him to whom I am indebted for
everything I am and know I am simply helpless in case of your
refusal and we will have to part. Had not the Rent Bill been
accompanied by the din and clash of the Ilbert Bill and
"
con-
tempt case
"
I would have been the first to advise you to refuse.
As the situation stands now, however, and prohibited as I am to
use any but ordinary powers I am powerless to do both, and am
constrained to choose between helping my hapless mother-country,
and our future intercourse. It is for you to decide. And if this
letter is fated to be my last, I beg you to remember for your
sake, not mine the message I sent at Simla to yourself and Mr.
Hume through H.P.B. "
Lord Ripon is not a free agent; the
real Viceroy and ruler of India is not at Simla but at Rome ; and
the effective weapon used by the latter is the Viceroy's con-
fessor.
Give, pray, my best wishes to your lady and the
" Morsel." Be
certain, that with a few undetectable mistakes and omissions not-
withstanding, your
" Esoteric Buddhism " is the only right exposi-
tion however incomplete of our Occult doctrines. You have
made no cardinal, fundamental mistakes; and whatever may be
given to you hereafter will not clash with a single sentence in your
book but on the contrary will explain away any seeming contra-
diction. How greatly mistaken was Mr. Hume's theory is
shown by the
" Chela " in the Theosophist. With all that, you
may feel sure that neither M. nor I have contradicted each other
in our respective statements. He was speaking of the inner I,
of the outer Round. There are many things that ou have not
learned but may some day ;
nor will you be able to ever compre-
hend the process of the obscurations until you have mastered the
THE "PHOENIX" VENTURE 393
mathematical progress of the inner and the outer Rounds and
learned more about the specific difference between the seven. And
thus according to Mr. Massey's philosophical conclusion ue have
no God? He is right since he applies the name to an extra-
cosmic anomaly, and that we, knowing nothing of the latter, find
each man his God within himself in his own personal, and at
the same time, impersonal Avalokiteswara. And now farewell.
And if it is so decreed that we should correspond no more, remem-
ber me with the same sincere good feeling as you will ever be
remembered by,
K. H.
LETTER No. LXXXIII
Received London, October 8th, 1883.
A temporary absence upon imperative business, prevented for a
few days my even knowing anything about your affairs, and it
was not until to-day that I had the leisure to give them a thought.
Upon reading your letter, the situation presented itself to me in
such colours that I concluded to have you immediately given your
freedom and so sent you a cable despatch. This was with the
object of removing from your mind any feeling of compulsion,
moral or otherwise, and of leaving you to either take or reject
the further proposals which may come to you from any part of
India, at your option. If any consideration could have prompted
a different course, it would have been entirely removed by the
tone of your letter of August the i6th. The advocacy of the
Bengal measure in the present aspect of affairs you think would
ruin every prospect of the commercial success of the proposed
journal,
" The Phcenix cannot possibly as now designed prove a
commercial success. And a paper which is a commercial failure
can have very little political weight." To persist then, would as
you see it, be to lead a number of persons to fruitlessly waste
a large sum of money. For
"
the project thus crippled is
pretty effectually stripped of its grand financial possibilities."
Still despite all this, you are disposed to go on if I wish it, cast
the moral responsibility on me and
"
swallow the somewhat re-
pulsive pledge."
My friend, you shall do nothing of the sort. The responsibility,
notwithstanding all I could, and am willing to do, would fall upon
you since you have been given plainly the option in my last letter
to you. If henceforth, you have anything more to do with this
unfortunate affair, it must be entirely upon your own judgment
394 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
and responsibility. You have ill comprehended the Law of Karma
(and my letter) if you could have imagined that I would dare
to provoke its awful retaliations by forcing you or anyone to tak<
up a line of action with such feelings in his heart. Knowing you,
it was easy to foresee your (nay, the feelings of any honourable
man having to face such a situation) -repulsion for the work con-
templated. Therefore, had I taken great care to impress upon
you, in my letter that you were entirely and absolutely free in
your choice. I blame myself for but one thing, viz., my having
hinted at the probable consequence of your refusal, as implied in
my pledge to the Chohan to thenceforward abstain from collabora-
tion with Europeans until some future and more favourable time.
It was that which caused you
"
to swallow the repulsive pledge
"
more than anything said. This goes to my Karma. But, this
aside, by referring to my last letter, you will perceive that the
necessity for independent, unbiased action on your part was
strongly urged. I hoped even against the disheartening moral
condition of my countrymen, and forced myself almost to believe
it possible to found a journal so obviously necessary at this great
crisis, upon a basis thoroughly satisfactory to you and to all who
might be concerned. I had forgotten that external appearance
is everything in your world and that I was simply subjecting you
to be regarded with contempt. But rest assured : had the money
been collected as first attempted, and no pressure of working in a
certain direction had been offered to you ;
and had you been left
entirely your own master in the line of policy pursued; yet at this
hour of bitter hatred, of mutual malice and contempt, the mere
fact that you were advocating the cause of the despised, and now
more than ever hated and crushed down "
nigger "would have
stripped The Phoenix of even a shadow of any
"
grand financial
possibility." Still hardly a month ago I was so confident from
seeing the still deep, strong feelings lurking in the national soul
that I allowed you to grow equally and even more confident than
myself. Others, whose intuition and foresight had .not been
blinded by their superiors, thought differently and some would
have dissuaded me ; yet, the aim being so worthy, and the possi-
bility really existing, I was permitted to watch the project and use
natural external means to aid its consummation. If indefinite wait-
ing were practicable for you, the original scheme could be realized ;
but this is not so, and I must, therefore, withdraw the last appear-
ance of constraint upon your free judgment, and thank you for
having so loyally seconded the attempt to do good to India, even
at the cost of your feelings and pecuniary interests. I should be
most unwilling, apart from the rule of our Order as *
3 ards Karma,
to draw you into a position where I could not recompense you in
any way for loss of social prestige or financial disappointments.
THE "PHCENIX" VENTURE 395
To do that is beyond my power. I could not look at you, if you
were hourly feeling that you were regarded no better than a
11
blackguard,
"
and had "
no political weight with Society at large
on the score of Character." If your lot was to be cast in with ours,
such considerations would not weigh one moment. To all,
whether Chohan or chela, who are obligated workers among us
the first and last consideration is whether we can do good to our
neighbour, no matter how humble he may be; and we do not
permit ourselves to even think of the danger of any contumely,
abuse or injustice visited upon ourselves. We are ready to be
"spat upon and crucified
"
daily not once if real good to
another can come of it But the case is totally different with you ;
you have your path to tread in the more "
practical
"
world, and
you/ standing in it must not be jeopardized.
Again, besides yourself the contributors to capital must be justly
dealt by. Among them are wealthy Zemindars, but there are also
poor patriots, who have made great exertions to subscribe their
small sums from pure reverence to us and love of mother-land.
At least fifty such are waiting the latest turn of events, and hus-
banding their resources until the last moment before sending on
their remittances to Calcutta. Devoted Theosophists in various
parts of India have been actively soliciting for subscriptions, upon
the theory of possible profit to capital set forth in Mr. Morgan's
circulars ;
the project has been warmly advocated by Olcott, Colonel
Gordon, Norendro, and others known and unknown to you : a
financial disaster to The Phoenix of the nature you anticipate
would compromise the personal influence of all. With such pros-
pects, moreover, your late co-adjutor Mr. Dare, would not care
to help you even though Mr. Allen should permit him. And,
finally, unless your personal faith in me were so blind as to swallow
up your last instinct of prudence, you would not risk your own
hard-earned capital in a fore-doomed failure, and so could not in
conscience allow anyone else to do it.
Except except you were
allowed to
"
cast the moral responsibility upon me "
;
in short, to
make me by miracle were that possible force a success. If that
had been permitted, the journal would have been already founded,
and its voice have made itself heard amid the harsh din of con-
temporary Indian affairs.
I would have phrased my dispatch of to-day even stronger but
that I should, by telling you to abandon the affair, again assume
the responsibility of blocking your free-will. It is best that you
should give the Bengal party the chance to state their conditions
definitely and finally, and thereupon answer "yes" or "no."
To save your time and expense I asked Olcott to cause Norendro
Babu to send him the Landholders* proposals, that he may, upon
the instant knowing your views and character say whether they
396 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
are fit to lay before you or not. And if not, that he will imme-
diately communicate with your Calcutta solicitors, as you
requested.
This is the present situation of affairs and very bad it is for
India. It is premature as yet to tell you more of the secret
influence that has brought it on, but you may hear of it later.
Nor may I forecast the future, except so far as to draw more than
ever your attention to the black clouds that are gathering over the
political sky. You know I told you long ago to expect many and
great disturbances of all kinds as one cycle was closing and the
other beginning its fateful activities. You already see in the
seismological phenomena of late occurrence some of the proof;
you will see a great many more and shortly: And if we have to
regret the blasting of a humanitarian project, it should at least
mitigate the severity of your disappointment to feel that in a bad
time like this one has to contend against seen and unseen influences
of the most hostile nature.
And now, a pleasanter word before concluding. Your decision
to follow my lead into the Phoenix matter even with the, to you,
certainty of social degradation and pecuniary loss, had the reward
of its Karma already. So I conclude, at any rate, by the results.
Though there was no test (so odious to you) meant, yet you were
as good as tested and you have not quailed. The fiat of contingent
non-intercourse between us has been partially revoked. The pro-
hibition with regard to other Europeans is as strict as ever, but in
your case it is removed. And this consent, I know, has a direct
bearing upon your consent the great sacrifice of your personal
feelings in the present situation.
"
This Peling
" was found to
have
"
really redeeming qualities !
"
But be warned, my friend,
that this is not the last of your probations. It is not I who create
them, but yourself by your 'struggle for light and truth against
the world's dark influences. Be more careful as to what you say
upon forbidden topics. The "
eighth sphere
M
mystery is a very
confidential subject, and you are far from understanding even its
general aspect. You were repeatedly warned and should not have
mentioned it. You have unintentionally brought ridicule upon a
solemn matter. I have nought to do with the Replies to Mr.
Myers, but, you may recognise in them, perhaps, the brusque
influence of M.
K. H.
I am advised to request that, for the future, communications
intended for me may be sent thro* either Damodar or Henry Olcott.
Madam B's discretion is not improving in ratio with her physio-
logical enfeeblement.
SECTION V
THE LONDON LODGE OF THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
LETTER No. LXXXIV
Private
My dear friend
The enclosure is to be transmitted to the L.L.T.S. through you
in your capacity of Vice-President of the Parent Society and there-
fore representative of the President Founder, not as member of
the Branch at London.
The recent occurrences in which you have borne a part not
altogether pleasant, may be distressing to some and tiresome to
others, yet it is better so than that the old paralytic calm should
have continued. An outbreak of fever in the human body is
nature's evidence that she is trying to expel the seeds of disease
and perhaps death anteriorily absorbed. As things were, the
London Branch was but vegetating and the vast possibilities of
psychic evolution in Britain were completely untried. Karma
evidently required that the repose should be broken by the agency
of the one most responsible for it C. C. Massey, and so it was he
who brought Mrs. K. to her present position. She has not
accomplished her object, but Karma has its own; henceforth the
London group aroused, stimulated and warned, have a clear field
in which to exercise their activities. Your own karma my friend,
destines you to play a still more conspicuous part in European
theosophical affairs than you have yet. Olcott's forthcoming visit
will result in important developments, in whose out-working you
are to have a hand. My desire is that you should be gathering
together all the reserved forces of your being so that you may rise
to the dignity and importance of the crisis. However little you
may seem to achieve psychically in this birth, remember that
your interior growth proceeds every instant, and that toward the
end of your life as in your next birth your accumulated merit shall
bring you all you aspire to.
It is not politic that H. S. Olcott should be exclusively your
guest during his whole stay in Britain ;
his time should be divided
between yourself and others of various opinions should they wish
to invite him for a short time. He will be accompanied by
397
398 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
Mohini*, whom I have chosen as my chela and with whom I some-
times communicate directly. Treat the boy kindly, forgetting he
is a Bengalee, and only remembering he is now my chela. Do
what you can to dignify Olcott's office; for he represents the
entire Society, and by reason of his official position, if for no
other, stands with Upasika, closest to ourselves in the chain of
Theosophical work. Assirvaclam.
K. H.
LETTER No. LXXXV
To One of the Vice-Presidents or Councillors of
" The London
Lodge," Theosophical Society, from K.H.
To the Members of the
"
London Lodge," Theosophical Society,
Friends and Opponents,
I have just ordered two telegrams to be sent to Mrs. A. Kings-
ford and Mr. A. P. Sinnett to notify both that the former should
continue to be the President of the
"
London Lodge" Theos.
Society.
This is not the desire alone of either of us two, known to Mr.
Sinnett, or of both, but the express wish of the Chohan Himself.
Mrs. Kingsford's election is not a matter of personal feeling
between ourselves and that lady but rests entirely on the advisa-
bility of having at the head of the Society, in a place like London,
a person well suited to the standard and aspirations of the (so
far) ignorant (of esoteric truths) and therefore, malicious public.
Nor is it a matter of the slightest consequence whether the gifted
President of the
" London Lodge
" Theos. Soc. entertains feel-
ings of reverence or disrespect toward the humble and unknown
individuals at the head of the Tibetan Good Law, or the writer
of the present, or any of his Brothers but rather a question
whether the said lady is fitted for the purpose we have all at heart,
namely the dissemination of TRUTH through Esoteric doctrines,
conveyed by whatever religious channel, and the effacement of
crass materialism and blind prejudices and skepticism. As the
lady has rightly observed, the Western public should understand
the Theosophical Society to be
" a Philosophical School consti-
tuted on the ancient Hermetic basis
"
that public having never
heard of the Tibetan, and entertaining very perverted notions of
the Esoteric Buddhist System. Therefore, and so far, we agree
with the remarks embodied in the letter written by Mrs. K. to
Madam B. and which the latter was asked to
" su alt to K.H. M
;
and, we would remind our members of the
" L.L." in this refer-
ence, that Hermetic Philosophy is universal and unsectarian, while
THE LONDON LODGE OF THE T.S. 399
the Tibetan School, will ever be regarded by those who know
little, if anything of it, as coloured more or less with sectarianism.
The former knowing neither caste, nor colour, nor creed, no lover
of Esoteric wisdom can have any objection to the name, which
otherwise he might feel, were the Society to which he belongs to
be placarded with a specific denomination pertaining to a distinct
religion. Hermetic Philosophy suits every creed and philosophy
and clashes with none. It is the boundless ocean of Truth, the
central point whither flows and wherein meet every river, as every
stream whether its source be in the East, West, North, or South.
As the course of the river depends upon the nature of its basin,
so the channel for communication of Knowledge must conform it-
self to surrounding circumstances. The Egyptian Hierophant,
the Chaldean Mage, the Arhat, and the Rishi, were bound in days
of yore on the same voyage of discovery and ultimately arrived
at the same goal though by different tracks. There are even
at the present moment three centres of the Occult Brotherhood in
existence, widely separated geographically, and as widely exoteri-
cally the true esoteric doctrine being identical in substance
though differing in terms ;
all aiming at the same grand object,
but no two agreeing seemingly in the details of procedure. It
is an every day occurrence to find students belonging to different
schools of occult thought sitting side by side at the feet of the
same Guru. Upasika (Madam B.) and Subba Row, though pupils
of the same Master, have not followed the same Philosophy the
one is Buddhist and the other an Adwaitee. Many prefer to call
themselves Buddhists not because the word attaches itself to the
ecclesiastical system built upon the basic ideas of our Lord
Gautama Buddha's philosophy, but because of the Sanskrit word
" Buddhi
"
wisdom, enlightenment; and as a silent protest to
the vain rituals and empty ceremonials, which have in too many
cases been productive of the greatest calamities. Such also is
the origin of the Chaldean term Mage.
Thus it is plain that the methods of Occultism, though in the
main unchangeable, has yet to conform to altered times and cir-
cumstances. The state of the general Society of England quite
different from that of India, where our existence is a matter of
common and, so to say, of inherent belief among the population,
and in a number of cases of positive knowledge requires quite a
different policy in the presentation of Occult Sciences. The only
object to be striven for is the amelioration of the condition of MAN
by the spread of truth suited to the various stages of his develop-
ment and that of the country he inhabits and belongs to. TRUTH
has no ear-mark and does not suffer from the name under which it
is promulgated if the said object is attained. The constitution
of the
" L. Lodge, Theos. Society," affords ground of a hope
400 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
for the right method being- put in operation before long. It is
well known that a magnet would cease to be a magnet if it's
poles cease to be antagonistic. Heat on one side should be
met by frost on the other, and the resulting temperature will be
healthy to all people. Mrs. Kingsford and Mr. Sinnett are both
useful, both needed and appreciated by our revered Chohan and
Master, just because they are the two poles calculated to keep
the whole body in magnetic harmony, as the judicious disposal
of both will make an excellent middle ground to be attained by
no other means ;
one correcting and equilibrising the other. The
direction and the good services of both is necessary for the steady
progress of the Theosophical Society in England. But both can-
not be Presidents. Mrs. Kingsford 's views being at the bottom
(minus the details) identical with those of Mr. Sinnett in matters
of Occult philosophy ; and, by reason of their association with the
names and symbols familiar to Christian ears and eyes, they fall-
ing in better than those of Mr. Sinnett with the actual bent of
English national intelligence and spirit of conservatism. Mrs. K.
is thus more adapted to lead the movement successfully in Eng-
land. Therefore, if our advice and desire are of any account with
the members of the
* '
London Lodge
' '
she will have to occupy
the Presidential Chair for the ensuing year, at any rate. Let the
members under her leadership resolutely try to live down the un-
popularity which all esoteric teaching and all reform are sure to
attract at the outset and they will succeed. The Society will be
a great help to, and a great power in, the world, as well as a
secure channel for the flow of its President's philanthropy. Her
constant and not altogether unsuccessful strife in the cause of
anti-vivisection and her staunch advocacy of vegetarianism are
alone sufficient to entitle her to the consideration of our Chohans
as of all true Buddhists and Adwaitees hence our Maha-Chohan's
preference in this direction. But, as the services of Mr. Sinnett
in the good cause are great indeed far greater, so far, than of
any Western Theosophist therefore, a new arrangement is found
advisable.
It seems necessary for a proper study and correct understand-
ing of our Philosophy and the benefit of those whose inclination
leads them to seek esoteric knowledge from the Northern
Buddhist Source ; and in order that such teaching should not be
even virtually imposed or offered to those Theosophists who may
differ from our views, that an exclusive group composed of those
members who desire to follow absolutely the teachings of the
School to which we, of the Tibetan Brotherhood, belong, should
be formed under Mr. Sinnett 's direction and with*** the
" London
Lodge T.S." Such is, in fact, the desire of the Maha Chohan.
Our last year's experience amply shows the danger of so reck-
THE LONDON LODGE OP THE T.S. 401
lessly submitting our sacred doctrines to the unprepared world.
We expect, therefore, and are resolved to urge, if
necessary more
caution than ever from our followers in the exposition of our
secret teachings. Consequently many of the latter which Mr.
Sinnett and his fellow-students may from time to time receive
from us, will have to be kept entirely secret from the world if
they would have us give them our help in that direction.
I need hardly point out how the proposed arrangement is cal-
culated to lead to a harmonious progress of the
" L.L. T.S." It
is a universally admitted fact that the marvellous success of the
Theosophical Society in India is due entirely to its principle of
wise and respectful toleration of each other's opinions and beliefs.
Not even the President-Founder has the right directly or in-
directly to interfere with the freedom of thought of the humblest
member, least of all to seek to influence his personal opinion. It
is only in the absence of this generous consideration, that even
the faintest shadow of difference arms seekers after the same
truth, otherwise earnest and sincere, with the scorpion-whip of
hatred against their brothers, equally sincere and earnest. De-
luded victims of distorted truth, they forget, or never knew, that
discord is the harmony of the Universe. Thus in the Theos.
Society, each part, as in the glorious fugues of the immortal
Mozart, ceaselessly chases the other in harmonious discord on the
paths of Eternal progress to meet and finally blend at the
threshold of the pursued goal into one harmonious whole, the key-
note in nature T-TfC. Absolute Justice makes no difference be-
tween the many and the few. Therefore, while thanking the
majority of the
" L.L." Theosophists for their "loyalty" to us
their invisible teachers, we must at the same time, remind them
that their President, Mrs. Kingsford, is loyal and true also to
that which she believes to be the Truth. And, as she is thus loyal
and true to her convictions, however small the minority that may
side with her at present, the majority led by Mr. Sinnett, our
representative in London, cannot with justice charge her with the
guilt, which since she has emphatically disclaimed all intention
of breaking the letter or the spirit of Article VI of the Rules of
the Parent Theos. Society (which please see and read) is one
only in the eyes of those who would be rather too severe. Every
Western Theosophist should learn and remember, especially those
of them who would be our followers that in our Brotherhood, all
personalities sink into one idea abstract right and absolute prac-
tical justice for all. And that, though we may not say with the
Christians,
"
return good for evil
" we repeat with Confucius
"
return good for good; for evil JUSTICE." Thus, the Theoso-
phists of Mrs. K.'s way of thinking, were they even to oppose
some of us persona41y to the bitter end, are entitled to as much
402 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
respect and consideration (so long as they are sincere) from us
and their fellow-members of opposite views, as those who are
ready with Mr. Sinnett to follow absolutely but our special teach-
ing
1
. A dutiful regard for these rules in life will always promote
the best interests of all concerned. It is necessary for the
parallel progress of the groups under Mrs. K. and Mr. S. that
neither should interfere with the beliefs and rights of the other.
And it is seriously expected that both of them will be actuated by
an earnest and sleepless desire to respect the philosophical inde-
pendence of each other, while preserving at the same time their
unity as a whole namely the objects of the Parent Theos. Society
in their integrity and those of the London Lodge, in their slight
modification. We wish the London Society should preserve its
harmony in division like, the Indian Branches where the repre-
sentatives of all the different schools of Hinduism seek to study
Esoteric Sciences and the Wisdom of old, without necessarily
giving up for it their respective beliefs. Each Branch, often
members of the same Branch Christian converts included in some
cases study esoteric philosophy each in his own way, yet always
knitting together brotherly hands for the furtherance of the
common objects of the Society. To carry out this programme, it
is desirable that the
"
London Lodge
"
should be administered by,
at least, fourteen Councillors one half openly inclining towards
the Christian Esotericism as represented by Mrs. K., and the
other half following Buddhist Esotericism as represented by Mr.
S. ;
all important business to be transacted by majority of votes.
We are well aware of and quite alive to the difficulties of such
an arrangement. Yet, it seems absolutely necessary in order to
re-establish the lost harmony. The constitution of the
" London
Lodge
" has to be amended and can be so amended if the mem-
bers would but try ;
and so bring about more strength in such
friendly division than in forced unity.
Unless, therefore, both Mrs. Kingsford and Mr. Sinnett agree
to disagree in details and work in strict unison for the chief
objects as laid down in the Rules of the Parent Society, we can
have no hand in the future development and progress of the
London Lodge.
K. H.
December 7th, 1883,
Mysore.
THE LONDON LODGE OP THE T.S. 403
LETTER No. LXXXVI
Received January, 1884.
Good friend, I take you at your word. In one of your recent
letters to the
"
O.L." you express your readiness to follow my
advice in almost anything I
may ask you. Well the time has
come to prove your willingness. And since, in this particular
case, I myself am simply carrying out the wishes of my Chohan,
I hope you will not experience too much difficulty in sharing my
fate by doing as I do.
4<
Fascinating
"
Mrs. K. has to remain
President jusqit'a nouvel ordre. Nor can I conscientiously,
after reading her apologetic letter to H.P.B. say that I do not
side with her in much she has to say in her excuse. Of course
much of it is after-thought ;
still her very eagerness to retain her
post contains good hope for the future of the London Lodge,
especially if you help me by carrying out the spirit of my instruc-
tions. Thus, the London Theos. Soc. will be no more "a tail for
her to wag" at her own sweet pleasure and fancy, but she will
become herself part and parcel of that
" tail
"
and, the more
she helps to wag it the better such activity for your Society.
Minute explanations would be rather too long and tedious a job.
Suffice that you should know that her anti-vivisection struggle
and her strict vegetarian diet have won entirely over to her side
our stern Master. He cares less than we do for any outward or
even inward expression or feeling of disrespect to the
" Mahat-
mas.'* Let her do her duty by the Society, be true to her prin-
ciples and all the rest will come in good time. She is very young,
and her personal vanity and other womanly short-comings are to
be laid at the door of Mr. Maitland and the Greek chorus of her
admirers.
The enclosed paper is to be delivered by you sealed to one of the
Councillors or Ftce-Presidents of your Society Mr. C. C. Massey,
I believe, would be the best fitted person for the task, as he is the
sincere friend of both parties concerned. The choice is left to your
own discretion and judgment, however. All that you are asked
to insist upon is that it should be read before a general meeting
composed of as many theosophists as you can gather, and at the
earliest opportunity. It contains and carries within its folds, and
characters a certain occult influence that ought to reach as many
theosophists as possible. What it is you may, perhaps, gather here-
after from its direct and indirect effects. Meanwhile read and seal
it; and allow no one to put the indiscreet question whether you have
taken note of its contents, for you will have to keep the knowledge
secret. In case the condition should appear to you dangerous,
as it might necessitate a denial of fact better leave it alone and
404 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
unread. Fear not, I am there to watch over your interests. At
all events the programme is as follows: the memo written by
your humble correspondent must be read to the Theosophists
assembled in solemn meeting: and preserved in the Society's
records. It contains a statement of our views in regard to the
questions raised concerning its management and basis of work,
Our sympathy with it will depend upon the carrying out of the
programme therein contained and laid down after mature thought.
To turn to a few of your philosophical questions (being on my
way, I cannot answer them all). It is difficult to perceive what
relations you wish to establish between the different stages of sub-
jectivity in Deva Chan and the various states of matter. If it be
supposed that in Deva Chan the Ego passes through all these
states of matter, then the answer would be that existence in the
seventh state of matter is Nirvana and not Devachanic con-
ditions. Humanity, although in different stages of development,
yet belongs to the three dimensional condition of matter. And
there is no reason why in Deva Chan the Ego should be varying its
" dimensions.*'
Molecules occupying a place in infinity is an inconceivable pro-
position. The confusion arises out of the Western tendency of
putting an objective construction upon what is purely subjective.
The book of Khiu-te teaches us that space is infinity itself. It is
formless, immutable and absolute. Like the human mind, which
is the exhaustless generator of ideas, the Universal Mind or Space
has its ideation which is projected into objectivity at the appointed
time ;
but space itself is not affected thereby. Even your Hamilton
has shown that infinity can never be conceived by any series of
additions. Whenever you talk of place in infinity, you dethrone
infinity and degrade its absolute, unconditioned character.
What has the number of incarnations to do with the shrewd-
ness, cleverness, or the stupidity of an individual? A strong
craving for physical life may lead an entity through a number of
incarnations and yet these may not develop its higher capacities.
The Law of Affinity acts through the inherent Karmic impulse of
the Ego, and govern its future existence. Comprehending
Darwin's Law of Heredity for the body, it is not difficult to per-
ceive how the birth-seeking Ego may be attracted at the time of
rebirth to a body born in a family which has the same propensities
as those of the reincarnating Entity.
You need not regret that my restriction should include Mr. C. C.
Massey. One point righted and explained would but lead to other
still darker points ever arising in his suspicious, restless mind.
He is a bit of a misanthrope your friend. His mind is clouded
with black doubt, and his psychological state is pitiable. All the
brighter intentions are being stifled, his Buddhic (not Buddhistic^
THE LONDON LODGE OF THE T.g. 405
evolution checked. Take care for him, if he will not of him-
self ! The prey of illusions of his own creation, he is slipping
down towards a deeper depth of spiritual misery, and it is possible
that he may seek asylum from the world and himself within the
pale of a theology which he would once have passionately scorned.
Every lawful effort has been tried to save him, especially by Olcott,
whose warm brotherly love has prompted him to make to his heart
the warmest appeals as you know. Poor, poor, deluded man !
My letters are written by H.P.B., and he has no doubt I got
" defrauded Mr. Kiddle's" ideas out of her head ! But let him
rest as he is.
Our friend, Samuel Ward, regrets his friend Ellis' s discomfiture ;
it should concern me and I must see, I suppose, when I return
if a pair of horns the " coveted horns "
may not be picked up
by some caravan, were dropped naturally by the animal. Unless
in this way,
'*
Uncle Sam "
could not fairly expect me to help
him out : for you would not have me shoulder a rifle and leave
" Esoteric Buddhism " behind me at the foot of the chamois-
crags !
I am sorry you took the trouble of posting me about Bradlaugh.
I know him and his partner well. There is more than one trait
in his character I esteem and respect. He is not immoral ;
nor
could anything that might be said against or for him by Mrs. K.
or even yourself, change or even influence my opinion of both
himself and Mrs. Besant. Yet the book published by them " The
Fruits of Philosophy
" is infamous and highly pernicious in its
effects whatever and however beneficent and philanthropic the
objects that led to the publication of the work. I regret very
deeply, my dear friend, to be obliged to differ widely in my
views upon the said subject from you. I would rather avoid the
unpleasant discussion. As usual, H.P.B. blundered greatly in
rendering what she was told to say to Mrs. K., but on the whole
she gave it out correctly. I have not read the work nor ever
will ;
but I have its unclean spirit, its brutal aura before me, and
I say again in my sight the advices offered in the work are
abominable; they are the fruits of Sodom and Gommorah -rather
than of Philosophy, the very name of which it degrades. The
sooner we leave the subject the better.
And now I have to go. The journey before me is long and
tedious and the mission nearly hopeless. Yet some good will be
done.
Yours ever sincerely,
K. H.
406 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
LETTER No. LXXXVII1
To the London Lodge, Theosophical Society Greeting.
Since the telegrams to Mrs. Kingsford and Mr. Sinnett and my
letter from Mysore have not been fully understood, I was ordered
by the Maha-Chohan to advise the postponement of the annual
election, so as to avoid anything like precipitancy and gain time
for the consideration of this letter. After the cold reception given
by the members of the L.L.T.S. on December the i6th to the
proposal contained on page 29 of the printed and confidential
circular of Mrs. Kingsford and Mr. Maitland (in the latter's
Remarks and Propositions), namely the necessity of forming a dis-
tinct body or group within the general group of the L.L.T.S.
which proposition, if not identical in its suggested practical
method, is so in substance with that thrown out by me in my
letter of December yth on the one hand, and certain misconcep-
tions, false hopes and displeasure on the other the postponement
ivas found absolutely necessary.
As implied in my last, at the date of the above communication
the burning question was not as to the literal or allegorical
character of Mr. Sinnett's latest work but the loyalty or disloyalty
of your President and her co-worker towards ourselves, whom
many of you have seen fit to choose as your esoteric Teachers.
From such a standpoint, and no other complaint having been
lodged at that time (October 2ist), an imperative necessity arose
to maintain, in the wise words of Mrs. Kingsford themselves but
the echo of the Tathagatha's own voice the policy of dissociating
41
the authority of names, whether in the past or in the present,
from abstract principles.'* (Inaugural Address of the President,
October 2ist, 1883). The question involved being that of Justice,
Mrs. Kingsford's ignorance of our real character, our doctrines
and status (underlying as they do all her uncomplimentary remarks
in connection with the present writer and his colleagues) made
them of not even the weight of a flake of cotton in the matter
of her re-election. This, coupled with her own intrinsic and
individual worth and her charity to the poor brutes as also the
fact of her asking Madam H. P. Blavatsky to
" submit my (her)
letter to Koothoomi "
made the former course the proper one.
And now, the development of events since the despatch of the
telegrams in question, will have perhaps suggested to some of
you the true reasons for so unusual, not to say arbitrary, an action
as an interference with the reserved elective rights of a Branch.
1 The words "
From Bhola Deva Sarma "
are written on the envelope of
this letter which was posted at Adyar, i6th January, 1884, and received in
London, February yth, 1884. The postscript only is in K.H.'s writing. Ep,
THE LONDON LODGE OF THE T.S. 407
Time often neutralizes the gravest evils by hastening a crisis.
Moreover, and once more in the language of her address, (your
President referring to a private letter of mine to Mr. Ward, which
she had read, wherein I wrote, as she thinks)
"
in evident ignor-
ance of the facts, and this is not wonderful
"
we may be sup-
posed to have been likewise ignorant of the forthcoming printed
"
Letter, private and confidential
"
circulated among the members
of the L.L.T.S. on December the i6th. Thus she need hardly be
surprised to find that this
"
Letter
" has greatly altered the case.
Always on the strength of the principle of impartial justice involved,
we find ourselves obliged not to ratify literally our decision as to her
re-election but to add to it certain clauses and make it henceforth
impossible for the President and members to misconceive our
mutual position^ Far from our thoughts may it ever be to erect
a new hierachy for the future oppression of a priest-ridden world.
As it was our wish then to signify to you that one could be both
an active and useful member of the Society without inscribing him-
self our follower or co-religionist, so is it now. But it is just
because the principle has to work both ways, that (our personal
desire for her re-election notwithstanding) we feel and would have
it known that we have no right to influence the free will of the
members in this or any other matter. Such interference would be
in flagrant contradiction to the basic law of esotericism that
personal psychic growth accompanies pari passu the development
of individual effort, and is the evidence of acquired personal merit.
Moreover, a great discrepancy is observable in the reports to
us of the effects produced by the
'*
Kingsford Sinnett inci-
dent
M
upon the members. In the face of this I find it impossible
to accede to Mrs. Kingsford' s several desires as expressed in her
letters to Madam Blavatsky. If Mr. Massey and Mr. Ward give
the lady their
" entire approbation and sympathy
" a very large
majority of members seem to give theirs to Mr. Sinnett. There-
fore, were I to act up to Mr. Massey *s suggestion as reported by
Mrs. Kingsford in her letter of December 2Oth in which she gives
as his opinion that
" a word only from Mahatma K.H. would be
quite sufficient to reconcile Mr. Sinnett to my (the lady's) view of
the matter and fo establish between him and the Lodge the most
perfect cordiality and understanding
" I would be actually
making myself the quasi Pope she deprecates and an unjust and
an arbitrary one besides. I would then truly lay myself and Mr.
Sinnett open to just criticism, even more severe than that found
in her inaugural address, in the several remarkable utterances
wherein she affirms her
" mistrust of all appeals to authority."
One who has just said :
" I look with sorrow and concern on the
growing tendency of the Theosophical Society to introduce into its
methods . . . the exaggerated veneration for persons and personal
4o8 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
authority . . . the veritable outcome of which is a mere servile hero-
worship. . . . There is far too much talk among us about the Adepts
our
'
MASTERS *
and the like. . . . Too much capital is made of their
sayings and doings, etc. . . .
"
should not have asked me for such
interference even though sure that my faithful friend, Mr. Sinnett,
would not have resented it. Were I to have acceded to the lady's
desire to appoint her as the
"
Apostle of Eastern and Western
Esotericism
" and try to force her election on even one unwilling
member, and taking advantage of Mr. Sinnett' s never wavering
warm regard for myself, influence his future attitude toward her-
self and the movement, I would then indeed deserve to be taunted
as
" the oracle of the Theosophists
"
and classed with "
Jo Smith
of the Latter-Day-Saints, and Thomas Lake Harris," the
transcendental miscegenist of two worlds. I cannot believe that one
who maintained only a few days previously that
"
our wise and
truly theosophical course is not to set up new Popes and proclaim
new Lords and Masters
"
should now in her own case seek the
protection and evoke the aid of an
"
authority/' which could only
assert itself upon the hypothesis of a blind surrender of private
judgment. And, as I prefer to attribute Mrs. Kingsford's desire
to her ignorance of the real feeling of some of her colleagues), the
nature of which is perhaps disguised now under the polished in-
sincerities of civilized Western life, I would recommend her and
others interested in the present dispute to appeal to the decision
of the ballot, by which all may express their wishes without invidi-
ously exposing themselves to the charge of discourtesy. This
would be but to take advantage of the privilege given to them
at the close of Art. 3 of their Rules.
And now for another consideration. However little we might
care for personal subserviency to us, the accepted leaders of the
Founders of the Parent Theososphical Society, we can never
approve or tolerate disloyalty in any member of whatsoever
Branch to the fundamental principles represented by the Parent
Organization. The rules of the mother-body must be lived up to
by those composing its Branches ; provided of course, that they do
not transcend the three declared objects of the organization. The
experience of the Parent Society proves that the usefulness of a
Branch very largely, if not entirely, depends upon the loyalty,
discretion and zeal of its President and Secretary ;
however much
their colleagues may do to assist them, the efficient activity of
their group develops proportionately with that of those officers.
In conclusion I must repeat that it is to prevent action in the
matter of Mrs. Kingsford's re-election until the effacement of any
misapprehension produced by my previous communications, that
I have advised the annual election of office-bearers of your Lodge
to stand over until the arrival of the present letter. Moreover, as
THE LONDON LODGE OF THE T.S. 409
the President-Founder who. knows our mind and has our con-
fidence is expected to be in England in a very short time, we do
not see the necessity of taking any hasty steps in the matter. He
has been given such a general view of the situation as will enable
him to deal impartially with this case and others upon his arrival,
as the representative at once of his Master and of the best interests
of the Society.
(By order of my Most Venerated
Guru Deva Mahatma K /\)
It would be wise to read this letter to the members including
Mrs. Kingsford before the new day of election. I would have
you prevent, if possible, another
"
coup de theatre." However
natural such sensational surprises may be in politics when parties
are composed of devotees whose souls rejoice in party intrigue,
they are very painful to witness in an association of persons who
profess to give themselves up to the most solemn questions affect-
ing human interest. Let meaner natures wrangle if they will ; the
wise compound their differences in a mutually forbearing spirit.
K. H.
Mr. Maitland's Remarks and Observations on Esoteric
Buddhism are fully answered by Subba Row and another still
greater scholar. They will be sent next week in pamphlet form,
and Mr. Sinnett asked to distribute them among those members
especially who may have been affected by the criticism.
SECTION VI
SPIRITUALISM AND PHENOMENA
LETTER No. LXXXVIII
Short Note received at Allahabad during stay of Olcott and Bhavani Rao.
My good friend it is very easy for us to give phenomenal
proofs when we have necessary conditions. For instance
Olcott's magnetism after six years of purification is intensely
sympathetic with ours physically and morally is constantly
becoming more and more so. Damodar and Bhavani Rao being
congcnitally sympathetic their auras help instead of repelling and
impeding phenomenal experiments. After a time you may become
so it depends on yourself. To force phenomena in the presence
of difficulties magnetic and other is forbidden, as strictly as for
a bank cashier to disburse money which is only entrusted to him.
Mr. Hume cannot comprehend this. And therefore is
"
indig-
nant " that the various tests he has secretly prepared for us have
all failed. They demanded a tenfold expenditure of power since
he surrounded them with an aura not of the purest that of mis-
trust, anger, and anticipated mockery. Even to do this much
for you so far from the Headquarters would be impossible but for
the magnetisms O. and B.R. have brought with them and I could
do no more.
K. H.
P.S. Perhaps, tho
1
I could put down for you to-day's date
March the nth, 1882.
LETTER No. LXXXIX
Received Allahabad March 24th, 1882.
Private.
Good friend, I will not, in sending forth the letter, reiterate
again the many remarks that might be made respecting the various
objections which we have the right to raise against Spiritual
phenomena and its mediums. We have done our duty ; and,
because the voice of truth came thro' a channel which few liked,
it was pronounced as false, and along with it Occultism. The
time has gone by to argue, and the hour when it will be proved
410
SPIRITUALISM AND PHENOMENA 411
to the world that Occult Science instead of being, in the words
of Dr. R. Chambers "
superstition itself,
M
as they may be
disposed to think it, will be found the explanation and the
extinguisher of all superstitions is nearby. For reasons that
you will appreciate, though at first you will be inclined to consider
(in regard to yourself) unjust. I am determined to do that, for
once, which hitherto I have never done ; namely, to personate
myself under another form, and, perhaps character. Therefore,
you need not grudge Eglington the pleasure of seeing me per-
sonally, to talk with me, and be "dumbfounded" by me, and
with the results of my visit to him, on board,
"
The Vega." This
will be done between the 2ist and the 22nd of this month and,
when you read this letter, will be a
"
vision of the past," if Olcott
sends to you the letter to-day.
"All things being are in mystery; we expound mysteries by
mysteries
"
you may perhaps say. Well, well ;
to you as to one
forewarned it will not be one ; since, for several reasons one more
plausible than the other I take you into my confidence. One of
them is, to save you a feeling of involuntary envy (the word is
queer isn't it?) when you hear of it. As he will see somebody
quite different from the real K.H., though it will still be K.H.
you need not feel like one wronged by your trans-Himalayan friend.
Another reason is, to save the poor fellow from the suspicion of
boasting ; the third and chiefest, though neither least nor last, is,
that theosophy and its adherents have to be vindicated at last.
Eglington is going home; and, were he upon his return to know
nothing of the Brothers, there would be a sore day of trial for
poor old H.P.B. and H.S.O. Mr. Hume, twitted us for not
appearing to Eglington. He chuckled and defied us to do it
before Fern and others. For reasons which he may or may not
be able to appreciate but that you will we could not or rather
would not do so, as long as E. was in India. No less had we very
good reasons to forbid H.P.B. to either correspond with him, or
take too much notice of him in the Theosophist. But now that
he is gone, and will be on the 22nd, hundreds of miles away at
sea ; and that no suspicion of fraud can be brought against either
of them, the time for the experiment has come. He thinks of
putting her to test he will be tested himself.
Thus, my faithful friend and supporter, keep yourself prepared.
As I will recommend Eglington to recommend in his turn, to Mrs.
Gordon discretion and that the good lady may feel inclined to
carry it on too far and take it d la lettre, I furnish you before-
hand with a bull for her, calculated to unseal her lips.
Now for Mr. Hume. He has worked for us, and is certainly
entitled to our consideration so far. I would fain have written
to him myself, but that the sight of my familiar characters may
412 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
produce a diversion in his feelings for the worse before he goes
to the trouble of reading what I have to say. Will you kindly
undertake the delicate task of notifying him of what I now write
to you? Tell him that there are personsn-enenues who are
anxious to catch the
"
old lady
"
at CHEATING, to entrap her, so to
say, and that for that very reason I am determined to settle the
question and have it once for ever at rest. Say to him that
profiting by his suggestion and advice I, K.H., will appear to
Eglington in propria persona as in actu at sea, between the 21
and 22 of this month ;
and that, if successful in bringing the rebel
who denies the
" Brothers
"
to his senses, Mrs. Gordon and con-
sort will be notified of the fact immediately. That's all. We
have, waited on purpose to produce our experiment until his
departure, and now WE MEAN TO ACT.
Yours ever,
K. H.
Till the 25th of March, Mr. Sinnett is expected to keep his lips
closed as they will be in death three score and ten hence. Not a
soul, but Mrs. S., your good lady, must know one word of this
letter. This I expect of your friendship, and now put it to test.
To Mr. Hume you may write just now, so that the letter might
be received by him on the 24th, in the afternoon. Your future
depends on this, your silence.
K. H.
LETTER No. XC1
University College, London, W.C.,
November 26thf '81.
My dear Sinnett,
I ought to have answered your letter before this, but deferred
doing so till I had had the pleasure of a conversation with Mrs.
Sinnett. This I have had, and greatly to my enjoyment. She is,
as you led me to expect, thoroughly convinced of the reality of
what she has seen and heard. Like me, she does not know what
to make of the last departure, I mean in respect of my spirit-
experiences. I really do not know what to say about it. There
is no way of harmonizing facts with the claim made : and to your
belief that
'
The Brothers cannot be ignorant . . . cannot be
mistaken,' I can only reply that they most undoubtedly are
both in respect of me. a
This, however, would merely be my
1
K.H.'s Comments on this letter are written in ink on the original, and
are here printed in bold type. Unless there is a footnote to the contrary italic,*
indicate that the passage has been underlined by K.H. ED.
* This passage was underlined by S. Moses. ED.
SPIRITUALISM AND PHENOMENA 413
opinion, were it not that I have an unbroken chain of documentary
and other evidence extending in absolute sequence from the first
time Imperator appeared down to yesterday. These are all dated
communications) notes, and records which speak for themselves,
and which in substance can be attested by the knowledge of my
friends who have been concerned with me all thro' this matter.
When the old lady first hinted at some connexion between the
"
Lodge
M
and me, I entered at once into the thing with
Imperator and put the case over and over again. Here is one
record which I transcribe. Dec. 24, 1876.
"
I asked some
questions respecting a letter from H.P.B. in which she says in
reply to one of mine
*
If you are profoundly certain that I have
not understood you, both your intuition and mediumship have
failed you. ... I never said that you had mistaken Imperator
for another spirit. He is not to be mistaken, once that he is
known. He knows and his name be blessed for ever. You want
objective proof of the Lodge. Have you not Imperator and can
you not ask him whether I speak the truth?
'
To this the answer written was long and precise. Among
other things is this :
(The first person plural is always used
by I.) Why?
" We have already told you that your American friends under-
stand neither your character, nor your training, nor your spiritual
experiences ... So far, from your Intuition having failed you, it
has protected you. We are not able to say how (
!
)
far any with
wnom your correspondent is in communication CAN give her a cor-
net account of you. It is doubtful, so far as we know :
though
,ome have the power as Magus. But even he does not under-
stand. (
! !
) I will try one more honest medium Eglington, when
he is gone; and see what comes of it. I will do so much for the
Society. His work is other than ours and he is not concerned
with your inner life. // any have the power, they have not been
willing to exercise it. We do not understand whether it is pre-
tended that we ourselves have given any information. It SEEMS
that the hint is conveyed without direct statement. We may say
at once clearly that we have at no time held any intercourse with
your friend on the subject. She does not know us in any way,
and we know nothing of this Lodge or Brotherhood." . . .
(As to my mistaking a personating spirit for Imperator, it was
said)
"
Assuredly you would not mistake any other spirit for us. It
would be impossible. We are what we have revealed ourselves
to you : no other ;
and our name and presence could not be taken
414 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
by any other. We have been permanently your Guardian, and
no other takes our place." No; the 6th principles cannot be
shifted.
And so on quite unmistakeably. I
may say here that Imperator
stated when he first came to me, and many times subsequently
that he had been with me all my life, tho' I was not conscious of
his presence, till he revealed it NOT at Mt. Athos most
surely!? but in quite another place and way. The coherent
development of my mediumship has been uninterrupted. There
is no LACUNA. Now objective mediumship is gone, and my inner
spirit-sense is opened. Only yesterday I
sought and got from
Imper. who was clearly visible and audible to me* exact and pre-
cise renewal of what he has so often repeated that I am ashamed
to seek a repetition of his assurance. Whatever may be the
explanation, rest assured without room for doubt that not only is
he not a Brother, but that he knows nothing whatever of any such
beings. (I)
Your warning as to my being on the wfong scent if I supposed
this were a made up story of the Old Lady's is heeded, one must
entertain every sort of theory to account for such a thing : but I
should not have been found for years defending her against every
kind of calumny if I
thought her capable of a mere vulgar fraud.
It will not, however, escape your critical mind that an allega-
tion such as this confronted by such plain and perfect testimony
as I
bring, must be capable of some sort of proof, if it is to be
seriously entertained. It is unfortunately the fact that not only
is the claim incompatible with all the facts ;
but the alleged facts
put forward are just those, and only those, made known by me :
and the guesses made are so ludicrously wide of truth as can be
shown by evidence not resting on me alone that it is plain they
are mere shots.
That is a destructive criticism from the negative side. Now
what positive proof is produced? None. Can any be given?
This Brother who cast his eye on me at Mt. Athos and assumed
the style and title of Imperator. What did he ever say to me or
tell me? When and where did he appear, and what proof can
he give of the fact? During a long intercourse such as he claims
he can surely produce some positive evidence to rebut the pre-
sumption drawn above.
If not any sane person would know what conclusion to draw.
Pardon me for pursuing this subject at length. I see in fact
that I am come to a place where two ways meet : and I
sadly fear
that Fragments of Occult Truth show that Spiritualism and
Occultism are incompatible. I should be heartily sorry if you
*
See K.H.'s comments in bold type post. ED.
SPIRITUALISM AND PHENOMENA 415
were to waste your time and -force over anything that cannot found
itself demonstrably on Truth. Hence my desire to have this
raked out.
Otherwise I should dismiss it with much contempt. As you
say of the Old Lady
"
just consider the opportunities I have had
of forming" an opinion."
Hearty good wishes,
Yours ever,
W. STAINTON MOSES.
*
So was Madme. Lebendorff to the Russian child medium.
. . . So is Jesus and John the Baptist to Edward Maitland;
as true and as honest and sincere as S.M.; though neither knew
the other John the Baptist having never heard of Jesus who is
a spiritual abstraction and no living man of that epoch. And
does not E. Maitland see Hermes the first and second and
Elijah, etc. Finally does not Mrs. Kingsford feel as sure as
S.M. with regard to + that she sou) and conversed with God! I;
and that but a few evenings after she had talked with, and
received a written communication from the Spirit of a dog?
Read, read Maitland's Sou/, etc., once more my friend, see
pp. 180, 194, 239, 240, and 267-8-9, etc. And who purer or
more truthful than that woman or Maitland !
Mystery, mystery
will you exclaim. IGNORANCE we answer; the creation of that
we believe in and want to see.
(1) A Brother? Does he or even yourself know what is
understood by the name of Brother? Does he know what we
mean by Dhyan Chohans or Planetary Spirits, by the disem-
bodied and embodied Lha)by but it is and must remain yet
for some time a mere vexation of spirit for you all. My letter
is private. You may use the arguments but not my authority
or name. It will be all explained to you rest assured. A living
Brother may show himself and be de facto ignorant of many
things. But a Spirit, an omniscient Planetary show himself so
completely ignorant of what is going round him : most extra-
ordinary.
LETTER No. XCU
Received Allahabad, cold weather, 1882-83.
Read the enclosed from C.C.M. ;
summon to your recollection,
and then tell Sinnett the whole truth about the message which I
gave you in London about the 100 in Mrs. Billing's and
4 i6 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
Upasika's presence. Do not forget to state the conditions under
which I spoke. Do not let H.P.B. see C.C.M.'s letter but return
it to Allahabad with your remarks.
K. H.
LETTER No. XCIs
I got out the letters of C.C.M. and yourself and gave the
former to Mr. Olcott to answer. Thus one half of the
*'
damag-
ing
"
accusation is disposed of and explained away naturally
enough. Poor woman !
Incessantly and intensely engrossed
with one ever working thought the CAUSE and Society even her
carelessness and lack of memory, her forgetfulness and distrac-
tion are viewed in the light of criminal acts. I have now again
"
osmosed " his answer to return it with a few more words of
explanation that should come from me.
The deduction of Mr. Massey that
"
the adept foresight was
not available
" in sundry noted cases of theosophical failure is but
the restatement of the old error that the selections of members and
the actions of Founders and Chelas are controlled by us ! This
has been often denied, and as I believe sufficiently explained
to you in my Darjeeling letter, but objectors cling to their theory
despite all. We have no concern with, nor do we guide the events
generally :
yet take the series of names he quotes and see that each
man was an useful factor toward producing the net result. Hurry-
Chund drew the party to Bombay although they had prepared to
go to Madras, which would have been fatal at that stage of the
Theosophical movement ; Wimbridge and Miss Bates gave an
English complexion to the party and caused from the first much
good by causing a bitter journalistic assault upon the Founders
which brought on reaction ; Dayanand stamped the movement
with the impress of Aryan nationality ; and lastly Mr. Hume who
is already the secret and may well become the open foe of the
cause has aided it greatly by his influence and will promote it
more despite himself, by the ulterior results of his defection. In
each instance the individual traitor and enemy was given his
chance, and but for his moral obliquity might have derived incal-
culable good from it to his personal Karma.
Mrs. Billing is a medium, and when that is said all is said.
Except this, that among mediums she is the most honest if not
the best. Has Mr. Massey seen her answer to Mrs. Simpson,
the Boston medium that the questions very compromising* no
doubt for the New England prophetess and Seer should be
SPIRITUALISM AND PHENOMENA 417
brought forward as evidence of her guilt? Why if honest has
she riot exposed pro bono publico all such false mediums? may
be the question asked. She tried to warn her friends repeatedly;
result :
"
friends
"
fell off and she herself was regarded in the
light of a slanderer, a
"
Judas.
"
She tried to do so, indirectly,
in the case of Miss Cook (junior). Ask Mr. Massey to recollect
what were his feelings in 1879, a* *ne time he was investigating
the materialization phenomena of that young lady, when told by
Mrs. Billing guardedly, and by H.P.B., bluntly, that he was
mistaking a piece of white muslin for a
"
spirit.
"
In your world
of maya and kaleidoscopic change of feelings truth is an article
rarely wanted in the market ; it has its seasons and very short
ones. The woman has more sterling virtues and honesty in her
little finger than many of the never distrusted mediums put to-
gether. She has been a loyal member of the Society from the
time she joined it, and her rooms in New York are the rallying
centre where our theosophists meet. Her loyalty, moreover, is
one that costs her the regard of many patrons. She also, unless
closely watched by
" Ski
" can turn a traitor precisely because
she is a medium, though it is not likely she would do it withal
she is incapable of either a falsehood or deceit in her. normal state.
I cannot control a feeling of repugnance to going into particu-
lars about this, that, and the other phenomenon that may have
occurred. They are the playthings of the tyro and if we some-
times have gratified the craving for them (as in Mr. Olcott's and in
a lesser degree your own case at the beginning, since we knew
what good spiritual growth would come of it) we do not feel
called upon to be continually explaining away deceptive appear-
ances, due to mixed carelessness and credulity, or blind skepticism,
as the case may be. For the present we offer our knowledge
some portions of it at least to be either accepted or rejected on
its own merits independently entirely so from the source from
which it emanates. In return, we ask neither allegiance, loyalty,
nor even simple cburtesy nay, we rather have nothing of the
sort offered since we would have to decline the kind offer. We
have in view the good of the whole association of earnest British
theosophists and care little for individual opinions or the regard of
this or that member. Our four year old experience has sufficiently
delineated the future of the best possible relations between our-
selves and Europeans to make us still more prudent and less lavish
of personal favours. Suffice then for me to say that
"
Ski
" has
more than once served as carrier and even mouthpiece for several
of us ;
and that in the case Mr. Massey alludes to, the letter from
41
a Scotch Brother
M was a genuine one to deliver which to him
mysteriously we the
"
Scotch
" Brother included refused point
blank, as, notwithstanding Upasika's passionate prayers to make
418 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
a few exceptions in favour of C. C. Massey, (her
"
best and
dearest friend," one whom she loved and trusted so implicitly,
that she actually offered to accept one year more of her long,
dreary exile and work far away from her final goal would we but
consent to gratify him with our presence and teachings as not-
withstanding all this, I say, we were not allowed to waste our
powers so ruthlessly. Madame B. was therefore, left to send it
by post, or if she preferred it, to go by
"
Ski
"
M. having for-
bidden her to exercise her own occult means. Surely no crime
can be imputed to her unless absolute and frenzied devotion to
a great Idea and those whom she regards as her best and truest
friends, may now be imputed as an offence. And now, I hope, I
may be relieved of the necessity of going into detailed explanation
about the famous Massey-Billing letter affair. Let me only point
out to you what is the impiession made on anyone with a fair
unbiassed mind who would happen to read Mr. Massey 's letter
and the lame evidence contained therein, (i) No clever medium
bent on carrying out a plan of deception previously concocted,
would have the idiotic idea of producing, and placing before him
with her own hands, any article (miifute-book in her case) in
which the tricky
"
phenomenon
"
was to take place. Had she
known that
" Ski
"
placed the letter inside that book there are 99
chances out of 100 that she would not have brought it to him her-
self. It is over twenty years that she made of mediumship her
profession. A fraud and an unscrupulous deceiver in one thing,
she must have been in many. Among hundreds of enemies and
still more skeptics she passed triumphantly and unscathed the
most crucial- tests producing the most wonderful mediumistic
phenomena. Her husband is the only one he who ruined to now
dishonour her who accuses her with documentary proof in hand
of being a trickster. H.P.B. wrote to him the most violent letters
of reproach and insisted upon his expulsion from the Society. He
hates her. What's the use of seeking for further motives? (2)
Mr. Massey is but half a prophet when telling he supposes
"
you
will be told that these things were occult forgeries (
!
)
" No ;
the
message on the back of Dr. Wyld's letter is in her own hand-
writing, as also the first portion of the letter copied and now
quoted by him for your benefit the most damaging portion in his
opinion and no harm in it as far as I see, and as explained
already. She does not want him to know that she used
" Ski
f>
whose entity he was known to distrust, the shortcomings and
crimes of several other
"
Skis
"
having been fathered on the real
"
Ski," and Mr. Massey unable to recognise one from the other.
In her loose, careless way she says :
"
Let him think what he likes
but he must not suspect you have been near him with Ski at your
orders." Thereupon, Mrs. B. the "clever impostor" hardened
SPIRITUALISM AND PHENOMENA 419
and
"
experienced in deceit
"
does precisely that, which she is
plainly asked not to do i.e. goes near him and hands to him the
very book in which Ski had placed the letter !
Very clever ; quite
so. (3) He argues that,
"
even if otherwise conceivable (the
occult forgery) the later contents of the letter were inconsistent
with the supposed object, for it went on to speak of the T.S. and
of the adepts with as much apparently genuine devotion etc. etc."
Mr. Massey, I see, makes no difference between an "
occult
"
and
a common forger such as his legal experience may have made him
acquainted with. An "
occult
"
forger a dugpa would have
forged the letter precisely in this tone. He would have never
become guilty of being carried away by his personal grudge, so
as to deprive his letter of its cleverest feature. The T.S. would
not be shown by him "
a superstructure upon fraud," and it is
" the very opposite impression
" that is its crown. I
say is for
half of the letter is a forgery and a very occult one. Mr. Massey
may perhaps believe me since it is not that portion which con-
cerns him that is denied (all with the exception of the words
"
mysterious
"
and (or some other still more mysterious place ")
but
"
the later portion," just that one which
"
Billing himself
reluctantly admitted
"
as giving
"
the very opposite impression."
" L.L" is nobody living or dead. Certainly not
"
Lord Lindsay,"
since he was not known to H.P.B., nor had she then nor had she
ever since the least concern about his
"
Lordship." This portion
bears so much the impression of clumsy fraud upon its face that
it could have deceived but one whose mind was already well pre-
pared to see fraud in Mrs. Billing and her
"
Ski." I have done,
and you may show this to your friend Mr. Massey. Whatever
his personal opinion about myself and Brothers can in no way
influence the promised
"
teachings
"
through your friendly
agency.
Yours,
K. H.
LETTER No. XCII
23-11-82.
P.S. It may so happen that for purposes of our own,
mediums and their spooks will be left undisturbed and free not
only to personate the
"
Brothers
*'
but even to forge our
handwriting. Bear this in mind and be prepared for it in
London. Unless the message or communication or whatever
it may be is preceded by the triple words :
**
Kin-t-an, Na-lan-
da, Dha-ra-ni." Know it is not me, nor from me.
K.H.
420 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
LETTER No. XCIII
Received in London 1883-84.
My good and faithful friend the explanation herein contained
would have never been made but that I have of late perceived how
troubled you were during your conversations upon the subject of
"
plagiarism
"
with some friends* C.C.M. particularly. Now
especially that I have received your last in which you mention so
delicately
"
this wretched little Kiddle incident/' to withhold
truth from you would be cruelty ; nevertheless, to give it out to
the world of prejudiced and malignantly disposed Spiritualists,
would be sheer folly. Therefore, we must compromise : I must
lay both yourself and Mr. Ward, who shares my confidence,
under a pledge never to explain without special permission from
me the facts hereinafter stated by me to anyone not even to
M. A. Oxon and C. C. Massey included for reasons I will mention
presently and that you will readily understand. If pressed by
any of them you may simply answer that the
**
psychological
mystery" was cleared up to yourself and some others; and IF
satisfied you may add, that
"
the parallel passages
" cannot be
called plagiarism or words to this effect. I
give to you carte
blanche to say anything you like even the reason why I rather
have the real facts withheld from the general public and most of
the London Fellows all except the details you alone with a few
others will know. As you will perceive, I do not even bind you
to defend my reputation unless you feel yourself satisfied beyond
any doubt, and have well understood the explanation yourself.
And now I
may tell you why I prefer being regarded by your
friends an
"
ugly plagiarist.
"
Having been called repeatedly a "sophist," a "myth," a
41
Mrs. Harris
M
and a
"
lower intelligence
"
by the enemies, I
rather not be regarded as a deliberate artificer and a liar
by bogus friends I mean those who would accept me reluctantly
even were I to rise to their own ideal in their estimation instead
of the reverse as at present. Personally, I am indifferent, of
course, to the issue. But for your sake and that of the Society
I
may make one more effort to clear the horizon of one of its
"
blackest
" clouds. Let us then recapitulate the situation and
see what your Western sages say of it.
"
K.H." it is settled
is a plagiarist if it be, after all a question of K.H. and not of
the
"
two Occidental Humourists.
"
In the former case, an
alleged
"
adept
"
unable to evolve out of his
"
small oriental
brain
"
any idea or words worthy of Plato turned to that deep
tank of profound philosophy, the Banner of Light, and drew
therefrom the sentences best fitted to express his rather entangled
SPIRITUALISM AND PHENOMENA 421
ideas, which had fallen from the inspired lips of Mr. Henry
Kiddle ! In the other alternative, the case becomes still more
difficult to comprehend save on the theory of the irresponsible
mediumship of the pair of Western jokers. However startling
and impracticable the theory, that two persons who have been
clever enough to carry on undetected the fraud of personating for
five years several adepts not one of whom resembles the other ;
two persons, of whom one, at any rate, is a fair master of English
and can hardly be suspected of paucity of original ideas, should
turn for a bit of plagiarism to a journal as the Banner, widely
known and read by most English knowing Spiritualists ;
and
above all, pilfer their borrowed sentences from the discourse of a
conspicuous new convert, whose public utterances were at the
very time being read and welcomed by every medium and
Spiritualist ;
however improbable all this and much more, yet any
alternative seems more welcome than simple truth. The decree is
pronounced;
"
K.H.," whoever he is, has stolen passages from
Mr, Kiddle. Not only this, but as shewn by
"
a Perplexed
Reader " he has omitted inconvenient words and has so distorted
the ideas he has borrowed as to divert them from their original
intention to suit his own very different purpose/'
Well, to this, if I had any desire to argue out the question I
might answer that of what constitutes plagiarism, being a borrow-
ing of ideas rather than of words and sentences, there was none in
point of fact, and I stand acquitted by my own accusers. As
Milton says
" such kind of borrowing as this, if it be not bettered
by the borrower is accounted plagiary.'' Having distorted the
ideas
"
appropriated/' and, as now published diverted them from
their original intention to suit my own "
very different purpose,"
on such grounds my literary larceny does not appear very formid-
able after all? And even, were there no other explanation offered,
the most that could be said is, that owing to the poverty of words
at the command of Mr. Sinnett's correspondent, and his ignorance
of the art of English composition, he has adapted a few of inno-
cent Mr. Kiddle's effusions, some of his excellently constructed
sentences to express his own contrary ideas. The above is the
only line of argument I have given to, and permitted to be used
in, an editorial by the "gifted editor" of the Theosophist, who
has been off her head since the accusation. Verily woman is a
dreadful calamity in this fifth race !
However, to you and some
few, whom you have permission to select among your most
trusted theosophists, taking first care to pledge them by word of
honour to keep the little revelation to themselves, I will now
explain the real facts of this
"
very puzzling
"
psychological
mystery. The solution is so simple, and the circumstances so
amusing, that I confess I laughed when my attention was drawn
422 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
to it, some time since. Nay, it is calculated to make me smile
even now, were it not the knowledge of the pain it gives to
some true friends.
The letter in question was framed by me while on a journey and
on horse-back. It was dictated mentally, in the direction of,
and "
precipitated
"
by, a young chela not yet expert at this
branch of Psychic chemistry, and who had to transcribe it from
the hardly visible imprint. Half of it, therefore, was omitted and
the other half more or less distorted by the
"
artist
" When
asked by him at the time, whether I would look it over and
correct I answered, imprudently, I confess
"
anyhow will do,
my boy it is of no great importance if you skip a few words."
I was physically very tired by a ride of 48 hours consecutively, and
(physically again) half asleep. Besides this I had very impor-
tant business to attend to psychically and therefore little remained
of me to devote to that letter. It was doomed, I suppose. When
I woke I found it had already been sent on, and, as I was not then
anticipating its publication, I never gave it from that time a
thought. Now, I had never evoked spiritual Mr. Kiddle's
physiognomy, never had heard of his existence, was not aware
of his name. Having owing to our correspondence and your
Simla surroundings and friends felt interested in the intellectual
progress of the Phenomenalists which progress by the bye, I found
rather moving backward in the case of American Spiritualists
I had directed my attention some two months previous to the great
annual camping movement of the latter, in various directions,
among others to Lake or Mount Pleasant. Some of the curious
ideas and sentences representing the general hopes and aspira-
tions of the American Spiritualists remained impressed on my
memory, and I remembered only these ideas and detached sen-
tences quite apart from the personalities of those who harboured
or pronounced them. Hence, my entire ignorance of the lecturer
whom I have innocently defrauded as it would appear, and who
now raises the hue and cry. Yet, had I dictated my letter in the
form it now appears in print, it would certainly look suspicious,
and, however far from what is generally called plagiarism, yet in
the absence of any inverted commas, it would lay a foundation
for censure. But I did nothing of the kind, as the original impres-
sion now before me clearly shows. And before I proceed any
further, I must give you some explanation of this mode of pre-
cipitation. The recent experiments of the Psychic Research
Society will help you greatly to comprehend the rationale of this
" mental telegraphy." You have observed in the Journal of
that body how thought transference is cumulatively affected. The
image of the geometrical or other figure which the active brain
has had impressed upon it, is gradually imprinted upon the
SPIRITUALISM AND PHENOMENA 423
recipient brain of the passive subject as the series of reproduc-
tions illustrated in the cuts show. Two factors are needed to
produce a perfect and instantaneous mental telegraphy close con-
centration in the operator, and complete receptive "passivity in the
44
reader
"
subject. Given a disturbance of either condition, and
the result is proportionately imperfect. The "
reader
"
does not
see the image as in the
"
telegrapher's
"
brain, but as arising in
his own. When the latter 's thought wanders, the psychic current
becomes broken, the communication disjointed and incoherent. In
a case such as mine, the chela had, as it were, to pick up what
he could from the current I was sending him and, as above re-
marked, patch the broken bits together as best he might. Do
not you see the same thing in ordinary mesmerism the maya
impressed upon the subject's imagination by the operator becom-
ing, now stronger, now feebler, as the latter keeps the intended
illusive image more or less steadily before his own fancy? And
how often the clairvoyants reproach the magnetiser for taking
their thoughts off the subject under consideration? And the
mesmeric healer will always bear you witness that if he permits
himself to think of anything but the vital current he is pouring
into his patient, he is at once compelled to either establish the
current afresh or stop the treatment. So I, in this instance, having
at the moment more vividly in my mind the psychic diagnosis of
current Spiritualistic thought, of which the Lake Pleasant speech
was one marked symptom, unwittingly transferred that reminis-
cence more vividly than my own remarks upon it and deductions
therefrom. So to say, (the
"
despoiled victim's
"
Mr. Kiddle's
utterances) came out as a "
high light
"
and were more sharply
photographed (first in the chela's brain and thence on the paper
before him, a double process and one far more difficult than
41
thought reading
"
simply) while the rest, my remarks there-
upon and arguments as I now find, are hardly visible and quite
blurred on the original scraps before me. Put into a mesmeric
subject's hand a sheet of blank paper, tell him it contains a
certain chapter of some book that you have read, concentrate
your thoughts upon the words, and see how provided that he
has himself not read 1he chapter, but only takes it from your
memory his reading will reflect your own more or less vivid
successive recollections of your author's language. The same as
to the precipitation by the chela of the transferred thought upon
(or rather, into) paper : if the mental picture received be feeble
his visible reproduction of it must correspond. And the more so
in proportion to the closeness of attention he gives. He might
were he but merely a person of the true mediumistic tempera-
ment be employed by his
4 4
Master " as a sort of psychic printing
machine producing lithographed or psychographed impressions of
424 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
what the operator had in mind ;
his nerve-system, the machine,
his nerve-aura the printing fluid, the colours drawn from that
exhaustless store-house of pigments (as of everything else) the
Akasa. But the medium and the chela are diametrically dis-
similar and the latter acts consciously, except under exceptional
circumstances during development not necessary to dwell upon
here.
Well, as soon as I heard of the charge the commotion among
my" defenders having reached me across the eternal snows I
ordered an investigation into the original scraps of the impression.
At the first glance I saw that it was I, the only and most guilty
party, the poor little boy having done but that which he was
told. Having now restored the characters and the lines
omitted and blurred beyond hope of recognition by anyone but
their original evolver to their primitive colour and places, I now
find my letter reading quite differently as you will observe. Turn-
ing to the Occult World the copy sent by you to the page cited,
(namely p. 149 in the first edition) I was struck, upon carefully
reading it, by the great discrepancy between the sentences. A
gap, so to say, of ideas between part i (from line i to line 25)
and part 2 the plagiarized portion so-called. There seems no
connection at all between the two; for what has, indeed, the
determination of our chiefs (to prove to a skeptical world that
physical phenomena are as reducible to law as anything else) to
do with Plato's ideas which "
rule the world" or
"
practical
Brotherhood of Humanity?
"
I fear that it is your personal
friendship alone for the writer that has blinded you to the dis-
crepancy and disconnection of ideas in this abortive
"
precipita-
tion," even until now. Otherwise you could not have failed to
perceive that something was wrong on that page ; that there was
a glaring defect in the connection. Moreover, I have to plead
guilty to another sin : I have never so much as looked at my
letters in print until the day of the forced investigation. I had
read only your own original matter, feeling it a loss of time to
go over my hurried bits and scraps of thought. But now, I have
to ask you to read the passages as they were originally dictated
by me, and make the comparison with the Occult World before
you.
I transcribe them with my own hand this once, whereas the
letter in your possession was written by the chela. I ask you
also to compare this hand-writing with that of some of the earlier
letters you received from me. Bear in mind, also the
"
O.L.'s
"
emphatic denial at Simla that my first letter had ever been written
by myself. I felt annoyed at her gossip and remarks then; it
may serve a good purpose now. Alas !
by no means are we all
"
gods
"
; especially when you remember that since the palmy
SPIBITUALISM AND PHENOMENA 425
days of the
"
impressions
M
and "
precipitations"
"
K.H." has
been born into a new and higher light, and even that one, in no
wise the most dazzling to be acquired on this earth. Verily the
Light of Omniscience and infallible Prevision on this earth that
shines only for the highest CHOHAN alone is yet far away from
me !
I enclose the copy verbatim from the restored fragments
underlining in red 1
the omitted sentences for easier comparison.
(Page 149. First Edition.)
Phenomenal elements previously unthought of, ...
will disclose at last the secrets of their mysterious workings.
Plato was right to readmit every element of speculation which
Socrates had discarded. The problems of universal being are
not unattainable or worthless if attained. But the latter can be
solved only by mastering those elements that are now looming
on the horizons of the profane. Even the Spirit*
5 -
with their mis-
taken, grotesquely perverted views and notions are hazily
realizing the new situation. They prophesy and their prophecies
are not always without a point of truth in them, of intuitional
pre-vision, so to say. Hear some of them reasserting the old,
old axiom that
"
Ideas rule the world
"
; and as men's minds
receive new ideas, laying aside the old and effete the world (wUl)
advance ; mighty revolutions (witt) spring from them ;
institutions
(aye, and even creeds and powers, they may add) WILL crumble
before their onward march crushed by their own inherent force
not the irresistible force of the
" new ideas
"
offered by the
Spiritualists ! Yes ; they are both right and wrong. It will be
just as impossible to resist their influence when the time comes
as to stay the progress of the tide, to be sure. But what the
Spiritualists fail to perceive, I see, and their
"
Spirits
" to explain
(the latter knowing no more than what they can find in the brains
of the former) is, that all this will come gradually on ;
and that
before it comes they as well as ourselves, have all a duty to per-
form, a task set before us : that of sweeping away as much as
possible the dross left to us by our pious forefathers. New ideas
have to be planted on clean places, for these ideas touch upon the
most momentous subjects. It is not physical phenomena or the
agency called Spiritualism but these universal ideas that we have
precisely to study : the noumenon not the phenomenon, for, to
comprehend the LATTER we have first to understand the FORMER.
They do touch man's true position in the Universe, to be sure,
but only in relation to his FUTURE not PREVIOUS births. It is not
physical phenomena however wonderful that can ever explain to
man his origin let alone his ultimate destiny, or as one of them
expresses it the relation of the mortal to the immortal, of the
i These passages arc printed in italics. ED.
426 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
temporary to the eternal, of the finite to the Infinite, etc., etc.
They talk very glibly of what they regard as new ideas
"
larger,
more general, grander, more comprehensive, and at the same
time, they recognise instead of the eternal reign of immutable
law, the universal reign of law as the expression of a divine
will (
!
). Forgetful of their earlier beliefs, and that
" it repented
the Lord that he had made Man " these would-be philosophers
and reformers would impress upon their hearers that the expres-
sion of the said divine Will
" is unchanging and unchangeable
in regard to which there is only an ETERNAL NOW, while to mortals
(uninitiated ?) time is past or future as related to their finite
existence on this material plane
"
of which they know as Little
as of their spiritual spheres a speck of dirt they have made the
latter like our own earth, a future life that the true philosopher
would rather avoid than court. But I dream with my eyes open.
. . . At all events this is not any privileged teachings of their own.
Most of these ideas are taken piece-meal from Plato and the
Alexandrian Philosophers. It is what we all study and what many
have solved etc., etc.
This is the true copy of the original document as now restored
the
" Rosetta stone
"
of the Kiddle incident. And, now, if
you have understood my explanations about the process, as given
in a few words further back, you need not ask me how it came
to pass that though somewhat disconnected, the sentences
transcribed by the chela are mostly those that are now considered
as plagiarized while the
"
missing links
"
are precisely those
phrases that would have shown the passages were simply reminis-
cences if not quotations the key-note around which came group-
ing my own reflections on that morning. In those days you were
yet hesitating to see in Occultism, or the
"
O.L.'s
"
phenomena
anything beyond a variety of Spiritualism and mediumship. For
the first time in my life I had paid a serious attention to the
utterances of the poetical
"
media," of the so-called
"
inspira-
tional
"
oratory of the English and American lecturers, its quality
and limitations. I was struck with all this brilliant but empty
verbiage, and recognised for the first time fully its pernicious
intellectual tendency. M. knew all about them but since I had
never had anything to do with any of them they interested me
very little. It was their gross and unsavoury materialism hiding
clumsily under its shadowy spiritual veil that attracted my thoughts
at the time. While dictating the sentences quoted a small
portion of the many I had been pondering over for some days
it was those ideas that were thrown out en relief the most, leaving
out my own parenthetical remarks to disappear in the precipita-
tion. Had I looked over the impressed negative ( ?) there would
have been one more weapon broken in the enemv's hand. Having
SPIRITUALISM AND PHENOMENA 427
neglected this duty my Karma evolved, what the mediums of the
future and the Banner may call the "Kiddle triumph." The
coming ages will divide Society after the manner of your modern
Baconians and Shakesperians into two quarrelling camps of
partisans, called respectively the
<4
Kiddlites
"
and the
"
Koot-
humites" who will fight over the important literary problem
"
which one of the two plagiarized from the other
" ? I
may be
told that meanwhile the American and English spiritualists are
gloating over the
"
Sinnett K.H." Sedan? May their great
orator and champion and they enjoy their triumph in peace and
happiness, for no "
adept
"
will ever cast his Himalayan shadow
to obscure their innocent felicity. To you and a few other true
friends I feel it my duty to give an explanation. To all others
I leave the right to regard Mr. Kiddle whoever he may be as
the inspirer of your humble servant. I have done, and you may
now, in your turn, do what you please with these facts, except
the making use of them in print or even speaking of them to
the opponents, save in general terms. You must understand my
reasons for this. One does not cease entirely, my dear friend
to be a man nor lose one's dignity for being an adept. In the
latter capacity, one, no doubt, remains in every case quite in-
different to the opinion of the outside world. The former always
draws the line between ignorant surmise and deliberate, personal
insult. I cannot really be expected to take advantage of the first
to be ever hiding the problematic
"
adept
"
behind the skirts of
the two supposed
"
humourists
"
;
and as man, I had too much
experience lately in such above said insults with Messrs. S. Moses
and C. C. Massey to give them any more opportunities to doubt
the word of
"
K.H.", or see in him a vulgar defendant, a kind of
guilty, tricky Babu before a panel of stern European jurymen and
Judge.
I have no time to answer fully now your last, long business
letter, but will shortly. Nor do I answer Mr. Ward since it
is useless. I highly approve of his coming to India, but dis-
approve as highly his fancy of bringing Mr. C. C. Massey here.
The result of the latter would be to injure the cause among
Englishmen. Distrust and prejudice are contagious. His
presence in Calcutta would be as disastrous as Mr. Ward's pre-
sence and services to the cause I live for would be beneficent and
fruitful of good effects. But I would insist upon his passing some
time at the Headquartefs before his taking up his proposed labour
of love among the officials.
It is certainly most flattering to hear from him that Mrs. K.
"
had essayed her best to meet me in one or more of her trances
"
;
and most sad to learn that "though she had invoked you (me)
with all her spiritual intensity she could get no response." It
428 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
is too bad, really, that this
"
ladie fair
"
should have been put to
the trouble of a fruitless ramble through space to find insignificant
me. Evidently we move in different astral
"
circles,'* and hers
is not the first instance of persons becoming skeptical as to the
existence of things outside their own milieu. There are, you
know,
"
Alps upon Alps
" and from no two peaks does one get
the same view !
Nevertheless, it is, as I say flattering to find her
evoking me by name, while preparing for myself and colleagues a
disastrous Waterloo. To tell the truth, I was not aware of the
former, though painfully conscious of the latter. Yet, had not
even the dismal plot ever entered her spiritual mind, to be honest,
I do not think I could have ever responded to her call. As an
American Spiritualist would put it there seems to be very little
affinity between our two natures. She is too haughty and
imperious, too self-complacent for me ;
besides which she is too
young and "
fascinating
M for a poor mortal like myself. To
speak seriously, Mmo. Gebhard is quite another sort of person.
Her's is a genuine, sterling nature; she is a born Occultist in her
intuitions and I have made a few experiments with her though
it is rather M.'s duty than my own, and that, as you would say,
it was not "originally contemplated" that I should be made to
visit all the sibyls and sirens of the Theosophical establishment.
My own preferences make me keep to the safer side of the two
sexes in my occult dealings with them, though for certain reasons,
even such visits in my own natural skin have to be extremely
restricted and limited. I enclose a telegram from Mr. Brown
to the
"
O.L." This day week I will be at Madras en route to
Singapore and Ceylon, and Burmah. I will answer you through
one of the chelas at the Headquarters.
The poor
"
O.L." in disgrace? Oh dear, no! We have
nothing against the old woman with the exception that she is one.
To save us from being insulted as she calls it, she is ready to
give our real addresses and thus lead to a catastrophe. The real
reason is that the hapless creature was too much compromised, too
bitterly insulted owing to our existence. It all falls upon her and,
therefore, it is but right that she should be screened in some
things.
Yes ;
I would see you, President, if
possible. Unless permitted
by the Chohan (who forwards you His Blessing) to act on other
lines of business i.e.
psychologically I renounce to trust for the
rebirth of Phoenix to the good-will of my countrymen. The
feeling between the two races is now intensely bitter and any-
thing undertaken by the natives now, is sure to be opposed to the
bitter end by the Europeans in India. Let us drop it for a while.
I'll answer your questions in my next. If you find time to write
for the Theosophist and can induce someone else, as Mr. Myers,
SPIRITUALISM AND PHENOMENA 429
for instance you will oblige me personally. You are wrong in
distrusting Subba Row's writings. He does not write willingly,
to be sure, but he will never make a false statement. See his
last in the November number. His statement concerning the
errors of General Cunningham ought to be regarded as a whole
revelation leading to a revolution in Indian archaeology. Ten
to one it will never receive the attention it deserves. Why?
Simply because his statements contain sober facts, and that what
you Europeans prefer generally is fiction so long the latter dove-
tails with, and answers preconceived theories.
K. H.
The more I think of it, the more reasonable appears to me your
plan of a Society within the London Society. Try, for something
may come out of it.
LETTER No. XCIV
My dear friend Amid the various and arduous labours it has
pleased the venerable Chohan to entrust me with I had entirely
forgotten the
"
Kiddle incident.
"
You have my explanation. In
asking you to keep me the secret I
only meant the withholding of
certain details that, in their ignorance to the scientific process your
and my opponents would take exception to, make of it a pretext
for poking fun at occult sciences and finally charge me with
clumsy lies and yourself with credulity, or
"
hero-worship
M as
the golden-haired nymph of the Vicarage puts it. But if you are
prepared to stand the fire of furious denial and adverse criticism,
make of my letter and explanations the best use you can. The
several letters and articles in the last numbers of the Theosophist
given out with my permission by Gen. Morgan, Subba Row and
Dharani Dhu may pave the way for you. I would not have
"
the
propagation of Theosophy
' '
impeded on my account and to save
my name from a few extra blows.
Yours in haste,
K. H.
LETTER No. XCV1
Such a life of infamy. I will try my best to make of him a vege-
tarian and a teetotaller. Total abstinence from flesh and liquor are
very wisely prescribed by Mr. Hume, if he would have good re-
* The beginning of this letter is missing. ED.
430 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
suits. In good hands E. will do an immense good to the T.S. in
India, but for this, he has through a training of purification.
M. had to prepare him for six weeks before his departure other-
wise it would have been impossible for me to project into his
atmosphere even the reflection of my "double.*' I told you
already, my kind friend, that what he saw was not me. Nor will
I be able to project that reflection for you unless he is thoroughly
purified. Therefore, as the matter now stands I have not a word
to say against Mr. Hume's conditions as expressed in his last
"
official
"
letter, except in congratulating him with all my heart.
For the same reason it is impossible for me to answer him and
his questions just now. Let him have patience, pray, in the E.
matter. There are dirty conspiracies set on foot, and germinating
in London, among the spiritualists ; and I am not at all sure that
E. will resist the tide that threatens to submerge him unless they
obtain from him, at least a partial recantation. We departed from
our policy and the experiment was made with him on the
"
Vega
"
solely for the benefit of some Anglo Indian theosophists. Mr.
Hume had expressed his surprise that even E.'s
"
spirits
"
should
know nothing of us, and that despite the interests of the cause
we did not show ourselves even to him. On the other hand, the
Calcutta spiritualists and Mrs. Gordon with them were
triumphant, and Colonel G. followed suit. The " dear departed
ones
" were for the short period of his stay at Calcutta in odour
of sanctity, and the
"
Brothers
" rather low in public estimation.
Many of you thought that our appearing to E., would
"
save the
situation
"
and force Spiritualism to recognise the claims of
Theosophy. Well, we complied with your wishes. M. and I
were determined to show to you that there was no ground for such
hopes. The Bigotry and Blindness of the Spiritualists fed by the
selfish motives of professional mediums are rampant and the
opponents are now desperate. We must allow the natural course
of events to develop, and can only help on the coming crisis by
having a hand in the increasing frequency of exposures. It would
never do for us to force events, as it would be only making
"
martyrs
" and allowing these the pretext for a new craze.
Thus, pray have patience. Mr. Hume if he only holds on to
his resolutions has a grand and noble work before him the
work of a true Founder of a new social era, of a philosophical and
religious Reform. It is so vast and so nobly conceived, that if,
as I
hope, we will now finally agree, he will have quite enough to
do during the interval that is necessary for me to probe and pre-
pare Eglinton. I will write to Mr. Hume and answer his every
point in a few days, explaining the situation as I conceive it.
Meanwhile you will do well to show him this letter. Your Review
of the Perfect Way is more perfect than its author's conception.
SPIRITUALISM AND PHENOMENA 431
I thank you, my friend, for yolir good services. You are begin-
ning to attract the Chohan's attention. And if you only knew
what significance that has, you would not be calculating to a
nicety what reward you are entitled to for certain recent services
mentioned.
Yours affectionately,
K. H.
LETTER No. XCVI
Received 1883 or '84?
My humble pranams Sahib. Your memory is not good. Have
you forgotten the agreement made at Prayag and the pass-words
that have to proceed every genuine communication coming from
us through a l
Choot-dak or medium? How
likely the seance of December the i5th coroneted card, my letter
and all !
Very similar as a Peling pundit would say. Yes, first
a loving greeting from old woman to Lonie misspelled on card
Louis, then to C. C. Massey whose name she now never pro-
nounces, and that greeting coming after supper when C.C.M.
had already left. Then my message in a fained hand when I am
at dead loggerheads with my own ; again I am made to date my
supposed message from Ladhak December i6th, whereas I swear
I was at Ch-in-ki (Lhassa). Smoking your pipe. Best of all my
asking you to
"
prepare for our coming as soon as we have won
over Mr. Eglinton Sahib ! ! !
"
One Saturday and Lord Dun-
raven having failed why not try again. A solemn evening, that
Saturday, at Picadilly over old Sotheran the mouldy bookseller.
Knew premises well, felt amused and watched with your
leave. Why feel so disgusted? Spooks worked remarkably well
nothing abashed by my presence of which neither W.E. nor his
bodyguard knew nothing. My attention was attracted by their
forging H.P.B.'s handwriting. Then I put aside my pipe and
watched. Too much light for the creatures coming from a Pica-
dilly Street though Sotheran emanations helped good deal. I
would call your friend Mr. Myers' attention to psychic fact of
rotten emanations. Raise a good Choot crop. Yes ;
the room
with windows overlooking Picadilly is a good place for psychic
development. Poor entranced wretch.
"
We wish to state to prevent any future misunderstanding
that whatever phenomena may present themselves to you this
evening we are in no way responsible for them and have no hand
in their production.
" This is pure self-abnegation modesty is
1 A word in Oriental characters appears here in the original. ED.
432 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
no name for it. He paced the room and I followed from a
distance. He went to Mr. Ward's writing desk and took
a sheet of his monogram paper and I
helped myself to
one just to show you I watched. As for all of you you did not
watch very keenly while he was guided to place paper and
envelope between the leaves of a book and when he laid it upon
the table, or you would have seen something very interesting for
science. The clock's silvery tongue strikes ten fifteen and
K.H.'s form descending a hill on horseback (he is in the far off
woods of Cambodia now) is supposed to cross the horizon of
"
Uncle Sam's M vision and disturbs the activity of the Pisachas.
The astral disturbance impedes their dull progress. Their bells
are fine very.
Now Sahib, you must not be too hard upon the wretched
young fellow. He was utterly irresponsible on that night. Of
course his belonging to your L.L.T.S. is pure nonsense for a paid
and suspected medium is no peer for English gentlemen. Yet he
is honest in his way and however much K.H. made fun of him
in his card addressed to the Gordons that all of you took
seriously at the time he is really honest in his way and to be
pitied. He is a poor epileptic subject to fits especially on the
days when he is .expected to have dinner with you. I mean to ask
K.H. to beg a favour from Mr. Ward : to save the poor wretch
from the two elementaries which have fastened on him like
two barnacles. It is easy for good
"
Uncle Sam " to get for him
an appointment somewhere and thus save him from a life of
infamy which kills him, he will thereby do a meritorious and a
Theosophical act of charity. Mr. Ward is wrong. W. E. is not
guilty of any conscious, deliberate jugglery that night. He got a
passionate desire to join the L.L. and as the wish is father to
the deed his astral ticks fabricated that letter of mine through
means of their own. Had he done it himself he would have re-
membered it was not my handwriting as he is familiar with it
through Gordons. Woe to the spiritualists ! Their Karma is
heavy with the ruin of men and women they entice into medium-
ship, and then throw off to starve like a toothless dog. At any
rate ask him for the card of Upasika with her alleged writing on
it. It is a good thing to keep and show occasionally to the
Masseys of the L.L. who believe pure lies and will suspect fraud
where none is meant. You are at liberty to regard me as a
"
nigger
"
and savage Sahib. But though I am the first to advise
Mrs. K.'s re-election nevertheless, I would sooner trust W.E.'s
clairvoyance than Mrs. K. 's or rather her rendering of her visions.
But this will soon stop. Subba Row is vindicating you.
Writing- an answer to the Australian convert.
SPIRITUALISM AND PHENOMENA 433
LETTER No. XCVI1
" Common people
" are the masses as different from those who
are distinguished. Your methods were not abandoned, it was only
sought to show a drift of cyclic change no doubt that is helped
by you too. Are you not man of the world enough to bear the small
defects of young disciples? In their way they also help and
greatly. In you is also concealed a power to help from your side
for the poor Society will even yet need all it can get. It is good
that you have seen the work of a noble woman, who has
left all for the cause. Other ways and times will appear for
your help, for you are a single witness and well knowing the
facts that will be challenged by traitors.
We cannot alter Karma my
"
good friend
" or we might lift
the present cloud from your path. But we do all that is possible
in such material matters. No darkness can stay for ever. Have
hope and faith and we may disperse it. There are not many left
true to the
"
original program
" ! And you have been taught
much and have much that is, and will be, useful.
M.
SECTION VII
MISCELLANEOUS LETTERS
LETTER No. XCVIII
* I realized it perfectly. But however sincere, these feelings
are too deeply covered by a thick crust of self sufficiency and
egoistical stubbornness to awaken in me anything like sympathy.
(1) For centuries we have had in Thibet a moral, pure hearted,
simple people, unblest with civilization, hence untainted by its
vices. For ages has been Thibet the last corner of the globe not
so entirely corrupted as to preclude the mingling together of the
two atmospheres the physical and the spiritual. And he would
have us exchange this for his ideal of civilization and Govt. !
This is pure self peroration, an intense passion for hearing him-
self discuss, and for imposing his ideas upon every one.
(2) Now really, Mr. H. ought to be sent by an international
Committee of Philanthropists, as a Friend of Perishing Humanity
to teach our Dalai Lamas wisdom. Why he does not straight-
way sit down and frame a plan for something like Plato 's Ideal
Republic with a new scheme for everything under the Sun and
moon passes my poor comprehension !
(3) This is indeed benevolent in him to go so far out of his way
to teach us. Of course, this is pure kindness, and not a desire to
over-top the rest of humanity. It is his latest acquisition of
mental evolution, which, let us hope, will not turn in dissolution.
(4) AMEN !
My dear friend, you ought to be held responsible
for not starting in his head the glorious idea to offer his services
as a General School Master for Thibet, Reformer of ancient super-
stitions and Saviour of future generations. Of course, were he
to read this, he would show immediately that I argue like an
" educated monkey."
(5) Now just listen to the man jabbering about what he knows
nothing. No men living are freer than we when we have once
passed out of the stage of pupilage. Docile and obedient but
never slaves during that time we must be; otherwise, and if we
passed our time in arguing we never would learn anything at all.
* The asterisk and numbers refer to Letter XCIX from A. O. Hume on
which K.H. Comments in this letter. ED.
434
MISCELLANEOUS LETTERS 435
(6) And whoever thought of proposing him as such? My dear
fellow can you really blame me for shrinking from closer relations
with a man whose whole life seems to hang upon incessant argu-
mentation and philipics? He says that he is no doctrinaire when
he is the very essence of one ! He is worthy of all the respect and
even affection of those who know him well. But my stars ! in less
than 24 hours he would paralyse any one of us, who might be
unfortunate enough to come within a mile of him, merely by his
monotonous piping about his own views. No ;
a thousand times
no: such men as he make able statesmen, orators anything you
like but never Adepts. We have not one of that sort among us.
And that is perhaps why we never felt the necessity for a house
of lunatics. In less than three months he would have driven
half of our Thibetan population mad !
I mailed a letter for you the other day at Umballa. I see you
did not receive it yet.
Yours ever affectionately,
KOOT HOOMI.
LETTER No. XCIX1
Simla. 20-11-80.
My Dear Koot Humi,
I have sent Sinnett your letter to me and he has kindly sent me
yours to him I want to make some remarks on this, not by way
of cavil, but because I am so anxious that you should understand
me. Very likely it is my conceit, but whether or no I have a
deep rooted conviction that I could work effectually if I only saw
my way, and I cannot bear the idea of your throwing me over
under any misconception of my views. And yet every letter I
see of yours, shows me that you do not yet realize what I
think and feel.* To explain this I venture to jot down a few com-
ments on your letter to Sinnett.
You say that if Russia does not succeed in taking Tibet, it will
be due to you and herein at least you will deserve our gratitude
I do not agree to this in the sense in which you mean it. (i) If I
thought that Russia would on the whole govern Tibet or India
in such wise as to make the inhabitants on the whole happier than
they are under the existing Governments, I would myself welcome
and work for her advent. But so far as I can judge the Russian
Government is a corrupt despotism, hostile to individual liberty
of action and therefore to real progress . . . etc.
Then about the English-speaking vaquil. Was the man so
* Extracts only are given from this letter. The numbers in brackets refer
to the previous letter from K.H. No. XCVIII. ED.
436 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
much to blame? You and yours have never taught him that
there was anything in
"
Yog Vidya." The only people who
have taken the trouble to educate him at all have in so doing
taught him materialism you are disgusted with him, but who is
to blame? ... I judge perhaps as an outsider, but it does
seem to me, that the impenetrable veil of secrecy by which you
surround yourselves, the enormous difficulties which you oppose to
the communication of your spiritual knowledge, are the main
causes of the rampant materialism which you so much deplore.
. . . You alone do possess the means of bringing home to the
ordinary run of men, convictions of this nature, but you, appar-
ently bound by ancient rules, so far from zealously disseminating
this knowledge, envelope it in such a dense cloud of mystery, that
naturally the mass of mankind, disbelieve in its existence . . .
there can be no justification for not giving clearly to the world
the more important features of your philosophy, accompanying
the teaching with such a series of demonstrations as should ensure
the attention of all sincere minds. That you should hesitate to
confer hastily great powers too likely to be abused, I quite under-
stand but this in no way bars a dogmatic denunciation of the
results of your psychical investigations, accompanied by phe-
nomena, sufficiently clear and often repeated to prove that you
really did know more of the subjects with which you dealt than
Western Science does (2) ...
Perhaps you will retort
"
how about Slade's case?
" but do not
forget that he was taking money for what he did ; making a
living out of it.
Very different would be the position of a man,
who came forward to teach gratuitously, manifestly at the sacrifice
of his own time, comfort and convenience, what he believed it to
be for the good of mankind to know. At first no doubt everyone
would say the man was mad or an impostor but then when
phenomenon on phenomenon was repeated and repeated, they
would have to admit there was something in it, and within three
years, you would have all the foremost minds in any civilized
country intent upon the question and tens of thousands of anxious
enquirers out of whom ten per cent, might prove useful workers,
and one in a thousand perhaps develop the necessary qualifications
for becoming ultimately an adept. If you desire to react on the
native through the European mind that is the way to work it.
Of course, I speak under correction and in ignorance of con-
ditions, possibilities, etc., but for this ignorance at any rate / am
not to blame . . .
(3).
Then I come to the passage.
"
Has it occurred to you that the
two Bombay publications if not influenced, may at least have not
been prevented by those who might have done so because they
saw the necessity for that much agitation to effect the double
MISCELLANEOUS LETTERS 437
result of making a needed diversion after the brooch grenade,
and perhaps of trying the strength of your personal interest in
occultism and theosophy? I do not say it was, I but enquire
whether the contingency ever presented itself to your mind."
Now of course this was addressed to Sinnett, but still I wish to
answer it in my fashion. First I should say, cui bono throwing
out such a hint? You must know whether it was so or not. If
it was not, why set us speculating as to whether it may have
been, when you know it was not. But if it was so, then I sub-
mit, that in the first place an idiotic business like this could be
no test of any man's (there are of course lots of human beings
who are only a sort of educated monkey) personal interest in any-
thing. ... In the second place if the Brothers did deliberately
allow the publication of those letters, I can only say, that from
my worldly non-initiated standpoint, I think they made a sad mis-
take . . . and the object of the Brothers being avowedly to
make the T.S. respected, they could hardly have selected any
worse means, than the publication of these foolish letters. . . .
but still when the question is broadly put, did you ever consider
whether the Brothers allowed this publication, I cannot avoid
replying, if they did not, it is futile wasting consideration on the
matter, and if
they did, it seems to me that they were unwise in so
doing. (4)
Then come your remarks about Colonel Olcott. Dear old
Olcott, whom everyone who knows must love. I fully sympathize
in all you say in his favour but I cannot but take exception
to the terms in which you praise him, the whole burthen of which
is that he never questions but always obeys. This is the Jesuit
organization over again and this renunciation of private judg-
ment, this abnegation of one's own personal responsibility, this
accepting the dictates of outside voices as a substitute for one's
own conscience, is to my mind a sin of no ordinary magnitude.
. . .
Nay further I feel bound to say that if ... this
doctrine of blind obedience is an essential one in your system, I
greatly doubt whether any spiritual light it may confer can com-
pensate mankind for the loss of that private freedom of action, that
sense of personal, individual responsibility of which it would
deprive them. ($)
. . . But if it be intended that I shall ever, get instructions
to do this or that and without understanding the why or the where-
fore, without scrutinizing consequences, blind and heedless,
straightway go and do it, then frankly the matter for me is at an
end I am no military machine I am an avowed enemy of the
military organization a friend and advocate of the industrial
or co-operative system, and I will join no Society or no Body
which purports to limit or control my right of private judgment.
438 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
Of course I am not doctrinaire!,? and do not desire to ride
any principle as a hobby horse. . . .
To return to Olcott / do not think his connection with the
proposed Society would be any evil. . . .
In the first place / should not object in any way to dear old
Olcott 's supervision, because I know it would be nominal, as
even if he tried to make it otherwise, Sinnett and I are both quite
capable of shutting him up if he interfered needlessly. But
neither of us could accept him as our real guide (6), because we
both know that we are intellectually his superiors. This is a brutal
way, as the French would say, of putting it, but que voulez vous?.
Without perfect frankness there is no coming to an understand-
ing. . . .
Yours sincerely,
A. O. HUME.
LETTER No. C1
The new "
guide
" has meanwhile a few words to say to you.
If you care anything about our future relations, then, you better
try to make your friend and colleague Mr. Hume give up his
insane idea of going to Tibet. Does he really think that unless
we allow it, he, or an army of Pelings will be enabled to hunt us
out, or bring back news, that we are, after all, but a
"
moon-
shine
" as she calls it. Madman is that man who imagines that
even the British Govt : is strong and rich enough and powerful
enough to help him .in carrying out his insane plan ! Those whom
we desire to know us will find us at the very frontiers. Those
who have set against themselves the Chohans as he has would
not find us were they to go L'hassa with an army. His carrying
out the plan will be the signal for an absolute separation between
your world and ours. His idea of applying to the Govt : for per-
mission to go to Tibet is ridiculous. He will encounter dangers
at every step and will not even hear the remotest tidings about
ourselves or our whereabouts. .Last night a letter was to be
carried to him as well as to Mrs. Gordon. The Chohan forbid it.
You are warned, good friend act accordingly.
K. H.
1 This communication is written across the lines of a letter of H.P.B.'s
to A.P.S. ; the subject matter of the 2 letters however bear no relation to each
other. -Eo.
MISCELLANEOUS LETTERS 439
LETTER No. CI
Received Simla, 1881.
Your letter received. I believe you had better try and sec
whether you could not make your ideas less polemical and dry
than his. I
begin to think there may be some stuff in you, since
you are able so to appreciate my beloved friend and brother. I
have attended to the Brahmin boy's letter and erased the offensive
sentence replacing it with another. You can now show it to the
Maha Sahib ;
him so proud in his bakbak humility and so
humble in his pride. As for phenomena you will have none I
have written through Olcott. Blessed is he who knows our
Koothoomi and blessed is he who appreciates him. What I now
mean you will understand some day. As for your A.O.H.
I know him better than you ever will.
M.
LETTER No. CII
Received Simla, 1881.
My dear young friend, I am sorry to differ from you in your
last two points. If tye can stand one sentence of rebuke he will
stand far more than what you would have me alter. Ou tout ou
rien as my frenchified K. H. taught me to say. I have thought
your suggestion No. i
good and have fully adopted it, hoping
that you will not refuse some day to give me lessons of English.
I had 4I
Benjamin
" stick a patch in the page, and made him
forge my caligraphy while smoking a pipe on my back. Not
having the right to follow K.H. I feel very lonely without my boy.
Hoping to be excused for writing, and refusal, I trust you will
not shrink from telling the truth, if need be, even in the face of
the son of
" a member of Parliament." You have too many
eyes watching you to afford making mistakes now.
M.
440 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
LETTER No. CIII
Received Allahabad, i88o-Si.
To accomplish a plan like the one in hand many agencies must
be employed and failure in any one direction jeopardises the re-
sults tho' it may not defeat it. We have had various checks and
may have more. But observe :
first that two points are
auspicious thanks to kind Providence ; Allen has become friendly,
and a friend of yours (I believe) is Resident at Kashmir. And
second that until the Maharajah of Kashmir the prince first on
the programme has been sounded the vital point will not have
been touched. He the first as I say on the programme has been
left to the last ! Not much was expected from others and thus
far each of the others who has been approached has failed to
respond. Why do not the chelas (?) do a5 they are told? If
chelas neglect orders, and strained sense of delicacy interferes,
how without miracle can results be expected ! I have telegraphed
you to await Olcott's coming because it is best that you should
work together at Calcutta to try and set things in motion. One
word from you to the Resident would have been sufficient but
you are proud as all your race. Olcott will be at Calcutta about
the 20th. Do not listen to the old woman she becomes weak-
headed when left to herself. But M. will take her in hand.
Yours,
K. H.
LETTER No. CIV
Received October, 1881. (?) P.p.c. letter written before retirement.
My dear friend : Your note received. What you say in it shows
me that you entertain some fears lest I should have been offended
by Mr. Hume's remarks. Be at ease, pray, for I never could be.
It is not anything contained in his observations that annoyed me,
but the persistence with which he was following out a line qf
argument that I knew was pregnant with future mischief. This
argumentum ad hominem renewed and taken up from where we
had left it off last year was as little calculated as possible to draw
the Chohan from his principles, or force him into some very desir-
able concessions. I dreaded the consequences and my appre-
hensions had a very good foundation, I can assure you. Please
assur^.Mr. Hume of my personal sympathy and respect for him
and give him my most friendly regards. But I will not have the
pleasure of
"
catching up
"
any more of his letters or answering
MISCELLANEOUS LETTERS 441
them for the next three months. As nothing whatever of the
Society's original programme is yet settled upon, nor do I hope of
seeing it settled for some time to come I have to give up my pro-
jected voyage to Bhootan, and my Brother M. is to take my
place. We are at the end of September and nothing could be
done by October ist that might warrant upon my insisting to go
thither. My chiefs desire me particularly to be present at our
New Year's Festivals, February next, and in order to be pre-
pared for it I have to avail myself of the three intervening months.
I will, therefore, bid you now good-bye my good friend, thanking
you warmly for all you have done and tried to do for me.
January next I hope to be able to let you have news from me;
and, save new difficulties in the way of the Society arise again
from "
your shore
"
you will find me in precisely the same dis-
position and frame of mind in which I now part with both of you.
Whether I will succeed in bringing my beloved but very obstinate
Brother M. to my way of thinking is what I am now unable to
say. I have tried and will try once more, but I am really afraid,
Mr. Hume and he would never agree together. He told me he
would answer your letter and request through a third party not
Mad. B. Meanwhile she knows quite enough to furnish Mr.
Hume with ten lectures had he but a desire to deliver them, and
were he but to recognise the fact, instead of entertaining such a
poor of her in one direction and such a very erroneous con-
ception in some others. M. promised me though to refresh her
failing memory and to revive all she has learned with him in as
bright a way as could be desired. Should the arrangement fail
to get Mr. Hume's approbation : I will have but to sincerely
regret it, for it is the best I can think of.
I leave orders with my
" Disinherited
" to watch over all as
much as it lies in his weak powers.
And now I must close. I have but a few hours before me,
to prepare for my long, very long journey. Hoping we part as
good friends as ever, and that we might meet as better ones still.
Let me now "
astrally
" shake hands with you and assure you of
my good feelings once more.
Yours as ever,
K. H.
LETTER No. CV
My dear friend
Before I give you any definite answer to your business letter
I desire to consult our venerable Chohan. We- have, as you say
442 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
12 months time before us. For the present I have a little basi-
ness on hand, that is very important, as it hinges on to a series
of other deliberate untruths, whose real character it is nigh time
to prove. We are called in so many words, or rather in five
letters
"
liars
"
(sic) and accused of
"
base ingratitude.*' The
language is strong, and willing as we should feel to borrow many
a good thing from the English, it is not politeness, I am afraid,
that we would feel inclined to learn from the class of gentlemen
represented by Mr. Hume. Left standing by itself, the business
I am now concerned with, you may truly regard, as of very little
importance collated with other facts, unless shown on good and
unimpeachable testimony as, to say the least, a perversion of facts
it tends to become a cause which will yield unpleasant effects
and ruin the whole fabric. Do not, therefore, I pray you, stop
to argue the utter unworthiness of the small remembrance, but
relying upon our seeing something of the future which remains
hidden to you, pray answer my question, as a friend and brother.
When you have done that you will learn why this letter is written.
H.P.B. has just quarrelled with Djual Khool, who maintained
that the unpleasant proceeding was not entered in the minutes by
Davison, while she affirmed that it was. Of course he was
right and she wrong. Yet if her memory failed her in this
particular, it served her well as to the fact itself. You remember,
of course the event. Meeting of the Eclectics in the Billiard
room. Witnesses yourself, the Hume pair, the Gordon couple,
Davison and H.P.B. Subject : S. K. Chatterji his letter to Hume
expressing contempt for theosophy and suspicious about the good
faith of H.P.B. Handing over the letter I had returned her to
Mr. Hume she said that I had given orders through her to the
General Council to invite the Babu to resign. Thereupon Mr.
Hume proclaimed most emphatically :
" In such case your Koot
Hoomi is no gentleman. The letter is a private letter and under
these circumstances no gentleman would ever think of acting as
desired by him." Now the letter was not a private one, since
it was circulated by Mr. Hume among the members. At the time
I paid no attention whatever to the fling-. Nor had I come to
know of it
through H.P.B., but through G. Khool who had heard
it himself and has an excellent memory.
Now, will you oblige me by writing for me two lines telling me
as you remember the event. Were the words " no gentleman
"
applied to your humble servant or in general. I ask you as a
gentleman, not as a friend. This has a very important bearing
on the future. When done, I will let you see the latest develop-
ment of the infinite
"
fertility of resource
"
at the command of our
mutual friend. It may be, that under any other circumstances
Mr. H.'s braggadocios about Lord Ripon's high opinion of Hume's
MISCELLANEOUS LETTERS 443
theosophy and his "big talk" about his literary, monetary and
other services rendered to us might pass unnoticed, for we all
know his weaknesses ;
but in the present case they must be dealt
with so as not to leave him a single straw to catch at, because
his last letter to me (which you will see) is not only entirely at
variance with all the acknowledged rules of good breeding, but
also because unless his own mis-statements are actually proved,
he will boast hereafter of having given the direct lie to our
Brotherhood, and that no member of the latter could ever permit
it. You cannot fail to remark the absurd contrast between his
apparent confidence in his wonderful powers and superiority and
the soreness he exhibits at the slightest remark passed upon him by
myself. He must be made to realize that were he really as great
as he asserts, or even if he were himself quite satisfied of his
greatness and the infallability of his power of memory, whatever
even the adepts might think, he would remain indifferent to, at
any rate, would not be as vulgarly abusive as he is now. His
sensitiveness is in itself evidence of the doubts lurking in his
mind as to the validity of the claims he so boastfully puts forth ;
hence his irritability, excited by anything and everything that is
likely to disturb his self-delusions.
I hope you will not refuse a direct and clear answer to my direct
and clear question.
Yours ever affectionately,
K. H.
LETTER No. CVI
I desire to answer your letter carefully and explicitly. I must,
therefore, ask you to accord me a few days longer when I will
be quite at leisure. We have to take measures for effectually
protecting our country and vindicating the spiritual authority of
our Priestly King. Perhaps, never, since the invasion of Alex-
ander and his Greek legions have so many Europeans stood
together under arms so near to our frontiers as they do now. My
friend, your correspondents seem to acquaint you with the greatest
news but superficially at best :
perhaps, because they do not know
it themselves. Never mind it will all be known some day. How-
ever, as soon as I get a few hours leisure, you will find at your
service your friend.
K. H.
Try to believe more than you do in the
" old lady." She does
rave betimes ;
but she is truthful and does the best she can for you.
444 THE MAHATMA LETTEB8
LETTER No. CVII
My dear Ambassador
To quiet the anxiety I see lurking within your mind, and which
has even a more definite form than you have expressed, let me
say that I will use my best endeavours to calm our highly sensitive
not always sensible old friend, and make her stop at her post.
Ill health resulting from natural causes, and mental anxiety have
made her nervous to an extreme degree and sadly impaired her
usefulness to us. For a fortnight past she has been all but use-
less and her emotions have sped along her nerves like electricity
thro' a telegraphic wire. All has been chaos. I am sending
these few lines by a friend to Olcott so that they may be for-
warded without her knowledge.
Consult freely with our friends in Europe and return with a good
book in your hand and a good plan in your head. Encourage the
sincere brethren at Galles to persevere in their work of educa-
tion. Some cheering words from you will give them heart. Tele-
graph to Nicolas Dias Inspector of Police Galles that you, a
member of the Council of the T.S. are coming (the date and name
of steamer given) and I will cause H.P.B. to do the same to
another person. Think on the way of your true friend.
K. H. and .
LETTER No. CVIIP
The man sent by me last night was a Ladakee chla and had
nothing to do with you. What you just said about " initiation
M
is true. Any Fellow who truly and sincerely repents ought to be
taken back. As you see I am with you constantly.
LETTER No. CIX
I cannot make a miracle, or I would have shown myself fully to
Mrs. Sinnett at least in spite of the matches of the French woman
and to yourself in spite of the physical and psychical conditions.
Kindly realize that my sense of justice is so strong that I would
not deny you a satisfaction I gave Ramaswami and Scott. If you
have not seen me it is simply because it was an impossibility. If
you had gratified K.H. by attending the meeting no harm would as
a matter of fact have been done to you for K. H. had foreseen and
prepared all, and the very effort you made to be firm even at
supposed personal risk, would have totally changed your condition.
Now let us see what the future has in store.
M.
1 This fragment is in M.'s handwriting. ED.
MISCELLANEOUS LETTERS 445
LETTER No. CX
My dear friend
May I trouble you to hand the enclosed Rs. 50 to Darbhagiri
Nath when you see him? The little man is in trouble but has to
be remonstrated ;
and the best punishment for an accepted chela
is Ur receive the reproof through a "
lay
"
one. On his way frotn
Ghoom to Bengal through imprudence and indiscretion he lost
money, and, instead of addressing himself directly to me he tried
to dodge the
"
Master's eye
"
and called upon a probationary chela
upon whom he has not the slightest claim to help him out of his
difficulty. So please tell him that Ram S. Gargya has not received
his telegram from Burdwan but that it went direct into the hands
of the Lama who notified me of it. Let him be more prudent in
future. You now see the danger in allowing young chelas out of
sight even for a few days. Money losses are nothing, but it is
the results involved and the temptation that are terrible. My
friend, / am afraid you too, have been again IMPRUDENT. I have
a letter from Colonel Chesney very polite and quite diplomatic.
Several such messages may do for an excellent refrigerator.
Yours,
K. H.
P.S. I am glad to find you reprinting in the Pioneer
" A Day
with my Indian Cousins "
by Atettjee Sahibjee, etc., from
Vanity Fair. Last year I had asked you to give some work, to
the author of those sketches after the manner of the once famous
Ali Baba but was refused. You thought he did not write well
enough for the Pioneer. You distrusted a
4<
native," and now his
articles are accepted in Vanity Fair.
I am glad for poor Padshah. He is a madcap, yet of excellent
heart and sincerely devoted to Theosophy and our Cause.
I must consult you. Hume writes to H.P.B. (a most loving
letter !).
He sends her two corrected copies of a letter of his in
the Pioneer of the 2oth and remarking that the time has
come when, if the native press all over the country will only
following this, his lead, push the question strongly material
concessions will be obtained he adds
"
you will of course reprint
this in the Theosophist." How can she do it, without connecting
her journal directly with politics ? I would have extremely liked
to have his letter on Education reproduced from your Pioneer in
the Theosophist, but hesitated to tell her to do it, fearing it would
give a new colouring to the magazine. Some of his articles are
extremely able.
Well, and what are you to do about anniversary of
"
Eclectic
"
and cyclic conclusion?
She is better and we have left her near Darjeeling, She is not
446 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
safe in Sikkim. The Dugpa opposition is tremendous and unless
we devote the whole of our time to watching her, the
" Old Lady
"
would come to grief since she is now unable to take care of herself.
See what happened to the little man he will tell you. You ought
to take her in for October and November.
Yours again,
K.H.
This little wretch forced me to blush before you on account of
his indiscretion
"
from a European standpoint.'* I cannot be
always looking after my Chelas in their travels and their know-
ledge of your ways and usages amounts to cipher! It is but
to-day that I learned of his borrowing from you Rs. 30 through
Djual Khool. He had no business and no right to do so ; but you
must pardon him for he has not the least conception of a differ-
ence between a Tibetan and a European chela and acted as uncere-
moniously with you as he would with Djual Khool. I send you
back with thanks the money lent, hoping you will not take us all
for savages !
I am writing you a long letter by fits and starts as usual. When
that business letter will be on it's way, I will send another with
answers to your questions.
A ludicrous thing happened in connexion with C. C. M.'s letter
that I will relate in my next.
Hail and success to the
"
new President
"
at last ! !
Yours ever fondly,
K. H.
Pardon the unavoidable delay. This letter with the enclosed
cannot reach Darjeling before 4 or 5 days.
LETTER No. CXI
My dear friend,
The present will be delivered at your house by Darbhagiri Nath,
a young Chela of mine, and his brother Chela, Chandra Cusho.
They are forbidden to enter anyone* s house without being invited
to do so. Therefore, I pray you to pardon our savage customs
and, at the same time to humour them by sending them an invita-
tion in your name, either now if you can receive them privately
and without risking their meeting at your place with any stranger ;
or at any other time during the evening, or late at night.
I have not the slightest objection to Mrs. S. your lady seeing
either of them ;
but I pray her not to address them, since they are
forbidden by our religious laws to speak with any lady their
mothers and sisters excepted and that she would otherwise
greatly^embarass them. I
pray her to do so in my name, and
for my sake. I trust also to your friendship that none but you
MISCELLANEOUS LETTERS 447
will speak with them. They have their mission and beyond that
they must not go (i) to deliver into your hands my
"
answers to the
famous contradictions
"
and (2) to interview Mr. Fern. If you have
an answer for me, Darbhagiri Nath will come for it whenever you
are ready. I also entreat you most earnestly not to inflict upon
them Mr. Hume. Do not think of what has happened until every-
thing is explained.
Ever yours,
K. H.
P.S. They are also forbidden to shake hands with any man or
woman i.e. to touch anyone; but you can invite my little man to
come and talk with you as much as you like provided you are
discreet.
LETTER No. CXII
My reply to Colonel Chesney in answer to his tetter was already
written and ready to be forwarded by my little man, when I
received yours advising me not to correspond with him. There-
fore I forward it to you to be read, and should you think it
expedient to deliver it to it's address. It seems rude to leave
his letter without any acknowledgment whether he is or is not in
sympathy with the movement.
But good friend I leave this entirely in your hands and pray
you to use in the matter your own discretion. You ought to know
that decidedly young Fern is a little humbug and worse a con-
genital though often an irresponsible liar. He tries in his last
to bamboozle M. and make him believe he, Fern, is a new Zanoni
en herbe. He is testing us in every way and manner and constant
skirmishes notwithstanding has a certain and very strong influence
on Hume, whom he bamboozles with imaginary
"
powers
" whose
mission is to supplant the Brothers. He made him believe
indirectly he belonged to a Society whose " name is unmention-
able
M a Society that seeks no one, whose one member knows not
who the other is, nor will he know till the real nature of the
" Brothers
"
is made public, though the system on which it works
precludes all deception, etc. etc. To M. he writes that he con-
fesses he "
ought not to have put temptation
" in his (Hume's)
way. For having over estimated his strength, he has " un-
wittingly caused him to fall." ! ! This individual is at the bottom
of much that has happened. Watch and beware of him. One
thing is certain though. These are not times for visiting with
severity the offences of the too indiscreet and but half faithful
"
lay chelas." Now that Mr. Hume alienated the Chohan and M.
448 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
I remain alone to carry on the difficult work. You read H.*s
letter. How do you like that huge shadow of a Yogi with
solemnly stretched out hand, and defiant haughty eyes disavowing
with contemptuous gesture the intent of hurting the Society.
Let me echo your sigh for the poor Society, and before fading
away again into the foggy distance between Simla and Pari Jong
assure you of my ever friendly feelings for yourself,
K. H.
Mr. W. Oxley wants to join the Eclectic. I'll tell her to send
to you on his letter. Kindly write to him to say that he must
not feel vexed at my denial. I know he is thoroughly sincere and
as incapable of a deception or even exaggeration as you are. But
he trusts too much to his subjects. Let him be cautious and
very guarded ; and, if he joins the Society I may help and even
correspond with him through you. He is a valuable man, and
indeed, more worthy of sincere respect than any other Spiritualistic
mystic I know of. And though I have never approached him
astrally or conversed with I have often examined him in thought.
Do not fail to write to him with the first steamer.
K. H.
LETTER No. CXIII
Private.
My dearest Friend,
Please pardon me for troubling you with my own business but
though I am forced by the Chohan to answer I
really do not know
whether I am within the limits of your code of politeness or out-
side of it I have a long letter to write to you upon something
that troubles me and I want you to advise me. I am in a most
disagreeable position placed as I am between the risk of betraying
a friend and your code of honour (the friend is not yourself.) I
hope I may place an entire confidence in your personal friendship
and of course honour.
Honour ! What funny very funny notions you seem to have
about that sacred thing ! Do not be frightened for indeed the
whole thing is more ludicrous than dangerous. Yet there is a
danger in losing Mr. Hume.
To-morrow I will write more fully. Fern is a little ass but he
is a clairvoyant and likewise a little hallucinated. But Mr. H. is
too severe upon him. The boy hopes that if we are myths or
frauds he will find us out. Well where is the harm in such a
hallucination? Yet H. betrays his confidence and sends me a
letter three yards long with advice how to get out of our difficul-
MISCELLANEOUS LETTERS 449
ties ! He wants to be our benefactor and place us under an
eternal obligation for saving M. from falling once more into Fern's
trap. I would have sent you on his letter but it is superscribed
"
private and confidential
"
and I would be in his eyes no gentle-
man were he find out such a breach of confidence. Well I want
you to read this letter at any rate and leave it at your option to
be either sent or destroyed. If you do not want him to know you
have read it well put a stamp on it and throw it into the letter-
box. I do not think he will take you into his confidence this once.
However, I may be mistaken. Soon you will learn more.
Yours affectionately,
K. H.
LETTER No. CXIV
Received about February, 1882, Allahabad.
The letter forwarded is from a Baboo your nausea inspiring
Bengalee, from whom, I ask you, for K.H.'s sake to conceal the
feeling of queasiness that may overcome you at his sight if he
comes. Read it with attention. The lines underlined contain
the germ in them of the greatest reform, the most beneficent
results obtained by the Theosophical movement. Were our friend
of Simla less cantankerous, I might have tried to influence him
to draft out special rules and a distinct pledge with apps and
obligs for the Zenana women of India. Profit by the suggestion
and see whether you can prevail upon him to do so. Write to him
without delay to Bombay to come and meet the old woman at your
house and then pass him on to his countryman and Brother-Fellow
the
"
Prayag
n Babu the young leach of your Society. Then
telegraph to her to Meerut to come using my name otherwise she
will not. I already answered him in her name. Do not feel
surprised, for everything I have a reason of mine, as you may
learn some years hence.
And why should you be so anxious to see my chits to other
people? Have you not sufficient trouble to make out my letters
addressed to yourself?
M.
LETTER No. CXV
Received during brief visit to Bombay in January, 1882.
It was certainly K.H.'s and my great desire that since Scott
could not attend the anniversary you should not to take any part
45o THE MAHATMA LETTERS
in its proceedings but simply be present at it. This hapless
organization will once more exhibit its representation without one
single European of position and influence. But neither of us
would force a course of action against your wish upon you.
Therefore what I say must not be construed into an orderor urgent
request. We think it good but you must obey your own cool
judgment the more so as perhaps to-day marks a crisis. One
reason for my calling you was K.H.'s wish that you should be
brought under certain magnetic and other occult influences that
would favourably act upon yourself in future.
I will write more to-morrow for I yet hope you will give us
a day or two and so let us have time to see what can be done
for you by Khoothoomi.
y
M.
LETTER No. CXVI
A. P. Sinnett.
My dear Friend,
I am tired and disgusted with all this wrangling to death.
Please read this before giving it to Mr. Hume. If, as a debt
of gratitude, he would exact but a pound of flesh, I would have
naught to say but a pound of useless verbiage is indeed more
than even I can stand !
Yours ever,
K. H.
LETTER No. CXVII
This will introduce to my Chela (lay) No. i,
"
lay Chela No. 2
"
Mohini Babu. The experiences of the latter and what he has
to say will interest Mr. Sinnett. Mohini Babu is sent by me
on a certain mission in reference to the forthcoming and very
threatening end of the cycle (theosophical) and has no time to
lose. Please, receive him at once and take his evidence.
Yours,
K. H.
LETTER No. CXVIII
This is a fraudulent intrusion into private correspondence. No
time to even answer your queries will do so to-morrow or next
MISCELLANEOUS LETTERS 451
day. For several days I have noticed something* like anxiety in
your lady's thoughts about " Den." Children's diseases are
seldom dangerous even when somewhat neglected, if the child
have naturally a strong constitution ; the pampered ones falling
naturally victims to contagion.
I remarked her fear of carrying the germs of the disease home
with her at Mr. Hume's the other day, as my attention was drawn
to her by the "
Disinherited
M who was on the watch. Fear not
in any case. I hope you will pardon me if I advise you to sow
up the enclosed in a small bag a part of it will do and hang it
on the child's neck.
Unable as I am to carry into your homestead the full magnetism
of my physical person I do the next best thing by sending you a
lock of hair as a vehicle for the transmission of my aura in a con-
centrated condition. Do not allow anyone to handle it except
Mrs. Sinnett. You'll do well not to approach Mr. Fern too
near for a time.
Yours,
K. H.
Say nothing of this note to anybody.
LETTER No. CXIX
Give Mr. Sinnett my salams and ask him to comment upon
the slip enclosed. He may know what I mean him to write upon
the subject editorially. Tell him also that time is short and
precious and ought not to be wasted.
K. H.
The following may lead later on to a curious confirmation ot
our " obscuration
"
doctrine which so puzzles my friend the
Editor of the
"
Phoenix.
"
Will you kindly and likewise, comment upon it and oblige
thereby,
Yours,
K. H.
NEWSPAPER CUTTING
Sir John Lubbock's opinion confirms or endorses the con-
clusion long since put forth by some of the most eminent
astronomers, namely, that there are now in the solar system, or
firmament, many dark bodies that is, bodies which now emit no
light, or comparatively little. He points out, for example, that
in the case of Procyon the existence of an invisible body is
demonstrated by the movement of the visible stars. Another
illustration which he cites relates to the notable phenomena pre-
sented by Algow, the bright star in the Head of Medusa. This
452 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
star shines without change for two days and thirteen hours ; then,
in three hours and a half, dwindles from a star of the second to
one of the fourth magnitude; and then, in another three and a
half hours, resumes its original brilliancy. According to the view
entertained by Professor Lubbock, these changes must be re-
garded as indicating the presence of an opaque body, which inter-
cepts at regular intervals a part of the light emitted by Algow.
LETTER No. CXX
To Mr. Sinnett's
"
lady."
Wear the hair enclosed in a cotton tape (and if preferred in a
metal armlet) a little lower than your left armpit below the left
shoulder. Follow advice that will be given to you by Henry
Olcott. It is good and we shall not object. Harbour not ill-feel-
ings even against an enemy and one who has wronged you : for
hatred acts like an antidote and may damage the effect of even
this hair.
K. H.
LETTER No. CXXI
Received at Bombay on return to India, July, 1881.
Thanks. The little things prove very useful, and I gratefully
acknowledge them. You ought to go to Simla. TRY. I confess
to a weakness on my part to see you do so. We must patiently
await the results, as I told you of the Book. The blanks are pro-
voking and "
tantalizing
" but we cannot go against the inevit-
able. And as it is always good to mend an error I
already did so
by presenting the Occult World to the C 's notice. Patience,
patience.
Yours, ever
K. H.
LETTER No. CXXII
My good friend ;
tho* Mr. Eglington has promised to return by
the end of June he cannot do so after the danger that has
threatened him at Calcutta on the very day of his departure
unless he is
thoroughly protected against any such disgraceful
recurrence. If Mr. Hume is anxious to have him, let him for
want of something better offer him the place of his private secre-
tary, for a year or so, now that Mr. Davison is away. If you or
MISCELLANEOUS LETTERS 453
Mr. Hume are really anxious to* see me (or rather tny astral
Self) there's a chance for you. H.P.B. is too old and not passive
enough. Besides she has done too many services to be forced
into it. With Mr. Ellington, and he willing, the thing would
become easy. Profit then by the chance offered ;
in a year more it
WILL BE TOO LATE.
Yours,
London, April 27. K. H.
To Mr. A. P. Sinnett,
Editor Pioneer, Allahabad.
LETTER No. CXXIII
Do not be impatient good friend, I will answer to-morrow.
When you learn one day the difficulties that are in my way you
will see how mistaken you are at times in your notions about my
movements.
K. H.
LETTER No. CXXIV
Cannot you manage to pick up for me three pebbles? They
must come from the shores of the Adriatic Venice preferably ;
as near to the Dogal Palace as they can possibly be found ; (under
the Bridge of Sighs would be the most desirable but for the mud
of the ages). The pebbles must be of three different colours one
red, the other black ; the third white (or greyish). If you
manage to get them, please keep them apart from every influence
and contact but yours, and oblige ever yours,
K. H.
LETTER No. CXXV
I am commanded by my beloved Master, known in India and
the Western lands as Koot Hoomi Lai Singh, to make in his name
the following declaration, in answer to a certain statement made
by Mr- W. Oxley, and sent by him for publication in the
Theosophist. It is claimed by the said gentleman that my Master
Koot Hoomi (a) has thrice visited him "
by the astral form
"
;
and
(b) that he had a conversation with Mr. Oxley when, as alleged
he gave the latter certain explanations in reference to astral bodies
in general, and the incompctency of his own Mayavy-rupa to pre-
serve its consciousness simultaneously with the body
" at both
454 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
ends of the line
"
therefore my Master declares that :
i. Whomsoever Mr. Oxley may have seen and conversed with at
the time described, it was not with Koot Hoomi, the writer of
the letters published in the Occult World.
2. Notwithstanding that my Master knows the gentleman in
question who once honoured him with an autograph letter, there-
by giving him the means of making his (Mr. Oxley's) acquaint-
ance and of sincerely admiring his intuitional powers and western
learning yet he has never approached him whether astrally or
otherwise : Nor has he ever had any conversation with Mr. Oxley,
least of all one of that nature in which both the subject and pre-
dicate, the premises and conclusions are all wrong.
3. In consequence of the said claims, the repetition of which is
calculated to lead many of our theosophists into error, my Master
has determined to issue the following resolution.
Henceforth any medium or seer who will feel disposed to claim
either to have been visited by, or to have held conversation with,
or to have seen my Master, will have to substantiate the claim
by prefixing his or her statement with THREE SECRET WORDS, which
he, my Teacher, will divulge to and leave in the safe keeping of
Mr. A. O. Hume, and Mr. A. P. Sinnett the respective President
and Vice-President, of
" The Eclectic Theosophical Society
" of
Simla. As long as they do not find these three words correctly
repeated by a medium or heading a statement to that effect,
whether verbal or printed, emanating from him or her, or on his
or her behalf, the claim shall be regarded as a gratuitous assump-
tion and no notice will be taken of it. To his regret my Master is
forced to adopt this step, as unfortunately of late such self-decep-
tion have become quite frequent, and would demand a speedy
check.
The above declaration and statement to be appended as a foot-
note to Mr. Oxley's published statement.
By order,
GJUAL-KHOOL. M.xxx.
LETTER No. CXXVI
P.S. It is exceedingly difficult to make arrangements for a
Punjab address through which to correspond. Both B. and I had
counted much upon the young man whose sentimentalism we find
unfits him for the useful office of intermediary. Still, I will not
cease trying and shall hope to send you the name of a post office
either in the Punjab or N.W.P. where one of our friends will be
passing and re-passing once or twice a month.
K. H.
MISCELLANEOUS LETTERS 455
LETTER No. CXXVII 1
Extracts from Letters of K.H. to A.O.H. and A.P.S. Received by A.P.S.
August i3th, 1882.
One of your letters begins with a quotation from one of my
own ..." Remember that there is within man no abiding
principle
" which sentence I find followed by a remark of yours
"
How about the sixth and seventh principles?
" To this I
answer, neither Atma nor Buddhi ever were within man, a little
metaphysical axiom that you can study with advantage in Plutarch
and Anaxagoras. The latter made his vou<; auioxpaTTjg the
spirit self-potent, the nous that alone recognised noumena while
the former taught on the authority of Plato and Pythagoras that
the semomnius or this nous always remained without the body ;
that it floated and overshadowed so to say the extreme part of
the man's head, it is only the vulgar who think it is within them.
. .
Says Buddha
"
you have to get rid entirely of all the sub-
jects of impermanence composing the body that your body should
become permanent. The permanent never merges with the
impermanent although the two are one. But it is only when all
outward appearances are gone that there is left that one principle
of life which exists independently of all external phenomena. It
is the fire that burns in the eternal light, when the fuel is ex-
pended and the flame is extinguished ;
for that fire is neither in
the flame nor in the fuel, nor yet inside either of the two but above
beneath and everywhere (Parinirvana Sutra kwnen XXXIX).
. . . You want to acquire gifts, Set to work and try to
develop lucidity. The latter is no gift but a universal possibility
common to all. As Luke Burke puts it
" idiots and dogs have it,
and to a more remarkable degree often than the most intellectual
men. It is because neither idiots nor dogs use their reasoning
faculties but allow their natural instinctive perceptions to have
full play. .
You use too much sugar in your food. Take fruit
bread tea coffee and milk and use them as freely as you would
like to, but no chocolate, fat, pastry and but very little sugar.
The fermentation produced by it especially in that climate of
yours is very injurious. The methods used for developing lucidity
in our chelas may be easily used by you. Every temple has a dark
room, the north wall of which is entirely covered with a sheet of
mixed metal, chiefly copper, very highly polished, with a surface
capable of reflecting in it things, as well as a mirror. The chela
sits on an insulated stool, a three-legged bench placed in a flat-
bottomed vessel of thick glass, the lama operator likewise, the
i The extracts are in Mr. Sinnett's handwriting. ED.
456 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
two forming with the mirror wall a triangle. A magnet with the
North Pole up is suspended over the crown of the chela's head
without touching it. The operator having started the thing
going leaves the chela alone gazing on the wall, and after the
third time is no longer required.
LETTER No. CXXVIII
INDIAN TELEGRAPH.
To From
Station Adyar Madras Station Jammoo
To From
Person Madame Blavatsky Person Colonel Olcott
Editor of the Theosophist.
Damodar left before dawn at about eight o'clock letters from
him and Koothumi found on my table Don't say whether return
or not Damodar bids us all farewell conditionally and says
brother theosophists should all feel encouraged knowing that he
has found the blessed masters and been called by them. The
dear boys recent developments astonishing Hooney bids me await
orders.
Madras 25-11-83. Hour 17.30.
LETTER No. CXXIX
Class P. INDIAN TELEGRAPH. Local No. 48
To From
Station Adyar Madras Station Jummar
To From
Person Madame Blavatsky Person Col. Olcott
The Masters have
taken Damodar return
not promised
We will send him back.
K.R
Adyar 25-11-83. Hour 10.15.
APPENDIX
LETTER No. CXXX
Triplicane,
Madras, 7th May, 1882.
To A. P. Sinnett Esq.,
Editor of the Pioneer, etc. etc. etc.
Dear Sir,
I have been requested by Madame Blavatsky several times
within the last three months to give you such practical instruction
in our occult Science as I may be permitted to give to one in your
position ;
and I am now ordered by to help you to a
certain extent in lifting up a portion of the first veil of mystery.
I need hardly tell you here that the Mahatmas can hardly be
expected to undertake the work of personal instruction and super-
vision in the case of beginners like you, however sincere and
earnest you may be in your belief in their existence and the
reality of their science and in your endeavours to investigate the
mysteries of that science. When you know more about them
and the peculiar life they lead, I am sure you will not be inclined
to blame them for not affording to you personally the instruction
you are so anxious to receive from them.
I beg to inform you that the help hereby promised will be given
to you provided you give your consent to the following con-
ditions :
(1) You must give me your word of Honour that you will never
reveal to anybody whether belonging to the Theosophical Society
or not, the Secrets communicated to you unless you previously
obtain my permission to do so.
(2) You must lead such a .life as is quite consistent with the
Spirit of the rules already given you for your guidance.
(3) You must reiterate your promise to promote as far as it lies
in your power the objects of the Theosophical Association.
(4) You must strictly act up to the directions that will be given
to you with the instruction herein promised.
I must also add here that anything like a wavering state of
mind as to the reality of Occult Science and the efficacy of the
457
458 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
prescribed process is likely to prevent the production of the desired
result.
In sending me a reply to this letter I hope you will be good
enough to let me know whether you are acquainted with the
Sanskrit Alphabet and whether you can pronounce Sanskrit words
correctly and distinctly.
I beg to remain,
Yours sincerely,
T. SUBBA Row.
LETTER No. CXXXI
Coconada.
26th June, 1882.
To A. P. Sinnett, Esq., etc. etc. etc.
Dear Sir,
Please kindly excuse me for not having sent you a reply to
your letter up to this time. The qualified assent which you were
pleased to give to the conditions laid down by me necessitated a
reference to the Brothers for their opinion and orders. And now
I am sorry to inform you that anything like practical instruction
in the ritual of Occult Science is impossible under the conditions
you propose. So far as my knowledge goes, no student of Occult
Philosophy has ever succeeded in developing his psychic powers
without leading the life prescribed for such students; and it is
not within the power of the teacher to make an exception in the
case of any student. The rules laid down by the ancient teachers
of Occult Science are inflexible ;
and it is not left to the discretion
of any teacher either to enforce them or not to enforce them
according to the nature of the existing circumstances. If you
find it impracticable to change the present mode of your life, you
cannot but wait for practical instruction until you are in a posi-
tion to make such sacrifices as Occult Science demands ;
and for
the present you must be satisfied with such theoretical instruction
as it may be possible to give you.
It is hardly necessary now to inform you whether the instruc-
tion promised you in my first letter under the conditions therein
laid down would develop in you such powers as would enable you
either to see the Brothers or converse with them clairvoyantly.
Occult training, however commenced will in course of time, neces-
sarily develop such powers. You will be taking a very low view
of Occult Science if you were to suppose that the mere acquire-
ment of psychic powers is the highest and the only desirable result
of occult training. The mere acquisition of wonder-working
powers can never secure immortality for the student of Occult
APPENDIX 459
Science unless he has learnt the means of shifting* gradually his
sense of individuality from his corruptible material body to the
incorruptible and eternal Non-Being represented by his seventh
principle. Please consider this as the real aim of Occult Science
and see whether the rules you are called upon to obey are neces-
sary or not to bring about this mighty change.
Under the present circumstances, the Brothers have asked me
to assure you and Mr. Hume that I would be fully prepared to
give you both such theoretical instruction as I may be able to give
in the Philosophy of the Ancient Brahminical religion and
Esoteric Buddhism.
I am going to leave this place for Madras on the 3Oth of this
month.
I beg to remain your sincerely,
T. SUBBA Row.
LETTER No. CXXXII 1
Extracts I got for your benefit pitying your impatience from
'*
Rishi M." See my note.
It would no doubt cause him considerable inconvenience if he
were obliged to change his mode of life completely. You will
finds from the letters that he is very anxious to know beforehand
the nature of the Siddhis or wonder-working powers that he is
expected to obtain by the process or ritual I intend prescribing for
him.
The power to which he will be introduced by the process in ques-
tion will no doubt develop wonderful clairvoyant powers both as
regards sight and sound in some of its higher correlations; and
that the highest of its correlations is intended by our Rishi M
to lead the candidate through the first three stages of initiation if
he is properly qualified for it.
But I am not prepared to assure Mr. Sinnett NOW that I will
teach him any of its higher correlations. What I mean to teach
him now is a necessary preliminary preparation for studying such
correlations
my proposal into consideration.
As I have been wandering here and there since my arrival here
I have not been able to complete my second article with reference
to Mr. Oxley's book.
i Parts of this letter are missing. The comments in K.H.'s handwriting
are printed in bold type. ED.
460 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
But I will try my best to finish it as soon as possible.
For the present I beg to remain
Your most obedient servant
T. SUBBA Row.
To Madam H. P. Blavatsky, etc. Coconacla 3rd June, 1882.
My dear friend, I strongly advise you not to undertake at
present a task beyond your strength and means; for once pledged
were you to break your promise it would cut you off for
years, if not for ever from any further progress. I said from
the first to Rishi
"
M." that his intention was kind but his
project wild. How can you in your position undertake any
such labour? Occultism is not to be trifled with. It demands
all or nothing. I read your letter to S.R. sent by him to Morya
and 1 see you do not understand the first principles of . . .X.
(Contd. post p. 376.)
LETTER No. CXXXIII
My dear Mr. Sinnett,
It is very strange that you should be ready to deceive yourself so
willingly. I have seen last night whom I had to see, and getting
the explanation I wanted I am now settled on points I was not
only doubtful about but positively averse to accepting. And
the words in the first line are words I am bound to repeat to you
as a warning, and because I regard you, after all, as one of my
best personal friends. Now you have and are deceiving, in vulgar
parlance, bamboozling yourself about the letter received by me
yesterday from the Mahatma. The letter is from Him, whether
written through a chela or not ;
and perplexing as it may seem
to you, contradictory and "
absurd,
" it is the full expression of
his feelings and he maintains what he said in it. For me it is
surpassingly strange that you should accept as His only that which
dovetails with your own feelings, and reject all that contradicts
your own notions of the fitness of things. Olcott has behaved
like an ass, utterly devoid of tact ;
he confesses it, and is ready to
confess it and to say mea culpa before all the Theosophists and it
is more than any Englishman would be willing to do. This is
perhaps, why, with all his lack of tact, and his frequent freaks
that justly shock your susceptibilities and mine too, heaven knows !
going as he does against every conventionality he is still so liked
by the Masters, who care not for the flowers of European civiliza-
tion. Had I known last night what I have learnt since i.e. that
APPENDIX 461
you imagine, or rather force yourself to imagine that the
Mahatma's letter is not wholly orthodox and was written by a
chela to please me, or something of the sort, I would not have
rushed to you as the only plank of salvation. Things are getting
dark and hazy. I have managed last night to get the Psychic
Research Society rid of its nightmare, Olcott; I
may manage to
get England rid of its bugbear Theosophy. If you the most
devoted, the best of all Theosophists are all ready to fall a victim
to your own preconceptions and believe in new gods of your own
fancy dethroning the old ones then, notwithstanding all and
everything Theosophy has come too early in this country. Let
your L.L.T.S. go on as it does I cannot help it, and what I
mean I will tell you when I see you. But / will have nothing to
do with the new arrangement and retire from it altogether unless
we agree to disagree no more.
Yours,
H.P.B.
LETTER No. CXXXIV
Dehra Dun. Friday. 4th.
Arrived only yesterday, last night late from Saharampur. The
house very good but cold, damp and dreary. Received a whole
heap of letters and answer yours first.
Saw at last M. and showed him your last or rather Benemad-
hab's on which you have scratched a query. It is the latter Morya
answers. I wrote this under his dictation and now copy it.
I wrote to Sinnett my opinion on the Allahabad theosophists.
(Not through me though?) Adetyarom B. wrote a foolisih letter
to Damodar and Benemadhab writes a foolish request to Mr.
Sinnett. Because K.H. chose to correspond with two men, who
proved of the utmost importance and use to the Society they all
whether wise or stupid, clever or dull, possibly useful or utterly
useless lay their claims to correspond with us directly too. Tell
him (you) that this must be stopped. For ages we never cor-
responded with anyone, nor do we mean to. What has Benemad-
hab or any other of the many claimants done to have a right to such
a claim? Nothing whatever. They join the Society, and though
remaining as stubborn as ever in their old beliefs and superstitions,
and having never given up caste or one single of their customs,
they, in their selfish exclusiveness, expect to see and converse
with us and have our help in all and everything. I will be pleased
if Mr. Sinnett says, to everyone of those who may address him
with similar pretensions the following: "The '
Brothers' desire
462 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
me to inform one and all of you, natives, that unless a man is pre-
pared to become a thorough theosophist i.e. to do as D.
Mavalankar did, give up entirely caste, his old superstitions and
show himself a true reformer (especially in the case of child mar-
riage) he will remain simply a member of the Society with no
hope whatever of ever hearing from us. The Society, acting in
this directly in accordance with our orders, forces no one to become
a theosophist of the Hd. Section. It is left with himself and at
his choice. It is useless for a member to argue
'
I am one of a
pure life, I am a teetotaller and an abstainer from meat and vice.
All my aspirations are for good etc.* and he, at the same time,
building by his acts and deeds an impassable barrier on the road
between himself and us. What have we, the disciples of the true
Arhats, of esoteric Buddhism and of Sang-gyas to do with the
Shatters and Orthodox Brahmanism? There are 100 of thou-
sands of Fakirs, Sannyasis and Saddhus leading the most pure
lives, and yet being as they are, on the path of error, never
having had an opportunity to meet, see or even hear of us. Their
forefathers have driven away the followers of the only true
philosophy upon earth away from India and now, it is not for the
latter to come to them but to them to come to us if they want us.
Which of them is ready to become a Buddhist, a Nastika as they
call us? None. Those who have believed and followed us have
had their reward. Mr. Sinnett and Hume are exceptions. Their
beliefs are no barrier to us for they have none. They may have
had influences around them, bad magnetic emanations the result
of drink, Society and promiscuous physical associations (resulting
even from shaking hands with impure men) but all this is physical
and material impediments which with a little effort we could
counteract and even clear away without much detriment to our-
selves.. Not so with the magnetism and invisible results pro-
ceeding from erroneous and sincere beliefs. Faith in the Gods
and God, and other superstitions attracts millions of foreign influ-
ences, living entities and powerful agents around them, with
which we would have to use more than ordinary exercise of power
to drive them away. We do not choose to do so. We do not
find it either necessary or profitable to lose our time waging war
to the unprogressed Planetaries who delight in personating gods
and sometimes well known characters who have lived on earth.
There are Dhyan-Chohans and " Chohans of Darkness, not what
they term devils but imperfect
"
Intelligences
" who have never
been born on this or any other earth or sphere no more than the
"
Dhyan Chohans*' have and who will never belong to the
14
builders of the Universe, the pure Planetary Intelligences, who
preside at every Manvantara while the Dark Chohans preside at
the Pralayas. Explain this to Mr. Sinnett (I CAN'T) tell him to
APPENDIX 463
read over what I said to them in the few things I have explained to
Mr. Hume ;
and let him remember that as all in this universe is
contrast (I cannot translate it better) so the light of the Dhyan
Chohans and their pure intelligence is contrasted by the
" Ma-Mo
Chohans "
and their destructive intelligence. These are the gods
the Hindus and Christians and Mahomed and all others of bigoted
religions and sects worship ;
and so long as their influence is upon
their devotees we would no more think of associating with or
counteracting them in their work than we do the Red-Caps on
earth whose evil results we try to palliate but whose work we
have no right to meddle with so long as they .do not cross our
path. (You will not understand this, I suppose. But think well
over it and you will. M. means here, that they have no right
or even power to go against the natural or that work which is
prescribed to each class of beings or existing things by the law of
nature. The Brothers, for instance could prolong life but they could
not destroy death, not even for themselves. They can to a degree
palliate evil and relieve suffering ; they could not destroy evil.
No more can the Dhyan Chohans impede the work of the Mamo
Chohans, for their Law is darkness, ignorance, destruction etc.,
as that of the former is Light, knowledge and creation. The
Dhyan Chohans answer to Buddh, Divine Wisdom and Life in
blissful knowledge, and the Ma-mos are the personification in
nature of Shiva, Jehovah and other invented monsters with Ignor-
ance at their tail).
The last phrase of M/s I translate is thus.
" Tell him (you)
then that for the sake of those who desire to learn and have in-
formation, I am ready to answer the 2 or 3 enquiries of Beninadhab
from the Shasters, but I will enter in no correspondence with him
or any other. Let him put their questions clearly and distinctly
to (you) Mr. Sinnett, and then I will answer through him (you)."
I send you my uncle's letter just received by me. He says
(as my translation of his Russian letter shows) that he wrote to
you the same. Whether you received it or not, I know not, but
I send you this. If it is identical with yours then send me back
mine. I suppose that by this time it is pretty well proved that I
am / and not someone else ; that my uncle being now adjunct
(or asst.) Minister of the Interior, is a personage who by signing
his name in full can certainly be trusted, unless, indeed, the C.
and M. and your friend Primrose invent a new version and say
that we have forged the documents. But my uncle says in his
official letter to me thai the Prince Dondovhof is going to send
me an official document to prove my identity, and so we will wait.
His other private letter I cannot translate as its phraseology is
far from complimentary for Mr. Primrose in particular, and the
464 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
Anglo-Indians who insult and vilify me in general. I will ask the
Prince to write to Lord Ripon, or Gladstone direct.
Your's in the love of Jesus
H. P. BLAVATSKY.
Why the deuce does the
" Boss "
want me now to go to Allaha-
bad? I can't be spending money there and back for / have to go
by Jeypur and Baroda and he knows it. What all this means is
more than I can tell. He made me go to Lahore and now it's
Allahabad!!
LETTER No. CXXXV
My dear Mr. Sinnett,
For fear that you should
"
trace back
"
to me a new treachery,
permit me to say that I have never said to Hiibbe Schleiden and
Frank Gebhard that the existence of our seven objective planets
was an allegory. What I said was, that the objectivity and
actuality of the septenary chain had nothing to do with the correct
understanding of the seven rounds. That outside of the initiates
no one knew the mot final of this mystery. That you could not
understand it thoroughly, nor explain it, because Mahat K.H. told
you hundred times that you could not be told the whole doctrine ;
that you knew Hume had made him questions and cross-examined
Him until his hair became grey. That there were hundred
apparent inconsistencies just because you had not the key to the
X777X and could not be given it. In short that you gave the
truth, but by far not the whole truth especially about rounds
and rings which was only at best allegorical.
Yours,
H.P.B.
LETTER No. CXXXVI
March i7th.
My dear Mr. Sinnett,
Your invitation read with surprise.
Not "
surprise
"
at myself being invited, but surprise at you
inviting me again, just as if
you had not had enough of me !
Now what good can I be to any one in this world, except to make
some stare, others to speculate upon my cleverness as an impostor,
and the small minority to eye me with the feeling of wonder
APPENDIX 465
generally in store for
"
monsters
" exhibited in museums or
aqtiariums. This is fact; and I had enough proof of it, not to
run again my neck into the halter if I can help it. My coming
to stop with you even for a few days, would be only a source of
disappointment to yourself, and one of torture to me.
Now, you must not take these words en mauvaise part. I
am simply sincere with you. You are and have been, especially
Mrs. Sinnett, for ever so long my best friends here ;
but it is
just because I consider you as such, that I am forced to rather
give a momentary than a prolonged annoyance to you ;
rather a
refusal, than an acceptance of the kind invitation. Besides as
a medium of communication between yourself and K.H. (for I
suppose you do not invite me pour mes beaux yeux, alone?) I am
utterly useless now. There is a limit to endurance, there is one
to the greatest self-sacrifice. I have worked for them faithfully
and unselfishly for years, and the result was, that I ruined my
health, dishonoured my ancestral name, got reviled by every green-
grocer from Oxford Street, and every fishmonger from Hungerford
market who had become a C.S. and finally did no good; to them,
very little to the Society and none at all to either poor Olcott or
myself. Believe me, we are better friends with several hundred
miles between us than a few steps. Besides this, Boss says
there 's a new development hanging over our heads. He and
K.H. put their wise heads together and are preparing to work
as they tell me. We have but a few months left until November
and if things are not entirely whitewashed until then and fresh
blood poured into the Brotherhood and Occultism we may just
as well go to bed all of us. Personally for myself it is a matter
of very little moment, whether it is so or not. My time is also
fast approaching when, my hour of triumph will strike. Then is
it, that I also, may prove to those who speculated about me, those
who believed as those who disbelieved that none of them
approached within 100 miles of the area of truth. I have suffered
hell on earth, but before I leave it, I promise myself such a triumph,
as will make the Ripons and his Roman Catholics, and the Baly's
and Bishop Sargeant with their Protestant donkeys bray as loud
as their lungs will bear. Now, do you really think that you know
ME my dear Mr. Sinnett? Do you believe that, because you have
fathomed as you think my physical crust and brain ; that shrewd
analyst of human nature though you be you have ever penetrated
even beneath the first cuticles of my Real Self? You would
gravely err, if you did. I am held by all of you as untruthful
because hitherto I have shown the world only the true exterior
Mme. Blavatsky. It is just as if you complained of the falseness
of a moss and weed covered, and mwd-covered, stony and rugged
rock for writing outside
" / am not rtfoss covered and mud-
466 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
plastered ; your eyes deceive you for you are unable to see beneath
the crust,
"
etc. You must understand the allegory. It is not
boasting for I do not say whether inside that unprepossessing rock
there is a palatial residence or an humble hut. What I say is
this :
you do not know me ;
for whatever there is inside it, is not
what you think it is; and to judge of me therefore, as of one
untruthful is the greatest mistake in the world besides being a
flagrant injustice. I, (the inner real
" I ") am in prison and cannot
show myself as I am with all the desire I may have to. Why
then, should I, because speaking for myself as I am and feel myself
to be, why should I be held responsible for the .outward jail-door
and its appearance, when I have neither built nor yet decorated it?
But all this will be for you no better than vexation of spirit.
14
The poor old lady is crazy again
"
will you remark. And
let me prophecy that the day will come when you will accuse
K.H. too of having deceived you ;
for only failing to tell you what
he has no right to tell anyone. Yes ; you will blaspheme even
against him; because you always secretly hope that he may make
an exception in your favour.
Why, such an extravagant, seemingly useless tirade as con-
tained in this letter? Because, the hour is near; and that after
having proved what I have to, I will bow myself out from the
refined Western Society and be no more. You may all whistle
then for the Brothers. GOSPEL.
Of course it was a joke. No; you do not hate me ; you only feel
a friendly, indulgent, a kind of benevolent contempt for H.P.B.
You are right there, so far as you know her the one who is ready
to fall into pieces. Perchance you may find out yet your mistake
concerning* the other the well hidden party. I have now with
me Deb; Deb "
Shortridg
" as we call him, who looks a boy of
12, though is past 30 and more. An ideal little face with small
cut delicate features, pearly teeth, long hair, almond cut eyes and
a Chinese-tartar purple cap on the top of his head. He is my
" heir of Salvation
" and I have work to do with him. I can-
not leave him and have no right to, now. I have to make over
my work to him. He is my right hand (and K.H. 's left one) at
imposture and false pretence.
And now God bless you. Better not be angry at anything
f may do or say ; only as a friend, a real friend, I say to you, so
long as you have not changed your mode of living, expect no
exception.
Yours truly
H.P.B.
My sincere love to Mrs. ^innett and a kiss to dear little Dennie.
APPENDIX 467
LETTER No. CXXXVII
Clan Drummond :
Algiers.
Sunday 8th.
My dear Mr. Sinnett,
You see I am as good as my word. Last night as we were
hopelessly tossed about and pitched in our Clan wash-tub Djual
K. put in an appearance and asked in his Master's name if I would
send you a chit. I said I would. He then asked me to prepare
some paper which I had not. He then said any would do. I
then proceeded to ask some from a passenger not having Mrs.
Holloway to furnish me with. Lo ! I wish those passengers, who
quarrel with us every day about the possibility of phenomena
could see what was taking place in my cabin on the foot of my
berth ! How D.K.'s hand, as real as life, was impressing the
letter at his Master's dictation which came out in relief between
the wall and my legs. He told me to read the letter but I am
no wiser for it. I understand very well that it was all probation
and all for the best; but it is devilish hard for me to understand
why it should all be performed over my long suffering back. She
is in correspondence with Myers and the Gebhard's and many
others. You will see what splatters / will receive as an effect
of the causes produced by that probation business. I wish I had
never seen the woman. Such treachery, such a deceit I would
never have dreamt of. I was also a chela and guilty of more
than one flapdoodle ; but I would have thought as soon of
murdering physically a man as to murder morally my friends as
she has. Had not Master brought about the explanation I would
have gone away leaving a nice memory of myself in Mrs. Sinnett 's
and your hearts. We have on board Mrs. (Major) Burton of
Simla. She left it the day before I came and has been always
anxious since, to meet me. She wants to join us and is a charming
little woman. We have several Anglo Indians and all kindly
disposed. The steamer is a rolling wash-tub and the steward an
infamy. We are all starving, and live upon our own tea and
biscuits. Do write a word to Port Said, paste restante. We
shall remain in Egypt perhaps a fortnight. It all depends on
Olcott's letters and news from Adyar. Can't write for the rolling.
Love to all.
Yours ever truly
H. P. BLAVATSKY.
468 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
LETTER No. CXXXVIII
Adyar, March i7th.
My dear Mr. Sinnett,
I am very sorry that the Mahatma should have selected me to
fight this new battle. But since there must be concealed wisdom
even in the act of choosing a half dead individual who just rises
from eight weeks of sick bed and can hardly gather her scattered
ideas to say that which had better be left unsaid I obey.
You cannot have forgotten what I told you repeatedly at Simla
and what the Master K. H. wrote to you himself, namely, that the
T.S. is first of all a universal Brotherhood, not a Society for
phenomena and occultism. The latter must be held secret etc.
I know that owing to my great zeal for the cause and your assur-
ances that the Society would never prosper unless the occult
element was introduced into it and the Masters proclaimed I am
more guilty than any for having listened to this. Still all of you
have now to suffer Karma. Well, the phenomena are now all
found, on the evidence of padris, and other enemies, frauds (by
Mr. Hodgson), from the
"
brooch
"
phenomenon downward; and
the Masters are dragged before the public and their names
desecrated by every rascal in Europe.
The padris have spent thousands for false and other witnesses,
and I was not permitted to go to law where at least I could pro-
duce my evidence : and now Hodgson, who, unto this day seemed
most friendly and came nearly daily to us changed front. He
went to Bombay and saw Wimbridge and all my enemies. Re-
turning he assured Hume, (who is here, and also coming daily)
that in his opinion the evidence of our boys in office and other
witnesses is so contradictory that after Bombay he came to the
conclusion that all our phenomena were frauds. A men.
And now what is the use in writing to disabuse Mr. Arthur
Gebhard's mind? As soon as the P.R.S. oracle will have pro-
claimed me a wholesale
"
fraud
M and all of you my dupes (as
Hume does here laughingly, and with the greatest unconcern)
your L.L. Society is sure to collapse. Can even you, the true
and the faithful, stand this storm? Happy Damodar ! He went
to the land of Bliss, to Tibet and must now be far away in the
regions of our Masters. No one will ever see him now, I expect.
Well, this is where the accursed phenomena led us to. Olcott
is returning from Burma in three days and will find nice things.
At first Hume was all friendly. Then came the revelations.
Hodgson had traced the brooch ! ! ! I had given an identical
brooch or pin to mend to Servai before going to Simla, he was
told, and it was that brooch. Does Mrs. Sinnett remember that
APPENDIX 469
I spoke at that time of having had a pin very like it with pearls
that I sent with another I bought at Simla to my sister's children?
I spoke of the likeness even to Mr. Hume. I asked Mr. H. to
have his pin sent to the jeweller (unknown but to Servai, Wim-
bridge's partner and my mortal enemy) who, will or will not
identify it. Most probably he will. Why shouldn't he for a
hundred rupees or so?
Mr. Hume wants to save the Society and has found a means.
He called yesterday a Council meeting composed of Ragunath
Row, Subba Row, Sreenavas Row, Honourable Subramanya
Iyer and Rama Iyer. All leaders of Hindus. Then having
selected. Rag : Row Chairman and the audience being composed
of the two Oakeleys, Hartmann and the chelas he gave him a
paper. In it he proposed, to save the Society (he imagines and
insists that it is falling to pieces after the
" revelations
M
though
not one fellow has yet resigned) ; to force Colonel Olcott its
life-President Madame Blavatsky, (ditto) Damodar (absent)
Bowaji, Bhavani Row, Ananda, Rama Swami, etc. in all 16
persons to resign as they were all frauds and accomplices since
many of them asserted they knew the Masters independently of me
and that the Masters did not exist. The Headquarters must be
sold and on its place a new Scientifico-Philosophico-Humanitarian
Theosophical society raised. I was not present at the meeting,
I am confined to my room. But the Councillors came to me in a
body after the proceedings. Instead of accepting the proposal
though and proclaiming the phenomena a fraud as Mr. Hume said
they all had done to his knowledge Raganath Row rejected the
paper throwing it aside with disgust. They all believed in the
Mahatmas he said, and the phenomena they had witnessed per-
sonally but would have no more their names desecrated. Phe-
nomena must be, hereafter, prohibited, and if they did happen
independently, must not be talked about under penalty of
expulsion. They declined to ask the Founders to resign. They
saw no reason for it. Mr. Hume is a queer
"
Saviour !
"
Ergo, no more phenomena, at least here in India. While
Mascul. and Cook produce theirs far better and are paid for it,
we come out second best and are kicked for them.
Mr. Hume is more liberal than the Padris. These call Olcott
" a credulous fool but undeniably an honest man"; and he de-
clares, that since Olcott swears to have seen the Masters he must
be a dishonest man, and since he got his pearl-pin at the pawn-
broker's at Bombay he must be (by implication) a thief too,
though Hume denies this.
Such is in brief the present situation. It began at Simla open-
ing with the first act and now comes the Prologue that will soon
finish with my death. For, though, doctors notwithstanding
470 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
(who proclaimed my four days' agony, and the impossibility of
recovery) I suddenly got better thanks to Master's protecting
hand, I
carry two mortal diseases in me which are not cured
heart, and kidneys. At any moment the former can have a rup-
ture, and the latter carry me away in a few days. I will not see
another year. All this is due to five years of constant anguish,
worry and repressed emotion. A Gladstone may be called a
11
fraud
"
and laugh at it. I can't, say what you may, Mr.
Sinnett.
And now to your business. I have never, before beginning the
service for you and Mr. Hume, transmitted and received letters to,
and from Masters except for myself. If you had any idea of the
difficulties, or the modus operandi you would not have consented
to be in my place. And yet I never refused. The shrine was
thought of to facilitate the transmission, as now dozens and
hundreds come to pray and beg to put their letters inside. As
you know, and is proved to all except Mr. Hodgson, who finds
contradictions, all received answers without my leaving the room
and often in different languages. It is this, that unable to
account for, Mr. Hume calls a wholesale collective fraud for,
since the Masters in his idea, do not exist, and that they have
never written one single of the letters ever received then the
logical conclusion is that it is the whole staff everyone in the
Headquarters Damodar, Bowaji, Subba Row, all, all who helped
me to write the letters and passed them through the hole. Even
Hodgson finds the idea preposterous.
And now to the
"
deception
"
practised on Mr. Arthur Gebhard,
of which, I learned from the Mahatma and A.G.'s own letter sent
to me. This
"
fraud
"
coupled to the revelations and hints about
others insinuated by kitten-like Mrs. Holloway must have
impressed a figure of H.P.B. of exquisite honourability and
honesty on poor, dear Mrs. Gebhard ! !
Well, persons who are on the eve of their death do not gener-
ally fib and say lies. I hope you will give me credit for speaking
the truth. Ar. G. is not the only one to suspect and accuse me of
fraud. Say then to the
" friends
" who may have received
letters from the Master through me that I never was a deceiver ;
that I never played tricks upon them. I have often facilitated
phenomena of letter-transmission by easier but still occult means.
Only as none of the Theosophists, except occultsits, know any-
thing of either difficult or easy means of occult transmission nor
are they acquainted with occult laws, everything is suspicious to
them. Take for instance this illustration as an instance : trans-
mission by mechanical thought transference (in contradistinction
with the conscious). The former is produced by calling first the
attention of a chela or the Mahatma. The letter must be open
APPENDIX 471
and every line of it passed over the forehead, holding the breath
and never taking off the part of the letter from the latter until
bell notifies it is read and noted. The other mode is to impress
every sentence of the letter (consciously of course) still mechanic-
ally on the brain, and then send it phrase by phrase to the
other person on the other end of the line. This of course if the
sender permits you to read it, and believes in your honesty that
you read it mechanically, only reproducing the form of the words
and lines on your brain and not the meaning. But in both
instances the letter must be open and then burnt with what we
call virgin fire (lit neither with matches, brimstone nor any
preparation but rubbed with a resinous, transparent little stone,
a ball that no naked hand must touch. This is done for the
ashes, which, while the paper burns become immediately invisible,
which they should not, if the paper were lit otherwise ;
because
they would remain by their weight and grossness in the surround-
ing atmosphere, instead of being transferred instantaneously to
the receiver. This double process is done for double security :
for the words transmitted from one brain to another, or to the
akasa near the Mahatma or chela may, some of them be omitted,
whole words slip out etc., and the ashes be not perfectly trans-
mitted ;
and in this way one corrects the other. I cannot do that,
and therefore speak of it
only as an example how deception can
be easily fathered. Fancy A. giving a letter for the Mahatma to
B. B. goes in the adjoining room and opening the letter not
one word of which will he remember if he is a true chela and an
honest man transmits it to his brain by one of the two methods,
sending one sentence after the other on the current and then pro-
ceeds to burn the letter; perhaps he has forgotten the
"
virgin
stone
" in his room. Leaving inadvertently the opened letter on
the table, he absents himself for a few minutes. During that
time A. impatient and probably suspicious enters the room. He
sees his letter opened on the table. He will either take it and
make an EXPOS (
!
!)
or leave it and then ask B. after he has burnt
it whether he sent his letter. Of course B. will answer he has.
Then will come the exposd with consequences you may imagine, or
A. will hold his tongue and do as many do : hold for ever B. for
a fraud. This is one instance out of many, and a real one, given
to me as a caution by Master.
There's a funny thing, in Mr. A.G.'s letter, very funny and sug-
gestive. For instance recounting in it how he gave me the letter
and six hours later I had told him "
it was gone
"
he adds :
" four
days later Colonel wrote to H.P.B. saying that his Master
appeared and said that K.H. had said: (see original sent back
to you.) But then the good
"
Colonel must also be a fraud," a
confederate of mine, an accomplice? Or is it
my Master who
472 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
mystifies him Mr. A. G. Arthur Gebhard, or what? And then
again :
"
. . . H.P.B. is a fraud although I will never deny her
excellent qualities."
"
The '
excellent qualities
'
of a fraud is
something startling and original at all events,
"
Thus you will please tell Mr. A. R. Gebhard that we are two
"
frauds
"
if any; and also this: Mahatma K. H. has received
but never read his letter, for the simple reason that he was pre-
vented by his promise to the Chohan never to read a letter from
any theosophist until his return from his mission to China where
he then was. This He condescended now to tell me to help to
my justification, as he says. He had forbidden me most strictly
to send him any more letters until further orders. Since Master
at Arthur G.'s urgent prayer took it
upon Himself for reasons
best known to Himself, I had nothing to say but to obey. I took
the letter and put it in a drawer full of papers. When I looked
for it, I found it was gone, at least I did not see it, and said so
to him. But before going to bed taking out an enevlope I found
his letter still there, though in the morning it was really gone.
Now if my remembrance is right I showed to Madame Gebhard,
Olcott's letter in which he speaks of what Master said. I had
not read Gebhard's letter and may have taken the words as an
answer to this letter. As it is I have not now the faintest recol-
lection of the whole of the message. One thing I know and
Madame Geb. will corroborate it : she spoke of the terrible
quarrels between Arth. G. and his father to me in London, before
going to Paris and to Olcott repeatedly. She had expressed the
hope that the Mahatma would interfere on her behalf, and these
words may have related to this and not at all to the letter.
How can I remember? Olcott may have heard imperfectly, or
I muddled up the thing. Hundred combinations may have hap-
pened. The only fraud is, then, in my telling him an unconscious
untruth about the letter going six hours later when it was taken
only in the morning. To this I plead
"
guilty.*'
But as in the Hume "
pearl-pin
"
affair there is something more
implied than mere fraud in the production of phenomena. If I
have bamboozled in this, Mad. G. and himself then I become right
away a black leg, a SWINDLER. I have received hospitality at
their house for months ; they have nursed me out through my
sickness, and even not permitted to pay the doctor, covered me
with rich presents, honours and kindnesses, for all of which I
repay with DECEPTION. Oh powers of heaven, Truth and Justice !
May Mr. Arthur Gebhard's Karma prove light to him. I forgive
him for the sake of his mother and father whom I will love and
respect to my last hour. Please give these my parting words to
Mad. Gebhard ;
I have nothing more to say.
It is useless, Mr. Sinnett. The Theosophical Society shall live
APPENDIX 473
here, ia India, for ever it seems doomed in Europe, because I am
doomed. It hang's on your Esoteric Buddhism and the Occult
World. And if Mahatmas are myths, I the author of all those
letters, a proclaimed FRAUD and worse by the P.R.S. how can the
London Lodge live? I told you for I felt it, as I
always feel
that this investigation of Mr. Hodgson will be fatal. He is the
most excellent, truthful, expert young- man. But how can he
recognise truth from lie when there is a thick net of conspiracy
around him? At first, when he visited the Headquarters, and the
padris could not well get hold of him, he seemed all right. His
accounts were favourable. And then he was caught. We have
our informants who followed the missionaries sharply. You, in
England may laugh we do not.
We know that the conspiracy is not one to laugh at. The
30,000 padris of India are all leagued against us. It is their last card
they play either they or ive. There was 72,000 rupees collected
in one week in Bombay
"
to conduct the investigations against
the so-called Founders of the T.S." All the Judges of the land
(think of Sir C. Turner !)
are against us. Sceptics and nominal
Christians, free thinkers and C.S. snobs my very name stinks in
their nostrils. And now comes the old sleeping beauty again on
the scene. I am, after all, A RUSSIAN SPY. Last night the Oakleys
dined with Hume at the Garstins and were told very seriously
that the Government was to over shadow me once more ; that they
had information (the Coulombs?) and that I had " to be watched."
Vainly did Hume laugh and the Oakleys protest. It was "very
serious
" in view of the Russians crossing Cabul, Afghanistan, or
something of that sort.
An old and a dying woman, confined to her room ;
forbidden
to mount a few steps lest her heart bursts ;
never reading a paper
for fear of finding there the most vile personal abuse ; receiving-
letters from Russia but from relatives a spy, a dangerous
character ! Oh Britishers of India where is your valour.
Notwithstanding Hume, their friend Hodgson and all the
evidence, the Oakleys do not believe me a fraud. They have full
confidence in the Masters, nothing, they say, will make them
doubt their existence and, apart some little unpleasantness due to
gossip upon private affairs, they are staunch theosophists and as
they say my best friends. Well, and good. I believe Oh Lord,
help thou my unbelief. How can I believe anyone my friend at
such a moment? It is only he who knows, as he knows that he
lives and breathes, that our Mahatmas exist and phenomena are
real, who can sympathise with me, who do, and look upon me as a
martyr. Pamphlets by Reverends, books and articles exposing me
from top to foot appear every day.
"
Theosophy Unveiled
"
"Madame Blavatsky Exposed" "The Theosophical Humbug
474 THE MAHATMA LETTEES
Before the World " "
Christ against Mahatmas "
etc. etc. :
you
who knew India well, Mr. Sinnett, do you think it difficult to get
false 'witnesses here? They have all the advantages over us. They
(the enemies) work night and day, flooding the country with litera-
ture against us, and we sit motionless and only quarrel within the
Theos :
Headquarters. Olcott is held finally a fool, detested by the
Oakleys (for some mistakes that really he could not help,) and
adored by the Hindus. And now after the arrival of Hume I come
for my share. Though my friends, the Oakleys, advise me to
resign while the Hindus say they will all leave if I do. I must resign
because being thought a
"
Russian spy
" I
endanger the Society.
Such is my life during my convalescence when every emotion,
says the doctor, may prove fatal. So much the better. I will
then resign de facto. But then they forget that so far I am the
only link between the Europeans and the Mahatmas. The
Hindus do not care. Dozens of them are chelas hundreds know
Them, but as in the case of Subba Row they will sooner die than
speak of their Masters. Hume could; get nothing from Subba
Row, though everyone knows what he is. The other night he
received a long letter from my Master in the meeting room when
Hume voted my resignation. They had just voted there should
be no phenomena any more and Mahatmas never spoken about ;
the letter was in Telugu, they say. Though they stand by me
and will stand to the last, they accuse me of having desecrated
the Truth and the Masters by having been the means of the Occult
World and Esoteric Buddhism. Do not count upon the Hindus,
you of the L.L. I dead, say Society good bye to the Masters.
Say even now all perhaps with one exception for I have pledged
my word to my Hindu Brothers, the occultists, never to mention
except among ourselves Their names, and that I will keep it.
This, will probably be my last letter to you, dear Mr. Sinnett.
It took me a week nearly to write this one I am so feeble ;
and
then I do not think I will have an opportunity. I cannot tell
you why : most probably, you will not regret it. You cannot
remain faithful much longer, living as you do in the world. Myers
and P.R.S. will laugh you to scorn. Hume, who goes to London
in April will set all against the Mahatmas and me. It takes a
different kind of men and women than you have in the L.L. with
the exception of Miss Arundale and two or three others to with-
stand such a persecution and storm. And all this because we have
profaned Truth by giving- it out indiscriminately and forgot the
motto of the true Occultist : To know, to dare, and to KEEP SILENT.
Good-bye then, dear Mr. Sinnett and Mrs. Sinnett. Whether
I die in a few months or remain two or three years in solitude
I am as good as dead already. Forget me, and try to deserve
personal communication with the Master. Then you shall be
APPENDIX 475
able to preach him, and if
you succeed as I succeeded you shall
be hooted and insulted as I was, and see whether you can stand
it. The Oakleys urge me to write to my aunt and sister and ask
her to send me the design of the pearl brooch I sent them in 1880.
I refuse. Why, should I? The brooch phenomenon proven, then
will come out some other proved fraudulent by false witnesses.
I am tired, tired, tired and so disgusted that Death herself with
her first hours of horror is preferable to this. Let the whole
world, with the exception of a few friends and my Hindu
Occultists, believe me a fraud. I will not deny iteven to their
faces. Say so to Mr. Myers and others.
Good-bye, again. May your life be happy and prosperous and
Mrs. S.'s old age more healthy than her youth. Forgive me the
annoyances I may have caused you and forget
Yours to the end
H. P. BLAVATSKY.
LETTER No. CXXXIX
Wednesday.
My dear Mr. Sinnett,
I asked you (/ myself) in my letter to you
4<
Do, please do try
and have intuition.
1 '
You have succeeded but only for one
portion. You felt that a page, or so, of it had been dictated to
me, and that it was by no sham K.H. But you have failed again to
feel in what an unalloyed spirit of kindness sympathy for and
appreciation of yourself He dictated those few sentences. You
mistook it for criticism. Now, hear me. Except a vague recol-
lection that I have been writing under His dictation, I could not,
of course, remember one line of it correctly, though I have read
it
carefully before I closed the letter. But what I can swear to
is that there was not a shadow of criticism against yourself person-
ally meant or in the Mahatma's thought when passing this to me.
I was writing my letter to you and had written about three or four
pages when the Countess came in and read to me out of your
letter those desponding lines in which you said that you are inclined
to suspect that the "
Higher Powers "
do not wish the Society to
live any longer and that it is useless for you to try or something of
that. I had not had time to open my mouth for an answer and
protest when I saw His reflection over the writing desk and heard
the words "
Now write, pray." I did not listen to the words
dictated except in a mechanical sort of way, but I know with what
attention and intense interest I watched the
"
thought and feeling-
lights
" and aura, if you understand my meaning. The Mahatma
wanted me to, I
suppose ; otherwise His thoughts and inner work
476 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
ing would have remained impenetrable. And I say, that NEVER,
since you know Him, never was there so much kindness, genuine
feeling- for you, and an utter absence of
" criticism
M or reproach
directed to yourself as this time. Don't be ungrateful ;
don't
misunderstand. Open your inner heart and feeling entirely and
do not judge through your world and cold reason spectacles. Ask
the Countess to whom the letter was read and to whom I told
what I say to you now, and to hear which she was so glad for
you, for she does sympathise with you and your position and
appreciates as much as I do, all you have done. All you say is
perfectly true, and just what I thought I had discerned in the
Mahatma's aura. The yellow-grayish streaks were directed all
to Olcott, (London period, not now), Mohini, Finch (more
reddish) ;
and to others I will not name. Your full size portrait,
or scin-leiia, received a whole torrent of blue, clear silvery light
the Prince's Hall, Kingsford incident, and even Holloway were
all far, far away from you in a mist hence a proof undeniable that
you were implicated in it by no fault of yours personally, but drawn
into it irresistibly by the general Karma. Where then is the
"criticism" or reproach? No man living can do more in this
world than is in him. You could not avoid Prince's Hall meeting,
for the Society had chosen a path, in which it had to come. But
all of you, you the first, had you prepared for it as it ought to
have been done long before would have saved the situation by
each of you delivering even reading it would have been better
a speech that would have gone home to the public instead of what
it has done. Your speech was the only one against which nothing
could be urged but, or\ account of your ill-will, you having been
dragged into it so cold, so devoid of enthusiasm or even earnest-
ness that it became like a key-note to the others. Olcott 's was a
regular Yankee flapdoodle one of the worst. The "
Angel-
Mohini 's was a remarkably stupid one, Babu-like flowers of rhetoric
etc. But that's things of the past. Of course it was a failure;
but it might have been a success notwithstanding everything
adverse, had it been prepared beforehand. The public reception
was on the path chosen and had to take place, for it would have
been worse still had it not come off. Holloway was sent, and was
in the programme of trials and destruction. She has done you
ten times more harm than to the Society but this is your fault
entirely and now she is dancing the war-dance around Olcott, who
is as fast friends with her and more than you were. It is a weekly
correspondence incessant and endearing, charming to behold she
is his dear agent in Brooklyn, for things occult etc. Let that go.
About " chelas
" it is a more serious question. They are no
fools either of them. They feel, if they do not know yet, that the
abyss between them and Masters is being made wider daily. They
APPENDIX 477
feel they are on the wrong left side, and feeling that, they will turn
towards that, to which all such
"
failures
"
turn. If Masters
ordered them to go back to India I do not think they would now
under Bowajee's inspiration. Mohini is ruined by him, there's
no mistake about it. And Miss is going to pots in their com-
pany. You have to act independently of them ;
not to break visibly,
but to do your own work as though they did not exist. Look
here, I want you to write to Arthur Gebhard a serious letter and
tell him all you know about Bowajee. He is in full correspondence
with the Americans, and getting round them as he got round the
Gebhards. I wrote to him and the Countess did. But he will not
believe us unless corroborated by you. He was surely told by
this time that the Countess is entirely under my psychology.
Franz is certain of it, poor man. Unless you warn him the two,
or one of
" chelas
"
are sure to go to America. If you could
bring the Leonard to clamour for his departure to India, as a settle-
ment then he would have no excuse to stop. But how to do it !
If I could only see, approach the hussy I would be ready to sacrifice
myself. Anything to weed the Society from all this poisonous
vegetation. But you can work independently of all [of] them
that's sure.
Before the i5th of April, we will be near you, across the stream.
The Countess comes with me and takes her chances until about
the middle of May. I have to be near you in case something
should happen, for save herself, I do not think I have a friend
a real friend in this wide world besides yourself and Mrs. Sinnett.
The "
semblance
"
the theosophical Mr. Hyde (Dr. Jekyll) has
done his best. I could stop it in one hour if I could only pounce
on them unexpectedly. This I swear. But how to do it. If I
could only arrive and stop in London for two days unknown it
would be done. I would go to them at 8 in the morning. But
I must see you and think over it first. If I had health only
which I have not. The "
two years life and no more
"
of the
London doctor brought by Mr. Gebhard and of my doctor at
Adyar are drawing near the end. Unless Master interferes once
more Good-bye.
You have said nothing of Gladstone's little tricks. Don't you
believe in it? Funny. I am told you received a letter upon that
subject so far back as during the Ilbert Bill row. Well I can tell
you nice things about the Jesuits and their doings. But of course
its no good. Yet indeed, indeed it AS serious.
Well, good-bye, do write.
Yours ever faithfully,
H.P.B.
Love lo Mrs. Sinnett.
478 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
LETTER No. CXL
Jan. 6. 1886. Wurzburg.
My dear Mr. Sinnett,
I am impressed to give you the following : First let me tell you
that the dear Countess went off to Munich like a shot to try and
save Hiibbe from his weakness and the Society from crumbling
down. She was the whole evening in a trance, getting out and
in from her body. She saw Master and felt him all the night.
She 15 a great clairvoyant. Well, after reading a tew pages of
the Report I was so disgusted with Hume's gratuitous lies and
Hodgson's absurd inferences that I nearly gave up all in despair.
What could I do or say against evidence on the natural worldly
plane !
Everything went against me and I had but to die. I
went to bed and I had the most extraordinary vision. I had vainly
called upon the Masters who came not during my waking state,
but now in my sleep I saw them both, I was again (a scene of
years back) in Mah. K.H.'s house. I was sitting in a corner on
a mat and he walking about the room in his riding dress, and
Master was talking to someone behind the door.
" / remind
can't
" I pronounced in answer to a question of His about a dead
aunt. He smiled and said
"
Funny English you use.
M Then I
felt ashamed, hurt in my vanity, and began thinking (mind you,
in my dream or vision which was the exact reproduction of what
had taken place word for word 16 years ago)
" now I am here
and speaking nothing but English in verbal phonetic language
I can perhaps learn to speak better with Him." (To make it
clear with Master I also used English, which whether bad or good
was the same for Him as he does not speak it but understands
every word I
say out of my head ;
and I am made to understand
Him how I could never tell or explain if I were killed but I do.
With O.K. I also spoke English, he speaking it better even than
Mah. K.H.) Then, in my dream still, three months after as I
was made to feel in that vision I was standing before Mah. K.H.
near the old building taken down he was looking at, and as
Master was not at home, I took to him a few sentences I was
studying in Senzar in his sister's room and asked him to tell me
if I translated them correctly and gave him a slip of paper with
these sentences written in English. He took and read them and
correcting the interpretation read them over and said
" Now your
English is becoming better try to pick out of my head even the
little I know of it." And he put his hand on my forehead in the
region of memory and squeezed his fingers on it (and I felt even
the same trifling pain in it, as then, and the cold shiver I had
experienced) and since that day He did so with my head daily, for
about two months. Again, the scene changes and I am going
APPENDIX 479
away with Master who is sending me off, back to Europe. I am
bidding- good-bye to his sister and her child and all the chelas. I
listen to what the Masters tell me. And then come the parting
words of Mah. K.H. laughing at me as He always did and saying
44
Well, if you have not learned much of the Sacred Sciences and
practical Occultism and who could expect a WOMAN to you have
learned, at any rate, a little English. You speak it now only a
little worse than I do !
" and he laughed.
Again the scene changes I am 47th St. New York writing Isis
and His voice dictating to me. In that dream or retrospective
vision I once more rewrote all Isis and could now point out all
the pages and sentences Mah. K.H. dictated as those that Master
did in my bad English, when Olcott tore his hair out by handfuls
in despair to ever make out the meaning of what was intended. I
again saw myself night after night in bed writing Isis in my
dreams, at New York, positively writing it in my sleep and felt
sentences by Mah. K.H. impressing themselves on my memory.
Then, as I was awakening from that vision (in Wurzburg now) I
heard Mah. K.H.'s voice
4 *
and now put two and two together,
poor blind woman. The bad English and the construction of
sentences you do know, even that you have learned from me
. . . take off the slur thrown upon you by that misguided, con-
ceited man (Hodgson) :
explain the truth to the few friends who
will believe you for the public never will to that day that the
Secret Doctrine comes out." I awoke, and it was like a flash
of lightning; but I still did not understand what it referred to.
But an hour after, there comes Hiibbe Schleiden's letter to the
Countess, in which he says, that unless I explain how it is that
such a similarity is found and proven by Hodgson between my
faulty English and Mah. K.H.'s certain expressions, the construc-
tion of sentences and peculiar Gallicisms I stand accused for ever
of deceit forgery (
!
!)
and what not. Of course I have learned
my English from Him ! This Olcott even shall understand. You
know and I told it to many friends and enemies I was taught
dreadful Yorkshire by my nurse called Governess. From the
time my father brought me to England, when fourteen, thinking
I spoke beautiful English and people asked him if he had me
educated in Yorkshire or Ireland and laughed at my accent and
way of speaking I gave up English altogether trying to avoid
speaking it as much as I could. From fourteen till I was over
forty I never spoke it, let alone writing and forgot it entirely I
could read which I did very little in English I could not speak it.
I remember how difficult it was for me to understand a well
written book in English so far back only as 1867 in Venice. All
I knew when I came to America in 1873 was to speak a little and
this Olcott and Judge and all who knew me then can testify to. I
480 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
wish people saw an article I once attempted to write for the
Banner of Light when instead of sanguine I put sanguinary, etc.
I learned to write it through Isis, that's sure and Prof. A. Wilder
who came weekly to help Olcott arranging chapters and writing
Index can testify to it. When I had finished it (and this Isis is
the third part only of what I wrote and destroyed) I could write as
well as I do now not worse nor better. My memory and its
capacities seem gone since then.
What wonder then that my English and the Mahatma's show
similarity ! Olcott's and mine do also in our Americanisms that
I picked up from him these ten years. I translating mentally all
from the French would not have written sceptic with a k, though
Mahat. K.H. did and when I put it with a c Olcott and Wilder
and the proof reader corrected it. Now Mah. K.H. has preserved
the habit and stuck to it and I never did since I went to India.
I would have never put carbolic instead of
* *
carbonic
' '
and
I was the first to remark the mistake when Hume Mahatma's
letter, at Simla, in which it occurs. It is mean and stupid of
him to publish it, for, if he says this referred to a sentence found
in some magazine, then the word correctly written was there before
my eyes or those of any chela who precipitated the letter, and
therefore it is evidently a lapsus calami if there were any calami
in precipitation.
"
Difference in handwriting
"
oh the great
wonder ! Has Master K.H. written himself all His letters? How
many chelas have been precipitating and writing them heaven
only knows. Now if there is such a marked difference between
letters written by the same identical person mechanically, (as the
case with me for instance who never had a steady handwriting)
how much more in precipitation, which is the photographic repro-
duction from one's head, and I bet anything that no chela (if
Masters can) is capable of precipitating his own handwriting twice
over in precisely the same way a difference and a marked one
there shall always be, as no painter can paint twice over the same
likeness (see Schmiechen with his (Master's) portraits). Now all
this shall be easily understood by theosophists (not all) and those
who have thought over deeply and know something of the
philosophy. Who shall believe all I say in this letter outside of
the few? No one. And yet, I am demanded an explanation and
when it comes out (if you write it out from facts I can give you)
no one shall believe it. Yet you have to show at least one thing :
occult transactions, letters handwriting etc. cannot be judged by
the daily standard, experts, this that and the other. There are
no three solutions but two: Either I have invented the Masters,
their philosophy, written their letters etc. or, / have not. If I
have and the Masters do not exist, then their handwritings could
not have existedt either : I have invented them also ; and if I have
APPENDIX 481
how can I be called a
"
forger
n
? They are my handwritings
and I have the right to use them if I am so clever. As for
philosophy and doctrine invented the S.D. shall show. Now I
am here alone with the Countess for witness. I have no books
no one to help me. And I tell you that the Secret Doctrine will
be 20 times as learned, philosophical and better than Isis which
will be killed by it. Now there are hundreds of things I am per-
mitted to say and explain. It will show what a Russian spy can
do, an alleged forger plagiarist etc. The whole Doctrine is shown
the mother stone the foundation of all the religions including Xty,
and on the strength of exoteric published Hindu books, with their
symbols explained esoterically. The extreme lucidity of
"
Esoteric
Buddhism "
will also be shown and its doctrines proven correct
mathematically, geometrically logically and scientifically. Hodg-
son is very clever, but he is not clever enough for truth and it
shall triumph after which I can die peacefully.
Babula writing my Master's letters indeed ! Hume finding out
five years later that the envelope from the municipality had been
"
tampered
"
by me brought by Babula. What good memory his
Mahomedan bearer must have, to remember that it was precisely
that envelope! And Garstin's letter taken to him by Mohini 2\
hours after his letter had been placed inside and disappeared from
the shrine. His letter sealed glued with every precaution bearing
no such marks as now described on the night of the delivery, and
now two years later, after having passed through 1000 hands,
been tampered by Garstin and experts themselves, trying to see
how it could have been opened now it all goes against me ! And
Hume's lies. Such Tibetan or Nepaul paper he learned could be
procured near Darjeeling. Masters never wrote he said on such
paper before I had gone to Darjeeling. Indeed. Now I enclose
a slip of such paper, for your perusal, that with your memory you
are sure *
recognise. It is the original bit from which the first
lessons of Master were given to you and Hume in his Museum
at Simla. You looked at it many times. Please when recognised
send it back to me. It is private and confidential and I ask you
on your honour not to let it go out of your hands not to give it
to any one. No expert or Orientalist would find or understand
anything in it but letters which have a meaning for me for
no one else. But what I want you to see and remember that I
went to Darjeeling a year later after Hume had quarrelled with
K.H. and this paper I had at Simla when the first lessons were
begun. And all throughout the whole Report the same lies t false
testimony etc.
Yours No more broken down.
H. P. BLAVATSKY.
482 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
LETTER No. CXLI
March lyth, 1886.
My Dear Mr. Sinnett,
Do anything you like. I am in your hands. Only I cannot
see what harm there could be were the lawyers to be told that it
is a lie my being- Mme Metrovitch or Mme any one except myself.
It would prevent them and put a stop to their addressing letters to
me in that name; for surely they are not such fools as not to
know that this open libel is against law. It is because the Bibiche
bamboozle them into the belief that I was really a bigamist and a
trigamist that they did it. Well very soon I may receive a letter
addressed to me in the name of Mrs. Leadbeater or Mrs. Damodar
or perhaps be accused of having had a child by Mohini or Bowajee.
Who can tell unless something is refuted.
But this is all trifles. There is something unutterably disgust-
ing and sickening to me in the idea of any concealment of names.
1 hate incognitos and changing names. Why should I give you
more bother than you already have with me? Why should you
lose time and money to come and meet me? Don't do this. I
will send the things before hand and come out with Louise quietly
second class, passing the night at Bohn or at Achen (Aix la
Chapelle) or somewhere on the road. Lodgings will be dear at
Ostende in June, not before. Besides I can go somewhere near-by.
I do not know when I will leave here. May be on the ist, may be
on the 1 5th. I have paid till that date.
Why shouldn't Mrs. Sinnett come with Dennie? Where's the
harm and why should she not stop with me if I find good lodgings ?
I would never be happy unless she was with me for what's the
use of her being in other lodgings? Only discomfort for her and
vexation of spirit for me.
I have written to my aunt and sister giving them Redway's
address. The letters will all be addressed to you to his care,
only for Madame B : under your name. However, I really care
little for letters or no letters. There's a long article in my praise
and glorification in the Russian papers in which I am called
4<
the
martyr of England." That's comforting and makes me feel as
though I were indeed a
"
grand Russian Spy!" Say, do you
know but then you will never believe it. Well don't, but some
day you will be forced to, Gladstone is a secret Roman Catholic
convert. That's sure. Make of it what you will, you cannot
change FACTS. Ah, poor England ;
and foolish, blind are those
who seek the destruction of the T.S. !
Welt,- I must say a few words in this respect. You say
"
we
are almost past praying for ... paralyzed and helpless.
The French and German branches of the T.S. are practically dead.
APPENDIX 483
The London movement can only be revivified at some future period,
etc." You are asked : How is this? You are not dead. The
Countess lives. Two or three fellows around you breathe, so
far. The Society in India is flourishing and can NEVER die. In
America it is becoming a grand movement. Dr. Buck, Prof.
Coues, Arthur Gebhard with a few others are helped because they
move, and show their utmost contempt for whatever is said,
printed, howled in the streets. Oh, do try and be intuitional
for pity's sake do not shut your eyes and because you cannot see
objectively do not paralyze subjective help which is there living,
breathing, evident. Does not all around you show the indestructi-
bility of the Society, if we see how the fierce waves raised by the
Dugpa-world have been for the last two years heaving and spread-
ing and beating ferociously around the Society to break, what?
only the rotten chips of the
4<
Ark of the Deluge.
"
Have the)
carried away anyone really worthy of the movement? Not one.
You suspect that the " Masters
"
want to put an end to the move-
ment ? They see you do not understand what they are doing and
feel sorry for it. Are they to be blamed for what happened, or
we, ourselves? If the Founder of the Society and the Founders
or Presidents of the Branches had ever kept in view the fact that
it is not so much the quantity we are in need of, but the quality,
to make the Society a success half of the disasters would have
been avoided. There were two paths before the L.L. as before
any other branch when you took up its mangled fragments and
rebuilt them into the growing successful body it was : that which
led to the formation of a secret, arcane Society of studying practi-
cal occultists ;
the other an open and fashionable body. You have
always preferred the latter. A chance was given to all of you in
the formation of an inner group :
you would not assert your
authority and left it to the nominal President who shook on his
legs at every gentle breeze from within and without, ruined and
then deserted it. Every such attempt was either repelled or, if
realized, had such a strong element of sham in it that it proved
a failure. It was found impossible to help it and it was left to
its fate. There is an Asiatic proverb :
*'
You may cut the serpent
of wisdom in hundred pieces so long that its heart, which is in
its head, remains untouched, the serpent will join its bits and live
again." But when the heart and head seem everywhere and are
nowhere, what can be done? The L.L. having taken its rank
and place among public bodies it had to be judged by its appear-
ances. It is not enough to laud the Body and Branches, as schools
of morality and wisdom and benevolence, for they will always be
judged by the outward world by their fruits not by their preten-
sions not by what they say but by what they do. The Branch
was always in need of efficient workers; and, as in all organiza-
484 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
tions the work devolved upon the very few. Out of those few
one only had a definite object in view, pursued it firm and unwaver-
ing YOURSELF. Yet your natural reserve and the strong element
of worldly Society within the Occult body, the sense of English
individuality and propriety in each member, prevented you on the
one hand from asserting your rights as you ought to have done,
and caused the rest to separate from you wide and apart, each
determining to act as he or she thought best, to secure his own
salvation and satisfy his aspirations,
"
working Karma out on a
higher plane
" as the foolish phrase goes now among them. You
are right in saying that
" the blows that have been struck at the
movement "
have been " all emanating from the consequences of
the deputations from India
"
; you are wrong in thinking that
(i) these consequences would have been as disastrous, had not the
Hindu element been mixed up with the European and strongly
helped and urged on toward mischief by the female element in the
L.L. ;
and (2) that
"
the higher powers wish to arrest the growth
of the Society/' Mohini was sent, and at first won the hearts
and poured new life into the L.L. He was spoiled by male and
female adulation, by incessant flattery and his own weakness
your reserve and pride left you passive when you ought to have
been active. The first bomb-shell from the Dug-pa world came
from America ; you welcomed and warmed it in your own breast,
you drove the writer of this more than once to the verge of despair,
your thorough-going, sincere earnestness, your devotion to truth
and the
" Masters
"
having been made powerless for the time
being, for discerning the real truth, for sensing- that which was
left unsaid for it could not be said and thus leaving the widest
margin for suspicion. The latter was not unfounded. The
Dugpa element triumphed fully at one time why? because you
believed in* one who was sent by the opposing powers for the
destruction of the Society and permitted to act as she and others
did by the
"
higher powers," as you call them, whose duty it was
not to interfere in the great probation save at the last moment.
To this day you are unable to say what was true, what false
because there is no spot made apart, separated from the Society
and consecrated to the one pure element in it, love and devotion
to the truth whether abstract or concreted in the
"
Masters
" a
spot in which no element of individuality or selfishness would enter
a real inner group is here meant. The Oriental group has proved
a farce. Miss cares more for the chelas (?) than the Masters ;
she is blind to the fact that those who were (and yet think they
still are) most devoted to the Cause, Masters, Theosophy, call it
by whatever name are those that are the most tried; that she is
now being tried, that it is her last trial and that she does not come
out of it as a conqueror, it seems.
" In the absence of any means
APPENDIX 485
of communicating directly with them I can only judge by signs
"
you say. The signs are evident. It is the great supreme trial
all round. He who remains passive will lose nothing, but will
not gain one tittle, when it is over. He may even cause his
Karma to slide him gently back on the path he has already been
climbing. What you sorely lack is Olcott's blessed self-confidence
and pardon his vulgar but all powerful cheek. One need not
give up tact and culture to have it. It is a many faced Proteus
that can have either of his faces or cheek turned to the enemy and
force him to cover. If the L.L. is composed only of six members
the President the seventh; and this daring
" vieille garde"
faces the enemy coolly, not allowing him to know how many you
are, and impressing him with outward signs of a multitude by the
number of pamphlets, convocations and other distinct, material
proofs that the Society has not been shaken, that it has not felt
the blows, that it snaps its fingers in the enemy's face, you will
scon win the day ; you will have exhausted the enemy before it
tires out the Society to its last member. All this can be easily
achieved and no
"
smashing disasters
M
would really affect it, if
its members had intuition enough to see what " the higher
powers
"
really wish, what they can or cannot prevent. Spiritual
discernment is what is most wanted. "It is not so much a
question of saving what remains of the Society as of recom-
mencing the movement at some future time." Fatal policy.
Follow it, and you will have broken by that (future) time, every
invisible yet powerfully vital thread that links the L.L. with the
ashntms beyond the great mountains. NOTHING CAN KILL THE L.L.
except that one thing Passivity. Know this, you who confess
that you
" have no heart for the present to be giving lectures and
addresses."
" WORK UNDERGROUND "
it is the best you can do
but not in silence if you would not kill the Society and your own
personal aspirations with your own hand. All are not speakers
in the L.L. and very lucky, or it would be a Babel. All are not
wise, but those who are ought to share with the rest. Combine
to make things complete. Make your activity commensurate with
your opportunities and do not turn your face away from the latter,
even from those that are created for you.
"
Fling the burning
brands apart, and they will quickly go out; rake them together
and they will glow, burst into flame, and shoot sky-ward with ruddy
brightness." So shall the L.L. shine out if demoralization is kept
at distance, if its lights are not allowed to burn and die out as
isolated and intermediate points of lights, but are clustered and
focalized into full ruddiness by the hand of its President, and if
this hand is not allowed to drop the banner entrusted to it.
Human dirt never sticks, nor does it soil the flame it is flung
against. It only sticks hard to the marble, to the cold heart that
486 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
has lost the last spark of the Divine flame. Yes indeed, the
" Masters
"
and the
" Powers that be
"
would call and guide
many and many a sad, lonesome and weary one in this fair land
of occult, psychic theosophy to gather with them around their
altars. Two are bodily there already, who have won their day
and found the alleged
" Invisibles
" each by his own path. For
the teachings of the
"
Order " are like precious stones whatever
way turned, light and truth and beauty flash forth, and will guide
the weary traveller in search of them, if he but stops not on his
way to follow the will-o '-wisps of the illusive world, and remains
deaf to public rumour.
Now do, for pity sake do try to arouse for once your intuitions
if you can. I do suffer for you and would do anything to help
you. But you prevent me. Pardon this and try to recognise
the foreign from my own words.
H. P. B.
LETTER No. CXLIU
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
With reference to the Rules and Organization of the Society,
I
beg to make the following suggestions. The points I urge,
appear to me very necessary as I have had conversation with
many Natives and have a claim to know the Hindu character
better than a foreigner can.
A general impression appears to prevail that the Society is a
religious sect. This impression owes its origin, I think, to a
common belief that the whole Society is devoted to Occultism.
As far as I can judge, this is not the case. If it is, the best
course to adopt would be to make the entire Society a secret
one, and shut its doors against all except those very few who
may have shown a determination to devote their whole lives to
the study of Occultism. If .it is not so, and is based upon the
broad Humanitarian principle of Universal Brotherhood, let
Occultism, one of its several Branches, be an entirely secret study.
From time immemorial this sacred knowledge has been guarded
from the vulgar with great care, and because a few of us have
had the great fortune to come into contact with some of the
custodians of this invaluable treasure, is it right on our part to
take advantage of their kindness and vulgarize the secrets they
esteem more sacred than even their lives? The world is not yet
prepared to hear truth about this subject. By placing the facts
before the unprepared general public, we only make a laughing
stock of those who have been kind to us and have accepted us
APPENDIX 487
as their co-workers for doing- good to humanity. By harping too
much upon this subject, we have made ourselves in a measure
odious in the eyes of the public. We went even to such an extent
that, unconsciously to ourselves, we led the public to believe that
our Society is under the sole management of the Adepts, while
the fact is that the entire executive management is in the hands
of the Founders, and our Teachers give us advice only in rare
exceptional cases of the greatest emergency. The public saw
that they must have misapprehended the facts, since errors in
the Management of the Society some of which could have been
very well avoided by the exercise of ordinary common sense
were from time to time exposed. Hence they came to the con-
clusion that
(1) Either Adepts do not exist at all ;
or
(2) If they do, they have no connection with our Society, and
therefore we are dishonest impostors ;
or
(3) If they have any connection with the Society, it must be
only those of a very low degree, since, under their manage-
ment, such errors occurred.
With the few noble exceptions who had entire confidence in us,
our Native Members came to one of these three conclusions. It
is therefore necessary in my opinion that prompt measures should
be adopted to remove these suspicions. For this, I see only one
alternative: (i) Either the entire Society should be devoted to
occultism, in which case it should be quite as secret as the Masonic
or the Rosicrucian Lodge or, (2) Nobody should know anything
about occultism except those very few who may have by their
conduct shown their determination to devote themselves to its
study. The first alternative being found inadvisable by our
" Brothers'* and positively forbidden, the second remains.
Another important question is that of the admission of Members.
Until now, any one who expressed a desire to join and could get
two sponsors was allowed to come into the Society, without our
enquiring closely what the motives in joining were. This led
to two evil results. People thought or pretended to think that
we took in Members simply for their Initiation Fees on which
we lived ;
and many joined out of mere curiosity, as they thought
that by paying an Initiation Fee of Rupees Ten, they could see
phenomena. And when they were disappointed in this, they turned
round on us, and began to revile our CAUSE for which we have
been working and to which we have pledged our lives. The best
way to remedy this evil would be to exclude this class of persons.
The question naturally arises how can this be done, since our
Rules are so liberal as to admit every one? But, at the same
time our Rules prescribe an Initiation Fee of Rupees Ten. This
is too low to keep out the curiosity seekers, who, for the chance
488 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
of being- satisfied, feel they can very well afford to lose such a
paltry sum. The fee should therefore be so much increased that
those only would join who are really in earnest. We need men
of principle and serious purpose. One such man can do more
for us than hundreds of phenomena-hunters. The fee should in
my judgment be increased to Rs : 200 or Rs :
300. It might be
urged that thus we might exclude really good men who may be
sincere and earnest but unable to pay. But I think it is prefer-
able to risk the possible loss of one good man than take in a
crowd of 'dlers, one of whom can undo the work of all the former.
And yet, even this contingency can be avoided. For, as now we
admit some to membership, who appear especially deserving,
without their paying their own fees, so could the same thing be
done under the proposed change.
DAMODAR K. MAVALANKAR, F.T.S.
Respectfully submitted to the consideration of Mr. Sinnett.
LETTER No. CXLII B
Respectfully submitted for the consideration of Mr. Sinnett,
under the direct orders of Brother Koot Hoomi.
DAMODAR K. MAVALANKAR.
With the exception of fee too exaggerated his views are quite
correct. Such is the impression produced upon the native mind.
I trust, my dear friend, that you add a paragraph showing the
Society in its true light. Listen to your inner voice, and oblige
once more,
Yours very faithfully,
K. H
LETTER No. CXLIII
Would you wish the pillow phenomenon described in the paper? I will
gladly follow your advice.
Ever yours,
A. P. SINNETT.
It certainly would be the best thing to do, and I
personally
would feel sincerely thankful to you on account of our much ill-
used friend. You are at liberty to mention my first name if it will
in the least help you.
KOOT HOOMI LAL SING.
LETTER No. CXLIV
Impossible : no power. Will write thro* Bombay.
K.H.
LETTER No. CXLV
Courage, patience and hope, my brother.
K.H.
APPENDIX 489
MARS AND MERCURY
Mr. Sinnett in his posthumous work "
The Early Days of
Theosophy in Europe
"
reopens this old controversy, and in the
course of his remarks he makes many insinuations of a personal
nature against Madame Blavatsky which are as untrue of her, as
they are unworthy of her old colleague. In Chapter IX p. 92
of that work after saying that Madame Blavatsky had stated in
The Secret Doctrine that he had made a great mistake in repre-
senting Mars, Mercury, and the Earth as belonging to the same
planetary chain, he continues on the same page : . . . .
"
The letter from the Master from which she (H.P.B.) professed
to give extract was not what she represents it, an answer to
enquiries of her own, but a garbled version of a letter originally
addressed to me."
Two different letters are in reality here referred to the first,
addressed to Mr. Sinnett, was quoted from on p. 163, Vol. I. of
The Secret Doctrine; the second, addressed to Mdme. Blavatsky
is quoted on p. 165 ;
the former is contained in the present volume,
but the latter is not.
On page 94 of the same work appears the following :
"
Eventually when Mrs. Besant by the expansion of her own
knowledge had ascertained definitely that Mars and Mercury did
belong to our chain with functions in evolution as I had originally
described them, she did publish a statement to that effect in
4
Lucifer' vol. XVII. p. 271."
For the convenience of those not having access to the volumes
of Lucifer the passage referred to is here quoted in full together
with a former statement by Mrs. Besant on the same subject :
Extract from Lucifer for November, 1893, Vol. XIIL, p. 203.
Mars and the Earth.
" The apparent contradiction between the teaching of The
Masters as put forward by their direct messenger H. P. Blavatsky,
and as understood by Mr. Sinnett is capable of very easy explana-
tion. The solution turns on the words *
Solar System.' If that
term be held to denote the Solar System known to Western
Science, the sentence given by Mr. Sinnett is meaningless ; but
reference to the series of letters from which the isolated passage
respecting Mars is quoted, at once shows the meaning attached
to the
*
Solar System
'
in the correspondence. I
naturally turned
to the letters themselves copies of which I have to solve the
puzzle, and I found that Master K.H. used the term in a special
and quite definite sense.
"
He explains three kinds of Manvantaras, Pralayas etc., uni-
versal, solar, and minor. A minor Manvantara is composed of
seven Rounds i.e. the circuit seven times of a Planetary Chain of
490 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
seven Globes. To such a chain, our Earth belongs. A Solar
Period consists of seven of such sevenfold Rounds i.e. forty-nine;
seven such Planetary Chains compose a
*
Solar System
*
;
in
three of such chains, our Earth, Mars, and Mercury, form the
D. Globe. Globe D. of the Mars Chain, Globe D. of the Mercury
Chain are visible to us, because those chains are sufficiently near
our own in evolution, one behind us and one ahead of us, for their
matter to affect our senses, while the remaining four chains are
too far away in evolution to have enough in common with us for
visibility.
" Mars and Mercury bear a special relation to our Earth in the
whole evolution of the Solar System, though not part of the
Earth Chain. The other four Planetary Chains belonging to our
Solar System are too far behind us or in front of us for even
their Globes D. to be seen.
" Other planets in the Solar System of Science as arranged in
the West do not belong to the Solar System of the Esoteric
Philosophy ;
and it is the ignoring of this which led to the con-
fusion. A western reader naturally gives the term his own sense
not knowing that in the teachings it was used in quite a different
one. And so, once more we find the Masters
1
doctrines self-
consistent."
ANNIE BESANT.
Extract from Lucifer for December, 1895, Vol. XVII., p. 271.
"
The old Mars and Mercury discussion has been lately revived
to some extent in Theosophical circles, and an appeal has been
made to me to say if any further light has been thrown upon the
subject. In Lucifer vol. XIII. p, 206, I wrote an explanation
which seemed satisfactory so far as the documents then irt my
hands were concerned. I was leaving for India when I wrote the
paragraph and Mr. Sinnett kept silence, in his generous way,
during my absence ;
but on my return he showed me the original
letter on which the statement in Esoteric Buddhism was founded,
the letter partially quoted in the Secret Doctrine vol. I p. 187; this
letter was one of those received in the early days and was not
among those of which I had copies. This original letter left no
doubt as to the Master's statement on this point, for it said
categorically, that Mars and Mercury made part of the chain of
which our Earth is the fourth Globe. As the Society was then
disturbed over Mr. Judge's affair, Mr. Sinnett did not wish the
question to be revived merely to justify himself, but there is no
reason now why the matter should not be put straight.
"The facts are these; the planetary chain consists of Globes
A., B., Mars, Earth, Mercury, F., and G., and round these the
great life-wave has swept three and a half times, reaching Earth
for the fourth time ; the mass of humanity passed from Mars to
the Earth, and will pass from the Earth to Mercury. But the
leading class of humanityand here is a fact that throws some
light on the opposing statementsdid not share in this general
evolution. It came directly to the Earth from another region at
APPENDIX 491
a much later period in evolution, and had never been on Mars at
all. Another fact, which H.P.B. evidently had in mind, when
writing on this question, is that Mars is also concerned in an
entirely different evolution, as to which nothing can be publicly
said. It is therefore impossible to clear the matter up to the
satisfaction of exoteric students, but it is just that it should be
publicly stated that Mr. Sinnett's statement is entirely borne out
by the original letter/'
It will be at once seen that in the first of the above statements
Lucifer Vol. XIII, Mrs. Besant in the main supports the explana-
tion given in the Secret Doctrine, while in the second, Vol. XVII
she says,
" that the letter partially quoted on page 163 of Secret
Doctrine Vol. I., categorically states that Mars and Mercury
made part of the chain of which our Earth is the fourth Globe."
The letter referred to was among those left by Mr. Sinnett
and it is therefore possible to examine the facts in the light of the
original document. The passage quoted will be found on page
176 of this volume in the paragraph numbered (23), and with due
deference to Mrs. Besant, it must be pointed out that there is
nothing in that paragraph or the remainder of the letter, which
can be construed into a
"
categorical statement that Mars and
Mercury made part of the chain of which our Earth is 4th Globe."
Attention has been drawn to the fact that Mdme. Blavatsky was
not accurate in her quotation of the Master's letter to the extent
that she added the word " etc." and omitted the word "
yet
"
and there are some who would like to convince themselves and
others that this fact is sufficient to invalidate the whole of
H.P.B.'s exposition of the teaching regarding the nature of the
septenary planetary chains. It should be evident to every
student that in reality, at the worst, this mis-quotation invalidates
the hypothesis which Mdme. Blavatsky offered as a possible
explanation of Mr. Sinnett's misunderstanding, and it leaves
utterly untouched the doctrine of the septenary chain with one
physical globe which is implied in every line of The Secret
Doctrine and is in fact an integral part of the esoteric philosophy.
As stated over and over again and from every point of
view in these pages of the Secret Doctrine1
... '*
neither
Mars nor Mercury belong to our chain. They are along with
other planets, Septenary Units in the Great host of Chains of
our System and all are as visible as their upper Globes are in-
visible.
"a
And again
"
The one Eternal Law unfolds everything
in the to be manifested Nature, on a sevenfold principle ; among the
rest, the countless circular chains of worlds composed of 7 globes,
graduated on the 4 lower planes of the World of Formation, the 3
others belonging to the Archetypal Universe. Out of these 7
1 Vol. I., pp. 162-169.
>
p. 164.
492 THE MAHATMA LETTERS
only one, the lowest and the most material of these Globes, is with-
in our plane or means of perception, the 6 others lying outside it
and being therefore invisible to the terrestrial eye. ... To
make it clearer ;
we are told that each of the planets, of which seven
only were called sacred, as being ruled by the highest Regents or
Gods, ... is a septenary, as also is the chain to which the
Earth belongs ;
. . . while the superior fellow globes of these
planets are on other planes quite outside that of our terrestrial
senses. . . . These invisible companions correspond curiously
to that which we call the
"
principles
" in man. The seven are
on three material planes and one spiritual plane
M1 . . . and
again . . .
"
but it may be stated that our satellite is
only the gross body of its invisible principles. Seeing then that
there are seven Earths, so there are seven Moons, the last alone
being visible. The same for the Sun, whose visible body is called
a Maya a reflection, just as man's body is. The real Sun and
the real Moon are as invisible as the real man."2
Says an occult
axiom.
Could words be plainer? Hardly and yet for over thirty years
the Theosophical Society has permitted itself to spread this mis-
leading superstition, preferring to assume that it was Madame
Blavatsky who did not understand what she was writing about.
The mystery is after all as clear as it well nigh can be. The
septenary chains of Globes about which Theosophical Text Books
talk so much, are seven principled Units, each having a physical
body and six higher or subtler principles invisible to the ordinary
senses, but co-existing and inter-penetrating each other.
Students of Astrology at least are able to prove for themselves
that the correspondence between man and a planet is exact ; for
just as the six invisible principles of a planet correspond to the
six invisible principles in man, so do the seven sacred Planets cor-
respond to the whole of the seven principles of our Earth and
therefore of man. How then is it possible that the theory, which
credits the Earth Chain with three physical planets, can be cor-
rect from any point of view? It is manifestly ridiculous, because
if it were true, it would mean by the occult law of correspondence,
that man also must have three physical bodies which is an
absurdity, and proves the whole theory false from beginning to
end.
The publication of these letters gives to the student an oppor-
tunity to examine the whole range of Theosophic teaching in their
light while adding thereto the faculty of Criticism the highest
and most discriminative of which he is capable. That faculty is
an impersonal one ;
it is neither critic nor respecter of persons
i Vol. I., p. 152.
' Vol. I., p. 179.
APPENDIX 493
for to it persons are without significance. But with ideas with
doctrines, it has everything to do, and if it is inevitable that the
use of that faculty by students the world over will reveal many
discrepancies in the accepted Theosophical doctrines of the day,
it is equally certain that a large part of that teaching will receive
a confirmation which cannot be gainsaid.
A. T. B.
INDEX
INDEX
" A. B.C.," of what 1 know (K.H.), 143.
ABIDHARMA KOSHA VYAKHYA, 111.
ABIDHARMA SHASTRA, 108; mctaphy !es
of Ahidharma, 110
ABORIGINES, 118, 131.
ABORTIONS, failures of nature, 83.
ABUSE of Founders of T S., 251.
ABYSS, for failures in occult study, 31.
ABSOLUTE and relative f?ood, 214; con-
sciousness, 104; the ultimate, Ml.
ABSTRACTION, absolute, and immortality,
129.
ABSTRACT IDEAS, in Tribuvana, 800.
ACCESSIONS from another race, 19.
ACCIDENTS, death by, 109, 128, 131, 134,
135, 136. 186, 189.
ACHA1AN, Greek, 31.
ACOSMISM, Vedantie, 139.
AD, sons of, children of the Fire Mist, 153.
ADAM, 76; and divine essence, 45.
ADAMANTINE^ ROCKS, occult rules are,
273-4.
ADDISON, 32.
ADEPT, "a high," 1HI ; and the medium.
42; becomes, not made, 310; definition of,
6; delays progress to eternal rest, 284;
development of, 43; Eastern, 107; follows
his attractions, 2(56; full, 129; greatest
living, 20; hardships of, rewarded, 241;
in "Mr. Isaacs," 327; initiation of the,
99; K.H. an, 190; lives in source of truth,
241; lock of hair of an, 342; married man
cannot be an, 17; occult povveu* and
real nature of the, 137, 1W), 181; Paul
the Christian. 344; perfect, 144; sup-
posed, 110;
"
the mark of," 228; true, 17.
ADEPTS, 27, 117, 122; after death, 128; and
the Theosophical Society, 487; become
Dhyan Chohans, 321; beat, 142; charla-
tans, etc., are
"
shields
"
of, 4;
" claims
"
upon, 341; embodied spirits, 40; ev*ry
race had, 157; holiest, 15; in Egypt, 116;
knowledge of the greatest, 139; limit of
knowledge, 47 ; natural allies of the, 368 ;
patron of. 43; "Real," 281; Shaberons,
superior, 8; the higher, 96.
ADEPTSHIP, highest form on our planet,
43; training for, 249.
ADETYAROM, 461; cf. ADITYARAM, 374.
ADI-BL'DDHI, 90; -Buddha, 346.
ADITYARAM (see ADETYAROM).
ADWAITEE, Subba Row an, 90, 399.
ADWA1TEES, and Masters' teaching, 53;
M. and K.H. not, 288; philosophy of, 51,
302, 303.
ADULTERER, blks of the, 188.
ADONAJ, 340.
ADYAR, 357, 3(57; Hume calls council meet-
ing at, 4(59; warning re happening > to
come, 323.
ADYTUM, 21.
AGAMA SUTRA, 100.
AGNOSTIC, 17, 54; Hume makes Masters,
304; Masters not, 53.
AIR, 91; (akas), 29; K.H. changes currents
of, \40.
AKAS, or AKASA, 3, 4, 94, 102, 166, 364;
children of, 140; contains 7th principle
of a. globe, 94; cosmic matter or, 45;
K.H.'s protecting barrier of, 267; linga
sarira returns to, 72; not your ether,
16; of Masters, 267; occult powers of,
29; or Vril, 2; the one element, 63;
victims of accident sleep in, 136.
AKASIC LIBRARIES, 324.
AKKADIANS, 152.
AKRSHU, (attraction), 35.
ALAYA VYNYANA, (hidden knowledge),
198.
ALEXANDRIA, schools of, 142.
ALCI1EMICIANS, 4.
ALGOW, 451, 452.
ALLAHABAD, 11, 15, IV, 22, 87, 70, 126,
204, 307, 464.
ALLEN, 410; Grant, 151, 152.
ALMORAH, 331, 335.
ALPS, 12, 155;
"
upon Alps," 428.
AMBER, "electron," 164.
AMBERLEY, Viscount, 18.
AMERICA, 15, 121, 149, 151, 263, 271, 273,
307, 323, 355; and Atlantis, 156.
AMERICAN PAPER, "filthy attack" by.
255.
AMJTA-YANA, 114.
AMR1TA, 114 (see AMITA),
AMRITSAR, Umritsar, 13, 19.
AMULET for
"
Den," 451-2.
ANANDA, serpent of Vishnu, 73.
ANAXAGORAS. teaching of, 455.
ANDARAH, 87.
ANDROGYNE APE. 7<J.
ANDROGYNOUS, the one element is. 73.
INDEX
ANGEL, disembodied, 50; guide, 115; of
Death, 261; "Recording," 111.
ANGELS, 108; of Light and truth, 22;
Organs of, 50.
ANGER, sinful, 233, 265.
ANGLO-INDIAN, branch of Theosophical
Society, 8, 9, 13. 14, 10, 18. 21, 23, 26,
209, 212, 213; "Eclectic," 377; Press, 50.
ANGLO-INDIANS, 18, 218, 322; who vilify
H.P.B., 464.
AN1MA MUNDI. 45.
ANIMAL, 80, 96; form, 47; form passing
from sphere to sphere, 75; kingdom, 94,
97, 98; soul, 72, 94, 103, 105, 196; -soul
of future globe, 94; spirits, 72.
ANIMALS, fewer each round, 177.
ANIMALISM, forces of, 35.
ANNIHILATION of the unfit. 47; of sub-
races, 149; mental, at death, 187.
" ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS," by
Master M., 273.
ANT, 75.
ANTHROPOLOGY, a dream of the re-
ligionists, 83.
ANTHROPOIDS, 60, 78, 87.
ANTHROPOMORPHIC deities, 49; concep-
tion of nature by Hindus, 241; ideas of
God, 100.
ANTE-DILUVIANS, 154.
ANTI-EUROPEAN rules of Masters, 294.
ANTI VIVISECTION. Mrs. Kingsford and,
400.
ANURADHA-PURA, Bo tree at, 106.
APE, giant, 87; man, 69, 76, 82, 87, 88;
Theory, 120.
APPARITIONS, after death, 129.
APOLLO BELVEDERE, H.P.B. and Master
M., 313.
ARACHNEA, the true, 74.
ARARAT (see AKHAT).
ARCANA, of being, 197.
ARCANE KNOWLEDGE, 29.
ARCHAEOLOGISTS, of the seventh round,
122.
ARCHAEOLOGY. Indian, 429.
ARCHIMEDES, 2, 161.
ARCTURUS, 31.
ARHAT, Bodhisatwa, 198; and Rishi on
same search, 399; "-Buddhist" term-
inology, 376; disciples of the true, 462;
doctrines of, 66, 90; methods of, 247;
philosophy, 329; vows of, 53; wisdom
of an, 196.
ARHATSHIP, 69.
ARISTARCHUS SAMIUS, 4.
ARISTOTLE, 341.
ARISTOTELEANS, their methods, 344.
ARIYA SAKKA, 58.
ARJUNA. 859.
ARRICINIUS CLEMENTUS, 175.
ART, high, aesthetic effects of, St.
ART MAGIC. 00.
ARTISTS, true, 189.
ARUNDALE, Miss, 350, 855, 474.
ARUPA-DKVAS, 107.
ARVPA-LOKA. 109, 130, 198, 1W.
ARTA SAUAJ, 318.
ARYAN TEMPLE, archaic, 345.
ARYAN nationality, 416; occultism, 384;
records, 150.
ARYANS, 69, 120; Arhat esoteric doctrines,
90; Asiatics. 154; English speaking, 13.
ASCENSION, the pretended, 5.
ASCETICISM, 255.
ASHRUMS, 11, 339.
ASHTA-VHNYANA, 200.
ASIA. 121, 145, 150, 154, 246, 280; Central,
69, 121.
ASIAN, central, sea, 155.
ASIATIC, the term, 18, 186; chelas, 190;
of Tibet, 218; thought, 250.
ASPIRANT to chelaship, testing of, 365.
A SSIR VACLAM, 398.
ASSYRIAN civilisation, 153.
ASTRONOMERS, 94, 162, 163, 164, 165, 167
Chaldee and Egyptian, 163; French, 98.
ASTRONOMY, 176, 185; errors in, 165.
ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY, Royal, Jen-
kins of, 168.
ASTRAL, egos, 101; form, 10, 17, 107, S40,
light, 65, 255; molecules, 102; monad, 183,
postman, 17; rudimentary, man, 76;
soul, 43.
ASTROLOGY, students of, 492.
ASURAS, 107, 108, 113.
ATAVISM, 204.
ATETTJEE SAHIBJEE, article by, 445.
ATHEISM, Buddhistic, 139.
ATHEISTS, 31.
ATHENS, 153.
ATHOS, Mount. 40, 414.
ATLANTIS, 145, 151; America and, 156;
sinking of, 155
ATLANTEANS, 151, 157.
ATMA, 94, 455;
"
Boddha," 282; never
within man, 455; rupa, 46.
ATMAN, 43; in combination with other
principles, 341.
ATMANAM ATMANA PASYA, "see thy-
seif by thyself," 339.
ATMOSPHERE, brandy, 207; earth's, 103,
132, 133; earth's, is continually adding
gaseous matter from meteoric matter,
162; impenetrable, of effects, 48; moon's,
185.
ATOM, 142; cosmic, 89; imponderable, 89;
of cosmic matter, 97; atoms in body
change every seven years, 93.
ATOMIC DISTRIBUTION, 67.
ATTAVADA,
" doctrine of Self," 111.
ATTACHMENTS, human, 32.
ATTRACTION, chemical. 62; afcrjfcu, or, 35;
and repulsion. 35.
AURA, 87, 101, 169, 217, 475; -emitting body,
162; earth's, 110; magneto-electric, 164;
Mahatma's, 476; of Eclectic Society, S21.
AUREOLES, 16.
AUSTRALIA, Ml, 151.
AUSTRALIAN ABORIGINES, 118. 151.
AVALOKITESHWARA, 90, 345, $93; and
interlaced triangles, S46; meaning of,
843, 844; cf. Beale, 844.
AVAIVARTYAS, seventh round men, 100.
INDEX
AVATAM-SAKA, sutra. 108.
AVATAR, 84, 331 ; yet some avatars left on
earth, 77.
AVIDYA, 52, 340.
AVITCHA, 188.
AVITCHI, 172, 197, 340; and Devachan, 190,
197; Nirvana, 171; questions on, 147; re
time in, 194; souls all but shells go to,
199; the cold "
hell," 108; we create our,
127; woes in, 194.
AXIAL POINT of minor manwantaric circle,
BABUS, 175; an innocent, 130.
BABULA, 481.
BACON, FRANCIS. 4, 62. 191, 196, 341; and
'*
Invisible College," 2; -Shakespeare
controversy, 324, 427.
BACONIAN methods, 355.
BADRINATH, 309.
BAHAROOPIAS, 216.
BAITCHOOLY. " the real," H.P.B., 204.
"BANNER OF LIGHT," 241, 420, 421, 427;
H.I'.B. writes for, 480.
BANON, 113; "papyrus." 113.
BARDO, period between death and rebirth,
105.
BARNAWAY, 871.
BARODA, Gaekwar of, 380, 384; Mejnoor,
237; native judge in, 236.
BAROMETER, man the best. 161.
BASKS (Basques), of Spain, C9.
BATES, Miss, 416.
BAVARIA, king of, 189.
BEACHER, Rev. H. W., 138.
BEADS, chain of, used as illustration, 47,
66, 67.
BEAL S., 107.
BEALE'S Catena, 344.
BEASTS, place among dwellers of subjective
world, 107.
BEETHOVEN. 115.
BEHAR CHIEFS, help for
"
Phoenix," 387.
BEING, pure spirit not a, 56; which is no
being, 241.
BELLINGER, 56.
BELIEF in a God, 52.
BENARES, 11; Maharajah of, 380; Vedantin,
317.
BENEMADHAB, BENINADHAB, 461, 463.
BENGAL, 389; cause of evil in, 390; Rent-
bill, 387, 390.
BENGALI, constitution of a, 353.
BENNETT, one of our agents, 249, 200;
superior to Hume, 261.
BRR-CHHRN, 28.
BBSANT, Mrs. A., 405; recommended to
Sinnett, 245; re Mars and Mercury, 489.
BHAOAVAD QITA, authorship of, 275.
BHAVANI RAO, 410.
BHAVANI SHANKER, 279.
BHIKKHUS, fraternity of, 58.
BHOOTAN, 441; Dugpas in, SSS; K.H. goes
to, 286.
BIBLE, 4, 40, 54; distorted creation account,
76; -stuffed brain, 120.
BIGOTRY and blindness of the spiritualist,
430.
BIKSHU, the meditating. 59.
BILLING, Dr., 306, 307; and H.P.B.. 418;
and Massey, 385.
BILLING, Mrs. II., 277; and Massey. 38rt;
as a medium, 306, 308; and the 100,
415; confederate of Eglmton. 300; K.H.
about, 416; -Massey incidents. 362, 417;
phenomena of, 418.
BIRD, and butterfly, 57; collecting. 217;
killing, 260.
BISHEN LAL. 357, 339. 371.
BISHOP of Chester and Bacon, 2.
BLACK, C. C. [BLAKE, C. C.l, 247; a Jesuit.
307.
'BLACK ROCK, on the way to Pen lor, 116.
BLAVATSKY, H. P., 6. 9. 11. 12. 15. 16. 17. 18,
19, 21, 25, 26, 28, 33. 34. 36, 37. 38, 39, 41,
42. 43, 44, 50, 51, 65, 60. 67. 100, 103, 105,
113, 114, 110, 118, 119, 120, 125, 129. 13*.
135, 172, 182, 189, 190. 193, 201. 202, 236,
237, 271, 370, 31>9, 443; a Buddhist. 309;
a sacrifice, 51 ; accused by Dr. Billing,
307; accused of deception, 386, 472; act-
ing under Atrya, 289; against C. C.
Black 'a readmission, 307; and C. C.
Massey, 306. 308, 310, 417; and -f- 308;
and "dak business," 220; and discre-
tion, 396; and Mrs. Kingsford, 405, 406;
and "Occult World," 50; and padres,
318; and S. Moses, 277; and Subba Row,
399; and Watsons, 230; article,
"
A Day
with," 22; as amanuensis, may act as,
366; at Gebhards in danger, 362; at
Simla, 282; aunt in Odessa, 253, i58;
calls K.H. "brain pirate," 286; carries
two mortal diseases, 470; clairvoyant
powers, 310; death, consequences of her,
368; defence of, 257; devotion to cause,
410; enfeebled body, 9; excluded from
secret committee at Adyar, 357; forbid-
den to say what she knows, 272; fore-
tells death. 469; gets better thanks to
Master, 470; her English, 480, her health,
477; her identity, 44, 255; her outbursts
of temper explained, 203; her portrait
of fakir, 312; Hume on, 820, 222, 803;
Hume's letters to, 245;
" I dead, say
Society goodbye to Masters," 474;
initiated chela, 316; K.H. on, 18, 19, 33,
36, 50, 51, 100, 103, 105, 113, 114, 116, 129,
132, 172, 182, 190, 202, 203, 204, 210, 211.
216. 238, 239, 242, 253, 274, 279, 285, 314,
323, 362, 368. 444; a "confederate" of,
306; K.H. asks Siunett to believe in, 443;
K.H.'a portrait, 184; meana of communi-
cation with, 257; on her fate, 247; on her
faults, 310; on her great help, 313; on
her phenomena, 311, 312; refers Sinnett
to, 284; using her as means of communi-
cation, 245; "killed" by Sinnett, 868;
left all for the cause, 433; left at Dar-
jeeling, 445; letter from Subba Row to,
240; letter to Massey, 289; libelled, 254;
Massey unjustly accuses, 386; M. on,
220, 224, 251, 256, 271. 272; her health,
270; no time to look after her. 262; on
her being unjustly abused, 273; on
Hume's treatment of, 269; quotes her,
6 INDEX
261 ; will refresh her failing memory, 441 ;
will take her in hand, 440; Masters'
method of understanding, 478; one of her
seven satellites in Tibet, 205; originator
of idea of Anglo-Indian branch, 200;
41
our most docile agent," 568; "our
visible agent," 10; "plagues" M.'s life
to reward Sinnctt, 570; "pretended"
phenomena, 307; prophecies that Sinnett
will accuse K.H. of deception, 408;
quoted by S. Moses, 413; quarrels with
Djual Khool. 442; re charges against her,
473; re journey to Ostend, 482; re law
suit, 253; re Mars and Mercury, 489; re
Odessa portraits, 258; relations with
Sinnett, 867; ridiculed, 254: sacrificed by
Hume, 201; scorn for the sex, 251; sees
Masters in sleep, 478; sent to America,
MS; Sinnctt's unjust suspicion of, 354;
surprise at Sinnett 's invitation, 404;
target of Spiritualists, 290; tolls Sinnett
he is deceiving himself, 400; threat to
leave English Theosophists to their own
way, 461; to be watched, 473; to flglit
new battle, 408; to send no more
letters to K.H., 551; too truthful, 272;
traps laid for her, 412; treated in cruel
way by Sinnett, 553, 570; uncle's letter,
255, 405; vision of K.H. at Wurzburg, f
478; will be taken back to Tibet, 250;
writing forged, 431; wronged by S.
Moses, 501.
"
BLAVATSKY, Madame, Exposed," a
pamphlet, by padres, 475.
BLIND, those who are willingly and un-
willtngly, 255.
BLIND-FOLD, a stage in progress, SS.
BLISS, law of, 106; region of, 100, 105;
world of, 106.
BLOOD-TIES, 58.
BLUMENBACH, 120.
BO-TREE, at Anuradhapura, 100; cf. Boddhi
tree. 58.
BOD-LAS, precincts of. 205.
BOD PA, 251.
BODHISATWAS, 100. 110, 159, 176, 198;
generations of, 219.
BODY, gross, 94; war between, and its
members, 52.
BOEHMK, K.H. on, 270.
BOMBAY, 25, SO, 38, 116, 246, 250, 250, 200.
500. SIS, 408, 409; chela to go to, 294;
crucial meeting at, 574; Gazette, 211;
Hindus of, 56; -letter of K.I I., 204;
publications, 13.
BOOK, K.H. on Sinnett's idea for, 21. 27.
81, 52, 84, 50, 24(); ancient, 151; of Life.
865; of lives, 10 1. HM.
BOOTBLACK, and king, 223.
BOOTHIA. 109.
" BOTTOMLESS PIT," 196.
BOWAJEE, 477.
BOYLE, ROBERT, 2.
"
BOYS, the." 32.
BRADLAUGH, 133, 405.
BRAHM. man as nn integral, 27; nights of,
78; the erentixo architect of" the world.
00.
BRAHMA, -lokas, 375; nights of, 158; the
vivifying expansive force, 71.
BRAHMAN, and Sakti, 90.
BRAHMANA, the meditating, 59.
BRAHMANISM. Orthodox, 462.
BRAHMANICAL, esoteric teaching, 576.
BRAHMIN, initiated, 90.
BRAIN, molecules of the, 56; organised.
159, 140; physical, 157; versus heart, 207.
BRANCHES, of Theosophical Society, 20;
and parent body, 819; may perish, 245;
on western continent, 209.
BREWSTER, 173.
BRIDGE, of woven grasses, 219; "golden,"
108.
11RIH, root of Brahma, 71.
"BRILLIANT," the, cf. TAUASA.
BRITISH ISLES, fate of, 156.
BRITISH (London Branch) Theosophical
Society, 9, 14. 20; members of, 202.
BRONZE AGE, 153.
BROOKES, 257.
BROOCH incident, 5, 10, 13, 211, 216, 4ft8,
475.
BROTHER, "Blessed," 222, 227; Greek. 271;
"Lha "
or, 265; semi-European Greek, 64.
BROTHERS, 7, 10, 19; addressed first by
Sinnett, 210; H.P.B. foretells withdrawal
of, 4C6; Hume on their system, 332;
individual, 49; K.H. on, 415; M. on, and
Brotherhood, 252; not to be judged by
worldly experience, 258; of the Shadow,
40, 42, 49, 51, 284, 337; question of, kept
up, 205.
BROTHERHOOD, 243, 575; and per-
sonalities, 401; M. on, 252; new blood
pourod into, 465; of Initiates, 276; the
whole, and its ramifications, 272; uni-
versal, 8, 9, 17, 20, 23, 24, 210, 218, 215,
317; versus phenomena, 24, 566.
BUCK, Dr., 485.
BUPDA GAYA, 294.
BUDDH, Divine wisdom, 465.
BUDDHA, 58; and planetary spirit, 44; a
sixth rounder, 84; became planetary
spirit, 45; describes Dcvaohan, 100; his
teaching. 455; man may become a, 75;
misunderstood, 281; mystery of, 96; of
last seventh race, 157; patron of all
adepts, 43; teaching re Avitchi, 108;
will incarnate on next planet, 117;
wisdom of a, 196.
BUnnilANGUMS of Creation, the interlaced
triangles, 545.
BUDUHAHOOD, 67.
BUDDH AS, 77, 78. 110; are rare, 43; the
first, 49.
BUDDHI, 342, 343, 848; enlightenment, 399;
never within man, 455; or spiritual soul,
91; paralysed in madman, 175; spiritual
attributes reborn, 172; supreme energy
lies in the. 541; Universal, 343; wisdom,
599.
BUDDHISM, and Masters, 59; criticisms of,
517; opponents of. 111; seven mysteries
of. 110; Rhys Davids on, 158, 185, 343,
145
INDEX
BUDDHIST, book*?, Ill; delegates, 253:
exegesis, 342: Lama, 158; logic, 111;
metaphysics, 110; philosophers, 90; prin-
cipal philosophical school in India, 140;
priest, 110; seven mysteries of, 110;
scriptures, 54. 106; sutra, 106; temples,
teaching in, 58.
BUDDHISTS, 399; deny God, 52.
BUDDHISTIC ATHEISM, 139.
BULWER LYTTON, 32, 42, 297.
BURKE, and Hastings, 295.
BURNOUF, 107.
BURTON, Mrs., of Simla, 4<J7.
BUSHMEN, 120.
" BUSIRIS "
by Oxley, is nonsense, 275, 277.
BUSSAWLA in Central Provinces, a Chela
at, 801.
BUTTERFLY and bird, 57.
BYANG-TZYOOBS, 285.
CABALISTS, (see KABALIST).
CADAVER, earth becomes like, 99.
C/ESARS, 175.
CAOLIOSTRO, 306, 363.
CALCUTTA, 122, 327, 350; Olcott at, 440.
CAMBRIDGE "Dons" and Mr. Kiddle, 324.
CAPE BRETON coal fields, 93.
CAP1LLATURE, periods of, 93.
CARD-CASE phenomena, 308.
CASHMERE. Maharajah of, 372 (see also
KASHMIR).
CASSIOPEIA, lf>5.
"CASTLE OF KNOWLEDGE," 4; of.
Recorde.
CATACLYSMS in nature, necessary to
mankind, 359.
"
CATENA," Beale's, 344.
CAUCASIAN STOCK, 152.
CAUSE, and effect, 52; evolving, 91;
quantitative relation between, and
effects, 61 ; secret, of events in the T.S.,
251.
CAUSES, and effects, world of, 47; higher
world of, 72; spheije of, 48; worlds of,
48.
"
CAVE-DWELLER," 16.
CAVE-MEN, 121; race of, 69; remnants of
seventh ring, 120.
CAWNPORE, 17.
CENDRILLON, our race is the, in your
home. 150.
CENTRES of activity, differentiating, 98;
European, "of spiritual activity," 350;
three, of the Occult Brotherhood, 399.
CENTRIFUGAL evolution of laws, 144.
CEREBELLUM and cerebrum, 137.
CEYLON, 76, 152, 220, 252; cf. Lanka.
CH-IN-KI (Lhassa), 431.
CHAIN, of causation, 58, 50; of beads,
illustration by, 66, 67; of worlds, 46,
06.
CHAINS, of globes, 92, 97, 119; vertex of
all, 170.
CHALDEANS, 129; Mage, 399.
CHALDEES, 49, 152, 153, 165; astronomers,
165.
"
CHALLENGER "
expedition, 155.
CHAMBERS. Dr. R.. 411.
CHAOS, the pralaya. 60, 70.
CH \RLATANS, 4; Adepts repudiated as,
144.
CHARYA, S.Y.K., at Adyar, 357.
CHATTERJI, S.K. letter of, 442.
CHKLA, a young, Sent to Sinnett, 894;
Asiatic. 199; first duty of, 235; guided
by his Guru, 144; high, 81; "Lay," 181,
103; not a free man, 350; of K.H.'s, 195;
of M.'s, 65; perfect confidence in teacher
necessary, 359; sent to Sinnett, 821;
Sinnett not one, 260; trained, 192; vow
of secrecy, 295; young, to go to Simla
with letter, 294; (see GURU).
CHKLAS, and electrometers, 63; and mag-
netism, 349; are magnetised, 63; are
never
"
guidod," 37i; are tempted, 316;
article "and Lay Chclas," 311; can sec
the sun's aura, 162; English, 19; helped
when innocent of causes. 310; Hume on,
332; in London, 47fi; K.H. on Hume and
Fern as, 230; method of developing
lucidity, 455, 456; methods of training.
316; or pupils, position of. 434; protest
by twelve, 293; rods of, 63; rules for,
447; signatures of twelve protesting,
292; testing of, 236, 209. 309; three at
Simla, 297; three cases of insanity among
"
lay," 371 ; to last initiation left to own
device and counsel, 309; work usually
entrusted to, 136; young, in K.H.'a
bouse. 243.
CHKLASHIP, 231, 283; before Adeptship;
candidates for, 295, 359; mysteries of,
358; puzzle to Olcott, 871; qualifications
for, .
CHEMICAL AFFINITY, of primordial cos-
mic atom, 89; mask of motion, 159.
CHESNEY, Col., 136, 244, 287, t88, 294, 800,
302, S17, 445, 447; Portrait precipitated
for, 300. 301.
CHESTER, Bishop of, 2.
CHESTERFIELD, a, worth of character,
261.
"CHIEFS" and Anglo-Indian Society, 16,
209; refuse permission for direct com-
munication with Sinnett, 28; want a
brotherhood of Humanity, 24.
CHILDREN, death of, in first septenary
cycle, 83, 103.
CHILIOCOSM, 199.
CHINA, 149, 254, 364; K.H.'s mission to,
472.
CHINA POT phenomenally produced, 808.
CHINESE, the true, and the degenerate.
154; language, a translation into, 943;
a, war as Bussian pretext, 11.
CHI NO TIBETAN technical names for
personal entities, 114.
CHOGGA, pocket, 18.
CHOHAN, 225, 246, 258, 270, 271, 296; and
Fern, 236; and H.P.B., 116; and Hume's
letter, 287; and Hume's suggestions, 288;
and instructions, to Hume and Sinnett,
257; and K,H., 220; and Simla Eclectic
Society, 206; approval of Sinnett, 80S;
8 INDEX
attention attracted by Sinnett, 451;
confidential chelas of, 292; express wish
of, re Mrs. Kingsford and the London
Lodge, SOB; forbids letter to Hume, 438;
hands of the, alone can bridge chasm
made by Sinnett, 266; highest, 425;
"hitherto implacable," 64; in India in
1793, 390; K.H. carrying out wishes of,
403; K.H. "in scrape with," 113; K.H.'a
pledge to, 389; knowledge, re Sinnett's
and others' indifference to Universal
Brotherhood idea, 375; "my Master"
(K.H.'s), 158; over-persuaded by K.H.
and others, 243; prophesy of, 336; pro-
test of chelas ordered by, 292-3; repri-
mands Djual Kool, 300; restores damaged
letter, 320; restraining influence of, 285;
sends Sinnett His Blessing, 428; the, dis-
pleased, 173, 270; value of His lightest
injunction, 226; venerable, 319, 441;
views re Phoenix project, 378, 379, 381.
CHOHANS, highest, 130; Ma-Mo are gods
of Hindus, Christians, etc., 403; of
darkness, 462; preside at pralayas (i.e.,
Ma-Mo), 462; regard K.H. as lunatic,
186 (see DHYAN CHOHANS).
CHOOT-DAK, or medium, 431.
CHRIST, "against Mahatmas," pamphlet,
474; Eliphas Levi's use of the term, 127;
" or the Founders,'* 362; real, is Vach,
344.
CHRISTIAN, 22, 31, 151, 201, 280, 313; and
"
heaven," 22, 106; and immutability, 60;
anti, Theosophical propaganda, 255; at
Tinevelly, 255; believe "soul" and
"spirit" synonymous, 280; church, 112;
doctrine of trinity, 142; esotericisro, and
Mrfy Kingsford, 402; God, characterised,
54, 463; Kabalists, 346; -mission-Coulomb
conspiracy, 325; mistranslation, 107; mis-
understanding of Genesis, 76; mystics,
7; "Pioneer" proprietors are, 22;
revelation, 319; saints, 16; theology, 40,
348; training, 45.
CHRISTIANITY, 54, 112, 345; sects mutually
inimical, 818; Theosophy impartial to,
317.
CHROMOSPHERE, aura of sun, 162.
CHRONOLOGY, Buddhistic, 345; secret, 155.
CHRONOMETER, whole Cosmos is, 193.
CHURCH, and Galileo, 4; and evils of
humanity, 57; and falsehood. 232; Chris-
tian, teaching of. 112.
CHUTUKTUS, 113.
CICERO, 324.
CIRCLE, formed by Purusha, 120; imag-
inary, 46; initiate of fifth, 203; minor
manwantnric, 88; "of necessity," 47;
squaring the, 345, 847.
CIVIL & MILITARY GAZETTE. 380.
CIVIL SERVANTS in India. 379.
CIVILISATION, 121; an inheritance, 150;
and progress, 120; Chaldean, 153; end of
our, 140; human innovations, 1; material
and spiritual, 156-7.
CLAIRAUDIENCE, 28, 255.
CLAIRVOYANTS, 117, 277.
CLAN DRUMMOND, 467.
CLARKE, Dr., 53.
CLAUDIUS, emperor, 164.
CLEANLINESS, 15, 16; moral, 46i.
COALFIELDS of Cape Breton, 93.
COCHIN, Dewan Naib of, 266.
COHESION, laws of, 98.
COLOUR, 30, 31, 340.
COMETS, 163.
COMMUNICATION, cost of, to K.H., 248;
from Sinnett to go through Damodar or
Olcott, 396; subjective spiritual, 101;
with dead, 45. 47, 102, 108, 109; with
Master, methods of, 28; with Sinnett to
end with death of H.P.B., 36.
COMPASS NEEDLE, and poles, 169.
COMPASSION, 32.
COMPENSATION, law of, 262.
CONDENSATION, of the planet, 89.
CONFEDERATE, K.H., of Sinnett, 13.
CONFUCIUS, a fifth rounder, 84; sayings
of, 401.
CONGENITAL IDIOTS, 83, 104.
CONSCIENCE, a negative instructor only,
216.
CONSCIOUSNESS, absolute, 104; at death,
128; full individual, 104; latent, 105;
leaves personal ego suddenly at death,
147, 174; of spiritual ego, 175; personal,
171; reviving, after kama loka, 199.
CONSPIRACIES of spiritualists in London,
430.
CONTRADICTIONS, 178; "famous," 181;
only incompleteness, 243; seeming, 365;
apparent, between K.H. and M., 244,
392.
CONTROLS, 50, 102.
COOK, 271.
COOK, Miss, 417.
COPERNICUS, 4, 153.
COPTS, 152.
CORA, a medium, 272.
CORNWALLIS, Lord, 388; agreement with
Races, 390; his great political mistake,
389.
CORONA, of sun, 162, 163.
CORTEZ, 149.
CORNU, scientist, 166.
COSMIC, atom, 67, 89, 97; dust, 94, 98;
-extra, deity, 55; matter, 63, 71, 93, 138,
142; night, 97; veil of, matter, 138.
COSMICAL INFLUENCES, 49.
COSMOGONY, 71, 72, 262; esoteric, 70.
COSMOLOGY, 71, 78-99, 138-149, 159; is physi-
ology of universe, 71; Sinnett's, 262.
COSMOS, about the, 63, 67, 68, 346; or
universe, 138 (see also KOSMOS).
COULOMBS, 473; conspiracy, 325.
COW, slokas on the, 319; "thrice holy," 33.
COUES, Prof., 483.
"CRADLE LAND of Arts and Creeds,"
India, 384.
CRAWFORD and BALCARRES, Lord, 26.
CRAWFORD, MARION, 827.
" CREATION " of a universe, 70, 72.
CREATOR, man his own, 141 ; . supposed,
189.
INDEX 9
CREATURES, flve (?) orders of sentient,
107.
CREEDS, superstitious, 249; will crumble
before ideas, 24.
CRISIS, at anniversary, 450; in T.S. question
of progress of humanity, 365; is here,
367; K.H.'s warning about great, 301;
near at hand, 288, 293.
CROOKES, W., 50, 271, 304, 341; occult
research led to his discoveries, 272.
CROSS, or -f (see IMPERATOR).
CRUST OF EARTH, kingdom below, 79.
CRYSTALS, 92, 162; soul of, 44.
CUNNINGHAM, General, errors in Indian
Archaeology, 420.
CUP, phenomena, 34.
CUVIER, 120.
CYCLE, 97; appointed, 176; at end of this,
Masters will retire, 51 ; closing, and
seismological disturbances, 396; dead
point of revolving, past, 382; each ring
and race has iK 149; earth, 120; earth's,
to be performed by Spirit-man, 47; end
of the, 115; great, 41, 46; last, of man-
bearing, 67; maha, 70; manvantaric, 80,
91, 106; minor, 198; new, and sixth race,
150; new, for T.S., 382; of fifth race,
156-157; of intelligent existences, 45; of
Swabhavat, 98; post-pralayan, 77; ter-
restrial, mankind!?, 77; very threatening
end of, 450; Zenith of grand, 77.
CYCLES, 150; eterna1
progression of, 141 ;
in the eternity, 71 ; law of, immutable,
156; of development, 66; of seven, ele'-en,
etc., 272; recurrent, 214; septenary,
civilisation's, 88; septenary, children's
first, 83; seven, or revolutions, 66; seven-
fold, 77.
CYLIC, career, of physical nature, 47; inter-
period of man, 96; rotation of monad,
68; work of evolution, 46.
CYCLOP, 96.
CYPRUS, 36.
DALAI LAMA, 434; Hume the, of the
Theosophists, 319.
DAMODAR, K. MAVALANKAR, 36, 66, 84,
118, 236, 260, 279, 298, 323, 325, 330, 333,
357, 461; aura of, 410; gave up caste,
462; goes to Tibet, 363; H.P.B. on, 468;
hated by Lane Fox and Hartmann, 363;
his example, 462; letter to Sinnett,
486-8; letters sent through, 300, 325;
magnetism of, 410; protest of, 242; taken
by Masters, 456; telegram re, 456; testing
of, 236.
DANTE, 123.
DARBHAGIRI NATH, 360, 443, 446, 447.
DARE, Mr., 385.
DARJEELING, 190, 201, 446.
DARKNESS, Absolute, 373.
DARWIN, 92, 239, 359; his hypothesis, 120;
Law of Heredity, 404.
DASTVRS, methods of, 247.
DAVIDS, RHYS, 107, 158. 185, 343, 344; an
atheist and materialist, 545.
DAVIDSON, 291.
DAVISON, 23.
DAWKINS, Professor, 69.
" DAY with Mad. B.," 2*.
DAYANAND SWAMI, 300, 307; ambition of,
313; and the T.S., 326, 416; malcontent,
326; vanity of, 331; was a yogi, 309.
DE MAGNETE, the great work. 4.
DEAD, communications with, 45, 47;
planets, 67; worlds, 67.
DEATH, and after, 75, 100-115, 122 136, 147,
170-179, 186-200; and "first hours of
horror," 475; article in
"
Theosophist,"
196; brain at, 170; Brothers could not
destroy, 463; by accident, 136; condi-
tions after, 123, 132; desires at time of.
importance of, 170, 198; dwelling of
"
Mara," 107; fate of man's principles
after, 71, 72; full Adept can arrest, at
will, 129; keys of secret of, and Life,
365; 'knowledge of, while in physical
body, 128; moment of, 127-8, 19; no
man dies insane, 170; normal death
period, 124; normal hour of, anticipated,
124; of fourfold entity, and recollection,
186; of planets, 94, 96; of solar system,
99; Planet of, 103; secrets of, 865;
solemn presence of, 171; spiritual, 41.
(see also, DEVACHAN, SUICIDE).
DEB, 66, 242, 270, 298, 300; a chela, 242;
"
Shortridg
" with H.P.B. , 466.
DEEDS, importance of, 25.
DEGREES, Sinnett's scheme of, 246, 247.
DEIFIC POWERS in man, 2.
DEITIES, anthropomorphic, 49.
DEITY, 138; imaginary, 57; Mosaic, 139.
DELPHIAN ORACLE, 145.
DEMAGOGUES, in India, 384.
DEMONS, Rakshasas, 107.
"DEN," 106, 451; DENNIE, 466.
DESDEMONA, modern, 18.
DESSICATED PANSY, 32.
DESTRUCTION, complete, of our system,
94.
DEVA, indiscriminate use of the word, 373.
DEVACHAN, 72, 09, 101, 102, 103, 109, 128.
132, 147, 148. 170, 171, 179, 187, 191, 193,
196, 321, 373; and Avitchi, 196; and
Bacon, 191; and victims of accidents,
178; article by Massey on, 339, 365; at
threshold of, 172; bliss in, 105, 133, 195;
changes of occupation in, 197; children
and, 103; dream life of, 195; fruition of
highest aims in, 191; Ego'a entrance to,
187; Ego in, 104, 172, 195; ego and
dimensions there, 404; fifth round men
in, 177; happiness in, 103; is a state, not
a locality, 198; knowledge in, 339; length
of stay in, 200; no mutual intercourse
in, 198; not a monotonous condition,
191; remembrance in, 125, 127; Sinnett
and, 175, 339; Tathagata on, 100; those
in, cannot watch earth life, 106; we
create our own, 127; what it is that
goes to, 105; who goes to, 100.
DEVACHANEE, 158, 193, 194.
DEVA-LQKAS, 373.
10 INDEX
DEVA8, 87, 106, 107, 110, 373; servants of
the Dhyan Chohans, 321.
DKVA8H1P, 87.
DEVELOPMENT, inner, 283; law of, of
races, 119; method of, with Chelas, 453,
450; period of, of root races, 177; relative
speed of, in rings, 93.
DKYS, learning of the, 4.
DHARANI I)I1U, 429.
DIIARBAG1RI NATH, 335, 445, 440, 447.
DHARMAKAYA, universally diffused Es-
sence, 90, 348.
DHARMA KAY1C EAR, 200.
D'HOLBACH, Baron, 53, 155.
DHYAN CHOHAN, 170; every purified ego
has chance to exist as a, 158; man may
become, at seventh round, 75; who will
instruct first race of fifth round men,
157.
DHYAN CHOJIANS, 72, 78, 97, 98, 107, 402;
and Avalokitetihwara, 343-344; and d,s-
incarnated ego, 131 ; are planetaries, 321 ,
dovaa are servants to, 321 ;
"
failures
"
among, 87; hosts of the, 90; infallibility
of, 54; or IManetarirs, 55; protectors of
our Race, 1.17; silence regarding, 04,
Tathagatas, lOO, 102, 108; their nppositcs,
4fi3.
DHYANIS. 373.
DIAGRAM of " man on a planet," 85.
DICHROMATIC BODY, 30.
DICTIONARY of Pai-Wouen-Yen-Fu, 364.
DIET, 57, 65, 455; (see VEGETARIANISM).
INFRACTION SPECTRUM. 16fl.
DIKSUITA (initiated), 97, 218.
DIOGENES' LANTERN, 210.
"DIRECT COMMUNICATION" between
Sinnett and Masters impossible, 20, 27,
28, 29, 50.
*
DISCIPLES. H.P.B., and Subba Row, 240.
DISCIPLINE of ehelas, 309.
DISCORD is the harmony of the universe,
401.
DISCRETION, test of, for Sinnett, 200.
DISEASE, origin of, 57.
DISEMBODIED SPIRITS, 40, 41, 47, 49, 275,
285.
"DISINHERITED," Humanity, 32; "the,"
33, 34, 30, 113, 219, 250, 251, 411, 451.
DJUAL KUL (GJUAL KHOOL, or D.K.),
137, 242, 270, 274, 303. 304, 357, 364, 380;
accident to, 180; arid Colonel Chesney,
287; appears on the "Clan Drummond,"
407; chela of K.H., 202; diagram by, 86;
footnote to Oxley's article, 275, 293;
interested in Sinnett's progress, 336;
letter to Sinnett, 453; precipitation of
K.H.'s portrait, 184, 300, 312; preparing
for initiation, 298; tried to penetrate
Rothney Castle, 298; will transmit
letters, fifl.
DJNANA PRASTHANA SHASTER, 105.
DOCTOR, the little, 374.
DOCTRINE, of occultism, fundamental, 141;
dissemination of, 376; recorded in figures,
280; septenary, not divulged in
"
Isfs,"
183; whole, not told to Sinnett, 464.
DOG, memory of a, 173.
DONNELLY, 151, 155.
DOPPELGANGKR, 43.
DOUBLE, fluidic, of globe, 94.
DOUBT, territory of, 108; to, is to risk
insanity, 31.
DREAMS, Land of, 103.
DKUZE brethren, 110.
DUALITIES, Upper and Lower, struggle
between, 103.
nut! PAS, and Fern, 270, 294, 297; and
Gelupkas, fight in England, 272; at-
tracted by Hume, 381; bomb-shell from.
world, 484; E. would make, 122; ex-,
298, element in London Lodge, 484;
given carte blanche to deceive ehelas,
232; imitate M.'s handwriting, 294; in
Bhootan and Vatican, 3.22; -Shammar,
133, 272; traps for ehelas, 309.
DUMB RACES, 88.
DUNRAVEN, Lord, 431.
DUPOTET, 27.
DUST, meteoric, 161.
DUTCH T1IKOSOPHIST. letters of, 66.
DUTY, precedence of, 351, 872.
DWAIU<\ 00; -race, 76.
DWELLER of the threshold, 42.
DWELLERS of the subjective world, 107.
"
DZING DZIXG "
VISIONARY, 186.
"EARLY DVYS OF THEOSOPHY IN
EUROPE," 489.
EAST INDIA COMPANY, 389.
EARTH, an electrified conductor, 160; and
Planetaries, 41; aura of, 110; axis of, 4;
crust of, 81 ; cycle of, spirit-man per-
forms, 47, 120; history of, missing pages,
8'); inner kingdom below crust, 79;
magnetism of, 161; our, 94, 95, 98; our,
the lower turning point, 78; -particles,
tidal wave of, 99; -rings, and ego, 100;
"
Spirits that hover about the, sphere,"
41; "-walkers," 109, 112.
EAST AND WEST, only minute point of
contact, 13, 15.
ECCLESIASTICAL ENGLAND, opposition
from, 322.
ECLECTIC SOCIETY, and K.H., 270; and
Parent Society, 269, 302; Anglo-Indian,
proposed move to Calcutta, 377; aura pf,
221; future of, 270; if it sinks, 291;
Masters forbidden to use power in con-
nection with, 181; its checkered exist-
ence, 290; not well started, 318; only
K.IL and M. interested in it, <J4;
president of, 295.
EDEN, Sir Ashley, 380.
EDISON, 109, 272.
EDWARD VI, mathematician at court of,
4.
EFFECTS, sphere of, 48, 108, 134; world of,
47, 48, 49, 71.
EGLINTON, 04, 108, 113. 118, 122, 247, 805,
309, 429, 430, 481. 452; on "Vega," 411;
phenomena produced by, 247.
EGO, 40, 68, 99. 100, 102, 105, 100, 109, 111,
128, 130; astral, 101; consciousness of, 32;
INDEX 11
consciousness of spiritual, after death.
175; -foetus in intermediary sphere, 48;
future of personal, 171; immortal, 183;
in devachan, 104, 172, 195; may become
Avitoha, 188; new. 72, 113, 179; personal.
114, 131; personal, goes to devachan, 100;
personal, is astral monad, 183; personal,
of lukewarm, 134; of suicide, 112; puri-
fied, 158; real, inheres in higher prin-
ciple, 183; spiritual, 47, 88, 130. 147, 175;
spiritual, after death, 175; struggle of
spiritual, 88; unconscious, 48.
EGOS, 49, 125; distinction between animal
and spiritual, 46; disembodied, 48;
gestation of, 48; immortal, 231; laggard,
perish, 47; new Self-Conscious, 48; of
suicides, 112; spiritual, 47.
EGOISM, a snare, 369.
EGYPT, 126, 142, 151, 152; Adepts in, 110.
EGYPTIAN, astronomers, 103; civilisation,
152; hierophants, 344, 399; mysteries,
365; priests, 73, 155; records, 150; sex-ret
chronology, 155.
EIGHTH SPHERE, 130, 171, 106; and total
oblivion, 196; mystery of, 39G.
ELDERFELD, 322, 3fi6, 369.
ELDER, divine, 103.
ELECT, Life of the, 198.
ELECTRIC, phenomena, 160; science, 30.
ELECTRICITY, and heat, and magnetism,
62; atmospheric, 160.
ELECTRO-MAGNETIC forces, 165.
ELECTROMETERS. 62, 63.
ELEMENT, and seven principles, 92; but
one. 63, 89, 90, 97, 159, 16(5; fire, 92.
ELEMENTS, 93; five cognisable, of ancients,
91 ; six universal, 92.
ELEMENTAL guardians of animal and
vegetable kingdoms, 97.
ELEMENTALS, 41, 87, 94, 98, 108, 122.
ELEMENTARIES, 41. 43, 104, 112, 122, 273,
432; abode of, 105; in Sinnctt's house,
323; of intensified craft, 110.
ELEPHANTS, bones of, 154.
ELIJAH, 415.
" ELIXIR OF LIFE/' article in
" Theo
sophist," 233, 274.
ELIZABETH, Queen, physician of, 4.
ELIPTICAL ORBIT, of chain of worlds, 47
ELU of the Chaldees, 49.
EMANCIPATION, final, of Ego, 32.
ENGLAND, 4, 19, 34, 201, 272; population of,
124; state of Society in, 399.
ENGLISH, 14, 24, 70, 285; and Hindu,
elements opposed, 207-8; character, 18;
chelas, 10; H.P.B.'s, 480; language, in-
adequacy of, 60, 192; mystics, 15; science,
12; society, 11.
ENGLISHMAN, 12, 19, 70, 206, 213; heart
of the, 208; ideal of intellectual, 212.
ENTITY, fourfold, 18; human, 89; personal,
114.
ENTITIES, as distinct from personalities,
82; classes of, 95; man starts as simple
spiritual, 75; mineral, vegetable, and
animal, 98; vital, or na*t, 97.
EOCENE AGE. 151.
EPHESUS, 804.
EPICYCLOID, 40, 47.
EQUILIBRIUM, law of, 68, 96, HI.
EQUILIBRISKD spirit and matter, in man,
46.
EQUILATERAL TRIANGLE, symbol of,
142.
" ERNESTS AND JOEYS." 108, 109. 118.
263.
" ESOTERIC BUDDHISM." 201, 323, 3UO.
361, 367. 473. 474; H.P.B. on, 481; K.H.
on, 392; mistakes in, 392; real vital
errors in, 357.
ESOTERIC, cosmogony, 70; Buddhism,
disciples of the true, 462; philosophy,
study of, by different sects harmoniously,
402; spirit of Hindu thought, 208; teach-
ings to be kept secret, 401.
ESOTERIC DOCTRINE, 45-49, 5256, 60-68.
71-99, 101, 115, 141-144, 158, 373; about
the sun, 163; Aryan Arhat, 00; dis-
semination of TRUTH thiough, 308; how
to understand the, 200; K.H. on, 399;
language difficulty, 192, 193; rejected by
spiritualists, 108; hole custodian of truth,
195.
ESQUIMAUX. 69, 120.
ESHA1S S(/K L.I NATVRR. by Baron
D'Holbach. l.W.
ESSENCE, divine, 43, 120; eternal, 0; of a
globe, 94; of nature, 241; nnivcrsilly
diffused, 00.
ETFJS, 71.
ETERNAL LIGHT, 92.
ETERNAL SELF manifesting in Vach, 344.
ETERNAL TRUTHS taught by Planetary
Spirits, 41.
ETERNITY, 31, 68. 193; emblem of, 71.
KTJIKR, 01; of science, 45.
ETHER 1C VIBRATIONS, 144.
ETHNOGRAPHERS. 118, 120.
ETHNOGRAPHY, 68, 09.
ETHNOLOGY, 83, 121, 150, 151, 152, 153, 154.
EUCLID, 29.
EUROPE, 20, 3i, 36, 121, 149, 150, 151, 164,
216; and Theosophy, 271; four races have
successively inhabited, 69; K.II. in, 295.
EUROPEANS, 8, 29, 121, 152, 209; candidates,
103; four on probation, 328.
EVIL, Brothers could not destroy, 463;
brutal, 139; chief cause of, 57; in man,
potency of, 130; mystery of, 345; no
existence per e, 56; origin of, 57.
EVOLUTION, 46, 47, 70. 74; and septenary
rule, 86; complete theory of, not given
out till threshold is crossed, 348; con-
trolling spirit, 91; ladder of, 46; mineral,
74; of entity through lower kingdoms.
88; of man, 87; of worlds, 72, 74; orbit
of, 94; plan of, 177; primordial, 87;
spiritual, 121.
EVOLUTION OP MAN, 302.
EVOLUTIONARY JOURNEY of monad,
119.
EXCEPTIONS, to cyclic passage of monad,
83.
EXCLUSIVEtfESS, cf. selfishness.
EYE, Universal. ISO.
INDEX
FACTS, primary, and results. 218.
FACULJK of the sun. 164.
FAILURE of Theosophical Society in
Europe and India, 562; in Europe, 360.
FAILURES, in etherial races, 87; of nature,
83, 172. 196; turn to the left side, 477.
FAITH, 7; -killing temperament, 260; re-
quired to allow Will to arouse itself, 331.
FALSE WITNESSES in India. 474.
FAKIRS on the path of error, 462.
FALLIBILITY of Adepts, 181.
FAMILY influence on man's life, 27.
FARMER'S " New Basis of Belief in Im-
mortality," 547.
FARADAY, 173.
"FATHER" of Christians, 142.
FECHNER, G. H., 44.
FEES of membership suggested, 488.
FELO DE SE (see SUICIDE).
FEMALE SEX, and H.P.B., 251.
FERN, 228, 270, 297, 300, 301, 303, 316, 448,
451; and Hume brought together, 350;
and Dugpas, 204; chelas to interview,
447; his deception of Hume, 299; no
longer trusted, 242; Sinnett unjust to,
240; tempted, 298; to be tested, 237.
FETICHISM, 68.
FIFTH RACE, 85, 119, 120, 121, 154, 157;
bepran in Asia a million years aero, 150;
-men, 130; ours, 156; youngest of family,
ISO.
FIFTH ROUND, 5th, 6th, and 7th races of,
120; beings of, 130; description of, 88;
fifth race of, 120; has not commenced
on our earth, 84; personalities, 125.
FIFTH ROUND MEN, 117, 149; among us,
06; at 7th incarnation, 120; children of,
84, 177; Confucius one, 84; early comers
of, 95; have been coming in, 84; Plato
one, 84; responsibility of, 77; Mrs. Kings-
ford a, 329; will be resting in Devachan,
177.
FIRE, 91, 92, 95; -mist, 89, 153; sons of,
Mist, 153, 155; virgin, 471.
FIRST RACE, appearance on earth millions
of years ago, 69.
FIRST ROUND, 76; after a solar man-
vantara, 80; description of, 87; con-
sciousness is feeble, 95.
FISKE. 69.
FI7.EAU. experiments of, 166.
FLAMMARION, C., 98.
FLINTS of eftrly men, 69.
"
FLUID," of mesmerism, or
"
Will-essence,"
249.
FLUIDIC DOUBLE, 94!
FOETUS, development of human, 88.
FOHAT, 72, 90.
FORCE, 60, 61, 62, 71, 89. 90, 159; as limit-
less as thought, 140 ; is
"
matter," 164 ;
one, 81; reservoir of, 96; spiritual, 87;
will-, univtnal Sakti, 72.
FORCES, semi-intelligent, 50; unintelligent,
power of, 141.
" FOREIGN SECTION " of Lodge, 2.
" FORLORN HOPE," T.S. as, 55.
FORMULA indicating genuineness of mes-
sages, 419.
FOSSIL, of man, 96; fossils discovered by
Nordenskjol, 154.
FOUNDERS, of the Theosophical Society,
14, 307, 309, 317, 362, 487; abuse of, 251;
attacks on, 255; and Dayanand robbed,
306.
FOUR NOBLE TRUTHS, 58.
FOURTH RACE, 120, 150; civilisations, 152;
highest branch of, 154; fourth root race,
154.
FOURTH ROUND, 117; description of, 88;
present mankind at its, 75; mankind in
the, 83; or lowest, 86; stage of develop-
ment, 95.
FOX, LANE, 362, 363, 366.
" FRAGMENT ON DEATH," Eliphas Levi's,
183.
"
FRAGMENTS OF OCCULT TRUTH," 63,
84. 90, 103, 174, 201, 258, 305, 348, 414.
FRANCE, fate of, 156; branches of T.S. in,
482; reincarnationists in, 188.
FRANKENSTEIN, 159, 217.
FRATERNITY, a distinct group in Our, 19;
Our, 23.
FREEDOM, of thought in T.S., 401.
FREEMASONRY, 266.
"FRUITS OF PHILOSOPHY" by Brad-
laugh arid Bcsant, 405.
FUMIGATORS, 323.
FUTURE LIFE, 7; (see DEVACHAN;
LOKAS).
GALILEO. 4, 155.
GALLES, Inspector of Police. 444,
GAMMA CETI, star near, 165.
GASEOUS MATTER, 162.
" GATE "
sixth, or
"
way of rebirth," 47.
GAUTAMA BUDDHA, 84. 281; a sixth
round man, 84, 117; his son a fourth
round man, 84. (See BUDDHA).
GEBHARD, ARTHUR, 562, 468, 477, 483;
deception upon, 470; letter to H.P.B..
471; re charge of fraud, 472. FRANZ,
464. MADAME, 554, 428, 472.
GEIKIE, Professor, 69.
OELUPKAS. 272.
GENERAL, Council, of T.S., 21, 86; letter
to the, 254; public, 505.
GENIUSES, advanced fifth round men, 117.
GEOLOGY, 155, 156.
GEOLOGISTS, 79; of 6th and 7th races.
151.
GERM of future entity, 88.
GESTATION, state, 105, 104, 105; period of,
76, 105; spheres where Egos are gestated,
48.
GHALARING-TCHO Lamasery, 286.
GHOSTS, of infants, 95; two principled, 107.
GIANT ANCESTORS, 2.
GILBERT, Wm., of Colchester. 4.
GJUAL KHOOL, (see DJUAL KUL).
GLACIAL PERIOD, 69, 152, 155, 162.
GLADSTONE, W. E., 155; a secret Roman
Catholic, 482; H.P.B. on. 477; H.P.B. to
ask Prince to write to, 464.
INDEX
GLOBE, GLOBES, 68, 80, 85, 80, 92, 03, 96,
07, 98, 171, 177; future globes, 98; globe-
rings, 93, 94, 95; mother-globe, 91; our
globe, 76; our, is cooling off, 61; seven
objective and seven subjective. 78, 79.
ONANAM (Knowledge), 346.
ONATA (the Knower), 346.
ONAYAM (that which is Known), 346.
GNOMES, 94.
GNOSIS, 54.
GOAT incident, 320,
GOD, 138, 139, 140, 141, 143, 255-6; a power
called, 90; and Mrs. Kingsford, 275;
idea of, not innate, 52; ideas of, 138;
ignorance created, 58; Hume on, 155,
304; K.H. on, 55, 393; -man race, 86;
no, apart from himself, 54; none in
occult philosophy, 52, 55; of the Theo-
logians, 53; personal, in Buddhism, ac-
cording to Davids and Lillie, 343; term
means merely "good," 127; word trans-
latedis "
law,'* in Genesis, 70.
GODS, ignorance created, 58; men will be-
come, during seventh round, 177; of
Christians, Hindus, Mohammedans, etc.,
are
" Ma-Mo Chohans," 463.
GOETHE, 196.
GORDON, Mrs., 113, 122, 248, 302, 411, 412,
430, 438.
GORDON, Col., 377, 383, 430.
GOVERNMENT, "
Home," 212 ; Indian, 212.
"GRAND INQUISITOR," 207.
GRANDISON, Sir C., 261, 363.
GRANITE, 79.
GRAVITATION, 61, 163, 164.
GREEK, Eastern Religion, 40; philosopher,
63.
GREEK BROTHER, 64, 271.
GREEK CHURCH, 37, 40.
GREEKS, 45, 129; and Romans (old) small
races of Caucasian stock, 152; learned,
150; modern, belong to the fifth race,
157.
GUARDIANS, of occult knowledge, 367.
GUIDES, "spirit," 41, 49, 108, 122.
GUITEAU, ISf, 148.
GUNAS, 346.
GURU, 239, 256; guide to chela, 144; -K.H.,
409; necromantic, 340; relations to
neophyte, 283; suspected by chela, 231.
GWINDAN LAL, 384.
GYLOONG, a young, 320.
H , Brother in Scotland, 385.
HAIR, a lock of K.H.'s, 451, 452; "accumu-
lator" of energy, 342.
HALLEY, 168.
HAM, descendants of, 300.
HAMILTON, Sir W., 128, 404.
HANDSTEEN, 168.
HAND-WRITING, H.P.B.'s, forged, 431;
K.H.'s, 480; M.'s, 68, 70, 894, 431; of
medium, 101.
HARE, Mr., 341.
HARMONY, 180- law of, 141; of the uni-
verse, 401,
HARRIS. T. LAKE. 408.
IIARTMANN, 363.
KATHA YOG. 33, 255.
HATRED, immortal feeling of, 127.
44
HAUTE MAGIE," Eliphas Levi'a, 280.
HEADQUARTERS, 220, 297; crisis at, 323;
Europeans at [Adyar.J 363; K.H. on bad
atmosphere of the, 276.
HEALER, 241.
HEALING POWER, 342.
" HEARING "
sounds from other planets,
170.
HEAT and electricity, 62.
HEAVEN, and Hell, 197; Christian, ;
Devachan not like, 100.
" HEAVENLY WHITE VIRGIN, THE," 4.
"HELL," 45; Avitchi, 108.
HENSMAN, 126.
"HERESY or delusion of individuality,"
111.
HERMES, " seen "
by Maitland, 415.
HERMETIC PHILOSOPHY, 398, 309.
HERO-WORSHIPPING, 323.
HERODOTUS, 150.
HERSITES, 50.
HIEROPHANT, Egyptian, 344. 399; of the
"
left hand," 272.
HIMALAYAS, 204, 209; cis- and trans-, 16,
265.
HIMAVATS, 2; from beyond the, 249.
HINDOO, HINDU, 27,44, 50, 211, 256,469; al-
legory of Fallen Devas, 87; and prejudice
in regard to, 14, 15, 18, 207, 352; belief
in karma, 170; Bombay, 36; clerks, 20* ;
Damodar a, 36; exoteric tinought and
esoteric spirit, 208; gods of, 241, 463;
hospitality, 225; how deeply sunk, 383,
384; Sinnett and, 352.
HINDUISM, 317.
HISTORY, goes no further back than 4th
Race, 150.
HOBBES, 52.
HOB1LGHAN, (see KHOB1LGAN).
HODGSON of the Psychic Research Society,
468, 470, 473, 481; a victim of false
evidence, 362.
HOLKAR [ FMaharajahl, 371, 380; at Indore,
384.
HOLLIS-BILLING, Mrs. M., 306.
HOLLOWAY, Mrs. (L.C.H.), 323, 355, 9M,
357, 359, 360, 361, 366, 368, 369, 467, 470,
476.
HOLY GHOST, 142.
HOME, the medium, 87.
HOOD, 39, 315.
HOOKE'S "
Micrographia," 8.
HORSE, the, 154.
HORPA PA LA territory, 286.
HOWARD, 196.
HOWRAH, a branch of T.S. at, 377.
"
H.X.," letter of, 832, 333.
HUMAN, birth, physiological process, 70;
being, man as a, 96; mind, generator of
ideas. 404; race, progress or annihilation
of, 365.
HUMANENESS, 32.
INDEX
HUMANITY, alone the source of evil, 57;
Brotherhood of. 23, 24; claim on Masters,
17; love of collective, 206; the great
Orphan, 32.
HUME, A. O., 4, 7, 12, 10-21, 23, 32, 34, 52,
59, 66, 7fl. 88, 103, 113-115, 123, 124. 132,
134, 137, 145, 154-157, 174, 177, 178. 182,
185, 180, 189, 200, 209, 219, 221, 222, 23l>,
242, 245, 218, 250, 251, 254, 261, 269, 293,
290, 301, 303, 311, 330. 332-7, 302, 371.
3750, 411, 410, 435-8, 438, 447, 448, 46<>,
472, 474; and Fern, 295; and Lane Fox,
responsibility for collapse of T.S., 302;
censured by K.H.. 207; criticises Masters
and their system, 243; cruelty to H.P.B ,
221; danger to Sinnett, 325; evil genius
of the Society, 270; indecent remarks.
243; insatiable pride, 287; interference
with Parent Society, 317; K.II. on, 208,
217, 238, 213243, 259, 287-289, 290294, 298,
299. 302-305, 318, 319, 325, 320, 330, 331.
333, 335, 371, 377, 381, 412, 430, 414, 433,
418, 450; letter of, 435; maintains
spiritualists arc ri^ht, 189; M. on, 217-
228, 257, 2r0?f>2, 201, jjfifl, 270, 293, 29ft,
297, 439; now entirely in the hands of
the Brothers of the Shadow, 337; pride
to be punished. 299; selfishness, motive
power, 300; severely criticised, 210, et
se<i ; treachery to Masters, 333.
HUME, Mrs., 65, 210.
HUMILITY, false, 289.
HUMOUR, in M.'s letters, 254, 259, 431.
HURRYCHUND CHINTAMON. 306309, 313.
410.
HYDROGEN, 162, 165.
IAMBLICHUS, days of, 283
IBERIANS, 69, 121.
IDEAS, abstract, in Tnbuvana, 200; "in-
nate," 41; mind the generator of, 404,
rule the world, 24.
IDEATION of Universal Mind, 404.
IDEALISM, Western critical, 194.
IGNEOUS rocks, 79, 95.
IGNORANCE, created Gods, 58; from,
spring
1
all evils, 59.
" ILBERT BILL," 332, 388, 390, 477.
ILLUMINATION of neophyte, 283.
"
ILLUSTRIOUS," 248. 296.
IMAGINATION, 31; and suspicion, in.
IMMETALLIATION of Monad, 79, 81.
IMMORTALITY, 120, 130; hard-won share
of, 274; misconception of, 197; not for
all, 276.
IMMUTABILITY, 45; no such thing, 60.
IMPATIENCE, 296.
IMPERATOR, 40-44, 49, 173, 174, 204, 246,
275, 276, 277, 285, 305, 308, 413, 414, 415
(see -f).
INCARNATION, entity's craving for, 404.
INCARNATIONS, total, of man, 83; of
monad, 81 ; past, Adepts' power to see
other peoples', 115.
INCENSE, 283, 323.
1NTUBI. 110.
INDIA. 5. 12. 36. 38. 58, 59, 118, 140, 149,
English in, 379; has more 7th ring men
of 4th race than Europe, 121; M. on
condition of, 252; offshoot of Mother
Race, 152; people of, 118, 21; privileges
in, for mystics, 382; State of, 871, 399.
INDIAN, archaeology, 429; peoples, 121;
"
Herald," 327.
INDIANS, debased, 384.
INDIVIDUALITY, and personality, 78, 114;
centred in 3rd, 4th and 5th principles,
77; dormant in sphere two, 76; heresy
or delusion of, ill; misconception of,
197; perceptions of, 104; personal, 105;
sense of, must be shifted, 459; Spiritual,
105; Subba Row on sense of, 459; task
of the, 78.
" INDO-BRITISH nation," 381.
IXDO-TIBETAN, hovels, 218; ways and
customs, 217, 363.
INDUCTIVE PHILOSOPHY, Bacon and, 4.
INEFFABLE NAME, 345.
INFINITY, space is, 404.
INHERBATIONS, of monad, 79; seven
major, 81.
INITIATES, Brotherhoods of. 276; highest,
143; of "fifth circle," 203.
INITIATION, 17, 81; candidates for, 285;
chambers of, 162; chief object of, 78;
degrees of, 99; fees, in T.S., 487;
preparations of, 202; the Supreme, 283;
third, 357.
INK, blue, 34.
INNATE IDEAS defined, 41.
" INNER CIRCLE," 325, 369.
INOCULATION of life, 159.
INSANITY, 170; risk of, 31.
INSTINCTS, 104.
INTELLECT, 246, 247; may deceive itself,
385; is useless without light from spirit,
856; overcomes spirituality, 86.
INTELLIGENCE, "controlling," 102;
physical, 86. 94; spiritual. 86.
INTELLIGENCES, grades of, 81; imper-
fect, 462.
INTERCOURSE, between Arupa-Loka and
mortals, 109; with Masters, 264.
INTERLACED TRIANGLES, 845, 846.
INTERMEDIARY SPHERES, 48.
INTERSTELLAR SPACES, 43; filled with
matter, 168.
INTUITION, 89; the key to occult know-
ledge, 279.
" INVISIBLE COLLEGE," Bacon's, 2.
INVOLUTION, process of, 47.
IRISH peasant and his padre, 58.
IRON, "
heavenly," or meteoric, 162.
"ISAACS, Mr," 827; review of, 202.
ISIS, Aryan, Saraswati, 4.
" ISIS UNVEILED," 46, 50, 117, 120, 142,
155, 290, 479; a tentative effort, 45;
errors in, 45; H.P.B.'s responsibility for,
289; Hume and, 311; K.H. and, 130, 131,
173, 182, 183; M. and, 182; Masscy and.
805, 811; no contradictions between it
and later teachings, 289; not "un-
veiled," 121; pages jumbled by Olcott,
77; should be re-written, 130; uritten
under direction of Masters, ?TO.
INDEX 15
ISLAM, 58, 548.
ISLANDS, of Atlantis, 155; mentioned by
Plato, 155.
ISWAR, 343; is effect of avidya, etc., 52;
the creative principle, 90.
ITALIAN peasant and his priest, 58.
"JACKO," 144.
JAKKO, 268, 331; spectre of, 371.
JAPAN, 149.
JATS, 106.
JAVANESE, 154.
JENKINS, 168, 169.
JENNINGS, and Hastings, 295.
JESHU, or Jesus, 344.
JESUS, 18, 40, 2(51, 275; a spiritual abstrac-
tion, 415; -Christ-Vach, 341; K.H. on,
415; Society of, 207; the Gnostic, 347.
JESUIT MAXIMS, 387.
JESUITS, 207, 231, 247; II. P.O. on, 477.
JEWS and KabalisU, 70, 345.
JIIELUM, 13, 19, 811.
J1VA, 80, 94.
JIVATMA, 71; individualised seventh Prin-
ciple, 344; in symbology is central point
of interlaced triangles, 346; or Atma-
Rupa, 46.
JOHN the BAPTIST, and Maitland, 415.
JUDAISM, 58.
JUDGE, W. Q., 479, 490.
JUPITER, 146, 167.
JUSTICE, Absolute, 401.
KABALIST, 74, 94; and contradictions, 185;
Eliphas Levi one, 129.
KABALISTIC, puzzles, 134; tenets, 129;
theory, 137, 138.
KAILASA, 241.
"
KALI-YUG," 26.
KALKA AVATAR, 20.
KALPA, 105. 100.
RAM Ml TS'HAR, " I'll do it," 321.
KAMA, 59, 75, 77; vehicle of 5th principle,
189.
KAMA-LOKA, 104-109, 112, 127, 128, 132, 134,
148, 179, 187, 198, 199, 200.
KAMA-RVPA, 43, 72; of matter, 341; or
Linga-Sharir, 46.
KANT, 56, 194, 215.
KARAKORUM, 12.
KARDEC, ALLAN, 133.
KARMA, 48, 77, 87, 101, 103, 105, 106, 109,
110, 112, 113, 117, 120, 121, 132, 101, 200.
291, 306, 821, 354, 433; collective, 171:
justice of, 111; K.H. on the working of,
359; K.H.'s. 115, 190; Mrs. Kingsford's,
397; of spiritualists is heavy, 432; of the
personality, 173; Sinnett's, 249, 307;
this terrible Law, 352.
KARMIC, body, 176; impulse, law of affinity
acting through, 404; life, 172; progeny,
175.
KASHMIR, 380; Maharajah of, 440; valley
in, 11.
KATY of Mr. Crookcs, 341.
KKCHUB-CH-SEN, 256.
KEYS of death and life, 365.
KHANDALLAWALA, Mr., 189.
KH1RAJEE LAND, Sfll.
KHIU-TE, Book of, or KIU-TE, 81, 142, 153,
285, 321, 404.
KHOB1LGAN, 44; laughed, 282; the sternest
of, 26; venerable, 25.
"
KHOSYAYIN," name for M.. 254.
KHUDDAKA PATHA, M.'s "family bible,"
262.
KIDDLE, HENRY, 421; incident, 324, 357.
362, 364, 420, 422, 424, 425, 426-429 ; K.H.
on "
parallel passages," 324.
"
KING, our Priestly," 443.
KINGDOM, 86; animal, 87, 94, 97; Inner,
below earth's crust, 79, 81; vegetable,
94, 97, 98.
KINGDOMS, objective and subjective, 79;
of elemental^, 94; or regions of the
earth, 81.
KINGSFORD, Mrs. ANNA, 38, 40, 119, 157,
275, 304, 340, 350, 402. 403, 40ti, 407, 470;
a flfth rounder, H7, 3*9; and British
T.S. Presidency, 328, 397, 406, 407; and
Maitland, 275; and reincarnation, 4rt;
her teaching, 328; invokes K.IL, 427;
K.H. on, 276, 329, 398, 400, 401, 415; M.
on her clairvoyance, 432; quarrel with
London Lodge, 353; the, row. 350.
KNIVES, temple, 162.
KNOWLEDGE, adepts unwillingness to
impart occult, 103; cannot be pursued
entirely on Baconian lines, 355; dis-
cipline for those who would have, 307;
K.H. on how to gain, 274; misuse of,
reacts on initiator, 284; of Good and
Evil, 157; risks of imparting, 284; the
great, 31; world shut out from, of "our
knowledge," 50.
KOOT-HOOMI LAL SINGH (Master K.H.),
abjiM which keeps Hume and Sinnett
from him, 219; and thought currents,
249: "/lr/iaf" vows pronounced, 253:
astral form of, 453; del>arred from using
abnormal powers, 384; disheartened, 286;
en route for Singapore, Ceylon, Burmah,
428; end foreseen by, 378; explains his
Eyo, 130; home of, 73; in Cambodia,
432; karma of, 190, 394; last effort for
Sinnett, 351; letters to Hume, 59, 78,
88, 137, 207, 228, 455; M. on, 261, 302,
439, on his "retreat," 219; and relation
with Sinnett, 259; marvellous memory,
286; may incur wrath of Chohan, 38;
mission to China, 472; music in old
portmanteau of, 73; never lied, 31; no
sleep for over 60 hours, 24; not a /tiK
adept, 129; on his life's work, 242; on
making too much of his personal
opinions, 204; on Mrs. Ilolloway, 360, 361;
" on way to goal," 78; the only one to
suggest relaxations re Europeans, 352;
regarded by Chohans as lunatic, 180;
rides 48 hours, 422; rides 9 days without
dismounting. 286; Sinnett has inflicted
pain on, 385; suffers from insight into
condition of Indians, 384; tempted in
youth, 299; to withdraw for three
months, 207; two distinct personages.
16 INDEX
181, 924; warning to Sinnett, 244; will
become own "guide," 376; wishes are
law to M., 228; writing to Sinnett
after Phoenix affair is a favour, 353.
KOPT, 210; COPTS, 152.
KOSMIC MATTER, veil of, 47.
KOSMOS, descriptive of, 00, 61; ideal
machinery of the Occult, 29 (sec also
COSMOS).
KRISHNA, 259; CHRISHNA, 343.
KUKLOS. 40.
KWAN SIIAI YIN, active male, 344, 345,
340, 317.
KWAN YIN or Buddni, 344.
KYKN, 222.
LADAK, 300; MIA DAK, 12; supposed mes-
sage from, Ml.
LADAKKh CHELA, 414.
LAHORE, 10. 2f>5, 201; H.P.H. sent to, 404.
LAKE DWELLERS. 00.
"LAL SING," ROOT HOOMI LAL SING,
6, 10, 11, 17; nom de plume, 361.
LAMA, 28, 58, 237, 445; Buddhists, 158; or
Monk, 205; Tondhub-Gyatcho, 320.
LAMAISM, criticism against, 317; Esoteric,
44; or Buddhism, Rhys Davids on, 185;
Reformer of, 44; vulgar, 44, 285.
LAMASERY, Gharlaring-Tcho, 280; near
Chamto-Dong, 292; object of H.P.B.'s
longing, 190; old, 210; work of, 58.
LAMGHA, 58.
LAMP, Holy, of spiritual light, 24.
LAND, distribution of water and, 101; of
Bliss (Sukhavati), 1)0, 105; of Dreams.
103; submerging and reappearing, 151;
"
Summerlands," 108.
LANGUAGE, K.H. on inadequacy of Eng-
lish, 60, 192; of 4th Race, 8H; of men
of science, 60.
LANKA, lie.
LANT'AN SUTRA, 107.
LAW, LAWS, 33. 62, 54, 139, 141, 143;
Absolute, 52; All is one, 73; Darwin's,
of Heredity, 404; equilibrating, 90;
"God," a, 54; "God's immutable," 140;
Immutable, 24, 56, 139, 143, 284; im
'passable wall of rules and, 376; in
nature, 93; in Universe, 141, 159; its
work of selection, 47; K.H. re, and
Sinnett, 394; natural, 67; nature's, 118,
130; Nirvana and the, 33; of Adepts, 20:
of affinity, 404; of Archimedes, 161; of
bliss, 106; of compensation, 262; of
development of races. 149; of evolution,
70; of equilibrium, 141; of gravitation,
164; of Karma, 200; of libel, 251; of life,
255; of Nature, 35, 138; of necessity, 57;
of Nepaulese Swabbhavikas, 140; of
Occult Fraternity, 207; of Occultism are
immutable, 351; of retribution, 77, 101,
131; of vision. 255; of Wuzeefa and
Mookassimah. 389; our Occult. 144;
septenary, 120; -suit, M. about, 257;
Western, 112.
LAY-CHELAS, best, 193; K.H. about, 840;
K.H. says Sinnett could not even be a,
069; of K.H., 115.
LAYCHELASHIP, Sinnett's in "frag-
ments" only, 371.
LEBENDORFF MME., K.H. about, 415.
LEMURIA, 151, 156.
LEMURIANS, 157.
LES ESPRITS 80UFFRANTS." 109.
LESSONS, of Master, First, 481.
LETTER, Chohan restores damaged, 321;
eaten by goat, 320; Hume about publica-
tion of. 437; M. about K.H.'s, 302; on
Theosophy, 178; to Sinnclt from Poona,
300.
LETTERS, and methods of communication,
10, 11, 12, 13, 17, 18, 19, 22, 33, 65, 66,
70, 115, 116, 130, 137, 181, 183, 180, 203,
232, 242, 245, 248, 240, 250, 286, 293, 294,
290, 297, 298, 299, 301, 320, 321, 324, 325,
330, 351, 364, 306, 308, 372, 375, 383, 396.
400, 410, 419, 422. 423, 424, 425, 420. 446,
400. 461, 403, 405, 407, 470. 471, 472, 475,
478. 470, 480, 481 : forged, 419, 431 ; in
reference to Fern, 334; M. about, to
Masters, 401; of K.H. not to be
published, 357; permission to show
K.H.'s, 804, 305.
LEVER, FORCE as a, 140;
"
psychico-
spiritual," 101.
LEVI, ELIPHAS, 125. 127, 129. 130, 134,
144. 156, 183, 196, 210, 279, 280, 2R8. 291.
LHA, 100, 206; or Brother, 265, 375, 415.
LJLltf, disembodied Spirits, 285.
L'JIASSA, 6; K.H. about finding Brothers
in. 438; M. in, 431.
LIARS, Brothers called, 331, 442.
LIBRARY, Akashic, 824.
LIBEL, law of, 851 (included in
" Law ").
LIFE, Book of, 134; Brothers can prolong,
4t58; impulse, 66, 94; Insurance Com-
panies, 132; Keys of, 365; Law of, 255;
of the Elect, 198; Omnipresent, 159; One,
53, 129, 159; or Spirit indivisible, 74;
personal, 104; Prmfir'v, One, 76, 94;
problem of Death and, 345; recollection
of. 99; Tree of, 31, 92.
LIGHT, 31; Absolute, 373; at Paris, measure-
ment of, 106, 167; eternal, 92; Keepers
of the Sacred, 215; not an independent
principle, 166; of Omniscience, 425; The,
217; velocity of, 166.
41
LIGHT," 108, 134, 135, 172, 193, 199, 204,
277, 305, 308.
LILLIE, 343, 345; "Buddha and Early
Buddhism "
of, 201 ;
re Personal God in
Buddhism, 345.
L1NGA SARIRA, 43, 46, 72, 94.
LINOAM, 71.
LINDSAY, Lord, 21, 23, 37.
LION, 15.
LIP PROFANITY, 1*1.
LIQUOR drinkingr, 12*, 429; "brandy at-
mosphere, . . ." 207; effect of de-
privation of, 5.
LITHOBIBLION, W.
LITHOPHTL, 22.
LIVES, Book of, 104, 128; recollections of,
198.
LIVING Brother, 4).
LOCKYER, Prof., 103.
INDEX 17
LODGE, 11, 264; K.H. about officers of, 408;
Masonic, 42; M. a slave of duty to the
Lodge, 225.
LODGES, 7.
LOOOS!
. S44, 346, 347.
LOKAS, about, 107; of Kama Loka, 106;
passing through Kama Loka, 200.
LONDON, 2, 9, 136, 175, 200, 202, 329; Branch,
14; Branch re fees, 201;
" Elect'* of, 38;
"mystics," 242; newspaper test, 1;
Secret School in, 210; Seers, 49; Sinnett
to. go to, 336; Spiritualistic Campaign
in, 50.
LONDON LODGE (L.L.), 352, 353, 365; ad-
vised by K.H. re their President. 400;
and advice of the Maha Chohan, 406;
and C. C. Massey, 397; and Mrs. Kings-
ford, 397; H.P.B. about, 474, 483, 484,
485; K.H. about, 307, 402, 403, 407; K H.
on harmonious working of, 401; K.H.
writes to, 370; Theos. Soc., Constitution
of, 399.
LONDON MOVEMENT "can only be re
vivified . . ." 483.
LORD, 343; Buddha, 138; Buddha quoted
by K.H., 360, 887; Commandments of
the, 133; English, 118; Gautama Buddha,
399; God, 112; Our, 111; Sangyas Buddha,
345; ways of the, 143.
LORDLY, means, Iswara, 343.
LORDSHIPS, Our, 169.
LOST WORD, 276, 277.
" LOTUS of the Good Law," 282.
LOVE, immortal feeling of, 127; for Hu-
manity, 32, 212; of one's country, 212-
LOWER, dualities, 103; world. 49.
LUBBOCK, Sir John, K.H. about. 452; K.H.
sends Sinnett a cutting re obscurations,
451.
LUCIFER, mythical, 20.
"
LUCIFER," quoted re Mars and Mercury,
489, 490, 491.
LUMINOUS, 95;
"
Taijasa," 279.
LUSUS NATURAE, 104.
"LUTHER OF INDIA," 313.
LYTTON, Lord, father of, 210.
MA-MO Chohans, personification in Nature
of Shiva, Jehovah, 463.
MACCABREANS, 291.
MACCHIAVELIAN schemer. 143.
MACOLIFFE, a caligrapher, 253.
MACROCOSM, action and rest of, 68; is the
microcosm, 54; is the prototype of the
Microcosm, 138; one law for microcosm
and, 71; represented in the double
triangle, 346; septenary, 91; the Great
Cycle, 46.
MACROCOSMIC WHOLE, 75.
" MADAME BLAVATSKY EXPOSED,"
pamphlet, 473.
MADMEN, Masters mistaken for, 278.
MADRAS, K.H. at, 428; prospects of success
in, 327; Subba Row to teach from, 119.
MAELSTROM, 49, 104.
MAGDALENE, the prostitute, Ml.
MAGI (Mage), Chaldean, 899.
MAGIC, "
art," 280; business of. 32;
" school
of." 209, 213; secret school of, 210.
MAGICK, hotbed of, 209.
MAGICIANS, of Poseidonis not entirely
wicked, 155.
MAGNETIC, attraction affected by tempera-
ture, 169; conditions, 162; difficulties,
410; dust, 161, 162; factor, 255; fluid, 27;
force, 36; impulse, 71, 72; inertia, 103;
instruments, 161 ; matter, 163, 164; nature
of plants, 160; odyllic influences, 140;
poles, 168 ; power in man, 161 ; science,
27; sympathy, 267.
MAGNETISM, 62, 100, 161, 164; Akatic, 160;
and electricity, 160; electricity the alter
ego of, 160; gross, 103; K.H. about per-
sonal, 410; of Earth, 161, 162; of Olcott,
Damodar, Bhavani Rao, 410.
MAGNETO-ELECTRIC aura, 164.
MAGNET, K.H. on the use of a, 400.
MAHA, cycle, 70; -Pralaya, 60; (the
"Chief"), 13; Yug, 46, 66, 07, 75, 165.
MAHABHARATA, 275.
MAHA-CHOHAN, advises postponement of
Election, 406; Pledge in hands of, 325;
Preference for Mrs. Kingsford as
President, 400.
MAHAKASHA. 346.
MAHAMANVANTARAS, 121.
MAHAMANVANTARIC, chain, 121; rota-
tion, 119.
MAHATMA8, H.P.B. on, 468, 470, 471, 472,
473, 474, 475-480; not infallible at every
hour of the day, 364.
MAHAVAGGA, 58.
MAHOMEDAN, 110; God, 463.
MAHOMET, followers of, 58; "ambitious
imposter like," 309.
MAITLAND, EDWARD, 117. 275; answered
by Subba Raw, 409; K.H. about, 276;
K.H. about the visions of, 415; Mr., -and
Greek Chorus, 403.
MAJOR, amorous, 11.
MALAYANS, 154.
MALLAPURA, in presence of, 246.
MAMMOTH, 69; fossils of, 154.
MAMMALIAN, 96.
MAN, 33, 75, 95; amelioration in condition
of, the only object to be striven for,
399; -ape, 82; "-bearer," 89; -bearing
planets, 90; body of, 71; born with a
free will, 211; completes seven rings on
each globe, 95; happy the, who helps a
helping hand, 88; 's soul is a com-
pound of, . . .80; seven parent-races
of, 94, 95; a sevenfold being, 91; seven
principles of, compared with globe, 94;
seventh round-, 67; speechless, 96; that
most fragile of animals, 154; the one
free agent in Nature, 57.
MAN ON A PLANET [diagraml, 85.
" MAN "
(Fragmentt of Forgotten History],
361; mistakes in, 357.
MANAS, 103, 172, 176; animal soul or. 04;
etaence of, 341; of madman, paralysed*
173; shadow of, 848; shorn of its finest
attributes, 174; state of matter, 841.
MANCHESTER, 800; seer. Oxley, 274.
18 INDEX
MANIFESTATIONS, 38; physical, 113.
MANKIND, majority of, belongs to seventh
sub-race of fourth Root race, 154; M. a
slave to, 225.
MANVANTARA. MANVANTARAS, 60, G3,
66, 67, 68, 71, 93, 07, 121, 129; composition
of, 07; minor, 93; solar, 82, 93, 08, 166* ;
those who preside at every, 462; uni-
versal, 93.
MANVANTARIC, 110; chain of worlds, M;
course, 89; cycle, 80, 100; periods be-
tween each, round, 08.
MARA, 316; dwelling of. 107; hosts of, 59;
"Planet of Death," 107; -Rupas, 107.
MARATHA. -boy [Damodar], 3G.
MARCUS AURELIUS, 12; of Simla, 348.
MARMAUKS. 16.
MAHRIAGK of
"
soul with spirit," 272.
MARRIED MAN cannot be an adept, 17.
MARS, and four other planets, 17; and
Mercury, 489, 4i>0, 491.
MARTYRDOM, 273.
MASCUL. & COOK, 409.
MASONIC, 'lodge. 42, 487; signs, 42; tests
in, Lodges, 3(3/5.
MASSEY, C. C., 21, 42, 130, 157, 172, 174,
192, 193, 197, 206, 272, 282, 291, 304, 308,
329, 335, 417, 420, 427, 446; and Dr. Billing,
307; and II.P.B., 308; and London Lodge,
397; article, and, 182; -Killing Affair, 418;
could not obtain adeptship, 205; criti-
cism of, 183; deductions of, 416; "dreams
dreams," 328; fails at first test, 310;
H.P.B.'s answers to, 289; H.P.B.'s prayer
for, 418; in communication with the
Brothers, 385; K.H. about, 305. 306, 311,
327. 330, 405, 419; K.H. about his Budclhie
evolution, 401; letter from, 320, 415;
misled by H.P.B., 813; no right to
accuse H.P.B., 386; offered Headship of
English Movement, 271 ; quoted passages
from /sis, 183; re God, 393; Sinnctt will
influence, 314; tested, 315; the sincere
friend of both parties, 403; unfit for
adeptship, 39.
MASTER, 9, 27, 123, 126, 184; addressing
K.H. as, 240; becomes, 144; having been
invented, 185; her old. 21; intercourse
with, 264; K.H.'s, the Chohan, 64; know
they teach the Truth, 231; not Rajahs,
269; systematically misunderstood, 243;
troubles of, 260; we shall always be
your MASTERS in Spiritual Sciences,
213; what, hoped, 263.
MATKRJA PRIMA, the imaginary, 93; the
imaginary, of science, 61.
MATERIAL, Cosmos, 61; physical, 55; shells,
176; Universe, 01.
MATERIALISM, 436; unsavoury, of the
Spiritualists, 426.
MATERIALISTS, 31, 305.
MATERIALISTIC, phenomcnalists, 114;
philosophers, 32; practical materialism,
20.
MATERIALIZATIONS, 113.
MATERIO-PSYCHOLOGICAL attributes,
171.
MATHEMATICS, higher, 80.
MATHEMATICAL PROGRESS, 393.
MATTER, 47, 86; and Spirit are one, 63;
Cosmic, 93; equilibrates, 78; and spirit
equilibrized, 74; eternal, 55; magnetic,
165; nebulous, 94; seventh state of, 404;
Spirit-, 141; the crystallization of Spirit,
142; world of, 107.
MAVALANKAR, D. K., 250 (see DAMO-
DAR).
MAYA, 52, 90, 101, 100, 132, 141, 197, 341,
346, 347, 385, 423; K.H.'s, 338; M. will
raise a. 294; Sinnett a victim of, 260.
MAYAVI RUPA, 129, 198, 453.
MAYER. Dr. J. R., 60, 63.
MEATEATI NG, 65, 123, 429.
MECHANICAL force, transmission of, 29.
MEDITATION, 29, 59.
MEDIUM. MEDIUMS, 6, 37, 47, 101, 102, 110,
112, 113, 122, 135, 176, 255, 203, 272, 276,
307, 421, 431 ;
"
Adept, no antagonism
with." 42; American, 27; and chela
diametrically dissimilar, 424; and throe
Secret Words, 454; chief, 255; easy-going,
109; great, 153; hallucinated, 234; in
California or London, 175; incarnate,
102; K.H. about, 277; moral state of, 102;
most reliable of, 173; Mrs. Billing a, 306;
on same level with, 338; persecution
of, 4; professional, 430; soulless physical,
118; the wounded vanity of a, 266.
MKDIUMISTIC. 122; communications, 122;
current, 48; dogmatism, 35; message,
102; phenomena, 418; temperament, 423.
MEDIUMSHIP, indiscriminate, 113; heavy
Karma of Spiritualists who entice men
and women into, 432; K.H. on why we
oppose, 41, 42, 43, 65, 113, 173, 174, 204,
420; proofs of, 34; vortex of, 136.
MEDUSA, Head of, 451.
MEERUT, 17.
MEGATHERIUM, 214.
MEJNOOR, 32; of Baroda. 237.
MELOMANS, 189; MELOMANIC, 188.
MEMBERS, personal opinion of individual.
242.
MEMNON, 73.
MEMORY, 104; complete recollection at
end of seven rounds, 198; dislodged by
dying brain, 170 ; K.H. on the, of a dog,
173; of the Ego, 105.
MEN, 107; ex- and future, 107.
MENDICANTS, 111, 241.
MENTAL, annihilation, 187; perversity, 75.
MEPHITIS, a true skunk, 57.
MERCURIAL, intra-Mercurial Planets, 169.
MESMER, 281.
MESMERIC, K.H. about, healing, 423;
powers, 216.
MESMERISER, a true adept or juggler, 217.
MESMERISM, 99, 133; modern Works on,
249.
MESSIAH, 150.
MESSIAHSHIP, latent sense of, 529.
METALS, fusion of, 109; metallic sub-
stances, 167.
METAPHYSICS, Kant's, 00.
INDEX 19
METAPHYSICIANS, British, 338; Western,
57.
METEOR, 62, 162; "moral," 584.
METEORIC, dust, 161, 162; masses, 166;
matter, 165.
METHODS, of Occultism, 899; of the
Brothers. 509, 310, 382.
METROVITCH, Mme., H.P.B. is not, 482.
MEXICAN weed, 23.
MEXICO, 149.
MICHELET, 16.
MICROCOSM, 27, 46, 54, 138, 346; septenary,
01.
"M1CROGRAPHIA," 3.
MICROSCOPE. 88.
MILLS, JOHN STUART, 239.
MILTON, quoted by K.H., 421.
MIND, Human, in connection with body,
137; mystery of, 56; state of, on earth,
192; state of, outside Earth's sphere,
192; the most Spiritualised portions of
its, 103; Universal, 54, 55, 72, 137;
Western, 58.
MINERAL, 92, 04; entities, 98; every, 153;
evolution, 74; kingdom, 94; -life, 159.
MINERVA. 222.
MIOCENE, period, 155; times, 154.
MIRACLES, age of, 23; worker of, 144.
MISCONCEPTIONS of terms, 197.
MISERY, selfishness and religion the causes
of, 57.
MISSIONARIES, 362, 473.
MISSIONS, hell-hounds of, 254.
"
MOGGY." 23, 299.
MOGULS, 121.
MOHINI, 350, 352, 353, 354, 355, 357, 358, 361,
374, 477; a chela of K.H., 398; and
letter, 351 ; as amanuensis, 366 ; -Babu,
K.H. sends on a mission, 450; H.P.B.
about, 47(1; left in a very cold room,
3J3; M. about, 350; re Mrs. Holloway,
361, 368; spoilt by adulation, 484; to
accompany Olcott to London, 397-398.
MOKSHA. 32.
MOLECULAR, motion, 50, 137; vibration,
101.
MOLECULE, MOLECULES, 80, 142, 404;
astral, 102; of the brain, 50.
MONAD, 63, 68, 109, 119, 130, 170; dual, 347;
eternal, 134; Immortal, 114; individual,
104; performs not only "world-rings,"
81; purified, 104; reincarnated, 106;
spiritual, 147; The, 105; unconscious,
104.
MONASTERY, 320; female, of Palli, 292.
MONGOLIAN, 118, 154.
MONIER WILLIAMS, 241.
MONKS, Lamaic, 58; Tibetan, 205.
MONOGRAM PAPER. M. helps himself to
a sheet of, 432.
MOON, 94, 839; atmosphere of, 185; per-
nicious influence of, 99; -stage, 90.
MOORAD ALI BEY, 247, 357, 359; failed,
316.
MORAL, pluck, tests of, 260; state of
mediums, 102; teaching, 215.
MORTAL, coil, 105; relation of the. to the
immortal, 24.
MORYA (Master M.), 59, 64, 65, 70, 78, 80,
83, 84, 116, 118, 119. 152. 156, 177, 181,
182, 184, 190, 244, 293; a pucka orthodox
Occultist, 299; a slave to mankind, 225;
a slave to the Lddge, 225; a very im-
perious sort of chap, 233; about attacks
on H.P.B., 255, 272, 273; advice to Sin-
nett from, 258; an Apollo of Belvedere,
313; and Djual Khool to take K.H.'a
place, 389; and Fern, 230; and H.P.B..
312; and K.H. have not contradicted
each other's statements, 392; and K.H.
the only ones of the Brotherhood who
have at heart the dissemination of our
doctrine, 3f,7; and Ski, 385; breaks his
pipe, 313; can do nothing to help, 254;
consents to take Fern as chela, 330;
dinner of, 254; gives small sum, 202;
handwriting of, 68, 70, 232; H.P.B. calls
him the "Boss," 404;
"
humbugged by
Fern," 237; Hume about K.H. and, 334;
K.H. about. 233. 248, 266, 276, 279, 895,
296, 4H; K.H. about M. and our Chiefs,
288; K.H. arouses, 301; K.H.'s blame for,
298; K.H. spokesman for, 235; messages
to Sinnett from, 250; mistake of, 204;
M.'s Rajput ancestors, 271; my bulky
Brother, 294; my wicked, more than
ever laughing Brother, 295; natural
bnisqueness, 353; neither scribe nor
Western scholar, 257; only hatred in
his life is for writing, 250; reasoning of,
297; re letter to Fern, 234; re Supple-
ment, 319; '3 hand on artist's head, 349;
*s sayings to H.P.B., 360; signature of,
259; smoking your pipe, 431; spoils por-
trait, 184; swearing like a true. Christian,
813; telegraphs to Fern, 801; to take my
place, 441; visits R. Scott in astral
shape, 815; writes to the Inner Circle,
869.
MOSAIC deity, 139.
MOSES. STAINTON (M.A. Oxon), 38, 39,
40 44, 135, 153, 157, 173, 174, 199, 204. 246,
275, 270, 285, 304, 328, 337. 348. 420, 427;
a flesh eater, 276; determined on utter
annihilation of British Branch, 265; his
irritation, 308, 311; K.H. about, 277;
K.H. about the visions of, 415; letter to
Sinnett from, 412; nearly upset the
theosoph. ark, 39; regards Brothers as
impostors and liars, 308; tested, 315;
We cannot open the eyes of, 205.
MOTHER, Fount, 47; globe, 94; -stone of
all religions, 481.
MOTION, fi2, 50, 60, 61, 62, 71, 187, 140, 142.
159; governs the laws of nature, 139; is
the eternal order of things, 07; of the
earth, 160; perpetual rhythmic, 98; the
life of matter, 56; the only Deity we
are able to recognise, 138; universal
perpetual, 138.
MOTIVES, K.H. about, and their effect,
206; K.H. on mistaken ideas about. 232,
298; K.H. on, for joining the T.S.. 201,
to INDEX
23$; "low," 212; motive is everything,
132; of Mr. Sinnett, 25; root, 20, 52;
Sinnett's inner, for seeking instruction,
7.
MOUNT, Athos, 40, 414; Everest, 240.
MOUNTAINS, Seven Golden, 109.
MUG of mediumistic beer, 122.
MULAPRAKRITl. the Rootless root, S47.
MOLLER, MAX, 241.
MUMMIES, We are not, 32.
MUNICH BEER HALLS, 285.
MURDERED, those, 136.
MUSEUM, British, 227; Hume's, at Simla,
481.
MUSIC, 102, 189; most divine and spiritual
of arts, 188; musical illustration by M.,
73.
MUSSULMAN, menial, 235; Rulers, 389.
MYERS, 428, 475; Replies to, by M., 396.
MYSTICAL phenomena, 35.
MYSTICISM, banner of, 6; misdirected, 255.
MYSTICS, 49, 273, 293; Christian, 7; English,
15; European, 5; groups of, 247; London,
307; medixval, 276; modern, 7; natural,
15; of Paris and London, 242.
MYSTIC, name given to the hosts of the
Dyan Chohans, 90; Thibetan name, 210.
MYSTERIES, admission and supreme initia-
tion into, 17; Seal of, 9.
MYSTERY, of Evil, 345; of mind, 56; of
Mysteries, 845; the greatest, in our
world, 99; the greatest of all the,
"
squaring the circle," 347.
NADIJDA, re Sinnett's autograph, 253.
NAG, 71, 73.
NAGAS, Holy, 270; King of the, 12.
NARAKA, 108.
NATAKASHALA, 230.
NATH, 321; (see DHARBAGIRI NATH).
NATIONAL, prejudices, 15; soul of India,
394.
NATIONS. Western, 30, 197.
NATIVES, a native guru, 239; instructions
to, by M., 462; K.H. calls himself a half-
civilized, 213; K.H. is a, 261; link be-
tween British and, 213; s' judgment
different from Westerners, 261.
NATURAL, K.H. about "the limits of
the," 281; Law, 67; term, at the expira-
tion of the, 109; voice, 28.
NATURALISTS, 118.
NATURE, 55, 56, 57, es, 70, 91, 140, 144;
cheated, 107, 195; co-workers with, 23,
128, 130; degraded by Hindus, 241; em-
pire of, 267; failures of, 83, 196; forces
or eleraentals, . 94 ; Law in, 93; law of,
118, 130; laws of, 138, 139; principles of.
78; pulse of, 138; secrets of, 6, 130; too
mathematically adjusted, 134; we
servilely copy, 22; workshop of, 47.
NAZARETH, 151.
NA2ZUR of
"
electron," 164.
NEBULOUS matter, 94.
NECESSITY, blind law of, 57.
NEVESH, 289.
NEGATION, final, of Moksba, 32.
NEGATIVE, pursuit of, 71; , the world
of effects, 48.
NEOLITHIC age, 69.
NEOPHYTES, 8, 16, 49, 283.
NEPAULESE Swabbhavikas, laws of, 140.
NEPTUNE, planets in orbit of, 169.
NEROVIGARA river, 58.
NERVES, 137.
NEW, "being," 111, 112; "dispensation,"
27; Year's festivities, 264; Year's fes-
tivals, 441.
NEW YORK, 306, 479.
NEWSPAPER, 1.
NEWTON, Sir Isaac, 3, 31; withheld his
knowledge, 281.
NIDANAS. 58, 205.
NIGGER GLIDE, 18.
NIGHTINGALE, Miss, 188.
NIMROD, 69.
NIRIRA NAMASTAKA, 44.
NIRVANA, 33. 43, 67, 68, 77, 97, 98, 110,
116, 137, 171, 193, 198, 387, 404; cannot
obliterate GOOD, 249; Great, 128; not
comparable to Para Nirvana, 199;
" threshold "
of, 198.
N1RVANIC, bliss, 117; state, 97.
NISUS. 56.
NIZAM, the, 380.
"
NO-BEING," 139.
NOBIN'S BOY, 190, 292.
NOEL, RODEN, 193, 194, 197, 199, 347.
NOMENCLATURE, 80, 83.
NON-ADEPT is fallible, 181.
NONIUS, 175.
NORDENESKJOL, 154.
NORENDRO BABU, views, re Phoenix pro-
ject, 380, 395.
NOTE, seventh, 73.
NORTH magnetic pole, 169.
NORTHERN current, 286.
NOUS, 289, 455.
NUMBERS, 280.
NUTRITION, Mayer's organic motion in its
connection with, 63.
N.W.P. (North West Provinces), 10, 454.
OAKLEYS, 469, 474, 475; do not believe
H.P.B. a fraud, 473.
OBJECTIVE, cannot mirror the subjective,
194.
OBJECTS, of Occultism, 399; of Theos. Soc.
Loyalty to, 408.
OBSTACLES, from those who know be*t,
280.
OBSCURATION, OBSCURATIONS, 97, 107,
126, 134, 177, 336, 339, 392; K.H. about,
451, 452; of planet, 157; questions on.
148.
OBSCURITIES, the five, 265.
OCCULT, common mistakes about, schools,
283; doctrine, 64, 345; domain of, nature,
16; "faculties," 247; fame, 153; Free
Masonry, 266; Indian knowledge, 282;
instruction comes to an end, 363; K.H.
about, Brotherhood. 399; K.H. about
Sinnett obtaining, Knowledge, 961; Kos-
INDEX
moa, 29; law, 85; Laws of, Sciences,
181; Light. 30; mysteries, 0; "occult"
forger, 410; osmosis, 80; phenomena, 23;
philosophy, 39, 271; power requires an
effort, 180; powers, 10, 35; powers of
air, 29; proof of, power, 7; psychical
energies, 39; reformer and codifier of,
system, 43; research led Crookes, 272;
rules, 273; Sciences, knowledge of, 108;
science sacrificed on altar of modern
science, 167; Science, Sciences, 4, 6, 31,
43, 54, 122, 241, 282, 342; science the
extinguisher of all superstitions, 411;
science, the real aim of, 459; science
vindicated, 166; sounds, 65; students
warned against phenomena, 262; teach-
ings, those who can write on, 357; three
centres of, Brotherhood, 309; training,
K.H. about, 351, 352; truths, 278.
OCCULTISM, 20, 41, 374, 410; a student of,
149; an act of, 287; and Spiritualism
incompatible, 414; Aryan, 384; exact
science, 144; fundamental doctrines of,
141; how to gain success in, 355; key-
stone of, 346; laws of, 363; methods of,
399; mistakes in T.S. about, 364; new
blood poured into, 465; Ocean of, 858;
path of, 8; practical, 351; "professor
of," 21; realities of, 40; study of, 8, 13;
to be a secret study, 480; truths and
mysteries of, 23; word was unknown
in America, 271.
OCCULTIST, OCCULTISTS, 46, 114, 129, 159;
an, who dies, 365; have no intention to
conceal from earnest students, 279; in
Egypt, 116; M. a pucka orthodox, 299;
practical, 81.
OCCULT TRUTH, Fragments of, 84.
" OCCULT WORLD," 110, 323, 327, 358, 300,
367, 424, 473; Author of, 202; discussed
in Lamasery, 286; K.H. about, 350;
printed before sending it to K.H. for
revision, 3C4.
OCCULT WORLD- SERIES, 1-37.
ODESSA, 254, 258; Old Lady, 253.
ODIC, emanations, 384; OD force, 99.
ODYLLIC influences, 140.
ODYLISED, 101.
OLCOTT, Colonel H. S., 9, 10, 11, 12, 14,
15, 16, 19, 20, 26, 28, 32, 36, 37, 89, 116,
221, 237, 247, 255, 271, 323, 331, 342, 354,
357, 384, 396, 452, 461; accused by Dr.
Billing, 307; adored by Hindus, 474; and
Hume, 227, 228; and H.P.B. are far from
perfect but both unselfish, 370; and
Indian Branches, 342; appeals to M., 236;
as guest of Sinnett, 897; coming to
Sinnett, 280; compliments to Founders,
318; eccentricity of, 273; helps with
"Isis," 77, 480; H.P.B. about, 400, 476,
485; Hume about, 437, 438; Hume's
letter to, 220, 223, 225; Hume's letter to,
quoted, 334; Hume says,
" stick to
l/our," 214; in London, 350; in presence
of, 246; K.H. about, 36, 355; K.H.'s
warning to, 322; letter from Hume, 332;
M. about, 263; magnetism of, 410; Maha
Chohan to say when, can go to the Pun-
jab, 371; M.'s gift of vases to, 372; M.
sees, 202; ordered home for a rest, 371;
quoted, 292; quoted by K.H., 242; re-
turning from Burma, 468; ridiculed and
libelled, 254; signature to letter to
"
Pioneer," 253; 's sister starving, 202;
sacrificed by Dayanand, 313; Sinnett'.s
unjust suspicions about, 354; Sinnett
wrong about, 353; the blunders of, 20fi;
the other victim, 862; to stay with
Arundale ladies, 350; treated in cruel
way by Sinnett, 353; with Upasika,
their position to the Brothers in the
T.S. work, 898.
44
OLD BEING," sole parent of
" new
being," 111.
"OLD LADY" [H.P.B.l, 17. 28, 34. 39. 42,
50, 65, 118, 125, 135, 179; letter to, 179.
ONE, Element, 159; Law. 159; Life. 53, 159;
The, 93, 105, 108; the, becomes three,
317.
OPTICAL illusion, 163.
ORACLE, Delphian, 145; "of the Theoso-
phists," 408.
ORBIT of existences, 47.
ORBITAL motion, 100.
ORDERS, five (?), 107; K.H. about Rules
of Our, 330, 394.
ORGANS of
"
Angels," 50.
ORGANIC, 79; motion, 63.
ORIENTAL, Group proves a farce, 484;
school, 328; views of reincarnation, 329.
ORIENTALISTS, 110, 158, 185.
ORNITHOLOGICAL SOCIETY, 39.
ORNITHOLOGY, 214.
ORPHAN, "
Humanity," the great, 32.
OSIRIS the Egyptiant
49.
OSMOSED, 37.
OSMOSIS, 17; occult, 80.
OTHELLO, Indian, 18.
OVERSHADOW, Buddha will, 117;
"
has
already," 117.
OXEN, fossils of, 154.
OXLEY, W., 107, 270. 277; Article by, 293;
author of
"
Philosophy of Spirit," 274;
has an inkling of the truth, 275; K.H.
about, 448; K.H. answers statement sent
to Theosophiat by, 453; K.H. did not
appear to, 454; quoted, 314; 'a book,
459.
PACCIKA-YANA, 114.
PADRIS of India, 362, 473.
PADSHAH, poem by, 207.
PAGANINI, 189.
PAHARI, the civilized, 152.
PA1-WOUEN-YBN-FU, the greatest
dictionary in the world, 364.
PAIN, 105.
PALAEONTOLOGY. 155, 156.
PALAEOZOIC ages, 155.
PALI, 110, 114, 201, 340.
PALLI, female monastery of, 202.
PALL MALL GAZETTE, 807.
PAMPHLET by Padris, 473, 474.
PAN-AEONIC immortality, 129, 131.
"PANINI," 844.
INDEX
PANTHEISTIC. 53.
PAPER, doit We au per/in glact, made at
Thibet, 34; K.ll. keeps no pink, to write
upon, 10; K.H.. short of, 83; precipita-
tion into. 423; Tibetan or Nepaul, 481.
PA RA PA RA UKA IIM, 75.
PARAHRAHM. .. 53, 54. 90, 108, 344, 346;
a Parahrahm, 74.
PARACELSI, 4.
PARA N1RVAXA, 199; pass periodically
into, liKJ.
PARENT, Branch of, body, 9; Paramount
Power, 14; Society, 14. 10, 20, 201, 269,
270, 318; Society and A. O. Hume, 317;
Society's seal, 345.
PARI NIRVANA. 104; consciousness in, 125.
PARINIRVANA SUTRA KWNEN, 455.
PARI YONG, the Gun pa of a friend, 320.
PARIS, 354. 355; Mrs. Holloway did not
consent to stop in, 308;
"
mystics," 242;
observatory, 100; Thcosophists at, also
need Mohini, 350.
PARROT and personal remembrance, 174.
PASSION, 205; a domineering. lOi.
PASSIVE. IH, 814. 310; principle, 71, 72, 10H;
tail, 73.
PAST, present and future, 29; records of,
150; relics of, 215.
PATH, THE, 20; of selfishness, 3(50; Sin-
lurtt's own thorny, 245, 350; to Occult
Sciences, 351.
PATIENCE, well trained in, 209.
PATRIOT, 212.
PATRIOTISM, 32, 33, 384.
PATRON, GREAT [ Buddha], 33. 43.
PAUL, 280; letters of, circulated in bazaar,
304; the Kabalistic, 344.
PAUPERS, M'inged, of the Christian
heaven. 22.
PEACOCK of Saraswati, 12.
" PEARL PIN "
affair, 47*.
PEDDLES from Venice, 4'.3.
PEDACTYL, 154.
PEERAGE, 27.
PEI.1NG, an army of, 438; hapless, 320;
lamb, 202;
"
paltry," 225; schoolmaster,
270; Western. 180.
PEMANO. 00.
PEN.1ADI SINGHS, 13.
PKNLOR. 110.
PENUMBRA of the Sun. 104.
PERCEPTIONS, intuitive, 192; of personal
Individuality, 104, 105.
"
PERCEPTIVE FACULTIES," 173.
"
PERFECT WAY." 328. 329; review of, 291,
430; the writers of the, 340.
PERFECTED man. 90.
PERICLES, n tavern, 295.
PERIOD, formation, 93; inter-cyclic. 90;
septenary, 97; solar, 97; transitory, of
the world. 215.
'
PERISHING T.S.," 20, 374, 473.
PERSONAL. Efjo, 114, 130, 183; evanescent
man, 231 ; experience, 131 ; individuality,
104, 105; lost, life, 101; opinions of K.H ,
2<)4; puin or pleasure. Adepts have no,
**4; purity, 105; rebirth, 329; recollec-
tions. 104; remembrances, 174; "ve-
hicle," 114.
PERSONALITY, PERSONALITIES. 78, 82;
and individuality, 78, 114; colourless, 106;
departed, 101; disinearnate, 102; is the
synonym for limitation, 200; misconcep-
tions about, 197; personalities and the
Brotherhood, 401; we seek to bring men
to sacrifice their, 231.
PERSONS, hum-drum, 196; very wicked,
170.
PERU, 149.
PERVERSITY, mental, 75.
PHALLUS, 71.
PHANEROSM of Our teachings, 241.
PHANTOMOSOPHY, 47.
PHENOMENA, PHENOMENON, 9, 10, 19,
21, 29, 52, 50, 101, 133, 142, 160, 102, 451;
adoplic, 34; at Simla, 297; by H.P.B.,
30H, 325; endorsed, 34; forbidden by M.,
439; for Col. Chesney, 287; genuine, 290;
half a, 298; K.IL's objection to, 410;
magnetic, 101; -mongers, 119; mystical,
85; no more, in India, 4C9; no permission
for, 220; occult, 23; "of broach." 211;
of intellectuality, philosophy and Ionic,
246; physical, will not convert unbe-
lievers, 240; "spiritual," 21; the effect
of diversified motion, 100; tidal wave of,
35: visible, 141.
PHENOMENALISTS. materialistic, the
modern sect of Spiritualists are, 114.
PHILOSOPHERS, 41, 52; disembodied, 138;
Greek, 30, 63; materialistic, 32; natural.
50;
"
philosophical stone," 345; Western,
30.
PHILOSOPHICAL AND THEORETICAL
TEACHINGS, 38 202.
PHILOSOPHY, not family gossip, 206; our,
80; the A.E., 115; Western, 1B3.
"PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRIT," by Oxley,
274.
PHIPSON, Dr., 101.
PHLOGISTON, 50; of the Sun, 164.
"PHOEBUS, POST MB1LA," 325.
PHOF.NIKIAN, civilizations. 153.
PHOENIX, 48.
"
PH02NIX VENTURE AND THE CONDI-
TION OF INDIA," 377-390.
"PHO3NIX PROJECT," 202, 377, 37, 380,
300, 393, 394; a fore-doomed failure, 395;
Col. Gordon writes encouragingly re,
383; conditions for raising capital, 887,
388; depends on Sinnett's consent or
refusal, 887; failure, 353; K.H. advises
Sinnett TV, 381, 396; K.H. does not trust
for the rebirth of the, 428; K.H. re
money for, 378, 882; K.H. tells how
Hume's letter has harmed the project,
883; K.H. will have no more to do with
the financial side of worldly affairs, 385;
re Zemindar offers of support, 889; suc-
cess still in doubt, 884.
PHOTOGRAPH, 22.
PHOTOMETERS, 105.
PHOTOSPHERE, 158.
INDEX
PHYSICAL, bodies, 28; existence, 103; in-
tellectuality. 154; intelligence or Manaa,
94; intelligence increases in the down-
ward arc, 86; phenomena, 29; re-birth,
195; science, 10.
PHYSICIAN, they that need not the. 268.
PHYSICISTS, modem, 28.
PHYSICO-SPJftJT(L4J, lever, ll.
PHYSIOLOGICAL, conditions, 47; process.
70.
PHYSIOLOGISTS, 170.
PHYSIOLOGY, 51. 71.
PICCADILLY, premises in, 431.
PICKERING, photo-meter. 165.
PILLOW, 11; incident, 10, 84.
"PIONEER," 2, 5, 13, 22, 31, 113. 115, HO,
253, 254, 256, 290, 445; editor of, 21, 33,
50, 134, 259, 327.
PIPE, M.'s, 313, 374, 431, 439.
PI&ACHAS, 107, 110; Nature, 136.
"
PIT, bottomless." 1%.
PITRI. 373.
PLAGIARISM, 153, 420; K.H. about, 564,
421, 424.
PLANET, body of, 71; central, of our little
Universe, 163; every, 153; next, 104;
obscuration of, 157; of death, 103, 107;
our own, likened to epicycloid formed
of rings like a chain, 46; question on,
of death, 148; to planet, 66.
PLANETS, 31, 45, 46, 48, 67, 73, 75, 76, 82,
86, 89, 90, 92, 96, 97, 98, 99, 148, 153, 165,
167, 168, 1(59, 170, 176; dead, 67; group
of seven, 94; man-bearing, 90, 119.
PLANETARIES, 55, 157, 171, 308.
PLANETARY, a, comes for benefit of first
race, 157; at beginning of each Round,
137; higher than any, 256; highest, 158,
176; K.H. not a, 170; mission of a, 41;
rings, 97; Spirits, 24, 40, 43, 45, 40, 47,
48, 56, 89, 107, 130, 137, 138, 139, 141, 143,
285. 321, 462.
PLANT, the, 80; plants, 96.
PLATINUM wire, 62.
PLATO, 24, 84, 121, 155, 194, 289, 420, 455;
days df, 283; teaching of, 455.
PLEDGE of Inner Circle, in the hands of
the Maha-Chohan, 325.
PLEISTOCENE, 69; Pleisto-Sinnettic period,
122.
PLESIOSAURUS, 214.
PLUTARCH, 289, 455.
"
PNEUMATICAL body," 847.
"
POISONS, three," 264, 263.
POLARITY, Spiritual. 45.
POLE, magnetic, above surface of earth,
168; Mrs. Kingsford and Mr. Sinnett are
the two, ... 400; North, 169, 456,
South, 169; two, of man's "Soul," 188.
POMPEII, 12*.
PONDICHERY chela, 348.
POONA, 116.
POPALVUL, 154.
POPE, 58; authority of, 318; Toe of, 190.
POPF.RY. 40.
POPULATION of England, 124.
PORTMAN, 265.
PORTRAIT, of K.I!., 184, 285. 480; of K.H.
by Schraiechen, 349; produced by D.K.,
287, 300.
POSEIDONIS, 151, 155.
POSITIVE, mind, 48; the, 71; world of
causes. 48.
POSITIVISTS, 241.
POST, -pralayan cycle, 77; -tertiary times,
155.
POSTMORTEM, consciousness, 175, 187;
licanthropy, 176.
POSTAL service, between Prayag and
Tzigadzi, 254.
" POTENTIAL Enercty," 60.
POWERS, creeds and, will crumble, 24.
PRAKKITI, 141, 142, 346, 347.
PK.4L.4V.4S, 63, 00, 67, 71, 74, 75, 93, 07,
121, 129, 138, 143, 177, 193, 198; minor,
67, 93, 97, 98; solar, 93, 94, 98; Those
who preside at, 40i; universal, 93.
P/? \TYKKA. 114.
PRAYAG, 2M; agreement made at, 431 ;
nabu, 44t>; K II. about, 374; theosophists,
248.
PRECINCTS, h* ^ho approaches our, is
drawn into the vortex of probation, 367.
PRECIPITATED, 19, 22, 296. 300.
PRECIPITATION, 33, 116, 349, 422, 423, 480;
original, restored, 425.
PRESERVATIVE forces, 346.
PRESIDENT, cure in selection of Branch,
318; K.H. would like to see Sinnett, 428;
Mrs. Kingsford accepts the office of
Brit. Thcos. Socy. President, 328: of a
Branch, 20; of London Lodge, 400; of
the B. Theos. Socy., 20; of Theos. Socy.,
20; telegram of instructions from K.H.
re L.L. President, 308.
PRESS, hell-hounds of, 254.
PRICE to be paid by K.H.. 285.
PRIDE, a snare on the Path, 369; monu-
ment of, 20.
PRIEST, Egyptian, 73, 155; -ridden world,
407.
PRIESTHOOD, 57.
PRIESTLEY, 56.
PRIESTLY imposture, 58; K.H. talks of
protecting their country and, King, 443.
PRIMARY colours. 30.
PRIMORDIAL MAN. 47.
PRINROSE, 258; PRIMROSE, 463.
PRINCE D., 255; PRINCE DONDOVHOF,
463.
PRINCE'S HALL, KINGSFORD incident,
476.
PRINCIPIA of Newton, 31.
PRINCIPLE, causative, of all, 106; creative,
90; fifth, 72, 74, 347; fourth, 77; igneus,
92; immutable, 91; life, 128; no abiding,
111; passive, 71, 72, 108; seventh, 72, 74,
347, 459; sixth, 72, 91, 93, 347; that one,
455; Universal, 346.
PRINCIPLES, K.H. about, in man, 455; 5th,
the Soul, 111; of Globe, 94; of man,
74, 77, 80, 99, 103, 104, 105, 109, 114, 115,
121, 123, 127, 128. 131, 134, 158, 171, 175
174. 176, 183, 341, 345, 544, 547; of nature
INDEX
78, 01, 09, OS, 04; of the Ego, 171, 172,
188, 190; of Theos. Socy., 818; one, de-
veloped fully in each round, 05; seven,
71, 73, 74, 01, 04; seven, referred to as
a trinity, 280; universal, 80, 00, 546.
PRISMATIC colours, 80.
PRITCHARD, 120.
PROBATION, a chela under, 290, 291 ; drawn
into the vortex of, 967; Eastern, the
laws of, 350; K.H. about. 250, 288; K.H.
and, of Fern, 237; period, 316; term of,
will end, 263.
PROBATION AND CHELASHIP, 203-376.
PROGRAMME of Being, perverted the, 365.
PROGRESS, individuals can only outstrip
general, by one remove, 06; of man, 46,
47; of Theosophy paralysed by miscon-
ception, 251.
PROHIBITION removed in Sinnctt's case,
306.
PROPHECY by K.H.. 170, 388.
PROPHETS, 273; English, 275.
PROPRIETORS, Sinnett's, 22, 381; K.H. ha*
his. also, 22.
PROSPECT HILL, 10.
PROTEGES are tested, 260.
PROTEST, Joint, of chelas, 242; of fhelas,
the order of the Chohan, 203.
PROTESTANT, 318; Bills aimed at, Eng-
land, 301; Theology, 120.
PROTESTANTISM, 37.
PROTEUS, 56, 150; universal, 63, 164.
PROTEAN manifestations of Spirit and
Matter, 141.
PROTOTYPE, the Great is the, of the
smaller cycles, 46.
PROVERB," Tibetan, 28, 188, 303.
PROVIDENCE, 110.
PRSHV (repulsion), 35.
PSEUDO Spirits, 40.
PSYCHE, 280.
PSYCHIC, chemistry, 422; communication,
45; idiosyncracy, 247; phenomena, 114;
secret of, phenomena, 115; power to be
unfolded, 247; printing machine, 423;
Society, 265.
PSYCHIC RESEARCH, the Society for,
342, 42*. 461, 473, 474.
PSYCHICAL, powers of hearing, 28, fl5;
Research Society oracle, 48.
PSYCHO-PHYSIOLOGICAL, peculiarities,
204; tanwsha, 28.
PSYCHOGRAPHY, 101.
PSYCHOLOGICAL, Aspirant now tested on
the, side of his nature, 865 ; observer, 188.
PSYCHOLOGISTS, 70.
PSYCHOLOGY, 27, 51.
PSYCHOMETRICAL "delineation of char-
acter," 27.
PSYCHOPATHIST, 842.
PTOLEMY, 80.
PUNDIT, Universal, 155.
PUNJAB, 12i, 454.
PUPIL, 0, 10; "pupil." 373; our greatest
trouble is to teach, not to be befooled*
by appearances, 360.
PURITY, personal, 100.
01.
, 120, 141, 142, 84fl, 847; -Sakti,
PYRAMIDS, 142; of intellectual energy
misspent, 250.
PYTHAGORAS, 347, 455.
PYTHAGOREAN, Doctrines, 281; Monad,
63; MSS.. 153.
QUARREL, M. says
" we never," 218.
QUATERNARY. 103.
QUEEN ELIZABETH, 4.
QUICHOTE, DON, 222.
QUICK THINKERS are hard to impress,
30.
QUIETISM that utter paralysis of the
Soul, 210.
QUINTESSENCE of Good, 103.
RABBIS, initiated, 344.
RABELAIS, 38; "quart d'heure de," 887.
RACE, RACES, 32, 41, 68, 60, 70, 77, 82, 83,
84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 02, 05, 06, 118, 110,
120, 121, 122, 130, 140, 150, 151, 152, 153,
154, 156, 157, 158, 150, 177, 365.
RADIANT ENERGY. 168.
RADIANT MATTER, 841; discovery of,
272.
RADIOMETER, 841.
RAHU, 330.
RAIN, stopping of, 160.
RAJ YOG, 33; course of testing, 365.
RAJA YOGI, 17.
RAJA, Suns, 167; Star, 167.
RAJAHS, Masters not Indian, 260.
RAJPUT, M.'s ancestors, 271; blood, M's,
224.
RAKSHASAS (Demons), 107.
RALEIGH, 61.
RAM LAL, 327.
RAMASWAMI, 444.
RANDOLF, P. B., 276.
RANYARD, COWPER, 161.
RAO, R. SRINAVASA, 837.
RAPPORT, 101, 102, 283.
RATIOAN, 175, 188, 255, 258, 881.
RAYS, seven, 78.
RAWUL PINDEE, 18.
READERS, Western, 195.
REAL SELF, the first cuticles of H.P.B.'s,
465.
REALITIES, the boasted, of human life, 105.
REALITY, the only, 141.
REBIRTH, 72, 96. 100; physical, 195.
RECOLLECTIONS, after death, 187; com-
plete, 170; of all lives, 198; personal.
104.
RECORD, imperishable, of the Masters, W
RECORD BOOK well kept, ra.
RECORDE, ROBERT. 4.
14
RECORDING " Guardian Angel, 111.
RED Capped Brothers, 84, 468.
REDEEMER, Sinnett's book will prove the,
240.
REEDS, 188.
" REFLECTION," 1M, l5t
REFRIGERATION. M.
REGAZZONI, 10.
INDEX
REGENERATOR of Mankind, 551.
REICHENBACH's crystals, 162.
REINCARNATION, 46, 101, 117, 17*. 176,
528, 404.
REINDEER, 69.
RELICS, "mouldy, of a mouldy Past, 23.
RELIGION, a cause of evil, 57.
RELIGIOUS PHILOSOPHY. 6.
RELIQUIAE, 108, 100; of dogs, cats, pigs,
etc., 275.
REMEMBRANCE, "full," 171.
REMINGTON, Capt., 10.
RENT BILL, 587, 389, 300, 391, 302.
REPENTANT, ... to be taken back,
444.
"REPORT," 267.
REPULSION, prshu or, 35.
RESIDENT, 440; British, 235; Political, 216.
REST, 100, 117; eternal, 116, 284; planetary,
94, 97; state of absolute, 198; uncon-
srious, 104.
RESURRECTION, "La, et la Fin des
Mondes," 98; "of flesh," 41.
RETRIBUTION, cup of, 87; Law of, 101.
REVELATION "from the Lord," 274.
REVELATORS, real, have been few, 548.
REVIEWER, a nom de plume, 275; of
"The Perfect Way," 183.
REVOLUTIONS, 24.
REWARD. 200.
RHINOCEROS, 60, 154.
RHYTHMIC motion, 98.
RICHTRR, JEAN PAUL, quoted by K.H.,
296.
RING, imaginary endless, 40.
RINGS, 46, 80, 81, 89. 87, 93, 94, 95, 00, 97,
100, 117, 118, 120, 121. 149, 156, 177, 181;
definition of, 68.
RIPON, Lord, 390; high opinion of, 442;
H.P.B. to ask, to write to Prince direct,
464; not a free agent, 392.
KJSH/S, 165. 399; Indian, 283.
RISING SUN, 75.
RITUAL, a, to amuse them, 266.
RIVER-DRIFT, race of, 69.
ROCK, fossils, 69; igneous, 93; "of Ages,"
58.
ROD, 63; of power, 82.
ROMAN, 152, 157; Catholic. 482; Catholicism,
37, 318, 338; Empire, 164.
ROME, 40, 153; interference in British
politics, 591-2.
ROOT RACES, 85, 86, 88, 119, 120, 154, 156,
177; major or, 86.
"ROOTLESS ROOT," 547.
ROSARY, 47.
ROSENCRAUZ, 280.
ROSETTA STONE of the Kiddle incident,
42.
ROSICRUCIAN, Lodge, 487; MS. copies,
three in Europe, 280.
ROSICRUCIANS, 276.
ROSS, Sir J., 169.
ROTATION of the earth, 46.
ROTHNEY CASTLE, 298; and Fern's
letters, 955; Altruist of, 358; the candle
of, 551.
ROUND, before the first, 167; beings of
fifth, 130; fourth, 77, 88; inner, 592;
local seven-fold, 76; men of fourth and
fifth, 126, 145; outer, 592; personalities
of fifth, 117; race of first, after a tolar
manvantara, 86; sevenfold, 66; seventh,
64. 67.
ROUNDS, 68, 71, 76. 78. 82, 83. 84, 87, 88,
90, 93, 95, 96, 97, 100, 117, 118, 121, 130,
140, 157, 171, 177, 178, 181, 198. 395; first,
second and third, 76, 87; definition of,
80; number of existences in, 82; of men,
120, 122, 134; of mineral evolution on
sphere A., 74; race, 121; Sinnett's
questions to H.P.B. re, 125.
ROW, P. SREENEVAS, Judge S.C.C. at
Madras, letter to, from Hume, 552.
ROYAL, Astronomical Society (R.A.S.), 168;
charter, 2; Society, 2, 122, 341.
RUACH, 280.
RULERS, intelliucnt. 107.
RULES, esoteric, 8, 28; Mrs. Kingsford and
Parent Theos. Socy., 401; occult, t73-4;
of A.I. Branch, 14; of Occult Fraternity
now LAW, 207; of Our Order, K.H.
about, 530; of the Brotherhood anti-
European, 294; of Theos. Socy., 16, to,
21, 26; of Lodge, 115; our, have proved
wise, 336.
RUPA (the Skandhas), ill; external, 60.
RUPA-DKVA, 107.
RUPA LOKA, 104, 106, 109. 114, 108, 109;
of Devachan, 105; passing through, 200;
time in, 105.
RUSSIA, 4; aims against Tibet, 11.
RUSSIAN PAPERS, praise of H.P.B. in,
482.
RUSSIAN SPY accusation, 473.
RUSSIANS, 473.
S.P.R. (see PSYCHIC RESEARCH, Society
for).
SACERDOTAL caste, 57.
SACRED cow-dung, 55.
SACRIFICE and Charity to all Humanity,
572.
SADDUCEES of Europe, tests to, 558.
SAGE, 241.
SAHALO KADHALU, the mysterious
Chiliocosm, 199.
SAINT GERMAIN. Count, 280, 281, 506, 565.
SAINT Peters and Ernests, 108.
SAINTS, Christian. 16; heads of, 162; our,
16.
SAIS. 155.
SAKKATADITTHI, 111.
SAKKYA JONG, K.H. now comes from.
284.
SAKTI. 72, 90; of Parabrahma, 90.
8AKWALA, 105.
SAKWALAS, 108.
%ALAMANDERS, 04.
SALIGRAM-SURENDRO Contempt case,
588.
SALVATION, Army, 505; of his fellow
creatures, 117; own. 28.
SAMADHI, 545; Akatic, 109, 151.
26 INDEX
SAMBUDDHA, 58.
8AMMA-SAMBVDDH, 104.
SAMSON, 967.
SANDERS, Mr., F.T.S., 58.
SAN KARIAR, the Diwan Naib of Cochin,
*66.
SANNA. ill.
SANCTION, Our, 14.
SANDAL WOOD, 18.
SANDARAM SPIRIT, 503.
SANDSTONE, 70.
SANG-OYAS, disciples of the true, 402.
SANG-KO-PA of Kokonor, 44.
SANG-YIAS. Lord, 254.
SANKH, war, Vfl.
SAMKHARA8. 59; 8ANKHARA, 111.
SANKIA K'HOUTCHOO, 282.
SANSKRIT, 71, 114; MS., 174; names, 275;
words, 201.
SARASWATI, our Aryan Isls. 4, peacock
of, 12; the Grecian, 222.
SAUIPUTRA. 100.
SATELLITE, mental, 103; physical, 103;
seven, of Initiates, 203.
SATKIRI Chakram of Vishnu, 345.
"SATURDAY REVIEW," 281; article, 255.
SATURN, 31; fabulous, 54.
SAVAGE tribes, 152.
"SAVINGS BANK," 207.
SAVIOUR, Unions of pseudo, -8, 348; of
the World, 33.
SCHLEIDEN, HODDE, 404, 478; letter of,
479.
SCHMIECHEN, Herr, portrait by, 349. 480.
SCHOOLS, about esoteric, 8; of Alexan-
dria, 142.
SCHOPPENHAUER, 06.
SCIENCE, 1, 3, 4, 0, 30, 31, 47, 144, 164; a
strutting frame cock. 144; confusion
made by Western, 214; electrical, 30;
English. 12; Englishmen of. 213. 244;
Journal of, 153, 160, 106; magnetic, 27;
men of. 50, 51, 60, 61; modern, 61, 63,
89, 144, 167; Our, 40; Our, and knowledge
cannot be pursued on Baconian lines,
355; Our esoteric, explains all, 244;
physical, 70; Solomons of, 2; teachings
of, 158; the misconceptions of the men
of, 164; the very, 31; Western, 68, 121,
137, 166, 244; will hear planets, 170;
world of. 23; your. 152, 156.
SCIENTIFIC, proposition, 35; standpoints,
75.
SCiy-LKllA, Sinnett's, 476.
SCOTCH Brother. K.H. about. 417.
SCOTT, 113; M. in astral form visits Ross,
315; Ross. 286.
SCRIPTURES, Buddhist, 106; bungled up,
76; Christian, 112.
SEA of Nirvana. 33.
SEANCE room, 48. 123. 131, 132. 134, 136,
189; room spirits, 45, 189; -room spooks,
189.
SEARCH, for.' fitting representative of
Masters. 203.
SECOND, race, not savages, 152; degree of
responsibility in. Round, 05; description
of, Round. 87.
SECRET, Committee at Adyar, 357; circle,
323; three, words to test the truth of
mediums, 419, 454.
"SECRET DOCTRINE," 199; foreshadowed
by K.H., 357; H.P.B. about, 481; quoted
re seven globes, 492; re Mars and Mer-
cury, 489, 491.
SECTION, foreign, 26.
SEDIMENTARY, 79, 93.
SEER, SEERS, 42, 48, 49, 273; K.H. about,
27C; Manchester, Oxley, 274, 275; natural
born, 117; never agree, 276; self-tutored,
255; true, 98; vision imperfect and de-
ceptive, 198.
SELECTION, Great Law begins its work
of, 47.
SELF, 42, 48, 129, 316; begetting. 112; -be-
gotten progeny, 48; -Conscious Egos, 48;
divine, 43; "doctrine of," 111; higher,
43; inner, 40, 41. 43. 51, 267; K.H. about,
-sacrifice, 305; M. about -delusion, 256;
manifested. 344; nature-influencing, 141;
nature-seeing, 141 ; retain consciousness
of, 130; -unconscious, the absolute, 241;
the Eternal, 344; what is, ?, 264; your
hidden, 267.
SELFISHNESS, killed India's Empire. 252;
one third of the problem of evil, 57;
will kill the British Empire, 252.
SEMI, -chelas, 115; -conscious, 95; -European
Greek Brother, 04; physical sphere, 198.
SEMITIC, 121.
SENIORSHIP, wrangling for. 140.
SENSATION among the mystics, 293.
SENS AT ION A LISTS, 241 .
SENSES, sixth and seventh, 96.
SENSITIVES, 101, 112; unwillingly blind,
255.
SENSITIZED PLATE of living flesh. 286.
SENTIENT creatures, orders of, 107.
SENTRIES, tired. We will always find vol-
unteers to replace the, 215.
SEPTENARY, Man a, 79; Rule, 80; stages,
79: term of trial given the Society, 263
SERAPH, 271, 279.
SERAPIS,
" the youngest of the Chohans,"
10.
SERPENT, emblem, 71; seven headed, 73.
SESAM. 273.
" SET APART," as vessel to contain the
u-hole stock of knowledge, 157.
SEVEN, globe-rings, period necessary for
completion of local, 93; root races, 83;
rounds in minor manvantaras and minor
pralayas, 93; sevenfold man, 71, 72; sub-
races, 83.
SEVENS, series of, 81.
SEVENTH, race, the last will have its
Buddha, 157; -round men, 64; -round
men not yet evolved, 97.
SEX, a mere accident, 117.
SEXUAL RELATIONS, 57.
SHABERON. SHABERONS, 8; Holy, 15; of
Than-La. 20.
SHADOW-WORLD, our natural Allies in
the. 268.
SHAKESPEARE quoted by K.H., 849.
INDEX
SHANDBA, 110.
"
SHAMBULLAH," 155.
SHAMMARS, 272; infamous, 284.
SHAN-MUN-YI-TUNQ. 100.
SHAPA-TUNG LAMA, 133.
SHARP, BECKY, 190.
SHASTERS, 462; SHASTRA, Abidharma,
108.
SHEEP, 154.
SHELL, SHELLS, 107, 109, 112, 122, 124,
128, 1S2, 153, 136, 147, 175, 176, 187, 180, 276 ;
empty, 103; may be a perfect Sinnett,
174; H and 2* principled, 123; on same
level with, 338; self-consciousness of,
173.
SHELLEY, 196.
SHERE-ALI, 327.
SHERRY, bars the way, 37.
SHIP, the good, is sinking, 366.
SHISHIR KOOMAR GOSH, Huroe com-
plains to, 302.
KHIVA, the Creator, the Destro>er and
Regenerator, 241; the ideal, 241; the
source of truth, 241 (see SIVA).
SHLOMA, 262.
SIBERIA, seat of one of the most ancient
civilizations of fourth race, 154.
SIBERIAN coast, 154; islands, 154.
SIBYLS and sirens of the Theosophicnl
Establishment, 428.
SIDDHA8, ways of, 278.
SIDDHJ, of hearing, 05; powers transcended.
185.
SIEMENS. 116; truth uttered by, 168.
SIGNATURES, Our, 14.
SIKKIM and dugpas, 446.
SIKHS, 12.
SILENCE, about Masters and Lodge, oath
of, 201; a part of the neophyte's train-
ing, 283.
SIMLA, 3, 12, 13, 17, 21, 34, 30, 59, 122, 1,17,
186, 205, 228, 260, 278, 282, 407, 408, 465);
Eclectic Socy., 205, 206; .hills, 240; in
structions to the, Sage, 262; Municipality
row, 224; Nawab, 270; pamphlet from.
!?07; "period," 152; phenomena at, 207.
SIMON STYLITES, Indo-Tibetan, 186.
SIMPSON, Mrs., of Boston, 416.
"
SINCERE BELIEFS "
a barrier, 462.
SINNETT, A.P., 15. 18, 30. 3.1, 52, 59, 63,
70, 80, 86, 88, 00, 115, 117, 123, 120, 127,
134, 135, 137, 143, lit, 147, 188, 208, 210,
211, 213, 221, 236; advice from K.IL, 268.
372, 391; advice re Phoenix project, 381;
alone of the four worthy of trust, 328;
an ignoramus in our Tibetan customs,
271; as good as tested, 896; asked to
write re work of Branches and oblige
M. and K.H., 318; beginning to attract
the Chohan's attention, 431; beliefs and
rights of, 402; cares only for K.H.
personally, and phenomena, 375; departs
from India, 336; does not have a vision,
336; elected President, 303; friend and
brother of K.IL, 175; hints to, about
checks on the Phoenix project, 371;
house of, 323; H.P.B. about, 485;
II.P.B. asks, to try to deserve iwraona!
communication with Masters. 474;
H.P.B.'s best friends are Mr. and Mrs.,
465; H.P.B.'s prophecy about, accusing
K.H. of deception, 466; H.P.B. says,
please do fry and have intuition, 475;
H.P.B. sees scin-lciia of, 476; indiscre-
tions of, 205; instructions from K.H. to,
398; K.IL about, 175, 266, 267, 273, 270,
285, 322, 330, 352, 353, 354, 355, 356. 367,
400; K.H. about '8 attitude, 282; K.H.
about 's future work. 397; K.H. about,
resenting Master's wishes, 369; K.H.
advises, to remember Chohan's prophecy,
336; K.H. appeals to, 265; K.H. cables,
re Phcrnix, 393; K.H. does not laugh at,
285; K.II.'s friendship for. 265; K.H.
gives, a glimpse into the hell of this
lost soul, 340; K.II.'s increased respect
for, 265; K.H. on methods and duties,
244; K.H. pleads with, over the Phnenix
project, 392; K.H. says time has come
to prove his willingness, 403; K.H.
telN. his probation is not ended, 373;
K II. to make one more effort to oprn,
's inner intuition, 351; "-Kingsford in
cident," 407; lack of perception, 261;
"
looks down from on high," 343; M.
about, 226, 252, 253, 257, 261, 270, 297, 350;
M. ask<* personal favour from, 268; M.'s
instructions to, 440; may find himself
in Massey's attitude, 333 ; messages from
Masters, 250; mind of, 210; not an ab-
solute new invention, 175; not to inter-
fere between punishment of Hume's
pride and fnte, 290: objection of, to
chela test, 299; offer to, 204; personal
remembiaruv of, 179; refusal to accept,
ns chela, 230; room of, 220; 's feeling
for K.H.. 259; 's good work in London,
338; 'j> idea a "school of magic," 209; 's
insinuation against H.P.B., 489; shell of.
174, shocked by H.P.B.'s letter to C. ('.
Massev, 2H9; to go to London, 336; told
by H.P.B. he is deceiving himself, 400;
to see K.H.'s astral self, 453; threatens
to leave London Lodge, 369; warned by
K.IL, 438; warned by M. to remember
promise to K.IL, 256; warning to, 262.
SINNETT Mrs., 3i; acquainted with letter,
412; H.P.B. wishes her to come to her,
482; K.H. advises, how to wear his hair,
452; K.H. asks for date of birth, 21; 's
remarks on Masters quoted by K.IL, lid;
to be trusted, 302; to tell Hume the
truth. 326.
"SIR ORACLE," 23.
SISTER and Aunt of H.P.B. about brooch,
475.
SISYPHUS, rock, 268; stone of. 25.
SIVA, 87 (see SHIVA).
SIX pointed star, 311.
SIXTH, principle, comment by K.H. M
Stain ton Moses letter, 414; -round being,
117.
INDEX
SKANDAS, SKANDHAS, 110, 111, US; are
the elements of limited existence, 200;
five lower, 172.
SKI, 527, 418; and C. C. Massey, 583; and
Mrs. Billing, 419.
SKUNK, 37.
SLADK'S CASE, reference to, 450.
SLAVONIAN peasant, 58.
SLEEP, akashic, in Kama loka, 187.
SLOKA, 100, 260, 519.
SLOTH. 205.
SMELL, article on, 102.
SMITH, Mr., K.II. may become a, 150.
SMITH, JO,
"
of the Latter-day Saints,"
408.
SOAP, 18.
SOCIAL status of a being the result of
Karmn, 200.
SOCIETY, civilized, 112; doctrine of the,
125; embryonic, 208; of Jesus, 207;
"
own
heart of the," 31; s, not individuals
tested, 528; the, will never perish as
an institution, 245; two men of, 235.
SOCIETY for Psychical Research (sec
PSYCHIC RESEARCH SOCIETY).
14
SOCIOLOGY "
of Herbert Spencer, 31.
SOCRATES, 4, 210, 255.
SODOM AND GOMMORAH, 405.
SOLAR, beyond our, system, 159; dust, 94,
energy, 162; Forces, absorption of by
the earth, 168; manvantara, 82, 95, 98,
168; not belonging to, system, 162;
period, 97; pralaya, 95, 94, 97, 99, 176;
pralaya taking place now, 98; questions
on, combustion, 146; ruin of, system,
99; system, 45, 52, 60, 68, 90, 95, 119.
8OLLEN. das, 215.
SOLON. 155.
SOLOMON'S SEAL, 545.
SON, 344, 546, 547; or matter, 142.
SONKAPA, 552.
SONOROUS bodies. 28.
"SONS OF AD," 153,
SOPHIA, the manifested Wisdom. 347.
SORCERERS, 4, 40, 128, 540; half-successful,
176.
SORROW, no, 101, 105.
SOUL, SOULS, 6, 59, 70, 79, 80, 107, 128;
"and Spirit," 46; and spirit synonymous
with the Christians, 289; animal, 72, 94,
103, 105, 196; can never awake to its
mistake, 195; Charter of his 's freedom,
41; clean and unclean, 35; connected
with human body, 45; cosmic, 29;
-culture, 27, 247; disembodied, 40; hier-
archy of, 44; human, 59; "marriage of
spirit and." 272; materialistic, 107; mis-
conception about, 197; of future globes,
98; or astral egos, 101; paralysis of, 210;
spiritual, 94, 114; two poles of, 188;
two, in man, 290; universal, 29; we
want fearless and confiding, 214; World,
45.
"
SOUL," by Edward Maitland, 415.
SOULLESS, 47; brute, 196.
SOULS "shrink away and expire," 876.
SOUND, 89. 80, 31.
SOUTH AMERICA, 4.
SPACE, 73, 74, 97, 153; and time, 194;
boundless, 104; endless, 346; impediments
of, 28; interstellar, 168; motion in, 159;
or "Deep" male and female, 847; or
universal mind, 404.
SPAIN, 4, 69.
SPANIARDS, 149.
SPANISH mendicant hidalgos, 269.
SPECTACLES, a pair of, 19.
SPECTROSCOPE, 165.
SPECTRUM, solar, 50; visible, 30.
"SPECULATION SPINNING," a Spirit-
ualist editorial, 258.
SPEECH, evolution of, 69; human, 88; or
VAch regarded as Son, 844.
SPENCER, HERBERT, 51, 150, 259, 357.
SPHERE, SPHERES, A., 73, 75; active, 48;
attraction of eighth, 196; B., 75, 76;
circle of, 76; earth's, 41; eighth, 171, 176,
187; Elysian, 122; first, 71; inter-linking
48; inter-planetary. 05; of ascending
spirituality, 198; of causes, 48; of death
107; of distorted Thoughts, 49; of ef
feet*. 48, 108, 177 ; of effects in devachan,
191; of fire mist, 89; of necessity, 72;
parent, 74; passive, 48; spiritual, 41; the
highest inhabited, 41.
SPINOZA, 55.
SPIRAL. 74, 89.
SPIRIT, 29, 42, 44, 45, 47, 70, 79, 86, 93, 114,
142, 546; absolute, 46; action, 41; after
death rightly comprehended by Oxley,
275; controls line of evolution, 91;
crystallized, 92; degraded by Spirit-
ualists, 241; disembodied, 40, 41, 47, 49,
173. 205; earthbound, 43; emanations of
the ONE, 105; equilibrates, 78; equili-
brized, 77; Essence, 60; -Flames, 277;
"guide," 40, 108; in devachan, 101; is
sublimation of matter, 142; -matter, 141;
misconceptions about, 197; of pellucid
electroidal essence, 50; ocean of, 74;
Omnipresent Universal, 344; of ZSlIner,
174; or LIFE indivisible, 74; pure, 55, 92,
158; "Revelation," called Seership, 275;
teachings by 4-, 246; volitional, 159;
without a veil, 548.
SPIRITISTS, French, 109.
SPIRIT-MAN, 45, 46, 07.
SPIRITS, 21, 27, 40, 49, 50, 109, 248; em-
bodied. 40; more, than shells. 136; of
suicides, 123; "of the departed." 45; of
victims, 125; or Lha, 100, 285; own, 101;
Planetary, *4, 40, 41, 45, 44, 45, 46, 47,
48, 56, 89, 107, 158, 139, 141, 143, 285;
pseudo, 40; pure, 45; seance-room, 189;
"thousands of," 133; tool of, 40; very
few. 132,
SPIRITUAL, communications, 101; culmina-
tion of. Wisdom, 241; death. 41; efflux,
71; Ego, 47. 88, 174; entity, 75; eye, 200;
faculties of love and hatred, 187 ;
" In-
dividuality," 105; lokas, 177; man, 47;
Monad, 329; not a, Entity, 45; polarity,
45; senses, 28; soul, 94, 114; Spheres, 41;
stamina, 105; World Essence, 45.
INDEX
SPIRITUALISM, about, 55, 40, 90, 102, 108,
109, 110, 112, 118, 119, 122, 124, 131, 13$,
133, 134, 135, 136, 172, 173, 17, 189, 201,
205, 246, 272, 275, 426, 431; and occultism
incompatible, 414; insane and fatal
superstition, 284; K.H. on, 101, 417, 421;
K.H. on why we oppose, 113. 410; M.
stalks into the motley crowd, 248; the
pranks of, 252; the result may be dis-
astrous to, 263; true, 113.
"SPIRITUALIST," 258, 281, 289.
SPIRITUALISTIC, 40, 41; literature, 2tt);
literature up to 1877, 271; papers, 50,
thought, 423.
SPIRITUALISTS, 31, 34, 37, 39, 45, 48, 50,
70, 79, 107, 113, 123, 124, 133, Ifi9, 201,
839, 240, 273, 277, 281, 290; American,
422, 427; and Wallace's book, 241; best
of British, 21; British, 306; Calcutta,
430; craie for phenomena and mystic
knowledge, 241; English, 427; K.H.
about, 114; K.H. quotes American, 428;
only knew two principles in man, 289;
sin of the world of, 240;
"
Summer land "
of, 198; thaumaturgic sots, 262; woe to,
432.
SPIRITUALITY, opposing forces of, and
animalism, 35.
SPIRITUALIZING influence, 80.
SPOOKS, Elementary, 40; of seance room,
189; worked well, 431.
SPY, Hume's spy allegation, 363.
SQUARE, perfect, 347.
"SQUARING the circle," 345, 347.
SRI-ANTARA, 345.
STAGNANT condition of the fourth Race
people, 149.
"STALKING HORSE," 216.
STAMINA, spiritual, 105.
STAR, double, 165; -s, distance of, 165;
sun-, 165; -worlds, 46.
STATE, the, 27.
STATES of matter, three additional, to
discover, 341.
" STATESMAN,'>
256; to demand retraction
and threaten law-suit, 253.
STEWART, Sir Donald, 5.
STILL-BORN, 48.
STONES, geologists divide, into three great
groups, 79.
STOREHOUSE, reflection of the, of the
System, 164, 165.
"STRAY FEATHERS," 260.
STRINGS, of globes, 93, 98; of worlds, 98.
STRUGGLE between higher and middle
duad, 171.
STUDENT, of occultism, 89, 847; Theo-
logical, 40.
"STUDENT," created by Mrs. Holloway,
360; dictations by, 361.
STUDY, K.H. discusses Occult. .
SUBRACES. 82, 83, 84, 95, 149, 150. 153, 154,
156, 157, 159; small cycle of our, 140;
Western of fifth race, 149.
SUB-RINGS performed by monad, 81.
SUB-TROPICAL. 0.
SUBBA ROW, 70, 107, 119, 201, 242, 266, 278,
327, 357; about giving instructions to
Sinnett and Hume, 459; an Adwaitee,
90, 399; answer of, to Hume, 333;
answers Maitland, 409; "in a fix," 376;
letter of, to Sinnett, re instructions, 457,
458; opinions of, of Hume, 381; receives
letter in Telugu from Masters, 474;
resigns. 363; Sinnett wrong to distrust
the writings of, 42ft; told he was o spy,
363; vindicating Sinnett, 432.
SUBJECTIVE, can never be mirrored by
the objective, 194; Whole, 29.
SUBSTANCE, 346.
SUBTERRANEAN, recesses of L'Hassa, 6.
SUBY RAM, innoculates his subjects by
infection, 255.
SUCCUBI, 110.
SUFFERING, originator of, 57.
SUFIS, method of, 247.
SUICIDES, 109. 112, 123, 132, 134, 135, 136,
176, 180, 180.
SUKHAVATI, 99, 100, 108.
"
SUMMER vacations
"
of K.H., 240.
SUMMERLAND is Kama Loka, 198; "SUM-
MERLANDS," 108.
"SUMPTUARY allowance," 116, 122.
SUN, and comets, 164; but a reflection, 163,
168; Father-Mother, 168; full of iron
vapours, 163; gives all and takes back
nothing, 168; heart and brain of our
pigmy Universe, 164; invisible, 165; it-
self, 162; matter of, 164; penumbra of,
164; jthlogiston of, 164; poles of, 168;
questions on the, 148; rising, 73; spots,
163 ; the great laboratory, 168 ; the reflec-
tion of the Storehouse, 164; veil of, 163;
what it is, 165; what it is not, 165.
SUNNYASIS, 12, 33, 462.
SUPERSTELLAR phantasmatical lone, 50.
SUPERIOR, H.P.B.'s, 42.
SUPERIORS, Our, 27.
SUPER-HUMAN qualities, 59.
"
SUPERSTITION, degrading," 31.
SUPREME Chief's command about London
Lodge, 852.
" SURVIVAL of the fittest," 47.
SVRYA, manvantaras, 97; pralayas, 97.
SUSPICION, 217.
8UT-PHANA, 219.
SUTEK, 290.
SUTHERAN, the mouldy bookseller, 481.
SUTRA, Agama, 106; Avatamsaka, 108;
Buddhist, 106; Lantan, 107; Pindha-
Dhana, 106.
SUTRAS, 108.
SUTRATMA, 970.
SUTTA PITAKA. 111.
SWABHAVAT, 60, 90, 08, 140.
SWAMI, 802, 803; [DAYANAND] attacks
Founders, 807, 808 (sec DAYANAND).
SWEDENBORG, 255. 276.
SWEEPER, immoral 3.
S.Y.K. CHARYA, 857.
SYMPATHY, magmetic, 7.
SYNODS. 818.
SYNTHETIC mefthod], 71.
30 INDEX
SYRACUSIAN, Archimedes, the great, 9.
SYSTEM, our, shifting in space, 167.
SYSTEM "of pure (materialistic) reason,"
104.
TABERNACLE, emptiness of, 282.
"TAUA8A," 279.
TALISMAN (lock of K.H.'s hair] and
Bi iddhi in sympathy. 329, 313.
TAMASHA, 28. 33, 116.
TANHA, 50, 110, 112; force of, 200.
TANTRIK, 345.
TANTRIK18T8, 303.
TARTARY, 270.
TASIMETER, Edison's, 169, 170.
TATHAGATA, 100, 108; quoted, 316.
TATHAGATAS, 102.
TATHAGATA, Light, 208; pure heart of
207.
TATHAGATR. 108.
TCHANGCHUBS, 285.
TCHIGADZE, TZIOADZK. 122, 254, 202, 367;
Akasa. 338.
TCHUTUKTUS. laughingstock of, 240.
TEACHER "of Nirvana and the Law," 33.
TEACHERS, esoteric, 8.
TEETH, 93.
TELEGRAMS of "Old Lady," 12.
TELESCOPES, 165, 109; "point your," 153.
TEMPERAMENT, A. O. Hume's, 260.
TEMPERATURE, 161; affects magnetic at-
traction, 169; measurement of, 169.
TEMPLE, 12, 58.
TENNYSON, 286; quoted, 51.
TERKH MIR, glaciers of, 240.
TERM, of probation of H.P.B. and Olcott,
263; of trial given the Society,* 263.
"TERRITORY OF DOUBT," 108.
TERROR, Reign of, 284.
TERRY, Mr., letter of, 250.
TESHU-LAMA8, 176.
TEST, 10, 316; after, *3; K.H. about, for
aspirants, 3fl3; of London newspaper, 1;
"
Times," 247.
TESTED, C.C.M., 315; Fern was, 270; M.
has Fern, 236, 237; this year Societies
instead of individuals to be, 328.
THANLA, 20.
THAUMATURGIC, the Spiritualists are,
sots, 262.
THAUMATURGISTS, 35.
THEISM, 60. 141; transcendental, 303.
THEISTS, 52, 53, 60, 305.
THEOLOGIANS, 53.
THEOLOGICAL, standpoints, 72; student,
40.
THEOLOGY, 55, 120; Christian, 40.
THEOSOPHICAL, "
Eclectic," 122; effort,
9; enquiry. 35; "Humbug before the
World," n pamphlet, 473; Journal, 207;
study, 30; truths, 20.
THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY (T.S.], 8, 11,
21, 23, 26, 35, 30, 38, 39, 43, 115, 121, 204,
269. 292, 359; a member of the, but
in no way a Theosophist, 282; a new
cycle begins, 882; and Dayanand, 326;
and men of science, 244; assaults upon
the, 331; British, 210, 304, 305; chief ob-
ject of, 7; destiny of, 12; division in,
managed by a Greek Brother, 271;
doomed in Europe, because I am
doomed, 473; duties to, 350; first of all,
a Universal Brotherhood, 468; for 30
years has spread a misleading supersti-
tion, 490; formation of, 263; French
branches, 482; German branches, 482;
harbingers of a Universal Brotherhood,
209; Hume necessary to the, 296; in
India not to be compromised with
phenomena, 366 ; in regard to
"
Brothers,"
263; K.H. about British, 337; K.H. about
the, 319, 322, 362; will perish killed by,
. . . , 266; linked to other schools, 271;
M. about, 226, 271; M. re rules of, 248;
management of, 14, 26; not to be made
responsible for these teachings, 366; on
probation, 315; original policy of the,
323; ruined, 363; Rules and Organization
of, 486; shaking to the foundation, 365;
task impeded by would-be chelas, 384;
the prostrate body of the, 291; to be
" a Philosophical School on the ancient
Hermetic basis," 308; to be based on a
broad Humanitarian principle, 486.
"
THEOSOPHIST, THE," 35, 56, 99. 102,
104, 107, 125, 126, 129, 134, 156, 172, 196,
201. 202, 243, 253, 260. 266. 291, 302, 313,
317, 319, 339, S41, 421, 428; and article
by Dharani Dhu, 429; and article by
Gen. Morgan, 429; and article by Subba
Row, 429; and politics, 445; "Chela" in,
re Hume's theory, 392; Editor of, 33,
269, 318; K.H. about the, 278, 320.
THEOSOPHIST. at Penang, 66; not a, 136;
one, Flammarion, 98.
THEOSOPHISTS, 21, 114, 272; admitted
right, 289; British, 304, 306; fund, 202;
K.H. about Western, 327; M. about,
251, 252; those Pundits and Babus, the
Prayag, 248.
THEOSOPHY, 12, 13, 34; beneficial to, 263;
compared to a painted house on the
stage, 251; dabbling in, 338; Letter on,
178; sun of, 271.
"
THEOSOPHY," a pamphlet headed, 255.
"
THEOSOPHY UNVEILED," the pamphlet,
473.
THIRD, race civilizations surpassed Rome,
Greece, and Egypt, 152; race men of
Neolithic age, 69; Round, description of.
87.
THOUGHT, 46, 49; "and feeling-lights,"
475; currents, 249; phosphorescent, 250;
Tower of INFINITE. 51; transference,
470.
THOUGHTS, sphere of distorted, 40.
THREATENING storm, M. refers to, 374.
THREAD SOUL, 279.
THRESHOLD, cross the, 9; "dwellers of
the," 297.
"THRICE HOLY COW." 33.
"THYSELF, see, by thyself." 339.
TIBET. 11, 30, 34, 38, 158, 272, 278; and
British Government. 438; customs of,
INDEX
364; H.P.B.'s training in. 203; K.H. about
people of. 434; letters from India to,
298; we have no f/enftemen of the SimIn
standard in, 335.
IBBTAN. 154. 343; "Brothers," 3*J.
Brotherhood, a school to be formed
under Sinnett, 400; Good Law, 308;
Mahatmas, 375; mystic name, 210; paper,
481; proverb, 28, 303; Sehool of phil-
osophy, K.H. about, 399; teaching, 273;
thought. 318; translation, 6; triplet",
969; yak. 268; Yak-drivers, 50.
IBETANS, 15.
I DAL WAVE, 90.
IMK, 19, 193; i aoinethinu created entirely
by ourselves, 194.
TIMES OF INDIA," 14, 19.
TIMES" test, 247.
INEVELLY, 355.
IRAVALLA, portrait of, 312.
ITAN, 51.
ITANIUM, 40.
OBACCO MACHINE, M. thanks Sinnett
for. 374.
TONG-PA-NGl" State, K.H. is now in,
375.
RANCE, 43;
"
speaking." 101.
R A NCE-POSSJf&S/OA'.S, 1 14.
RANSMISSION, rapid means of, 29.
aEE, of Life and Wisdom, 31, 92; of Life,
genealogical, 92; of Knowledge of Good
and Evil, ?95; of wisdom, 58.
RIAI). 347; highest. 105.
HIBUYANA, the Kama, Rupa and Arupa
Lokas, 199; sphere of, 200.
KISHNA, 112. 113.
RIUMPH, H.P.B.'s hour of, 485.
ROPICAL elimate, 154.
RUTH, Alpha and Omega of, 275; alphabet
of. 242; apostle of. 211; dissemination
of, through Esoteric doctrines, 398; four
noble s, 58; fundamental. Adept lives
in a source of, 241; has no earmark,
390; hunger for, the only claim of
ancient founders, 342; is One. 49; Key-
Note of, 41; name of, 58; our meta-
physical -s, 220 ; pearls of, 51 ; prevention
of seeing, 205; Primitive, 41, 48, 252;
the whole, 274; theosophical, 29; those
faithful to. 264; triumph of, 284.
TRY," K.H. says, 247, 848.
SAM-PA. 259.
UBES, 28.
UNE, 19.
URANIANS, 152.
URKI TRIBES, 286,
URNER. Sir Charles, prophecy of, 338.
VNDALL, Mr., 01, 4, 103.
VOTIRMOY. son of Babu Nobin Banerjee.
292.
VPHON, in Egyptian system, 304.
IMMBARA. 100.
LTlSIA THVLE, 25.
NBELIEF, 265.
UNCONSCIOUS, condition preceding re
bnth, 100; gestation, 100; "Monad."
104; no man dies, 170.
"UNDERBRED JESUS," 18.
UNDINES. 91.
I' N HOLY recollection, 103.
UNIVERSAL. Being, 104: Brotherhood, 8,
9. 17. 23. 24, 32, 210. 213. 215. 317, 375;
Brotherhood, an Association of
" affini-
ties." 20; Buddhi "Mind," 343; feeling.
32; History. 149; material principle, 71;
Mind. 54. 55, 72, 137. 404; Principle, 344;
.Safcfi. 72; Spiritual Forces. 73; spiritual
principle. 71.
UNIVERSE, a huge animal, fl.1; governor
of, 142; is infinite, 139; material, (11;
occult. 143; or Cosmos, 1S8; phenomenal,
01; Huler of, 53, 291; spiritualized, 71;
the one principle in, 13.
UNKNOWN, "mysterious," 199; the Great,
159.
UNSELFISHNESS. KJI. about, 370.
UNTHINKING Principle, 45.
VPADANA. 112, 113.
VPAMSaAD. quoted by K.H., 280.
UPASIKA [H.P.B.], 172; a female dinciplc.
238; cannot be incriminated, 236; does
not go to dinner, 184; re Mrs. Holloway,
3(U; selling her jewellery, 202.
UPPER dualities, 103.
UPPER Duality, 104.
URUVELLA, 58.
U.S.A., 133, 149.
UTERINE, intra-, 89.
VACH, regarded as Son, 344.
VACILLATION, 205.
VAKIL, English-speaking, 12; sceptical, 13.
" VANITY FAIR." 443.
VAPOUR. 142. 104.
VATICAN, 322.
VED-VYASA. 259.
VEDA BASHYA of Swami Dayanand, 317.
VEDANA. ill.
VEDANTIC. Acosmism, ISO; Philosophers,
141; "Swami," 302.
VEDANTISM. criticism of, 817.
VKDDAHS, 70, 120, 152.
VEDWt 345.
"
VEGA," 154, 430; K.H. re his visit to the,
411.
VEGETABLE KINGDOM, 07, 08; com-
mences. 04; passing to globe B., 04.
VEGETARIANS, 270.
VEIL, behind the. 71; of Sun. 188.
VENICE, 458.
VERULAM-BACON, 4.
VIBRATIONS, etheric, 144; of Primitive
Truth, 41.
VICES, 132.
VICEROY of India, letter of. 837; not at
Simla but at Rome, 802.
VICIOUS CIRCLES, how to burst through.
106.
VICTIM. 112. 123. 182.
VILLAGIATURA, 21,
VINNANA. 1U.
INDEX
VIRGIN, 4; stone, 471; Yoginn, 292.
VIRTUE, 53.
VISHNU, 49, 73, 545; the discus of, 840.
"VISIBLE SPECTRUM." 30.
VISION, forced, 255; law of, 255; Sinnett
has a. 330.
V i'AL and magnetic force, 30.
VOICE, "of God," 40, 41; or Logos, 346;
vibrations of, 28.
VOLTAIRE. 100.
VOLUNTEERS, we will always find, 213.
VOWELS chanted by .Egyptian priests, 73.
VOWS, "Arhat," 253.'
VRIL, or Akas, 2, 3, 4, 103.
WACHTMEISTER, Countess, 475, 477, as
witness, 481; goes to Munuh, 478.
WAGNER, 189.
" WAKEFUL DREAMER," Tennyson's, 51.
WALLACE, Mr., 50, 241, 272.
WARD, SAMUEL, 405, 420; K.H. approves
of his coming, 427; M. asks a favour
of, 432; writing desk of, 432.
WARREN HASTINGS. 295,
WATER, 91, 03; destroyed by, future fate
of your British Islands, 150.
WATERS, crystaline, 100.
1VATSON, Col. or Gen., 235.
WATSON, Mrs., 230.
WESTERN, civilized Society, 232; echo
"Mr. Isaacs," 327; K.H. about the
deplorable state of, Branches, 370;
mind, 20; Nations, 30; people, 305;
philosophers, 30; Science, 341; world, 13.
WHEEL, toothed, 100.
WHEELER, S., 175.
WHEWELL, quoted by K.H., 302.
WHIRLPOOL, 107; of human Egos, 104.
WHITE Triangle, 340.
" WILD SCHEME," 201.
WILDER, Prof. A., helps with his, 480.
WILDERS, Dr., brain of. 280.
WILL, 194; "-Essence." 249; -Force, 72; in-
dependent, 43; passive, 43; subjection of,
49.
WIMBRIDGE, and the T.S., 410.
WIRE-PULLERS, 210.
WISDOM, "Buddhi," 399; culmination of
Spiritual, 241; not yet understood by
Western people, 305 ; outcome of ages of,
274; pearls of, 278; son of, 278; Tree of
Life and, 81.
WITCHES, burning of supposed, 4.
WITHDRAWAL of Masters, 51; "you may
whistle then for the Brothers," 460.
WITNESSES, two, for the Founders, 292.
WOMAN, 46; chela, 292; hysterical, 5; a
calamity in this fifth race! 421; K.H.
about, 302.
WOMEN, 86, 50; enrolment of, 251.
WOOD FIRES as fumigators, 823.
WORD, Lott, 7.
WORLD, 73. 98. 99, 108; atmosphere of, 47;
Essence, 45; knowledge given to Sinnett
to be shared with the, 243; of bliss.
100; of causes, 47. 48, 71, 72, 100; of
Desire, 104, 105; of effects, 47, 48, 71;
of force. 143; of Forms, 104, 105; of
Occultism, 143; phenomenal, 90; rings,
80, 81, 82; Soul, 45; star-, 46; subjective,
107.
WORLDS, 82, 80, 139, 148; evolution of,
72; inhabited, 45; interlinked, 46; man-
bearing, 94; seven, 130; string of, 79,
08; systems of, 100; visible and in-
visible, 87,
WORLDLY, the last, enterprise for K.H.,
378, 389.
WOVEN grasses, a bridge of, 219.
WRANGLERS, scientifically logical, 140.
WREN, 3*9.
WRITING, M.'s hatred for, 250.
WVLD, Dr., 21, 33, 39, 205, 304; grim idol
of the Jewish Sinai, 271.
-f , 4*. 4.1. 44, 174. 275, 276, 277, 308, 415; a
"Brother," 305; a liar, 205; a living
Brother, 285; a spirit, 205; teachings by,
240.
YAK, Tibetan, 268; -drivers, 50.
YANKEES, 130.
YANKEE editors, 50.
YE DAMMA, 127, 179.
"
YELLOW CAP," laymen, 133,
YJH-SIN, 340.
YIN-SIN, 90.
YOG VIDYA, 12, 15.
YOGA, 15, 307; -Shastras, 241.
YOQEE8, 12, 33; -Dayanand, 313.
YOGI. Hume claims to be a, 334; of Youis,
241; powers of, 137.
YOGI-ARHAT, M. calls K.H. a perfect, 268.
YOGIS, method of, 247.
YOJANA8, 107.
YORKSHIRE, H.P.B. learnt dreadful, 479.
YOUNG, Prof., 163.
YUGS, the four, 121.
YU-P08AH, cannot be incriminated, 236.
ZANONI, 447; -'s Dweller, 42.
ZAPPAN woman, 272.
ZEMINDAR, failed to fulfil agreement, 390;
intrigues against Rent Bill, 888; K.H.
traces the history of their claims, 889;
terms for Phoenix project, 389; wealthy,
395.
ZERGVAN BEY, 210.
ZETETIC, 64.
ZODIACAL tables, 100.
ZOLLNER, 174.
ZOOLOGIST, 8L
ZOONIZATIONS, 81.
ZOOPHAGOUS friend, W.
ZOROASTRIAN system, Ahriman in, 304.
