{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1822__heaton___extraordinary_affliction_and_gracious_relief_of_a_little_boy.pdf","mytitle":"Extraordinary Affliction And Gracious Relief Of A Little Boy","mylang":"de"}
THE
SXTBAORDINARY AFFLICTION,
AND
GRACIOUS RELIEF
or
8'C!PNSB.D '1'0 811 TBB
EFFECTS OF SPIRITUAL AGENCY.
I
Carefully e:aamined., and faithfully narrated 1
"WITH
)hl'enMiiou on Demoniac Possesrion, a11& AnimacJ..
tleTIWns 011 Superltition.
BY JAMES HEATON.
=-
SECONB BlillTION, IJIPBOI'£D ~D ENI..JtliGED.
~IOJee•-
' We tpeak Wh'at we know, and teatifJ wha\ w.. have seen.'~
· .J&stls CaaJIT.
• Flee from ldolatrJ• I apeak u to wise mens judp ye whll\
I S&J.U-l Cor. x. 16. PAur..
' Prove all tbl1111; hold tut that whleh ls cood,"-1 Thee.
y. 21.
c Reaitt the De•ll, Ulll lle Wilt flee from yoa. Draw nicl\
unto Go4, unllle will dra'l'l' nich aato.yo~t."--JAMzs.
·:····· . .,.... , ....... • · , ;;··~; ..· .-.... ~::"-...."'
~ .·. : ".. ~-.. . .. : . . . . ~ ... : :..!. • ,.. ... . ..
·.Pri.tecla,;d•~Ltfor tiae .At1tbr
BY J. WILLIAMS, OLD-'i'OWN•STREET, PLYMOUTH l
SOL.D ALSO
.T To BLA1118ABD, 1~ CITY ROAD, AND·8G, I'ATBRNOITEB-ROWt
AJID ~. MA.ltWSLL, BKLL-YARJJ, t.INC:OLN1...Jlllllo l.Ol'IDOJI &
.V a. WRJeBTIOlft AJID a. P&laT, BJBIUNeBA•f
'*' tB&R'II'Ilf, BVRIL&. j J, BOLK&a, L&KDI f
J. T11CB) PROM& I AND OTBRa
IIIOOKUl.L&RI.
216000
JSntere'tJ at ~tattontrt' JQall.
·...: ::: :·. ~:: .:::
: :::·:.::t.:
, . !
·PBBP.&GI:
.To THE ·&IiCOND iiJJiTI'im
Page
ERRATA.
64 line 6, for from read for.
_last line but two, for ao read no.
122 line 13, for or r~adfor.
136 12, for Lord read Logoa.
14o 11, for wrote read wrovgh.t.
145 27, read we are le11 astomsherl.
'
1
il'he case whi~h is,p~re ~~~'·~~writer W'~
wiexpectedly and providentially:called upon to e:K-
~i~e. ·
.J.t was important, at,raap,·and interesting:
but1t was also l!erplexing. Many who kneW"he waa
payfng attention.to it, were deairoaa to hear his tea-
tiinony.and. opinior,.; particularly 110, u miUly
strange· reports were. in circulation, which; for ~
public g~d, it•as better to rectify than neJleC.t.
Though frequentl;y r~quested, he did not think il
prudent. to narrate the case in public congregations ;
Ilia word '!Dight'ha+e bee• miriftderatoOd a.acl iDiare-
pi'elfell~d~ ·: To Write long letters to his enquiring
Ci'it;itdi; 'a;ttl'to ie~ the ... 'in the eiielea ofbi&
acqaf~. :m.ibdmate Ilia llentimeata andoiMate
Gbir~on-m dOS'atel"fttion, W'O'idcl e~-.
DJiizedb,Google
. . ..
·.: ~.:
......
. .. .
216000
JSnterelJ at ~tattontrt' l!all.
... ... ...... ... . . ...
..·
..: --:- ....:-
· . ... .
.·: .. . . .. ·.·. .. !
...: .. ·
.: .:· : ..
.
.,
o;g;,;zed by Coogle
·ttBIIN.GB
To TS.·BBcOND B»i'i'lim
•
'f.rltE former Edition of.this :Book was received
~- with more satisfa<;tion and approbation than·t~~
writer anti.cipatcd. lle well knew.that the cur~~t
Of .
modish theory ran in opposition to the anci4?nt
Craths .apd :;receJtt .f~cts ·w~h he opposed to its
:course. Opinions ~v'e· their f~Jlions; an<J one ex-
~.reme· disposes to :'no~lier• ...0~ th~ ~ub)e~t of s_
atan-
'le agency, hrany Jiave ree~d fl'Oin eredtdity to seep-
·ficism ~ 1lnd S'O'ille'hav'e·eirdle'avoUi'ed to corrstTUe t&b
truth of God into ·a lie. lA!'rogant ignoranee·mat
tmpeach the divine veracity; ' but facta. -wm speak.
for 'God ; though we lielieve nilt, yet ·he- ·ilbiaetll
:faithful. .
·the case which is ~ere ~arrate~~ '~he writer waa
unexpe-ctedly and providentially:called upon to e:K-
amine. It was important, straa~,· and interesting.:
but it was ~so perp~exing. ·Many who kncnr ~e w-.a
pa.;yiug attention .to 1t, we.re deafroas to hear h:ta tes-
timony . and.· opinion; particularly ~W. aa DWlY
strange·reports wes:e in circulation. whi'ch; for ~
public gQO(i, ~ ·1fas .better to rectify than nepect.
Though freque~tly ~quested. he did not think it
prudent to narrate .the ~ in public congregations ;.
Ilia wordI!Di·ht'ha+e'bee•·mitm.aderiltOOd and milsre-
pi'e!etlted~..'~0' Write long let:'tera to his enqwpng
fi'N!itds; '~tli to itiF&te the .... 'in the eitcles ofIlia
aeqnint~.-tct.ibdft:ate his- sentilfteata and oiMatO
tlt~a ~oD>m d6Dteflatioo, woUJa ~·m;sa•
o,, t>Zed by Google
iv:
much upon his time ; and' therefore, to publish tis&
case with his reasonings upon it, and with obseria-
tions upon the general subject of demoniac posses-
sion. &c: corroborated by_quotation~ from Authors.
of established ctearJ,..'fi'Plle~~ ~ h1m of all modes.
ofcommunication, tlie saTest, the least objectionable~
the mo~ useful antl ntisfactor.y, and,alldungs con.-
sidered-the but.
· Knowing that many wriO have never seen a cas&
~f evident dem.oniac ~11sessi
. on, and ha~e. been, .Jike-
•hjmseff; perplexed ~th learned·and·posJtiTe eontra-
'dictions on the 1!1ID.fect, and desire more satisfactory
uformation than mere theory can· give,in publishing.
:Whathe hadseen, carefully examined, andcertainly
'ktJo'Wn, .be·acted' on the approved principfe, " Do
'Unto others as ye woUld they should do unto you."
~:: The: Author o£ the Bibie ~equelltl) calls the at-
tentioJ?. 0f his readers to the.SJJbject of demoniac pos-
.,~ssion.; . and H.e illustrates,.with allde,sirable plain.-
hel!s, ~ authOJ:ized.JDDde o£ expulsion and r.eli~..
~1'lw inspifed writeu ar~ .good prc~edenu; and if we-
grow ashamed ·of their common doctrines andright!'"-
eous ex.amples, it is time to search. our hearts andl
am'eird;OuT. manners.. Some-have thought t1iat·ac- .
tfutints·of ~piritual agency arc to·be despised, not.
=considered;, and·tfwlt superstitious· practices· aTt'i'tn.
lbe ~n~glected, not reproved~ but airare notso averse·
1'0 'divirie testimony and',exampfe~ "No genuine
tr'uth~' says Dr.'.Bea~tie,. "did everof"itselfproduce
'effuetll inconsist¢ntwith re'alutility;... tnd certainly..
1vtlat Essential'Wisd9JD has- often in'culcated;. carl.~
~ot' bejsd useles!l.aS 1lO mlln't'negligence~ ·: · ' '
=_.• .'li4P~ t.h~:i'~
. ·.~~~ll~ ~~:,h~~ra r~cGr.ded.,. are
· ~<LlW:tpJiiou,s t~..b,e. ~opt.r~;ct,q!i.;... IIJU). ~houg}J. ~~~h
~ JH!9:w ,lM '\VPWr -lPilY. 11o~ ,~pl.e bi~t,.Ve.fllt:Jty,;..
,~.~~e;jfh.o, ~?~him ,_o,~. •v.e.no~goo,d rea~o_n. t~~J
~~flh'~''e~~c~~l,I lUI ,~. ~c; ~~~CUIDI\~ti.aU»
DJ•izedb,Google
.,
...-raa.m· with references to times; penons, ptaees..
. and things well known ; yet, for the reader's further"
satisfaction, the truth of the N arrativ.e is, in this
Editio~ ATTESTED by a sufficient number of wit-
•esses.
Endeavolll"ing to avoid the weakness ofcredulity,
the wickedness of infidelity, and the perverseness. of
scepticism, the writer entered on the examination,.
as he onght, with an nnbiassed mind. His chiefob-
jects of enquiry were the real nature of the case,
and how it should be relieved. Being guided chief--
ly, if no.t entirely, by the plain word of G.od and
~ommon sense, his investigation terminated_in suc-
cess and satisfactien. The principle circumstances.
and reasons which led him to his conclusion, and
the experiments made to bring opinions to the se-
ve~st teit,. with their unequivocal results, are fairly
laid- before the reader, that he also may judge fo~
himself.-What mote can reason ask, or integrit:6
perfo:llm? . · -
Though the- prfucipfe on wliicb "the writer has:
.. solved' the phenomen.on," is too evident to admitl
·of any substitution, and he is fully. satisfied tli~­
eonclusion. i~ le~timatcly dra~n. fr~ premises t~at·-..
fully autbol'l!le 1t. and substantiated w1th all the kmd
and strength. of evidence- which the. nature of thc-
·case requires; yet he· does not expect that his book
will do more than the book of-God has done; that
i~; convince and satisfy every reader. But he would
·suggest the propriety and necessity of reading the·
·whole account. in· order to form an honest· or a cor.-
:rect opinion of it..;_« Biame not before thou_ hast
'examined the truth.."'
j .; ~CN&!t~ s~e time this affair happened, some·
JI!OtOI'ioas qaaes of witchcraft were noised abroad~
.ihl)y we.re of long continuance, stubbornly evincing:
~niao ·inftiotion:. awl the public wer.e r.e11peotr.
m "•' byGoogle
Yi
f'allj·snffled to·the strictest eulitinatioa. ~
der will see the propriety of Jlotieillg thse. caiM
whiell were deelared to be of the same kind u tliis.
~der lft'm'e pe.rticabr coa.sideration.
Siace the tint edition has beea pabtislaed, fe• ob-
.Jee'tiODs have been stated to the writer's "·dew oh._e
subject, but 51lch as had beeD preViously obriati!d.
The opinion urged by some,·that the ·pd'tr'er to cut
out devils is extraordinary, miraculous, aad -~\"en
only for the attestation of some new doctrine,is d'idy
atteaded to and refuted. A book should have 'j,D
boaestface; yet, as some expressions in the title af
tbe farmer edition were thought ·so b"old as lo ·startle
some readen, and preYent deliberate examination
ortheir propriety, they are oow expunged from the
title-page. Some parts of the work that W'ti'e
thought obscure, are more fully explained~ ai1d ·much
aew matter is added.
Farther obsenatious are made to help riOID ·(t
may concern to ascertain a ease of demoniac: pGMes-
aion, and to prove that God has provided salvation
for such as are oppressed of the devil :-a graeieus
substitute for pagan &uperstitions. The common
practice of cons_
ulting astrological or magical doe-
tors was before alluded to; but this bewitching and
forbidden evil, with ita various appendages,. requires
to be more fully and seriously considered aDd re-
proved. Many branches of the ancient pagan su-
perstitions are still studied, practiced, and consUlt-
ed in this "christian" island, by incredible num-
bers of people! What was said of those who amu-
sed themselves with the expiring agonies of t'h.e son
of God, may,be said of many who learn ~ese ~
inationt, "1hey know not what they - ao.~~....t:But
should not some ·()ne teach tlrem ? · Animd..-enio-.:&
·oe these works of darkn~sa wiU tie foilnd ·ia tb.e ad-
4itioaal part. The -necessity and propriety of·eema
t{t
.iuch a 1f0r1c- iaaa beeii paia{ully Jelt by ioDie: and
may be knbwil bJ any that will aerioualy enquire
what God has aaid o( auch practices, and how com~
mon they ate in England. But every reader will
form his own opinion. And the Writer havins eon•
scientiously endeavoured to testify what il true1 to
rebuke what is evil, .and to maintain what is good,
will commit himself to Him that knoweth all things;
ud judgeth righteouslJ.
Hay l~t. ..1. H1
...
•:
j. i.
~ i . I ; ' t ., . '•.1' '
: : .. ~
~ .. -..:~
..;,; ..·~ -
...·.....· .....
• • • J • ... _
..··
IIf'l'llOD'VCTIOX.
.......
·wHETHER theories are pliable, or not, facta~
stubborn things; and, whea well atteated, they have
authority to demand assent, in proportion to their
-evidence, interest, and importance' or, to leave unbeo.
lief and contradiction without exonse. ·
The doctrine ofspiritual inftuence has been, oflat&•
much controverted : infidelity has been greatly inter·
ested to bring it into contempt; and some christians,
who know not what they do, when they thus yield up
one of the strong holds ofreligion to the enemy, bu~
complaisantly given their countenance to the infidel
side of the question; and, instead of fairly examining
the subject, or being satisfied with what 0 od has said•
they have gravely sneered, or lightly ridiculed tlie
existence of apparitions, witches, and demoniac's.
They have been terrified with foolish steries, or fait!•·
ful narratives of such things; and; like the tchool
boy, " Whiatlmg aloud to bear his tootage up."
·they have made a noise to ovei'ebme their fea....
instead ·of reasoning aa men; or belie.vbtg as chrilt·
ians. There is a GOdt abd they that know hia ~
will put their traat uader the ~hMo1r of his wing..
Ther, ia a len. J aacl he that llelinea iia WID ma,
B
o,, t>Zed by Google
'., ...
. .. 6
trample de~th~jan'd hell beneath his feeL '' It is ·
pre-suppo&eM~. saith the learned, pious Ba1ter, in his
Xn. Dirffct•.p. 86., "that there is a devil. He that
believ~pet this, doth prove it to others, by showing
how .g~t.~ly the devil can befool him: apparitioos,
witchr...rifts, and temptations are full \!roofs of it to
t1t~ sense; besides wbat scripture saith. Bot the ho-
.ly sllripture bas been wrested, and faithful testimony .
.-··.~M'heen scouted, because the sentiment was unplea-
.•• ··.Jtant, and the truth was 1mwelcome: ... What we don't
···:·. wisl., we can soon disbelieve." If truth is not belo-
··: •.·: ved, some excuse wilt be found for rejecting it. AU
• ·• • men were not convinced by the testimony and mira-
.··: cles of " God maaifest in the Oesh." The scribes and
' ••• pharisees had their own opinions, their own.prejudi-
c~s; they closed fast the lids of unbelief on the eyes
of their understanding, and after a profusion of evi-
dence wasted on their wilful blindness, they clamour-
ed for more, and said, "!\laster, we would see a
sign from thee." The " ~on of righteousness" was
contradicted and blasphemed, yet be bore his faithful
testimony till he set in blood. Ue bath left an ex-
ample, that his servants may tread in his steps. Satan
~eserves to be exposed, and Jesus is worthy to be
·glorified. I shall strive to do justice .to both in the
!!following pages.
· ·"We have a tongue for God," says Bishop HaD,
·c• whl:n we pra:se him; for ourseh·es when we pray
and confess; for our brethren, when we speak the
· truth for their information; which, if we bold back
i'n uurigbteousness, we yield unto that dumb devil."
· ..Satan is an old fabricator ofcounterfeit philosophy.
~oses intorms us bow he introduced sin, death, and
~ }l~llam~mg us, under pretence of making our first
'p11-r~nts ~il~enough to live without God. He employ..
ild. ~ljen a sub~~e beast; he now employs more sub-
'til~ ~.en. They pr~ach his doctrine, and f!ffe~t his
.\j> lt-pos~. while they deny hia influence•. Let theu
. ptraua...• us that there ia no doYil; or, that be has ne
'7
powe'r to i1arm us; and they know that we shall sooli ·
be perSuaded to belie\·e, that we need no ~aviour;'.,.
and then to renounce christianity altogether, or to
retain nothing of it but its name. He that conceals
a murderer, and sooth!! his neighbour to carelessness,
is necessary to the crimes committed by the assassin
which he labours to hide. The God of truth has
warned us of a dreadful banditti of evil spirits, head:-
ed by our adversary the de,·il, who, Jesus (.;hrist be-
ing witness, was a murderer from the beginning; with
great subtilty, malice, and power, they strive to ac-
complish our ruin. Christ bas engaged himself in
our cause, and become the Captain ofour ~alvatioil.
In the days of our fathers. the advocates of christi-
anity, ,·enerable divines and learned me.n, ornaments
of the church and of the state, confronted infidelity
with well attested accounts of what evil spirits hlld
done. Their opponent! could not reasrm against,
could not disprove the facts: but, they could laugh at
them. Laughter is thf' infidel's logic; and the badges
of his philosophy are banter and jest. If any christ-
ians will be so very complaisant to their adver:>aries,
as to join with them to ridicule that evidence for evil
spiritual agency which they cannot confutr., they
have only to persevere on the same principle, in
order to reject the Spirit of Uod, and finally to se-
cure the destruction of their own.
Let not serious christians wonder, that in these
days of struggling infidelity, God should pt~rmit the
enemy to show himself, and to be detected. This
display of ~atan's presence and malice, may serve to
contradict the lies of Atheists, who deny his exis-'
tence, while they are under his influence: and to open
the eyes of drowsy christians, who are crying peaee
and safety, while the powers of darkness are contri-
•ing to bring upgn them swift destruction. The old
enemy is still the serpent in the grass, lurking to
bruise the heel of the traveller to eternity, aad watch-
Ing to enter in at the open mouth, or to twine round
Bt
8
the careless neck, ofsuch as may lay themselves doW'D
:to sleep on their journey. His influence has been
palpably displayed in the extraordinary afBiction of
• a poor child; and the reader of this account may per-
ceive, how the unclean spirit grievously vexed, de-
graded, and tortured him. Let those who reject a
Saviour be alarmed: tor their cruel eDemy ia wait-
iAg to destroy. But let not a beUever in Jeaua be
afraid; be may ne by the following account, that Sa·
t,ln, though cunning, maUcious, and at.rong, ia not
unconquerable:-before the name gf Jesua, "devila
fear and fly."
In the following pages the reader is presented with
a careful investigatioa, aad a faithful narrative of aa
extraordiBary aiDiction, which, On physical princi-
ples, baffled all understanding and remedy : an aJDic-
tion for which there was no cure, but in the mercy
~f God, t.hroagh tbe name of our Redeemer. Hun-
dreds wit(lessed the sad effects of a cause which was
s.
o concealed as to give rise to much enquiry, and
v.arious opinions. From my first knowledge of it, I
considered it to be a subject in which the interest of
mankind, and the honour of christianity were inl'ol-
ved; and which, therefore,. deserved to be fully and
impartially investigated. The boy lived next door to
me, and, as he and his parents particularly requested
that I would interest myself for his relief, I bad a
good opportunity of examinining the case to my full
satisfaction. Knowing that cases of this kind were
subjects of dispute in the christian and learned
world, I was determined to let no circumstance es-
cape my observation, or recollection, which might be
of use to satisfy my own mind. I therefore visited
the hoy several times in a day; and requested the
family to call for me whenever they wanted help;
knowin~, that while as a neighbour, I was rendering
assistance to a family in tribulation, 1 should, as an
enquirer after truth, gain information for myself. I
spent more time, and took more paiRs to examine
/ '
fl
this case, than any other IIWl did, or collfeJiiend''
could: and kept memoraadums of all I thought most
useful to remember.
Many contradictory opinions and reports were·in
circulation, before the ca111e was understood• I was
then diligeDtly searching for tlte truth-I have found
it; and think. it a--debt I owe tQ my God, m1 Deigh-
bour, ancl myself, to publish it. Truth i& great and
will prevail, in time or in eternity : the sooner and
more extensively it prevails, the better. Truth which
displays a spiritual world, may be of ia6nite service
to man; but as some may wrest the words of salva-
tion to their OWD destruction, se accounts of this
kind may be perverted to injurious effects. The
same flower may be productive of boaey or poison,
as tbe bee or the serpent may feed oa its sweets.
In my observati0111 I slr.lll endeavour to be useful,
that the reader need not spend his time- iR vaiD : and
tnat he may not be deceived, I shall be conscientiously
faithful in my testim011y offacts. Nevertheless, some
may dislike it, ami therefore reject it; some may
hate it; and therefore contradict it; yet no man caa
disprove it, because it is truth.
Plymouth-Dock,
July, 1820.
\
; -! i ;:
.~ ·-··· ~.:· .,_
.
.i ...~ . '·
EXTJUORDINARY AFFLICT·
!ON~
&c.&~•
•
ON Tuesday, February 29th, 18~, whenreligioua
service was concluded in. Windmill-Rill Chapel, J.
Lou, the father-in-law of J. EvBNS, came to me,
and said, "~ir, my boy wishes you would come and
pray with him." Is he sick1 After a little hesitation
he said, " He is worse than sick ; I can com'lare his
case to none but that of the child mentioned in the goa•
pels, whose father brought him'\o Jesus Christ, that
he might cast out of him the evil spirit, which seme- ~
times threw him into the water, and sometimes into
the fire, that he migllt destroy him. This appears to
be the case with my boy : he bas made se,·eral at-
tempts to go into the water, and into the fire."
1 immediately weat with him to his house, and saw
the boy. .He was between nine and teo years old,-
rather tall for his age. He bad been recommended to
the lJispensary, and, for about three weeks, bad bt"eD
attended by a Physician aad a Surgeon, wbo were
eonnected with that institution. He bad been blister•
ed all O\ er the head, bled repeatedly, and was taking /
medicines. The boy could not speak; but was per·
fectly sensible, and signified thathe knew me. Be aa.t
in a clilld'a e1tair, by Li-. mother's aide; presently he-
gave her a plaintive look,-put his hand on his brow,
.:....jaid his head on her lap,-raised it again, aud was
vielently convulsed. He smote his breast,.orface, with
bo\h his bands at once, and at every stroke made a
:noise like one between the grunting of a hog, and the
barking of a dog. Tile connlsions ceased, and he ap-
peared weary ; sat about half a minute, and then stood
up. I went to hold him in my arms; his mother told.
me I could not, and had better let him go. He stood
still; fixed his eyes, staring upwards; thea begaa to-
dance an.t clap his hands with regular beat, as to some
tune; got on the table i1t the corner of the room and
danced there ; stepped from that to the SBbase,. which
is near a yard from the grouad, and }»rojects about
two inches from the wall; there, awhile, he continued·
dancing aud clapping; then on the table again ; on the
floor; on the table aud the surbase again; returning-
to the floor, he th.e stood motionless ; his counte-
nance was distorted; his bead drawa. on one side; his
muscles seemed to be on • painful stretc.h; his arms-
close to his side, and stiff as-the branches of a tree; irr
less than a minute, the muscles were as much relaxed..
a~td as he was falling down, like a heap of clay, his
futher caught hold ofhim,.and placed him again in his
little chair by the fire :c~ide. Soon after,. he seemed to,
be dreadfully terrified; shrunkbackwaJtds; fought and
kicked with all his might,. as agailtst something coming.
to him from the fire. He was held for some minutes,.
· but with difficulty; tbeB, bathed in sweat, he sunk
exhausted. After a little time, he recovered his sen-
ses, but not his speech. I prayed with him: during.
the time of prayer, he seemed very uneasy,. and wa&
greatly CODVU}sed.
. Wednesday, March tat,. he was taken much as be-
fore; danced on the table and surbase, and on the top.
ofa chest bed. On the floor he seemed much terrified,
squared his fists, as a pugilist, and fought hard against
tbe doon retired, took his aiJn, ran and threw him-
•
13
fe}f against the door; was quiet a few seconds, watch·
iog the door very attentively; then began to slide a&
he would on ice. He danced again, and made a noise
aomethinJ like click, cliek, click, &c., which served ·
him as music to his dance; then laid himself gn his
back; extended his arms and legs, and began to twist
roUDd rapidly; he was convulsed; then stood up, stif·
fened like a tree ; and fell down extrauated. ·
Thia day, his parents told me, he had made three
ei"orta to deatroy himself; that he would seize a knife,
or any thing he could use to his injury, od, if not
prevented, would attempt his own destruction.
Thqrsday, March 2nd, he began to dance as uswal.
The table which be generally mounted, being occupi-
ed by his mother and sister ironing, he got on the
aurbaae in another corner of the room, where there
was nothin~ to assist his getting up, and danced there,
sometimes hummingsomethinglike a tune to his dance.
He shrieked horribly ; ran about the floor on all fours,
)ike a dog: got ue. and fought at something which
~med visible to himself only; then began to beat
IU• legs furiously, and strove hard to tear off his
clothes. He got on the surbase near the door, held
a slender line in his right haod, and put his left hand
ani foot as far as possible inte the room; stared aboa~
r,, with the moat homd looks and ,estures. for a minu~
· or two; then oa the ground he as much as possible
imitated a beast with horrid face and claws. He rose
up agaill; daoced and fought; then was convulsed;
afterwa.rds stood up quite stiff, with all his muscles
on a paiaful stretch; then was as much relaxed, ud
fell down exhausted. He had several such fits in the
cowrse ofthe day, and several persous came te see him:
for he was an object of curiosity; a strange and a
11hockir.ag sight.
Frida;r, March ~rd, the Surgeon from the dispen..
aary vis1ted him; saw him in a fit, aod. when the boy
came to lailll8elf, bled him. The bleeding produced
fainting, p.-ofue pePpiration, od sickaess. Thia
,.·
I
was about twelve o'clock. We laid him on the heel
and lett him. His mother told me, he had a fit in a-
. bout ten minutes after we left him; then he lay down
again At three o'clock several gentlemen ·called on
me, desirin' to see the boy, and we went in togethtt.
'"'e saw him asleep on the hed ; in a minute or two
he awoke, and was con•ulsed for awhile; then be rose
up, danced and clllpped all usual. Fixing his eyes on
some pbaDtom ofhis imagination, or, something to us
invisible, he beckoned as if to decoy his object, and
then fought &Dgrily; assumed a look of triumph, aDd
began to 11lide about the room. l'resently. be began
to run about the room on all fours; wf'.ot under a
chail', and for awhile carried it about on his bead and
back. He put away his whimsical yoke and burden
from his neck, and stood on the top of the back of tbe
chair in which his mother was sitting; afterwards he
stood on the arms of the elbow chair, aa~ by holding
the top, rocked it backwards and forwards, with odd
and horrid gestures and attitudes; he walked about
the room, then on hands and feet, with the same
dreadful countenance and looks; he went about rai-
sing high one hand after another, like a cat, or a ti-
ger approaching to tear an enemy. He got up, 11tood
awhile stiffened like a corpse, and then fell down, as
he usually did, quite flaccid and quite exhausted.
The bleeding had left him a little weaker ; hut the
disorder was not in the least abated. He had one fit
after another, in rapid succession; and each succeed-
ing one was longer than the former ; and to all hia
usttal tricks he added strange, new gestures and hor.
rid noises. Hi11 disorder contiJiued to increase in spite
of every thing that could·be· done or administered tol'
his relief, However much the system was lowered,
the disease increased in violence. Hunger or fullness,
solitude or society, mi&C.Ie no difference in bis case:
even in his sleep he was frequently convulsed.
The boy was anxious for relief, and though as
willing as a boy could be, to submit to any thing, ow
o'g''""d by Coogle
___........___
15
to take any thing wl1ich medical men or his friends
thought might be of service to him: yet, be had but
littltt confidence that he shoul!.l be·relieved by any me-
dicine his Physician coultl prescribe, or any op~ration
his ~urgeon could perform. Though a child can hard-
ly be expected to have a judgement prepared by culti-
vation to direct in the use of the ruo11t elfect11al means,
yet, sometimes, the inclinations of patients may be at-
teuded to with advantage. Before this youth Jo!'t his
speech, he frequently told his parellts, that, if th ee
persons, whom he named, would unite to pray for him,
he thought the Lord would deliver him from his dis-
-
tress. Myself being one of the three mentioned by
him, was one reason why his father applit•d to me, as
before stated: and thou11:h while I prayed with him
the .first time 1 visited him, he was a great deal agi-
tated and convulsed ; yet be was still of the same
opiBion that be might be relie,·ed by prayer. As
evP.ry attempt to relieve him by medicine, &c., had
hitherto utterly failed, his friends considered that
whate,·er might be the nature of his complaint, there
could be no impropriety in supplicating for him at a
·throne ofgrace.
On Saturday, March 4th, three or four persons:
and myself, went together to see him. It was Ptopo-
sed that we sho11ld unite in prayer. John gave signs
that he desired it; but also signified, he was much
afraid that something woulJ come from the door and
injure him. Prayer was begun, and be was greatly
agitated when any reference was made to his case:
even though it was done in language whieh the boy
could not understand : and whenever the name of Je-
sus Christ was mentioned, he was violently convulsed.
We continued praying till his con,·ulsions ceased, and
he was perfectly quiet. llis fits, how<Jver, soon re-
turned again after we left him, anJ he had several
the same afternoon.
On Sunday, March 5th, be began to show a furiom
aDlipatby to any-thing sacred, er devotional. Whea
, -
I
i--- ~
\_
lG
hn father-in-law said grace before dinner, John wu
so violently enraged, that be began to spit in his face,
and 'Went into a fit. The father prayed, and John waa
so exasperated, that he began to beat several persona
in the family, aR he formerly had done the door. He
made most horrid noises, and so terrified his mother
that she fainted ; and then one of the children came
for me to go to their assistance. He wai so furioua
and mischievous, that it was necessary to hold him
till the fit was over. He was exceedingly troublesome
all the afternoon, frequently beating one or other of
the family, spitting in their faces, taking them by the ·
leg, interrupting them with various tricks ofthis kind,
besides dancing on the surbase, gliding on the ftoor,
and performing hjs other usual pranks.
It was but on the preceding Friday that he had lost
so much blood, and since then, had continued to take
regularly the tinct. digitalu. Whence_ he could de-
rive so much strength, to perform such violent exer-
cises, and to make such violent resistence as he did,
isJ on physical principles, utterly unacco'IUltable.
On Monday the disease continued to rage with un~
abated fury: he had many fits; was exceedingly
noisy and violent.
Tuesday 7th, his mother accidentally opened th~
bible ltefere him; he was greatly enraged at the
sight of the blessed book. It might lie on the table,,
and he would not regard it; but aU the &end was
roused within him, when it was ever so slightly
brought into use.
The accounts.res~cting him, which were ib circu•
lation, made the people flock. from aU parts of the
neighbourhood to see him. He was a strange and
awful sight. Many persons were present in the after-
noon, when he, in one of his fits, made many violent
eftorts to acratch a gentleman who stood behiMd me:
-1 stoed aa his ,shield, and moved fur his defence as
John's motions required. The door of the rooJQ .W¥
alwllJ's his oracle; he frequeaLil toDSulted the dot»rt
. '
and beckoned to the door for assistance. Finding his
attempts to scratch Mr. R. frustrated, he, by signs,
requested permission, or assistance, or both, to be re·
venged on me. He came to me with a countenance
dreadfully distorted : the left hand was formelllike a
claw, and the othflrclenched. He made very violent at-
tackstoscratchand bruise me; bot withall hisstraining
eJforts, he could not come nearer me than within a-
bout-four inches. -Some of the company, -who cer-
tainly were quite as much astoni~:>hed as the reader
can be, said it seems as though an evil inftuenoe ur-
ges him to 4o injury., and some invisible power Pes-
trains hiJD. " Hitherto shalt thou come, but no far..
ther." I did not touch him, nor could he touch me.
After trying for, some time, he gave up the contest,
performed soUJe of his w.hiulsical frolicks, and the fit
,.-entoJfin the ;Usual way.
In the interval of his fits, be perfectly J'ecovered
his senses, and showed no defect or stupor ofintellect
whatever. He could not speak; but he made signs
which were readily enough understood. He was fre•
quently tried with questions, and his answerll ·were
generally quick~ and sometimes witty. While under
the 'inftoerw.e of a fit, it was impossible, by any thing.
that. could be said to him, to arrest his attention so as
to get even a look from him l but ifinterrupted in his
course, he -then became turbulent and dangerous,
which. made. it necessary to hold him till the.parox-
• ysm subsided; and he recovered his seilst!s.
·- His conduct when ·under the influence of his disor•
der, was extremely various. At one time he would
be violently convulsed,·andin a few.seconds; begin all
manner of whimsical froliCks. He would halt like a
lame beggar,-strut like mock majesty ;-wouldchas•
and scratch like a dog;-run like a rabbit;-and walk.
like a craB·~would face and claw, like a tiger meet.a
ing a foe;-and run about like a cat catching fties:=-
•.Wd beat .lbe air like a boxer;-ud tiyat the dgof
. . . - ~ . . ..
o,~ IZedbvGoogle
1&
like fury :-would dance about with all sorts or atti-
tudes, odd, awkward, and elegant. ~ometimes heap-
peared pleased; at others, grie,·ously ,·exed. Fre-
quently he would perform dangerous manoeue11, and
take care not to burt himself; and often he would
make violent efforts to accomplish his own destruc..
tion. Sometimes as harmless a11 a kitten at play, and
sometimes as dangerous as an angry cur. It i.• im-
possible to give an adequate description of his singu-
lar conduct; his whimsical pranks; his terrible
ahrieks ; his piteous cries; and his horrible looks. .
Such a great variety in his condition and conduct,
~ve occasion to a great variety of opinions. Many
of them were formed on so very partial a view of the
tmbject, that there could exist but very little proba-
bility of their being correct. Very few things were
ever more differently accoun~ed for, than this boy's
condition.-An old wotnan, little boys, ingenuity and
ttupidity., health and disease, religion and wicked~
ness, God Almighty, the .boy himself. and an evil
Spirit, have all been accused of being the cause of
this very strange calamity. 'l'his is a very extensive
range for opinion; and, as there is no efiect without
a cause, the cause of this evil must exist somewhere.
as the couritry seems to thirik, in heaven, earth, or
llell. The different opinipns that are worth consi-
deration, shall be noticed as we proceed.
Some time previous to his being I!O strangely af- :
fected, the boy had, by some of his school-fellows.
been locked up in the school-room one afternoon;
and some people attributed his disorder to a fright.
Particular euquiry has been made respecting 1t; but
the child has no recollection of being frightened
there; and his parents could perceil·e nothing of it
at the time. Boys were playing outside the school-
toom nearly all the while he was confine~there, and
he spoke with them frequently, till one of them·went·
ancl told his mother, who ilnmediately applied to tb•
.Master, aud procured his .release.
Some attributed his complaint to insanity, or luna-
uy; but he was a child not ten years old. Resides,
his manifesting such extreme variety of acuteness ot
feeling and insensibility,-horror and pleasure,--in.
voluntary convulsion and well directed P.Xertion,-
furious indignation and friendly allections,-folly and
sagacity ;-anrl his sudden transitions from one state
to another,-showed the impropriety of placing his
disorder in any generally acknowledged species of
insanity. The distinguishing characteristic of mad-·
aess, according to Dr• .Hattie, is a fa.l&e perooptwn:
but exceptio~ when under the influence of what, fo~
want of a more appropriate name, we call hisfits, he
was as rational in the exercise of his judgment as auy
other person. The state of the moon was observed;
butno connection could be discovered to exist between
his condition aud the state of that luminary. In hii
complaint there was very great variety; but nothing
which could properly be called periodical. .
Some people had recourse to a very old way of
accounting tor the unusual calamity, and, like Job's
"miserable comforters," said, he was thus affiicted
because he had been very wicked. I have made par-
ticular inquiries respecting his former character, and
find, on examination, that he has not been more wick-
ed than other little boys ofhis age and circumstances;
so that these friends need not conclude, that they
themsehes have been more righteous, because they
have been less affiicted than Joltn Evens.
The medical gentlemen who professionally attended
bim, and some of the many others who visited him,
supposed his case to be one of epilepsy. Ofthis
complaint there were occasionally some very strong
symptoms; nevertheless, there were other~ which
fully distinguished his case from being merely epilep-
tic. Instead of falling down deprived ofall voluntary
_
motion, with frothing at the mouth, and grasping of
the thumbs, aa is generally the case in the falling
C2
DJiizedb,Google
sicknes11, be most eommmtly set olf like a merry ••-
drew to perform his whimsical pranks, which he did
with surprising ability. He would, in his fits, go
through such difficult and dangerous manrevures with
apparent ease, ulf-command, and perfect safety, as
hu could not possibly perform whfln he was properly
in his senFes. Sometimes, though rarely, he frothed
at the mouta.: but I never .observed Wm to involun·
tarily grasphis thumbs. His epileptic symptoms were
only occarimtal. and there was something in his case
which appeared an unaccountable aggravation of, or
addition to, such a complaint; or what, perhaps,.
might be its CGute.
Some medical gentlemen supposed, that the brain·
was diseased ; but of this there was no unequivocal,
uniform system. His eyes were frequently exami-
ned : he had always the healthy power to contract
and dilate the pupil, and there was no kind of squint
whatever. He had rarely any pain in his bead, and.
when he had, in answer to a question about it, be
showed half his .finger nail to signify, it was a very
little, When the body was examined generally,
there was scarcely any visible or tangible disorder to
direct the mod'e of treatment for his relief. Some-
- times the pulse was rather full and rapid; but even·
that might be occasioned by the perturbation of his
mind, or his violent bodily exercise. The breath \Vaa
free, the skin moist, the appetite keen, the digestion
good, and the bowels regular. The blistering on the
head produced no eflect on the mind ; and however
much the system was reduced by bleeding, the ,·igonr
of the disease was unabated.
Though this boy's may be a strange case, it is not
altogether a sing'lllar one. Much has been in circu-
lation, for some time, about the case of 1\lr. Kennard's
Children, of Loddeswell, ncar Kingsbridge. These
children have been in some respects similarly, and, .
in other points more strangely ~fleeted than Joii.A.
--
o,g''""d by Coogle
Ji
....,~~~~~~~¥~Je--
-.a~--a------ -------~
21
Bveru. The follqwing paragraph 'espect.ing them~
appeared in the Plymouth and Dock Telegraph, on
February 26th, 1820.
" The neighbourhood of Kingsbridge has been
much agitated, of late, by eccentricities of the most
f!ingular kind, in four children belonging to a respect-
able family, which are unparalleled by any we have
read of since the first establishment of Christianity ;
ud which nothing but the fact of their having been
witnessed by twenty persons ·at least, all of unim-
peachable veracity, could induce us to credit or lay
before our readers. These eccentricities,for we know
not by what better name at present to call them, dis-
play themselves during tbe influence of epileptic fits,
• under which all the children, the eldest of whom is
16, and the youngest 7 years of age, have laboured, to
a greater or less degree, for more than a twelvemonth
paat, and still continue to labour at intervals. Amongst
other things, one of them, a girl 11 years old, ran up
the side of the room to thl' ceiling,• impossible as it
" This is certainly a strange fact, and may be almoat as in-
eompreheosible 111 the union uf ~oul and body. But I find upon
enquiry, that there have been, in other tim< 1 and places, facta
of a similar kind, and some even still more strange. Justin
Martyr, who wrote his Apology about 60 years after the Apos-
tles, speaks ofauch a thing, though more fatal, a~ a well-known
and common cue. "Moreover thoJe persons who are violmtlg
caught "P• and da~hed down R![ain by 4eparted spirite, and wbo
pas• among you all tor demouiacs and mad, argue the immortal-
ity of human souls.'' A modern publication, respectable for
the Yeracity and integrity of its Author, speaks ofa similar fact,
but carri\'d to a much greater length, and more pnticularly ex.
amined. "Major D-, held »oily- with all his might, •nd
put his knee against the bedstead; but he cried out, he could
not bold her, the force was so great, that he thoughI three huo-
dn•«l weight pulled against hhn. They were both pulled to the
foot of the bed, and the M~or fell on the bed, The ehildrea
were then rulled up again, aod the Major for a certaill ellperi-
menl, (for be did not believe there was any thinr preternatural
iu the affair) tried agaiu abon tea times. I saw the childn!a
u 11flen pulled tu the bed's loot, aod botb the MaJor and the
ca
may seem, wilere sne remained immoveable en her
feet for several minutes, her clothes being unaltered
jn their usual position, as if, by some sapentat11allaw.
she had the power of changing the centre of gravity.
This surprising fact can be home testimony to 011 oatla
by her mother a11d numeroua other credible witnes..
es, who can have no possible motive for relatiDg that,
ofwhichthey were notactually eye-witneases. AtIUlo-
ther tiuie the saine girl was seized with the pangs or.
apparent labour, in which her frame underwent all
those distortions ()f which child-birth is prod11ctive.
At meals, and other times, the children suddenly
whirl round in their chairs (to use the words of our
informants) like tops set in rapid motion; during
which time it is beyond the ability of the strongest
men, though the attempt has been often made, to
o.ther Gentlemen pulled·after them, though they held them with
all their strength, the children crying with the pain. The Ma-
jor took a candle to look under the bed, to eee if h• eould fand
out any trick, and he said be felt three or four Angers catch
hold of his wrist, and pinch him so hard, that the priuts were·
.'tery lisiule, and grew black next day, and were sore for some
time. He was now very eertain no ·visible power did it, and
fully convinced that the whole wai preternatural.-About two
in thP morning, it act~d "' violeutly, that the Mll.jor called the
coachman and footman 1 but all their united endeavours could
not the keep children in bed. They were obliged to put on the
.children's clothes, and carry them down stairs, though with dif·
.cttlty, as thoae who carried them "Were violently jostled. In the
.kitchen the children t11ere pulled tofflardf tlt.1 ceiling with 11uch
. force, the.t they were all tired with holding them, though above
a dozen were there. When they held their arms and legs, thea
·their bodies and neckll wert> pulled so that all were aatonisht'd.
Fova stout meo could scarcely hold one child from being pul•
Jed away; and sometimes they seemed suspended ia the air•
..They were all fully convinced that nothing but a preternatural
. power could pull with aucb force againat so maoy."-p. 36. 37•
.A Narrative of 1ome Extraordinary Thing• that happened
·to Mr. Giles'• Children, at the Lamb fllithout Lamford't•
Gate, Bristol: tuppo1ed to-be the effect of Witclt.trtlft. By
the late Mr.· Henry Durbin, CTtymist, !Pho fllal an eye 4nd
4Uif' Witne11 of tlw principal 1'act1. ·
• J::DWARDS1 BRISTOL, 1800,
~
•..:..........;:_--_.-""'";:;.:l;;
.\.:..-::l"'=::E;;;~---------------
move either of them or their chairs. When taken
with the fits in bed, no efforts, however great, are
found sufficient to detach the bed-clothes, which ad-
here around them in all directions, whether remo.:.
\'ed from the bed, or permitted to be there. We
could add many other remarkable circumstances,
but forbear, lest our readers should deem us the too
willing dupes of credulity. Enough, however, is
mentioned to stimulate curiosity; and we appreheud
that the parties are ready to verify the whole in any
manner that may be required. Superstition, as usu-
al, ascribes these remarkable exhibitions to the sa-
tanic arts of an old woman in the vicini~y, whose
persecution of one of the children, arising from a.
very trivial cause, has been marked and virulent.
We feel it our duty, as the ntrrators of passing e-
vents, to give the foregoing relation, which we do on
unexceptionable authority. If true, and we have no
reason whatever, as tar as respectable human testi-
mony goes, to doubt its authenticity, it presents an
interesting theme for philosophical inquiry in the
wonderous history of man; and cannot but induce
many to undertake the task of investigation, for
which purpose we can furnish the proper references."
Here was a public request for philosophical inves-
tigation, and respectable references were offered to
to any one that would scrutinize the case. Vcry
strange facts were well attested, on purpose to pro-
voke the learned, and to invite the zealous to ex-
amine them. On physical principles, these facts
were utterly unaccountable. The suffering fami-
ly, and their neighbours, attributed the strange
effects they saw to a satanic cause. From very
suspicious circumstances, such as the unnatural
and exquisite tortures which the children endured,
declaratively under a certain person's infliction,
·though absent; their supernatural knowledge of
that person's actions and circumstances; and their
24
\roniiting up crooked pins,• &c.; they concluded
it was witchcraft; and no person came forward,
at the loud and public cry of the neighbourhood,
who was able to prove that it was not. If thero
was a sceptical philosopher in the land that could
* It is justly due to public faith and trutl., to alate on wbat
evillence these usertiooa are founded, The writer ne•er aaw
thoae .four children while under the inftuence uf their dreadflll
malady, thou1h he hu at'en two of them since their recoveey.
He abo saw, soon aner its rejection, one of the crooked pioa,
which was taken with acrupulous caution from the mouth oC
one of the cbildn·n, while straininr tu dlteharre the content• of
ber nauseated alomftcb into a clean white baaon, provided oa
purpose, for strict examination by a relation who was doubtfvl
of the possibility ofsuch a case. And the crookt-d pin was sent
to another relation in Dock, as a curiosity for the manD<:r ill
-which it is bent, and as a confirmation of that truth which be
was reluctant tu believl!, The Facta which are he!'ll alluded to1 .~
in addition to tbese mentioned in the publie Papers, the writer •
\VIS assured of chiefly by Mr. Kennard himself, the Father of
the Children, whose testimony wn~ confirmed by one of his re-
lations, and by a Gentleman who went to Loddeawell on pur-
pose to e:umine the foundation fur the public report. They
are all persons of conscientious, well-known Teraeity, who
could ha•e no motive, and whose souls would abhor to deceive
their l'riendtr aud the public. For either the •niter or tlte read·
er to impute to them a design to d~cein, would be to impose
upon himself, Mr. K. is not only a profeSior of relir;ion, of the
Baptist persuasion, he is al110 a Lay ·Preacher of the Gospel.
lie the~fore has 1101 only the eorumon muthes of religion not
to deeeiYe his neighbours, but his public C'haracter lays ao ad·
ditional obligation upon him, to apeak the Truth, and nothinr
but the Truth. He bas not clandeatin~tr wi~pered tbete things
.about, with aoy scUbh dtaign; but with a kind intention to di·
rect his fellow suft·,·rcrs how tu lind relief, he baa openly decla-
red them in the simplicity and grief of his beut, and no man
baa been able to contradict him, or to prove bim miabkffi. A-
to his knowledge, or ability to di~tiuguish the real nature of his
family aftliction, I Rpprt>hend he knows very little oftbose Phi~
Jusophical Theories \>ith which learned meo haYe contradicted
one another and perple"ed themseh.,s on thi!Se aubjectR J but
long ancl painful e:r:perience hcu made him •ile, And in thla
w~tance,.it set-msthe old adage is exemplified: -"The ~eeha~,
11ic is wiser than \he,P.hilosopher,
prove these effects were produced by another
cause; that neither Satan, nor satanic arts can
occasion such mischief; that the "lin of witch-
craft," instead of being a wicked " work ofthejleslt,"
is only a wlgar error of imagination; last February
was a very favourable time for him to have proved
his point. Then he should have brought this repu-
ted 1uperstition to the bar of examination, and tried·
if he could justly put out of existence that old trou-
blesome witness of a spiritual world: a troublesome
witness which, however unwilling, was, by learned
nien in former days, brought forward to confute the
materialist, to condemn the atheist, and to prove to
all men_ the absolute necessity of an Almighty Sa-
viour, and the christian religion. Whether all who
declare there can be no such thing as witchcraft
were gone a hunting, on a journey, or asleep, or a-
fraid, I cannot tell; but this is certain-they were
loudly and publicly called upon, and there was no
answer. The troubled family, and their neighbours,
were reluctantly left in full and painful conviction
that their c~amities were occasioned by witchcraft.
The regular medical practice had long been tried
in vain; ·and then, at length, when other means were
despaired of, relief was sought, as in these days in
such cases it generally is, from some professor of
the occult sciences, the " Curious Arts;" (Acts xix.
19.) or, according to the profession, "The Astt·olo-
gical practice of Pltysic." And on the principles of
these curio1ts arts, ·" the evil influence was counter-
acted;" and, in the course of some time, the suffer-
-ers were relieved. This atotrological mode of cure,
gave still more grievous evidence of the evil natura·
of the case. This was not a solitary instance of
witchcraft in that neighbourhood: other families
were similarly affiicted, and similarly relieved.
However unaccountable in their nature and circum- ·
stances, as matters of fact they were too notorious,
to be contradicted.
28
The astrological practice of physic, i.e. ma~e
vombined with medicine, in these cases especially,
n, to all who understand its nature, on scriptural
principles, most seriously oldectionable. And as many
people, and some even professedly religious persons,
in such seasons of trouble and temptation, apply to
these magical or astrological practices for relief,
while infinitely better means are within every chri~o­
tian's reach. To all who may suffer from a similar
cause, and to all \vhom it may concern, the writeP
is anxious to point out a certain, justifiable, christi-
an, divinely apJ!ointed, sacredly authorized, and re-
cently exemphfied mode of relief. The objection-
able nature of the astrologlcal practice of physic.
&c., will be afterwards considered.
A general discussion on witchcraft, is not our pre-
sent business: but as John BtJa'IU's malady was, b1
Yery many, attributed to this cause, it would be im..
proper to pass it over in silence. That such an eTil
exists, in this day, and in this county, (Devonshire)
is, I fear, too evident to be disproved. Had no other
special evidence of the existence of such a diaboli-
cal art come under the writer's notice, he would.
have believed the general fact, because the Holy
Bible asserts it. There may have been ten thou-·
aand counterfeit cases, but there must have been
some true, or God would never have said so. 'Vhat
if many have presumed to contradict the holy book
of God; shall the sinner's unbelief disannul the ve-
racity of God ?-by no means. "Let God be true,
but every man a liar."
Profane history universally corroborates the truth
of the sacred; and modern facts expose the vanity
ofmodern contradiction. Vulgar ignorance has attri-
buted many things to witchcraft which ought to have
been otherwise accounted for: and learned igno-
rance has done worse, when, in its opposition to the
''ulgiLI', it has contradicted infinite wisdom, and made
tv.cb broad assertiQns as it can uev-er possibly prove.
Demoniacal possession is nearly a\Iif'd to witch-
craft in its affiicting natur, its spiritual agency, and
its mortal eftects. In either case, it is diabolical in-
fluence that effects the evil. In witchcraft, the wick-
ed one has human accomplices, who urge, and in
.aome instances, assist him to do that which he is
too ready to do of himself. That gracious power
which binds the great adversary, and destroys hie
work, is the sovereign remedy tor both these evils,
The name and power of Jesus Christ will defeat all
the combined powers of darkness. God has inform-
ed us of the evil; and baa given us the perfect reme_.
dy in that great Salvation which he has prepared
before the face of all people. Some men oppose this
wise and gracious plan: they deny the existence of
the nil, and neglect, if not despise, the remedy:-
They that are whole need not a physician, but they
that are sick. . " Sometimes," says Bishop Wilson,
" we are apt to ascribe too much to the power of evil
apirits, and to be too much afraid of those whom we
1uspect to have dealings with them. And some..:
times we despise them, and their power, as if we
had nothing to fear from them.-We are in the
wrong in both these extremes."
"To deny the possibility, nay, the actual exist-
ence of witchcraft and sorcery," says the learned
and honourable Judge Blackstone, "is at once flat-
ly to contradict the revealed word of God, in various
passages both of the old and new Testaments; and
the thing itself is a truth to which every nation in
the world hath in its turn borne testimony, either
lty examples seemingly well attested, or by prohibi-
tory laws which at least suppose the possibility of a
eommeree with evil spirits." (Blackstone's Com-
mentaries. Vol. iv. p.60.10th Ed.1787.)
•• So many laws argue so many sins," whether in
ancient or in modern times. That this nation was
W& former day• infected with witches aad conjurers.,
&e., Is a nry natural inference from the many and
severe laws which, in ditferent reigns, were enacted
to extirpate the brood of the old serpent out of our
land. Now if God, by his grace; faithful divine•
Jlnd learned magistrates, by their labours, have
"put away those that bad familiar spirits, and the
wizards out ofthe lands," it is imprudent, dishonour-
able, and ungrateful for those who enjoy the advan.
tages of their labours; to stainthe reputation of those
best friends ofour peace, with the illiberal reftectioa,
that they were either dupes, or deceivers, or both.
They had evidence• of the facts which we never ex-
amined; and for their conduct and aaaertions they
bad reasons which we never knew. A short ex-
tract from the Institutes of Sir Edward Coke, Lord
ChiefJustice of.the King's Bench, in the Reign of
James I., on the subject of conjuration, witchcraft,
~c., may be acceptable to the reader•.
"A conjurer," says the learned Judge, (Vol. 3.
p. 43.) "is he that by the holy and powerful names
of Almigh~y God invokes and conjures the devil to
consult with him, or to do some act. A witch is a
person that hath conference with the devil, to con-
sult with him, or to do some act. •Thou shalt not
suffer awitch to live,' saith the Lord,-Exodus xxii.
18. Deut. xviii. 10, 11,12. And it appeareth by our
ancient books, that these horrible and devilish offen...
ders, which left the ever-living God, and sacrificed
to the devil, and thereby committed idolatry in seek-
ing advice and aid of him, were punished by death.
The holy history hath a most remarkable place con-
cerning the reprobation and death of king Saul, 1
Kings x. 13, 14. 'So Saul died for his transgress-
ion which he committed against the ·Lord, even
against the word of the Lord which he kept·not; and
also. for asking counsel of one that had a familiar
spirit to enquire of it; and enquired not of the Lordt-
therefore he slew him, and turned the kiogdoa ana
- David, the so& of Jesse.'" ·
•
· 'l'herefore it had been a great detect in goveN-
ment, if so. gJ'e&t aa abominatioD laad paend witla
hapliDity. The statute made in the first year of king
;James~ divideth itself into five..everal b1'8111CJaea.
"1. If any person or persons shall use, praeli..,,
or exercise any-invocation or conjuration of any evil
and wicked spirit:-i. Or shall consult, covenant.
"With, entertain, employ, feed or reward .any ev.ilot"
wielted spirit to, or for my iJitellt or purpon:-3.
Or take up any dead DIMl) woman, ar child oat. ef
Iris &r her graTe, or UlY' other place- w.Jaere tbe de&Al
body resteth, 01' the skin, boae, or any part of a dea4l
*"'non to be employed or used ia any manner ol
witcheraft, sorcery, charm, or enchantments:-....
Or shell use, praetice, or exercise any witciMrraft,
enehantment, charm, ur sorcery, whereby any pel"-
t.on shall be killed, d'e&trofed, wasted, conaoriaea,
pi-ned, or lamed in hie or her body, er any patrt ther..
of:--6. That tlten· any aueh oft'ender or oft'eJNlera,
·their aiders,·abetters, aad. couMellors, being 9f any
~f the Hid offences duly and lamlly eoamted,
·and attained, shall sufFer pain of de&& as a fekn,
Ol' felons, aJHt lose the privilege and benefk·of clergy
-end sanctUM')'." · · ·
Sotne of thbs& abominable arts ate a dtaboli'eal
l>ystem of,..,..,_, of iOut and body too, hi principle~
professiOil, efFort, and eft'ect. Their natu,r~ prov~
their origia. Where DiVine Revelation has beeR
unkno*n, or disregarded, and Idolatry has prev~­
·ed, these diabolic arts have been notoriouall preva-
lent. Both sacred and pl'ofane history WIH prove
the tntth ofthis statement. Though true ~ital chrill"'
tiaaity, whieh is a spirit cil divine power, holioess,
in:th, and bene-votenee, is the most eft'eetnal oppoi-
1teat, and will, eventuaDy, be the complete- detrtrilC~o
lion of the diabolic arts; yetr when thel'~ lt'eteman)'
persons in this kingdom, notorious for the l!!'~essidta
iad·praetiee of such-•ile artlf, ...pru&ss~dly aial ai&
D
·the destrUction of both aoal and body, let common
sense determine whether it were the disgrace or the
duty of the legislature to check this, as well aa any
other species of murder.--But it is time the read-
er should see
THE CASE OP JoHN Ev£Ns RBSUMEO.
March 7th. Mr. KeatUlrd, of Loddeswell, near
Kingsbridge, beingin Dock, and having heard of this
·aftlicted boy, called to see him; and, in his hearing,
···ga,·e the family, and the company present, aD ac-
count of several things which his own children did
and·sulfered. He anerted. that " Thu boy'• a.JilictWa:
.tNU of the tatRe kifld .a• that which trodled hufO'III'
tlrildrert: that it 1DIU ROt a Mhwal ditorder, .but the
~ffeet ofan et'il spirit." When he said this, the boy
leapt up and·down as though he was dancing for joy,
and strangely climbed up Mr. K 'a back, and koelt
,upon his shoulders. While Mr. K. was relating
that his girl lay in bed with her arms out, yet none
of the family could get the clothes from her; John,
who had not spoken for a week, said, several times
onr, "No, sure enough!,. and presently began to
talk with great fluency and vigour. He addressed
some of the company in language not fit to be re-
peated. He spoke of himself with great assurance,
aDd said, "It is of no use the Doctor's.giving mo
'phy:sic: they can do me no good : I tell you jt is tho
devil that troubles me-I am overlooked; " i. e. be-
witched, He particularly described the person who
be thought had done him the injury; and frequent-
ly, in aeveral things, he imitated her exactly.
Hi• asserting that he was bewitched, is not a saf•
.fi.cient proofof the fact: and it would be cruel to en.
minate a poor old woman without substantial evi-
dence of guilt. Many have been accused of being
wjtches, because they were poor, old, infirm, and de-
peudant on chuit;y. If it were true., that a wick.od
~
lsoman being had employed evll art& to afllict laim,
that injurr could not have been inflicted but by the
.agency of an evil spirit; therefore, to this gre~
eause o£ the mischief our attention ahould be c:hidy
.directed.
Tbe hoy boasted ofskill, through satanic agency,.
to do se•eralibings, whieb, however, he could not
accomplish:-a trick this, of which aatao and his
se"ants are very often guilty.
His father's room WRS crowded> ad to draw him
away from the multitudes which thronged him, I ia-
Yited the boy into 011r house. Several gentlemea
were present, and conversed with him: he talked•
freelf and sensibly, with the exception of what he
aid m his fit.'f, He sometimes suffered much from
some invisible power. Be complained of his face
being hurt frequently, as .under smarting anguish,
With bitter cries and many tears. He would either
fall down upon his face, or seek protection from one
of his friends, and say, in agonies, "Oh l she's
'rieking mel she's pricking mel" It was abaobrtely
Impossible for him by art to do as he did. He wa1
destitute of moth·e or ability to pour such stream•,
of tears, and show such anguish, if he felt no pain.
We labourt>d to amuse him, and to keep up h1s at-
tention, and he would for awhile be very cheerful;
but in a moment there would be this astonishing_
transitionfrom.pleasure to such deep distress. How- ·
ever imaginary the cause of his suffering might ap-
pear to us, to him it was a painful reality. He
seemed to have, a clear perception of something,
which was to us invisible. 'Vhile he sat on the sofa,
be fixed his eyes with a look of fear and grief, and
shrinking back, with tears in his eyes, said repeat-
edly, "What do you beat me for? I have done no-
thing to you ! " This was not addressed to any one
pf the company; but to something which troubled
his mind, and was perceptible to ~ims91f only. lt
D2
o,g''""d by Coogle
- ~ -- - _
____..
- -- .... ~ ----,_ .
_.,beiaquired-Is not what ia spiritual,· ureal aw·
what ia Material?-and may not a devil tempt, af~
flict, and ove~ one human being, without being diaeo•
verable to other humaa beings, who may •urround
the one he may be permitted thus to plague? Are
notthe .paiaa ofthe soulas keen as those of the body1
-.......utd are not body and spirit so closely united, that
dae body 1Dl18t share in the anguish of spirit1 If
it be so: then, from some tpirihuJl eaue, thia
._trange aftliction may proceed: and the poor boy
be thus subject to auch trouble as .unever felt. Ho
•ay, to uae a acriptural phrase, "be JrievoualJ n:~-
ed With a devil.11 ·
The use of his s:peech was eoatiDued io him until
the followiftg mornmg; when, after a seTere fit, ee·
lost it ~D. Whate•er he did, whatenr he auffer-
ed, during his paroxysms, he had DO recoDection of
when he came to himself. While he was under theil'
inftuence, be was so fully taken up with th~ phan-
toms· of his own imagination, or something to us invi-
aible, that his attention could be arrested by nothiRg
but what interrupted him in the course of his man-
oouvres. At one time, the spirit of hartshorn 'Was
applied to his tongue:-at another, a needle was
thrust deep into his flesh; neither of which he ap-
peared to regard. This was done by a medical gen-
tleman who was very solicitous to find out the real
nature of his case. He made such experiments to
ascertain whether the boy's conduct was voluntary;
and if he was in his senses or not. The writer has
been present when the same gentleman has taken fa-
vourable opportunities judiciously to examine the
nature of the affliction. and been assured by him, as
well as others present, that the boy's sufferings and
symptoms were such as could not possibly be feign-
ed. To make such examinations propedr, was not
only justiliable, but very desirable, and h1ghly com..
-mendable, That it required considerable skill t<l·
o'g''""d by Coogle
~-· =-· ~~ ~
•
make thewuafely and e§eelltally, every ~eulble IDMl
will readily umit: but when persons properly qu.,.
lifted, Jaad made all suoh prudent examinations M
were aeceasary, it certainly eould answer no good
purpose to allow any and every pel'80n that wished
to try, and teaze and torture the child aa he pleased.
Several of the boy's relaticms, who were quite e.a
much coneerned and interested, as any persons
COilld possibly be, to know the troth ofthe case, had,
in the1r way, when grieved, if not angry, as well as
perplexed at his conduet, tried the poor lad's sen-
sibility when in his fits, by suddenly shaking him,
beating him with a cane;&c,; which the writer has
seen. The patient was more furious for being inter-
rupted; but when he came to himself, waa insensi-
ble of what had been done to him: and we could not
but conclade that it would have been better to have
let him alone. When he baa been making his aim
at the door, . aa a boxer would at his antagonist, a
handkerchief has been held before his face; still his
eyes were .fixed, and his coun~e was undisturbed.
So utterly insensible was he of what transpired in /
his fits, that sometimes he did not even know, unless
he was told, that he had been in one. He often made
anxious inquiries how his clothes became dirted~
how his playthings, &c., came to be out of his pock-
et-how the furniture became scattered about tile
house-how some or the family became wounded-
and how several things came to pass which he him-
self had done. Sometimes he appe&l'ed quite aar-
prised, when informed; and angrily contradicted
those who told him, that he himself had doae those
things.
Whea he came to himself, he was as one awaking ·.
from a profound sleep: and though he was then so
'BJlacquainted with what be had done, be aometimes,
uader the inOuence of his fits, did things which were
exceedingly ditlienlt to do•. He would sometilliee
D3
DJiizedb,Google
tlr.ow one of his legs on a 8lll8ll shelf, whioh ,....
over the door, pot the other under, and there hold,
and throw his arma about, with horrid eyes and
ghastly .face. His moat common trick wu that ot
dancing on the aurbaae, in one corner or other of the
room.. Sometimes he would get up with his face to.
the corner, lean backwards far into the room, stare
about and clap his hands. It must have been ex-:-.
eeedingly difficult for him to preserve his balance. ,
Several persons have succeedea well eaough in
,dancing upon the surbace, while the back was sup-
ported by the angle of the.walls: but when one at-
tempted to imitate him in standing on the surbase..,
and..putting his knees to the corner, and leaning
backwards to stare about the room and clap hie,
haJJds;-as he cou\d not in such circumstances very
expertly command the centre of gravity, invert tho
laws ofnature, or resist the attraction of gravitation;.
-he succeeded as the reader would expect any wise
man to succeed who goes out of his place, and at-
tempts to p«lrform such a whimsical part. .
Those who feel no pain from the bruises, perhaps
will feel more disposed to risibility than gratitude;
yet that person, whoever he might be, deserves tho.
thanks of many: for many thought it was easy e-
nough to do any thing the boy did, though they were.
frightened to see him do it; and .would have mad&
the same experiment themselves, only they had not
courage enough to venture. When the lad was .in
hia senses, he had several times been persuaded t~
try whether he could then dance on the sarbase;
yet he could never manoeuvro there as when he was
in his fit; and has several times slipt down. Could
it be proved, that the thi~gs . which he did in his fits
he ~uld do when in his sens(!s, that would assign 001
reuon why he should do th~m as he did. A man ia
~is senses may imitate a madman; but if any one.di.d
~.for a month together, to the injury.of.h~s fri«wd&
DJiizedb,Google
and hilllJel(, it would be difficultto belieYe that meh·
a fool was in his senses. But could those who imi.,.
tated this sorry example in one or two of his whims,
haveJone through all his frolicks, it would have
r.rov only that his actions were not ntiT11culoru.
l'he boy certainly did many things when. under the
influence of his disease, which he could not perform
in his lucid intervals; and which he never.did, never
would attempt. He endured pains and sorrows
which he could JfOt possibly feign. He aftlic.ted the
fanJ.ily with troubles most intolerable, to which such
a child could not possibly.have any motive. Besides,
his ma.l-i~g Sl!Ch desperate efforts to injure himsel~
by violently beating his head against the ground.
and in other ways seeking to destroy himself, wa~
acting in direct opposition to one of the strongest
principles ofhuman nature-selfpreservation. Such
strange things in a child between nine and ten years
of age, much excited the curiosity of the public, and
brought hundreds ·of people from all parts of the
neighbourhood i and great anxiety prevailed to find
out the real cause of such singular effects. Men of
science were puzzled, and medical gentlemenofres-
pectable professional ability hesitated to give an.
opinion.
When one is anxious to he satisfied, it is very
painful to remain in ·suspense. However, in such a
case, the lover of truth will push his inquiries with
patience and diligence; will restrain his judgment
till he bas SJlfticient light to direct him where to rest
his opinion; and then will demand no more confi..
dence in his assertions than he has evidence to pur-
chase. Such were the men whose names are dear
to the sons of science. Those who were the most
eminent for patient, diligent, ingenious research,
have set the example of cautious and- modest asser-
tion. But all who would be wise, will not follow
•~ch prudent ~odels. There !ll'e some who" see.a
38'
iittle, presume a great deal, and jump into ccmelad.
ona." A mind of this east, disdains the plodding Ia~
hour of examining and comparing symptoms, cir·
cumstances, causes and effects; and, as it is a light
·-sort ofthing, it easily takes a long leap overthe field of
mental exertion, and rests contented in that opinion
which is most agreeable, not to truth, b11t to ita own.
inclination. When this is coosidered, it will not ap-
pear surprising that a variety of opinions should be'
formed, and contradictory reports should be circu-
lated about a case, so difficult to inveati~ate and de-
termine as.that of this boy.
We easily indulge delusive hopes, when we fear·
to believe the truth. Experience is the test of opi-
nions; it rebukes prejudice, and corrects error with
authority; and "judgment is forced upon us by ex.:
perience." We hoped we might relieve the boy by
working on his imagination. Some patients have
suffered real woe from only an imaginary cause.
A monstrous or ridiculous idea has fastened on a
person's mind, which his enfeebled reason has bee~
utterly unable to repel; and he has acted and suf-
fered as though the evil was actual, which could not
possibly exist but in ilmlgination. The boy's think·
ing that he was troubled by an evil spirit, was no
proof to us that be was really possessed. Thero
have been many instances of some species of melan·
eboly, or what is sometimes called, hallttciMtion gf
ideas, being perfectly relieved by a little ingenuity.
We hoped it might be so in this case; and we put
6Ur hopes to the test. We agreed,-and applied
strongly to his imagination. We assured him, that
a certain person in whom he had great confidence
had something in operation to counteract his com-
plaint, and that we expected him to be well in a cer-
tain time. The boy rejoiced in confident hope bo
should soon be well, and the joy he felt i:a the plea-
aing expectation seemed for awhile to relieve him a
little. His Jita frequently sabdued him; 'but in tho
interim the expectation encouraged him, and we
buoyed up our hopes. But the storm of his affiw•
tiou again iacreased in fury, and all cur hopes were
wrecked. Others may think they could have suc-
ceeded better; but as they never tried, they ha,·e
but an opinion. We however gave the principle a
fair trial, and the result was, a strong conviction
that the boy's complaint was not merely a disorder-
ed imagination, but that there must be some real
aod power~l cause, which frequently disordered
his mind, overpowered his will, and ruled his body.
We could not but ""'HCt an evilapirit; hut we want-
ed atrong evidence to give 111 satisfaction. If we
could certainly discover the cause, we might apply
a remedy. "The lutotDletlge and pOWfll' ofman," says
I..erd Bacon, "ere coincident: for, whilat ignorant
of cczuu, he can produce no ejfect1."
The Parents had endured the strange amiction o(
the child so long, without the least relief being ob:-
.tained from any thing, that they despaired of medi-
eine.ever restoring him to his health and right mind.
The1 believed that the child was amicted by an evil
spirit, and that only God Almighty could deliver
him. But, as what some call/hilosophy had ridi-
culed that opinion, they woul allow scientific abi-
lity a fair opportunity to examine his case, and a fair
trial to relieve his malady. They courted not pub-
lic notice, but they were willing that medical and
scientific men should visit the boy for their own sa-
tisfaction: and, as cases like his were subjects of
dispute in the religious, as well as the learned world.
they were quite agreeable for ministers and religious
people to see him. But, circumstanced as they were,
they could not confine their visitants to such as were.
most likely to fairly and honourably inquire into the
nature and cause of the boy's malady. Multitudelt
thronged the house; and the rqom was tilled from.
morning till night.
Some who came, seemed disposed to gratify their
.feclings in putting the child to pais, rjltber than to
increase their knowledge, and serve ~nkind by in-
vestigating the tause of his sulferiags. As they.
~uld not ae8011Dt for his very strange behaviour.,
they suspected that be was cunning and wicked e-.
aough to act in this unnatural, or supernatural way,.
merely to impo&e upon them. It is hard indeed. if
a child must be punished in his affiiction, because
J.Us neighbour is iporant of what ails him; and sus-.
picious because he is ignorant; and wishes to torture
him because be is both. Whatever· pleasure any.
person could feel in punishing the child, whether he
dcsened hornot, isnot nrydesir.able to know: but·
iD common justice and humanity, if a child is to be.
put to pain for the disorders he may occasion in hi~J
O)VD family, his correction should be left to his pa-
rent's hand. Had it been true, that he was an art.,
ful boy, and acted thus on purpose to deceive; his
parents would have been the first to detect it; and
they were mi)st interested, and able to remedy such
an evil.
If this boy was so artful aml wicked, is it likely
he would have submitted to have his bead sbavea
.
and blistered all over? Would not any boy so ex-
pert in wickedness, as some unrighteously represent..
ed him to be, have made re~istence1 Would be have
submitted to be bled repeatedly? Are wicked lads
fond of having the lancet repeatedly in their necks
and arms? Are wicked lads pleased to take fre-
quently nauseous drugs? Bes1des the vast impro-
bability of the boy submitting to these things, is it
any more probable that the respectable medical gen-
tlemen who professionally attended him, either lliJ
family surgeon, or members of the Dispensary, that.
they should employ such means, when parental disci..
pline would have been the proper remedy?
The only motive that could be assigned for its be-
ing artful trick, was, that he might get money: b't
o,g''"''d by Coogle
-- :.....~~ ~- . · -~
~c.. c::m---
the Loy wanted (or nothing. His parents are n«Jt
rich; but they are honest: and their daily labcrur
supplies their daily wants :-they are diligent, sober;
frugal, and content. For weeks the child had suf·
fered his amiction, and the parents their trouble, be--
,fore I, who live next door to them, knew of their
calamity: and when it came to·my knowledge, the
father brought it with a respectful request that I
would assist him in prayer to God for the recovery
of his child's reason and health. They coveted no
mao's silver, nor copper:-they del'ired not to be
·brought into notice ;-bllt they did desire the saha•
.tion of their child; and, as good christians, when
;they saw learning and experience at their wit's end,
·they were 'determined to seek help from Heaven•
.Are not such parents.more worthy of sympathy and
imitation, than of slander and reproach?
That the family who procured their dat1y bread,
by their daily toil, should euffer in their circumstan-
ces, when the labour of the mother was continually
interrupted, a moment's consideration will persuade
any reasonable man: and where there are many
children as much dependant on their mother'•, as on
their father's industry, the continual interruption of
her labour must be a serious evil to the faJDily. A
few among the multitudes who filled the room to wit-
ness the strange calamity, and thereby added many
inconveniences to the family trouble, considered this,
and gave the boy some money. It was delicacy ia
those persons who gave it, to present it to the boy,
.that they might not wound the feelings of the pa-
rents, while they intended to help them in their trou·
ble: and delicacy in the parents, prevented them
from using the money which was given as p~esents to
the boy. As the money was always given to him
while he was in his senses, be could then take care
of it; which h~ did; and locked it up in a box, or
desk, in which he kept llis books. When God, ia
1nercy, relieYed him from his affliction, he co11nted
over his cash; the whole amount was eight 1/&illiftgB
.and three half-pence. The parents, as well as the
boy, were a little particular in knowing the exaot
sum, because ithad been said they wished to get mo-
ney. As some were pleased to indulge this opinion,
the parents very prudently refused to allow: of any
.more money being given.
If it were possible for any boy, with his artful
1ricks, to interest the public as this child did by hi&·
strange malady, without ever intellding it, be would
11oon he qualified to make his fortune. But, alas I
-poor child, of his great abilities he was quite uncon-
·Scious; and his much-famed artful wickedness was
quite involuntary. He lost all his wonder working
-power as, be. found his senses. That "artful wicA-
edness" was to himselfand hisparents·a heavy afflic-
tion; and they united to request that a few friends
would assist them i11 prayer to God that they might
·be saved from .their heavy calamity I Did not $Ucla
.a request deserve attention?
The.great strength which the boy had, when un,.
der the inftuenee of his disol'der, was such as to re.
-
·'luire four persons to hold him conveniently,. so u
lo prevent him from iajuring himselfor,others. This
waa so surprising. that several strong men desirecl
to try their ability to man~ge him. In doing tbi&,
.two or three persowtcontrived, very unfairly, if no&
wiokedly,t o put.bifii'Jto a great deal ofpaiJl.
. On Wednesday, March 8th, a gentleman waited
for the abild's being under the inftuenee of his die.
eas&; ud when·the·fit eame «m, he internpted him
ill his course, which never failed to infuriate hiin.
The child made a kind of wild resistance, and the
man, who scientifically knew hew to inlict e..'lcruci"'
ating pain, laid hold of his arms towards the shoul•
ders, and pressed hard his thumbs on the inner
muscles.- Here was ·a !harp struggle betweea •
4t
healthy man, tnd aa amtcted child; ed had not
the man been tall as well as strong, he must have
1uft'ered severely from exasperated kicks. While
thus the poor boy w~ toi'tut~d by a fel~ow cre.a~~
the unseen cause of bts angmsh gave hnil additlon~tl
pain; be fell on the floor an
. d ctfed! "0 my face.!'*
It seemed for a moment, that the victory was gatn•
ed, and that by a dangerous risk, il.lid the sweat ol
his brow, the man had pl'oted he was stronger than
the child. "I see now/' said the gentleman, "it i'
all wickedaefs1"-" I 8JD q~te satisfied, i~ is nothing
but witkedtaess." . The ehlld, after sighing bitterl1
a few seeotlds, tede'fi'ed his violedt exertions. 'the
fit was not half ovet; and his parents and Mend•
thoufht it nec~ss.-ry fo hold him theml!el-ves in their
Dlt$ way, which was by four persons taking eacli
one limb, to gu:it'd him ftoiti uilkind treatment, atid
to prennt his injutitlg himself or others. Such
were his sufferings atid sttbg~1es when thus cautions~
ly held, that t&e pel'son wbo had declared .it w.-
~11 wicke~ttess, ackna;,ledged, ~~ f se~ now1 tliebuf
Js really ill." A& a farfltet ptoof tllat fle 11acf be'e11
mistaken in his forble# opinion, be was desir&d td
use all his ingenuity to .fhtd o-at whetb« the bo)'t_
when he came t& lli~self, had any 'l"cleolleetion: of
what had pa8!ied, · He did s&. W'.lien the troy r't'Cda
ve.red . his senses, the gentleJND offeted ..IUJii his
hand; ·and said1 "What ha-re·1 bee-a doing t~ you f
The boy signified, so a- te b6 ftll~:tslood 11y 811•
•i N oching; " and tht>JI shoolc .IUlf!dS \tidi bim; ~~
ably smiling.in .hiiJ face• .HotlfttWtaadiag tlie em..·
tlence ofits fa)Mht)od. ~& r~pM't r.fitl! HiDgall~
cullfess; ~· IMK 'W'Itdre6te'l!st w88, afteti tldli·t.tMt
&i litreBg&h aad ieelilig* mw.e ilnhktrio~ ~'
ted•.with tlw adtlitibn) that by tbil titaf 1fwA&:~
ved the boy w~ artfully P,Aotl~t +whlntat1 WMt•
edaeH to deeeite the pubbcL . . . , · ·· . • · .
Trutk.ad,ehari1t wldl hlbi4'f1i iallitd to intuu;t
. £ '
/
•nd bless the world. Error ie accompanied by-no-
kindness, and falsehood.goes arm in arm with cruel-
ty. Ifpeople cannot refrain from talking, till truth
appears to teach them what to say, they ought at
least to take care that, in their hasty reports, they
do their neighbour no wrong. "As a madman who
casteth fire brands, arro_ws, and death, so is he that
deceiveth his neighbour."
As bad reports lose none of their evil, while like
the pestilence they walk in darkness, but on the con•
trary grow worse as they proceed; it was presently
added to the other untruths, that the parents were
vile persons, and encoura~d in their son the prac-
tice of imposition on the public. Innocence Js not
secure from the scourgeof the tongue; and affiiction,
which ought to be alleviated by the sympathy of
:peighbourly kindness, is sometimes aggravated to
heavier groans, by the blunders of ignorance, the
~entiments of prejudice, and the conduct of officious
ill-will. The sorrowful parents of the amicted boy
are esteemed by those who know them best, as per-
aons of singular honesty, diligence, integrity, and
piety• and there was just as much righteousness in
circulatibg S\lCh a report concerning them, as there
is in adding wlander to sutrering, reproach to aftlie-
tion, and angui~o the broken of hearL
As the boy was ~ther angel nor saint, wicked-
ness might be f<l__und i~im, by any one whe wu
pleaaed to search ~it, as...-ell as teeth. But ifthe
boy has been seen wi&-bjs mOOQ.th open, and the r~
~ sfreads that, "thebONa all teeth-nothing but
teeth, . it can be as. well su~ntiabd, as tbat hila
str~ge disorder waa " .n wic~edtl~ss-nothing but
wicb4Deu." There was, it 11 trie.._ some kind of
trial; bllt it was profeaaedly a trial ~f muscular
atr.ength. That a boy, whether in or out ofhis a8D·
aes, should struggle and·kick.when he feels opprea-
~ion ,that would drive a wise maa mad, ia pot at all
' • I... •
surprising:· but that mere wickedness-should la a few
m'inutes forgh·e a tormentor, and shake hands with
him in cordial friendship, is altogether unnatural.
and unaccountable. Such evidence, as the above
stated experiment .~an furnish, is the .main pillar
which supported the report, that it was all wicked-
)less in the lad, and not affliction : a pillar as strong.
as bright, and as beneficial as a column of smoke.
· As narratives ought to be uaeful, the reader will
allow the writer to make a digreuion in order to
give the talkative world
A CAUTION.
The public has often been imposed upon, and he tha~
would not be deceived, must be careful, there is even
Toom for suspicion; but those who wish to serve the
public, h.y detecting imposition, should be cautious,
lest in their hurry to proclaim, they should mistake
affliction for wickedness, and rashly practice imposi-·
tioll. To circulate an evil and false report against
a neighbour, is a crime which heaven forbids, and
earth condemns. The universal Judge has proclaim-
ed-the just law of retribution: •• With what mea- ·
sure ye mete, it shall be measured unto you again." ·.
The pestilential breath which withers the reputation ·
of a guiltless neighbour, is ordained to blast the
slanderer's own. "A good name," said the wise
Jewish King, •• is rather to be chosen than great
riches;" and any reputable poor man may say with
the British Poet,
•• lie that filclles from-me my goocl aame.
" Bob• me of that which oot earicbeB him,
" B11t makes me poor iodeed."
Ignorance or mistake may be pleaded in excuse. lg~
noranee, perhaps, maybejustifiedifit will be liler&t:
but if ·it must report as truth, to other reporters• .
w.hat is unkind, unjust, and uatrue, such wilful, bu.... ·
E2
,
1y ignora~tce, is wilful sin; it becomes the cause o(
•any e\·ils, by letting loose untameable tongues to
devour the reputation of those who have done no
Larm. Any human being must dread to smart un-
der the lash of public slander. "Reproach has bro-
ken my heart," said David, "and I am full of hea-
linesa." It is certainly wickedneu to tra.d\lce the
character of any honest persons who _
are guiltl of
:QO other crime than that of being in great tribu-
lation. However, those whose hearts are pierced
on such an occasion should know that, " to err, is
human;-to forgive, divine."
The boy's antipathy to any thing sacred became
llQ great; that the sight of the Bible, or any religious
hook, in the hands of1my peHon present, would ex..
¥perat.e hiJa IUld briag on his fits. The boy some-
times tried to conque-r this averaion to a book. He
wu oBe day admiri•g the bioding of a hymn book,
and tried to hold it in his hand, but eottld not. I
have seen himtake the Testunen' in his band, Uld
resolutely try to hold it; hiurm wae convulsed, aad
the book was throwD down j11st as if he had ro•
ceivcd a blow above the elbow. Though bis grea.t
objectiQil was against any tbiag good, yet be fre-
quently was s:taaperated &t the aigbt ofany books in
use, whatever might be thei-r cont.enta.
To see the boy in his senses was not a sufficient
gratification to curiosity; and therefore ono neigh-
bour would sometimes provoke him into fits to give
another an opportunity of seeing how strangely he
acted when under their influence. This practice,
however innocently intended, had a very hal;! effect.
It infuriated his irritable temper, and threw him in-
to considerable torment$. It was pai11ful indeed to
bear those piteous cries which this conduct occa.
sioned, and to see the anguish of his soul which
coD&iu.v.ed for hoW'sA N Q painiDJiicted onhis body
DJiizedb,Google
p~ Jiim. 80 nmeh· snfreriag u tli.e methods used to
harasS: liis mind~ But this case was·a· strange one, ·
and people coveted to see him in his fits.
· On Friday, Mar.ch lOth, the boy was kept in an
up"er room, on purpos.e to avoid such inconvenience
and treatment as he was likely to suft'er below.
But, poor child! evil pursued him to his retreat.
Some person uninvited and unwelcome made his
-way into the chamber. The father was absent; and
to the boy's mother and friends the man.'was un-
known; but from the consummate confidence with
which he delhrered his judgment, about the cala-
mitous ease which puzzled all the wisdom of the
neighbourhood, he was supposed to belong to some
lunatic Asylum in London or elilewhere. Such wu
~is superior wisdom, tha:t to him there appeared no
difficulty whatever in this ease so perplexing to:
others. He perfectly understood it. As for tli.e
medical gentlemen who had professionally attended·
the child, and others who had visited him, u they
dilfered from him. in opinion on the case, he decla-
red be pitied them altogether!- He was somebodfi
that could act as deciseively as he could talk. Whe11:
t)le poor boy was in one of his fits, thiutmnge gen-
tleman who ·seemed to have been instructed in the:
art of tormenting, called all his science into action.
to torture the child. He grasped the pool' boy's.
neck, and pressed his thumb so as to excite extreme.
anguish; intending, I suppose, not to stop his
breath, but to try if he was sensible of pain; Ol" how
much he could bear. This had been too oftclt, but
more •afely tried before. Such an appbcation of
torture as this might soon have been fatal. The bo~
was dumb and co'\ld·not complain ; in his paroxysm
.the blood was hurried in its circulation, and pres,.,
sure o.n some of the vessels in the neck, by preven-
6ng ~ts free return from the head; might hav~
occaa1oned apoplex1 and ckath,
E3
I n,. ~me friends who providentially CIU86 iaeo
tlle room at the time, the strange gentleman was·
prevented frQDl pushing his application any farther.
However, if he was not allowed to continue his ope-o
rations on the child, he was kind enough to give his
advice gratis. He was sure of it, and who could
doubt his word, that he could cure the boy in three
days. But how? With a good horse-whipl-And I
am sure of it, he ·could have done .more; for he
could have buried him too !-We pitied him when
be owned he was a father. To the honour of the
profession, . he acknowledged he was not a medical
man; therefore we were left to suppose that he pre-
scribed from his own experience, as is often the
case with unlearned persons. Whatever advanta-
~es the prescriber might derive from the brutal
remedy he recommended, he is very welcome to en-
joy undisturbed. But as the affiicted child could
not avoid the fits by which he suffered, and was ut-
terly unconscious of what he did while under their
influence ;-his parents and friends considered, that
in such a ease to exercise cruelty on the affiicted,
was more diabolical than humane, and they were
aisposed rather to compassionate and relieve his
anguish; than to aggravate and multiply his suffer-
ings. '
In rerplexing cases, difference of opinion will
prevai ; and a man may unblameably remain igno-
rant of what is neither easy nor necessary for him
to know. But suppose iu such a case, an ignorant
man intrudes into the apartments of the affiicted,
and cunningly applies what aggravates the disorder,
and grievously torments the already distressed;
whether he might be profited by it or not, does he
no~ deserve, as much as the injured sufferer does,-
" A good horae-whip? " .
· When the boy was informed,·that some gentleman
thought a severe horse-whipping would do hilll
o,, t>Zed by Google
good, he signified his cordial consent to. hi.parenta.
that they should horse-whip him if they thought it
would cure him. But should the brutal remedy be
tried qd not succeed;-should it increase the dis-
order, and hurry the injured patient to the grave;-
what parents could long endure the .anguish of such
reflections as would pierce through and rankle in
the heart!
: ..t\.s there are advocates for the system of horse-
whipping, and otherwise torturing the bodies ofthose
who are disordered in mind~. a practice which 1ome
Physicians say, is ~ruel aa.d absurd,. and which
often makes the patients worse instead of better, .i,.
is to. be feared, that some poor affiicted creatures.
have been horse-whipped, or otherwise put to death.,
The thought is truly painful;. bq,t tb.e case is very
probable. Whom cruelty would kill,. kindnes~
might cure.
So many very different opinions being formed re-
specting this boy's complaint, may shOW'•he difficul-
ty of getting at the ttoth, and may be considered by
the reader, assome apologyfop &Dy man's heillg mis-
taken. Never w:ere effects attributed to more qp~
lite causes t1l.u. in the cue of thilt boy.
There would be an impropriety in concealingfrom
the reader any opinion respecting this. very strange
affiiction, that may be deemed important on account
eit}ler of its nature, prevalen~e, or consequences;...
~SJ!ecially ifit includes a.subject in "':hicb everr man
1s JDtercsted. After seemg the boy m one of h1s fits~
and making particular enquiries, some· gentleman,
whose profession would naturally give some autho..
rity to his decision, ascribed his disorder to a cause
which has sometimes beea accused ofproducing ve-
ry bad elfects; but, for eome very sufficient reason.
bad hitherto escaped without being suspected of oc..
~aaioDiDg this Plalady. The caue, 1now allud•W,.
is 'the ""'!/ oppoatf! oftDU:htlaul;-....:.it ii Rin.1ciroN t t
'Ibis opinion was, tliat the boy's lively imaginetion
and aot.ivfl mind bad been too freely.applied to, and
too much impressed witll the concems of another
world.; and that these ideas. of a futur& state had de-
ranged his mind.
The reader who knows but little else thaa the wis-
dom which teaches him to live well, and to die hap-
py, should be informed, that this is not a very n•-
gular opinion, the solitary l'ruit o£ an uncommon ge-
"iu; but is a very kaneed one : 1 do not mean that
it is a very wi•e one. It bears no one mark of the
wisclom which is from above~ It certainly is not
peaceable: for it implies a quarref even with God.
himself; and involves this horrid principle, man's
duty may be man's ruin. Tboae PhiloMJpherl who
think, that the religion which irnplies the exercise of
the passions, i. e. the fear and low! of God, is the
cause of madnellf, will of coarse li.ave ne iuliaation
to go to beav.ea: ~ if r.elisiea makes people JDad,
Heaven moatbe die Bedlam of tAe aniv.erse. .Ifthe'
opinion that religion waa the cause of thia •alady
could. be preTed to be·trw, then we mipt conchde
·from it, that to consider oae'a llitter ellldl, JIUblt be a.
very. dangerous thing;. that the most pious people
must be the mos tmad; an& the most careless abou~
t~eir souls, ~od~ and eternitr, must b!' the most,....
~tble/eople m the land. Such sentiments may be
foun in the infidel philosopher's creed; but, there
is no such thing in tlie Biblt'.
. In such a wildemess of opinions it was folly to
trust &o others, and' neeeBSIII'Y for the parents aa.t
friends of the child to think for themselves. In tbeht
epinion·Jesus Christ waa the greatest Pltylicitm. dre
world ever knew, allil he ieteaded: his Peligion to 'he
lhe sovweign core-for all the miseriea of a diaoNer-
edl worW; uul suald eTtry .~g elao fai to re-
move thit awful calamity. it was their intention to
try if the religion of Jesus Christ would not perform
the great cure for hit disordered body and mind.
On Saturday, March 11th, the following para-
graph appeared in the Plymouth and Dock Tele-
graph Newspaper:- . ·
"A poor boy in this town, called John. Evens,
~tobont 10 years of age, is afDicted with the same ex-
traordinary malady as the four children near' Kings-
bridge, whose caae we noticed a fortnight since. It
has increased on him for several months, and during
the laat fortnight he has been deprived altogether of
articulate speech. He has rarely a longer interval
of reaaon than twenty minutes, when he displays a
pleasing and intelligent physiognomy. Whilst under
the influence of the disease, he foams at the mouth,
leaps on the snrbase of the room, whereon, though
-only two inches wide, he dancea. for many minutes,"
then on the floor, "twirls himself round, crawls
rapidly along on his hands and knees, or bends him-
self into a cre1ent shape, frequently uttering the
most discordant tones and terrific.,howlings. Hua-
dreds of persons, amongst others some of the most
learned and scientific in the port, have visited him,
but hitherto without being able to solve the pheno-
meDon. One of the spectators was the father ofthe
above four children, who declares the disorder to
resemble that exactly by which his family has been
attacked. It is remarkable that the child, when be
had the use of speech; and in his sober moments,
considered himself as possessed by a demon, of
which, in his frenzy, for we have seen him, he cer•
tainly presents a similitude. Some of his attitudes
are of the most graceful and elegant kind. On the
whole, the sight is most awful."
The Physician who regularly attended him, ha..
.-jug heard that the house was oontinally crowded
so.
'fritli pcrl!onll to see tho patient, and considering, that""
the agitation which this must occasion would cer-' _
tainly make him worse, came from Plymouth to
Dock, accompanied by another mediealJentleman,
on purpose to put a atop to this perpetu inconve-
nience. The Doctor examined the boy, and proved
to a certain degree, what efFect ani/plication to his'
mind, had upon his body. He he his "rists, put
his fingers on the pulse, and aft"ectioDately conver-·
sed with his little patient; enquired, particularly,
what he saw in his fits. The boy's mind beingdirec-
ted to reoal ideas, which were to him so terrible as
\9 deprive him of self-government, showed evident
aigns in his eyes, pulse, and muscular action of an
approaching fit. The Doctor immediately diverted
his attenti!>n to somethin' amusing, and this changa
ofideas put him again mto the possession of him-
self. We returned into our house, and the Doctor
said, he wished that his patient might, if possible,
he separated from so large a family as tllat in bitt
father's bouse. He had no doubt, the disorder was
in the beginning pure epilepsy; but it had been a
progressive disease, and had now peculiar aggr~va­
tions. The epilepsy sometimes ended in idiotcy or
insanity: every fit strengthened the disease, weak.
ened the patient, and made the cure more difficult.
If medicine could be of any service in his case, thtt
advantage could not be expected from it, while peo-
ple were allowed to irritate him, and bring on his
fits,
Every judicious reader will perceive the propriety
of the Doctor's remarks; and will think the parents
fully justified in refusing to allow strangers or neigh-
bours any longer to throng the house. Public cu-
riosity had been indulged, and the family had suf-
fered many inconveniences in submitting to its gra..
tification. The boy's aftliction had been increased by
·eome UJJjustiliable experiments tried, and pains in·
1.
1
Bictcd upon him. Whateverwas fairly calculated
to investigate the boy's case, the parents would ra.,
ther seek than shun; for no persons on earth could
be so interested to find out the real nature of the
child,'s malady as his parents. But for persons to
exasperate him, and increase his distress merely to
have an opportunity of witnessing it; and for others
to puaish the child, merely because they were mis-
taken in the nature of his case, was to take unwar·
rantable liberties, which only the most stupid indif·
ference could tolerate. A note was therefore wafer·
ed on the door, saying,-"The afflicted boy is not
to be seen, by order of the Physician."
The boy was afterwards kept more retire, but still
he grew rapidly worse. Under every kind oftreat..
ment the fits became more frequent &Qd more ,·iolent.
The Surgeon who attended him from the Dispensa·
ry observed, that in his opinion the boy's case was
such as medicine could not relieve. 'Bleeding had
been tried &11 far as prudence would warrant tb&
trial, and yet the disorder raged with unabated fury;
and though the boy bad taken medicines in addition
to the bleeding, they had upon him no good effect.
A few days after he said to the Mother, " I am sor·
ry to in~orm you, that we can do .no mor~ for your
Boy: hts appears to be a case wbtch medtcal treat-
ment cannot possibly relieve.'' The Physician and
.Surgeon discontinued their attendance, and thus, by
medical men, the boy was left in an hopeless case.
Physical means bad been fairly and 1killf_ully tried,
and had utterly failed to relieve the disordered
mind.
· Ignorance might h~ve blundered on with ill adapt·
ed apr.lications and injurious experiments, till the
c;onstitution was irreparabl7 ruined: or despair might.
have chained the patient m some gloomy room till.
4cath. llere was a dreadfulmalady: wha~ could.be
clone to relieve it? Some advbtd, "go to the A,.
trologer; he baa cured tnany as bad as your boy,w
'l'here was certain evidence of this fact, that an As•
trological Doctor had cured such eases. Here then
'Was a strong temptation; but the answer was, the
parenta are Methodists, and they will not take any
steps, or employ any means for relief, which are in..
eonsistent with christianity. Some urged, "why
don't you go to the White Witch, he will soon cure
him." The Mother replied, " I will not go to the
Devil for a Gure."
"One Devil," as Bishop Hall observes, "accor..
ding to their superstition, may be used to east out
anothet. How far the commaad of one spirit over
another tnay extend, it is a secret of infernal state
too deep for the inquiry of men. The thing itself is
apparent ; upon compact and precontracted compo..
sition, one gives way to other, for the common
adnntage.
" One malicious miscreant sets the Devil on work
to the inflicting of diseases ol' death; another, upon
a~reement, for a further spiritual gain, takes him
off; there is a Devil in both. And if there seem
more bodily favour, thel'e is no less spiritual danger
in the latter. In the one, Satan wins the agent; the-
tmitor, in the other. It will be no cause of discord
in beD, that one devil gives case to the body which
allother tormented. that both D1ay triumph in the
gain o( a sou{,• · ·
There was hope for him in God: and who tha~
believes there is a good Almighty God, woul4· n~t.
seek to him for help? Yea, even.an infidel parent, in
spite of his creelf1 ifit bad not alteady rendered him
destitute o( natural aft'ection, would be glad of a
friend that would take his tormented child, in such
a desperate case as this, to the great Physician Je•
1us. It has been before stated, that the boy him"
aelf, his pareats, and some of·his.friends were of
opinion, that the malady was occasioned by an evil
spirit harrassing his .mmd, or possessing his b.ody.-
They would not be positive without sufficient evi-
dence, therefore they determined that every thing
should be tried which his medical attendants desired;
and that they would notproceed to seek his relief in
a spiritual and religious way, till the medical gentle-
men had given him up as incurable. This was doae.
It seemed then to be reasonable, in spite of preju-
dice and
----" The world'• dread lauch,
•• Which acaree the firm philosopher caa acorn,"
to be guided by tb.e bible, and to consider whether
this might not be a case of diabqlical possession.
Physical principles failed entil'ely to solve the phe-
nomenon. On the principle of demonianism there
was some probability that, by studying the records
of such cases in the holy scriptures, we might be in..
structed in the nature of his case, and be directed to
.the mode ofhis core.
Ancientdhilosophers, physicians, and poets, ac-
knowledge the influence of evil spirits to occaston
maladies, which medicines could not relieve. The
moderns are divided in their sentiments on this sub-
ject. The eminent Dr. Sauvages, in his nosological
,arrangement of diseases, admits of demtmomania, a
kind of madness occasioned by demons. The emi-
nent Dr. Cullen thinks there is no such disease as
that called demonomania ; and that the diseases men-
.tioned by Dr. Sauvages, under that title, are ei-
ther" 1, Species ofmelancholy ormania; .or 2, Some
disease, by the spectators falsely ascribed to the in-
fl'!ence ofan evilspiri~; or 3, of a disease entirely
fe1gned; or 4, of a dtsease partly true, and partly
feigned."* Dr. C. here seems to make a laborious
• Encyclopedia l'ertb. Art. Medicine, § 293. In his Noto•
10,, 8Yo editiou, from which tbe above aecqppt of hia opiuioll
F .
ti'C)rt to vbtdieate the "tDiekedone'? from the acca:.
aation of doing injury to the bodies aud minds of
men. He i~justly-calted" t&.wkedorul': hisvery
nameis" destruction"t; and h~ who came to destroy
his "Wo:rks has declared him to be" a murderer front
the beginning.t'' It is labor in vain to plead the in·
DOcence of tb.is wicked one; he betrays himself by
his works. If Satan i11o vindicated, our Lord, his
apostles, the primitive fathers, and manyof the best,
wisest, and holiest men that ever lived, must be cri·
t~~inated. When the Dr. exculpates Satan of occa·
sionitlg the disorders in question, he accuses the
patien~s ?f feigning, and th~ spectators of falsehoo~l.
Not walbng to allow there I!! any tnte demonomama
inhis Nosology, withastudied catachresis, he would
degrade the name, by applying it to the false; and
the most evident cases of the true he would hide
among his unaccountables (mania obscura); but
these "demones," as the ancient physicians called
them, are troublesome guests, and Dr. C. evidently
seems confused at their appearance, and would wil-
lingly make any thing ofthem but what they really
are; either real diseases; or not at all diseases, or
,else diseases partly feignedand partly true. Where-
-ever even a learned man opposes what is truth, he
must involve himself in allsurdity.
These two learned and eminent physicians, with
-many others, their tutors, supporters, or disciples,
is taken, the Doctor asaigna his reasons for it in a · marJinal
pote, saying,-" I thus think, because few people in the pre·
·llll!nt time believe tha.t Demons ha,·e a.oy p.ower either over
our bodiea·or our·mlndl-'' This is but a little reason for su
_,.eat a man; b"'' pt'rhapa, it is u ~!:Clod as the.subject willact-
.miL 'l'he Doel~n: c:onfeaaedly thinb with the multitude, lllld
the timu; and, aecording to this rule of forining his judg·
ment, had·be Jived in the days of Xing James, he would hav"
lleenof.the.oppoliW &pillion.
·· t A~,-·-A.poitroo, t ~· tlesvuction,-or,tile deatroJcr.-
-Rev. ill. 1-J. · ·' . ·
·; .Jolin vm: ~ . . :• .
DJiizedb,Google
are qtite at issne Oil this important poiat. NiJw.
" Who shall decide, when Doctors <llsagreo?"-'W'e
cannot apply to any:better author to sit as. umpire·,
and settle the dispute between these clashing auth!)~
rides, than one who is acknowledged to have been a
learned physician, and who, as such, exercised hi&
profession in a place where, and at a time when, d~
moniacs were very numerous; and who, in addition
to all this, was commissioned, qualified, and employ-
ed by our Lord himself, not only to write on suca
eases, but also to restore lunatics to their right
mind, to heal diseues, and to cast o11t devils: I
mean the beloved physician, the Evangelist St. Lu1t>
He, in his Gospel, chap~ iv. 40, 41, ~·:-"All
they that·had any sick with divera diseases,.brouJiat
taem. unto him (Jesus), and he laid his hands Oil
every one of them,.and he healed them. And devils
also came out of many, crying out and saying, 'Thoa
artChrist, the Sonof G.od.' And he, rebuking them,
suffered them not to speak: for they knew that ho
wu Christ." •
Can any unprejudiced man, in his right mind, be-
lieve that any physical disease could give this e.er-
tain knowledge of Christ? and that any disease,
epilepsy, or any thing else, coald thns talk and say
thou art the Christ, the Son of God? or, that the
wisdom of God was so ignorant as not to know a
physical disease from a diabolical possession? or,
that Christ Jesus and his evangelists were such sim-
pletons ae to be the perpetual dupes of impos-
ture1 A man that could indulge such a sentiment,
would give one reuon to think that he was himself
poesessed.
For the reader's satisfaction, the writer will in-
dulge himselfin the pleasure of insertinga paraguph
on the subject from an ex.cellentcommentator, who,
j~ addition to his vast attainments in biblical and
oriental learning, and in general science, basreceiv-
F t I'
eel an education as a rnedkal mon, viz. the &1'. Dr.
A. Clarke. In his commentary on Acts xvi. 18;
.where St. Luke gives the account of St. Paul expel-
ling the evil spirit of divination out of the damsel at
Phillipi, the Doctor observes:-" Jesus is the &-
. viour; Satan is Abaddon and Apolly®, the dutroyer.
The sovereign Saviour says to the destroyer, Come
out of her; and he calRe out in the same hour. Every
circumstance in this case prol·es it to have been a
realposBeuion. \Ve have had several opportunities
of remarking the great accuracy of St. Luke, in his
accounts of demoniacs. His education as a phy,icitzn,
gave him advantages to detect imposture of this kind
where it subisted ; but he sees none in this case. He
5peaks of the •pirit and the danuel as dutinct per-
sons. The damBel bad a I]Jirit of divination. Paul
turned to the spirit, and said, I command THEE to
come out of HER; and ke came out in the same hour.
Had not St. Luke considered this as a real cue of
diabolic pOSBessi(m, be has made use of the most im-
proper language be could choose; langUage and
form·s calculated to deceive all his readers, and cause
them to believe a lie. But it is impossible that the
l•oly apostle could do so, because he was a good nuna;
it is not likely he could be deceived by a/arcel of
Charlatan•, because be was a wise man; an it would
J,e absurd to suppose, that while he was under the
influence of the Holy Spirit, he could be imposed en
J,y the cunning of even the devil himself.'' St. Luke
i5 supported in his declaration!! by the harmonious
testimony of the other evangelists,• a~d all tue an-
cient, learned, and holy fathers of the t:hristian
Church, who all carefully distinguish between phy-
~ical diseases and diabolic possessions. ·
On aquestion ofspiritual influence, these spiritual
men may be allowed authority .to decide. " The
• Sec 1\lath. iv. 24 -and x. 1.-l.\lark i. !14.-alld ace Dr.
\Thitb1 on Math. tiii. 31,
·Christianti" aaith benus. "truly cut out deTils;
and heal the sick by imposition of hands."-" They
:east o~t devils, llJld heaA many diseases," saith Ori-
:~en.-" How )Jlaay honeat men !lave beea by ue
'healed, or freed from devils," saith Turtullian.
These remarks and quotations may suffice for the
present, to show that we are not treading on untena•
ble ground, while we proceed to investigate the na-
ture, cause, and cure of this boy's malady, on the'
principles of demonianism. Physical principles
have utterly failed to " solve the phenomenon," io
discover the cause of the malady, or to afford relief.
Whatever applications were made to the child's
body, made no alteration on his afDicted Jllind :
under every kind of treatment he grew evidently
•nd rapidly worse. There was no particular, steady
aymptomof disordered health, to direct the enquir-
ing physician how to apply any remedy to the body.
But there was evidentl,y much disorder of •ifld;-
this was extremely susceptible of feeling, and by ap-
plicatioas to his mind, his disorder could be aggra-
,'fated or diverted. I have repeatedly aeen his fits
brought on by certain ideas being excited; and many
~time, wheqI have seen some ofthe first symptoms of
hi:1 fit.a.approaching, have prevented them by diverting
his attention, These wpre plain indications that his
disord~r originated not in tl1e ,bqd,y, but in the mind.
·The observation that his fits could be infallibly
produced by esoiting certain ideu in his mind, intro·
duted the enquiry, could not evil spirits escite those
ideas, and thu:briag on those fits? The reality ~
••tanic temptations.ia aeknowledged by all true chris~
tiana: aod they.know th.at it requires all their wis-
'tiom, attention, strength, .aad gr~M» to .conquer thoae
".ghostly eDelllies," b,y whom tbey ...-e.frequently ud
·:violently usault.od, Thosewho sin witlu~~t remor.ae,
•• ·~Jed oaptiJe by·tbe-dcwil at.IPa will;" ~ey walk
Fa ·
"
hidarkness and know not where they go; their minds
are blinded by that spirit which now worketh in the
·Jaellt'ttl ofIbechildren ofdisobedience, i. e.the·children
ofmeo wbo do not believe and obey the gospel. Ifall
.cbri~tians have, like their Lord and Muter, to stand
.againat the wiles of'the dedi, and to wrestle against
Fpiritual wickedne•• in high places ; if all believers
.ne.,d to be apostolically exhorted to take the whole
armour of God, that they may be able to withstand
in the e,·il day; to take the shield of faith w:bereby
.they may quench j,\1 tbe fiery darts of the wicked
.one; and to wattll end pray that they enter not into
temptation; how shall they stand agaiut such spi-
ritual u-iltB, and spiritual potcer, who haveoo armour,
no 11hieltol; who do not watch, who will not pray?
l nstead of its being aatonishing that some may be sub-
dued, and even possessed by evilepirita, I coJafesa it
is a thousand tiDies more astonishing to me, that our
adverl!ary, the Devil, who goes about like a roaring
· lion, seeking whom he may devou!\_and all those evil
r-pirits in connection with him, should be so restrain-
ed, and that men Ehould be so secure as they are.
•j•o that·e,·er-watcbfulguardian pro•idenceof heaven,
which is ro little acknowledged, we are continually
indebted for the safety of our personsr family, aud
propert,Y. "It is," says Bishop J. Taylor, "by the
' merey of God we have the qnietneu of a minute; for
· if the devil's chains were takea otT, he would make
our ve.,y beds atorment, ou tablu I• be a ~~~«re, OUl'
· sleep futastie. lustful, and illusive, aad every seue
should have an objeet of delight aad danger • ala
hyaea te kiss, aad ttl) perish ia ita embracoa.''
It is a maxim ia philosophy, that spirit eaa aet 11poa
tpirit, as well as matter caa act apoa matter: ~it may
then be as possible for aa eYil 11pirit to iajnre a lAamaa
spirit, as for one human body to iajunaaother ltnmaa
body ; and that God shoald permit an evil spirit to
i.jure a human spirit, is DO aore i~llliateat with
· ~·
·the' diviae government, than for him to pel'lllil ooe
human being to murder another human being. To
deny the posaibilityortheprobability ofdiabolical pos-
session, because tne cannot reconcile it with the wis-
(\pm and justice of the divine government, is not t~
caution of pbilosofhy, butthe pride ofreason; and to
contradict faithfu witoesses ofa fact, because Wt" are
too ignorant to account for it, is not so much the so-
.briety of wisdom as it is the perfection uf folly.
" Wbile the supreme being retaius the sovereignty 'tlf
the universe, be may employ whatever ·agents be
thinks proper in the execution of his purposes: ho
may either commission an angel, or let loose a<devil;
as well as bend the human will, or communicate any
particular impulse to matter. All that revelatio•
1nakes known, all that human reason can conjeetore.
concerning the existenceofvarious orders•of apiritaal
beiags, good and bad, is pel'fectly consistent with.
and ever favourable to, the doctrine of demoniaeal
posseatsion." Let human beings recollect, that they
have broken tb.;r allegiance to the universal sove-,
reign, and yiel~d themselves servants to obey the
commanding temptations of the wicked one ; that
tbe,r have forgotten their <;:reator, and neglected
tbear Redeemer; that they have rebelled, and vexed
the Holy Spirit; and then they may be astoJiished
that mercy itself should be so kind as to save auch
. rebels against heaven from the universal and eternal
tpanoy of evil apirits. .
It bas been, and may be ~n asserted, that theN
is no such person as a demoniac in tbeae days. The
man who ventures to use such an as~tertion, ought
to think bow e:stremely difficult, not to say impos-
lible, it is to prow it. If there be an aftliction f~r
which he cannot properly account, that aJIUction•
.for any thing be can tell. may be occasioned by an ,-
e•ilspj.rit. Ifthere be a hWIWl being, in uy flaoe.
·.w$omhe does uet ~ow, au.d wbo:te 11ta~ be as u,n-
acquainted with; that human being, for any thing
'be can tell, may be a demoniac. If there be any
demon whom be does not see, and whose works he
cannot fully comprehend; that demon,for any thing
this asserter can tell, may be now aftlicting or pos-
seasing some human bein~t. That there were men
women, and children, in the days of our Lord and
his apostles, who were possessed of evil spirits, is a
fact too well attested to be innocently contradicted.
·Man<y such cases are so distinctly recorded by the
eungelists, that any honest reader may easily un-
derstan<\ their meaning. And it would be very easy
. to prove, from unquestionable authority, that there
have been similar cases, both before and since the'
-days of our Lord, and in other countries besides
.Judea, not excepting highly-favoured Great Britain.
That horrid antipathy to any thing sacred, which
the boy manifested, was notnatural to him; nor was
it ever seen in him, till his malady had increaeed
upon him. A physical disease will be no more ag-
gravated by the name of Jesus, than by any other
name; but the most fiend-like fury burned in.,this
ltoy, and he was in terrors whenever the name of
Jmu was mentioned. What could possibly oeca-
sion this in a child, the son of religious parents, but
the tyrannical influence of an evil spirit .over his
mind 1 This dread of Jesus is perfectly character-
istic of an evil spirit, and it was evidently manifest-
ed in most of the demoniacs mentioned in the New
·'festament. St. Luke, the inspired and beloved
physician, remarks it partioolarly in several ioatail-
~s. " In the synagogue there was a man Jhat had
a spirit of an unclean devil; and cried out w.itla a
loud voiee, aaying,:let ualone; w.hat have we to do
with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth1 art thou come
to deetroy us1 I know thee who thou art; the:Holy
-one of God."-Cbap• .iv. 33, 34. He speaks of
-aae\.laer who-bad devila•lo• tilDe,. who, ".W&be
1
·~
!
saw Jeaqs, be cried out, and feU down before him,
~nd with a loud voice said, What luzve 1 to do with
tku, Juu, thou son ofGod moBI high? I beseech thee,
tormel&l me not."-Chap. viii. 28. Jesus is the seed
· of the woman, the bruiser of the serpenfs head:-
" Devils believe and tremble." By their agonicR
and cries at the approach of Jesus, or the mention
ofhis name, they show who they are, and how muc4
they dread the authority of their Conqv.eror and
Jaulge. When the child that was dumb through de~
moniacal influence was being brought to Jesus, St.
Luke observes, (Chap. ix. 42.) "As he was yet a cont~
illg the devil threw him dov:n. and tare kim.~'
Comparing the state of this little boy with the
gospel accounts of demoniacs, many pet•sons were
fully persuaded that his extraordinary aiBietion had
the same cause as theirs.
. Several who felt considerably interested for the
boy's relief, were not yet fully com•inced that he
was really possessed; but evidence increased ontb.e·
IIUbject as it was investigated, and no other cause
could be assigned for his amiction, that would ac~
eount for any more than a very small, occasion~ ·
part of it. On the principle of an evil spirit pos·
sessing him, the whole of his perplexing case was
easily solved. As no other cause was so probable
as this, we resolved to meet together, and· lay him
and his amicted case before the Lord ; intending, if
when we came together and more fully examined tb~
6llbject, we should have satisfactory e,•idence that
he was really possessed, we would then, in the fear
of God, according to the ancient divinely athorisod
christian usage,-adjure the evil spirit.
As the arrangement of this husiness was left to
myself, I engaged a few friends to meet on Wed..
nesday, the 22d of 1\farch. · The time and place cf
meeting were kept an entire secret from all hut the
penens and families .concerned. We thought auc\1.
•
aecresy expedient, it not nece8&ary. Tile publicity
of the appointment would have coll~cted a multitude,
that could not hue assisted, but might have hinder-
ed our proceedings. Though we concealed our de-
signs from our neighbours, it seemed as thouglt
Satan had some. knowledge of what was abouUo
take place; for he made new, cunning, and vigorous
eltorts to destroy the child before the day of meet•
ingcame.
On Saturday, March 18, I was called in to the as-
sistance of the family. The boy's fits were longet
than usua,l: he ·was more violent in his actions, more
l·icious.towards the family, and more desperately
determined to injure himself. I saw him, as he
t!tood on the table, with his muscles on a painful
·t!treteh, utterly incapable of helping or saving him-
self; his neck and all his whole body stiff as id
death; he was falling down headlong, helplest! as a
stick which had been set up.right, and I caught him
in my arms. Had not his fall to the grouncl been
prevented, I think he mast have broken his neck.
This appeared to me a malicious effort of the evil
spirit to destroy the lad. Like another murderer
(for all murderers are the children of the devil), he
cunningly led him into such dangerous eircumstan.:.
ces, as dancing on the surbase and table, and thea
disabled him, that his death might appear the effect
of a fit, or some natural affiietion. Oftentimes the
evil spirit has endeavoured to cast him into the fire.
and into the waters ; and he hath oft-times east him
headlong from the table to destroy him. Such cit-
cnmstances exceedingly strengthened my convic·
tion, that the boy's body was not under the direction
-of his own minJ; but that an evil spirit bad taken
possession of him; and now he was the more labo-
rious to accomplish his purpose of destruction, be-
cause he knew his time was s~ort.
The more I examined the boy's case. and the moro
'
o'g''""d by Coogle
-.:::-~, J
I .searched the scriptural and other well attested
,.ccounts of demoniacs, the mor~ I was disposed to
believe that the boy was possessed of aJl evil spirit.
That many thought me infatuated and superstitious,
·and ridiculed my opinion, I was very well aware :
but remembering an expression ofSolomon's (Eccles,
ii. 2.), "I said of laughter it is mad, and of mirth
what cloth it," I concluded, that laughter is no more
an evidence of reasoning than of ru~dness and folly.
And as ridicule may be more the language of blind
-passion than of penetrating wisdom, I thought it was
more becoming a man and a christian, with since-
rity, diligence, and patience, to investigate an intri-
cate and momentous truth, and in the fear of God
and love.of man, to seek a distressed neighbour's re-
lief, than to be discouraged from my duty by the
frowns of the grave, the laughings of the thought-
less, or the reflections of the mistaken. The truth
of sucli a case was an important object of enquiry ;
and, if it lay within the grasp of my ability, I was
fully determined to search it out. " Socrates is a
friend, and Plato is a friend, but Truth is more a
friend." The exercise of charity is as important as
the investigation of truth. Christian philanthropy,
and neighbourly kindness, disposed the hearts of
those who united to seek the recovery of a poor ·
i:hild from the most horrible distress, and the relief
of an industrious family from calamity intolerable.
Jehovah is the God of truth and charity ; to him thD
ease is referred : and those who are disposed to risk
his displeasure, may reproach h.is servants for yield-
ingto his authority.
On the day appointed for· the meeting, several
·friends met together at my house by halt:.past ten
o'Clock. Being five in number, we agreed to begin
the business of the meeting at eleven·; whether the •"
r0tbcrs who were expected came or not. . Accord-
-iagly, at ~at time, l went (or ~e J>.oy• ..AUir_-t . h• 1
showed some reluctance to accompany nte, but after-
wards he consented. When he entered the parlour,
and saw the friends, he wished to return, and tried
to open the door. We took him into the middle of
the room, and -told him we were met together on his
/account, and intended to pray -iHRt him, that he
might be released from his affliction. He resisted
us, and struggled hard to get out of the room. We
laid hold of him, and began to sing :
Jesus the name high over all! In hell, or earth, or sky!
Angels and m•·n before it fall, And dcvila fear and fly•
•li'Au~ Ihe pri110ner'" fetlel'!l break•, And brui•ea Satan'• he.d,
Power into strengthleas aoula it speaks, And life into the
!leatl.
This made him rage furiously ; but we seeured him
on a bed which had been previously concealed un-
der the sofa for the purpose: four men held him,
one at each hand and foot, while another prayed.
We held him, and prayed alternately, for more than
halfan hour; he ti.len became still' and motionless as
a corpse. He continued in this state for an hour
and twenty minutes, and we spent that time in pray-
ing for him, one after another. As we held him hy
the wrist, we frequently examined his pulse; it was
regular, only a little too full, and •·ather quick. His
bowels seemed like a full blown bladder, and consi-
derably resisted pressure. His countenance was
not much altered ; his eyes fixed and half closed.
His uncommon stiffness was the most surprising:......
one put his hand under his head to raise it up, but
it cot}ld be raised only as the body was raised with
it. We placed him upon his feet ;. he rested his whole
weight on the point of hill toes: but even thi!l did not
make him al~er his position, or make him bend hi•·
ancle joints. We l~,iid him again on the bed, and as
he reqqired Jo holding, we ;rested a little.
He presently ·~ame to himself, and we allowed him
to get up and walk about the room. He much ,;isbl-
65
ed to go home to dinner, htlooked at the watch and
held up one finger 'to his mother, signifying ft was
one o'clock. He went to the door; and tried ·to
force his way out. As he was fond of looking
through the telescope, we placed it on the table to
divert him; he loosed his hold ofthe door, and amu-
sed himselffor a few minutes. During this time we
consulted together. We had been praying for up-
wards of two hours: be was still dumb and nothing
better that we could perceive. We had never yet
attempted to adjure the evil spirit; though we con-
sidered, that if he was actually possessed, it would
be necessary to do so in order to his relief. Our Lord,
bis apostles, his disciples, and the primitive christ-
ians all adjured in cases of possession. We felt
considerable delicacy about this work. ·we were
not yet all fully cominced of his being really pos-
sessed, though we had but little doubt remaining
respecting it. To adjure evil spirits appeared 'to
us a very awful work, and we felt reluctant to begin;
but it was now come to the point. we had al-
ready prayed at this time two hours, and he was
nothing better. 'Ve then came to the resolution
we would try the effect of adjuration ; observ-
ing, that if he was really possessed by an evil spirit,
we should be using the proper, 'scriptural method to
· expel him, arid might succeed.. ,Ifhe.shouldnot ha
possessed w~ shoul.d dis~o~er 1~, and .kn_ow bettep
how to submit to th1s aftbction w1tb patlence. I de~
sirc<l one to give out the verse which most ()f au ir-.
ritated him, viz. "Jesus the nanie high· oter all."
&c., and requested, that if the boy made any resiBt-
ance to it, he would pronounce the ·adjuration as
soon as the verse was sung. · · · · ·
we'began the verse, arid he fu~iously . oo'ntended.
This was our signal. There was an "wful silenee.
Others refused,to ~~;djure, and it, bcoa~e.mjduty to
begin~ We held h1m hand and foot: several of thQ
. G .
66
company trembled at this awful moment. 1 began
with supposition, saying, "Ifthis be an evil spirit
which, causes the aft!iction of this boy, I command
thee, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, to come
out of him." From that moment the boy assumed a
new character: he looked most dreadfully, as one
thunderstruck; and immediately, with the most in-.
fernal rage, he began to spit at me, to grin and roar
most horribly. I repeated the adjuration inanother
form, saying, "In: the name of the Father, of the
Son, and of the Holy Ghost, we command the un·
,·h-an spirit to come out of him." Such were the
horrid, hellish looks,features, and gestures, wonder·
fully expressh·e of scorn and contempt, that every
clouut of his being possessed was chased away by
irresistible evidence. It was said, can a human
spirit now have the direction of this body? All
answered no ! Can any any doubt, but an evil
spirit has taken possession ofthis body! AU an•
swered, no! Again I adjured, saying, "If an evil
spirit or spirits look through these eyes, and hear
through these ears, we command you in the name
of the Lord, to come out of him." Then others of
the company adjured, sometimes two or three toge-
ther. The fiend was so fully manifest, that not one
who saw him could any longer entertain the small-
eat doubt of the truth of his being possessed.
Imllgination eannot conceive, language cannot de-
scribe his very dreadful looks, and peculiarly horrid
distortions of countenance. He began to spit on
every one who took any active part, or whoever pro-
nounced the name of Jesus. He continued dumb:
yet the language of his face was very easily under-
stood by all those who looked at him. As fast as
saliva could be secreted, he bespattered us all very
freely; and shewed by his sounds, grimaces, and
sprawling, in what absolute contempt he held Christ
Jesus our Lord, and ~very one of us who men-
DJiizedb,Google
tioned his name. This caused some ofthe company
to obsene, " Woil may the scripture call thee an tm•
cletm•pirit!" .. Thouunclean.devil, we command thee,
in the name of the Holy Spirit of God, to come out
of him, and depart to thy own hell. and trouble him
no more."
He would sometimes fix his eyes on some part of
tho room, and beckon as to some one there to come
to his assistance, and would then make most vigor-
ous efforts ofresistance. " Surely,"said one, "many
evil spirits must be entered into him." " Whether
there be one devil, or seven, or alegion, or sevenle•
gions of devils," said another, ·" ye shall all go out;''
" in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ we command
you to depart out ofhim." £,·ery time the adjuration
waspronounced, he seemedparticularlyexaaperatcd;
and be put on the greater- appearance ofconfidence,
and made the most horrible faces, perhaps to fright-
CJl u from QUf.purpose. Th~ dumb devil did ma-
nage that human countenance with.most astonishing
ability, ·to shew the utmost scorn, J!.atred, vengean'Ce,
and contemt>t· His eyes, with a· dreadful furious
stare, first ID one face, then in another, displayed I
hellish passions indescribable. He gnashed his r
teeth,andgrinned at us most horribly. I~rcquently
he snapt at ua like a tortured dog; then wrinkling
short his nose, half closing his eyes, dropping clown .
his lower lip, and shewing as much as possible of '
his teeth, he made a scornful sound, like nang, nang• .
11ang, &c., at the same time looking dreadfully in
our faces, and signific!lntly giving a nod with his
bead every time be pronounced his passionate syl-
lable of scorn.
Hal·ing·beld him on a bed ou the ground till we
were we!lry, we put the sofa in the middle .of the
room, and beld him.upon that. As we had not to
stoop much in holding him, this plan relieved us con-
siderably. Frequently he strove to bite us, aad di-
. 0~
68
rected l1is principal effort against me. I held him
Ly the left wrist, and as he had often fiercely snapt
at me, like an angry cur, one of the friends said,
"Ah! what wouldst thou do to him ifthou couldst?''
He looked me up in the face, opened wide his jaws,
l.eckou~d to me with his fore finger, pointed intohis
wide mouth, and began to grin and work his teeth.
}:very one will undf:rstand these signs to 1iguify, he
would eat me up. . I replied, " Yes, I know it, for
the scripture says, 'the del·il goeth about as a ruar-
ing lion, seeking whom he may devour.'" ·
'Vesang :
All power is to our Je1us 1lvtln,.
O'er earth's rebellloua Mnll be reiga1 ;
He mildly rules the boat• ofbeano,
And holda the power of hell ia ehaiut.
In :ubi doth Satan rqe his hour,
. BeJond his chain lie cannot 10 ;
Our .feiUI shall atir up his power,
-- ~ --- --::--- · Aud ~:: .;c:::e -u.so!.c~ :-~.
While we were singing, he made most horrid·noises,
·and struggled with a strength, which we who felt it,
could not but deem to be supernatural. ·Darting the
most indescribably horrid looks, he spat first in one
face, then in another, as.fast as he could procure sa-
liva; and when this failed him for a few moments,
in the bitterest rage he would thrust out his tongue
to an astonishing length, as though he were imitating
a serpent with his sting, and make a strange sort of
noise, expressive ofthe most scornful contempt. His
spitting was almost continual, and, although we to.ok
e\·ery precaution we could with our handkerchiefs,
we were perpetually annoyed by his spitting in our
faces. He would cunningly look i~ the face of one
man, collect his spittle, and, in the twink of an eytl,
spit it in the face of another. This :g1ade us fre-
quently obsern~, ;'\\'ell may the scripture say, po~
sessed of an U11clean devil." ... Th<iu unclean spirit, in
the name ofthe Holy Ghostwe cominaad thee t.o eome
wt of hint." One wouldgi~e outa nrse of a h~,
then another would pray ; but whoever was moat
engaged, was sure to be in a filthy condition_if the
eontents of his mouth could be made to reach him.
Aa he seemed moat aenaibly to feel, and moa~ fu-
.rioualy to resent the adjurations, we adjured very
frequently, in oneform or other. Wbeo.we charged
the evil spirit to come out of him, he would r.aiae up
himself with astonishing vigou, shake his head,
gnash his teeth, look with diabolical defiance, and
utter a moat horrid yell. Sometimes he would turn
himselfabout as though be were composing himself,
to si~ify, by his looks and attitudes," Here I will
take my rest in spite of you." Again, in the name
of Jesus Christ, we should command him to depart,
and he looked the moat per-fect derision, and loudly
laughed us to aeoru. Like· men in battle, we be-
4:ante lamiliariaed. withthe horrid scene ; we pushed
home the charge, and declared he should aoon be
compelled f.Q depart. We sometimes u:rged him to
!'peak, aad rebuked b.im (or making the child d1HDb ;
and tolcl him he did this en. purpose to hide himself,
but weJouod him out, and. io the name of the Lord,
he should be forced to depart. We continued sing-
ing, praying; and: a~juring, for about two.hours. It
waa an awful coafhct, and what passed tn our owo
minds is indescribable. There was a poor clt.ild,
evidently possessed by an evil spiri~ and we were
ealling on the Dame of the LoPd our God, and, ia
his.name, conlicting immediately with the powers
of darkness. Should we no* prevail, bow GOuld we
retain our confidence that Cb.ristiaaity waa as tri-
umphant ewer hell as we had believed; bot, by eom-
mandin~nidence, we were all full7 aasued of the
truth. of our holy :religien, aad the 106Dite auU.Oritx
ofour Redeemer, the:ref01e we expected to see be"'
"IUJquiahed by the ..... ofJesas. · ·
·W• began ov deTOt.ional eurcises at eleYen
03
o~d~k, rnttl t'onttnued ·them ·till after thl't~, ·wlien
·&ofl)e<bega1\ •toifeel ~Khauted with eMPtieD; ·We
:tb:ep·~h()ught-it 1V'6&pPOper1o breakour 'fast. Some
Of '11'8 -retired •fer Pet'Peebment into the adjoining
·l!oMit,JJVhile Ule)otbere ·e®tiJNod U.e :ooa8iet. As
tWe-ll'efn.e)MJd earsd~oa•JIII!e;d.olib.Qr&Utd, ·apdro.urqtlan
·-•s,:.toretwmlaSd ~dJO.tW~r ~.in :theraamc
·~aaner; l8Jld,,ah.oJWI JtQt;the·JWi:cked ~ne:be<OX'Pel­
.led .in:tkat.time, .eadl one, iin :printe, aho1ibl1118kc
~iuhe Aubjeot.rihls :praor.oll8, ·till we .-et.:apin _.
it'.-iday.morniag, :~lurn .we rWP11W ,JNt~Jh the .-conftiet
till !tli..c violaf·was obtained. a'..Jar«~'Of ll8 pMSent
bad.to preaeh.in .tbe.eveniag:; eet:l:.to cJit~ppWt,our
congregatioas :wbllld !he uojutifiatile. ·While t.h.e
tfita:t,ofrdlis,p:wby !11'1&5 t'ettrmiPg iqto -the lQQIJl, the
evi:LapirJt .depaded. 'l'be )~ ••,. •otnpo~ad ior
abo•fiopeJJDiilate,~en ·m.se lJP• :apd, wilb a ·look
smoaagel.<y :alfleNd &om hellish rage ud .41Cona ·to
pleM&nt .oompoi!W'e,.eaid, "l·am ·~ll11ow I" He
iwlilot ,•_pokgm, rotoept OCcll3ionallf, ·fmo about, a
IIIOJlth, b.11t oew-the dlUilb -devil was gone .out efhim,
aDd be imwlldiatdy b~ ·to join io.sbtgiog,
., :Pralle God ~ whom all blnsia~11ow·l
Br&iJeJum all ·CI.'eaturea here bt!low 1
; , Pl!&ise,him..W.,•e, Jfi! heaneoly -he~\!
~r~t,ise Fa\ber, lion, ADd Holy GhQa\!
.All·in~ h.o11a,&.·w.f1re immediatcly.on .the apot, to
join the ~WI t.rillDlphant.oborus. The boy?s mother
: !W,a&ao QV.el'.com..e to.·tiee her.80Jl standing at libeny,
·..in hill right mind, :with his 11peeoh retumled,· aDd
-'lli.nging tile. pllai~e of God, that she iall oil Jaer
•knees, clasped· her babds,:lvoked up .to he~Nen, fell
··J'l!oatrate, alld,f~ for )o~. JltJeemed to all the
.coapany.pnesent lilul the·~.m .hettie won; and; as
· wdi Satan·bruiatid DD1le.r.OIJ.I'.feet, we were 'a~pibg
• oothe ahoNl!Of PJl-'ieo.,4ho.uti~Bc&ory1 vio~!
through the bloud!Of,AleJ.embrf TherCJ~JU•a~toaly
• ~lti\fi- rtt;OHl'~,frQQ&,,~ 4cv-'""'iqg .li$'11 ·teeth,
~-- ....::':'""~- ·-·-
li!li!!!:~..e-e-
· --...J'.
"-'-='--
Drgrtrznd by Googl~~ .
. ~-. .. - ...... _.. - __,,_~-..J#-
and a family relieored;&om the II.M'elil tribulation,
bdt theP&was disputed tNth made·twident; spiriteal
agency epenly·DHloifeated ; the powers of hell vu·
qubhed.: and theiJifioiteeuthot"ity ofJehovahJesus,
QUr Lonl,•triumph~y dieplayed·1111d..glorified. ·
Hjrh abov.e every .oame, .
.Jnus, the g-o~at·l·AM!
Rotw-w ·Jewa-eve..,.knee,
T.Jaiqp io>
beaven.-in earth,, inil'll;
Saints adore·him, di'IDODI .ftee,
Fieu"'' and meo, and angels-feel.
We •ho had·witneued the:reliefof ehe child wme
as fully convinced of the natur-e of theroaa~. as ~e
were of the reality of our own existence. The man·
ner of the cUl'e added its corroborating evidence to
all we had witnessed before. We saw abundant ·
reason totriumph in the victorious powerof our Re-
deemer's name, and were truly thankful to God,
that he favoured us with. a participation in that aw-
ful yet glorious conflict. The spiritual profit rc-
~eived, was a good recompense for the reproaches
previously endured. We served the cause of truth
and charity; and while even good men censured,
their God approved, and we were satisfied with his
approbation.
One of the ministers present gave the boy some
very suitable advice; exhorting him to sin no more,
lest a worse thing should come upon-him; to avoid.
the company of wicked boys : and to seek the Lord
with all }lis heart. He was now perfectly in his right
mind, and conversed freely and cheerfully. That
antipathy to Jesus Christ, and every thing sacred,
which he had displayed on every trivial occasion,
went with the spirit whtth caused his disease. All
that surprising strength which the demon gave him,
he took away when he was dispossessed; and he
left the boy as feeble as a lamb. He was for some
days subject to fainting; but this, it was expected,
w.onlrl wear.away as ho gathered atrengtb. As, in
the days of primitive c\lristianity, the name and
power of our Lord Jesus Christ restored the aftlictcd
child to reason and to health, we could appeaJ to
the wondering public, and say, His name, throug)l
faith in His name, hath made this child well, whom
)"e see and know: yea, the faith which is by Jesus
Christ hath released this child from an nilliction so.
horrible, that many of you trembled to see him, and
hath restored him to health and his right mind.
'fhose who had censured, were dumb with asto-
nishment ; and those who had hoped fer !l~tlvation,.
g&\'e glory to Ge~d..
THE RELAPSE•
...
Tho powet of godlineas,'_theindwelling Holy Spi-
rit which God giveth to tbem that obey him, is a
BlU'edefenceagainst the influence ofSatan. "Cl&r"ist
J.., d.ietl' aaya the Homily on the Resurrection,
•• to dMiroy tie nle of Cl&e Detm U. u, artd Ae rose
agaia to aead down~ Au Holy bpirit to nue U. our
.,_,.,.,, He that watches un_l)!~;zer will be more
than conqueror,.through the · ty Jesus. Bot
if a man rebel, ~d vex .the.Holy Spirit; if he will
~~~!;,;.;! ~·~-, ~.-~~-~ii;·iliid---.lviDe
works of the devil ;-Au tu~Mrmrg will sur.ely gain
aa adYaDtage over him. He did so with this boy.
Like some who have tasted that the Lord is gra-
cious, the child presumed on his safety, while he
neglected to pray, and.:ventured to sin; he was,
therefore, soon again subdued. This was a cause of
triumph to some who were forward to ridicule the
opinion of demoniacal possession. Sad cause.for
joy. 1.'bo chUd ""as again fallen into the snare and
powt~r of the devil. .The enemy assaulted him,
thrust sore at him, and again tyrannized over his
hapless prey. The sound of triumph was heard in
our streets; and some who have no fellowship with
the unfruitful works ofdarkness, were, liome how or
other, so mistaken in this case, as to. partake of the
~Ieasure of Satan':~ victory.
Some concluded the case could·not be one of de-
moniac possession, because the e\·il one had return-
ed, Such &:ea~l)n <iprt>ars t•J be conducted by the
DJiizedb,Google
74
Jtlgic of the passions; the conclusion is drawn from
any premises or none, because the soul desires it.
Common sense often observes, what has been may
be again. But this mode of reasoning states, that.
the cause of this malady cannot be an evil spirit, be-
cause the patient suffers a relapse,.ow- because th&
evil one is returned te involve the boy again in
tribulation.
Experimental philosophy aDd practical divinity
will always argue, not only the possibility, but even
the probability of a J"elapse from aprevious fall, and
especially from a pl'evieus habit. The physician~
therefore. guards his patient against.a relapse ; and
the DiviDe bids him that standeth take heed, lest he
fall. The christian pasto.r who is not ignorant of .
Satan's device-s, will never tell his. Ooek, that their
adversa~, the devil, iloDee resisted,.will neT.er. r.e-.
turn and repeat his attack ; but will cry to them, be
ee~,., H "OgJ.J~..1, and . r.ftlliat him,.&tedfast. in th~...-.
faith. This opinion, then, that this boy's calamity
could not be occasioned by an. evil spirit because.he
bad a relapse, is inconsistent with common sense,
experimental philosophy, and sound divinity. One
tlbsenation . more shall close. tlw dispute. on this.
point, The highest authority in this case must be
th1tt of our Lord Jesus Christ. He.says, Matthew.
xii. 43 and 4S, "When the unclean spirit.js goQe
cut of a man, he walketh through dry places, seeking
rest and finding none, Then he Jiaith, I will return
to my place whence I :came ,out;.and when ·he i1l
come he findeth it empty. swept, and. garnished.
Then goeth he, and taketh with himself seven other
spirits, more wicked than himself, aD,d they enter.in.
and dwell there ; and the last state ofthat.man is .
wo~se than the first." 'l'h.eboy's relapse, instead of
disproving the lruth of our·opinion, furnished more
abundant evidence of its a.ccuracy. . This will ap-
p~~r: as we pt:oceed.. '
. On Tuesday, March 28, Mrs. Lose, the boyls mo-
ther, sent in for me, saying, "John is again taken
ill." I hastened in, and saw him lying on the bed.
I enquired in what manner he was alllicted. His
mother, in distress, answered, ... he is this morning
taken quite idiotish !" He lay fingering the bed-
curtain, and took no notice of my coming into the
room. Thestrange, unmeaning, open-eyed, idiotisll
look which he now wore, was, in my opinion, quite
impossible for him to assume by his own art. We
could not gain his attention to any thing we could
say to him. He stretched himself a little, and then
lost tba:tappearanceofidiocy. He wasagairt dumb,
and began to show the same spirit he had manifested
before his relief. 'Vhen he came to himself, we de-
sired him to try to sing with us, ''Jesus the name
high onr all," &."C. He made an effort, and reto•
''ercd his speech a little. 'Ve continued to repeat
the two last lines:
Angela and raen },.,fore It fall,
And devils fear and fly.
1tcstrove hard to sing, orto·say them, till he was over•
come by convulsions, and again lost his speech. We
saw, evidently, that the same evil was returned, and
I was resolved to apply the same remedy, the pow-
erful name of our Lord Jesus Christ. He stood..
upon the bed; I was by its side. He began to grin
in my faee, cle~ched his fists, deliberately took his
aims, struck at me several times, and was very quick
in the motion of his blows ; so that I was soine time
before I could secure his hands. As soon as I
could, I laid him down on the bed, and adjured the
evil spirit to depart ; and he behaved exactly as on
the 22d of March, at our meeting on his account,-
growling, grinning, spitting, and biting furiously. I
repeated the adjuration a time or two, in ditlerent
forms. He looked resolute defiance, and I insisted
on his obedience to the charge l had given. He
spread out his arms stiff as branches, so that he was
nearly in the form of a crucifix. I was opening my
lips to say to him, that is something like the form ofthe
cross on which our Lord Jesus Christ was crucified,
in a moment, before I could utter the first syllable,
he gave me a sharp slap in the face. E1•ery one
who has seen much of him, knows, that when he has
heen taken so exceedingly stiff, he has, at all other
times, had his stiffness succeeded by excessive re-
laxation, and been incapable of using a limb; but in
this instance he acted strangely different. This
made me suspect that he had some knowledge of my
thoughts! Reader, have patience, and proceed.
'Ve will try to p1'ove all things, and to holrl fast that
which is right. Again I repeated the adjuration;
l\nd rebuked the evil spirit for his delaying to obey.
The boy was quiet a few seconds, then rose up, and
said, "All is well now;'' and we sung together,
"Praise God from whom all blessings flow," &c.
I could not but ruminate on what I had occasion
to suspect. I 'ha,·e heard and read instances, ofper-
sons possessed ofevil spirits that knew the thoughts
of others, but never before had an opportunity of
witnessing such a thing; aJld one is ready to sup-
pose it impossible, and, therefore, to esteem all re-
lations of the kind to be but a trick of imposition.
Charity itself must hate impositioB; and, in cases of
this kind, wisdom wakes suspicion to do its duty.
llut suspicion ought not to darken its eyes with the
veil of prejudice, or, in searching after truth, it will
he like an hood-winked eagle looking at the sun.
There must be some power in spirits to receive
and communicate ideas, or there can be no society
in heaven. Spiritual beings must have spiritual
senses; or spil'its must be inferior to animals in abi-
lity to acquire information, or perform actions; and,
in capacity, to enjoy pleasure, or endure pain. To
11ay that Satan, for instance, learns our thougbta
'7'7
from our countenances and actions, is to metamor-
phose his nature, and to give him corporeal senses,
by which he may discover corporeal things.. When
he possesses the body of a human beiJ1g, he may
then, perhaps, see through his eyes, and hearthrough
his ears ; but then, bodily senses can discover no
more ofthe action ofthe spirit than the spirit makes·
visible by employing the body to indiqate it. It is
quite as philosophical to 15ay, that a spirit can dis-
cover spiritual things, as to say, that a body CIUl
discover corporeal things. It is the prerogative of
our Creator to know the thoughts of a(l men, as it is
to know the works of all men. Y ct one spirit JQ&y
perceive the actions of another 11pirit, aa one mu
may discover the actions o;fano~her man. Welearn
the mental op~ration:t of our neighbours through tho
medium of body; and may not spirits learn corpo~
real things through the medium of mind ? It i&
more easy for spirits to apprehend the actions of
nur spirits, than it is for the~ to know what con-
cerns merely the body. Though we know not how
to explain the manner in which spirit converses and
commun~cates with. spirit, yet a little patiel!-t, atten•
~ive examination will convince us, that we have
the power to do so, even in the present state, and
that we frequently exercise it too. What is all our
devotion but spirit conversing with spirit? ·what is
true religion liut the spirit of power, of love, and of
a sound mind1 · God is a spirit, and they that wor-
ship him must w:orship him in spirit. That worship
whiCh is not spiritual, what is it but the corpse of
formality, the mockery ofdevotion, or the abomina-
tion of hypocrisy1 There. is no religion where
there'·is no mind. Has not the reader many a time
sl!o.ken to God in the spirit, whilethe body has been
emplo.yed in earthly things? Have you not been
tempted.by the evil · spirit, and resisted him too,
though ,you have ~ot 1,1ttcred a sound from yourlips?
. . H
o;git;,edb,Google
Thus the christie, in the preient state, i:ollterse•
and communicates with God, who is a spirit; con•
Yetaesand conflicts with Satan,who is a spirit. The
noise of words is11ot necessary when one spirit con•
'terses with another. There are christians who stu-
diously converse with God without the noise ot
form of language. Like infants taughtby their Cre•
ator to ·suck the breast. though utterly incapable of
philosophising about their own actions, we, in this
tbfant state of our existence, perform many spiritual
actions, and enjoy many spiritual blessings, and en'-
dure many &piritual confticts, which our minds can•
not comprehend, and 1>ur language cannot explain.
I hope my reader is not like some, who, during the
atrange passing events recorded in these pages.
have declared, •• I would not believe it if I were to
see it with my eyes," or the labour of his reading
will be lost. Not being anxious, howeve.r, to prose·
lyte an opponent, but desirous to give information to
the sincere enquirer, I shall proceed with my nar•
rative.
Having ruminated on the possibility or probabi·
[. ·lity of the evil spirit having a knowledge of those
thoughts which might be immediately addressed to
hhn, without any bodily organ being employed in
the communication of the idea, I was determined to
try whatever methods I could devisd; in order to
prove this interesting question to my complete sa·
tisfaction.
When the boy· was again taken by the evil spirit.
I was called to the .assistance of the sisters; the
mother was gone out. We threw him down on a
small bed, I leaned over him, and held both his
arms. He struggled hard; but his attention was
not at all directed towar,ds me; his eyes were wildly
staring about. I now tried an experiment. I ad-
dressed the evil spirit in him by my mind ; in a mO>-
ment he felt the mental attack I He opened wid6
Lia eyes, Gxcd,them on me with a furious siue~·· ·
grinned and growled at me, made a -.iolent reei"-
ance, and then the spirit left him again for a seuolt.
The boy recovered his sensea, and could read,. o~
ling, or pray. Here tofU a eortjlict._ of •iad toiti
aiRd. The boy himself was not in 'liia-ftnses ; it
was not in the power of any human being to discover
what was going on in my spirit> but the evil spirit
which possessed the lad knew himself addressed,
ant\ yieltled to the charge. I did not whisper ; bGt
my lips moved. I therefore thought the trial was
not complete; and resolved, should another oppor-
tunity offer, I would be more particular, and would
cautiously close my lips.and show no sign, whatever,.
of any thing particular passing in my mind~
After several days I was again called in. John
was in a fit. I waited till he recovered his senses,
that I might see how he was. and that my next trial
mightbe themore complete. When hewasquite come
to himself, his mother said to him" John you must
seek the Lord, and pray for yourself, that God may
aave you from the wicked one." He instantly be-
gan, fiend-like, to stare and snarl at his mother, fix-
ing his fingers like claws, as thottgh be would rend
her in pieces. She said no more, and be became
quiet. When his mother was gone to market, his
aister sentin for me. I went in. aad found the boy
in a very bad fit: his eyes were fixed, and his atten-
tion could not be gained by any thing we could sa1
to him. This was a proper time for another experi-
ment. I DGW cautiously closed my lips, looked
calm and steady, and, in my mind, adjured the cl"i)
apirit to depart out of liim. The spirit soon resent-
ed it; for immediately he darted his fiendish looks at
me, made hoi-rid gestures, Jloises, and vigorous re-
sistance. In a few minutes the demon departed,.,_..
.d
the boy came to himself, and was entirely div~
.~fall that horrid antipa'f[~o any thing sacred. ,
80
could siDg hymns, read the scriptures, and converse
on.religious.subjects, withou! any convulsion or agi-,
tation. Thas was to me a satisfactory proof, that the
evil spirit well knew what was only mentally ad-
dreseed to him. His .answeringto what I said; and
his subsequent conduct, cannot possibly be account-
ed for on any other principle than that of his being
possessed of an evil spirit, which knew the thoughts
that were directlj• yet only mentally, addressed to
him, as to an evi spirit. No human being, beside
myself, knew that I intended to do this ; none pos-
sibly could know what I was doing, when the evil
spirit showed himself so sensible of my address to
him, and was so expelled by a merely mental charge.•
Had that boy been savingly converted to God,
and been possessor of the power of godliness, and,
as a real christian, watched unto prayer, he would,.
I believe, have suffered no relapse, but when the
• The diRcov.,ry of his having such a distinct apprehensloa
of a merely mental application to him, or to the evil Rpirit, in
any way of religioua resistanee, enables us to account fM a cir-
cumstance wbich occurred pr<•Yious to the ll2d of !\larch, and
was not sn muctl attJ~nded to at the time as, perhapa, it ourht
to be. When the mind iR evidently disordered, rusno indi·
eates.the prnp•·iety of some ment11l remcdy,-nr something, at
least, to divert the ·mind from those thoughts which harau
the passions, and thua increase the malady. Many \\'ere ol
opinion, that, probably, Music might.be of aome relief to. the
boy, by amuRing him. Who·n the hint 11'11& given, 11010e kind
friend gave him ft child's fiddle. Thi~ did uot quite satisfy
him ; and a genllt•mau, who gt>uerally fdl inlert>&lcd for lti•
relief, lent him hi• viuJin. With thiR he wns quite d..Jighlcd
t:O scrape away, ond wns mucli nmu~t·d by his own nr other.'
unmeaning soolltla. llnwenr, in the micl~l of bia mu•iettl •II.
,-ersinn, he hu frrqut>ntly been seiaed wilb his fit>. and had but
just time ttnou;h i11 hiR command tn lny down his inAtrumcnt,
A gentleman who had skill in mu~ic, wished to try the eft'~et of
playing his German flute; but not havinr it with him; the boy
olfere.d him hia violin, and was hittbly pleased to ate him put the
inst•umeo.t in tune, and tn hee.r him play hia little voluntary,
He then began to play a 10ell·known '""9 tune, but devotion·
ally associated with it, in his OlfD mind, the word& of a 11:1""'·
81_
enemy came in as a flood, the spirit of the Lord, in
answer to the boy's prayer, would have lifted up a
8tandard against him. But he has not that religion
which is righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy
Ghost. As children are sometimes taught impor-
tant _truths by psalms, and hymns, and spiritual
songs, .he was instructed to repeat some suitable
hymns when assaulted by his enemy ; and several
times, by thus endeavouring to pray to God, and to
resist the devil, he has, in strong conflict, subdued
his ghostly foe. This life is a time of trial, a time of
danger ; and the case of this boy will teach us the
necessity of being clothed with salvation, and of
constantly and perseveringly watching unto prayer.
Many a man will prove, as well as this child, that
. to be negligent is to be undone. ·
For about five or six days I did :aot go in to see
John Evens. I could not, I was engaged iu another
awful conflict. . Death invaded my family, and d&-
prived me ofmy eldest son. With a bleeding heart,
I could not continue my observations ; . and this
must excuse for the break in my narrative. The
king of terrors, regardless of our feelings, mocks
our designs, frowns on our happiness, and laughs at
our tears, blasts our expectations._ interrupts .our
pursuits, and irresistibly demands a pause.
In the course of the week in which I did not visit
him, he grew rapidly worse. He was taken se~
ral times in a day by the evil spirit; and, while unde.r
his vexatious influence, was so violent as to endruv
ger the safety of the family. He had again lost hill
H3
,-------. .
82
speech, except occasionally for a few minutes ; and
then, almost as soon as his mouth was open, he was
seized with a fit, or, to speak more properly, he tea•
taken by t/,e spirit, which again made him dumb.
In his paroxysms, be frequently tried to get ont
oftbe room, and so furiously kicked the door as to
break the pannel, and so wildly shook the brasshan-
dle as to break it off the lock. Yet be never, at
these times, bad the use of his own understanding,
FO as to know how to open the .door properly.
Sometimes when he has attempted to go up or down
stairs, he baR staggered upon his legs, been instantly
taken in a fit of demoniac frenz1, and has hastily
run repeatedly up and down stairs, bead foremost,
on all fours, like a dog. Thus the evil spirit which
possessed him seemed to take a diabolical pleasure
in degrading and brutalizing human nature. ·
Other demoniacs have been proved, on examina-
tion, to understand wpat was addressed to them in
·)anguages which they had never heard before; and
I had sometimes thought of putting the case to the
proof in this instance ; but when I found that be
could understand what was addressed to him with-
out either words or material signs, I concluded,
· that all the languages of the earth would be alike to
a spirit that could spiritually understand the mean-
ing of my spirit, without any material indication
whatever. Human beings, while in the body, ·in
conversing with one another, must, by material signs
or sounds, label their ideas, in order to have them
known ; but separate spirits, if the1 know ide~ or
thoughts at all, must know them qutte as well wtth-
~out a,s with th~se material labels.
On Friday, April 14th, I was again called in to
:assist his moth_
er: A respectable elderly lady ~as
at our bouse, waiting to conduct me to visit a neigh-
bour supposed to be near death. She accompanied
I
~~ o'g''""d-byGoogle · ---. ~
tt.._ _ _ _
83
me in to see the boy. Pereeiving him to be-so furious-
-ly violent, I found it necessary to throw him down
upon his baek, to sit upon his knees, and cautiously
to bold his arms, so that he should neither strike,
nor scratch, nor bite me. I desired his mother and
this lady to try if by any means they could gain his
attention. They endeavoured, several ways, to al-
lure him, to surprise him, but all in vain; they could
not get a single Jook from him. I then addressed
the evil spirit. He was all attention in an instant,
He began to talk inwardly, without using his lips or
tongue, the sound coming through his nose. There
was no difficulty in understanding his meaning, es-
pecially as there was a great deal of significance in
his looks and gestures. He said, with a majestical
air, "What brings you here?" and made motions
t'qr me to go home. I replied, " I come, i~
the name of the Lord, to see if I can·do any good
to this poor lad, to help the family, and to oppose
your troubling them." He frowned and growled
dreadfully, and began to spit in my face. Again I
tried whether he knew whai was addressed to him
in mind only, without any visible sign whatever.
Closing my lips, and looking steadily in the lad's
face, 1 said in thought, and in thought only, to the
evil spirit, " I command thee, in the name of our
Lord Jesus Christ, to come out of him." He gave
his usual significant looks, and said through his
nose, "I wont!" Again, with the same caution to
keep my lips close, and to guard my countenance, I
said in spirit, " But God Almighty shall compel
you to go." He struggled, and frowned, and angri-
ly cried through his nose, "He can't." I said, in
the same merely menta) way," But he can and will.''
He again repeated angdly and aloud, " He can't."
Here was again a conflict ofmind VJit!t mind, i1t v;/ticlt
1 received verbal. answersfrom the eL'il spirit, througll
the boy. .
--
o:f
These tellts, very cautiously tried, \\·ert>, fo m~~
satisfactory evidences of an awful faetj and· such, I
believe, they will he to every one who desires to
know the truth ofsuch cases. For it is impossible to
account for sllch things on any other principle than
that ofhis being possessed. But demonstration is
oot evidence enough to convince those who do not love
the truth. For the reason abm:e-mentioned, I could
not wait to see the end of this conflict, and there-
fore left him, to visit the sick. I found, on my re-
turn, that he was come to himself, hut he retained
his hatred to every thing good. The wicked one~
bylong possession, bad fortified himselfin his usurp:.
ed habitation ; and therefore I thought, as he now
manifested himself ~o evidently, I would again call a
meeting of a few friends to witness his behaviour~
and to assist in seeking his relief.
The Greek work demon (or daimon) 1>roperly sig~
nifies kno~t:ing, or a knowi1tg one. The ancient hea-
then, by de'»W118, generally meant the souls of
departed heroes, or some superior intelligences
whom they worshipped as gods. The sacred wri-
ters, who certainly knew them hest, speak of them
and treat them as cunning, malicious, and unclean
de,·i1s. "The heathen," as Justin Martyr observes-~
" never imagining these impure spirits to be devi1s.
called them gods, and invoked them by such titles as
every devil was pleased to name himself by. Rut
even the very Logos, or reason itself, took upon him
the form and nature of a man to destroy the same
kingdom of darkness among the barbarians ; upon
whose word it is, that we aver these demons to be
not only not good, but evil and abominable spirits."
On the consideration of the proper meaning of the
word, and its usc among heathen authors, thesacred
writers, and the primitive fathers of the christian
church, I shall call the spirit which troubled this
ooya~. ·
-
so
Sunday, April16, was a day offurious ragE! and
great tribulatioa. His father-in-law took up the
hymn-book to read, and the boy attacked hiin,like a
furious tiger. It was with great difficulty he could
be held. My assistance was requested, and I went
in to help the family. The lloy was unusually
strong and violent. He spoke through his nose, as
from his stomach, without using his tongue or lipsi
and much conversation passed between him and
some of the family, in this way. The boy's mind
was suspended in its operations, as in a dead sleep,
and the evil spirit used the body. The father sait.l,
.. Thou shalt not reign here, to the annoyance of all
the family." The spirit answered violently and re-
peatedly, ''I will." ''Thou shalt not," said the
father. "But I will," said the demon. Father,
44 God shall drive thee out." Demon, "He can't.''
Father, "God is almighty." Demon, " So am I."
Father, "Go<l can do all things." Deuton," So can
1." Fathe;.·, "There is one thing thou canst not do,
thou canst notsave sinners.'' Demon, "Don't want
to," &c.
. lle was so very troublesome, and required so
inany to hold him, that we resolved to bind him
hand and foot. Strong list was procured, lest he
should be injured; this was doubled, and we tied
him down fast enough, wo thought, to hold any boy
like him; butthis was all as nothing. I was obliged
to leave them, and attend ·to my duty. Between
one and two o'clock I went in again to see him. He
was strangely affected; and, though while in hi~
sensea he' was dumb, yet on this occasion, while in
his fits, he spokevery plainly, in a hoarseloud voice,
"Here's the great de,·il." He would frolic about
awhile, and then, in a piercing shrill ,·oice, cry out,
" Here's the great devil." ·~
I liaw him again in the evening. He bad, all the .
after part of the day, been overwhclmned with hof'll r-
~~
ror of mind, and he trembled and moaned DKJ1!t
piteously. He was, indeed, as the scripture so ac-
curately speaks, " grievously vexed with 11. devn.••,
'l'his tormented state of the lad was more dit~tressing
to hia parents' feelings than even his furious beha.
Yioar ; because, in that. he seemed to feel no pam.
but sometimes oven to take pleasure. ·
On Monday, as he had done several days before,
he frequ~ntly ran with his head against the wallt
several times he made an effort to get. up the chim-
ney; he set his foot, without a shoe, between the
bars of the gate,-there was a little fire, and it was
with difticulty he was prevented from burning his
fooL He was now more abused by the evil spirit
than ever he had been before. He had, when evea
in hissenses, a peculiarly horrid look • could scarce-
ly ever stand or sit still, even to eat his food, which
lie sometimes devoured l'ather like a beaat of prey:.
than a baaan being. Sometimes he was so dread-
fully uohumanized, that he really could not fuld his
own mouth to put io his food i. and when his pa:-
.-eots assisted him, and put it between his teeth, ho
seemed to have lost all knowledge how to eat it.
So. deeply was he degraded by the inftuence of thct
evil spirit.
As he had again relapsed into his aftliction by de~
grees, though rapidly. and still occasionally showed
some symptoms ofE~pilepa1, it was supposed that he.
J.Dight be aftlicted with th1s physical disease, inde·
pendently ofsatanic agency ; and that the evil spi·
rit took the adnotage of this amictioo, and mali-
ciously. aggravated it by his diabolical influence, tho
more effectually to accomplish his cruel purpose.:
while the guise· of natural a.ftliction might conceal
the vexatious demon. It is obaerved,resper.tingthe
youthful dumb demoniac, that "Jesus rebuked tho
vnclean spirit, and healed the child," (Luke ix. 42.)
-.-bicb implies tbat be wall diseased as well as pos:-
iessed. l~ut whetherthat disease existed indep~d··
ently of demoniac influence, or was only a conse•
quence of it, was desi~able to know. A .
ruedical gen~
tleman who professiOnally attended the boy was
eonsulted, in reference to his being affiicted with
epilepsy as an independent or primary disease. He
-doubted whether there was any fhysical derange•
ment at all, because no unequivoca uniform symptom
could be discovered. He therefore thought, that
.the whole of his malady arose from some very ex-
trao~dinary, nnnatural, unaccountable ~erangement.
of mmd. He was then requested, that 1f we should
again succeed in relieving his mind, to come and
examine the state of his health ; to this he readily
consented.
On W cdnesday, April 19th, a few friends enga..
ged to meet together to seek divine assistance by
'8arnest prayer, and, in the name of the Lord, to ad•
jure the evil spirit. The time of this meeting was
known but to few, lest we should be thronged and
inconvenienced. It was cautiously concealed from
the boy himself, because of his horrid antipathy to
anrthing relig"ious, and because we wished to get him
1{Utetly throug~1 .the town to. Morice-street chapel
vestry, a convement and retired place. Our plan
was formed on Tuesday evening, after the boy was
~ne to bed. When getting him up next morning,
lits mother desired him to have on his Sunday
·clothes. He considered awhile, and made signs to
her that it was Wednesday, and he was unwilling to
be dressed that day as on a Sunday. She told him
she wished him to go and see his uncle, who ltved at
New Passage; he was very ill, and would be glad
to see him before be died, (He would, ob his way,
have to pass through Moriec-street ; and the inten-
tion was, to detain him there till his mind was relie-v-
.ed.) 1'heboy shook his bead and signifled he was
very sorry for his amietcd ttn~;·buthe did not wish
to go to see tiim.
r·
I have before stated, that at the door was his ora-
cle. He now went to consult it, or rather the evil
spirit there. That evil spirit proved, by the infor-
mation it gave him, to be a " spirit ofdivination," or
what would by ancient Greeks have been called, " a
spirit of Python." The fact may be strange, but the
record is true, that he learned from the evil spirit of
divination the 81tbsta?Jce of what was intended re-
specting him. The place where we were to meet
was not yet fully determined ; and, about the place•
he was mistaken. The devil is not omniscient•.
He may know what is past or present, but he can.
only guess at what is future, and he is often mis-
taken. He has more cunning to kill, than he has
wisdom to prophesy. When the boy had consulted
his oracle, he came again to'his mother, irihis fiend-
like way, staring and grinning, with his himds like
claws, and told her, by signs, that she wanted to take
him into the nex~ house, to be prayed for. " No,"
said his mother," you shall not go in to Mr. Heaton's'
all day, unless you wish it." He would not submit
to be dressed as his mother desired, but only in his
usual way. He then seated himself on the step at
our door, to watch who ~arne to our house.
We concluded it was impracticable to lead him
as far as :Morice-strcet, and, therefore, resolved to
. get him, some how, to ·windmill-hill chapel, which
was very near. To take him by (orce would collect
a multitude. This we wished to avoid, if possible.
His mother led him out a little way, and then heran
hastily back. She returned, gave hi.m something to.
eat, put the market-basket on her arm, and invited
him to accompany her. He set out with her 11p th,
hill, and, at some dist~~oJ;J.ce, I walked gently after,•.,
He watched me a little lf~ile, with mu~h suspicion,:
and then set out to run ~way as 'fast as he could. I~
pursued, and caught him n,ear tli~ ·chapel. Several
friends were waiting ther~, ~d..we forced him in•.
o,, t>Zed by Google
~ome of the aeighbours saw us, and apprehended
what wewere about to do. After resting a little, to
recover breath, he was taken to the n9J"th side ofthe
gallery, which was chosen asthe most retired place.
He signified.hll would leap down into the area ofthe
chapel, and made some cunning and vigorous efforta
to accomplish his purpose ; but we held him fast,
and made arr~Wgements to begin the buaineas of our
meeting.
As soon as be saw the hymn book in my hand, he
began to show how he hated it. We began to sing
" Je1.u1, \be Hmc high over all," &e. .
The boy, in whom the evil spirit was, raged fuioue-
ly. He struggled, stared, grinned,roared, shrieked
and howled so horribly, thatsomeofthe neighboun
were terrified by his noise. Four men held him,
and Mr. John Rendle, of Polperro, who providen-
tially came at the time to witnessthe case and assist
in our proceedings~ engaged in prayer. The dread-
ful unnatural noises be made caused many people to
come and enquire what was the matter. The door
was kept by a person appointed, and many respect-
able people came in. We continued here, singing
and praying, for some time. Our number increased,
and that part ·ofthe gallery was found too much cGn•
fined, and it became uncomfortably warm. It was
thought expeflient to remoTe him to the commonioll.:.
place, and l,.y him on the table, upon coshiou.
'l'here we shquld have more room, and better air to
breathe; we could hold him without stooping so
much ; aad the friends could more conveniently
"kneel in pra.7.er. By the time we bad removed him,
upwards of•hirty people were in the chapel. The
boy waa very conveniently secured on thetable, and
we resumed our devotions without any interrupt.Wn.
Sometime& we sung : sometimes we prayed·; tmd
tiOmetimea we arlJw:ecl thi.evilapirit. BiH.Xoeed,
o;git;,edb,Google
\go
ingly strange looks, scornful gestura;., and terrific
noises, were such as can neither be d._,ibed nor
forgotten. They were somewhat similar, but not so
violent and awful, as they were at our former meet-
ing on the 22d of March. We need, therefore, to
insert only those circumstances which were different
to those of the preceding meeting. In this he fre-
quently spoke, as from his stomach, through hia
nostrils, without moving his tongue or lips. He
scornfully ridiculed the company and their devo-
tions; showed how he hated, yet dreaded, the name
of Jesus. He mocked, grinned, and spat at any
one that pronounced thatname in his hearing. His
strength was surprising. Five or six were engaged
together in holding him : one at each limb, one
at the head, and sometimes one pressing on the
breast to confine him down.
His attention and ghastly looks were generally
directed to those who gave out a hyma, or prayed :
but as he dreaded adjurations more than any thing
else, the person who adjured shared most of his re-
sentment. I had frequently proved that hewas sen-
sible of what I said to him in thought only, without
the motion of my lips or eyes, or any visible indica-
tion of my meaning whatever. I this morning tried
it ag.ain and again. Some of the brethren observed
that his attention was directed to me more than to
'those who were praying, and wondered what could
be the cause. I was then mentally adjuring the evil
spirit, and be knew it, felt it, and resented it. This
was an astonishing fact ; and wishing others might
try and witness the experiment as well as myself, I
whispered into Mr. Coath's ear," ar§ure in your owa
mi1td, and watch the effect." He did so; and when
be saw how the evil spirit, in amoment, resented it.
through the boy, in his astonishment, he lifted up-
ward his hand and eyes. This attracted the notice
of Messrs. J. Kennard, T.·Sibley, and the Uev. Mr.
[;gltizedbyGoogle
91
--. In whispers they enquired~' What is that~"
In whispers they were mformed. They all tried it,.
and they all proved it, to their utter astonishment,
that the evil spirit knew as well, and felt as much,
what was only mentally addressed to him, as what
was spoken aloud. The moment one of them ad-
dressed the demon mentally, the demoniac fastened
his eyes on him, and grinned, and growled, and
would sometimes spit on him if he could. In what-
ever situation the man stood who did this, whether
at his bead or feet, right hand or left, he would in-
stantly stare him horribly in the face, and, by va-
rious gestures and struggles to bite or get at him,
shew how he felt, dreaded, and hated the mental
stroke.
I observed these strange facts, and tried these
experiments repeatedly, with the strictest attention;
I may say with religious caution and philosophical
accuracy, that I might gain all the knowledge and
evidence I could respec~ng such an interesting and
important, but awful subject, as that of the know-
ledge and powers of evil spirits. We all have to
wrestle with evil spirits ; and if we can discover,
what will terrify and vanquish them, we certainly
shall be better prepared for the war.
As a narrator of an interesting and important af-·
fair, it is the writer~s duty to state plain facts, how-
ever str!Ulge they may be, without consulting
whether they may corroborate or overturn those
opinions which have prepossessed the mind of the
reader or his own. The interpretation ofnature is a
better servant of true wisdom than the anticipation
ofthe mind. What is the bubble of an opinion to a
stubborn fact 1 " Nay," says Lord Bacon, " the
works hitherto discovered are owing rather to acci-
dent and trial than the sciences." It becomes the
mind of man to investig~te what is spiritual, as wen·
as what is material. There would be an impropriety~
I 2 !"'
o,~ ,edbvGoogle
/
·/•
in concearmg .,(i,leiTation whiclt might 'be useful
t.o maay, though to 10me it might seem to be trifling.
I have repeatedly observed, that the efForts ofmy
tiaiadbad a considerable efFect on the evil spirit an:i
the boy'a conducL While we were engaged in put-
ting this to the proof this morning, Mr. Coath ob-
served a curioua circumstance. He held the boy's
right hand when he tried the efFect of mentally ad-
juring the e'rilspirit. In the demon's resenting the
mental attack, the boy snapt at Mr. C.'s hand, got
hit thumb between his teeth, and tried to bite it.
Mr. C., with firmness, dared him to do it, and faith-
fully defied his power to injure him. Oae of the
company thought he was trying a daRgerotU ezperi.
ment•, and said to him" Don't risk it." This ex-
pression a little shook his firmness ofmind; and in
an instant the boy had power to give him consider-
able p~n, by the strength of his. bite. Spiritual
courage, and faith in Christ, will restrain and van-
qUish the power of evil spirits ; and if our faith and
courage fail, we give the enemy an advantage over
us. 1'his general truth was illustrated in that parti-
cular instance.
When the ltev. T. Robinson came in, with some
other persons, from Plymouth, the. demon in the.
boy seemed particularly provoked; and, in his pecu·
liar way, he began to cry out, " What brings you
here 7" He scornfully laughed, and angrily frown-
ed. to show how he hated them, and ridiculed their
coming. Seven preachers of the gospel were prc-
aent on this occasion, and more than thirty other
serious and respectable pel'SOns.
This morning was no season of idle curioaity, but
• There an ina•ncea of the l>itfl ot men in a rog• that ban
prod~ horrid •Jmptom~. The t1mo111 fa suppoaed tn 1adre
in th •alin.-Dr, Brooll'• /JttrodttdiOJ\ ~o ·Piay1ic GM S"r-
P"I• ,_1•61.
ofardent devotion, of deep IUld. paiil(ul feeliilg. . I
wu a season of sorrow; and the fast-flowing tears·
ofmany showed how deeply their heartswereafl'ect-
ed, to see a human being possessed, a1Dicted, degra-
ded, and deranged by an evil spirit.
As it was a fact now well established by; repeated -tY
experiments, that the evil spirit was aft'ected by
ffleJltal aa well as by vocal adjuratiOJU, we therefore
applied to the unclean spirit thia mot"Ding fiiOit geM-
rally in mind only. Thus, while one was praying
aloud to God, another was silently, but powerfully
and effectually, rebuking the foul demon~ ·
We began our meetingabout ten o'clock, and con-
tinued singing, praying, a.Jld adjuring, till a few mi-
r~utes before twelve. The boy then became quiet.
His face was pale : and there was something of a
deathly hue in the upper part of it, particularly
about the eyes. Then he resumed a more natural
colour and countenance; and, in a faint voice, he
said, "I am better." As he had previously some.-
t.imealain quiet to put us off our guard, and would
then tako the advantage of our oareleYnen. I wu
reluctant to let him rise till I wu nre he was per-
fectly restored to his right mind. I therefore held
him down, and said, " We shall not let you go till
we know you are better." He said again, with a
little more strength, " I am better." He had not
spoken a senteace, in the n~tural way, for about a
fortnight. so'that his being able to speak like. a hu-
man being was a proof that he was relieved. We
then let him stand up on the table, that all might see
his face distinctly. All that horrible wildness and
tlemoniaeal fvy was gone. Be was in his right
mind ; and so agreeable wasIt to see him reato.re<\,
that tean of joy, ia rapid atreama, saeeeeded those
of sorrow, down the· faces of many who saw &Qd
pitied his cue. The divine presence was particu-
larly felt ia thiJ uaembli, whea the autbority and..
3 .
o,, '"•d by Google
""
.Dame of Jesus was so,marvellously glorifie(L·· 111~
l>oy looked round, like one just come out of a •Otind~
•leep, quite surprised to see so many people about'
him. He was too much abashed to speak much ; ;
bnt.be immediately and beart11y joined us in singing;.
" Praise God from whom all blesaioga ftow," &c.
Scarcely ever did praise more cordial and ardent
ascend to heaven, than when, on this occasion, the
people so eTidently saw hell disappointed, and Satan
vanquished, by the authority of their glorious Sa-
,·iour. As soon as the hymn of praise was conclu-
ded~ a small testament was handed to the boy, and
he read aloud the sacred accountof a case somewhat
similar to his own, given by St. Mark, chap. ix. 17~
-29. The same instance is recorded by St. Mat-
thew, in chap. xvii. 14,-21 ~ and by St. Luke, chaP.··
ix. 37~--4.2.
The boy was restored again: to his parents;. heali.
thy, happy, and in his- right mind. Jesus Christ,.
the same yesterday, to-day, and for ever, had again
set him free frgm •he oppressive power of Satali.
'Vho that knows $his great Saviou, but will trust
him·, love him, worsllip ami obey llim. His power
is the same thrwg/& all ezistence, tMd through al/; dtt-
ratio1t; and those wllo trust in him~ sball never· be
confounded-those who despise him, shalt never
prosper. The God-mao that sutrered deatll upon
the crou is entered into. hia story. He bath a name
above every name, a throne altoYe every throne, and
" 'Ae musl reign, tiU 'Ae Aati pul all his enemiu uder
kis feet; for by him wel'e all things created that 81'6'
in heaven and that are ineuth,. visibleand invisible.
·whether they be thrones, or domiDiona, 81' priaei-
paliues, or powers; aU things were ereated by..him
and for him, and he is.before all things, and by him
all thing!J eonsist.'' The sovereign decree iK g«Jno
forth, " that at the Dame of Jesus every knee shall
bow'," ia· the glorious realms above, and iu'the
gloomy " •hadu below." Man must love or dread
his Judge,-must worship at the Saviour's feet, or,
like the serpent's head, be crushed beneath his con-
queror's heel. Believers have wisdom; and, like
"all the angels ofGod," with whom they are going
to mingle, they" worship Him;" and when the scoff-
ing infidel mingles with devils, like them he will
" believe and tremble."
The medical gentleman before alluded to, .was in-
formed that the patient's mind was quite relieved,
and be was requested to examine the state of his
bodily health. He visited him, made every neces-
sary inquiry and observation, and then thought
there was no symptom ofany disorder in his consti-
tution which indicated the propriety of any medici-
nal application. He recommended, as the best
thing that could be done for him, and all that was
necessary, to let him have a change of air and scene
for a little time. He was therefore removed for
awhile to Torpoint, and placed under the care of
Mr. Coath, who had attended both the meetings.
held on his account, was well acquainted with his.
case, and a proper person to be entrusted with such
· a charge.
· I have particularly inquired of the boy what he.
felt or thought while we were praying and contend.,.
· ing with him, &c., and he manifested such violent
·antipathy. He said, "I was like as though I was
fast asleep, and didn't dream neither; very strange,
wasn't it? not even a dream I I only recollect
·_going into the chapel. I don't remember any thiag:
that was done there, only when I come to myself
· just like coming out o' sound sleep, just before we
·all sung." It seems evident, that the operations of.
· his own mind were entirely suspended, and that
a1101Aer Mind or evil tpiril pouessed and ruled his
hody. Tbia h an au'.fol" but I belie,·e it a eorud
Yiew of tbe 1ubject.
Since the 19th of April, he has sometimes beea
«ssaulted with very Blr011.g and painful temptations,
amounting ttl what may b!' called a~ony of !!pirit.
One day he came to me aDd said~ •• My mind is
aometimea very uneasy ; I should be glad to take
any physic that would take it away. I'd rather bear {'
pain than feel the trouble I do in my mind. Some- I
times when I feel this trouble, I say, I wish th~
Lord Jesus Christ would take it away; and then~
~;ometimes, it goes away ; but not always. I know
the wicked one is not entered into me again; but he
tries to come again. I am sometimes tempted to
clestroy myself. I am sure it must be the wicked
c1ne, for Jesus Christ would not tell me to kill ml-
self." These temptations would continue for half
~tn hour together; but the boy knew they were
temptations, and frequently was relieved by trying
to pray, or by repeating a suitable hymn. Though
he has thu11 been sorely assaulted, he bas not been
!ubdued but for a few minutes, on two or three oc-
casions, when something has offended him, and he
has yielded to a11ger. Thus he has furnished a com-
menton the apostle's expression, where he exhorts,.
•• Let not the Sun go down upon your wrath, neither
&ivedlaco to the devil;'' The learn~d Doctor Jos.
Mea has observed, " that to yield to bad tempers
is to throw out an halter to the devil for him to hang
Ull with." A dueconsideratioDof these thiags migl,lt
be of great use to many who sometimes throw the
reins of self-government on the wild neck of unruly
pusioa. If man will, like a turbuleat animal, dis-
mount his reason, what can he expect but that
some evil spirit, ever upon the watch for such an
opportunity, will take the place, and spur the furious
creature on to aggranted guilt, and headlong ruia.
Bad pa•sioaa moat of all·make men reaemble ficnd_s,.
and spirits_o£a'temper will-associate as well aa birds
of a feather. Like cleaves to like.
The boy waa occaaionally assaulted with these
•iolent temptations for about three weeks. Since
then, even when provoked, he has been as free from
any thing of the kind as any other boy. His cur~
by the name and power of onr Lord Jesus Christ, I
therefore consider to be complete. His safety and
comfort may still depend upon the prudent govern~
ment of his passions, his enjoyment of the p(}U)er of
1Jodliaeu, or his obedience to that Almighty Saviour
who has so publiclr and gloriously displayed his
gracious authority, 1n delivering him from the power
ofdarkness.
If, after the most diligent, patient, caref'uJ, and
impartial examination of this poor suft'erer, and his
awf'uJ case, I should be required, in a few words, to
give a dejiaitive account, I would say,-lae toa a boy
6eltoee7& ~tine cmd te~~ year• ofage, tokoae t1olitima and
'Otlter Mmtalfactaltiea toereow:tp(}U)ered t.lfldrellraiud,
au tolole lxKly tocU poaeaed cmd acftlaled by 101116
emaled •pirihlt.ll beiag of ntperior ptMer. He waa
reatored to the constant use of hia will and reason,
to hia health and apeech,not by any physical mean•~
unholy charm, curious art, or occult acience what-
ever,-not by the power, holine1s, or ingenuity of
any man or men wbo sought his recovery,-but by
the almighty, gracious ~wer of God our Saviour,
the authority of whose glorious name is dreaded and
obeyed by devils themselves,-his power no creature
is able to resist, and his salvation every soul of man
is welcome to receive.
To say that he was cured in answer to prayer.
would not be an tUCIWCJte, because it would not be
a complete state of the case. We found a direct at-
tack ou the evilapiritabsolutely necessary. Though
98
be did not like us to begin our devotions, yet, after
a little struggling, he would be quiet enough, making
the boy like a fallen tree, while we were praying
to God. Six of us prayed for him, at one time, for
an hour and a half; and at another, seven of us
prayed with him for two hours together, and the'
strong man armed kept his goods in peace. ·
"\Ve were very reluctant to begin a close conflil't
with the evil one, but we found it necessary. Pray-
ing to God, though a necessary part of cur engage-
ment, was not, strictly speaking, wrestling with the
wicked spirit. It was rather speaking to God about
him, than directly thrusting at him: he could bear·
that without much conccrn,-this he could not feel
without shrinking. We had sometimes heard that
a peculiar impulse of. mind must be felt, urging to
adjurations, in order to make them effectual ; but of
thts we read nothing in the New Testament. The
authority of Christ must be unchangeably the same,
independently of any impulse whatever on humaD
minds. The Lord Jesus com111anded tke evil 1pirit&
to come outof the possessed; the apostles, taught by
him, charged the unclean spirits, in his name, to
depart; and we, at length, perceiving the necessity
of adopting the same plan, and seeing no improprie-
ty in it, while guided in our judgments by lhe plain
word of God, we made the attempt. The moment
we did so, we found, by its great efficiency, we were
doing right. The evil spirit was roused to tenfold
fury when we attacked him in the name ofour Lord
Jesus Christ. Immmediately we perceh·ed that we
bad gained tl1e advantage ground, secured the
heights, and the possession of agency that would
vanquish all the combined forces of evil spirits, and
would secure the honour of the victory to whom it
was justly due, the great Captain of our Salvation,
CHRIST JEsus, "tlte shield of our. help, and the
ttword ofour excellency."
1'b.e wistlom of God, in requiring us to command
the evil spirit to depart in his name, deserves our
notice and our praise.• Had the boy been restored
in answer to prayer only, we could not, in this mode
of cure, so well have distinguished his particular
case from any physical disorder. In numerous in-
8tances, patients deemed incurable by art, have been
restored to health, by the grace of God, in answer to
praying faith. Those who wrote by divine inspira-
tion, when they describe the healing virtue of the
Saviour's name, carefully distinguish those that
were vexed, or pouused witk devils, from those that
suffered any pby<Jical disease. This distinction is
important, because it makes evident the existence,
nature, intentions, and tyrannizing influence of evil
8pirits; it displays the saving power, the establish-
ed, acknowledged, and dreaded authority of that
amiable, holy, fearful, and glorious nan1e, Christ
Jesus; and it demonstrates the superiority of re-
deemed man over all the powers of hell, wben thus
devils are evidently subjected to him who believes
in the omnipotent Redeemer.
As persons afflicted like this boy have been fre•
quently called epileptics; and as some have con-
tended that the child described by St. Luke, (chap.
ix. 38,) as a demoniac, was only an epileptic, sup-
posing that similar cases may illustrate each other,
I have paid particular attention to this point. From
the mostcareful examination, I am fully ofthe opinion
that John Evens was afflicted with what physicians
call " Epilepsia occasi01«1lis, i. e. occasionalepilepsy,
arising from evident irritation, and terminating when ...r
that irritation is removed.t'' This was occasioned
• The plain apostolic mode of adjuration ia deaeribed by
Luke, io the Aetaof the Apostles, chsp. xvi. v. 18, Paul aaid
to the spirit, I comllland thee, il& the name of Jesu, Ch.ri1t, !o
COIM out oj hcr.-A~&d l1e calM out tlae sanu htmr•
. .t Dr•.Cullen. .
In him by the •iolent perturbation of hi• mind; bat
inatead of this being his primary disorder, it 1NU
oralJ one ofill 10d e.ffecu. This sad oecaliOIJ.tll eft'ect
was by no means uniformly produced, for generally
he manifested such abilities aa the falliag sickneu
could never impart, and sometimes such sagacity as
thatdisease could never inspire. Tosay, th~refore,
ihat lte toGI aJt epileptic, is to giYe but a-111erescrap of
the truth of his case. The child may as well be
called a mania aa an epileptic, and a dumb boy as
either; for his dumbness, his occasional epilepsy,
and his occasional derangement, were but parts of
his complaint, and which,with other evils, proceed-
ed from one and the same cause. This shows tho
great impropriety of forming our opinions from par-
tial views of such cases. Those who contend that
fhe boy who was brought by his father to Christ,
that be might cast out tbe evil spirit, was an epilep-
tic, need not be contradicted, because they speak
some' truth; but if they pretend he was only an epi-
leptic, because they conceal more, they should be
detected. \\'e may be thankful that the scriptures
were written by honest men, who ·11:ere deeply con-
cerned at heart to give us the truth, the wlwle truth,
and Mlkiflg but the truth. Whoe'vermaintainsthere
was nothing but epilepsy in that case, contradicts
the Holy Ghost; and we are perfectly justified ia
rejecting his assertions, who thus opposes the Evan-
gelists, till he has given superior proof of his discri-
miaation, 'Veracity, and inspiration.
This case, which has been carefully examined
and circumstantially described, illustrates and
proYes the,literal ac~uracy of the 1acred writers, in
the brief account they have giYea oi demooiacs ia
the gospels.
'Vhoever undertakes "to explain or to preach the
word ofGod, is not justifiable in giving, as the whole
truth, only one part, aad keeping back nineteen.
...·.
····.
M ·.·.
. ...
...
This inheating ~simplicity,·~4-}\ultiaghim olr
with t\oly a prov1acial shilling, inste~cl.gf honorably
•ending him away with the royal sov'er.ei&!l of diviDe
truth. .. BehoW I liM' lpialt die ·l»•r>i'c:ts, saitl:l
the Lord, that ateal Diy words every oJMJ'(rom hit
neigb}!our." Thus to adulterate and .:Ullhe ?"Ord
and ttuth af God,and circub.ttto\lt' aBuriWiieaiij phi-
losopbical aotioaa, instead ofthepare gold dratbcfra
the stamp of illspiratiea,ia • teach those ~bo:tte­
lieve us, that the Holy Ghost, and his holy secr~ia:.
l!i.-,.aao:tioaei valpr en•, aDCl ~ 'tfm'
truth,- ia declar~ some to be pos~aed o( unc}8j.]l':··
.~en1s ~ho :Wereprerelji amicted 'ri.t~ p~ysic~l .Qia..:.·::: .
eases, and lfho, nuilt'ellld (/f ~e-ediWg m ollilupotent : .
Bedellflber teo Me _..~"ftl}t WM111tiC a pll(IIM&pli- •• ··
a.l·duotor to cdfttlMIIti- 'F.be_..u.&kil....'s
dao. G-od J&aa .,de_
it - •ve~;J U4'a&are?,a; Jill1t.
The ~small part of it w'QJ. aeJUl a man onlr t,o 'his
.neighbour; t'he tdole will bring him 10· l'us 'God.
1'he injury Satan has done to human aatve made
an maipotext Stlf!imtr ttlltJdNiltt!ft·wa..,.,: aad for
this purpose the Son ~ fik:ll:l 1MI·~ifested, that
he might destroy thtt wwa·df 1111.--drevil. The in-
jury.Satan is stil~ able to .do-~~· die nece1sity of
a llDJversal, alm•~· . ev,- ~~ S.tliotcr. He
that is wise for A· ·' If, \fiB, -m~·l>~vid, pray for
himself. " Oh t7iri1 ,.. ._'ill ~ ~:" aod for
the edification of othe-ra,-•-rf..._,~ tpea1! let lit.
-1peal ~the oraclef..
J (htl,~ fMtlrw•U tluag~ ~o.y
be glorifi~ tl&rougl J~·PAri!f, .~:~ fie praile·
•Jid dominionfor ~ a~ C~C~er, ., A~"
• • ~ ,· ' I •
K
DJiizedb,Google
...
• . ' . t •
.~· .... .
.--~··:·.ATTESTATION
..
'r.f? TRB Tll'UTI{__OP' THE NARRATIVE•
. .
•
.·,;£, tclaole tuntaet ewe ~. latn1e W eertai•
·<: )mowledge oftlae utraordi'IUJry a.fftictim& of JoH:N
• EvENS, tzrul olio Ail reetmety by prauer arul at§tc·
: ratio~& ia tle II4UIN of 0111' LoaD J:ssvs CHRIST~
; Au toe ore all folly~ tl&sl U& tlit fiOCOittll
ofAilat»fidarul ~"9 caN, tle autl&or Ia told
. THB TRUTH, AND NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH,
.. r ·
'tHOMAs RoBINsoN,
THOMAS .SIBLY,
JOHN XllNNARD,
ROBERT MACOUN,
WILLIAM .ALMOND,
WILLIAM POPE,
THOJIAI MAY,
8AJitJEL BATBMAl'f, -
Jou!t RB:N:ou, ·
WILLIAM COATH,
GENERAL REMABKS
ON
Demoniac Possession, Ckriltian Expul6ion,
&c. &r.
H 0 W Satan performs his dreadful work~ of injury
in human nature, we may not be able to explain;
but the fact is certain, that be can not only poaaess
and destroy the spirits, but also the bodies of men~
That eyil spiritual agency has brought Nriou dis-,
eases into the bodies and minds of different people,
is declared on the authority of God himself. Satan
d~stroyed Job's children, ser""ants,' and cattle, and
he " smote Job with sore boils from the aole of his
foot unto his crown,'' and ku grief waa 'Dei'!J great.
The man possessed of an unclean spirit, that called
his name ;Legioa, was a furious maniac, exceeding '
fierce, dwelling with the dead, a terror to every
traveller, crP.ng, and cutting himself with stones. r
(See Matt. vtii. 28; Mark v. 1,-20; Luke viii. 26, ·
-39.) One poor creature was brought to Jesus pos-
sessed of a devil that made .the miserable patient
.blind and dtmth. (Matt. xii. 22; Luke xi. 14.) The
child whose case is so frequently referred to, was
lunatic, epileptic, and dumb; and .the foul spirit
which possessed him tqre him, and caathim into the
fire and into the waters to destroy him. The wo-
man of Canaan's daughter wasgrletHnuly "eud with
a devil.-(Matt. xv. 2.) "And behold ·there was a
womanwhichhad a apirit ofinji,.,.ityeighteenyears, ,
and was bowed together, and could in no wiae lift
up herself." (Luke xiii. 11.) Satan bound her, but
K2
104
Jems loosed her bondL There was a gre«l Nriely
in those cases: but therewas one common cause, m
evil spirit. Satan is still the same powetful, cUD•
ning, and JDA}iciou e~~ ef maa; and Jesus ia
still the same almighty, wise, and loving Redeeg~.
er, the ~eat Physician. and compailionate SavioUJ"'
of o•.uy: lumum ~,ld.
"We sec," says the. Rev. los. Caryl, oaJob ii. 7,
" that Satan, if he be permitted, hath a power to .t-
8i'lt the body with disealet; and that it iAt a power
~anseending all the !!ower that is in man. Mau ia.
able.to wo"nd the body of his btother with a mate-
rial hlstnJ.ment ; bat all the tyraata in the world
cpnot. amite- the body with· a diaease. or eommcned
a 1080' into sieJcness, though God should sayto them.
as· here (v-. 6) to ~·atan, I give you lean, yet they
1ll1lSt leave that to ~atan, whose help is sometimes
begged by fftrious wretches who·would kill their .
br~threJt· w~out ~ sword1' and' v-ex them uitselllt~
~en must have !J weapalj ~ti 8mite with: .but s·ataQ
~al) smite aml kilt without a weapon, if God aa,-·the
word. Maa ca• ,mthe blood, but Satan·ean poi-
.m. the btood. lie can infect tlte humours and
t!lint ~he s.ririts more subtilly than the most ~tkilful
poisoner tn Rome. As cruel men C:l1l ltiltd in
ehains, and east the body into prison for mMly
yeats,so Satan ean bind the body with a spirit- ofin~
tirmity as with a chain. (Ltlke xiii: 16.)"' ·
It was by acorporeolposseui01t that uur adveJ!tlnry
~ devil began hiS dreadful work of deception antl
marde~ on the human race. 1/e posse$SJJtl " iwfllit,.
~n<J., speak~ng tb.roqgh it, teJPp~d ~hi! w.o~ !ll
~~ ~- ~v.i\.
" Of u.,t (MIIU4<'n leee, whose -taJ. t.,te
" .tlroua!lt ~at~ into tile world. and aU ow wol'."
Hear Bishop Beveridge, N1 bisa~ermen- oa P~T~
svi:. 4.-.. ~11111 --~made ia a sta&e ef pu-rity u.C
105
perfection, like that from which fM devil ancl·IU. mt-
geufell, tbey,envyinghis happiness, contrived how
to bring him down into the same wretched condition
·with thellll6lves. For which purpose the devil
knowing the serpent was more subtile than anybeut
of the field which the Lord God bad made (Gen.
iii. 1), be, the better to cover his design, entered
into a serpent and spake by him, as be bath often
done by those whom be hath possessed, and as the
angel spake by Balasm's ass. For that this was the.
devil's act in the serpent we have the authority of
Christ himself, who therefore saitb, he was a mur-
derer .fro'- tlu beginniag (John viii. 44). And the
same appears also from the apostle calling the devil
or satan, the great dragon, "That old serpent which
dP-ceivetb the world." (Rev. xii. 9, chap. xx..2, 10.)
J'or so be did when he deceived our first parents,
in whom the whole world, or all mankind, was con-
tained. "Through envy of the devil came death
into the world." (Wisd. ii. 24.) This subtile ser-
pent, therefore, not daring to venture upon man, for
fear ofbeing worsted, be set upon the Woman, think-
. ing that she might be more easily deceived, and not
doubting but, if he could get her down, the man
would fall with her, as it came to pass."
The governorof the world is wise and good, with·
out iniquity; just and rigbtis he; and itiU becomes.
the son of man, who is a worm, to
" Snatch (rum his band the balance and the rod,
lkjudge bls justice, be the pd orGod.',.
For t~e. God of wisdom knows best the propriety of
permitting such awful ravages to. b& made on the
souls and bodies of men, by those eYil spirits whom
man has been so foolish as to believe and obey ; so
wicked as to imitate and to join. And shall men
.:omplain of the divine government, because it per-
mits the father of lies.to visit his IODS in wickedness
~tl companions in crimes? Manx willnqt belie~
.K3 .
o,, t>Zed by Google
106'
the Lord who came from heaven, nor Moses and tL.r
prophet&, the evangelists aDd the apostles, and faith-
,_. lniailtert; perbap1- they will believe if 1-0me
f!'Yil spirits be permitted to ahow the-.elvea in
the extraordinary: .olietiona of men.. The Lord:
hi'lllSelf, maltitl&dcs ofangels, aad countless numbers
of good mea,. have bol"De their testimony to a. spirit-
ftat world ; ..d aa. their te&timonies ha•e been re-
jected, and 1MB has believed the momtrous absardi-
ties· of i1lfi.delity, in opposition f.9. the-m all,-why,,
then. what c:ould wisdom do better than fA). permit
unelean spirits..legions·ofde.,ils to shewthemselves,.
and prove &o man., by trou6liflg him, that there is a -
•pintnal u well aa a. material w:orld 1 Why should
not God permit~ataD. to.play the foG~,. ifmea may be·
benefitted hy it?
Heaven, earth, and hell, have alTborne testimony.
' to the reality and natu1·e of a spiritual world ; and,
·let the infidel who compliments himself with the·
title of philosopher, look which way he will, abol'e,.
arouncl, beneath, evidence will' confront him and.
derD{)nstrate his folly. Heaven he wiH not seek,.
earth cannot bear him long,.hell .is moved frem be-
neath to meet him at his coming; devUs will laugh,
him to scorn, and he must be the heir of everlasting.
·shame and contempt. Such is the folly, the degra-
dation,.the wickedness, and misery of infidelity.
God permits evil demons to possess human bodies,_
in order to eonvince unbelievers what blackness of·
· darkness, what terrors and punishment, what tribu-
lation and anguish, what overwhelming horrors re-
main for those whQ, reject the Saviour, and must
;therefore be wholly given over to those powerful,.
malicious, cruel splrits, to be tormenied for ever and
These eorpo11eal poue11ioaeaaybe jdtlly, wisely,
apd gracioualy permitted to ahew us bow tbe great
IO'T
lidvernry. of man iajures the souls of all wlto ·arc·
spiriiually possessed aod enslaved by him and sin.
For as Satan, when.he possesses the bodies of meD,
makes one blin~. aoother deaf,.auother dwnb., ano-
ther crooked-one sore, and another •oid of aU
sense,-oue foolish, and aaother mad,,....but all hate-
ful; all wretched, and all miserable,-so, in what-
ever souls he reigns,. through sin,. he deprives thtmt
oftheir spiritual dignity,. ability, and senses. He
renders them blind to their beat interests,. deaf tO>
the voice of God,. and dumb to hi• praise. He
makes them as mad men. and fools in spiritoal things~
.sore in pride, and senseless ilr conscience,. cunning
and strong to sin, but ignorant and feeble in what-
ever concerns their everlasting salvation, happiness,
and glory. The demoniac whose body is possessed,
is much to be pitied ; because he is compelled to
obey a tyrannical influence which overpowers his
:reason and his will ;. the ainner,.whose apirit only is
possessed, is. much to be condemned, because he
wilfully neglects sabation, and yields a willing obe-
dience to this satanic influence which tempts him to.
sin and destructioa. l'
It is an awful' truth·, that evil spirits exert great
influence in the souls of all who know not G.od and
obeynot the gospel ofoorLord.JeSWI Christ. •• The
whole world,,. saith the apostle John, ••Iietbin wick-
edness;" or, according to Dr. Macknight, "The·
whole world lieth under the wicked one. The whole·
world of idolaters and infidels lieth under the domi-
nion ofthe del!il." To which the Doctor adds, in a
note, (1 John v. 19.,) ..The whole world denotes all
the idolaters, infidels, and wicked men of the world,.
who having made themselves the subjects ·of the
devil, it may be said of them, that they,lie ttnder the
tcicked one; they are under his dominion; just as it
_
is said ofbelievers, in the ne~t verse, that they are
it£ or under tke. trru God, b!J being uAr.lt:r ~ Son. The
100
po,v-et' of t'hc devil in this lower world, and over its
inhabitants, is often spoken of in scripture. Thus.
}:pbes. ii. 2, he is called the prince of t/r$ power of
the air, tlu! spirit which now iniJ)ardly worlteth i11. tltr.
d.ildren ofdiBObedience•...-2 Cor. iv. 4, he is called
tho God ofthis world, and is said to blind the mixda
11(t/r$ unbeliever1. Wicked men are said, 2 Tim. ii.
26, to be held i11 tlae 11&4re of the deml; and, Colos.
i. 13, believers are said to be deliveredfrom t/r$ pout·
,.,. f!fdarlmul, aad 1Ta7lllatedinto the ki1tgd6m of Ail
(God's) belrmed 1on." Another learned and venera-
ble divine speaks in a similar strain :-" And, in
general, we may observe, that as no good is done,
or thought, or spoken by any man, without the as-
sistance of God, working together in and with those
that belie,·e in him,-so there is no evil done, or
spoken, or thought, ..without the assistance of the
devil,' who worketh with energy,' with strong and
secret power, • in the children of unbelief.' Thw
ltc entered Judas, and confirmed him in the design
of betraying his master. Thus he 'put it into the
heart' of Ananias and Sapphira ' to lie unto the
Holy Ghost.' And,in like manner, he has a share in
all the actions, and words, and designs of evil men.
As the children of God •are workers together with
God,' in every good thought, or word, or action,~
so the children of the devil are workers together
with him, in every evil thought, or word, or work.
So that as all good tempers, and, remotely, all good
.words and actions are the fruit of the good spirit,
iu like manner all evil tempers, with all the words
and works which spring fron1 them, are the fruit of
the evil tpirit; insomuch that all the worka of the
jlal, of our evil nature, are likewise t/r$ work OJ the
devil. On this account, because he is contiaually
i·nciting men to evil, he is emphatically called tilt
tempter."•
•lley•.J. Wesley, Sermoa 1111o &•il Spki"'
" Where,.. says piD~~S Bishop Hall, " do we not
see that accursed spirit1 He is on the bench wlaea
the mate- or partial judge apeaks uot for tnth and
innocence. He is ia tAe pulpit when the prophets
of God smother, or halve, or adulterate the meuag~
of their master. He is at·the bar when irreligioua:
~rora dare lend an oath to. fear, to hope, to gain...
lie is in dle market whea. godless chapmen, w
tMil' peaay, aell the tn.th and their soal-. He ie i•-
~ coiDlD.Oil coDYersatioiJ of men wllen the t~·
Jae)ies tbe heart, latten the pilty,. balketla reproofa
even in the foulest crimetr. 0 I thou who art only
stronger than that strongone, Qaat him out of the
liearts and mouths ofmen. Itis timefor thee, Lord._
to work, for they have destroyed thy law.''-.8u4op.
Ball'.-ctnttemplations; Dumb .Detnl.tjccted.. ·.
· Another learned diVine, Dr. DtWd, ia h$ ael'll'lon.
pn. the:~~n dispo~se.ss~d of~e iegio~ after consider....
ing the c~e.of tbed~¢oniae, observes: '·'This i~ the-
~1114 state of t)le in~n &ftiritttallgposses~d, whether,
Jt lile,by the devil9f covetousneH, drunkenness, lust,.
pride,. e11-vyinp, or any other of that infernal crew,.
which W. !Mgio~- attack mankind. Let the covetou&.
.,_ dltaw oft' t4a l'eilo. qd tcemble to see h~elt:.,
iD thia frightful view. possossed o£ il!fern.al spirits.
•rArul what tao might we say of the tkiif, and th~
trulrderer, of the liar, and the swearer, who is conti-
nually crying o:u.t, day and night belching_ hjs red-
hot oaths to heaven, and calling down speedy nn-
geance on his impious head I What shall we say cf
thes-e, and of the workers of iniquity of every sort
!Uld' kind, but that they are like tho. demoniac pos-
sessed ef devils, yielding their members.as instru-
ments to them and to unrighteousness, and to th~ir
own bi~ra.ad final destmotion. Oh that they, and
ali: tD.der his domioion,. would,. from this di8play,_
•criollllf conJSi.8e~: the power, maliccL &Jl.d lJ(ll.lalLi.
11&
of the evil spirit, hct'ore it be too 11lte, that they may
not be driven for ever from tlie preSence of Jesus,
nor have the great deep flash up with ·fierr billows
to receive them, and close, for ever close, tts horrid
jaws upon them. This display of our spiritual ene-
my's inveterate hatred to mankind, must surely be
sufficient to raise our detestation of his service, to
awaken our fears, and ~ arouse our sleeping negli-
gence.'' Considering how much men yield to the
temptations of evil spirits, it is astoniahing bow bea·
ven interposes to restrain the p4)wera of dtrkneu,
end to sa\'e poor sinful man. ·
Lord Chief J~sti~e Hale, in a discourse concern~
ing the mercy of. God in preserving us from evil
angels, written at Cambridge, March 26, 1661, upon
occasion .of a trial of certain witches, observes :
"The evil one has great advantage over man•..:....I,
By his great experience and subtilty.-2, By hit
invisibility and ~wi!tneis, where~y he c:m·secre!ly
and powerfully msmuate arid m10gle htmself wtth
tbe subject he means to mischief. He knows the
avenues into men; and he kJJiii~s how most subtilly
andunsuspectedly to seize upon them. In reference
to the body of man, he knows its humours, its tem·
per, its .distemper; and hath the advantage of the
higher ground. He can watch his advantage, and,
undiscovered, drive into him a malignant air, or a
venomous iufusion. His experience in natural
rauses, his acquaintance with natural constitutions,
and his odportunities to diaturb or envenon ; his
t<peed an imperceptible motion in the insinuatio•
of himself, and his experiments upon the bo4y, ren·
tier it, upon a bare natural account, Jl)ucb subject to
his power.
·" And no less ad,·antage hath.he upon the soul ;
first, in respect of itself, and its own spiritual na.
~re~ lfherehy, in all p,robability, be can ~et.ly
111
ud immediately insinuate himself, and persuade,
excite, deceive, and abuse, as a subtile man .can deal
with another of more simplicity. For it seems .as
reasonable that one spirit may communicate with
aoother, in a kind proper to their nature, as oneman
may ~mmunicate to another, in a kind suitable to
his nature. 2, And principaHy in respect of the
manner of the operation of the soul of man in.com-
aunication with the body, whereby it bath a kind
of dependance upon the constitution of the b.ody,
aDd, by ,. disorder in that, becomes I!Uhject to a-
disorder in ita actinga. Upon this account be can
clistub the blood into choler or lust, abuse the fancy
with false representations, or corrupt the organ of
aenae ; .enrage aad discompose the humour~ of the
body ; mingle ingredients with them that shall im-
pede or corrupt the actings of the soul.
• cc We are too weak to deal with him. He was too
hard for Adam in his innocence; and, therefore,
muat needs be too hard for us in our corrupted.state.
It remains, therefore, that the power and malice of
thU great enemy is checked and limited by a higher
power. He that hath shut up the sea in bars and
doors, and said ' hitherto shalt thou come and trO
lartber, and here shall thy proud waves stay,' hath
likewise limited this proud, malicious, and powerful / -
advenary,ud chained up this·unruly and ravenous
wolf, ao .that he cannot go one .link. beyond his
ltouada." . .
To all who :witnessed the d~liveranee of 'John
~veila, i~ waa ~ 'cause of uaspeaka~le joy, to see so
evident a proofof. th~ un,diminidled epergy ot·our .
~r4 Jesu-.·Christ, ~dhow .gloriously triumphant
~ver th~. ~o·te'of he}\ w~s_.hii ~hty name. •' That
~eetliarmo"ious naate, :Which1s the g~ost debghtful
.~uii~Ja atr~arbl~ng sm.li~r's ear,_and cjpenil heatO:~ .
iD ~ beliemtg he~, st~ea ~rror through the
. . . . . ~ \ '
'IIJ
"Loltta of beU, md .pats them all to llight.. Thia ,..
'Often proved in the primitive days of christiurity,
'When christiaDS/:Mced the UeDlOIIS Whom the hea-o
theas Wtll'sb.ippe , to own they were ·but devila; aad,
by the powerfulaame of our Jesus, compelled them
to depal't from tae persoas or places they -lwli
possessed.
It has been promised, that witnesses sflonM be
produced to prore the truth ofsuch a atatelftelit. l-
am happy to find a good n1111lber of them a1mdY"
collected by the Rev. Dr. D; Whitby, ill hiS " Wml
of Failh, or, ma emieat10ttr to mnce tile ~-,.
~f the Christia1t. Faith," page 1'73, &c., aDd iti his
" (}enn-al Preface to tlte BpistleB,.. in his CoiODle•
tary on the New Testame~~t. His design, Ui t1t~
p~faee, is to evince the divine autlwrity oftire Epis-
tles, and the Truth of the·Christian Faith. Sect. s.
he ?bser~es : ." Our Lord promised, .that ~ey who
believed m h1m sh04lld ecut 01lt Dooill, which pN·
mise he perfcmaed with such a constant IIC8Be o(
gloriou instances, and sucb ama.siltg circumstaaoea.
if in tlleir matter woe may credit tbe primitive pi'"Q'"
fessors aad m~tyrs ·of chriatiaaity, that itu not poe-
&ble for aoy ~IKl to donbt tile-truth and.cer-taintyof
the chtistian faith, wllo doea·not look UPQB tlMill: WI
i-.,adent unuuths aad lyiQglegeais. ~IW; •
"t,.Let -.·cfJJIIIWer towboa thiB pdww ~eea.
naittell~I' thitr>strong mu.umed, ov..- dle• ptia•
~ipalities, and the rulers of the darkness of this
world. Our blesaed. SaviolU" having said, •Behold,
1 gi'lm yo• a'rtth'orfi},' over.all'the power oftfle'eltem'y,'
great'multitude'S' of chrl$tWW g~ve a eoutln'UAI de-
mcntstrarion bf ttit! \iitttl of' tllte1 f&tU~tiilti. ·Fo'r.
• that our L&td' ~ ·selnJ'•fi1f•'tl\1f tl~'S~1i!1n of
ttrese' eril spir_kS,,~·Dta:Yiio\ti l~Ht, 'sllitrf'.ftllrtin
lit; (~)j •'rtonr.'t~lt .w:~b~~ ·~e10¥e ~our eye :t: f~
·"· ; V· · {l~ A~df:·H P•
' 4b,
'11.3
1nany christiana throughout the.•odd, ud iJi 'the
'Very city of yollr empire, having healed many that
were possessed of the devil;. and still do they eject
them, by invocation of the name of Jesus, whom
none of your in.chanters, conjurers, or sorcerers
were·able to expel.'
" •These christians are not few,' saith Origen, (b)
.. who eject devils from them that are possessedwith
them; and this they do without all curious arts, or
eny sorcery er magic, ·only by prayers and simple
lldjuratioa of them ; .for mostlythis is done even by
tbe meanest christians, the grace assistant to 'the-
word of Christ demonstnting by this, t!be. devil'•
weakness, that, to espel them·from 'the soul ·an•
body of a man, tltere is· no need of· men of will"o
dom, or powerful in demonstration of the ·faith.'
• Now,' saith he, (c) ' were not Christ -ef a diviae
composition, the devils would not thus quit the bo-
dies they possess, atthebare invocationofhis name.'
• Every ilhristian hath command over devils,' saitll
Clemens: (d) 'yea, such is the efficacy of the name
'Of Jesus,' saith Origen, (e) • that it sometimesprofl:ta
when it is used by wicked men,' ·according to our
Lord's prediction, that, at the dreadful audit, many
should be rejected who could make this plea, • he
tll.y tu~me we have cast uut devils.'-(Matt. vii. 22.)
It was sometimes efficacious .even when naed· by
them who were no followers ofthe Holy JeKs; u
m the instance mentioned by St. John, "Master, we
nw one casting out devils in thy·name, and we·Mr•
bad him because he followed notus.'-(Markix. 38.)
And· this gave courage to the Jewish exorcists, the
.sons of Sceva, to adjure evil spirits by the name of
Jesus.-(Acts xix. 14.) • And not-tlt.e (f+Je'Q
(h) Contro Cela. L. 7,p. as._ (c) L.a. P• 13.1. (d} Ra..
.,... J., 4, c. 3,. p. 461. (e) L. 1, po 7. (I) Pilro iclo ~ .
289,290.
DJiizedb,Google
r
U4
'onl_t1 bUt other iaohanters also/ saith' Austin,. (g)
• muted the name ofJesus with their incantations.•
·u 2dly, This Name was efficacious against all evil
spirits whatsoever. none of them being able to.re-
sist the power of it. 'Even now,' saith Justin Mar-
tyr, (h) 'we who believe in Jesus, adjuring the
'Whole herd of devils and malignant spirits, have
them all subject to our power.' And again, • by ~he
name of the Son of God, all kinds of devils, being
adjured, are overcome and brought into subjection.'
• It is evidently seen,' saith Origen, (i)' that, by the
name of Jesus, tentbousand devils have been expel-
led from the souls and bodies ofthose who were pos-
aeue~ by them.' On this account they triumphed
.over the heathen exorcists, that, 'by the name of
Jesus, they expelled those devils which none of
their inchanters, sorcerers, or magicians,' saith Jug.
tin M., (j) 'could expel, and over all heathen dei-
ties.' 'Bring one pos•essed mad, and raging,' saith
Lactantius, (k) 'to your Jupiter; or, because he is
not skilful in those matters, bring him to Escula-
pius, or Apollo, let both their priests adjure him, in
the name of their supposed deities, to quit his sta-
tion, they b1 vain attempt it; but let the same devils
be 9<\jured in the name of the true God, and they
iBstantly fly. Were this Jove an.ybetter than them-
ee:lvea, w4y do tkey fear our Chrilt and xot their
J'llpiterl' . And, on the same account, they tri•
umphed over those heretics which then appeared to
:corrupt tbe truth. • For we, by this,' saith Ireuus,
(l) • co"-foQd the heresies of,Simon M. Carpocrates,
aad the whole tribe of those deceitful workers, tkat
·they (;1Ul1&0t u:pel all kindB of devils, but only such as
are confeder'te with them, if indeed they do that.'
(r;.} 'l'raet. 7. in.Job, .Tom. 0. p, 413, (b) Dial e~a Tryplh
p. 362. A~ and 31. (J) Ia Cela. L. I. p. 20. (j) A..!. I.
p. ~. (k-) L- 4.e. 27. (I) L 2, e, SG. .
o,, '"•d by Google
116
"Consh)er 3dly, That they expelled them not·
only out of men~ but also from the temples, oracles,
aml altars. '\Ve are so far,' saith Origen, (m)
• from worshipping demons, that we expel them
f~om the places where they are seated.' ' Go no
more,' saith Clemens, of Alexandria, in his exhor-
tations to the Greeks, (n) 'to your. Castalian, or
other fountains; all these prophetic streams are.,
now dried up, and they are passed away with their
own fables. ' Divination and oracles,' saith Strabo,
(o) 'wereby the:mcients much l'egarded, but now they
are generally neglectctl and contemned; the oracle.at :
Delphos aud Hammon. .being wholly silent.' '~pt
above one or two remains,' saith Plutarch, (p) 'th() ,
rest are wholly silent, or entirely desolate.'· . 'The :
spirit of the gods,' saith the apostate Juliall, (qf
• comes but rarely, and to very fe,v.'-Thus are the
Heathens forced, with Porphery, (r) to confess the
triumphs of our Jesus.,.over their supposed deities.
"The Christians also did force the demons that.
iospired their priests, to confess that they were evil
•pirit1. 'This most men,' saith Minutius, (s) 'know,;-
and some of you, that all your demons, when they are
forced out of bodies by our words and prayers, do,
with grief, confess what they are, not belying their
own filthiness, even in your presence.' 'All the
dominion we have over them,' saith Tcrtulian, (t)
•proceedeth from the name of Christ, and the com-
memoration of those things they are to suffer from
him as their judge : this causeth them, at our com-
mand, to come forth of the bodies they possess with
great reluctance, and grief, and shame, when yon
are present.' • These devils,' saith St. Cyprian, (u)
(111) Contra Cel. L. 7. p. 376, (o) P. 9. A. B. (o) L.
17. p. 813.-Et de Pbaoo Delpbico. L. 9. p. 419. (p) De De•
feet. Orac. p.4ll. £".F. (q) ApudCyrilA1. L.6.p. 198.199,
{r) Apud Euseb, Prep. Evaur: L. 5. c. 1. (s) p. 31. (t) Apol•
.. 23,. (u) De Idol, TaD ~d. Os:. P· 14.. . ' f
L s 'I
1\6
•'being lfCijured by the true God, do instant1y cOD-
fess, and are compelled to come out of the bodie.
they possess. You may see them, by our voices
and by the power of the invisible Majesty, as it were,.
whipped and scorched; and as their torment doth
increase, you may hear them howling, groaning, de-
precating, confessing, even in the audience oftheir
votaries, whence they .come, and when they will de-
part.' In his Epistles to Donatus, (v) this is made
ORe property ofa christian, 'to force impure spirits
te confess what they are, and to urge them, by their
powerful strokes, to depart.'
"4tblr, This was done not in Rome and Carthage
only, ,!I.Dd other cities of the chiefest note; but as it
u observed by Justin Martyr, (w) 'thrmtghout aU the
tDorld.'
. "They frequently appeal even to the senses ofthe
ye~ jnfi~els. 'If you are wilUng,' saith Justin, (:x)
1t 1s easy for you even now to be assured of these
things with your own eyes.' ' Disbelieve these
things,' saith Tertullian, (y) 'if your eyes and ears·
will suffer you to do so.'
" The christians appeal also to the coosciences of
Infidels. ' We expel devils out of men,' saith Ter-
tullian, (z) 'as very many know.' 'Most men Bf&
aequainted with these things,' saith Minutius. 'and.so
~lOme of you Heathens are.'
'"They appeal to tile eft'ects produced upon the
persons thus disposessed, even their coavusion b,.
this means to th~ christian faith. ' Some cbristiaDs,'
saith lrerru!l, (a) ' have the gift of casting out devils
so firmly, and s·o certainly, that many times they who
are healed, and d-elivered- from their-evil spirits>
believe, ami do continue in the church. They en~
·6) De tdol. ~an 2~; Ox.1r. 4, (.91") Apo'- p. 45. (x),Dial.
- -eunl1'ryph0.. p. 311. .(J) Apol. e, 23. (zJ Ad Scap.\1• ~
(a) L. 2. e. 2a. ·
117
cour.ak8totbebs to embr~e- the ~~ti~trfttth, ·b~
promiajngto them this-poweF.Of'ejectibg!(liviti, wlteit
they sh~wd cordially etn~race it.' :,. • Be<-ye baptiJ
sed,' satth Clemens, (b) 'an .the name of. the lfioift
Holy Trinity, and.then if you believe with an :en$d
faith, and with true purity of mind, you shall expt!l
impure spirits and devils ou~ of others, and•save m~
from diseases; for the dents know..and own thd•e
who have given .up .themselves •to God, and sooiel
.times at their ''ery·presence a~ cast out; we exhort
you, tb.erefore, to be of our religion,; ayid we assure
you that when you do ad\•ance to the same faith aad
inn!>cence ~flit~ ~it? us, Y!)U shall obtain lik~ IWJrer
O\'er the enl,s1nr•ts. : · , ,; , , ,;, . ,
"'fhey .olf~red upon.pain of death, ,to make thi~
extlerunent b~ore the. ;ey:es 9f.He.tbens, i ..e. not
()nly to eject ~··~se very demon!! they invoked, but
even tQ force them to ·cpn:fess they wtre but devils.'?
(c). · ' .. . :, · ;
.. AU.tbii we ha.v.e delivered upon :cei"tain kbO'w'-
ledge, and coufirmed to us by the highest a'tfestaL
lions, by men of the greawst wisdom: to distingnish
!between!tr.utb.and falshood;:and •o diseenW mattel'8
-()heal fact :iiam •vain impostures; by men of that
•incerityan'd' undjsguised piety, which renders tht>ir
veracity, in matters .subject ~o .·tb.eir senses at\d
their experience, im:ontestable. 'l'h"t;•mong ,the
H~athen ther~ w~re persons.possessed1 appe!lr;s suf:-
,fic~ently by th1s, that otherwise th.e C.b,riJ\tians could
·not have pretemlell to cast th.em O\lt; ;uul from the
:Exordst.s a~d .Magicians i~ ~very N ati<!n,; Qf wbpq~.
,Plutar~~ sa11,h 'they;~.dVls~~ those th~t "''f.fl) pol\-
.scsscd to .rt:pcat tb.e :Epbestan Letters,' .(.4. e. l'4J'
cltarm's and other arts ofa 111agical kind whie~ ~
·inhabitants of Ephesus professed.) . And -LtWiatt
.~entions it as a t~g knQWD to all, 'that they basi
· (b) ·Recoc L, 4. 32,133. [cl Tertulliao's Apol. 2. :l:)', ;c
L3
-
'11.6
~J»S~fW~ dWiapossesa:-demons/' Jatia Marty•
~b.- (Dial~ p!!Bll.) •tile·Jews- exwcised them using
tlaat,art.u.Che Heathen did·
!-•The Namt.·of Abra·
lwft. I.a:c.. and Jacob, arc used.' saith Origen, .'not
oW.y by the Jewish Exorists, ·ltut almost all that
prac~ee the ar~ of Magic or Enchantment.' So that
it-.iJ ·Jeertain, that the History of Christ and his
4poatlea. cuting out Devils in Judea, and of the
G\tristians cuting them out thrm~glttntt the tDor.ltl>
was therefore .never questioned by Jew or. Gentile,
because tb.ey: bad' among themselves preteadera.to
it,.':: : .. . '
'!·· The Ex}>ulstoh of Demons has been professed and
practiced by the Church of Rome ; ·but alas ! their
geiieral ·tnannet. -ota'ttempting .that awml work has
most sadly deviated:from •that dignity,' pr1illence,
llimplicity, ·grt~v·ity, and purity, in which we find it
in: the New .T~stament, and among: the primitive
Christians; and has degenerated into an adulterous
~~9re: of R~i~iol\ and:Magic. . This. Apostacy
J.~o~ ((hJialiamty to .Canjuratic>Ja; ,from open and
Ari'!lmpbl\nt opposition~- to ''ile parlying with the
~ev~l, ~· cansed ew.en the way of tntth·to be evil
!i!R~k~n of, and has. exposed that Church·to the riaj..
-fi~~ of Protestants.. (See· Bishop J. Taylor's Dis-
JS~pivi) fr~m P,0peey, Sect, x.) ,
··: :Philip'Melaticthon, one of the wise!!( and most
·able among the Reformers, in an Epistle to Herbert
iLangget (Bookii; Epistle 572) observes, "Although
madness may soJDettmes arise from natural causes..
.ft is nevertheless most certain, that devils enter into
thet bodies :of some men, .and pro'duce madness and
'diYers other ag9nies therein:; either in :conjunction
·with natural causes,. or·without them. Because it
lis:manifest, that such persons are sometimes deliver-
ied1without natural remedies." · After' describing
sey_e_r~l inl[ltances of demoniac I'91!S~S!'i0f,. in ,W~ich
I. .i
119
the Demon gave the knowledge of languages which
&be patient had never studied, he adds,-" I could
also mention other examples, whick demonstrate~ tluit
••dneuarisu fi'011l diabolical agency. So also con-
cerning those unhappy virgins, who, I hear, are
tormented with phrenzy at Rome; I judge that they
are atBicted by evil spirits. But 1till I cm BUre tlutt
tiM ml Bpirit might be removed, and the deml• be ez-
peUed by the fervent prayer• of the pi01t1. Indeed
-
men would do well if they would not be Epicureans ;
but fervently invoking the Son of God, our Lord
Jesus Christ, would solemnly command the evil
apirits to depart from those unhappy persons ; and
at the same time warn them of the· approachin~
jurlgment of the Son of God, (when the· malice of
devils shall be openly exposed to the whole Chinch)
and of the p•nishments which shall then overtake
the spirits of darkness. Rut these things should be
do.
ne with seriousness ; and those ceremoniea of
wafer-worship, holy-water, and the false invocations
of Cornelius, (Agrippa, a writer oDJMagic) and such
li~e should be omitted. I know many instances in
.which it is .certain the prayers of the pious were
.available." (Arm. Mag. Vol. 8. page 637.)
·Josephus says of Solomon, (Book ~iii. chap. 2.)
"God enabled him to learn that skill which expels
demons, which is a science useful and sanative to men.
And he leftbehind him themanner ofusing exorcism~~
·by which they drive away demons, so that they ne-
ver return; and this method ofcure is of g~eat force
·unto this day." See also his account of the case.of
Saul, Book vj, chap. 8. where he observes, " David
·was the only J:lhysician against the troubles he had
from ~lte dem~ns, whensoever it was that it came
1!pon him, and.thisby reciting of hynins, and playing
:~~.~~6 .harp, and .bi:in~in~_;s~ul tp his right mind
• " l '
128
The opinion of the Chaldean Philosophers on thiA
subject, may be seen in Stanley's Chaldaick Philoso-
ph)·· After speaking of se,·eralkinds ofdemons, the
writer observes, "All these kind of demonsare hater~
-of God, and enemiesofman. .IUoreo\·cr, someofthes&
ill demons are worse than others:· extremely mali-
cious and pcrnillious. For these do not hurt souls
by phantasms and delusions; but by a:;sault, like the
most savage beasts, accelerate the destruction of
mea. The subterraneous and lucifugous, caul'e epi-
lepsies and phrcn:;y :-the rerial and terrestrial, cir-
cumvent men by art and subtilty, and deceive the
minds of men, and draw th~1u to ab~urd and illegal
passions." Of one kind he observes, "Nor can they
that.;u-e possessed with it, by any other means be
freed from it, but by the didne favour obtained by
titsting and prayer." See Part xv. Sect.l. chap xvi.
Though evil spirit3 have been much dreaded on
account of the amictions they ha,·e occasioned, they
have been wor11hipped or consulted, or both, by at:.
most all nations. In Egypt the magician.s opposed
:Moses and Aaron, by their enchantments. The na~
tions of the Canaanites were ~ven to·th~ swords of
Israel, because they practiEed diaMI~cal arts·
. ~~See
Veut. xviii. 9-14. N otwitl1s.tan~ing thi~,~ ami the
divine prohibition, Saul werit t9 c~tsult {11e clevil,
1 Sam. xxYiii.; and Manaseb practi~ed the' infernal
arts, 2 Chron. xxxiii. 6. The ISraelites sacrificed
their sons and their daughters unto devils, Lev.
·xvii. 7. Deut. xxxii. 17. "Yea, they sacrificed
their sons and their daughters unto devils," Ps. cvi.
37. Jeroboam ordained him priests for the devil'a,
2 Chron. xi. 15. The Heathen,taught 'the J~w'sthis
horrid practice. The Apostle Paul travelled far
and knew much; he declares, 1 Cor. x. 20. " But I
say,.t?at the thing~ which:the Gentiles sacrifice,.thel
sacrdice unto dcvzll, and not to Godl' The DeVIl
was consulted by the great men of Greece, at Del-
plios. ·The great oracle ofApollo was a communi•
cation of the devil, and"
Aic inspiration was earnestly
coveted and diligently sought, on account of the
knowledge and influence, the wealth and reputation
it secured its possessor. "The Pythia, before she
ascended the tripod, was a long time preparing for
It, by sacrifices, purifications, a fast of three days•.
and many other ceremonies!" See Rollin's Ancient
History, Book x. Chap. 3. "The priestess was no.
sooner inspired," or possessed, "but she began im-
mediately to swell IU)d foam at the mouth, tearing
her hair, cutting her tlesh, and in all her behaviour-
appearing like one phrenetic and distracted. Plu-
tarch speaks of one enraged· to such a degree, th~t
she affrighted not only those who consulted the Ora-.
cle, but the priests themselves, who ran away and
left her; and so violent was her paroxysm, that in,
a little time after she died." Archbp. Potter's A,n.-
tiq. of Greece, Vol. I. p. 276. Ed. 91h..
" Not only the Pythia, the Sybill also, witli ma-
ny others; were possessed with the Divine Fury,
swelling with rage like persons distracted and be-
side themselves. Few that pretended to inspiration,
but raged after this manner, foaming and making a
strange and terrible noise; gnashing with their teeth,
shivering and trembling, with other antic motimu.~
One sort of the Tlaeomantict were possessed with
prephysying Def1K11U, which lodged withinthem, and
ilictated what they should answer to those who en-
quired of them, or spoke out of the beiliu or br~a.st&
of the possessed persons; they all the while remain-
ing speechless, and not so much a, movingtheir tongxu
or lips." See Archbp. Potter's Antiq. of Greece.
B 2. C. 12. See also Bishop I>atrick.'s Com. on
Lev. xix. 31.
The evil spirit which inspired the Pytltia, W.!'&
worshipped by the Greeks as their God Apollo. l
supposo.thls )\ame is derived from an old..Grcek verb,
which signifies to dutroy v.tterlg. The Romans ld11'o.
worshipped this devil;' and they taught this devil-
worship to the Britons, if they did not practice it
before. "When to the cntel rites of Druidical wor•
ship, succeeded the abominations of Uoman Idola-
try-in Hath stood the temple of Apollo." (See
Missionary Uegister, vol. I. p. 7.) Thus our fore-
fathers, like other Heathens, worshipped the devil.
The .glorious gospel .of the blessed God came by
missionaries, and opened our eyes.
Apollo was, among his numerous adorers, a very
respectabledemon-gc,ljior, as 'furtullian says," De-
mons rival the Divinity, and set up for gods by steal-
i•g his prophesies." Apollo was the devil counter-
feiting the Redeemer, the bruiseJ· ofthe serpent's.lwad;
and as such, many nations have worshipped him un-
der diiTerent names. · "He was named Pythius,"
says Tooke, "not only from the !!erpent Python;
which ·he killed, but likewise from asking and cOft-
sulting, for none among the gods was more consult-
ed, or delh-ered more responses, orspake more ora-
clea than he; eapecially in the temple which he had
at Delphi to which all sorts of nations resorted, so
that it was called, the Oracle ofall the eartk." But
there were numeroua devils besides, who shared the
homage and confidence of deluded men: many more
than could have temples erected to their honour;
though great numbers had their statues and images.
The Africans are still worshippers of devils; and
it is worthy of observation, that they have in general
use the same word for a familiar •pirit, or a devil,
which inspires or/ossesses a human being, as was
used by Moses an other sacred writers to express
the same thing. Obeism holds the minds of thoso
people in the mQst painful slavery, and many of them,
uudcr the terrors of thjs ancient and horrible super-
ttition, the dread of devils and deYilish men, &l'e_
literally tormented to death I If they did hut know
-the truth it u:ould tltake them free. The Obi men are
th011e who practice the satanic arts of divination,
-witchcraft, sot-eery, &c.; and who either have, or
pretend to have, a familiar spirit. The word Ob is
pure Hebrew, and signifies a devil or evil spirit. See
Lev. xx. 27.-Deut. xviii. 11.-1 Sam. xxviii. 7, 8.
ia Hebrew; aod see Parkhurst on the word: he
obaerves, " Although in those frantic fits of the
Heatben Divines, there might frequently be much
O:tfectation and impoliure, yet, no doubt, in many
auch instances there was a re«l poucssion by an evt1
spirit."
Marcus Minutius Felix was a famous Roman Law-
yer, and being converted from idolatry, he wrote ~s
Octavius in defence of Christianity,. about the be-
ginning of the Third Century; hear him:-« These
impure spirits are the Demons, as I have shown from
the Maga, tlte Philosophers, and from Plato hiin-
self, who lie skulking under consecrated statues and
images, and by a secret affiatus, from thence acquire
the reputation, as it were, of some deity present;
while they inspire the priests, inhabit the shrines,
1lnd sometimes insinuate into, and move the fibres of
the entrails, steer the flight of birds, govern the lots,
and deliver oracles in many lerplering untruths. In
short they are deceived an deceive, as not knowing
the pure tl'1lth, and at the same time anwilling tO
confess what they koow, to the disgrace and ruin of
themselves. Thus it is they drag us down from
heaven to earth; from the consideration. of the true
God, to the worship of an idol; they disorder and
disquiet us in our sleep, and by the spirituality or
their substance,slip insensibly into our bodies, frame
diseases, terrify our minds, distort our limbs, and
t!O press us into their service: and after they haYe
been gbttted •ith the nidours of the alters, and the
·..•
~~
lkeri6ces of beasts, they C«Ue fo faxrt t/uzt tfrq """'
-aem to curf!. And these are the very gods you •ee
raving about the streets, and the Demoniacs them-
selves are their Priests, thollgh without a temple;
who foam and rage, and roll about ie the same tem-
pestuous manner as the Temple-Priests are uaed "
do, for the devil is in them both, though his opera•
lions arc different. Hence those apparitions whicll
you recounted awhile ago, s~ch as the Phantoms of
Jupiter to the Plebeian asleep, for the restol"atioa of
his plays; and of Castor aad Pollux on horseback,
llnd of the ship drawn by the Matron's Girdle. Moat
-of you know very ":ell that the demons are forced to
confess all these thmgs of themselves, as often as we
.-ack them into confession by our bare words only,
~nd force them ottt of the bodies they possess by such
tormenting speeches as they cannot bear. For Sa-
turn, an1l Serapis, and Jupiter, and w-hatever demons
you worship, not able to endure their pain, proclaim
their nature. Alld you may be well 1\SSured, that
they would never be at the expense of framing lies
'to their own shame, especially in the presence of
you who adore them. Take their word then, and
belie,·e tkem to be devils when you have it from
their own mouths, and to their own ruin; for when
we arljure them by the One true God, .the wretches,
.sore against their will, fall into h()rrible shiverings,
and either spring forth from thebodies they possess,
or vanish by degrees, according to tlle faith of the
patient, or the grace of the physician. Thus they
dare not stand in the presence of Christians, whose
assemblies they disturb at a distance by your bandlh
For this reason, therefore, they insinuate them-
~elves into weak minds, and there privately sow the
hatred of that religion they fear; for it is natural
to hate what we fear, and to persecute what we ara
afraid of, to tile best of our power. Thus tbl'y aeille
~Q mea's spirits, and secure their _,ectiooa, .tha\
o;g;,;zed by Coogle
l!S
_fleing preposseaat, they may besure to begin to hate
· us before they know us, for fear that hi knowing.a,
they should be constrained to love and imitate ua,
ol' at least not be able to find how to condemn ua."-
{Sect. 27. Reeve's Translation.)
Ainsworth, in his annotations on the text in Deu-
teronomy, observes, "A familiar spirit is called, in
Hebrew, Ob, which signifies a bottle, (Job x~xii. 19.)
~pplied here, and oftento magicians, who, possessed
with an evil spirit, apake with a hollow voice as out
<ofa bottle; and, as some say, with swollen bellies:
whereupon the Greek version usually ealleth these
Eggastrimuthoi, as speaking out of the belly. But
the Holy Ghost~ in Acts 1Vi. 16. expoundeth it more
fully, th? ~firit ofP!Jt'tw-4 (or ofdivination) meaning
the DeVll.' . · ·
The reader may be surprised, as well aa the wri-
ter, to fiad such an exact rell(jmblallce in the case
described in tbis pamphlet, to those re~corded by the
..ancient writers, both sacred aad profane. It is w.iae
·1.o reject tb.e errors, and to detect impositions ofan;y
.
age; but there is no wisdom in confounding trutb
with error, nor in throwing away the wheatwith th~
chaff. Wisdom will diseriminate,-will prove. all
things, and hold fast that which is good. Ignorance
may coademn by the heap, and with' the besom of
folly sweep away the precious with the vile. There.
have been some who could distinguish truth from
error in former days, as well as in these; men of
extensive learning, true wisdom, sound judgment,
sincere piety, and unimpeachable veracity; who
bad skill to distinguish truth .from error, however
artfully they were twisted together; who had tho
true phildloph!J to believe what God had said, and.
what fact made evident; however fubionable it
might .be·to laugh at both divine inspiration and
moral evideuce. There haTe been such JQ.OD of, r·
M
o;g;,;zed by Coogle
120
wis3om, of trutlr; and of God, who haYe borne a
fUthful testimony to facta and dect.riaes wkiell the
nlera of the darkneis of this age wished to conceal,
or to bring into contempt. They have recorded
such instances in modern times, as God required
his o'Jeeretaries to record in ancieDt days. And
from the writings of such men, instances might be
selected of persons possessed of evil spirits. The
eminent Dr. Henry More was an open-hearted, sin-
cere Christian Philosopher, who studied to establish
lnen in the belief of Providence against Atheism.
In his Philosophical Works be has selected and
published several well-attested accounts of spiritual
and supernatural agency, as an antidote against
Atheism. See book III. See also his Thelogical
Works, book IV. chap 6, 7. In the preface to his
Philos~ph!cal Works, page 6, !lfter de~laring wit~
1t'htt eautton he has selected h1s DU'rahons of Spr-
titttal Agency, he says, "Nor could I abstain frolll
that subject, it being so pertinent unto my present
purpose ; though I am well aware how ridiculous a
thing it seems to those I have to deal with. Btl.t
tkeir con.fidl!ltt igaora'Me slutllnever d:a8h me out of
eorinltna1tce 'IDith my toell-!Jf"ottnded how/edge.
· The Rev. Samuel Clark bas selected several exam.;,
pies of persons p08Sessed by the devil. See his Mir-
xor, vol.·Il. page 163, &c.; and _
his lives of Mr. R.
Balsom,- and Mr. R. Rothwell, at the end of his
Martyrology. ·
The Rev. J. Wesley, whose wisdom is known by
its fruits, and will be honoured when infidels can
laugh no more, published several well-attested ac~
col1nts of ttpiri_tual agenc~.- Many have ha<llevity
enoughto llmgh at them; .but no one has had evidence
or learning enough to confute them. Those who
Jut.ve said he,was credulorU; have neYer ,-e~ show~ a
r-eason why be ehould ,not ~l'e propor&ionate ore•
·tleD£e to what be knew to be sterling evidence;
why·he should not believe his God, his own eyes,
or the faithful testimony of men of sound judgment
and unimpeachable veracity. ·
One of these accounts which be republished is
prefaced with these remarkable words:-" With my
latest breath will I bear testimony against giving up
to infidels one great proof of the invisible world. 1
mean, witchcraft and apparitions, confirmed by tho
testimony of a\1 ages." (Arm. Mag. Vol. v. p. 366.)
In 1mother place he asl!igns a reason for it, saying,
"The.infidels well know, whether chritltians know it
or nett, that the giving up witchcraft, is, in elfect gJ.._
v.ingup the Bible. And they know, on the other
band, that if one account of the intercourse of men
with separate spirits be admitted, their whole castle
in the air, Deism, Atheism, and Materialism, falls to
the ground. I know no reason, therefore, why we
s·bould sutler even this weapon to be wrested. out of
our bands. Indeed, there are numerous arguments
beside, which abundantly confute their vain ima~·
nations. But w~ need not to be booted out of one;
neither reason nor religion requires this." (Works~
Vol. iv. p. 358.-Svo. Ed.) .As be was inclined t~
prove all things, so be was determined to bold fast
that which is good. 'Vbat be knew to be truth, he
bad too much fortitude and wisdom to relinquish,
nd too much piety and benevolence to conceal.
"Conviction and steadinei!S of principle," say•
Dr. Beattie, in his Essay on Truth, "is that which
gives dignity, uniformity, and spirit to human con-
duct, and without which our happiness can neither
be lasting nor sincere. It constitutes~ it were the
1'ital stamina of a great and manly character; where- '
as scepticism betrays a sickly understanding, and a r
levity of mind, from which nothing can be expected
but inconsistence aad folly."
M2
128
"Mr. George Sinclair, Profel!lsor of Philosophy in
the College of Glasgow, published "Satan's Iovisi-
ble 'Vorld Discovered; or, a Choice 'Collection of
1\Iodern Relations, proving evidently against the
Atheists of this present age, that there are Devils.
Spirits, Witches, and Apparitions, from authentic
records, and attestation of witnesses of undoubted
l·eracity." His twelfth Relation is a case of witch-
craft, and shows that Christianity is the sovereign
remedy for the evils occasioned by satanic agency.
He observes, " This story hath as much certainty
with it, as any human stor;r can have. The author
that writes it is a famous mmister of the gospel, and
itis attested by famous witnesses. •A woman, whose
name was Jackson, waa arraigned and eondemncd
at Newgate, for bewitching one Mary Glover, a
merchant's daughter, in Thames-Street. One Doe-
tol' Boncroft did inform Judge Anderson, then Lord
Chief Justice, that the said woman, (Jackson,) wu
wronged, and that the maifl did counterfeit; where-
upon the Lord Chief Justice gave order to Sir John
Crook, 'then Recorder of London, to make trial of
them in his chamber at tho Temple. The parties
were collected, the·caae waa investigated. About.
three weeks or a month after the witch waa con-
demned. the maid continued every second day ia
most fearful f&.ts and tormentl4.' The Recorder hear-
ing ofit, did blame me and all the ministers of London •
and told mE', • That we might all be a1hanaed to Bee 11
child of Gttd i11 the chtw• of l~c Devil, witlwvt an.y
/topes of dclit•crance, bul by BUck 1neam "' God hatlt
appointed, viz :-Jatti~&g a11d prayer.'
· "Within a few days after, it pleasedGod to make
me an instrument to draw fh·e ministers, and other
goo1l christians, together; to set a day apart, and
to join with me in that holY. exercise, wherein..wo
continued from morning ttll after candle lighting.
'fben, on a auddea, after a ff'lrful conflict, whit.:b
'aid ....eb aiiiU8 IJOine, a.t caused them to try wita-
« c&*fused IIOizt, •J,.,. ~~We, Jau Aelp I ' The
maid spnag hom tile chair in which she had been
betel, recovered the proper use Gf her limbs, which
before had beeD atil' aa any tbing frozan: life eaano'
hltO Ia• wlaole t.ody. Then she looked up with a
"~ul connteaaace, aad, with a loud voice, said,
'0! Ae u,..,e, he uCOfllfe; the O..forter u~e;
lh C..foner u conN; I tlfll .Uliwwetl.' Her fathr
heM"ing these words. wept tOr joy, and with a faul•
tering voice, said, 1 0! fh011e wer~ l6r gtmttl-fatii#'J
1HNII, tDiten lie 111M tJt tM lt&M, tlwfire cracklitag aboul
l•.' It seems he died a. martyr ia Qaeen Mary',
titbe. Then sh_, kneeleci down, and oft'ered a sweet
ennillg satti6ee of th&ab aud praise to God, for
her cleliverance. Lest Satan sbowd assault hep
again, she was placed under the care of ontt of the-
mmist~s: and she continued with him as a servant
let twelve months." This1'elation was published in
th6 year 1642, by the minister, whose name was
LeWis Hughes.
What ia so very frequently auerted, prQved, and
esempli6ed, as fb.e 'Bubject ofspiritual agency is, in
t:Mt beek w.hicb baa "God for ita Aathor, Salva-
tion for its end, aad Truth, without any mixtare of
error, for its mauer," canaet be destitute of 11tilitJ
-.1 intere1t to men. Bat however important a
koow·led!e of the r.ealitJ ¥1d nature of a spiritual
world may be &o us, aad however imperiously its
aata:ral. moral, ad ,Ji~ine twidence may demlt.Dd
our atleDUOD and coooclence, we caa, if we wish, f&r
a time ueape co?Mid& The method iawell known•
J,ecause frequently practised, and is not unpopular.
'W-e can treat the wllil nh~t wttll c#JietMr'f'l, reject
lts evidenceS witheut-esaminatien, and imagine, fbat·
enquiries aftet soeh tpiritttel thittge lil'e ~ a
mao o£ten«. Bet a host ofthe $08t •eneraldeme&
Ma
130
taat C\'er graced the Republic of Letters with their
learning, allorned the Christian Church with their
piety, or benefited the 'Vorld by their labo&rs, have
fairly examined, conscientiously belie,•ed, and firm-
ly maintained the truth of the e;sistence of .witch-
craft, possessions, &c. And if wejudge impartially
qn the subject of spiritual agency, without consult-
illg our.prejudicies or our passions, we may perceive·
sutficient reason for thinking .that the Kings aad
Pr.ephets, and righteou~ men, the honourable Jud-
ge.s and learned Divines, with God himself at their
bead, assel'ting, deplori~g, and opposing the e-,il in-
tluence 9f Satan and satanic arts over the minds JUtd
bodies -
ofmen, could neither be dupes nor deceivers.
The.y were not fools to be laughed at, but teachers
to bc·heard with respectful confidence. ·They will
bo heard, and ·they will be believed, by the lo,·ers of
truth, in the very teeth oflaughing Deis~ and grin:
. ning Jnfidelity. The Infidel is confounded by their
}larmQnious. testimqny, which is corr.oborated by re-
cent fact; reason fails him, and he JDUSt either ac-
knowledge a Devil and a God; dread a hell, and seek
refuge in a Sa,•iour : or he must try to despise the
testimony which he is afraid to believe, and unable
to refute; He must yield to the evidence, or la11gh
it to scorn. If he loves darkness rather than light,
and would rather venture a leap in the dark to a
world of evil spirits, than walk in the light of christi-
anity to Heaven, he can have his dreadful choice.
He will soon learn the grand secret in his own way ;
but he will then think himself a philosopher no more'
His folly will be ripened into ruin ;-his die will be
for ever cast:-his soul for ever lost.
Pro~fs from matter of fact of spiritual agency and
power, must offend the man who wDKld have no other
(lod but himself; and Lucifer, who became what he
js lly the spirit of indepondance. and n~w w~gcs w;q-
131
against all bufh a11d goodness, holiness and happf..
aess, while he is recruiting, will lend his young fol-
lowe.- his own honours, and indulge him in his ex-
pl!etations of promotion and supremacy. Thu111 he
e~tliated our first Parents,-" Y e shall be as Gods,
knowing good and evil." This 11pirit of pride and
independence is the mortal hereditary disorrler of
the human family. Man would be a God;-and Sa~
tan, in the guise of a friend, will aid his eftorts, flat-
ter_
his VllJlity, and applaud his I[Jirit, to secure hi&
service and complete his ruin; but when he marc~
es off the blustering Blade, at the beat of the fune-
ral knell, he will place him under seHrer discipline,
ant\ make him feel who is master. His "eyes will
be opened," and, w})en on the other side the great
gw.lpk, he does not like the fire, and cannot .desert,
it will ~e too late to be bought off, even wit4 the
blood of Jesus:-" There will be no dilckarge in that
tCQr." Insulted Heaven will shower do.wn blazing
storms of thundering vengeance, and deluge all its
enemies ~n one common ruin, and their_ destruction
will ~e eter11al.
Displays of Satan's power, unaccompanied witli
manifestations ofthat gracious energy which crushes
it, will increase the jean of the ~ttperBtiliotu; but
where Christ is known, Satan is defied, and every.
believer triumphs over hell. By /rejudicing the
world against the knowledge of Go , and then dis-
playiDg himself, Satan has tyrannized over millions.
of our fellow men, and to this day he thus.domineers
over million&.ofour fellow subjects too. From these
he extorts the homage of a god, by keeping thetr
souls in awe ofhis power. He gives them ugly im-
ages to adore for deities, and various kinds of con-
temptible cAa1'71l8 to trust for salvation. From aU
these Satan knows that he ha.~ nothing to fear, and
t~ have nothing to lwpe. While thus be giYe$
) . - . -
them tluWr gode· aad their savioln'S: wLifo 1.6 ~
poitlta their form of worship, directs their de-rotioaa,...
inspires their"Creed,govens theirphiloeophortt, rate.
their priests, and reigns in darkaeu, te,.or, c\JII-
nillg, pride, and malice, the SoVBRBJON Po:MTIPI'
of the Pagan world. What con their l'tRigioa he,.
but such as we heat it is> a retigima ofl~s. of crim~,.
corruption, horrors., blood, and death! Tbey kno'#
the devil, but not GoD: they therefore feat their ty-
nnt) and serve him with terrot and despair. Oh! if
they did butknow the true LORD, the God oflc:tr~ the-
Father and Friend of man, the OmnipoteBt Savieutr
tbe ln&e God and the Eternal Life, manifeat in the>
flesh to bruise the serpent's head, and save a poison-
ed W'orld from death aad hell: how would they leap
for joy, like condemned captives rescued from their
foes, and sing like Israelsaved ofthe LollD: "Ble~t­
sed· be the Lord who hath not gil'en us as a pray to
tlMiil' teet~. Our soul is escaped as a bird out ftf
tk stlare of the fuwlers : the snare is broken aBd -.e
a-re escaped. Our help is in the name of the LoRD
·who made heaven and earth. Blessed lte the Dame
of the Lord."
Tile JDOI!e a spiritual world is displayed, the m.o.a
a; CHitiSTIAN triumpha;-SataD fulls under his feet.
H-ell may unite all hi• ferces aga:iallt bi'lll, and he~
·low and pour out its Oames in Ilia £ace ; bot witlll
JeiUS Ua his heart ae is more than COlliCJlleror.
Clotied with the whole armour of Ged. and llt.rong
ill the Lord of Hosts, he wins his perieus way; IHi
•eets and vaDtJUishea the Kilig of T,.,.,..,, and goe•
triwnpJaantly to Jaeavea, shouti»g " T~ lie ,.
God, clo gif,etl& w ,,_ mctorg, droug.k nr hJNJ...
Cirilt."
As the power of godline~s secures to every real
,christian the final trhitnph over the powers of dark-
ness-; .eo the g61leral and .exteDsive. inftudce- of
133
Satan will be destroyed from among men by the uni-
veraal spread of christian truth and grace. The
kingdom of God is essentially and evidently in di-
rect, professed, and victorious opposition to the
impositions and tyranny of Satan. No institutions
or powers can be more decidedly and irreconcilably
hostile to each other, and both are striving mightily
to obtain the souls of men. As evil spirits exert
their influence to succeed, every system of moral
and spiritual imposition, that by ignorance, super•
atition, idolatry, and infidelity man may be blinded,
perverted, hardened, and corrupted to his destruc-
tion; so the Holy Ghost accomplftlies revealed
Q-uth, and his divine influence sanctions every sys-
tem of moral and spiritual illumination, and holy
renovation, that man may be enlightened, sanctified~
and aaved.
· It is chiefly byltlr.]Jeliif, which implies our atten-
tion and conviction, our persuasion and consent.
that spirits move our passions, and manage our:
conduct. Faith is the helm of human nature ; at!d-
as we admit the wicked one, or the Holy One, to b&
our pilot, our course will be directed to the whirl-
pool of perdition, ·or the haven of sah·ation. By
believing the imposing lies ofSatan, our first pareats.
fell from holiness and happiness, to guilt and misery:
and by the same credulity the deluded children of
deluded Eve fall into irretrievable ruin; and by be·,
lieving.the word oftruth, the gospel ofour salvation.
the humble penitent sinner rises again to the favoul"
of God, to holin.
ess and heaven :-he knows the.
truth, and the truth makes him free.
Such is the nature of man in this infant state of'
his existense, that in 11pite of scepticis.m he must be a
believer of some doctrine or other. He is naturally
prone to seek knowledge, and must either be tauJht
orGod, or be decei.VC\1, faith. bas a kren appetite.
134
and will be fed: if it has not the truth, its proper
food, or if it does not savour the things that are of
God, and relish the sound wholesome doctrine that
will promote the spirit's health amd life, it will de-
vour the poison of lies ;-it will eat the forbidden
fruit, and by renouncing divine instruction, man
will forfeit a paradise of divine wisdom to have his
eyes opened, by the spirit of error that tempts him
to his death. Wisdom and folly divide the world;
tor mea will give their confiJeuce to tzuth ~ lif's.
They are therefore distinguished by their opinioos;
-.-their modes of taitb. Bvt of aU helieven on the
f-.ce of the earth, the protes&ed iu.fi4el is guilty of
the most absurd credulity : his headlong depar&uro
from the truth, plangea him into an abyss of error.
He is as much deluded, and as fatally blinded by
Satan, as the superstitious idolator. They are both
strangers, yea, enemies to God: ~re both ignorant
of the truth, and under the dominion of their mali·_
cious enemy the devil.
~Man since his fall," says Dr. Bates, "is under
the tyranny of Satan, who is called the god of this
world, and is more absolute than all temporal prin·
ces ; his dominion is over the will. He ovueame -
man in paradise, and, by right of waT, rules over
him. The soul is kept in bondage by subtle chain,
of which the spiritual nature u ca,pable. The 11D•
derstanding is capt-ivated by ignorance 1lnd errors;
the wiH ~I inordmate and·d~mgerous lusts; the me.
mory by images of --sinful pleasures., those mortal
v-irions which enchant the s011l, and make it not de·
sirous ofliberty~ Never did a cruel pirate so incom·
pasaioaately urge hill slaves to ply their oars .in
char,ging or flying from an enemy, as Satan incites
those who are his captives 'to do hi1 will.' 2 Tim.
ii. 26. And can there be a more afflicting calamity;
U•a~ tQ be the sla\'es of one's enemy; especially it'.
135·
he be base and cruel? This -is the condition of'
maa; he is a captive to the devil, who was a liar
f-rom the .beginning. He is under the rage of that
bloody tyrant, whose ambition waa to render man
ea miaerable as himself; who, in triumph, upbraids
him for hia felly, and adds derision to his cruelty."
But a REDEEMER is come-He speaks in right-
eousness, and is mighty to save. Th,e power of the
enemy is broken; the serpent is bruised; par-
·don and salvation through him, are offered to the
~ilty; captivated, human race. "It is afaithful say-
'ft!J• t~~~d worthy ofall accepfation, tltat Ch1·ist Jems
cttnJe into the worlcl to savesinners;" and, " He tltat be-
tietJeth sltall be saved."-" He that is for us is greater
tluJn all that can be against us."
Evil spil·it!l, whatever power they possess, are nei-
ther invulnerable nor irresistible. They may be
etrong, but they are not almighty. They may be
_cunning, but they are not omniscient. They are all
under the divine controul, and in their warfare on
human beings, the advantage is graciously allowed
to men. Satan's dominion on the earth is hastening
to a close; and "he bas great wrath because his
time is short." Infinite wisdom gives us instruction
in the holy scriptures; and if we ahide by them, we
shall never be deceived. Almighty power, in the
grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, ofters ·us its aid;
and he that trullts in God, cannot be overcome. Tbe
believer iB Chrlst-1s more than conqueror; and in
coaftict with Satan, on any ground, at any time, it is
his privilege to triumph.
He that is clothe.d with " the armour of right~
eousness," and vanquishes the enemy in combats of
temptation, and by "the word of truth" drives him
from his strong refuge in the spirits of sinners, may
~ost assuredly vanquish and expel him when he
gains possession of the bodies of men :-but," Not
136
by miglrl, or by power, but by my Spirit, ~t~itl tlte Lord ··
ofHost8." (Zech. iv. 6.) His graeious readineu to
rescue all that are oppressed of the devil, is more
likely to be contradicted with bad pauiona, .thaR
·with.good reason. In the hostile conflict betweea
the tyranny of Satan, and the kingdom of God, e-
Yery man will act on one sid~ or the other; for there
are no neuters in this war: " He that u xot with ..
il agaiut me," said the Saviour. When the Phari-
5ees heard that Jesus had cast out a devil, they vent-
ed their envy and malice in blasphemies: but the
Eternal.Ltwfl proved the absurdity of their slanders,
and said, "IfI cmt 01lt deviu by tlt.e Spirit of God,
then is the lingdom of God come unto you.'' (Math.
:x.ii. 22-32.) .
The human presence of the Son of God is remo-
ved from the church militant, and the Holy Spirit, in
rich abundance, is given to supply its place ;-to
bear witness to the truth,-to destroy the works of
the deviJ,-and to establish, universally, the divine
kingdom of righteousness, peace, and joy. The pro-
mise is to as many as the Lord our God shall c11ll;
und we arc assured that our heavenly Father will
gi,·e his Holy Spirit to them that ask him. "Have
faith in God," and there will be no necessity what-
·ever to yield to evil spirits in any of their assaults,
or to.sutter them to keep when they gain possession
of a fellow creature; or to make a truee with them
by their own ceremonies of magical conjuration, aad
·
.a11trological doctoring. ".Resist the devil, and he
will flee from you :-draw nigh unto God, and hu will
draw nigh unto you." The power to cast out devils,
in the former ages of christianity, was not of rare
communication, or restricted use, like the gifts of
healing and of tongues, &c.; (1 Cor. xii. 4-11) but
it was the common privilege of believers in Christ
Jesus. This has been before stated, on the authori-
ty o( the .aeient fathen ef the Christian Church.
(~age 112.) One reason for this divine liberality
wu, to deliver tile world from the diabolical im~
1iitions so generally practiced on its ignorance and
credulity. Evil ap1rits aped the true God; their
possessions were taken for divine iuspirations, and.
the doctrines of devils were regarded as the oracles
of God. To make the system ofimpositioa complete,
some ofthe evil spirits ected in their proper charao--'
teras devils; while others, by geueral consent, with
all the solemnity _of hellish hypocrisy, passed for
deities. Hence there were real possessions, ~d
pretended expulsions, or farcical departures in idol
temples: and to deliver the world from such power~
fnl delu1ions, every cbristiaD had power over De~
nls.
Tel'tuUian says to the Roma1;1s, in the 23 C. ofhia
Apology for the Christians, "I come now to thinga,
and shall'give you a demonstration froin fact .to con-
vince you, that your gods and demons a·
re ·both the
same beings, though of different denominations. Let
a demoniac, therefore, be brought into court,and the
spirit which possesses him be commanded, by any
clriltin, to declare what he is, he shall confess him- ·
self as truly to be a De~il, as he did falsely before
profess himselfto be a God. In like manner let one
-ol those be produced 'Who is tho11ght to laboar with
a god, whom he bath conceived from the steams of
·the altar, and ofwhich; after many a belch and ma-
ny a pang, he is delivered in oracles, &c.-If these
do not declare themselves in court to be Jhrnlr, not
daring to lie in the presence of a christian, that
christianis willing to be taken for a cheat, od stands
ready to answer for itwith his blood." Proof sufti.
cient, that every christian bad powerever devils, iO
dMect, expose, and expel t!up. .·
The expulaioa of an eYil spirit _
out of the bOd:t,-
.~ net aoecesearily imp~ &he eonYenioa of .61.
18&
•out. It has a tendency to 'convince the patient ot
the evil of sia,-the necessity of a Saviour,-and ot
true religion: but delirerance from demoniac pos-
. session no more implies spiritual conversion, than a
~»reservation from that calamity argues holiness o(
heart. Even a beast may be possessed, as the swine
'Were by the legion ofdevils; but on the supposition
of their deliverance from possession, who would in-
clude spiritual conversion? To deliver a man from
demoniac posaeasion, restores hi.m only to the pro-
bability of conversion; and if conversion takes pblce,
it is a far greater miracle ofmercy.
The casting out of evil spirits does not infallibly
prove that he who does it is a rigl&teo.u,IRGII. Many
'Who, in thename of Christ, have cast out devila, and
done many wonderous works,·will not enter into the
kingdom ofheaven. (Matt. vii. 21.) It is not, there•
fore, by their own "power or holiness" that they
do th,ese things.. "The seventy returaed agaiJ;~ with
joy, saying,-• Lord even the :Oevils are subject un•
to us through thy name;"' and be said unto them,-
" Behold,I give you power over all the p<~wer of the
enemy-notwithstanding in this rejoice not, that the
spirits are subject unto you1 . but rather rejoice that
your names are written inheaven." (Luke x.17-20.)
To be saved from sin olll8elves is; therefore, a fat
greater bleuiag th~ to be able to exl!e~ evil spirits
out.of otheJ'i, Bat tf.God pleases toJOln thcse1 sal•
vation and ability; together, why should man be anx•
iou. to put them asunder? Their 11nion is perfectly
consistent, though it may not be found to be infalli-
ble, or perpetaal, The expulsive po'Wer may exist
in every believer in Christ Jesus, though dormant~
tiD roused \0 action by the .call of necessity. .
But it may be objected,-~• Is not the casting out
ofDeVils thework ofa miraeallou power, gi~n fot ·
the coafi•atioa·ef some dootriae, as oae eltiM ox•-
o;g;,;zed by Coogle
118
traordiaary gU.. of the Holy Spirit, auch at raising
the dead, speakingwith tonguea, &c.; and, therefore,
no more to be expected or pretended in tbeae da~
than the apostolic power to heal the aick and ra1se
the dead?"
Thia objection has frequently been urged, and
sometimes by respectable authority; and by autho.
rity equally as respectable, it bas been denied. It
ia notorious how Popery bas imposed ou ignorance
and credulity, by the miraculow wickednell of le·
~endary trwnpery; who11e arrogant pretensioJas to
apostolical and divine authority it might be pro6table
to examine by those apostolicalJredictions given by
divine inspiration, in the secon chapter of the se·
cond epistle to t~e Thessalonians. Extremes on one
side generally lead to extremes on the other; and
the sober-minded must look for the truth between
them. Papists have asserted too much about mira·
cles; and sometimes protestant&, provoked by their
exorbitant pretensions, have denied too m,uch. Sa·
tan# the great ape ofGod Almighty, has wonderfully
imposed upon men by his "lying wonders:" and it
U5 but charity to put men upon their guard. Some
have been carried away by every tale of miracle;
and othera have acted as absurdly on the other side,
aad rejected the testimony of miracles altogether.
Discrimination is the duty of wisdom. One error
11hould not be opposed with another; but with the
truth. .
Some who have cut out devils have, therefore,
claimed the authority to impose their private opini-
ons on the consciences of their fellow creatures, and
to be lords over their faith. Such an intrusion on
the rights ofmen, and the prerogative of God, ought
to be firmly resisted :-but in some better way than
hy denying the power, and rejecting the grace of
God, and risking a palpable contradiction to matter
of faot.
N2
t4e
'nae Proplteta and Apostles themselves were aoi
invested with their eztraordiruzry gift• of the Holy
Ghost to authorize them to impose their ow:a pri11Gie
opi11i01t1 on their feUow creature$; but to accredit
aome important didne truths, which they had an ea-
pecial commission t.o delh•er in &he name of the Lord;
and generally, if not always, in the worth of tho
Lord. Hence we have those formal introductions,
fie Lord ~pake unto Mose•, 1aying,-and, Thv.~ saitA
tAeLnd. ~
The Apostles ~miracles to prove this truth.
and were taught in what words to 14y,-He kittg-
dom of God iB at lwlftd, while they were subject to
·lJlany nationalprejudice11, and egregiouserrors about
the nature of that kingdom. They were told what
to say, and God bore witness to his own word, not
to their mistakes. It was not till the day of Pen-
tecost, when they were all filled with the Holy
Ghost, and by him Jed into all the Truth, that they
were so fully instructed, as to be secure from mis-
take about the nature of that gospel they were to
teach. Therefore they were not to set out to tesU..
fy what they had heard and seen, but to tarry in
Jerusalem till they were endued with power from
on high; and then they should be his witnesses to
the ends ofJhe earth. The ancient Prophets were
carefully to deliver God's words to the people, and
not to mix and corrupt them with any private opini-
ons of their own. " The Prophet that bath my
wor~, let him speak my word faithfully.-What is
the chaff to the wheat, Jaith the LORD." (Jer. xxxiii•
.28.) "Now we h!Lve received the spirit which is of
God," says the Apostle, "that we may know th&
things that are freely given to us of God; which
things also we speak not in the worth whioh man's
wisdom teaebeth, but which the Holy Ghost teacl.h
eth." O Cor. ii. 12, 13.~ And when be gives his
o.wn jud$ment on a subJect upon which he bad re"
14t
ceived no special authority or inspiration, he C8.D;'(
didly and cautiously mentions it. (lCor. 'fii.-6.)
Yet those wise and holy men could do nothiDg a-
gainst the truth, but for the truth. ·
There were many disciples after them whi:t'lnight
work miracles in the fullest .sense of the wo.rdJ as
aome of the Corinthians did, who, nevertheless, were
not .correct in all their.·opinions about the truth of
Christ, ..or the duties of men; and, therefOI"e• .thei~
juc:lgmenta were to be regulated, .and their.testimo.,.
D'f to be received or rejected, according to the di.,.
vane standard of truth previously established hy the
Apostles. .
It was of importance to the purity, safety, autho-
thority, and success of the truth, that the standard
of it should be completed by the Apostles th&~W~elves,
before they left the world, in order to guard thoae
who were disposed to believe, from ·the mistakes of
good men, and from the impositions of evil mell, and
evil spiritil. This was done: and particular notice
wu given by the highest authority, that no new doc-
trines or gospels should ever be given from &awn.
And, lest any should pervert the gospel of Christ,
Anathemas, like cherubim flaming swords, .which
turned every way, towards heaven, earth, and hell,
to guard the sacred deposit from exchange, diminu-
tion, or addition, the Apostles placed about their in..
apired works, saying, "Though we or an angel from
heavtm preach any other gos-pJ~l than that we have
preached unto you, let him be accursed. (Gal. i. 8,
9. Rev. xxii. 18, 19.) St. John's awful declarations
are levelled against corrupters of the written word;
-and it is impossible to suppose any species of oral
imposition against which St. Paul's Anathema may
' not be found a sufficient guard.. It allows us to sup-
pose, that one of the Apostles might apostatize from
the truth, and plead his old credentials of miracles,
&c., to authenticate his new Jie:-or that an angel
N3
o,, "zed by Google
141
Those sole operations of Ood 11pon the spirits fit
men, by which he produces effects above the P'>Wel"
though not CO'lllrary to the erder of nature; ncb as
the eon-..ersion ofsinners, the salvation·of so•ls, &o.
And, 3. Such diviDe operations ·as do not imply
creative energy, or control the nafitral ·course ef
things. Such 1 understand to be the expulsion of
evil spirits out of the bodies of men; or even the
,·anquishin~ of evil spirits when they assault Ollf'
own souls m temptation. In h«;>th these cases, the.
help of God is needful; but in neither ease is there
any interference with the natural constitution of
things :-No change is made inthe nature of eithc~
being. In both eases, it is only victory obtained by
the help of divine power, in a conflict with the .com~
inon enemy of God and man• ..Let these different.
kinds of miracles be candidly com,pared, :u1d the,
expulsion of demons .wilJ evideptly appear to ~c but
a very minor kind of miracle; and the power of .i~
only one of the ordinary gifts of the Holy Ghost, the-
right and privilege Of· every fleliever in Christ
Jesus. . · ·· . · · · :
· Christianity, when fairly examine(!, ~ill be fou.n~
to be a religion of divilae, holy, aad ,beaevoleat Jni,.
racles jn its beginninf• progress~ and COJliJ1lm~atioa..
It is literally and t,ru y t/&!!, work of God. T.b.e' most
able of his servants that ever labour~d ill his gracioua.
cause -w<1uld say, " .Qur, ~uftieienc;y' is. of God, (:.l.
Cor. iii. a.) ~· Witqqptm~,". sajd Jesus to hisdiaci-
ciples, .. ye e8ll do Jl~thiog/' .While God· is lVi.th
us, and the hand of omnipotel)ce is engaged in the.
aalvation-of men, it would be' liard to fihd a reason
•hy we should let the devil triuiilph. Is any thing
too hard fer· the Lord ? or has he refused to hMp us
against our enemy ? or has he ev'er,prohibited us to
east ·out devils? After all that has been said, or
written, to ,~poon the exrulsioo of ~emons, 'iri !he
.~&mo •ad··by- tbe power o our Lord Jesus Chmt~
146
this is certain, that be who converts a sinner_, woris a
far greater miracle than he that only casts out a deviE
It is but a small thing in christian warfare tq
drive an evil spirit outofan usurped habitation to his
own place ; but to turn some wicked men from sin
to holiness; " to .open their eyes, and turn them
from darkness to light, and from the power of satan
unto God," is not much less than turning a devil
into an angel. He that converts a sinner, makes a
tuccessful attack upon, at least, two wicked spirits
at once; subdues both; chaces one away, and leads
the other captive unto God. In this case, there is
t)le devil to vanquish and to cast out of his long and
fortified possession, the wicked heart; besides the
peat work of changing the sinner's nature, which
.18 demonstrably the work of omnipotent agency,
and, therefore, a real miracle. Who, then, that can
count his fingers, and weigh an argument, but may
perceive, that he who converts a sinner, performs a
greater miracle than he that merely expels a demon?
Why then should the daily wonders of almighty
~ace, the miracles of divine love in the salvation of
sinaers, be less wondt(red at than the subjection of
..evil spirits to believers, in the name of Christ1 They
are much more powerful and glorious works, more
evidently divine, an~ vastly more important in their
eternal results. But we areAastonished at the~~
and some are leu offended with t6em, because They
•re more common. Such works as the salvaUon. o(
souls from sin and hell, evidently requite creative
energy. The power that raised our Lord Jesus from.
the dead, quickens the soul that was dead in tres-
passes and sins. No inferior agenc~ coald possibly.
effect the change. "If any man be lB Christ Jesu~·,·
lte is a xew creature; old toiags are passed away,
and, beholJ, all-things arc become new :-and all
'hings @Fe of God.'' (2 Cer. v. 1'%.) "For we are}
146
his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good
ifvorks," (Eph. ii. 10.)
The minister of the gospel can no more convert or
sanctify a soul, than he can raise from the dead a
putrifying corpse. But the spirit of God, which
accompanies his faithful preaching of divine truth
to the believing heart,-" Be doeth the woru." (John
.xiv. 10-12.) The man might preach to dead souls,
or prophesy to dry bones, till death silenced his
useless tongue; if the Holy Ghost did not accom-
pany him to give the success, there would be no
spiritual resurrection to eternal life. But by God'a
accompanying the labours of his servants, what
mighty wonders, what miracles of grace are daily
achieved on the spirits of men I Hell is vanquished,
and shiners are converted ! Immortal souls are
delivered from the power of darkness, and transla-
ted into the kingdom of God's dear Son. Hallelu-
jah! for the Lord God Omnipotent aids and sue.
ceeds the efforts of his servants.
These common miraelea of mercy, performed to
accomplish the converl!ion and salvation of sinful,
immortal souls, are far " g1·eater worki' than heal-
ing the sick, and raising dead bodies. The bodies
that were healed or raised, were still mortal, and
again became subject to the pains of affiiction and
the empire of death. But the salvation of the soul
is its eternal life; and the resurrection of the bodt-
to eternal glory, at the time appointed, will be a
consequence of the resurrection of the soul froiQ
the death of sin to the life of holiness. (John xi. 2aa
26. Rom. viii, 11.) ·
Bishop Stillingfleet quotes from Origen, that
" Christ told his disciples, that they should do
greater works than he had done, (John xiv. 12.) be-
cause, by their preaching, the eyes of the blind souls
sllollld be opened ; and the ears of the deaf to all
14'7
goodneiA ate opened, so·far as to hearken to the
precepts and promises of the gospel : and the feet
of the lame in the inward man are so healed as to
delight to run in the ways of God's commandments."
"External miracles," says the Rev. J. Fletcher,
• 1 which effect no change in the heart, nor rescue the
soul from a state of spiritual blindness and death :
miracles which serve only to repair the organs of
the body, that must 11hortly be consigned to the
grave; miracles which tend merely to modify mat•
ter, such as eaasing green trees to wither, withered
trees to spring, and water to gush out of the flinty
rock; miracles of this natllte, are far less impor-
tant than those which cause tile thorns of vice to
wither, the seed$ of grace to spring, and streams of
aaered eonsolatioa to flow through those very hearts
which were formerly barren as a desert, and hard
as the rock that Moses smote.
"The molt importaat miracle11, were those which
were wrought by tlte Apostles, when, a11 fellow
wotkers with God, they opened the eyes ohinner!l-
turning them from darkn:e" to light, and from the
po'IDtr of &.ta• tlnto God. (Acts xxvi. 18.) True
miracles of mercy these, and memorable conver-
•ions, which the word of God, in the mouths of his
blinisters, is continually operating in every age I ''
(Vol. 8. page 140.) •
It, therefore, \te di11sallow the expulsion of de•
mons, under the idea ofits being a miracle, we must~
to be coasistent with ourselves, disallow of the con-
'Version of sinners, because it is demonstrably a far
greater mitacle. But God encoutages both•
.~fbelievers i~ Christ.Jesus, in any age, have P()W':-
er to expel intt-uding ,demonsi it d()e~ not, the~efo_re•
fol\ow, (,bat t.hey may OCcaajon " S«l~Sible .deVIations
~~ ~e ~o.wn la~~ of nature/' and 11:1iraculQ~~ll ,
''oot"edbyGoogle
148
heal the iick ud raise the dead. These are worb
which are not necessarily connected with the spirit-
ual aad eternal salvation of man. And whether it
wo11ld be better for ns, to have miraculous and cer-
tain relief from all temporal afBictions, and mortal.
ity of the body, perpetually within our call, pious
men will very seriously question. God has engaged
that all things shall work together for good to them
that love him. His providence has appointed means
of relief in aftlictions :-" From the Most-high com-
eth healing.'' He has given skill to the Surgeon,
-and wisdom to the Physieian, and caused medicines
to grow out of the earth. (Eccles. xxxviii. 1-15.)
'Ve may employ all these means in his name, im-
ploring his blessing on their use; but in many cases,
the issue will be uncertain. Divine pity may grant ·
us a reprieve; but we are all criminals, appointed to
die, and must fall under the sentence which unh·er-
sal justice has pronounced on rebellious man:-
" Dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return. "
It is, therefore, our duty in affliction, to pray, with ·
submission, to infinite wisdom and divine authority;
to be ready to depart, and willing to remain, fully
resigned to him who "delighteth in mercy," aDd
will do all things well. AfBictions, though gr~
vous, are often profitable, and "yield the peaceable
fruits of righteousness to them that are exercised
thereby."
There is a time for all things; and it is a point of
wisdom toknow the season. Now is the time for the
Cllurch militant to encounter and vanquish the pow·
us of llell, and every believer may be a conqueror.
If, ia these days, when " Satan bas great wrath, be-
cause he knows his time is short/' there were ne>
power in the raame of Christ, ud mthe ehristi.f.n
church, to cast out de•ils; aad if they must be
tamely suffered to riot 11nmolested in the soul and
\ledy of.maa, wireD onee th6y set pos~sioa, tbe
e'fil caae would arpe a mo1ll'llfal ftvene ohhill,a
in the ~iDgdom of God. It would argue tho mighty'
superiority of the enemy since his head ia brniSed1
or the withered arm of the Holy Ghost, and his ia-
ability, in these days of his peculiar reign, to repel
the invasions of his greatest foe among the ransomed
"Childrenofmen. If we werereally reducedtosuch a
miserable slate of spiritual affairs, there mighf be
some reason for our becoming pagans again, when
satan has captivated some of the weak of our ftock;
and, for our employing the Chaldean arts of astro-- .
logical physic to compromise matters with hell, and
make a truce with the devil, on the best conditioaa
ofpeaee his black majesty would be pleased to allow
his helpless victims.-But, " Now is come salvatiOil
'lUld stren~h, and the kingdom of our God, and the
power ofhis Christ." Ifever satan is to be subdued
by redeemed man, this is the·time. This is the d.y
(){ salvation, when the Lord will succour all that
pray :-the time of deliverance from the power of
toe enemy of God and man.
But it is not t~ time appointed for complete de.
liverance from all diseases, pain, and death. Occa-
sionally, at tbe commencement of Christianity, by
tho power of tho Holy Ghost, the srck were healed
for awhile, and the dead were raised, to prove what
the Redeemer could do, and to give a pledge of
what he would do; to evince the benevolence of bi1
design, and the omnipotence of his loYe. But he
''has appointed a fvtwre. day, when "the trumpet
shall sound, and the dead shall be raised; "-when
'"'God shall_wipe away all tears from the eyes ofhia
-Jieople, and the!e ~~ be no more death, neither_
sorrow, nor crytng, netther shall fhere be any moreS
pam:" but the time i!' not yet. It is necessary, ia
order to salvation, that we should in the presene,
_
time,. be delivered from the power ofthe devil; but
·ItlllaJ be ~ieat that we should Rdfll and tlie-.
"()
o,~ IZedbvGoogle
110
1'h9A~ J,o!y Apeetle. wile WJ'IOUght tlte pateat tnt.
racles.,.,. ~thers, were not themaelve. exempt frb•
~icti.on and death.
· But the case is very diterent with respect to ·deO:
moniac possession. Those who could expel demons
but of others, were not subject to possessKm them•.
,!elves. St. Augustine says, (City ofGod, b. 4. c. 32.)
~· Devils cannot possess any but such as they have
deceived.'' Knowledge and belief of the truth is,
therefore, a certain preservative from possession-
but not from diseases and mortality. The highest
authority declares, •• He that is begotten of God,
keepeth himself, and the wicked one toucheth him
not." (lJohn v.18.) But however a man may keep
himself, whether born of God or not, sickness will
touch him, and death will seize anel hold him fast.
~·It is appointed unto all men once to die," and to
this just decree we must all submit,-but no !Dan
ihould submit to satan. To have the mind deluded..,
the judgment blinded, the heart corrupted, tbe pas-
~&ions agitated,_
and ~e '!illover-ruled by a tempting,"
murderous, evJl spu1t,.1s a most d"'adful and unne-
ces!'ary evil; to whichhe thatknows ChristJesus will'
never submit. For as Ignatius said to Trajan,
"Jesus Christ baa put all the deceit ud malice of
the Devilunder the feet of those who carry him ia·
their heart.'' • DuPin gives it as the sentiment of
J. Cassianus, that "Evil Spirits could not possess
men'i bodiee, if they had not got BODle footing in
the soul, or if God did not permit them to enter to
punish some fault." · ·
These observations will authori~ the tonclu1iob•
that no person who has the use of his mental facul-
ties can be possessed by an evil spirit, unlees he haa
neglected the s&ving grace of God, or until he has.
some way or other, yielded to satan's temptations a .
"'· S~ a ~~· or tbe Man,rdom ot it. Jpatiua. t1f11*4
ted:&oa the oncmal Greek, u" publillled by J)r. Gnk
pity.consent. "Oar adversary the' devil· pth
Mout as a roaring lioa seeking whom h.e·may de-
You." and it is our duty to resist him, stediast io
tho faith, and our privilege to conquer him through
the blol>d of the Lamb, and b.y the word of divine
testimony. (Rev. xii. 11.) Though salaD bas. aU
&he.rage of the hungry: roaring lion,. he has. none of
-better qualities. With the cunning of the ser-
peat he joins the cruelty of the wolf, and the das--
tardliness of the pupf.Y· He snarls. ,at the timid,.
aad sebes the fearfu, tbotlgh he tteJJJ.bla.at tiL&
faithful countenanc.e that looks. defianee :ad retia~
&llbe. There is no .change in him for. the better.i
lle still acts. on bia old priociples ~-.& .tTiU lio ·~
pitA IM cew.WtjirR. Perhaps the migJt.ty philo~
.Ofkers may still boast,that none but weak,ignora.Dt•
and v•lgar people are ever bewitched, or peasessed~
What then 7 should we despise the weak, and laugk
at their miseries and death?· or wonld it become ua
better to..teach them how- to- CQilqUel', thronsh CJu:iiat
Jpsus, au.d be the happy spectators of their salva-
tion?
· If they are the weak that are subdv.ed, it is just.
what every sensible man would expect. In the be.;.
......... ·Wbeo ~ e~my had snbdud tb.e mest
aubtle beast of the field, he made his attack upo•
the fii10M4tl, . not the man. She was •cearedby hia
~mptations : she yielded to believe his lies, and fell
a victim to his cQJlning, malice, and pride~ Witbi
her assistance the enemy soon subdued the man:.
The breacb. .was first made in the weakest part of'
luunan nature ; but the whole hUIIWl race ·have
fallen under tb.e power of tim enemy. A Redeem•
er 8ed to oar assistance, and man is made to stand
nOn eY~Il puod apin&Uaia mo.ttalfoe."
That foe continues his efforts.to destr~y. Stilt h&
attacks the wealett firtt, and therefore many of th&
.Oeak, (c~ren. chaefly) hav:e, withiD the last few
~ears, beea auiMlae&l ...d poaseaed by ellilll{liri&e,.
02.
~hrough this conquesi, satan bas gained another
and greater advantage, by sending the parentl to the
professors, and employing them in the practice of
the diabolical arts, to gain their children's release. I
knowwhatI say,and lamentthe matter offact. Many
perilons, from whom we might have expected better
things, ha\'e been sed11ced to the practice of witch-
craft; but they knew not what they did. But does
not humanity, justice, and piety require, that the
evil of such practices should be laid before them I
This may not be philosophical, in the modish sense
ofthe.word, I allow: nevertheleu it may be perfect-
ly·scriptural. Perhaps some of the sceptical tribe
may aft'ect to pity the writer of any thmg serious on
the subject: but let them not boas't intemperately;
for ifthey are too slrOJifl for the old serpent, be may
be too deep for them. Apollyon has suitable snares
for soaring minds; yet with all their high-Oowa
contempt for the weak and ignorant, enn philoso-
phers have been caught in the devil's vulgar trap.
"For wllen Cels11s saith," from Diogenes E~
ticus, "that magic could only hurt ignorant and
wicked men, and had no power over Philosophers,"
Origen replies, " Philosophy was :ao such charm a-:
gajnst the power ofmagic as appears b;t Mreragenei,
,rho wrote the story of Appolloneus fyaneus, the
famous magician and philosopher, who therein men-
tions how Euphrates and an Epicurean (no vulgar
philosophers) were caught by the magic of Appol-
loneus... But as to the christian, thus aaith Origen,
'f we are mo&t certain of, and have found it by expe-
rience true, that those, who, according to the princi~.
pies of christianity, worship God over all, through
Cllrist Jesus, and live according to the gosdel, being
constant in their solemn prayers night an day, a,l.'e
'ot obnoxious • to the power ofany magic or devils
whatsoever.'' Contra Celsus, L. 6; p. 302. t
*Ena Metici•a• themllt'l•f'• will eeknowledge this.
t Jli'abnp S~itliorft~l'l Origines ~ra, ~· 267.)
DJiizedb,Google
'1'53
· li the·old' murd~rer succeeds in deatroying-thtt
•uls of men, it makes oo dift'erence in the aw.fuJ
event, whether be accomplishes- his dreadful p~
pose by vulgar superstition, or io6del:t:.oaophj.
"4For rebellio" is as-11\e riA of tcitcAcra t,.and ..,_
bornessis as iniquity and idolatry." (l .xv•.23.)
.. Let. not the· wise manglo~ in hiS wisdom ;.'"-vaia
presumption is no defence. Satan's rivals- will not
fare much bett.er than his dupes.. There are as m•
ay. ways in&o tht!Mluetl of evil spirits, as there are
to aiD. against God. No maa is. altogether aecure
from the destructive devices of the enemy, but while
auder the protection of. a. Saviour.. And under the
shadow o( his wings, reposing in the a.rms of hia
mercy,. the little child may smile at his adv.enary's-
rage, and laugh his era.el power to scorn.
To.fear the devil,. is to show him too mnch unde-
served rupect. and is one step towards worshipping
him: and to be wilfully: ignorant of him~ is to give
him the ad.vaotage against us. Our safety lies in:
knowing his devices,_detecting his temptations,.and
J~Csisting bim steadfast in the faith-; in watching unto.
prayer,.fearing God, and tr111ting in his salvation.
England, with all its saued excellencies, i8 not'.
quite the garden of Paradise, yet Satan entered and
made much havoc there, Weare ee11tainly so.high-
ly favotH'ed as to excite his envy, 1o rouse· his. rage,,
and inflame his malice;· and i' is clevoutl){ tu be
wisbed, that we may be· so wise as-to detect his de-
vices and resist his elforts to catchthe weakest ofour
flock. He certainly watches for opportunities, and
he bas seen among us seve'fal adnatages- to· favour
his design.in doing us mischief.. His credit has been
pretty good for being an. " old: gentleman " retired
from busineas,.reformed in his manners, and now ha-.
ving no power over the bodies or minds of the chil-
tilren of men. It has been· thought unphilosophical,.
~:ude, and vulgar, fo.r any watchmen of our Israelto.
diaturh our securitl with theold caution,. " Besober,
oa
'1M
be~; becaWJe ywr acbersary the d&'ril, u a
....-ibg ~. ·•"Hcle&h •
abeut .seelwiog w:hom 8e may
•oar: WlhOlll tte!liat«edfast in the faith." So••
blwett•idlthe enemy·" much.defet'ence aa ~believe,
tlllat;ff Ge did peMeSI any buman bodies in 'these
Wiys, JleIOOClld not 01' IJhould.not be expelled. Whe-
lber ·th6ia' ~:failed~ 'for fear ofbim, or for
..-.nt af faith in Christ Jesus, so that they would
-think :an.y !lllaD e fool lf!ho w.ould ·Yentmoe .to ·~ree.bim
ud atltmtpt .&o.expel him, no matter w.hioh: ..ueta
•mrtitaanta 'D\IIY encourage him ta make a l'ush vpoa
!111.
Though oar ene1ny is but a despicable prophet,
\leis, in his warf:rre.on our-spirits, r:tt:her a d·eep po-
'li"cian·; and 'he niigltt readily enough forsee, that if
he could htrt·g:rin possession of some, others would
·c~ .
to iJiegotiate with him through the medium of
Ibis ow'n sup6l'll1itions, and ·be glad to make a truce
~W-ith him b.y .payingmbute to the" Curious Arts" of
£pbesua arul ·Ohaldea, commonly called the ·"·As-
lrological Practice of Physic..'' He has made the
.attempt aud succeeded. This gives .the enemy great
enoouagtnnent to·proceed, and great influence whep
he does. He gains some influence over us when he
•obtailH! OUr feaT of his power j but he lays amuch
firmer hold .
on us .when we respect his wisdom .and
ask biil OOUDBel,.e11teem his benevolence and seek pjs
spiritual ·help. In the one case he troubles us as.a
.terrible devil; .but in the othe1· he gains the homage
which is due tQ. God. 'fhus the LoRD is distrusted
and discarded; and the devil is feared, sough~, c.on-
sulted, and trusted in his stead.
There is certainly no necessity for our returDing
to the magical practices and pagan idolatrties of the
.daM:est ages and nations. 'Ve may and .we ought
. to "resist the·d·evil" in nil his enoroaobments, for
~We are wull able to overcome him. The heroi~. ho-
•ly coriduct of the primitive Christians, .under the
·urwtion of1Cbriat a&d his apostles, waging porpe-
o,~ IZedbvGoogle
166
tnal war with .the powers of darkness, is fat m~
-.:orthy of out' imitation than the impious magical.aa-
-peratitiona of de'fil-worshipping Pagans. Whe.n
emperors and kings, philosophers amd priests, and
people, high and low, rich and poor, great and small,
were so aupemtitious as to consult and worship d&-
l'ils who haunted temples and possessed men; the
christians attacked the demon-gods in their ·high pla.-
ces and their strong holds, and hell trembled at the
flresence of·a believer in Jesus. The Christians ad-
JUre~ in the name of their crucified Saviour, and
the idolators bad the e'fidence to see and hear the
gods they dreaded and worshipped, "writhe and
howl, and wail, and fly," at the tremendous name .of
Christ, and confess themselves to be but devill. .
Tertullian, the learned African, would teach us
not tofeo.r evil spirits, but rather to make t'hem fear
us; not to endure their plagues, but rather to vap-
quiah, puillh, and expel them. In his Apology,
Chap. 23, he.sa.ys :-"Now this power and domini-
on of oura over wicked spirits,.has all its power and
efficacy from the name of Christ, and from our re-
minding them of those judgments which are drop-
ping upon their heads from the hand of God through
Christ, whom he has made Judge of the world; and
the dread they have of Christ in God and ·God in
Christ, is the thing which anbjects them to the ser-
vants of God and t:hrist. Thus, therefore, by the
touch of our hand, or the breath of our mouth,
scorched as it were by 'the prospect and representa-
tion of future flames, they go out of the bodies they
possess, at our command; ·but sore against their will, 1
and.gnaahing as it were with red hot shame to quit
their possessions in the presence of tileir adorers."
Let Christians know the power and authority over
hell which Christ Jesu11 has given to all that believe,
and the heart of -no man, woman, or child, among
them will -
fail thro~gh fear of evil spirits. Whene-
ver they tempt or seek. to gain posseaaion. they may
tao
'e elf'ectually reiisted,_ if the person attacked be
·watchful and faithful. And whenever a case of de-
llloniac possession t:~an be detected, (for detection is
lllore difficult. tban expulsio~ every believer ia
.Christ Jesus, has, inthename, and power; and grace.
ef his Saviour, an infallible nmedy at hand~
It may be sufficiently ridiculous, as blunder& gene-
.rally arc, to be o/ying to cast out a devilwhere there·
is none; but it is unchristi:m,.when.we know, or mar
·know, that an evil spirit bas possessio111 oia fellow
creature, to let him him keep it. W'hen there is a
reasonable and evident probabiliJg of di!moniac pos-
session, it is·a far tess evil to mi1take tho nature of
the case, and apply an innocent, unsuitable remedy
in attempting a work of mercy, than. for fear of being
Mntemptibte, te neglect what- God has authorized,.
if not made our duty. It HI becomes the disciple of
· Jesus Christ, whose help is solicited, and whose·Bi-
. ble teaches him a so,•ereign remedy for all that are
oppre11sed·of the devil, to leave the poor mi.scrabl'e
demoniac to perish, neglected and unpitied, under the
tyrannizing influence· of an llnclean·spirit; or to a-
bandon the demonized saiferer; with his disaonsolate
· friends, to seek relief, as·pagans do, in tlte "Curious
· Arts" of' magieat superstition, which, by the word.
of divine inspiration, have· been so frequently and
solemnly, with aU that practice them, deolar.ed to.
lte aa abomil&ation·to tlac LoRD•.
Willicnu, PriAter, Plymortth.
---- - -----------~-----------
&ms dimxguW&iag ,..,.,U~ by toAicA, OJ& p1'fUlatl
..,.illation, toe may be able to discooer the poaem~
ofa aclea tpirit-tlte Nricnu model of 1eelt.ittg re-
luffrom .ucla deJMJ~iac pouuricm-the propriety of
.nag tlul acriphwcal •etl&od &j 7el¥u.king aad ezpelliag
a euil de•cm-tlul ria aad,dtmger of applying te tluJ
CW"iou am aad occtflt 1ciencu, or the utrowgicGl
prcdice ofplayric, tc., ia 111el ca~e~-cua(l ofco...U-
"-9 ad vriag any of tlul cmcieflt pagaa ••per1titicml,
1Dillbe tluuubjectl ojsoME FARTHER OBSERVATIONS
AND ANIMADVERSIONS.
DJiizedb,Google
•
o;git;,edb,Google
•
FARTHER
OBSERVATIONS
ON
AND
ANIMADVERSIONS
ON
BOME OF THE CURIOUS .AR1'8
OF
Bv JAMES HEATON.
" l-1ee from idolatry. I speak as to wise men; judge ye what·
I say." .<u. PQ'UI, 1 Ctw. x. 15.
"Many ofthem which used curious arts, brought their books
together, aud burned them before all men." Act1 xix.
'.! Resist the devil, aud he will llee from you. Draw nigh unto
God, aud he will draw nigh Wlto you." St. Jamu. .
FROME; PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR:
. .
SOLD BY T. BLANSRARD, PATERNOSTER ROW, AND
CITY•:&OAD; AND A. MAXWELL, BELL•YARD,
. LINCOLN°S·INN, LONDON:
R. WRIGHTSON, ·AND R. PEART, BIRMINGHAM; J. SHERWIN, r
BURSLEM; J. HOLMES, LEEDS j E. LUCKMAN, 1'RACT
1121'0SITORY, STALL·STREBT, BATH; 8. TUCK,
l'ROME ; AliD OTHER BOOKSELLER~!.
1822.
CROCK~L rJUliTUI.. FROM&.
"·
FARTHER OBSERVATIONS,
lu:,
IN'a former part of this •orl:, s* reeeut, deelded.
cases of witthtraft have bee& aotieed; ~ud their na-
ture, it W bl!eu iatiiDated, i• euM~tWI1 the aame as
that of demouiac possession ; dif~ridr ooly In the
cire'/1,.,.,._ of the evil •pirit having ahta.a accom-
plice to arge and aid him io the cue ot adllc:tlon by
witchcraft. Tb~t delllblliac poaaesaiOD may be the
d'ec:t of l'llpetttitioaa arta1 !'iihotJ J. Taylot give& an
intim•tioll ita hla Life of Cbriat ; lie .aye : ., Near the
aty of o.dara there •ere aaany atp111ell'd in the
hollowness of roeb, where the dead ~ butW, and
where many aapentitioua persons uaecl Mempbitic
and Thesa.Uc rites, in-.oeatiog t-ril ~ta ; ina >much
that at the iuatant of our ~avioat *uri... fa the
country, there met him two po•aealed with devilalrom
these tombs, ex~eediog fierce, aad eo bld Men loag,
insomuch that no man dutat pu• that 'ftJ.'' p. 235.
It may be dU&cuJt, if llot U.possible, msome in-
stances of demoniac atlittioa, to distinguish whether
they are cases of 'witchcraft or only pc~seeatioa. And
for 8Df purpose Of real utility, Oil tfifl chriati&Jl atode
of relief, that di11tinction may be quite needl~ss.
PART II. A. 2.
•
4
When the astrological practice of physic is employed,
the distinction is of some consequence, because, the
magical doctor, or the patienfs friends, or both, must
use the same art against the witch as the witch does
against the patient, and with painful success too, before
a cure can be effected. But those who would rather
be christians. than practice witchcraft, should confine
themselves to what God a.ll1)ws and bas engaged ta
hless. 1'o christians, therefore, the e&quiry whether a
rlemoniac is bewitched, or ~>nly- possessed, may be a
matter of cwrioaity, but '116t of necessity or utility;
and the propriety of pursui:og it as some have done,
is very questionaMe. · ..Whatever baleful influence
lvitchcraft may have, and particularly so as technically
dist\nguished from aon·ery, which implies the use of
drugs under th.e .y~ciou& .corruption of magical incan-
tation, th~Ll,nlluenc~ ~w;i be of~ a spiritua.J natur.~..
~ )'Cfi!On .~Wi~h:ed lS~ t~eref~re~.lf1. mo~t.~asel! f!f ~be.
la~d,, , a .Person. possessed; and. 1f t~e evd s~mt ~an
he .subdued,and e~pelJecl, ~~the po"'F~ o~ .11.\;at..:h<;raft
~ t~~~efor~. ~oll\pletely _d,.sanoull~: 4~d accpr~g,
to t.
h1s pr.mClple,. " Sur.ely.. there 1s no mchantmant
apinst Jacol:i~ nor divinati'>n. ,agairist IsraeL'~ Numb.
xxiii. 23. :.He,ibat bas the faith of Christ which save&
})~ fpm)-.)in••h~· the.Jiow.er ~hicb vanquisnes all the.
~{t~ '?f ~v.1f spmt.s. . . . . .
, . '·Th~righ 'sp~ious e\idence of a human accomplice
in ~a:~es of diabolic aftlictio11 may be obtained from
k.jl\jct'iug demons, yet as they are such liars that their
t~estimo.~y would, bring discredit o.n the truth .itself.
our ~e~t plan. ~s, l~k~ Christ an~ hi~ Apostles, not to
n!ce1ve'thelr Witness. Our Savwur s command to his
qisdples is,.'~ Ca1t out dMJila,'' no~ conault them. They
:.re. weq knOWD to be, as their name impo~ts, j'a/Me.
ncp~tsera, slanderers, and they are cunning murderers
i~.I·r~p,ci~ple and prac~ice~. lC in ~~ouy thing they are
true, .~t.1,; ~ut to be~ray. ·
o,g'':..:9b' Coogle
5
. In J. E's. ·ca.<~e the parents endeavour~ with suo-
eess to remove from t.heir boy's mind the impression
·whieh the evil spirit bad made upon it, that an old
woman had employed evil art. against him. Ther.
knew that the most secret· erimes were committed
.before the tace of the Lord, who says, "Vengeance
belongeth unto me and I will repay it." They sought
·and found deliverance in Chri't Jesus for their son,
and would not cherish a wish to bring·evil on a fellow
ereat11.re, nor trouble their OWJ,l minds with barbour-...
·ing painful suspicions of her guilt. Prudea'tly to ·
seek to know all that, and only that, which i1·justii•
able and beneficial, becomes the temperate- zeal of ·
sound philosophy, and the peaceful wisdom ofgenlline
: christianity. There is both judgment anti mercy with
God. Dealers in the black art of·witcllcraft have
sometimes seea the error of·their way,. have repent-
ed, and· found mercy. 'Manesseh; King of Jltaab,
·practieed and·patronized·witchcraft, as much as any
sorcerer that ever disgraced· a throne; yet be was
brought to repentance. 2 Chron. iii. 20. At Ephesus,
where· Satan bad his seat in splendour, among his-.
· magicians, there were many who practiced the dia~
· bolical·arts, brought .tG- the know.ledge of the truth.
by the preaching of. bile apostles. Acts, xix. }7. 20.. .
And Justin Martyr says, " We •ho devoted ourselves .
· to magie arts now consecrate ourselves .entirely to--
God." Certainly, therefore, it is more becoming a
· ehristiaa to seek salvation fiom Christ Jesus, and
do that ·which l1e authoriies, .and may' be ·a pro-
bable means of bringing others to know and practice
righteousness, than to imitate a witch and become
·· .like her in using the 6/acll art. ..
Evil spirits llill very readily inform against ·some
human beings as their accompli'ces in cti~es, ·and
some who have not properly eonsidered their char~tC­
. ter, have admitted their evidence, o£ • neighbour's.
.6,, 3•.
,.
being a witch ; and Oil tbat vile evidence, or their
·own awpiciofw, wbiub may have been of the same
or.i(filt. :t.be .ore®lo¥s. according to traditioaary r~
polta, )Mwe .Jtarr.assod a neighbour's life away. aud
pr~y.deseryed bangiag for the mlll'der. To act
thus in. zeal.~wt .wit~:bcraft, is to act aa eenainly
aod,as...fatallyullder .t]ae influence of the wicked one
u wi&Ghet arwtaoa:c61:.8ra themselves. He that com-
miUetb aur.4er wof the ·dlwil.
. ~\1 tb~ JteatiiD9Dy of an ~vil spirit· is des-
pi-.bl~: 1 do net ·•a.y that it is impossible •to ·ob~
.
atdoieu,pr,oo1.4JI pilt .~ justjfi lepl.execntiou for
'hemtae ,el waqJaNt. lf J did,l should lt!pi'OIU;h
Ia)' Maar; wbc>,~ he·qs K.iag in Israel.~nacte.d
the atat11.~. •• 1\bpu..,sllak.pqt .aulfw a witch to live.''
Ex..-.ii. UJ. W&ma •t;i•~r~»Jy! bown tMt.tl&ese
"". JM)iciooa !'Dd prolused.mttmtio.n .to take aw~y
a JUiigbb®r's life, .aud .~t ·meaDS ~e~ actw.lly uw:l
~ ~o-wli&P· the IIDW~ pllrpo&e, aod t,bey have
helm .~O!W.n to ·~ ~ ;. 1. aliould deOIIl that evi-
deacuaOi~t, in .a . , .wayJ .to Jostify the req~­
&it,i~ !Of,lif~ fM,life. · I~ ~~ .oGt~mpeaeh the justi~
~ eqJ¥ty,of. the .pr~iJDg,· ~ be th~ 1JM411•
111. wb~~ Ule ·cri~iaal • ~..Witted the mnrder.
whether .it be ~y. mtiChllllioa.l or milltary,.by chemical
or by ~C:~ ar.t.* However, I ~ llO lawyer ,; I
· ,
·• :a.e. ~ltiUcll,rlflf; it~ In leljptures wich toaleDIWe
a. mr~bia aa.to lnclwle the.varioua arts.of auperiution,.aa diri-
nafio , 'fortooe-telllilg, charming, &c. &c. 'fhe govermnen& of
I~ was·a-'f'h8001'11e)'·; ·{;od wM lhe aupreme magistra*e; aDd
all UJese :~ .-e!frit!Ded 0J!P0e1tioM m bla government aod
authority; aud, therefore, th<>ugh the witda hurts no man's
body or property, the diriillug;·charming, fortune-telllug witch
waa condemned by the same authority _that doomed the false
prophet :and blaaph'elller,to .~~eatlt. A.'!Wieey ·of ebQ:Ienlly pam-
phlets thl't enco~ the atudy ..00 teach ecime o( the arta.of
divination, fortune-tellbag, speHe, charming, &c. ~ published
i11 l.ond4111., 4111d are alwa~oo tale In IDOtlt towns In t.bci c:oantry.
Th~l!e arc l!o~ht ~l!ieAy !JY:yooug WO!Dfll; ~ ~ea wUl J;le
7
write enly as ~ chl'iiltiau, to shew ho:w the evil in-·
fluence of satanic· ageqcy 111ay l)e righteously and ef-
fectually resisted, and bow those who are possessed
may, and ought to 'be, delivere4. · · ·
But in or~er to oppose this eYil inftaeace uul
relieve the suft'erer, ,it may be desirable..
to koo:w by
what symptoms we may·be able to flistingpisb ~
a suppo1ed demoniac be ·really posseeaed of an evil
spirit or not. The writer bas very aenllibly felt tbe
want of suth ipstrDetion, so ha-v.e many o$hers ; aad
should the reader ever be providentially c:.lllsd to .ex...
amine acase of the kind, as the writer has been, he
will be thankful for • few observations on
SOME DISTINGUISHING MARKS OF
DEMONIAC POSSESSI(i)N,
Cases of posaestion may, in several respects
much resemble some physical• disorden;, especially
lunacy, and epilepsy ; yet there mutt be an evident
difference, or they could not be distinguished with
~rtainty. And we must natur&lly expect, that in &
case of diabolic pGSaeaaion there will be the appeu-
ance of tJOiu•tat'!/ tl'icAedau~; The apparent physical
disease may be inteoded partly to cover tbe real cause
of the paroxysms ; and the appearance of voluntary
wickedness, so very consistent witta the nature of the
~vil spirit, may be desiped to procure the assistance
the n~ motbHS of the futlire ~eneration, and will perpetuate
the abominable soperatiti&ns which God condemll8 u the vile
fli'ICtlce of witchci-aft. lt is daugerous to play with curious wu
tliat lead to so much evil; Many of theae JM:I'I!Ons see no evil ih
them, but they sbonld be ap~ of it ; and like tht> cori\'erte'd
Jllaldciaps they would b11111 their booll11. I mean IIIU'h books as
4' Fairburn's Wheel ofFortuDe," The DreamBook, 'fhe ··~
Astrolo~r, The ·Modern Fottune-Teller, &c. &c•. Tliey are in
their p!'Jltiple a diabolital Imposition on the humatl mini!, aod a
provok!Dg inault to the aathoilty of God. . . , :
8
·of buman beingS to haste• by corporeal punishment's
the miserable sutl'erer's death.
It is reasonable to expect, that a preternatural
affiiction will betray itself to the prudent examiner•
·by some preternatural symptoms or circumstances.
·And without much daager of error we may conclude,
that preteraatural effects must have a preternatural
.cause. The certain knowledge of the cause will direct
ns to the propel' mode of relief. Against spiritual op-
pression we must seek spiritual assistance, and every
christian may know assuredly that if be needs help
against the oppressive power of evil spirits, he may
obtain it, when be seeks it as be ought, from " the
Lord God Omnipotent."
In cases of demoniac possession we may expect
to discover perternataral horror, abilities, knowledge,
-sufferings.. or propent~ities. PretBTndhlrlll ltorror, or
an involant11ry dread of anv thing sacred or devotional,
is a common .symptom of demoniac posession. . Evil
spirits cannot well bear to be faithfully reminded of
.him who bruised the serpent's head. It galls the
pride of Lucifer to receive his deadly wound from
him that Willi crucified ; he trembles at the remem-
brance of t.he awful majesty of Christ Jesus, and is
horror-struck at the prospect of those judgments
which the avenger of injured man will })Our down
upon his guilty head. By reminding the evil spirits
of Christ .Jesus and liis judgments, the ancient"chris-
.tians pnt demon~a _into iut0Ierable ag~my.. The
.presence of Christ Jesus, while be went about doing
good, excited these horrors in demoniac'~ . They cried
out saying, "Wha~ have we to do with thee, .Jesus,
theu Son of God ? Art thou c&me hither. to torment
us before the time?" Math. viii. 29. Mark. i. 2;3. 26.
So when the apo·stles adjured them, the " unclean
I!Jiirits, crying with a loud voice, came out of many
9"
tbafl we~ p~ssessed with thelfl. '~t,s, liit 7•. :The
frimiti~e F~~el'S frequently testify the same fMt, anct
haye freque_ntly: observed this symptom; l\lld often
excited it 'Yith merely meut~ rebukes_ia· the name of
Christ. ;And certainly no uncommon share of inge.:
nuity is, r~qu1~i~ ' to m.,ke s..uc_~ an experimeat, to
complete satisfaction. A man th!lt l,lJie:& bu_
t a mod,l-
rate share of common sense, can neither mistake nor
be imposed .upon in such a trial &II this. ·
Pi~ter.aatutal abilities wHI sometimes be ~anife.st
in demo~iacs. . The .o~e called Legion was so_
preter-
natu~~ly ~t~ong that "no ma11 could bi11d bi.m. uo n.ot
with chains. Because he had often been boupd wi~h
fetters and :chains, and the cliaiqs.bad bee~ pluc"ed
asunder_
by him, and the fetters broke!)· in pieces :
neitb~r could any man tame him." Mark, y. :}. ~. 1'his
Jatte~ circumstance intimates . ~so pret~rnaturalfe­
rocitJJ acquir,ed by demoniac w.ssesaioa., Thete ,re
var~ous 1fllYI in which ability p1ay l;HJ sheW~~, aud
therefore w~ are not t9 expect t~t)t will be c:oniilled
to muscular energy, or always·appear in any one way.
Good sense ~ust ~etennine whether.or· ~ot the sup-
poseti super~umau actions performed by t~ suspected
d~moni~, be physic~Uy possible to the pat,ellt i"
d•sease or health. . .· .
p;.eternatural _
/mow/edge is anot_her sy~ptom ~f
possession. This idea is contained in the .name demo-
n,iac : for de~no• signifies a knowiRg ~ne. Many
demoniacs have llad .11o s~perhuman power. to· uQder-
Ktand, and some eveo to 8peck languages which t)iey
b.;ld never learaed, Melanchtbon menti<~.n'l several
p.articular 'cases. ·T~ one whic;h wa11 under. my own
examination illustrated the manuer in which ademo-
ulae, in his paroxy~ms of possession, may understand
what 'is addresse;d to him iq ~~~~y language whatever,
b~cause the spirit disc~vqs the ~houghts appli«l.
. . ·
.
..
/
10
-'tbout the SOlficl of irbrds « fetm bf aieMit. The
Pyth6alt dM8fl ipoken of ill tle Acts, xri. 16. 'had a
'Pfril •f4i....,..,., wldel koUJM ~ mu!ets Dnreli
pia b1 eoo~. that iii, tliSC6veriDg and telling'
t11ings by tiHt el'll tipirit wlritli poHet~tect ber. The
tNvil '- 'H'J pto.. ef lOt s&JIIe~ wi880lil ; bf
ttaia tl6 tatclleS liett.
In examinln« a auptM~setl demthriae, tbe trial
should be made during the fits, because it is not the
9t.tlnt biaastlf, bat tbe evil ~t wbicfl P'6ftesses
him, thac diiiC!oMS tlds meteal re!ii&tance, while the
patient bitnself may so•etimea b*f'e tlis O'lt1i Dtetttal
powen so !"ltvertelei' rel!ttailled *'t6 kno1r notlrinf
•f wbe 11 going fontard. B.w ~ fio man ctuuu/1
the ckmon, lllld lay flim~tlt under obligatiG!l to Iris
Wi..om ; lot that woeld be to fall iato the smue of
tbe dfril. He whf ldlows ho.- to tesist ~e devil in
te•ptatioa, •1 bow bow te tebuke a· dem~n ia
po11e11i6a ; OJ' be m~ c:ftstdl the' fotmel' ' .at1 of
.... work ·~ the •bJtct 11 h:em,Jlfted. . .
~ttbtal suft'eri~tp ~ adtlloet ltY"'ptom or
deuwmlet possesai6a. By efll.,iribalqeacy, pldns
•e Maet~~nea iuftlict~ o11. tile ld"erer, as ~. ·~the
invisible whips of evil demons," or visir,k; only to the·
patient, while the eft'ects evince the reality of.the
powerihl ca1llie upon th~ bod118 wen 811 tlie JDJnd,
nd ~te. that ~ oppreesed creatare·suffers
ill reality as 1teD M ill imligitlatioa. The.~ sd'erings
fJfW!I much at dift'erellt·tnaes; Ate~ time they reaem-:-
ble aatura1 diseasee, at another~ Jl~rribly ulinataral;.
aad agaia ridk&lous and diepatin1; they iire comi-
cal, they ~ terrible, often such u wOdld defy imagi-
nati.1l ol' 4eacripti0!1:. Sometitllea they cease in an
iastant, le!Win1 the patient. f~ from any symptom
ol diaordered health et mind ; lldd 1Wpin the sufer-
iags teturn 1rith:-,.iolellce as 11uddenly as tllt>y dfopart~·
11
·4ld : just as thouglt th& evil spirit delightea to puzzle
and moclr ell m~ical eki)J. while like a cruel cat he
spc»rta wilb bis treJ,ubli~~ prey. Sometim~ ·tb~
patient's volition aad other mental faculties are· -so
~e'P!were4 ll11!l:{Hlrvertc:d, tll•t.he tQita aQd 1weats
like a hurried horse uncler • burden, au.d grollnl an(!
screatr~rs as from the lashe.s of a. whip. He assumes
the behaviour of variou11 a,n4aala in clw!e, or play, or
distrel{s, as though Nebuebjadnjl,~r·s doom was fnl·
filled in him." Let hill ~t ~ ~au~d from man's,
~&Dd let a!JeU.t'aheart be given lJJI.~o h.UJs," Dan,. iv. 16,
~etellla~ural propeuitie1 wUI.so~J~etimes indicate
demoniac po11sesrsion. Demoniaca frequeatly attem~t
to destro7 tlu~m!ltlives ; and are sometimes takep .1n
such iltrange (its, and in such da.n~ro'll& and ~~
circumstances as are evidently seleCted by the tyrani·
ziag etilepirit's malicious duip ~~till the patient, in
such a way as that his death mig't .seem to he the
«:if'ect of accidel)t.. "Oft tiw«:~~," ..;4 tlle father of a
child possessed of an evil apirtt. " it batlt caJt him
into. tbc; ir,-e, and into the wa\e,, to cl~stroy hir,n."
Mark, b. ,2. Of the demo~~. ~egio., it is Qb•
served. t:h•t " alwa.Js aight aad clay he was in the
mou~~ &lid ip tlie t~bs, crying and c:uttiug him-
self w.tt'l\ •tones." Mat~. v. 5. Nothing can be ll)ore
~~~ wtile e~l ~i.-it w._, w-. ""m~qerer from.
t.he l>e,U.J!.illg/' ~d.no~bi" mor~; opp<>11ed to a"tu.-e,
or t.he will qclla;w of -oo GQcl of .u..ture•.than sel£-
~e•.t~cti~. ~1!-d it i11 que,tioJJab~e•. ~d .~o!tllY of
more cons1deratJon than caa be g1Ven to 1t tn this
~ w)et!Jc;r I.Wllb ~s. of. IBU\'W _. ~-katruc
H<l"' -~·~· .1lll~ ~~q~~~i to .b<l •lf¥CUrcr/
.,a_ dJ~q/'11'fJ~ ~ ~9~ ·tei'JF~·- ~ WIJ'O"ltJIIIUI of,
~~~ ~pr:. ~~~f*(Jt0flf:uit,.1 ~er:. tb~ .
J.A..~P. ~~~~~s~ ~~Jlt OJ: ihe . ~ental
po~, D111t"'•,F~• ~f: ~ ott.er;.lwt.
~ !lever l'QCI. qf ~· e:s;~pt the sw.me that were pos-
12
sesscd of devils, that destroyed themseTves. Math. ,·iii.
31, 32. Self-preservation is the first law of nature,
and it is universal. . Destruction began with Satan.
These are some of the symptoms which strongly
indicate st.tanic influence; and which, if carefully at·-
tended to, will assist us to discover whether a sup-
posed demoniac is really possessed or not; There
ma~ be ·some cases of diabolic a:ffiiction, or possession,
whlch may elude our enquiries ;" but where the above
-criteria are evident on careful examination, particular-
ly if the preternatural involuntary horror can be man-
ifestly excited hy a mere secret mental resistance,!
should think the proof of possession 11atisfactory. If
the experimenter is prudent,·impasition is impossible;
and if he is attentive, he cannot mistake. ·
THE MISERY OF DEMONIAC··POSSESSION. •
The great n.!f.ictirm which a CfJ8~ ofdemoniac po•-
.,e,ion il to n famil!l, can hardly be described or Cl)n-
ceived. " How doleful a thing must 'it be.'' says Dr.
Lightfoot, u when that body which should be .the tem-
ple of the Holy Ghost, should become the vcty local
cage and bodily'habitation of Satan; when.the mem-
bers were actuated and used by the devil, as if he had
been the very soul that did ·animate the body ; wheq
man's greatest enemy should so apparentlL dwell within
him ; ·and when he e1ther carried the devi , or the deYil
him, wmthersoever he went." [Harmo,ny, Mark i. 23]
. '.
"Before the fall," says ·the eloquent Or: Bates,
"the unclean spirit was incorporated'with tbe serpent,
but now with man himself. · He seizes on·tbe ·external
organs and internal tacolties, and rules h~ ·at his
pleasure. In the time of Chr!st, great numbers were
posses~ed : for the devil perceiving·the ruin of his king-
dom approaching, would extend·the limits of it lit!l'e ;·
13
and by the perfect possessing of sinners, begin their
torment, which is one act of his principality. The
caae of lADle peraoru W08 moat compiuaionable. For in
that close fight the soul was disarmed of its defensive
weapons, bcing hindered in a great measure of the free
use of it~ faculties. Whereas in other temptations, be
works by outward objects at a distance; here he makes'
a vi'otent assault on both parts. It is the true anti-
cipation of hell, for the possess~d person is not ex-'
empted from sufFering the privilege of death, nor en-
joys the free power of doing the efFect of life. · Now
the ejecting of this enemy was above the force o£ any
human means; no material applications had any power
over immaterial spirits. But our Saviour, by a word,
commanded them forth of their garrisons." Harmony.
of Divine Attributes, chap. 20.
When a family is troubled but with one member ·
that is "oppressed of the devil," it is a season of sore
trial of patience, and strong temptation to sin. Fre-
quently they can have but little rest, night or day.
The poor demoniac is perpetually liable to be suddenly
taken by the evil spir1t and thrown into fits the most
dangerous, distressing, and horrible. Sometimes he
is so furious a11 to require several persons to hold him,
though but a cbild, to prevent his doing injury to him-
self or others. The anguish of parents in the common
aftlictiMs of their children, in the order of divine pro-
vidence, is too keenly felt to be adequately described;
but atlietion from diabolic agency has peculiar aggra-
wtions. Grelltdanger attends it, and d&atb is terrible
in any shape; but more especially, when under the
management or immediate infliction of "him that hath
the power of death, that is, the devil." Heb. ii. 14.
Let those who never wept and groaned under such a
burden of distress, not despise those who haTe; but
be tlnlnkful to God for their preservation, /eat tAey .
al.o lw tet11ptt1d. It is as great a mercy to be pre-·
B.
14
served from a(ll.ictioo, as to be delivered from it~
though it is seldom as sensibly felt, or as gratefully
•cknowledged.
The holy gospels briefly record a little of the
parents'· distress when Satan sorely oppressed their
children. The woman of Canaan told Christ Jesus
her tale of woe, INld implored his pity in a few words
with .m.any tears. " Have mer£y upon me, 0 Lord1
thou son of. David, mr daughter is ~Vievously Yexed
with a deviL" Math. xv. 22. Another account at~ re-
cqrded by several Evangelists, will more fully show
the child's suffering and the parents' grief.
" And behold there came to him a certain maDPp
kneeling down to him, and he cried out, saying, Lord,
I have brought to thee my son, which has a dumb
sp.irit : I b~eeeh thee look upon. my son ; for he is
~.y only child;. have · mercy on my son, for he is
lunatic ai).d sore vexed. For often times he falleth
into·the fire, and oft into the water; and lo! a. spirit
taketh him. and whereaoever he taketh him, he sud-
denly crieth out, and it teareth him, that he foameth
agaiu~ an.d gnasheth with his teeth, and pineth away, .
and bruising him hardly departeth from him. And I
brougl:lt. him to thy disciples that they should cast
hjm out, and they could · not cure him. < Bfliag t!.y
aen.hitker ·to·,me,' said Jesus. And they br~ght . him.
And ·as. he .wa9 yet a coming, the devjl tbtew him
down and tare him, and he fell oa the grouwi .and
ll;allowed foaming. • If thou canst do a,ny thing/
said the father, ' have compassion oa us .and.help 011.'
.Jesus said, < ff tltou canst believe, all things are
possible to him that belieYeth.' And straightway
the ·father· of. the. child cried out and said with tears,
• Lonl, I believe, help thou m.y·unbelicf.' Wbea Jesus
saw. that the people cawe running togethe.t:J he rel>ak~
the foul spirit, the devil. saying unt.o bien, . ' Thou
15
dmlib and deafl])irit, I~cluzrge.lltfJe come ollt of Aim,
and t111ter no more i•to Aim;' And the spirit cried
and rent bim sore, and came out of him ; and be was
as one dead, insomuch that many said • he is dead.'
But Jesus took him .by the hand and lifted him up,
and healed the child. And the ehild was cured from
that very hour. And he de~ivered him again to his
father." Compare Math. xvii: 14.21. Mark, ix. 14.3:2.
Luke, ix. 37. 45.
Observe the amiable conduct of "the Son of
God," towards these oppressed people; the boiy,
compassionate Jesus, in whom we all hope for mercy~
Did He scorn their sorrows and ridicule their tears ?
~id he despise their prayen and chuckle at their
groans 1 Did he call their bitter aftlietion artful
wickedness, and their heart-rending tale ·,f woe an
imposition on credulity ? Did4Je reeommend the
sorrowful mother to punish her grievously oppressed
<laughter, or the weeping father to ior__.,/Up ·his
demonized sou ? Did he spurn their applicatioa for
help, and leave the ·parents and their children to the
oppzession of the devil ? Did he cry nt, " these are
vulfpr errors of imaginallion ! go and Jearn .philosophy
of the sadduces ?" All! no! 'r.be merciful an4l
faithful high priest of our prOiiession, Christ. Je•us,
who lea us an example that we should tread in his
steps, cofbpassionated their ctistrestJ ; •blamed 11othing
but the unbe!U'f.of.his disciples, which made .tbe S.~b­
born demoa lftTttlCJble. ·He expelled'tmn:ril ·spmts.,
relieved the suffering demoniac&, dried np the tears of
their parents, filled their hearts with oo&olatioD, and _
their mouths with praiae. ·
Human nature is the •ame in all ages-; ,.Un aad
grief, and temptation, and diabolie oppression, .are as
bard to be endured as ever. Many a father, and many
a mother, have wept and groanedaad prayed)n similar. ,--
a. 2.
16
circumstances in 0\lr own times. I know what I have
witnessed. I can never forget it. In such cases of
Oistress the broken-hearted parent is ready to 1'11D to
the ends of the earth for relief; several remedies are
:recommended, and there is great danger in such a
time of peculiar trial and temptation, lest a forbiddea
.remedy should be resorted to; which is more linful than
the disease is oppressive, -which while it releases the
body, enchains the soul in guilty superstition, ancl
exposes the family to the displeasure of God.
1'HE VARIOUS MODES OF RELIEF
CONSIDERED.
In w).lat manner persons afBicted by evi• agesicy
should be treated or relieved, is an enquiry of great
importance, not only to the patients themselves, nor
merely to the families and friends of such sufferers.
It is a question in which the religmas and the heathen,
the infidel and the chri~tian, the vulgar a11d the learn•
ed world are ooncerned. They have all concerned
tbemaelvee with it one way or other, more or less.
'fbe concern is wider still, heaven and bell are inter-
ested in it. From such very different sources we must
expect very c:lliferent advice ; thert•fore, " Prove all
things, and hold fast that which is good." To obtaia
relief in cases of demoniac possession, some have ap-
plied to ·the learned in medicme, some to the ~earned
in the dark art& and mysteries of hell, and some have
.applied to the Son.of -God, who for this purpoae· was
mQDifested that he might destroy the works of the
devil, and some have thought advisable a mode of
treatment different from all these. Among all these
very different modes of treatment it must be of. some
consequence tO' kaow what is best to be done ? Or
rather, what ought and what ought not to be done •
The question involves the .morality of the remedies ~
the duty or sin ; our innQCence or guilt in .their uso.
o,g''""d by <::oogle
-- ~ ~ • _.:.&.ill .I
17
This makes the consideration of general concern, for
be that; is ignorant may perhaps be entangled in guilt
before be is aware of it. In one way of tryillg to·get
rid of ehe evil we may be cruel, in another innoce11.t,
but useless ; a third method may be holy and success-
rut, and a fourth involves us in the practice of tholle
pagan superstitions and diabolic arts, which are sa-
credly declared to be « an abomination to the Lord."
Mr. Woolston's advice is cruel1 be intimates that
when the patient becomes troublesome and dangerous
it may be best ~o ''dispatch him" and thus relieve
ourselves from his terrible interruptions. Speaking
of Legion ·and his ·fellow demoniac, he says "Whl\t
shall -we say to the case of the demoniacs in t.btl
country of tju~ Gaderens, and that vast number qf
devils which to the destruction of other men's property
be permitted to enter into the herd of swine ?: lf
thy were so exceedingly fierce and outrageous that no
fetters nor chains could hold them, •or- any passenge1· .
~o that way without being in dall8er of his lifct,
tt certaialy would have booa more adviseable to
have dispatchod them.""'- More advisabk to have dis-
patched the demouiacs, *han to have permitted the
devils flo. del!troy the swine ! ! It is well when those
·who disapprove of. what the wisdom of God has done,
are candid enough· to- state what they think would
have been beUer. This enables one :to .compare,
perhap.& I 4Mtght to say co,~triut Cluist and hi-s fldver,.
&aries. ! Had the benevolent Jesus, "who went about
doiag good, and healing. all that were oppressed Qf
.; See " A Fair State of the Controversy between. l\1J'. Wool-
~ton and his adversaries: containing the snbstant:e Qf'what he as-
serts in his Si;c DiBcour&e/1 against the Literal Seme ol OUI!' bl~
Saviour's miracles; and wh;~t Bishop Gibso~, Bl$hOil._ Cha.dler,
Uiahop Smallbrook, Bishop Sherlock, Dr. P~rce Dr. Rogenio
1\lr. Stebbing1 Mr. Chandler, Mr. Lardner, Mr. 1\a)', &c. havs
lll~ced agamst him, by the Rev. ThoQlaa Stackhous~." S~t. 'f"'
B. 3.
o,, t>Zed by Google
18
the de\'il," diapatc!.e'd-tbe 81lt't>ositi6n is lforri6/e,-
had Mr. W. with his greater regard for S\vine than
men, been permitted to rival the Divine Philanthro-
pist, aad to di1pa1r.h all those troublesome-demoniacs
whom Jeans Christ delivered, how widely different
•·ould have been the awful work? Mankind would have
l1ad a bloody executioner instead ofa bleeding Saviour;
humanity would have been made still more inhuman,
and hell instead of heaven would have triumphed.
·satan, instead or having a crushing· foe to dread,
would have had a faithful ally to hail. His dlapatcb-
iug the de~onia~ would have been an acceptable
11acrifice to the old murderer who delight« in cruelt.y,
blood, and death. HtrBe-wlaipping, or any other
mode or torturing the possessedj which is on a similv
prineiple, will only make the patieat worse, till it
amounts to the same thilig, end is cione so etrec~ally
as to di8p11tcla him.
We plain people, with due rcRpect to all those
gteat and learned m·en, "whose eyes are opened,
and are become as GtnlC~, knowing good and evil,"
and who ret-.uke olir childish conlideilce in the Lord
Jesus Christ, 011r Divine Teacher, we cordially thank
them for bone&tly tellin~ us l10w they would act with
toose whom sata.D oppressed; bec&UIIO .:omparing
their wuiotn with Christ's compasaion, confirm& 4Ur
love to him who bare our sins and cartried our aor-
rows : we bid sacb cruel philosophers goocl nj,gbt, and
commit poor demoniacs to his mercy who etid, " I am
not come to destroy men's lives but to eave them."
Tile r.!gular practice of Ph/laic, highly improved
·as it is in.our da:y, ·by au cxteti:S1vc acquaintanee with
kindred eciences and.arts,.is C)Be of the greateSt blea-
llin~s a kind providenee bas bestowed <m the human
fa!Dily, pe~~etu~lly liable to aMiction ~nd death. "A
w1se Phys1ruan 11 the boon of ~leaven. .But.euellent
19
and important as is tbe art of healing, it }las its
limits; and it can he· no dishonor to a medical man
that he £annot·pcrform impossibilities, yet it must be
particularly grievous to him to have all his anxious
t:tTortli ballled, wbi!e his patient i:< apparently first
ill of one cowplaiat, and then of another, and then of
none, and again in agonies : and yet uo decided de-
aangement of the animal functions can be pen·eived,
and no remedy can produce a good effect. 'fbis har;
been the ·case, the effects of medicine have been fair!):
and skilflllly tried, till great ability has been exhaust-
ed, and physician, surgeon, parent, and J>atient, have
all been weary together. The Materia Medica atrord'l
no remedy for one that is "grievously veJ.:ed with a
devil."
...
THE SCRIPTURAL MODE OF EXPELLING
. DEMONS.
Tke Scriptt~ral 1node of relief for such as are
" vexed with unclean spirits," or " possessed of the
devil," is frequently described, exemplified, and in
every case of necessity, authorized in the New Testa-
ment. From our Lord's instructions to his disciples,
and from their practice, we learn that the christian
anocle of J'elieving the poseesscd, to make it successful
~st all ki.nd1 of devils, requires four things : viz.
fasting, prayer, faith, and adjuration in the name of
our Lord Jesus Christ. And whoever attends to these
foar ~ings as he ought is s11re to succeed. The con6ict ·
may be great, but the victory will be sure to all who
persevere. And whenever there is a case of diabolic
potseuioa saW!factorily discovered, w~o is t~ be for·
biddell lo attempt the rescue of u Immortal soul ?
aceptica 01ay wrangle, infidels aaay laugh, and pbari6eea
·IP&J ~heme, but for what any of them can prove
to the contrary~ every mtn when ~ is tempted, or bis
neighbour is possessed, has 1!- divine right to fast and
·-
•
2(}
pray, to believe and adjure in the name of our Lord
.Jesus Christ, and thus to triumph over the common
enemv of "God and man. No man has~ no apostle
ever had, any authority to prohibit a fellow-creature's
using this divinely appointed mode of relief. The
captain of our salvation hu givea power by a general
command to his disciples to cast out tkfJi/8. Nothing
contrary to this ever dropped from his lips, or has
been rt:corded by those who wrote by inspiration.
Christ Jesus never blamed the use of the power to
cast out devils in his name: he always encouraged it.
The apostles once wished to restrict the use of that
power to themselves. John said to Jesus, "Master,
we saw one casting out devils in. thy name, and he
followeth not us : and we forbad him, because he fol-
loweth not us." But Jesus said, " Forbid kim not;
-for there is no man which shall do a. miracle in my
name, that can lightly speak evil of me." .Mark, ix. 39.
In our Lord':s opinion, therefore, it has a good effect
on any man to cast out a devil in his name, and this he
assigns as a reason why no man akor~ld IJe forbidden.
In the boly scriptures we are very plainly taught
the proper form of adjuration. When our Lo-:d ex-
pelled au evil spirit he said, " Theu dumb and deaf
spirit, I charge thee come out ofhim-, and enter uo more
into him." Mark, ix. 25. And when. the apostle of
the Gentiles expelled the demon from the Pythonic
damsal at Philippi, be said to the spirit, " I comnumd
thee in the name of Jeam Ckrut to come or~t oflt~,
aftd he came out the same hour." Acts. xvi. 18.-
Wbat divine authority ! The powers of darkness fe•r
and fly at the almighty word or name of Jesus Chri11t.
What sacred simplicity is here ! This is tht} Clwi.tU.n
m8de- of casting •ut devils by the spirit of God., alto-
gether worthy- of. him who u:red and authorized it fot·
the relief of poor miserable demooia~s.
:.
l
21
If some who profess themseh•es ihe onJy christiaa
church, have corrupted this practice, and mingled With
it, if not substituted for it, the most disgusting and
abominable mBgical exorcitims, lei them bear the re-
sponsibility and punishment. But let not protestant&
confound any particle of scriptural christianity with
catholic corruption, lest they should contemn and re-
ject the precious with the vile. Let them who are
favoured with the scriptures, learn to prove all thiligg,
atHl hold ja11t that which i8 good.
The scriptural.mode of casting out devils by the
spirit of God in.the· name of Jesus Christ, differs 11ot
essntiallg, from the method which every real cht:istia•
.uses to resist the devil in his common temptations.
The words or thoughts may be different according t8
different circumstances, but the principles of both are
exactly the 11ame. It is the same satanic agency,
the same evil spirit which assaults in temptation
.and domineers in .possession : i,t is the same divine
power, the same Holy 8pirit which ·assist'! assaulted
man and repels the enemyin both temptation and pos-
session :. it is the same Almighty Redeemer in whose
name divine assistance is communicated, to vanquish
the enemy and relieve man in both cases : it is the same
holy exercise of prayer and faith which thnp, obtains
. the heavenly help, to subdue the power of evil spirits,
to relieve the tempted ·and .to rescue the posse~sed.
'l'he same sure word of God gives the same ·full di-
rection and authority in both cases ; and the necessity
nnd the end are the same ill both temptation and
pos&ession, which is the salvation of the human soul
from the power-of an evil spirit. And we may add,
that this method of conquving our ghostly foe, is the
only one, which we can righteously depend upon for
the salvation of God. No objection therefore can be
brought against this scriptural method of casting out
an evil spirit in case of possession, but. what will
22
•ppJy with equal force ~nst the same method of
reaisting an evil spirit in a CASe of temp$ation.
To .expel evil demons, as the holy tcriptures
.direct us to do it, in ·the name of Christ, is to o~er­
come evil with good, and according to our Lord's own
r.easoning, when he forbade a prohibition of the prac-
·tice, bas not an evil bot a good tend•cy. It tends
not only to the salvation of the poor suft'erer, od the
relief of his distreased relatives, bnt also to the edifi-
cation in holiness of all that are concerned in such a
work of spiritual power and ·me..,.. The illuitration
~f truth, the confusion of satan aed d.iuolution of 'lria
kingdom, the glory of God and the .happiness of mo,
are the legitimate consequence& of such a scriptural,
.devout, and faithful application to the immediate
j)OWer of God, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
But it shonld be observed that if the performaate
-of such a good work, .naturally may prevent a ID&1l
from comnaiuitag moral ev,i), it hu hecjnently exposed
.men to the nffering of the greatest material- evil.-
f!atan provoked by defeat, and driven by expulsioa
from his ·possession, to study vengeance, exerts hlm-
·self, and calls his host to war against his ad\'Usary
in a more extensive way of temptation, and if possi-
ble, persecution. And so coapletely may satan blind
.those whom he excites, that they may applaud their
~wn wisdom and piety for oppos1n~ those who have
opposed him. " Whoever killeth you will thiak he
doeth God service,'' said Jesus to his disciplea.-
Those, therefore, who rouse the wrath of hell by the
expulsien of a demon, should temper their joys of
conquest with vigilant pr4JIU&tion for (uture conflicts
with tbe sameenemy on some other ground. The vilest
slande~:s that ever attacked the character of Jesus,
were darted from the eavenomed lips of the pharisees,
•·ben they heard that he bad cast oot a devil. MJth,
1
xii..24. When the apostle Pauhvas so "shamefully
entreated at Philippi," it wu in consequence of his
llaving expelled the demon out of.the damsel that had
brought her masters much gain by soothsaying. Acts,
xvi. 19. When T~ajan threatened tlie christians that
they shQ.uld be persecuted unless ,they would cboose·
to worship the devil, and fear obliged all such as lived
religiously to sacrifice or die; Ignatius, as· a.:brave
soldier of Jesu!l Christ, led the way to judgment and
to death. " If because I am a trouble to t.hose evil
spirits," he said to the Emperor, "you call me wick-
e.d, with reference to them I confess the charge : for
having Ghrist within me, the heaveuly King; I dis-
solve all the snares of the devil." - " Although the
whole force of demons and such kind of spirits are
subjected to us," says Tertullian, (Apol. c. 27·) "yet
like other rebe1lious slaves, their fear is mixed with·
contumacy, and it is their meat and drink to be hurting
those wbom otherwise they are afraid of:' See also,
Eusebius's Life of Constantine, c. 49, 52.
"h is enough for the disciplethat he.be as his
master, and the servant as his Lord. If they have
called the master of the house Beelzebub, how much
more 11hall they call them of his household!" When
the enemy ha11 been overpowered in one place, he has
generally. rallied his forces, and in a new guise with·
deeper wiles, made an attack iu another. And as
long as " the prince of the power of:the air; the BJlirit
that now worketh iu the children of disebedien~c,"
haM aay alliance with·fbe. bad passions o£ men, those·
who· run into the front of the battle; an<twho "spoil
his goods," or recover his· captives, must expect his
fiery darts. Mortified pride;will :hiss in ridicule, and
e~a.sperated hatred.will atia~ in contempt. Whoever,
therefore, assaults sucb"an enemy shoald' turn an un-
daunted face, keep. on his umour, aud go on ·to con- ..,.-
quer,; The man of God is perfect.ly safe, .while he. ,_
fears none but God.
. }:..
DJiizedb,Google -
24
THE SCRIPTURAL MODE OF CHRISTIAN
EXPULSION CORRUPTED BY PAPAL
SlJPERSTlTIONS.
Tll.e method of dealittg with demottiac1 in tAe
Cllurcll of Rome, may be considered as an awful
contrast to the authorized 11criptural manner of cast-
ing out devils, exemplified in the practice of .Jesus
Christ, his immediate followen, and the primitive
christians. I shall Jay an account of this practice
before the reader, extracted from the works of Bishop
.J. Taylor. Polt~mical Discourses, fol. 3d. Ed. p. 333,&c.
Dissuasive from Popery, Part I. Chap. 2. Sect. JO.
« There is in the Church of Rome a horrible im-
piety taught and practiced, which so far as it goes
must needs destroy that part of holy life which con-
s~sts ia the holinel!S of our prayers ; and is indeed a
conjuration of evils, of such evils of which in the
whole world a society of christians should be leas'
suspected; we mean the infinite superstitions and
ineantations, or charms used by their priests in their
exorcising possessed persons, and conjuring of devils.
There was an Ecclesiastical Book called Oroo
Baptia11ndi (/Uttt mtdo Pilita~tdi, printed at Venice,
A. D. 1575, in which there were damnable and dia-
bolical charms, insomuch that the Spanish Inquisitors
in their Expurgatory Index, printed at Madrid; A. D.
1612, commanded,' tllat all thtJI Luciferialt Ezorcilrn
he blotted o•t.' But whoever looks into the' Tre~Ut~re
ofE:corci1m1 and Horrible Cottj•ring•,' (for that is the
very title of the book priated at Colen, A. D. 1608)
shah find many as horrid things, and not censured by
any inquisitors, as yet so far as we have ever read or
heard. Nay that very L•ciferian, or Devilish Exor-
cism, is reprinted at Lyont, A. D. 1614, in the 1•-
ltit•tio Baptisandi, which was restored by the Decree
of the Council of Trent. So that though it was forbip.-
dcn in Spai7<, it 'fall a.llowed itJ Frtu}ce. But as bad
a that ar() 11-l\owed every where in the Church of
Rome. The most 4-mollll and of mo,st public use is
'The Treasure of E.rorciama,' of which we but I\O\V
made mention; the Roman Ritual, the Manual of
E.rorcisma, printed at 4ntwerp, 4· D. 1626, with
approbation of the Bis)J.Op, an<\ Jlrivi~ege of the ~ch"'
do)ces; the Paatpr,ala of sev~ral Churches, espe~ial,ly
that of Rura:mund.; apd especially t.h#l FI~¥Jll1JJ,n
DmmMmn, the Devil's Whip, by Fat!v:r ieront
Me11gm1 a Friac !Jlirior; "'hieh t~e Glergy of rleans
u..sel,l in ti)e exorcising of lrfartl~.a ~ro1se:x, 4.J).l599,
the story whereof is iq the Epi~tles of CJi.r.dinaJ
D'Ossat, and the history 'Qf t4e.exceJJ,eW; Th1tap,us.
· "Npw.Cfp\Jl.th~~ ~o~]Js~ ~pec;¥1-l)¥. t~i~laM-. :IJe
shal.l rllpfell~ll~ their ~;u~nq ~ CW~IlP.!J.t 4~1-il~.
• "First t~ef ,.,-,c to ~ry , t~ 4~v;I ~y .bO,}y.-:~ater.
mcense, sulphur. rue, wlncli fro~. tAezlql1.88. 'f~ StW·
pose, came to be callerl her6 of grace, and especiaUy
8,t; Jol!~'s wqrt~., w.IU~, t~.efRre1 th!)y cal} Bfllil'a
.fiJKht,.{dJJ s~ Pq~ 41ew1~r i~ . ,fir~t prq,Jpull~d ud·
commanded the Priests to use it for tlie 11anctjfying
and pacifying thejeople, and driving away the snares
o£ the,4e.yU... ~ .w thia it"(ere well.if. ~e EJorcist
W9~ ,r~ l~P9n. ~9~.. an.d ~r: t~ 4eyil; (or h~..
c~o~ ~..\lfe a .w.iUy AAd: a. ~l;l~rp ·t.~~. •nd lqves ,
je~;JIIg, ~~ l'~Ra n.q J]lo,re .than.~e lovell holy.-wa~er. .
,., N~~Hq.t~i.s the ~.fo.rciilt:mar~"* tb,e devil soll)e•
qp~ions.; . ~at is hi;a ~~ ?·. IJ.o'Y Jll&ny of tl\em · '
tb~re ¥e ? Fqr what ~pse ~d..~t wlla,~ ~me he en- .
t~red ?· A,nd.fqr his ()IJ'll,lllflr~jlll• by ~.h"~ per~qn,s h~ ·
ca9 be cast ollt.? ~~~ by -,v¥,t a.W,it .u;JJw~~l? W,~!> . .
ar~ hill. P!lr.ti.:ular t~nem\~ ~n: beav:~.n ? · ..A.Jld w.~o in
h~? .IJy .what w.ords he ~ !~. m,,st aalicted.?~He
c.
26
may also ask him by what covenant or what charm he
came there, and by what he is to be released? 'l'hen
be may call Lucifer to help .him a•d to torment that
spirit. · Next to this; the Exorcist is cunnin¥1Y to
get oat of the devil the confession of some artiCle o£
faith, for the edification of-the standers by (whom be
may by this means convince of the truth of transub-
stantiation, the reality of purgatory, or the value of
indulgences) and command him to knock bls bead
three times against the ground, in adoration of the
Holy Trinity. But let him take. heed what rellt.-s he
apply to the devil ; for if the relics be counterfeit,
the devil llill be too hard for him. However, let t.be
Exorcising Priest be sure to bless his pottage, his
meat, his ointment, his herbs ; and then also he may
use some schedules, or little rolls of paper containing
in them holy words ; but he must be sure to be ex-
ercit~ed and -skilful itr all things that belong to the
conjuring. of the devil. . These. are the preparatory
docament.s, which when he hath observed them let
him fall to his prayers.
"Now for .the prayers, they also are publicly<
·described in their offices before cited ; and are as
fo1low :
,;The Priest.ties his stole about the neck of tht!
possessed with ~bree Jmots, an~ says, • 0 r~ abomi-
nahle rebels agamst God, I conJure you spmts, and
adjure vou, I taU, I constrain, I call out, I contend, ·
I contest, wherever you are in this man, by t}le Father,
Son, and Holy ~host, '(then he make• tAree crQflel]
by the lllost powetful tiame, Heloy, the strong and
admirable, I exorcise you, and adjure you, and com-
mand you, by the powet I have, thlit you inconti-
nently hear the :words of tny conjoring,·and perceive
yourselves overcome, and·command·ynu not to depart
without licence, and so I bind yoo ll;ith this. s~le of
-..~ .
- _ 1:.
jocundity; in the name of the Father, t Soa, t and
floly Ghost, t Amen.
" Then he makes two-and-thirty crosses more, and
calls over one-and-thlrty names of God, in Hebrew
and Greek, and some in Latin. signifying the same-
names, and the two-and-thirtieth is by the sign of
the cross, praying God to deliver them from their
enemies. Then follow mere prayers, and· more ad.-
jurations, and more conjurations (for they are greatly
different) and aspersions of holy-water, and sbowing~J
of the cross, and signings with it.
11 Then they adjure the devil (in case the names oC
God will not do it) by St. Mary, and St. Ana, by St.
Michael, and St. Gabriel, hy Raphael, and all Angels
and Arch-Angels, by the Patriarchs and by the Pro-
phets, and hy his own infirmity; by t.he Apostles and
by the Martyrs. [Mter all this if the devil will not
come out,]/ The Exorcist must rail at the devil, and
say over again the names of God, and then ask him
questions, and read over the sequences ofthe gospels;
and after that tell him that he hath power over him,
for be can transubstantiate bread into Christ's body;
and then conjure him again, and call him d--d devil,
unclean spirit, and as bad as he can call him ; and so
pray God to cast him out of the man's mouth and
nose, lips and teeth, jaws and cheeks, eyes and fore-
bead, eye-brows and eye-lids, his feet and his mem-
bers, his marrow, and his bones, and must reckon up
every part of his body. And if he will not go out
yet; there is no help but he must choose till the third
Exorcism : in which, besides many prayers and con-
jurations in other words to the .same purpose, the
Exorcist must speak louder, and tell the devil his
own, and threaten him terribly, and conjure him again,
l).nd say over him about twenty or thirty names or
titles of Christ, an~ forbid the devil to go any whither
c2. r
-......_,
'28
·but to the centre llf the worM, and must damn hlm
eternally to the central flames of bell, and to be
tormented worse than Lucifer himself, for his daring
to resist so many great names. And if he will not
now obey, let biro take fire and brimstone, and make
a fume, ·whether the ·posseSlled will or no, nntil the
devil tells yon all his mind in what you ask llim :
[1'/te fltll!r of Tobin1'1 FuA ·were a ·r4rt tAifiG' ltere,
·hut tAat i3 n·ot to IJe had for love or money.] And
after this ·he conjures him again by 'Some of tbe names
of -God, and <by the merits, and all tbe goGd tbiugs
whi~h can be spoken or ·thought of tb~ most'blessl!d
Virgin, and by all her names and titles, which he must
reckon, one-and-forty in number, together witbher
epithets, making so many, and by these he most cast
him headlong into hell. .
"'But if-the devil be stubborn, there is a fourth, a
fifth, and a sixth Exorcism; and then he conjures the
eartb, ·the \\<-ater, 'and the fire, to make them of his
·party, ami commamts them not to barbour such vil-
·lai.nottS spirits, and commands hell to bear him, and
·6bey 'his wonl, and conjures all the spirits in bell to
take that spirit to themselves. [But if this clmnce
-to faU;J He must take the picture of the devii and
'"•rite his name over the head of it, and conjure the
.ftre to barn it most horribly and hastily. After this,
sprinkle more holy-water, and take sulphur, galbaoom.
assahtida, aristolochia, rne, St. .Yobn's wort ; all
'Which being distinctly blessed, tbe Exorcist must hold
the devil's picture over the fire, and adjorP. the d~ITil
to heat' him ; and then he most not spare ,aiJD bnt
ten ·him all his faults, and give him an bts riames... and
anatbethtize him, and curse not onty him but Lucifer
too, aft1! 'Beelzebub, and Satan, and Astaroth, and
Behemot, and Beherit, and altogether ; and then pray
once more, ami so tltrow the devil':~ picture into the
fire, and ~11 insult in a long fonn of crowing O\·er
him, which is there set down. ·
29
"And now after all if he will not go out, there is
a seventh Exorcism for him, with new ceremonies.
" He must show him the consecrated Host in the
pix, pointing at it with his fit~ger, and then conjure
.him again, and rail at him once more; to which pur-
pose t~ere is a very fine form taken out of Prieriu1,
and set down in the Flagellum Dll!monum ; and then
let the Exorcist proaounce sentence against the devil,
and .give him his oath, and then a commandment to
go out of the several parts of his body, always taking
c:are that at ao hand he remain in the upper parts.
"Then is the devil'a cue to come out, if he have
a mind to it, (for that must always be supposed;). and
then follows the thanksgivings."
" This ill the manner.. of their devotion, deaoribed
for the use of Exorcists; in which is such. a..heaP.
of folly, madness, superstition, blasphemy, and re-
ciiculou'J guises; aad· piii!Jing• with tAe devil, that if
any among u11 should use such things, be would be
in danger. of being tried at the. next Assizes for a
witch or a conjurer. However, cettain it is, whatever
the devil loses by pret.ending t. obey the Exorcist, he
gains more by this horrible debauchery of christianity.
There needs no confutation of it, the impiety is visible
and tapgible; and it. is sufiicient to have told the
lltory." ·
If w~ are shocked and disgusted at this specimen
of Roman. Catholic corruption, which ·our venerable
Bishop has given us, let us be thankful that we have
free access to tbe pure word of God ; and not forget,
that after all, Roman Cathc;>lics are our brethren, we
have the same nature prone to error and to Hin ; and
are subject to temptation from the same deceiver- that
bas nerv~rted them. All the corruptionsin the worlci.
c 3.
DJiizedb,Google
30
~Lnd in. the church h~"~ but one origin, a rlepartuFe
from divine instruction; and should we start with
them i~to ~neglect, or cot~tempt, or abuse of the word
of God, we m.ay, in our oWB wisdom, !!trike out to
onrselYes another path of sin, and be as fatally deht-
ded and cQrrnpted a$ they.
" Hear the just Jaw-the jlldiJlll.ent of the skies!
" H,e that l1ates truth shall be the dupe of lie.a:
" And he that will be cheated, t& thelut
" DelusioJU strQJlg as hell s.hall bind hiQI. fut."
CoWPER.
Christians, like tbe.Jews of old, ba•e more llglltJ
and grace to abuse, and richer blessings to corrupt
than have beeft iatrusted to·trbei? pagan neighbours, and
when chr-istians adopt the pagall, supentnions brats
of diabolical magic, t.lley w~ thew~~elves two-fold
more th~ imps of hell than el·er pagans could. The
guilty abominations above described IU'e little less than
superdiabolieal. ·
There is one remark of the eloquent Bishop
wlli~lt here deserves particular attention, aRd that is,
"Whatever the d~·il lese& by pretending to obey the·
Exorcist, he gains more by this horrible debanellery of
c~istiaB.ity." This re&uk may be partially applicable
to the use of all magtea.l ineaBtation& wh«ltever, which
are employed by pr-otestants ; which are, alas ! too
often used on ·similar occasions. Those wbQ remove
devils out of demoniacs in this way, do not, pr<>per·ly
spea~ng, e.rpel them, but they compromise with them,
and on these "co~ditions of peace," whether among
pagans or christians, papish or pMtestants, Satan
gains more by marching off with his spiritual bribed,
in all the honours of war, than he could gain by
simply keeping possession.
u The people which in Popedom are possesflcd of
the devil," says Martin Luther, the autltor of the
31
Reformation, ";nc Jiot rid of him hy such ar~s, words,
M· jrf'~tnres, as their charmers use : \he devil suffereth
not himself to be drh·en out with slight words ; as
' come out thou unclean spirit; &c. for those charmers
mean it not enrne:stly. The power of God must effect
it; and one must not venture his life thereupon, in
that the devil terrifieth him with great anlfuish of heart,
for without fear!! and frightings it Will not be ac-
complished. When the woman with the bloody issue
touched the hem of Christ's garment, he said, 'I per-
ceive that virtue is gone orilt ofme.' Luke viii. Likewise
when be intended to awaken Lazarus from the dead,
l1e 'groaned in spirit and UJas troubled.' John xi. The
devil is driven out either by the prayers of the whole
church, so that they all join in prayers together,
which are so strong and powerful that they even
pierce t.he clouds ; or el11e he that driveth out the
wicked enemy lllUllt be highly enlig'htened, and most
have ,, stro11g a11d steadfast courage, and be certain of
tltc cause.'' Table Talk, p. 339.
Good Bishop Latimer, who in 1555 was burnt in
the Roman Catholic fire at Oxford, because he would
enlighten England, gives a somewhat similar view of
the subject in his sermon on the Christian Armour,
fr~m Eph. vi. 10,-12. He t~ays:
"When St. Paul saith that we must fight against
rulers, he describeth unto ns the great power that the
devil hath ; Cor what is mightier than rulers and
potentates ? Therefure to t.be intent that we might
perceive his mighty power, he named him by that
name, to that end to make us earnest to put on the
armour, and take the weapons which God hath appoint-
ed for us, else we shall soon hnYe an overthrow, if we
will take snch wea1wns as the devil slutll appoint us, ·
as he hath done in times past; for what a trust and
confidence have we had in holy-water, and holy-bread;.
32
also in ringing holy bt:lls, and such fooleries) But it
was good sport for the devil, he could laugh at our.
foolishness, yea, and order the matter so, to keep us
in the same error. For we read in stories that a•
~;ome times the devil weat away from some men be·
cause of the h()}y-water, as though that holy-water bad
such strength and power that he could not abide it. 0
crafty devil! be went away not fQr fear of the holy-
water, but because he would maintain men in error
and foolishness; aud no doubt it was the devil's.
teaching, the using of tbitS holy-water."
It is hardly necessary to state, that in the Church:
of Rome, every new-born infant is 8Uppoaed to be
possessed of the devil, and be£ore baptism the priest
uses a form of Exorcism, composed of certain words,
prayers, and actions, fer driving away the supposed.
devil out of the child. The priest is to blow tn the
iace of the child after the form of a cross, saying, Go
out of him Satan, &c. All this disgusting, sanctimo~
nious trumpery of magical conjuration in "the mother
and mistress of all churches," as the Church of Rome
declares herself to be, er " the mother of abomina-
tions, drunken with the blood of the saints, and
with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus," as some
protestants declare her to l:le, is enough to cause the
way of truth to be evil spoken of. ::luperstition is
the ·counterfeit of religion which seducers use to im-
pose upon the unwary, and it is very possible that.
thinking men in the warmth of their zeal again~;t.
imposition, may incautiously suspect, condemn, and
r.eject, some parts of genui11e christianity.
If some have been mistaken, and others deceived,
we should be the more careful to find out the truth,
and to keep it. There is no sober-mindednest~ in
reeling from one extreme of opinion to another.-
Sound wisdom will walk stea,dily in the narrow patb,
33
of truth as 1ll'lllked out 'bf tlle ·coaspicuans lines-of
'inspiratlO'O. . Tbe 'God f1f rnlinite wisdom kno1V!I be$t
all the postiib1e wants of hit~ creatures, and for tlre
multifartous mental necessities of mankind in tliffi!rt!ttl:
nations and ~es he has made ample provision in the
Holy -Bcriptores. Those unetnnely -putts, as l\'e mny
.perhaps esteem them, of that sacred book, haYe more
abundant comeliness and importance in the sight of
tlrose·who need th-em for their instruction, cotrriction,
correciioB, or edification in rigbtll&usness, though we,
through a tinetttre or vain piiilosopby, may be'tome
lldumed of tbems all S'ln'l>uring -of Sllperstition. But,
,, ihat the man af God may be perfect, thoroughly
'furni'flhed unto :JI gaod 'WOrks," the Bible liberally
supports lris attllclt 11J10'0 those ·learned :md 'VUlgnr
SUJientitiO'Ds, astrology, divination, witchcraft, sor-
·cery, channing, &c. &c. which sbnrod the pagan
·world in mental darkness, and blind the mind's and
corrupt the Learts of thousands in Eagtand and other
christian countries. .
That ~il .spirits tempt and oppr.,ss, and occasion-
ally pon~11 human beings, either as associated ·with
tbe 'blaclc arts of witcbcrnft Ol' not, is el'ident beyond
tbe possibility of 't'efutation, if not or sober contra-
dictum ; ·that salvation from such tyranny is devoutly
·to be 1Vished, no l)ne can deny; and that the New
Testament ofFers such a salvation, and gives a gt!neral
-authority, and commands to cast out deVils, eyery
Teader may'know. But if this gracious mode df reJie'f
is discarded, and ifthe mode'n christians kar 01' blush
to stir up the gift of 'God which is in them, and to
snatch 'the llottls whom S•tan may possess from that
devouring lion's jlrws,-"as the shepbertltalt~h out df
the mouth ofthe lion two·Jegs or a piece of an ear,"-
tbere remains another mode of relief front demoniac
possession to be considered : a mode which many
protestant professing christians bave lately used, as
34
the only one they knew. It was their going· back to.
Egypt rather than to Rome, to obtain what may be
called the Pagan mode of relief, by what is profes-
sionlly called,
THE ASTROLOGICAL PRAcTICE OF PHYSIC.
. . ~ .
. The Astrological Practice of Physic is a relic ud
·a main part of ancient P.~G.AN SuPERSTITION. And it
must be confessed that there are soine Tery powerful
temptations, which persons in tribulation feel, and
urge ail justifying reasons why they should aeek help
from the professors of the « Curious· Arts," and
"Occult Sciences:· The intolerable afDiction of
diabolic possession, the inefficiency of medical aid,
and the unbelief, or despair of help w Christ Jesus,
and the christian church, seem to reduce the awful
cas~ .to a kwd of •ece11ity, that they should seek help.
elsewhere, ancl get it where and bow they can. ·
Besides all this, there is what may be con~idered
as the granted permission of some of " the learned
men." But what sort of learning that is,.whence ita
origin, and what its tendency, that can wilfnlly con•
found divine revelation with pagan superstition, and
charge infinite wisdom with folly, because it. testifies
the truth of demoniac possession, ud often rebukes
the sin of witchcraft, &c. may well deserve its pos-
. sessor's jealous scrutiny. .Human wisdom has often
been opposed to divine testimony and instruction ;
and when peat philosophers and leading characters
have been weary of heavenly tuition, and become wise
above what is written by inspiration of God, the
world bas always been the worse for it. " For vain
man would be wiae," and when be does not like to
be taught of God, and spurns the wisdom from above,
he learns tAe roildom from 6eraeatA. for a very ex-
tensive proof of this the reader is refen:ed to the first
35
chapter of the Epistle to the Romans, and Dr. Mack•
night's Commentary on the Place. Men rise.in their
own conceit as they fall from sound wisdom and di11- ·
cretion, and when their " eyes are opened" by "the
father of lies," and deistical philosophy, they become
"as Gods, knowing good and evil;" assert their in-
dependence of ditine instruction, and in their learned
nescience, exclude both God and the devilfrom having ·
any thing to do with either the bodies or souls of men,
If we may believe them, God's authority is no greater
than their own, and •• hell is empty and all the devil$
are here," and there are none others, or none worse
than what we aee. According to this wisdom, the
consolations of the Holy Ghost, or the temptations o(
the devil, are only the workings of the human mind,
all it1M~i11atio•, and man is God and devil all himself~
has little to hope .and nothing to fear beyond the
' contact of his senses, and tbe duration of his three•
score years and ten ! But the writer is no conv.-rt
to ·such wisdom ; and be would whisper the sacred
caution to the reader,·" Beware Jest any man spoil
you through philosophy and vain deceit, af);er the
tradition of men, after the rudiments of the world1
and not after Christ." Col. ii. 8.
If the astrological or magical practice ~?f physic
lwls .DG real diabolical influence, nothing to do with
evil agency ; if witchcraft and all such superstitious
practices are nothing more than " vulgar errors of im-
agination," and if, according to Mr. Hum.e':t opinion,
these things are best treated with ne!Jlec:t ;-if these
sacredly condemned "abominations to the Lord" are
in reality nothing more than mere trifling unfashionable
follies, valgar nonsense, silly notions, &c. that: it is
beneath the wisdom and philosophy of sensible men
seriously to notice such low foibles,-why then (God
and his bible apart) tile!! aretto crime1, aod follies most .
ba\"e their fa!lbion$. If learned men can prove .that.
3.6
euperstitious ·magical pi!llotice&, are ·ooly vulgar·foi-
bles, aad \'1llg!ar men caa prove that by their use de~p
things can be learned, and intolemble afilic.tions can
be remo-ved, tben betwaen them both, what G.od ab,.
hors and has oftea ·punished, is mad!- to a,ppear a~ tbe
worst, .but a comical, silly thing, and often· a gteet ·
advantage to men. So, between the lea.rned .a.ad the
vulgar, God is contradicted aad blasphe., .~WI the
old serpent is dllessed tip as a benevolent <$ old gen-
tleman," to be t.he stage merry-:aodrew of t.lle fa.slUon-
able, the very spice of their poetry and wit ; aod.to
be Nvered and consulted by the v.ulgar a• thllir pro-
phet and d~tor, if .not their God. U wise and learned
men, as they k»ow .h,ow, forbid carefol inatr.
o.ction
and serious reproof.on .the wbjoet .of dia~. SIJper~
stitions in'the·present day, they., in effect, sanctim& the
practioe. "Silenee gives CODsen.
t," and stJJdjed con,.
uivance will pass for a liC1lnce, And if tdley will
jocoselr- fu1e tbeir literary sqaibs to bauaas aMI..m~~
ridicule~us thGse mea of Goo, who ia tche 118JP.G Qf t.bei.r
Ulaster, and .on. tile authority oJ We went, "'d *-'
the.eJOalllple of his m.ost fai.llhfu) llftlvantll, ~~lari~ thet~e
pagan 11uperstitiona and diabolical pr:ac~.iee•. are « an
abomination to the Lord,".;..,.,then the B1i\is.b ~\'VM­
lahs of conjurers, diviners, and magical doctors, may
be thronged with·Engli&h ~~christiMII, ®~JS11)ting
with Chaldean arts, if not worshi¥Pi'ag with p~p
reverence, fear, and hope, " :the host of :heln'e:!'J';.....,..
the Hebrew Abaddon,...... tbe Greek APOLL,()D,...-
the-pbin ~tish......DeYil. Rev:i:t..H .
Tbe unscr.iptural manner in wtWm,.tJae~ ,s'llcbjoots
have been treat.ed, the ingeniou11 traWil Q( cont.empt
fr~m these wicked delu!liontl \o, tbPM PllfiiP.DS WhO ,
know the met and would reprove the sin. apd t;he
blu.sltin~ total eilepce of the. sacred tn.U.istry .on ~he
snbject of these disgraceful, llea.Yen-i~stdti{\g criQle&,
may be considered as one. cause why.,b.ere is 1!-t this
37
day, even among professing christians, so ·much of
Psgtmisn- in England.
The specious professions of astrological .dQctora
ill another reason why their superstitious practi~
are employed. The black art can wear a white sur-:
plice ; Satan can transform bimsdf into an a~l of
light, and his ministers, the magician~, can, .an4 often,
d.o, appear to be good men. They ar.e proverbi!illy,
and wi~h the consen.t of ~tiquity, « wil!e Jllen.''~.
Profes!lionally they are philo1ophical doctor., and they
have such loami~ as is confessedly not known a:~
whom they call dr~g-doctor1. The r~lar m .'
mao uses malerial medici~'· but the astrolc>gical
doctor goes far beyond t~e Materia Medica, aad ell.,.
plors any parts of the Occult Scimcu or magical arts
wh1ch may assist him to understand or remove tlle
complaint of his patient'!. They go far d~ iato
the dark; occult arts than most medical mea dare
venture even to look, and are. almost deep as hell ia·
scieace and in guilt. They are wile indeed in wisdom
from beneath.
The utrological doctors profess to have spiritual
and divi11e Aelp. A.nd certain 1t is, whether we believe
it or not, tlaat som~ .occult spiritual h.elp they IJ&ve i
but what .divinity, what spirit that is which exerts ita.
influence mconnection with astrological divinatio•
and magical incantations, it may be useful to con•idel'. ·
Some of those lfho practice the evil arts do no~ bow
the real nature of that apjribJal and .occult iafiue~eo
which their oceult . sciences an!! magical ce~eJAQniea ·
engage in their service. Tl)ey.may·be p uaconcio'Ot ·
of the.diabolical natur~ of it as t~ ,heathen wer~ that
the demon gods they wqrahipped were devil&: !!Ad ·
both alike may think the influence atteQding thea .
if·
dh·iue. Por this ia Sataa's grand design to. be.• n
for and treated as. the true .Qocl•. ~he ...~ .
D,
38
doctor may be as ignorant of, and 81! unconcerned
about, the sinfulness of his art and practices, as any
other man who "knows not God, and obeys not the
gospel ef our Lord Jesus Christ." The over-reaching
tl'a4e11Dtan or the gambling gentlemaB may thank God
for'llis goed /well, and modishly curse the stars for his
bad; the magical doctor may do the same, and claim
as good a ·right to his own good opinion of himstllf ;
ani oa aecount of his being a ttJiae malt, the vulp
wiH as eeon believe him to be a righteous man.
The asti'Ological doctors declare themselves to
be tlbe only pmons who in these days have the know--
ledge and power to heal them that are oppressed of
the dem, flo cast out. evil -
spirits, and to remove all
tllose maladies which are occasioned by spiritual agen-
cy, as possession, witdieraft, &c. ' How -can any
<·doct&r,' says Mr. B. irt his Astrological Practice of
Pbysic, 'eut'e such distempers when igu~aiit of the
''eause ; for witchcraft or sorcery can now no way be
'Jdiecovered nor yet cured, .but by tbe way of astrol~
'gy, except a miracle be wrought. It is true God
' can do what he pleaseth, but I never knew or heard
''Of &BY men that wa• cured (since the Apostles'
'-times~ that was bewitched, any other way than by
' the·tulHiogical way of physic. And tis a great
·<·mercy -that God is pleased ·to raise up and give
•c bowledge to JIWI'tal 'men to do it. For although
·<* atllk:&n cometh from the devil and his instru•
'4 ineMs, which we commonly _
call evil or tallt8; yet
·<tile·care comet~ by and through God's blessing upon
"'tile lleined iadu&try of..4atrologetB and Pkilo1opller8,
' wh&'&Fe Ue on-ly ·~ acquaiated with this' kind of
'cnre.· Wherefore the patient's friends mu1t 6/ ntt-
' Mlilg 'l'~p&it to- eucb as are weft skilled in the
' ..wologicol and plliiHop/lieal way of eore.'
This N a genuine epecimeB of the· specious pro-
·feasioJlolaatrelogical-doctors, aad'is at·the same tim~
. . :
o,~ IZedbvGoogle
39
a· pretty good comment on. the apocryphal book of
Tobit, which lies skulking ~etween the Old and New
Testaments to dishonour them both, and teach n-
wary protestants, as it did the deluded Jews, the
practice of Chaldean 11uperstitious magic, ud diab9li·
cal conjurations. Many may be ready to spurn at
such a profession who have no temptation to ~kea
to it; but will the aftlicted, nntall((ht poor, ~hose
souls are overwhelmed within them, given up by
medical men, abandoned perhaps as impostors by -:e·
ligious men, and left in their calamity to catch at any
reed, and be led away by any tempter, will such
peeple be in no danger of hearkening and being per·
suaded ? Will not they embrace the pmloaopAir.al
wau of cure ? Facta are stubborn things, many b&ve
done so in the .nineteenth century of christianity,·in
this..very land of ministers and bibles ! and in the
simplicity of their hearts have maay ()f them been
aa ·tha11k£ul fo~ tho aQOCMa of. the .fumes of the astro·
logical drugs, and other magical practices, as Tobias
was for the smoke of the ftshes' liver. So does the
old serpent still beguile the simple ! If shutting the
eyes and ears,and lips against the invincible evidence
of a11ch facttl would have any tendency to anuihilate
the evil, the writer would gladly be blind and deaf
and dumb to it all; but if revelation be a better guide
than a vain ~hiloso.Phy, he muit think that to show
"christians' the am of &uch practices is the best way
to prevent, thfir applying to them in times of temp·
taboo. And if we can prove to them, there is a bettu
way which heaven has appointed for relief in such
cases, we may be satistied they will renounce the evil
and choose the good.
The success of the astrological practice of physic
is another reaaon why many have lately applie4 to
the prefessors of this " philosophical.way of cure."-
This also is too evident to be dUpro,ed. Facts are
D 2.
40
not io give way to prejudices, vulgar or philosophical.
This suceess I have known in some cases, and have
often heard it pleaded to urge the necessity and
propriety of employing magical doctors. liucceaa in
undertakings is not always a proof of their righteous-
ness, becattse there may be aucce11 attendi~~g actions
even the most criminal. But, if to attain tbe end is all
the care, and the quality of the means i11 disregarded,
luecesil may be a powerful temptation. Doctors as
much as any mea are at liberty to aelect their own
ineans, so they do but accomplish the desired end,
and successful practice in that profession· is a power-
ful recommendation, Here the magical dot:tor bas
the undue advantage. Men of J!.ny standing in this
profession can detail their cases of cure, and produce
their vouchers from those that were under their care.
And it is easy to perceive what powerful arguments
theae must be to persuade the oppressed of Satan
to employ astrological docto111 and ·mag1cal arts to
obtain relief. 'J'bnt the astrological doctor sbeuld
11Dcceed in removing very grievous aftlictions, when
1'\orgeons and Physicians could neither comprehend
the cause nor mitigate the symptoms, teads not a
little to the establishment of his credit, the increase
of his business, and the hoaoor of his arts.
Another argumeat used to vindicate the employ-
ment of magical doctora, is that "if good is done to
the patient, those who employ the professor i>f astro·
logical physic are 1101 retpo11sib/e for the meaDs he
naes, and the ceremonies he advises, while they ini·
p!icitly follow his directions as they would the advice
of any other medical man." Thus Ahab might have
reasoned while the .execrable Jezebel procured for
him the JIHlCh desired vineyard or Neboth by her
wicked arts. But he that allow! the use of means
which are an abomination to the Lord to procure
him any faneied or real good, may expect to hear
41
some thunder clap of divine rebuke as well as Ahab.
1 King :xxlli. "'l'he receiver is as bad as the thief,"
and if good things may be procured by robbery, will
the ill-gotten good be accompanied with a blesajag
or a curse ? There is justice due to God as well aa
man, and whatever a man would enjoy let him seek
it righteously ; for if we do evil that. good may.co•.,
our damnation is just. Rom. iii. 8.
When we take into consideration the seftrity of
the aftliction occasioned by evil agency, the inefticie'lley
of medical aid, the neglect and contempt with whieh.
such sulfering people are treated, the imposing pro..
Cessions of astrological doctors, and their suooees m
well known cases, and the supposed .necessity, and
veniable nature of the superstitious arts, is it at all
aurprizing that· even some religious people should
employ them? We may add to all th1s the want of
'Sujt~l!l instruction on this.. unpleuant subject, th4
power(ul inward temptations they are Hable to feel,
al;ld the blindipg nature of popular ignorance, vulgar ,
prejudices, and satanic temptations,-all thea,e-tbiap
collected together seem enough to deceive, if it be
possible, IU t11ry ekcl.
'
. The astrological fractice of. physic, as its name
imports, is a combinat1on of astrology with medicine.
This description, however, inclllclea but a part of the
present practice which is uaderstood by the term.-
For it is, in fact, a combinatioa of several parte of
tuperstitious or diabolical magic with the use of dnge,
and is, therefore, .a epeclee of HrCM'y, according t~
the 1criplflfal and pfJ*hlr senae of that word. .
. The profeSsors of this complex wt are ftJgarly
ealled Cottjwrerl, on account of their influellce over
spirits which torment ia witchcraft or possessioa ;
!"ile natn, because •f the knowledge they obtaia by
D 3.
42
divination, &c.; ancl while-witdtel, on account of their
ab.lity to counteract the influence of those ·
who ma-
liciously afBict tht:ir patients, through the agency of
evil spirit~ acting in connection with their use of the
same magical or astrologic&l arts. These professors
dislike the title wAite-wilcfl, and they ttJcArtieGIJy
apply tbat term to those who as they state, are co.-
federate with the IJlack; that is the ma/iciOtU ones,
who use the same aris to afBict, ftid cure only by
rodlbinatioJi with the other, and ceasing to afBict ;
and they call themselves t~~trolog-ica/ or pAilo1opliical
doctora. As the succese of thest' profe:!&ors, in som~
cases, depends entirely on the magical department of
their praetice, they are, therefore, properly enough
designated by the title of magical doctor1. As they
also practice judicial utrolegy, and are vulgarly said
to ·rule the planets, (wllicb, by .the bye, are llic:!kedly
supposed to rule the world) t.hey are frequently con-
sulted and employed to divi•e in cases of lou of
property, and in matters of superstitious cor~sity,
u to future fortuae, and are therefore often called
fortune-tellm. ·
In the New Testament some such per600s are de~
scribed as, tAey t/aat used curiou~ artl.. Ephesus was
peculiarly fainoos for tbe study and practice of.t.nch
tiupentitious.· Bat "the finger of God" wllich sanc-
tioned the ministry of Paul .in Ephesus, was as evi-
dentlf distinct from magical agency, and as triumphant
over tt, as ,.·hen it accompanied Moses in Egypt. As
Simon Magus wished to purchase of Peter the power
to give the Holy Ghost ; so some of the m•giclll
e.rorcilt1 attempted to rival or imitate Paul, in.caeting
out evil spirits by the nam~ of Jesus. " They took
upon them to ·call over them which had evil spirits,
the name of the Lord Jesus, saying, <we adjure you
\If Jesus whom Paul preacbeth.' And the evil spirit
answered al!d said, 'Jesus I know, and Paul I kaow,
43
but who are yc.' The dhil knew them well enc>ugh
that t.My were his own vassals, and he did not like that
tlley should tell kim of Jesus or of Paul : therefore he
would chastise them for their impudence. " And the
man in whom the evil spirit was, leapt on them and
overcame them, and prevailed against them, so that
th.ey fled out of the bouse naked-and wounded. And
this was known to all the Jews and Greeks dwelling
at Ephesus ; and fear fell on them all, and the name
of the Lord Jesus was manifested. And many that
believed came and confes6ed, and ahewed their deeds.
Many also Gf them which used cua1ous ARTS brought
tlleir ;loolla logetAer aud 6urned tAem 6efore all men.
Acts, xix. 11,-19. See Dr. A. Clarke's Commentary
on the Place•
., They that used curious arts ;" tltat is, says Dr,
Whitby," arta ofmagic.'' That this is the import of
the word (perierga rendered c11rioU8 arts) Grotius and
Dr. Hammond prove from the account that Irenius
(L. I. C. 20.) gives us of the disciples of Simon Ma-
gus that • they used love-charms, and philtres, and
all other ct~rioua art1.' For Porphery (De Abst. l. 2.
Sect. 42.) apeakiag' of the magicians saith, 'they by
these evil spirits make their philtrea and lovtr-ckarms;'
and it seems to have had this signification, because
the •mag'i,' as Origen saitb, (Contra Celsum, c. viii.
p.-418.) • wer.e cwriouly employed about sear~bing in·
to the names, the forms, the powers, the achons, the
htcantatio•s of denlons ; whereas a life free from these
et~ri01itiea is acceptable to God, and the Lord Christ
would leave to be vexed with unclean spirits him that
is thus ctlrio•a abo•t the names of demons, and seeks
after ways of iacanting them.' Hence the books that
were brought to be burnt_aTe by the Fatlle~ styled
boolu ofaorc~'!l· Nor is it to be wondered that tbese
arts should abollnd at Ephesus, where Plutarch (Vita
Alexaod. p. 666) speaks of magiciaal cOt&ver&ing ;
f
44
that city being so famous for 1orcery, and ilu:Aar&t·
ment• of demon•, that the magical words used to that
effect were stiled EpAuian Letter• ; and Plutarch tells
us that the magicians bid them who were possessed
with devils to read and recite the Ephe11ian Letters."
See also Parkhurst on the word, pn~erga.
Such arts as these are frequently ·repret~ented to
be the practice of knavery on credulity. This is bad
enough, and with respect to some professors of the
magic arts undoubtedly tn., enough. But there are
some astrologers who have no knavish design to im-
pose on others what they do not believe themselves ;
and who have no wish to deprive their neighbours
unjustly of their property. There are imposing
knaves of most professions, and there are professors of
astrology who, in the common sense of the word, are
not dullone1t men. And if they impose upon others
it is because they are first deceived themaelvoa. To
detest these superstition!! practices as a species of
knavery, is one way for sensible men to guard them-
selves from their baleful inftuence ; but this view of
the subject is not altogether correct. Some people
obtain what they esteem as great advantages, if not
blessings, from such professors, and therefore cheer-
fully and gratefully reward their services, defend and
recommend them to others.- It is necessary, there-
fore, to take another view of the subject.
The evil of these arts wiU be beat uderlltQOd
when they are considered in the light. of diviae
revelation. There are many who from certain bow-
ledge can contradict and refute what eome learned
men say of the magical arts ; who if they luaew what
God baa eaid of them Wotl•d reject them with. abhor·
rence. · Astrological arts have a principle of i.niq~ty
in them far greater than that of mere knavish trick.
and its moral turpitude can never ~ fairly calc:ulated
45
-anless God is take» iato the account, and the spiritual
aad eternal interests of men. They are a diabolical
attack on the sovereignty of God, a treacherous plot
against the divine government, counsel, aDd worship,
by seducing the people from their allegiance to God,
to a contempt of his word and autherity. In some
such light ls this, divine justice has viewed ·these
practices, .and executed his vengeance on kings and
people, and .nations ·that have been guilty of them.
Knavishly tricking people out of a little of their pro-
perty, though ve-ry provoking, is nothing when com-
pared with tlu: seduction and ruin of their immortal
so11l1. The universal God, and " fatker of the spitits
of all flesh,',...will shower down fiercer flames of vett-
geance on those mon11ters of guilt who spiritually and
eternally murder his children, than on these petty
knaves who only steal their cash. To seduce the
chil~n of mea from their heavenll fath,er's s~H[i~ -­
ancf prouctron, and lead them 1nto be very trae ol
their adversary the devil, who walketh about as· a
roaring lion seeking whom he may devour, is an
iniquity too great to be slightly punished, and is the
business of those superstitioas evil arts now under
consideration.
The professors of astrological physic, &c. seldom
bow the eril of their art ; it blinds their coascience
while it prDfesses to open their eyes. It is a kind of
wisdom such as nined the world. Fair as the forbid-
den fruit which grew in Paradise ; it is an alklriag
batt recommended by the same spirit as that which
beguiled Eve, and with the same intention too-the
sinner's death. A little consideration .on the origin
aDd history, the nature, bearings, and tendency of the
astrological practice of physic, &c. ·in the light of
revelation, may serve to coavince us, that the arts
practiced under that title are most 'conscientiously to
be avoided, by all who fear the vepgeance1 or hopo
for the mercy of God.
46
Astrology:. and all its retinue of superstitious
arts, though now very old fallhioned, are not of wlgar
origin. They were the courtly arts and sciences of
Pl&Jl¥ of the first and most learned nations on the
face of the earth ; important parts of " tbe wisdom
from beneath," highly esteemed among men, by which
kings, philosophers, and demons, have opposed the
wisdom, authority, and tJI'&ee of God, and drawn away
J;Den from his cooosel, service, and worship. They
have done this by proclaimiag the divinity of the
star&, and by instituting divination to supply the
place of the word of God, and by aubltituting in the
place of his divine majesty aDd worship, all the classi-
cal trumpery and diabolical rabble of .obscene god-
desse'J, drunken and abominable gods, incarna_te devils,
and hellish demons, with all their filthy, despicable,
and bloody services. These were all under tbe coun-
sel, sanction, and influence of that old professor and
.teacher ot koplotia wiadvuo, ~• ......_~r-e.w deyll.
Altogether forming the most learned, crafty, exten-
sive, powerful, popular, and destructive system of
diabolical imposition that bas ever been practiced oa
poor vulgar people, who form the great ID&IIS of
mankind.
Though divine wisdom and benevolence shine
with peculiar glory on this greatly favoured Island,
and are hence reflected round the world, yet there
are awful remsins of these ancient superstitions of
Canaan, Egypt, and Babylon, still crawling, hissing,
and stiagiag, among poor .vulgar Britons. An.d for
·these wicked and "vulgar" s1tpe1'8titionz~ we are in-
debted under "the old serpent," to his obseqoeous
brood of ancient and royal personages who cberisbed
them in their guilty bosoms, and patroniaed with their
royal favour and influence .those who were most
deeply learned in the arts and eclences of the infernal
world. These great, and learned, and noble, and
47
wise men, did not like to retain the true God in their
knowledge, nor did they think it safe or prudent to·
teach what they knew of him to the villgar, and there•
fore, in tlleir trJildom, they taught superstitions, in-
stead of true religion, and led the poor ignorant
multitudes to worship evil demons instead of the
good God. Thus "idolatry and witchcraft" arc
classed together in the word of God because tl:ey
were brat.s of the same origin, and are generally
found together in actual operation. Astrology,
which is a superstitious, idolatrous, and diabolical
corruption of astronomy, has been one of the most
popular parts of that evil wisdom by which men haYe
-scientifically held commuinon with the infernal world,
&ud has answered the double purpose of an important
intcodnction and splendid guise of the whole body of
satanic scienoes and arts and institutions : and by
these the truth, and· grace, and government of God
have always been opposed.
When the Lord sent Moses and Aaron to the .
court of Pharoah, to demand in his name the liberty
of his oppressed people, and accredited their mis&ion
with miracles, Pharoah called for the roi11e men and
sorcerers, the honourable chaplains of his majesty, to
assist him to contend with the true God. Ex. ,;i. 11.
When Nehuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, was troubled
with a dream, he coll)manded to call for the magicians,
the astrologers, the sorcerers, and the Chaldeaus.*
Dan. ii. 2. The apostate kings of Israel and Judah..
imitated them. They forsook the God of their fathers
·and "·did according to all the abominations of tha~
·nations which the Lord cast out before the children ot
Israel." 1 Kings, xiv. 24. Thl!y ordained idolatrous
priests that « burned incense unto Baal, to the sun, .
to the moon, and to the planets, and to. all the hosts·
of heaven.~· 2 Kings, xxiii. 5. _
• See Stanley's Chaldaic Philosophy: Part xv.
o,, t>Zed by Google
f
48
or these superstitious kings, Manasseb is the mOISt
remarkable. " He did t11at which was evil ia tile
sight of the Lord, like unto the abominations of the
heathen, whom the LORD cast out before the children
of lsrael.-He worshipped all tll.e lunt of A~afJett, &Dd
sen•ed them.-He caused his children to pass through
the fire,* be observed times, aad used inchantments,
and used witchcraft, and dealt with a familiar spirit,
and with wizzards : He wrought much evil in the
sight of the Lord to provoke him to anger. 2 Cbroa• .
xxxiii. 2. &c. Berosns, a learned priest of Belus,
at Babylon, introduced the Cbaldaic learning into
Greece, and the refined Grecians were deep in super-
stitious guilt. 'fhe learned and polite Romans wer•
much addicted to superstitious arts ;t and several
times they raised persecution• against the apostles and
the christians because they successfully opposed their
• There is soQie probability in the oplnioa, that the ancient
and stilJ prevalent horrible supentition of sacrificing young in-
fanta was first dictated by astrology. An old French writer on
this subject, who seems a friend to astrology, says ' " As con-
cerning the planet Saturn, the ancient Hebrews stood in great
dread of it; because thef observed that thOIC that were bol'll
under the dominion of thiS star were melancholic and sickly.-
,\ad this Is the reASon·that the Cllaltkatu, who gave themseh·es
over to the wonhip of many false Gods, observlil8 tllat this etar
was veey hunful to them, thought good, by some sacrifice or
othert ~ render it more proP,Itiol,lll and favourable to them.-
And Ulere being no other BIICI'Jfice more proper for it than that
whereon it so ofteu showa its sad elf~ta, that is to say, new-
born children, they bepn to MCrifice of these to this plauet ~tndcr
the name of Moloch, 1, e. a king i because It reigned imperiouslv
over men: or rather showed Itself a tyrant over them, liy afflict:
lug them with di.seuea, aud a thowiand other di>!asters, at It~
own pleasure, as tyr.mts used to do. And this iS confirmed alou
by that other name of BIJIJI, by which the idol of this star was
likewise called, which alpiJiea Muttror L9rd. And my opinion
is, that from hence It is that tit,! Oreeu and Latini have takeu
occasion to Invent the fable of Saturn's eating his own children."
Gaft'erel'e Ouriosltiea, concerning the Talisruanlw Sculpture of
the Persiau, &c.
t See Horace Epode, 5. · Oriel's Metam. B. i'. Vu·gil's
1'11arm~trla Ec. 8.
diabelical superstitions. A~ts, x~i. 16,..-24. · Cbris.ti-
anity wes opposed,by IQI!gi~n.s .lliDQJig the B.omans,
as Judaism was IUilOJig ~be Egyp.tians. .As Jannes
and JJUDbres with11tood ·MQses, .so did .Simon.M~,
.Elymas, and the fraterpity of m,agicians, iu . ~e :d,.JS
of the apostles •nd primitive chri11ti.ans, .r~at :~e
truth. Act.s, xiii. 1.2.
« lt is notoriouz>" says Justin Martyr, .Apol. c.34.
." tltat ;Uter .Cbcisf.s ascension illlto ,4ea~en. •t.e same
wicked •pirits furnished ·out _.a set. of men·w.bo.~-v:e
.e11t. themselves to .begods, ye.t were you.(l\oiiUUl$)•.ao
far from ,punishiug sucb.vjlJaios,-t.hat youliidtbem u.e
,greatest lionour. For &imon.a.cett&in. S~iwo, ~f
,the village of Gitt)lon, wbo fu.Claudius .C~:.,f,ime,
by I1is JU.Mi.cal :arts with.tl•e;po:wers .of -~ 4ifl
.such ·wonderful feats in .t.he ~perial ci~y :of B~,
that be gained the reputation -of .;t. god, ~ -4CCO~
iogly is honoured by·you, like yQDr. ot)Jerr,89d,s 'witJl
.a 11tatue erectod .
on Tibc:.r,..behveen .the .twl).bri~,
with·this Latin inscl:iptiop., .8imoai.Deo.li,.cU. l'o
Simon the .holy God." The same author ,~t,ops
sever~ .others ll:ho « set .on .work ,~ ~e .~~
demons,.ilqpose.d ,on many. by .th,e .same ~.arta.-;
And ,-et ·all : ~his .sort of ~nen go by tJie ,D4Jile .of
cbristJ.ans, just like ..the pbilosafhers, ·wlao th~la
they diff'er never :so.IIUlch in princ~ples, y,etrtake.upon
them the common , ~e. of,pbjlo119phus."
Th•s Satan ha.s ·14bonred to c:omapt.and. ~tfo.y
christianity itlelf, with the .same s'p~stiti~s by
which he .bas darkened .and (:orrupted the .,..
world, and lae has prevailed ·with many ·who· have
borne the .sac!.ed nap~e of ,christians, to. practice an4.
employ these mfernal arts. Even the Holy See has
been cont~UDinated with .these abo.minations, .and
wicked po~es of Rome, l.i~ ~posta~ kil)l& ·11f .Ju~
have practiced. some of the IJlO!!t Infernal parts of
B.
50
superstitious magic.* Dhine re,·elation and true
religion have always openly rebuked all diabolical
superstitions, as well as their younger brother infidel
philosophy, and much of the blood of christians has
been shed because of their successful opposition to
evil arts and evil spirits, who had fortified themselves
in high places, in schools and 'temples, palaces and
thrones.t
The diabolical arts and contemptible pagan
superstitions, the horrible, foolish, and wicked
wisdom BOW called vulgar Mrorl, &c. came from
·the potentates, priests, philosophers, and poets,
down to the vulgar and their children. It was
Jeroboam's wicked polic/1 to teacA l1rael to •in, a11d
to establish the worsh1p of the golden calves, as
the rel~on of the state, to keep the r.eople in his
possession. For the same reason, St. Augustine
thiaks the gentle princes enjoined idolatry. «The
politic and wiae men,'' he says, «did especially en:..
dc11.vour to nousel their people in this illusive manner,
and to m11.ke them not only worshippers but .even
imitator$ of the devils that delighted to delude them.
For even 11.s devils cannot possess anr. bot· snch as
they have deceived, so unjust 11.nd devti-Hke J"'inces
persuaded their people to their own vain inventions,
'under the name of religion, ·thereby t~ bind their
affections the firmer to their senice, and so to keep
them under their 11overeignties. And ttlltat igltoral
Md weak man can auoid tlte ckt~rm~ of IJotlt prince•
and devi/1 ?" City of God, B. 4. D. 32. Thus the
multitudes have been imposed upon by their governors,
and diabolical superstition came from the 'greatest to
the least, till all the world has been covered with
• See Platina's History of the Popea. Life of Miltladel p. 49.
Dam•us, p. 62. Sylvester, p. 194.
t Ste Eusebius's Life or Constantiue, C. 50,-52.
~..
51
~oss darkness, the most gloomy, superstition• hor-
rors, and the shadow of death. 'fhe religion of
heaven has taken an opposite direction, it ascends
from " the least to the greatest." The God of mercy
and the friend of the poor abhorred the superstitious.
and diabolical delusiO\ls of pri.nces, who .jmposed their
abominations on their wbjects. Then he sent "the
Carpenter's son," with hit~ humble band of fishermen, ·
to turn "the world upside dowa," and fill the dark
places of t.he earth with the light of the giorious
gospel of the blessed God. The poor, ignorant,
vulgar, have in ancient times been defrauded by wick-
ed statesmen, philosophers, and poets, who concealed
from them the tr\lth of God, and taught in its stead
their own super.stitious delusions. Eyen Socrates
consulted the devilish oracle at Delphos, and Plato
his disciple taught " h is not safe to discover the
parent of the universe to the vulgar." See Dr. Mat'-
knigbt, on Rom. I. and Cor. 1. · . .
,. Maximus Tyrius in the conclusion of his 6lst:
Dissertation, expresseth himself thus, • If you,.arc
too weak to contemplate the Father and Maker. of all"
things, it is sufficient for you at present to bel_lold
the works and to worship his progeny, (the things
which proceed from h~m] which are many and ' of
various kinds ; not merely as the BmQtian poet men-
tions ; for there arc not only tkirtg, thot~~and Gork
the sons and friends of God, but their number il! not,..
to be comprehended : and '"''" · in kenven are tile
•tar~, ;,. mtAer demon1.' Thus wer¢ the objects of
worship multiplied by the philosopher' the~sclves
to an amazing degree: whilst at the same time, under
a pretence of the most exalte«l, noHons of the Supreme
Being, they declined speaki~gof him, or of the wor-
ship due to him, to the people. They alleged, that
the vulgar were unable to form any conception of an.
invisible Deity, 1111d looked upon that to b.e nothing
K. ~~
DJiizedb,Google
52
which they could not Rec or percch·e by theia· senses ;
that therefore the worshipping of the thing~ of nature,
and the. inferi'or deities, was the only way to keep the
people from running into Atheism. On .the same
t'qundatiou they pleaded for and rt>commended the
worship of ima~es." Dr. ·Leland's Advantage and Ne-
cessity ofthe ChristiiW Revelation. VoL I. p. 337.
So much has been done by heathen philosophers,
unfaithftit. prophets, and corrupt christians, to keep
the hunia'li race ignorant of the true God and his pure
wi>rsliip; arid to make them infidels or idolaters~ or
both, that there is scarcely a nation to be found
wiicre the corruption of superstition is either un-
known or eurged -away. . If, therefore, some obscure
Britons stJll' remain under· tlae veil and influence of
these pagan delusions, (and thousands there are) tlleir
ignorance lias a claim on British christian l>cnevo-
lence. Paganism in England is as provoking to God
as pegaaism iu -Asia or Mrica s and if ~ur charity be
witliout partiality or wit1iont hypocrisy; pagan super~
stitions afhome will excite our ~eal aud commisera'-
tioo, as well as the same evils· in Rlndostan. God has
given many portions of his inspired word on purpose
to check tb'e practice of tlieae sup61'11titions which
princes and philosophers have in ancient time~ im-
posed upon the vulgar; . 'fo steal the word of God~
arid' conceal it like a thief, for merely one's own
private use, or with a baser design to impose the mote..
effectually our own inventions on the ignoranr, is'
embezzling the putilic property which the JHng of
heaven has depos1ted hi the hands of his stewards to
relieve the necessities of a perishing world'. Such
witbolding tbe truth of God iri umiglitA!oUiluess, is an
awful breach of trust in either a heathen philosop'ber,
a Jewish prophet, a Roman pontiff', or a prot&ltant'
christian. Surely the blood of those who have beeb
destroyed for lack of knowle1lge will be required of
------------.....-
• tq.J"'p .. = ,.
53
those who thus embezz~ the truth of salvation. It is
required of stewards that a man be found faithful ;
and the great apostle of the Gentiles has set them all
who are intrusted with the truth, a fair example, in
saying to the Ephesians, " I take you to record, this
day, that I am pure from the blood of all men. For
I have not shunned to declare unto you all the
counsel of God." Acts, xx. 26, 27.
The astrological practice of physic, according to
its pretlent use, includes several of those evil arts
which are expressly and repeatedly prohibited in the
Holy Bible, and declared to be, With all that practice
them, an a6omination to the Lord. Deut, xviii.
It is, in its essential principles, as well as in its
origin, a system of idolatry. It rejects the true God
and his all-wise providence from that supreme do-
minion which, as sovereign of the universe, be exer-
cises over his creatures, and requires every human
being to acknowledge, and ascribes a governing in-
fluence over the moral actions of men to " the host of
heal'en." Some of these shining Chaldean gods, or
as they are now termed Iordi, it would teach us, are
benevolent, and others malevolent, and others are
good or evil according to their 11ituation or con-
junction with their neighbour planets. Thus even
the astrologer's gods become good or evil according
to the company they keep. This Chaldean astrology
devotes children as soon as they are born to the
influence of these benevolent or malevolent lords,
according as these good or ill-tempered ever-varying
creatures are supposed to take their turns to rule in
~he affairs of men. Each planet is allowed his ,;bare
of human beings, as they are scientifically cast on his
mercy or wrath, by their entrance into the world at
the calculated times of their dominon. They are ever
after the benefactors or tyrants of the human being,
&, 3.
,..
54
and according to their good or evil aspects cheer the
Ufe or embitter lhe ex.istence and deat~ of.the human
bein~. Such paganism there is in England ! and
many « christiana" have been so mistaken or decoyed
as tobe found at its altars ! .
This.system of scientiiic ,paganism removes from
man that moral rt:!lponsibility which his Creator im-
periously requires him to consider and acknowledge.
It stupiiies the soul against the consciousness of guilt,
and transfers the blame of bad conduct from wicked
men, to planetary influence, and ultimately to God
himself. It is as cunningly contrived to rob God of his
reputation, as of his authority, and teaches man to
place his coniidence in planetary imposition instead
of the wisdom, power, and goodness of his Creator.
It is an ingenious device to keep men .from the know-
ledge, fear, service, and enjoyment of the Most High.
"Oh Wickedness," exclaiiPS Tertullian, "men think
it needless to seek God, because they presume we are
actuated by an immutable decree of the stars."
. Idolatry of any kind is a provoking insult to the
Lord of Hosts. He is a jealous God, and, there
fore, be will not suffer such treasonable conspiracies
against his holy government to escape his righteous
indignation. A scheme so deeply laid as ar.trology
is to ensnare ~he confidence and passions of men, be-
trays to every well instructed mind its subtile author
with his cloven foot. The more the light of revelation
is thrown upon this subject; and the more it is
scrutinized, the more evidently it will appear that
the devil ill at the bottom of all such impos1tions.
The astrological practice of physic is a real kind
of diabolical ditJi,..tion by "the host of heaven."-
And thus, as Tertullian says, "Evil spirits juggle
men out of the knowledge of the true God by the
delu~ions of divination." One of the fir!it things the
a-.t.rological doctor docs, wben applied to for a person
bewitched or possessed, is to draw the horoscope, i.e.
a scheme to show the situations- of the planets, stars,
&c. at the time ofenquiry.
Even this is an intimation that going to enquire
of the astrologer, associates the enfioirer with what-
ever influence i11 exerted; and if one of tbe malignant
planets rules at the time. that is, if the devil can
obtain leav.e, or exert an influence to torment or de-
stroy the dabbler in his arts, he that goes or sends
to · enquire of astro,ogy lays himself under his
inAuence. It was ettqfliry that brought the punish-
ment of deatA on king MDI. l Chron. x. 13. And
W. Lilly's ''first consideration" is "of the mind,
when a man is stirred up in his thoughts, and hath an
jnq,nt to euquire,-and. of the free .will, which dis
• f10Ses himto the very act of.enquiriug,-for t4e motion
of the star11 is not enough unless by the electi&n of
his will the person doe11 ac~unlly ent1uire." Guide for
astrologors, p. 3. This consideration should ha,·e ih
due weight with any man who is inclined to employ
an astrologer to divme for him. Let him consider
what inlhrence that is br, which "he i8 81irred up in
hu thoagl•u to enquire, ' and let him consider too,
that when divine justice is insulted by his enquiry,
and grants the.malignaut planet, or rather the malig-
nant devil at the bottom of the system, permission of
execution, it is easy for the devil then to predict the
sinner's death, and to accomplish the prediction.
The astrologer consults for the enquirer, in the
case above referr<:d to, the planetary system, to dis-
c&ver the nature of the complaint, and if bewitched,
the person of the witch, &c. and to learn under what
malignant planet (god or devil) the patient is a1Dicted1
and therefore, what planetary influence he is to asso-
o·JI ized by e
56
date with himself, the patient, and the family, by the
selection of astrological remedieR, and the performance
of magical ceremonies. It is the.refore by the same
at·t, the same general influence, that such patients
are magically affiirted, or magically cured, perhaps I
ought to say, diabolically afflicted or diabolically
cured. It is under the influence ofthe malevolent planets
(or demons under their name) that the :witch afflicts
those who through fear, and folly, and sin, subject
themselves to the diabolic power ; and it is by
"counteracting" their influence by that of other
planets (professedly) and by the same arts employed,
but with a different intention, that the astrological
doctor .works a cure.
Evil spirits, therefore, under the guise of planet-
ary influence, keep the business of afflicting and
curing, as far as they can, among themselves and
their human confederates. It is evident then on
what principle their knowledge is gained. " And
assuredly," says Dr. H. More, "it is a pleasant
spectacle to those haters and scorners of mankind,
to see the noble faculties of men debased and en-
tangled in so vile and wretched a mystery, which will
avail nothing to divination unless these seducing
demons, malicious deceivers, act their part in the
scene." A spirit of divination is a beguiling. de,·il,
and the arts of divination are artful and scientific
impositions on the understandings of the credulous.
The astrological practice of physic is a'species
of witchcraft. This " philosophical way of cure,"
teaches the absolute necessitv of bewitching tlie witch.
Hear a professor and teacher of the art. < The
• patient's friends must of necessity rep-air to such as
• are well skilled in the astrological and philosophical
f way of cure, as I shall declare in order heyeto. But
• before I proceed it will be necessary to show how
..
r--
,.
< to a.fii,nlle witcli, tliat so slie may be di'scouraged'
• to act ant Cartner miscliieC: Then fOllow • Some.
' experimental rules wllereby to atBict the witcli," &c.
I need not transcribe theRe rules, because rri.y design
is not to teach the art, but to show my countr}lmen
its diabolical and: sinful nature. These rules ·are,
alas!- too well' known in Britain, Co~ f have known
them practiced By matty "christians" iu England~
within tlie last seven years! !T Bllt let us proceed'.
As tne witt:ll torments the hapless object of bt-.r
malice, so tlie astrological doctor torments· her, to
makP. tier desist. from using hu art. This is not
Satan ctuting Otlt Satan, bu~ Satan- tormenting human
beings and helping them to torment one another.-
1n both w~s be is perfectlj. r.o•1utent with.himself ;
in either way he &xens his influence, establishes his ·
kingdom, and maiptains- his autliority,.-T>ut much
more effectually in. both ways Uian in oue. u: we
may befi.eve tho11e wbo study tlie occult scieaces, and
practice tlie magieal· arts, (and. such are-most-likely
to loow tlieir :power) Hoh is S'ometimes tile vir.W.nt.
ma.lice o(tlie-evil witohes, that before -tliey;will desist
from tormenting· tlieir Victim, they will themselves
die under tlle tortUring power of the astrological
doctor ! Tliis -is the wonderous worlilirg ofSatan, and
be tlius provides a delicious feast for those infernal
pasaioas which hiss and·nestle in· tbe wicked- human
heart ; malice it· s)ntlled witJI. a meal of. milery< or
death, i.l'ld reve'l!ge reels· and triumpll-s ill hellish
drunken Joy.
'J,'II'e c!~IDO'ft treopfe «<m:et&nes call t~ ll'Strolo·
gkal docrot €be lJOOd Gr-lllliite-IIJiecll, because lie cures
whom. the maliciooe-or llld '"'ell" allict. Not-
witbstaudhtg ~ relllfett 1threh many of the cO'Ufttry
people lia.ve tor. tlleir wfiU. ..,;~.. some learoed
divine& hava aaid with- hrcliaae,.in ~ Pflgria, t11M:
"the white witch is the worst of the two." ~tr
58
mea or women may deal in these black arta oi witch-.
craft, they are included in the statute euaded by the.
God .of Israel, " 'I)ou shalt not suffer a witch to
live." Ex. xxii. 18.*
"Some have been made witches," says the Rev.
T. Fuller, " by .endeavouring to defend themselves
against witchcraft : for fearing some suspected witch
should hurt them, they fence themselves with the
devil's shield against the devil's sword, put on his
wAole armour, beginning to use spells and charms to
safeguard themselves. The art is quickly learnt, to
which nothing but credulity and practice is required."
Profane State. p. 367.
"Of witches there are two sort~,'' says the
learned judicious divine, Mr. W. Perkins: "The
bad witch aBd the good witch: for so they are com-
monly called. The bad witch is be or she that hath
consented in league with the devil to nee his help for
the doing of llurt only, as to strike, and annoy the
bodies of men, women, and children, and cattle, with
diseases and with death itself. · The good witch is he
or she· that by consent in ·a league with the devil,
doth use his help for doin~ good only. This cannot
hurt, torment, curse, or kill, but only heal and ·cure
• " From the severity of this law agalnat witches, &e. we
may see in what light these were viewed b)' Divine Jnatiee. · 'l1lt:y
were seducers of the ~pie from their all~ to God, oo
whose Judgment alone they should depend ; and by impiously
prying mto futurity, 11111umed an attribute of God, tM fortleiiW.,
offuture tt1mt1, which implied in ltaelf, the groi!Selt blasphemy,
anil tended to corrupt the minds of the people, by leadlDg them
away from God and the revelation he had made of Jilmlclf. Many
of the Israelites had, no doubt learnt these eurlo118 arts from
tAeir long residence among the Egyptians ; and eo much were
the Israelites attached to them, di&t we find such arts in repute
among them : and various practices of this kind prevailed through
the whole of the Jewish ~D~~· notwithstimdbig the oll'enee was
£aP)tal IDd iu all eases p • with dtatlt." Dr. A. CW'ke, ou
Jo;x. ull. 18. '
59
.the hurts inflicted by bad witches. For as they can
do no good, but only hurt, so this can do no burt but
good only. And thts is that order whieh the devil
hath set in hi!! kingdom, appointing to several persons
their . several offices and charges. And the good
witch is commonly termed the unbinding witch:
" Now howsoever both these be evil, yet of the
·two, the more horrible and detestable monster is the
good wit.ch : for look~ i" what place soever there be
bad witches, that hurt only, there also the devil bath
his good ones, who are better known than the had,
being commonly called wise men or wise women.-
'fhis will appear in most places in this country. Fol'
let a man's child, friend, or cattle, be taken with
some sore sickness, or strangely tormented with some
rare and unknown disease, the first* thing be
doth is to bethink himself and enquire after some
wise man or some wise woman, and thither he sends
or goes for help. When he comes he first tells them
the state of the sick man : the witch then being cer-
tified of the disease, pre~cribeth either cbarma or
words to be used over him, or other auch counterfeit
means, wherein ·there is no virtue, bei~g nothing else
bnt tile devii'a sacramenta, to cause him to do the
cure, i.f it come by witchcraft. Well, the means are
received, applied and used, the .sick party accordingly
recovereth, and the conclusion of all is, the nsual
acclamation, Oh happy is the day, that ever I met
:with such a man or woman to help one !
" Here observe that both have a stroke in this
:action. The bad witch hurt him, the good healed him :
but the truth is, the latter hath done him a thousand
· • ln tbia nineteenth century of chriatiaaity these pagan
praeticea ha,.e receded a little, aud the regu~ med~cal men are
'*>metlmes.coW!ulted jll'll, and ·&hen, when these Iilli to Wlder-
atand or relieove the case, the magical do~tor Ia employed.
~~ ;__--
..4<"'!~~~--.....z:::!"'"---.......---_.-:..
~<:::;~-,~-
..~
..--...
--...___ ~
..60
times more bo.rm than the for10er. For the one did
only burt: the body, but the .devil by means of the
other, though be ·hath left the body in good pJigbt,
yet bath he ]aid fast hold on the soul, and by curing
the body hath killed the spirit. And the party
thus cured cannot say with David, tke Lord ;, m!l
helper, but "the devil is my·helper," f'or by'ltim be
is cpred. Of both these kind of witches the present
law of Moses must be understood." Perkins's Works,
fol. Yol. 3. p. 637.
In a case of simple possession there is no witch
for the magical doctor and the patient's ·friends to
bewitch ; but-there is an evil spirit to worship. And
this is sometimes done by making fumes or burninfl
incense to the devil. . '!'his practice is ta'!ght ana
sanctioned in real pagan, apostate Jewish, and Roman
Catholic style, in the apocryphal book of Tobit. In
that book, if the fact ia true, the doctrine is per-
nicious ; Satan is transformed into an angel of light
most imposingly, and magical practices have a sancti-
monious appearance, to deceive, if possible,.the very
elect. Rapbael an'd Asmodens act different parts in
the scene ; but the latter is .a very poor devil, in
comparison of.the·former. Asmodeus acts like what
be is, and any devil may do that, but Rapbael.(whose
ume signifies God'• healer) assumes the title, pre-
tends to the office, and plays thl' part of an angel of
God. Great triumph must ha'·e been in hell to see
how that well meaning Jewish family were deluded by
the plot. But what must be the influence of such a
thing .among pagan nations? How are they to be
pitied ! This _ill but a part i a christian chu!ch, the
Roman Catholic, has sanctioned such delus1ons, by
adopting superstitious magic, instead of following
ouly the counsel of inspiratiQn. 'l'bis is .not all.
Many protestauts are still caught in the same sure.
Raphael is a ilne pattern fer ·astrological magical
61
doctors, and some of them imitate him well. Raphael
advised the smoke of a fish's liver ; and Tobias "took
the ashes of the perfumes, and put the heart and the
liver of the fish thereupon, and made a smoke there-
with.''&c. The pre1ent magical practice selects certain
herbs, with astrological $Cience, to be burnt instead
of tlie fish's liver. (The writer has known it praeticed
very lately.) The evil spirits, however, do not
alwa!ll depart when the incense is offered, sometimes
they may, to give success to their own delusions.-
" These demons," says Tertullian, "first inftict the
malady, and then presCJibe the remedy, and after the
patient bas used the receip_t, the demon omits to .
afflict him, and that omission passes for a cure."-
Justin Martyr gives the same account of this business
of demons when he sa1s, « Tiley cea~e to hurl that
lhe!f may 1eem to C#Te.'
The Jews in ancient days well kllew the most ex-
cellent mode of relief from the troubles of evil spirits
and their application to magic was inexcusable.
When king Saul bad grievously sinned against
the Lord in the affair of the Amalekites, Samuel faith-
fully rebuked him, and told him, that because be had
rejected the word of the Lord, the Lord had rejected
him. I Sam, xv. 22, 23. Soon afterwards, we read,
« The spirit of the J...ord departed from Saul, and an
evil spirit from the Lord troubled him.'' c. xvi. v. 14.
Josephus, says, " Strange and demoniacal disor4ers
came upon him, and brought upon him socb suft'o-
cations as were ready to choke him.'' Saul's servants
well knew the nature of his complaint, that God
permitted him to be troubled with .an evil spirit.-
This came upon him by jit1, u is etident from what
they said to him in the interval of his paroxysms.
They recommended a skilful musiciaa, and said, "It
shall come to pass UJhe. tu evil Bpiril from God
-;,
62
u wpon tllee, that he shall play with his hand and
thou shalt be well." v. 16, 17. When be consented,
they particularly recommended David, and t,hey said·
"1'/ie Lord is with him." v. 18. "And when .be
was come Saul was pleased with him," savs Josephu11,
(( for he charmed his passion, and was the only
physician against the trouble he bad from evil spirits,
UJMnHever it UJtu tllat il came vpon Aim, aad tAU
6y recilittg of llynuu and plaJiiMg ttpo11 Ike llarp, ad
6rittgittg Sat~l to Au rigltt mmd again." Antiq. B. vi.
c. 8. The Sacred History says, «And it came to
pus, when the evil spirit froiD God was upon Sa11l
·that David took an harp and played with his hand ;
so Saul was refreshed and was wel1, and the eril
spirit departed from him." I Sam. xvi. 23.
We well know what ' a spirit of pure devotion
glowed in tile heart of "the sweet psalmi~Jt of Israel...
~· The Lord was with him,'• aud if while with hia
skilful hand he played on the harp, be sung the
ninety-first psalm, no evil spirit could long endure
the fe"ency of his devotion, and the powerful, spirit-
ual strokes of his holy resistance. The suitableness
of that psalm on such an occasion is remarked by
Bishop Patrick, who observes, " Maimonides thinks
(as other of the Rabbins also do) that tbe psalmist
bath a peculiar rea;pect "to the incunions of evil
spiritlt;" v. 5, 6. See his Commentary. Here is an
instance of expelling an evil spirit with aJ muclt
purity as in the apostolic times ; and such conduct
would expel an evii spirit in any place, or in any age
of the world. David was an example worthy of imi-
tation ; his praying faith would npel demons evea
without his harp.
Bnt the Jews very s.oon neglected tbis'holy ex-
ample, and departed from thi:J righteuu~ mode or
resisting fvil spirits, and as tbf! pnpists have done
63
aince, they used superstitious magic rat-
her than pure
and fervent devotion. Solomon himself has been
suspected of being justly reprehensible for departing
from his pious father's example, and givin~ too much.
countenance to magi<'al tricks and conjurations.-
Josephus says, «He composed incantations by which
distempers are alleviated, and he left behind him the
manner of using exorcism~, by which they drive away
demons," &c. &c. Antiq. B. viii. c. 2. The judicious
r~er will be pleased to see Mr. Whiston·:1 note on
the place. He says : « Some pretended fragments of
tlteae books of conjuration of Solomon are still extant
in Fabricius's Cod. Pseudepigr. Vet. Tes. page 10.>4,
though I entirely ditrer from Josephus in h1s supposal
that such books and arts ()f Solomon were parts of
that wisdom which was imparted to him by God in
Ilia younger days ; they must rather have belon~d to
such profane bot curious arts, as we 6nd menttoned,
Acta xix. 13,-20, aud had been derived from the
idolatrl and superstition of hia heathen wives and
concubtnes in his old age, wheD he had forllaken God
and God had forsaken him, and given him up to
demoniacal delusions. Nor does Josephus's strangt!
account of his root Baara (See Wars, B. 'rii. c. 6.
sect. 3.) seem to be other than that of ita magical
t.se in such conjurations."
True religion always armed its possesson with
a power to overcome evil spirits ; and it has always
been the policy of Satan to beguile and conupt the
people of God, that they might forsake the "'ord and
spirit of the Lord, and degeoc;rate to superatition.-
Thua Josephus's -
root Baara, Tobit's 6sh'6 liver, and
the popish holy water, and all such superstitious,
m~cal trumpery, wbereb7 Satan blinded the pagan
nattona, blasted the JeWish people, and corrupted
the catholic christians, have all the same origin and
tendency.
F ~.
64
With linch practices of superstition, the old ser·-
pent the devil, bas deceived the world. Among
ancient pagans he could be ...£sculapius or Mars,
Jupiteror Saturn. With the Jews he could be Raphael
or Aa~modeus, and he can serve his purpose with popish
exorcisms, &c. He still can be the master of cere-
monies in his own province of magical practices; the
zealous patron of the white or black witch; but
whether be comes as a tormenting demon or a healing
angel; with the black witch or the magical doctor,
his intention is always and every where the same,
ro deceive, to corrupt, and to destroy. Let even
prote11tants beware.
In the astrological w-ay of cure, the .friends of
t.he patient have generally their part to act in magicaf
practices. They also must act on the principles,
and perform the ceremonies of witchcraft, must keep
"the sacraments of the devil,'' and assist the magical
doctor to bewitch the witch, or bum incense for the·
evil spirit. Thus the evil spreads, and the guilt is
abundantly increased by this mode of cure.
It is painful to give such a detail of these ancient
astrological arts, which have deluded the pagan na-
tions, brought down vengeance on the Israelites and
Jews, corrupted e·ven the catholic christian church,
and ·to the present time are working deceit'fully
afllong many protestant l3ritish « christians" of dif-
erent denominations. They are evil deeds that
cannot bear the light of revelation to shine directly
upon t.hem. To shut our eyes upon them, and give
them the advantage of our connivance and of their de-
sired darkness and silence, may cherish their growth .
" Whatsoever maketh manifest is light," and it be-
comes all who !;>ear the chril>tian name, to have no
fellowship with these destructive works of dal'lmess;
but rather reprove them : God and his prophets l•ave
65
set us the example. I have seen them lurking and
poisening in the darkness of neglected obscurity, and
now drag them out to light, to show their Tieer
fangs, that the tempted may beware. It wouW Ill-
become a watchman at his post to see such an ene!IJ
skulking and never warn the people. '
By the astrological practice of physic to tor-
ment the aggressor with magical incanta~s, cere-
monies, &C. or thus to bewitch the witch, has ap-
peared to SOme as a just punishment on the evil
creaturfl. But however justly such a pest may
deserve to suffer, those who seek revenge in the same
criminal mode of proceeding, involve themselves also
in the same pumshment and guilt. IC we employ
Satan in onr cause, we may expect he will some 'Wlay
and time or other make us roe our obligation ; ani!
the offended God may in justice leave us in the hands
of that enemy with whGm we have formed an alliance,
and whose assistance we have so sinfully sought.
The astrological practice of physic inchrde~
another part of the diabolical superstitions, which is,
what the scripture calls o!JiervittK time1. 2 Kings,
xxi. 6. 'fhat is, an idolatrous mode of observing
times in order to obtain the. celestial induences to
assist in the astrological inchantments, and .make
the magical incantations, &c. more effectual~.,.._
A profes~~&r and teacher of the astrological practice
of physic, when giving direotions how.to bewitch or
torment the witches, says, " I have fonnd by expc-
• rience, that they win be grievously tormentecl, and
• the more so if the moon be in scorpio, in square,
1 or op~sition to his significator when jt is done."
This cr1minal art of observing the times when the
benevolent devils or malevoleat gods, among u the
host of heaven," are supposed to role over persons
and things on the face of the earth, ntns through thQ
I' 3.
. ,. -- -- ----... :·.,~ - Di~tizedbyG -....-:
,,-
66
whole businej;s of astrology. Enongll of this may be
seen in an alm3nack, that like the Chaldean philoso-
phy, poisons the scientific advantages of astronomy
with 'the supers.titiou and idolatrous corruptions of
judicial astrology. In astrological physic drugs most
be associated with planetary influence, by carefully
observing the time of gathering, applying, &c. accord-
ing to the planetary upects ; for magical doctors
maintain that. herbs may haw very difFerent, or even
opposite effeets according ~ the planetary aspects,
or the supposed ruling powet- of the stars at the times
in which the herbs are gathered and .applied. So also
in their imt>ious difJiftatiottl and idolatrous propbesy-
ings the times must be distributed into lucky and
unlucky, as though t.lte oaly, true, universal, eternal
God of love was supersetled in the goverllment of the
world and thP- a'lfairs of men, by the .astrologer's
malignant gods or benevolent devils, which he be-
lie\"es inhabit those heavenly bodies that our good
God has created !
The astrological pmctice of physic is the practice
of trwcerg aecordiag to the pepalar and scriptoRt
vse of that term. In techttical language, that is, as
used by magical }M'ofessot!s, the term Hrcery is re-
stricted to 111igfrify the use of drugs under the influence
of magical i11cantaoons, with an intention to injure
S'Ollle person. But like the term tDitcAcraft it i& used
in a more g~al ·sense by·other persons, and by tile
inspired writers, to signify the use of drugs in con-
nection witb magical c~remonies, for injury or· bene6t.
11le 11.strological praetice ef physic is, theref&re, a
species ()f ·lorcery, 1md as such to be conscientiowsly
avoided by all who would escape the just jwdgment
of God. .
Tlae '9'Ysteftl ·of 'aStrology l1as been prowd amoeg
evil -spirits 'to be .a very ingeni0011 iavention that M8
-·
67
admirably well answered their purpose. It. is very
convenient for -
them to have partiC\llar times appoint-.
ed and rules agreed upon, by which: they are to exert
their infinences to the ntq10st of their concentrated
ability on every special occasion. Observing the
times, when tile planets are said to rule in .the aft'airs
of men, serves as a principle of. general understandin!
and accommodation, betweeft evH spirits and thew
Jnnna11 allies. At the same time attributing tbe in-
fluence to the stars serves admirably well to MOtiWe
all that neglect God and follow. such delusions. It
fixes thea unsuspecting gaze on the imposing scenery
of .the planetary system, behind wbich evi'l spirits
conceal themselves, and prepare tiaeir machinations
for the gt>atificat.ion and destru~tion of all who 1D6'f
be allured to the theatre of 11acl1 criminal science.-
Devils must .skulk under · some covering 't., escape
derectioa, and aocomplish t.beir design before Rtaft or
woman .suspects·them. Satan was in the garb(){ a
serpent wlleu be played his first part; to tuke with
the philosophers at Chaldea he gamishtd himself
with the heavens; to impose upon C)tbers be· has
assumed the aame of some respected .d'ead ·11ero ; in
ten tho1lsand forms and 'IKlmes has tllis old enEtny
naposed upon the 'W()rld, and does so to this •<!Qy.
Evil spirits are more than half nbdued when they
and their wiles.are detected.
While the worid ·was worshiPf'iDg devils :under va-
rious names ·aad fonas, ':anll philosopws tbeml!elve&
weM aderiag aad ~ltigg:tbem as-gods,ehristianity
cletlected .and e-,q»osecl tkem, forced them from their
ha'll'MS :and tul'llM their WGI'Miippers to tile living and..
true God. HC1W:inocusable is:it.tl1en.for model'n Brit-
ous, in tbe1e ~trpel -daya. tG be f09Dd i• the oonneit
ehalllber.t' ~ns,·OO'B&llltiugthedie.Wlcal' de\uai9lii
fli planet•y *tpect&; tremWing at:reputed melewlent
&tars,ancheeking the benevoleat asti&tallele·of.Jn):Mter,
68
Mercury, and devils. Why should he who kno\n there
is a Saviour, bow like a pagan at the altar, and consult
the priest of the malevolent MarJJ and Saturn, and
tliu1t worship the de\·il, to fulfil his infernal ''con-
dition& of pence," to 6ribe him to depart and suspeud
for a while hili hostile operation11? It iii the duty of
every christian to " renounce the devil and all his
wor\ts," not to treat with him by astrology, bnt te
take the shield of faith and the sword of the spirit,
and force the enemy to retreat.
Whoever is determine<J, to re1ut, has no reason
whatever to fear the power of evil spirits. God has
given to every mao power over the enemy, and if he
will but use it the victory is sure. Our Saviour
"holds the powers of hell in chains," and every liak
is numbered. People often injure themselves by
believing that devils have more power than they
really possess ; and there have been thousands who
have imposed on credulity by proclaiming the almos'
omnipotence of devils, and pretending to an influence
with them, and assitstance from them, which however
they may be devilish enough to desire, their master
is not allowed to give. God permits the devil to be
our tempter, but it is our ,;,.,.;,.!'that makes bim our
deltroger. A few observations on this subject may be
acceptable from .1rcb6u/t()p Seeker. He says :
''Though the devil hath no p~wer of his own
over us, we may give him as much as we wWI, and
become slaves and vassals to him as long as we please.
In t~is sense his empire ill.very large, and on account
of it the scrir,ture calls him " thP. prince of the power
of darkness,' and even the "god of this world.''-
For he was and is still, in great propriety of speech.
the god of many heathen nations; who instead of
the righteous maker of heaven and earth, worship
deities of such vile and m.iachievous characters, as we
. . ...............
69
justly ascribe to the evil one. And e\•en where faith
in the true Deity is professed, yet preteuded art~ of
magic, witchcraft, conjuring, fortune-telling, and such
like wicked follies, approacb more or less to the saint;
crime. For if any of the wretches guilty .of these
things, either have or imagine they have any Cflltlmu-
nication with the detil, they plainly rebel against
God, atid endeavour at leallt to confederate with his
enemy. Or if they only pretend a communication
with him,-yet this is very inconsistent with renoun-
cing him. Aod eveu when they do not ·so much a&·
pretend it, and·would make us believe that they llave
such extraordinary skiH and power derived from more
innoce11t sources, tboogh·they profess no respeet to hilt
person, they imitate him in one of his worst qualit.~s~·
a!l he is de fatAer-tJf liea. And the lies of this kind
arc very pernicious ones. .They cortupt ·the Jiot\mi!'
of religion ; give persons unworthy opinions ()f Got! ;'
and lead them to imagine thlrt other· being$, as the
stars,'or even names, as chance ~nd· fate, •share witJ1
Him in ·the ~vemment of the world. · But indeed
lies of all sorts are peculiarly the works of him who
was a IU.r as well as a ,,.;,.d,.er from 1/u !JegU.ning-,
whosoever therefore allows himself ·in any of these
things fa of ilia f•ther.llle d~il, 4nd tile lull of Ilia
fatller .lie dcet/,.' Lecture iii. on the Catechism.
· Whatever may be our op1nio1'1 respecting the
degree or satanic agency exerted in combination with
the m8gicar ceremonies in the astrological practice of
physic, one important point must now be very evi-
dent to 'the candid reader, aod that is, the '8iwfo/ne~a
o( employin_g'it. An argument tliiswhich must 'pTe-
vail with hun that fears God, and persuade hlm to
avoid this evil way' as he would tbe path be knew to
be infested with vipers and scorpions, with the hidden
1111ares of death and hell. · As there is a good way t~
deliverance from demoRiac oppres&ion, it evinces the
70
Jreatest folly, aa weD as wickedness, to neglect that
pod, and choose the evil way.
. In cases of demoniac possessioa the astrological
practice of physic aft'ords bot a lingering aad uncertaiu
mode of relil'lf, even if tlaere were no goilt in tbe 1111e
of it, and no spiritual danger atteading it. Wbeu evil
epirits have taken possession, though for their inteft8t
and honour, to procure the eonfideace, gratitude.. and
respect of the patient and his friends to themselves
and their own arts, they will sometimes relinqaiab
their possession for this com.Pent.ation ; yet, they are
loath to go, and will sometimes torment for months
before they will wholly depart. When they are
properly opposed by chrietianity, tho~h they rap
furiously under the scourging power of religious resist-
aace, they are compelled, however much against their
will, to make a speedy departure. On magical princi-
ples &uceess is not always sure. The hungry roaring
lion will sometime• reeeive no bribe ; croel and
voracious as the wolf, he will not depart from his
prey. This was often the case in ancient days :
magical incantations often failed. Satan would enter
into no truce ; .would yield the howling victim no
quarter, however earnestly his priests with all their
Cltaldean skill besought his favours. None but the
christians conld always succeed in expelling all kinds
of demons. They, as TertuUian speaks, "declared
magic to be deceit, and the7 were not ignorant of the
eause of that deceit, who cliaeerned wicked spirits no'
with a friendly, but with a hostile knowledge, and
dealt with ·them, 1101 6y n iiWitiftg operalioa~ 6wt 6y
11 r~mting pofiJ~r." With that r~1ilting pOIIJer; in
their muter's name, they could always take the prey
from the mighty and deliver the lawful captive.
The employment of astrological means, in cases
of demoniac possession, gives enco11tagement to
71
satan'11 inftnence. It is courting his fa\'our and oper~
ation instead of expelling him against hilh:Will. When
the magical method of relief has been resorted to, as
far as I am acquainted with recent cases of possession,
the evU has 11pread for some time ; so that I fear the
nee of these means, though productive of relief in
some cases, tends greatly to encourage the cause ;
which again calls for the same means. Thu11 "·bile the
cunning deceiver draws the whole attention of people
to his aport of fast-and-loose with the body of the
demoniac, be rivets the c~aias of pagan supen;tition
on their souls. .
The disgrace brought. on religion by the employ-
ment of astrological doctrine, is a consideration which
will dissuade every man from its use who conllcien-
tiously respects the name aad regards the honour of
God. Because it not only sets the evil spirit in our es-
timation on equality with the true God, but even gives
the wicked one and his sacraments the preference to
the God of nature and grace, and all the means be bas
provided for certain and perfect relief in @uch cases
of distress. Is it because there is no nlvation ia
Christ Jesus, that the christian must go to Beelzebub
tbe god of Ekron, or which is a11 bad, to astrolobrical
diviners and magical doctors to c.onsult the stars ? ·
to leatn the depths of satao, and perform the cere-
monies of the infernal world? If the aftliction is front
evU apcy, is there not a God in Heaven to whom
we may ·pray, and in whose name we are authorized
to expel evil11pirits ? Does not the Holy Bible teach
us how to resist the devil and make him ftee from us ?
Shall we thea instead of acting as cbril!tians, go, like
pagans, and otTer at the alter of superstition the coins
that tell us of the Krace of God, and thus sacrifict: our
religion, our conRcieace, and our honour to the gods
of paganism? And shall we thus carry the image and
&upencription of a christiaa king, and profanely de-
-~·
72
grade our God and our country by .thus offering to
"the host of Heaven '' in gratitude for tl.e help ob-
tained from ·the benevolent influence of Mercury,
Lucifer, and Beelzebub? If there we-re no salvation in
God, and if He bad no·power to revenge the inao.Jt
thus offered to his dign1ty and ·mercy, then might
British christians go to the arts and gods of eanaan,
Egypt, and Chaldea, for llelp in the time of trouble.
But surely the Lord our God, who is a jealous God,
anli a consuming fire, will not suffer these l!homina-
tions to pass unnoticed, or those who practice them
to escape his wrathful indignation.
Strange affiictions are not the .only cases in
which the magical doctors are consulted and employed,
astrological divination is resorted to hy some person11
when they have lost some portions of their property.
Not satisfied with the exertion of diligence and pru-
dence in the search they must employ divination to
obt11-in knowledge, as though commumon with devils
was better than resignation to God. If a thief
est-'llpes human detection and punishment, for a while,
there is a broad eye that watched and will expose him ;
there is a band tbat can, and in due time will, arrest
him : to the bar he must come, and receive the due
· reward of his evil deeds. But some men, called
christians, cannot wait for the slow progreu of divine
justice; and they will rather themselves buy, beg, or
steal knowledge from the devil, that they may have a
speedy revenge, than wait in patience for tbe coming
ofthe righteons Judge; and, however harsh the worda
may seen:a, they 'woulcl rather run after tbe thief to
hell, and expose their souls to all its torments, than
softer the teinpor.al los~ of a trifle, and refer the case
to God,· as He ·commands ·them, They also as well
as the thief, are treasming up wrath agaiast. the day
of the wrath, and the revelation of tlie righteous
judgment of God,« for.vengeance belongeth unto me,
and I will repay it, saith the Lord."
73
He that withdraws his soul from the govemmeat.
and counsel, and protection of the Most Hi«b, and
yields it to the imposiag delusions of magical and
diabolical divination, is in the direct way te lose it in
eternal pe,ditioD. And what is a man profited if be
gain the whole world and lose his own soul ? What
occult scieace, what magic art, what divining demo&,
can or will teach him how to recover the lo88 ef hia
eonl ? Surely it is more profitabl~ for a maa to snft"er
the loss of a little property, or to remain igaorant
when God doe4 pot .see it good far him to know, tbaa
by the use of forbidden arts to despise the goOdness
..d ronie the vengeance ef him that is able to de-
stroy both 11oul and body in hell.
The guilt of ·a sin is aggravated as .the tempta-
tions to commit it, and the advantages to be expected
from it. are well known to be diminished. There are
many persoD.B,. especially young persons, who ·sin
against God and their own souls by resorting to
Astrologers, that they may divine to them, by tlleir
pagan art of judicial attrology, something of their
future fortune. Theae people bave no griefs to plead,
no losses to deplore, no aftliction to be remo'fed; ~t
they have a wanton curiosity to know what God has
thought proper to conceal. !'Secret things belong
11nto the Lord ;" but these people will assoda&e with
conjuring false pl'ophets, pagan idols, and seducing ·
demons, to invade tbe divine right, and impudently
to pry into what divine providente thinks 11roper to
conceal. But such bad auoeiates win never lead to
sound. wisdom. To select such evil counsellors and
to renounce "the guide of our youth" is· truly to
qerl Otlr•l"•' 111iiA ..,, •.,,. decetJ~ifiKI. lt is the
madDesa of folly to expect to iaved the order of the
diviDe government ; or to expect to esea~ the justice,
if we oppose the authority of God. The very principle
which leads. a person to consult the planetary inftu·
o.
74
tncc a-. the disposing •power of his ;moral conduct,
of his life aod death, is a rejection of God Almighty
as the .governor of the world; aod to renounce our
ewn reason .and judgment, and sacrifice··i>ur mental
powers to the abominable delusions and ~iabolical
impositions ·of div.ination, is the greatest indignity we
can offer to our own .understauding. . Let. a young
man listen to the counsel of experience., and regard
the advice of paternal friendship ; let him trust the
wisdom and goodness of God, and be guided ·by his
l\·ord, lte.will then do weU and be happy.
The future part of ous- ·life, its happiness or
misery, its respectability.or. disgrace-; its coatinu~
ance, the manner in which it may be spent, and e\·en
~e way in which it may close, are in a very consider-
able degree contingent, and under our own controul.
~ .are now. in a state ·of moral discipline, and are on
tnal. for eternity; our own conduct, as it may be
prudept or foolish, will infallibly affect our happiness
or miswy. 'f.be God of heBYen will give wisdom to
them that ask him, and his word is an infallible guide
to happiness, honour, and eternal life.
rhus saith the Lenl, ~• He that will love life and
see good ·tie.ys, let him. refrain his tongue fr0111 evil,
and his lips that they speak no .guile: let hi10 eschew
· evil and .do good ; .let him seek peace and ensue it.
For the eye!! of ,the Lord are over the righteous and
liis ear& .aJJC open unto their prayers ; but the (ace
of the Lori! i11 ~~gainst them that do evil." . 1 .Pet. iiL
10,-12. Ps. x.xxiv. ll,-17. God baa given all the
good advice that iii necessary to guide us comfortably
inrough a righteous life and a peaceful death to a
glorious immortality; but if a human being despises
llll this, aod prefers .delusion to instruction, and the
ac;hice of satan to the commanci of God, be can have
it. And tbe offended God of. hea\·en_may in justice
75
allow the father ·of lies to become a true p..Ophet, and'
to predict the wicked enquirer's doom. When the;
righteous counsel, the guardian care, and divine
authority of God our Saviour, are clistrllsted and de-
spised, and when forbidden arts, instead of the word·'
of the Lord, are consulted, it is just that the rejectedi
Creator should leave the sinuer to- perish in his 0\'n
way. Remember king Saul; be enquired, was con-·
demned, and executt:d. 1 Chron..x. 13, 14:
THE SINFULNESS OF CHARMS.
There ii another species of pagan superstition very·
common in England, which is nearly related to witch-
craft and magical doctoring, and whlch comes under
the same condemnation ; I mean the use of CaABIIS.
The practice of charming is a genuine relict of the pa-
gan diabolic arts. If it be a work of true·beaevolence
to turn foreign pagans from idols, charm&, aad.d.vils,
to sene the living and true God ; surely it is not ·
unbecoming christian charity to be withou~ partiality
and endeavour to reAcue Britou from the same de- ·
grading aupsstitions. As the ·serpent bepiled Eve:
by his subtil!t., so the miDds. of: many P.rofesaing·
godliness, in different christian.cliurches, are corrupt-
ed, with the practice of. SGpen~tious charming, from
that simplicitf of beut and purity of conduct which
ia due to Chnat from. all that bear· aild profess his
name. Many ofthese do not know (and how can they
except some one teach them?) that such practices are
.ltiful; that they are· "aa abomiaation to the Lord,"
or they would no more be guilty of charming diseases•
than of worshipping devils;
Charms are frequently used; to relieve a nriety.
Qf disorders, such as burns, scalds, warts, aguPs, fits,
tootb-ach, many afflictions of children, and somf'!
diseases. among cattle. They are also used by seme
(I 2.
76
to mo'fe the passiODs of others, and therefore called
philtres or love charms.
The force of imagination, or which is tbe same
thing, the power of the mind over the body, to
induce or relieve diseases, is well knowD to many
besides the curious in experimental philosophy.-
CoiDJllon sense very often applies to it, and the
scriptures often remind us of it. " A merry heart
doeth good like a medicine ; but a brokP.n spirit drieth
the bones." Prov. xvii. 22. Thoughts work upon
the passions, and the passions materially aft'ect the
animal functions. That there is established a reci-
procal influence between the mental and corporeal
faculties is an indubitable fact ; but how mlDd is
united to matter and exerts its influence over it, will
probably remain a secret to us all, till the mysterious.
compound of human nature has been ·analysed by
death, andre-compounded by ~e resurrection. These.
great experiments may teach us with certainty tbe
nature of a iubject on which it may be utterly in
v.in to theorize. . But a philosophical discuasion of
tlae influenee of the imagination* over the ~. or
of miD.d .over matter, is DOt preperly our prese"Dt
busiBeas. Our design is rather to show the lin of
that superstitious penoersion of the judgment and
passions. of meD, in that system of charming, whic~
the Author of nature has strictly prohibited and
frequently puniahed.
'f Whatsoe-rer aetio:as, ~sthres, signs, rites, aad
ceremonies, .are used by men or women to work
wonders, having no power to eB'ect the same, eidler
by creation and nature. or by special appointment
from God, they mast· all be referred to this head,
and reckoned for charms." (W. Perkins's Works,
vol. 3. p. 634.)
• See &lroa'J Syl.a iylvarum, Article lm8Jitlatloa.
77
The methods u•ed in charming are frequently.
eu~h as are by no means calculated to produce the
desired effect. For there is often BO material con..
nection whatever of the matter of the charm with
the subject to be aft'ected by it; and sometimes no
natural communication of idea whatever from the
charmer to the subject of hill art. And when, as in
some cases, the charm is applied to the body, it is
no more naturally calculated to produce the effect
'han the sailor's whistle is to raise the wind.
As to the efficac!l of charms, whether it be uiuch
or little, or none at all, the foii!J and wickednea8 of
using them are evident from othet considerations.-
That charms are often used without effect is verY,
certain. They are sometimes employed to accomplish
what a good agency will not, and. a bad agency can-
not effect. That nature, in some cases, would have
brought the desired relief, had there been no charm
used, is sufficiently evident; and that imagination in
other cases is sufficient to account for the effects
produced will be readily admhted. ~ut that charming
never prodyces any effect more than can be accounted
for on natural princii1les, with aU our improve~ent
in philosophy and met11physics, is more than I sh~uld
be willing tu at~sert, because . jt is more than I or.any,
other wan could po11sibly prove : and ho,wever posi..
~iyely :;ucJ• a doctrine W!'-Y be asserted, it 111ight be &&·
po~itively contradkt~d with numerous ca~;e:; of fact-t
aod with the testimony of thouo;ands who practice
tbe.U· use. However, it ill not their .e.lficac!l but t~eic
iniquit!J that I w~~ ~ prove. It may become. the
philosopher to laugh at the extreme fullg of charm-
lOg; and the di,·ine is equally as consistent with his
eharach:r when be rt'proves t~e 1in. .Whatever may
be our opiuio~!l of the edir.ac}· of charmin~, certain it i~
that there would be no difficulty in finding thousands,
ef people, ~ _t_~i~ enlightened natlou, wh~ woul!L
o. 3.
fosith·ely declare that their warts were charmed
away, and that other surprising effects were produced
by the use of charms. And it would be equally easy
on the other hand to prove, that cbarm!l have mocked
the hopes of thole who were so foolish as to trust
ia them.
It is well known, at least it is positively asserted
ud confidently belien!d, that there is in some case&;
a power in charms, or rather, in conAection with their
use, wbi~ is more than _
natural ; that there is an
occult or mysterious agency which gifell tbem effect.
There is sometimes (no matter bow rarel}') an eKed
produced by charming, which -the dtatt'D·i&aelf, •epa-
i'ately considered, bas no power wbatl!ver to aceolb-
plisb. No more agency in itself to litOduce the eft"~,
than any ceremonie1 of • t'eligillua nttlilr~ are calcu·
lated to produce atly good elfect without the grace
ot God accotnpanying them. The efficacy therefore
-tthith is not material or natural most be •piriltlal.-
lfe must be allowed to compare spiritual thiflga witb
ipirit.ual, because there ls an evil spirit which Cflflll•
tttftit• t.be Holy G"ost as fll1tch as possible to 4eceivlt
men. The spiritual agency which prodat,-es any eff'eet
fu charming, or is t;le~nded u~on t~ produce that
elect, must be either drv1ue or duiliohcal. It caJrDOt
tie divine, because God disowns the iuftuence and
forbids the practice. The reasonable inflaeace isJ
therefore, it rs diabolil:tll. The correctness of tltit
eonclnsion may bt!· proved from the testimony ~
God himself, who -elasse~ charmer& with others whet
practice diabolil:! atts, anti ia that eonoection fotbifJt
tbem all. Dent. '.11\'iil.
The father of lies is tbe fatber of ebarm$, and t•
aet under his influence in citarming or ta lying, is au
eril which 8teatly degrades and injures homan natltl'e.
A. fet,r obstrvatiolts on th~ eatard Of -.me pop11IaJ.
79
charms, will prove that charming is justly ranked with
those practices properly called diabolical, and which
bring down the wrath of God oo those who do sacb
things.
Some cltarms are in their nature so evidently and
so utterly contemptible, that it is astonishing bow: any
human beings could be persuaded to place any confi~
deuce in them, or to use them, bot on the supposition
that the evil spirit bath "blinded their minds." The
very contemptible•e81 of their nature is an evidence
of their diabolical origin and design. Man watt
made in the image of God, and his envious, proud,
euning enemy, thu:5 befools him, and makes him that
•hoold be the happy 'heir of glory, the miserable
"heir of everlasting shame and contempt.." To
de11pise our vulgar brethren on this account, and
leave them to perish in these foolish delusions, with-
out making one effort to bring them to wisdom
ud rlghaeousness, is to join issue with the greali
&d\•ersary, and to begin the work of infernals, instead
of imitating Jesus Christ, who had " compassion oii
tN ignorant and them that are out of the way." h
turely mnst be better to convince them of tile sin,
aed to rejoice in their repentance, than to laugh at
tlaeir error, aud leave them to perish in the anare. ·
The contemptible runs through 111ost if not aU
l&t&Die iDstft11tions j1 it is as legibly inseribcd OD everJ
ipecle:~ of idolatry, of the savage or refined nation•-
at on c:bann11, wbicb are ia fact bnt a part of idolatry.
Th6 anc:itut prophets and primith•e christians ea..
pesed the contemptible nature of the heathen godi;
and their modes of worship, with their saperaddal
tkhines11, in sucb plain terms aa only the necessity
If the case could authorize. Evil spirits are juaf
;aoh doetors • they lll'e god~, and the a11trolosieil
practice .of pby•~ beatf ttae 4)0ut.omptible atamp el
/
.
,
80
•nclean spirits: in .some parts it is too disgusting
to be explained. Charms are some of the first partlf
of practical .magic, aad the nse of them prepares the
mind to proceed farther into the mystery of ioiquit'
and the depths of satan. To employ the old mur-
derer as our surgeon is the very quintessence of folly ;
under hi:~ care we have little to hope and much ~~
fear. He hates, ud will destroy n11.if he can.
There is a doctrine in the science of charms
which sh.ows bow their author invades the divine
right, imposes. on credulity, and degrades the humm
mind, as though it were the business and spor* of
that evil genius to ape the true God. and to befool
lais favourite creature man; and that is, the requisition
of faith in the use of charms, in order to secure their
etieacy. Satan ha& mimicked and counterfeited the
true God, as far as he possiMy could, in. almost every
thing he has said and done. In this ease he eYidently.
imi~tes the croctrines of our Lord Jesus Christ, who
bas so fre~uently said, " Be it unto thee ~ording tO:
thy faith.' On immutable truth and almighty grace.
a person may well ground his confidence, and justice
and mercy may wi11ely unite to reward the obediett"
of faith in proportion to its efforts. But in tbe
practice of charming, .on what is the faith of the
human being to be placed ? On a piece of rotton
stick ?-putrifying flesh ?-the muttering of. a ebarm-
er ?-t.he tricks of cunning men !...,-or the benevoleuco
of the devil ! and the veracity of the father of lies",!;
How maliciously does satan sport with human ..cre-
ulity, when he drawl! toe confidence of man from
divine truth, to his own delusions, and·.the souls of
men from .the rock of ages into the whirlpool of
magical superstitions !. The poor deluded human·
beiog1 at. sata11's instigatiuos, forsakes, the God of,
his salvation, trust!! in a charm, grllsps tbe rc:ed, and
perishes ;-thus he becomes the laugh of _
hell. ,
81
Men that will not believe aod qbey the Holy God
oi power and truth aud ~ace, may thus mis.plaee Ilia,
confidence on ncb a vam thing as a charm, and thus.
hope for some good from an occult ageBcy, which,
while it, perhaps, cures a wart on the 6ager, p.
oisons
the immortal soul. Man swallows the ~ bait,.
and the hidden, barbed book takes hole! of h13 heart.
We pity poor Africans who are so befOoled w\tll
their gregrees ; sorry that their confidence siMold b.
wo abused by their obeah men, and the father of lieK.
while professing christianity in Great Britain we:
think ourselves wiser than our sable brethren, and
practice similar superstitions; in 'be face of the
gospel sun ! Where is the ditfereace between the
Afncan gregree and the .European charm ? ·. The-
superstitious practice is the same ; but in. Britaiu.
the sin is greater and the guilt more aggravated•
because we liave the oraelea of God, which declare
these thiop to ~ • domin.UO. t• U. Lord.
Some chaim have dW•""'.J ia their very prin-
ciple, which makes manifest \o whom they bel•ng.-
To giTe an inataace. · It is· recommended by popular-
tradition "to u~•l a little meat from a butcher'a
stall, with that stolen rat'llt toudl the. wart, thea.
bury it, and as the meat decays so shall the wart.''-
~ have no expectation· that thia mifJical recipe will
be new to any reader; it i, so generally known aad
recommended J b\lt I hope it will appear in a new.
light to some. Now is it not easy to diacGver ia
this popular charm tb~ Tery principle that bas brought
hundreds to' aa Wltimely and disgraceful end '1-
Whetber this instruction ia or acientiic, -vulgar. ~
of diabolic origin, ·one thing is certain, it recommend•
tlteft. Whatever teac~ea the adT..tage of diihonesty
and eacourages tbe practice oi robbery, must com&
from some ene~y. af God and man. It may be o~
82
jeeted, "but this is such a liitle thlng."-True it is-
a little thing, and so is a pistol bullet : and so is a.-
mortal dose of poison. How small a leak will sink
a ahip ?-bow small a spark will explode a magazine,
or consume a town ? And bow small a sin will
destroy a soul ? " He that contemnetb small things
shall fall by little and little." Eccles. xix. l. The.
little acorn may become the sturdy oak, and the 1eed8
of vice and superstition, if planted in humi&Q Batnre,,
will grow aud bear the fruits of death. · ·
" Oft we aee a young bednner, practice little pilferias 1n1JS,
·nu grown up a hardeaea aianer, and the gallow8 eadi his days.••
lfgood effects are to bci anticipated from tlaieving
ill miniature, how much more when practiced oa a
larger scale? If there be a secret power that thus
encourages dishonesty with his healing innuences,
what must that power be ? Is it goocl or evil ? Is it·
nature ? Is it <fod or is it the devil? · Common sense
may here ducern the print of' a eloYen fbot, whel1t'
the motto of the impressioQ is d~AoUII!I· . Whether
the ~hue be in magnitude.or in miniature, the prinfi-
pft JS the same. Thus sa1th the Lord JeffUS : " He
that is faithful in that which is l~t, is faithful also
in much ; and he that is unjust in the least, is uuj11st
also in much." Luke xvi. 10. ·
On this divine principle is founded that usefut:
maxim, which like a law of righteousness has guarded·
many a child in temptation, and directed his course
in honesty: ,,.II i1 ~ 1in to 1teal a pin."-" Serve the
devil for a penny," says T. Taylor on Titus, ii. 1().
" thou wilt be more serviceable for a ~ound, and
avgment thy labo11rs, as he doth his wag~. ' · ·
In another popular charm the Tirt11e of thankful.
ness is most cunningly and wickedly assaulted, and
.·
the vice of ingratitude expressly taught. The friends
·of a persoll afBicted with fits are instructed to beg
of ~;o many persons, geaerally virgi'M, so many penoe
as will purchase a silver ring for the pa~ient to wear,
to charm away or keep off the fits. But the beggar
of the pence must be careful not to say thank you to
the givers, or express any sign of gratitude for the
favour. Here again how evideatly does the system
of popular charms betray its cloven foot ! Does not
the evil genius .of magic and superstition mean to
aignify by this, that snch contributions t.o magical
-practices and pagan super11titions are due to his infer-
nal majesty ? Or doeb be mean by this st;atagem to
pollate the mind11 of those who hne virtuouly pre·
sened th~ir bodies in chastity? Or does he design,
in opposition to the wisdom a( God and the good
sense of mankind, to teach the authority of super-
atition, with the importance and excellency of ingrati-
tude ? Or, are not all these evils cherished together ?
These corrupt .principles te11d very cunningly to tht:.
destruction of all goodness, and therefore of all
happiness. ·
Any man of candour, that has patieuce enough
and will fairly and seriously examine the nature of
these popular charms, which are still so very common
in our citie~, towas, and villages, will readily per--
ceive, that their origin is diabolical, their nature is
sinful, and their tendency very injurious to the morals
of mankind. And these are the t'hings which many
have thought were not to be 11eriousl!l reproved, only
to be !aught at. "Fools make mock of sin." It rna-.;
be diversion to imps and infidels to see immort:a1
beings, practicing such fatal errors while good men
groan and angels weep to 11ee pagans and "christian~~· ·
so entangled in diabolieal delusions.
Some charms make a profane and direct attack on
t.be most sapred i!lstitution of the christian.religion.
84
It i~ no oaeommon thing iu the art of charmU.,
to direct the friends of a patient alfticted with fits
to procure if possible, a piece of silver which was
J(iven at the 14Crlllfleftl of the Lord's aapper; which
identical piece of money is to be made into a ring, to
be worD oo the finger, or to have a bole made in it,
that it may be worn oo the bosom of the patient.
Thus the sacred offering which baa been eontribated
io christian benevolence to tbe poor, and in grateful
remembruce of the sacrificial death of Chriat, and by
the ofieiating priest most solemnly presented to G.d
at his altar, is by superstition to be desecrated to the
purpose of a pagan clttu-m·!. A piece of diabolical
masic this, which mere pagans cannot commit, ~
vated with the bP...avy guilt of profaning the moat
~;acred things of the true God and our Saviour, Jesus
Christ. A sin which can be paralleled only by the
c<trrnption11 ofjudaism by pagan abominations. "For
the sons of Athaliah, that wicked woman, had broken
ap tho bopse of God ; and also, all .the dedicated
thing~ of the house of the J..oao, did they belltow
upom Baalim." 2 Chron. uiv. 7. What can be more
insulting to the God of heaven, or more gratifying to
e.il spirits, than to behold these " dedicated tbings "
thus beathenit.hly pr~faned, and desecrated to acrre
the purpose of a magtcal charm ?
If we wish to justify "the wicked ooe ,..- from
having uy thing to do with these abominations, and
to palliate the guilt of snch paganism in England, we
may contend that these are only vulgar errors of
imagination ; the subjects of ridicule rather tharJ
serious rebuke. But Jet us be coll!listent with our-
selves as philosophers ought to be. Then let us eall
robbery the error .of the fmgers ; lies and libels, the
crrou of the tongue; drunkenness and gluttony, the
errors of the palate; uvy, hatred, and malice, the
errors of the heart. Errors iadeed they aH are, by
wbattver members gr faculties committed; but let
us not._deceive ounelves, God is not mocked, they
are eriminal and sinful tqo, and bring down the
wrath of God upon the guilty. God is a spirit, and.
lus Jaw is spiritual. It claims dominion over the
powers of our heart and mind, as well u the mem,.
bers of our body. Therefore it is as much our duty
t~ keep·onr ·" imagiaations" aDd pas&ious, our mieds
and hearts, from such evil saperstition, as it is to
" keep our hands from piekii:ag and- stealilag, and onr
tongues from evil speaking, lying and alaodering."
We can feel for our own property and hooonr, aad
for our ~eighbonr:s, let as aUo feel for the pro,perty
and honour of 6od. The ~rd requires truth in the
iuward pa,ts, as well as veracity of coayenatioa, and
honesty in dealiug.
Where God our Saviour is properly known, and
t.he word of the Lord is justly reprdtd, c~mi are
cordially despi&;efi and CGnseientiou.slr •voided, M t)l~
c.eotrivuces of wicW men and e\'i lpirits. When
the recaptured Africans were instructed in christianity
at Sierra Leone, they publicly burut their cllarDLI, as
tbe Ephesian magicians did their magical books, and
11aid as they saw ·them blaziDg in tbe tire, "what
fools we be to trust such thinga as these." It is hiah
time that the lire of clariatianity had coasumed all tlie
charms of Britain. .
When satan ~ blinded the ioinu of mea,. charms
are the little mock avioora on which the deluded are
taught to depead for bealtb aai aaiety. AI tbeJ ~e in
opposition to the authority of God; ud conwary to .
m1ture, and used u means of obtaining supernatwal .
inR~tence to heal the diaeaaes and protect the persona
of tbose who 'Die t:bea ; eo charas are properly a
!ipecies of idola*ry, aad idolatry as groaa as that of
hcatheoa, depeadang on aay other piece of silver,
B.
brass or ll'ood, or on the influence of ,;uper'natnral
agency exerted in connection with their use. A poor
lJenighted African will wear !&is charms upon his legs,
and a poor deluded Britain will wear one on the finger.
or in the bosom : and both will mutter over words to
effect some supernatural worb.
·charms are sometimes written, if the charmer
knows bow, ia a learned or in unintelligible language,
to give them the air of mystery. Soinetime~ with the
initials of the names of diff'erent angels or saints, in
a·eurionsly compounded form, as the magic art directS.
However diff'erent ·the words may be in diff'erent
charms, or whether there are any wordli used or none,
the principle is generally the eame, which is a pro-
fane application to some spiritual agency. This has
been very openly expressed in a charm which, as it
illustrates the real nature of them all, may be men-
tioned to excite caution. The patient was directed
to wear the paper charm in her bosom, and strictly
charged not to exarhlne it. But not. having sufficient
self-denial to restrain her curiosity, she unfolded the
charm and read : "Torment her not till she's in hell."
These popular superstitious charms are on the
prihciple, and form ll part . of roitckcraft, and com-
pose the alphabet of the black art, and whatever
supernatural power accompanies their use must be
diabolical. Whether we re.ally gain SJICh supernatural
iriftuenre or not,·does not palliate the guilt of seeking
it. · We might seek what satan could not give; but
though this may ·prove his weakness, it also prove~
our wickedness. It is not the bread which is eaten,
or the ll·ine which is ckank in the holy sacrament,
which gives the grace accompanying their use ; it is
neither the paper nor the ink :which makes believers
of the scriptures wise unto salvation, but the 11pirit11al
injluence accompanying these truths by divine CO\'e..
•ant and. mcn·y. Iu BaptiSJD it is not the water
sprinkled, or the words pro.nounced, which bcncftts
the soul, but the inwtll'd and 1piritua/ I{,Tace whidt
the Holy Ghost gives wheu properly sought. So i11
these diabolical ceremouies, which have been made to
counterfeit~ diviue institutions and impose upon me1i,
the efficacy is not in the matter employed, nor merely
in the i01agination of such as use it, but in the agencv
accompanying their employment. The evil spirit may
direct the deluded im~nation in witchcraft, .charms,
&c. as well as the w1cked heart that prompts the
tongue in deceit and blasphemy, and the hands in
robbery and mv.rder. When i11jur9 is done to our
per:>ons or property, we can more r.eadily admit. the
devil has·a band in it, but when he puts on his sur-
plice and doe!i us a little good,.though· it bel only-just
enough to bait his hook, we feel reluctant to adroit
the operation of. evil agency. Hence all the effect!l
of charms have, by saDie.. been at.trihuted to mere
il!lagination, ' . .
Witchcraft, by some, may be used in a very re-
stricted sense to signify doing palpable mischief by
magical means ; but in the scriptures and by divine!l
it is used to signify the use of magical means in
gen~:ral. Mr. Perkins defines it thus : " Witchcraft
is a wicked art sening for the working of wonders
by the assistance of the devil, so far forth as God in
justiee shall permit." The same aut.hor says, " A
charm is a spell or verse consisting of strange words,
used as a sign or. watch-word to the devil to cause
him to work wonders." Several forms of ancient
charms, and an account of the supposed power of
" mighty magic verse" may be seen in Virgil's eighth
Pastoral. The Roman Poets have preserved th!'
ancient "Egyptian poisOD in their golden cups" of
classical literature. Popery* has sanctiened and imi-
... See Dr. H. More's !\1ystery of Iniquity, B. l.
11 2.
DJiizedb,Google
88
tated much, and alrondantly increased the eyil by
adopting and multiplying t;uperstitious practices; so
that it is not surprizing to find that thousands of onr
own country people are still learning and practicing
1ritcllcraft in a small way, and are ignorant of tbe
wiclledne.• of their snperstitionq. •• This must be
remembered," says W. Perkins, "that by witches we
11nderstand not those only which kiH and torment;
but all diviner1, ckarmer1, jugglers, all wizards,
ro;umonly called wise men and wise women."
It will be readily admitted, that many who apply
to the astrological practice of ptn·sic, who enqaire of
1ci8e men, and who use charms, &c. do not ·know, ·or
do not believe, that there is any thing so-diabolical,
or any thing so wicked in these practices, as bas been.
here represented. Did they know this to be true,
they would not be guilty of the sins. Bot ignorance
and unbelief, though they may in some degree palliate
the guilt, will by no means justify the sin. In ign"or-
am·e and unbelief the prinees of this world crucified
the Lord of glory, Saul of Tarsul\, like a savag6
wolf. worried the floek of. God, and thousands hasten
to ett!rnal death.
THE WICKEDNERS AND DANG·ER OF
SUPERSTITIOUS PRACTICER·
For the instruction and conviction of su(:b as
may be willing to receive it, we will appeal to some
authorities on the subject of the sinful and diabolical
nature of these superstitions practices, and their
dauge'rous teadency. ·
Bishop Hopkins, in his much esteemed Expo-
sition on the Ten Commandments, speaks thus on
the ~ecoudJ which forbids idolatry.
o,, t>Zed by Google
89
"The mo~>t e.x~rable idolatry that i~, i~ that of
entering into : 1.1:~-e . and corresponde~tce with th!l
dc\·il; consult ;aud invoke ·him, and by any wicked
arts to implore or Jl!ake use of his help and ~sistance .
And of this ,are tho.se guilty in the highest degree
who enter into any ~llipress compact with the devjl ;
wbich is al~ya ratified with some homage or worship
given to him 1 And in a !leoondary and more low
degree, those who apply themselves to seck Jtelp from
such forlorn wretch&&, as .use traditionary ·ciarms
and im:alltatioM, or any vain observances, to free
them from pains and diseases,. or other troubles that
_mol~st ~Ql. For all those things which have not a
nat•ral efficiency to produce that effect fo~ ;whieh
they are used, may very reasonably be :mspected t!>
llave been :agree4 on · fo~merly ·b¥tween. the:. devil
apd some of ~js. es~ial-, tiervaots, · an4 that J alJ·t~e
virtue t~y ret_
ain .is ouly·from that compact,; whl,~h
as it was explicit in those. that made it, 80 ~t; is,fpl•
,plicit in th~se. that usc the"" ; for. ~bey still ~t io the
Ro~er: of tjla~ fi~st ~tipulatiop ~d agr~ei~Je~,:··~. )37,
. : ·• · '· ·· : ·.-- .; r ;< ·. · J . ·• ~ .,
. , A.~P#f.~~ ')~~y :u~e. some parts of t4e art of
_
witchcraft. wit,bo~t · becomi~ a witch, in the proper
se~se J),f JJie.. wot;.c:l ;. becaut>e ~~ ~haracter implies
o.ne ·~~1!-t .~y., op~ ~, Stl~ret .~ye k1fowing(y and
.wit/ing/y e~useut, Waqs~ _the lUd of an evil spirit,_:.
And ~heref!>re, as Mr.•.M':. Perkins observes, ''There
are to be excluded -~~a, ~~g witches all such superr
stitious persons, men or wowen, as use charms aud
jqehantmeut for the ,~f,T~~.ing of .any thing "!'on a
.auper1ti1iocu a11d errpnttoU¥,persua:Jiop, that the c_harms
have virtue to do sut:b tbiuils, not Anowi•g tLa~ i~ i~
the action of the devil ,by_these means; but tlnuktng
tlt,at God hath put vir~ue into them as .he. hath .into
herbs for p_hy~ict Of,~ncb persons ~e haYe, no d~ubt,
abundance in thill our laud, who though they deal
wickedly, and 'a#n _ grieuo~Uiy in vaing ckarma, yet ¥
B 3.
90
because they intend not to join league with the de\·il,
either secretly or formitlly, they are .mt to he counted
wiicl!es. Ne,·ettlreless tliey ate ttf 'be advertised ill
the mean time, that their state is Biriful. For their
preseilt ung<idly praetiees htl.ve prepared them already
to this cursed trade. Wherefore l ·adYise all iporant
persons to take heed and lmcore bf·
lllill dtJ1tgeroti8
evil, tA~ JIBe of cbrm8. For if they~ ooee convinced
in their eonseien~,·and know tflat ·GOd bath gi.Yen
no power to suc;h means,·and y'et ibatl ll!e them,
as!rundly they do in eft'ect, cM!seftt to the devil·to.lte
helped by him, and tbere1ipob arejOined·in cthlfederacy
with him in the confide&ee of·their OWil hf&rta, Ud
so are ~come witchlilll.
. . .
rr Now let it 'be obserYed Of what llorrible· im,
pi~tt 'they stand guilty before God; who join Jft
'co!lledelilcy with 11atan. · Hereby·they reuow~ ·tee
f.i(;rd that made tbem, they malre·no more aec!~o&f
llislavour and protection, t'!tey d'o'qoite cut \lletiult!trea
oft frOm dle COTenant made wida him in biEptitta; fr.Oa
tbe commvilion of the saint., from. $be C1be '!OI'f.bip
aM service of God. And oa ·•·Mttary they:~Yo
themselves uu\o aata", u their' Gc;d wlloila tfM:t COD::.
tmualty 'fear and aerre. . The ~hey. ~tre-· become tie
most ~testable ·en~iet 'tG Geli aiNF •u .people.~
TOr this eanse Silmnel :told 8ul tW· -HfiliiM ·.wa
'ni.tlte ,;,. of fllitcAcrajt; ·.'Wia, a llibl't.·~waid
detestable sin io the eight,.r &ct.'' · · , ·· ., :· ·
. . . . . . .; ' .
The most ancient of aH wrima was "'Mo~·tlte
man of God," whose wedra display 'an .i~trinsic
eVi~nce of their divine iaspiratiob and· ftit~on, ami
1¥ill always 'be re~peeted f!)r their wisdom •na tnth;
for tbeir benevolence lftld pfety ; for their lar~guage,
laws, and ·philo~11pby; as well· 811 for their integrity,
·history, and antiqnlty, iD proporti011 as they are read
-and 11Ddci'sfuoCi,arid 1\il tlJcirTead'eriJ UlcteUe in 11011Dd
o;g";,edb,Google
-91
knowledge and discretion. From Moses we lear~,
that tl1e firt;t instance of .hulll&D intercourse with an
evil spirit wa, ·io the garden of Eden. The first
w&mau was the first off~Jlder, and all her posterity
Jeel the !ta.d el'ecb of her crime. This diabolical
commerce began with her as with most, if not all, of
her sons and daughters, in temptation. Tliis God
'permits, and· men ed women should be prepared to
'detect, reshtt, and overcome. Eve hearkened to the
tempter who urged her to sin, but should have resist~
·ed him immediately with holy Jirmneu. Tire wicked
, one, that . great father and high .priest. of infidel
phllotoplry; professed to teach knowledge. "Your
eyte shall be opened·;" as though God had either
dtteived her, or mmle her blind. "Yt> 8hall be as,
~; knowing ·good and evil ;" i. ·e. be independent
·.t divine instruction and autlwrity ; all thia de-
llrei..e gain by· infidelity and di~obedience ! ·&w
lhclt this resetnbl-es the infidel philosophy of our own
· thate~d In who~e laDgDage we m;ght suspect we hear
.~e hittio«·of the old 1erpent, tho most' subtil beast
of ·tile field which the Lord God had made, possessed
ef the most ettnning evil demon that ever maskell
himself in man f)r beast to attack the innocence and
lllappineu .CJI hnll!~ll aatUTe, . The .~erpent begnile4
BT~he ·rlelded to hi& temptations, ll>"t her inno·
~e. lwr glory, and corrupted her husbanrl. TbU$
ehe· entailed · on her posterity '' thon!lllnd mortal
disease~. au t>umity to Go-d, a proper"ity to sin; a
subjection to tl:e tyrannical captivity of ~atan, and
brcrag!tt tbe bitter eune of death u1.ou all the world.
Therefore, " the '!Vholc creation !(roant~ and travaileih
in pain tqet~Pr; even until u.;w." What are the
motlt dlai!Otical ·sorceries to this,? Aere indeP-d·1\re
tk seedt< nud principh!s ·of the .diabolic arts and
sciences, u \ H .ll a:t infick!l philosophy ; and will not
an in~itation of the crime& of El'e, rejecting the same
Uod and yielding to the same de"il, &till affect tbtl
DJiizedb,Google
happiness, and increa~1 the miseries of hu postel'ity ?·
All her children fe~l the mortal venom of the old sel·-
peut's stiug; yet s~me of .the!ll betwe~u tht>ir infant
cries aud dyiug groans, will laugh and say, "It was
all an allegory, or drama.'' 'l'huH they may divert
themselves till the scene changes and the principle
of evil personified, or else the evil persoa assumes
the character of the king of terrors, br~odishing the
poisoned dagger with which our sins have armed. his
malice, silences their tongues, and convinces them
against their will,, the tragic ta/11 i& too lrae.
Knowledge is the property and food of t~e mind J
devils pt<t poison in all they give; it. therefore bri~
death. Eve fea!tted and died: let her children ~
warni.ng. God forbids our learnjng the wisdom froiJ.
beneath. He would not have us die .the ever~tia~
deatli. The knowledge he gives secures eternal ilif~
through Jesus Christ our Lord. Every desire aft".
property for the body or mind. is not to be indnlged,t.
but some dcii.!res 11re rather to be mortif1ed. As &viJ,
coveteousness may lead .to diBhor.est!l ; so evi~ «;Uri~
osity may lead to divinatio•; ,both are idolatry, ~d
exclude from the kingdom of God. "
~ As· a fat.hfr disuaisses from his se~v~e 'and hia
bouse the wicked servant that. corrupts the moraJ
principles qf his childr.1m, and teaches them what h•
disgraceful and injurious to learn; so ." the father of
the spirits of all flesh" sets his face against tbe man
or the woman who poisons the minds of his..family
with witchcraft, charms, uivination, the wicked aJ1s
and sciences of ungodly superstition. Au earthly
sovereign has a political right to h:iui~h from his
dominions, or even . to depri\'c of life, the criminal
traitors that.conspire against his authority, aud seek
to introduce an enemy to go\•ern iu his place to: the
injury of tbe common-wealth. If, therefore, we ad-
_
<). _
..,.,
'
J
mit the soyereignty of the " 1\ing of ki;1gs, and Lord
of Lords;' we must allow the divine right to punish
with death those who by the evil arts of superstition
and "•itchcraft idolize an evil spirit, ·alid teach the
fear and service of the devil instead of the service of
God; C\'en though they do not, as monsters and
murderers, injure or kiU the bodies of their fellow
treatures. It is by excluding from our reasonin!I~
the rigbef'ul dominion of God Almighty over l.i~
creatures that we infer any impropriety in the stah;te
be enacted, Tkou akalt not suffer a witch to lice.-
The philosophy which does not admit God and his
rig.'1ta;~ is such a wisd?m as devils ha~·e tan~l!t ; .and
wbfle It ·looks 01) Witchcraft, charmmg, dJvmatlOII,
~trology, &c. n a mere error of imagination, too
trifling to be reprin;ed, or " a beneficial fallacy," to
bP. tollerated, and reproaches all that admit the fnrt
a~d rebuke the iniquity of their practice, it beconws
a kind of witchcraft in a different form, and under a
d4fl'erent name, to accomplish the same end, the dis-
honour of God, and the eternal perdition of the soul~
of men. If there were no God, and human beiligs
had no immort.al souls, then the occult :sciences and
superstitious practices might include but little guilt,
when they did not injure the bodies or property of
men; but as men have immortal Fpirits, lVhich may
perish everlastingly through confidence in lies, or
enjoy t'ternallife through the true and faithful know-
ledge of the true God, and of Jesus ' Christ whom Ire
bas~ sent ; the11e abominable superstitious sciences
and practices justly deserve all the severity with
which they and their professors have been treated.
in obedience to divine authority.
To that divine authority, wl1ich, however itmay
have been neglected, contradicted,' ridiculed, or b11ls-
phemed, will finally convince all gainsayer11 and judge
the uui\'erse, let us make our appeal. · · •,
94
Thus saith the Lord : " Regard n.ot t.bem that
have familiar spirits, neither seek after wizardl!, to
be defiled by them: 1 am the LoaD your God." Lev.
xix. 31. "The Wiaards, (yideon1m) i. e. the wi&e
or AnoiiJing onea, from yada, to knoiiJ or under~taNd;
called eoisard, in Scotland, IIJUe or cunni11g ma, in
England; and hence also the IIJUe IIJOman, the IIJhite
witc!J. Not only all real dealers in familiar spirits, or
necromantic or magical superstitions, are here forbid-
den ; but also all pretenders to the knowledge of ·
futurity. fortune-tellers, &c. &c. To attempt to know
what God as no.t thought proper to reveal, is a sin
against .his wisdom, providence, and goodness. In
mercy, great mercy, God hu hidden the knowledge
of futurity from man, and given him Aofe, in tile ez-
pectation of future good in its place.' Rev. Dr. A.
Clarke on the place. " Wizards, or cunning per-
sons," says Ainsworth, "so named of their knowledge
which they pretended to have. These are joined to
the familiar 1pirit1 aforesaid, as like unto them in sin ;
and both of them were to be killed by the magistrate.
Lev. xx. 27." See also Bishop Patrick on the place.
The divine disapprobation and prohibition of all
these superstitious, wicked arts and sciences is most
fully declared in Deuteronomy, xviii. 9,-14. Thus
saith the LoaD : " When thou art come into the
land which the Lord thy God giveth thee, thou shalt
not learn to do after the abominations of th~e na-
tions. There shall not be found among you any 011e
that maketh his son or his daughter to pass through
the fire, or that useth divination, or an observer of
times, or an enchanter, or a witch, or a charmer, or a
consulter with familiar spirits, or a wizard, or a
necromancer. For all that do these things are an
abomipation onto the Lord : and because of these abo-
minations, the Lord thy God doth drive them out
before thee. Thou !!halt be perfect with the Lord thy
o,, t>Zed by Google
God. For tLese natioas which th-ou shalt possess,
hearkened unto observers of times, and unto diviners :
but as for thee, the Lord thy God hath not suffered
·thee so to do."
On these words given by inspiration of God
for our instruction or reproof, f(IJ' our correction or
caution, and which are profitable for the man of God,
to famish him for the good work of reproving thot1c
.ofhis neighbours who may commit such transgressions,
it may be useful to make a few ob&ervations.
I. They contain a list of those superstitious, ma-
gical arts by which the heathen nations, in the time of
Moses, held commerce \vith evil spirits, and provoked
the Holy Spirit of God ; arts that are diabolical
in their origin, their principle, their connections,
t.heir practice, and their tendency. These are all
classed together by the Lord himself ; they are so
much alike, and so closely related, that we ·cannot
practice any one of them without involving ourselves
in the condemnation of the whole. God forbids and
condemns them all alike and altogether. These evil
arts mix with each other, and are sometimes called by
one name, and sometimes by another, so that it is un-
necessary to distinguish their several species. "Moses
uses these sundry expressions," says the Rev. J. Ben-
son, ,. that he may prohibit the evil in all its forms."
2. The prevalence of these abominable ~uper­
&titions among the Canaanitish nations is here asserted
by divine authority. 1'he different nations who~:.:
lauds were given to the Israelites, hearkened u~•to
obserYers of times, di\"iners, astrologers, sooth-
sayers, &c. &c. These arts were therefore of early
or1gin. They were of general pre,·alence in the time
or Moses, and even in the time of Abraham tbcre
appears an allusion to them; for God told bim, " the.
96
iniquity of the Amoritea waa not yet full." Gen. xv. 16.
'fhis list of their crimes ahows the partic-.lar uatW'e
of their iniquities. Wicked Haq1, and hiB own execrable
son Canaan, are supposed to be the first patrons of
these diabolical superstitions, and poor, wretched,
miserable, devil-worshipping Africans are some of
their progeny. To this day they practice the crimea
of tbe1r fathers, aod groan beneath their punishment
and cnrse! Surely they have begua their hell upon
earth. Horror-struck-one'!! soul shudder,; at a'dis-
covery of their crimes aud woes !
" From the accounts we have of the abominations
both of Egypt and Canaan, we may blush for hnmau
nature; for wherever it is without cultivation, and
without. the revelation of God, it is every thing that
is vile in pri»ciple, and detestable in practice. Nor
,,.ould any part of the habitable globe materially
tliffer from Egypt and Canaan, had tbey not that rule
nf righteousnesa>, the revealed LAW of God; and
life and immor1111ity been brougatt to light by the
GOSPEL among them. From these accoWlts, for
which we could easily find parallels in ancient
Greece and Italy, we may see the abaolute need of
a divine revelation, without which, man, even in his
het~t estate, dift'ers little from the wvte."-Dr. A.
Clarke on Lev. xx. 27.
3. These words of Moses expreuly declare
lo0w the Holf, aupreme God abhors all such diaboli-
t:al superstitions. They arc by Him called the
" ABoMINATIONS" of those natioaa wJUch divine
justice must doom to extirpation. . Yet many
of the~e 'Very t16emm111ioM are practiced in Great
Rritain until this very day, in the very face of the.
~ospel sun ! Some who are c:alled christiana in
Kritain, will go from the saactuary of the Lord to the
lJcwallahs of the conjurers~ and astrologers, to the
97
bouse of the wise man, or the cot of the tharmer!
And some -
boasting of superior light and wisdom
close their eyes on the diabolical nature and awful
tendency of these abominable superstitions, and only
laugh at what is kindling the wrath of God! but
perhaps would pour contempt on any that would
rebuke these evils in the name of the Lord, and laugh
at both alike! But turning from a vain, murky,
pseudo-philosophy to the light of the revelation, we
discover these "vulgar errors of imagination" to be
such hell-taught, heaven-insulting crimes, that scep-
tical, materialism, with all its wrangling sophistry,
can no more divest of their diabolical nature, than it
can -wash the Ethiope white, or sanctify the devil.
4. This portion of the Bible also reveals how
God himself is affected towards those who practice
the evil arts and study the occult sciences. Those
who -dabble in these diabolical superstitions by con-
sulting the wise men, astrologers, and fortune-tellers;
and employing the magical doctors, and charmers, &c.
may see no eYil in these practices, and exeuse them-
selves, while they bring not the light of revelatioa
to shine upon the subject. In the darkness of pre-
judiee, and the confusion of temptation, or the vanity
of false philosophy, me'h may laugh like modern in-
fidels, when they ought to weep like ancient prophets,
or burn with indignation like the angels of God. By
studied connivance we may encourage the practice
of superstition, and thus be partakers of other men's
sins. But when God speaks for himself, or his
faithful servants speak in bi11 name, then we hear
what is enough to make the sorcerers, diviners,
charmers, and astrolegers, and those who consult
them, fear and tremble; for it is written, "All that
do the,tc thing1 are an abomination to the Lord."
- 5. Here is an express prohibition against ac-
~~uiriog the occult scitnces and magic arts. " 1'h1Ju
I,
98
lhall t1ot learn to do after the abomiftatious of these
nations.'' These were the 1cience1, the aru, the
learning, the wildom or idolatry, paganism, and evil
spirits. And the people are positively forbidden
to learn to do them, because, "all that do these
things are an abomination to the 1-oao.'' Yet in
defiance of all this, as there were jews, so there are
"christians," that l\;Jrullv make tbemllelves au abo·
mination to the Lord, that risk his displeas11re and
vengt'ance, and. learn to do after the abomination&
of those nations ! ! ·
G. God forbids the existence of such as practice
these superstitions among his people. "There shall
not be found among you one that useth divination,
or an inchanter, or a witch, or a cAarmer," &c.-
Such sinners were to be cut off, even as the false
prophet that invaded· the divine right of foretelling
future events, and the blasphemer that libelled the
divine character. Witchcraft, idolatry, and murder,
are coupled together by the Old and New Testament
writers ; and in the ancient and modern heatllen
practices.
7. On account of these abominable superstition&
the Canaanitish nations were delivered O\'er by divine
justice to be de.;troyed by the Israelites. " Because
of these abominations the Lord thy God doth drive
them out before thee." " And the Lord thy God will
put out. those nations before thee by little and little :
thou mayest not consume them at once, lest the
beasts of the field increase upon thee. But the LoRD
thy God shall deliver them unto thee, and shall de-
stroy them with a mighty destruction, until thev be
destroyed." Dent. vii. 22, 23. •
Some persons have, with hard speeches, objected
to the divine government in this affair, as being in
99
their opinion nnju,tifiably severe. The wholj} of this
objection, like all others against the divine govern-
ment, blushes and expires, when the ways of God
are vndcrstood. And as we have the means of know-
ledge, such arrogance and ignorance are without ex-
cuse. To condemn a man unheard is unjust a0d
.preposterons : but to condemn God unheard is im-
pious and blasphemous, He wickedly wishes to
condemn, that will not hear explanation and defence.
The universal benevoleuce and Jong-suff'ering of
God to such sinners, pfl>ves that he can neither be
unjust nor unkind. Tbe Canaanitish nations were
great sinners against their Creator and Benefactor,
and therefore forfrited that life whioch his grace had
given, at.d l.is bounty had preserved. As long as
his patie1oce endured their existence, they returned
ingratitude and rebellion for his kindness ; the lon~er
he spared the1u the more they increased in guilt.
They were iJol11'or.~ and therefore traitors against
the divine gove1 D;ilcnt. In the place of God they
~~alted. hi~ greatest enemy the devil, and murder was
a part of their devilish religion. All the diabolical
sciences and arts were their study and their practice :
and "every abomination" to the Lord, " which he
hateth," said Moses, "have they done unto their
Gods ; for e\'en their sons and their daughters have
they burnt in the fire unto their Gods." Deut. xii. 31.
ln spite of all the kindness heaven had ~hewn them,
like devils incarnate, they did all they could to make
their goodly land a bell ! How just their extirpation!
"For it was thy will, 0 Lord," says a pious Jew,
"to destroy by the hands of our fathers, these
ancient inhabitants of thy holy land, whom thou
hatedt~t, for doing molt odiou1 worlt.Y of witchcrafts
and "·icketl sacrifices, ' &c. Wis. xii. 3. &c.
They were public examples of divine justice
for the instruction and correction of other nations,·
I 2.
~ .
100
.an.d .therefore the judgments executed on tlaem were
intended to be mercifwl warning1 to others. Awful
and merciful at\ the warning was, other nations stiH
pursued the same diabolical superstitions. To cautioa
the Israelites especially against comu1ittiug the same
crimes, they were employed in the execution of the
divine vengeance. This was tlae most likely wa,y to
teach them the dreadful end of such pract.Jces1 and
w.hat they also bad to fear if they committed the same
sins. Yet. that very people after all they had beard_,
ami seen, and done, became guilty of the !Ulme diabo;
lit:al practices, and even did worse than the na~ions
whom the Lord drove out before them, and ~~oug\1t
down the divine vengeance upon themselves.
EXAMPLES OF DIVINE JUSTICE IN THE
DESTRUCTION OF INDIVIDUALS AND .
NATION8 FOR THE PR.ACTICt.s .
OF SUPERSTITION.
Saul, the·nrst king of Israel, though in his pro!l-:-
pnity be " cut off those that had familiar spirit!!~
and the wizards out of the laud," .as. the word . of.
~he Lord directed him, yet in his adversity he con~
suited the witch of Eudor. His sin was punishe4
with death. " Saul died for transgressions which. he
committed again~t the Lord, even against t_he w,~r4
of the Lord, wh1ch he kept not, and also for ~s~1..g
counsel of one that had a familiar spirit 10 en.quir..
nf it; and enquired not of the LoRD, tllereforeJ4t:
.y/ew him." I Chron. x. 13, 14. King Saul, therefore,
was another public example of tbe righteous judgm!!nt
of God awfully executed for neglecting the word of·
God and consulting a witch! In his sin and P.uuisb;
mcnt this son of Israel was something like the.
chilu'ren of Canaan. · •.
What Saul did in his distress some d ' his.
successors did iu their prosperity,' fr<U1l widcd '(:~,:-
101
ri011itJ, or diabolical policy, and thus far ueeeded
him tn guilt. Several of the kings of Israel and
Judah studied and practiced the evil arts and scieocea.
Many of them " did according to all the abominations
of the nations which the Lord east out before the
children of Israel." Mannasseh, we bate already
observed, was the most notorious among the kings
for the study and practice of the evil arts. Jezebel
was the most infamous of queens, her "Witchcrafts,
&c. were so many:• 2 Kings, ix. 22. &c. Judgment
cwertook her : she was thrown down out of her
wiDdow, trampled under the horses' feet, and de-
voured by dogs ! !
Ahaziah, her son, walked iu the way of Jezebel
hie mother. 1 Kings, xxii. 51,-53. He was illt and
sent to Baalzebub, the God of Ekron, to enquire of him
whether he should recover ? And the angel of the
Lou 'ent the prophet Elijah .to meet his messeDpJ«
wilh this rebuke : " Ia it because there ia not a God
ia -llnlel that -ye go to enquire of Baalzebnb· the God
.t. Ekron·~ Now. therefore, thou shalt not c:ome
4lown from that bed on which thou art gone up, bat
fAIIh .8flrt~l!/ die." 2 King11, i. So Ahaziab died for his
transgre&l!lon, for his contempt of the word of the
.Lord, and for sending to enquire of the God of Ekron.
Baalzebiih is called in the New Testament tile pri•ce
of de1Jil1. Math. ix. 34. and xii. 24. Mark, iii. 32.-
fle was w~shipped under the image of a fty, or a
real:one. "Baalzebub's oracle," says MathewHenry,
" was famous u that of Delphos. The sin was bad
enoug)t J giving that honour to the devil which is
due to God only, which was as much done by en-
quiriee as by sacrifice. This wickedness reigned in
the heathen world, (Iaa. xlvii. 12, 13.) and resaaina
too IODCla in the christian world, and the devil'& kiu~­
t!om is supported by it."
.
,.
'
Dogotozod by G'dogle
102 c
Other· instucea. of. a.Cn ·sias. arid ·panisbments
m&f be:foond.in tbe;.&oks ·Of Chrunicles· aud Kings.
Individuals .beirr~ pnislltd. with dtath, by the aven~
ging bond ol God; express)~ :for tbt>se. sills,. is bat
.Judgment ju miJ•iature,:oomparcd c
wida the.destroction
of.nations for the liDme..crimes. That:the Canaaaitish
nations were extirpated foc.the~~e ·sins we.ha,·ealready
Jeamt from.the word of'( ;od. Now·the. Israelites: ''"ell
koew what God had: .done to tbe. beatheJt,:audi that
tbeic fatliers .were ·comruissioocd: to.be the exceotioners
of:,his justice.upon tlbe Canaaaites,.&c.· oo..noooent of
their. devotion toidt~/lllr!J and tDitrrh~tifo; &d. and:wee
themselves lltrictly commanded to avoid: tb~r. crimew
if they would escape their punishment. But they
deapized tbe holy oneio£ Israel,..aud joioea:pasims in
the: worship ofidols..1111d,de.vils..:. . ' · · ·
T.be ·saperstitioas and diabulioal arts and: scitillces'
are: the.- wisdom and .ltaroiug. of idultlh'J. · By~
t.he'JIIiestll and wor8bippers held communion witt. eril
&pirits. The horrible,· marderous.crnehies of SOI'C$')fl
tbe>.de,·il-consnltiD,V; ceremonies of di•iaers,.charmer8f
aad astrological:physicians,. &c.· all had a media.te ·N
immediate referen~ to .the.apiriu·.of:the goda-or-idoJsr
to 'de1~totll; that i~;, as the scripture 11peaks, to dniln
Mea, beasts, bitds; creepillg things, imaginary:bei.
or: tht:ir .images ·of "·ood1 metal. stone;. or • wrla~ .'.&e.
might be itdinitely varkd.by the: ingenuity. of ae••
still•there wa11 e._oe genetal. reference in all to demGDS
or to derils. On tliis printiple the t'BCJ'ed weiten
speak of idolatr-r and-ought to be undentood•. .So.olll'
trans1atM~> 1luderlitood them wbeDJ they ·wro~e; , tAtlfl
&llorVfced 11nto deai111: Dent. :xxxii~ 1;... " Yeaptbq
sacrtfic~d their 11ena.ud their daughters nilta dfiviliS~
and abed innocent blood,.even the blood·of their ·8011s
&Jtd daughters, whom. they saerificed ~ullto: tbe idels
of Canaan," Ps. cvi. 37. So. tboileataed·and gUIU
apostle of tbe Geatiles viewed tbe subject : He says,
!OJ
"'We know that an-idol i1 nothing iu the wor'Jd~ and
tliat there is Iloue other God but. one. J ,Co•~ vii.i!.:4~
What shall I say then? thi& the: idol is aay:tbing t
Bu$ I say that.the things which the Gentiles sacrmce;:
they sacrifice to dt:tJila and not to Goo, aad J, w.ould
not that -ye should luwe- fell•lwsbip with dc1ils,'.' &e<•
1 Cor. x I9,-21. lt.·watt.eu not by what ~·
idolaters pay their devotions, the de\'il is their,god... .
That ma.Df philosophers of the greatest repgte
recommended the worship of evil demona, and the
offering·of sacrifices to them as well as to good beings ,
tbe· reader . may see all!ply prond in Dr, Lelandis
NeeesNity of the Christian Re,·elation. ''ol. 1. p. 138;&c,;
"We.are assured," says -this author in another place,
" by the authority of :St. Paul; that the things which ·
the Gentiles sacrificed, they sacrifJC~d to demons;
and the word is .geat:rally taken iri a bad sense in the
saered ~ritiugs. Tile same thing. is said' by.pagab
authors of the best credit. Plutaf(lb exprenly as&Ut~
that many of the rit~s of worship, usual among the
heathen, sevP.ral'of which he nientinn11, were d~igned
to ·placate and gratify tn•il and 111nlig'nrmt dc71UJJl#~­
Porphyry, whotie oppositiou to christianity and atr:
tachment to p~aeism are well known, goes so far.
as .to pronounce ~erapi11 the ci.Jief of the Et-'YPtiaa
deities, and whom the people wer:~bipped .as the high~·
est· God, to have bt'ell the prince of evil demons. Thal\
learnf'd.pbiloaopbcr say~, that· e\·il demons were verj.
deairous to have di\'ine wotahip aud ll.HCrihee!! renderecii
tilt them : and be nol only ..au::kMwl:edMtrK.they wel'il
worshipped, but endeavours to ju!!tif~· the practice.am
aecessary for a.vertiug.thei11 wrath. and .obtaining.from•
than worldly good tbmga." ib; p. 444. &o.
The poor ignora11t :BuHoms ~in..Africa, have iii•
this respect., the 1ame visw.of the:. 8nbj&D as .we 'baT!!~
seen the sacred writen and> our traDBlatots·had:
DJ•izedb,Google
104
. " How great the ignorance .and superstitions of
the Bulloma are,'' says the Rev. G. R. Nylaudf:J',
~4 atruek me very mueh, when I saw a crowd of people
asiembled, offering sacrifices to tJ Ctlllrttm 6nll, and
tlru decanter 1topper1, recommending themRelves
aad their children to the favor of that evil spirit of
wh01• the ball and stopperF were the repretrentative• 1
They say, that when they address the ball and glasa
stopper11, they speak not to them, bat to the devil that
lites in the baah, (er wood11)." Misaiouary Register.
The abominations of magical superstitious and
cruelties are enumerated, and associated with idolat!1.,
aa we have seen by the Lord himself in Dent. xvbi.
He farther declares that all these were on the princi-
ple• of idolatry, and even formed a part of their super-
stitious worship : " Por every s6omin•tio• to tile Lord
•AicA Ae AotetA, llsve tlley done 1111to tAeir Goth."
Co!J)pare Dent. xii. 12, 80, 81. Chap. xviii. 9,-)1.
2 King11, xvii.-14,-18.
Tbe Prophets of Israel frequently reminded the
people of what the Lord had said to Moses, and r.itk-
folly rebuked their idolatrous and magical super-
stitions. Tbe Lord, by Hosea, complains of their
JaeJlect of his word, and their idolatroa. divinations.
"My people ask eouasel at their stock11, and their
atafl' declareth unto them." Chap. iv. 12. Though the
hraelites had the word of God, yet instead of obeying
it they chose rather to imitate their pagan neighboura;
Babylon, it is ·well kaowa, was the seat of magical
acience ; and Nineveh was declared to be the "mistress
of witchcrafta that aelleth eations through her whore-·
doms, and families through bet: witchcrafts." Nahum.
iii. ·4. The magical pollutions of the spirit, the
obaceee pollutions ·of the &sh; as well as the ·eon·
temptible C6l'ellloaiet, and the horrible cruelties of
papns ve the utural rt>au)t of consulting, and
105
serving ~y superstition and idolatry, those cunning;
malicious, unclean, and cruel df'mons or devils wliicb
are manifestly at the bottom of all these- -wil:ked
lnstiiutions.
.. . The Israelites bad more •sefal learning &.Qd
sacred light than the surrounding nations, and wbe~
the lil(ht which was in them .became darkness, by ~ts
application to evil, how great was that darkness !-
:Like the richut meats ·capable of the rankest putre.;
faction, the people of hrael, when they forsooll
~be. Lord and served- idols, they were more corrupt
in the!!. superstitious ahomir.ation1 than the mo~•
abaudo~d of the pagan na~ions . With inoorrigibl.e.
perseveraoc~ they increased their guilt, till divine
JUstice could' spare them no longer. Rejecting tht~
diune word, -and following the heathen in idolatry
and witchcrafts, brought the lingering vengeance d9wn~
'fflke the account from an in!!pired writer. . .. •
•
« For so it was, that the children of Israel baQ
ain~ed against the LoRD thtlir God, which had brougbl
them up out of the Land of Egvpt, from onder the
band of Phar.oah kii•g of Eg}·pt, ~nd bad feared other
gods1 and walked . in the- statutes of the heathe11;
whom the Lord cast out from before the children of
b.racl, and of the kioga of hrael which they had made;
Axi4 the children of Israel did secretly those things ,
whic~.- were not right against the Lord their God,·
~d1 they built them high places .in all their cities;
f~om the tower of the watchmen to the fenced city.
And they set them up images .and .groves in every ·
high hill, and .under &verv green tree: And they
bur.ned incense in all the high .places, as did the
heathen whom the Lord carried ·away before them;.
apd \Vrought wicked tbinga to provoke the Lord to.
anger. For they served idols .whereof t~e .Lord
~!I said unto them, ye shall not do this thinJ. Yet,
lOG
tbe Lord testifi~ againr.t Israel and against Jndal•
by all the propheta and by all the &et'rs, saying, tum
JO from your evil ways, and keeJ' my coJllmandmenta
and my s.tatutes according to all the law, which I
commanded your fathers, and which I sent nuto you
by my 11ervauts the prOJihets. Notwith11tanding they
would not hear, but harde11ed their necks like the
aeck of their fathers and did not lklieve in the Lord
their God. They rejected his statutes and his cove-
Rant that he made with their fathers, .and his testi-
.mouieti wloich he testified against ·them ; and they
followed vanity and became VILiD, and went afte'r lhe
heathen that were round about ·them, concerning
whom the Lord had charged them, (Dent.xviii.) that
they should not do like them. And they left all tbe
eomma6dmentli of the Lord their .God, and made
them ·. molten images, even two. calves, and made .a
vove: and wor~hipped 11/1 tAe ltt~tll. of lteav~, and
served Baal. And .they eaused the1r son11 and their
daughters to pas11 through the fire, and used DJVI·
JIATJON,.and •NCHANTIIBNTS, and sold themaelves (as
the very #ltWea o( the devil] to do evil in the.sight of
the Lord to provoke him to anger. Therefore tho
Lord wall angry with Israel and removed ·them..out
of hi:~ ~ight : there was none left but the tribe of
Jadah ouly." 2 Kings xvii. 7,-18.
The occult sciences and m&!{ic a~t!l, .in close
and inseparable alliance with devll-worsltip, ami aU
the pagan supe1 ~titions, so provoking to the Lard of
hosts was in Israel a nationt~l crime, ·and therefore
they were driven from their land, as tl•e Canaanitee
were before them, and to thit~ day, the Israelites
have never been re8tored. A period of about
2500 years. ·An awful and lasting monument of God's
righteous indignation against all such abominable
practices!
107
Israel was gone into captivity under the Assyrians;
to sufFer for the practice of idolatry and the super~
stitious arts; and Judah was spared for awhile. But
Judah, though fa\'oured with some pions kings, and
many faithful prophets who lamented and rebuked
their diabolical superstitions, yet practiced the 8ame
.rin1, till expelled from their land by that righteous
indignation which had before extirpated the Canaan-
ites, and driven away Israel as with a whirlwind of
vengeance. The true prophets of Judah were ne\·eJ'
dumb on these subjects. . They knew bow provoking
such practices were to God and they faithfully re~·
proved them. They foresaw and foretold, that God
would punish the Jews also, if they sinned as the
Canaanites and Israelites had done.
Isaiah lamenting the prevalence of superstition·
says: "Thou hast forsaken thy people, the house of
Jacob, because they are replenished from the East and
are 8ootluauer8 like unto the Philistines." Chap. ii. 6;
He expostulated with them, and exhorted them to
attend to the word of God and to renounce all the
diabolical counsels and arts of superstition, saying :
" When they shall aay unto you :
Seck unto necromancers and wizards,
'fo them that spt>ak inwardly and that mutter:
~hould not a people seek unto their God ?
Should they seek, instead of the liviD~, to the dead ?
Unto the command and unto the tesumony let them see'• :
If the>; speak not according to this word
In wh1ch there is no obscurity, (famist,,·d :
Every oue of them shall pass throul!h the land distreslled aud
And when he shall be famished and angry with himself,
He shall curse his King and God. ·
And he shall Clll!t his eyes upwards and look down to the earth :
And lo ! distress and darkness !
Gloom, tribulation, and accumulattd darkness."
• Isaiah, viii. 19.-22. Bishop Lowth's Translation.
On this place the Rev. Dr. Coke obseryes : "The
superstitious folly of many professed christians, who
108
trast in cAarma and fortune-tellerS, and the like, i~ as
scandalous as sinful. . If God be our God, we may
always seek, and always find help in him in e\·ery time
of trial."
As Moses in Dent. xviii. after forbidding to learn
the superstitions sciences and practice the magic arts,
immediately introduces the great prophet, which every
eon\ >lhould hear or be cut off from the people of God;
so Isaiah, after declaring the miseries and punishments
of superstition, immediately speaks of the light and
ble11sisgs of christianity. · How great then must be
the guilt Gf Jews or Christians, that neglect the oradell
·and salvation of the true God and apply to divination,
demons, and charms! The Jewish prophets threatened
the vengeance of heaven, also upon the neighbouring
heathen, as well as upon Jodah for the same crimes.
·Isaiah, xix, l,-18. Micah lived amongst the Jews
at the time of Isaiah; he also threatens destruction to
theif' cities, their witchC1'afta, their aoot'Mnyers, and
their idols; and it is added, "I will execute venge-
ance in anger, and fury upon the heathen, such as
they have not heard." Chap, v. 10,-15. As the
Israelites were gone capth·cs to Assyria, God, by his
prophets, told the Jews they should be taken captives
to Babylon ; but the diviners and sorcerers cou.tra-
dicted them. And Jeremiah said: " Hearken not to
your prophets, nor to your diviners, nor to yonr
dreamers, nor to your enchanters, nor to your
sorcerers." Chap. xxvii. 9. But the people of Judah
would not hearken to the true prophets of God, and
"Manasseh seduced them to do more evil than did tbe
nations whom the Lord destroyed before the children
of brael." see 2 Kings, xxi. Tradition reports of
this vile professor and patron of the diabolical super-
htitions, that he murdered thRt faitbfu) rf.prover Of a1J
such practices, the prophet Isaiah, by having him sawn
asunder witli a wooden saw.
o,, t>Zed by Google
rk Jewa would :DO~ bMr f.be .re~OQttriiDeel ..
.tlleir prophets, an4 the Lord ~ '' 1kho4d ! I aJa
tbr.ingiDg '-'ch evil upon Jerusalem .•ad. Judah, that
whosoever hearetb of it, both his efl.l'S shall tiagle ;"
and ~ threatened to " wipe Jerusalam as a man
.wipeth a ~h, wiping it and turning it upside down."
Still they peroever.eQ. in their .spperatitions.
AQion, the aon and succe~J&OJ' 1>f MaDUaela, wu
abo tbe. i!llitator of hia f!'ther's ~rime~; jadpleat
i~Vertook him, ud. be w~ 11laiP. .i11 -bis own .Jwo~e.
Jo- ... a rigbt~s oppe~.ereftbeir ..pel'llti.-
tion-, . A contrast to the farmer kings. He found tile
book of the law of the Lord and he read it, aDd w.
before the Lord. "The workers with familiar spirits
aad the · wizards, and the images, (or terapbhn, by
•hich they divined) and the Wol.s, I'H all tbe abiJ..
~il1a~i0111 that were 11pied ill the land of Judall aM
P1 Jer~al.em, did Joaiah pot •way, that ..., , oaigM
prsrform tl!e words of tbtl Jaw ·wbieb :were writte.n io
~he .book that Hilkiah the priest fouJJd in the boue
of ~h, LercJ." ~ Kiq11. uxili. 21t.~He wa.s ptbered
if} ~ il'81ie ~ ~ace.
"Notwithstanding the Lord turned not from the
~erClCDe&ll of his gr\l&t wrath, wherewith his anger
w.a ki,dled .agains~ Judah, because of all the provo-
Cl&tiona .that M!lna&lleh bad provoked him whhal,"-
A few more kings reigned in Jeruulem who did eril
io •he ~>ight of ~lae l~d, under whose sinful govera.-
Plellt the Jew11, like the Canaanites, fill~d up the
JDe&SUre of their iuiquities, llUd ripened iuto ruin.
" J,boiaki.m did e\'il iu tiJe 11igbt of tbtl Lord, ac.cord·
ing to all that his fathers had done.".,..,..." And the
!A.r~ .sent ~against bina l>.uds of the Chaldees, and
~s ~f the Sy1ian1!. &Jad ba.eOs of the Moabitea,
Md,_. oi U. elWd~Wo of..Am.alQa. aJld .,at~-
a.
·no
against .Judah ·to destroy it, according to the word
of the Lord which he spake by his servants the
propbet11. .Surely at the commandment of the Lord
came this upon .Judah, to remove them out of his sight,
for tlae ain1 of ftfattfllleli (see 2 Kings xxi. 1,--6.)
according to all that he did ; and also for the inno-
cent blood which be 11hed." 2 Kings xxiv. 2,-4.
(f the reader would have his heart melted at the
conclusion of this awful story, be may read the
lamentations of .Jeremiah, where the weeping prophet
:;o pathetically describes and laments the .miseries
which the offended God permitted to fall upon .Judah
aild Jerusalem, to punish the sins of their heathenish
superstitions.
The Chaldeans who took the .Jews captive, were
deep in the guilt of diabolical superstitions, and the
prophets predicted their destruction also, even before
tbe1r armies destroyed Jerusalem. Babylon was the
thief se~t 'where the professors of occult sciences and
magic arts flourished in all the -pomp of learned.
noble, and diabolical superstition. He.ar ·then how
a faithful prophet foretells their punishment ud re-
bukes their sins :
. . .
.. These two things shall come upon thee .in' a
moment in one day, the loss of childr~n and widow:..
hood : they shall come upon thee in their perfection
for tluJ multitude of tAg aorceries, and for tAe greal .
a6••dmtce o.f thintt encAontme11t1. Thou bast trusted
in thy wickedness : thou hast said ·none seeth me;
TAg wildom and lAy /mow/edg-e, it !loth perverted
tAee ; and thou ba11t said in thy heart, I am, and none
else beside me. Therefore shall evil come upon thee ;
tbon shalt not know from whence it riseth ; and
mischief shall fall upon thet: ; thou 11balt not be able
to put it off : and de&olatina. allan 'cOine ,upon -tiaee
111
auddenlr which thou shalt not know. Stalld DOW
with thine enohantmenta, and with the multitude of
thy aorceriea, wherein thou bast laboured from thy
youth ; if so be thou shalt be able to profit, if so be
thou mayest prevail. Thou art wearied in the multi-
tude of thy counsels. Let now the astrologers, the
star-gazers, the monthly prognosticators, stand up,
and save thee from these things that shall come upon
thee." Isaiah xlvii. 9,-13.
After all that we have read of the ki11gs and people
punished by the Lord,--Canaanites, Israelites, Jews,
and Babylonians, and the history might be pursued
farther, of nations that have been extirpated, scat-
tered, or destroyed, for the study and practice of
diabolical sciences, arts, and worship,-still in spite
of all these tremendous warnings, there are multitudes
in Great Britain who still use many of the aame
•peratitiona I StilJ the devil is consulted by v~iou$
forms of divination. Like Canaan, Egypt, and Babylon,
though not in our courts, yet in our cities, towns,
and villages, we have the enchanters, the charmers,
the astrologers, the star-gazers, the sooth-sayers,
&c. profes~>ors and 11laves of superstition•.
Nevertheless in this we have cause for gratitude,
that these crimes are not our national character.-
Aa a Nation we recommend and love,· and circulate
that Holy Book of God, which contains wisdom
from heaven, eYpases and condemns all superstitious
acimces, arts, and practices, and oft'ers the grace of
salvation by Christ Jesus to supply all the spiritual
and eternal wants of men. Still however pagan
superstitions are too common among us to be right-
eously unnoticed alld unrebuked. It is more be-
coming the christian in any age to .imitate the
ancient prophets who reproved these abominations,
than the modern. aceptical pbilosophen who would
ll 2.
U2
-hofllt .Nly tbet :belieYte Chey el!fll' :e~. a..·wq
., ~ ~ltlrw writers .used a pea tllef boseiheir QJltOil
~ foitbful testiulollf aga,ipst flbe 1liabo'W!al ~DMii
.ani~ ans, .u appears iroJJt·.th.e writings of Mo~te.s. *
1MB ~f God, to ,the re:v:elat.ions of Jolln the dirin~·~
'' l ~ill come near to you in judgm.eut, and I .-·iU be
.a •wift .w.it1,1ess .agJinttt tbe IDrCfll!ftl, saith the Lorcl
Rl ho••·" Mel. iii. 5. ":Now the W$tks .of the ~­
are manifest, says ~t. PaJtl, «which are these ;~
idolatry, witchcraft, &c -of which I tell you before
Joil I hay.e Nol~ t.old you in t·iiJU!I past, that they .w.hich
Jio tvcll tbi1,1gs .ll4all Aot inbecit th~ ·kmwJom of GmJ.."
G.J, y. 19,'-2l. Tbe bel~ed epostJe John ~s IJ)~
IN! to .werp th.e aorcerN:I with othu sinners ; !nat
£la&MJ ,them amovg tbe wont, when iKI .pnonounett
tbte;.r ~ .dq~. '~ The fearful Md unbcl;eviDg,
aJlli the :Niomint~Me e!ld Qt.rder.ere, aud whoremo~•
w;~.cl aorcerqra, .and idolatom, 311.4 .all liarll, s~ll )lan
'IJeir pa.rt in the lalu! that burnetb with lrre aofi
~ll.i~~t•t.o•e.'~-R~. ~~:xi. 8. If the laat wor~ of hND
t-bN.~p~keth fr,om hnven are worthy of peeulwr
r~g»M, then ~ bal~e among the la•t lleilt~JiOO~S of
,Jjrill.e nvehltion t.M •orceters reQli. of their
awful doom. Let J.e~iWJ Chritt biml!2lf be ~rd. '
llnd let his last words leave a deep impression on '
~ Jilisq, ' .
H Bl~sed are tke!f tOt ·do IUs ~Wmmuutment•,
.bbJt ·they JUy bve right te eat of t~ tr~ of 1~,
ud may eoter thriMigh tbo gates tnto the aty.
'But wi~h®t are degs, IUUi ltm:utirH, .BAd w.llor.,..
moageJ'&, a11d mlll'41uers, and idDir&tor.&, ud who-
~v.er ·loveth and maketh a lie. /, J.-aul, llfllle 1t1111
nri~ at~ge/ to I~!Uify ·ulo you 1&111 tltiltjl ill 1111
cHr.-Acr." Jey. xxii. Jll,.....Jfi.
o,, tiZed by Google
113
CONCLUSION.
Tbu:i, Reader, we ha\'e seen how the wisdom
oi God has thought proper to speak on these pai.aful
iubjects. Those that will not hear Moses and the
prophets, Christ Jesus and the apostles, would not
be persuaded though one rose from the dead to testify
the same things unto them. The writer, whether
belwved or not, will rejoice in the testimony of a
~ood conscience, that be has done his duty in follow-
JOg the best examples, to reprove those sins .against
God which haYe so ~ften hrought divine vengeance
down on nations and iudh·idttals; and in directing
those who are oppressed of the enemy, to seek sal-
vation in Chrbt .Jesus, who was manife~ted to destroy
the works nf the dedi. That so many in Great
Britain sl.ould still adhere to the arts and practices
of pagani,om l•as hee11 the !-(fief of many excellent men.
Quotations from two >'o(~nants of the most high God,
who hciug dt>ad yet speak for our edification, sliall
close this part of our wmk.
The Rev . .J. Beusnu, in his Commentary on those
words of the Lord to Moses, Neither ahflll !JC use
enchantmcnU, Lev. xix. 26. nbserYe,;: '' It was un-
pardouahle in tllcm, to whfllo were committed the
oracles of God, to ask (:ouusel of the de,·il. And
yet worse iu christian,;, to whom the :;on of God is
mauifcsted to dc~trm· the works of the devil. For
chrbt ians to I.an• ti.cir nath·ities ca~t, or fortunes
told, nr nH· chatms fur the cure of diseases, is an
intolerable affruut to the Lurd .Jesus, a ~;npport to
idolatry, and a reproach both to themselvelf and that
worthy uamc by wl.ich they are called."
Mr. G. Herbert, the judicious, pious, and excel-
lent Poet, in his devotions, p. 127, thus speaks and
prays : " H~ ill .Mt wia~t , . co..nsults with hie
114
enemy: then what are they who ask counsel of
prognosticators, fortune tellers, conjurers, devils ?
Desperate fools : men whn rnu l1eadlong into hell.
Purg-e, U (Jot!, jlltrge t/'.'1 ehurcll from rehcllioua
children, wlto tnhe r/ill !t •• el lut fill( .from thee : from
all idu!atrou.• per.,,n.. "'''" frequently enquire of
BaalzebuiJ, a.~ i( there u·t·re 1111 (~t,tf itt luat'l. And
if ever Stllan h;llll ;;o .f;tr prera.l£-tl ~~~ain.Yt ,,c, aa to
persuade me to cou.mlt with /, .,, or hi.• J<e,·rnutll; or
to beg or e.t•
pect any g·oud jrom !ti111 or thc·w . pa1·don
tnc, 1 pra.'l tlu:e, tltill grievous transgre11sion, and
idolatrous rebellion : and let me never fall into thu
great ain of witchaaft." ·
§ini~.
Crockers, l'rinlt'rs, Frome.
J
