{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1948__anonymous___tribute_to_frank_b_robinson.pdf","mytitle":"Tribute To Frank B Robinson","mylang":"de"}
c5t Uribute Uo
c-rJr. GJrank c;;B. ~binson
Founder of Psychiana
By MARCUS BACH
of the State University of Iowa at the
funeral service of Psychiana's found-
er in Moscow, Idaho, on October 22,
1948.
My dear friends:
We have met here in this memorial service to honor
a man who has impressed himself upon the society
of our time and whose influence has extended into re-
mote corners of life everywhere in the world. There
are among us here those who felt that we knew him
somewhat intimately as a friend and we have joined
with the members of his immediate family, not to
mourn his death-for such would never be his wish
-but, rather, to remember his presence and to quiet-
ly recall the philosophy and influence of his life and
teaching. Although this intimate chapel is crowded
to capacity, there is a considerably larger, unseen
gathering of many people who, when the announce-
ment of the earthly passing of Frank B. Robinson
reaches them, will unrestrainedly mingle their
thoughts and emotions with our own. There are
many thousands in this larger group. They are to be
found in many lands, in many walks of life, in many
and varied circumstances and professions.
I cannot help but think of these men and women
whom Dr. Robinson called the Psychiana family and
whom, through twenty years of intensive correspond-
ence, he addressed as "Dear Friend and Fellow Stu-
dent." They are here with us in spirit and in re-
membrance. I see them as I met many of them during
this past summer. I remember a real estate man in
Southern California and recall how he told me that
the man in Moscow, Idaho, had given him a philoso-
phy to live by and had made his life meaningful. I
am thinking of a woman in New Mexico who lives in
humble surroundings, but who introduced me to two
young children whom she had adopted and for whom
she was providing. When I asked her how she did
this, she said, "Faith in the Power of God. Dr. Rob-
inson taught me to tap the great reservoir of the
God-Law." I recall the man in Iowa who reported
how in the moment of life's deepest despair he went
out under the stars and "felt" the overpowering
consciousness of the infinite and eternal presence of
Almighty God. I remember the laborer in New York
whose eyes burned with enthusiasm as he told me he
had finally gotten hold of a working formula for his
spiritual development. I remember the Kansas house-
wife-the Wisconsin business man-the Canadian
farmer-the Nebraska minister-I remember many
followers and students and friends of the Psychiana
fellowship who have discovered directives for hope
and faith-and who will now stand silently in grate-
ful remembrance as they think of their teacher and
guide.
It was my privilege to know Frank B. Robinson
as well, perhaps, as anyone outside of his family
knew him. And yet, there was always something
about him which could not be fathomed, there was
ever a conviction which, despite all of his voluminous
writings, seemed to make me feel that I had never
begun to know or understand him. There was a cer-
tain reach and grasp of heart which could not be
put into words nor defined through personal asso-
ciation. And, yet, I had a feeling that I came close to
these deeper impulses a number of times through an
intuitive perception of the God in whom he trusted
and the bold and daring faith which he demonstrated.
I felt I knew him when he sat at the organ console in
his home and played the.old gospel hymns he loved
so much-sometimes when we talked together of the
meaning of life and the utter incongruity of death-
sometimes when he seemed transported by thoughts
of what the consciousness of God as Law and God as
Love could do for men. And once he confided to me
this truth: "You know, I have had moments of su~h
complete awareness of the presence of God that
words cannot describe them and they cannot be
maintained very long. But, if men would only seek
these moments in the great silence, think what
would happen to this old world."
There were always two major emphases in every-
thing that Frank B. Robinson taught and practiced:
(1) a personal consciousness of God's power in the
individual life; (2) a call for world redemption in
our highly materialistic and secularized age.
To promote these basic aims and to make them
emphatic to a commercialized and fast-tempoed
world, he wrote books, prepared hundreds of cor-
respondence lessons, and turned out thousands of
lines of copy. I did not always agree nor did I en-
dorse the many viewpoints and the theology he ex-
pressed. We had a number of sharp differences.
Often I was disturbed by his iconoclasm. But I can
never deny that the vitality of his defense, the genius
of his argumentation, the actual demonstrations of
the power of his teaching, and the limitless convic-
tion which fought for what he thought was right and
truth were honest credentials of an inner light. Many
people realized this. It is unfortunate that many
more did not. Oftentimes a man must die before he is
appreciated and understood and I have no doubt that
with the passing of time he will be recognized as a
great contemporary leader and interpreter of Ameri-
can faith in the idiom of the American way. He is
already so recognized by thousands of his students.
I remember an evening in my home when a group
of men-ministers, professors and other laymen-
tested the armor of his faith. He was always ready,
as you well know, to take a challenge and accept a
dare. He was always craving excitement. Life for
him was never stagnant. On this night he defended
his positions for three intense hours-insisting that
religion should cut across denominational, theological
and doctrinal barriers and lose (or find) itself in the
consciousness of God. This was his message. Man has
within himself the elements of the divine. Man is
God's elan vital. God can be found completely and ir-
revocably in one's own life. Cosmic intelligence and
force are continually standing by to fulfill man's
needs. This was his way of saying that the "king-
dom of God is within you." This was his appeal for
a personal awareness of whatever endowed man
with life.
He defended himself with equal success in his be-
lief that "the unseen forces of God can be manifested
in such a manner that the whole world will be remade
under a divine imperative." To realize this he once
sought to assemble, you may recall, 100,000,000 men
in a spiritual crusade. This was his appeal for world
redemption. It was an ambitious and grandiose idea.
His ideas were always world-inclusive and never
apologized for greatness. In his pronouncements, un-
orthodox in the manner of promotion, iconoclastic in
the way he sought to short-cut through to the great
"God-Law", Frank B. Robinson was a modern pro-
phet and like a prophet--modern or ancient--he suf-
fered ridicule and defamation many times. But he
also enjoyed the friendship of those who found a
faith through him and the undying love of those
whom he lifted from despair and defeat to hope and
victory.
One day he spoke to my class at the university. The
nearly two hundred students were stirred by his
strength and bearing, his straight-from-the-shoulder
convictions, the hint of an inner compassion and his
unselfish willingness to give them of his time and
his experience without attempting to lure them from
the faith which was already theirs by heritage and
tradition. Following his visit a number of students
met regularly for a time in a sincere effort to de-
velop personal techniques for their spiritual lives.
They used many of his affirmations and seemed to
have caught the contagion of his triumphant spirit.
Besides having this influence abroad, he was un-
usually active and interested in the civic life of the
town which he publicized throughout the world. Mos-
cow, Idaho, was and shall always be, synonymous
with Psychiana. He was instrumental in establish-
ing a Youth Center and he was the donor of a city
park. His career actually began in Moscow and his
rise to prominence is part of Moscow's history. The
extensive work which he began will continue uninter-
ruptedly, unchanged, with the same intensity and
1cope with which he directed it. He had new Psy-
chiana material in preparation. He had the vision
and foresight to entrust the movement to his son,
Alfred, when he first realized that his personal lead-
ership wo~ld some day be halted. He never claimed
for himself earthly immortality or the p~rpetuation
of his physical self. He did believe, however, that
some day man would come into such complete reali-
zation of the Power and Presence of God that death
would be overcome. No doubt the Psychiana Re-
ligion will continue to teach this as it will the many
other principles to which its founder devoted his life.
Such has been the history and practice of many con-
temporary religious movements in America. Psy-
chiana will enlist the continuing loyalty of its mem-
bers and will carry on with renewed vigor as a tri-
bute to the man who gave the movement birth.
For it is only the inadequacy of language that
causes us to speak of Dr. Robinson in the past tense.
As for his influence, he is not gone. He lives on in
the work which he has begun and in the lives of
those whom he has helped. He lives on in the litera-
ture of the Psychiana studies. As for his vision and
hope, they continue in the lives of his family: Mrs.
Robinson, whose loyalty and consecration went into
her husband's work; and Alfred and Florence who
figured so frequently in the illustrations used in
the Psychiana material. As for his presence, it is
here now in the hearts of all of us. It is only the
inadequacy of language that causes us to speak of
Dr. Robinson in the past tense.
He will be remembered us one radiant with en-
ergy and eagerness and enthusiasm. Those who knew
him will remember the grip of his hand and the way
he had of disarming one of one's own scepticism
about the efficacy of faith. He will be recalled as a
man who encountered all of the vicissitudes of life
and emerged with a philosophy which, he felt, would
work as well for all men as it had worked for him.
May the power of God in which he trusted and
which he proclaimed boldly to a troubled world and
to distraught individuals, abide in your hearts as a
perpetual memorial to his life and teachings.
Perhaps if he were to speak to us now he would
use the words with which he closed a series of teach-
ings when he said, "I leave you now with the future
held by you in your own hands. Where you go and
what you do depends entirely upon you. Here is the
great Realm of God. Here exists Spiritual Power
enough to make you an overwhelming victor through
life. Here, in this great Realm, exists a wisdom far
superior to any man-made wisdom, for this wisdom is
God. Here, in this Realm, exists a peace far deeper
than any man-made peace can be, for this peace is
God. Here, in this great Realm and in your own
hands, lies an infinite love far greater than any man-
made love can be, for this great love is God..... I
have put into your hands the key that unlocks the
door, if any key be needed, and am going to leave
you with the knowledge you possess, which knowl-
edge is more than sufficient to bring into play all the
cosmic powers of the great Godhead, no matter what
your circumstances may be and no matter what of
life's gifts you desire. Standing behind you and over
you, and all around you, and under you for your pro-
tection and benefit, is the great Power of the God-
Law..... I should like to talk to you about this great
Realm for one solid month, or for a year; but that,
of course, is impossible, so I am leaving you now and
wishing for you the courage and the confidence
necessary to take this great God-Power with you
wherever you go and to use it for the manifestation
of whatever it is you need. . . . Our little journey
together has come to a close and may God ever bless
you and keep you until we meet again.. . .. "
