{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1822__patchin___a_religious_convincement_and_plea.pdf","mytitle":"A Religious Convincement And Plea","mylang":"de"}
!T ,
RELIGIOUS
CONVINCEMENT AND PLEA,
FOR THE
BAPTISM AND COMMUNION OF THE SPIRIT,
AND THAT WHICH IS OF
^Material Bread, Wine, ana Water
REJECTED AS JEWISH RITES;
BOTH UNPROFITABLE, AND THE CAUSE OF GREAT
DIVISION AMONG CHRISTIANS.
SOME REMARKS
ON THE ABUSE, USE AND MISAPPLICATION OF THE SCRIPTURES :;
AND THE
ECCLESIASTICAL SUCCESSION REFUTED ;
WHEREBY THE RITE TO ORDAIN BY THE LAYING ON OF HANDS
IS LOST ; BESIDES NOT NECESSARY TO QUAL
IFY A GOSPEL MINISTER.
BY TALLCUT PATCHING.
" This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him and saved him oat of
all his trouble." •
The angel of the Lord encompasseth round about them Vhal Tea? him,
aod delivereth llieni. O, taste and see that the Loud is good. Bless -
, ID 18 THE MAN THAT TRtTSTETH IN HIM. Ps. XXxiv.15, 7, 8.
There is a way whieh seerceth right unto a man, but the end thereofare
the ways ofdeath.-^iVou. xiv. It.
BUFFALO :
PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR, BY H. A. SALISBURY.
1822.
(RICA*)
4ft
PREFACE.
Nothing is more common to the natu
ral minded, than to put the most favorable
construction upon their situation, especially
in matters ofreligion. For this reason, when
God sent his prophets to the Jews, they were
any way applicable to them ; or that their
denunciations, were by any means fitting to
their condition. When the prophet Micaiah
prophesied to Ahab he had to prophesy against
four hundred who professed to be the servants
of God; they would that he should have
prophesied smooth things and because he
could not, " bread of affliction," and " waters
ofaffliction" were given him. The language
of the Jews was, " Is not the law with us. If
they were charged with inconstaney, they
were ready to say " Wherein have we robbed
God ?" Sudden destruction cometh, when
men cry peace and safety, and frequently
when danger is least expected. I know that
there is a certain part in man that feels itself
mortified, whenever it is charged with mistake
or error ; but though it should be my lot, to
be counted among the singular, yet it is my
intention not to speak smooth things since the
that their preaching was
iv
day in which we live so much bespeaks the
deceptions ofthe Church. I really feel to la
ment that religion, a term which invariably
ought to convey to mankind an idea, of the
greatness, goodness and glory of God ; their
own present and future happiness should by
the blind zeal of its advocates suggest but lit
tle, if any more than a mean form or theory,
and even that, a subject of ridicule and con
tempt. Is it not in consequence of the disa
greement amongst professors of Christianity
about their different forms and tenets that the
irreligious part of society is induced to look
upon religion, as but a cold hearted monster
that would rob them, their neighborhood, and
society, ofair the comforts of civil life ? The
language of my heart is, " Tell it not in Gath ;
publish it not in the streets of Askelon," but
alas ! though it is too bad to be told, yet it is
too evident to be hid. The very savage ear
nestly petitions to be delivered from that
which they conceive to be the christian reli
gion ! Can it be possible that, of all the enor
mous evils, that ever was permitted to seize
upon the human family, religion is sole mon
ster and universal tyrant of the whole .f—
ScThis is the religion of men, and not
the religion of Jesus Christ. Amongst the
'several subjects of religious debate, I propose
to notice the sacraments (so called) of Wa
ter-baptism, Bread and Wine, things which
are imposed on the world by the plausible ti
tles of Sacraments, Eucharists, Gospel-ordi
nances, Gospel-institutions, ordinances of the
house of God, &c. names which are not so
much as once so mentioned in the New Tes
tament records. Millions have paid a debt to
sacramental superstition with the loss of their
lives—good would it have been if that world
ly-wise and factious spirit, which so frequent
ly shows itself to be inseparably connected
with will-worship-religion had died with them.
It is to be remarked, that as the Jews suf
fered by borrowing certain customsr and su
perstitious notions from the heathen ; so the
christians have suffered by endeavoring to in
corporate the propei. cVttvstiam dispensation
with certain customs and ceremonies which
they have borrowed from the law of the Jews.
These ceremonies are so remote from the
kingdom of Christ that the Spirit has nothing
to do with them, consequently, men have
been obliged to support them by- their own
renderings, and consequently they have with
them, embraced many, different notions, and
all has tended to perplex the christian, and
subject him to doubts- and fears, uncharita-
bleness and crueUyy dispute and jealousy,
exuberance and zeal, and finally to all \he
phenomena of priest-craft or prelatical-presi-
dency..
A.mong several reasons, there are three par
ticular: reasons why I have offered these few
sheets to my friends and the public, to wit,
duty, love and pity.
Firstly—Duty in that, that the Lord, for
a2:
vi
reasons only known to himselfbath dealt sur
prisingly with me, and by his Spirit hath giv
en me to understand his teachings and lead
ings from the inventions and teachings of
men, and hath called me to bear a testimony
to that truth, which he hath committed to me.
Secondly—Love to many of my brethren,
and the truth constrains me to suffer with
them that suffer for the truth. And as I
know that there are many, who, if they were
only apprised of the deceitfulness of their
own spirit, would be persuaded and encour
aged to come to the truth, as it is in Christ, I
cheerfully, but with humility offer to them a
relation of my own Convincement to the truth
of revealed religion ; with a Plea for that re
ligion and righteousness, which is indepen
dent of the systems and notions of men,
which do so much obscure the truth.
Thirdly—Having myself been overtaken in
a time, when my mind was not suspicious of
the traditions of men, and drawn into the use
of dead and lifeless church ceremonies, such
as the sacrament of bread and wine ; and water
baptism, &c. and as I have made full proof
of their pretended virtue, and found them
to be useless, beggarly elements, I know how
to pity the thousands, who like myself, when
they have been drawn into the use of such
lifeless ordinances, and not finding that bles
sing which they expected, but rather death
and darkness instead of life, they have fallen
into doubts and queries as to their own chrisr
vii
liarrity ; and finally in the end, led to doubt
the truth of religion. Many, when they look
into the scriptures and read of baptism, &c.
they have not noticed the difference between
a relation and a command ; that is, they have
not noticed that these things were practiced
in conformity to the law dispensation, and
according to the prejudice ot some, and in
condescension to the weakness of others, who
had been brought up under a typical dispen
sation ; and as they have not discovered this,
so they have not discovered that the scrip
ture record, is but a relation of such things
without giving a. command. But as they
have been taught, so they have practiced, and
as " the letter killeth but the Spirit giveth
life," they have been left to struggle between
life and death ; and when they have practic
ed in the letter, they have been made sensi
ble of a lack, and their own spiritual feeling
has contradicted their practice ; so they have
been led to queries, and like Noah's dove
they have not been able to find rest to the
sole of their foot. I have written this little
volume for the help of such as are serious in
quirers after truth. I have not written my
Plea thinking to add any thing more than
that which has already been said upon the or
dinances (so called) by Robert Barclay, Scott,
Phips and others, who have written long
since. I have only written under a sense of
my own duty, as no one can do duty for me.
Should the reader discover a similarity in my
viii
writings to the writings of Friends (called!
Quakers) I would not wish to have him think
that I have undertaken to give a relation of
their sentiment. What I have written) I have
written for myself, and so I shall hold myself
accountable for all errors that may be held
forth m these few sheets. In writing, I have
not made any one my rule. As to the senti
ment of Friendsj I knew nothing of it, either
from them or their writings, until about two
years after I had borne public testimony to
the truth of the doctrine for which I now
advocate; So that my readers may receive
what I have written to be my own experience,
without the counsel or traditions ofany ;.: and
without regarding any person or sect, my
— o J J -~
bear a testimony to the truth with them who
have it.
My last and least reason for writing my
Plea, is to answer for myself to calumnious
reports which some public preacherSj as well
as others have spread abroad respecting my
religious sentiment, so that all may know for
themselves the truth of what I believe. I
have written without regarding who may bo
pleased or displeased, and if I should appear
to franchise, or use plainness it shall be for
the love I owe to my brethren and the cause
of truth; and notwithstanding I may use
plainness, I- wish to be counted a friend and
not an enemy. Particular tenets will be
found very light when compared with the
truth ; therefore, when we speak on mattere
of religion it behooves us to use great plain
ness, and nothing should be considered a
greater token of christian regard. T. P.
XZpAs I had not purposed in my mind to
write until some little time since, it is not in my
power to ascertain the certain time in which ma
ny things took place, from ten to fifteen years
past, nor even to date many things which has ta
ken place more recently, therefore I shall not be
particular in mentioning dates.
.
THE AUTHOR'S
RELIGIOUS CONVINCEMENT.
CHAP. I.
Early visitations of the Holy Spirit, teaching the neces
sity of an acquaintance with God—Trials of mind, on the
doctrine of unconditional election and reprobation—A gra
cious deliverance from a despairing mind by God's unex
pected appearing by the Spirit—The doctrine of uncondi
tional election false, otherwise Satan is but the servant of
God ; a subject of reward, being as necessary in the order
and fulfilment ofGod's decrees, as the AngefGabriel—Va
rious trials, resulting from a disagreeable situation in life.
Were I to mention the intimation and light
of God's Spirit manifested to me, I should
not be able to mention one time in all my
life (after I come to years of sensibility) that
it was not with me. But when I was about
twelve years of age, I was brought to be more
sensible of God's striving with me, than I
ever had been before. I received a sensible
visitation of the divine light which made me
sensible ofsin, and of the necessity of becom
ing acquainted with God. But to become
acquainted with that being who was as high
It
i
&s heaven, knew not ; I was only sensibly
acquainted with myselfas being wicked, and
sinfully inclined. It was not uncommon that
the thought of death, judgment and eternal
things, would burst forth upon my mind with
such power as to embitter all my proposed
leasures, and cause me to leave all my youthf
ul engagements for reflection. The language
of my heart was, what can be done ? These
serious impressions had occupied my mind a
•considerable time, when I was led to notice
all religious conversation that passed before
me, with sn interested attention ; and though
I was young and said not any thing myself;
yet 1 heard, observed, and in my mind re
marked upon all that passed before me, that
I might ifpossible learn some way whereby I
might escape my sins ; or rid myself of a bur
then whicb I felt to be heavy on my mind.
But all proved "miserable physicians" to me ;
for while my heart and ears were waiting for
comfort and my mind was fondly dreaming
of help, it was propagated in my hearing, that
God had elected from before the foundation
of the world a certain part of mankind to be
saved, and that as many as were elected
would be called by an irresistible call ; so
that all who were to be saved, would be sav
ed, and all who were to be damned, would
be damned. This doctrine was more than I
could understand, though I was induced to
give it credit, for the force of the arguments
which generally accompanied that belief ; to
13
wit, that God had created all things, so had a
light to do with all he had made, as he pleas
ed : and that he had a right to study his own
glory, even to the condemnation of every
creature which he had made, and for that end
he had ordained the most public ; as well as
the most private actions of all men.
Such was the character of God, (I was led
to believe) that he had made mankind and
would save, or damn them, without any re
gard to their good, or bad actions ; and that
he was glorified in the death of the wicked,
as much as he was in the salvation of the
righteous, and that they were both necessary
in the counsel of his secret will.
In viewing this doctrine I felt as if God was
a hard master, but the view I had of his char
acter I did not dare to speak out, because he
was God, and had all power in hi? hands.—
I was moved tofear, but not to love ; I mis
conceived the character of God, by attribu
ting right to power.
Others there were, who contended that
God had not decreed the damnation of any,
but that he had only decreed the salvation of
the righteous : here I could only discover
partiality, for as he had found them all in sin,
he had only chosen some, and left the others
to contend with the brazen wall of fate, when
he might have saved the whole, as well as a
part. The more I considered the matter, the
more I felt unreconciled, and found my heart
inclined to murmur against God. I thought
14
on the helpless spirits, that fate had shut up
in misery beyond the reach of help, or hope,
and felt my heart to complain for them ; but
on a sudden I would feel frighted, to think
that I dare complain against the decrees of
God, and though I could see no justice in his
doings, yet I feared his power.
I would reason from time to time, and
then would fear to reason. I would com
plain and then through fear would strive to
force my heart to say, the Lord is good.—
But all were wrong. At last 1 was brought
to consider my situation more fearful than
ever I had done before. I thought there was
not a being on earth so unworthy as myself.
I thought if God had elected any to salvation,
he would elect thousands before he could re
ceive a creature unworthy as I was. The
more I considered, the more unworthy I felt,
and the less probable I viewed my chance
in the election of God. Sometimes I wished
that I had never been born—sometimes I
wished that I had been a snake or any thing
but that which had a soul and chance for hell.
I continued in this thraldom of mind for
many months, but dare not open my mouth
to any person for fear they would find out my
feelings ; but my feelings were too evident
to be hid, my mates soon began to discover
a change in my conduct, my mind was less
willing to engage in plays and projects than
usual. Whilst I was with my mates, I found
a great cross to subdue my natural propensi
15
ties, and it was not uncommon that my mind
was brought to reflect on the missteps I had
made during the day, and sleep gave place
to sore reflections upon my pillow. My
mind at last became so taken up and concer
ned about myself, that my mind was untrus-
ty in the common business of life. It was
not uncommon that I was interrogated again,
and again, before I knew to answer, and I
was often blamed by the family with whom
I lived for inattention to business. My mind
was continually filled with a sense of death,
judgment and eternity, so that there was but
little room for any thing else. The more I
thought on myself the more unworthy 1 felt,
and the less I indulged, favorable hopes con
cerning myself. As I had no hopes but what
lay in a particular election, I soon gave up
all hopes of ever knowing as to my particular
election or reprobation in this fife, so my
mind turned more particularly on dep th, as
the time to decide my doubtful case. Death
I knew was irresistible, and was furnished
wilh a thousand means to end my days.—
I felt as if there was but a step between me
and eternity, and it appeared that all the
powers of heaven and earth were combined
against me. The thunder storm was dread
ful to me as a judgment day ; every vivid
flash oflightning seemed to be but the forerun
ner of the next, which might send me to eter
nity; and no sooner was the storm over
than I congratulated myself that I was yet in
16
the land of the living, and my soul had not
been brought to feel the hell of partialpower.
All was well until the next storm arose, when
I would plead with God as with a tyrant, to
spare my life a little longer. At other times,
the rustling of a leaf was sufficient (speaking
after the manner of men) to set my hair in
end upon my head, at noon day.
Something like one year had passed under
I dreadful apprehension, when I began to take
more particular pains to attend meetings.—
As I was now living in the town and county
of Saratoga, I frequently sought opportunities
to hear the preaching of the Calvinist-bap-
tists, as the people with whom I lived held a
great dislike to the Methodist and other de
nominations. Among the Calvinists I fre
quently heard a preacher speak, by the name
of Langworthy, who lived in the village of
Ballston. This man's preaching was more
to me than all the preaching I heard beside ;
but all did not effect to remove the burthen
which lay heavy on my mind, or remove that
misconception which I had imbibed of the
character of God. He appeared to me a be
ing whom I must reverence, because he was
a God of power, and not because he was
lovely. My mind at last came to the very
verge of despair. I once sat and wept over
my condition, and in the bitterness of my
soul wiped my tears with my shirt-sleeves,
until I could not find a dry place to serve the
use ofa pocket handkerchief any longer.
17
The time at last drew on, when the Lord
in his goodness saw fit to assuage my grief,
wipe away my tears and remove the false no
tion which I had imbibed of his character.—
One day as 1 was going from the house to the
spring for a pail of water, just as I was de
scending a steep pitch, and on a quick pace,
unexpectedly and unaccountably to me, a
confidence towards God, filled my soul, and
apparently a light shone around me—the
burthen of my mind was gone in the twink
ling of an eye. My soul was filled with love
to God, and every creature which he had
made. Sin looked indescribably sinful, and
holiness looked to me to be as beautiful as
sin was hateful. Whereas my mind had
viewed the character of God in the most un
favorable point of view, it was impossible
now for me to imagine any thing else half so
lovely ; the very thoughts of the divine being
seemed to afford a heaven to my mind. The
whole face of nature seemed to be changed
into a field ofpleasantness, every thing I saw
bespoke the happiness which I felt, and I
thought sorrow never could return again ; my
mind was completely clear and calm—there
was not a cloud in all the region of my mind.
All were well. The parched ground was
made a pool of water—the wilderness seem
ed to blossom as the rose—the solitary was
glad, and the trees clapped their hands for
joy. My eyes now saw out of darkness and
out of absurdity, and my soul was filled with
b2
18
praise. Happy moment indeed ! and the first
real peace I had known for eighteen months.
My mind seemed to be possessed of such an
eternal power, that it seemed to comprehend
every thing in a minute ; and indeed, it was
but a minute ; for in the midst of my joy a
doubt arose in my mind, as to the source from
whence my feelings might arise, and no soon
er than I gave way to doubts, the compre
hension of my mind was eclipsed, and a de
gree of darkness ensued. My joys seemed to
me like a vision, and like the wind I could
not tell from whence it came, or whither it
went. But notwithstanding the vision was-
in a great degree gone from me, I was left
with a calm, serene mind, and with a mind
relative to the character of God very different
from what it had usually been. The doctrine
of decrees and reprobation, which I had
heard so much advocated for, was the first
thing that the spirit of God had taught me
was false.
When I consider how much my mind suf
fered, I attribute it much to the false notion
which I had prepossessed from the false
creeds of men. It is not the will ofGod that
his creatures, should crouch under a slavish
fear of him ; nay, men should repent, and be
come sincerely sorry for sin, and then by
faith come to God as to a fountain ofinfinite
goodness ; believing that " he is and tho'
they wait long for him, yet that in due time
he will be a rewarder of them who diligently
19
seek him. When my mind was rightly cloth
ed, I then believed as I do now ; that is, that
it is not in the power of devils nor men, to in
vent an idea more diametrically opposite to
the character of God and the good of man
kind, than the doctrine of unconditional elec
tion and reprobation. If God has decreed
all the actions and conditions of men, (as
some Calvinists teach) it destroys the idea
of virtue or vice, for one is as necessary to fill
up the plan of God's secret -will as the other,
and sin is as necessary to the glory of God as
holiness, and ultimately they end in a like
good. As to mankind, if their actions are alt
decreed, they have no purposes to make in
their mind, either as to good or evil, they have
only to float in the channel of God's irrefixa-
ble decrees. It would be useless to talk to
men about a judgment, future rewards or
punishments. Saith the apostle (Rom. hi,
5, 6, 7) " if our unrighteousness commend the
righteousness of God, what shall we say ? is
God unrighteous who taketh vengeance ?—
(I speak after the manner of a man) God for
bid, for ifthe truth ofGod hath more abounded
through my lie, unto his glory ; why yet am
I also judged as a sinner ?" If the actions of
men are all decreed, they must be all to 'the
glory of God, and the apostles show there
could be no judgment because there is no
such thing as a sinner, there can be no re
ward reckoned to man for doing a deed,
which is free and independently done only by
20
another ; neither tan there be any punish
ment inflicted on him who momentarily does
the whole will ofGod. Dear reader, let not thy
mind be frightened if I unmask the truth in
simplicity. That God who has bound all
things, with the actions and conditions of
men, in time and in eternity, fast in fate,
characterises the devil, more than a be-
ing of infinite wisdom and goodness, for all
the evil actions of men do not originate from
salan, but from God ; satan is as necessary
in the purposes of God as the angel Gabriel,
and if there is any such thing as reward for
doing God's will, such as are principal actors
ought to be considered worthy of double hon-
honor ; so satan, as he is one of the principal
agents in the purposes of God, he should be
reckoned among all the servants of God, the
first that is entitled to a reward for his great
service.
To avoid too much digression, I will now
turn more particularly to my subject. Not
withstanding my mind felt a great change, I
did not know that I had received any thing
that might be called religion ; neither was it
necessary that I should know it. Religion,
likefruit, has within itself every possible de-
liciousness and flavor peculiar to its kind,
though the name may not be known* The
name of an orange is no part of an orange, so
the name (religion) is no part of the thing. The
spirit of God is capable of interpreting itself,
and auck as receive it, receive the " new
21
name," which none knoweth, save them that
receive it ; they receive the nature, life and
influence, with all that virtue which we can
possibly understand of Christ, by the name
religion. Hence I know by my own experi
ence, that the notion (which some men prop
agate) that there can be no knowledge ofChris
tianity without the bible, is false. They
might just as well contend, that a blind man
could not tell bitter from sweet, pleasant food
from that which is unpleasant, and that he
could not be nourished and benefitted by the
same, because he cannot discover it by the
natural eye. Though I had no particular
knowledge of the scriptures, such was the ef
fect of the spirit which I enjoyed, that I felt
to be at peace with God and with man ; death
and hell had lost their frightful features, and
the thunder storm which was once so dread
ful became as pleasant as music.
Though I felt much attached to the char
acter of christians, yet I did not pretend in
my own mind to class myself with them.—
My life and actions bore visible signs of that
work which the spirit had wrought in me, and
like that which the fire burns over, leaving a
visible appearance behind, so the fruits of the
spirit was for a little time visible in my life.
1 had a choice in my company, and used fre
quently to reprove the swearer ; and I found
great comfort in my mind when at any time
I could converse with my mates on serious
subjects. When at any time I lay down up
22
on my bed, my mind would immediately era-
gage in religious muse. I thought from what
1 saw in others, that 1 must use a vocal prayer,
and accordingly I learned a few appropriate
words. This form perhaps I did not miss
saying night and morning, for a whole year.
When I thought on eternal things, they were
ever near, and if I thought on God I realized
that I was immediately in his presence, and
that all my thoughts were as well known to
him as they were to myself. If I prayed to
God either vocally or mentally, it appeared
that my petitions reached to the very place
where I would have them. But, O the ad
vantage that the enemy had over me, on ac
count of the disadvantageous situation in
which I was placed in life ! Fortune had
deprived me of parental privileges at a very
tender age, consequently I was thrown into
the world, and exposed to the cool reception
of what some people would call charity. But
when I came to years of understanding I was
made much more sensible of a selfish desire
which some possessed, that they might get
all they benefit they could out of me, than I
was of their pity.
I was at this time living in a family where
the unhappy disposition of the man, was cal
culated to render all unhappy about him.—
Though he made a profession of religion, his
conduct was such from time to time, that it
was very stumbling to me. His disposition
was unhappy, and his temper such as caused
• *
23
me to fear him but not to love him. It was
not seldom that he punished for the smallest
offence, and I was punished severely only for
his own suspicion. As 1 was a child I was
like other children, subject sometimes to
childish offences and to accidents like others
of my age ; offences and accidents equally
rendered me a subject of his displeasure, and
punishment was equally met too frequently
by both. All this rendered my situation ve
ry disagreeable indeed. Such was the influ
ence of his treatment to me it was hard to
tell whether I dreaded his frowns or his whips
most ; but as both were disagreeable and
generally sure, I was frequently induced to
tell a falsehood to save myself from his dis
pleasure ; and indeed it was not uncommon
that I denied accidents and offences of which
I was guilty, as it was the only means which
I could invent to shun his severity. O how
trying was this to my mind ? To lie would
not agree with the principle which I had with
in me- Sometimes I thought that I would
suffer much, rather than feel my conscience
complain of me as it did; but as I had not
grace to withstand my aggravations I had re
course to such means for my defence, as woun
ded my mind, and spoiled my confidence to
wards God.
After about three years, I could only remem
ber the Lord as an ancient friend ; tho' at the
expiration of that time I was not without
comfortable meditations ; but I had notenough
24
of his grace to keepmein the hour of tempta
tion. I was very sensible of my loss, my
crimes and my situation ; and often turned
aside, where I wept for if as though I had
been whipped. I often comforted myself
with the thought that I should be of age by-
and-by, when I should have no one to fear,
consequently I should not be tempted to cov
er my accidents by falsehoods, for fear of
punishment. I thought more of this privi
lege than I did of freedom, or all the other
imaginary comforts of life. But I more and
more departed from the truth and added to
my inconstancy (to the truth) anger, which
was the fruits of my tried situation. Soon I
lost all my sweet enjoyment of mind and
found a proud, concupiscent mind influencing
me in its place. *
CHAP. II.
The pride or youth, and a back-slidden-Iife, not without
serious reflections and spiritual reproofs—Reflections whilst
in the army, and a convincement ofthe impropriety of war,
and the fallacy ofworldly honors—Deep contrition ofsoul—
Retirement from the army—Many promises of reformation
(made to God) forgotten in a retired life—Sensibility of a
sinful heart, with an inward sense of the weakness of crea
tively strength—Several visions of the night foreboding
things, for four years to come—the condition ofthe Church.
After living in an unpleasant situation a-
bout seven years, I became discontented and
25
resolved to change ray situation in life ;
accordingly without the consent of the man
with whom I was living, I repaired to the town
* of Danbury, in the state of Connecticut,
where*I chose a guardian, and bound myself
to learn a trade, being about 17 years of age.
It was my fortune to live with very agreeable
people, who used me better than I used my
self ; for as I knew nothing of the difficulties
of providing for a family, I frequently used to
find much fault with my living. During my
apprenticeship, I became much attached to
the episcopalian mode of worship, and at
tended very constantly at that church.—
Though that form of worship appeared to me
to be pleasing, it was much more fashionable
than evangelical ; consequently my pride
found no check by my attachment. So it
was with me, at an age and time of life when
J needed much grace, I had but a very little,
if any, consequently, like the "sow that was
washed" I gave myself up to the wallowing
in the mire. I gave way to the pride of life,
the lusts of the flesh and to many things
which are at war with the life of a christian.
It was a time of life with me in which I laid
the foundation for much repentance, and the
cause of serious reflection for life. Though I
was not left to do any thing criminal, nor to
be unreserved in my language, yet I was far
from that- which I had ought to have been.—
I was not without my remembrancer, and of
ten found myselfwith all my pride and world-
c
*
26
ly imaginations laid waste by a little reflec
tion. I spent many of my evenings in lone
ly retreat, as retirement was always accoun
ted by me a very precious privilege.
Reflection's the path, from this world to the next ; "
Remote from all pride, and a world much perplext.
Retreat is the place to discover all worlds ;
The place to know God, and distinguish ourselves.
In retreat there's reflection, and counsels the best—
The saint's study, God's house, and the sweet schoolofChrist.
But notwithstanding I had many reflections,
being naturally high spirited and fond of the
world, I had too much pride to make any
proficiency in a christian life.
The term of my apprenticeship closed a
short time before the declaration of the late
war, which was declared in 1812. As the
war was a hindrance to most mechanical bu
siness, mine with the rest, my worldly pros
pects appeared discouraging, and meeting
with an opportunity something inviting to a
worldly mind, I accordingly entered the U-
nited States' army for eighteen months. Be
fore the expiration of my enlistment I receiv
ed a commission, which rendered my pros
pects and situation much more agreeable to
my proud mind. Without troubling my rea
der with all the account of several years,
which were spent in pride and honorary pur
suit, I shall only observe, that immediately
on entering the army I proceeded to the wes
tern frontiers, where I was exposed to the
i
27
hardships and dangers of the war without in
jury, until the battle of Chippewa, in Upper
Canada. During that period I commanded
a company in the 25th Regiment of Infantry,
under the command of Maj. Jessup. The of
ficers in the company who ranked me, were
unfortunately wounded at the very com
mencement of the action, which gave me the
command. I received a musket shot in my
right thigh, and was wounded at the time
they were ; yet I possessed too much of the
spirit of war, and had too much pride to quit
the ground though I was wounded as bad
as either of them.
From the wound which I received in this
engagement, and from the consequence of
overheating myself at the same time, my
health was so much impaired that I was o-
bliged to lay by for the recovery of my health.
In a few months, when I had measurably re
covered from my wound, I repaired to Sack-
ett's Harbor, where I was measurably con
fined to my room much of the winter.
One day, as I was sitting alone in my
room, my thought began to trace over my life,
and to note how many times I had been pre
served in times of danger. Four times I had
been taken out of the water, when otherwise
I must have drowned. Twice I had been
saved from perishing by fire. I had also
been protected through the imminent dan
gers of the late war, so that my life was yet
spared. I had survived whilst a large circle
28
of my acquaintance had fallen in this, that
and the other place. The company of men
with which I first entered into the army had
been killed in action, or had died with sick
ness, so that there was but a very few of them
remaining. I felt that it was through dan
gers seen and unseen, that the Lord had
spared my unprofitable life. I had now been
two years and a half in the army. During
this time, I had given every possible indul
gence to my rank and pride. My mind was
soon filled with such an abasing sense of my
self, that it seemed as if I was more like a
shadow than like a substance. It appeared
that my minutes were all numbered, and
that my days were like a shooting star. I
saw that whilst my life had been dependant
upon God's goodness I had acted contrary to
his will for many years. I thought upon tha
honors and the applause of men. Thought I
from my very heart—it is but a name.a loath
some, empty, hissing sound, from a set of
pride-intoxicated mortals, whose own false
notions are but the bane of the soul, the thief
of reason and the prop of fools.
Hence my mind was led to the consequen
ces of war. It was but a few days before
this, that 1 had witnessed the honorary res
pects of war paid to General Pike, who was
killed at Little York, in Upper Canada. This
man was honored by a funeral procession
—whilst a coffin was carried through the
streets covered with a black cloth, with a
29
sword laid thereon. The General's horse
was Jed in the train, by him that was once
bis servant.
While my mind recognized the firing of
cannon, with the sound of drums and other
instruments of music, thought I, where is
the man ? What part of the procession did
he form ? What was there in all such hon
ors to compensate the poor man for the loss
of his life ? Thought I, if the man should
look down from Heaven (were it possible)
he would despise such honors ; was he to
look from hell, surely he would despise so
mean a price for the worth of his soul. Why
honor him, whose body is in one place, and
his soul in another ?
I considered the multitude that had fallen
in the field of battle : some were killed in
stantly, whilst others were left to linger out
a day, a week or a month, and perhaps more
time than that, without the least hopes of re
covery. There, thought I, is a youth, the
son of a tender Fatherr and the child of an
affectionate Mother, who has made him the
object of her hope ; whilst she has watched
over him in his tender years, her love has
been jealous for his best good ; but where is
he now ? Perhaps his body is blown in pie
ces by the engines of war, his once compo
nent parts, or limbs, (which once made up a
son, a Brother or a friend) can hardly be se
lected from among the disconnected remains
of others who have fallen victims, with him
30
self to the, com man fate of war! What shall
be done to compensate the Father or a Moth
er ? Shall the empty sound of honor supply
the place of a child, and compensate a broth
er or a sister for the loss of so near a friend.
Again : There is one who is the companion
of a poor female, who has given herself to
him for life ; it is in him she has reposed her
all—perhaps, with a number of children, she
was dependant on him for her daily bread
and for a shelter from the natural inclemen
cies of life ; but where is he now ? If his bo
dy is not almost obliterated from the face of
the earth, perhaps he may not be in the con
dition of the others, but in a worse situation.
Perhaps he is wounded in such a manner as
to render him unable to receive the least
support from food as his nature requires, so
that in addition to his wounds he must still
languish out his days by starvation in a com
mon house of misery. Dreadful reflection !
—Otherwise he may be denied the covert
of a hospitable roof to shelter, him from the
inclemency of the weather—fallen in the
wilderness or on the plain—his wounds ag
gravated by the chilling blasts of night, or
by the incessant sun-beams by day. If he
is capable of receiving, he may have no
; one to administer the least relief by bringing
him a morsel of food, or a cup of cool water,
which he may eagerly crave in the'last ex
piring moments. He has fallen in a distant
country, remote from friends and unpUied by
31
human eye ; and shall the empty sound of
honor compensate him in his extreme state of
suffering ? What shall be a balm for his
dreadful sensations which may accompany
his tho'ts to a small spot of ground that encir
cles his wife, his children and his connex
ions and friends dwelling in a far country ?
Shall titles and human dignity compensate
him for these heart rending sensations, which
if possible must be more aggravating to his
mind than the wounds which confine him to
the fatal spot. How empty must the applause
of the world sound to the poor dying man!
What shaW compensate the companion of
his bosom for the loss of her husband ? And
whp shall be to his children in the place of a
natural Father in all the misfortunes of life,
and protect them in a tender age from the
frowns of an inconstant world ?
Again : there is one fallen who was com
mander and chief of the carnaged field, but
he has fallen ! and his blood is mingled with
that of his horse, and with the blood of the
common soldier. He has led his thousands
to combat against them of his fellow men,
who never did him nor his party a penny's
worth of injury. He has led his thousands
to the field of cruelty, where they were dwin
dled to a fragment in the course of a few
minutes ; but perhaps he is sharing the fate
of those already mentioned, or his soul may
be in a world of Spirits. The question is, what
must be his reward ?
32
When I meditated on the principle of war,
I viewed it as a scene of pride, of wretched
ness and misery, as diametrically opposite to
every possible good, a waste to morality and
virtue, the sacrifice ofpeace, property, healtti
and life. Some thought I, contend for a de
fensive war. But, if a defensive war is right,
then why blame the savages for their cruelty,
for they are only fighting in defence of their
country, as they are the rightful owners of
all the soil. But shall we not fight for liberty ?
What way can a man sell his liberty soorv
er than to engage in a war ? What can he
possibly lose more than to lose his property
his life, his health and friends. Surely if the
maxim is true, that self defence is right, then
let it commence at home ; let every man re
fuse to bear the sword, and no man will be
injured.
The more I thought on the subject, the
more sensibly I was convinced that it was
wrong, and accordingly I became determin
ed in.,a short time to leave the army and re
tire to private life. My mind was so Wrought,
that I had lost in a little time all the military
ambition that I ever possessed. The honors
of the world—the very thought of them be
came a burden to me. I entertained in my
mind that the honor of a sceptre would be but
misery for me ; I viewed myself in the dust
and that, as the only place that could afford
me any comfort. I was not only convinced
of the impropriety of war, but a sense of my
33
sins lay heavy upon me, the world had lost
all its beauty, and I had lost all taste for soci
ety. I chose retirement, and frequently walk
ed out of the camp and did not return until
nine o'clock at evening.
During my meditations, my mind would
call to remembrance my past life which I
viewed with regret. Sometimes I concluded
that there could be no mercy for such a being
as I was. My mind became so impressed
that sleep departed from me, and I was left to>
meditate on my unpleasant situation. As I
was at one time several nights without sleep,
I thought to gain sleep by the use of opium ;
and having taken it once to no effect, I dou
bled the quantity, but to no more purpose
than before. I then added one third more
to the quantity which I had taken, but it had
no more effect upou me, than if I had not ta
ken any thing* I then desisted, fearing that
a sudden consequence might ensue. It
seemed as if it was impossible for any thing
to lock up my thoughts, or shut out the disa
greeable sensations of my mind.
It happened as I was sitting in my room
one day, I discovered the New Testament (so
called,) laying upon the table. I took it up,
resolved to read it through ; but was opposed
by my mate officer, who quartered with me.
Firstly he only laughed at me for reading
such a book ; and when laughing would not
persuade, he once knocked it out ofmy hand.
When I saw that he not only disliked, but
.
34
that his dislike grew into a petulance when
he found me often reading, I sought opportu
nities when he was absent and read it through
again and again. Here I found many things
which afforded me matter of consideration,
and I felt deeply affected when reading a-
bout the sufferings of Christ.
There was nothing I desired ort, the earth
more than to be settled in retirement and to
enjoy the favor of God- I continued at Saclc-
ett's-Harbor until the news of peace. which
was very pleasing to me, as I was now a
friend to peace; besides, I thought too,
that I should not be likely to meet with any
difficulty in leaving the army under a peace
establishment. As soon as circumstances
would admit the company was disbanded and
I returned to Eden, in the county of Niagara
state of New-York,* where I had married
my wife, about seven months before.
When I left the army, I was fully convin
ced of the impropriety of war and disdained,
as I thought, the proud pursuits of the world.
I felt resolved to enjoy a retired life, and to
walk humbly before God. After I had been
home a little time I found myself retained on
the peace establishment ; I then resigned my
commission which was accepted, and so I
found myself clear from the army, but not
clear from the spirit of the world ; for no
sooner than I had retired from the army I be
gan to feel my mind anxious about domes-
* 'flifr town is now called Boston, and the county, Erie County.
35
tic concerns. All those good resolutions which
I had been predetermined in, were but form
ed too muchinmy own strength, so that, as I
had not fully dedicated myself to God, my
strength wilted, (when tried) like the flowerby
the blazing sun beams at noon day. I did
not forget the many promises which I had
made to God in the course of my life, but no-
sooner than I was made to remember I was
as ready to put off the work of righteousness,
until a more convenient season. During
eighteen months I was so much attached to
worldy business, that my soul, mind and
might seemed to be drank up in the busi
ness of life ; in cold and in heat, wet and dry,
all kinds, of weather were equally impro
ved by me, yea, I accounted the very time of
eating and sleeping as lost and unprofitable.
Sometimes I conversed with certain per
sons who lived in the neighborhood, about
the subject of religion, but as their turn of
mind was calvinistic, there was little to be
learned from them, but particular election
and reprobation. This doctrine was so dis
agreeable, that the very devil within me would
rise up against it. This doctrine had been
detestable to me from a child, as I had suf
fered much from it, but more particularly be
cause God had taught me at that time, that
it was false. In conversing upon this doctrine,
it was $ot uncommon that I met its advo
cates with language, all but as corrupt as the
doctrine itself. Notwithstanding I was so far
86
from God I was not without a remembrancer.
The Spirit of God continued to visit me. e*
ven in a time when the world would judge by
my conversation and life, that I had not so
much as one good thought about me.—It was
on a time when God saw fit to come more
sensibly near to me than usual, that I began
to consider upon my condition. I thought 1
could discover that from time to time wick
edness had increased with my years. At this
time I could really discover plainly, that my
temper was much more ungovernable than it
ever had been before. I could look back to
the time when I was about ten or fifteen years
of age—when I was a stranger to a revenge
ful disposition—a time when it was as much
of a mystery to me, how people could be angry
one with another, as it was mysterious now,
that my temper was so ungovernable. When
I seriously considered the progress sin was
making in my soul, I felt really fearful that I
should come to some bad end. If I resolved
to mend, as I frequently did, it seemed as if
all the powers ofsatan were engaged to refute
and destroy the good intentions I had, and
cause me to commit two offences against
God, to every good resolution I formed. My
sins were a constant aggravation to me, and
yet I sinned. I could plainly discover a hell
within my own breast, without being able to
shun it.
So it is I believe, that when men feel a de
termination to become holy, satan then
37
strives most with them. Add to this, that
the light of the spirit magnifies, or rather
shows sin in its proper shape, showing ev.ry
sin to be like a mountain. -So the poor soul
has a hard struggle to escape sin, and come
to God. It is not uncommon that people
imagine themselves out of satan's dominions
because they are insensible of sin, which like
a bane lurks within them. They do not groan
for sin, because they are insensible of it ; they
are not unusually tempted, because satan is
not suspicious of any loss by them.
During the 6th month, (called June) 1816,
a circumstance took place, which was fol
lowed by mature considerations. Being cal
led from my business by some unexpected
means, I fell into a fretful rnood, which con
tinued for about one hour ; during this time
I gave way to much wicked and improper
language. After my insanity was a little a-
bated, I threw myself upon the bed and be
gan to reflect on myself for my folly. I
thought that I had become one of the most
unreasonable beings on the earth. I accoun
ted myself the fool of all fools, for having giv
en away to the wicked influence of satan.
Here I called to mind all the improprieties of
my life, with all the promises I had made to
God. I contrasted that heavenly minded-
ness which I once possessed, with my feel
ings and condition now ; but considered my
self further from God than ever. Thought I,
I am the man that has lived foolish above all
men ; I have often made solemn promises to
the Lord, but I have as often broke them—
perhaps I have committed the unpardonable
sin ! When could it be ? When I was about
twelve years of age the Lord did much for
me, but I was not converted ; it was but a
special call I had—and such was the exer
cise of my mind then, as I have never expe
rienced since that time. Had I walked a-
greeable to that great light which I had, I
1 should not have done as I have, but now I
really fear that my day of grace is past, and
all I do is in my own strength. This perhaps
is the reason, (thought 1) why I am given o-
ver to languish out a life in fits of presump
tion and extreme.—My prayer was to God,
that if his mercy was not clean gone he would
begin my salvation, and by his own power
help me to escape the bondage of my sin.—
Lord, said I in my heart, I am sinful, wicked
and weak ; Satan is too strong for me ; Lord
here I am, I am thine as a creature, the work
is thine, the power is thine.
I arose from my bed, resolved, the Lord
helping me, to reform my life,then, or die with
out ever attempting to reform again. A-bout
this time I had several dreams which were
very similar one to the other. I thought that
the country was invaded by a foreign power,
and that the inhabitants had recourse to arms
for their defence, but they were not able to
stand. I thought they were obliged to re
treat (myself with the others,) or become
39
prisoners of war. I thought that I would not
retreat far, but turn aside to a house near by,
and hide myself there ; but no sooner than I
entered the door, the woman who belonged
to the house informed me, that she saw thro'
the window an officer near the house. I dis
covered that he was an enemy, but I had not
time to hide myself from him. I immediate
ly threw off my uniform coat, as I thought
on a table, and threw some citizen's clothes
(which lay by) over it, that it might not be
seen. Having ridded myself, as I thought of
my military vmaiks, I took a small child in
my arms and seated myself very demurely in
a chair, assuming the place ofa father. The
officer soon came in and saw me affecting all
the disinterestedness of a common citizen and
my parental pretensions without mistrusting
me to be any thing more, than the man of the
house. After a little conversation he stepped
to the table—moved a garment and discov
ered my coat ; he seemed immediately ap
prised of all my intrigue, and demanded my
surrender to him as his lawful prisoner of war.
But so it was, (as I thought) at that moment
I discovered a musket standing by, which I
instantly seized,and demanded that he should
surrender to me ; looking him in the face at
the same time with sternness, I threatened
that if he should move one inch from his
tracks without my consent, that I would blow
him through. He immediately put both
hands behind him and advanced towards me,
40
whilst his countenance assumed the boldness
of the sun and the beauty of an angel. He
had no weapons himself, and he took mine
from me. When I saw the man as he was,
I was overcome with his loveliness. I awoke
with a sense that I was found not by my en
emy, but by the best of all friends.
Several times within a few days, I imagin
ed in the vision of the night, that I had de
serted the army ; and being taken I received
nothing in return but forgiveness and love.—
It was true that I had long been at war with
the truth, and was about to be received and
taken, by my best friend. I had many times
hid my dress with the covering of others,
whilst I ignominiously treated Christ with af
fection, and denied him with conriction in my
own heart.
Though I was unusually visited by the vis
ions of the night, my dreams were so very
uncommon, they only left a singular impres
sion on my mind, without my being able to
put any meaning to them at the time. I re
flected much on the condition of my soul,
and the duty I owed to God ; I felt an im
pression that something was about to take
place which would very especially concern
me, but what I could not tell.
At this time evening meetings were fre
quent in the neighborhood, and the mind of
the people seemed inclined to attend ; accor
dingly, my wife asked me one evening if I
would go to the conference with her. J replied,
41
that I was willing to assist her in getting to
the place, but that I should not feel disposed
to tarry there myself. I urged as a reason
why I should not feel willing to tarry, that I
was much fatigued with the labors of the
day. That I was much fatigued was very
true ; but my principal reason why I would
not tarry was, I had been informed that there
were some prospects of a reformation in the
place, and as I had seen religious commotions
end, as they most always do, in disputes and
contentions—a disgrace to the cause of God
as well as civil community, I felt resolved in
my own mind, that I would not have any
thing to do with it.
My wife did not concede to go on such
conditions as I proposed, so we both tarried
at homei But as it is written, (Job xxxiii,
15, 16,) " In a dream, in a vision of the night,
when deep sleep falleth upon men in slum
bering upon the bed, then he openeth the
ears of men and sealeth their instruction."—
So it was, the Lord shewed me in the vision
of the night by a similitude all that which
took place for four years to come.
I first found myself (in my dream) on my
knees,earnestly supplicating the Lord for my
self and others ; my hands were raised hea
ven-ward, and my tears ran down to the
ground. When I rose from the ground I dis
covered myself to be in an open and exten
sive field. The place seemed only to afford
a gloomy aspect, with barrenness as far as my
43
eyes could discover. Whilst I was looking
round upon the wide extended plain, I discov
ered several persons not far from me. these
I solicited to journey with me, but they made
no reply, but accompanied me without say
ing a word. When we had travelled a con
siderable distance I discovered that we were
entering through the breach of a stone wall
into a garden. When we had come within
the wall, my mind was led to notice the
place. There seemed sometime to have
been a piece of ground enclosed with a beau
tiful stone wall, built in the most elegant man
ner ; the place was beautifully situated and
it appeared that in a former day no expense
had been wanting to make the place agreea
ble. Though there was no dwelling-house,
nor any human residence to be seen ; yet, the
place appeared to have been a place where
a nobleman had chosen to fix his residence
for life. The selection of fruits and flowers,
and the manner in whichvthe place had been
economised, all betrayed evident marks of its
former grandeur. It appeared as if it had
been a garden beautifully dressed—properly
designed for retirement and delight.
The ground appeared as if it had been
laid out in long alleys, forming right an
gles, with uniform beds on all sides, with
earthen flower-pots in every corner. All ap
peared to have been made for beauty and ad
miration, with every thing delightful and
pleasant to the eye, and good for food. But
43
while every thing was in a state of the highest
cultivation, and in midsummer bloom, it ap
peared that untimely frost had brought all
things to the ground ; and not only so, but
the wall was broken down on all sides. The
'destroyers' went in and out at their pleasure,
the flower-pots were broken in pieces, and
all seemed now given over to destruction, be
ing eaten up, and trodden underfoot.
A vine that stood in the midst of the gar
den, attracted my attention next. This vine
was very high extending upwards further than
my eyes could possibly see. As to the vine of
itself, it had not received the loss of a single
branch, though its leaves had fallen off and
Jay on the ground in great abundance. I re
marked to my companions that there was the
appearance of fruit about the vine, and that
it had probably borne fruit that season. Con-
eluding that the fruit would be the first that
would fall to the ground, I put about re
moving the leaves, and found that there was
much fruit, but it appeared to be rotten, all
but the heart, so that when the outside was
separated from the inside a part was palata
ble. When I had made many remarks to my
fellow travellers we passed through to the oth
er side of the garden, and left the once de
lightful but now melancholy looking region.
—I had not proceeded far when I came to a
beautiful brook. It appeared to be about
three feet from side to side—the water was
clear as a crystal and made its way over a
44
bottom of white pebble-stone. My attention
was at once turned to know from whence
came the beautiful stream. From the make
of ground round about, I concluded the foun
tain must be near, and observing a large log
by the side of the way—with much difficulty
I availed myself of its height,, that I might
the better discover the fountain which I im
agined was near. But to my great sur
prise I could discover nothing of the fountain
only I perceived that the water proceeded t
from- the log upon which I stood. The log
appeared to be large, and it appeared that it
was the part of a tree cut off above and be
low the branches. One of the branches had
been smitten with an axe, and a block was
taken out, and though the log apparently had
lain in that place for many years, and was
apparently dry and uncomely as a root out of
dry ground, yet from the branch and place
that was smitten proceeded the chrystal
stream. It appeared in my dream that after
leaving this place, I found myself standing on
the shore of a large body of agitated water.—
Here I discovered many ships—they were all
of one size, and were black like ships of war..
They were anchored and came not near each
other. Whilst I was looking at the vessels
and the men on board, I discovered a distant
shore, and with that I? discovered two lights.
The lights, each of them, appeared to be the
bigness ofthe sun. The country which I dis
covered on the other side of the water ap-
45
\
peared lo be beautifully situated and enjoyed
the light, (as I thought at first) oftwo lumina
ries at one time. I then thought again that
one must be the true sun, and the other must
be but a reflection of the true light, and that
it denoted a storm, and accordingly I gave
the last conjecture to my fellow travellers as
my opinion. My companions now spoke to
me for the first time : until now they had
treated me with the greatest indifference, and
they had not manifested the least degree of
curiosity, neither had they sympathised with
me in any thing that had passed. One of
them asked me if I was resolved to goto that
country ; to whom I replied yes : as soon as
I can be permitted. I understood that these
vessels were all bound for the other shore and
were for passengers, but I did not like them.
Until now, I had led the way, but my com
panions now led off, and I followed them. I
was soon introducedintocompany with whom
I felt the sweetest love and union. It appear
ed that they all dwelt in one house, but as the
house was without windows, it was without
light, besides that it was very dirty. I inform
ed them that I must leave them, for I could
not live in so dark and so dirty a place. They
all began to persuade me, to tarry with thein,
many tears were shed on the occasion, my
heart was affected at the thought of leaving
them, but I was bent on my departure, as I
felt a necessity to leave the place. After we
had tenderly embraced each other, (as it ap
f
4*
46
peared), I left the house. I had not proceed
ed far when I looked behind me, and saw sev
eral persons following after me, at a little dis
tance, but they did not come up with me. As
I lost sight of them, my dream ended, and I
awoke, and as I awoke, my ears were saluted
with the most beautiful singing that I ever
heard.
When I considered on the vision, I remark
ed in my mind, that it was singular, but I was
not able to imagine any thing,that the dream
should mean. What I understand by this vis
ion, I shall record hereafter as it took place.
CHAP. III.
Religious resolutions first publicly manifested—and a con
firmation ofGod's loving kindness—Trialsofmind about bap
tism and attachment to society—Visionary instructions by
v night—preaching, with fears as to communion of bread and
wine—and church liberties, found to be bondage—too fre
quent abuse of texts by a misapplication, with the rash and
inconsiderate use of psalms and hymns.
Some parts of the above mentioned vision
continued in my mind for several days, and
then it was gone from my mind, as much as
if there had been no such thingpassed. I
still felt resolved, as I had before determined,
to reform my life, and by the assistance ofthe
Lord, to live anew. A number of weeks had
passed, when I first began to feeL a change in
47
my'mind, so far that I saw a beauty and ex
cellency in the character of God. When I
obtained this discovery, I obtained a humili
ating notion of myself, and as I was brought
to see the beauty and goodness of God, I felt
as if I was one of the most ungrateful crea
tures that ever lived. I obtained a fear to
wards God, without a slavish fear, or a fear of
punishment, and a love with humility. I be
gan to feel it my duty to confess Christ pub
licly to the world, but this was very crossing
to my mind. 1 thought the very minute that
I should make public pretensions, or profess
myself to be religiously inclined, I should be
come a mark for the world to look at, and if
I did not live better than thousands who pre
tended to advocate the good cause, I should
only disgrace myself, and crucify my Lord a-
fresb, and put him to shame. The impression
which was in my mind, to make a public pro
fession continued to follow me by night and
by day, so that at last I became determined
in my mind, to declare my feelings in the first
christian congregation, which might fail in
my way, and accordingly for the first time, I
attended meeting for that very purpose. But
who can tell the feelings of my heart when I
came to the place ? The adversary strove
hard, to break my resolutions, and thereby
slay me, as he had many times before. The
house was filled with people,and those whom I
accounted as the first class in the society of
t^e world, to whom I had an inclination to
think myself not inferior. This was a trying
place to me, for not one person in the room
had the least knowledge of my intentions, e»
ven my wife, who was present, was ignorant
of the purpose for which I had come to that
meeting. I felt a reasoning within my heart
that I had better go from the place, without
exposing myself, and shew out my religion,
by first leaving it home. But when I thought
of leaving the place in silence, it appeared to
me that the enemy of my soul would gain a
complete victory over me thereby. Now ap
peared to me to be the time, and the only
time to put into execution that which I had
been promising to the Lord for many years,
namely, a reformation of life. I sat measure-
ably contented and easy, until the meeting
was about to end ; when it seemed to me, as
if Heaven or Hell, was depending on the
choice I should make in a minute oftime.
The thought of having it said that " Saul" is
" among the Prophets," seemed to be a cross,
heavier than I could bear. But at last I arose
and declared to the congregation that I felt
the need of a saviour. I exhorted the people
to repentance, and requested the prayers of
all christian people for me. I felt a degree
of resignation to the loss of the world immedi
ately. My mind became measurably easy,and
I left the place that evening with a great de
sire that the Lord would impart to me a deep
er knowledge ofhimself, and let me know my
sins forgiven. The language of my heart was,
49
O that I may " know him, whom to know a-
right is life eternal." One morning I arose ve
ry early from my bed, and retired, intending
secretly to call upon the Lord, and according
ly proceeded toward the woodland. As I was
walking slowly along, there appeared to me
a light like the sun. It was one of the lights
which 1 had seen in my dream several weeks
before. My mind felt an immediate confi
dence in God, and if an angel had met me in
the way, and told me that the hand of the
Lord was with me, I should not have believ
ed it the more. When the light appeared to
me, it reflected light, life and power to my
mind, and inspired me to trust only and en
tirely in God. As soon as I recognized the
light which I had seen in my dream, the light
disappeared, leaving me with a faint recollec
tion that I had had a singular dream, but I
could not recollect any thing more of it, than
that which related to the light, which- 1 had
just seen. The light was attended with such
power to my mind, that I did not advance
one step further, but I turned instantly on my
heel and travelled a quick pace back to my
house, and the first persons I met with I told
them the Lord was with me, and that 1 had
not one doubt of it. 1 told them also, that
sometime since I had seen in a vision of the
night, things which had been fulfilled, and
that in the course of my life I should see it
all fulfilled, though it was out of my power to
recollect but little of the vision tUen. My
E
50
soul was now at perfect peace with God and
with man. I now recognized every feature
of my mind, to be that which I enjoyed when
I was about twelve or thirteen years of age.
At this time I had lost all confidence in my
self and had confidence in God, and felt to
wait for him without a doubt.
There was quite a religious stir in the
neigborhood at this time, there had been ma
ny meetings in the place, though as yet 1 had
not attended but one meeting. So it was I
believe, that in the period of a few months,
there was not a family in the neighborhood,
but what experienced something of the grace
of God. But no sooner than the work had
become general, the different denominations
began, (as they generally do,) to contend a-
bout their tenets, and the neighborhood was
left to experience those disagreeable and dis
graceful divisions which generally arise a-
mongst the diiferent sectaries about church
order, baptism, communion, &c.
During the 8th month, there was a church
fonned in the vicinity by a people who would
not at that time receive any name, but they
since call themselves Free-will Baptists.
For myself I had no particular or deep ac
quaintance with any denomination about me
at this time, 1 therefore stood as it were by
myself forsometime,whilst there was little else
to be heard but " lo here" and " lo there is
Christ." Whilst many were running up and
down to this and the other society, to find a
51
home, as they were pleased to call it, my
mind began to be tried upon the subject of
water baptism. Many were every few days
going forward in that ordinance, and, as they
pretended, were led thereto by the Spirit of
God ; but for myself, I could not find the Spirit
to give me any instruction in the matter.—
I felt a great desire to do all that was duty,
and all I was waiting for was to feel duty as
well as others. I did not think to dispute the
ordinance, (so called) and though I had not
read the scriptures enough to dispute the rite
or to advocate for it, yet the frequent use of
baptism among all denominations with whom
I was acquainted, answered to confirm my
unwary mind and to put theceremonybeyonct
suspicion. I therefore concluded that bap
tism must be right ; and accordingly I be-
soughtthe Lord to make known my duty : But
what surprised me was, that death and dark
ness attended such supplication. On being
asked by some, why I did not go forward in
baptism, I frankly mentioned my lack of rev
elation on that point—telling them that there
was not the least impulse of the Spirit leading
that way ; and where the Spirit did not lead
I thought it was not my duty to act, because
others did, nor to be baptised because others
were baptised. Some said that I had not
ought to wait for the leadings of the Spirit,
because (he scriptures were plain on the point
©f baptism. They added too, that I had de
layed my duty too long already, and that I
52
had ought to be baptised and join to some so
ciety ; which if I would do, they doubted not
but that I should find a blessing in so doing.
Sometime afterthis I went forward in baptism,
but instead of feeling the approbation of the
Spirit of God, I only brought more death and
darkness upon myself than I had before, for I
had not received that blessing in baptism
which others pretended to receive. I felt the
approbation of my own mind so far as to say,
if it is a duty, I have done it. After I was
baptised I felt in my mind that I would stand
by myself, but being solicited to join society,
after some diffidence and delay I attached
myself to the society since called Free-will-
Baptist ; but my choice was not conducted
by a sound understanding in the scriptures,
but like nine-tenths of the people who attach
themselves to societies, I had not as yet read
scripture enough to compare scripture with
scripture, so as to be capable of divining for
myself. I have frequently had occasion to
notice the many who do as I did ; they make
up their faith or creed from a few passages of
scripture more ingeniously selected by the
preacher, than understood by them ; and
without suspecting the multitude in error they
attach themselves to society. The conse
quence frequently is much trouble for their
inconsiderateness, that is, if they are persons
who are determined to know the truth for
themselves. Otherwise they may become very
blind and zealous in their way, and like the
53
ox, they can labor only at the one end of the
yoke ; and for this, their only and best reason
is, because they have not been taught and
traditioned on the other.
Not long after I attached myself to society
several of the members in society came for
ward and began to labor in the ministry.—
This was trying to me, because my mind was
exercised as to the same work. But as there
were several of them now began, I concluded
that my feelings as well as theirs must be im
posed upon ; therefore I resolved in my own
mind, to hold my peace. I not only felt deter
mined to desist myself, but I opposed the oth
ers until all my sweetness of mind was gone,
in an unusual degree. My meditation be
came unpleasant—my comforts fled from me,
and prayer became ineffectual.
My mind was barren for some weeks and
my mouth was so shut up, that it seemed as if
I never should say any thing upon the subject
of religion again. After this I was troubled
by the vision of the night. I thought the
sentence ofeverlasting misery was passed up
on me, and as quick as thought I imagined
myself sinking into misery as into a pit. It
seemed as if my mind was left to realize all
the horror it was capable of undergoing
whilst the dreadful accent was realized, gone,'
gone, forever gone ! No one can possibly
imagine the sensation of my heart during the
vision—though it was short, yet it was pain
ful., I awoke immediately, and it seemed as
e2
54
if I could hardly persuade myself that I was
yet a being in the world. My mind instant
ly compassed a world lying in wickedness.—
1 realized for them that misery which must
come upon them in an unexpected day.—
Thought I, O that inconsiderate men could
see their situation as 1 see it !
When a few days had passed, under serious
reflection I recollected that part of my second
dream, which related to my being in an open
field much engaged in prayer. The interpre
tation immediately was, that the wide and.
extensive barren plain which I saw, was the
world in wickedness. I recollected again, that
there were several persons on the plain with
me. It came to my mind that these breth
ren, who had been laboring in the ministry
were the very persons whom I saw there—Is
had not so understood this part of my dream
until now. But when this interpretation come .
to me, it was like lightning bursting upon the
mind. Thought I, is i| possible, that the
Lord will make use of me in his work.—
What, me! even me! O how unworthy am
I ! I could see in myself, no worthiness, parts
or qualification for such a task. But as I
knew my dream was of a divine purport, I
had the witness that it would all be fulfilled
in process of time ; and though my mind was
not naturally inclined to yield to the interpre
tation which I had already conceived, yet I
felt measureably to say, not my will, but thy
will be done, O Lord ! My desire was daily
55
and hourly that the Lord would make known-
duty, and when he should make his will"
known, I really felt as if he was the one that
must fit and enable me to do it too.—It was
not long before the Lord was pleased to coun
sel me upon my pillow again. I thought in
the vision of the night, that I was warned to
prepare for death. I was informed that I was
shortly to leave all the concerns of this natur
al life. I- did not feel in any degree terrified,
but immediately put about arranging my tem
poral affairs, for the good of my family. Af
ter I had collected various effects and put-
them together in one place, 1 called my wife
to rne and informed her that I must leave her,
and that there was all the property I was
worth, and that she must make the best of it
for her maintenance.
After L had' made due preparation JI pa
tiently waited my departure, and employed
my time as the Lord would have me, not
knowing the means by which I was to leave
the world. When I had continued a consid- -
erable time on the earth, the time of my de
parture at length came.- I did not dream of
dying, but the first I knew of myself, I was a
great distance from the earth, triumphantly
soaring to the upper regions. I had not pro
ceeded far when it appeared as if I was met
with a company of angels, who began to sing
with heavenly sweetness. I felt completely
calm and happy in my mind: 1 was conduc
ted.upward for awhile until met by an inau-
56
merable company of angels, who broaght
with them additional and incomprehensible
joys. I soon felt to realize that I had passed
from this world to the next, ft appeared to
me that I was in the immediate presence of
God with a countless number of glorified spir
its, and where all things conspired to happi
ness. It appeared that knowledge did not
consist in beholding, as with a natural1 eye,,
but the mind became measurably infinite, so
that it was capable of beholding all things at
one time. All things seemed to have a spi
ritual existence,and tho' there appeared to be
millions of angels, yet their thought, subject
and theme, were so completely one, and their
happiness consisted so much in each otherr
through the Spirit it would be most proper to
say there was but one of all. 1 might as welt
throw down my pen, as to attempt to des
cribe the joys of the place. Could I forget
the unworthiness of myself I could with
pleasure tell that I heard things " not lawful
to be uttered ;" that is, it is out of the power
ofhuman ability to describe what I felt, what
I heard and saw. Such was the state of my
mind, I had forgot that I ever was an inhabi
tant ofany other place. It was in the midst
of my enjoyment that my views were conduc
ted still further, and suddenly there were
thrown open to my discovery, an incompre
hensible degree of happiness, hitherto seclu
ded. I realized that the happiness which I
enjoyed, was but an inch of ground coropar-
57
ed with a boundless field, for it was by such a
similitude that it was shown me. Into this
state of happiness I was about to enter when
I awoke, and found that it was a dream ! My
natural strength was so far overcome by my
views, that it was not without difficulty that I
turned myself in the bed. Finding myselfin
the flesh, the language of my heart was that
of the poet :
* This life's adream, an empty show ;
But the bright world to which I go,
Hath joys substantial and sincere y
When shall I wake and find rae there ?"
O how astonishingly good was the Lord in
preparing my mind for the trials which a-
waited me ! Had he not dealt with me as it
were with an open hand, in giving me proofs
of himself and of his loving kindness toward
me, I should have fallen under the trials with
which 1 afterwards met. This dream repre
sented the work which the Lord soon required
of me. It was not a natural death particular
ly intended, but a spiritual denth to this world,
was more especially received by me to be tbe
meaning of the vision. As to the extent of the
the joys which my mind was permitted to dis
cover of another world, it was not any thing
that I shall ever fully attain to in this world,
and live in the body.
Not long after this time 1 appeared in pub
lic, but my method was very disagreeable to
man/, for instead of laboring particularly
58
from a text, my mind was led to embrace a
subject and to expound and read the scrip
tures, to maintain the ideas which were on
my mind. After this my mind was so calm
(though much oppressed before) that for
some days I did not harbor the most distant
thought that I should ever appear in public
testimony again—my mind was clear from
doubts or fears, and I enjoyed the spirit of a
child. But it was not long before I felt it my
duty to appear publicly in behalf of the truth
again ; and accordingly I obeyed—and again
and again I felt my duties and as often obey
ed, and for a while as often concluded that
every time was the last.
After I had been attached to society a few
months my mind began to query upon many
things. I had by this time been to the Sa
crament (so called) several times, but not
finding that enjoyment which I expected, I
was led not to dispute the ceremony, but to
query what should be the reason I did not
receive that enjoyment wf ich others so fre
quently said they received. As often as I
came to the communion so often I was led to
doubts, darkness and death ; for my mind
not receiving that help which I fancied oth>
ers did', \ was moved to doubt my Christiani
ty, and as I received no help, light nor life, I
feared (according to the general but false
rendering of thr; scripture,) lest I should " eat
and drink damnation to myself."* So my
* See PLEA, Chip.7|!i, on 1 Cor. xi. 29,
59
greatest privilege was to desist from the use
of Bread and Wine as frequent as 1 could,
without giving an offence to my brethren.
I began now to notice the disputes among
professors of Christianity, with more attention
than usual. I was led to notice, that the
contentions which were among the different
denominations, were more about the ordinan
ces, church order, &c. than about any essen
tial doctrine of Christ. These contentions
were the means of destroying almost every
mark of that Spirit, which is the only work
and life of Christianity. It had become so in
my own neighborhood, where there had just
been a remarkable stir about religion, that
the people had not half the union, one with
the other, that they had before they made a-
ny profession at all. Such was the conse
quence of the reformation that the religious
parties would not meet atone place, but held
separate meetings in the neighborhood, and
sometimes within a few rods of each other.
If a member happened to attach himself to
this or the other denomination, the reply of
the other was, " We do not care for that, we
never had but little charity for him or her, we
are glad that they have joined where they
have. That denomination gets all the bad,
or disaffected members, and we get all the
good," Such was the disposition of the
different denominations, that they almost
imagined that they were always disaffected
towards a member, whereas their disaffection
60
was only because they had not joined their
society. About this time I began to feel the
smart, for having attached myself to the
Church ; for as I was determined to main
tain my Christian liberty and fellowship with
all denominations, and labour amonjst all
denominations without regard to sect or in
dividuals, I incurred the displeasure of
some of my Free-will-Baptist brethren, who
were bent upon monopolizing my public la
bours to themselves. 1 soon could witness
to that saying of my divine Lord, which was,
"that a man's enemies should be them ofhis
own .household." They demanded of me
that if I would preach to the Methodists, or
that if I would preach to the close-com-
munion-Baptists to join them, otherwise to
preach where I belonged ; but otherwise, if I
was determined to be every thing; to be ev
ery thing. I replied, if to preach the gospel
to all the world, constituted a man every
thing, I should choose to be every thing. I
soon learned what the different sectarians
with whom I was acquainted meant by chris
tianfreedom, and that it was no more than to
"go to meeting, where we go, do as we do,
and believe as we believe," and if there was
not a compliance to this freedom, all love
was lost, or became very cool and indifferent.
I had not as yet thought to dispute the pro
priety of the ordinances, but thought what
every body did must be right. I knew that
I had no call to preach ordinances, though
61
others said they had, and preached the form
of religion more than any thing else. As for
myself, 1 never pretended that 1 had any spir
itual instruction in any kind of outward ordi
nances, but such as did pretend to be led by
the Spirit disagreed much in their form. One
pretended that the Spirit led him to be bap
tized by sprinkling : a seconds-said the Spirit
led him to receive baptism by pouring : a
third contended that he was led by the Spirit
to be immersed or plunged ; all this looked
inconsistent to me. 1 could not believe that
the Spirit of God would be so inconsistent
with itself.
While I was observing others, I was also
led to notice the preachers. Many of them
did not pretend to be led by the Spirit at all,
and thought that it was delusion in others if
they pretended so to be led, so it was not
strange with me, to see them disagree, both
in preaching and administering the ordinance.
But such as did pretend to administer by the
Spirit I saw that they contradicted their pro
fession, in that, when they assembled together
they would be frequently urging each other
to preach, and it was not nncommon that one
half hour was spent in questioning one, and
the other whether it was not their privilege
or duty to improve ; if they were led by the
Spirit there would be no such questioning to
do. If there was no one who could be war
ranted by the Spirit, this was no hindrance,
some one was sure to engage in the work.
F
62
Another inconsistency I discovered was,
that they had a particular rule of wor
ship, which was to commence with singing.
When the preacher opened his meeting, he
would say, (turning to a Psalm or Hymn) '
" let us commence the solemn worship of God,
by singing to his praise," &c As Psalms and
Hymns were generally expressive of praise,
prayer, or thanksgiving, I could not see that
a whole congregation both saint and sinner
could possibly feel the spirit of a Psalm, a
Hymn or a Doxology, all at one time. It
was not uncommon that the wickedest man
in the neighborhood, was called upon to pitch
the tune, and to take the lead in singing. If
the whole congregation could sing with the
Spirit and with the understanding also, then .
this was right ; but if not, then it remained
that the preacher in commencing the propo
sed worship, firstly put-out a dozen or more
lies for the people to tell. After singing was
ended, then a prayer followed, and then sing
ing again, by this time a text was named.—
The text perhaps was the part of a verse or
sentence divided so as to suit the spirit of the
times best, or combat the supposed false
dogmas of the day. It was not uncommon
that the meaning of the text was missed al
together. A certain preacher took for his
text, Hab. ii, 11, " For the stone shall cry out
of the wall, and the beam out of the timber
shall answer it." His first motive was to
prove the Trinity ; that is, three persons and
63
one God. That was done by contending,
that it must take three stones to make a wall.
When the wall was finished,, the man had in
the next place, recourse to the wilderness,
(meaning the world) where he cuts timber
for beams to build the churchv The cry out
of the wall, and the answer of the beam was
represented to be the spiritual understanding
between God and his people. With many
such notions did the man please the ears of
the congregation, whilst they were complete
ly robbed of the truth of the text. But who
would not blush for the man, when both the
verse before and after the text is permitted
to explain it. It appeared that the text had
no such meaning as the man labored to show ;
but simply goes to make out a denunciation
against the Chaldeans, for insatiableness, for
coveiousness, for cruelty, drunkenness and
idolatry. The text .shows that the city or
house, which was established by blood and
by deceit, should cry against the wicked buil
ders.
Again, one took for his text, Isa. xiii, 12,
" I will make a man more precious than fine
gold; even a man than the golden' wedge of
Ophir." -This- text was represented to mean
Christ's person and graces ; but this text was
used by the prophet in a denunciation a-
gainst Babylon ; showing the desolation that
should be made by the Medes. Showing-
their cruelty to be such, that they would
choose the blood of the people and their des-
64
truction, rather than their gold ; therefore it
is said, (verse 17) " Behold I will stir up the
the Medes against them which shall not re
gard silver, and as for gold they shall not de
light in it." I might fill a volume with the
account of such absurd renderings, but every
observing person do all but daily witness the
false and crafty rendering, and the end inge
nious men serve themselves by the scriptures.
When I considered all the inconsistencies
among both people and priests, I was quite
at a loss what to think, and what was worse
with me, I had not been apprized of the tra
ditions of men until I had been drawn by the
multitude into the same path in which they
were travelling. I had been baptized be
cause others were in the practice of it ; I had
been to the communion as I was led by the
established order of the churches. These
and other customs I had conceded to, but
now for myself I had experienced an empti
ness in some things, and saw that there was
a great inconsistency in others. As I was
young in my experience, I was not quick to
suspect the multitude altogether out of the
way in such customs, though 1 saw that there
were many improprieties among them, I
saw and experienced that in myself of these
things, that I was not able to account for.—
I had several times desisted the communion
on account of my own feelings, which was a
great cross and a trial too ; as the use of the
sacrament was generally received to signify
67
CHAP. IV.
Doubts occasioned by the multiplicity ofreligious opinions,
and the mind inadequate to find the truth from the Scrip-
tares—Doubts with temptations to disbelieve in the exist
ence of a God, overcome.—Doubts as to a Saviour decided
by the vision of the night.—The notiou of the Millenium
found to be unscriptura!, led to an investigation of the
Scriptures touching many other things.
The many inconsistencies which I have
described, and the difficulties with which I
met, were to my mind like so many diseases
without a physician—I was sensible of pain,
but could not tell what was the cause. Be
ing borne down under the galling yoke and
burden of unsuspected tradition, my mind
grew dark and discouraged. My mind so
far lost the witness of the Spirit, that unless I
could find some means whereby I might ac
count for differences among professors of
Christianity, I must give up the idea of reli
gion and believe iPto be but a phantom of
the mind. Thought I, religion, ifthere is any
such thing, must be a revelation from God ;
consequently, as God is a consistent being,,
religion must be consistent, and so be but
one thing.—Surely, thought I, all cannot be
right : and what method shall I adopt, there
by I may know that I am not deceived a-
mong the multitude ? I thought in the first
place, that I would have recourse to, the
scriptures, and attain a perfect knowledge of
them ; for I understood little of them> as it
68
was but a short time since I had began to
read them. Here a question arose in my
mind, is not the scriptures the very thing by
which alLdenominations say to be governed ?
and is it not about the scriptures,, that the
world is now contending? then how can the
scriptures answer me my important desires
when older than. I, with able and learned
men, have made them the subject of.dispute
for many hundred years ?'
Some contended that the bible was a Spir
itual book, and could not be understood but
by the Spirit. This system of reasoning 1
discerned destroyed itself, for such as plead
for the Spirit, plead also that the Spirit
should be tried by the scriptures ; for if it ab
solutely, required the Spirit to understand the
scriptures, it was necessary first to know the
Spirit without the scriptures. . For a Spirit or
knowledge to understand' the scriptures
could not be given in the scriptures seeing .
the Scriptures could not irrorpret themselves.
I could not see that if it required a teacher
er to teach,, how the pupil could teach i
the teacher. Or if it required a knowl
edge of the Spirit to understand the scrip
tures I could not see that it was possible
that the scriptures could give me a knowl
edge of the Spirit. . This rule placed me
as far from the possibility, of; knowing the
truth as if there were no scriptures at all. I
reasoned thus in my mind : Am I a chris
tian ? Answer, yes. Are there not christians
65
christian fellowship and union. But with
this I now found other things equally or if
possible more crossing .than any thing else,
I must now desist my practice of reading and
putting out Hymns or. feel condemned in my
mind for the inconsiderate use which I caus
ed others to make ofmy leadings. Again I was
troubled on the account of prayer ; this cus
tom was as common as singing, and as much
of a form. 1 was sensible that my mind was
not always prepared for vocal supplication, .
consequently I found myself sometimes char
ged with hypocrisy, and so far I was to God
and the People, what a Papist priest might
be in his mass. Though I had seen the fre
quent abuse of the scriptures by taking texts,
yet this did not amount to an argumMtthata
text should not be used ; . for I was taught
that the scriptures were given as it were for a
note-book, and that all should take a text.—
Here I was not without another difficulty, for
though I frequentlyTelt the power ofthe Spir
it resting upon me, yet I . had no text. But
as I thought that I must have one, I frequent
ly had recourse to such a passage as my nat
ural judgment was pleased to select, and by
this the Spirit was quenched.' At other times,
when the Spirit bid me. speak as well as to
look up a text, according to the customs of
the people and the rules ofthe ministry, there
must be some considerable time spent in
search ofan appropriate Hymn or Psalm and
in prayer. By this time I found that the Spir-
f2
66
it was gone, but notwithstanding, according
to custom I was still bound to furnish the
people with a discourse.
In consideration of the readings of my mind,
I frequently preached without singing or
. vocal prayer, and sometimes preached with-
\* out making any particular passage of scrip
ture the foundation of my testimony ; and
sometimes I attended meetings but had noth
ing to say. All this was offensive and singu
lar to such persons as were in the habit of
hearing fine singing, and seeing other thing3
conducted in the common order.
My manner of procedure was not only sin
gular to others but it was singular to myself ;
for it was unaccountable to me why my mind
should <bte led, so different from others. It
was not only singular but crossing to my
mind to leave the smooth path of custom, and
so crossing that but in few instances did I
comply with my leadings of mind, and suf
fered myself to follow thePexample of others,
and with them I frequently found myselfguil
ty of such false rendering of texts as all who
preach from the letter are unavoidably sub
jected. But to avoid as much as possible
such improprieties, I frequently made choice
of such texts as appeared to be plain, and
such texts as by the reading, expressed their
proper sense. I also in some degree ridded
myself of improprieties in singing, by select
ing such psalms and hymns as were less ex
pressive of deep profession than Qthers.
69
among all denominations? Yes, and they
all read the scriptures, and undoubtedly they
are mostly deceived, and if I read the scrip
tures why shall I say I am more sincere than
they ? Or that I am not as liable to be de
ceived as they ?
I saw plainly that the different denomina
tions which pretended to be governed by the
scripture were evidently built upon the sand.
They were daily casting it in each others
teeth, that they partially rendered the scrip
ture, or if any were inclined to be more char
itable, like myself they were much puzzled
to account for the disagreement among chris
tians and often, groaned with fear lest they
were deceived themselves.
Here my mind was brought torfdespair
of all possible means of knowing the truth ;
or of knowing who was right, or who wrong.
I had always supposed that the scriptures
were the only rule of faith and practice, as
I had been taught by others. I could not
feel to condemn all others as wilfully wrong
in these interpretations of the letter ; nay,
nor could I rashly say my judgment on the
scriptures was more correct than all who had
read besides me. When I considered the
subject of religion, 1 felt desirous, if there
was any such thing as right, to know it, as a
matter of the most importance. I felt my
own human judgment to be fallible like oth
ers, and when I had fathomed all that came
before me, I was inclined, equally to distrust
all.
70
While my mind was looking outward to
find some way whereby I might reconcile
or account for the differences among chris
tians, the more confusion and darkness I saw
among them ; insomuch that the enemy
found means to tempt me to disbelieve all re
ligion in toto. But the question was with me,
what shall I do with my past experience ?
Can I possibly believe that there is no such
thing as religion ? Yes, just as soon as I can
believe that all these different denominations
are led by the Spirit of God ; and if the thou
sands about me are deceived, why may I not
be deceived too ?
For several months I was called to pass-
some of the most severe temptations I had;
ever as yet met with. My mind was daily,
harrassed by the enemy to doubt all that I
had ever experienced or known of the things
of God. Much of my time was spent in se
cret, praying to the Lord that he would drive
the tempter from my mind, and appear in.
the behalf of my soul. Some times when
I attended in secret I had so little faith that
I did. not dare to open my mouth in supplica
tion. At other times I would lay on the
ground in silence, or at most groan with the
burthen that lay heavy on my heart. None
but such as know the power of the enemy,
and the manner in which he tempts the weak
mind, can imagine what was the bitterness of
my soul. I was not only tempted to disbe
lieve my own experience and to discredit the.
71
loving kindness which I had known, but I was
tempted to disbelieve the existence of a God
and Saviour. Though I was not fully brought
down by these temptations, yet, my mind
was so overcome, that my faith and confi
dence was completely shaken. It seemed
that my prayers and supplications wasted up
on the ground, and that my heart was most
ly given over to temptation. One may think
it strange perhaps, that I should hafe so yield
ed to atheistic notions, or that there should
• be a deist in the world-, but when I consider
the conduct of professors, and the conten
tions they have in consequence of their cer
emonial religion, I more wonder that there is
not ten where there is now but one. Who
can imagine the feelings of my mind when I
attempted to appear in public and preach,
which 1 was obliged to do, or feel no peace
at all. Sometimes during my meetings in
some degree I was able to overcome my
temptation, and it was only in speaking that
I found any comfort, for as soon as 1 had
done speaking the enemy would spoil my
peace. I had once been speaking in public
as I thought with much freedom, but as soon
as I had done speaking, (as at other times)
the enemy returned, but with double power.
All the corroding doubts which had passed
my mind for months that had past and gone,
came powerfully into my mind all at once,
and to hide my emotions ofsoul from the as
sembly, who had not as yet all withdrawn, I
72
hastened out of the door, and then to the
wood. Here I fell on the ground, and cried
as a child that had been whipped, though in
the bitterness of my soul I could not exercise
the least degree of faith, and for that reason
I put up a petition to God in a manner ex
pressive of my feelings. OGod ! if there be
any God, hear now 1 pray thee, / pray thee
hear now, and deliver thou me from my af
flictions, for why should I be thus distressed
and tempted ? Ifthere be a God have mer
cy upon my poor soul. Said I, Lord what
have I done ? What can be done ? What
shall I do ?—I felt as ifevery thing was wrong
about me and within me. Thought I, O that
I never had been born, for then I had not
known the affliction of my soul ! and why
should a creature live, thought I, so misera
ble as I am ? I laid my hand upon my
breast, which ached almost insupportably,
and the language of my heart was like one
anciently, "My bowels, my bowels, I am
pained at my very heart ; my heart maketh
a noise in me ! " 1 felt it duty to speak to my
fellow men, but when my mind was so temp
ted thought I, how can 1 speak ! I was as sen
sible of the pain of my soul as I ever was, of
the most excruciating pain of my body.
One day when in retirement I seated my
self upon a log where my mind anxiously
waited for consolation in Spirit. While wait-
ting in this place my eyes caught sight of a
dead mullen-stalk, and from this simple in
73
strument I was convinced of the existence of
a God. Here I saw the express image of
God's power, wisdom and goodness—with
this my mind pursued other objects, and all
seemed big with the praise of God. My
doubts fled and like Nebuchadnezzar, " I lifted
up mine eyes unto heaven, and mine under
standing returned unto me, and I blessed the
most High, and I praised and honored him
that livethforever."
Surely, " the fool hath said in his heart, there is no God .'" [ador'd
What then ? For all creative power and Nature's law be chance
Miracles without power—causes without a cause, how matchless
But ifthere chance to be a powermay not there chance aGod? [odd!
What ! mighty power, and order too, to chance impute ?
O, stupid soul ! in shape a man, in minda brute.
Of things most high, and things most low, there's none too mean-
To show a God and speak a power divine.
From that time until now, I have been a-
ble to contend with the enemy (if tempted
to doubt the existence of a God) with a sin
gle spear of grass. I was enabled to say
with the Psalmist, " The heavens declare
the glory of God, and the firmament showeth
his handy works"—and with the Apostle
Paul, to say, " The invisible things of him
from the creation of the world are clearly
seen, being understood by the thingsthat are
made, even his eternal power and Godhead."
I have before observed that my mind al
so doubted as to a Saviour.—Of this my
mind was relieved by the vision ofthe night.
I thought in my dream, that I was confer-
G
74
ring with some persons, when they answered
me in a very discouraging manner. My re
ply to them was, that I should refer the mat
ter to Christ. 1 thought that I turned from
them and walked into a large field. I had
not been there long, as i thought, before, I
saw a man making toward me. When he
had come within about twenty rods, I saw
that he was encompassed with a light from
head to foot. As he seemed to advance
nearer to me, his garment (which was a long
loose robe) shone with brightness, and ap
peared to be as white as snow. His garment
appeared so fine that it seemed to be with
out a thread. His countenance appeared
to be the fountain of love, and a refulgent
glory beamed from every pore of his face.
As he approached me 1 discovered no
change in his address, nor in gesture—heav
en and divine love was clearly understood to
be the very feature and passion of his soul ;
there was nothing affected in his counte
nance, yet I was effected with love in the
most powerful manner, his very countenance
was heaven, and conspired to make heaven in
all about him. When 1 speak of that love
which I felt, and saw in the heavenly vision,
suffer me to speak in language something
like the nature of what I felt. O, the al
mighty power of love ! ! When he came
near I knew it was Christ ; I fell to the
ground in adoration, whilst I adapted the
language of Thomas, " My Lord m&i my
75
God ! My Lord and my God !" In pronoun
cing these words I awoke and behold it was
a dream ! But my soul was so overcome
with the power of love, I yet repeated sever
al times, loudly, " My Lord, and my God."
Such were my views of the Saviour, that I
could not feel contented to think that one
of my fellow men should be a stranger to him.
"When I thought of the beauty and love
there was in Christ, I sometimes threw down
the tool with which I was labouring, with im
patience, at the thought that there was ma
ny who did not sensate the love of Christ.
I would often recognize myself after I had
been sitting some time, and again engage
in business from which I had been drawn by
the intenseness of my mind ; at other times
my mind was so drawn out in anxiety in the
things of God, that when I was travelling in
the fields, or in the highway, my heart felt
such a drawing that my body was so wrought
upon, that I often found myself engaged in a
quick pace, as if I was in great haste. Some
people who were not acquainted with me
when they heard me preach, supposed that
I was crazy. My wife frequently would ob
serve to me that if I did not quit my study,
she feared that I should lose my reason. In
a time when my mind was so tempted to dis
believe in God, &c. I was moved to fear for
myself, lest my mind should be injured
by its exercise—but under the exercise of
faith and love, I had nothing to fear, for the
76
exercise of the Spirit of God, is to his chil
dren the best of reason, though they may ap
pear foolish or deranged to the world.
Though my mind was again clothed in
confidence to God, there was yet a very
great desire in my mind to know the will of
God concerning me, and to know what was
the cause of so much division among chris
tians—this was a point with me yet undecid
ed, and until I knew this, and knew what
ceremonial worship God did require of his
children, I was in fear lest I should not
do his will. Such were my fears on the
subject of baptism, communion and other
things, that I said nothing about them when
preaching, but always preached repentance
toward God, and faith in Christ, in this I was
attended with no fears, believing that the
devil, if he would, might say repent.
I often thought of the children of Israel,
and of the privileges which they enjoyed, and
exclaimed in my mind, O, that I had Moses
to go before me, how faithful would I then
live ! If I could see the miracles which
he wrought, then I would have no doubt—
show me a cloud by day, and a pillar of fire
by night, that I may move when the cloud
mores, and rest when the cloud rests ; and
pass through the Red Sea as the children of
Israel did—let the Lord give an evidence
of his will as he did when he gave the law
upon Mount Sinai, and I shall be without
these corroding fears. Should the Lord
77
speak to me, thought I, as he did to the fioly
men of old, or as he spoke to Samuel twice,
and again twice, then I might know duty,
and should be rid of these disputes and
janglings . which now fill the world, about
the meaning of scripture.
I had now been attached to society a little
more than one year, and though I read the
scriptures, 1 had not read them thinking to
find any thing to Confute the notion of the
ordinances. I now began to discover things
which 1 might have discovered before, had
not tradition placed them beyond the reach
of suspicion. I had by this time found that
the notion of the Millennium was but a no
tion and, as I thought, it was without any
scripture foundation. As I had heard much
of the Millennium, I did not doubt that the
notion was correct.. Therefore I was induc
ed to examine the scriptures, not doubting it,
nor thinking to confound it, but to ascertain
the time if possible, when the day should
commence. But to my great surprise when
J had believed in the notion, and had exam
ined the scriptures to support it, I could find
nothing from Genesis to Revelation, that gave
me the least reason to believe there would
ever be such a day. I discovered that the
passages of scripture in the. prophesies which
related to the coming of the Messiah, and the
illumination of God's Spirit with the work of
grace on the heart, were misconceived and
applied to a Millennium. Many teachers, I
.
78
saw, were now ready to deny the regenerat
ing power of God, and like the Jews, they
were looking for a Saviour, or for a dispens
ation to come, by which the christian was in
duced to miss the object of the gospel,
fulness and privilege which he might enjoy-
in his own soul. When I found that the
word Millennium was not to be found in the
scriptures, but that it was man's invention
to serve their dark and blind notion about
spiritual things, I was ready to avoid the blind
explanations of these and to seek a Millenni
um (so called) in my own heart. I now be
gan to read scripture without the least degree
of prejudice ; feeling that as I had been im
posed upon by the false notions of others,
I thought that I would give myself to the rea
ding of the scriptures. From the example
of others, I had been taught to reverence
the bible as the word of God, and the on
ly rule of faith and practice. But when I
read in the scriptures, it was there said of the
Word of God, that the Word was made flesh,
and that in the beginning was the Word, and
that the Word was in the beginning with
God, and that the word was God. Again I
understood by the scriptures, that the Word of
God was quick and powerful, sharper than
any two-edged sword, and was the discerner
of the thoughts and intents of the heart ;
and furthermore I understood that the worlds
were framed by the Word of God. It was
plain to me from the scriptures themselves
79
that the scriptures were not the Word of
God.
As to the only rule of the christian's
faith and practice, I could not learn from the
scriptures that they were the rule ; but the
scriptures testified that holy men of old spoke
as they were moved upon by the Spirit, and
that .even under the present dispensation,
christians were to be led by the Spirit,
taught by the Spirit, and to abide in the Spir
it, and that the Spirit was to lead into all
truth. I understood that, christians were
to be washed, purified, and sanctified by the
Spirit, and that if any man had not the Spir
it of Christ, he was none of his. Thus I saw
from the scriptures themselves that the prop
erties which men ascribed to the scriptures,
the scriptures ascribed to the Spirit. I un
derstood by the scriptures that the Spirit
gave life, but the letter killed, and that the
Spirit helpeth our infirmities, and that the
Spirit beareth witness with our Spirit that
we are born of God. All these passages with
the whole tenor of scripture bore a witness
that the Spirit was the rule and not the scrip
tures themselves.
When I read the scriptures I read of the
Spirit and of Spiritual men. I frequently
would inquire for the faith which was once
d elivered to the saints. Some supposed that
the scriptures were given to supersede the
faith—few supposed that the sum and sub
stance of it was contained in their articles of
80
faith. I could never find but few who believ
ed that we were to seek a full attainance in
Christ but most of them were willing to con
tend for the form of religion and to cry-
peace, peace.
Having now been long enquiring for the
right way, and having had my soul, long
stumbled on- account of the contentions a-
mong christians about ordinances, my mind
now began to see through its difficulty.
When I looked into the scriptures, I saw
that there were two baptisms there men
tioned, to wit : the baptism of the Spirit, and
the baptism of water,; the former was called
the baptism of Christ and the latter was a
baptism practised by John, and that of wa
ter was a type of the Spirit. I learned from
scripture that many passages which related
to the baptism of the Spirit were wrong
fully applied by bapt'i3ers to mean water
baptism.* As I had been, always taught to
believe the scriptures to be the rule, I had
imbibed an idea that whenever the apostles
baptised, it was an example -for the church
under the present dispensation ; but,, as I
became acquainted , with the scriptures, I
found that they were composed of revela
tion and .history, and so discovered the differ
ence there was between a simple relation of
a thing, anda command. That.part of the
scripture which related to revelation, gener
ally contained the gospel doctrine, and adV
* See Pica, qb BaptiwS; 4tb chapter.
81
mitted of but very little controversy among
christians- The historical parts of the scrip
tures, I saw were comprised of the acts of
the apostles, and whatsoever they did was
recorded. Whenever the apostles and other
men acted in conformity to their own pre
judice, as in vows, anointings, offerings, cir
cumcision, it was recorded as a fact, but not
as a rule. As Christ was circumcised, for
the same reason he was baptised—and for
the same reason he commanded his disci
ples to keep the law of Moses, and the phar-
isees to pay tithe3 of mint, annise, cumin, &c.
—for the same reason, he commanded the
leper to show himself to the priest and to
offer a gift for his cleansing—and for the
same reason he kept the passover from year
to year—and that reason was, because he
was under the law. I saw that all this was
recorded in scripture and amounted to a his
torical account, but not to a command.
When I read in the scriptures about baptism ,
I found that with other things, it was used
as a type, and practised by the apostles (who
were Jews) generally among Jews, and not
among the Gentiles. The idea which I had
always credited that all the apostles did,
was done by immediate inspiration, there
fore must be a rule,the scriptures themselves
showed me to the contrary. The apostles
without the Spirit were but as other men—
they were men of passion as others. In the
scriptures I read of the ambition of James
82
and John, the apostacy and dissimulation of
Peter, the incredulity of Thomas, the dissen-
tions between Paul and Barnabas, and the
jealousies which some of them entertained
towards one another. The apostles, I found,
were men who possessed religious prejudices,
as well as other men, and acted according
to that prejudice in the things which I before
mentioned. All these things stand record
ed as the acts of the apostles, but are not
recorded as commands one thing no more
than another. I found that in the epis
tles of the apostles there was but little
or no foundation for ordinances, but I
found the epistles like other inspired writ
ings abounded much with gospel tidings ;
and disputes about baptism and communion,
&c. mostly were founded on the historical
account given us of the aposlles,andof things
which they did in conformity to the dispen
sation under which they lived. These with
many other things, I discovered which will
hereafter be shewn in my Plea.
cipal cause of all that misery of mind which
I had gone through. I saw that the Spirit
had been leading my mind in all my trials,
and the reason why I did not rind that com
fort in baptism and sacrament which I
expected, was not because I was not recon
ciled to God as I had often feared, but be
cause the Spirit did not lead thereto. My
full * <^'*
I could now
83
to walk in the light of my own fire. I plain
ly saw, that I had been long seeking, the liv
ing among the dead, and because the spirit
would not jointly agree with a dead and life
less ceremony, 1 had misjudged of the truth
of religion. Until now I had not enough
seen that the gospel had nothing to do with
any outward worship, but had been blending
substance and shadow together, and as I had
considered them together, seeing christians
disagree about the one, I had felt a disposi
tion to condemn both together, not knowing
how to separate them. Because I had not
received that enjoyment in the ordinances
which I expected, and that which others pre
tended to receive, I had doubted of my own
Christianity, and so was thrown into doubts
and fears ; and as I witnessed the confusion
among professors of Christianity I was moved
to doubts, and so to darkness, and as my faith,,
was shaken, the enemy found means to
tempt my soul, to disbelieve in religion, and
to disbelieve the existence of God as he ha'd
done. Had it not have been that the Lord
had dealt wonderfully with my mind I should
have fallen in the midst of my temptations,
but in the midst of all satan's sittings and
darts, I was led to recognize the former kind
nesses of the Lord, like so many monuments
of divine help in time of trouble.
I was at last completely delivered from all
that labyrinth of mind, into which I had been
thrown by following the doctrines and teach
84
ings ofothers. Had it not been for the hedge
and darkness which unsuspected tradition
had thrown about me, I might have discov
ered the truth much sooner than I did.
CHAP. V.
The ordinances thought to be without scripture authority.
—The interpretation of a dream showing the condition of
the churches.—The attention ofthe Free-Will Baptists call
ed to (he subject of baptism, and the society found to be
what they had not hitherto professed.—The Spirit of God
too frequently distrusted—Ministers of the Gospel should
not prostitute their ministerial function, by light and trifling
conversation.—Doubts as to duty, removed by the vision of
the night.
I now viewed that baptism by water and
the sacrament in bread and wine, were with
out foundation in scripture, and they were
but extracts of Jewish ordinances imposed on
the people by the fictitious titles of gospel or
dinances, ordinances of the house of God,
gospel institutions, sacraments and names
which I could not find once so mentioned in
the New Testament records. Like the term
Millennium, they were only invented to serve
the false notions of men. I could see that
the disputes among christians about these
and other things were very foreign to the
truth of religion, and that they were so dis
tiiact that the one had nothing to do with the
other.
At this time I could look upon the ordin
ances with a degree of indifference, as to the
use of the sacraments with othefthings, my
soul could say of them., " Is there any taste in
the white of an egg." My mind was left to
wonder that the people did not discover the
substance and quit the shadow. But the el
ements themselves, though I viewed them
like so many idols, they were not half so dis
agreeable to me as the Wasting effect which
they produce among christians. A question
arose in my mind what shall I do,the brethren
believe in these things? I thought to myself I
will shun these things as often as possible,
and when I cannot well shun them, I will
partake of them, to please my brethren, but
at the same time do away as far as possible,
that zealous spirit which so much attends
them. I thought that I could put up with
every inconvenience on my own part, provid
ed that a disagreement should not be effect
ed among christians in the use of them.
Now the interpretaion of that part of my
dream which related to having seen a gar
den, with the walls broken down, came to my
mind. The interpretation was, that the garden
represented the fallen condition ofthe church.
This similitude was scriptural, and much to
the purpose as my mind was impressed. The
miserable condition of the wall and the
state of the vineyard, or garden, is des-
H
86
cribed, much as it appeared to me, Isa. v, 5,
6, 7. The broken vessels which I saw, rep
resented the ministry, who ought to be like
the flower pots, the treasure and beauty of
the church, (see 2 Cor. iv, 7.) The vine
which stood in the midst ofthe garden with
out injury save the loss of the fruit, represent
ed Christ, (see John, xv, 1.) The fruit which
was apparently rotten, represented to me the
thousands of half-hearted christians, who are
spoiled through tradition and a spiritless
ministry. The brook which I saw in the way
represented the waters of life, (see Ps. cx, 7).
The agitated flood which I saw, represented
the people, (see Rev. xvii, 15). The black
ships of war which I saw, represented the dif
ferent denominations which have been at war
one with the other, for hundreds of years.
The land which I saw beyond the waters rep
resented the land of rest, the Spiritual Jeru
salem, and the Lord God and the Lamb are
the light of it, and this was that which was
represented to me by the two lights. The
ships which I saw, were all bound, as it seem
ed, to the pleasant land, and were all waiting
for their passengers ; so it is with the differ
ent sects and parties among men, but my soul
doth know that they float and rest on the bo
som and in the spirit of an agitated world.
They never will be able to conduct a single
soul to the saint's rest, for, (as a body,) there
is no real rest in all their ways. That part of
my dream which related to my leaving a com-
87
pany, represented my withdrawing from the
Free-will Baptist Church, which took place
more than two yeamand a half from this time
—but as I had northe most distant icfea of
leaving this people I did not have the most
distant notion that this was the thing signifi
ed ; therefore, my mind drew the most unfav
orable construction about it, I feared that it
was to warn me of a future overthrow, by
losing my religion and getting back into the
world, which of course would be to quit so
ciety. At other times I thought it might sig
nify a cessation of my public labors only.
This last interpretation was something com
forting, for if the will of God was so, nothing
I thought could be more agreeable to me,
than the thought that I never should preach
again ; I felt that I was employed by the
Lord, and when he that called me, should
say my work was done, my heart could say,
Amen. But the thoughts of backsliding were
dreadful to me, so that my mind was much
troubled on account of my fears. The inter
pretation of this part of my dream was not
given me, until more than twelve months af
ter this time, and it was not fulfilled then ;
because I refused to comply with the lead
ings of the Spirit. During this time, my
mind was much to a stand to know what to
do ; on the one hand, I was fearful of too
much activity on my own part and so preach
when I ought not, or I feared that through
the treachery of my own mind, I might
88
be hindered of doing that which the Lord
would have me to do ; and nothing but an
immediate revelation from God could serve
to secure me from either of these evils, or sat
isfy my mind on these points. Accordingly
the secret places were a witness to my fer
vent prayers and cries to God, firstly that I
might be preserved from backsliding, sec
ondly, that if it was my duty and his will
that I should preach, that he would give me
the clearest evidences of it: and then, if there
should be found in me a disposition not to
comply with his requirements, I besought
him with tears flowing to the ground, that he
would cut off all worldly prosperity, curse in
basket and in store, and heap calamities upon
me ; could that be the means of subduing
that proud and disobedient disposition, of
which I was naturally possessed ; and be the
only means of bringing me to do his will.—
On the other hand, if it was not my duty to
speak, I prayed that the Lord would give e-
qual proofs of his will, and accomplish his
will with me ; if he would but save my soul
alive. So it was with me when I began to
be sensible of the spiritual lack ofthe church;
my mind was filled with a double depression
of spirit, for I discovered, not only a lack in
the church ; but I felt sensible of a lack in
my own soul. Like a path-way before me,
the spiritual eye of my mind plainly discov
ered the ground which I had not travelled
over, and an object which I had not travelled
89
tb. With the condition of the church, and a
knowledge of myself, and by the discovery of
the truth, I was excited to pray that the Lord
would turn, and overturn, by his own special
power, until his will, and not mine, should
be accomplished.
About this time I found cause to call the
attention of my Free-will Baptist brethren to
to reconsider the grounds of their church or
der as to baptism.
For having myself been requested to form
a society in a certain place where I had been
labouring in the ministry, the foundation was
laid for me to find the freedom of this peo
ple. When I joined society I had previously
asked the preacher if the connexions to which
he belonged made baptism the door into the
church; he replied that the connexion did not
make baptism the door into the church, for they
equally fellowshipped such as were not bap
tised by .immersion and that they fellowship
ped such as had not even been baptised at all.
Though this was his reply (or to this amount)
I had already discovered that they had man
ifested much zeal for baptism, and other cer
emonies which I did not believe when I
joined society ought to be a bar among chris
tians, for this reason I questioned the
preacher as I did, and when I joined society
I found, as I supposed, a free people, and did
not intend to have joined any other. This
teacher, also said, that he did not believe,
neither did the order to which he belonged,
H 2
90
believe that the church was a prison, but that
if a member came in and found things not
satisfactory, he might go out at his own
pleasure, provided that he or she -should be
in good standing, as to a christian walk ; but
I had known the church to derogate from this
rule in several instances, so that my mind had
became jealous that this people might not be
so free as I had taken them to be.
In the place where I was requested that a
society might be established, there were some
persons who had been baptised by sprinkling,
and did not, as they said, feel it duty to be
rebaptised by immersion. There were oth
ers who had not been baptised at all, neither
did they, as they said, feel it duty to be bap
tised in any way. As I had been the only
person who had generally laboured among
them, they had heard nothing but faith and
repentance preached to them.
Seeing the condition of this people, and
knowing that they were in union one with
the other, I foresaw the division which must
ultimately arise if part of them should be
baptised by immersion, and be received into
society, where the rest could not be receiv
ed, merely because they did not feel a duty
to be rebaptised. I saw that though this
people were in union now, it would be with
them as I had seen it with many other neigh
bourhoods ; there would be two parties which
would immediately contend for creeds and
forms. It was not witfci that people under
91
my administration, as it was with them af
terwards, under the administration of oth
ers ; they had no controverted points intro
duced amongst them by me : they were in
love and in union, one with the other, and
had not learned to bite and devour each oth
er. The inhabitants of that neighbourhood,
in the town of Collins, shall be my witness
es, how holy and unblameable I walked
amongst them.
From seeing these difficulties, I proposed
in my mind to find the professed liberality of
my brethren if possible, and have them re
ceived, not for being baptised in water, but
for the fellowship, which was due to them as
christians.
My first object was to try the freedom of
the church to which I belonged, to know if
they would receive members into society,
who had received aspersion for baptism, pro
vided the candidate witnessed a good pro
fession by a proper christian deportment.—
Here I had little reason to expect opposition,
as the leading members in society had hith
erto professed much openness ; and I had
still much less reason to expect opposition
from him who first gathered the society, as
be had, at the first formation of the church,
plainly given me to understand, that he did
not, neither the order of the people to which
he belonged, believe that baptism ought to
be considered as the door into the church.
The thing proposed, though not consented
92
to, met with but little opposition; it was
thought best, however, to refer the subject to
be determined by the Elders, in their con
ference, which was to be holden at the next
quarterly meeting, 9th month, 1817. At
this conference I found a majority in my fa
vor, and among the minority, as opposers,
were several members of the society to which
I belonged—persons from whom I did not
expect but little opposition ; but this was a
trying place, and that which had long been
kept under a cloak must now come out.—
Such was their zeal for their particular bap
tism, that when they saw the majority in fa
vor of receiving christians, not for baptism,
but for christian experience, they were oblig
ed to shew themselves as strong as was in
their power but I was not a little surprised
that any should have before manifested such
indifference in the subject in debate as to a-
greethat they would not be found my oppo
nent, still make their appearance, and act
the part they did ; but I was still more sur
prised, when the man who was the first foun
der of the society, and the very man who had
always taught in word, and who, when the
society was first organized, and at the time I
joined society, pretended that he did not
make baptism the door into the church ; now
say that he would not be in society if there
should be in it one single member who had
not received baptism by immersion. It was
agreed in this conference, that the majority
93
should submit to the minority ; this was to
avoid a split in society. When I saw that
there was not a probability that sprinkled
members could be received in general, 1
proposed that sprinkled members might be
received, instancing certain cases ; that if
any church in the connexion who should gain
a fellowship for a brother or sister, if that fel
lowship was unanimous in that church,
if then, that church might not receive him,
or her, without being disfellowshipped by the
connexion at large; though such member or
members, should not have been baptised by
immersion: this, also was strongly opposed
by the very man who had until now pretend
ed so much freedom—he now only manifest
ed, in truth, what he was, and cast much cen
sure upon me because that I had not preach
ed water-baptism as well as other preachers
of the connexion, adding that the people for
whom I was petitioning, that they might be
received into society, not for a particular mode
of baptism, but for the fellowship due to
them as christians, would have long since
been baptised if I had only used my influ
ence to that end. Of this I was not alto
gether unsuspicious then, but I have been
made more sensible since, how much influ
ence preachers contract in the minds of their
parishioners, and was it not for this a sys
tem-serving priest-hood would cease to be :
and when priestly-paralogy comes to an end,
bigotry, superstition, exuberance, and austerity,
94
in will-worship, will e^d too ; and christians
will then worship God in "Spirit and in truth"
as the Father would have it. Christians will
then receive their religion from God, and not
by the doctrines and commandments of men,
which now so much bespeak a God of con
fusion, or exhibits religion, as diversified in
parts as Nebuchadnezzar's image I do not
doubt, but, if I had been willing to preach
myself, as did others, these brethren would
have been willing to be baptised, and no
doubt, they would have been willing to have
received baptism in any way or mode that it
might have been taught, and what would
they have been the better for it ? Answer,,
nothing at all. When it was urged that I had
ought to have preached baptism to the peo
ple, I alleged, that the reason why I had
not, was, that I had never as yet felt it my
duty, or mission, to preach any such ser
mons to the people, for religion. I express
ed, that if others had such commandments
to teach, they might do it. I also urged the
impropriety of preaching as they had always
done, and at the same time refuse to receive
all who did not concede to their particular
faith in baptism.
Firstly, they had taught that there was but
one church, and that the children of God
were one, and that they were in that one
church by regeneration—that Christ was the
door, into the church, and not water baptism.
I contended, that if there was but one church,.
95
and if, that all were in that church by regen
eration, then there was an impropriety in not
receiving such into fellowship, as had passed
from death "unto life" by regeneration. I
urged that there was an impropriety in reject
ing christians from christian-privileges, jn-
society, merely because they could not see a
duty in their particular mode of baptism if
they did not consider baptism as a door into
the church. They then plead charity, in that
they would commune with all christians who
did not belong to their particular order,
though they had not as yet received baptism
of water, in any way. I then urged the im
propriety of communing with such as they
could not receive, and walk with, in society;
and as they did not consider them in their
church, to commune with such as were not
in the church, w as nothing less than to carry
the holy sacrament out of the church. I also
urged, that to keep back, and not receive a
brother, or sister, on account of a particular
mode of baptism, was no less then to make
baptism the door of the church—a thing con
trary to that, which they had ever before pre
tended. This syllogism was so interwoven
with their own doctrine, that they knew of no
way to avoid it ; and what seemed to grieve
them most was, as they made baptism the
door into the church, they must now receive
the name of it. A considerable time was spenj
in debate, when it was thought best to refer
the matter to the next quarterly conference,
96
when the thing was again reconsidered ; but
when there had been much debate, and when
I had received much censure because I would
not preach water-baptism, it was thought
best again to carry it to the next quarterly
conference ; but as I felt perfectly clear cn
my part, I did not attend ; but as I was in
formed, it was decided, that no member
should, by any means, nor for any considera
tion, be received into church fellowship, with
out baptism, and that only by immersion.
Notwithstanding I discovered that I had
been deceived, and found that the church
was on very different grounds from that which
I had entertained of it, when I first joined so
ciety, I had not as yet entertained the most
distant idea that I ever should leave the con
nexion. I had formed an acquaintance with
many brethren and friends in the connexion,
who were too near to my affection to think
of leaving them. I had now been attached
to society sometime, and had passed through
many trials on account of the division among
christians, and had passed through a thous
and doubts and fears for myself and others ;
but in all my trials I had not as yet ventured
to mention my belief on baptism and sacra
ment, only that I did not believe, that they
ought to be made of such account among
christians as to divide them one from the oth
er. I did not venture to say that the ordi
nances, so called, were without any real scrip
ture foundation. As to my other trials, I
97
had none to consult but God. I felt sensible
of the fall of Zion, and deeply sensible that a
great work was necessary to prepare my
heart for the Lord. My chief comfort resulted
from a real belief that the hand of the Lord
was upon me. I felt a daily labor in my soul
for the truth ; and the leadings of my mind I
was led to conclude could not originate from
tradition ; for my leadings were contrary to
any thing that I had ever seen, and contrary
to any thing that I had ever been taught of
men. In all my leadings I found a cross
and nothing pleasing to the flesh. Some
times I felt to complain that my way was so
singular—sometimes my mind was filled with
a sense that my unbelief was the means that
kept me so far from God, or from attaining
to that place of nearness with God, which I
by faith, discovered to be the christian's priv
ilege. When I thought of the fulness there
was in God, and the willingness there was in
him that I should be freed from all sin, so
long as I found a propensity within my heart
to love the world, or the things of the world,
J felt sensibly grieved ; and (strange to tell)
sometimes I felt all but offended with my own
heart for its hardness and unbelief. Some
times I could say in contrition ofsoul like Da
vid, " O God be not far from me, O my God
make haste for my help," Who is there that
will shew me any good ? " Whom wait I for,
my hope is in thee, my soul trust in God, the
living God."—My inward teachings taught
98
me to believe that true Christianity was some
thing more than what I discovered in profes
sors in general ; neither did I see that it could
be possible for men to attain to a nearness
with God, who did not believe in the lead
ings of the Spirit of God. In all my inquiry
after truth, I have never been able to find
but few professors of Christianity who were
willing to own the Spirit of God to be a suf
ficient guide into all truth. And so it is that
nine tenths of those who profess to be lead
ers among the people, warn them against be
ing led by the Holy Spirit—substituting their
own creeds as indispensably necessary to
complete the rule of life ; thus because of
their own distrust in God, they by they own
strength and wisdom like Uzzah, they seek
to steady, and to save the Ark of God to their
own destruction. Whenever I turned my at
tention to notice the lives and deportment of
professors, I was sensible of too great a lack
of christian-gravity and sincerity, they were
not sound in speech, nor did they speak the
things which became sound doctrine. They
were not sound in faith-^in charity and in
patience—they were not sober, grave and
temperate. I was often struck with the de
portment of my brethren, who professed to
stand as leaders to the people. I often found
them in light and trifling conversation, both
before and after preaching, and when in
company with each other, and none present
99'
get their ministerial function, and give way
to lightness, levity and laughter, a spirit very
unbecoming to their profession. I frequent
ly wondered how such preachers could
possibly preach before each other, and it was
only accountable to me in that, their grace
was more in profession, than in real possess
ion. The Spirit taught me that I should live
. righteouslyr soberly and Godly, and I ever
accounted it unbecoming to give way to loud
laughter ; but especially unbecoming to a
preacher. A christian may smile under the
influence of holy sensation, but he is highly
censureable for every degree of worldly levi
ty. As I heard, observed and listened to the
inward teachings of the Spirit, I was also
deeply convicted in my mind that christians,
teachers in particular, should never assume
an air of importance, nor condescend to use
.an affected politeness : all this appeared to
be the deepest hypocrisy—nothing appeared
more congruent with the spirit of the world,
so nothing seemed more repugnant to Chris
tianity. As I was made sensible of the im
propriety of all these things, my daily cross
was the more evident, and being sensible
what an attachment I naturally held to the
spirit of the world, I daily besought the Lord
that he would bestow upon me (as 1 deemed
myself naturally more proud and graceless
than any), more than a common degree of
his grace and help, that there might be a re
al change in my heart. I often thought if it
100
WuS possible to come to God, by journeying
to the utmost parts of the earth, this I would
account but ease. The language of my
heart was, " Oh that I knew where I might
.lind him, that 1 might come even to his seat?
I would order my cause before him, and fill
my mouth with arguments. Behold I go
forward but he is not there ; and backward
but I cannot perceive him—on the left hand
where he doth work, but I cannot behold him ;
he hideth himself on the right hand that I
cannot see him." That Spiritual knowledge
which I had already attained created in me
a thirsting after righteousness and a desire for
a deeper knowledge of God. I found more
and more, day by day that the way to God
was an inward exercise by the Spirit, and
that there was no trust in any thing outward.
I had not as yet found an interpretation for
that part of my dream, which represented my
leaving society, so with other things my mind
was constantly engaged, that the Lordwould
protect me from back-sliding, but as the true
meaning was foreign to my mind, I began
mostly to construe, that my public labors
were just at an end ; so that I was deeply
depressed with a fear of running loo fast, or
too slow ; and as I had feared that my mind
and my understanding was naturally stub
born, and blind to the requirements and
teachings of God ; I had frequently prayed
that the Lord would make mejustwhathe
would have me to be ; and that if his mercies
101
vtould not effect his will, that I might be
brought to learn judgment by adversity.—
This brought me to a season ofdeep proving.
For, as my mind was watching things out
wardly and inwardly, an unprosperous aspect
seemed to hang over my temporal affairs, in
an unusual degree. As I had spent much
of my time in holding meetings,I was ready to
view an unfavorable turn in my temporal con
cerns, a sign that it was my duty to attend to
my worldly business and to quit preaching.
—One day as 1 was about leaving home, I
received intelligence of the loss of some prop
erty which went much to affect my tempor
al arrangement ; this with other things unfa
vorable to my situation, threw my mind in
to a consternation what to do. On looking
around as I was about to leave my house, I
saw my wife in tears, who said to me that I
must stay at home and attend my business,
or we should soon be on the town as a charge.
Of this, however, I was not suspicious, as our
situation in life was too favorable to admit of
a suspicion of that kind. This timidity of
of my wife, satan would only have used to try
my mind. The solicitations of my wife was
truly affecting, but I left her without making
her any reply.
As 1 left my house I shed many tears,
and though I did not consider my condi
tion any way bordering upon my wife's
prediction, yet my heart was ready to learn
instruction from adversity. But as I pro
i2
102
ceeded on my way, I was not willing to con
sent in my mind that what had taken place
should answer as a witness, that it was not
my duty to travel and preach. A question
arose in my mind whether my misfortunes
should be received by me as a particular
providence of God in answer to my prayers,
or whether I should consider my disappoint
ment as luck and chance, and as one with the
misfortunes of all men. After 1 had proceed
ed on my journey several miles in great con
sternation of soul, weeping like a child as I
went ; all of a sudden I recollected myself,
and the consoling power of faith filled my
mind to that degree, that I was surprised at
myself. Why, said I to myself, is all this
confusion and consternation of soul! If it is
• the will of God that I should preach, no one
can be more willing to learn duty than I, and
do it too—Lord said I, if this is to teach me
duty, well, confound me, strip me of every
thing I possess ; and if thou hast not called
me, hedge up my way that I may not " use
the tongue like the false Prophets, and say,
he saith," when the Lord has not spoken by
me. Thought I, why am I left to doubt as
to duty ? Is not God the same to day, yester
day and forever ? aws not the Lord, the God
of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob? Was the Lord
not Daniel's God ? Did not the Lord answer
all these Holy men, and will not the Lord
hear his saints to day as well as in days past ?
103
said I, I will call upon the Lord and he will
answer me. Thought I to myself, I wili go
to this appointment, and I will speak what
the Lord says speak, and I will make no oth
er appointment until the Lord shall decide
every question in my mind, whether it is my
duty or not to follow the leadings of my
mind, and speak in public as I have done.—
When I had made those conclusions in my
mind, which seemed to be formed in the
power of faith, the language of the Spirit
seemed to be, " I will answer whatsoever is
asked in faith, and I will shew thee by the
vision of the night ; only ask believing."—
Lord, said I, show me if I am to give «p do
mestic enjoyment, and measureably be se
cluded from my family for the sake of the
gospel. Being firmly fixed on knowing and
learning duty from the Lord ; in confidence
I proceeded on my journey, but did not reach
my lodging until late at night. The follow
ing morning brought to my recollection the
home, standing in my door-yard, where I dis
covered a cloud gather as from a mist and o-
vershadow the house. When the cloud was
made, it formed a pillar over the door, exten-
dingfrom one cornerof the house to the other,
and settled towards the ground ; but as it set
tled, it became more and more condensed,
and in the end became a permanent stone
wall—resting upon the ground in such a
manner as to cover up the door of the house,
I dreamed that I was at
104
and hide all the windows, so that to an ap
pearance, I rrinst be excluded from my fam
ily. I thought at first, that I did not believe
in decrees, nor that I- should be totally sepa
rated from my family, so I threw myself a-
gainst the wall, as I thought, and the wall
gave way so easy, that I broke through into
the house without any difficulty. My im
pressions were in my dream, to learn duty and
do it.
I learned from this dream, that which con
sequently must be the lot of every minister,
who feels a duty to travel and preach. In a
more or less degree they must be secluded
from the domestic concerns of life. From
this vision I thought that it was my duty, to
tarry at home no more nor no less for what
had happened to me, as to my temporal con
cerns. Though the wall was apparentlyt sol
id, it was in my power to pass it, so the re
quirements of God are not arbitrary to des
troy the free-will of the creature. One who
is called to preach the Gospel, may resist that
duty, as well as he may. neglect the more
common christian duties of life ; and nothing
strange, that the ministers of God in viewing
the importance of their station, when hav
ing a sight of their creaturely-ability, should
shrink, especially if faith is not in immediate
exercise. For every true minister of God,
whatever may be the noble utterance—or
whatever may be his worldly qualifications',
views himself wholly inadequate to the work
105
of the gospel ministry, without the immediate
inspiration and help of God—therefore, how
careful ought they ever to be, to know duty,
and do it. "For the priest's lips should keep
knowledge and they should seek the law at
his mouth, for he is the messenger of the
Lord of hosts," (Mai. 2, 7.) and for this, if
any man lack wisdom, "let him ask of God,
that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraid-
eth not ; and it shall be given /mra," but let not
any one seek men's wisdom to qualify them
for a Gospel minister.
CHAP. VI.
Some trials of mind preceding the first publie testimony
against the ordinances.—By the severe treatment of some
who had ought to he friends, and by many doubts and fears
peculiar to a singular course in religion, driven at last to
distrust every witness hitherto known.—All doubts as to
the truth dispelled by the revelation of God's power at
noon-day.
As my days increased, my desires were
increased for a deeper knowledge of God—
my convictions of mind, were deep and pun
gent, and the truth was all I desired to know.
There was not one minute in twenty-four
hours, (unless I was asleep,) but what my
mind was engaged in strong desires to obtain
a freedom from sin, and an establishment in
the truth which would leave my mind with
106
out a cloud or doubt. I frequently came iny
late at evening, having been engaged in se-
cret prayer to God, when my family suppos
ed me to be spending the evening at some
neighbours house.
As to the ordinances, (so called) the more
I searched the scriptures, the more I was sat
isfied that baptism of water, and the commu
nion of bread and wine were nothing bind
ing on christians nor ordinances enjoined by
Christ. Besides being measureably satisfied
by reading the scriptures, there was some
thing within which render such ceremonies
awful and tasteless. Though I had proposed-
in my mind to shun the sacrament as often-
as possible, from the indifference which had
appeared to me of it, from the first, but more
especially from what I had seen and felt now
afew months past ; my mind would no long
er permit me to act indifferently in the mat
ter without my feeling awfully condemned.
Hitherto I had not told any person my
feeling in full, relative to communion or bap-,
tism, save when I preached I contended
for that baptism and communion which is
Spiritual, and that without saying any thing
about the outward ceremony. In private
conversation I had frequently contended that
the supposed ordinances ought not to divide
the children of God one from the other : I
had also said I could fellowship christians
though they were baptised in any way, or
that I could receive them without baptism at
107
all ; and that I would not be instrumental in
building societies on any principle less liber
al, but the time had now come when I began
to feel constrained to breathe out the senti
ments of my mind in full : My Wife was the
first person to whom I ventured to tell plain
ly that I did not believe in the sacrament of
baptism, bread and wine ; but for this I only
received her disapprobation, with a chide for
having dared to dispute the gospel-ordinan
ces, as she was pleased to call them ; she al
so manifested her surprise at my supposed
delusion,and charged me with pretending to
be more wise than all the christian denomi
nations which had lived since the days of the
cramental notion by prepossession of mind,
no arguments that I could use, however
scriptural they were, could effect to ex
cuse my new doctrine, or give my notion a
show of reason. She had, as she supposed,
the scripture on her side, with that she plead
that tradition was on her part; as chris
tians in all ages had manifested the greatest
attachment to the said customs. As to the
scriptures showing a sufficient proof in favor
ofthe ordinances, this I doubted : but all de
nominations believed in the sacraments, I did
not dispute, I knew of none but what did: so
that I could plead no tradition on my part.
As to Friends (called Quakers) 1 knew noth
ing of them, therefore I ascribed my feelings
and leadings of mind as peculiar to myself>
established in the sa
108
and could find no comfort but in following
to all with whom 1 was acquainted.
The disapprobation manifested by my wife
was but a trifle, when compared with the op
position which I had reason to expect from the
church, with which I was connected. What
will be said, thought f, if 1 bear a testimony
against that which is called the Holy Sacra
ment ?—things in high estimation among
all denominations with whom I am acquaint
ed. The language of my heart was day by
day, Lord what does all this mean ? Why is
it, that my mind is led so differently from all
my brethren ? If I attempt to use the sacra
ment, my heart smites me, as if I had bowed
down to an idol. If I absent myself from the
communion, I offend those whom I tenderly
regard. And I not only offend, and am of
fended in this, but all the modes and forms in
which they live, in them I died. What can
be the cause of all this singularity—singular,
not only to others, but singular to myself.—
Said I, can this be tradition ! no—Has any
one taught me in this way? no—khave nev
er known any person who believed as my
mind is now led. Why was it, that my mind
did not in the first use of the ordinances, re
alize a divine approbation as well as others
who pretend to be much favored thereby.
Surely my soul was sincere in submitting to
the ordinances, as well as others—but death
began at first, and nothing but death have I
ind, and that in contrariety
109
found in every instance of submission—what
fears, doubts, and anguish of Spirit hath my
soul been thrown into, on account of this ?
yea : but for the Spirit of God bearing wit
ness with my Spirit that there was a divine
reality in religion,—months since I had fall
en into deism, or had yielded to infidelity.
But that God, of whom it is said, he "will not
suffer you to be tempted, above that ye are able ;
but will with the temptation, also make a way
to escape, that ye may be able to bear it ;" he
appeared for my relief, and with a drymullen
stalk he encircled all things, and by his
Spirit the earth was filled with his glory, and
the heavens were garnished by his power—
then I was clothed in my right mind ; and
when the Lord by hisspirit, as I thought, en
lightened me to see a distinction between a
ceremonial religion, and that religion which
is inwardly in power and in Spirit, so that I
saw a whole and a complete way of life and
salvation by faith in Christ without the beg
garly elements of the world. It was then I
thought to receive, and view the ordinances
with indifference ; but how is this ? these
things which I thought to treat indifferently
shew themselves as things of a serious nature
as they are productive of a most pernicious
effect. How can I treat that with indiffer
ence which is the cause of so much bitter
ness among christians. But, be that as it
may, how can I sing with a heavy heart, (that
is) how can I act a believer's part with those
K
110
things, in which I do not believe—things
which are like ice to my bosom ? But ad
mitting all this to be, is there a possibility of
stifling the leadings of my mind which so ur
ges me to bear a testimony against those
modes and forms so much beloved, without
bringing death and darkness to my mind ?—
Is there not some selfish motives at the bot
tom of all this ? Do I expect to be thought
wise ? no. Do I expect to become more
popular ? no. Shall I find more friends and
more wealth and worldly advantages ? no—
on the contrary of all this, I shall more prob
ably be thought enthusiastic and factious—
unpopular and credulous—my brethren will
forsake me, and my friends will become my
foes ; and so far shall I be from finding my
worldly privileges enlarged, I may be cut off
from the church in which I now stand—dis-
fellowshipped by them and all others—there
is no prospect in my mind of any thing as
an equivalent for one in a hundred of the in
conveniences which I foresee may arise.—
Surely I thought, my worldly purposes might
be much better secured to follow the multi
tude ; but yet my desire was that the will of
the Lord might be done if I was disgraced ;
therefore when several weeks had been spent
in seriously enquiring for duty, whether it
were his will that I should hold my peace
and follow the multitude, I besought the Lord
that he would counsel me, upon my pillow,
and received the following as instruction.
Ill
I thought in the vision of the night that I
was travelling in a very broad road, in com
pany with a number of persons. When we
had travelled some time together, we came
to a place, as I thought, where a narrow way
Jed off from the road in which we were trav
elling. My mind was to travel the narrow
path, but I yielded to the solicitations of the
company, and travelled the broad road. I had
not travelled far before I discovered that the
way m which we were travelling, gradually
left the direction which I had ought to
pursue y therefore I quit the company with
which I was travelling, and as- 1 thought,
went back and pursued the narrow path, and
was soon convinced that the broad way
was not the right way ; for I discovered at a
distance as I thought, that the broad road led
over an awful precipice, so that they who
travelled that way, must perish if they did
not turn back to the narrow path*
If I might understand any thing from this
vision, I thought it was, that my way was a
narrow one, and that no good would ulti
mately grow to me, if I followed the multi
tude in a broad way. This interpretation
perfectly corresponded with the restrictions
of my mind, and I felt resolved, (the Lord
assisting me) to do whatsoever the Lord
should say do. Several weeks had passed in
weighing the matter,when 1 became resolved
to bear my testimony to the truth by speak
ing against the outward sacraments in Bread,
112
Wine, and Water-baptism ; and by contend
ing for that baptism and communion which is
inward and Spiritual, as being the only and
proper gospel baptism and communion. For
some days I had Spiritual enjoyment, only
when I thought of yielding to a duty so op
posite to every thing but the Spirit within
me.
One 1st day, as I was on my way to meet
with my Free-will Baptist brethren, it seem
ed to rest on my mind that this was the time
for me to leave my testimony, and accor
dingly I committed myself to the Lord, beg
ging that ifit was his will, that I should speak,
that he would open the way, by shutting up
J he mouths of other public preachers, (if any
should be there) and that he would stand by
me in my singular undertaking. When I
came to the place of public worship I found
a speaker there, who, it was expected would
preach—this gave additional weight to my
cross ; as I knew him to be much attached
to the ordinances, he being the very man-
who had the pastoral care of the church, and
one that had warmly opposed me some
months since in conference, about receiving
sprinkled members.
When we had set down, an unusual
time was spent in silence, for as it was his ap
pointment to preach, I was resolved to let
him preach, if it was so to be ; but after
waiting sometime he signified to me that he
wished me to preach. I asked him if he did
113
not feel something on his own mind to say,
and he answered in the negative. Feeling
that my way was opened, after a short si
lence, I arose and spoke from that saying of
the Apostle Paul to the Corinthians, " And
unto the Jews 1 became as a Jew. that 1
might gainthe Jews ; to them that are under
the law, as under the law, that I might gain
them that are under the law. To them that
are without law, as without law (being not
without law to God, but under the law of
Christ,) that I might gain them that are with
out lavy. To the weak become I as weak,
that I might gain the weak : I am made all
things to all men, that I might by all means
save some." 1 Cor. ix, 20, 21, 22.
The subject matter couched in the above
scripture, is, that the Apostle Paul, became
"all things to all men." I therefore labored to
show the reason why the Apostle was so con
descending, and urged that it was not in con
sequence of any savinggrace, which the Jews
supposed there to be in the ceremonial law,
that the Apostle condescended as a Jew ; nor
would he reject the Gentiles because the Gen
tiles had not the ceremonial lawi I labored to
show that the gospel was in no manner con
nected with a ceremonial religion, as in
will-worship, and that the Apostle only acted
in conformity to the weakness of some, and
according to the prejudice of others. I urg
ed that the condescension of the Apostle
Paul, or any other Apostle, to the sacraments
k2-
114
(so called) did not amount to a christian ex
ample to be protected now in the Gentile
church ; that is, these things were mentioned
in the scriptures as facts which took place,
in that day and time of ceremonial tradition
and weakness, but that there was nothing of
a command in the scriptures of truth, that
went to enjoin what was commonly called
baptism and communion.
I spake of the necessity of distinguishing
the difference there was between a simple
relation and a command, and spake of the
bitterness and jealousies which the brethren
in the different orders of people maintained
one against the other, about the use and priv
ilege of the sacraments. I labored to show,
that that baptism and communion which is
inward and Spiritual, was the only proper
christian-baptism and supper of the Lord.
I contended that the Apostle Paul, though
he baptised some, he purified himself, and cir
cumcised too ; and that I was as ready to do
one of these ceremonies as the other, and
did I not consider that the Apostle's becom
ing all to all was only in conformity to the
prejudices of that age, I should be ready to
practice many things done by the Apostles
as well as baptism ; but, said I, in a day and
time so much characterising the Spirit of Co
rinthian brethren, who said, " I am of Paul,
and I of Apollos, and I of Cephas, and 1 of
Christ," I frankly declare in the language of
the Apostle Paul, « Christ sent me not to
baptise, but to preach the Gospel."
115
The arguments used in that testimony I
shall not here insert, as points contended for,
may be fully understood at full length in my
Plea.
My discourse was a new doctrine to the
people,generally; and I suppose abominable
too, for whilst I was speaking, I plainly saw
an inscription on the foreheads of many in
the congregation ; which inscription, though
I did not fully understand at first ; the end
and the interpretation of the thing was shown,
II Ye have taken away my Gods****and what
have I more V
There were some of my hearers who list
ened attentively to my testimony, and seem
ed not rash or hasty in their judgment, but
others of the congregation were deeply dis
affected to what had been said, insomuch that
I had not reached home before 1 was called to
an account for my doctrine, and for pretend
ing to be more wise than the apostles, (as
they were pleased to call it,) this was be
cause I had said that Peter was a man
subject to passion, or religious prejudice, a3
well as christians of a later time, and that,
that was the reason wby Peter commanded
Cornelius and his household to be baptised ;
to this I only replied, that my doctrine was
according to the gospel, and whatever I had
said concerning the apostle Peter, or any oth
er apostle, I was ready to prove it from the
scriptures of truth. But how was my soul
grieved with the treatment with which I next
116
met with, from them who were not only
members in the church with me, but as it
were, they were they, of my own household.
In conversation at evening, where about the
first salutation to me, was, that I had preach
ed false doctrine in my discourse, censuring
the gospel ordinances, (meaning water bap
tism, and the sacrament in bread and wine.)
They made no stick, in conversation, at tel
ling me that they had no fellovyship for the
doctrine that I had preached, and that what
I had said was false, and that I had not the
Spirit of God. The conversation continued
the most part of one hour in language no ways
foreign to the introduction. The thought
that they were my connexions was not half so
painful to me as the thought that we be
longed to one society ; for if things were as
they stated they could have no fellowship for
me—they must withdraw from society or I
must be cut off, otherwise church dignity and
order must suffer reproach. Without filling
my page with matter of debate, which be
longs to my Plea, I only observe that I offer
ed scripture testimony to prove my doctrine,
and all did not effect a satisfaction in the
minds of my opponents, I" observed to them,
that if I had preached a doctrine so incor
rigible as they represented mine to be; I only *
desired that I might be tried by the pretend
ed discipline of the church,namely the Bible;*
*Tbe Free-will Baptist say that the Bible is a sufficient rub of faith •
and practice, aod so Jeject all ether discipline.
S
117
for I was willing that my preaching should
be tried by the scriptures of truth only. To
close the interview, I told them that I should
retract nothing of all that I had preached,
and that to save them further troubles, (as
what I had done was public,) that which I
hadreceivedof themshould answerfor the first
and second admonition, so they had only to
bring the matter before the church, and there
convince me of error, by the scriptures ; but
they gave me to understand that they had no
notion of this •, and so I bid them farewell.
Nothing would have suited me better than
to have been tried by a church meeting ; for
then I should have had a more public oppor
tunity for vindicating the truth of what I had
preached, though I knew not, as yet, what
might be the result of what I had already
said. I now viewed my situation to be very
unpleasant, I had forfeited my standing in
society, and truly felt doubtful where my sin
gular undertaking might end ; as to my feel
ings I had never heard ofany person, nor had
I ever seen one whose mind seemed to be
led as mine was ; some said that I was a
Quaker, but as I have before said I knew
nothing of that people, though I had often
heard the name. I now began to inquire a-
bout the Quaker's doctrine ; and was inform-
that they were a money-making, and a
wealthy people, and that they received none
into society but such as were wealthy,—that
they denied the necessity of a conversion—
riff
denied the bible, and all the gospel-ordin
ances, and, as to religion, I was informed that
they would avoid all conversation respecting
it. Had I known the doctrine of the Friends
(called Quakers) I should have known that
this account was as distant to the sentiment
of Friends, as it was distant to the sentiments
of any other class of people in the world. As-
to their charity, none excel them, they have
their poor members as well as other denom
inations ; as to conversion, no people urge
the necessity more than they ; and to smoth
er the notion of self-sufficiency, no people
preach a doctrine half so humbling to the
natural and proud disposition of the heart.
There is no discipline,—no manners, more
crucifying to the "old man" than theirs ; and
no people that seek the depths ofregeneration
more than they. As to the bible, they do not
worship it, very true, yet they receive it as
the Scriptures of truth, and worship God in
Spirit as the Scriptares direct, and no disci
pline, no chatechise-books abound more in
scripture transcription than theirs. As to
their religion, they are not ashamed of it,
therefore it is first to be seen outwardly in
plain dress, in plain speech and easy man
ners. They are ready also to show that
which is inwardly by giving a reason for the
hope that is within them, to all serious in
quiries after truth, but they are not wil
ling to engage in disputes which too fre
quently rise among christians, to no profit.
119
Perhaps there is no doctrine more vilified
and less understood by the world at large,
than the doctrine of Quakers, therefore what
I was informed of that people, was enough
to satisfy my mind without further inquiry.
I had now no reason to believe that there
was any people or individuals who believed
as I did ; I viewed myself as a speckled bird
among all about me, but particularly so a-
mong my brethren in the society, to which I
belonged. Though I disbelieved in what
others called the gospel-ordinances, as the
Quakers did, yet I esteemed no man less for
his poverty—I advocated strongly that men
" must be bom againf—I believed in the bi
ble, and was willing to converse on matters
of religion, so I was far from being a Qua
ker as I supposed.—I was soon made sensi
ble that I must quit society, or renounce my
sentiment, but the latter was impossible—
the former was a thought which I had not
yet indulged.
My mind was much perplexed now, to
know what to do ; though I had enjoyed the
sweet presence of God in the singular part I
had undertaken, now finding my path so bois
terous, like Peter, I began to sink. Many of
my brethren did not feel willing to give up
their christian attachment and disfellowship
me for any thing that I had hitherto done :
but others seemed disposed to hurt my influ
ence as much as possible, and strove to hin
der my public improvements by a chain of
120
appointments, so schemed, as to fill the time
themselves, as much as possible. Finding
my mind indifferently inclined, and mere or
less affected by this treatment, I spent my
time in preaching more abroad ; but occa
sionally attended meetings with my brethren
as I felt liberty of the Spirit, so to do ; but it
was a trying spell with me. The part I had
acted exposed me to the cool reception and
jealousy of my public brethren but I had the
satisfaction of announcing to them,that I had
not preached down any thing, that I had
preached up ; for I had never preached or
dinances of any kind, because the Spirit had
never taught me so to do.
I had now been about two years in search
of truth,and having made my appearance in
behalf of my convincement, I shall now relate
the baptisms, trials and siftings of my mind
for about two years more ; to the time when
I left society, and when for the first time a-
gain I bore an unshaken and confiden
tial testimony to the doctrine couched in my
Plea.
I As I proceeded in my duty, new conflicts
arose in my mind, which seemed to try evefy-
place of feeling. For my belief I was ac
counted an enthusiast, and for my way I was
only charged with madness ; and more, and
worse than all, my wife beset me hard to de
sert my new notion, on the grounds that she
believed me to be in an error. The way in
which I was intent often afforded matter for
121
our first conversation in the morning, and the
last in the evening, and our pillow not un-
irequently witnessed the tears that was shed,
when much time was spent in conversation
and arguments proved unavailing. From the
gloomy aspects which appeared without, and
the warnings and solicitations from her that
occupied, not only in my own house but in
my heart, I sometimes found all within me
sensibly touched. A little time had passed
when I became so straitened I was resolved
to protest no more publicly against the out
ward ordinances, or any thing else that might
come in contact with my feelings, but peace
ably conform i.o all the traditions of the
church, until the Lord should add incontes-
tible proofs of his disapprobation above all
that he had hitherto done.
Soon after this, my mind was strongly im
pressed with the thought, that it was my du
ty to leave society ; and that this was the in
terpretation of that part of my vision which
related to leaving a company, as related in
my second dream. Here the false interpre
tation which I had entertained of my dream,
subsided, and instead of backsliding I had
other things to expect. If I attempted to
transgress the rules of the church I had rea
son to expect difficulty, as I knew that they
would not willingly dismiss any from the
church, unless it was to join some other so
ciety ; and this I could not do, because there
122
was no denomination in the circle of my
knowledge, who believed as I did.
The morel thought ofleaving society, the
more I felt convicted of the just interpreta
tion of my dream ; but to leave society waS
a work which I knew not where to commence,
and indeed I knew not how to abide, for all
the customs of the church was completely in
aversion to my mind. What they called gos
pel ordinances, sacraments, &c, I called
" beggarly-elements," and " rudiment of the
world." What they called church-order, I
called church confusion. What was life to
them was death to me. Besides all this, it
was now impossible for me to feel that un
ion, and use that liberty in the church which
I had once. I knew that there was some in
society who were my enemies, and what was
more, they had represented my doctrine in
such a point of light, that they had before
now ought to have made it a matter of church
deal. So long as things continued as they
were, it was impossible for me to act as if all
was well. O the feelings of my heart, when
I came to the place of worship ! no sooner
than I had seated myself, all my past experi
ence, the situation of the church, with all the
trials incident to my situation would come
up before me like clouds—my heart seemed
heavier than a stone, so that I was bent down
in silence during the whole meeting ; and it
often seemed as if I could hardly rise from
my seat to leave the house. Many times ifI
123
attempted to speak in meeting, it seemed as
if my words recoiled like stones thrown a-
gainst a wall, so that I was constrained to sit
down. These feelings being often upon me
I sometimes declined meeting, and then ma
ny of my brethren were grieved ; so I realiz
ed myself, as it were, where two seas met—
for I lamented the absence of some whom I
tenderly loved, or frequenly realized an awful
prison to my mind if I assembled. I feared if
I left society my best friends would become
my enemies, or follow me but at a distance.
Such was the exercise of my mind, that 1 did
not pretend to unbosom my feelings to but
few of my most confidential friends, fearing
they would not bear it ; for I had only once
manifested my mind concerning the sacra
ments and my mind still felt the most aggra
vating wound which I received of my breth
ren for so doing.
I might here stop to mention many partic
ular trials which I was called to pass through
within one year after I publicly manifested
my belief ; but for brevity's sake, I shall on
ly record one particular exercise, which will
never be forgotten by me, as it served much
to my convincement.
About three months after I had borne my
first testimony whilst under many trials pecu-
•liar to my tried situation,- I.was left to pass
through the most trying scenes that I had ev
er hitherto experienced; but my "weeping"
was " but for a night," and my "joy" came
124
" in the morning." For a few days corroding
fears revived in my mind, that I might still be
wrong. From doubts I was led to complain
of my lot, I began a kind of reasoning in my
mind, but reasoned against myself—I coun
ted over the many trials which I had passed
through ; and as I counted I beheld every
thing upon the darkest side, without being a-
ble to come to the most distant prospect of
reaching beyond a gloomy aspect. Thought
I, for two years or more, 1 have incessantly
been tried in my mind about religion, and if*
seems that every man's hand, that is, my
mind in matters of religion is different from
any other, for ought I know: I have declar
ed things invalid which are accounted sacred
in religion, to most denominations. Why,
and how is this ? Here my mind began to
search for my best reasons, why things were
so : lstly, why I had rejected the use of the
sacraments was because they were attended
with nothing but darkness and death to my
soul. 2dly, I had understood from the scrip
tures that such ceremonies belonged not to
Christ's church. Here I could not consent
that my feeling first amounted to a dispute as
to the propriety of the sacraments, and that
so my mind was first led to read the scrip
tures to justify my feelings, for my first in
ducement to read scripture for myself, took
place when reading to support (not to con
fute) the notion of a millenium day: finding
that I had been deceived in that, I had there-
♦
125
by been induced to read for the truth of sa
craments. Though I could not accuse my
self of having first searched the scriptures to
collate with my feelings, yet in the present
disposition of my mind, I was ready to reck
on myself wrong, because the multitude was
against me-—I was ready to distrust my own
feelings, because of the deceitfulness of the
human heart. As to the scripture, I had been
before convinced of the fallacy of men's judg
ment thereupon.* So I was now ready ato sns-
pect my own judgment and to distrust such
parts of my confirmation, as seemed to be
acquired by scriptural views. Here, thought
I, I may be wrong—my heart is deceitful
and my judgment treacherous, even to the
truth. What shall I do now ? Whatever my
convincement may have been heretofore,
perhaps like other religious bigots, I may be
orthodox in my own eyes, when reason shows
they must be wrong. O the duplicity there
is in the world ! and who am I but one a-
mongst those pretenders to the truth of reli
gion, who have trusted too much to the lead
ings of their own Spirit, or felt themselves
confirmed by the study of a dark and intri
cate volume, which neither they nor I am a-
ble to understand ?—:Here it seemed as if all
my evidences as to the truth of my religion
fled, and whatever had appeared to me as a
witness heretofore, was no witness now. I
believed in God—that he was. and that he
* See CoRviacemenl, Chap, 4th, p. 68.
1,2
126
was a rewarderof them that diligently sought
him ; therefore 1117 desire was, that he would
do something more for me to confirm my
mind, than whatever had yet been done.—
Though the Lord had been good to me in the
vision of the night, I feared (as I was tempt
ed then) that I was but a filthy dreamer ; so
no visionary views could answer me now—
and to read scripture was out of the question.
I prayed much in secret, and my constant
desire was, that the Lord would show me the
truth, and that too, by a sign at noon-day.—-
Sometimes I feared that I was tempting God
by asking him for a greater witness than I
had already had. Sometimes it was whis
pered in my mind, that my witness was e-
nough and that I had not ought to ask a great
er witness—thus aH seemed to prevent the
exercise of faith.
As my days wasted under these trials, my
Spirit repined for the truth—my mind was
cast down in dejection, as if every thing was
against me. One day when walking abroad,
1 lifted up my eyes and in the depression of
my Spirit viewed universal nature as I thought
burthened with its existence. I fancied that
there was no comfort for any creature living,
even the beasts of the field with the creeping
things of the earth, and the fowls of heaven
were to be pitied, as if life was a misfortune.
My soul was filled with grief and tears were
the only consolation I enjoyed. The lan
guage of my heart was, Q that I had never
127
been born—" or as a hidden untimely birth
I had not been ;" but " as infants that never
saw light—Wherefore is light given to him
that is in misery, and life unto the bitter in
soul ? Why is light given to a man whose
way is hid, and whom God hath hedged in ?
for my sighings cometh before I eat, and my
roarings are poured out like the waters."—
My soul waited in impatience to know the
truth, and being wearied, I was wearied with
out the prospect of a better day—and like
the impotent, I fancied that any other condi
tion would be rest compared with the condi
tion then present. Thought I, my life is my
burthen, and my religion is a burthen to oth
ers ; my brethren are uncharitable and jeal
ous towards me, and my wife is grieved at
my choice in religious things, and I am griev
ed myself with being singular from others ;
besides, I have no means of knowing wheth
er I am right or wrong, unless the Lord shall
appear—Lord, said I, shew me thy truth.
After being for several days much cast
down, the Lord was pleased to shew himself
a prayer-answering God, by dissolving every
query—by removing every doubt, and by es
tablishing my mind in the truth of his ever
lasting gospel.
One day, as I was setting in my chair, my
mind fixed particularly upon the sacraments,
and querying whether, what or how much
might be the duty ofthe christian—ere I was
aware my heart began to burn, and immcdi
128
ately all within me was set on fire by the bap
tism of lhe Holy Ghost; at the same instant
it was said to my understanding, love is the
fulfilling of the whole law. O with what
power did these words run through my soul !
I had love without fear—religion without
doubts, and a teacher without deception.—.
As soon as the sacred flame filled my soul I
inadvertently arose from my chair, finding
myself in tears of thankfulness, as if the room
was too small to contain my spirit, and with
an intention to hide my emotions, I went out
at the door. But as I went out my wife dis
covered my exercise, and as she afterwards
said, I exclaimed, Ihavefound the truth ! (or
in other words,) / havefound the way ! After
I went out, that incomprehensible fulness--
measureable withdrew, and then it came to
my mind that this was the truth, and that,,
this was in answer to my prayers, being a
witness at noon-day—not visionary by night
nor was any scripture confirmation to be com
pared to this. When I recollected that this
was in answer to my prayers, though that full
ness had measureable subsided, yet I was
immediately rebaptised with the same full
ness.—Here I feel in duty'bound to say I nev
er saw true religion, or true religion in its own
attire until now—never did I before realize a-
complete justification by faith, without the
deeds of the taw. This witness of the truth
was powerful beyond imagination and it is
out of the power of devils or men, by all:
129
their magic to produce any thing like it ; and
so it has been with me from that day until
this present time, that not .a single cloud has
flown between me and the light, though I
have had many trials, as to the knowledge of
my personal duty, yet my mind is unclouded
and without a doubt as to religion and the in-
tireness of the truth from the 'worthless creeds
of men. "Love is the fulfilling of the Z«io,"
and all beyond that are only engines of pre-
latical tyranny—Subjects of dispute—things
without grace, gendering to ungodliness.—
" Now," saith the Apostle, " the end of the
commandment is charity," (or love) out of
a pure heart, and of a good conscience, and of
faith unfeigned" from which some having
swerved, they " have turned aside, desiring
to be teachers of the law ; understanding
neither what they say, nor wherefore they
affirm,'' all which " minister questions rather
than godly edifying."
" Ye different seen who all declare
Lo ! Christ it here, and Christ is there ;
Your stronger proofs divinely give,
And shoa me where the Christians live."
Though my mind now felt completely
clear from all doubts relative to religion and
what comprised the truth. I had still to
team duty, and what was more, it was neces
sary that I should do it too. But when I
thought of leaving the church (as I have be
fore observed) it was a work which I knew
130
not where to commence. My brethren ma
ny ofthem seemed near to me. To leave
the society and bear public protestation a-
gainst the ordinances (so called) with other
things, was no way to keep their friendship,
gain other friends, or render myself popular
in the view ofsectaries at large. At this time
I was not so much without a knowledge of
my duly as I was without a mind to do it.
About this time I took into consideration
the subject of ordination by the laying on of
hands, but I found that, that ceremony was
only a form without power—a popular cere
mony among the dead forms of the church,
but by no means necessary, or qualifying to
a true gospel minister. The light in which I
viewed the form of ordination is held forth at
full length in my Plea.*
CHAP. VII.
Adversity considered an answer to prayer and as means
of instruction relative to duty.—Reproofs for the untimely
use of vocal prayer.—The use of the sacrament, attempted
for the last time, and the pretended benefits of the sacra
ment discovered by examining others, with repeated adver
sity, and an account to the time application was made for a
dismission from society. •
Notwithstanding I felt a good degree.of
consolation and confirmation in the truth, yet
Se> Plea, Chap. If),
131
this added nothing to my comfort whenever
I assembled with my brethren, for if I con
formed to the ceremonies of the church I felt
much condemned, and it was not uncommon
when in meeting that I was bowed down, as
I have before observed, with a burthen at
my heart and my tongue clave to the roof of
my mouth.
After about one year had passed, and I had
kept my mind mostly to myself concerning
ordinances, many, I supposed, probably con
cluded, that I had renounced my new doc
trine, and so I measurely regained their fel
lowship.
The time now drew on, when the Lord saw
fit to deal with me in a manner agreeable to
my prayers. I had frequently made it a mat
ter of request to God, that, (when duty was
made known) if I did not submit to his right
eous requirements, he would disappoint and
afflict me—bereave and cut off my temporal
prospects, until I should yield to duly.
About the 9th month (called September,)
1819. I was appointed as a messenger to the
Free-will Baptist quarterly meeting. No
sooner than I had consented to go, I felt im
mediate condemnation resting upon me, but
this was not the first time that I had felt con
demned on similar occasions, for but a few
weeks past, 1 had been a considerable jour
ney, and visited every society that belonged to
the quarterly meeting. During this journey,
I felt much condemnation for acting in con
. 132
junction with a people, from whom I had felt
it my duty to withdraw.
When 1 was about to set forward on my
journey to the quarterly meeting, unusual
darkness came over my mind, and many dif
ficulties appeared, to stop my designs, so that
I observed io my family, that I believed that
it was not my duty to go. I also endeavored
to persuade some one to go in my stead,- but
to no purpose, therefore 1 was apparently o-
bliged to go myself ; and accordingly set off
at a late hour in the morning. I had not pro
ceeded more than three miles, when 1 dis
covered that I had taken a wrong road, by
which I was led quite out of my way. Finding
myself in the woods, and at the end of the
path, I reflected much on myself for having
missed my path in a way where I had fre
quently been before. But charging my miss
to the too intense study in which my mind
had been engaged all the day ; I made the
best of my way thro' the woods, and finding my
way, I proceeded on my intended journey.
But as I proceeded, the Lord by his Spirit
came near, and the question ran repeatedly
through my mind, whether I did not know
that 1 was acting inconsistent with reason,
and against the Spirit of the Lord, as well as
in opposition to my own convincement. I
could not say that I did not know my dutyr
so far, that I had sometime since proposed
in my mind to leave society, but I had an in
clination to delay and put it off for a more
133
convenient season. The thoughts of being
one by myself were not pleasing to the na
tural mind. I had not proceeded far when it
was pressingly suggested to my mind that I
should return home, and indeed, my feelings
were so pungent before I left home, that I
observed to my family, that it was probable
that I should return. All my past experience
reasoned powerfully against me, and seemed
at last to demand of me whether I would dis
continue my journey, yea or nay. s~-
Though the day was far spent, and the
journey demanded haste, yet, for deep med
itation I was only sauntering in the way. Alt*
at once, in the midst, of my reasonings, I put
spur to my horse, and said with all but an au
dible voice, I will go to Quarterly meeting.
I had not proceeded but a few rods before
my horse fell to the ground, and by means
of a small stick which had entered the trunk
of his body—he died instantly. In confu
sion of soul I stripped my beast of saddle and
bridle, leaving-the creature in the road where
it fell. I returned home, and as the horse
was not my own, but a borrowed horse, I
paid the loaner for his beast. Thus I found
the way of the transgressor to be hard. It
was night when I relumed home. I had strove
against the Lord all the day—had lost my
horse, and performed a journey of only eight
miles.
I shall now notice the exercise of my mind
on the subject of prayer. I have before ob-
M
134
served in these sheets, that at times I had
felt it my duty to omit both singing and vo
cal prayer, both before and after public speak
ing. I had now been labouring under fre-
quent condemnation on this ground for al
most two years, and I was not oftener con
demned for my unseasonable undertakings in
public, than I was for mere private or family
prayers. It had ever been my practice to
attend what is called family duties, night and
"wprning, until now. Such was my situation
that if I travelled abroad I was uniformly
obliged by the custom of the people, to attend
tcra vocal form of asking a blessing and say
ing prayers ; when the travail of my mind by
no means embraced a subject suited to such
occasions. Sometimes my mind was par
ticularly engaged to know myself, and duty;
sometimes my mind was cast down with in
ward reprovings, and my whole spirit was
absorbed in deep thought on things only best
known to God. Again my spirit was engag
ed for the church at large, and again my
mind embraced but the cases of a single per
son. Every christian knows that the child of
God must pass through many baptisms and
that the Spirit leads to different subjects at
different times. They know also, that the
whole heart is only capable through the Spir
it of enditing a petition to God, consequently
if the Spirit leads to one thing, and we undu
ly engage in another, the latter is but a Spir
itless petition, and if we leave the instruc
135
lion and teachings of the Spirit in the former,
this is leaving the thing which we had ought
to have done, and doing the thing which we
had ought not to do. I think the traveller in
true godliness knows by his own experience,
what it is to labor in the Spirit. Many times
have I felt the deepest remorse of conscience
for following the customs of men instead of
waiting upon the Spirit. And it was in this
way of undue observance I met with that
which caused me to fear God instead of man.
One day as I was in prayer (so called) in my
family, 1 was then seized with that degree of
horror of mind that I had hitherto never
known, even in the field of battle. In the
midst of prayer I was fearful that I should be
struck dead by my chair if I did not desist im
mediately. It appeared to me that my hair,
(speaking after the manner of men) stood up
on end upon my head. Such were my feel
ings that I arose from my knees immediately,
and since that time 1 have been more obe
dient, and have been made very sensible
that the preparation of the heart in man, and
the answer of the tongue is of the Lord :"
" man's way is not in himself, that is, the way
that he had ought to go. A man's heart cle-
viseth his way, but the Lord directelh his
steps," or all is wrong. "All the ways of
man," says Solomon, " are clean in his own
eyes, but the Lord weigheth the Spirits."
Again, it is said, " Keep thy foot when thou
goest to the house of God, and be more ready
136
to hear, than to give the sacrifice of fools,fo?-
they consider not that they do evil. Be not
rash with thy mouth, and let not thy heart be
hasty to utter any thing before God." God's
sacrifices are spiritual—such as brokenness
of heart and a contrite Spirit ; so without a
due preparation of the mind, either preach
ing or praying is " hasty," '{ rash," and "evil."
Says Mary Brook, in her reasons for silent
waiting, " Christ in Spirit is the way to the
Father : No man can come to the Father but
by him. What is the reason why so many
who profess to be followers of Christ, com
plain of wandering thoughts, inattention,
much coldness, deadness and insensibility in
prayer and other duties and devotions ? Is it
not because they are too little dependent on
the dictates of the Spirit, and believe not its
sensible influence necessary to every reli
gious act, nor wait for it to cleanse the tho'ts
of their hearts, and abiliate them to approach
the most high and Holy God in truth and in
righteousness ? Is it not because such lean
too much to their own unsubjugated wisdom
and understanding, to place their depend
ence on the Spirit, and to wait for its restrain
ing, heart-affecting power to lead them into
all truth, and therefore they are sent empty
away, and no more truly refreshed or benefit
ted by their lifeless devotion, than he, who
dreams he eateth, but when he awakes,' finds
he is yet empty ? Thus they ask and receive
not, because they ask amiss ; not in a right
137
form, but in a lukewarm and unconcerned
state of mind. The enemy '13 too strong for
such worshippers, and carries their thoughts
and imaginations after strange objects, while
their lips only approach the Almighty.—One
secret prayer, or deep sigh from the wrestling
soul, produced by the eternal Spirit, is of
more real service to it, issues from it with
more fervour, prevails more effectually with
the Father, and procures it more refreshment
than ten thousand vain repetitions, because
the virtue of the Spirit of the great Interces
sor being in those prayers and sighs they can
not but find acceptance."
Where the Spirit endites the petition, if sit-
ting, standing, or kneeling or walking in the
way, it matters not, a single groan will shake
satan's empire to the very foundation. Were
I to tell of quick answers to prayers, the most
manifest answers have been when my peti
tions have been endited by a sigh or groan,
breathed out in deep contrition and broken-
ness of Spirit.
I can say that the greatest work that I ever
undertook to do,was to leave offdoing, that is,
arrest the wanderings of my thoughts, and
bring my creaturely activity into a' suitable
stillness before God, so that the Spirit might
be heard. This, however, is easiest done in
retirement and in silent waiting, for man nev
er acts himself more honestly than when a-
lone ; and the reason is, that part in man
which is fond of applause ceasea to act, hav
2m
138
ing no inducement, because unseen. Be- ;
cause there is a part in man which prides it
self in its own doings ; inward or secret re- \
tirement tends much to prepare the soul for::
inward hearing, and the mind becomes pre
pared to speak out that which the Spirit
speaks in—he who is prepared by the Spirit
prays always, and that without ceasing; but
such as do not pretend to be led by the Spir
it, they do not pray at all, seeing they have
not a deep and inward sense of what they do.
Saith the apostle, (Rom. viii, 26, 27,) " we
know not what we should pray for as we
ought: but the Spirit itself maketh interces
sion for us with groanings which cannot be
uttered, and he that searchest the heart, know-
eth what is the mind of the Spirit." The
Pharisees prayed much in public, but Christ
taught his disciples to shun their hypocritical
example, and then to follow the rule/ie, him
self so often observed. " When thou pray-
est," saith Christ, " enter into thy closet, and %
when thou hast shut the door, pray thy Fath
er who seeth in secret, and thy Father who
seeth in secret shall reward thee openly."—
Christ prayed oft in the mountain and in se
cret, but public-formality so commonly prac
ticed among professors in these times, is with
out an example by Christ or his disciples.—
What abominable displays hath human wis
dom made. So it is, as if God had left his
creatures without the means or ability of in
terceding for themselves—prayer-books are
139
recommended, and for a few shillings a maa
may purchase a prayer for every day in the
year, and a prayer suited to any condition,
on land or at sea. Such prayers are cheap,
because priest-craft is plenty ; but my soul
knows, that I had rather have one single
groan from the most illiterate of God's crea
tures, (when produced by the Spirit,) than to
have ten thousand prayer-books and their
Priests with them to make intercession for me.
►□""Let this be remembered, that true prayer
is prepared only by that " holy anointing"
within the veil, and in the inmost temple of
the mind, or in the closet of the heart, where
God is—"truth in the inner parts," is only ca
pable ofinditing a petition acceptable to God.
I do not say that men may not pray vocally
and publicly, but the ten thousand unanswer
ed petitions which are made daily, is a suffi
cient proof how men trifle with prayer!
" This is the confidence" says John " that we
have in him, that if we ask any thing accor
ding to his will he heareth us ;" and again,
" whatsoever we ask, we receive of him."—
My soul says, what is all this lifeless liturgy
when compared with true prayer !
Though I was at this time sensibly con
vinced that it was my duty to leave the soci
ety to which I was attached, yet I could "hot
feel reconciled to begin a work so unexpect
ed to others, and so unpleasant to myself.—
To go forward and do duty was a thing much
easier delayed than prosecuted ; accordingly
140
I delayed until I witnessed my portion to lite- •
with that servant of whom it is said, " that
servant who knew his Lord's will, and pre
pared not himself ; neither did according to-
kis will, shall be beaten with many stripes."'
About the 1st month, 1820, a general con
ference was holden between the Free-will
Baptists and the society of people called
Christians. As this conference had been ap
pointed for the purpose of forming a union
between these* societies, both parties could
but feel deeply interested.
On being solicited to attend this meeting,
I readily excused myselfby saying that I had
no means of conveyance. 1 mentioned that
I had lost my horse some months before, and
that I feared to go, as it appeared to me, as
if the judgments of God were out against me;
but to obviate this excuse, it was told me
that if I feared the loss of another horse, a
conveyance should be furnished me. When
I had hesitated a little I concluded to go, and
so accordingly I set off, feeling secure in
my mind, as I had nothing to venture but my
self.
This undertaking was worthy of the just
judgment of God, for I was enough convinc
ed of the impropriety of acting in conjunc
tion with a people whom I had long felt it
my duty to leave. But so it is, " rebellion is
as the sin of witchcraft,and stubbornness is as
iniquity," neither of which will go unpunish
ed.
141
During thi3 meeting my mind was thrown
into much gloominess, and clothed with
much heaviness and death, feeling that I was
not where I had ought to be. On my re
turn home, in the way to a small village, I
was asked if I did not intend to visit a neigh
boring town and preach there ; to this I re
plied nay: and mentioned the stubbornness of
the Israelites, how when the Lord would that
they should have possessed the land of Ca
naan, they would not go in when the Lord
would, but when the Lord would not, then
Ihey would go, and so they were confounded
ind driven by their enemies. Having made
hese remarks I told my companions that I
intended to go immediately home, lest I
should be confounded as the children of Is
rael were. When we had come to the village
which lay in our way, a man beset us in the
street, and pressingly urged that some one of
us should turn aside and attend a meeting in
the place, about which we had been before
speaking. The preacher who was with me
declined ; I also observed that I had no means
of getting home, only as I returned with him.
But to obviate my objection, a neighbour of
mine, when at home, had just fallen in com
pany with us, who had a horse ; he also plead
the necessity of returning immediately, but
observed that I could take his horse and go
to the proposed place, whilst he would take
my place in the sleigh, and return home.—
Finding my objection removed, and as each
142
of them plead more necessity of returning
home then I could, being urged, notwithstan
ding what I had said of the Children of Israel,
I consented to turn aside and so found more
reason to remember them than I had before,
for I only rode my beast about two miles,
where, for its better security, I would not have
it put in the stable with other horses, but I
had it put on the threshing-floor. During
the evening I was engaged in my mind to
know what way the Lord would find to meet
me, for my mind was really fearing. My
horse, 1 thought must be safe, but as it hap
pened "that which I had feared came upon
me," for during the night a horse broke thro'
from the stable on to the threshing-floor and
kicked my horse so that he was entirely spoil
ed.
When I left home I thought I was measure-
ably safe, as I had no horse to lose and had
nothing to risk but myself. But this I had
said in my heart like Ahab, king of Israel, "I
will disguise myself and I will go to the bat
tle." But like Ahab I did not escape the
punishment due to me for my disobedience.
Though the loss of the horse seemed to be
a judgment, yet it was not with me now as
it was with me when I had lost my horse a
little time before—then I was thrown into
death, darkness and stupidity of mind, so
that for several weeks 1 could hardly realize
my misfortune to be a judgment from God,
yea, such was the absurdity of my Spirit, that
145
my heart was sensibly moved to anger against
God ; and like David, when God smote Uz-
zah, I was offended. But now I found a Spir
it in me very different, for though I received
it as a judgment, yet my mind felt a deep
reconciliation to God in that which had hap
pened—my mind was filled with love to God,
and the things of the world seemed in my
mind to be too mean a price^ to pay for a re
al knowledge of my duty. Such was the
feelings of my mind for a little time, that
when I was spoken to, I hardly noticed any
thing that was said, as my mind was swal
lowed up in deep thought and humility. My
misfortune seemed to be an answer to my
prayers, and such an answer as well fitted a
mind apt to distrust inward impressions, when
reduced to fear by singular leadings.
i now returned home,measureably resolved
in my mind to bear my cross, but as I delay
ed an opportunity afforded of trying the Spirit
by which 1 was actuated by attempting the
use of the sacrament of bread and wine for
the last time.
About the 2d month, 1820, a quarterly
meeting was holden in the vicinity of Catta
raugus. This meeting was holden two days,
to wit, the 7th and 1st, the latter being the
usual sacrament day. It was now going on
two years since I had said but little about my
notion relative to the sacrament, but espe
cially as I had said nothing in a public way,
all my former testimony had been much for
144
gotten, and though I had mostly shunned
the place of the sacrament, yet I had several
times been to the communion, which led oth
ers to conclude, perhaps, that I was not so
opposed to that ceremony as I really was —
The last day of meeting (in the morning) a
loaf of bread was presented to me, that I
might uncriist it, and prepare it for the sacra
ment. When this loaf, or sacramental mess,
was presented to me, I should not have been
more struck with inward awe and awful
dread, if it had been the dead and lifeless re
mains of some one of my fellow beings.—
Whilst I was preparing the bread, a preacher
who saw me laboring at the loaf with a knife
observed that I had not ought to cut the
bread, since the scriptures read plain that he
(Christ) "took the bread and brake it." fc
could not help but to remark in my mind the
zealous notion of this man, that the bread
should not be cut, when at the same time his
tender conscience knew no ineonveniency
though the bread was not like the bread which
Christ brake, neither for kind nor quality.—
The bread which Christ brake was but a wa
fer cake unleavened, so nothing like to the
perforated fine wheat loaf then in possession.
Tradition had never taught this man the im>
propriety of using leavened bread instead of
unleavened ; nor that according to scripture*1
he had ought to give two cups of wine in the
sacrament, as much as he had ought to give
one ; it only seemed wrong to him if~thei|.
bread was cut.
145
This reproof for cutting the bread was
followed with but few remarks more than
what mentally passed in my mind. My mind
began immediately to enumerate the super
stitious notions and traditions, which the de
nominations had manifested from time to
time and in different ways about the sacra
ment; with this, my mind recited my own
personal experience and sufferings of mind
for almost four years, then past. With the
many sensations which passed in my mind, I
felt deeply convicted of the impropriety of my
employment, but as I was laboring to pre
pare the bread, my knife slipped and cut
my hand, so as good luck would have it, I got
rid of the loaf and the bread was handed fo
another person, whether to break or cut I
cared not, if I were but rid of it. I say it was
good luck, for I did not regret to receive a
wound in my hand when it effected to heal a
wound in my heart ; for as soon as the bread
was out of my sight, I lost the conviction
which attended the impropriety of my em
ployment.
As the afterpart of the day was the time
appointed to administer the Sacrament, it was
the time when the conviction of my mind
gained the ascendency over me so far, that I
was obliged to submit ; and as I had often
been to the communion table, partly with a
desire to please my brethren and partly thro'
fear of being thought singular, I was now
obliged to desist without any regard to any
146
,
who might ever after be pleased, or displeas
ed.—When the sacramental hour had come,
every faculty of sensation was made alive.
Here were many brethren, and some for
whom I had the tenderest regard, and to
commune was the way for me to signify my
christian fellowship ; and a refusal would be
received as a mark of uncharitableness. I
had long since been shown by a revelation
from God at noon-day, that "Love" was "the
fulfilling of the whole law." I had not the
least doubt but that the sacraments for which
people were so zealous, were foreign to the
requirements of God, and no less foreign to
the christian religion; but still I felt a dis
position, as I had many times before, to com
ply with the customs of my brethren, as far
as possible. When I had considered on the
subject, I thought that I would commune,
and accordingly seated myself with that in
tention. But when the bread and wine was
exposed to view, my soul recoiled at the
thought of partaking of such "beggarly ele
ments !" Though I should attempt to des
cribe my feelings, none but such as have ex
perienced similar trials can imagine that ac
tivity and aptness by which the Spirit of God
addressed my mind, by bringing up to my
view all my past experience ; my conscience
witnessed to me that the Lord had shown me
the truth, and that to comply with the tradi
tions of men was no way to please God.—
Having continued my sitting but a short
147
time, I was obliged, though reluctantly, to
withdraw from my seat. When I had with
drawn myself to another room, the sensations
peculiar to my situation, also seemed to with
draw from my mind.
But a few minutes had passed before I be
came resolved to make a full proof of my
duty, to try the place again. When I re
turned to my seat, again I was obliged to
withdraw. When I had withdrawn as before,
being where I did not discover the elements,
the feelings of my mind were not so pungent,
and I could hardly believe that my feelings
had been real. Again, after some reflection,
having a desire to signify my friendship to
wards the brethren whom I respected, and
feeling that it was a cross to desist, my pre
sumptive and unreconciled disposition began
to dream of resuming my place at the com
munion table a third time ; until now there
had been but little ceremony, save that the
Bread and Wine were brought forward and
covered with a white cloth, according to the
usual custom. About the time, I had seated
myself at the table, the Preacher began to
perform the usual ceremony, and while he
brake the bread he began a kind of homily, or
oration, by which he endeavored to awe the,
minds of the people, and bring them into a
sacred reverence to the sacrament. His ex
ertion I had often seen before, but it never
appeared to me so ridiculous as it did at this
time. The whole ceremony was unscriptur-
- 148
al, and not like any thing found in the scrip
tures of truth ; as to the breaking of the bread,
and the giving of the cup which followed it,
it was so unlike to any thing practised by the
apostles, that any one who was acquainted
with the supposed sacrament could discover
that one had no resemblance of the other—
this I shall shew in my Plea.
The inconsistency which appeared in the
use of the bread and the wine was not half so«
much in my mind, as the effect and zeal that
was produced in the minds of the people, for
though they were zealously affected, as the
apostle says, it was " not well." When I pla
ced myself at the table the third time, and
saw the exertions which were made by the
Preaoher to cover the people, as I thought,
with a covering, but not of God's Spirit ; all
my past experience rose up before me, with
tins, there come to my mind all the sacra
mental contest and diabolical hates which I
had seen among the different denominations,
and the jealousies that professors of Christian
ity held one against the other. At the thought
of partaking, my mind was clothed with im
penetrable darkness, absurdity and guilt ; ab
surdity, because whatsoever was not offaith
was sin ; guilt, because it would be contrary
to the evident teachings ofthat Spirit, which
had been teaching my mind for years. I sat
contemplating until it seemed as if the very
seat upon which I sat complained of me for
my unlawful presence ; I was bowed dowa
149
-
at my heart, and it really appeared, that to
partake would be eating and drinking dam
nation to myselfindeed, and it appeared that
the Lord would leave me in darkness forever.
Such was the exercise of my mind, that tho*
I attempted to partake of the elements of
communion three times, I yet left my seat
without partaking.
Finding myself without any enjoyment in
the use of the sacrament, I hit on a plan
whereby 1 might find the truth, as to the en
joyment of others. When I found a member
of society, who I thought appeared to be most
favored in the use of the sacrament, I would
interrogate them (citing them to some one
who they supposed to be much favored in the
sacrament,) whether they believed them
selves as highly blessed in the sacramental
observance, as they were. When I had oc
casionally made this inquiry, I found that as
it had measureably been with me, so it was
with them : because they did not receive that
enjoyment which others appeared to receive,
they were ready to attribute their lack to the
sin of unbelief. Like myself, they were not
apt to dispute the grace of the supposed sa
crament, but supposed others to be highly fa
vored, though they were not. Here I per
ceived that they were following the example
of each other, rather than their own experi
ence; and that if they found any enjoyment,
the approbation . of their own con-
for having done the thing which *
n2
150
thought was duty,-and not the approbation
of God. I now became satisfied that it was
my duty never to be found at the communion
table again, and accordingly I never attemp
ted it after.
Some may perhaps think strange that I
should have so withstood my convictions, but
because my way was singular to myself, to
prove what Spirit there was within me, I
pursued things to the last extremity ; as in
communion, so it was in prayer, and in
preaching, and in other things.—It was now
that I became sensible of the part that I
must act. I could no longer dream of any
comfort in complying with the traditions of
others, the apprehension and threatenings
with which my mind was attended, seemed
more to be dreaded than all the consequences
which might attend my intended course, I
must now make up my mind, to meet all
the cold reception of insane superstition and
contend with that duplicity which is too fre
quently the unsuspected result of long prac
tice, and tradition.
On the force o{education.'
It's conscience in effect—
And claims its approbation.
It'i right, reaton, yet man's will,
Found in shape and sha-ped again-
Diversified man's reason still.
It's found indoing- and in intuition,
Though itill man's reason, still bere ft,
Ofall but man's tradition—
——la bim all but the thing itself.
151
Tradition has neither eyes nor ears to lis
ten to the most rational arguments, or to be
hold with the least complacency that which
may tend to render a beloved dogma in this
or that problematical.
Wearied at length with the dead and life
less ceremonies to which I was daily subjec
ted in a more or less degree, I began to pro
ject my escape. Whenever I appeared in
public to preach, according to custom, 1 was
obliged to introduce the worship of God (as
it is called) by first introducing a Psalm or
Hymn, and by this I frequently wounded my
conscience, and not only so, but vocal prayer
used many times in an unseasonable way,
appeared no less improper. If I attempted
the use of a text in the usual way, I was
sometimes obliged, in the midst of my dis
course, to change my text for some other one,
that 1 had never thought of; or 1 was obliged
to leave my text altogether, and speak in a
way of exhortation. Finding that I could
not always travel the smooth and flowery path
which man's wisdom had drawn, and believ
ing that the Lord, by his Spirit, and by his
judgments had taught me that I must bear
my cross and be crowned with suffering, that
I might be crowned with life, I became re
solved to delay duty no longer.
Foreseeing by what had already past, that
storm which always follows those who with
draw from society for conscience-sake, I
thought it would be my best way to draw
152
from the society an acknowledgment that
they had nothing against me, as a member of
society, and accordingly I attended a month
ly meeting and requested that ifany member
in society had any thing against me, that they
would bring their accusation forward within
one month from that time.
When the month had ended, no one ap
peared to accuse my conduct ; I then reques
ted a dismission from society, that I might
stand by myself. I now cited the brethren
to my first testimony against the ordinances,
about two years then past, and told them that
I had never given up the doctrine for which
I then advocated. This undertaking was ve
ry unexpected, as I had been very quiet and
kept my trials principally to myself. This
first request was followed with a letter stating
some of my principal grievances. I told
them, that if ever they heard me preach again
they must expect to hear me speak pointedly
against the sacraments. Notwithstanding my
request, many were unwilling to let me go,
because it was contrary to the common cus
tom of the church to let a member go out of
society, who was in good standing, unless they
attached themselves to some other denomi
nation. But to join any other denomination,
was out of my power, as I knew of none who
believed as I did ; therefore I urged the in
consistency of holding me as a member in
society, when I was resolved to speak against
such things as the society held most sacred.
153
I told them, that if they would not let me go,
I would consider myself as free from them as
if I had never joined them ; but my request
was, that they would give me a letter staling
the difference between me and the socie
ty to be on account of tenets. I begged the
privilege ofleavingsociety without being lam
pooned as christians were frequently for leav
ing society for conscience-sake.
When it was known that I wds determined
in my undertaking, the society agreed that I
should have a letter, stating things measure-
ably as they were : but some claimed the
privilege, as a duty, if possible to reclaim me
from my errors, as they were pleased to call
them. When it was found that I swas past-
being reclaimed by any arguments produced,
the difficulties with which I must meet in
my singular"undertaking were next exhibited
the awful consequence of turning christians
from the sacraments, was represented as an
unpardonable sin, and the way to destroy all
the good that I had ever done, and that,
whereas I might maintain a respectable
membership in society, by my new under
taking, I should subjugate myself to the
frowns of all denominations, I should lose
my respectability—be laughed at for my fol
ly, and counted enthusiastic for my religion.
When all this was named to me, I signified that
the difficulties represented was but the faint
est representation of the difficulties with which
I had expected to meet, and that, if there
154
was nothing more, then there was nothing
new.
When many things had been set forth in
the most unfavorable view, I was laughed at,
by my declaimer for pretending to be more
wise than all the denominations about me,
in that I had dared to confront the ordinan
ces. In this I had undervalued the under
standing of older and abler than myself, and
with this I had set myself against the wise
and most learned of divines, for none of them
had found out that the ordnances had not
ought to be practised. And what was more,
and worse than all, it was said that I must
deny the bible and dispute the understanding
* of the apostles, or I could not be able to-
prove my doctrine.
Of all that could be represented, there was
nothing powerful enough to produce a retrac
tion in my mind : I had been under trials a-
bout two years before I had ventured to
leave my first testimony, and then through
fear and opposition, I had patiently waited
for a knowledge of duty for about two years
more, during which time I had gained too
much confirmation to be shaken, with a faint
representation of things which I had already
undergone. My mind had sometime since
been established in the truth and the motto,
" love is the fulfilling of the whole law," still
remained on my heart, written with an ac
cent too well understood to admit of a doubt
under the most discouraging aspects, though
155
stiU 1 felt a disposition to cringe at the im
pending storm.
That I might make a full proof of duty
—besides other witnesses, I had waited
for temporal adversity for a further confir
mation of duty as to the part I should act, so
that my witness stood in the answer of pray
er, by judgments by day—counsel upon my
pillow by night ; and by the baptising power
of the Holy Spirit at noon-day.
CHAP. VIII.
Two Quarterly meeting1; attended.—Ordination rejected
and instructions by the vision of the night.—Dreams a
christian privilege, and the method by which God gave in
structions to his people, from the patriarchal time to the
time of the apostles and early christians.—Commendation
by letter received from the Free-will Baptist church and a
.visit to the county of Ontario, be.
As I did not receive my letter until some
days after I had applied, I had time to attend
two quarterly meetings as they were holden
in different places, one immediately after the
other. The first meeting was holden in Og-
den, about fifty miles from my home.
The brethren in the quarterly meeting had
not as yet heard that I had made applica
tion to leave the Free-will connexion, there
fore I was received without jealousy. At this
meeting, one of the Elders came to me and
156
in a loving manner laid his arms over my
shoulders and then introduced a conversation
relative to ordination by the laying on of
hands. He informed me that the brethren
were of a mind that I had ought to be ordain
ed, or in other words, that they thought I
was not in my place : to this I replied that I
was exactly in my place, and that I intended
men nor devils should not get me out of it.
From this expression the man was led to a
knowledge of my belief as to ordination, to
wit : that no power could be given by man,
as one among a thousand graces, to qualify a
minister to preach the gospel. This was not
the first time that I had refused ordination,
for I had long since placed this ceremony a-
mong the many useless notions of the church.
Though I was so resolved that none should
persuade me out of my place of duty. I was
not so determined on my duty as 1 had ought
to have been, for while I was speaking in this
meeting, concerning the church and its for
mality, I was moved to speak with great
plainness, and though I obeyed in part yet I
disobeyed so far that I felt the disapproba
tion of the Spirit. Such was my condemna
tion in mind, that darkness overshadowed my
mind like a cloud, and the Lord manifested
his disapprobation the following evening (by
a vision), to that degree 1 awoke out of my
sleep, and the terror of the Lord was so up
on me, that my flesh trembled on my bones,
and my whole frame was so moved, that the
157
very bed was shaken under me. When I a-
woke, it seemed as if God's presence filled
the chamber where I was, and that his all-
seeing eye pierced me through and through.
On my way from this meeting, I mention
ed my vision to one of my brethren in the
ministry who bid me be careful what I did, as
he believed my vision ought to be received
by me as a warning. I also informed him
that I was about to leave the Free-will con
nexion on the account of my sentiment.—
When he had found that I disbelieved in the
sacraments of the church, he said that he
believed he could convince me of my error,
and so proceedefHo converse, but I told him
that I should choose to converse with him at
some more convenient time, when we were
not on horse back. As I lodged at his house
that night, before we parted in the morning,
I observed that I was ready to converse with
him relative to my sentiments. For some
reason best known to himself he chose not to
converse with me in the presence of the
family,but conducted me to a far room, where
he requested me to give him the reason of
my belief. When I had gone through, in
stead of convincing me of my error, he said
little to me, but he pronounced me a Quaker,
and warned me against such principles. He
said that he had once like to have been de
ceived by the Quaker doctrine,but that when
he had read the scriptures, it was plainly
seen that the apostles did baptise, &c
o •
158
This man's mind, no doubt had bee»
taught by the Spirit, but the prevailing notion *
that the letter was the governing rule,"he was
slain thereby ; for as he had been taught that
all the apostles did, was done for an example
to the Gentile Church, and as he had not
learned the difference between a command
and a simple relation, he had taken the rela
tion for a command : and when his mind had
been drawn to the substance, misconception
of scripture meaning, and tradition pursued
his mind with the shadow ; and so he had
suffered the Spirit to be slain by the letter,
not understanding, like many others, that
" the letter killeth, but the Spirit giveth life,—
2, Cor. 3, 6.
When I had returned home, I immediate
ly attended the quarterly meeting, to which
1 belonged where my notion of leaving soci
ety was well known. Here I was looked up
on with a jealou3 eye, insomuch that I had
but little privilege in the meeting. When I
came to this meeting the Lord, 1 trust, had
forgiven me my late disobedience, and my
mind was clothed upon with a good degree
of comfort, and I had strength as my day de
manded, though I had trials before I quit the
place.
At this place one of my brethren in the
ministry came to me and said that he would
never lay hands upon me, or that he could not
ordain me, because I was not sound in the
faith, for he had been informed, that I disbe-
159
Ueved in the ordinances. I asked him, if the
' ordinances constituted the faith once deliv
ered to the saints, as he had represented it.
When he had thought a little,he dared not an
swer in the affirmative. I then gave him to
understand, that he had been too quick in re
fusing to ordain me, for 1 believed as little in his
right to ordain as I did in the ordinances.—
He then accused me of not following the ex
amples of the apostles, for they ordained by
the laying on of hands ; this I did not deny :
But as he contended for the form I contended
for the power, and told him that if he would
follow the examples of the apostles, and give
the Holy Ghost when he laid on hinds as the
apostles did, then I would submit to ordina
tion. He then plead that the gifts of the
Holy Spirit by the laying on of hands was a
privilege peculiarly granted to the apostles,
and that it had long since ceased. I replied,
that if he could prove by the scriptures, that
the power was to cease with the apostles, I
would engage to prove from the scriptures
that the form or ceremony of laying on of
hands was to cease at the same time ; and so
our conversation endedr after I had given him
to understand that if any had " aform ofgod
liness, denying the power thereof'1 from such
I should "turn away.'''
While some of my brethren frowned upon
me, others tried the influence of that chris
tian love which had ever existed between us
feom the first,.this seemed to be more power
160
ful on my mind than any other means what
ever. \
When the evening came, a time of trial
came with it; for though I had taken meas
ures to leave society, yet all that was selfish
within me,moved me to continue where I was.
It had been proposed to me, that if 1 should
continue, I might enjoy my sentiment, and
sometimes preach it too. During the even
ing, one of my brethren, who began to labor
in the ministry about the time I did, came
forward and related his experience, or call
to the ministry, in order to receive ordination.
During the time, which was two hours or
more, I was laying on the floor in one corner
of the room, where I heard, thought and con
sidered on all I heard.
As my mind had frequently been plunged
into darkness by beholding the condition of
the church with the narrowness of the way
which 1 was called to travel, so it Beemed to
be again. My mind seemed to recoil at the
thought of leaving society, and more espe
cially when I considered that my religious o-
pinion would bring upon me all that slander
which is the sure production of enraged su
perstition. As the man was long relating his
experience, many fell asleep and sat nodding
on their seats, as if there was nothing going
on worth their attention. Whilst others slept,
the thoughts which passed through my mind
drove from me every appearance of heavi
ness or stupidity. The man I believed to be
161
one that God had called to the work of the
ministry, but instead of abiding in his calling,
he was now reduced to think himself " made
perfect in theJlesh," While I lay on the floor,
there was but little of any thing that could
attend to darken my mind, and make my way
seem hard and unpleasant, but what presen
ted itself before me. When meeting was
broken up, 1 set out in company with several
others to find a place of entertainment, and
as it was very dark, we frequently groped
from one side of the way to the other, not be
ing able to discover the path. One of my
companions observed that it was very dark ;
yes said f, (alluding to my mind) but it is not
half so dark without as it is within.
When I had come to my lodging and re
tired to bed, I thought of inquiring of the
Lord once more, but when I had thought of
asking a knowledge of things which had al
ready been given me again and again,I quer
ied whether the Lord would hear and answer
me : so like Abraham^ said, " Oh let not the
Lord be angry and 1 will speak yet but this
once." Lord, said I, let my former witnesses
be what they may have been, let them be
forgotten and be as though they had not been,
and show me by a vision this night the con
dition of the church, and all thou requifest of
me.* Show me, said I, whether I shall con
tinue in society to please the brethren—
• When I «peak of the church, unlesi I parliculariie on* deno"'"*1"'*'
1 mean the churches iu general.
o2
162
whether I shall count my former witnesses as
nought, and so run with the multitude, or
show whether I am right in the part which I
am acting. When I had put up my petition
or my desires to God I quietly fell asleep, and
the morning brought to my recollection the
following dream.
I thought in the vision of the night, that
as I was at work upon a new building, a man
presented me with an instrument of music,
and urged very pressingly that I should give
him a deed of my farm. Though I made
many objections and spoke of the folly of
parting with all I possessed for so worthless
an instrument,yet he possessed a magic pow
er, or an influence over me that I was not a-
ble to resist, and the instrument was crowd
ed upon me, and the bargain was made
even against my will. When the bargain
was completed, the man next beset me to
go with him to meeting ; to this I was also
opposed, for I was ashamed of my compa
ny, and ashamed to be seen with my instru
ment, but as it seemed to me I had become
partner with him in all his ways, so I was o-
bliged to go. When I had travelled a little
distance, I came to a row of buildings where
the people had assembled for religious wor
ship. The rooms in which the people were
assembled were all open in front, so that I
had a full view of all that passed within. It
appeared that a different denomination oc
cupied each room, and as I passed by, I saw
163
all the different modes of worship that ever
were known. When I had travelled and view
ed for some time all the different modes of
worship, I was surprised to see how men were
led and governed by each other in their reli
gion. As I viewed I stopped and exclaimed
Good God! shall I ever be led about by the
traditions ofmen like this?—There was once
a people who worshipped by the motion of
the body, I saw them in my dream though I
had no historical knowledge of such worship
until long since.
"When 1 had travelled to the end of the
buildings, I heard from an adjacent room,vo-
cal prayer, it seemed as if they were praying
for me. I did not know who they might
be,but as I was ruminating in my mind what
this should mean, they came out of the house
one by one, and advanced towards me one
after the other. The first person that came
to me was my wife, who was a member of
society, 1 then perceived that it was the Free
will Baptist Church, they were all uncovered
as low as their breasts, save they were cov
ered with smut and blackness, so that I hard
ly knew them. When my wife came to me I
. was surprised to find her with others in a con
dition so dirty, and putting my fingers upon
her bosom the dirt was removed by the im
pression of my fingers, and I exclaimed, why
do ye not wash ? but all my persuasion was
• in vain, for I could not convince them that
they were dirty. I told them that ifthey would*
164
remove what was on the outside they would
become clean and wholesome. While I was
persuading them to wash, they began to per
suade me to stay with them, and so conduc
ted me to the house from whence they came
out. Here I found a dark and dirty house ;
it was dark, because it had no windows.—
When I saw the place, I told them that they
must remove from that place, or I should quit
them ; and as they seemed to be pleased
with their condition, 1 left them. After this,
my disagreeable conduct led me into a large
congregation, and then impudently demand
ed of me, that I should play upon the instru
ment of music to please the people ; to this
my mind felt the deepest aversion, but I was
involunta?ily compelled by the same magical
influence by which I had been compelled in
the beginning. The instrument was forced
to its position, whilst I realized all the guilt
which I could have felt, had the act been by
my own consent. When I began to play, I
thought the instrument broke into a hundred
pieces and scattered upon the floor all about
me. When I saw what was done I was glad
—for that which I had already done, I felt the
deepest condemnation. As the instrument
fell upon the floor, my ears were saluted with
a voice in a mild accent, calling me by name,
saying, Friend Patching, thou hast done wrong
—upon hearing this, I looked about me to
find from whence the voice should come, and
saw a Quaker as I thought, sitting very de-
165
murely with his head resting upon the top of
his staff. This reproofwas weak but power
ful—innocent but wounding. Though the re
proof was mild, it was conducted by my con
science to the very recess of my heart ; so the
last I recollect of my dream, T stood in the
midst of the congregation confessing my
wrong and imploring the forgiveness of God
for what I had done in attempting to please
the people.
In the morning I drew the following inter
pretation from my dream. The new build
ing represented what others called my new
doctrine. By putting away my farm which
was real property, for a worthless instrument
of music, warned me against putting away
my own experience (which was good) for the
sake of pleasing the people. By the differ
ent assemblies of people, I was shown the
general condition of the church, as it is with
all its modes and forms of worship.—The
condition of the Free-will Baptist church
was very strikingly set forth, because with
them I had the most to do at this time ; the
house in which I found them, as it was dirty
and dark, went to confirm the construction
which I had already 'put upon that dream
which I had dreamed about four years then
past, and went to shew me that it was my
duty to leave society.* .From the Quak
er's admonition when I was asleep,! was
* Sc< Convlnccinenl, chap. J, p. 4&
taught to take heed when awake,and so I have
never sought to please the people.
Though my mind was frequent in the vis
ion of the night for about four years pre
vious to this dream, I have never since
had a single dream of any account. After
this dream, my mind felt confirmed, and
knowing duty, I had only to resolve on doing
it, I had now like Gideon turned the "fleece"
again and again. I sought my duty by signs
by day and night—outwardly and inward-
ijr- #
Dreams have often been condemned as en
thusiasm. But, though the opinion of oth
ers may be what it may, I am convinced that
God is well pleased to answer his children by
the vision of the night. The scriptures a-
bound with an account of God's revelation
to his people in dreams.—" God came to A-
bimelech in a dream." Gen. xx, 3.—The Lord
appeared to Jacob in a dream and he was in
structed concerning future things, Gen. xxviii,
12, 13, 14, &c.—Joseph had dreams again
and again, Gen. xxxvii, 5, 9. Joseph had
dreams which he did not understand until
years after he went into Egypt.—Dreams
were among the means by which God prom
ised to teach the Prophct,Num. xii, 6.—God
appeared to Solomon in a dream, 1 Kings,
iii, 5.-—It is said " in a dream, in a vision of
the night, when deep sleep falleth upon maD,
in slumbering upon the bed then he openeth
the ears of men and sealeth their instruction*
167
Job xxiii. 15, 16—I might speak of Daniel,
Nebuchadnezzar, and of Joseph (Matth. i. 20)
and of Paw/,and of many others who were in
structed by dreams.—The dispensation of
dreams were not to cease with the fulness
of the gospel dispensation, but it is said " I
will pour out my Spirit upon all flesh ; and
your Sons and your Daughters shall prophesy,
your old men shall dream dreams, your young
men shall see visions." Joel, ii, 26.
There are three kind of dreams; 1st, such
as arise through much business, (Eccl. v, 3;)
and the elements of the mind. 2d, such as
are peculiar to a debilitated mind, these are
wearisome and disagreeable and much con
fused. 3d, dreams or visions which are sent
from God, leave a remarkable impression on
the mind,and as such visions are fitted to the
case or condition of the person to whom they
are sent; it is not impossible that such visions
when related to others, may be as foreign to
their understanding, as their condition may
be foreign to the one who has the vision.—
God does his own work in such visions "that
he may withdraw man from his purpose,'''' (or
from his own work,) "and hide pride from
man." Who is he that will believe the prom
ise ? to*1 Whatsoever ye ask, in prayer, believ
ing, ye shall receive.'' Matth. xxi, 22.
After my last dream I returned home, and
in a few days the church condescended to
give me the the following letter :
168
"This is to all .whom it may concern, that
this day we have received from the hand of
our well beloved brother, Tallcut Patching,
(who has been a member of our society for
several years,) a letter requesting a dismis
sion from our number, that he may stand by
himself.
"We are sorry that there is such a differ
ence between him and us. In his letter , he
states that the difference is on ordinances,
such as baptism by water,and the Lord's sup
per in elements—these he states in his opin
ion are not gospel ordinances, and are the
cause of great divisions among christian so
cieties. These are his reasons why he does
not choose to continue a member with us ;
and since there remains this difference, con
sidering his public station in the ministry,
we have yielded to his request as above.—We
feel to recommend him to the world a broth
er in good fellowship with us in all things, ex
cept the above mentioned differences. We
also recommend him as one that we believe
the Holy Ghost hath separated to the work
of the ministry, and as one sent to preach
the pure and unsullied gospel of a risen Sa
viour to a Gentile world, and we hope he may
study to shew himself approved unto God,
a workman that needeth not to be ashamed,
rightly dividing the word of truth—This we
feel to reccouimend him as a brother and
minister in Christ Jesus, faithful in all things
except in ©utward ordinances as above men-
169
tioned. We hope that God will convince
him and us, ofall our errors, and that we may
retain the Spirit of christian watchfulness
over each other—May the Lord, add his
blessing for his Son's sake, that all possible
praise may redound to his name, in this
world, and in the world to come.
" This is given by the request of the breth
ren in our said church. T. C.
rt Church Clerk.
"boston, JUNE 10, 1820.
No doubt it would have been pleasing to
my reader to have seen a copy of the letter
which I wrote to the society requesting a dis
mission, but as I did not think of writing
this part of my book, I did not reserve a copy,
and the brethren did not see fit to let me
have a copy of it, though I requested it.—
The reason why they were not willing to let
me publish the letter was, as I have been in
formed, because I blamed them therein for
making baptism the door into the church, and
for putting too much stress on the outward
ceremonies. As to their making baptism the
door into the church ; if I misrepresented
them in that letter, 1 am glad of it, for it is bet
ter that I should be deceived, (being a single
person,) then that the whole body of Free
will Baptists should pretend to one thing and
hold to another. But as they decided in the
Elder's conference, as I have before observ
ed, that they would in no case receive a
p
170
member into society, but for baptism in a
particular mode, I leave my impartial read
er to judge whether they make baptism the
door into the church, or whether they do not.
But seeing I could not well obtain a copy, my
reader will receive this as a reasonable a-
pology for not inserting it here.
When I left society it seemed as if satan
lost one of the principal means by which I
had been long kept in bondage. As the smal
lest weight appears cumbrous until the height
is found and then facilitates downward ; so it
wa3 with me, when I gained a dismission
from the Church—I had climbed the mount of
difficulty, to the summit of trial ; until now
every cross proved a burden. In duty I was
not enough reconciled, or I was in doubts as
to duty, or my conscience was wounded be
cause the cross appeared so large that duty
was neglected. But when I came out open
ly and embraced the cross, every thing that
before seemed to be a burden, now seemed to
be a help. In every cross there was life, and
in every duty there was glory and humility.
Satan's spell was broken and that which I had
been seeking for, for several years seemed to
be accomplished in a degree, by a single blow
-—pride, anger, and worldly mindedness
with which I was peculiarly beset before,
now found a death under the cross. The
frowns, and theflattery of men were viewed
without distinction, as I regarded not the one,
nor feared the other. I heard with attention
* 171
\
those whom I judged able in counsel, but as
I had no confidence in man, I placed no con
fidence in any but God, whose I was, and by
whose power and grace I have enjoyed the
same blessing in a good degree, until the
present day.
Immediately on the receipt of my letter of
dismission from the church, I set out on a
journey to the east, not knowing how far I
should go, nor when I should return. This
journey had been on my mind for several
months, but I dared not undertake it until I
should be free from society.
When I left home I did not harbor the most
distant notion that I should ever meet a sin
gle person, who would believe as I did, and I
really supposed when I had preached once in
a place, that I never should be permitted to
preach there again. While under these sen
sations tears came from my eyes, but they
flowed more from a sense of God's nearness
than from a sense of any loss which I expec
ted to sustain ; for the cost of the world with
all its boasted favors, (when compared with
the faith and confidence which I had in God)
seemed to be no cost at all. I felt reconciled
to God, and accounted that Heaven which I
enjoyed, and that which I expected, cheap at
the loss of all things.
In my journey, I proceeded as far as Far-
mington,in the county of Ontario, something
more than one hundred miles, and as I went
I preached, without fearing persons or sects.
172
In this journey I visited a yearly meeting, hol-
den by the people called Christians. While I
was at this meeting, a circumstance took
place which I shall mention as but one a-
mong a thousand instances of prelatical pre
sumption. A preacher who had seen me
before, having a good fellowship for me, and
knowing that I was not ordained, said to me
while I was in his house—brother, are you
willing to submit to ordination if the Holy
Ghost says so ? To this I replied as I went
out of the room, yes.
Not long after this, I hear him conversing
with other preachers about appointing a
meeting for ordination, upon which I drew
near and requested to know who should be
ordained : to which he replied, yourself I sup
pose, from what was said this morning.—
Truly, said 1, if the Holy Ghost says this, I
will submit. Then said he (raising his hands
to give energy to his gracious pretensions,)
the Holy Ghost tells me to lay on my hands,
and ordain you, and see that you do not fight
against God. To this I replied, that unless
the Holy Ghost should teach me such a du
ty, I should not submit But said he, do you
not believe in ordination according to the
example of the apostles. ? Said I, lay on
hands and give the Holy Ghost as the apos
tles did, and then urge the example of the
apostles and I will submit. By this time the
mistaken man began to be jealous of my
sentiment, and to confound my notion, and
173
justify his owrt, he alleged, that there was no
such thing as the Holy Ghost among chris
tians in this day as in the days of the apos
tles i whereas he had just declared in the
most solemn manner that he should lay hands
on me by the authority of the Holy Ghost.
Setting aside every other inconsistency,
how presuming it was for this man to say the
Holy Ghost commanded him to ordain me,
when I disbelieved in ordination, and when
I had letters then in my possession, shewing
that I had rejected the sacraments with oth
er things which he believed to be christian
duties,and the only signs of a visible church ?
I do not doubt but what the man thought
that I had ought to be ordained, that I might
be more useful to the church ; but how sin
ister it is for preachers and people to say,
that the Holy Ghost tells them to do so and
so, when they only act according to the pre
judice of education, or according to their
own human judgment.
It was at this meeting that I became ac
quainted with Wm. M'Leland, a man with,
whom I have since formed a correspondence,
and with whom I feel the deepest union.—.
While we were hundreds of miles apart, he
with the Methodist society, and I with the
Free-wiir Baptist, 6ur minds had been led to
consciousness on the same things. We had
both left society for the same reason, and so
we met at this meeting. My desire is that
"this man may be preserved blameless in his
p2
life, and that he may never repine under the
trials and disappointments which will inev
itably be found in the way of duty, by the
faithful servants of God.
During this journey I visited several Friend
families, where I was forcibly struck with
that order, sobriety and easiness of manners
seldom found among any other class of peo
ple. After being absent from my family a-
bout two months, I returned homeward, tak
ing in my way, the town of Rushford, in the
county of Allegany. In this place the Lord
was very near, and I spake in the after part
of the day for about two hours, and my tes
timony was easy and with much plainness.
When I had done speaking on my subject, J
expressed my thanks for the use of the mee
ting house, but a baptist man, (as I was in
formed as to his order,) was so enraged be
cause I had spoken against the ordinances,
that he said, (as if speaking for the society,)
we shall look out next time who has our mee
ting house. On getting upon my horse it
was said again, " The foxes have holes, and
the birds of the air have nests, but the Son
of man has no where to lay his head," inti
mating, as I was among strangers, that I
might lay in the streets before he would in
vite me home with him. But so it was, tho'
this man would not receive me, his express
ion so affected another, that he invited me to
tarry at his house and so I had entertainment.
On returning home I witnessed the ful
175
filment of that part of my dream which re
lated to my leaving society for I found some
of my brethren following me, though at a
distance, as I had seen in my vision.* They
had seen so much of the true light that they
felt constrained in a degree to quit the dead
forms of religion, though they did not feel it
a duty to quit society ; so it might be clearly
seen that they were between me and the
place where I left them.
J now saw plainly that storm which would
have beat hard upon me if I had not quit so
ciety as I did ; for though they plead hard
with me to continue in society, and notwith
standing freedom of sentiment was offered me
when I came to preach plainly what I belie
ved of the truth, all were highly displeased ;
and had I not quit as I did, I should have had
to suffer the reproach of an excommunicated
member. But I had been too quick for them,
and such as felt disposed to injure me, could
only do it by a false representation of my
doctrine. It seemed for a while, when I look
ed about me, as if Herod and Pilate were
made friends in one day. Some among all
the formal denominations seemed resolved to
put me to death, because their craft was in
danger ; for they could have said no more a-
gainst me, than that I could not agree with
them, in such things as they themselves
could not agree about. Many who belonged
to the different societies, who before were
»See Convine«mem, chap, u. p. 46.
, 176
disagreeing, now became friends, {hat they
might help one another against me.; but
those who belonged in society where I did,
were the ones by whom I suffered most.—
They did not then pretend to meddle with
my moral life, for they had deprived them
selves of that by giving me the letter which
they did.
When I say that I have suffered most from
the society to which I belonged, I mean some
of the most leading members. I would not
wish to be understood that I have no friendar
in society, for 1 believe the majority are my
friends. Many of my brethren have mourned
when I have mourned, and they have wept
when I have wept; but some who were once
my friends have become my enemies,and they
have viewed me afar off; while others, who
were my enemies, have become my friends,
and though they have not left society, yet
they have become subject to reproach, and F
believe for the sake of Christ.
Whatever may have been said concerning
me, since I left society, one thing is sure, 1
was once esteemed by those who have since
become my enemies. I once commanded
as much respect, and had as much influence
as any other one, who had not belonged to
the connexion longer than I had. Had !
quit society for the purpose of building my-?
self up, I should have used my influence to
that effect. So it was, that ifI had been dis
posed I might have caused an immediate
177
split in the church to which I was belonging;
but because I regarded the truth more than
party, I observed to the leading members
of the church, that if they would let me go
I would leave church as still as possible.
There has never been a time, notwithstand
ing the opposition of my enemies, but what
I have had it in my power to form societies
in nine towns out of ten, where 1 have trav-
elled,but I have never sought to build myself
up, by forming a party. I am sensible of the
fall of the church, and I am sensible that the
grace and humble virtues of a true christian,
is too little regarded, and too little sought af
ter in church-building ; and so long as men's
traditions constitute so principal a part of the
foundation and grace of the church, I had
much rather suffer alone than to wound the
cause of Christ with thousands.
When I left society, it was for conscience
sake; my convincement of things most mo
mentous, urged me to renounce a standing,
which I could no longer maintain with peace
of mind. I had conceived no affront ; made
no calculations; I sacrificed many friends,
but consulted none. A christian life had not
become wearisome, I only desired then as I
do still, to do the will of God in all things.
" Iurge not
Against Heaven's hand or will, nor batt ajot
Of heart er life ; but still bear up a;
Rightenvard,"
178
Here I will mention that after I had made
a verbal request to leave society I obtained
a knowledge of Friends (called Quakers) by
their books for the first time. The first book
that I read was on baptism, written by Job
Scott. Though two or three tracts had fall
en into my hands a little before this, they
were nothing that tended to give me any in
formation as to the doctrine of Friends, nor
were they calculated to attract my mind
more than many other writings, so that in all
I had never read the number often pages of
the Friends' writings, before I had petition
ed to leave society.
When I had read Job Scott's book, I was
then for the first time satisfied that others
had rejected the ordinances (so called) upon
the same principles that I did, and accor
dingly became resolved to visit that people
the first opportunity that should afford ; but
when I had visited them several times, and
had spoken among them, one of the lead
ing members very courteously accompa
nied me toward my home, and informed
me that they did not generally allow per
sons to speak in their meetings who did not
belong to their society. Though the tender
Spirit in which this message was delivered,
seemed to be an apology of itself, yet he ad
ded that he hoped that I should not con
ceive an offence, to which I replied Oh
no ! But how did my heart sweH within me !
Thought I to myself, I thought that I had
179
found a people with whom I could agree,
but alas, I am yet alone ! My friend having
returned back, I put my foot in the stirrup to
mount my horse when it seemed as if the
stirrup would break with the weight that lay
at my heart.
When I understood that Friends did not
. allow such to speak in their society as did
not belong with them, I should not have un
derstood a forbidance, but an expression of
their fear of receiving and encouraging that
among them which they had not proved. I
have since spoken among Friends with satis
faction, and I believe with acceptance.
When I first attended the meetings of
Friends they were strangers to me, and I was
a stranger to them, and as Paul when he
went to Jerusalem, (Acts, ix. 26,) " assayed
to join himself to the disciples **** they were
all afraid of him, for they believed not that he
was a disciple," so it was with me ; as I was
a stranger to them they thought to discoun
tenance in me, that inconsiderateness in
speaking, which is so common among most
all denominations but their own.
By the little acquaintance I have had with
Friends, I have found that love and that at
tachment which " waters cannot quench,
nor the floods drown ;" but I fear some a-
mong Friends, have too much departed from
theirfirst love. Like ancient Israel, have they
not suffered too much by receiving the Spirit
of others about them, and so become too
180
proud and fashionable ? I fear they have lost
too much that evangelizing Spirit which once
attended their ministry. I say, I fear this i&
the case with some, but I must leave it to the
most Spiritual among Friends, and to such
as are better acquaintedwith them than lam,
to judge of them as a people.
Some may say, that this hypothesis will dis
please the Quakers, but I trust it will not be
so. Surely, according to the Proverb, " He
that reproveth a scorner getteth to himself
shame : and he that rebuketh a wicked man
getteth himself a blot," but "rebuke a wise
man and he will love thee.'''' There are many
among Friends who maintain the Spirit of
the gospel and are able to discern between
the " clean and the unclean," and my desire
is that the Friends may " be watchful, and
strengthen the things which remain that are
ready to die," for I am sure that for the Spir-
ual privileges which God has committed to
that people he will require of them nothing
less than " ten talents."
Dear reader, I have now related my con-
vincement to the truth of religion, and with
out stopping here to relate the means which
satan has taken to hedge up my way, from
the time I left society until now, (which is
more than two years and a half,) I have only
to say, that I respect no man any more for
his profession. I only judge of men accord
ing to the Spirit they possess, and I only
judge of ceremonies in religion according to
181
the effect which they produce. Did tenets-
do as little injury to the christian as they do
good, there would be but little reason for
contending about them. But as colors add
nothing to the real properties of the garment,
like tenets, they are more fanciful than valu
able. Though color can add nothing valua
ble, yet it may destroy the strength of the fin
est garment, and so tenets or creeds, accord
ing as they are distant from the truth may
serve to make a good man depart from love,
joy and peace. There are many external
notions about religion which may subjugate
men to looseness of life, levity, exuberance,
and bind them down to austerity, and finally
subjugate them to much evil but no real
good ; therefore, my soul says, with the apos
tle Paul, " It is a good thing that the heart be
established with grace, not with meats which
have not profitted them that have been occupied
therein." Dear reader, if thou art one that is
trusting in this, or in that particular form of
religion, I can as sincerely wish thee free
from it, as I could wish thee to be free from
the most dangerous disease. I will assure
thee that thou wilt derive no lasting good from
any such forms or ceremonies. The question
is, art thou holy and righteous ? Is it thy great
est desire to be what God would have thee to
be ? and is thy language the language ofthe
Psalmist, " Whom have I in heaven but thee ?
and there is none that I desire beside thee * *
God is the strength of my heart and my portion
182
forever.'''' O reader, art thou living without
God and without Christ formed within thee,
the hope of glory, then of the poor thou art
the poorest—without God thou art wretched,
thou art miserable. Remember that thou
art a subject of infinite loss or of infinite gain ;
if thou should lose thy own soul, a thousand
worlds like this, with all its riches, greatness
and pride, would leave thee with an infinite
loss ! Was thee to lose thy life of pride and
sin and gain a life in Christ, thou would be
infinitely rich ; therefore for this seek, and for
this strive, that God may grant thee " accor
ding to the riches of his glory to be strength
ened with the might of his Spirit in the in
ner man, that Christ may dwell in" thy heart
" by faith, that ye being rooted and grounded
in love, may be able to comprehend with all
saints what is the breadth and length, and
depth, and height ; and to know the love of
God which passeth knowledge, that" thou
mayest " be filled with all thefulness of God."
" Now unto him that is able to do exceed
ing abundantly above all that we ask or
think, according to the power that worketh
within us—Unto hum be glory in the Church,
by Christ Jesus, through all ages, world with-
out end. Amen."
TO THE READER.
"Blessed are ye when men shall revile
and persecute you, and say all manner of e-
vil against you falsely for my sake.***For so
persecuted they the Prophets which were be
fore you. "Math. v. 11, 12.—I have often tho't
of this sentence which was spoken by my di
vine Lord, and have as often congratulated
myself with having some part of the chris
tian's portion in this life, though I might
come short of it in the next. But it has giv
en me no pleasing sensations when I see men
of ministerial profession, condescend to pros
titute their ministerial functions by alleging
to me such doctrines as constitute no part of
my religion or sentiment. Some seem to
have thought no measure too mean, if they
could only hinder this publication ; there
fore, while some have undertaken to give
my doctrine a shew ofheresy, they have for
bidden others the privilege of society, if they
should subscribe for a copy of my book.
It has been repeatedly reported of me, that I
have said the bible was no better than an al
manac. But for this I only said, that the scrip
tures without the Spirit of God were not fit
to govern the church, and that the bare letter
with the materials of which the bible was
made, were no better than an almanac.
184
I once said in a quarterly meeting, that irt
the singular part I had acted in my religious
course for three years then past, I had acted
by divine inspiration. I also said at the same
time, that I believed there were more preach
ers in hell, according to their number in com
munity, then there was of any other people.
It was afterwards said from this (or from no
better authority,) that I said 1 had been in
heaven three years, and within that time had
wished myself in hell. With such absurd
tales has my enemies endeavoured to poison
the mind of my friends, and fearing the re
port would come to my knowledge, they have
charged the persons to say nothing about
it to any other one.—One preacher found
means to obtain my proposal for this work—
a half finished sheet, before the errors of the
press were corrected. Incomplete as it was,
this he bore from town to town, not for the
purpose of procuring subscribers, but to in
jure my prosperity. I say this man did not
intend to procure subscribers, for the propos
al was presented in such a manner, that such
as were willing to subscribe did not sub
scribe. .<
This piece ofconduct was far from any thing
becoming any person who professed no reli
gion at all, but much more a preacher of the
gospel : lstly, it was an imposition upon the
public—2dlv, it was hypocrisy in himself,
and3dly, it Was intended as an injury tome.
Some persons have written letters of re
185
monstrance, against my doctrine, but when
they had read them to others with a preten
sion of having written them for me, they have
neversent them to me, that I might answer
them. As I have no desire to make my ene
mies more public than they have made them
selves, I shall personate no one, it is enough
to say they are men of ministerial profession.
I would not have mentioned these un-
christianlike deeds, merely because they are
directed against me, and this publication,
but as some of these persons have engaged
to write against my Plea, I offer their con-
duct as a specimen of what I hare reason to
expect, should they attempt to write against
me. Surely it is a mark of great inconsider
ate ness when men agree to oppose a work
which they have never seen. " A fool utter-
eth all his mind : but a wise man keepth it
in till afterwards"
What is more aggravating to me than all
the most of these my enemies, 1 believe are
professed christians, but like Saul they are
zealous to maintain the traditions of the fath
ers, and think they are doing God's service
in the part they act.
I have often beheld my greatest opposers,
when my heart has burned with love towards
them, and I have thought to myself how can
it be so ? But so it is* As they charge me
with denying the gospel ordinances, gospel
institutions, the Bible, &c. I will plainly con
fess that I do believe in them all, though per-
186
haps not just as they do ; for " this I confess,
that after the manner they call heresy so
worship I the God of my fathers : believing
all things written in the law and in the Proph
ets."—It often gives me pleasure when I con
sider that the truth is like an iron pillar, and
will stand against all the phenomena of ra
ging bigotry, superstition and blind zeal.—
And though the more inconsiderate part of
mankind may rashly rage against the truth,
it will stand ; so if any think themselves
right, let them not wrongfully rage, for it is
enough to be right, without being wrong.—
Men all have their dogmas. Some differ one
from the other, according to their degrees of
literature ; others differ according to their dif
ferent degrees in Spiritual understanding of
the things of God. We see that most men
are confident of their religion, but, reason
teaches us that all cannot be right. We
see.the most learned and wisest of men differ
much one from the other ; plainly showing
us, that the world by its wisdom knows not
God. But though all may seem to be alike
confident, the foolish with the wise, it is the
property of, the foolish, to rage with their con
fidence, but the confidence of the wise, will
not prevent a candid investigation, especial-
Notwithstanding, dear reader, all the op
position from men, hoth public and private,
these few sheets -are at last presented in vin
dication of the truth which I do assuredly be-
187
lieve and profess. In this Plea I propose a
candid investigation of the scriptures, and
though I desire chiefly to write for the help
and information of such as are in a state of
serious inquiry after the truth ; most likely
this testimony will fall in the way of others
too. I therefore desire that all may be di
vested of all prejudice either in favor of them
selves, or against me ; in order that they may
be the better fitted to reject or receive, what
may be offered to them in these few sheets.
THE AUTHOR.
%* It was my intention, to have offered
this little work to the inspection of several of
my friends before it was committed to the
press ; but for the shortness of time, and the
distance some of them live from me, it was
out of my power. But I will assure them,
that it was not by reason of any felt self-suf
ficiency that such inspection has not been
had.
L
FOR THE BAPTISM AND COMMUNION OF THE HOLY SPIRIT, ANff
THAT WHICH IS OF MATERIAL BREAD, WINF, AND
WATER REJECTED AS JEWI6II RITES.
CHAP. I.
The law of types was given because of sin.—What man
fell from, and what they must be restored to.-^John a
prophet, and by birth a priest, and in life and restriction,
under the law of Moses.—John came to make known
Christ to Israel.—John preached the baptism of repentance,
not water.—John was to Christ what Moses was to Joshua.
In commencing this Plea I would observe
to my reader, the method of my procedure
will be after a few remarks, to speak of bap
tism, &c. by noticing the particular time
when, where, to whom, and by whom such
rites were received and administered, con
sequently, one time and subject will be before
us at one time, and after that another, until
all is investigated.
In speaking of baptism, unquestionably
we speak of a type, and as it is a type, it
must be considered as one part of the typical
law. The apostle Paul informs us that the
law " was added," (to the covenant made
with Abraham) because of transgression."
190
The apostle is careful to notice the time
which the law was to continue,namely, " Un
til the seed (Christ) should come, to whom
the promise was made." Gal. iii. 19.
We have no reason to believe that there was
any typical law committed to man previous
to the fall, and reason suggests to us, that if
man had abode in that state in which he was
first created, the typical law would not have
been given to him. Then, as the fall of
man gave place to the law of type, lstly we
are led to inquire : What did mankind lose
by the fall ? 2dly, what must man be restor
ed to ? and 3dly, what did God intend by giv
ing to mankind the typical law ?
Firstly : In the beginning God created man
upright and holy. " In the image of God
created he him, male and female created he
them" Gen. i. 27.—As the Divine Being is
infinite, he is neither limited by parts, nor de
finable to that body which he had prepared
for man. Then the image must necessarily
be intellectual, his mind and soul must be
formed after the nature and perfection of
God.
When God created man he was preparing
a Spirit after his own likeness, and as God is
the fountain from which man first proceeded;
the stream must resemble the fountain, and
man was created in the image of God, and
that image, St. Paul tells, consisted in right
eousness, true holiness and in knowledge, Eph.
iv, 24. Col. iii. 10.—Hence we suppose that
raan was wise by the spirit which God had
given him, holy in his heart, and unblameable
in his actions. This image is that which
God was well pleased with, and he never will
be pleased with any other. We are not to
imagine that state in which man was first
created, to be infinite as God, for then the
knowledge of sin would not have been detri
mental to his happiness. Neither are we to
imagine, that the ability of man was too cir
cumscribed to do all God required of him :
but as man was not infinite in his creation, so
his knowledge was not infinite: if he had
been possessed with infinite knowledge, he
would not have fallen, sooner than God him
self. But as the condition of man was cir
cumscribed, something more need to be done
for him. to secure him against the powersof
spiritual wickedness, which God knew would
be too powerful for the mind and soul of the
creature he had made, therefore to secure
that image which he had committed to the
man, he gave him a command. Pointing out
the baneful fountain as if it had been a tree ;
he says to him " the day thou eatest thereof
thou shall surely die." Thus Adam's happi
ness was secured to him by his obedience ;
but no sooner than the man disobeyed, he
became as God, to know good and evil, (Gen.
iii. 22.) but as his state of creation was cir
cumscribed, he was not able to stand justified
after the fall, for his disobedience was an in
let to every other feature of the soul.—Wh"'
I say the man could not stand justified alter
the fall, I would not be understood that man
had lost all desire for good, he only lost the
power of doing the good that he would. The
spiritual vein was let, and spiritual weakness
seized the inmost soul. The fall of man
was a spiritual loss ; as the spirit of God
could not dwell in an unclean tabernacle, the
communications of God to man became im
mediately exterior, and the foundation was
laid immediately for the dispensations of the
Jaw, types and shadows. The consequence
of sin upon Adam, was to the soul, what na
tural disease is to the body. Though the
senses of the man may not be disordered, yet
the body may be completely unmanned.—
Adam did not lose all sense of good, he was
sensible of his loss, and that without being
able to retract what he had clone, he brought
upon himself (poor man,) that which he lit
tle expected. That weakness which result
ed to man in consequence of the fall, is fully
set forth by the apostle Paul, )Rom. vii. 23—
viii. 20.) " I see a law in my members, work
ing against the law of my mind and bring
ing me into captivity to the law ofsin." This
law of sin was the consequence of the fall ;
to this law man was reduced because he was
deceived, therefore it is said, " The creature
was made subject to vanity, not indeed wil
lingly." Adam was sensible of what he had
done, he knew good by the consequence of
evil ; his eyes were opened, and he was left
193
to realize shame, remorse and confusion of
soul. The image of righteousness and holi
ness was gone, and without the Spirit of God
there is no covenant between God and man,
so the covenant upon the part of man was
gone too. I say again that the covenant-uni
on was lost on man's part, and as the object
of man's redemption was the thing undertak
en in the scheme of grace, man must be re
stored to the Spirit which he had lost, or his
soul must be without the image of God and
without that life-giving power which causes
the christian to feel with a witness his cove
nant, restoration and relation to God.
Poor man lost sight of his divine Author—
hid himself in the garden, and as that light
with which man was created, was not lost in
consequence of the fall, it abode with him ;
and as it is a true principle of light and jus
tice to all men, so it was to Adam ; and he
passed the sentence of condemnation upon
himself before the Lord came to him. This
principle of light, is that light which is a law
to all men, and such as have not a law of let
ters, are not without law, but are a law unto
themselves, " their conscience also bearing
witness, and their thought the meanwhile
accusing or else excusing one another." Rom.
ii. 14, 15. Adam, poor man, was left to con
demnation for what he had done, and what
was worse, he was introduced to a world of
spiritual wickedness, with a heart prone to
temptation, without being able to resist, or
194
accomplish that good which he would do.—
Forever blessed be that God who loveth sin
ners, tho' he cannot for his justice sake save
them, unless they will become holy through
the means which he has provided. That
fountain of unchangeable goodness was not
changed, God still loved the creature he had
made ; man was the unreconciled party.
There needed a Saviour^to magnify the
law and make it honorable ; and bring back
the creatura man, to God—not God to man.
Well did Christ say to his disciples " without
me ye can do nothing." Thousands there
are, who talk of Christianity, who never have
yet submitted themselves to come to the
cross, that they might be put to death in the
flesh, and as the old man, or their fleshly
powers are not crucified, they find themselves
beset with pride and anger, with all the fruits
of a concupiscent mind. Such find them
selves under the necessity of daily beginning,
but they are daily left to repent without be
ing able to accomplish the good they would
do. These are sensible of the law of sin
working in them, but nothing short of giving
up all, and being crucified with Christ will
give them what they need ; they must be
quickened with Christ. Divine grace is the
Sool to which men had ought to come, but
esus must yet be all to them, in a cure from
their sins. The power of holy constancy to
God, is not in men of themselves ; this pow
er was lost in the fall, and sin with weakness,
195
came in its place. Men may contend against
sin in their own strength, but it will be like
contending with the flood, for short of the
work of sanctification, they will daily find
themselves wrecked. ,
We have seen that man lost in the fall his
righteousness and holiness, and so far fell short
of the image of God ; he lost the Spirit of
God, which constituted the life and virtue of
the covenant to God, on his part. As man
had lost the covenant of the Spirit, there
could be no restoration to man short of the
Spirit again. Sin is at enmity with holiness,
therefore it is said, the carnal mind is enmity
against God ; for it is not subject to the law
of God, neither indeed can be. (Rom. viii. 7.)
When man fell, God made haste to make
his love known, by the promise of the Mes
siah, and that there should be enmity between
the seed of the serpent, and the seed of the
woman. This enmity, is the property of
God's Spirit which works in opposition to the
spirit of wickedness. This Spirit is the Ho
ly Ghost, brought in, through the death and
sufferings of Jesus Christ. It is by the wea
pons of the Spirit, the man of God is able to
contend against spiritual wickedness in high
places. Through the Spirit men are migh- ,
ty in God to the pulling down of strong holds,
and to cast down imagination and every high
thing that exalteth itself against the knowl
edge of God, and to bring into captivity every
thought to the obedience of Christ " By the:
196
Spirit the child of God is made holy and righ
teous, and sanctified, thoughout soul and Bo
dy ; and they which are sanctified have put on
the new man, " which after God is created in
righteousness and true holiness" they are " re
newed in knowledge after the image of him,"
who created man in the beginning. Let my
reader recollect, that such as are in Christ
are restored to the image of God, they are
righteous and holy as Adam was, and more in
knowledge than he, for Adam was created
without a knowledge of sin ; christians know
that bane, and know how to escape it too.—
Let it be remembered, that the typical law
was given in consequence ofthe fall ; and was
given for a certain time, that is, until the res
torer (Christ) should come. But in the res
toration of man, there is a new creation
wherein dwelleth righteousness; man re
ceives holiness without unholiness, righteous
ness without unrighteousness, light without
darkness, and having the substance, he needs
no shadow. He that is advanced forward in
the resurrection and life of Christ, knows
more than types possibly can teach him.—
Man after the fall needed types, and not be
fore, and as God's law was not in the heart
of fallen men,they needed a Saviour,and as it
was in the mind of God to give them one, it
was needful to give them a type of it; and most
likely it was by the directions of God, that
mankind were first instructed in the use ofthe
altar and sacrifice. As the Messiah was not
197
to come until a certain time, the typical law
served mankind in their fallen state three val
uable purposes : lstly, it reminded them of
their obligations to God. 2dly, such as came
to the altar in faith, believing in the promise
of the Messiah, God regarded their offering
and testified of their gift by a visible sign, and
too : these gifts or sacrifices were expiatory,
through faith in the Messiah, for such crimes
as mankind were subjugated to, in conse
quence of the fall. In this respect, Christ
was to man as a lamb slain from the founda
tion of the world. Rev. xiii. 8. 3dly, the law
had its commencement by divine command,
and was to continue until such a time as God
should signify its abolishment, by the gift of
Hia Spirit..
It came to pass at a time when God saw
" the: wickedness of man was great in the
earth, and when every imagination of the
thoughts of their heart was only evil, and that
continually^ that God saw fit to remove them
(with the exception of Noah and his family)
from the earth. In: process of time, when
men had multiplied, they still went on in
wickedness, and God saw that it was not e-
nough that mankind should have such types
as only represented Christ, but that it was ne
cessary to teach them that they were polluted
in their thoughts, imaginations- and soul.—
Therefore, God having provided himself an
elect people, commanded that the tabernacle
be built. This tabernacle was to be built
r2
198
with two apartments, namely : the sanctua
ry, and after the sanctuary, and after the se
cond vail, there was to be an apartment cal
led the Holiest of all. In this tabernacle
God commanded that there should be (as well
as the offering which signified the Messiah)
several kinds of purification. The furniture of
the tabernacle was to be washed, and then
anointed with oil. The water was a repre
sentation of the putting away of sin by re
pentance : (see Isa. i. 16.) the anointing of
oil was to signify God's Holy Spirit, (2 Cor.
i. 21 —1 Johnii. 27.) so that men were taught
by the natural defilement of a vessel that they
were sin polluted in soul, and by the anoint
ing they were taught that which they must
be by grace, that they might be acceptable
to God.
This tabernacle was the very capital of the
law dispensation, and as it was built by
the special direction of God, it was an oracle
by which mankind were taught their fallen
condition, as well as the means by which they
must be restored. It is by this tabernacle
we are to learn the duration of the law dis
pensation of types and shadows. This tab
ernacle was a representation of God's future
dwelling in the hearts of his people. " Know
ye not," saith the apostles, " that ye are the
temples of God, and that the Spirit of God
dwelleth in you ? If any man defile the tem
ple of God, him shall God destroy, for the
temple of God is holy ; which temple ye are."
199
1 Cor. iii. 16, 17. In that part of the taber
nacle which was called the Holiest of all,
was put the ark of the covenant : the golden
pot that had manna : and Aaron's rod that
budded : and the tabernacle of the covenant.
There were the cherubims of glory, shadow
ing the mercy-seat ; (see Heb. ix. 4, &c.)
these all had their Spiritual signification of
good things to come. But, into this apart
ment the priest could not enter but once a
year, and then not without blood, which he
offered for himself and the errors of the peo
ple ; thus showing that Christ must suffer,
before access could be had to the plenitude
of God's Spirit ; " the Holy Ghost, thus sig
nifying," saith the apostle, " that the way in
to the Holiest of all was not yet made
known." When we speak of the times pre
vious to the rending of the vail, we are not
to suppose that the Spirit of God had no place
among men. God had an election of Proph
ets to whom he did make himself known
through the Spirit, but the degree ofthe Spir
it given to them, is nothing to be compared
to the plenitude of the Spirit which was shed
forth through the death and sufferings of
Christ. As that dispensation was yet out
ward and typical of better things, we are to
look for a time when the plenitude of God's
Spirit shall do away the necessity of all types
and shadows. Where the distinguishing line
is to be drawn between the two dispensa
tions, I shall not now say ; but shall leave
200
that to be shown in the succeeding pages.—
As it becomes every man who is intending to
build,first to lay the foundation, I have thought
best, to lay these remarks at the introduction
of my Plea : for without noticing what man
fell from, we could not determine what he
must, in a measure, be restored to : and with
out noticing the loss and restoration of man,
we must, in a measure be ignorant of the age
and intention of the typical law. But now
we see that the fall of man was a Spiritual
loss, whereby the covenant between God and
man) was on the man's part reduced to out
ward types and shadows ;. and that to restore
man to a covenant union with God, he must
be brought to realize the covenant through
the Spirit again: and the man must put on
the image of God after a renewal of knowl
edge, righteousness and true holiness ; when
this is done, there will be as little need of
types as there was in the beginning, when
man was first created;
Having seen what is necessary for the res*
toration of man, and that the man is the on8
who needs to be reconciled to God ; we see
also, that " the law was added because of
transgression, till the seed should come to
whom the promise was made (GaL iii. 9.)
and since Christ has come and removed the
typical law of Moses : in the course of our
subject of baptism, it is for me to prove bap
tism under, the law,.. or: it is for my reader to
satisfy himself that Christ did institute the
sacrament of baptism after his coming.
201
Question—Was baptism under the law
dispensation ? Answer—Yes. But as I do
not put much confidence in authors, espe
cially in controverted points ; instead of di
recting my reader to authors whom we know
but little about, I intend to support my ar
guments principally from the accounts given
us in the scriptures of truth. Most learned
men will say that baptism was under the
law. Maimonedes the great interpreter of the
Jewish law, says that Israel was received into
the covenant by three things, namely ; by
circumcision, baptism and sacrifice. * All
the Jews" it is said " assert as with one
mouth, that all the nations of Israel were
brought into the covenant by baptism. It is
also said that baptism was in the wilderness,
and likewise, that in the days of David and
Solomon, multitudes of proselytes were re
ceived by the ordinance of baptism.*
Did I feel that my argument was depend
ent upon the proofs that I must make, that
baptism was under the law previous to the
coming of John, I might find many who
would agree with me, in that opinion.
Firstly. Let it be acknowledged,that there
are two baptisms held to view in the scrip
tures of truth. Namely, the baptism of the
Spirit, and the baptism of water ; the one
administered by John, and the other admin
istered by Christ in his Spirit. It is the bap
tism of the Spirit that most of the types un-
* See Adam Clark's notes on the book'of'Mark.
202
der the law point to. The divers washings
which were practised in the tabernacle, were
obligatory upon all such as worshipped there
in ; the priests were commanded to wash
before they were permitted to hold any sa
cerdotal office, orpay their religious vows.—
And not only were the worshippers com
manded to wash, but all the vessels with the
altar and the tabernacle must be washed and
anointed with oil.* The purification ofthe
temple and the vessels belonging thereto,
consisted in three particular modes, namely,
sprinkling, pouring, and washing. As all
these divers washings or modes of purifica
tion were types of the one most and essential
saving baptism of the Spirit, they soon pass
ed into prophetic language. It is said, " I
will sprinkle clean water upon you and ye
shall be clean from all your filthiness ;" (Ezek.
xxxvi. 25.) and again, " He shall sprinkle
many nations," Again it is said, " I will pour
my Spirit upon all flesh, (Joel, ii. 28.) Be
sides these purifications which were practis
ed at the door, and within the tabernacle, it
is said that the Jews had a baptism called
proselyte baptism, and that when a Gentile
came over to the Jews, they enjoined on him
the same ceremonies which they practised
themselves. They circumcised the proselyte
as a mark of incorporation ; they baptised
him as purification from idolatry. Nothing
is more evident than that there is two bap-
203
tisms, and those different kinds of purifica
tion pointed to that most essential. That
sprinkling and pouring were one and the same
in substance, appears from the method in
which the apostles have applied them to one
thing, namely, the Spirit.
When the Baptism of the Spirit was shed
forth upon the day of Pentecost, saith Peter,
" This is that which was spoken by the pro
phet Joel, and it shall come to pass in the
last days," saith God, " that I will pour out
my Spirit upon all flesh." (Actsii. 17.) Again
it is said, " Let us draw near (to God) in full
assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled
from an evil conscience, and our bodies
washed with pure water." (Heb. x. 22.) For
as many of you as have been baptised into
Christ have put on Christ. (Gal. iii. 27.)
In these passages we see that the apostles
hare considered all these types as one, in
substance with the other ; and typical of the
baptism of the Spirit.
As the divers washings and carnal ordinan
ces all represented the one essential saving
baptism of the Spirit, so far as a figure will
admit, there is no impropriety in calling them
baptisms. This, however, would be saying
that there were many baptisms under the
law. And that there was more than one
baptism, appears evident from the expression
of the apostle when he urges his Hebrew
brethren to go on to perfection, leaving the
doctrine of baptisms. (Heb. vi. 2.) If there
204
had been but one baptism under the law, the
Apostle would not have mentioned baptism
in the plural number. But what these bap
tisms were, is not a matter with us, they
were undoubtedly, to me, Jewish rites, and
all christians will agree with me that Judaic-
al ceremonies ought not to have any place
among christians. This is not only granted
among christians, but this point was fully
and finally settled by the brethren and Elders
in a council at Jerusalem. And they gave
it under their hand writing that they had no
commandment that the Gentiles should keep
the law of Moses. A late writer, who has
written in favour of baptism, says himself,
that Jewish ceremonies are to be considered
as Pagan rites, and as the laws of past ages,
not to be practised at the present time.
Since it is so generally granted that Jew
ish ceremonies or baptisms ought not to be
enjoined on christians, the next thing is what
are Jewish ceremonies ? Since there is no
perceivable difference in the elements which
compose rituals, either under the law or un
der the gospel, the distinction between law
ordinances and gospel ordinances (so called)
must be determined mostly by the time in
which such ordinances were practised.
Q. When did the gospel dispensation com
mence ? Those who wish to gather water
baptism to their creed, say that the gospel
commenced at the coming of John the Bap
tist, and feel themselves warranted in the
205
use of water-baptism, because he practised
it. Others who feeling sensible that John's ad
ministration was under the law, contend that
the gospel commenced at Jerusalem ; and
feel that their practice of water- baptism is
warranted from the commission given by
Christ to his disciples. (Matth. xxviii. 19.)
But to suppose that the gospel commen
ced at the coming of John, or at the time the
commission was given to the disciples, 1 think
is not correct 5 and so incorrect, that the gos
pel commenced thousands of years before.—
Saith the apostle, " the scriptures fore-seeing
that God would justify the heathen through
faith, preached before the gospel unto Abra
ham (Gal. iii. 8.) and again it is said,
" For unto us was the gospel preached as
well as unto them," Heb. iv. 2. Here we
see that the gospel was preached to the chil
dren of Israel in the wilderness, also to Abra
ham. Add to this the testimony of the apos
tle Peter, who, wh^n speaking of the antedi
luvian world, says, " For this cause, was the
gospel preached to them that are dead, that
they might be judged according to men in
the flesh, but live according to God in the
Spirit." 1 Pet. ix. 6.—These passages shew
us, that the gospel did not commence at
the coming of John. When we consider the
definition of the word gospel, it signifies good
tidings, or glad news : so that the first en
couragement given to mankind of a Saviour
to come, was the commencement of the gos-
s
206
pel. To draw the dividing line between the
dispensation of the law and the dispensation
of the gospel, (so called,) has long perplexed
most christians. And the reason is, because
they have sought the division by the term
gospel.
I think it must be all but self evident, that
if the gospel was always preached, that the
distinguishing line cannot be drawn by it.—
Some have ventured to name a dispensation to
John, but as John's dispensation is not a scrip-
ture note, 1 shall in the sequel, show John to
be under the law of Moses. .
We are now to set out for some means
whereby we may determine between the le
gislation of Moses, and the legislation of
Christ ; for when the law ends, then, and not
until then, can we accomplish that which we
wish.
I shall now propose that the kingdom of
God, or the kingdom of heaven is the proper
term by which we are to draw the line be
tween the two legislations. This term has
its place in prophetic language. Says Dan
iel, " In the days of those kings shall the God
of heaven set up a kingdom which shall never
be destroyed. (Dan. ii. 44.) This kingdom of
God, is the new covenant dispensation, which
is brought in, and established by Jesus Christ.
It is called the kingdom of God, because God
established it. It is called the kingdom of
heaven, because the King of heaven has set
207
it up. This is the New Jerusalem, which
cometh down from God out of heaven. It is
the strong city, which hath salvation appoin
ted for walls, and for bulwarks. It was from the
peace, privileges and rules of the government
ofthis kingdom that mankind fell by transgres
sion, and brought on them the course of this
world, and became subjects of the prince of
the power of the air, and to the spirit which
now worketh in the children of disobedience.
The kingdom of God is a proper christian
dominion. This kingdom does not consist of
the elements of this world, namely, meatsv
drinks, &«. but in righteousness, peace andjoi/
in the Holy Ghost. Kom. xiv. 17.
This kingdom was discovered to Nebu
chadnezzar, in a vision. Saith he, " How
great his- signs and how mighty are his won
ders ? His kingdom is an everlasting king
dom,, and his dominion is from generation
to generation ?"
When John came preaching in the wilder
ness of Judah, he preached that the kingdom
of heaven was near at hand. Our Saviour
when he sent forth his disciples, commanded
them to preach the kingdom of God, near at
Hand, but no where preached that the king
dom of God had as then taken place. And as
the kingdom of God was in the Holy Ghost,
and as the Holy Ghost was not given, for
Christ was not yet glorified ; (see John vii. 33.)
the kingdom was not as then set up. Of this
kingdom of God I shall speak more particu
larly hereafter.
208
Having urged the impropriety of drawing
the distinguishing line between the two dis
pensations, (so called,) and having argued
that the term kingdom of God is the more
correct means ofshowing us the truth, which
we seek. I will now proceed to notice John's
ministry, and show that he was under the
law by birth, and by restriction in life.
John, as it appears, had his lineage in the
priesthood. Zacharias and Elizabeth, who
were the parents of John, were both of that
lineage. Zacharias was attending at the al
tar when (he angel Gabriel first made known
to him the birth of his son John. (Luke ii. I)
Zacharias, it is said, was of the course ofAbi-
hu. When the sacerdotal family was divided
into classes, ( 1 Chron. xxiv. 1 .) each serving
a week, (2 Kings, xi. 7—2 Chron. xxiii. 8.)
Abihu was the eighth in the order in which
they had originally been established. (1 Chron.
xxiv*. 10.) Here we find that the father of
John was a priest, and his mother, was of the
daughters of Aaron ; which shows thai John
was a priest by birth, and that his lineage is
from Amram, of whom came Moses, Aaron
and Miriam.
Because John was a priest and under the
law of Moses, he observed the restrictions of
the law, and as the priests were forbid to use
strong drink, John was to drink none. Luke,
i. 15. John taught his disciples to fast, and
come neither eating and drinking, such
209
things as were forbidden in the law of Moses,
see Mark ii. 8.
We will now show, that John is to be reck
oned among the prophets. To show this,
we have the testimony of Christ, (Luke, vii.
28.) " for I say unto you, amongst those that
are born of women there is not a greater
prophet than John the Baptist." It is said
again, " that all men counted John, that he
was a prophet." Mark, xi. 32.—John was a
prophet, because he went before and proph
esied of the coming of Christ, and proph
esied of the coming of the kingdom of God.
Thus it is plain, that John was a prophet:
and a priest by birth : and by restrictions in
life under the law. Those who contend that
John was the first gospel minister, ought, I
think, to live as John did ; for I know of no
reason why they can contend for one part of
John's examples and not receive the other.-
Let us notice to whom John came, and the"
purpose for which he came. Because he was
under the law he came to the Jews, and in
no one instance did he have any thing to do
with the Gentiles? But if John Was furnish
ed to preach the gospel, as the first gospel
minister, why did he not go to the Gentiles
and into the world at large ? The reason
why John came to the Jews was because he
was ofthat nation and the-fulness of time had
not come when the limited dispensatiotfshould
end, he was yet under the law of' Moses.
210
The way into the Holiest of all, which pre
figured Christ's dispensation, was not yet
known, and there could be no general com
mission given until that place was opened,
by the rending of the vail. Such as contend
that the gospel commenced with John,
should remember that the tabernacle was yet
standing.
The purpose for which John had come we
learn from his own testimony, namely, to
make known Christ. Saith John, "that he
should be made known to Israel, therefore
am I come baptizing with water." John, i. 31.
As John came particularly to Israel, and for
the special purpose of making known Christ,
as he did not know him, (ver. 33) God gave
him a sign, saying, " upon whom thou shalt
see the Spirit descending and remaining on
him, the same is he which baptizeth with the
Holy Ghost."
The making known of Christ to Israel", was
a matter of the greatest importance in the
work of God. And because mankind were
always by nature what they are now, God
never will, nor never did permit them to act
in his all important business, without imme
diate inspiration from himself. And under
that outward dispensation, God conducted
by outward means, and these means were by
an election of prophets. If at any time, there
was no prophet, God chose one as he did
Moses, as it were by the sign of a burning
211
bush ; or they were informed of their elec
tion by the administration of angels. And
he established that election in the minds of
the people, by signs and miracles, which he
enabled them to show in his name. When
there were prophets and such as the people
knew to be prophets, such by the directions
of God went as did Elijah to Elisha, or as
Samuel went to Saul, and anointed them, or
made known to them that they were the cho
sen of the Lord. For instance, when Moses
was to leave the children of Israel, he was the
proper person as his election was known, to
point out and make known Joshua. So as
God generally made himself known to man
kind under that dispensation by outward
means, and as the prophets made themselves
known one to the other ; so it was in the or
der of that dispensation, that Christ should
be made known to Israel by a prophet, and
in the election of God, John was the man.—
Having* received the sign himself, he says he
came for that very intent. And the prophe
cy of the angel Gabriel was in every respect
fulfilled concerning John, which says, " He
shall be great in the sight of the Lord, and
shall drink neither wine, nor strong drink, and
he shall be filled with the Holy Ghost, even
from his mother's womb, and many of the
children of Israel shall he turn, to the Lord
their God. And he shall go before him
(Christ) in the Spirit, and in the power of E-
lias, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the
212
ehildren, and the disobedient to the wisdom
of the just, to make ready a people prepared
for the Lord." Luke, i. 15, 16, 17.
As John was sent to make known Christ,
and to make ready a people prepared for the
Lord ; let us notice his preaching and prac
tice. Let us select the first account which
that relates to the coming of John. " In the
beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the
Son of God, as it is written in the prophets,
Behold Lsend my messenger before thy face,
which shall prepare thy way before thee.—
The voice of one crying in the wilderness,
prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his
paths straight. John did baptize in the wil
derness, and preach the baptism ofrepentance
for the remission of sins. Mark, i. 1,2, 3, 4, 5.
Now reader, would not this be mysterious
that a man like John the baptist should come
forward with a new religious institution of
baptism, and in little more than six months,
proselyte and bring over to the new religion,
and baptize 'all' the inhabitants ofJudah and
Jerusalem ?.—But let us mark the text. " Johns
did baptize in the wilderness and preach the
BAPTISM OF REPENTANCE FOR REMISSION OF
sins." Here we see that there are two bap
tisms mentioned in the text, (to wit :) the
baptism which he baptized with ; and the
baptism of repentance which he preached.
The baptism of water John pratised in con
formity to the law which he wa3 under, but
the baptism of repentance is a gospel insti
213
tution, it was by the baptism of repentance,
that the people were to be prepared for the
Lord. Whereas the baptism of water was a
rite with which the Jews were well acquaint
ed, which would clear us from the necessity
of believing that mystery which is presup
posed, in case that baptism by water was a
new rite. So well acquainted were the Jews
with the practiceof water baptism, that when
Priests and Levites came to John from Jeru
salem, they did not inquire what baptism
meant. No. They did not express the least
curiosity, they only questioned who he was,
and questioned him as to his authority, as a
baptiser. These priests and levites well knew
(if there is any dependence to be put in his
tory,) that they never received a proselyte
into the full enjoyment of the Jewish religion,
until he was both baptized and circumcised.
They first questioned John whether he was
not the Christ, but he tells them " no." They
then question him whether he was Elias, or
whether he was one of the Prophets ; and
when he had said "no," then they question
ed him as to his authority. .Plainly intima
ting if John had only pretended to any illus
trious place in the Jewish church, they would
have had no questions to have asked on the
subject. If baptism had been a new insti
tution as some would have it ; reason teaches
us that much time would have been required
in order to have rendered such an institution
popular among the Jews. Had John been a
214
man that worked miracles, he might have
possessed some more peculiar advantage in-
Eroselyting the Jews to the said new religion,
ut John did no miracles, (John x. 14) and
even if he hadj what could have made him
so much more successful in bis ministry than'
others, as to proselyte all the land of Judah
and Jerusalem in about six months, whereas*
Christ with all his disciples made only about?
fire hundred disciples in three years time !
R eason teaches us that John had nothing:
to do as to establishing (as some suppose)-
the rite of water baptism, tradition had al
ready given him the assent of the people in*
that part of his work.
It is frequently said of John, that he prea
ched the baptism of repentance, but I do not
recollect that it is once said of him, that he-
preached the baptism of water.
Such as contend that Mark had an alio*
sion to the baptism of water in the introduc
tion of his history, ought to show us that
water baptism is saving. But as water bap
tism is not saving, so it is no part of the gos
pel. The gospel is the power of God unto-
salvation to every one that believe, (Rom. i.
16.) The gospel is everlasting, but there -
are few who dare ascribe any great salva
tion, power or duration to the baptism of wa
ter. And if we have made it to appear, (as
I think we have,) that the gospel was preach
ed to Abraham, and to the old world, then
this account of Mark cannot be justly under-
215
iStood, as some would have it, to mean the
introduction of water baptism. Let us ex
amine the subsequent matter in Mark's ac
count. He proceeds to add, " as it is writ
ten in the prophets. Behold I send my mes
senger before thy face, which shall prepare
the way before thee." This preparation of
the way was the effect produced by the cry,
u prepare ye the way of the Lord and make his
paths straight." This account of Mark has
no allusion to the notion that John prepared
the people by water baptism, but like all the
rest of the scriptures show that John preach
ed the baptism ofrepentance for the remis
sion of sins. As Mark so particularly men
tions the baptism of repentance, let us add
,to his saying, other similar testimonies.—
"John" saith the apostle Paul, " verily bap
tized with the baptism of repentance, say
ing unto the people that they should believe
on him who should come after him, that is,
.on Christ Jesus." Acts, xix. 4. And again.
u He came into all the country round about
Jordan, preaching the baptism of repent
ance for the remission of sins" Luke, iii. 3.
Dear Reader. If any will convince us that
water baptism has any part or lot in the Gos
pel, and that those passages mean water bap
tism, the same will be able to shew us that
water baptism is the remission ofsins. But
until then I must believe that John only
practised water baptism in conformity to the
law he was under, and preached this bap
216
tism of repentance as a thing represented by-
all outer kinds of purification. And if we
examine the preaching of John it was not
water baptism, but that baptism which did
more towards preparing the people for the
Lord, than water baptism could do. The
baptism which John preached was just that
water baptism was in the sign, namely, pu
rification. Therefore his language was like
that of the prophet. " Wash you, make you
clean ; put away the evil ofyour doings from
before mine eyes, cease to do evil, learn to do
well ; seek judgment ; relieve the oppress
ed ; judge the fatherless and plead for the
widow." When John saw many of the phar-
isees come to his baptism merely because
they of the circumcision were debtors to do
the whole law. (see Gal. v. 31 ) he says to
them " say not, within yourselves, we have
Abraham to our lather." Sarin he, " O,
generation of vipers ! who hath warned you
to flee from the wrath to come, bring forth
therefore fruits meet for repentance." When
John had told them that the axe was laid un
to the root of the trees, and that every tree
which brought not forth good fruit must be
hewn down, said they unto him f what shall
we do then ? Saith John " he that hath two
coats, let him impart to him that hath none ;.
and he that hath meat, let him do likewise.
To the Publicans, he says, " exact no mo?e
than that which is appointed you"—and to
the soldiers, " Do violence fa no man, neither
4 "
217
accuse any falsely ; and be content with your
wages." Such, dear reader, is gospel preach
ing, and by such preaching, the loftiness of
men, like the hills are brought down, the val-
lies are filled, the crooked and rough ways
and doings of men, are made smooth and
straight. Thus the prediction of the angel
Gabriel concerning John was fulfilled ; which
saith, " many of the hearts of the children of
Israel shall he turn to the Lord their God.—
And he shall go before him in the Spirit and
power of Elias, to turn the hearts of the fa
thers to the children, and the disobedient to
the wisdom of the just, to make ready a peo
ple prepared for the Lord."
The baptism which John preached to the
people, was to the soul (figuratively) what
water washing is to the body. Water may
cleanse the body from natural defilement, or
from external pollutions, which without a re
moval, (according to the natural order of
things) would prove contagious, both to our
selves and others. But though water may
serve us a valuable purpose in this point of
view : yet water purification cannot reach to
our internal need, and cleanse us from the
impurity ofthe stomach, nor from the various
disorders which so frequently lurk within the
natural system. These internal needs must
be removed by an internal application, or the
system must perish. So notwithstanding
men may approach God with a baptizing
sense of their sins, this is only outward wash-
T
218
ing. It does not give them victory over their
fallen nature. This must be brought about
by the baptism of Christ. Therefore, not-
Withstanding John had baptized the Jews ac
cording to the law : and notwithstanding he
had preached to them the baptism of repen
tance, he taught them to look for the baptism
which was yet to come, saying, " I indeed
baptize you with water, unto repentance, but
he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and
with fire." Thus John taught, that the Jews
must look to Christ : beginning his ministry
under the law by water, he ended with re
pentance, and so far as he preached repen
tance, he was a gospel minister. As John
had two baptisms, so Christ had two. As
John commenced with Moses and ended
with repentance : so we find Christ first bap
tizes his disciples with repentance, and fin
ishes that baptism of repentance with the
baptism ofthe Holy Ghost. The Holy Ghost
being the only true, saving and christian
baptism.
As there is a harmonizing analogy be
tween Moses and John, and Joshua and
Christ, I will here mention, that as Moses
gave way for Joshua, so John gave way for
Christ. No doubt that something was inten
ded by the angel Gabriel in the name ofJohn.
The angel did not leave the parents of John to
name their child what they pleased, but said
*o Zacharias, thou shalt call his name John,
which signifies the grace and mercy of God.
219
As there is a striking resemblance between
mankind in a state of sin, and Israel, when in
a state ofbondage to the Egyptians ; so John
resembles Moses, inasmuch as his coming to
the Jews, was to them, what the coming of
Moses was to the children of Israel. Moses
came from Mount Horeb by the special grace
of God. John came from the wilderness, be
ing directed and taught of God.—Moses, by
the direction of God, brings the children of
Israel on the way to the promised land, and
gives them the law.—John points the chil
dren of Israel the way from the bondage of
sin, by preaching to them the law of repen
tance.—Moses, under the law, organized the
children of Israel for Joshua, (called Jesus.)
—John by the preaching of repentance pre
pared the Jews for the coming of Christ.—
Moses discovered the promised land from
Mount Nebo: (signifying discovery or proph
ecy,) and points out the land of rest—he an
nounces the woes which should attend the
disobedient, and the blessings which should
attend the righteous: having brought the
children of Israel to Abel-Shittim, (signifying
sorrow) he shows Joshua to be their leader to
the promised land : but he says, " I must
die."—John points out Christ to the Jews as
their leader : and having given them his tes
timony, says, " He must increase, but I must
decrease."
So as Moses did not lead the children of
Israel out of the wilderness—so John did not
220
\
bring the Jews out from under the law of Mo
ses, but leaves that as a work which could
only be done by Jesus Christ.
CHAP. II.
John fulfilled his mission by pointing out Christ to Israel.
—The coming of the kingdom of God pointed to in the
transfiguration of Christ on the mount.—Types did not rep
resent a fulfilment of any thing previous to the sufferings of
Christ on the cross, so all were under the law.—Christ suf
fered in the last of Daniel's weeks, and the oblations ceased
when the covenant was confirmed.—John's ministry in wa
ter baptism under the law, and all previous to the death of
Christ, within the pale of the Jewish Church.
As John came to make known Christ, we
shall notice the fulfilment of his mission.—
" Then cometh Jesus from Galilee to Jordan,
unto John to be baptized of him." But John
forbade him saying, I have need to be baptized
of thee ; and corned thou to me ? And Jesus
said, suffer it to be so now, for thus it becom-
ethusto fulfil all righteousness; then John
suffered him." Matt. iii. 13, &c.
We have already noticed that John did not
enter upon his ministry, until he was thirty
years of age, according to the law of Moses.
(Num. iv. 3.) So it appears, that when
Christ came to John he began to be about
thirty years of age, (Luke, iii. 23,) and prob
ably could not come before, as he felt that he
was under the same law.
221
There are many who contend that water'
baptism is to be preached, because Christ
was baptized of John in Jordan. Butthis
argument is of no worth, since it is plainly
shown, that water baptism is no part of the
gospel. But if Christ was under the law,
then he was bound to observe the law : and
that he was subject to the law, we will let
plain scripture testimony show. The apos
tle saith, (Gal. iv. 4, 5) "he (Christ) was made
of a woman, made under the law to redeem
them that were under the law." If Christ
was to redeem such as were finder the law, it
is very sure that there could be no redemp
tion until he fulfilled the law ; and as he had
not suffered, he was yet under the law.—
When Christ came to John to be baptized he
had already undergone circumcision, and
now comes forward to fulfil the righteousness
of the law, by being baptized. But what
shall we say when we understand that John
forbade him? If water' baptism was a gospel
institution, as some say it was, surely John
would not have refused any one that which
he was sent to administer; But nothing is
more evident to me than, that John perfectly
understood water baptism to be a sign ; and
that the sign -was not to follow the thing
which the sign represented. John knew al
so, that the baptism of; water was for peni
tent sinners. But as Christ had no sin to an
swer for, there was no repentance to be
preached to him ; besides, as he was the one
t2
222
who was to baptize with the Spiritual bap
tism, here John found that all his ministry
was at an end, and altogether superseded.—
For where there was no sin there was no re
pentance, and he that had the baptism of the
Spirit had no need to be baptized of the sign.
But as Christ was under the law, he says
to John, " suffer it to be so now ;" for thus it
becometh us to fulfil all righteousness.—
When the subject was explained to John,
and he saw that it was necessary to fulfil all
the law, and that not one jot or tittle of it
could pass, until all was fulfilled. " He suf
fered him " to be baptized, and as soon as he
was baptized in the type, John saw the Holy
Spirit descending like a dove and lighting
upon him, " and lo, a voice from heaven"
was heard saying, " this is my beloved Sonin
whom lam well 'pleased.''^ John having bap
tized Christ, ana having seen the evidence of
the Spirit, could now do the errand for which
he come, namely, to make known Christ to Is
rael. John says to his disciples, "Behold
the Lamb of God which takelh away the sin
of the world. This is he of whom I said, af
ter me cometh a man which is preferred be
fore me, and I knew him not, but that he
should be made known to lsrael,therefoream I
come baptizing with water." John, i. 29, &c.
We have before had occasion to notice the
wisdom of God in providing a succession of
prophets, to bring about his designs under
the law dispensation. Here we may remark,
223
that if Christ had first come to the Grand
Sanhedrim-Council, all this public manifes
tation which took place at the time of his
baptism, would have been lost. For the San
hedrim-council at this time, and state of the
Jewish Church, claimed the rite of purifica
tion to themselves, and no baptism (it is said),
was performed butby their order, or in the pres
ence ofthree magistrates. Besides this; at this
time they would not baptize a Jew, or Jew
ess ; nor even those who were the children;
of their proselytes. The Jewish church at
the time of Christ's coming was in a very low
condition and the Sanhedrim-council had ta
ken that order upon them, that if Christ had
first come to them, as he was a Jew, they
never would have baptized him. Conse
quently, he would have been lacking in the
fulfilment of the law which he was under.—
But as God in his providences provided a-
gainst the superstitious customs of the Jews,,
and had provided a prophet, Christ is mani
fest by incontestible proofs. The Holy Ghost
is given and John fulfils his errand by preach
ing and pointing him out to his disciples and
others.
Dear reader, if baptism is a rite to be
practised as some contend and, if the bap
tism of water is an ordinance of Christ, we
should expect next, that he would enter up
on his ministry by first baptizing his disci
ples, or at least expect that he should com
224
mand them to baptize, others. At one
time Christ sends forth twelve disciples, aud
at another time he commissioned seventy
to go out, but there is not one word mention
ed that they should baptize with water.
And that Christ himself did not baptize. ap
pears plain, for it is said that Christ himself
baptized not, but his disciples. (John iv. 2.)
There is not one instance where Christ
used water-baptism, or where he commanded
others to baptize in any way, previous to the
commission mentioned, (Matth. xxvii. 19)
which place I purpose to consider by itself;
" But," say the objectors, " if the bap
tism of water was not to be perpetuated, why
did not Christ forbid the practice of it by his
disciples ' To this I answer, it could not be
expected that Christ would forbid his disci
ples baptizing others who, was under obli
gation to fulfil the same law that he, himself,
was obliged to fulfil.
They were all as-yet bound to fulfil the law, .
each one for himself. But as Christ had ful
filled it on his part, he was not obliged to do
nor say any thing about it.
Such as will contend that the true chris*
tian dispensation commenced with John,
ought to observe the same restriction that he
observed ; but this they are not willing to do;
But ifthey will stick for the ceremonies of
baptism, because Christ did not forbid his
disciples the practice of that ceremony, why
should they be so strenuous on that part, and
225
yet be so indifferent and neglectful as not
to observe things which Christ did positive
ly command ? He says to his disciples,
" The scribes and pharisees sit in Moses'
seat, all, therefore, whatsoever they bid you
observe ; that observe and do." (Matth. xxiii.
2, 3.) Again, (ver. 23) it is said " Woe unto
you Scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites ! for
ye pay tithes of mint and anise and cummin,
and have omitted the weightier matters ofthe
law, judgment, mercy and faith. These ought
ye to have done, and not to leave the others
undone." Here is a plain command from
Christ to his disciples, to keep the law of
Moses, i. e. do all the scribes and pharisees
shall command you. Christ commands the
leper to go and show himselfto the priest, and
offer a gift, which Moses commanded for a
testimony unto them. (Matth. viii. 4.) Who
will not admit that these are plain com
mands ? I dare not say they are not, but 1 do
Hot believe that they are gospel ordinances.
But were we to look for the commands of
Christ, there is no more said by him in fa
vour of water baptism, than there is in fa
vour of offering tithes of mints, &c.
If baptism had been a rite which Christ
intended that his followers should observe, no
doubt in my mind, that he would have prac
tised it himself. The apology which is of
fered by some, that Christ was Lord of his
disciples (therefore left that work for them to
do) is of no use. For there was no labour too
226
hard or humiliating for Christ to perform, so
God forbid that Christ, our meek, and divine
Lord should be so measured by proud hearts-
When the young man came to Christ, interro
gating him, the way to attain eternal life,
(Matth. xix. 16, 17, 18, &c.) Christ says unto,
him, " keep the commandments," the young
man knowing that there were many com
mandments, says " Which commandment
shall I keep ?" Christ did not tell him (as some
would now a days), that he must be baptized^
but saith Christ, thou shalt do no murder ;
thou shalt not steal ; thou shalt not commit
adultery ; thou shalt not bear false witness ;
honor thy father and thy mother ; and thou
shalt love thy neighbour as thyself." Here
Christ, (no doubt in my mind) made known
to this man all he thought was necessary to
salvation, and all he would have him to ob
serve. As in this instance, so in others. The
scribes and pharisees said to Christ, " What
shall we do that we might work the work of
God ? Jesus answered and said unto them,
This is the work of God, that ye believe in
him whom he hath sent. (John vi. 28,29) In
all the doctrine and teachings of Christ, for
about three years, he taught much about
faith in himself, love to God, and love to man,
but not in one instance has he taught the doc
trine of water baptism.
As I have before proposed that the term,
kingdom of God, was the most proper phrase
to show us the division between the dispen
227
nation of the law, and the dispensation of
the gospel, (so called) according to my en
gagement I will now say something more of
it. We have before observed that this king
dom of God, was that which was prophesied
of by Daniel.
When John came preaching in the wilder
ness his cry was. " Repent ye ; for the king
dom of Heaven" (or God) " is at hand,"
(Math. iii. 2.) John did not say that the
kingdom of God was then established ; but,
that it was nigh by. This preaching of John,
perfectly agrees with that preaching of Christ*
(Math. iv. 1 7.) "From this time Jesus be
gan to preach, and to say, " Repent for the
kingdom of Heaven is at hand." And in the
commission given to the twelve disciples, if
was said to them " As ye go preach, saying,
the kingdom of Heaven is at hand." Also
to the seventy which Christ sent out (Luke,
x. 9.) it was said, " say unto them the king
dom of God is come nigh onto you." Now
that this kingdom was not as yet established,
evidently appears from the expression of
Christ to his disciples, (Math. xvi. 28.) when
he says, "There be some standing here
which shall not taste death till they have
seen the Son of man coming in his king
dom," or as Mark has it, " till they :have seen
the kingdom of God come with power."
When we speak of the kingdom of God,
or of the kingdom of Heaven, we are not to
228
dream of a particular space of time or place,
as of a worldly kingdom ; but the kingdom
of God is " in righteousnesspeace and joy in
the Holy Ghost, (Rom. xiv. 17.) The Spirit
ual dispensation of Christ ruling in the minds
and in the heart ofhis children. This king
dom was that which man lost by the fall,and
short of the gift of the Holy Spirit there is no
restoration to mankind. But as Christ was
not yet glorified, the Holy Ghost was not yet
given. (John, vii. 39.) but the covenant be
tween God and man "consisted much in a
law dispensation, and the mysteries of God's
Spirit were yet contained in figures, secluded
for a time behind the vail of the temple, shut
up at Jerusalem. What Christ intended by
the kingdom of God coming with power, was,
the gift of the Holy Ghost which was shed
forth after his death and resurrection. This
is evident from what passed at the time of
his transfiguration on the mount, six days af
ter his predication. Whilst he was in the
mount with James and John, (Math. xvii.
2, 3, &c.) he " was transfigured before them;
and his face did shine as the sun, and his
raiment was white as the light. And behold
there appeared unto him Moses and Elias,
talking with him." The conversation be
tween Moses, Elias and Christ, was concern
ing the death which Christ should accom
plish at Jerusalem, (Luke, ix. 31.) evidently
alluding to the time when the kingdom of
God should come. The coming of the king-
229
clom of God was not only the subject of their
conversation, but it was also represented in
the figure of the cloud. While Peter was
proposing to build three tabernacles, " while
lie was yet speaking a bright cloud, overshad-
owed them" and a voice was heard saying
(as if in answer to Peter,) " this is my belov
ed son, in whom I am well pleased ; hear
ye him." God frequently manifested himself
in the cloud, but I do not know as he ever
appeared to answer mankind in a bright
cloud until now. The transfiguration of
Christ, the shining of his face, the whiteness
of his garment, and the brightness of the
cloud, all were figures of the Son of man's
coming in his kingdom. The voice which
answered whilst Peter was yet speaking was
to forbid his false notion that, the kingdom
of God was outward, or that the Most High
dwelt in tabernacles made with hands.
When they had risen from the ground (for
they had fallen,) Moses was gone ; Elias was
gone, and there was none left but Jesus,
so I think none to be heard but him. In this
vision, these disciples were taught that the
kingdom of God was yet to come. God was
pleased here to show them the passing away
of the tabernacle dispensation, by the pass
ing away of Moses, who was the law medi
ator. And as the scribes had taught that Eli
as must come before Christ, (verse 10.) aijd
as John did not take that name, (John i. 21.)
this doctrine needed explaining; Therefore
o
230
God was pleased in presenting Moses, to pre
sent Elias with him, that they might pass a-
way both together. Christ interprets the vis
ion by telling them that Elias (John) had al
ready come and as they knew him not, they
had done unto him whatsoever they had list
ed, namely, they had put him to death, 'also'
(saith Christ) shall " the Son ofman suffer of
them." Having learned the meaning of the
vision ; that it was to be made complete, af
ter his death ; " Christ" when coming down
from the mountain charged them saying, " Tell
the vision to no man until the Son of man be
risen from the dead.
Having made a few observations, to shew
that Christ's dispensation ; did not take place
whilst he was living, 1 still feel myself under
obligations to notice such passages as may
be a seeming contradiction in the mind of
my reader.
It is said, (Math. xi. 12, 13.) from the days
of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom
of heaven suffereth violence, and the vio
lent take it by force. The parallel passage
with this of Matthew, is Luke, xvi. 16, which
adds to the text, " and every man presseth in
to it." We have before shown, that the
preaching of Jihn was the baptism of repent
ance, and we have acknovi ledged that re
pentance is a gospel ordinance, and so far as
it is gospel it belongs to the laws of the king
dom of God. Therefore our Saviour ques
231
tioned the Pharisees, saying, "the baptism of
John, was it from heaven, or of men?"—
Some suppose that this toxt means water ;
but we have before seen that John did not
preach water baptism. And that the bap
tism of repentance was intended appears
from the sequel for the Pharisees dare not
answer the question because our Saviour was
ready to say to them, why did ye not believe ;
or why did ye not repent ? Perhaps this text
may be belter explained by that passage
which says, " The pharisees and lawyers re
jected the councils of God against them
selves, (or as the marginal notes read within
themselves,) being not baptized of him."—
(Luke vii. 30.) If the baptism here alluded
to, had been water, it is well known that the
Pharisees did believe in water baptism and
came to John to be baptized ; (Math. iii. 7.)
but because they rejected the counsels of
God within themselves, and would not re
pent, he calls them a generation of vipers,
and sends them away.—Because the baptism
of repentance is here alluded to ; subse
quently our Lord's remarks come right to the
point. " We have piped unto you and you
nave not danced, we have mourned unto you
and you have not wept."
Because repentance is a gospel institution,
it so far belongs to the kingdom or the rules
of God ; therefore publicans and harlots who
believe, pressed forward by repentance into
the kingdom, i. e. as far as repentance could
232
carry them. Was a man to be baptized a
thousand times, it would not bring him one
whit more into the kingdom of God then if
he had never been baptized at all. And for
this reason, when the pharisees demanded of
Christ when the kingdom of God should
come, He readily tells them, "the kiogdom
of God cometh noNsy observation. Neither
shall they say, Lo here ! nor lo there ! for
behold the kingdom of God is within you."
(Luke, xvii. 20, 21, Sec.)—" For as the light
ning that lightneth out of the one part under
heaven, shineth unto the other part under
heaven ; so shall also the Son of man be in
his day. But, first must he suffer many
things, and be rejected of this generation."
Dear Reader didst thou ever know the pow
erful lightning of God's Spirit, to lighten the
region of thy soul ; and the coming of Christ
to be like the lightning, to the disparting of
darkness ; and like a vivid flash to sunder
the natural elements, and set on fire all with
in thee ? Then thou knowest one of the
days of the Son of man ; and knowest too,
that the kingdom of God is not in word hut
in power.
Having seen, that it was necessary Christ
should suffer before the kingdom of heaven,
could consistently be brought in, will any
one still say that water baptism is a gospel
institution ? Will they yet say that baptism
was not under the law ? If we notice John,
what do we see in his ministrv. but what was
233
tinder the law ? What was he but a prophet
and a priest by birth, and was he not under
the law by restriction in life, and in his min
istry ? Answer, yes. He was a Jewish priest
and baptized none but Jews ; neither did he
preach to any other people. If it once be
admitted, that John was under, the law, then
water baptism was there too ; and of course
such water baptism must be a law ordinance.
If we look to Christ, surely he was baptized.
But I should as soon contend that Jordan
and Enon is the place where christians ought
to be baptized because John was baptizing,
and Christ was baptized there, as I should
suppose christians ought to be baptized be
cause Christ was baptized of John. For
nothing can be more plain than that Christ
was made of a woman, made under the law
to redeem them that were under the law—
He commands his disciples to keep the law
of Moses, and his converts to offer gifts, and
to wash in the pool of Siloam. He com
mands, yea he requires it of the pharisees,
that they offer tythes, in mint, anise, &c. As
we have found John's ministry strictly con-
6ned to the Jews ; so Christ said, " I am
not sent but unto the lost sheep of the house
of Israel, (Math. xv. 24,) and because he was
bound by the law, he travelled among none
but Jews, and when he sent out his disciples,
he charged them, to go not into the way of the
Gentiles. Besides all this he pays the strict*
•st attention to all the feasts, with the pass-
over particularly.
If christians are not bound to keep the lavr
of Moses, as all christians say they are not ;
what will such do as say the gospel dispensa
tion commenced with John ? Will they say
all these ceremonies which John and our
Lord has practised, and encouraged are gos
pel ordinances, and all these restrictions, re
strictions that ought to be observed by chris
tians ; or what will they say ? Let us next
look at the Temple. Here we find the Jews
daily bringing their sacrifices to the altar ;
and what is more—behind the vail of the
temple, lays hid in a mystery, all the gifts and
graces of Christ's kingdom. What does all
this mean, dear reader ? If the law, and gos
pel ordinances (as some have ventured to
call them,) are all mixed up together, who
can show us the one from the other ? does a
tabernacle belong to the gospel dispensation,
then let us build one.
Quitting those remarks let us turn our at
tention for a moment to the types and shad
ows. As the tabernacle with all the law cer
emony, was given by the divine direction of
God ; no doubt there was a time in the di
vine mind, when they should be fulfilled.—
And to suppose they could stop, short of the
thing which was intended by them, would be
inconsistent, or to suppose any other legisla
tion would take place previous to the fulfil-
235
upon the legislation of Moses. As a man is
always subject to the laws of the government
he is under, so Christ as a common Jew was
holden by the law to observe all the restric
tions of the law.
Let us suppose Christ on the cross ; and
then go back to the first institution of the
passover in Egypt ; where was this passover
fulfilled ? . Answer, on the cross, for Christ
our passover is sacrificed for us. (Cor. v. 7.)
If we look to the tabernacle with all its ap
purtenances, sprinkling, pouring, washings
and anointings, with that outward .ministra
tion with which it was attended, there was
none of these types fulfilled short ofthe death
of Christ. There was no general good that
attended mankind in consequence of the
bodily presence of Christ on the earth, but
all possible good come in consequence of his
suffering. It was no outward ministry that
could reach the fallen condition of men ; they
must be restored to the union-covenant with
God by receiving that which rendered the
covenant-union previous to the fall, namely,
the Spirit of God—the Holy Ghost. All
covenants short of that which stands in the
nature and Spirit of God is faulty, and, be
cause such covenants are faulty it was said,
"Behold the day cometh saith the Lord,
when I will make a new-covenant with the
house of Israel and with the house of Judah,
whereof the Holy Ghost," saith the a-
e " is a witness to us, after that which he
236
hath said, **** I will put my laws into their
hearts, and in their minds will 1 write them."
(Heb. x. 15, 16.) In order that this cove
nant or testament should be established there
must ****of necessity be the death of the
testator."—(Heb. ix. 16.) Therefore to ac
complish this work, it is said " a body hast
thou prepared me ;" and it is to this body
and work, that all the types and figures of the
law point to.
As the establishment of the new-covenant,
was particularly timed in the divine will, so
was the abolishmentof the old-covenant, pre
determined to take place at a particular time,
and this time, according to prediction was the
very time that Christ suffered, and became
the end of all types, by the sacrifice of him
self.
Let us look at the prophecy of Daniel, and
see when this kingdom of Heaven, or the new-
covenant was to take place and when the
old covenant was to be destroyed. It was
said to Daniel, by the angel Gabriel, " sev
enty weeks are determined upon thy people,
and upon the holy city to finish the transr
gression and to make an end of sins ;
and to make reconciliationfor iniquity, and
to bring in everlasting righteousnessy and to
seal up the vision and to anoint, the most
Holy" Dan. ix. 24. The angel next dis
covers to Daniel when these weeks should
commence, and when they should end, (rer.
26.) and when the- Messiah should be cut off,
237
«nd how that he should confirm the covenant
with many, and in the midst ofthe week cause
the sacrifices and oblations to cease. Now
it is well known and acknowledged by all,
that the Messiah suffered in the last of Dan
iel's seventy weeks, and that this divine pre-
jdjetion took place and was fulfilled in that,he
died for transgression and sins, and to bring
in everlasting righteousness. He was cut off,
and by the sacrifice of himself he caused the
sacrifices and oblations to cease in the midst
of the week—being the anointed of God, he
died—rose—ascended up and received the
promise ofhis father, and by the gift of the
Holy Ghost confirmed the covenant with ma
ny in one day. In that Christ was to cause
the sacrifices and the oblations to cease,
it was done at the very time of his death.
And it is really worth our notice, that when.
Christ suffered, probably it was at the very
time whanthe Jews were to have eaten their
passover, but in consequence of the phenom
enon which took place^ namely, tfce earth
quaking, and the darkness, that the Jews did
not sacrifice at that time. The temple's vail
was rent at that very time, and the Holiest of
all was turned, as it were, out of doors, and
the temple confused by the power of God.
When God gave the law to Moses, he was
the establisher of it ; and when the law dis
pensation ended he saw fit to make it known
by his own power, in the rending of the vail,
&c. Notwithstanding what took place at
238
the time of Christ's crucifixion ; The Jews
yet thought to celebrate the day of Pentecost
—a time celebrated by the Jews for the giv
ing of the law ; but it seems that, as God
had, by a supernatural power signified the a-
bolishment of the law, at the time of the
passover, so he designed to confound them
again. And when the days of Pentecost
were fully come (Acts ii. 1.) God made
choice of this very time, to send the gift of
the Holy Ghost upon the apostles, and the
sacrificial order of the Jews was again dis
turbed. For the apostles having received
the promise of the Father, they so preached
that the attention of the city was excited, and
when the people came together and three
thousand of them (it is said) were added to
the church in one day. It seems by all this
that God would shew the Jews that he pre
ferred his passover to that of theirs, and his
own law written in the heart, to that which was
outward, written on parchment, or tables of
stone.
Having pursued the subject thus far, I will
now remark, that in the beginning we have
seen the impropriety of attempting to draw
the dividing line between the two dispensa
tions by the term gospel, because the gospel
was always preached. We have seen that
the term kingdom of God is warranted to us
by divine inspiration. We have seen, also,
that John in his life and in his ministry was
confined to the law ; and too, that Christ in
239
all his preaching and in the mission he gave
his disciples, were all confined to the circle of
the law, or to the Jewish Church. But when
we notice the preaching of John, of Christ
and of his apostles, together with the transfig
uration of Christ, all speak of the kingdom of
God as then, yet to come. The length and
duration of the law, the order of the taberna
cle, &x. all show that not one type was fulfil
led short of the cross. And now, dear rea
der, I think that all the preaching of John and
the apostles, with the supernatural power of
God, in the rending of the temple vail, with
the descent of the Holy Ghost, all tend to
show that the kingdom of God, or the true
christiandispensation should commence with
the gift of the Holy Ghost, In the pouring out
ofthe Spirit, upon the days of pentecost, says
J. Edwards, " began the first great dispensa
tion which is called Christ's coming in his
kingdom and to put the matter beyond
a doubt, I leave the divine prediction of
Daniel to establish it. This is the time to
commence the true christian dispensation,
and the most eventful time to distinguish the
christian religion, from all other times, or re
ligion. The prophecy of John is now fulfill
ed, which spake, saying, " he shall baptize you
with the Holy Ghost and with fire,"
* See Redemption, p. 158.
24a
C\IAV. lit
The commission given to the disciples did not include
water-baptism, but the baptism of the Spirit, which was to
attend the word preached.—The apostles did not baptize
with water by virtue of the commission, but they simply
baptized as John did, they baplized in the faith ofthe Mes
siah, and that without respect to the Spirit.—Five reasons
why the commission should not be understood to mean wa
ter-baptism.
We shall next turn our attention, to the
eommission which was given to the disciples,
to go into all the world and preach the gospel
to every creature. It is from this commis
sion that many feel themselves warranted, in
the use of water baptism : but I shall endea
vor to show my candid and unprejudiced rea
der, that this commission had no reference to
the baptism of water, but to that baptism of
the Spirit ; the very baptism which belongs
to Christ's own dispensation.
As I have proposed a careful investigation
ofthe scriptures of truth ; I shall take the lib
erty to collect what is said relative to this
commission from the evangelists Mark, Luke
and John; whereas, others have noticed
but that small part mentioned. Mat. xxviii. 19.
That we may understand this commission
it is necessary to take particular notice
of all that was said by Christ to his disciples
previous to his sufferings, as well as that
which he said to thea^ after his resurrection.
241
Our Saviour before he and his disciples had
left the chamber wherein they had eaten the
passover, informed his disciples of his death :
all felt sorrowful for that which was about to
take place. The doctrine and instruction of
the consolatory Lord stands recorded on
J5th and 16th chapter of John. The 17th
chapter is a note of that feeling petition put
forth by Christ to his Father, for the protec
tion, comfort and oneness of his disciples
with himself and with his Father.
Though Christ had frequently taught his
disciples that before his kingdom could come
he must die and be rejected of men,yet they
did not understand that it was expedient for
him to suffer. And though he had told them
frequently, " Nevertheless," (he says to then^
again,) " I tell you the truth ; it is expedient
that I go away ; for if I go not away, the
Comforter will not come unto you."—John,
xvi. 7. Having declared the absolute ne
cessity of his death, he also promised them,
that he would rise from the dead, and that he
would go before them into Galilee and meet
them there. After Christ was crucified, the
eleven disciples went away into Galilee, into
a mountain as Jesus had appointed them.—
Matth, xxviii. 16.
This meeting was absolutely necessary, as
the things which transpired thereat could not
take place previous to the death and resur
rection of Christ, as appears from Luke,xxiv.
44.—" And he said unto them these are the
w
242
words which I spoke unto you while I was
yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled
which were written in the law of Moses, and
in the prophets, and the psalms concerning
me." It was necessary that all should be
fulfilled and that they should witness his death
and resurrection, that they might witness the
same to all nations. All this being necessa
ry, it was with the greatest propriety that this
meeting be appointed, and the giving of the
commission be deferred as the law and the
prophets could not be fulfilled, nor the Holy
Ghost given, but by his death and sufferings.
And as the Holy Ghost was not given it was
impossible that the apostles should be furnish
ed with that baptizing power which was to
attend, and qualify them, to preach under
the new dispensation. But as all things are
now fulfilled, the temple's vail is rent—the
way is found into the Holiest of alb—and as
the priests of the law entered their ministry
by blood, so has Christ—were they anoint
ed ? so God has anointed Jesus with the
Holy Ghost. Wherefore he begins the com
mission, as follows :
Thus it is written, and thus it bekovcth me
to suffer and to risefrom the dead, the third day :
and that repentance and remission ofsins should
be preached in his name to all nations, be
ginning at Jerusalem, and ye are witnesses
of these things, and behold I send the promise
of my Father upon you.—Luke, xxiv. 49, &c.
All power is given into my hands in Heaven
243
and in Earth, Matth. xxviii. 18, as my Father
hath sent me, even so send Iyou * * * whoseso
ever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them,
and whosesoever sins ye retain they are retain
ed.—John, xx. 23, &c. John truly baptized
with water : but ye shall be baptized with the
Holy Ghost not many days hence .-**** ye
shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost
is come upon you.—(Acts, i. 5, 8.) Go ye there
fore and teach all nations, baptizing them in
the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of
the Holy Ghost. (Math, xxviii. 19.) Preach
the gospel to every creature, he that believeth
and is baptized shall be saved,, and he that be
lieveth not shall be damned. And these signs
shall follow than that believe. In my name
shall they cast out devils ; they shall speak with
new tongues ; they shall take up serpents, and
ifthey drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt
them. They shall lay hands on the sick, and
they shall recover. (Mark, xvi. 15, 16. &c.)
The above reading, I think is the true read
ing of that commission which was given to
the disciples. And no part of this reading
can be reasonably dispensed with. For
though it does not stand together we are not
to take the testimony of any one of the evan
gelists and not notice the other. But as this
conversation all passed after the resurrection
of Christ, and as it refers particularly to the
commission, we can but in justice believe
one of the evangelists, as well as the other,
| and it is not possible that we can do the com
mission justice in any other way.
244
It will undoubtedly be granted, that this
baptism mentioned in the commission must
be that baptism of the Spirit, or the baptism
of water: But as the baptism of water, nor
the .baptism of the Spirit is not personated iu
the text : seeing that my opponents take the
liberty to suppose that water is intended ; let
them* have their opinion. But let me sup
pose that the text has a special reference to
the baptism of the Spirit, and suppose that
my supposition is no more than theirs; but
standing on a level, I will submit the decision
to the trial of both scripture and reason—and
leave the reader to judge for himself.
Some may think it strange indeed that this
commission should be taken to mean the bap
tism of the Spirit: so no doubt the pharisees,
and even many of Christ's disciples thought
strange when Christ told them, that except
they ate of the flesh of the Son of man, and
drank his blood, that they could have no life
in them. And according to the same mode
of reasoning we might disbelieve every part
of the commission ; and say that it was in
consistent that men should have power to
forgive sins. We might say too, that it was
impossible that men should raise the dead,
and open the eyes of the blind. The reason
why we disbelieve that men should perform
such miracles is, because no natural man has
power so to do. But let me ask my candid
reader, if he does not believe that the apos
tles did perforin such miracles ? Answer, yes.
£45
Why then, it must be by the power of God,,
that they were enabled to do so ; and if the
minister of God could raise the dead, would
it be any more of a miracle if he should by
the same help, baptize with the Holy Ghost.
It absolutely becomes us to believe in mira
cles, or we must disbelieve the scriptures of
truth ; and because it was a miracle that
men. should baptize with the Spirit, and be
cause men were not able of themselves to do
any thing as they had ought ; therefore Christ
commanded them saying, " Tarry ye in the
city of Jerusalem until ye be endowed with
power from on high."—Luke, xxiv. 49. Now
if this baptism contained in the commission
was nothing more than to baptize with water,
what need was there that the apostles should
confine themselves to the city of Jerusalem
to wait for power ; whereas as reason teach
es us that any man could baptize with the
baptism of water.
If it be said that the apostles were to tarry
for the power ofcertain miracles, they might
just as well say they tarried for power to
baptize with the Holy Spirit, as it is no more
of a miracle to do one than the other. If it
be said that, that part of the commission
which related to miracles was peculiarly giv
en to the disciples ; then might I not say that
the whole of the commission was given to
the disciples, and who would be able to show
us any reason, that any part of the commis
sion is now to be continued ? " But," says
246
•
the objector, " how could the apostles bap
tize with the baptism of the Spirit ? And
did not the apostles baptize with water after
the commission was given ? If so, why is
the argument not clear on our part ?"—That
the apostles did baptize with water, after the
commission was given, I do not pretend to
deny. And after attending to the first ques
tion, I shall hold myself bound to show the
apostles did not baptize with water in con
formity to that charge, given of Christ; but
that they acted in that, as they did in many
things pertaining to the Jewish law, as they
circumcised, observed vows, purified, an
ointed with oil. &c.
Should I appear upon the part of an oppo
nent and say, that the apostles could not «ork
miracles, I should be immediately charged
with infidelity ; or I should be met by my ad
versary, with a cloud of scripture testimony
to show me, that men are able through God's
strengthening them, to do all things.' Christ
gave power to his disciples, by virtue of that
power which he had of his Father, and this
power was all power in heaven and in earth.
Having charged his disciples not to depart,
nor leave the city of Jerusalem, until ihey
had received the baptism of the Holy Ghost,
he says to them, "as my Father has sent me
so send I you." Now if we believe that
Christ had power given him of his Father,
then we believe^ that he had power to dele-
247
gate the same power to his disciples : so that
if he could baptize with the Holy Gho3t, then
they had power to do the same work ; and
for a full confirmation that the commission
stood in the Spirit and power of God, let us
notice the fulfilment thereof. Did not the a-
postles administer the baptism of the Spirit?
Answer, Yes. Peter was imparting the Holy
Ghost by the laying on of hands, when Si
mon the sorcerer offered him money, that he
might possess the same power.-Acts, viii. 18.
Again, when the apostle Paul came to Eph-
esus, he found there twelve disciples, who
had only been baptized of John ; Paul says
to them, "have ye received the Holy Ghost
since ye believed ? And they said unto
him, We have not so much as heard wheth
er there be any Holy Ghost." " Unto what
then, were ye baptized, said Paul ? and they
said unto John's baptism. Then said Paul,,
John verily baptized with the baptism of re
pentance, saying unto the people that they
should believe on /w» which should come
after him, that is, on Christ. When the dis
ciples heard this they were baptized by the
apostle Paul, who laid his hands upon them,,
and the Holy Ghost eame on them, and they
spake with tongues. (Acts, xix. 2, 3, &c.)
We have not only these testimonies to show
us that the apostles did baptize with the Holy
Spirit,, but the scriptures abundantly concur
in ascribing like power to the apostles as a
virtue which they received through that
248
commission. It was also by the virtue of
the commission that the apostles were able
to retain, or remit sins. The witness of this
power, we have shown us in the case of An
anias and Sapphira, who kept back part of
the price of their possession, saying they had
brought all. This offence against Peter as a
minister of Christ, was considered nothing
less than an offence against heaven ; and to
lie to Peter, was to lie to God, and to the
Holy Ghost—a crime punishable with im
mediate death. (Acts, v. l,2,&c.) The next
proof of this power we witness in the apos
tle Paul (Acts, xiii. 9.) who being filled with
the Holy Ghost, set his eyes on Elymas the
sorcerer, and for his obstinacy he was smitten
with immediate blindness. Though this com~
mission was outwardly verified by the laying
on of hands, raising the dead, killing and
making alive, yet it was no more verified in
those signs, than it was by the apostle's
preaching. For no sooner that power (for
which they were commanded to wait,) had
come upon them, than the virtue of the Holy
Ghost was so manifest that thousands wit
nessed the powerful, and reaching effect of
the preaching done by virtue of the commis
sion. Well did Christ say to the disciples,
(John, xiv. 12.) " verily, verily, I say unto
you. He that believeth on me, the works
that I do, shall he do also, and greater works
than these shall he do because I go unto my
Father." There was more disciples made
249
on the days of pentecost ; whilst Peter was
preaching by the Holy Ghost sent down, than
there was by all the preachings, and teach
ings, in years that had gone before.
It seems a hard saying to many, when
we say, that the apostles were sent to bap
tize with the Holy Ghost, because to baptize
with the Spirit, must be the work of Christ.
But though the baptism of the Spirit
cannot be wrought but by Christ, and his
grace, yet it can be done by men fitted of
God for that purpose. " Therefore" says
Barclay, " no absurdity follows, that, bap
tism with the Spirit, should be expressed
as the action of the apostles. Though it be
Christ by his grace gives Spiritual gifts, yet
the apostle (Rom. i. 2,) speaks of his impart
ing Spiritual gifts ; and he tells the Corinthi
ans, that he had begotten them through the
gospel," (1 Cor. iv. 15,) and yet, to beget
people to the faith is the work of Christ and
his grace, not of men.
The apostle Paul testifies, that he was
sent to turn men from darkness unto light ;
to open their eyes, and to turn them from the
power of satan unto God, (see Acts, xxvi. 17,
18,) yet none could convert men, and turn
them to God, but Christ, by his Spirit.—
Men, of themselves, could never turn a-
ny from the power of Satan, nor open the
eyes of their fellows ; but that Christ did qual
ify the apostles with power to do all this, in
his name, there is abundance of scripture tes
250
timony to show. That baptism mentioned
in the commission, was the baptism of th&
Spirit, administered by the power of the
word spoken under the influence of the Spir
it. What we understand by being baptized
by the Spirit, is a being brought into the Spirit.
Dear Reader, show me the preacher, and
I will show thee his congregation. If he is a
dead, lifeless, and Spiritless man, I will show
you a dead, lifeless, Spiritless congregation :
If he is a bigotted, superstitious man, so is his
people. If he is a man (like John the Bap
tist,) rilled with the power of a penitential
Spirit in the behalfof the people, I will show
thee a congregation, baptized with the bap*$fa
\ism of repentance. If the preacher is filled
with the power of the Holy Spirit, I will show
thee, a congregation measureably made alive
to God, and baptized by the Holy Ghost, and
the Spirit by which the word is spoken, the
same Spirit will attend the word. They
who speak out, that which Christ speaketh in
them ; speak as men having authority, and
not as do the scribes. Because the baptism
contained in the commission was the baptism
of the Spirit ; (properly speaking Christ's
baptism,) it was most convincingly fulfilled
in the preaching of Peter, when he went to
the house of Cornelius. It was said to Cor
nelius in the vision, Peter "should tell the
words whereby thou, and alt thy house, shall
be saved''- Peter says, " And as I began to
speak, the Holy Ghost fell on them, as on us,
251
at fhe beginning ; then remembered 1 the
word of the Lord, how that he said ; John in
deed baptized with water, but ye shall be
baptized with the Holy Ghost."—Acts, ii. 14,
15, 16.
Since the scriptures abundantly go to prove
that, the apostles did administer the Spirit,
and perform many miracles ; and the bap-
lism of the Spirit did attend their preaching,
these testimonies ought to be sufficient, to
obviate all the objections that may arise ; as
to the possibility of the power, which the a-
postles had to perform that commission;
when we say, that Christ's own baptism of
the Spirit was thereby intended.
We have abundance of proof to show us,
that special power with which the apostles
were endowed, by virtue of that commission ;
and though we have brought several proofs,
ue will stiil add one more to the list. Ana'
mas was sent to Paul, expressly, (ActB, ix. 1 7)
that he might " be filled with the Holy
Ghost ;" which plainly shows, that he instra-
mentally dispensed or administered it to him,
or (which is the same thing,) baptized him -
with it.
Some contend against the idea of a Spirit
ual baptism, and say, that the baptism of the
Spirit was always attended with the gift of
tongues. If so, who is baptized by the Spir
it in these days ? To say that there is no bap
tism of the Spirit, is to say that Christ's dis
pensation is at an end ; and if so, what will
252
the christian do : since the apostle says, "that
no man can say that Jesus is the Lord ; but
by the Holy Ghost." If it should be said,
that the Holy Spirit is not so abundant on
christians at this age of the wor'd, as it was in
the days of the apostles, to this I assent, and
allege as a just reason, why the same Spirit is
not so abundant is, because nine tenths of the
preachers preach against it, and the people
do not seek after it. But that the gift of
tongues did always attend the gift of the Ho
ly Spirit, cannot be supported by the scrip
tures. There are different degrees of the
Spirit as there are many different operation
but all of the same Spirit.
Having noticed the power committed to
the apostles, I shall now notice that part of
the commission which relates to teaching, &c.
" Go ye, therefore, and teach all nations."
They were to go because they had received
power. The word teach is generally ren
dered to make disciples or proselytes ofall na
tions. Some authors who have strove to sup-
port baptism by immersion in opposition lo
sprinkling, have availed themselves against
the notion of sprinkling by shewing that the
word (matheteuo) teach, has a much deeper
meaning than the word (didasko) which is
generally rendered teach in the New Testa
ment.* They say that the word commonlj
used, and rendered teach is didasko, and that
* Se»Job Scott on baptism, p. 130.
.this word is commonly used for teach through
out the New Testament ; but that the other
word (matheteuo) teach, in the bnptismal
commission of Matthew, is only used three
times in all the New Testament, lstly, the
•word is applied (Mat. xiii. 52,) every scribe
which is instructed into the kingdom of
heaven. 2dly, Mat. xxvii. 57, Joseph, who
also himself was Jesus' disciple. 3dly,
" When they had preached the gospel to the
city and had taught many.
That the word (matheteuo) teach, in the
commission, is of a deep, precise, and deter
minate meaning, appears to have been the o-
.pinion of the learned Whitby, in his notes on
Matth. xxviii. 19. So, reader, when we
give the renderings of the commission to such
. as would support the notion of water baptism,
they render the word peculiarly in our favor,
/or they show us, that the word rendered
teach in the commission, has, of itself, every
sense of submersion, and they feel as if the
deep meaning of the word (teach) was war
ranted to them by several passages of scrip
ture, which speak of being baptized into
Christ, (Gal. iii. 27,) being buried with him
(Christ) by baptism into death.—(Rom. vi.
4, &.c.) Such passages as I shall hereafter
show has no reference to water baptism.
It seems that the word teach in the com
mission was co-operative with the power
which the disciples were to wait for. It ap
pears to be, that teaching which was unto
254
the Holy Ghost, which they were to wait for
and receive, as the only means by which they
could in any sense teach, as the charge to
teach required them. I think a just sense of
the commission was held forth in the parable
of our divine Lord, (Luke, xiv. 16, 17, &c.)
when he says, " A certain man made a great
supper, and bid many ; and sent his servants
at supper time, to say to them, that were bid
den, Come, for all things are now ready."—
In this parable, they that were bidden, began
to pretend the multiplicity of worldly busi
ness ; " so the servant came and shewed the
Lord these things. Then the master of the
house being angry, [grieved] said to his ser
vants, go out quickly into the streets and lanes
of the city, and bring in hither the poor, the
maimed. —This done, the Lord sent his ser
vant again, saying, "Go out into the highways
and hedges, and compel them to come in."
In this parable, the first invitation extended
only to the city; meaning to the Jewish
church: the last invitation reached to the
highways and hedges, meaning to the Gen
tiles. In the first invitation, it was said to
the servant, go and invite or "bid" them to
come in ; but when the servant was ordered
to go out the second time, it was said to him,
compel them to come in. In this last com
pelling errand, no doubt in my mind our Lord
shows that authority which was given to the
disciples, by the influence of the Holy Ghost.
Though the word bid, and compel, both sig
255
nify a pressing invitation, yet the one is
much more pressing than the other. So di-
dasko and matheteuo both signify to teach:
but as the commission was by authority of the
Holy Ghost ; the author of the commission,
(Jesus Christ,) was careful in giving the dis
ciples the charge, to use the term matheteuo,
as the most proper word to convey to the dis
ciples an idea of the Spirituality of the com
mission. I
The Friends (called Quakers) say, that the
term in is not a full translation of the original
Greek, but that the rendering ofthe commis
sion given to the disciples was to " teach all
nations baptizing them into the name of the
Father," &c.
If it should be said, that this is a Quaker
interpretation of the commission ; so it is.—
But this interpretation is undoubtedly true as
it is acknowledged by all who are not Qua
kers. If the word " in" was a full translation
of the Greek, then the words "in the name
of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Ho
ly Ghost" might be construed into a form of
words to be used, at the time of baptism.—
But we have no evidence that such a formu
la was ever used, when any of the apostles
baptized." "Jesus Christ did not," says
Zuinglius, " by these words institute a form
of baptism, which we should use as divines
have falsely taught."*
There are no grounds to doubt but what
*See Tfaomai Clarksoo's Portraiture ofQuakerism
256;
the true reading of the commission is into.
And because that commission was Spiritual,
we see that the apostle when speaking of
that baptism which is Spiritual, has made
use of the same words, as being baptized in
to Christ—baptized into one body—baptiz
ed into his death. In the 6th chapter ofRo
mans, 3d and 4th verses, the apostles when
speaking of the Spiritual baptism, uses the
word (into) three times, in two verses.
Dear reader, who cannot see that to bap
tize in water, is not to baptize into the name
of the Lord ? How would it sound for a bap-
tizer to say to the candidate, (plunging him
in water, or sprinkling, or pouring a little wa
ter upon one,) I baptize thee into the name,
of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost ?
What are we to understand by the name
of the Lord ? Whereas, the name of most
things, is but an empty sound, the name of
God is nothing less than the power of God ;
and to do any thing in the name of God must
be done in his power. There is as much dif
ference between him, who simply baptizes in
the name of the Lord, in water, and he who
baptizes in the name of God ; as there was be-
vtween the name in which the vagabond Jewrs
acted, (Acts,xix. 13,) and that name in which
Peter acted ; when he caused the lame man
to walk.—Acts, iii. 6. David in the name
of God slew Goliah. It was in the name of
God, that Asa obtained victory over the hosts
of Ethiopia.—" The name of the Lord is a
257
strong tower, the righteous run into it and are
safe."—Prov. xviii. 10.—"The name of the
Lord is like an ointment poured forth."—
Songs, i. 3.—Peter declared that it was by
the name of Jesus Christ, that the lame man
was made whole.—See Acts, iii. 16.—Mark
xvi. 17.—Jer. xxiii. 6.—Exod. xxiii. 21 .-Mat.
xii. 21 .—John,xvii. 11,—Rev. iii, 12.—These
passages all go to show us, that the name of
God is the power of God. And that the
name in which the apostles were to baptize,
was not merely nominal. The only way in
which God communicates Himself to his
creatures, is by his power, and was it not for
the power of God, mankind would be as ig
norant ofGod as the beasts of the field. AsGod
is a Spirit so is his name, the Spirit, and they
who are destitute of the Spirit, are destitute
of the real name ; and ifdestitute ofthe name,
they know not that there is a God. It was
said of the children of Israel, (Jer. v. 2) that
if they should say that the Lord lived, they
would swear falsely.
Setting aside the power of God, the name
of Father, Son and Holy Ghost, is as empty
and as worthless as any other name. And
men might just as well preach, and believe
in Baal, Beelzebub, or in the name of any i-
dol, for the matter of any benefit they might
receive, know, or enjoy of the knowledge of
God. But because "the name of the Lord
is like a precious ointment poured forth, there- ,
fore the virgins love him." And the righ-
x2
£58
teous are safe in the name of the Lord.—
Christ, in his prayer, says, (John, xvii. 11)
u Father keep through thine own name those
whom thou hast given me, that they may be
one even a9 we are one."—David prayed,
saying, " Lord, save me by thy name."—Psa.
liv. . 1 —Says David, again, "they that know
thy name will put their t'rust in thee."
If then the name of God be the power of
God, it was for this power that the apostles
were commanded to wait in Jerusalem. And
when they had received the baptism of the
Holy Ghost, they were to go, therefore, be
cause they had power, and teach all nations.
Being baptized, they were to teach baptizing-
ly into the name, or into the Spirit of the Fa
ther, the Son and the Holy Ghost. The
charge that was givefr to the disciples, did
not say teach and baptize, but " teach baptiz
ing." We should recollect, that this commis
sion was to stand not in the elements of this
world, but it was like its author ; altogether
heavenly, divine and powerful. If I should
say,that the prince ofthe powers ofwickedness
and darkness did from time to time baptize
his subjects into the spirit of his kingdom,
that is, into hatred, malice, pride and revenge,
I should be believed. If Fsay, that wicked
men are cabable of baptizing, or begetting
the same spirit in others, that they have in
themselves, whether pride, or whatever, it
will not be denied. So, ifon the other hand,
I say, Christ, who has all power in his hands,
259
both in heaven and in earth, does baptize his
children with the Spirit of his kingdom, and
does, by virtue of his own power, abiliate his
children to impart his Spirit, the one to the
other, why may 1 not be believed ?
That this commission stood in power and
not in ceremony, is still more evident from
the signs which were to follow^ namely, " In
my name shall they cast out devils. They
shall speak with tongues. They shall take up
serpents, and if they drink any deadly thing,
it shall not hurt them. They shall lay hands
on the sick and they shall recover." (Mark, xvi.
17, 18.) It would be but duplicatory to
bring again all those scripture testimonies,
which incontestibly go to shew, that all that
was promised in the commission was really
fulfilled by the apostles, and other believers.
As I know of no way to ascertain the truth of
the scriptures, but by comparing scripture
with scripture. I have collected the com
mission from the several evangelists, whereas
others collect but the smallest part of it from
Matthew.
In passing through, I have made some re
marks upon the word teach, and not taking
the liberty to render the meaning of the word
myself, 1 have left it to my opponents to ren
der* it as they have, and they have rendered
it altogether in my favor. And as they have
placed the meaning of the word (matheteuo)
teach, in the commission, with such passages
as express a baptism into Christ—baptism
260
into his death, Stc. as these passages indis
putably allude to a spiritual baptism ; I have
shown that the name ofthe Lord or the name
in which the apostles- were to act was but
the virtue of the power which they were to-
receive. And 1 have endeavored to show
that the commission had no allusion to water,
but to the baptism of the Spirit, properly,
called the baptism of Christ.
• Says U. 13arclay, when- speaking of the
commission, " Perhaps it may stumble the
unwary and inconsiderate reader, as if the
very character of Christianity were abolish
ed, to tell him plainly that this scripture is
not to be understood of baptizing with water,
and that this form of baptizing in the name
of the Father, Son, and Spirit hath no war
rant from Matth. xxviii. 19. Stc.'.'
I pass now to give several' reasons why>
the commission could not mean the baptism*
of water.
1. If water baptism was the thing intend
ed in the charge given to the apostles, no-
doubt the apostles would have seen it neces
sary to have used the form- of' words which .
was given in the commission ; but there is-
not onejnstance in scripture where the apos
tles administered water baptism, using fhe
words " in the wime of the Father, and ofthei
Son, and of the Holy Ghost." And as the
apostles did not use that form of words, I in
fer that they well understood that the com*
261'
mission had no reference to the baptism of
water, but to Christ's own baptism of the
Spirit. And this appears very evident from
Peter's own expression when he went to the
house of Cornelius. For no sooner than he
saw the Holy Spirit poured out upon the
household of Cornelius, he remembers the
very words mentioned in the commission and
says, " Then remembered 1 the word of the
Lord, how that he said, John indeed baptized
with water, but ye shall be baptized with the
Holy Ghost." (Acts, xi. 16.) This very con
fession of Peter's plainly shows that he un
derstood that commission to be the baptism
of the Spirit.
Though many profess to take the apostles
for example, yet they do not ; but, because
they have taken the commission to mean^
water, they digressed from them by using
that form of words which the apostles never
used. When the disciples baptized they did
both before the commission was given, and
afterwards, as John did. They simply bap
tized in the faith of the Messiah, and that
without any respect to the Spirit* The Sa
maritans were baptized, and the Spirit was
not given them until many days afterwards.
Simon was baptized, but, perhaps, never re
ceived the Spirit at all.
2. Those who baptize with water, say
they have the example of John ; but John
never baptized as they do—John as we have
before observed baptized in the belief of the
262
Messiah. His baptism was unto repentance ;
and was to go before the baptism of Christ,
and not to follow after. "I, indeed," says
John " have baptized you with water unto
repentance, but he that cometh after me, is
preferred before me, he shall baptize you with
the Holy Ghost and with fire." If we take
the example of John, we find that baptism
is for seekers, or for peniteut persons. But
if we say that baptism with water, is a chris
tian baptism, we digress from the rules and
teachings of John, in that we make the bap
tism of the Spirit preparatory to water ; for
though John taught that the christian should
be finished with the Spirit, we teach that the
christian must be perfected by water.—Sure
ly I can see that there was a time when men
were baptized with water unto repentance j
but I cannot now see that christians ought to
be baptized with the Holy Spirit tinto water.
John was to prepare a people for the Lord ;
but the Lord was not to prepare a people for
John.—I see no reason why the baptism of
water which was unto repentance should be
applicable to christians, seeing that there " is
no condemnation to them which are in Christ
Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after
the Spirit." Rom. viii. 1. John well knew
that Christ's baptism was a finishing baptism,
and that very baptism, to which his baptism
and all the types of the law pointed to.—
And knowing that Christ's baptism was to
complete every
263
came to John to be baptized, John " forbade
him ; saying I have need to be baptized of
thee, and comest thou to me ?" Let such
as contend for the baptism of water as a
christian rite, remember that to administer
water baptism with a form of words, is to di
gress from the apostles, and to baptize with
water, such as have been baptized with the
Spirit, is to digress from John, both in pre
cept and example.
If it be urged that Christ has commanded
the baptism of water, that never can be prov
ed from scripture. For he never owned it as
belonging to his ministry. He never preach
ed it, nor did he command others so to do.
The baptism of water is no where called
Christ's baptism.
3. To use water baptism in the present
mode, is inconsistent with the pattern of
things, under the law of the Tabernacle.—
Surely we would expect the thing finished to
resemble the pattern in some degree, unless
the workman departs from the pattern shown
him. When we look to the order of the tab
ernacle we see that types were according to
the order which God gave to Moses. All
kinds of water purifications were emblemat
ical of the putting away of sins by repent
ance. The washing of water was to the
vessel what repentance is to the soul. But
the anointing with oil was undoubtedly a
type of the Holy Spirit which is the baptism
of Christ. When we look at the order of
264
the tabernacle, the washing of water took
place at the door. The anointing of oil foi^
lowed washing, and had its meaning in the
Holiest ofall.
But who cannot see a strange perversion
in the order of the type, when it is said, that
water baptism is a christian ordinance ? For
that which constitutes a true christian is the
anointing of the Holy Ghost, or in other
words, it is an introduction to the Holiest of
all. Then for to enjoin water baptism on
christians, is nothing less, than for them to
commence with the Holiest ofall : and trav
el back to the door of the tabernacle, and be
washed, and so join themselves to the law of
Moses. It is nothing less than to take the
vessel, and anoint it, and then wash it, where--
as the anointing was to remain the end of alt
purification. Did I believe in the use of wa
ter baptism, I should be much perplexed to
know how to understand the types : but when
I think water baptism is not enjoined in the
commission and it is no christian baptism.
I can only view the use of it to be a com
plete inversion to both scripture and reason.
I cannot consent to believe as some do, that
men must be baptized with the Spirit of God"
before they are worthy to receive water bap*
tism, or that the Spirit is in any way prepar
atory to water.
4. I have already observed, that the apos*
ties never did administer water baptism, ac
cording to the form of words prescribed in the
265
commission. And the reason why they did not
was, they well understood, that the Spirit was
intended thereby, and not water. Let us see
the inconsistency of changing the words of
Ihe commission from their proper Spiritual
meaning, by applying them to water. It is
most generally contended, that baptism is for
believers. But let me ask my reader, wheth
er there are any baptized who have not pas
sed from death unto life ? Answer, Yes. How
inconsistent it is then, for the administrator
(in the presence of God and angels ; and in
the presence of a large congregation) to say
to the candidate, " 1 baptize thee in the name
of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Ho
ly Ghost," when God never sent them to
baptize such a person. Supposing the bap
tism of Simon the sorcerer, had been admin
istered in the name of the Father, Son, and
Holy Ghost, what a striking absurdity ap
pears, when Peter says to him, " I perceive
thou art in the gall of bitterness, and in the
bonds of iniquity."—Surely, reader, I am
led to believe God views such candidates
with too much displeasure, to sanction their
baptism : therefore it cannot be done in his
name. There is a preacher now living in my
own neighborhood, whom I have seen take
the candidate by the hand, and lead him
down the banks of Jordan, (as he was pleas
ed to call it) and baptize him in the name of
the Father, Son, Stc. and in a few days after,
I heard him say, that if he had known such
266
and such circumstances, he would not have
baptized him. As such instances must and
do frequently occur, in the practice of water
baptism, I must leave my reader to judge,
whether, such administrators are most to be
blamed, for pretending to act in the name of
the sacred three, or repenting of that which
they pretended God had sent them to do :
.or whether they are most to be blamed,
for making use of that form of words in the
administration of water baptism, when the a-
postles have left no such example. For my
own part I think they are mistaken, in that
they suppose water baptism was intended in
the commission. And 1 know of no way for
them to escape such absurdities but by abi
ding by the form of words, prescribed in
scripture for water baptism, namely, " I in
deed baptize you with water unto repentance.''''
—Matth.iii.il.
•
5. If it be urged, that the commission is to
be received for water : and water baptism is
for believers, then, surely, they had not ought
to receive any for believers, but such as an
swer the description given them in that com
mission. And it is said, " these signs shall
follow them that believe. In my name shall
they cast out devils, speak with tongues, take up
serpents, drink deadly things without harm ; lay
. .. their hands on the sick andihey shall recover.
I think if administrators would be as zealous
to have candidates answer the description of
267
the commission, as they are to baptize them ;
they would find but little use for water bap
tism, as there are but few candidates, who are
able to show such signs. If it should be said,
that these signs were to follow the apostles
only, not so : the text says, these signs shall
follow them that believe. If it should be said,
that the commission was given particularly to
the apostles, and that all signs, miracles, &c.
were to cease with their day and time : who
then can show me any reason to believe that
water baptism should continue longer than
the signs ? If the common argument (which
is generally used to evade the force of the
commission) is brought, and it should be
said, that these signs now follow Spiritually ;
so I say, that the baptism is now done Spirit
ually, by the same means that the dead are
raised, and the sick healed, &c.
Only let it once be granted, that the com
mission was of a Spiritual intention 5 and that
the baptism of the Spirit, was to be admin
istered through the word, spoken with the a-
bility which God giveth to his ministers;
and we shall find that the substance of that
commission still continues to all God's peo
ple. 1 know that I have heard men speak by
the influence of the Holy Ghost, and whilst
filled with a sense of eternal things, and bap
tized into the case of the people, the word
spoken was like arrows in the hearts of many.
And as often as the word comes from the
hearts of God's preachers, it brings the key*
268
of heaven with it ; anil the word being mix
ed in faith with them that hear it, they are
brought to enjoy the same Spirit, by which
the word is brought forth. And they are
more or less brought to enjoy that baptizing
Spirit, which brings forth in them, a life in
Christ—and a death to sin. This shows us,
that that commission is still fulfilled. But
supposing that commission to mean water
and destitute of the Spirit, as some say, there
would be nothing evangelical in it, and
Christ's dispensation is reduced to a mean
form, and to be perfected by a creature ele
ment. But instead of the commission being
water, I think it is plain, that there was no
.such thing as water in it. And such as do
contend, that the commission was to be prac
tised in a natural sense, let them put the
commission altogether. But, reader, should
they attempt to practise that commission in
the letter, (bringing forth the signs) methinks,
like the prophets of Baal, many would find,
themselves leaping upon the altar for nought, -
269
CHAP. IV.
The apostles were men of passion, and bad their religious
prejudices as well as other men'.—Cornelius and his house-
bold the first and last instance of Gentile baptism.—The
council at Jerusalem agreed not to trouble the Gentiles with
ordinances.—Paul, though a gospel minister, was not seen
to baptize.—Peter did not say water baptism was the an«-
lowering of a good conscience.—Israel's passing through the
sea did not signify baptism by immersion, nor by sprinkling.
Having proved that John was under the
law, consequently his baptism too ; and hav
ing shown, that the commission, given to the
disciples, had no reference to water baptism ;
and that they did not baptize with water : I
am now bound to show, why the apostles did
Baptize with water after the commission was
given. When we look into the scripture with
attention, we there see the progfess of tradi
tion from first to last. Such were the tradi
tions of the Jews, that they seemed almostim-
penetrable to the sound instructions of Jesus
Christ himself. Let us turn our attention to
what age of the world we will,' there has been
no time, place, nation, nor scarcely any indi
vidual, but what has suffered more or less,
in consequence of their religious prejudices
and traditions. Should I ask most christians,
at the present day, why they do not practise
the anointing with oil as commanded, (James,
v. 14) they would tell me, that that command
was nothing more than what related to the
t2
270
customs ofthe Jews. Should I mention that
the apostle observed purification, vows, (Acts,
xxi, 26) offerings, &c. they would tell me,
that these things were practised through the
prejudice of education, in some, and through
condescension in others. Should I mention
kissing, (1 Cor. xvi. 20) pentecosts, (Acts, xx.
16) circumcision, &c. (Acts, xvi. 3) they
would tell me, that the apostles practised
these things in conformity (as before obser
ved) to the customs of that day and time in
which they lived.
Should I insist, that the apostles did prac
tise such things, and that, therefore, they must
be an example for christians, at this day, they
would tell me, that they were not gospel ordi
nances. If I charged them with not keeping
the commands and examples set for them,
they would plainly tell me that the apostles
acted in conformity to the time of their ex
perience. They would say to me, " we con
sider the apostles as men of like passions with
ourselves."
All this is very true. We witness the am
bition of James and John, the apostacy and
dissimulation of Peter, the incredulity of
Thomas, the dissention between Paul and
Barnabas, and the jealousies which some of
them entertained towards one another, re
corded in the scriptures. They were men most
ly of limited information, and had their pre
judices like other people. Hence it was not
to be expected that they should at first enter
271
tain a perfect knowledge of the things per
taining to the kingdom of Christ. They
were not more likely to abandon the preju
dice of that education which they had ac
quired in the use of ceremonies and types,
than many other of their Jewish brethren.
Their views of the Messiah and his kingdom
were temporal and not Spiritual, and, in
deed, such was the weakness of some of
their minds, they could not understand.
(John xvi. 12.) During our Lord's stay on
the earth, they needed much instruction, and
were subjects of the most severe reproofs.
It is already granted by all, that the apos
tles (some of them) were men influenced
by the prejudices ofeducation as well as oth
ers. This will undoubtedly be still more ev
idently seen, as we pass through this part of
our subject, and notice when, by whom, and
to whom water baptism was administered.
I have before noticed that the apostles bap
tized nearly as John did j that is, they bap
tized in the faith of the Messiah. They used
a ceremony peculiarly belonging to the Jew
ish church ; and such was the prejudice of
their education, they did not believe (not
withstanding the commission given them
was to all nations) that the Gentiles had any
part in that charge—and to admit that the
commission was water baptism, or to admit
that it was not, would equally discover to us
that the apostles did not understand the
charge given to them by our Lord. Such
272
was the prejudice of their minds, they did^
not go to the Gentiles until about eight years
after the commission was given. Peter, who
went to Cornelius (Acts x. 25.) was the first
instance of obedience to that divine mission
which was to preach- to every creature ; and
here was the first that Peter discovered that
God had no choice, but that in all nations
they that feared God (ver. 25) and worked
righteousness was acceptable to him. The
idea that the Gentiles were to be fellow re
cipients in the gospel with the Jews, was not
only new to Peter, but new to all the apostles
as well as him : For no sooner than Peter
had been to the house of Cornelius, than all
the other apostles and brethren that were in
Judah and at Jerusalem, began to contend
with him, (Acts xi. 1 , 2, 3.) " thou wentest
unto men uncircumcised and did eat with
them. But Peter rehearsed the matter from
the beginning, and expounded by order
unto them." He tells them that he had
seen a vision, and that it was said to him
" Arise Peter, slay and eat," but I said (saith
he) " not so Lord ; for nothing common or
unclean hath at any time entered into my
mouth ;" that is, I have never been to the
Gentiles, nor have I at any time defiled my
self by going among them, nor by partaking
of their meat ; but I have always walked
strictly according to the custom of my own
nation, the Jews. f
Peter having informed them how he came
273
by his better knowledge, confirms them by
telling themthat God had blessed his labours,
by sending down the Holy Ghost on the Gen-
tiles, the same as he had done on the Jews
in the beginning. " When they had heard
these things they held their peace and glori
fied God, saying then hath God also to the
Gentiles granted repentance unto life."
As this is the first instance of Gentile con
version, I shall be able to show that it is the
first instance where the Gentiles received
water baptism, and too, I shall be able to
show that it is most likely that the Gentiles
never received water baptism after this ; and
that the apostles did consider the rite of wa
ter baptism as belonging to the Jews only.
My reader, perhaps, is ready to ask me by
this time whether the three thousand who
were added to the church at Jerusalem, in
one day, were all Jews.—What of the Sama
ritans ?—and what of the Eunuch who was
baptized by Philip ? These questions I
consider already answered by what we have
already noticed. For had the three thousand
who were added to the church at Jerusalem,
been Gentiles ; or had any part of them been
Gentiles, no doubt but what the gift of the
Holy Ghost would have been a token pf Gen
tile acceptance to the apostles, as well then,
as in eight years afterwards. If the Gentiles
.had been received at Jerusalem, no doubt
but what Peter, as well as the other apostles
and brethren, who were then at Jerusalem,
274
would have known it—and this being the
case, natural reason teaches us, that there
would have been no room for this new dis
covery, brought about by Peter's vision.—
Nothing, dear reader, can be more plain than
that Cornelius and his household were the
first Gentile conversion ever owned by the
Jews. And admitting that the three thou
sand were baptized with water (I do not be
lieve they were) they were only Jews, and
received baptism according to the custom bf
that people.
As to the Samaritans, it is well known that
they were Jews, and that they were acquain
ted with the Jewish religion. " We do not,"
says J.EDWARDS,speakingof the Samaritans,
" find them reckoned among the Gentiles in
the New Testament ; For the calling of the
Gentiles is spoken of as a new thing after
this, beginning with the conversion of Corne
lius."*
The Samaritans were a people who con
sented to the law of Moses, and so far .ac
knowledged its divine authority,that they are
said to have retained the law in the most gen
uine and ancient Hebrew language. But in
consequence of an unhappy division, they
were divided from the Jews at Jerusalem ;
more perhaps in place of worship, then in
real sentiment. Properly speaking, (as they
had mixed with the people of the Gentiles,)
they were mongrel Jews, but probably they
* See Edwards on Redemption, p. 259,
275
had baptism, as well as most of the Jewish
customs, among them. There is no doubt,
but, because the Samaritans were considered
Jews, Philip who was a Jew in the time of
the persecution raised by Saul, (Acts, viii. I.)
fled there for protection, rather than defile
himself by going to the Gentiles. It is said
that they " were all scattered abroad through
out the region of Judah and Samaria, except
the apostles." And it is said (Acts, xi. 19.)
" they which were scattered ****—travelled
as far as Phenice and Cyprus and Antioch,
preaching the word to none but unto the Jews
only."
Now it appears that at the time Philip
went to Samaria, others went at the same
time to Phenice, Cyprus, and Antioch, all
being on the same coast from Jerusalem.—
Now if the Samaritans had not been consid-
ed by the disciples,as Jews, it could not have
been said of them that uthey preached the
word to none but Jeios.
When all is considered, nothing is more
evident than that the Samaritans were con
sidered Jews. For all that which relates to
the Samaritans took place previous to the
case of Cornelius, and the apostles which
took Peter to do, for going among the Gen
tiles, had themselves, before this, been down
to Samaria (Acts, viii. 14.) and imparted to
them the Holy Ghost ; so that had not the
apostles considered the Samaritans as Jews,
they would not have expressed, firstly so much
27G
disapprobation towards Peter, and afterwards
given so much glory to God, that the Gentiles
had so recently received repentance unto life.
Nothing is more evident than that the Sa
maritans were considered as Jews, and tho'
they received baptism by Philip, they were
before well acquainted with the ordinance,
and were willing to permit Philip (being a
Jewish administrator) to act among them.
As to the Eunuch mentioned (Acts, vii?. 38.}
little need to be said. It is stated (ver/27.) that
" he had come to Jerusalem for to worship,"
and though he was not a descendant of Abra
ham he was a proselyte to the Jewish reli
gion,* so that it may be said in the proper
sense of our subject, that he was a Jew, and
was baptized by a Jewish administrator, ac
cording to the Jewish custom ; therefore such
as contend for baptism, because the three
thousand were baptized, or because the Sa
maritans, or because the Eunuch was bap •
tized by Philip ; only have a Jewish custom
for their example.
PerhapSj my reader would question wheth
er or no Peter was not moved upon by the
Holy Ghost, when he baptized the household
of Cornelius.
That Peter came to Cornelius by divine
inspiration, there is no doubt of it in my mind.
But as his Jewish prejudice, had caused him
to slight the Gentiles, until now, for the same
* See Adam Clark's notes.
277
reason he commands him to be baptized :
forthere is nothing said to Peter, in his divine
mission, respecting water baptism ; there
fore, having no divine revelation ; he himself,
queries as to the propriety of baptizing Cor
nelius, saying, " Who shall forbid water that
these should not be baptized, who have re
ceived the Holy Ghost as well as vvc ?"—This
question shows at once, that Peter's mind
was not clear ; for had he been acting under
divine inspiration, he never would have re
duced the matter to a question. But as this
is the first Gentile case, and the first instance
where the Gentiles had been favoured with
the gift of the Holy Ghost, by the preaching
of the gospel, it was an " astonishment" to
them of the circumcision (who came with
Peter,) because it was the first Gentile case,*
and the case was new even to Peter himself.
But as Peter knew baptism was in use among
the Jews, he seems to consider the conver
sion of Cornelius as initial into the Jew
ish church, and that he was entitled to all
the privileges or ceremonies which belong
to the Jews.
Well might Peter ask his Jewish brethren
(who came with him) if any would "forbid
water," because he stood in much doubt,
what to do. But as there was none to for
bid ; he commanded them to be baptized,
but upon no other authority than his own
" See Redemption p. S60,
Z
278
judgment influenced by the force of his re
ligious education.
Though Peter's mind was not altogether
clear at this time respecting the Gentiles, we
shall see him in the council at Jerusalem,
one of the first who clears the Gentiles from
baptism, as well as all the other customs of
the Jews.
The case of Philip's, baptizing the Eunuch
can demand but few remarks, when we con
sider that both were Jews. It is not strange
that a Jewish administrator should baptize a
Jewish proselyte, especially if the candidate
should ask for it as the Eunuch did.
Since Jesus Christ is not made a minister
" after the law of carnal commandments,
(Heb. vii. 16.) but after the power of an end
less life," he only speaks by the Spirit, and
teaches Spiritual things. It was said to Cor
nelius, " he (Peter) shall tell the words where
by thou, and thy house shall be saved."—-
This was all fulfilled, in that while he was
yet speaking, the Holy Ghost, or the true gos
pel baptism came upon them. So far Peter
acted by divine inspiration—and Cornelius
was saved ; but when Teter came to admin
ister carnal things, as water baptism, then he
was led to question what to do. As Jesus
did not, nor does not speak of outward things
(being only a Spiritual minister,) Peter had
to act upon his own judgment, or hear to
Moses, as all others do in carnal worship.
279
When Philip had taught the Eunuch ; so
far he acted, by divine inspiration ; but when .
he baptized him, he acted according to the
request of the Eunuch or according to the
customs of the Jews, as " thousand's" of the
believing Jews were zealous for the law.—
(Acts, xxi. 20.
The prejudices of the Jews soon vanished
after the conversion of Cornelius, so far that
they believed the Gentiles to be one with
themselves, and that they were fellow re
cipients in the gospel; but the Jews (some of
them) took another turn of mind, and as the
same prejudice remained as to the observ
ance of their law, insomuch that with as
much zeal as they had once shunned, and re
jected the Gentiles, with as much zeal they
now came forward, and endeavoured to en
join all the ceremonies of the law, upon the
Gentiles, which they observed themselves ;
saying, " except ye be circumcised after the
manner of Moses, ye cannot be saved." (Acts,
xv. 1.
When several years had been spent in que-
ries^and doubts, respecting the Gentiles,they
determined at last, that Paul and Barnabas,
and certain others, should go up to Jerusa
lem for a decision. But when they had
come to Jerusalem they here found some
who said " that it was needful (verse, 5.) to
circumcise them, and to command them to
keep the law of Moses."
280
W hen the council had assembled, there
was ranch dispute, whether, what, and how
much, the Gentiles must observe.
" But" says the objector, " was not this
council to determine on circumcision—only?
Answer. If they were to determine on cir
cumcision, then they were to determine on
baptism too ; for this council well understood
that circumcision was not only that of the
flesh ; but, that circumcision included the
whole law of Moses—baptism with every
other ceremony.
Those Judaizing teachers who taught that
the Gentiles must be circumcised and keep
the law of Moses, were like the thousands
mentioned, (Acts, xxi. 20.) who were believ
ers, but yet zealous of the law, and no doubt,
they well knew that if the Gentiles were
circumcised, they would become debtors to
do the whole law. The light in which the
Jews received circumcision is explained,
(Rom. ii. 25.) and again. Gal. v. 3. "I testi
fy" saith the apostle " to every man that is
circumcised that he is debtor to do the whole
law."
That this council understood the matter
of circumcision as one thing only, is other
wise shown in that, that they decided it, as a
matter of plurality, i. e. " these necessary
things," whereas, circumcision of the flesh,
would have been considered as but one sub
ject.
281
The decision of the council was this, " It
seemethgood unto the Holy Ghost and unto us,
to lay upon you no greater burthen than these
necessary things—thtttye- abstain from meats
offered to idols, andfrom blood, andfrom things
strangled, and from fornication.'''' As the
case of the Gentiles had never been decided,
this general council now was to determine,
whether, what, and how much the Gentiles
must observe. Then if baptism was to be
practised as a part of Christ's dispensation,
would it not hare been mentioned in this
council ? Had there been some one, of our
water baptizers to debate in Such a time
and place as this, do we think that we should
not nave had baptism particularly mention
ed as one of these " necessary things ?" An
swer, yes. Then as there is nothing said
respecting it, we need no greater proof to
show us that water baptism is no part of
Christ's dispensation. And to still confirm
this matter, there is not one instance where
it can be made to appear that the apostles
(any of them) every baptized a single Gen
tile after the decision of this council, nor but
one before. But that they did baptize Jews
from the time of John, to the end ofthe apos
tolic age I do not doubt ; which shews us
that they considered baptism as particular
ly belonging to them of the circumcision,
and they practised it as they did circumcis
ion, purification, the anointing with oil, &c—
If it should seem necessary to notice the sev-
282
eral instances of baptism which took place
after this council, we might mention four
cases. 1st. Lydia, (Acts, xvi. 14, 15.) 2d,
the Jailer, (verse, 33.) 3d, the Corinthians,
(Acts, xviii. 8.) 4th, the twelve whom Paul
found at Ephesus, (Acts, xix. 5.
As to Lydia, I need say but a word, since
it is acknowledged by most writers, that she
was a proselyte to the Jewish religion, before
she was baptized.* As to the Jailer, it is dis
puted among learned men whether he was a
Jew, or a Jewish proselyte, or not. The
Greeks, however, say that he was a Jew. It
has been generally supposed that the Jailer,
Lydia, and such as lived distant from Jerusa
lem, could not be Jews, because the place
of the Jewish worship was at Jerusalem ;
but, as we have before observed, the Jews
were scattered in every province about them;
therefore it is said that on the days of pente-
cost," there were dwelling at Jerusalem Jews,
devout men out of every nation under Heav
en."—Acts, ii. 5.
As to the Corinthians, it is said many of
them hearing believed,and were baptized.—
But it is most likely, that these who were
baptized were Jewish worshippers, as there
was a Jewish synagogue at Corinth. This
was the place where Crispus, and Gaius
were baptised, and no doubt they were both
Jews, and it is said of Crispus, that he was
the chief ruler of the synagogue.
•See Adam Clark'» ioWi. 1.,"
283
Perhaps we should do well to mention in
this place, that about two hundred years be
fore Christ, Antiochus the Great, transplant
ed two thousand Jewish families from the
country about Babylon, into Asia the less,
and so they and their posterity settled in Pon-
tus, Galatia, Phrygia, Pamphylia, and in Eph-
esus. From thence they settled in Athens,
Corinth, and Rome. This accounts to us
how came the Jewish synagogues in those
places, that Paul preached in. The Jews
were scattered throughout the world, as at
Damascus, so at Antioch, and in other places,
which we read of in the Acts of the apostles.
. This gives us reason to believe that the bap
tisms which we read of, took place among
Jews, or in places where the Jewish religion
was well known.—J. Edwards, who is called
one ofthe ablest divines, though he has made
bold to call the Quakers heretics, yet, like
others, in an unguarded moment, he has off
ered some of the strongest proofs for the
Quaker doctrine, and what favors this Plea,
is, he says that the Jews who lived abroad
among the Greeks were called Greeks, or
Hellenists, and that the Greeks mentioned,
Acts, iv. 1. were Jews, and that the, Parthi-
ans, Medes, Elamites, and the dwellers of
Mesopotamia, Lydia, Cyrene, Rome, Crete,
and Arabians, mentioned, Acts, ii. 10, 11,
were all acquainted with the Jewish reli
gion.*—This shows us that the account we
* 8m Redemption, p. 146—147.
1
284
have in scripture of baptism, are only Jew
ish cases.
As to the twelve disciples of Ephesus,
whom Paul found ; they were undoubtedly
Jews, as they had been long since baptized
of John, and it is well known, that John bap
tized none but Jews. That these twelve
were baptized by Paul with water—I do not
believe that they were. For the apostle
Paul says himself (1st Cor. i. 16.) that he
had baptized Crispus, Gaius, and the house
hold of Stephanus, (who were Jews,) and
besides them he knew not that he had bap
tized any other. But if the apostle Paul had
baptized these twelve as some suppose, un
doubtedly he would have recollected it. No
doubt in my mind, that the twelve were
baptized with the Holy Ghost, (the only
christian baptism) by the laying on of Paul's
hands. But if any see fit to contend that
they were baptized with water,let them have
their argument and they will sap their oicn
foundation. For,as they contend that John's
baptism is the rule, the apostle condemns
John's baptism as not sufficient, in that he
re-baptizes his disciples. If we listen to the
second argument which is generally urged,
that is, that the difference consisted in that it
must be done by the special command of
Christ ; this idea is at war with the former,
in that it does not commence the gospel dis
pensation (as it is called) until a- much rater
period ; and it argues too, that all John'*
285
disciples need be re-baptized with water ;—
whereas there is no proof that they were.—
But admitting that they were baptized, it
would be only ceremonial, and not evangelic
al ; for water baptism done to day, or to
morrow, by the command of this, or that
roan, or by the hand of this, or that adminis
trator ; does not change the nature of the
thing, therefore the ordinance would still re
main a law baptism.
Having noticed all (or most all) theinstan-
ces of baptism, we do not find that baptism
was ever considered a gospel ordinance ; or
that ever the apostles considered water bap
tism as a rite belonging to the Gentiles. And
if it were not a gospel ordinance, then it re
mains but a type of the one saving baptism
of the Spirit ; and if a type, it must be con
sidered among the types which were to end
when the substance came.
As those last instances of baptism which
we have noticed were done by the apostle
Paul, or done by others in his presence, we
shall hereafter see by his own testimony that
such instances were only permitted in confor
mity to Jewish prejudices, not as an exam
ple for the Gentiles. .
When we consider the apostle Paul, he
was not a whit behind the chiefest of all the
apostles. He possessed an advantage above
other apostles, in that he was brought up at
286
the school of Gamaliel, and was taught ac
cording to the perfect law of the Jews. And
besides possessing a full and perfect knowl
edge of the law, his knowledge was more in
revelation and in Spiritual understanding
than all the apostles beside him. Whilst in
the height of his zeal, he was cut down at
noon day, and it was said to Anauias, (Acts,
ix. 14, 15.) " he is a chosen vessel unto me,
kings, and the children of Israel." Paul's
testimony concerning himself was (to king
Agrippa. Acts, xxvi. 16, 17, 18,) that he was
sent to open the " eyes" of the people, " and
to turn them from darkness to light, and from
the power of satan to God." As Paul was
well qualified with every necessary prepara
tion for the work of the ministry, we shall now
learn from him what belongs to the gospel
administration.
We have already had occasion to notice
the small number which Paul baptized with
water. When he witnessed the contention
among the Corinthians, he seems to have
thanked God, that he had baptized so few of
them. " For" saith he, (1st Cor. i. 17.)—
" Christ sent me not to baptize [wiffi water] but
to preach the gospel."—If baptism was to be
a gospel ordinance why should the apostle
thank God that he had baptized so few ?—
Surely if he was sent to establish the reli
gion of Jesus Christ, among the Jews, but
more particularly among the Gentiles ; why
before the Gentiles, and
287
should he not have baptized and preached
baptism, as well as any other apostle ?—If it
should be said that the manner in which the
Corinthians had conducted themselves, was
the reason why the apostle thanked God that
he had baptized so few of them ; to this I
add, it would be no justification to a minister
of God to say that he was glad he had done
so little of that which God had sent him to do,
merely because people would not profit, as
they ought to do, by his labors. Surely if
the apostle Paul was justifiable in thanking
Cod that he had baptized so few, because
the people contended about baptism, then
the same reason ought to hold good at this
day, for there are few subjects, either politi
cal or religious, that are more controverted,
than the subject of baptism. But this does
not appear to have been the reason why the
apostle expressed himself as he did, and even
if it were so, such grievances could have
, been no reason why he should continue to
add, " Christ sent me not to baptize, but to
preach thegospel" The apostle's disappro
bation was in every respect foreign to this last
testimony, and surely nothing is more plain
than that the apostle would be understood
that water baptism was in no way connected
with the gospel ; but that the one was dis
tinct from the other.—Though the apostle
did baptize those few which he mentions, he
did it for no other reason than in condescen
sion to the Jews, the same as he circumcised
288
Timothy, (Acts, xvi. 1.)—purified in the tem
ple, &c. (Acts, xxi. 26.)
The apostle, it appears, became all, to all,
whilst among the Jews, and others, who were
both prejudiced and weak in their under
standing ; but when we learn the mind of
the apostle, it is evident that he believed in
but one baptism. Saith the apostle, (Eph.
iv. 4, 5.) " There is but one body, and one
Spirit, even as ye are all called in one hope of
your calling. One Lord, one faith, one bap
tism.''
Here the apostle shows that he believes in
but one baptism. And that this baptism is
of the Spirit, and not water, appears from that
which goes before the text, and that which
follows after. For in coming to the one bap-
- tism, Chapter iii, he expresses his desire that
the Ephesians, might by the glory of God,
be strengthened " with might'''' by the " Spirit
in the inner man''''—that Christ might " dwell
in them richly"—that they might " knoiv the
love, of Christ which passeth knowledge," and
that they might " be filled with all the fulness
of God.—The apostle in coming to the text,
says, " there is one body, one Spirit, one bap
tism, one God and Father of all, who is above
all, and through all, and in you all." The
apostle having taught that there was but one
baptism, he shows that it was given " for'the
perfecting of the saints, for the work of the
ministry, for the edifying of the body of
Christ, " till we all" saith he " come into the
239
enityofthe faith, and of the knowledge of
the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the
measure of the stature of the fulness of
Christ." Let us ask such as frequent!/ quote
this passage for water baptism, and deny the
baptism of the Spirit, if it be possible- for
the baptism of water to give this onerWs&,
perfection and knowledge to the church which
is here described by the apostle ? Answer,no.
Then this perfecting baptism mentioned by
the apostle, must be the baptism of the Spirit,
and if it be the baptism of the Spirit, then it
must be the one baptism, and if there be
but one, (as the apostle says) the Spirit, is
that one ; and the baptism of water is rejec
ted.
Nothing is more common, than that the
baptizers of the present day, lay hold of the
history of the gospel in the letter, and whilst
they have dwelt on the surface, they have
found much means for contention and debate
with each other— forgetting that " the letter
killeth,"(2 Cor.iii. 6,) but that Hhe Spiritgiveth
life ;" they have had recourse to much learn
ing, but to little truth. As there are several
passages of scripture, which they wrest to fa:
vor their temporary views of baptism, I shall
investigate them one after the other,and show
that they have no reference to the baptism
of water, but to the one baptism ofthe Spirit.
I. I shall notice that baptism mentioned in
the 6th chapter of Romans. 2. Notice that
baptism mentioned 1 Peter, iii. 21. 3. Shall
290
show, that the circumstance of the children
of Israel passing through the sea, has no re
ference to baptism, neither by sprinkling nor
pouring.
.* s
v 'i Q. D.id not the apostle mean to be under
stood of water baptism, when he says, (Rom.
ti, 4,) " therefore we are buried with him
(Christ) by baptism ? Answer, no. The a-
postle plainly says, this baptism is into a
death. " Therefore," saith he, " we are bu
ried with him by baptism into death, that
like as Christ was raised up from the dead by
the glory" [or power] " of the Father, even so
we also, should walk in newness of life."
(ver. 3.) It is plain, that the fruits of this
baptism, is a life from a death in sin, not by
being baptized in water, but by being baptiz
ed into Christ. The apostle calls it a " plan
ting together" (with Christ) " in the likeness
of his death," (ver. 5) by which is brought a-
bout, " the likeness ofhis resurrection." This
resurrection is by the power and glory of God,
and follows, (figurativ ely) a being put to death
in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit ;
" Knowing this" (sailh the apostle, ver. 6,)
that our old man is crucified with him (Christ)
that the body of sin might be destroyed, that
henceforth we should not serve sin, for he
that is dead is freed from sin." ver.7. The apos
tle begins this chapter, by shewing a freedom
from sin by a life in Christ. " Know ye not,"
saith he, " that so many of us, as were bap
291
tized into Christ,were baptized into his death.''''
This death is explained in the 11th verse,a
death unto sin. " Reckon ye, also, yourselves
to be dead indeed unto sin, but a'ive unto
God through Jesus Christ our Lord."—This
is the same baptism which is mentioned by
the apostle, Gal. iii.27. " For as many of
you as have been baptized into Christ, have
put en Christ." This is the same baptism
which was contained in that part of the com
mission mentioned by Matthew, (to wit) into
the name of the Father, Son and Holy Ghost.
It is very noticeable indeed, that many texts
speak of being baptized into Christ, pre
serving the very intention of the commission.
And as Christ was careful to apply that word
(matheteuo.) t&achj before the word didasko,
(which is almost invariably put for tench,) that
he might impart to the apostles the Spiritual
ity of the charge : so the apostle Paul has
been careful to retain the same sense when
speaking of the same baptism, by retaining
the same word, that is, into Christ, into one
body, into one Spirit, &c.—Though Bishop
Burnet, Whitby, and others ; have discover
ed by their leaming,that those passages should
be considered of one Spirit and meaning with
the commission given to the disciples; yet,
they have erred in applying them to water;
this J will shew, (as 1 have before agreed) by
noticing the scriptures with which such texts
stand connected.
We have just noticed the one baptism,
292
(Epb. iv. 4, 5,) that it gave knowledge, per
fection and sanclification (o ihe church. So
we see too, that to be buried with Christ in
baptism, is to be baptized into Jesus Christ,,
and into his death, and into a life and res
urrection from sin, to a life of holiness, by
the crucifying of the old man. Notice the
text, which says, "as many of you as have
!>een baptized into Christ, have put on
Christ." What shall wc understand by the
putting on of Christ, but the putting" on," as
the apostle says,(Rom. xiii. 14) "the Lord Je
sus Christ, and " to " make no provision for
the flesh, to fulfil the lusts thereof?" What is
it to put on Christ, but to be strengthened
with might in the inner man by the Spirit, and
to have Christ dwelling within by faith : be
ing rooted and grounded in love ; and to
know with all saints, the length, depths,
heights, and to know the love of Christ ; and
to be filled "tciththefulness of God ?" Since
the text is indicative, we need ask but a sin
gle question, to know what baptism is into
Christ ? Do ail, that are baptized in water,
put on Christ ? Answer, no. The fruits of
righteousness are no more evident, in such
as have been baptized in water, than it is in
.such as have not been baptized at all. And
were men to be baptized with water, every
day in the year, they would be like Bunyan's
Ethiopian, blacker, and more black ; that is,
they would be wicked and more wicked, for
anght the virtue there is, ever was, or ever
293
may be found in water baptism. Simon, the
sorcerer, was baptized with water, but still
remained in the gall of bitterness, and in the
bonds of iniquity, having neither part nor lot
in the matter.
Since then, it is evident that men do not
{)ut on Christ, and that they are no more ho-
y because they have been baptized with wa
ter, it is clear, that the baptism of water is
not that baptism to which the apostle alludes,
when he says, " that so many as were bap
tized into Christ, were baptized into his
death." Neither can it be water baptism to
which the apostle alludes, when he says, " as
many of you, as have been baptized into
Christ have put on Christ."
I see no reason to suppose, that the apos
tle, by mentioning baptism in those, and in
many other places, had any reference to the
baptism of water, save to use the term, as he
has, sprinkling, circumcision, washing, &c. for
the sake of showing the thing signified by the
shadow. And it must be clear to every un
prejudiced mind, that a baptism into Christ
is not to be considered one, with a common
proselyte baptism. It was said ofa proselyte
baptism, that they were baptized unto (not
into) Moses, ( 1 Cor. x. 2) unto John's bap
tism, Acts, xix. 3.
The apostle did not say to the twelve dis
ciples, into what then were you baptized, but
unto what? If the baptism which is into
Christ be one with a proselyte baptism then
Aa2
294
the word into Christ, into his death, Stc-
is a very unnecessary phraseology,besides be
ing improper. Who cannot see the impro
priety ofsaying, they were baptized into John,
or into Moses ? But if the baptism of Christ
is Spiritual, as Christ saith, (John, xiv. 20.)
" I in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you,"
then there is a proper sense in saying, into
Christ, because if any man is in. Christ he is
a new creature, by drinking into the one Spir
it, and being baptized into the one body, into
the life, into the power, and into the nature of
Christ. It is so clear, that the apostle had no
allusion to the baptism of water; that there
is no need to add one more paragraph to the
subject.
Q. Did not Peter say, that water baptism
was the answering ofa good conscience r An
swer, no. Though it is generally urged, that
Peter had a reference to water baptism, yet,
there is as little foundation in this text for the
notion of water ; as there is in the scriptures
already noticed.—Saith the apostle, (1 Pet.
iii. 21.) "The like figure where unto, even
baptism doth also noto save us, (not the put
ting away of the filth of the flesh, but the an
swer of a good conscience toward God) by
the resurrection of Jesus Christ."—If it be
admitted, that the apostle herein intended to
be understood of the baptism of water, then
we must understand that the ark and flood
(about which the apostle had been speaking,)
was a type of water baptism ; but, whoever
295
read in scripture, that one figure or type, was
a figure of another type. And besides ; if it
be said we are to understand this text of
water baptism, then we are to understand
that the baptism of water is saving, for this
text says " the like figure whereunto even
baptism doth also now save us." But to sup
pose water baptism saving, is indeed far from
being generally acknowledged by the ma
jority of protestants, and not only so, but the
notion may be refuted by the single in
stance of Simon the sorcerer, just mention
ed.—Again, to suppose that water baptism
is intended, is inconsistent for other reasons.
1. It contradicts the the text ; for water bap
tism was the putting away of the filth of the
flesh, and was considered among the Jews,
one, with other kinds of purification to that
very intent.—2. It is inconsistent to suppose
that water baptism should be the answering
of- a good conscience. For saith the apos
tle Paul, (Heb. ix. 9, 10,) " divers tvashings
and carnal ordinances could not make them
who did the service, perfect as pertaining to
the conscience-" Then ifobedience to such
divers washings could not perfect the con
science, then I do nut see why baptism should
be made to answer a good conscience now.
But, the baptism to which Peter alludes,
must be the baptism of the Spirit, as we
shall see by a close examination of the text.
1. Peter speaks of the preservation of Noah
his family—that they were saved in the
296
ark, whilst the old world was drowned. The
ark is a figure of that divine protection and
safety which the righteous find in Christ,
through the medium of his Spirit. Peter
says that 'the like figure doth now show,1 the
figure of the ark with the preservation of
Noah and his family. We have before no
ticed the impropriety of supposing the ark a
figure of water baptism, whereas water bap
tism is but a type of itself. If it is granted
that this baptism is that of the Spirit, then
agreeable to the declaration of Peter, it is
saving, whereas water baptism is not saving.
If it be still urged, that water is to be under
stood then, (in contradiction to Peter) it is
the putting away the filth of the flesh.
Nothing need to be more plain than the
meaning rendered by Peter himself. l.He
tells what this baptism is. 2. He tells what
it is not. 1. He shows that it is saving. 2.
Lest he should be taken to mean the bap
tism of .water, or outer purification, he in
cludes his instruction in a parenthesis; (iNot
the putting away of the filth of the flesh.)—
3. He tells what this baptism of itself is ; to
wit. " The answer of a good conscience to
ward God by the resurrection of Jesus Christ.
Notice, reader, the apostle does not say that '
this baptism is the answering of the con
science, but that, the answer of the con
science to God, by the resurrection of Jesus
Christ is of itself, this baptism.—Thus the
Spirit which is the end of all types, saves us.
297
The old man is crucified,' the body of sin is
destroyed, our conscience is purged from
dead works, and we have the Spirit of God
witnessing with our spirit that we are bora
of God.
Having noticed that Peter had no refer
ence to the baptism of water in the text ; I
can but remark how much violence is done
to this, as well as to other passages of scrip
ture-
How often do we hear baptizers press
it upon the young christian that water bap
tism is to answer the conscience ; but let me
tell thee, reader, there is not one scrap of the
scripture in the bible to that effect. Noth
ing short of the application of the blood of
Christ, divinely applied to thy soul can be to
thee, the answer of a good conscience.—
Let not such as use this passage, say that it
is water, for Peter shows that it is not.
2. Was not the passing of the children of
Israel through the red sea, a type of water
baptism ? Answer, no.
" And they were all baptized unto Moses
in the cloud and in the sea." (1st Cor. x. 2.)
This passage is frequently urged in favor of
water baptism. Such as believe in sprink
ling, say that it is most probable, that the
people were sprinkled from the cloud. Oth
ers contend, (but upon as poor grounds,) that
they were covered with the cloud, and that
they were shut in by the waters on the right
293
hand, and on the left, which signified, to
them, immersion.
But when I notice the text, I cannot see
the least reason why any should contend for
baptism by water, in any way, as the text is
nothing in favor of baptism by sprinkling or
immersion. That the Israelites received as
persion from a cloud or pillar of fire, is at
most but a conjecture. As to the other
opinion, little need to be said. When the
children of Israel went through the sea, they
went dry shod, and uncovered overhead ;
for the cloud was not near them. (Exod. xiv.
19, 20.)
What we are to understand when it is
said that the children of Israel were all bap
tized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea,
is no more (I think) than that confirmation of*
mind which they received under a sense of
their wonderful deliverance. They were at
one time left to undergo the baptism of suff
ering, in that they saw no possible means
whereby they might escape the hand of a
most desperate enemy. They were left to
repine and murmur against Moses. But,
though poor,despairing, sinking souls, what a
change did they feel in the course of a few
hours ! Their light was darkness, and their
pathway a flood to their enemies, whilst they
were delivered, and went on their way ; with
singing and rejoicing, being fully confirmed,
that Moses was their mediator ; and that God,
was their God. The baptism of the children
299
of Israel, was no more of the Spirit, lhan
that dispensation would admit to them as a
people. They walked by outward signs, and
their faith was confirmed by what they saw ;
they were permitted to see measureably as
they were obedient, and partook of the Spir
it of rejoicing, according to their faith ; and
so they were baptized unto Moses in the
cloud and in the sea, as before observed.
Having so far noticed the subject of bap
tism, let us now retrospect what has been
said, that we may be the better able to retain
the truth of what we have been seeking. In
the first place we have found that the law
was added because of transgression, until
the seed (Christ) should come, and abolish
that law by the bringing in a better testa
ment. This testament is the law of God,
written in the heart of such as are restored
through the Spirit of God, to that divine im
age, from which mankind fell by transgres
sion. We have seen that the kingdom of God,
was that from which man fell, and that the
kingdom of God was that to which man
must be brought back ; or feel, and sensate
no restoration.
We have found by the order of the taberna
cle that Christ must suffer before the Holy
Ghost could be given. We have proved that
John was under the law, by birth, educa
tion and restriction of life and ministry, and
that John's preaching was the baptism of re
300
pentance, and not the baptism of water.-—
John preached the kingdom of heaven, or the
true christian dispensation as yet to come—
he pointed out the Messiah and accomplished
the very business for which he said that he
had come.
Christ and his disciples all preached the
kingdom of God as yet to come. We have
the testimony of Christ—we have the testi
mony of the apostles, who saw Christ trans
figured on the mount'—we have the divine
prediction of Daniel, with the testimony of
the vail of the temple, which was rent by the
special power of God, to show us when the
kingdom of heaven was set up, and the law
dispensation ended.
Leaving all under the law (baptism with
the rest,) we have noticed that baptism was
considered by the apostles, as a ceremony
belonging to the Jews^ and though there
was one instance where the Gentiles receiv
ed water baptism, there is but one, and we
have shown that the apostles in general
council, at Jerusalem, decided that the Gen
tiles were free from all such ceremonies. If
we notice the book of Acts, we find that the
apostles did, for a time, practice baptism and
purification, observed vows, and anointing
with oil, &c. but only among their brethren
the Jews. When we notice the eminent a-
postle Paul ; though he so condescended to
the Jews as to come to them in, and by the
ceremonies of their law ; yet when we pass
301
from the history of the Act9 of the apostles,
we readily see a difference between that
doctrine which he taught in his epistles, and
that which he was obliged to practise in
conformity to the prejudices of his Jewish
brethren. When we notice the epistles of
the apostles, nothing is more evident than
that knowledge, which the apostles had ac
quired by their experience. For putting all
the epistles together 1 must confess for my
self, that I cannot find one single passage in
favour of water baptism. The most that
can be found is directly against it. Paul in
his epistle to the Corinthians thanked God
that he had baptized so few, and for the bet
ter knowledge of his brethren, he tells them
that though a gospel minister, Christ had
never sent him to baptize, but to preach the
gospel.
Lastly, we have noticed a variety of pas
sages, which are generally quoted by bapti-
zers, in support of water baptism ; and have
shown by faithful examination that such
passages are but miserably applied, as they
have no reference to the baptism of water,
but to the baptism of the Spirit ; exactly
agreeing to the commission which was given
to the disciples.
My desire to God is, that the brethren in
the ministry with myself, may seek a deeper
knowledge of the one Lord—the one faith—
the one baptism; that we may know what it
is to be baptized into one body, and to drink
k jjb
302
into the one Spirit, and that we may be bap
tized with that baptism which is the putting
on of Christ, which is a death indeed unto sin,
by the crucifying of the old man, and a resur
rection from a death in sin, to a life in God.
I shall here dismiss the subject of baptism
until the 8th chapter, where I shall again of
fer a few general remarks, showing that bap
tism, with other things, are inconsistent with
the gospel, and that such ceremonies would
be but to add to the new covenant dispensa
tion, contrary to the oath of God.
CHAP. V.
ON THE SACRAMENT OFBREAD AND WINE, ORTHE lORD's SUPPER.
Christians disagree about the Sacrament.—Of Jewish
feasts.—The Eucharist and Sacrament, no where men
tioned in scriptures. Papists' Luther's and Calvin's no*
lions about the sacrament—their jealousies towards each
Other.—The great sacramental contest in Germany.- Dis
putes, whether, whi n, to whom, and by whom the sacra
ment should be received, or administered.—Christians un-
profitted by the letter of the scriptures,because they do not
gi»e the Spirit the preference.
Having considered the subject of baptism,
I shall .now pass to notice the sacrament, (so
called) in bread and in wine, or the Lord's
Supper.
" And as they were eating,Jesus took bread
and blessed it and brake it, and gave it tohis
303
disciples, and said take, eat; this is my body.
And he took the cup, and gave thanks and
gave it to them, saying, drink ye all of it.—
For this is my blood of the New Testament
which is shed for the remission of sins."
The substance of this scrip ure is mention
ed by Matthew, Mark, and Luke ; but it is
not noticed by John.
Q. Have not professors ofChristianity been
always agreed, in the use of the sacrament ?
Answer, no. It is lamentable that this scrip
ture with several other passage?, though short
and comprehended in a few words, should
have been the subject of so much debate,
hate, and animosity amongst professors of
Christianity, for many hundreds of years.—
But it must be obvious to every person of
consideration, that the notions of men in ren
dering the meaning of the aforesaid scripture,
hath been governed more by human conjec
ture, than by scripture or divine inspiration.
—Though I intend to submit my Plea to the
trial of scripture, yet it may not be altogeth
er foreign to our subject, to mention a few of
the strange and perplexed opinions,, which
the world at different times have held and pro
pagated concerning the use of the bread and
wine, in the sacrament. So doing, we shall
see its progress and opposition, and notice
that ungovernable part in man, which is ever
more willing to invent, and propagate its own
religion, than to come to the truth, and build
upon the foundation already laid by Jesus
Christ, himself.
304
There hath been thousands, who like the
Jews of old, have not submitted themselves
to the righteousness of God, (which is by faith
in Christ) but they have gone about to estab
lish their own righteousness in some outward
forms of will-worship ; and possessing a zeal
of God not according to real knowledge ;
they have been continually filing in their own
inventions, whereby they have darkened
counsel with words, without sound wisdom,
and they have caused many sincere, though
unwary souls, to grope in darkness, whilst
they have been veiled, with this, that, and the
other notion.
I am confident that, there are thousands,
who like myself, have waited at the sacra
mental table, as at a broken cistern ; and not
finding that comfort which they expected,
they have been thrown into a thousand doubts
as to the truth of their Christianity. They
have found themselves covered as with clouds
without rain, until they have fainted, as at
cisterns without water. Others have exem
plified the Pharisees, that chief sect among
the Jews, whom our Lord so frequently re
proved for making void, or exanimate, the
law of God by their traditions. They have be
come very nice as to the cup and platter ; but ;
tooignorant ofthe truth, asitisin Christ. Mis
taking the shadow for too great a part of the
substance, they have thereby taken away (he
key of true knowledge, (which is the Spirit)
from others : they would not enter in them-
«
305
selves,and such as* would have entered intothe
Spirit and the kingdom of Christ, they have
hindered by such perplexed opinions, as have
only gendered to. debate, division, and to
" more ungodliness."
Professors of Christianity have been so com-
plexed in their opinions on the sacrament^ that
to notice all their notions would far surpass
the limits of these few sheets; therefore I
shall only notice a few instances, that may
fall in my way, and pass to notice my subject
in a general manner. •
• That the early christians used to meet to
gether, and break their bread to signify their
love andfriendship,, one for the other ; there
is no doubt. Some suppose these feasts, or
times of breaking bread, had their rise from
the circumstance of what passed^ at the last
passOver which our Saviour ate with his dis
ciples ; but the early christians did not consi
der such feasts, to be any sacramental eating,
as I shall hereafter show, by noticing every
instance in scripture,where such meetings are
recorded. In those meetings, they did not
confine themselves to a morsel of bread, nei
ther did a cup of wine answer for fifty per
sons ; but they had both meat and drink, full
and sufficient for a common meal. The idea
which some have, that these meetings were
in remembrance of the last meeting, which
Christ had with his disciples, is not without
some foundation. For the Jews were in the
v ; . Bb2
306
habit of commemorating almost every thing
which happened among them, by a feast.—
They had the feast of Lots, or Purim, to com
memorate the preservation of the Jews from
the general massacre, projected by Haman.
—The feasts of the dedication, or rather resto
ration of the Temple, which had been profa
ned by Antiochus Epiphanes. This was also
called the feast of lights.—Besides these, the
Jews had other feasts, such as the feast of
branches, to commemorate the taking of Jer
icho, and the feast of Nichanor—the feasts of
the discovery ofthe sacredfire, frc.
As the Jews were in the habit ofcommem
orating by feast, it would not be strange if
the early christians did commemorate the in
stance of the last passover supper. But those
feasts, whatever might have been the cause
of them, can amount to no more than an or
dinary repast, in which no sacramental eat
ing was understood, neither was the body or
blood of Christ, supposed to be enjoyed ; nor
the Spiritual enjoyment of it, to consist in
such outward eating.
Some suppose, that these feasts were in
use among the Jews too early, to have been
taken from the last passover supper. Gro-
tius, supposes, that these feasts were nothing
more, or less, than the agapce, or love feasts,
which were in use among the early christians,
long before Christ was crucified.
The opinion of Grotius seems to be fa
vored in that saying ofJude, il these arespotsin
your/easts ofcharity,whikt theyfeast withyou."
307
There is no one, I suppose, but what will
agree with me, that the lovefeasts and feasts
of charity were nothing sacramental, and
there is none, who can show us any reason to
believe, that Jude had any allusion to the sa
crament (so called.) 'I his shows us at once,
that there were feasts among the apostles,
and no doubt that these feasts were such as
were alluded to by Christ, when he says,
44 When thou makest a feast, call the poor,
the lame, the maimed, the blind, #c"
Perhaps it was in conformity to these feasts,
that Levi made a feast for Christ at his own
house.—Luke, v. 29. It appears that those
feasts, which were so simple in their nature,
and innocent in their use, after the days of
the apostles, declined. Lut we find, accor
ding to the account given us in history, that
there was a new feast brought in. This feast
because it was new, must necessarily have a
flew name; therefore it was called Eucharist.
This is the first we learn of any sacramental
eating ; and as simple custom is now declar
ed, a foundation is laid for endless mythology.
We find that, as early as the days of Irene-
us and Justin Martyn, much account was
made of the Eucharist. It had then become
very sacred in the eyes of the people, and
much stress was laid upon the bread and the
wine as a holy sacramental repast ; prayer
was made, that the Holy Ghost, would des
cend into the several substances, and it was
308
Soon as the bread, and the wine, were prop
erly consecrated, the bread and the wine op
erated virtually, as the body and the blood of
Christ. And because of the virtue that was
supposed to be in it, suckling children were
admitted to the elements, and it was also
given to persons on the appronch of death<
And many afterward, who had long voyages
to make at sea, carried a part of the consecra
ted bread with them to preserve them from
spiritual and temporal dangers.
Elaxander, the seventh Bishop of Rome,
who introduced holy water into churches and
in more private dwellings, considering that
the EuchariSt was all but one with the Pass
over : he mixed water with the wine, and
substituted unleavened bread, for that which
was leavened. . :v «\ v
In the twelfth century, another notion^
somewhat different from any which had hith
erto been received, prevailed upon the Eu
charist. It was called Augustisimum, EuchO'
ristiae, Sacramentim ; venerabile altaris Sa*
cramentum; the principal seal of the cove
nant of grace, i^iili^'
Who would suppose that the christairt
world would have received SHch names, and
put such stress upon a little bread and wine ?
Or who would suppose that christians would
still contend for the word Sacrament, since it
is not only unscriptural, but unreasonable, a
word borrowed from the military oaths ofthe
Heathen* The word sacrament, implies an
309
oatVi, therefore can in no way be used with a-
ny degree of propriety -among christians.
This new sacramental notion was, that the
consecrating priest had the power to abolish
the substance of the bread and wine ; and to
substitute the very body and blood of Christ.
This doctrine of the Romish Church, was
called the doctrine of transubstantiation.
The faith ofthe Romish Church may be un
derstood, by the council holden against Cob-
bam and other protestants about the fifteenth
century. " We believe," said the Bishop,
and the faith and determination of the holy
church, touching the blissful sacrament ofthe
altar is this ; that after the sacramental words
be once spoken by a priest in his mass, the
material bread that was before bread, is tur
ned into Christ's very body ; and the materi
al wine, that was before wine, is turned into
Christ's very blood. And so there remain-
eth thenceforth, neither material bread, nor
material wine, which there was before the
sacramental words were spoken." Because
Cobham and John Bauby would not be
lieve this doctrine of transubstantiation they
were condemned, and put to death as here
tics.—Robert, king of France, caused four
teen of his clergv to be burned at one time
for protesting against the grace (as they were
pleased to call it,) of the sacrament, both in
baptism and in communion. These protest
ants fell a victim to sacramental superstitions
about the year 1022,
310
The doctrine of the pope, was built upon
the letter of the scripture (to wit, " This is
my body, this is my blood " The same pha-
rasaical mind, caused the Romish church to
err, which even did cause the Jews, and oth
er outward minded professors to err from the
truth. How true is that saying of the apos
tle Paul.—u The natural man desires not the
things of the Spirit, neither can he, for they
are Spiritually discerned." It was because
the minds of men were naturally hard to
conceive the things of the Spirit, that our
Lord spoke not any thing without a parable.
And not withstanding such pains were taken
to reach the dead and low mindedness of the
natural man, yet how frequently did the Jews
put the most natural construction upon the
most Spiritual allegories. Because men have
looked only on the surface of the scripture,
they have ever found themselves entangled
in endless mythologies, disputes and conten
tions about the meaning of the letter.
* This is my body, this is my blood." If
this scripture was to be taken without a de
viation from the strictness of the letter, then
the sacramental notion of the papists might
be considered as correct as any other.
The next notion which arose concerning
the sacrament was that propagated by Mar
tin Luther. As 1-uther considered the
doctrine of transubstantiation incorrect, he
gave it out, that the substance of Christ's
body, together with the substance of the
- -«M*J
bread and wine, constituted a prope* sacra
ment, or in other words, that the bread did
remain; but that the body of Christ nas in
herent in it, so that the substance of the
bread, and of the body, and of Christ, was
there too.—It is said that this doctrine of Lu-
thei's was called the doctrine of consubstan-
tiation in contradiction to the doctrine ofthe
Pope. We have Luther's own words, con
cerning his belief, and they plainly show that
he was hardly a protestant in this matter.—
And notwithstanding he had blamed the pa
pists because they had not given sufficient
reason for their notion of the presence of
Christ's body, &c yet he, himself, when re
quested to explain this, his new notion, could
not. " But" said he " we are not command
ed to scrutinize in what manner Christ is in
the bread, it is sufficient that he himself hath
said that it is so." The papists felt that their
doctrine had a sufficient foundation in the
letter of the text, that is, " this is my body"
and said Luther, " men may exclaim and
contend for a thousand years ; but they will
never be able to take away the expsessions
which are as clear as words can make them."
If Luther's mind had not been hampered by
the letter, we never should have heard these
expressions from him, which are much bet
ter calculated to support the Pope's doctrine,
than his.
About this time, a violent and lengthy
contention arose between the Helvetic »nd
1 mm^^ff^^^^- m^^J T.
SI 2
Calvinist denominations, with the Luther
ans, concerning the manner in which the
body and blood of Christ was in the sacra*
ment. This dispute has been very properly
called the great sacramental contest.
This dispute, as it appears, after having
produced she most dreadful animosities, and
hates, finally terminated in a fatal division of
many sincere friends to reformation. This
contest was attended by a Spirit too insa
tiate to be satisfied without taking away lib
erty of life, and even life itself. Luther, him-
se f, so far gave way to a persecuting spirit,
that he petitioned the elector of Saxony to
banish Carolastadius, (otherwise called
Carolstadt,) because he could not in all
things submit to his judgment.
The sacrament opinion of Carolastadius,
has been since received by the world instead
of the notions of Luther or John Calvin.
Calvin, it appears yielded to like unchris-
tianlike conduct. He banished Castellio,
and burned Servetus ; and Melancthon who
was called the pen of the reformation ap
proved of what Calvin had done.
Such hates arose through the body of prot-
estants that they became so disaffected to
wards each other that they had recourse to
the sword, and Germany sustained the shame
and lost—protestants say of more than fifty
thousand men, and papists say that one
hundred and thirty thousand Lutherans per
313
ished from the cause.—Good would it have
been, had that intolerant spirit which so
frequency shows itself in matters of religion
ended in Germany. This is but one instance
in a thousand, that the cause of God has
been injured by its advocates in their con
test about sacraments and other things of no
more worth. It is not uncommon, even at
the present day ; that in will-worship, we see
men possessed with a self-righteous spirit,
connected with selfish ambition ; but in all
things, it is too subtle to be perceived by such
as are the dupes of it.
We have but one more sacramental no
tion to notice. John Calvin considered the
opinion of Luther as inconsistent. He gave
out that the substance of the bread remain
ed what it was, natural bread, and 'hat the
body of Christ was not there corporeally, or
substantially ; but yet, that the body of Christ
really and sacramentally was received by the
faithful in the use of the bread and the wine.
After Calvin had laboured to establish his
own opinion, in opposition to Luther's, yet
he was as much in the fog, as Luther was
in the dark ; and when asked how his doc
trine could be truth, he says, " If it be asked
me how it is ? I shall not be ashamed to
confess that it is a secret too high for me to
comprehend in my spirit, or explain in
words."
I shall not stop to comment on these opin
ions, which in process of4time have confuted
cc
314
themselves. I will only hang them out as so
many signs of human fallacy, and pass to no
tice the multiplicity of opinions which have,
and do attend the sacramental notion, in this
our day and time.
Some suppose that the fourteenth day of
the month Nisan ought to be observed as
the most proper sacramental time. This
they urge because the passover, from which
the sacrament was taken, was celebrated
then.—Others contend that the sacrament
ought to be observed on the day of Christ's
crucifixion.—Some contend for leavened,
others for unleavened bread.—Others have
been contending whether the sacrament
should be administered by the hand of the
Clergy only.—Others whether it should not
be confined to the sick : whether to the
young and mature promiscuously.— Others,
whether it should be received sitting, stand
ing or kneeling, or whether it should be re
ceived more than once a year ; and then,
whether it should not be received by the
clergy only.—others have contended whether
it should be celebrated in the day time or in
the evening ; and some have contended that
the washing of feet ought to be practised at
the same time.
Among all these notions, what do we see
more than tradition; or letter worship at
most ? How much men have busied them
selves about the shadow, whilst they have let
go the substance and got to themselves con
315
fusion, and practised hates, revenge and oth
er vices by which they have only established
the kingdom of Satan, in opposition to the
good which they intended.
Tradition lik« the little balls, at first is made—
Upon some fleecy mound, or clay hill side,
A worthless heap ofclay and dust,
Or frozen, frosty, fleecy snow at most.'
What magic mass, or spurious births ofmen f
Mow worthless have their births and magic been ;
They choose their course, what hie they make !
But rolling gather—soon they break ;
Thence from shatter'd mass, what shatters shew !
Each shatter'd pait assumes some shape and vigor too,
Tbey roll, they break, reform, and roll toform again.—
But all are vain, they only form, and reform, to break in twain.
Their own false balance gives them weight,and gives ihera shiw
Of mass, all shapes, allforms, jand vigor loo ; e
All rolling downward till they blight—
Worthless (»U bul) as at the fountain head, or mountain height.
Be still my soul and know tby God—
Thy rock, thy tower, thy safe abode ;
To know Ihy God ; I know is perfect good and gain,
But ofall that roll how few that reach the peaceful plain.
When we notice the various commotions
which have taken place among the religious
bodies, we can see that they have been la
bouring too much on the letter of the scrip
ture. Their reformations have been too
much in the head. In opinions and notions
316
they have multiplied much, and increased
in learning ; but they have not been able to
come to the knowledge of the truth. All
tenets finished upon the letter of the scrip
ture are of no worth.
The papists endeavoured to support them
selves, or their doctrine by the letter of the
scripture.—Luthek endeavored to support
his doctrine by the scripture. Calvin con
tended for a better interpretation of the letter ;
and so all, or most all denominations, have
. formed and reformed, and dissented, one from
the other, but all to but litlle effect • they
have landed about where they began, that
is, in the letter ; whereas " the letter killeth,
but the Spirit giveth life" None can be prop
erly considered protest ants, neither can any
be benefited by the scriptures only as they
pass on, and come to the Spirit.
I have made these few remarks at the com
mencement of this part cf my Plea, that
my reader may understand that the notion of
the sacrament has not stood so clear in the
world as many imagine. But though the
notion of the sacrament had been attended
with five times the mischief, among profes
sors as it hath hitherto been, 1 would not by
any means reject it had I a sufficient reason
to believe that the sacrament had any foun
dation in the scriptures of truth.
311
CHAP. VI.
Jesus Christ did not say of the bread and nine " do thU
till I come."—Two suppers mentioned in the scriptures,
the one enjoined by Moses, and that which is Spiritually
enjoyed in Christ.—The sacrament rejected because un-
scriptural.—The history of the passovcr, and the scriptures
compared, showing that the breaking of the bread, and giv
ing of tiie cup by our Saviour, was done in conformity to
the passovcr, and that there was no sacrament instituted.
Q. Did not Jesus Christ institute the sa
crament when he took bread and wine and
blessed and brake it, and gave it to his disci
ples ? Did he not say to them, this do in re-
memberance of me till I come ? Answer, no:
the scriptures do not read so.
I find that the arguments used in support
of the sacrament are generally gathered from
Matthew, Mark and Luke, and from Paul's
first epistle to the Corinthians, 11th chapter
and 26th verse.—That which may be gath
ered from Matthew, Mark and Luke must be
considered as but one instance of the break-
of bread. And since these accounts do not
exactly agree one with the other ; or in other
words the account of the on» is much more
full than the other. I shall therefore collect
the truth as to this sacrament, from the sev
eral evangelists, putting them together, as t
have the commission, already noticed in the
former part of this Plea. Though the scrip
tures of truth are the criterion by which
most people say to support their doctrine ;
yet I have discovered that many rest the
meaning of the scriptures, by applying a
passage here, and another there, and if in,
their way from the one to the other, they
find a passage that seems to militate against
their notion, this they put among the myste
rious passages, which they say are not to be
understood. But I would wish to put the
scriptures together, and without so doing, we
may prove any doctrine which might suit
taste and times best.
If we consult the scriptures collectively,
or otherwise, we should do it without adding
either sense or phrase to them. If this
method of reasoning be good, as I think it
is, then my adversaries should be willing to
give up the word sacrament, eucharist, &c. as
terms not once found in the scriptures of
troth. This done, we will have recourse to
the scriptures both for the name and relation
of our subject.
It is evident that there are two suppers
mentioned in the scriptures, the one enjoin
ed"by Moses, and the other enjoined by Je
sus Christ. The former was denominated
the passover supper, and was composed of
perishable substances, as of bread, meat, &c.
This^supper was] received by the Jews, once
in a year. This last supper which is en
joined by Christ, is not composed of any
earthly elements, but it is a Spiritual enjoy
ment of the body and blood of Christ, who
319
is the true bread of God, which cometh down
from heaven and giveth life to the world.—
Saith Christ, (John vi. 53.) " verily, verily I
say unto you, except ye eat the flesh of the
Son of man, and drink his blood, ye have no
life in you." This eating is the New cove
nant supper in the Spirit, by which mankind
are united to God. " He that eateth my
flesh, and drinketh my blood, dwelleth in me,
and I[in him.—verse, 56.
As the natural body feeds upon natural
substance ; so the soul of man, which is
Spiritual must feed upon Spiritual food.—
There is no life where Christ is not. Where
Christ is, there is life, feasting and gladness
of soul, wisdom and knowledge in God.—
Such as live, and abide in Christ, may say
with the apostle Paul, (1st Cor. x. 16.) " the
cup of blessing, which we bless ; is it not
the communion of the blood of Christ."—
The bread which we brake, is it not the
communion of the body of Christ ? For we
being many are one bread and one body, for we
are all the partakers of that one bread." This
which the apostle speaks of, is the one'Spirit-
ual bread, and body of Christ. Saith Christ,
" The words which I say unto you, they are
Spirit, and they are life, it is the Spirit that
quickeneth, the flesh profitteth nothing,"—
That the scriptures speak much of two sup
pers there is no doubt, and it is evident to
me, that when our Lord celebrated the last
passover with his disciples, he strove then, as
320
in all his doctrines to illustrate the things of
his kingdom, by the figure of the bread and
the wine ; but yet 1 believe there was no
new institution there.—There are many who
contend that the sacrament, must have been
a new institution on the ground (as they say,)
that wine was no part of the passover. But
such, surely have not read the scriptures
very attentively, or they have not practised
agreeably thereto, as I shall hereafter make
it appear.
In entering upon our subject , it is neces
sary that we notice the manner in which the
Jews celebrated the passover. Though some
would object to historical accounts in many
cases, yet it cannot be objected to in this
place, seeing we only have recourse to the
history of the Jews, and was it not for his
tory (Jewish history especially) the scriptures
of themselves, would be of but little author
ity among most men.
Though it does not appear that wine was
commanded to be used as a part of the pass-
over, in it's first institution, yet in process of
time, when the Jews became fixed at Jerusa
lem, they had made great alterations in the
passover. According to Rabbi Gamaliel
when they celebrated the passover they cele
brated the fifteen acts of the goodness of
God. (viz.) He led the Jews out of Egypt.
He punished the Egyptians. He punished
their gods. He slew their first born. He
321
gave the Jews wealth. He divided the sea
for them. He made them pass through on
dry land. He drowned the Egyptians in the
same. He gave food to the Jews for forty
ears in the wilderness. He fed them with
manna. He gave them the sabbath. He
brought them to Mount Sinai. He gave them
w. He brought them to the land of
promise. He built the Temple. Thus it
appears that the Jews had multiplied cere
monies according to the multiplied mercies
of God ; and as the feast of unleavened
bread came near, or at the time of the pass-
over they blended the passover with the feast
of unleavened bread, and wine, which was
among the several notions of consecration,
came all into one ceremony, and all was ob
served at one time. Wine was in use among
the Jews in their most solemn feasts.
I shall here transcribe from the account of
several authors, such accounts of the pass-
over, as shall serve our purpose in the present
investigation—and as it is said to be given
by the Jews themselves.
" The fourteenth day of the month Nisan
was the appointed time for the Jews, through
out the land of Judah to celebrate the pass-
over supper. And as they were commanded
to put away all leaven from their dwelling,
prior to the time appointed for the feast,
great care was taken to cleanse their baking
utensils, so that their feasts might not be
defiled by baking in vessels in which tht
322
had been baked leavened bread. Many of
the Jews were so strict that they kept on
hand new vessels, which they used for no
other purpose then for passover furniture.*—*^
At the time appointed for the feast, a table
is furnished with several sorts of provisions ;
to wit ; bitter herbs, unleavened bread, the
body of the paschal lamb roasted whole. A
dish of thick sauce called charoseth made of
dates,figs, raisins and vinegar mingled togeth
er. This thick sauce was a memorial to
them of the clay, in which their fathers la
bored to make brick when in Egypt. st^fijjg
Besides a passover cake, several other
cakes were provided, and distinguished by
different marks, and denominated Israelite,
Priest, and Levite. To each of these cakes
belonged seven ceremonies. Wine was also
provided, of which it is said that every per
son was obliged to drink several times in the
course of the feast.
The guests having washed their hands,
and all things being prepared, and all persons
belonging to that company ready, they place
themselves at the table in a manner leaning
one upon the breast or bosom of the olher.f
The chief man of the company then takes a
cup of wine in.his right hand, and says (to
gether with all the rest) "Blessed art thou,
O Lord, our God, king of the Universe, who
hath given us the fruits ofthe vine." This is
» Adam Clark's notes.
f Tlios. Elwood's Sacred Historr, p. 22S —See also Adam
Holes on Jolin, chap. xiii. 25.
523
followed by a thanksgiving to God, For the
institution of the passover ; and the cup of
wine is drank by all at the table.
After several ceremonies, during which
one more cup of wine is blessed and drank,
the Master of the feast begins to narrate, and
re\nark upon the institution of the passover.
The children being present, they are made to
ask " What is the reason this night differs so
much from all other nights ?" instancing in
many particulars of the festival solemnities.
The master of the feast mentions to them
the fourteen acts of the goodness of God,
which we have already noticed. By this
they preserved in the minds of their children
(according to commandment, Exod. xiii. 14.)
the memory of the institution of the pass-
over.
After this the master of the feast takes
the passover cake (and breaks it in two, put
ting by a part to be ate with the paschal lamb)
he says, " Blessed art thou, O Lord our God,
who hast brought forth bread out of the
earth." The reader is here to notice that
one part of the passover cakes has already
been blessed and distributed, preceeded by
several cups of wine, and all with appropri
ate thanksgiving.
After some ceremonies, the guests pro
ceed to sup of the paschal lamb. The mas
ter of the feast takes that part of the passo
ver cake that was laid aside, and gives thanks
as before, and distributes to every one, a
324
piece to eat with the paschal lamb, of which
every one was bound to eat as much as the
quantity of an olive at least.—After supper
a long grace is said, then a cup of wine is
again drank by all. This cup was called the
cup of blessing, or thanksgiving after meat.
The apostle calls it by this very name. (1 Cor.
x. 16.) After this the paschal solemnity usu
ally ended by singing ihe hallel, or hymn.
The Jews at their great feast, viz. of unleav
ened bread, or weeks of pentecost, and of
tabernacles were wont to sing their great
hallel (as they call it) or at least some part
of it. What I have here noticed of the
passover, 1 have abridged from several auth
ors, 1 have only selected such parts as will
serve to throw light on ihe subject, before
us, and just such parts as I shall bring to
harmonize with the account given us in
scripture.
For a more extensive account of the pass-
over, sec Thos. Elwood's Sacred History :
Craddock's Gospel Harmony ; Goodwin's
Moses and Aaron ; and Thos. Clakksois's
Portraiture of Quakerism.
Since the time of our Saviour, it is said
the Jews have made many alterations in the
passover supper ; but all of them have con
curred in retaining the bread and the wine
as component part3 of it. Though I think
that scripture adjustment is alone sufficient
to obviate the eucharistical notion, yet as I
think the account of the passover by no
means foreign to the scripture itself. I have
therefore transcribed what 1 have ; but in or
der that my reader may be better informed
by my Plea, I shall transcribe from the scrip
ture account, of the several evangelists such
parallel texts as shall bring us to the truth of
the matter in debate.
1 . Let me inquire after the sacrament or
eucharist. Are there any such terms in scrip
ture ? Answer, no. We are then to set. out
with the name of a passover supper, and the
only name which is mentioned in scripture.
Matthew, xxvi. 17.
Now the first day of the feast of unleav
ened bread the disciples came to Jesus, say
ing unto him where will thou that we pre
pare for thee to eat the passover ?
Mark, xiv. 12.
And the first day of unleavened bread,
when they killed the passover his disciples
said unto him, where wilt thou that we go
and prepare,that thou mayest eat thepassover?
Luke, xx. 7, 8.
Then cometh the day of unleavened bread;
when the passover must be killed. And he
sent Peter and John, saying, go and prepare
us the passover that we may eat.
In the account of the passover we have
seen that the feast of unleavened bread, and
the passover came at one time. j}y the above
scripture we see that the very time and thing
proposed were no more than the passover
and feast of unleavened bread,
od
326
Matthew, xxvi. 18.
And he said go lo the city, to such a man,
and say unto him, the master saith my time
is at hand, J will keep the passover at thy
house with my disciples.
Mark, xiv. 13, 14. , .
And he sent forth two of his disciples, and
said unto them, go ye into the city and there
shall meet you a man bearing a pitcher of
water, follow him. And wheresoever he should
go in, say unto the good man of the house,
the master saith, where is the guest chamber,
where I shall eat the passover with my disci
ples ? And he shall show you a large upper
room, furnished and prepared. There make
readyfor us.
Luke, xxii. 9, 10, 11, 12.
And they. said unto him, Where wilt thou
that we prepare ? And he said unto them.—
Behold when ye enter into the City, there
shall a man meet you, bearing a pitcher of
water,follow him into the house where he en-
tereth in. And ye shall say unto the good
man of the house, the master saith, Where is
the guest chamber where I shall eat the Pass
over with my disciples? And he shall shew
you a large upper roomfurnished :. there make
ready. . ,
In the account given us of the passover we
learn, that the Jews were careful to remove
all leaven from their dwellings. And lest
they should be defiled with vessels in which
327
had been baked leavened bread ; they provi
ded place and furniture for that use particu
larly. The above scripture shows us, that
the disciples inquired where the passover
should be kept. Our Lord says to them,
that in the City a man should show you a
room ready furnished and prepared. And
they were to make ready the passover.
Matthew, xxvi. 19, 20.
And the disciples did as Jesus appointed
them, and they made ready the Passover.—
Now when the even was come he sat down
with the twelve.
Mark, xiv. 16, 17.
And the disciples went forth and come in
to the City, and found as he had said unto
them. And they made ready the Passover.
And in the evening he comelh with the twelve.
Luke, xxii. 13, 14, 15.
And they went and found as he had said
unto them : and they made ready the Passo~
ver. And when the hour was come, he set
down and the twelve apostles with him. And
he said unto them, with desire have I desired
to eat this Passover with you before I suffer.
For I say unto you, I will not any more eat
thereof until it [Passover] shall be fufilledin
the kingdom of God.
We learn by what is gone before, the time,
the thing inquired about,and lhetthing prepar
ed,and the thing set down too, to be the Jews'
passover. But our method of transcription,
here meets with a difficulty for the want of
328
order in the scripture account. It must
be known , o every person, who reads the bi
ble attentively, that though the evangelists a-
gree that Christ sat down with his disciples
to the passover supper, they seem much to
disagree, as the subject which afterward first
occurred : Matthew and Mark show, that the
traitor Judas was exposed before the break
ing of bread. Luke and John disagree; not
only with Matthew and Mark, but apparent
ly disagree with each other : Luke shows
that Judas was exposed after the breaking of
bread, but John shows that it was in the very
time of eating the supper. Though these
accounts given us seem to be wild, and ap
parently insolvable at\the first view : yet I
shall endeavor (by the account given us of
the passover) to harmonize the whole by and
by.
Though the account seems to be deran
ged ; yet I have no doubt, but all will agree
with me,the texts which relate to the break
ing of the bread, ought to be considered as
parallel in our subject, and they stand as fol
lows.
Matthew, xxvi. 26.
And as they were eating, Jesus took bread
and blessed it, and brake it and gave it to his
disciples, and said, Take eat : this is my body.
Mark, xiv. 22.
And as they did eat Jesus took bread and
blessed, and brake it and gave to them and
said, Take eat this is my body.
329
Luke, xxii. 17, 18, 19.
And he took the cup and gave thanks, and
said, take this and divide it among yourselves,
For I say unto you, I will not drink of the
fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God
shall come. And he took bread and gave
thanks and brake it, and gave it unto them,
saying, This is my body which is given for
you : This do in remembrance of me.
Let such as say that there was no wine in
the passover, here take particular notice, that
Luke makes mention of two cups. If there
was no wine in the passover, then there re
mains two cups to be given in the said sacra
ment. Let them own the one, or mend in
the other, or own the Spiritual cup in the
New Testament to be more and above all.
Beside the cup already mentioned by
Luke; he is ready to mention one more cup
in order with Matthew and Mark.
Matthew xxvi. 27, 28, 29.
" And he took the cup and gave thanks,
and gave it to them, saying drink ye all, of it,
for this is my blood of the New Testament,
which is shed for many, for the remission of
sins. For 1 say unto you, I will not drink
henceforth of the fruit of the vine, until I
drink it new with you in my Father''s king
dom."
Mark, xxiv. 23, 24, 25.
" And he took the cup ; and when he bad
given thanks, he gave to them and they all
drank of it. And he said unto them, this is
cd2
330
my blood ofthe New Testament which is shed
for many. Verily I say unto you, I will
drink no more of the fruit of the vine until
that day that I drink it new with you in the
kingdom of God.
Luke, xxii. 2(X
Likewise also, the cup after supper, saying,
This cup is the New Testament in my blood
which is shedfor you.
In coming to the above scripture which re
lates to the bread and wine, we come to the
very scripture upon which the sacramental
notion is said to be fabricated. If the notion
of the sacrament can be supported by the a-
bove scripture, then my opponents have the
right of the thing, but if they cannot make it
appear by the above texts, that Jesus Christ
did institute a new institution separate from
the Passoyer, then the eucharistical notion
must fall to the ground. We have unques
tionably proved, that Christ sat down with
his disciples at the Jewish Passover supper.
Remember the text, which saith, " With de
sire have J desired to eat this Passover with you
before I suffer." For I say unto you I will not
any more eat thereof until it befulfilled in the
kingdom of God." Let us carefully mark the
text which follows in the account. fcr " And
as they were eating," (Matthew). " And as
they did eat Jesus took bread," (Mark). Now
reader ; observe that the conjunction (as) and
the verb (were) mentioned by Matthew, and
the verb (did) in the account ofMark, are all
indicative of the passover. Christ says"!
331
will not eat any more there-OF : of what ?
Of the passover of which Christ was then
eating. So that there was no new institu
tion instituted by Christ, but all he did rela
ted to the passover. Reader, thou hast the
scripture at hand ; turn to it and read it, and
I think it is to be seen, that the breaking of
bread is connected with the passover as much
as the power of language can show it to be.
The scripture does not show, that the break
ing of bread took place, after the passover
supper was ended ; but that the bread was
broken as they did ; and as they were eating
the passover. The bread which was broken
was undoubtedly the passover cake.
" But" says one, " why did Christ take
the bread and give thanks," as he did ?
" Our Lord," says Adam Clark when
speaking of the passover, " here conformed
himself to the constant Jewish custom, viz,
of acknowledging God as the author of every
good and perfect gift, by giving thanks, and
taking the cup at their ordinary meals. For
every Jew was forbidden to eat, drink, or use
any of God's creatures, without rendering
him thanks ; and he who acted contrary to
this custom was considered as a person who
was guilty of sacrilege." This author next
proceeds to give us the form and manner in
which the Jews rendered thanks, to wit.—
" Blessed be thou our God, king of the uni
verse, the creator of thefruits of the vine."
This manner, or form of blessing corres
332
ponds much with that account given us of"
the passover, where every time the bread
was broken, and every time the cup was giv
en, it was attended with a blessing, or rather
the giving of thanks. Says Elwood, " It is
the general .opinion of interpreters, that at the
paschal supper there was nothing done by our
Lord but what was commonly done by Jews
in their yearly celebration of the passover
feast."
Having firstly noticed that Christ's eating
with his disciples was of the passover ; and
secondly, that nothing singular is to be un
derstood by the blessing ; thirdly, let us no
tice what is said relative to the bread and the
wine. In as much as. we conOne ourselves to
the letter of the text, in the same degree
we may propagate the doctrine of the pope,
or we may do little better by falling into the
dark and confused notion of Calvin and Lu-
ther^ who confessed that they were not ca
pable of explaining their own doctrine.—
" This is my body ; this is my blood," if we
were to be governed by the letter, this text
would make all men popes, and not protes-
tants. The reason why the text stands in
the indicative mood is evident when we con
sider the language in which our Saviour
spake ; for it is said that there is no term
in the Hebrew language which expresses to
mean, signify, denote ; hence the Hebrews,
in speaking of a figure, say it is, for it signi
fies. Hence our Saviour speaking in the
333
Hebrew language says, " this is my body,
this is my blood," but the text is simply to
be understood as if Christ had said " this
signifies, or represents my body, &tc." Now
dear reader, as we have proved that Christ
was eating the passover, what bread was that
which Christ brake. Answer, the passover
bread, or cake which was unleavened. For
there was no other bread in all the land of
Judah at this time.
. .. Now as the proper meaning of the text
is, " this represents my body," it brings to us
the most natural and easy explanation of our
Lord's meaning, to wit, that the passover
cake, represented his body, or himself.—If
it be asked why our Lord particularly ex
plained the meaning of the bread, &c. it was
because his disciples little understood at that
time the utmost meaning of the passover;
they had ever read the meaning of the type
back to Egypt, as a representation of their
escape from Egyptian bondage ; but they
had never read the meaning forward to rep
resent the sacrifice of Christ. It seems that
the apostles could not conceive in any de
gree, that Christ must suffer ; nay,Peleronce
rebuked his Lord for a testimony to that ef
fect.
When Christ took the passover cake, and
blessed and brake, nothing new was to be
understood, neither in kind nor meariinff ;
that is, the bread was the same passover
bread, and the meaning that which it always
334
had been, namely, Christ the true passover.
And because the unleavened bread, as well
as all the passover, was a representation of
Christ, therefore the apostle says, (1st Cor.
v. 7.) " purge out therefore the old leaveu,
that ye may be a new lump, as ye are un
leavened, for Christ our passover is slain for
us." When we consider that the bread
which Christ had in his hand, when he says
" this is" or this represents my body, be on\y
interpreted the old meaning without institu
ting any new forms or institutions.
We need to say but little as to the wine
itself. It was at most but a representation as
the bread was. We only should notice our
Lord's instruction as to the fulfilment of the
thing. We should recollect that the wine
was a figure ; and not the thing which was
intended by it ; and because it was a figure,
it was to be fulfilled, and the fulfilment of all
types signifies their end, they being super
ceded by the substance.
"This is" (or represents) "my blood in
the New Testament.'''' What do we under
stand by the New Testament, but the new
covenant in the Spirit ? Many have under
stood the Neiv Testament to be the book com
monly known by that name. They think
also that the cup of the New Testament means
no more than merely the cup which they
think the New Testament enjoins in the sa'-
crament. " But" says Adam Clark, " the
335
original (meaning of the word) which wc
translate the New Testament, and which is
the original title of all the contents of the
bdok already designated, simply means the
New Testament." He who permits the letter
to have any authority over his mind when he
speaks of the cup of the New Testament, or
of the New Testament itself, so far comes
short of the truth ; and so far comes short of
the Spirit, which is held forth by the letter.
The term New Testament, never ought to
have been applied as a distinguishing title
to the letter of the scripture, it was man's in
vention, and has been the means of robbing
the world of much truth, for there are many,
who when they read or hear any thing said
about the New Testament, the letter, is the
first thing in their mind. But the New Tes
tament is simply to be understood as the
New Covenant, or the ability in God through
the Spirit. " Our sufficiency" saith the a-
postle " is of God who hath made us able
ministers of the New Testament, not of the
letter but of the Spirit."
We are then simply to understand that the
wine was only a representation of the New
Testament, or che New Covenant in the Spir
it. We are therefore to serve (as the a-
postle says) not in the oldness of the letter,
but in newness of Spirit.
Because the wine was a type, it was to be
fulfilled in the kingdom of God. "I will not
drink henceforth," said Christ, " of the fruit
f
336
of the vine until the day when I drink it new
with you, in my Father'^ Kingdom," or as it
is said " in the kingdom of God." We have
before had occasion to show, that the king
dom of God is one with the New Testament,
or new covenant in the Spirit. Here the
type was to be fulfilled, and here the wine
was to be new and not old.
k ".Do this in remembrance of me"—This
part of the account is generally urged for
the continuance of the bread and the wine,
but they only serve to fill up our explanation
already given ; for as the disciples little un
derstood the extent ofthe passover, they had
always (as I have before said) read the type
backward to Egypt ; therefore our Saviour
cautioned them to do it in remembrance of
him. The text does not say (as some false
ly quote,) " do this in remembrance of me
till 1 come but that scripture which speaks
of Christ's coming is another passage, and
has as little to do with the sacramental no
tion, as the text now in debate. If there had
been a new institution of a sacramental na
ture, and enforced by these words (do this,
&C.) how could it be that Matthew and
Mark should have omitted so important a
part of the account. And who would sup
pose that John (who lay on his Lord's bosom
intently listening to his precepts) would have
so omitted in his account, not only these
words but ail relative to the said important
institution. p.
'• ' »
,337
But though those words are used, they do
not take from us the idea that the thing was
to be fulfilled in the kingdom of God : but if
any should otherwise contend, and ifit should
be urged, as it is Ly some, that the kingdom
of God is to be understood of that glorified
state after death ; such will find themselves
under like obligations to keep the passover
too : And as they take Luke for their foun
dation, so will I.
Luke, xxii. 15, 16, 17, 18.
And he said unto them with desire have I
desired to eat thispassover with you before I
suffer. For I say unto you, I will not any more
eat thereof until it be fulfilled in the king
dom of God. And he took the cup, and gave
thanks and said take this and divide it among
yourselves ; For I say unto you, I will not
drink of the fruit of the vine, until the king
dom of God shall come.
Notice, reader, that the foregoing account
relates particularly to the passover, and is so
much over and above the account, that is no
ticed by the other evangelists : This account
of Luke has nothing to do with that part,
which it is said, relates to the sacrament.—
Here we see, that it was said of the passover,
that it should be "fulfilled in the kingdom of
God ;" and of the wine, Christ said, he would
not drink any " more thereof, until thekingdom
of God should come." Who Cannot see that the
passoffer goes with the supposed sacrament ;
the wine was to be drank new in the kingdom
Ee
338
of God, too : the passorer was to be fulfilled
io the kingdom of God. How often do ad
ministrators say, in giving the cup of wine,
" take this and divide it among yourselves f
thinking to enforce the ordinance by scrip
ture words ; but dear reader, see the text and
see these words are particularly connected
with the passover. My reader will find, (I
think,) with attentive reading, that the break
ing of bread, the giving of the cup, is too
connected with the passover, to be separated
by good reasoning, or without a great viola
tion of natural language.
We will now have recourse to the history
of the passover, and harmonize that account
ofthe evangelist, which now seems so much
to disagree. My reader will recollect, that
he was cautioned to notice in the passover
account, that the bread was divided and a
part of it distributed, (preceded by a cup of
wine) whilst the other part of the bread was
put by, and afterwards eaten with the paschal
Jamb, followed by a cup of wine. This shows
us, that the cup was twice given and bread
given twice; perfectly corresponding with
Luke's two cups.
Now if we suppose the last breaking of
bread and the last cup of wine to be the same,
which is mentioned by Matthew and Mark,
then the traitor Judas was exposed before the
breaking of that bread, which they mention.
339
Suppose that the bread and wine mentioned
in the account of Luke, to be the first cup and
the first bread, then the traitor Judas was ex
posed after supper, according to his account.
This method effectually harmonizes the e-
vangelists, in that it shows, that Judas was
exposed before Matthew's and Mark's ac
count of the supper 5 and after the account of
Luke : This shows us, that the exposure of
Judas, took place before the account of one,
and after the account of the other; and that
he was exposed in the midst of the supper,
and perfectly agreeing with the account of
John, who was laying on Christ's bosom at
supper time, (see John, xxi. 20,) when Peter
beckoned to him to know who ft was that
should betray him. When John had asked,
saying, " Lord who is it ?" Judas was then
made known by a sop as they sat at the sup
per table.
Because the bread and wine mentioned by
Matthew and Mark, is the last bread and
wine in the passover, it will be seen that they
have mentioned the singing of the hymn
which always followed the last bread and
wine, and with which ended the passover sup
per. Because the bread and the wine men
tioned by Luke, was the first in the passover,
Luke has not mentioned the singing of the
hymns at all. Because the evangelists, in
their relation, did not think of giving laws
to the church, their whole account is put
down promiscuously, and John has not pre
340
sumed to say much, but what relates to
Judas.
Without making any alterations in the ac
count of the evangelists, I will here show in
a form, the order in which the account really
4
- K
20. Now when the
even was come he sal
t!own with ibe twelve.
21. And as they did
eat be said Verily I say
unto you tbut one ofj
you shall betray me.
50 * * » »
23.—* * » »
24. » « * *
2.1). Then Judas,whicl
betrayed him, answered
and said Master is it I r
Me cnid unto him Thou
bast said.
26. Andas they were
fating, Jesus took bread'
and blessedit.
27. And ht took the
C»(P andgave thanks.
V # * * * #
28.
29,
30. And when they
had sung a hymn, they
went out, * * ♦
14. Aod wbea tiie
hour was come he sal
down with the twelve
apostles with biro
15. * * *
16. * » *
17. And he took the'
cupandgave thanks,andl
said, toke this and di
videit among yourselves.
18. ♦ • ♦
19. And he took bread,
and gave thanks,
SO. ♦ • *
21. * ♦ * The hand
of him that bctrayeth
me is upon the takle.
_* » •
* * m
Ll'KK, XXII. John,
18.-
*
.* * » »
He that eat-
eth bread with me hath
hfied his heel against me
19.—-* * ♦
20. ♦ t *
50. Also the
ter supper.
21. Wh»n Jesns had
thus said, be was trou
bled in Spirit, * ♦ *
and said ♦ ♦ * one of
iyon shall betray me.
22. * * ♦
23. * ♦ »
24. * * *
25. * ♦ * Loid who
Jis it ?
Jesus answered
and said, He it is to
.vhom I will give a sop
when 1 have dipped it.
1 a
Vfi
| ? a.
341
In the preceding form,the twenty-first verses
Stand as parallel one with the other, and all
have a special reference to Judas, who was
exposed whilst they were eating supper. We
see that in the account of Luke, 17th apd
19th verses the wine is mentioned before the
bread, perfectly corresponding with the first
bread and wine mentioned in the historical
account, given us of the passover. But the
last bread and wine mentioned in the accotnt ;
the bread is mentioned first and the wine
next ; and corresponds with the account of
Matthew and Mark, in the 26th and 27th
verses. And we see, that the wine and bread
mentioned by Luke, is not that bread and
wine mentioned by Matthew and Mark. But
as the account of Luke is the most full, tho'
he has not mentioned the bread which is
mentioned by Matthew and Mark, yet he has
noticed the wine, saying, " Also the cup af
ter supper,"
Now if we notice the remarkable words,
"do this in remembrance of me," they must
stand connected with the first mentioned
wine and bread. So then, as it i§ impossible
to separate the first cup and bread from the
passover, the words, " do this," &c. does but
enjoin the passover, if they enjoin any thing
at all.
The above method of Creating our subject,
serves to cast much light in our way, and
perfectly harmonizes with the scripture, and
Ee2
342
seems also to reconcile the scripture account
too, but it much confouHds the notion of the
sacrament, for it so completely blends all
things in the passover, that they cannot be
separated from the passover itself.
My reader may give what credit he pleas
es, to the little I have related of the history
of the passover, but notice, I have not dispu
ted any part of the scripture, by contesting
with any word or text. But I have been a-
ble to shew from the scripture all I have re
lated, so that when we consider the matter
from first to last, the particular time, the thing
inquired for, and the thing set down to, was
the Jew's passover. If we notice the bread
and the wine, and the ceremonies which at
tend the administration of them, the bread
and the wine were the same for kind, and
the ceremony that which always attended
that feast If we notice the manner ofsitting
at the passover supper, (resting one upon the
bosom of the other) and that the supper end
ed by the singing of a hymn, it all corres
ponds with the passover, as given in the his
tory of the passover, and in the scriptures too.
Matthew, xxvi. 30.
And when they had sung a hymn they
went out unto the mount of Oliyes.
Mark, xiv. 26.
And when they had sung a hymn, they
went out unto the mount of Olives.
Luke, and John, both agree, that Christ,
343
went to the mount of Olives, but they do not
mention the hymn. " As to the hymn itself,"
says Adam Clarke, " we know from the uni
versal consent of Jewish antiquity, that it was
composed of Psalms, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117
and 118, termed by the Jews halel, from ha-
lelu-jah."—It is remarkable to me, that this
author did not discover, that there was not
any thing done at the supper, more than
what was done by the Jews, on all their pass-
over occasions. After relating the subject
himself, and found that John had mentioned
nothing about the supper, (save that which
relates to Judas,) says he, " It is remarkable
that St. John says nothing about the institu
tion of the Holy Sacrament, which Matthew,
xxii. 19, &c. Mark, xiv. 22, &c. and Luke,
xxii. 19, &c. describes so particularly." Now
I leave my reader to judge whether, Mat
thew, Mark, or Luke, either of them, say a-
ny thing about the Holy Sacrament.—For this
omission of John's, he pretends to say, that
no other reason can be assigned, than that,
he found it so completely done by the others,
and that "he only designed to supply their
defect." Now the man is wrong in that,
that he says no other reason can be assigned
for the omission of John ;—the reason I offer
is another, (to wit,) That there was no such
thing instituted as the Holy Sacrament, (as
he is pleased to call it>) and John did not
think it worth while to record the particulars
of a Jewish passover-*-a ceremony
344
was well known, and probably would be for
thousands of years to come—a ceremony
which in itself, was but a type, and was to
end with the substance in its place.—As to
John's intending to supply the defect of Mat
thew, Mark and Luke, he cannot make it ap
pear, unless he can first show that these men
were highly censurable for not doing their
duty. If there was a new institution bind
ing on the christian world, as some suppose,
I could say with the man—Remarkable in
deed that John did not record it, and John's
account is the one that is most defective, and1
not the other's ; and it would be strange
that the others should have said so little a-
bout it.
Whatever is said by Matthew and Mark,
amounts to little more, if any, than merely
that which was common on every passover
occasion. As the passover was a type of
Christ himself, he instructs his disciples to-
then remember him in it. Luke, whose tes
timony is of itself alone, (when examined,) '
sufficient to smother the eucharistical notion^
is the onlv account that mentions the words
« do this;'' he.
When the Lord instituted the passover in
Egypt he thought proper in his wisdom, as-
in all the laws which he gave to the Jews, to
explain, point out the thing, the time, the place
and manner in which the passover should be
attended. But providing there was no way to-
explain these words but the very manner, in*
345
which it is done by my opponents, does the
simple sentence " Do this," &.c. spoken at
the time and place where it was, seem suffi
cient to establish so important an institution
as the sacrament is viewed to be by many ?
Does this characterize the wisdom of that
God who gave the ceremonial law to the
Jews ? Answer, no : If there had been such
an institution given to the christian world,
no doubt to me there would have been proper
instructions given concerningit. But because
no proper inst-ructions were given (and no
such thing instituted) the world has been
long contending together, in their opinions,
whether, what, when, how, how much, with
whom, to whom, by tvhom, and in what man
ner this ordinance should be kept : whereas
but a few words of instruction would have
saved the world from all this jangle.
If there be any foundation for the sacra
ment in the scripture, there are other things
which might, and ought to be practised, as
well as that. For one thing we mention the
washing of feet ; (John xvi. 13, 14,) but
when I ask the different denominations (Free
will Baptists and Sandemanians excepted)
why they do not practise this ceremony, they
cite me to Gen. xviii. 4—1 Sam. xxv—41
2 Sam. xi. 8—Exod. xxx. 19. From these
passages, together with much history, they
would show me that the washing of feet was
a religious ceremony under the law, and in
common practised by the inhabitants of 1
346
eastern countries. They contend that it was
practised as a type, and to be but an east
ern custom. So I say by the bread and the
wine that they were but types and in com
mon use in the passover.
They say too by the washing of feet that
ifthere had been such an institution, Mat-
thew,Mark and Luke would have mentioned
it, as well as John ; and not only so, they
say, that the apostles would have command
ed the practice of it—so say I by the sacra
ment. If it had been a new institution, no
doubt, John would have mentioned the
bread and the wine as well as Matthew, Mark
and Luke ; besides, it cannot be shown that
the apostles did ever command the one any
more than the other ; and the reason is (l be
lieve) because the apostle well understood
lently did the loving disciple, John, listen
(when he lay on his Lord's bosom) to his
command. Had there been a new institu
tion it would have been singular and new to
all the disciples and not more singular than
that John should have omitted it altogether
in his account, and that the others should
have said so little about it in theirs.
John was careful to remember his Lord's
command and keep it too. Saith Christ, "A
new commandment I give unto you, that ye
love one another as Ihave loved you." Lookinto
the 15th, 16th, and 17th chapters of John,
that there was no such institution.
ta~
347
ble ; note there that divine instruction, re
peated exhortations to brotherly love, warn
ing against satanr with that prayer of our
Lord that his disciples might be kept by his
Father to enjoy the best possible good. Col
late this with the 1st, 2d, and 3d epistles of
John and see that same heavenly-minded-
ness, which was in his Divine Master. There
we see no lifeless ceremonies pressed upon
his brethren but his exhortation to love, love,
love. Twenty times in the 4th chapter of
his epistle he mentions love. His doctrine
seems to have been that, and all that which
he considered the command of his Lord, to
wit: " Children, love one another."
CHAP. VII.
Many have a notion of something consecrated when they
read in the scriptures of the breaking of bread, whereas the
breaking of bread at a common meal, is only intended.—
Luke, xxiv. SO.—Acts, ii. 24, 26.—xx. 7.—1 Cor. 11th chap
ter, hare no allusion to a Sacramental eating, but to feasts
which were full provisioned : One half pound of bread, and
a small quantity of wine, did not serve for fifty persons, so
nothing like the sacrament.
Feeling dismissed from that part of our
subject whieh relates to the passover, we shall
now notice such passages of scripture, as
will amount to matter of consideration.
It is to be observed that the word, "break
348
ing of bread''' has become so consecrated m
the minds of many people, that it seems to
be difficult for them to read Luke, xxiv. 30.
Acts, xx. 7, &c. but what tTieir minds, im
mediately fancy a sacramental eating. But
if they would give themselves the trouble
to examine the scriptures they would find
that the word breaking ofbread is a word used
by the Jews in all their common meals.—
The bread which the Jews had was mostly
nnyeasted, or of an unleavened kind ; they
had nothing equal to our high raised loaves ;
but their bread was made broad and thin, so
that they needed no knife to divide it, there
fore we frequently read in the scriptures of
the breaking of bread ; but nothing about
cutting it. The first passage which comes
before us is that which relates to the time
when Christ first made himself known to his
disciples after his resurrection,Luke,xxiv. 30.
But little need to be said on this passage, af
ter the text is carefully noticed. " And it
came to pass as he sat at meat with them, he
took bread and blessed it, and brake and gave
to them."
This instance of breaking bread, blessing,
&c. amounts to nothing more than that which
was done by the master of every Jewish fam
ily, at the time of eating. This meal was
made up of both bread and meat. " We are
not," (says Adam Clarke on'the passage) "to
imagine, that he administered the Holy Eu
charist at this time ; there, is not the most
349
distant evidence of (his. It was a mere
family meal, and ended before it was well
began."
The next passage which we may notice, is
recorded, Acts, ii. 42, 46. As there are few
. persons who put a sacramental construction
on this passage, as little need be said on this,
as on the passage before mentioned. We
find that meat is here mentioned, as well as
bread. " And they continued stedfastly in
the apostles' doctrine and fellowship, and in
breaking of bread, and in prayers, (verse 42,)
and all that believed were together and had
all things common, (verse 44.) And they
continued daily in the temple, and breaking
bread, from house to house, did eat their
mkat with gladness and singleness of heart"
verse 46. The 46th verse is but a repetition
of theft which is mentioned in verse 42, the
explanation laying between, in this, that they
had all things common ; therefore, their
bread and meat was daily, and from house to
house, as well as in the temple. The break
ing of bread here referred to, is that which
accompanied the use of meat, in a common
daily meal. The passage shows us, that as
every man's heart was open ; so was his
house, and all was common to all.
The breaking of bread is next mentioned,
Acts, xx. 7. " Upon the first day of the
week, when the disciples came together to
break bread, Paul preached to them, ready
to depart on the morrow, and continued his
if K*
350
speech until midnight." " Here," (says Bar
clay,*) " is no mention made of any sacra
mental eating ; but only that Paul took oc
casion from their being together, to preach
unto them. And it seems it was a supper
they intended, (not a morning bit of bread,
and sup of wine,) else it is not very probable,
that Paul would from ihe morning have
preached until midnight. But the 1 1 th verse
puts the matter out of dispute, which is this:
" When he therefore was come up again, and
had broken bread and eaten and tedked a long
while, even until break ofday, so he departed/'
This shows that the breaking of bread was
deferred till that time; for these words [and
when he had broken bread, and eaten,] do
show, that it had a relation to the breaking of
bread before mentioned ; and that .this teas
the time he did it. Secondly, those words join
ed together, [and when he had broken bread,
and eaten, and talked,] show that it was no
religious act of worship, but only an eating
for bodily refreshment, for which the Corin
thians used to meet." :'0z
We have before had an occasion to notice
the agapce, or feast of charity, or love feasts,
which were in use among the early chris
tians. It is most probable to me that this
breaking of bread took place at one of these
friendly meetings, for it docs not appear that
there was any thing like a sacrament known
among the apostles. The word sacrament
• SceApol.p.439.
351
and eucharist are not scriptural words, but
as the notion of the sacrament was planned
after the days of the apostles, and matured
about the times of Justin Martyr and Ire-
Nins-^they are unscriptural words given to
a new and unscriptural doctrine. ..
The simple and innocent use of lovefeasts,
are still in use among christians in the east
ern countries. Perhaps the abuse of these
feasts gave rise to Paul's reproof, and instruc
tion—1 Cor. 1 1th chapter,from the 17th verse
to the end—which place I shall proceed to
notice, it being one of the principal passa
ges in scripture considered in the support of
the sacrament.
Such as contend for the use of the sacra
ment from this scripture, generally feel them
selves established on that part of the chap
ter which follows the ltth verse; but they
would enforce the. idea of the command
from the 1st and 2d at the chapter's com
mencement ; where the apostle says, " Be
ye followers of me even as I also am of
Christ."
That the. aposlle here intended that his
brethren should follow him in certain cere
monies, is sufficiently obviated in that the
same aposlle says "Let no man judge you
in meats or in drinks. Sailh he, " Touch not,
eat not, handle nat^' that is, of such carnal
things as perish with the using. " If ye be
dead with Christ from the rudiments [t le-
mentsjof the world, why, as though living in
'§52
Ike world, are ye subject to ordinances.^"
No one can say but what bread and ivine are
meats and drinks in the proper sense of our
subject -many contend that they are or
dinances, i but. none can say that they do
not perish with the using, so that it could not
be that the apostle would have the Corinthi
ans follow him in carnal ordinances. But
that the apostle did condescend to the weak
ness of the Corinthians in some tilings, there
is no doubt, from w hat follows in the second
verse. "Now I praise ye, brethren, that you re
member me in all things, and keep the or
dinances^ [traditions] as I delivered them to
you."
Though the first and second verses of the
chapter are urged in the support of the sacra
ment, they are but wrongfully understood,
and misapplied, since they only enforce (if
they enforce any thing) but Jewish and Gen
tile superstitions ; such as women's praying
with their heads covered, and (hat men
should not wear long hair ; things which the
apostle says, if any man seem to be conten
tious about, " we have no such customs" (as
obligatory in religion) " neither the churches
of God."
" Keep the ordinances," &c.—verse 2d..
The marginal nole in the English Bible very
properly reads (for ordinances) traditions.
And this exhortation of the apostle should be
understood in lho potential mood, that is-,
I praise you, brethren, if you would keep
333
the traditions as I delivered them to you.—
It were better that the Corinthians had been
established in the order of the law, than that
they should so far depart from the law and
rules of decency too, as they had done.
Saith the apostle, (chap. iii. 1, &;c.) " I,
brethren, could not speak unto yon as unto
Spiritual but as unto carnal even as unto
babes in Christ. I have fed you with milk",
and not with meat, for hitherto ye were not
able to bear it, neither yet now are ye able,
for ye are yet carnal, for whereas there is a-
mong you envying, and strife and division,
are ye not carnal and walk as men?"
The Corinthians were in a miserable con
dition, as a body they had not the religion of
Christ.. Such was their foolish ambition in
matters of religion that they were ignorant of
the Spirit, dull in their understanding, con
tent with a form, like thousands in this our
day, but not content without spoiling it too.
They had debased themselves with crimes
unheard of among the Gentiles at large.
They had some of them fallen into drunken
ness, pride and wickedness, a disgrace to the
cause which they professed, and a stumbling
block and a shame to the weaker breth
ren which were among them. The design
of the apostle in this first epistle, was to treat
them with as much severity as their conduct
deserved, and to be as Spiritual as their un
derstanding would admit, that he might
cause repentance among them (see Cor,
Ff2
354
8.) The apostle first caUs theta to order
in the-ir ceremonial religion, as we have alrea
dy observed, but the 2d verse of this chapter
is so far from enjoining a sacrament, that
there is nothing of that kind intended by it,
nor does the verse, in whatever sense it may
be taken, reach to customs obligatory on the
church at this our day. Aud even if it could
be construed to mean what my opponent!
would have it : when I consider I he condition
of the Corinthians it would be no more to we
than the circumcising of Timothy,or purifying
in the temple in condescension to the weak
ness of the Jews.
Having shown the impropriety of enfor
cing the last part of this chapter, by its com
mencement, we will now pass to notice that
part which follows from the 17th, to the end.
Firstly, the apostle shows what such eating
(whatever it might have been) did nota-
mount to. " When ye come together into
one. place, this is not to eat the Lord's sup
per," verse 20. It was not to eat the Lord's
supper because the Lord's supper is Spiritu
al, and is not made up of carnal elements
as ol bread and wine —it is well known that
these feasts which were in use among the
early christians, were to signify their union
and friendship one with the other. These
feasts were well provisioned, and every guest
ate a full and sufficient meal, according to
the requirement of the natural appetite.—
They were not confined to a little morsel of
355
bi'eafl and wine. But as the Corinthians had
vitiated the simple and pleasing use of this
feasl, they now ate apart, and such as had
abundance came 'till, others came hungry
who had little at home, whereby the very use
and end cf this practice was lost and pervert
ed ; therefore he blames them, that they did
not either eat in common at home, or reserve
their eating until they came together in one
place. This apppars from the following verse
22. " Have ye noi houses to eat and drink
in ? or despise ye the church of God, and
shame them that have not."—It does not
appear that the apostle enjoins this kind of
eating, but that the Corinthians might be
preserved in order, he sharply rebukes them
for their irregular practice, and chose (instead
of their coming together full and drunken,
whereby others who come hungry, were a-
shamed) that they tarried one for the other,
or that they all ate at home, which could not
be the case if it had been a sacrament.
The apostle after calling them to cider
without enjoining the thing, and having told
them, that to eal such outward bread and wine
(or whatever might have composed their eat
ing) was not to eat the Lord's supper, he now
proceeds to tell them what the supper was in
truth. 44 For 1 have received of the Lord
that which also I delivered unto you, that
the Lord Jesus the same night in which he
was betrayed took bread. And when he had
given thanks, he brake it and said take, eat,
....
356
this is my body, which is broken for you, -this
do in remembrance of me, after the same
manner, also, he took the cup, when he had
supped, saying, this cup is the New Tes
tament in my blood. This do as often as
ye drink it in remembrance of me.
The apostle would not here be understood,
that Christ had commanded him to deliver un
to them the use of the bread and the wine. We
are simply to understand, that the apostle
had received by information what he knew uC
that matter, for it is certain, that the apostle
Paul was not at that Passover supper, neith
er had he any intercourse with Christ or his
disciples then, as he was not converted until
years afterward.
We have already noticed what passed at
the passover, and have seen that there was
no new institution there, but that Christ nn-
dt'r the figure of the passover cake and the
wine, took occasion to instruct his disciples
into the meaning of the passover, and did by
that figure enjoin the communion of his body
and blood in the New Testament, not in
wine, nor in bread, but in the Sjnrit, and mys
tery of his own kingdom. We are here to
understand the difference between a simple
relation of the thing and a commandment,
for it is certain, that there is no command in
this place, as to outer bread and wine. The
apostle is simply repeating over Christ's
words relative to the bread and wine, for the
jame reason that Christ did : that is, that th«
357
disciples might be led to a knowledge
Spirit of the n£w covenant dispensation.—
The apostle in relating this subject, differs
some from Lu'<e in the wordy,*' do this," &.c.
Luke, who mentions these words, "do this
in rernembrance of me," spoke, as we have
seen, particularly of the passover. And un
doubtedly the apostle has an allusion to the
same thing, but in repeating the words, he
does not put them in the same order, though
he imparts no command, He only says, " as
oft as ye do this," without saying they should
do it. The apostle also mentions these
words as attending the cup, whereas Luke
mentions not any thing of that kind. lint
.supposing these words to have been spoken
and applied in any way that they might prob
ably have been ; they have not come to us
through the medium of any person, who was
at that passover supper. Luke, who records
these words, was not there, and what he has
recorded must be through the information of
others. The words, however, were not con
sidered by Matthew, Mark, nor John, as at
tending to a new institution, or they would
undoubtedly have recorded them. He who
looks into the scriptures must see, that there
is many such little differences, and though
we should point them out, perhaps the unin
formed part of society might feel injured, as
if their foundation was shaken ; but the more
enlightened part ofchristian com munily know
well how to make a provision for such differ
358
ences, a3 may have occurred through the ac
cidents of time, and the medium through
which the scriptures have come to us. Such
will not too much undervalue the scripture
records, nor suffer their minds to be spoiled
by that self-righteous, pharasaical spirit,
which so frequently attends a letter religion.
Let us here notice, that Luke does not pre
tend, that he wrote these words by divine in
spiration, but probably he received them, as
did St. Paul, by the information of others.
The reader will retain in his mind the dif
ference there may be, between a relation and
a command, and that the apostle has simply
indicated all and no more, than that which
was intended at the passover supper; that is,
the cup of the new testament. The apos
tle next speaks of the literal cup, and of the
literal bread. He then says to them, "as oft
as ye eat of this bread and drink this cup,
ye do shew the Lord's death till he come,"
verse 26.
The broken bread and the wine was a repre
sentation of the sacrifice of Christ's body and
blood, but the nutritious virtue of both, wa3
a representation of the new wine, and the
bread of life, in the Spirit, which was to follow
the suffering of Christ. Some have render
ed this text, to mean Christ.'s coming at the
end of the world,but there is no good sense in
such a rendering, for how inconsistent would
it he, to command the apostles to practise
369
that which they could not. For according
to such rendering, Christ has not jet come,
even now, at the expiration of inmost two
thousand years; whereas the apostles were
men like others, and have gone the way of
all men, many hundreds of years since. The
text then must be taken to mean, Christ's
inward and Spiritual coming. Christ's in*
ward and Spiritual appearance may be prop
erly understood, as his second coming; he
first appeared in humilintion'm the tabernacle
of flesh, after his humiliation and death, he
was to receive the promise of his Father, and
so establish that kingdom, which is some
times called " the kingdom of God," and
sometimes " the kingdom of Heaven."—
This kingdom is a Spiritual kingdom, and it
is represented by Christ himself, as his com
ing down from heaven, whither he had as
cended, John, xiv. 18. There Christ having
been speaking of his ascension, says, " I will
not leave you comfortless; 1 will come unto
you," meaning his inward coming by the
comforter, the Spirit oftruth. " At that day
ye shall know," saith Christ, "that [ am in
my Father and ye in me, and I in you, (verse
20,) * * * " he that loveth me shall be loved
of my Father, and I w ill love him, * * * and
we will come unto him and make our abode
with him," verse 21 — 23.
This explanation agrees with the experi
ence ofeverv christian ;. for all who enjoy the
Spirit of life, tell of Christ's being in them,
360
and that they know and feel him to be pres
ent with them. To this agreeth the scripture,
1 John, iii. 24. " He thatkeepeth his com
mands dwclleth in him and he in him, and
hereby we know that he abideth in.cs, by
the Spirit which he hath given, us." The
word of faith speaketh on this wise, (Rom.
x. 6, 7, &c ) Say not in thy heart who shall
ascend into heaven ? (that is to bring Christ
down from above.) Or who shall descend
into the deep ? -(that is to bring up Christ
again from the dead ;) but what sa'uh it, the
word is nigh thee, even in thy heart and in
thy mouth." Again the apostle says, (2 Cor.
xiii. 5,) " examine yourselves, whether ye be
in the faith prove yourselves : Know ye not
your own selves how that Jesus Christ is
in you except ye be reprobates." I might
bring much scripture to shew that the chris
tian's witness 13 as Christ said, (John xiv. 20.)
"I in my Father, ye in me and I in you."
Then why should this text be interpreted to
mean Christ's outward coming when there
could be no such thing as the apostles' prac
tising such an ordinance, until such a sup
posed coming should take place. The text
does not say that they were to teach this or
dinance to others, nor that they should com
mand others so to do—Nay, nor is there one
instance, as we have already shown, where
the apostles have commanded any such in
stitution. The Corinthians had only ate and
drank damnation to themselves in all they
361
had done : they had shown by all their con
duct, as well 'as by their eating, that Christ
was dead to them, and too, that they were
destitute of any knowledge as to the resur
rection and life of Christ in them. The a-
postle did not intend by the words, "as oft
as ye do this," &c. that they had ought to do
it, but intended that the Corinthians should
understand that it was a token that Christ
was not yet come in them. For the signifi
cation of the bread and cup was only till
Christ came in Spirit.
Now, reader, observe that the 28th verse
brings us to the truth of what the apostle
would be at. Says he, " Let a man examine
himself, and so let him eat of that bread and
drink of that cup." Notice that the apos
tle changes the definite pronoun from this
to that. I say the apostle changes the pro
noun, from this cup to that cup, because he
had been speaking of two cups, and two
breads. The five preceding versos is mere
ly a relation how the apostle had received of
the Lord, (by information from others, not
Christ,) how that he took bread, and how
that he Spiritualized it as a representation of
his b"dy which was, as then t*> be broken ;
and how that the bread and the wine, was a
tvpe of the true bread, and of the cup in the
New Testament. The apostle by mention
ing the words of Christ, has laid the founda
tion for teaching the New Testament doc
trine, and as Christ did, so did he enjoin the
362
Spirituality of the thing. When he says this
bread, or 'this bread and this cup,' he has re
ference to that outward bread and wine which
the Corinthians were eating, and thereby eat
ing and drinking damnation to themselves.—
As they did not come to the Spiritual knowl
edge of Christ, they could not discern the
true body, and as the substance passed by
without notice, they were guilty of the body
and the blood of Christ; therefore the apostle
after admonishing them, demanded that they
examine themselves, not as some suppose, that
they might be fit lo partake ofoutward bread,
but that they might attain to a knowledge of
the truth, and eat THAT bread and drink
THAT cup of the new covenant in the
Spirit. This is that very bread which Christ
enjoined in all his doctrines, and the very
thing which the apostle would enforce on
the Corinthians, and that without any regard
to outward bread and wine. The cup which
the apostle denominates that cup, is not one
with the cup which he denominates thjs cup,
neither could that cup be an outward cup,
nor that bread an outward bread, as appears
f om thf sequel ; for it was not in the proper
ties of outer bread and wine to remove weak-
liness, sickliness and sleepiness, (verse 30.)—
These spiritual diseases could only be re
moved by a Spiritual knowledge of the bread
of life.
I have before admitted that it was possi
ble that the feast among the first christians
363
were in commemoration of Christ's death
and sufferings ; but, Jet those feasts be what
they were, there is nothing like a sacramen
tal eating to be gathered from them. Let it
be observed by such as call upon their breth
ren to examine themselves, that they may
eat outward bread, and drink outward wine,
that there is no scripture to warrant the pro
priety ofthat exhortation. Therefore, I would
that they themselves would come to the truth
of the text, and know to eat that bread and
drink that cup which is worth more to the
soul then such outward beggarly elements
possibly can be.
The reader will do well to collate the 11th
chapter with the 2d chapter of the same a-
postle's epistle to the Colossians, and see the
difference between the two epistles. There
the apostle points out a freedom from all cer
emonies and shows them that they are com
plete in Christ without them, and so forbid
the Colossians to touch, taste or handle, or to
let any man judge them in such outward
ceremonies. No doubt but thy preacher
will tell thee,that the apostle had an allusion
to law ordinances. Tell him to show thee the
gospel ordinances if he can find them so de
nominated in the bible. The reason why
such a difference is made in the spirit of the
epistles is, they were written according to the
spirit of the people to whom they were di
rected. To the Colossians the apostle could
say, (verse, 5.) " Though 1 be absent in the
364
flesh, yet am I with you in the Spirit, joy
ing and beholding your order and stedfast-
ness of your faith in Christ." Bat . to the
Corinthians, he could not speak unto them,
as unto Spiritual, but as unto carnal. "I have
fed you with milk," says he, " and not with
meat ; for hitherto ye were not able to bear
it, neither yet now are ye able " The apos
tle begins the 11th chapter, to the Corinthi
ans in matters of indulgence, and about
things very foreign to the concerns of !he
church, at this our day. He ends the chap
ter much in the same way that he begins it,
but he enjoins nothing but the true Spiritual
cup and bread of God, as Jesus Christ had
done at the passoyer, and finally in all the
doctrine of his life.
We have noticed, Luke, xxiv. SO.—Acts,
ii. 24, 26.—xx. 7.—1st Cor. 11th chapter, &c.
where the breaking of bread is mentioned ;
but these passages show nothing in support
of that which is called the sacrament. We
have seen that the word breaking of bread
which is generally so consecrated in the
minds of many, is not indicative to any sa
cramental eating. And I might as well sup
pose that the apostle celebrated the sacra
ment with the ungodly ship's crew (Acts,
xxvii. 35.) because he blessed and brake the
bread to them, as to suppose a sacramental
sating in either of the above cases.
If we notice these feasts, where the break
ing of bi ead is mentioned, they were feasts
365
"or meals of fulness where every one ate ac
cording to the demands of nature. But what
is this like a sacramental eating ? I have
seen one half pound of bread with a small
quantity of wine constitute what is called the
Lord's supper for fifty persons. How unlike
to the eating mentioned in scripture, and
what a miserable representation of gospel
fulness ! ! My soul doth know right well ;
that a man might starve to death, both soul
and body, for aught the nourishment or vir
tue there is, ever was, or ever may be found
in such a supper.
CHAP. VIII.
Bread, Wine and Water baptism, one with the law of the
Jews. The sacraments would be a transgression on the
gospel sabbath—an addition to the covenant of faith (made
with Abraham,) contrary to the oath of God.—Christiana
need no types because they have the substance.—Because
the ordinances zealously affect the mind, but not well)
Christians are forbidden to touch, taste or handle of them.
I come now to make a few conclusive re
marks, and show several reasons why chris
tians should not serve under a law of carnal
commandments. 1. I have endeavoured to
show that Christ has never enjoined them,
and that such sacraments have no proper
scripture from doctriaei
It is a point universally acknowledged that
the ceremonies of the Jews ought to have no
Gg2
366
place among christians. The scriptures
plainly show us that they were only shadows
of good things to come. These, "stood"
saith the apostle " in meats, and drinks, and
divers washings and carnal ordinances which
were imposed on them until the time of re
formation." These ordinances were only
imposed untiK the time when the seed should
come to whom the promise was made.
Then as the law ordinances consisted of
meats, drinks and carnal things, the question
is what did these carnal things consist of ?
Answer, bread, wine, and water. It is well
known that these things made up the law so
essentially, that had the law of Moses been
deprived of them,it would have been robbed
of its most significant means, and the law
did not,nor could it have been complete with
out them. Then it plainly follows, that so
far as christians are bound to observe such
ceremonies they mnst be under the law;
whereas the apostle says " ye are not under
the law but under grace."—Was the use of
meats a carnal observance ? and was the
use of water in the Jewish religion a carnal
•eremony ? and was not the bread, wine and
water among them as rudiments, and ele
ments, which the Jews were obliged to serve
under ; and the very things for which they
were rebuked for turning back to ? (Gal. ir.
3, 9.) Answer, yes. Then if these things
were under the law ; and ifthey were carnal,
weak and beggarly elements as the apostle
367
calls them, then where is the difference be
tween them, now and then ? Surely there is
no difference—If it be said that these cere
monies for which christians so much contend,
were commanded by Christ, this never can
be proved. And even if it could be made
to appear, this would not difference the thing,
for water baptism or any other carnal thing,
it being done yesterday or to day, command
ed by this or that man, administered by this
or that administrator, would not necessarily
change the thing ; it is yet a carnal, lifeless
law ordinance, and but weak and beggarly el
ements, still as ineffectual as to the salvation
of men as it ever was.
Though it should be ever so much contend
ed that these are gospel ordinances,gospel insti
tutions of God's house ; let it be remembered
that there are no such things mentioned in
the New Testament records, and for the
want thereof, they are but men's inventions;
who, when it was not enough to wrest the
scripture, they have thought to serve them
selves a better purpose by adding thereto, and
so they have given sacraments, eucharists,
gospel ordinances, gospel institutions, ordi
nances of the house of God, &tc. and these
things have been so long in use that thou
sands of good christians as well as my breth
ren in the ministry have not stopped to
consider the impropriety of them, nor do
they seem to discover that they are but the
inventions of men, to bring about their own
false notions.
368
Natural reason teaches us that if these
supposed ordinances are binding, chris
tians then are under the carnal law, and I
would as soon bring a dove or two young
pigeons, or a lamb to the altar, as I would
bring my proportionate part of bread and
wine. And I could better furnish this, than
to traffic them for money, and buy the wine
by the means of the same. It is not uncom
mon that the poor man has been known to
have his last cow sold at vendue, to help pay-
priest taxes and the sacramental expenses of
the church ; this I should say is law enough;
If it should be said that the ordinances are
not law -t then they are not ordinances, so
no transgression, though they are not obeyed
or observed.—If it be said that Christ has
commanded such carnal commandments,
then the apostle Paul must be mistaken when
he shows usjthat Christ was not made a min
ister " after the law of carnal command
ments, but after the power of an endless life."
Heb. vii. 16.
If it be contended that christians are un
der obligations to observe such ceremonies
as baptism, sacraments, 8ic. this is not only
making Christ a minister of carnal command
ments in contradiction to the apostle ; but it
would argue a lack in the doctrine of Christ-,
because he did not preach nor practise , while
he was on the earth, that doctrine which be
longed to hirrK Besides it would be contra
dicting the figures under the law of the tab^
369
ernacle, by finishing that with water, &c.
which was to be the work of the Spirit, as
we have already seen in our third chapter.
1. As it is inconsistent that baptism and
sacraments should be enjoined on christians,
because they are one and the same with the
Jewish law. 2. It is inconsistent with the
oath of God in the gospel covenant made
with Abraham.
The apostle Paul has largely and very
clearly shown us that the promise which God
made to Abraham was not to his seed thro'
the law, (Rom. iv. 13.) but through the
righteousness of faith. The 4lh chapter
of Romans, sets our subject in the clearest
light, and shows how and when the covenant
was made ; but let it be observed that the
loorks which the apostle speaks against, in
this chapter, are the works of the ceremonial
law of Moses, and not the works which de
volve on mankind as a moral duty, as some
calvinists have falsely taught. It is to the
works of the law that the apostle alludes in
all his epistles when he strives to show that
the Jews could not be justified by works.
Saith the apostle, (verse 3, &c.) " What
saith the scripture ? Abraham believed God
and it was accounted unto him for righteous
ness. Now to him that worketh, is the re
ward not reckoned of grace, but of debt.—
But to him that worketh not, but believeth
on him that justifieth the ungodly, his faith
37b
is counted for righteousness. Even a3 David
also describeth the blessedness of the man,
unto whom God imputeth righteousness with
out works." The apostle after rejecting all
carnal and lifeless law ceremonies, and hav
ing again, and again shown that justification
was through faith, and that faith was account
ed to Abraham for righteousness ; he next
proceeds to show that the covenant of faith
is independent from all ceremonial religion.
How was faith reckoned unto Abraham for
righteousness ? " When he was in circum-
P. . . • • • 3 .
cision or in uncircumcision r not in circum
cision but in unci/ cwncision." And he receiv
ed the sign of circumcision as a seal of the
righteousness of the faith which he had, yet
being uncircumcised ; that he may be the
FATHER OF ALL THEM THAT BELIEVE—*** who
walk in the steps of that faith of our father
Abraham, which he had, being yet uncireum-
cised. Now as the apostle shows that the
covenant was made upon the conditions of
faith and not works, and that the covenant
was made with Abraham, to include all be
lievers, we have no need to labour in this
place to show that which is so plainly held
forth in the scripture. Namely, that the
promise was touching the Spiritual seed, and
that the seed was Christ, and such as should
believe in Mm. We have only to turn to the
3d chapter of Galatians, and'see that as this
covenant was confirmed without the law, that
there could be no alterations in it. The
371
apostle after chiding the Gakitians for turning
back to the law, and for leaving the Spirit,
as if they thought to be made perfect by the
flesh ; he tells them that he ihat worked mir
acles and administered to lhem the Spirit,
did it not by their ceremonial, or law work,
but by failh. ''Know ye therefore," he says,
" that they which are of faith the same are
the children of Abraham." Notice, reader,
what must be the consequence if we are the
children of Abraham, and our covenant is
confirmed and aatified with him. ICS"'' Breth
ren" sauh the apostle, " 1 speak after the
manner of a man. Thovgh it be but « mail's
coverun t, yet if it be confirmed, no man disan
nulled, or addeth thereto." Here the apos
tle shows that when men make covenants,
there is no alteration to be made when they
are once finished. He then adds". " This I
say, that the covenant that was confirmed be
fore of God in Christ, the law which was four
hundred and thirty years after, cannot disan
nul—that it should make the promise of none
effect."
Reader, when is it said that the ordinan
ces were enjoined ? Answer, about eighteen
hundred years since. Then the covenant
that was crnfirmed before of God in Chiisf,
with our father Abraham is eighteen hundred
years the oldest. This shows us that ifthere
are any such ceremonies of baptism or sacra
ments binding on christiansas the least means
of their salvation, then as the ceremonies
372
amount to a law without being any part of
faith, they must be so much in addition to
the covenant and so much against the oath
of God, who agreed to^iccepl Abraham and
all believers upon the conditions of faith.—
Some may say that the ordinances are not
given as means of salvation. This argu
ment charges God with fully ; for if God;
through the medium of Christ, has commit
ted eertainlaws to be observed, they must
contribute to salvation, or they are entire/y
useless. And how formalists can teach that
the ordinances are means of grace, and say
they are not saving, is something that I can
not comprehend as a consistency.
When we consider the time and manner
that the .covenant was made, we see that it
would have been contrary to the covenant,
even for God to have enjoined the law. of cir
cumcision on Abraham, had it not have been
that this covenant was to be Spiritually con
firmed in Christ. But as the seed (Christ)
was not as then come, the law might in jus
tice be given until the seed came to whom
the promise was made. Therefore, saith the
apostle, verse 23, &c. " Before faith came
we were kept under the law, shut up unto the
faith which should afterwards be revealed—
**** the law was our schoolmaster to bring us
to Christ, that we might be justified byfaith.
But, after that faith is come, we are^no
longer under the schoolmaster, for ye ere all
the children of God byfaith in Christ Jesus.
373
For as many of you as have been baptized
INTO CHRIST, HAVE PUT ON tHRIST. T^efe
is neither Jew nor Greek, there -lS neither
bond hotfree; there is nei^ier ma\e'n0I female,
for ye are aU one Christ Jesus, and if ye be
Christ''s^ tfieVf are ye Abraham's seedy and heirs
ACCORDING TO THE PROMISE."
As I have shown that such sacraments are
one with the law of the Jews, and contrary
to the gospel covenant, so 1 will here stop
and show that such ceremonial worship is
contrary to God's command, and that it is a
transgression on God's Spiritual, and true gos
pel sabbath.
The sabbath, comes from the Hebrew
words sab'batfA, signifying rest, and seems to
have been considered a type of the gospel
rest found in Christ by faith. The land of
Canaan was also considered a type of*the
same Spiritual rest enjoyed by the Church
in this life, hence Watts has erred in his
hymn, when he says, "There is a land of
pure delight," making the land of Canaan to
represent a glorified state after death, for
they of the land of Canaan were not free
from a danger of being invaded by foes.—»
There is no type, (I think) representing a
glorified state after death 5 The " New crea
tion^ the " New Jerusalem? the " City ofthe
. living God? and the ." kingdom of God? or
the " kingdom of heaven? all mean one thing
and are accessible by the christian in this
Hh
374
life. We can only form an idea of the glo
rified state by the seal of the " Holy Spirit of
pi omioe.^ which is the earnest ofour inheritance."
(See Eph. i. 13, 14.
As the land of Canaan represented the
state of the church, and was attainable by
faith and obedience ; so the sabbaths were a
type of that rest found in Christ by faith ; as
is represented by the apostle in the 4th chap
ter of Hebrews, from the 1st to the 12th
verse.—The apostle begins this chapter by
exhorting the Hebrew brelhren to fear, lest
they should come short of the true rest, (verse
1.) in the 2d verse, the apostle speaks of the
children of Israel, that they did not enter
into rest [the land of Canaan] because the
word preached to them was " not mixed
with faith in them that heard it."
The apostle, when he had spoken of the
type, shows that it was a type of the chris
tian rest, attained by the faith of the gospel,
and says, " For we which have believed do
enter into rest," verse 3d.—The apostle then
proceeds to speak ofthe 7th day [or sabbath,}
and considers it to be a type of the gospel rest,
brought in by Christ, and represents that Je
sus, (meaning Joshua,) when in the promised
land, yet spake of the true rest by the simil
itude of the sabbath day. The apostle says,
" if Jesus had given them rest, then would
he not afterwards have spoken of another
day," (verse 8th.) "there remaineth there
fore a rest to the people of God." The 10th
375
verse, when read with the 3d, gives us the
says, " We which have believed do enter in
to rest" in the 10th verse, he says, " he that
is entered into rest, he also hath ceased from
his own works as God did from his."
Now it must be more than obvious to ev
ery person who reads Paul's epistle to the
Hebrews, that he was endeavouring to per
suade them not to trust in the works of the
law, that is, in ceremonies, and that the rest
was obtained by faith in Christ, and that such
as entered this rest ceased from their works of
legal righteousness.
As I have proved that the sacraments are one
with the law of Moses, the continuance of
them are to bs considered as a transgression
of God's gospel sabbath, and I do not hesi
tate to say, that they who claim justification
by the observance of meats, drinks, sabbath
days, or sacraments, do not rightly understand
what it is to be "justified by faith in Christ."
I do not say that they are not christians ; I
would only be understood, that they do not
enter into rest ; they are yet trusting in the
law, as if perfection was by the flesh. I ac
knowledge for myself, that though I had that
which is called Christianity, yet. years had
passed before I knew what it was to enter in
to rest ; since that time, though men preach
this, that, and the other thing, as means of
grace, it is as nothing, or worse than nothing
to me—more than that which is inward, pro
of the apostle.—In the 3d verse he
376
during love to God, and love to man, is to me
as light as chaff, and as worthless as dross,
and as fleeting as the wind.
As the transgression of the typical sabbath
was followed with a curse, so those who have
transgressed the Spiritual sabbath by busying
themselves in outward ordinances, have
brought upon themselves all the miseries of
contention, even unto death, as I have before
shown.—Did I believe in what is called Ho
ly-time, I should show by the scriptures, that
divines have committed three great evils
1. They have rejected the seventh day, which
was the sabbath commanded by God under
the law : 2. They have without any authori
ty from scripture, made choice of thefirst day
of the week, for the sabbath ; so in obedience
to Constantine, they teach for doctrine the
commandments of men. The sabbath which
is now observed, was, as we are informed en
joined by Constantine in the fourth century.
3. They have transgressed the Spiritual sab
bath, which is the' only gospel sabbath, by
not entering into the rest by faith in Christ
as before shown.
N.o doubt by these remarks, my reader will
discover, that I do not believe that one day in
the week is better than another, but I would
observe that I am willing to keep the sab
bath in conformity to the laws of the people.
Should the rulers say that one, two, or three
days in the week should be set apart /or wor
ship ; each day should be equally respected
377
by me, but it should be a civil institution on
ly. No good man will break the law or peace
of community in any thing reasonable. No
person should think themselves sanctified any
more for observingone day more than another.
Teachers who frequently threaten their
hearers, and many christian people with aw
ful denunciations, because they do not follow
their tradition would do well to enjoin the 7th
day as a sabbath, or shew us some reason for
keeping the 1st day of the week ; but I think
the Spiritual sabbath to be most essential.
Nothing is more common, than that chris
tians contend for the use ofthe sacrament, as
they say, for signs, and on the principle,1 that
they serve to affect the mind ; but because
such affection is not grace, the apostle warns
the Galatians against it, and the means by
which it was brought about. " Howbeit,"
saith the apostle, Gal. iv. 8, &c. " when ye
knew not God, ye did serve unto them" [ele-
mentsjbread, wine and water] " which by na
ture are no Gods, but know after that ye have
known God, or rather are known of God, how
turn ye again to the weak and beggarly ele
ments, whereuntoye desire to be in bondage."
The apostle having warned them against
such ceremonial worship as consisted in the
elements, he then proceeds to warn them a-
gainst every external observance. " Ye ob
serve," said he " days, and months, and times,
and years. I am afraid ofyou, lest I have be
stowed labor on you in vain I ! The apostle
Hh2
I
well understood that, of such carnal obser
vances as professors in general little consid- •
er ; namely, that the blending of such carnal
ceremonies with the gospel, much tends to
show the dispensation of the Son of God im
perfect. It leads the mind from trusting in
Christ, as the only foundation. It leads them
to build for themselves worldly tabernacles
for worship, and hinders them from travelling
forward into the kingdom of God. It tends
to austerity and superstition, in will-worship,
and a spirit- of self-righteousness, too subtle to
be perceived by such as are the dupes of it.
—O, my soul doth mourn within me, when
I see so many of my fellow men caught in a
way that seems right unto them, but the end
thereofis death. It is because such worship
tends to lead the mind from truth to error,
from the substance to the shadow, and from
every thing good to every thing evil ; that the
apostle said to the Galatians, " O foolish Ga-
latians, who hath bewitched you that you
should not obey the truth. ** Where," said
he, " is the blessedness ye spake of? ***—Am
I become your enemy because I tell you the
truth, they [ordinances] zealously affect you
but not well ; yea, they would exclude you,
that you might affect them."
That the ordinances have the above effect
I need not go far to show, for that spirit at
tends them that ever did, does, and ever will,
and the more men stick to them, the more
they alienate from a life in Christ, and the
379
mystery ofiniquily finds means to work there
by, to the great damage of the church. But
says one, give us the ordinances ; it is thro'
them that we are helped to remember the
sufferings of our Saviour on the cross, and
our scattered mind is concentrated. Little
do christians think, that this is the very plea
that the papists have in favor of images.—
Hark ! hear what Pope Gregory III. wrote
to Leo, the Greek emperor, because he had
written against the worship ofimages. " Be
cause you are ignorant and unlearned, we are
obliged to write to you rude discourses, but
full of sense and the word of God. We ad
jure you to quit your pride and hear with hu
mility. You say that we adore stone walls,
and boards, it is not so my lord ; but these
symbols make us recollect the person whose
came they bear, and exalt oub grovelling
minds. We do not look upon them as gods ;
but if it be the image of Jesus, we say, " Lord
help us." If it be a martyr we say, " St. Ste
phen pray for us."
Dear reader, I do not say my brethren are
papists ; but my prayer is to God that the
church may be saved from the milk that has
been sucked from the old Babylonish moth
er. The above instance shows that the pa
pists feel a spirit and benefit from the use of
images. And no doubt that they produce in
the mind of the worshippers that which is re
ceived in the use of bread and wine, &c.—
The papists have the image of Christ's body
380
all but as natural as life itself, and who can
not say that this is not much more to the
purpose than a few crumbs of bread ; for
such as use the bread and wine, use it as they
say, to discover the body of Christ on the
cross. Then, certain, the image is much
nearer the thing which they would wish to
discover. Do they talk of faith, so do the
papists. Do they talk of help? so do they.
Do they speak of worshipping Christ in the
use of the bread? so do papists worship
Christ in the use ofthe image ; and who can
say that the Spirit produced in the one, 13
not the same as the other. Truly they zeal
ously affect, but not well. I think christians
ought to be careful how they kindle a fire in
the temple of God, on his holy sabbath, and
come to the rest, which is by faith in Christ.
My sole desire is, that christians would be
ware of these false rests ; for they are the
elementary heavens that never will stand the
day of God's coming. My soul says, pull
down the altar ofBethel, cut down the groves,
and take away the fig-leaf aprons, that thou
sands are hiding and covering themselves
with ; that they may see that they are un
covered before God, and learn to hide in
Christ, and worship in Spirit and in truth)
and bring the sacrifice of a broken heart,
and a contrite Spirit. Christians who are
children of the day, need no such things as
ordinances to help their devotions. If they
have the true baptism they waft jn Christ*
381
who is light, and they have the light of life ;
they speak that which they do know,' and
testify that which they see, and that which
their hands have handled of the word
of life. Such are comforted, being knit to
gether in love, and unto all riches, of the
understanding to the acknowledgment of the
mystery of God, and of the Father and of
Christ. " In whom," saith the apostle, (Col.
" ii. 3, &c.) are hid all the treasures ofwis-
" dom and knowledge."
The design of the apostle in his epistle to the
Colossians, was to teach them the truth of the
gospel, and lay the true foundation whereon he
and others might build and not be ashamed
nor mistaken. Let us pursue this apostle to the
end. How strictly and plainly does the apos
tle point out the danger of a dependancy on
law ceremonies, forms in will-worship, &c.
which through the means of Judaizing teach- -
ers always did and still attends such outward
worship. After telling them, that in Christ
were hid " all the treasures of wisdom and
knowledge" he adds, " And this I say, lest
any man should beguile you with enticing
words." verse 4.
The Colossians were in a condition to
hear the truth, and too much built upon the
truth to feel themselves shaken by the loss
of their ordinances, therefore 9aith the apos
tle, " As ye have therefore received Christ Je
sus the Lord, so tvalk ye in him."
Reader, do men receive Christ in water
382
baptism, and in communion ; Answer, no.—
When christians first find the refreshing from
the presence of the Lord, they are baptized,
with Christ's baptism of the Spirit in the
kingdom of God, which is not meats nor
drinks, " but righteousness, peace andjoy in the
Holy Ghost." They would not think of bap
tism nor communion sooner than they would
of purification, or the anointing with oil, &,c.
if men who are more letteral than Spiritual did
not teach it to them. And I know that the
first spoiling of christians, first take place on
this ground. With what propriety do preach
ers exhort people to walk in Christ, as they
receive him, and at the same time seek to
press upon them, this and the other notion,
with this and that form.
Again, thus the apostle exhorts them that
they tcalk in Christ. " Rooted and built ia
him, and established in the faith," saith he,
" as ye have been taught" [of Christ] " aboun
ding therein with thanksgiving. Beware lest
any man spoil you through philosophy and vain
deceit, after the traditions ofmen, after the ru
diments [elements] of the world and not after
Christ. Oh ! the mischief of human philos
ophy, in matters of religion. What worldly
reasoning, vain deceit, and spoiling has at
tended the elementary worship of almost all
denominations in one time, or in another.—
From Jeiv, to Pope, to protestant, how much
more abundant they have been in tradition
and in worldly wisdom and deceit, and in
383
human reasonings, than they have been in
grace ? whereas all sufficiency is in Christ as
the next words positively show. " For in him
dwelleth all the fulness of the God-head
bodily. And ye are complete in him, w hich
is the head of all principalities and powers"—
(verse 9, 10.) What now follows, shows us,
that as our wisdom, fulness, riches and knowl
edge is in Christ, so is our bapiism and cir
cumcision with all our inward and everlasting
fulness in him. " In wfwrn also ye are circum
cised with a circumcision made without hands,
in putting off the body of the sins of thejlesh,
by the circumcision of Christ. Buried with
him in baptism, wherein also ye are risen with
him through the faith ofthe operation of God
who hath raised him from the dead." And ye
being dead in your sins and in the circumcis
ion of your Jlesh, hath he quickened together
with him, having forgiven you all trespasses,
blotting out the hand writing or ordinances
that was against us, and taking it. out of the
way nailing it to his cross." verses 11, 12,
13, 14.—What could Christ have done, or
Paul have said more to show the end of car
nal ordinances ? Water baptism is as plain
ly explained, and done away, as circumcision.
It is marvellous to me that men who read,the
scriptures do not see that the apostle here
would rid his brethren of all such ceremonies.
But let us follow the apostle lo the end.-;-
The next verse shows ; Christ having " spoil
ed principalities andpowers" and " openly tri
timphing over them," that they are to *• Id
no man therefore judge them, in meat or
IN DRINK, Or IN RESPECT ofan HOLY DAY, Or of
the new moon or ofthe sabbath days which
are shadows ofgood things to come ; but the
body is christ." What can be more plain
than the language of this apostle ? he warns
them against beggarly elements, meats,
drinks, sabbath days, Sic. telling them that
they are but shadows, and that the body is
Christ. Are not bread and wine here hinted
to ? and no doubt the apostle would have
mentioned the sacrament, or eucharist, as
well as he has baptism and circumcision, if
there had been any such thing in his day.—
As the body is Christ, or the substance, the
apostle warns them lest they lose that re
ward in a voluntary humility, and vainly V,uf-
fed up, fleshly-mindedness, by " not krj&itur
tfie head, (Christ,)/ro»» which all the 'oody, by
joints and bands, (having nourishm.ent minis
tered, and knit together,) incrf„aseth with
the increase of god." Such as are united
to Christ the head, by the nourishing, miuis-
tering and knitting influence of the true Spir
itual baptism, and communion, are dead
from all outer rudiments and elements.
Dear reader, notice, what follows in verse
20th and 21st. IO- « Wherefore ifye be dead
with Christ from the rudiments of the world,
why as though living in the world are ye sub
ject to ordinances ? Touch not, taste not,
handle not which all are to perish with the
-
S85
bsing, after the doctrines and the command
ments ofmenP, Do not such as use the sa
crament and baptism contend that they are
ordinances ? and do they (ordinances) not
perish with the using ? Answer, yes. Then
the apostle strictly forbids that we be subject
to such, and that we even handle, touch or
taste of thetn.—The apostle, in verse 18th,
forbade that we let any man judge us. This
is easily prevented by not touching or tast
ing of these things which perish in the use ;
but instead of an obedience to the apostle's
injunction, these very things are urged upon
christians more than holy life, repentance or
any other doctrine of Christ. I have seen
many religious revivals, but I never have
been indulged with the happiness of seeing
them end as they began. They have always
ended in division and debates about ordinan
ces, whereby the little good that was done, is
generally turned into surmising and jeal
ousy, and whilst the preachers, deacons, and
other zealots, are scattering the bane of par-
tyism, that they may make merchandize of
the converts, and that they may be able to
make a fair show in the flesh, some have be
come haters of one another, and ten fold
more the children of hell then they were be
fore such revivals took place. And many of
the inexperienced among men, have falsely
concluded th re was nothing in religion.—
What a happy consequence would arise
amongst professors of Christianity, if tne7
ii
386
would obey the apostle's advice, and touch
hot, taste not, and handle not, nor let men
judge them in such beggarly elements as per
ish with the using.
Do reader, turn to the epistle, and read the
apostle's advice for thyself. The baptism of
Christ is that one baptism of the spirit, which
is saving to all them that are baptized there
with. Such as are burn again, are born of
this spirit, they are baptized into Christ, into
his life and resurrection; and into adealh to
Bin. They who are thus baptized put on
Christ, and are baptized into one body, (Gal.
iii. 27, 28.) where there is neither Jew nor
Greek, bond nor free, male nor female, but
all are one in Christ Jesus. Such are washed,
sanctified, justified in the name of the Lord Je
sus, and by one spirit they are joined to the
Lord, (1 Cor. vi. 11, 17.) " Christ" sailh the
apostle, " gave himself for the church, that
he might sanctify and cleanse it with washing
of water by the word, that he might present it
to himself, a glorious church, not having spot
or wrinkle, or any such thing, but " that it
should be holy and without blemish," (Eph.
v. 26,27.) therefore, this is the only gospel
baptism, and nccordingto this baptism, which
is " according to his mercy he doth save us by
the washing of regeneration, and renewing of
the Holy Ghost which he shed on us abun
dantly through Jesus Christ our Saviour, Tit.
iii. 5.
Thus, dear reader, we see that water bap
387
tism, is superseded by the baptism of the spi
rit. Arid as there is but one Lord, one faith,
and one baptism, (Eph. iv. 4, 5,) it is to them
that receive it, a resurrection, from a death in
sins to a life of holiness, by washing,regener-
ation, and a renewing power of the spiritual
word, it is to make them holy, without spot,
torinkle, or blemish. By this baptism, they
are baptized into one body, into one death,
into one life, into one spirit, into the one
faith of the one hope and calling, one God
and Father of all, who is above all, and as
the apostle saith, ' through all, and in you all.'
This baptism is according to that doctrine,
which our Lord taught his disciples, when he
said, " In that day ye shall know that I am in
my Father, and ye in me, and I in you." John
xiv. 20.
Christ is not only wisdom, righteousness,
sanctification and redemptioa from sin, but is
all to the soul what natural provision is to the
body. "Verily, verily," said Christ, "except
ye eat the flesh of the Son of man, and drink
his blood, ye have no life in you," John vi.53.
u This is the bread which cometh down from
heaven, whereof a man may eat and not die.
I am the bread of life." When Christ saw
that his disciples were too natural minded to
understand the spirituality of his doctrine, he
said to them,'It is the spirit that quickeneth,the
flesh profiteth nothing, the words what I say
unto you, they are spirit and they are life.7
This shows us what is the true communion,
383
or the supper ofthe Lord. This is the table
and cup to which the sons of Belial cannot
come, because it is Spiritual. Saith the a-
postle Paul, " I speak as unto wise men,"
[Spiritually wise,] " Judge ye what I say.—
The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not
the communion of the blood of Christ ? The
bread which we break, is it not the com
munion of the body of Christ ?" 1 Cor. x.
16, 17, &c. Here the apostle shows the Spir
itual union in the Spiritual cup and bread :
saith he, " for we being many, are one bread
and one body, for we are all partakers of that
one bread." " Ye cannot drink the cup of
i the Lord and the cup of devils." If out
ward wine and bread composed the com
munion of the Lord, then wicked men could
partake of it as well as saints. This is the
Spiritual cup in the new testament which
Christ enjoined at the Passover supper, and
the very cup which the apostle enjoins on the
Corinthians, when he says, let a man exam
ine himself and so let him eat of that bread
and drink of that cup. Christ says, " my
body is meat indeed, and my blood is drink
indeed." " He that eateth my flesh,and drink-
eth my blood dwelleth in me and I in him,"
" he shall not hunger," " he shall not thirst,"
" he shall not die," " he shall live forever."—
This is the true passover supper, and the
Spiritual cup of the new testament in the new
covenant, which is given for the remission of
sin, and is only enjoyed in the kingdom of
389
God in righteousness, peace and joy in the
Holy Ghostj where meats and drinks, or out
ward bread, wine and water, constitute n<s
part thereof, nor can they be found within
the kingdom of Christ. > "i"
Though the children of the kingdom may
strive to blend such outward ceremonies with
the Spirit, it is but to smuggle the property
of a worldly jurisdiction ; and the curse will
always attend them with their trophy. This
bread, and this Spiritual wine, is one with
the Spiritual baptism. Saith the apostle,
(1 Cor. xii. 13.) "by one Spirit are we alt-
baptized into one body, whether we be Jew
or Greek, whether we be bond or free ? and
have been all made to drink into one Spirit.''
Hereabouts we may make the first and the
last end of our subject meet. ••; n-»i
We commenced this Plea by showing that
the typical law was given to man in conse
quence of transgression. The sacrifices were
to signify to him a Saviour, and the different
purifications and anointings were to teach
mankind that they were unholy and unclean,
and so far as they were unholy and unclean,
so far they had fallen out of the covenant
with God ; and so far lost the image of
God. But the seed (Christ) is now come—*•
magnified the law in righteousness, and nail
ed the ordinances to the cross, and by the
gift of the Spirit he has re-established the
covenant with men. Zion's sons are " re
deemed with judgment, and her converts
with righteousness." They are now by the
390
Spirit sought out, sanctified and redeemed
from the consequences of the fall. As man
was created without a typical law, so in the
new creation ofGod they are redeemed from
all types, and made "complete in him who
is the head of all principalities and powers."
Man was created in the image of God ; and
that image was righteousness, true holiness and
knowledge, (see Eph. iv. 24. Col. hi. 10.)—
Saith the apostle, "be ye"renewed in the spirit
of your mind, and put on the new man which
after God is created in righteousness and true
holiness ; lie not one to another, seeing that
ye have put off the old man with his deeds ;
and have put on the new man which is re
warded in knowledge after the image of him
that created him." As the image of God is
restored to man, the covenant comes with it.
t( Wherefore," saith the apostle, "the Holy
Ghost is a witness to us ; after that which he
had said before. This is the covenant that I
will make with them, after those days, saith
the Lord, I will put my laws into their hearts,
andirt their minds will I write them, Heb. x.
15. This law, in the heart is God's holy
anointing, and Spiritual baptism, by which
the christian is brought into God and God in
to him, therefore it is said, (2 Cor. vi. 16.—
u Ye are the temples of the living God," as
God hath said, I will dwell in them, and walk
in them"; and again it is said, (1 Cor. vi. 19.)
" Your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost,
which is in you, which ye have of God, and
ye are not your own."
391
Thus, dear reader, the types are all ful
filled when the creature man is restored to
God. In the restoration, man receives a
new name and a new dwelling. He has
written " upon him the name of God, and
the name of the city of God which is New-Je
rusalem, which cometh down out of heaven
from God ; he receives the mysteries of God ;
as in a white stone, with the new name,
which name none knoweth but such as re
ceive it. Rev. ii. 17. They are brought
through the Spirit to have communion with
God, as it is said, " I will sup with him, and
he with me." (Rev. iii. 20.) they are brought
to have communion with angels, &c. Saith
the apostle, " Ye are come unto Mount Zion,
and unto the city of the living God, the heav
enly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable com
pany of angels, to the general assembly,
and church of the first-born, which are writ
ten in heaven, and to God the Judge of all,
and to the Spirits of just men made perfect,
and to Jesus the Mediator of the New Cove
nant, and to the blood of sprinkling that
speaketh better things than that of Abel."—
Heb. xii. 22, 23, 24. Such, dear reader, as
walk in Christ, and dwell in God ; they dwell
in the city of God, and the Lord God and the
Lamb is their light,* and he that walketh in
Christ " shall not walk in darkness, but shall
have the light of life," John viii. 12. As
there is no darkness in Christ, so there is no
darkness in God, then he that walketh in
392
God and in Christ, walketh without darkness,
and as children of the light, and" of the day,
they need no dim lamps. Blessed are their
eyes for they see. Why then light a candle
at noon-day ? or why put spectacles upon one
whose eye-sight is good ? A staff is for the
impotent, and signs precede the substance.
We admire or regard the portrait of our
friend but little, when he is present. Christ
is all to his children, he is their life from the
dead, their wisdom, their righteousness and
sanctification : they are baptized into him
with that baptism wherein they are risen with
him to newness of lifer and have their part in
the first resurrection. Their witness is within
them, their hope is in the Holy Ghost, even
to that within the veil ; and their understand
ing is to the acknowledgment of the mystery
of God, and of the Father, and of Christ, in
whom is all wisdom and knowledge. Since
then, they are complete in Christ ; let Moses
and John go their way, build no more worldly
tabernacles, but let God have a place in the
heart ; abide his instructions in the inmost
temple of the mind, and thou shalt be led
out of darkness into God's marvellous light.
Thou shalt know the truth as it is in Jesus,
and feed upon hidden manna, whilst thou
sands with all their vain disputings about the
surface of the letter, only get to themselves
death, disgrace and confusion. Why, as thoJ
Christ was a minister of carnal command
ments, are christians bound to observe a ty-
393
pical code of laws, and made to transgress
God's gospel sabbath ? Why, as though God
had falsified his covenant with Abraham, are
we yet in bondage to the weak and beggarly
elements of the world ! Why should the rent
be made worse, by sewing the new cloth up
on the old.thread-worn dispensation, and why
put the new wine into old bottles ? What
saith the scriptures ? Cast out the bond-wo
man and her son ; for the son of the bond
woman shall not be heir with the son of the
free woman. Gal. iv. 30. " Stand fast in the
liberty wherewith Christ hath made us free,
and be not again entangled with the yoke of
bondage."
Said the apostle Paul, (verse 12, Sic.) " I
wou+d that they were even cut off which
trouble you, for brethren, ye have been call
ed into liberty ; only use not liberty as an oc
casion to the flesh, but in love serve one anoth
er. For all the law is fulfilled in one word,
even in this, " Thou shalt love thy neighbor
as thyself'." As ye have received Christ Je
sus the Lord, so walk ye in him ; (Col. ii.
6, §ic.) rooted and built up in him, and es
tablished in the faith ; as ye have been taught
abounding therein with thanksgiving. -Dear
reader, let this be considered attentively by
thee. Beware, least any man spoil you thro'
philosophy, and vain deceit, after the tradi
tions of men ; after the rudiments of the
world, and not after Christ. For in him
dwelleth all fulness of the Godhead bodily.
Let no man, therefore, judge you in meats or
in drinks, or in respect of an holy day, or of
the new moon, or of the sabbath-days, which
are shadows of good things to come, but the
body is Christ.—Wherefore, if ye be dead
with Christ from the rudiments of the world,
why, as though living in the world, are you
subject to the ordinances ? (" Touch not,
taste not, handle not,) which all are to perish
with the using."
CHAP. IX.
ON THE SCRIPTURES.
Different notions relative to the rules and government of
the Church. The Scriptures not a sufficient rule, nor is the
Spirit blended with the letter to make the rule of christian
faith and practice. The Spirit alone is a sufficient guide in
to all truth as the scriptures say. The scriptures are not the
word of God, neither are the scriptures the gospel. Christ
is the word of God, and the gospel is that which is preached
by the spirit to all men.
Perhaps there is no book in the world, (the
Alcoran excepted), for which men have con
tended with more zeal than they have for the
bible. And though the former has been for
many years favored with the most advocates,
yet few of(hem, if an^, have been more blind
and wicked than those who have and do ad
vocate for the latter. When I speak of the
bible, I speak of the revelation of God—the
395
history of the world—the God of thousands—
a stumbling block to the blind, and the foun
dation of priest-craft—the means by which
satan, through his prelates, has served himself
the best advantage in his kingdom. The
bible is a good book, little understood and less
obeyed. Men have strove to make the bible
answer that which has from time to time suit
ed their designs, taste and times best.
As I have observed that most of the reli
gious contrivances are built upon the letter of
the scripture, I do not feel free to let these
few sheets go out, without making a few re
marks on the use, advantage, and misuse of
the bible.
The notions ofthe several religious dcmon-
inations on the use and intention of scripture,
may be comprised in three opinions. The
first is that the scriptures are the only and suf
ficient rule of christian faith and practice ;
and that, with the scripture, the church is
completely furnished} therefore no immedi
ate revelation may be expected at this day.
The second opinion is, that the scriptures,
with the spirit of God, make up the only and
sufficient rule for faith and practice conse
quently die church must look for revelation,
because, (they say), that the bible is a spirit
ual book and cannot be understood but. by
the spirit. The third class ascribe unli mil ed
power to the spirit and revelation of God,and
say, that it is through the spirit of Ood that
396
the church is to be perfected and led accord
ing to all the purposes of God, without being
dependant on the letter ; that is, they believe
that divine revelation is absolutely as neces
sary for the church now,as it was in the days
of the apostles ; and as indispensably neces
sary as if there was no bible at all. These,
though they believe the spirit to be a sufficient ^
rule, yet. they are willing that all their doc
trine and practice should be tried by the scrip
tures. They are willing also to admit, that
whatsoever doctrine, (though pretended to be by
the spirit,) if it be contrary to the intention and
tenor of the scripture ; it should be accounted a
delusion of the devil. Of these three opinions
I shall appear on the part of the last, and pro
ceed to a refutation of the others.
Those who are of the first opinion, act
measureably consistent with their belief, but
(I think), inconstant with the truth. They act
consistent with their beliefbecause they have
established the discipline of their church ac
cordingly. If it be said that the scriptures
are the only rule for the order and the govern
ment of the church ; then the prosperity of
the church consists in preserving a knowledge
of the letter. To this end a classical educa
tion is indispensably uecessary. For this in
tent schools of divinity are kept up, seminar
ies of learning are established, and ifit is right
that the cause of God should be supported it
cannot be done without great expense of time
and money, or that which is equivalent ; and
397:
is it right that a few individuals should preach
and support the supposed cause, at theirown
expense ? Answer, no : the parishioners should
be taxed, and made to bear their proportion
ate part, in the support of the church, sacra
ments, &c. And indeed, ifdivine revelation
has ceased, and if the church is dependant on
the letter, then the wise amongst men should
be selected and educated at the expense of
the people, and when it is necessary that they
spend from seven to fourteen years for accom
plishment in the different languages ; it is
right that they should for their time and mon
ey be rewarded, according to their proficien
cy. If a man is idle, and does not get that
accomplishment, which he had ought, give
him a reasonable support; if he knows little,
he need to study the more, so he cannot la
bor ; give him three hundred dollars a year.
If a man is more valuable his care for the flock
must be in proportion to the qualification of
his mind ; and if a valuable man, (valuable
men ate scarce,) undoubtedly the offices of
the church, with all its business,will be crowd
ed upon him ; give him fifteen hundred dol
lars a year, it is just that the man should be
rewarded according to his merit. If money
is scarce, be careful and make the lax equal,
the rich with the poor, and for the want of*
funds, take a eow ; no matter, if it is the
last the poor man has ; it is just that he should
pay his proportion with the rest. Ifthe church
is dependant on the letter, the preacher has
Kk
398
no divine aid to expect, therefore he never
should attempt to deliver his discourses ex-
temporarily, let him write down his discourse
in a book, and if he should teach the people
an error, it is only for the want of a better ed
ucation, that he might understand the bible
more perfectly. I say this method of pro
cedure is measureably consistent with the
tenets with which it is connected,but I say it
is inconsistent with the truth.
First. It is inconsistent that Christ should
have come into the world to suffer and to
bring a dispensation so much inferior to the
law of Moses. The apostle when speaking
of the ministration of the law dispensation, (2
Cor. iii. 7, 8, 9, &c.) shows that it was reckon
ed without glory, because the ministration of
the spirit was much more glorious.And it is said
that " Moses put a veil over his face, because
the children of Israel could not steadfastly look
to the end of that which" was to be " abolish
ed." Certainly this saying ofthe apostle has
an allusion to the dispensation of the gospel,
when he spoke of that excelling glory. Now
reader shall we say that the apostle here had
an allusion to the bible ? Answer, no : for
there is not the least reason to bring in support
of the notion. When we look at that dispen
sation, God was the interpreter of the law.
A priest repaired to the altar, and the Lord
was heard to speak in the most momentous,
down to matters of a very small importance.
A sure interpretation with oronpr instruction,
399
was sure to be given to the people. What
have we like the testimony ofangels or a burn
ing bush? What have we like the miracles
of Egypt, and the dividing of the sea ?
What guide have we like the pillar ofcloud
by day and the pillar of fire by night? What
witness have we like the burning and thun-
derings of Mount Sinai ? What witness have
we that God regards his people more now
than when he gave them bread from Heaven
for the space of forty years ? What will be
to us, the testimony of Samuel, when God
spoke to him with an audible voice,twice,and
again twice ? Is that dispensation removed,
and a better exchange made to us by giving
us the bible, a dark and intricate volume,
which takes seven years to understand ; yes,
seven years twice told, leave the people as
much in the fog, as to the knowledge of the
real truth as when they first began. What a
miserable exchange is this !
Could we not say, Lord take back the pre
cious book, and give us Moses to go before
that we may be no longer doubting about thi3,
that and the other notion, or the interpreta
tion of this or that scripture. Surely 1 think
common sense teaches us that the bible is no
thing to be compared with the glory of the
law dispensation besides the many difficulties
which attend such notions.
If there be no revelation of the Spirit, then
there is'no knowledge of God, to one more
than another, the letter is all, and all who
400
read may be equally benefitted. It is use
less to talk of saint and sinner, and of being
born again, seeing there is no Spirit to be
born of. This doctrine is inconsistent with
the scriptures, for the writings of all the an
cient christians bear a testimony of the Spirit.
Saying, " It is the Spirit that quickenetb,
(John vi. 63.) It was the Spirit that gave them
utterance, (Acts, ii. 4.) it was the Spirit by
which Stephen spake when the Jews were
not able to resist him, (Acts, vi. 10.) it is by
walking in the Spirit that christians are free
from condemnation, (Rom. viii. 1.) the law
of the Spirit of life makes free, (verse 2.) it
is by the Spirit of God dwelling in us, that
we are redeemed from the flesh ; and from
the carnal mind, (verse 10.) it is the Spirit of
God dwelling in us that quickeneth our mor
tal bodies, (verse 1 1.) by the Spirit, the deeds
of the body are mortified, and life obtained,
(verse 13.) by the Spirit we cry Abba Father,
(verse 15.) it is the Spirit that beareth wit
ness with our Spirit, that we are the children
of God, (verse 16.) the Spirit maketh inter
cessions for us, (verse 26.)
It was by the Spirit that both wisdom and
knowledge, faith and miracles, tongues and
prophecies were obtained. I Cor.xii. 8,9, 10.
It is by the Spirit that we are all baptized into
one body,(l Cor.xii. 13.)an6," ifany man have
not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his.v—
Rom. viii. 9.
When we once do away the idea of the
401
Spirit, we may at once put away the belief
that there is a good man on the earth ; and
we may just as well throw away the bible as
to perplex ourselves with it. For the promis
es of life therein, are only to such as abide
in Christ whereby they partake of Spiritual
sap and nourishment through him.
Feeling that the first opinion, is sufficiently
refuted, 1 pass to notice that opinion which
would incorporate the letter with the Spirit.
This opinion is as inconsistent (all but,) as
the former. For if it takes the letter to make
out the one rule, then no person can be a
christian without the bible. If it should be
acknowledged that there are christians who
know nothing about the bible, then we sup
pose that the Spirit of God is sufficient, in
dependent of the letter; but otherwise, this
opinion lays us under obligation to the letter
as well as that notion already noticed. These
may establish their seminaries of learning as
well as others, and though they cry out much
against preaching for money, and against the
notion of making learning a necessary qual
ification for a preacher, yet they pillage the
labors of the more industrious ; for as they
say that they could not have a rule without
the bible, surely some one must have had
learning, or they must have been destitute of
a rule. Their own system declares that it
is necessary that a knowledge of the letter be
preserved, this may as well be done at their
402
expense as others. The people of this opin
ion are much opposed to preaching by note,
but I confess that for twenty years past, I have
never heard one of them preach in any other
way. For though they do not take their pen
and write down their sermons, they do that
which is worse. The man who taketh is pen
first chooses his text, and by the help of his
concordance,brings such passages as will fa
vor his ideas of the subject ; consequently
the people hear the scriptures explained to
them in order. But these last choose a text
but instead of committing the subject to or
der by the pen, they trust their memory ;—
consequently their subject is more or less ir
regular. What they labor about, is the let
ter, the difference is then,they first transcribe
their notes, and the other, (for notes,) read
out of the epistles. As both of them ack
nowledge that they could do nothing without
the bible, I infer, that,to take the letter from
them, they would have nothing to do.
As every error has its own inconsistency in
it,so we may see, by pursuing our subject a
little further the inconsistency of blending the
letter with the Spirit. It is said that we must
try theSpiritby the word (meaning the letter.)
Notice, reader, tCT if the bible be a spiritual
book, as they say, and cannot be understood,
but by the Spirit, then why go to the bible to
try the Spirit? for if the bible cannotbe under
stood but by the Spirit,then it remains that we
are under the necessity of knowing that we
403
havfe got the Spirit of God,before we go to try
ourselves by the bible. Here it is plain that
this notion, that the letter and the Spirit are
inseparably connected, contradicts itself. I
say that I have got the Spirit : is there a pos
sibility that I am deceived ? Yes, says one.
Then how shall 1 know that I have the true
Spirit ? Until this knowledge can be obtain
ed according to their notion, the bible is com
pletely useless. The idea that the letter is
incorporated into the Spirit,to help make out
the dispensation of the gospel, supposes that
men cannot be saved without the bible. I
say the scriptures are not so much as one
stone in the foundation upon which Godhas made
man's salvation dependant. If so, what has
become of all such as have died without the
knowledge of the bible ? Shall millions and
tens of millions of poor souls be damned be
cause they have no knowledge of the scrip
tures ? Shall they be damned for not obtaining
a knowledge of that which they did not know
was in the world ? Shall they be consigned
to everlasting misery for want of that,ofwhich
they had no knowledge, nor means whereby
they might obtain it ! ! What has become of
the multitude of infants and others, who have
not come to the knowledge and means ofun
derstanding the scriptures ? Shall all these be
damned ? ICT* This does militate against
the wisdom and justice of God, and against
the gospel dispensation^and it cannot (I tniim)
justly be denied.
404
Though, these sectaries, both the former
and the latter say, that the scriptures, or the
scriptures with the spirit, make up the one rule
of faith and practice ; yet how inconsistent
do they act with their profession ; for if these
make up the faith of the church, and as they
say, the only and a sufficient rule, then why do
they add to them their articles of faith or
church discipline. These disciplines appeal
to be so necessary to their framers, that they
think it is impossible that the church should
do well without them. Does not this argue
their pretended rule is not sufficient for them?
There are other orders of people who object
to a discipline for the reason aforesaid that the
scriptures with the Spirit of God^are the only
and and a sufficient rule : but if their rule is
perfect and sufficient to bring them to the
truth, why do they constitute two classes of
people. Surely it is plain to be seen that
some of them intend to deceive one another,
or their rule is not sufficient to bring them
to the truth, for their preaching is very dif
ferent one from the other,and indeed there is
but a little fellowship between them.
Should I say that the scriptures of them
selves, or that the scriptures blended with the
Spirit of God are not a sufficient rule, the
reasons already suggested, with a hundred
others, that I might bring, would appear in
support of my assertion. Should I say that
the Spirit of God, of itself is a sufficient rule,
to this all the scripture testimony would a-
405
gree. The mischief of divisions and subdi
visions among professors, come by blending
the letter with the Spirit, whereas the Spirit
has nothing to do with the letter, but is inde
pendent and perfect of itself. If we turn to
the letter of the scripture, it is there, men
form all their different doctrines and notions.
The scriptures, through the disorganized sys
tem of their understanding, amounts to an
imperfect rule, and to blend the letter with
the Spirit renders the rule of the christian
faith and practice still imperfect; and denom
inations are multiplied upon the letter, and
are left to dash one upon the other as they do,
the Spirit of God will not help them form
tenets on baptism and communion. The
Spirit will not tell men whether baptism
should be by immersion, sprinkling or pour
ing ; whether the sacramental bread should
be leavened or unleavened ; whether the sa
crament should be given in the morning or
in the evening ; whether men should be open
or close communioners : in all these, people
have been governed by their own judgment,
and as they have received the scriptures for
more than what they were intended, (as I
shall hereafter show,) the letter has killed—
they have not yielded to be led of the Spirit,
but have been bending the Spirit to the let
ter, and so to their own judgment and under
standing. The notion of binding the Spirit
to the letter is not consistent with reason,
and no less inconsistent with the scriptures.
It is often said that we are to try the Spirit by
the word, (meaning the letter,) but there is
no scripture to that effect. It is said, (1 John I
iv. 1.) " Try the Spirits whether they be of
God." It is the false Spirits that are to be I
tried, by the Spirit of God, but the Spirit of I
God is not to be arraigned to our tribunal,' '
but, by the Spirit of God, we are to be tried,
and to try every thing else, even the scrip
tures themselves are tried by the Spirit of
God.
What spiritual knowledge do men derive
from the scriptures ? Do the scriptures first
tell the preacher,that he has a call fromGod to
preach : and in what place, and from what
text does he learn his duty, and the condi
tion of his people ? How do men know that
there was ever a Saviour from the scripture?
Surely he may be favored with the best his
torical reasons, but historical reasons do not
amount to a proper evangelical, orchristain
knowledge, he must be ignorant, for aught of
any saving knowledge he may gain in any
way but by the Spirit of God.
Here I will appear in vindication of the
sufficiency of the Spirit of God, as the only
rule of faith and practice, christian perfec
tion and knowledge. I say that a proper
knowledge of God is not given by the scrip
tures, for the Jews had the scriptures as well ,
as we, and yet it was said of them, (Jer. v.2.)
" though they say the Lord liveth, surely they
swearfalsely." There is much difference be-
407
tween a scriptural knowledge and a proper
christain knowledge of God, as there is be
tween the historical knowledge of fire, and
that knowledge which is imparted by the
power ofthe element itself. It is notuncom-
nion that letteral men destroy the use of the
scriptures by putting too much stress upon
the letter. A preacher in my hearing once
declared to a congregation, that if it were not
for the scriptures, mankind would not know
whether they were men,bears or other beasts.
My reader can judge for himself, whether
the heathen as they are called, do not know
themselves and each other, from beasts, &c.
I record the above instance, because I know
that preachers are daily sending forth such
expressions in favor of the letter, whereby the
mind of the unspiritual, become attached to
the bible, as the Mahometans are to the
Alcoran.
Some contend that men could not know
whether they had religion, yea or nay, but by
the bible. When we consider that the name
is no part of the thing, the assertion would
simply amount to this, that men could not
know the presence of God, but by the scrip
ture ; this would be reducing the religion of
Jesus Christ which is inwardly in the soul to
a mere form and theory, as if it could be com
municated to men by word without power:
but contrary to this, there are instances where
men have labored in the ministry for for
ty years, with all the sagacity of a wise and
403
prudent mind, and though possessed of all the
privileges of human learning, they have in the
end been brought to know the " truth" as the
Psalmist says, " in the inner parts," and have
acknowledged, that notwithstanding their in
cessant labor on the scripture, they have
found themselves at last without a knowledge
of the gospel truth.—They have found, that
their attention had been too much on the let
ter, whereby they had not enough heard to
the inward teachings of the Spirit. This
shows us that the truth is only to be found by
the Spirit, and I appeal to every person who
is acquainted with revealed religion, when
they were brought to know the truth, if they
were not disappointed ; yea, with all their
reading, and worldly attainments, their lan
guage is the language of truth: " / was led in
a waywhich I knew not, and in a path which I
had not seen."
For instance, a man never knew pain, or
the distressofany particular disorder—though
I might be suffering under its keenest influ--
ence, by what means, or manner of commu
nication could I impart an unlimited or prop
er knowledge of my distress ; seeing the man
is a stranger to the nature of my disorder ?—*
My distress is invisible to the natural eye.—
So is the work ofreforming grace equally in
visible to the natural understanding. We see
in the nature of our subject, that the thing
must exist before a description can be given,
hence, when we look into the scriptures, we
409
read that " love worketh no ill to hi3 neigh
bour," (Rom. xiii. 10.) and that, " We know
that we have passed from death unto life, be
cause we love the brethren," (1 John,iii. 14.)
but the question is, are we only sensible of
Jove, because we so read the scripiures ?—
Certain, I think it is self-evident that what
we read is no part of the thing, but only a
description of that principle which we before
had within us ; this shows us that the thing,
or that the principle existed previous to the
description of it. This shows us that chris-
lianity may, and does exist, without the
knowledge of the letter ; and so independent
is the Spirit from the letter, that " He that be-
lieveth hath the witness within himself," 1 John
v. 10. God's Spirit hath its own interpreta
tion in it, and the heathen as well as thou
sands of others who know nothing about the
letter, feel from time to time, its powerful in
fluence. I certify that I knew the dealings
of God with me, while as yet I was destitute
of a knowledge of the scriptures. If it were
not for the Spirit, I ask how christians could
know their sins forgiven ? certain the scrip-
lures of themselves cannot give this knowl
edge, surely the scriptures read alike to all
men, and if they read alike to all, then was
it not for the image ofthe Spirit prepossessed
in the soul, then certain the christian would
not recognize that image, when it is describ
ed, sooner than any other man. Let us sup
pose the scriptures to be a mirror. Must not
410
the person be possessed with body and parts,
before he can discover himself therein, and
though the person discovers his features now,
this docs not show that the man had no
knowledge of himself before.—Again. How
shall we be able to find our membership in
the church or body of Christ ? What scrip
tures inform me that I must preach or that I
must wait on exhortation ? How shall we
know whether our call is to the work of mir
acles, interpretation,prophecy,or whether our
gift is that of discerning of Spirits ? This, I
think, must be the work of the Spirit to dis
cover to us all these things.
Nothing can be more clear than that the
Spirit independent of the letter is the proper
rule ; and that the christian may possess a
knowledge of God though he may be desti
tute of a knowledge in the letter, and though
the Spirit does not bring with it the name,
(religion,) yet it brings the nature of Christ,
which is good enough without a name.
It is by the Spirit of God, that men are
taught the things ofGod, and he that is Spir
itual knoweth all things, the Spirit leadeth
into all truth. "As many as are led by the
Spirit of God,arethe sons of God." It is said,
(1 John, ii. 27.) "the same anointing which
ye have received of him, abideth inyou,and
ye need not that any man teach you, but ***
the same anointing teacheth you of all
things."
"fclpw reader, ifit should be asked me what
411
I think of the bible, I think it is one of the
best of books ; but for us to be profited by it,
we should receive it for just that which it is,
no more nor no less. Such as read the scrip
tures, should be careful to observe that they
are naturally divided into two parts, (to wit,)
history and divine revelation. That part of
the scriptures which relate to revelation is
the books of Jeremiah, Isaiah, Exekiel,
Psalms, with the Epistles ofthe apostles, and
that book called Revelations. These books
with all such scriptures as speak of the
coming ofthe Messiah,and relate to doctrine,
may be called revelation. But all the old
Testament records, which relate to the Jew
ish wars, with the four evangelists, and the
book of Acts are all history. It is such scrip
ture as we call revelation, that meets the re
velation of the Spirit in the heart of every
christian. Should the christian turn to the
book of Psalms, he would there trace every
feature of his soul, either in sorrow or in joy.
Should he turn to the Prophets, and mark the
beautiful harmony there is between their
prophecies, and view the kingdom of Christ
illustrated by the most beautiful metaphors,
he has joy because he feels that they are all
fulfilled by the measure of the Spirit which
he enjoys. If we read in the epistles of the
apostles, these generally relate" tb doctrine,
and but little is said about ordinances. The
doctrine of the apostles are so clearly set
forth, that they need but little explanation.—
412
Here we read that the works of the flesh, are
manifested in adultery, fornication, unclean-
ness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, ha
tred, variance, emulation, wrath, strife, sedi
tion, heresies, envyings, murder, drunkenness,
revilings, and such like. Of the Spirit, it is
said, that the fruits, are love, joy, peace, long
sufferings, gentleness, goodness, faith, meek
ness, temperance, &c. ^ These all are doc-
trineSjWhich immediately are connected with
the doctrines ofthe gospel preaching. These
admit of but little doubt or dispute amongst
christians ; the fruits of the flesh and the fruits
of the Spirit, are as self-evident as the sun at
noon-day. It is in these scriptures that the
christian feels his witness because they cor
respond with the witness of the Spirit, which
he has within him. And as they correspond
with his feelings, they are to him a witness
and confirmation of hope. When we turn to
the evangelists, the acts of the apostles, and
to the other writings, we there meet with ma
ny things equally comforting to our mind, but
should here notice that we embrace, as in a
history, all the transactions which took place
amongst the apostles, whether relating to the
law or the gospel. We there read that Christ
was circumcised and baptized. This was
because he was under the law. We read a-
gain that Christ commanded the pharisees to
offer tithes of mint, annis and cumin, and the
leper to show himself to the priests, and to
offer the gift which was commanded in the
413
law of Moses : all this is recorded, because it
was done ; and it was done,because they were
under the law : therefore, it is no rule for us.
Christ commanded his disciples to obey the
scribes and the pharisees, in all they com
manded, but that injunction is nothing to us.
Christ himself also kept the passover, and be
haved in every respect, as the law required
him, and commanded others to do the same.
When we pass on, we read that Peter com
manded the family of Cornelius to be baptiz
ed ; but what of that ? He only did it by the
same authority that others contended that
they must be circumcised. James commands
the anointment of oil ; but what of it ? It
was only because that he was prejudiced in
favor ofthe law : and though the apostle Paul
baptized the Corinthians, he also circumcised
Timothy ; but what is all this to us ? For the
one he was sorry, and both he did in conform
ity to the law. The same apostle observed
feasts, vows, offerings, purifications, and com
manded kissing; but what is that to us?—
These all should be set off one against the o-
ther, as so many instances of conformity to
the law and the time in which they lived.—
All these ceremonies are things very foreign
from the gospel. These are the things which
afford matter for dispute amongst christians.
They are not found among the gospel teach
ing ofthe apostles and of Christ ; but in their
acts in conformity to the law and the time in
which they lived. There is as much authority
414
to enjoin one of these ceremonies as there is
the other ; but I have before said that the
scriptures were not given us to make up the
christian rule, but that the Spirit is the suffi
cient guide, and to this the scriptures agree.
When we read scripture, we should be care
ful to mark the difference there is between
history and revelation, and because this is
not done, the people of most all denomina
tions are spoiled by Judaizing teachers who
preach and command such things as seem ta
suit them best, but all of which, when prop
erly considered, will not amount to a com
mand or example to us.
The scriptures are the most impartial writ
ings in the world ; they were written without
regard to person or sect. We find recorded
in the scriptures the ambition of James and
John, the apostacy and dissimulation of Pe
ter, the incredulity of Thomas, the dissension
between Paul and Barnabas, with many oth
er things, which show to us, that the scrip
tures were in the first place impartially writ
ten. The scriptures were written for two
purposes, (to wit,) for our learning and hope.
Saith the apostle, (Rom. xv. 4,) " Whatever
things were written aforetime ; were written
for our learning, that we through the patience
and comfort of the scriptures, might have
hope." That part of the scriptures which a-
mounts to a history, was written for our infor
mation. They should not be considered as
written by immediate inspiration, but by per
415
mission ; what Luke wrote, he wrote as he
had understood from others, and that whfch
he knew of things that had passed. And
there would be no sense in saying men were
articularly inspired to write things which
ad gone before, and such things as they had
seen with their natural eye. None of the e-
Yangelists, (I think,) pretend to have written
by inspiration, and because they did not
write by inspiration, there is not that clear
ness and harmony in their accounts,that there
is in the prophecies. It is contended by most
christians that the evangelists in writing in
tended to supply the defect of one another.
Luke says, in the introduction of his book,
" For inasmuch as many have taken it in hand
to set forth in order a declaration of those
things which are most surely believed a-
roong us, even as they delivered them unto
us, which from the beginning were eye-wit
nesses, and ministers of the word, it seemed
good unto me also, having had perfect un
derstanding of all things, from the very first,
to write unto thee in order, most excellent
Theophilus."
Because Luke had a knowledge of things
and as many others had written it seemed best
and good for him to write also, but he pre
tends to no immediate inspiration in the
thing. It is most likely that the other writ
ings were written for the same reason, that
Luke wrote. And the book of Acts, which
was written by Luke, should be considered
416
one with the rest. These writings were writ
ten for our information and learning, but the
things recorded in them were not written for
our rule, as I have before shown. Other
scriptures are written more particularly for
comfort and hope, and they are comforting lo
us, because they witness to the spirit which
we feci. They confirm our hope,but should be
considered as superabundant means. Peter
himself shows that this was the intention of
his writing, 2 Pet. i. 12, 13. "Wherefore I
will not be negligent to put you always \n
remembrance of these things, though ye
know them and be estbalished in the present
truth ; yea, I think it meet, as long as I am
in this tabernacle, to stir you up by putting
you in remembrance." God is the teacher
of his people himself ; and there is nothing
more clear than that such as are under the
new covenant " need no man's teachings to
supply any deficiency in the rule of the Spir
it. But all superabundant means are profita
ble to the edifying of the church, and it was
one of the fruits of the Spirit brought about
by the ascension of Christ, to furnish us with
the scriptures, and many other Spiritual writ
ings which are written by godly men since
the days ofthe apostles.—Says Robert Bar
clay, in his Apology, page 97th, " Though
God doth principally lead us by his Spirit,
yet he sometimes conveys his comfort to us
through his children whom he raises up and
inspires to speak or write a word in season,
417
whereby the saints are made instruments in
the hand of the Lord to strengthen and en
courage one another, which doth also attend
to perfect and make them wise unto salvation;
and such as are led by the Spirit, cannot neg
lect but do naturally love, and are wonder
fully cherished by .that, which proceedeth
from the same Spirit in another ; because
such mutual emanations of the heavenly life
attend to quicken the mind when at any time
it is overtaken with heaviness," All these
things are to be considered secondary in the
privileges of the church ; and, so it is, that
the Spirit of God is sufficient of itself to
bring men to God, and to make mankind ful
ly accountable to God for their conduct in
life, though they have not the scriptures, or
any outward preaching. Suppose a man up
on a journey ; though he knows the way in
which he is to travel, he will choose an agree
able friend that his time may pass more a-
greeably away, but this does not prove that
the man was deficient in a knowledge of the
way in which Tie was to go, or that he could
not have performed the journey without the
friend. So God, in the gift of his Spirit,
gave us a complete, full, and sufficient rule,
but he yet has given us many privileges
through the Spirit, but all these privileges
are not to go before the Spirit, they are not
to make christians less dependant on the
Spirit, they are not to supply a (supposed) de
fect in the rule of the Spirit, nor to tak e the
418
Spirit from us ; the man of God is as much
dependant on divine revelation, as if there
were not a scrap of scripture in the world.-—
In the Spirit there is a fulness. There is no
difficulty which can arise to an individual, or
to the church, of a Spiritual consequence,
but what must be referred to the Spirit ; and
to this the scriptures agree. If a man escapes
the bondage of his sins, it must be through
the Spirit. If a member of the church be
comes an offender, he must be reclaimed or
cut off by the Spirit, and not by the letter.^
The scriptures say we shall visit an offender
with conditions, three times ; but this does
not in the least determine but what I may
visit him a dozen times, if I have a mind.—
Tne scriptures give no invariable rule for such
dealings, but submit the whole to the lead
ings of the Spirit.
As I have observed that such and such
scriptures are not to be considered as written
by immediate inspiration, I would observe
that they are to be considered as written by
good men and though their writings do not
perfectly correspond in every instance, it is
because that the account of the one is more
full than the other; or because the one was
not personally knowing to all that look place ;
or in consequence of the accidents of time,
and translations, and the like of that, which
has happened unavoidably to the scrip
tures. Not" ithstanding all this, these writ
ings ought to be received as epistolary trea-
419
sures by all christians, not as a rule, but as a
testimony. It is said,(2Tim. iii. 16,17.) "All
scripture is given by inspiration of God."—
From this passage many have strove to incor
porate all the New Testament records with
the prophecies : but this scripture has no al
lusion to the New Testament writings, for
they were not written, when this was spoken.
And further more, to say that this passage
must include all the New Testament records,
would make the scripture contradict itself—
for the apostle Paul says, (1 Cor. vii. 6, 12,
25,) that he spoke not by commandment, [or
inspiration,] but by permission. Now as I
suppose that it will not be denied but what
this 7th chap, is scripture, then it remains that
all scripture is not given by inspiration. I
suppose that the scriptures to which the apos
tle alludes in his epistle to Timothy, was the
writing of the Old Testament, and such scrip
tures as predicted of the coming of the Mes
siah, As Timothy well understood these
scriptures, by adding to his knowledge faith
in Christ Jesus, (as the text says,) he was to
be made wise unto salvation, (ve. 15.) These
scriptures were " profitable for doctrine, for
reproof, for correction, for instruction and
righteousness, that the man of God" might
"be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all
good work." These scriptures answered the
apostles a very valuable purpose against the
Jews, who said to believe in them, be
cause the fulfilment of them had just taken
420
place, by the life, death, and resurrection of
Christ. The parties, as it were, were all then
present, and the apostles labored out of these
scriptures to show that Jesus was the Christ,
and was able to make it appear by compar
ing the prophecies with the things which the
Jews themselves had witnessed, and seen of
Christ. These scriptures were more to the
Jews than they can possibly be to any other
people, who have lived since their time, be
cause they were eye-witnesses. If we notice
the text, the word (is) is marked in italics,
which denotes that it was no part of the orig
inal text, but that it was added as the transla
tors deemed necessary, to make up the sense.
Without this addition the text would read,
"All scripture given by inspiration of God is
profitable," &c. We should be left then to
determine what parts of the scripture were
given by inspiration of God. This is all but
self-evident to every christian who reads the
scripture attentively ; for inspiration will meet
inspiration, and if all have the Spirit of God,
these will be an internal witness ; whereas, if
he should read the other parts of scripture
from whence tenets are derived, doubts, and
disputes will immediately arise.
I believe the scrip' ures to be profitable
but I do not believe that they were intendedto
occupj the place in the church, which many
retend. I believe the scriptures, but I do not
elieve the testimony of many concerning
them, (to wit,) I do not believe that they ar«
421
so much as one stone in the foundation upon
which God hath made man's salvation de
pendant, ifso, setting aside the heathen, who
know nothing of the scriptures. The deaf
children and idiots, what will they do, seeing
they cannot read for themselves, being with
out ability and uninformed, are all these with
out a rule of life or means of salvation ? No,
it is said, " they shall all be taught of God,"
{John, vi. 46.) " and they shall all know me
from the least to the greatest." Heb. viii. 11.
There are thousands in our country who can
not read a single word in our own mother
tongue, with these there are thousands ofoth
ers who know nothing of the languages in
which the scriptures were first written—mis
erable case indeed !-~these must all be de
pendant upon the interpretation given by
others—a miserable foundation indeed, for
men to build their faith upon, seeing linguists
are not agreed, and the most learned are
not agreed among themselves, what it is
that constitute* the rule ofchristian faith and
practice. What impositions have taken
place among papists, (and no less among
protestants,) for when they saw that theyse-
cond command stood against the use of im
ages, they would not receive it into their
catechism, so thousands among them knows
not from their teachers but what the use of
images may be correct. As among papists,
even so among protestants, many, by trust
ing to the teachings of others, ignorantly
Mm
422
continue in things improper, and confidently
believe a lie.
The above considerations render it ne
cessary that the unlearned should have some
more perfect rule, and so it is, The grace of
God which bringeth salvation hath appeared un
to all men, (Tit. ii. 11,) and it is by this grace
and Spiritual guidance that the unlearned a-
mong men have been able to contend with
the learned and even dispute the rendering
of the scriptures. Saith R. Barclay, " I my
self have known some of my friends, who
profess the same faith with me * * * who not
only were ignorant of the Greek and Hebrew,
but even some of them could not read their
own vulgar language, who being pressed by
their adversaries with some citations out of
the English translation,and finding them to dis
agree with the manifestation of truth in their
own hearts, have boldly affirmed, that the
Spirit of God never said so, * * * which when
I on this account seriously examined, I really
found them to be errors and corruptions of the
translators, who (as in most translations,) do
not so much as give us the general significa
tion of the words, as strain them to express
that which comes near to that opinion and no
tion they have ofthe truth." Apol. p. 96.
unlearned have been ravored with the help
of the Spirit, I will here mention the case of
Edward Burt, a deaf and dumb man who
now resides in the town of Alexander, some-
I might brio
423
thing like fifty miles from this place. This
man has given the most incontestible proofs
of his conversion to God. I should have
been highly gratified to have found room
here for many things relative to this man's
conversion, but as there are hundreds of liv
ing witnesses, who are acquainted with the
circumstances, the less may be said. I had
often heard of this man, but had a desire
to satisfy myself more fully, and accordingly
a few months since, I visited the place of his
residence. The object of my visit was to
learn from his parents how far their instruc
tions might have influenced the mind of their
son in his reformation of life. I was inform
ed that very Utile religious instruction had
been given to him previous to his conversion,
and that, his experiance was more than he
had been taught, I was informed that he was
naturally very proud, and quick tempered,and
hat sobriety, temperance and meekness were
the first evidences of his change of mind.—
The second proof of his conversion was ev
idently shown in this, that he communicated
things which were shown him in the vision
of the night—things which never were, and
which could have never been communicat-
anddumb, he has no understanding of the
scriptures, therefore, he stands like a miracle
to confirm the truth.
Well did Christ say, •* I am the true light
that lighteth every man who com'eth into the
As this man is deaf
424
world," for in him, [the Word of God] was
life and the life was the light of man," as he
was the light so he continues to be the light,
or God's manifested Word to all men through
the Spirit as the scriptures show. The scrip
tures are not the Word ofGod as some say,but
ofthe Word of God. 1 believe as the scriptures
say, (John, i. 1,2, &c.) " In the beginning
was the Word, and the Word was with God
and the Word was God * * * *and the Word
was made flesh and dwelt among us."
The worlds were framed by the Word of God,
(Heb. xi. 3.) The Word of God is Jesus
Christ, " by him all things were created in
heaven and in earth visible and invisible."—
(Col. i. 16.) "All things were made by him ;
and without him wa3 not any thing made fhat
was made." John, i. 3. The word of God,
is the Spirit of God communicated to the
world : the " Word of God is quick and pow
erful, sharper than any two edged sword."
(Heb. iv. 12.) " Is not my Word," saith the
Lord, (Jer. xxiii. 29,) like a fire ? * ** * ; and
like a hammer that breakelh the rock in pie
ces? Thus I do believe the scriptures bat,
I do not believe that the scriptures were in the
beginning with God, or that the scriptures
were made flesh. I do not believe that the
scriptures are like a fire, or that they are
quick and powerful like a two edged sword,
neither do I believe that the worlds were
made by the scriptures. The scriptures were
not called fhe Word of God, until it was done
425
by the Pope and his predecessors. The
scriptures were so called, in the apostacy of
the church. Because, men put too much
stress on the letter, they have robbed the
people of the truth ; and for this reason, the
denunciation of the Lord against the false
prophets, ought to be heard at this day. Be
hold I am against prophets saith the Lord,
that seal my Word every one from his neigh
bor. What shall we say, to such teachers
as deny the power and sufficiency of the Spi
rit, and openly preach, and declare that their
foundation is in the letter ; nine tenths of our
preachers say that they would be without a
rule, had they no bible. Surely these can
not be the ministers which Christ has sent,
for such say as did the apostle ; " Our suffi
ciency is of God who hath made us able min
isters of the New Testament, not of the letter
but of the Spirit." Such preachers steal the
true Spiritual word, from the people, they
dupe the people to a dead letter, and " the
letter kills." " Behold I am against the profit
saith the Lord, that use .the tongue, and
say, he saith, **** and do cause my people
to err by their lies, and by their lightness. ***
I sent them not, I have not spoken to them,
yet they prophecy, **** they shall not profit
this people at all, saith the Lord." What
do the people know by such prophets, or
teachers, they are " ever learning but never
able to come to the knowledge of the truth.
They have invented to themselves the sy«tem
MO)2
426
of sermonizing in the letter. They choose a
text, and was it not lamentable it would be
laughable to see the .twisting, turnings and
different comments, there is frequently put
upon a few words of scripture. They draw
out head and horns to fit and defend their own
beloved dogmas, and the people know noth
ing by what they hear ; for should they heat
the game text preached from by different
preachers ten times running, perhaps not one
ofthem would preach like the other. 1 want
no greater proof to show that this is not of
God, than the confusion and darkness, which
attend such preaching. I do not say but the
man may use the scripture and make it profita
ble, but I say they have no right to use them
in this way, nor put them in the place of the
Spirit, it is the office of the Spirit to give the
condition of the people, and unless a teacher
is furnished by the Spirit he is not qualified
to open his mouth in the ministry. The
method of taking texts was not invented un
til several hundred years after the apostles.*
When the apostles and prophets spake from
scripture, it was to prove the fulfilment of
some prophecy, and like Philip, they embra
ced a subject and not a few words ; they
spake by the Spirit, therefore it was nothing
like the dreamings of many, who in our day
wrest the scriptures by their own false notions
and comments, that they may display their
parts in the letter? if a preacher preaches in
'OmoM I thiakni tb« fint whoinvented th|« meth0d efienoemizisg-
427
the power and demonstration of the Spirit,
though he may like Christ and the apostles
cite the meaningofscripture, without quoting
the exact order of the letter; because it is no
more orthodox it cannot be received. How
is the meek, humble, simple and life-giving
religion of Christ reduced, and the voluptuous
ness, pride and arrogance of the priesthood set
up by the use they make of the scriptures 1 !
I have said and do say, that the scriptures
are made the foundation for priest-craft.—
When the Pope could make the people be
lieve, that their salvation or damnation lay in
the power of the popedom, Tetzel's pardons
for sin were in good demand. So as long as
designing men can make the people believe,
that the bible is the only rule of life ; or if
they can make them believe that the bible is
absolutely necessary to salvation, so long
their merchandize will hold good. So long
they may display their parts and wits in the
affairs of religion, and stand in the holy place
showing themselves to be God, and that the
heathen, or such of God's creation who have
not the bible, must all be lost without them.
So long as they can make the people believe
these false notions of divinity, they will rob
them of the truth, and feed themselves, but
not the flock. They will couch upon beds of
ivory and eat the fatted calf of the stall ; their
eyes stand out with fatness, they will divine
for money and teach for hire ; and the fear of
God will be taught by the precepts of men.
423
But I do not believe them when they say the
scriptures are the light of the world, I believe
as the scriptures say, (John i. 4, 9,) that " in
him [Christ] was life, and the life was the
light of man * * * " this" is " the true
light which lighteth every man that cometh in
to the world." I do not believe that the bible
is the gospel, but I believe as the bible says,
(excepting the few accidents of time and
translation) that they are the scriptures of
truth. The gospel is the true light, and is-
the power of God unto salvation to every one
that believeth, (Rom. i. 10,) the gospel is ev
erlasting. (Rom. xiv. 6.) The gospel does not
stand in the wisdom of men nor virtue of mon
ey, but priests and bibles depend much upon
both : saith the apostle, Gal. i, 11,1 certify you
brethren, that the gospel which was preached
of me, is not after man : for I neither receiv
ed it of man neither was I taught it but by
the revelation of Jesus Christ." Then let the
scriptures be heard, " Freely ye have re
ceived, FREELV GIVE."
I have said and do say, that the bible is the
god of thousands. All nations swear by
their gods. They swear by that which they
reverence, and kiss that which they adore.—
I have seen fifty men swear by the bible (and
as often kiss it) in the course of a few hours;
end is not this the general custom of our na
tion ? I believe as the bible says, " Swear not
at all." Mat. v. 34. Most protestants say to
believe in the scriptures, and so the Jews pre-
429
tended to believe in Moses, but our Saviour
gave them to understand that they did not,
" For" (sailh he, John v. 46,) " had ye belie
ved Moses, ye would have believed on me ;
for he wrote of me."
Such was the foolish ambition of the Jews
about the letter of the law, that they were all
but destitute of the Spirit and meaning of it ;
so that they did not believe Moses ; for they
did not understand what he wrote. It was
said to them, 'Search,' or [" Ye do search the
scriptures,]and in them ye think ye have eter
nal life, and they are they which testify of
me ; and ye will not come unto me, that ye
might have life."* Notwithstanding the Jews
were so privileged with the scriptures and val
ued themselves for their credence, yet they
were unbelievers ; for they tarried by the let
ter thinking to find justification there, and
would not come to that which the letter tes
tified, of and find eternal life in Christ.
This is another proof that " eternal life'''' is
not in the scriptures, nor does eternal life con
sist in the deepest knowledge of them, as
some seem to suppose. The Jews searched
the scriptures excessively, yea, their care for
the scriptures was such they even numbered
* It appears that this passage is not a full translation, and ihnt the text
should have been rendered not in the potential, but in tire indicative
mood, that is; Ye search, or ye do search the scriptures. That this is
the proper rendering ofthe text appears evident from the general read
ing oftbe verse, for if the Jews wei-e deficient in a knowledge of tbe
scriptures, they could not have supposed that eternal life came by
them. I know of none who will deny but what the Jews did searcI, uim
scriptures, and that tbe text ought so to be understood"" «
Cl AfiW a Doles.
430
the words, and the letters of the law, yet with
the scriptures, and with the sagacity of their
scribes they did not attain to gospel truth.
As the Jews stumbled over the law of Mo
ses, so is the present age stumbling over the
letter of the scriptures. Most denominations
cry bible, bible, bible. But what does the
bible teach us? Answer, Spirit, Spirit, Spirit.
The whole tenor of the scriptures bear a tes
timony of the Spirit, and those who take up,
and stop to practice in the letter of the scrip
ture, are as far from being believers, and as
far from being in truth, as the Jews who
would not come to Christ. The scripture is
as incompetent to us for a rule of faith and
practice, as they are incapable of bringing all
the different denominations into one belief.
The scriptures as I have before observed are
to be reckoned among the superabundant priv
ileges of the christian, (that is) they are so
much more than what is required to make
out the perfect rule for all christians. The
scriptures are like a guide-board, which does
not stand in the way, but by the side of the
way ; they bear a testimony of that light
which is the light of all men, and to stop at
the literal meaning of scripture, and practise
in the letter is to turn aside, to abide by the
name of the city or place, instead of going to
the place itself.
I do not believe as many teach that the
scriptures are the only rule, nor that they are
necessarily blended with the Spirit to make
431
the rule, all these notions sufficiently refute
themselves when fathomed to the bottom,
but I frankly confess, that I believe as the
scriptures say, that the Spirit leadeth " into all
truth,—the Spirit searcheth all things, yea the
deep things of God. (1 Cor. ii. 10,)—walk in
the Spirit—abide in the Spirit—they that be
lieve, have the witness within themselves."
Saith the apostles, " know ye not that ye are
the temples of God—the Holy Ghost, is with
in you—the Holy Ghost teachetfo—the Holy
Ghost witnessetb—the Spirit of God dwel-
leth in you." So I say, "to the law and to
the testimony : if they speak not according
to this Word, it is because there is no light in
them," (Isai! viii. 20,) this law or testimony
and wordis the witness of the Spirit. " Saith
the Lord 1 will put my laws into their mind,
and write them in their hearts." Heb. viii. 10.
It is my desire, dear reader, that besides
being blessed with the gift of the scriptures,
we might be blessed with a Spiritual ministry.
I mean humble, holy, Spiritual, good men—
Priests, whose lips may keep knowledge, and
receive the law at the mouth of the Lord, for
no others are good. I know there are good
men in the ministry, and my desire is that
they may become free from itching ears and
maintain a Spiritual life in Christ. The
Lord " hath shewed thee O man what is
good ; and what doth the Lord require ofthee,
but to deal justly, and to lore mercy, and to
walk hu mbly with thy God ?" My prayer is
.432
that christians may know the humble path
which the vulture's eye never saw, nor the li
on's whelp never trod ; a religion without
bondage: achurch without confusion: preach
ers without pride : a gospel without incney,
with the love of Christ, which "passethknowl-
edge, and be filled with the love of God."
CHAP. X.
ON ORDINATION.
Ecclesiastical succession cannot be proved without admit
ting the Church ofRome to be the true church.—The wick-
•dnrss of the leaders of that church, and the pretensions of
pi nt' stunts on ordination, shown to hebut pretensions when
measured by the rules of that ceremony.—The Spirit is the
proper and only qualification for a gospel minister.
The ecclesiastical'claims for the rite of lay
ing on of hands is as destitute of authority, as
it is of imparting any real Spiritual qualifica
tion.
I shall not stop to notice those cruelties
which have arisen in days past among the
wicked, and vain pretenders to ecclesiastical
power ; all persons who have given them
selves the trouble to read the history of past
ages, have already marked the contests which
have arisen, not only by verbal disputes, but
the fighting, tumults, wars, devastations and
blood-shed, which is said to be more than all
that which has been in the conquering, over
turning and establishing states and kingdoms.
433
* The history of the late times,' says Barclay,
"are as full of the various tragedies acted
on account of this spiritual and ecclesias
tical monarchy and commonwealth, as the
histories of old times are of the wars and con
tests that fell out between the Assyrian, Per
sian, Greek and Roman emperors."
It has long been taught and warmly con
tended, that the Spiritual health of the
church must descend to them through
the succession of a regular ordained priest
hood ; and nothing is more common in reli
gious disputes at this, our day, than to hear
different denominations class each other with
Korah and Dathan—or charge each other
with being Abiramites, because they have
not come into the ministry by a proper suc
cession of priesthood ; as they are pleased to
call it. They contend with each other, that
such as cannot trace their ordination through
the episcopal line to the apostles are but vain
pretenders to inspiration and deceivers of the
people. All this censure and uncharitable-
ness is as one says, " because they have not
received divine authority, like a spark of elec
tric fire through the finger-ends of a right rev
erend Prelate."
The ceremony of the laying on of hands is
no more a gospel rite, than the many things
already noticed ; but it is to be considered a-
mong the many things which has descended
to the church through tradition. The laying
on of hands is first mentioned, Gen. xlviii. 14 5
wn
434
it was always used among the Jews, in
giving blessings, designing men to the priest
hood, and in the consecration of solemn sac
rifices, all which were a representation of the
divine appointment of the Son of God, who
was to be to the' world in the end both sacrifice
and Priest. The laying on of hands, come
into use in a very early time, and the cere
mony was divinely sanctioned as a type ;
which represented to impart power and
grace. It is said, (Deut. xxxiv. 9,) that " Josh
ua the son of Nun, was full of the spirit of wis
dom, for Moses had laid his hands upon him."
Now it is to be observed that Moses stood in
the character of God to Aaron, (Exod. iv. 16,)
and so he was to Joshua ; Aaron and Joshua
both represented the Saviour, whom God
hath ANOINTED, APPOINTED and ORDAINED to
be the judge of quick and dead.
There are several instances where the
laying on of hands, is mentioned in the scrip
tures, but all done according to the tradition
of the law ; the same as the apostles observ
ed vows, purifications, circumcision, anoint
ing with oil, &c. with other things which we
have mentioned. All these instances, when
properly considered, will not amount to any
example for us to lay on hands. Says Dr.
Isaac, " When our Lord chose twelve, that
he might send them forth to preach, he is
said to have ordained them ; but the word
ordained imparts no more then to constitute,
appoint, elect, and there is not the slightest in-
455
timation that he used any ceremonious con
secration."*
After the ascension of Christ, only two
persons, Matthias and Paul, were raised to
the office of the apostleship ; and neither of
them received any human ordination to
preach the gospel. The appointment of
Matthias is remarkable.—Peter stood up in
the midst of the disciples, the number of the
names together were about an hundred and
twenty, and made a speech on the necessity
of electing one to fill the place of Judas, who
had fallen by transgression ; " and they ap
pointed two, Joseph, called Barnabas, who
was sirnamed Justus, and Matthias." It ap
pears that the election was in the disciples
and when they could not determine which
of the two was the most suitable, the apos
tles did not pretend to take the matter to
themselves, but all parties agreed to refer
the election to God. They therefore prayed
and " gave forth their lots, and the lot fell
upon Matthias ;" and all we read more about
this business is that he was numbered with
the eleven apostles. Here the whole affair of
constituting an apostle was managed by God
and the people, without the eleven (who were
present) persuming either to appoint or con
secrate them afterwards.
• The apostle Paul did not think any human
ordination necessary to qualify him to preach
the gospel. " I certify you brethren" said
* See Adam Clarke's note, Mark, iii. 14.
436
he, " that the gospel which was preached of
me was not after man. When it pleased
God who separated me from my mother's
womb, and called me by his grace to reveal
his Son in me, that I might preach him a-
mong the heathen ; immediately I conferred
not with flesh and blood ; neither went Iivpto
Jerusalem, to them which were apostles before
mi, but I went into Arabia, and returned
again into Damascus. Then after three years,
I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter and a-
bode with him fifteen days, but othor of the
apostles saw I none, save James, I he Lord's
brother." From this account it is clear that
the apostle did not account human ordination
necessary, therefore went immediately to the
work whereunto God had called him, and
was employed full three years in preaching
the gospel, and planting churches before he
ever saw any of the apostles. I have not the
most distant idea, neither is there the least
evidence that the disciples which were scat
tered abroad upon the persecution of Steph
en, were all ordained by the laying on of
hands ; the ceremony was among other types
and was to be left with baptism and other
things under the more perfect dispensation.
See Heb. vi. 1, 2.
There is not the slightest evidence in the
whole of the New Testament records, lhat the
apostles ordained coadjutors or successors to
themselves in the apostolic office; and' even if
they had, a successor cannot be traced from
437
fhe apostles to the present time, unless it be
admitted that the church of Rome was a
true church—and that admitted, the succes
sion cannot then be proved, for it is well
known that the Papists cannot prove their
own succession. And even if the papists had
ho difficulty in proving their descent, what a
prostitution to the cause of Christ would it
be to trace any ecclesiastical succession
through that church, seeing the succession
must be throughheretics,schismatics,infidels,
idolators, simonites, drunkards, adulterers,
sodomites and murderers.
Pope GregoryVl.could neitherread nor write.
Schulphus was made archbishop of Rheims
when he was between four and five years of
age. Otho, called a council at Rome in the
year 963, to examine the conduct of Pope
John V 11. who had ordained bishops for mon
ey ; he also had ordained a boy of ten years
old bishop of Tudortine. Pope John was
guilty of sacrilege, murder and rapes ; he kil
led Benedict by putting out his eyes, and
John a cardinal, by cutting off one of his
members ; he set houses on fire, the clergy
and laity declared that he drank a health of
wine to the devil, and at his plays at dice
craved the help of Jupiter, Venus, and de
mons. The council put down John and set
up Leo. John called a council of bishops
who declared him to be the most godly, and
most holy pope, and cursed Leo and all his
adherents—the next year an incensed hus-
*2 y
"1. , «
438
band caught said John, where he had not
ought to have been, and beat out his brains.
Baronies and Binius, two celebrated histo
rians of the Romish church make John the
true pope to his death, and trace the succes
sion through him, in opposition to Leo.
We might mention the conduct of pope
Clement VI. who made Daendalus the king,
lay flat down before his table and gnaw bones
like a dog.—Pope Alexander, who proudly and
contemptuously trod Frederick, the empe
ror, under his feet, and applied, at the same
time the 18th verse ofthe 91st Psalm to him
self.—Hilderbrand, also caused Henry the
emperor, with his wife and young child to
stand in the gate of the city in a cold winter's
day, bare footed and bare legged, only cloth
ed with linsey woolsey, eating nothing from
morning till night, and that for the space of
three days. We may mention Pope Julius
II. who threw St. Peter's keys into the river
Tiber— Urban VI. who caused five cardinals
to be put into sacks and drowned—of Pope
Sargius III. that persecuted the dead body of
Formosus, his predecessor—of Pope John
XIV. who, when his enemy was delivered in
to his hands, stripped him naked, and with
his beard shaven off in derision hanged him
up by the hair a whole day.
So it is, the ecclesiastical succession can
not be traced but through men as cruel as sa
fari himself—through children, heretics, schtS'
matics, infidels, idolators, simonists, drunkards}
439
adulterers, sodomites and murderers. But af
ter going through this filth, a succession can
not be proved, for the papists themselves can
not trace their own succession to the apostles.
Touching Pope John XII. if any, he was the
true pope—M an infidel, a simonist, a drunkard
an adulterer, a worshipper of idols and de
vils,—a thing in human shape, worse than a
beast, and bad as beelzebub," says one, "is
made Christ's vicar upon eaith."
Having seen the grounds of episcopal suc
cession, let us try the several denominations
by their own rules.—How do the several de
nominations ordain ? Answer, they ordain
to their own faith and order, and no sooner
than a preacher dissents from the church and
order by whom he was ordained ; but he is
accounted as a grievous offender, and un
sound in the faith of the saints, and his pow
er of ordination dies with his decision, but he
never minds that, but sticks his standard and
soon gathers a respectable body. How does
the new denomination ordain ? Answer, they
ordain like all others, that is, to the same faith
and order, and if a preacher dissents, he is
accounted a grievous offender, and as a man
who is not sound in the faith. All denomi
nations cry out against their dissenting mem
bers, as men unsound in the faith, and that
they have lost all the power of ordination,
but never so much as once think that they are
but dissenters themselves, and that by the
same rule they have no right to ordain.
AW
Supposing it should be said by any,
that the right of ordination does not cease
with the dissension ; this then supposes that
if a man has only been ordained he may do
or believe what he will, like Tetzel's pardons
fo'r sin, the rite of ordination still holds good",
and we may expect as much virtue through
the finger-ends of an ungodly pope or prelate,
as from the hand of the most just and holy
man.
Again. Should it be said that neither suc
cession nor virtue is to be sought after this,
first, argues that one has as much right to lay
on hands as another, and what a presumptu
ous and assuming order of people must they
be who say to their young preachers, "you
shall not break bread, baptize nor perform the
supposed duties of 0 minister until you have
been confirmed by the hands of such priests,"
as can have no more power to ordain than
they: 2dly, To say that no virtue nor com
municable grace is to be sought after nor ex
pected ; this too, supposes that all have equal
power; and if the rite of laying on of hands
has no power, so it is but a dead form ; and if
we give credence and obey the apostle,
(2Tim. iii. 5,) such as have " aform ofgodli
ness, denying the power thereof" from such we
must " turn away.''''
1 venture to say from protestants' own ac
knowledgment that there was not one cere
mony in the Romish church, but what had as
much virtue in it as there is in the laying on
441
of hands. If any advert to the apostles let
them lay on hands and give the Holy Ghost
as they did, or else acknowledge that they do
not follow the apostles' examples, and that
they have only the form without the power.
I haye before observed, that the ceremony
of laying on of hands, has descended to us
with other ceremonies from an ancient Jew
ish custom. When the apostle Paul and
Barnabas condescended to receive the laying
on of hands, it was to comply with a Jewish
custom, just as he condescended to circum
cise Timothy, or purify in the temple, it was
not to qualify him to preach the gospel. No :
he declared to his Galatian brethren, that God
who had separated him from his mother's
wom b, ' had called him by hisgrace ;' for said he,
I received it not of man, neither was I taught
it but by the revelation of Jesus Christ, (Gal.
i. 12,) : for the same reason that the apostle
.Paul and Barnabas, received the laying on of
hands, for the same reason they received the
right hand of fellowship years afterward, but
seeing* the ceremony is sanctioned at this day
with so much zeal, it is high time that the
truth should appear, and that it should be
known that men are no more nor no less qual
ified for the ministry by that ceremony.—
They who are called to the ministry are not
to confer with flesh and blood, but go as the
apostle Paul did, and preach that which God
.bids them preach.
Reader, separate in thy mind the meek and
442
humble followers of Christ from them who
glory inpre-eminence, opulence and power, for
it is in them to love their own inventions.—
Therefore, if they can by any means stretch
any scripture practice, or conditional pre
cept, or permission, fitted to the weakness or
capacity ofsome ; or appropriate to some pai
ticular dispensation, to give some color for a-
ny of these inventions, they will ; and there
by,in their own wisdom and worldly prudence,
iniquity, evil, bitterness, and darkness hath
abounded to the church, even to this day.
How much more does the world abound in
zeal, than in grace ; " which zeal if they
would but seriously examine it, they would
find to be but the prejudice of education, and
the love of self more than that of God, or his
pure worship.—Reader, say not in thy heart
like Micah, " Ye have taken away my gods,
and my priests and what have I more sure
ly we want better ones, or none. The plagues
of Egypt would be more evangelical to us
than all the gods and priests we have made
ourselves, and hired made for these' many
years. The true ministers are such as are
ordained of God, they need not go to man, to
be confirmed, they are sent by one who has
aright to send them, without our inspection.
There is not one church on earth that has a
right to send a preacher, or to hinder one.—
There are many instances and things, which
they may confer with them about, but no au
thority can be exercised for, or against them.
443
Nothing but a Spiritual qualification can
make a true gospel minister ; there are none
more bound nor none more free than they ;
their souls are touched with a sense of eter
nal things. They feel bound to not daub
with untempered mortar, nor sew pillows un
der arm holes, and not to speak smooth things.
Like the apostle, their labor is to make men
see what is the fellowship of the mystery of
of God in Christ, and in Christ's stead, they
pray men to be reconciled to God in Christ,
in whom is hid all the treasures of wisdom
and knowledge. They are filled with the
spirit of their station, they are not lovers of
themselves, boasters, covetous, proud, despi-
sers of good, nor heady high minded lovers
of pleasures more than God—teaching for
doctrine the commandments of men having
a form of godliness denying the power. They
mind not high things (these all belong to an-
ti-christ's ministers.) They are holy, harm
less and meek, like a coffer their treasure is
inward, hid from the world. They are loved
of God, as his ministers, they are despised
by the world for the truths they speak. They
seek not the applause of the world, and so
must necessarily fall out with all who do not
fall out with themselves, and turn to God.—
They arefree, and well they may be, because
their commission is not by virtue of money,
nor by the hands of the presbytery, but by
the Holy Ghost which is within them ; their
oratory supersedes that which is so much
444
sought for, for they have only to speak out
that which the Spirit speaks in them* As
they have received freely, they freely give,
saying, " come ye, buy and eat; yea, come, foiy
wine and milk without money and without
PRICE.
THE CONCLUSION.
Having been something lengthy in my
Plea, tho' short as my subject would admit,!
now come to a close by way of a recapitula
tion, and with the addition of a few remarks.
1. Touching baptism, I have placed it a-
mong the types, and as the typical law was
given to man in consequence of the fall, I
consider all types done away in man's resto
ration to the <; image of God," which image is
produced through the sanctifying influence of
the Holy Spirit. We have seen that John
preached the kingdom of ,God to come—
Christ and his disciples taught previous to the
suffering of Christ, that the kingdom of God
was yet to come—we Jiave seen that the or
der of the tabernacle, with all the law rites
and ceremonies continued until Christ suffer
ed on the cross, and that Christ suffered, and
brought in that dispensation, which is the
* Human leaning is not to be despised, but God is to be thanked for
that, as well as every other worldly privilege, which he has made us ca
pable ofattaining to ; but it is not to be accounted indispensibly acces
sary for a gospel minister. It never should be received as grace, nor put
in the place of the Spirit. We, ourselves, may have much learning, but
in every respecl it should be subject und give place to the Spirit. We
never should use worldly wisdom of words in delivering the truth, but
»»eak to ibe capacity ofa child and all Bill uaderstand.
445
proper christian dispensation, or " the king
dom of God" at the very time, and according
to the divine prediction of Daniel ; and as
we have seen the impropriety of drawing the
dividing line between the legislation of Mo
ses, and Christ's Spiritual legislation, by the
term, gospel, or gospel dispensation, and [that
the term " kingdom of God," or " kingdom of
heaven," is the most proper ; it follows as a
natural consequence that baptism with all
other rituals, previous to the suffering of
Christ, were all under the law of Moses.
Again, we have noticed the commission
mentioned, Matt. xxviii. 19, and putting that
with the account given by the other evange
lists of the commission, we have shown that
the commission should not be taken to mean
the baptism of water, but Christ's own bap
tism of the Spirit, a baptism which was to
attend the word preached by virtue of the
Spirit.—I have shown, that there is probably
but one instance where the Gentiles received
water baptism, and I have endeavored to ac
count for this one instance, and show that
the apostles considered the right as belong
ing to the Jews. I have also shown, that
John did not preach water baptism, but that
he prepared the people for the Lord by
preaching to them the baptism of repentance,
and that he baptized with water none but
Jews, and whenever water baptism was used
by the apostles it was among Jews only, but
in the instance already accounted for.
oo
446
We have seen that in the epistles of the a-
postles, many passages quoted by baptizers
in support of water baptism, not one have re
ference to the baptism of water, but to the
baptism of the Spirit, as a perfecting grace
to the church.
2. Touching the sacrament (so called,) we
have submitted to an impartial investigation,
and find by scripture adjustment, that the said
sacrament is not mentioned in the scriptures.
The scriptures only mention "the feast of un
leavened bread" with the Jews' passover-sup-
per. It appears that when Christ ate the
pa3sover with his disciples,he only Spiritual
ized the passover without instituting any new
institution.
We have noticed every instance where the
breaking of bread is mentioned in ihe new
testament records, and I think it is clear that
such breaking of bread only took place at
Jewish feasts, or at a common family meal ;
so no sacramental eating was intended.
3. As to what I have said concerning the
scriptures, and on ordination, little, need be
said by way of recapitulation, since it is the
last before us. Touching the scripture, I
have given my opinion that they are to be
considered as touching history and divine rev
elation. They were written by men favored of
God and stand not only as a circumstantial,
but as an incontestible proof of Spiritual and
revealed religion. The historical part of the
scriptures were written for our learning, and
447
such scripture as touch upon revelation were
written, not only for confirmation by showing
us a chain of corresponding prophecies down
to the corning of Christ, but they were writ
ten for our comfort, and so it is, that such
scripture as describe the movings and oper
ations of that Spirit, (which christians must
have previously received to know it, when it
is described,) they are comforting and like
writings touching the inward witness, written
by good men, in this our day they will be
read with joy and thanksgiving. I have
shown what I believe of the scriptures, and
would avoid the evil that will come in con
sequence of receiving them for more or less
than they are.
Touching ordination, I believe that it is
Christ's prerogative to qualify his own minis
ters, and though they may receive letters of
commendation from their friends, these only
can respect a moral character, for they can
not qualify or disqualify.
What I have written, 1 have written with
out regard to any Who may be pleased, or
displeased. 1 have used plainness, because
as with other sentiments, so it is with mine,
there is a point or place to which every
man's sentiments naturally leads, and he who
keeps back in speaking or in writing and does
not come plainly to the point, for fear of dis
pleasing or to please cannot be honest.—
If for believing that the sacraments, so cal
led, are without scripture foundation, and if
448
for believing a? the scriptures say, that the
Spirit i$ the rule for christian faith and prac
tice, and if for believing it is Christ's by his
Spirit to qualify his ministers to preach his
gospel—if for this I be called an enthusiast,
or an heretic, so be it. To be censured is not
a sure mark of criminality. It was said of
Christ, that he was an agent to beelzebub,
or that he cast out devils by beelzebub, the
prince of devils—he was called a deceiver, a
mad man, and a blasphemer ; so be it with me
as it may be, it is enough for the servant to
be as his master. Now as in former days, it
is not unfrequent that good men, though their
life may shine with every grace which char
acterizes the most godly, if they do not be
lieve in this, that, or the other notion, which
the tradition of men (rather than scripture or
reason,) hath made orthodox, they ate coun
ted among heretics, and reckoned to be the
deceivers foretold of, to come in the last days.
I have before told what I believe of tenets,
by the similitude of colors. I will here add
heretics for their conduct, than for their par
ticular tenets—to judge of a man's Christiani
ty or heresy by his particular tenet, is rash
judging, and it is like putting to the torture
for looks, without a regard to the disposition.
It is justly chargeable upon the ministers
of the people, that they are spoilers of the
flock. No doubt, many who call themselves
preachers of the goSpel will proclaim loudly
against what I have written, because their
that men may be more called
449
craft is in danger ; and no doubt I may meet
with opposition from some well minded
christians, who as I have once been, may be
caught in a way that seems right, and in a
way that tradition may have rendered unsus
picious. Are these but filled with the Spirit
of a gospel Sninister—have these the inward
life, and do they testify that which they do
know of the Spirit and power of God ; these
I esteem, though they may not believe in all
points as I do ; but yet of these, I may have
much to hope and little tofear ; that is, I may
hope that they may know the heights and
depths of the nature of Christ''s kingdom, and
keep themselves in the love of God. I have
less to fear from these, than I have from oth
ers. These arenotsopersecutingasothers,and
they love to proclaim the truth of the gospel.
There are some, I wish I could say it ofthem,
that when they have spoken ten times for,and
of themselves, that they have spoken once
for God. These have spoken, and God has
not spoken by them. It may be said of them
as of the false prophets of old, " They shall
not profit the people—they prophesy a vision of
their own heart."—These dupe the people to
this, that and the other notion in will-worship,
and like Jotham's bramble, they say, " come
thou and put your trust in my shadow," and
cause many to leave thefatness oftheolive, and
the sweetness ofthe fig—these are " dumb dogs
who cannot bark that is, they cannot warn
the people of impending mischief. These
002
460
teach for doctrine,the commandments of men,
and they are not brought so much into the
Spirit of truth, which is love,joy, peace, gen
tleness and goodness, as they are into hatred,
variance, wrath, stripes, and envying. Reader :
blame me not for my plain speaking, lest J
find a proof of what I say in thy«own neigh'
borhood or in thy own breast. Mark
dear reader, I do not make these remarks ap
plicable to all who pretend to preach—there
are some called of Christ—others, after they
are called, after a while, preach themselves,
and not Christ. Others are called of mam-
»ion,and like covetous cooks they covet much
for their little, and while they deal out more
compliments than food, their congregation
starve for the " bread of life.'''* The soul
humbling and humiliating doctrine ofChrist is
too close for the displays which many such
teachers wish to make. The gate is too nar
row and the way too straight for the displays
of such as wish fo make a fair show in the
flesh. The poor once had the gospel preach
ed to them, but these have no call where
there is no money. ICP" By their fruits ye
shall know them."
That religion and righteousness which I
have plead for, is that, without which (every
christian will agree with me,) no man can be
saved, and with which no man can be lost.
I have contended for that baptism which is
Spiritual and sanctifying, and that which is
into Christ, who is thefirst resurrection, and
461
such as have their part hereof "on them the
second death shallhave nopower.'''' I have con
tended for that communion which is an in
ward life, and that which is with the Father
and the Son.—I have not labored to establish
my reader in some outward forms, nor to
convert him to some of these notions, about
which the world has been contending for, for
many hundred years to no effect, and in
which contentions, dark and complexed opin
ions have multiplied rather than decreased,
plainly showing us that men of themselves are
more calculated by their wisdom. to wrap the
truth in obscurity, mists and fogs and dark
ness, rather than light. Dear reader, if thou
wilt inquire for my sentiments, thou shalt
have them in a few lines.
As was theJirst andgreat command,
So :ji lha last command to love.
To God give up thy might, thy mind,
JVoite else—this offering he'll approve.
" This is the sense that Moses spoke,
This did the prophets preach and prove ,
For want of" love," the law is broke,
And the whole law's fulfilled by love."
Though prelates, creeds and forms propouad,
Stop here my sou), nor rove abroad.
Though bigots strive, and illcontend,
Myselfrdknow, and know my God.
Christ's church are they who are joined
together in love, and in the fellowship of the
Spirit ; not the fellowship of a particular te
452
net, but all who are lovers of God and lovers
of one another, in whatever place they may
be, they compose the church, whether cor-
lective or not,Christ by his Spirit presides a3
head over them. When together, they are
as lively stones—a Spiritual house and a ho
ly priesthood to offer up Spiritual sacrifices
acceptable to God by Jesus Christ.—Holiness
is their motto, and love to God and love to man
is their tenet, and to this all the doctrine of
the prophets, Christ and his apostles point
as the sunbeams point to the sun. When the
scribe acknowledged to Christ, that to love
God with all his soul, and his neighbor as
himself, was more than whole burnt offerings
and sacrifices, Christ said to him in return,
" Thou art notfarfrom the kingdom of God,"
see Matth. xxii. 37, 38, 39.
Our Saviour never taught that his gospel
stood in meats nor drinks. When Christ rep
resented the principles upon which the world
was to be justified, Matth. xxv. 31 ; he did
not begin to commend them on the right
hand, for some ceremonial observance, as in
sacraments, but, said he, "/ was an hungered
and ye gave me meat : Itoas thirsty and ye gave
me drink : I was a stranger and ye took me in:
naked and ye clothed me : Iwas in prison and
ye came unto me ; for these they on the right
hand were accepted, but for not attending to
these they on the left hand were sent away,
and it was said to them " inasmuch as ye
have not done it unto one ofthe least of these
I my disciplesj ye did it not unto me.
453
Sailh Christ, "a new commandment Igive
unto you, that you love one another, John
xv. 12. Saith the apostle, Rom. xiii. 8, 9, 10,
* * * "he that loveth another hath fulfilled the
law—
for this thou shalt not commit adultery,
thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not bearfalse wit
ness, thou shalt not covet ; and if there be any
other commandment, it is briefly comprehended
in this saying, namely : Thou shalt love thv
neighbour as thyself—love vvorketh no ill
to his neighbour, therefore love is the ful
filling of the whole law."
Come reader, " Let us hear the conclusion
of the whole matter, Fear God and keep his
commandments, for this is the whole duty of
man,'''' (Eccl. xii. 13,) and " this is the message
that ye heard from the beginning,—that we
should love one another," 1 John iii. 11.
the end.
Errata — Page 1—In motto, for encompasseth, read encampeth. page
ISO—In the 2d line ofpoetry,for effect read affect. Page 208—In the 2d
line from the top,after dispensation read by the term gospel. Tage 269—
In the 5th line from the lop, after water read byvirtueofthat commission.
Page 307—For Justin Martin, read Justin Martyr. Page 352—In the
Si liue from the bottom, for potential mood, read subjunctive mood.
CONTENTS.
CONVINCEMENT.
CHAP. I.
Trials of mind on the doctrine of unconditional election and
reprobation, and a gracious deliverance from a despairing
mind, by God's appearing by bis Spirit.—Page 12 to 18.
The doctrine of unconditional election false; otherwise sa-
- tan is but the servant of God—a subject of reward, as be
must be as useful and necessary to the order of God's de
crees, as the angel Gabriel.--P. 19—20.
CHAP. II.
Religious reflections while in the army, and a convincement
of the impropriety of war; retirement from the army,
and many promises made to God forgotten in a retired
life.— 27—38.
Resolutions for a reformation of life, with a sense of crea-
- turely weakness.—A dream showing the. condition of the
church,and foreboding things several years to come.39 46
CHAP. III.
Religious resolutions publicly manifested," and confirmation
of God's loving kindness, by the interpretation of a for
mer dream. Trials of mind about baptism, and attach
ment to the Free-will Baptist church.—47—52.
Trials about preaching—instruction by dreams. ReVigious
disputes follow religious revivals, and the abuse of texts,
with the inconsiderate use ofPsalms and Hymns.—53-66.
CHAP. IV.
Doubts occasioned by the multiplicity ofreligious opinisns,
and the mind inadequate to find the truth by the scrip
tures.—67—69.
Temptations to disbelieve the existence of a God and Sa
viour overcome. The Jewish dispensation prefeiable to
the gospel dispensation, supposing the scriptures to be
the only rule for faith and practice,—70—76.
The notion of the millenium thought to be false—led to in
vestigate the scriptures on other things.—77—84.
CHAP V.
The ordinances thought to have no foundation in the scrip
tures of truth, and the condition of the church appeared
by a former dream.—8&—88.
The attention of the Free-will Baptist church called to the
subject of baptism.—89— 96.
The Spirit of God too much distrusted. Ministers of tho
455
%
gospel too frequently prostitute their functions by light
and trifling conversation.—9*—100.
Duty 9hown by the vision of the night.—101 —105.
CHAP. VI.
First public testimony against the ordinances, and the op
position met with, ofsome in society.—100—117.
By doubts and fears reduced to distrust a religious attain
ment and every witness known.—Confirmation by the rev
elation of God's Spirit at noon-day.— 118—128.
CHAP. VII.
Delay (if duty, and adversity considered to be in answer to
prayer.—Untimely vocal prayer, reproved.—1S1—139.
Adversity considered~as instruction.—The use of the sacra
ment attempted for the last time.—140—148. ,
The pretended benefit ofthe sacrament found to be ground*
less, by the examination of others, and a dismission from
society, requested.—149—154.
CHAP. VIII.
Ordination refused. A dream showing the condition of the
church.— 156—165.
Dreams, a christian privilege, and the means by which God
gave instructions to his people, from the patriarchal
time, to the time of the apostles and early christians. A
letter from society; ordination refused, with an acquain
tance with Friends.—166—180.
PLEA ON BAPTISM.
CHAP. I.
The law of types given to man after the fall—what man fell
from, and what man must be restored to.—188—197.
The tabernacle and offerings, with the washing of water and
the anointing of oil, taught the worshippers that mankind
were polluted, and what they must be, to be restored to
the image of God.—197—199.
Baptism under the law of Moses. The term gospel rejec
ted, and the term kingdom of heaven shown to be most
r proper, to show the distinguishing line between the legis
lation of Moses and Christ, and John a prophet, and by
birth a priest, and in life restricted by the law. John
come to make known Christ. John preached the baptism
of repentance, not water baptism ; by repentance a peo
ple was made ready for the Lord. 206—217.
John was to Christ what Moses was to John. 218—220.
CHAP. II.
John fulfils his mission in pointing out Christ to Israel.Chtist
466
baptized under the law. The kingdom of God, or the
kingdom of heaven, preached by John, by Christ and bis
disciples as yet to come. Christ did not teach water
baptism. 221---227.
Christ's transfiguration on the mount, taught his disciples
that the kingdom of Christ was yet to come, and that the
law dispensation could not end until Christ was crucified,
Mark, xi. 30. Luke, vii. 30 ; hence no reference to the bap
tism of water. John come in the way of righteousness,
Matt. xxi. S2.—228—232.
Christ suffered according to prophecy, in the last of Daniel's
weeks, and the order of the tabernacle ; the rending of
the vail plainly shows when the proper christian dispen
sation commenced, and shows that water baptism, with
other things, were under the law till then. 233 240.'
CHAP. HI.
The commission given to the apostles, Matth. xxviii. 19, did
not include water baptism, but the baptism of the Spirit ;
a baptizing virtue which was to attend the preaching done
by the influence of the Spirit. 241 260.
Five reasons why the commission should not be received
for water baptism. 261 268.
• CHAP- IV.
The apostles were men of religious prejudice, as well
as other men. Cornelius and bis household the first
and the last instance of Gentile baptism. The three
thousand (Acts ii. 41.) were Jews, The Samaritans were
Jews. The Corinthians, the Eunuch, Lydla and the
Jailor were Jews, the twelve baptized by Paul, (Acts xix.
5.) were Jews. The council of elders and brethren at
. Jerusalem clear the Gentiles from baptism by water with
other things. 269 285.
The apostle Panl was not sent to baptize with water, and
he believed in the one baptism of the Spirit as the one,
and only christian baptism, Rom. vi. 4. 1 Peter, iii. SI.
I Cor. x. 2, have no reference to the baptism of water.
386. S02.
ON THE SACRAMENT, OR LORD'S SUPPER. -
CHAP. V.
Christians disagree on the sacrament. The eucharist and
sacrament, not mentioned in the scriptures of truth. Pa
pists, Luther's and Calvin's notion about the sacrament ;
theirjealousy towards each other manifested in the greac
sacramental contest in Germany. 303 316.
457
CHAP. VI.
Jesus Christ did not say of the bread and wine, " do thi»
till I come." The historical account of the Jew's pass*
over compared with the scripture, showing that Christ's
eating with the disci pies was of the passover, and that
nothing of a sacramenta I nature was enjoined.—317--S46.
CHAP. VII.
The breaking ofbread mentioned in the scripture was don*
only at a Jewish feast or at a common family meal, Luke
xxiv.SO. Acts ii. 24, 26.—xx. 7.—1 Cor. xi. have a* al
lusion to a sacrament.—S47—364.
CHAP. VIII.
The use of bread and wine, and water baptism is but oat
with the ceremonial law of the Jews.—865—368.
The sacraments could not be enjoined on christians with
out adding to the covenant made with Abraham, contra
ry to the oath of God.—369—874.
The gospel sabbath transgressed by the sacramental observ
ance, and christians forbade to touch, taste, or handle of
all such things as perish with the using.—373—994.
ON THE SCRIPTURES.
CHAP. IX.
Three opinions relative to the use and intention of the
scriptures.—395—406.
Tha scriptures are not so much as one stone in the founda
tion upon which God hath made man's salvation depen
dant, but the inward light, or the Spirit is the sure guida
into all truth. The scriptures are not the word ofGod j
they show what the word of God is.—407—431. '
ON ORDINATION.
CHAP. X.
The ecclesiastical succession cannot be proved without ad»
milting the church of Rome, to be the true cburcb.
The wickedness of the papists, and the pretensions of
protestants on ordination, found to be but pretensions.-,
432—440.
The laying on of hands without proper authority, and with
out grace. Tha Spirit gives a proper qualification for t.
minister of the gospel.—441—443.
THE CONCLUSION.
Recapitulation, with a few remarks, showing that christian
duty consists, lstly, in love to God, Sdly. ib lava to Mi«i
444—453.
^1
<xxxxx:&<xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
K - * X
,< A copy ofthis Book may be had, by'npplyiug to x
'} the Author, in Boston, Erie County, N. Y. Com* £
J: rnunications by letter must be post paid. Apptt" X
>i csr.i; shall !•« supplied as soonas possible. Remit- X
£ ance will be expected when thebookis delivered.— 0
* Price Jl. ' X
<XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX>iXX
