{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1822__smith___philosophical_merlin.pdf","mytitle":"Philosophical Merlin","mylang":"de"}
r
THE
'
PHILOSOPHICAL MERLIN,
'
BEING THE TRANSLATION OP
A VALUABLE MANUSCRIPT,
Polwnnnv m 'rmz POSSESSHIN or
lR'l2£31§P©Ih@@NE3@@NA3E>&E3@I3o
" `
Found amongst other valuable Papen, ln hh Cablnet,
`
AT THE BATTLE or LEIPSIC ;
Known 'ro HAVE nan mann Pmzsn nv nun, .mn :
_
,_
CONSULTED Fon THE CHOICE OF ms
~GENER§1§%§§`;" L
»_
Exmnrrma
""
P
sa étur-tous 5pzrtmm
»~
ANCIENT .'DIYS'I'IGAI| -
LEARNING;
PRACTISED BY
THE ORIENTALS;
And :Harding the most
SCIENTIFIC '& RATIONAL AMUSEMENT;
By enabling the llcader to 'cast the4N;ntivity of himself, or
any other Person,
without the aid of Tables, Instruments, or Arithmetical calculation;
;
'
- ° '
nn nr A raw Mmlrrzs,
`
T0 ASCERTAIN -EVERY PARTICULAR
RELATING 'ro 'mlm
LPCFQWIBE þÿ£.5'£l ¬?Ee
BY THE RULES on THE ANCIENT GECMANCY.
THB WHOLE RENDERED BLAIN AND FAMILIAB T0 THB
MEANEST CAPACITY,
IIUT WORTHY THE ATTENTION OF THE
PHILOSO-
PHICAL AND INGENIOUS.
`
-~>>o<<--
`
ionnon; C
PRINTED FOR THE EDITORS;
And Sold by J. Denky. Catherine Street, Strand; Davis and Dickson,
_
Sl.llalliu'|-le~gra||d; Wngslalf. Brick Lane,Spltaltleld|; and by
moot Booksellers and Nev/amen. '_
`
l§2;
"
`
,
'imma as smumm' 'mul
_
N. B. An Immediate Prosecution will be cnmmenced against any Person who
shall pirate any pah of the fbllowing work.
_
'
,
-
Fergus, Printer, 47, Berwick-meet, Oxfordatreet.
Ill!
T0
me #umm ann Rennbmti
MADEMOISELLE LE NORMAND.
Tins curious specimen. of the extraordinary
and mystical Learning, for which she has become
so eminent, and which has spread the greatest
lustre on her name, throughout all parts of Europe,
is humbly dedicated, by her -
_
'
Vi Faithful Friends,
and admirers of_her profound and
'
transcendant abilities,
R. C. S. Philo. Adm
G.W§.G. F. 1z.c.
Augwtx 1822.
.
5
'
D"
+
TO 'THE INGENIOUS READER.
/
.
THE extreme partiality, of the late French Emperor, towards the
mystical and occult sciences; is almost generally'known; even in
England: in his own dominions, it was
nearly proverbial.
It is, and was, at the time, generally believed, especially by his
Soldiers, that 'most of his battles, were won
by an attention to these
mysterious Rules! And his sincere belief, in planetary influence,
was eminently seen ;` in the circumstance, of his predicting the death
of Marshal Lannes ; by a cannon ball; which happened accordingly!
and also, _in~ his choosing particular days, and anniversarys; and
attending to the progress of the moon, throughout her different
phases, of which _he was extremely fond. y
A
'
At the decisive and to him, fatal, battle, of Leipsic, nearly the
whole of his curious, and valuable manuscripts fell into the hands of
some Prussian otliceis ; several of which have been already published;
in different forms; but none, so curious, or
interesting as the present;
which if patronized, by a
discerning Public, will be only the pre-
lude, to others, which :when made known, cannot fail to excite the most
intense interest, some of which are
already nearly ready for the
press, but awaiting thejiat of public opinion, The Editor does not
pretend to establish the fact that Napoleon actually gained all his
victorious laurels, by his knowledge of futurity; that point must be
left to thecandid .attention of the impartial Reader. It is however
a singular, but no less certain, _
fact, that after the above fatal battle,
he never was victorious! So that the lossof his manuscripts, and
victorious 'fame went hand in hand !
'
In the nineteenth century, it wou.ld ill become the Editor, to
endeavoi'to_foist any kind of calculation, upon the-Public, which had
professedly for its object, the unravelling the intricate web of futu-
rity. But knowing, that thousands, who openly, and professedly,
deny the influence of the planets, and starry host, yet secretly be,
lieve in their eilicacy; knowing also that scarcely anyone who has
had either patience or
ingenuity suflicient to guide them in this
abstruse science, but has been satisfied, and likewise being con-
scious of the interest, which any manuscri t of Napoleon must
excite; especially when that interest so excited, was combined, with
pleasure at the philosophical ingenuity (to say nothing of the truth)
of the contrivance; he has ventured, to let it appear, before the
ublic tribunal; where it will stand, or fall, by its own merits.;-'l`hq
l)Veplusultra, however, remains behind.
.-,._.,_-in--|-<-
V
~
INTRODUCTORY EXPLANATION.
'
,__
'THE Ancients had many, and different methods, of prying- into
the secrets of futurity; by oracles, dreams, visions; and by observ-
ing the positions, aspects, and influences, of the heavenly bodies.
From the difiiculty, in attaining, to the elements, of, celestial phe-
nomena; and the want of suflicient data, whereon, to build, their
calculations; chiefly arising, from the want of proper instruments;
they foundtheir predictions, springing from astronomical rules, to be
necessarily imperfect. ln order to obviate this, after long ex-
perience, they foimd out, a new
system; of prognostics; byiobserving
the universal, sympathy, .between spirit, and matter; existing
throughout the greater, and lesser, worlds. They discosfered also, that
for the mind, to wish for knowledge, of this nature, and
for to
acquire
this knowledge, was one, and the same thing, rfature having in .this
instance, accommodated the end to the means. This new
sysmu,
(tho' now ancient) they termed Geomancy, from two Greek
words,
denoting knowledge, and earth, because in-those days, being des-
titute of paper, then uninvented, they used to make points, _upon the
ground, or in sand; and cast their schemes therefrom; 'It is also
a curious, and
singular, but authenticated fact; thatithe Afzibians
and Indians, tho* without anyintercourse with each other, had each,
irlvented a
system, which with the exception, of themost trifling
variations; was the exact counterpart off ieacht other. Thus, they
all used sixteen lines of points; and sixteen figures, and no more;
and in their signification, judged them the same. ;The present little
tract, exhibits a
part, of this mystical learning, which once
captivated
all Europe; and fascinated the Orientals; The'only difference in it,
js, that only eight lines are used, for convenience, it is presumed;
as they certainly answer the purpose, as wellas the whole sixteen.
[6]
_
In order to use the following work, take notice that out of these
eight lines, only sixteen characters, or as
they are called in the ori-
ginal figures, can be made, and all the art in the world, cannot make
more than these, without the addition of an extra line. Their names.
are as follows :
`
15 8 -
9 16
Acquisitio. Amissio. Puer. '
Rubens.
_
4
:_
~
~» s 1 41
0 'fo if 4 in
-v -» 4 a as a 4
an 4 vu » _
at as
17 __
19 ll 14
Tristitza. Letitia. Albus. Puella.
o i 4 4 at 1|
4 Q at 1| an an . 11 o
_
Q li 15 fs as ~
as
4' 111 » 1 4 1-
18 .
`
13
'
221 23
Career. Conjunctio; Cawda. Caput.
o , 4 vs. ,
*_ if 1
s o -1 as o
» o
9 Q o
'kv -
4- Q. A
o n _
| _
20 10 12 21
Via. Popuku. Fortuna Mqior. Fortuna Minor.
9 C l I I I
U I U Q I 1|
I l l D I I `
l fl 'I -
C C I ,
The numbers over each, shew the page of the book, where they
are found. Thus, Acquisitio, will be found at page 15, and so of
the others, accordingly as they shall arise. _
'
In order to cast anativity, from the following tract, the operator
must be serious, in his wish, to have a 7true answer; and then with
a
pen, pencil, or other instrument, mark down, eight lines, of dots,
or
points; without counting them; only, there ought at the least, to
be more than twelve in each line. Example-_
tl l l l
l '
l l l
V
l
l'~lll
111111111 ll
111111 lll_ll
`lllIIlllll1ll
111111111 ll
Illlll`lllll_lllll
lllltlllllllllllll
l_llllllllll'lll
llllllllllllll-
'
Then let him join those points, two and two, and if the number
in the line, be even, which will be, if they can be all joined, let him
make two stars, or
ciphers, at the end of the line, but if odd, which
is if one
point remain, let him make' one star or cipher, and so
'on throughout all time lines. As is shewn in the underneath
example- _
'
' '
l-l 'l--l 1-l l--1 l-l l-l l-l l °
'
' '
l--I I-l l-l l--l l-l l-l l-l l °
_
l-l l--l l-l l-l l-l l-l l-l ' '
l-4-1 l-l l-l l-l l-l l-'l l-l I '
l--l I--l l--I l--l l-l l-l l-l l-l ° '
1--l l-1 l-l l--1 l-l l--l L-l I-l l '
l-l l-l l-l l-l l-l l-l l-l ' ° f
l--l l--fl l-l l-l l--l 1-l l-l. ° '
Then out of those two figures, as they are called, make om, bf
placing them side by side, in this manner,
' " '
and taking the points in each line, and if the num-
' ~
" 1
ber be even, make two stars or dots, but if odd ' "
V
" ' f
only one.
Example in the frat line are three, "' "~ '-
Points which are odd, in consequence of which, make this mark' *
ln the second line are two points, which are even ..... . . . . .
* 5* ,
In the third linefburpoints, whicharewen ...¢.......».
* ' I
In the fourth use three points, which are odd.. ._ .... V
....
'
Q
'
Having done this, refer to page No. 18 of the book, and underneath
will 'be found
the _nativity of the person so mst, whiohviiidie operator
be sincere, and earnest, in his wish; will be found to come remark-
ably"correct; and to give a true delineation of his future fortune.
If the rinswer does not coincide, the operator should try it n
second
time, after waiting the space of an hour at least. If however, he be
serious in his belief, and proceedings, he need not try it but once. I
shall here give another example-
'
l-l l-l l-l l-l l-l I-l l-l l-l l ' "
l-l l-li l--l l-l l-l l-l 'l-l l ' ° "'
l-l l-l l-l l-l l-l l-l l-l l-l l-l P ' »
°
l-l l-l 1--1 1-1 1_1 leli l-l l--l l-l ° ° ° ~
,
l'-l l-l l-l l-l l-l l-l l-l l-l
l-l l-l l-l l-l l-l l-l l-l l-l
l-l l-l`l-l l-l l-l l-l l-l l
l-l l-l l-l l--l l-l l-l l-l. l-l " *
These two figures give the
* *
the following gag
`
'
which will be found
"
at
page No. 13.
8 THE PHILOSOPHICAL MERLIN.
,
-
.
*
I ,
=)l¢=K=`
.,* A
V; _- #=l=~ f i
--
THEY who have this _jigure of Geomanc , arising, are under the
spirits of the watery regions, and chiefly under the M'oon'and Venus.
They will be of a studious, melancholic, patient, firm, and laborious
disposition, rather inclined to
obstinacy, and
very amorous, votaries
of Venus.-Part of their lif`e, will be much fatigued, with getting
riches; which they shall obtain; but often lose again, and that sud-
denly, without great caution is' used.-However, as
they sink into
the vale of
years, fortune shall again smileon them; and they shall
again re-gain, even more than they lost; seeing their most bitter ene-
mies utterly subjected, and_ cast. down, while they shall descend to
the ,silent tomb, surrounded byjhappiness. _
,
y
' '
They shall have moles on the neck, throat, arms, and breasti are
subject to ccorbutic and hereditary diseases, hearbbum, liver com#
plaints, andhypochondria; but generally enjoying good health.
'
7
In the south angle of `-their horoscope, they will have the sorrowful
figure Tristitia, of the airy Triplicitie, chiefly govemed-by the cold
and rigid Saturn; which will make them remarkable for having
dreams of' dead things, sepulchers, church-yards, ghosts, and ter-
rific, yet _unnatural appearances; and of lofoyzplaces, troubled and
muddy waters, and destruction. Their dreams shallindeed, for' the
most part, be oininous, and troublesome. 'Let them beware of dis-
appointments, when
they dream~ of money-and of deceit, after
having dreamed of 'fiattermg notice. _
' '
They shall be fortunate in finding hidden, and lost things, and shall
at some
period of their life, discover a treasure. In their gait, they
shall generally appear stooping, and looking, as if towards the earth.
They shall arrive to great honor, and dignity, and experience great
favor, 'and friendship, from rich and noble persons, bearing rule in
public affairs or ofiices, and fortunate in the science of hydraulics,
and in liquids and fluids in general.-They will besuccessful in
houses, lands, gardens, and earthy things, and should reside in low,
crowded and dark places, where they are much frequented.
They will be in danger from an ox, and f`rom~ other beasts, chiefly those
who ruminate, to violent.blows and falls, they will be much subject,
especially at the ag'P§
llfffve
and eight years., They must be rarefulf
of water, at the ages o nine and thirty-si.r.' i
' '
,
"..- 'Q'-
.THE PHILOSOPHICAL MERLIN.
`
8
1*
1% =l=
ak ~
_
sr =r=
i
In the yvest angle, will be found the deceitful »
and violent figure
RuLeus,,which will cause them at times to bevery enviously accused,
in some measure through their own seeking, as the shall at times,
courthqstility, but. though not very courageous ishall1overcome their
adversaries. ,
This figure also gives many false friends, with danger
of law suits, or public contentions, and will cause them during some
period of their life to appear before a Court of Justice, either on the
offensive _or defensive. V
1 'At ten, _/i_/Teen, twenty-one, thirty, and _forty-six years of
age, they will ,meet with changes and good fortune, removals, orjour.
neys. _
At two, four, ji-ve, seven, eleven, sixteen, twenty-eight,
thirty/7five, and _forty-two years of age, they will meet with sick-
ness and trouble; at eighteen or
twenty-eight take a
long vcfyage, or
go to reside near the water. They shall marry well, but to persons of
hasty' temper," occasionally devoted to Bacchus, but rigidly careful.
At -nineteen, if a "woman, she shall be in love, and 'marry previous
to twenty-,four years of age. They shall have more than one mar-
riage, and bury their iirst child. r
,
~
`
~' In the north angle they will have Fortuna Major, belonging to the
region of the fire, foreshowinga legacy,,or some considerable pro-
perty-trifling gain by'-the lottery, or games of chance,-they shall
he fortunate in white, purple, red, andicitron colors,-and_ in hay
horses, ~
'~
They shall havemuch trouble through their relations, and survive
the greatest part of their kindred,-they will be liable /to stings
from insects, and especially bees or
wasps,-they will generally how..
ever, die an easy death. _
'
~ ~ '
f If theyitravel, let it be by land, and not on horseback, but in
some conveyance, let them also beware of fair women, on their travels.
l
Friday," is their fortunate day, and chiefly about sun-setting, they_
will prevail. Let them also chose the Moon in Taurus, if they would
overcome any obstacle, and going to the full.
If born in the night time, they will be more fortunate, and success:-
filli than those who are bom between sun-rising and' sunésetting.
2
The Dame ofithis Angel, or Tutelary Spirit is Anael.
'A
B
,
9 _THE PHILOSOPHICAL MERLINZ
-=l=
#_
i= i=
_
=l=
Tru-;Y who have this _/iguredarising, are born under the spirits of
the fiery Trig°l1; and under the influence of Mars and the Sun.
They will be bold, romantic, ambitious, and very aspiring; filled
with warlike ideas; flourishing in youth; having eitherfew brethren,
orjeu: tosurvive.
'
l
'
They will be much _subject to _a mutable and inconstant fortune,
wasting their paternal estate, and suffering through usurers, or money
lenders; but often recovering their losses, and turning them into gain.
They will, 'at times, appear to have an excess of Iiberality; and dis-
please some by too much freedom, bestowing their benefit for the
most part upon very ungrateful persons, without scarcelyever meetings
They will be much subject to pains in the and face,
tooth-ache, lethargy and eruptions, subject ,to hurts b tire and sharp
instruments, and shall receive a bite or
injury from tt Jog,-ofhorned
cattle they must also take care. The ,will be liable to scalds and
cuts, having moles on the face, loins, dest, and arms; chiefly fortu-
nate _in white and red colors, and in martial and surgical things.
In the south angle they will have posited the figure Career, shew-
ing that they will attain to many honorable acts, and through invinci-
bility, and Battery, gain some eminent otlicc, chieiiy in public em-
ployment, most probably naval, military, orrelating to the fire and
metals, especially steel and iron; they will also be much concerned
in religious matters, likewise their whole life shall be markedlyopen,
and exposed to public gaze, seldom any thing in domestic concerns
remaining hid»-exceptthat which they'perform on the day of the new
Moon, which may possibly be kept secret, though not availing.
Many, who are
born_nnder this horoscope, are desinous of prying into
the secrets of nature, and make excellent philosophers, chemists
and mathematicians, optical instrument makers, engravers, and
artists. They will prosper in war, and in games of chance. In mer-
chandizing with women they shall prosper; but much subject tu
vexatien. and anger. At some time or other of their life
shall meet with much trouble, 'or be near imprisonment throng
relatives or deceptive friends,-from old persons they will generally
attain much honor.
'
At the ages of _F/teen years, at twenty-two years, and at _/brtye
four years, they shall travel or meet with changes in advancement;
'mn PHILOSOPI-IICAL MERLIN;
i
9
ff
*r
*il*
as
ntfour years old they will have siélgness, also at the ages of either
eighteen, or
twenty-eight; atttwénty, a journey, at twenty,-one,
much vexation, at thirty, a
long voyage.
In the west angle will be placed, Puella, which will increase
greatly, the mntability of their fortune; and give many public oppo-
nents." They shall be in danger of being cast down from the elevation
to which they may arrive, and for a length of time be much troubled,
-féenvy lighting against, their happiness, if in public life, the worst.
They shall succeed in law suits, and gain favor from the Judge.
'
They shall also generally recover lost or stolen property.+Fai|
Women will be their favorites, especially the younger sort, and in an'
inferior capacity, such as servants and minors-and those of free and
open manners. If a'woman, she' shall marry a fair man, rather
eiferninatéj if a man, his first love shall not be his wifeélet them
also beware of illegitimate offspring.
'~ In the north angle, will be found POPULUS, govenied by the'
watery element, andchietly under the full Moon, which gives many
enemies in their own house; they shall live where many _people usually
frequent, and will do best in the most populous and busy part. They
will be fortunate as bu ers and sellers of lands and heritages. See-
ing the death of their Yatherj and generally of both parents: they
shall be the heir to vast legacies, and have money left them. At the
age offortg/1/z`ue let them beware of the water. They shall- visit
distant -parts, and receive good from the East and West. They will
youth be fondof noise, bustle, 'quarrelling and contest, care-
less' o their persons,but in old' age given toreligion. -
'
In books, letters, new clotlies, or new articles, they will be very;
unfortunate, _and receive' injury through mercurial men. _
'
In mall cattle, and dogs, they may be fortunate, 'but if born in the
day time, and if in the moming, especially from eleven to twelve,
they willvmeet with more success than if born in the night. If born
exactly' at midnight, they will be lawyers or divines. __
Tuesday, is their fortunate day, _andin their undertakings let them
choose the Moon in Capricorn, and in her first quarter, if they would
prevail. _
.
_
They are underlthe Tutelary Spirit, called Samuel.
Y
io
~
_
THEVPHILOSOPHICAL MERLIN;i
,.?.
* "I-
* -X-
i *
l~ *
THE native born under this figure, Populus, a
symbol of the-
watery Triplicitie, is chiefly under the Moon, and Jupiter, but if
bom in the day time, under the Moon alone. They will be of a mild,
quick, subtil, and ready wit, doing most things with moderation,
ubject to anger, but as soon calmed; swift in journeys, and voyages.
Fond of mystical and supernatural things; having remarkable and'
curious dreams, and ominous forebodings, generally given to iiattery ;'
some
public employment, or oilice, .also an excellent navigator, sea-
man, or merchant; also fortunate in dealing in colors and liquids.
'I hey who are bom under this figure, are tinged with melancholy,
and the spleen; cold and phlegmatic, subject to pains in the left
side, and gnawings of the stomach.-If females, having fair children,
danger by Ere and water. They will be greatly obnoxious to insects,
of the meaner kind, and have a
great hatred to spiders, beetles, and
crawling things; but fond of dogs, cats, horses, and beasts; also of
hunting, wrestling, running, and athletic sports.
~
»
They will'have moles on the breast, arms, and other parts, and a.
dark mole near the loins. They will also be remarkably subject to
colds and coughs. y
_
þÿ¬
In the south angle will be the figure, Puer, of thetnature and
property of Mars, in the constellation, of the celestial Ram, of the_
fiery Trigon; denoting them to be fortunate in green, russett, and
sparkling, or
glistening colors. They shall arrive to martial, and,
public renown, famed for heroic deeds, whether deserving or not. _
They shall also inherit a
strange fanciful imagination, hereditary,
and no less eccentric than nndeiinable. If awoman, she will be
much followed by the male sex, _
-_
In riches, their greatest gain will often be loss, being subject tn*
a
very mutable fate. Suffering also at times through a
too conceited
opinion of .themselves and actions. Being rather given to obstinacy.
They shall travel much and change their residence often; likes
wise their whole life will be very strange and romantic,
»
and fond of novelties, travelling, and curiosities. lf born .in the?
night, the women have a dread of water. If a man he will be in-
They will have much vexation through their kindred, and will be
inf
-
THE ,PHILOSOPHICAL MERLIN.
T
10
'
_ .
is =|=
-me sr
=l= 'sf
=» ar-
If born in the day they will be more fortunate than inthe night;
they will also rise to much 'greater eminence if born in April:
or
July. They will be eminently successful at particular peri0ds,;
especially at eighteen, twentyzfour, and tliirty-sixpyears ofiage..
During the tirst two
fyears of life, they are' much subject to
sickness and accidents, f At thirty years old, they may expect'
much trouble. t '
i
' '
Infthe west angle, will be the figure Carcer,;, denoting the
Native, if a man, shall suffer much through women, and be defamed
imjustly. They shall meet. with loss; by searching 'continually
after vain, and unprotitablethings-and must also avoid law suits.
_Such is the contrariety of their fate, that even in trouble they
will be popular, and will he the keepers of others secrets. If they;
get over. the age of forty-five, they shall live to' a
great age and at-
tain an. honorable burial. They will be in danger of a troublesome
marriage, but ending well. They ,seldom marry rich, or in a
good
family, but mostly obscure persons. Many born under this tigine
never marry. .
'
_
-
-'
In the north part of the
_jigure
will be Amissio, governed by
Venus, denoting the first chil tobe a son, and long lived, being
preferred before the others, remarkable for good intellect. The
Natives, should live, if possible, near a sea
port town, or in a
city,`
receiving the produce of the ocean.
- ~ ~
`
'
North Britons, under this figure, generally rise to, eminence,
however let those .who`requiro their services be wary. _
~
Monday is their fortunate day, and also Thursday night. Let
them choose the Moon increasing, in Cancer, or Pisces in their
undertakings, and let her _be in good 'aspect to Jupiter. At mid-
night, and eight in the morning is their favorable hours, They are
born under the Tutelary Spirit or Angel, Gabriel. `
~
ll
'
THE PHILOSOPHICAL unnun.
_Q-at
are
¢
4:-
-»~-»
THEY who are bom niider this figure of ,Geomancy,_ called Albus,
are under the spirits of the ,-airy region; chiefly _rmder the planets;
Saturn and Mercury. Their life shall commence with great labor,
and their early days, be remarkable, for incessant fatigue, as well
as quick action; They will obtain much prosperity and good for-
tune, through parents, kindred, and noble. persons., They will :be
successful in public capacities, and make eminent clerks,_ accoun..
tants, stenographers, painters, embroiderers, architects, founders
of' bindings for public or
private use, mechanics, eugmvers, horo-
logers, astrologers, and artists( They will, like their patron, the
fleet and winged Mercury, be clever and ingenious, inventing ahd;
re-inventing, but often losing the fruit. of their labonls through
want of persevering patience, and unwearied assiduity. They will
be eminent satirists, and volubleiii speech; copiousin writing;
and expert in definition: much, however, they will lose, through
keeping compan with unfortunate and evil minded persons. They
will be' well calculated for business, and good arithmeticians. Nimble
and mischevious as_their patron, unless 'bom on a
Thursday, or
Friday. __
11 on a
Saturday, they must be careful of their actions,
or
they will attract the notice of impartial justice. They will also
be noted for giving the first cause in affronts, and for pro agating
reports, whether tn1e'or false; nevert'heless~`they will be "nd
faithful in friendship; and in thciripmmise he rigidly tenacious of
performing what they intend. 4
They will have moles on the-arms, thighs, feet, and legs,`and
be during infancy and youth much subject to falls, blows, and be
very fond offclimbing, adventuring, and bringing trouble upon
themselves. At five
years old, they will have a serious fall, oi
hurt, and lose a relation, either then, or at the age of ten years.
They will bury both parents, but their mother the first." ,
'
ln' the mid-heaven will be found Letitia, denoting, ,or represent-t
ing much dealing with naval concems, or
dwelling, or business, near
the water. They shall at least,'twice cross the ocean; in youth,
being lost from their friends, for a time, or suffering through the
carelessness of their friends. At
þÿh)¬_fleen,_
they will meet with
changes, which will influence theirw ole life.
In books and writings they may be fortunate, also in mixed colors,
especially red and white, light blue and azure.
They will be fond
of costly and expensive apparel, ornaments and decorations.
¢ _
THE PHILOSOPHICAL MERLIN. _ll
¢
_
-ar as
'il' 1*
4|-
`
4+ ar
Their livelihood shall be in a great measure obtained by other rnen's
endeavours, they will obtain eminence in two places, or else divide
their patrimony. They shall take man short joumeys; generally
on asudden, also chiefly towards the southand east.
In the west angle will be Acquixitio, denoting an amorous mind,
having many admirers, andif afemale, a
coquette. Their mind will
be much perplexed through enemies,
mostlymof
their own caus-
ing, they being very' fond of adulation. ey will marry fair
persons, good housewives, and having several handsome children,
being also happy and fortunate in the marriage state. If a
female
her husband- will he very fond of pleasure, and rather given to perni-
cious enjoyments. In high or mountainous places their fortune lays,
therefore let them accordingly choose their residence.
In the north angle will he Conjunctio, of the earthy region,
giving loss or suffering through brethren or sisters; a love of mar-
tial aifairs, and' remarkable hatred of oppression, but they will often
beunjustl accused of oppressing, others, when in reality they act
entirel , the reverse. The will be liable`to the gravel, and if not
careilulydiseased through fiarnales. At some particular periods of
their life, they must be careful or
they will be their own ruin. They
will, however, be at times fortunate in games of chance.
'
They will inherit their ,father's estate, andpwould be successful in
the secret and occult sciences, magic and necromancy. From distant
relations, such as uncles, aunts, and others, they will have money
or rich presents. Though fond of war, they will always do better
by peace.
'
Wednesday is their fortunate day, and the first day of every week
will be remarkable, in either loss or
gain. Saturday, is to them,
tolerable good. 'I`he spring of the year, and the Moon in Scorpio,
is favorable, or else in the sign Aquarius, which at times will be
better.
'
They are under the Angel, Raphael.
re' .THE P'HlL0SOl5l-ll(l'.1iLi Mrfariilv.
_
~
=K==ll=
5i=%i=
=ll=
if
»<>
THEY who are fortunate enough, 'to be bom under this' syiriliol,
called Fortuna Major, of- thesfiery element, ruled rbythe San/ and
Jupiter, but_in the day time by the Sun, alone ;' will 'arrive' to' great'
eminence,`especially.il' bom in the end of July, or. 'from the bQ'iti=
ning to the middle of August. Let them be bor;n'ir'r what month
they will, yet they will be'pm<ms' of "note, well' known, public/ahd
exemplary.
'
They shall however be much subject td labor, and many
dangers, much, and perpetually troubled with: the' businessvof other
:persons very ingenious, .fond of horsemanslrip, fond'td'a degree' of
flattery, even though the person who flattered thein' was a known
ienerny, also much liking those who either follow the same pursuits or
coincide with them in opinion. They will be very' aspiring, ambii
.tious, and high-minded. -Either travelling or much desirous .thereof :
bestowing much.labor, time, and useless ingenuity, to giveilaws, and
prescribe rules to other persons. -They shall have moles on the back,
,legs and arms, be hairy and athletic, high: foreahead] and generally
.gray eyes.
'
They will be much inclined to royalty and=loviug grain
-deur, and too frequently ostentation, seldom however keeping a secret.
They willbe liable toinflammations, and fevers, head-achesand scurvy,
liable also to danger by fire, kicks from `a horse, and. some slight
danger by -a fall, either from an high place, or
by an accidental
mistake.. .
` `
_ `: ._
"In the rriid-heaven will be posited Ainissio, denoting' much _dan-
ger 'both in purse, property and healtli, 'thrbugh hareléssness, or
neglect. They will be
very much in the
employ of great persons,
either in some
place of public employ or trust, or m' the church,`rn a
.public theatre, market, emporium for foreign produce, or elsein some
place where they shall bear great rule. They will lose at times, and
very often through low persons, especially females, although through
clowns and servants. They will lose much authority at times through
_a_ want of caution, and once in their life suffer
iinprisonmenti They
.shall much lose by stolen property. _
If in
any situation under roy-
alty, they shall gain great favor from :the .her'rs'to' the throne, and
especially from the fernale branches and other illustrious persons.
They will be amazingly fond of fair, bright, and clear weather, and
fond of warm and heated things. _ _' __ Y
_
,
_
THE' PHILOSOPHICAL aneurin. 12
il#
#IF
'l=
_
$
'
In the- west angle will be found Tristitia, which shows they shall,
if a man, refuse an honest and beautiful woman, and contract mar-
riage with a low, servile, or obscure person; and unless they take
great care nearly ruin themselves by marriage. If, however, they
are careful, they may in a
great measrue mitigate the judgment.
They will be either in love early, or else marry very early. They
will have few children, but probably one daughter. They will during
the early part of their life chietiy regard the matrimonial alliance for
money: and indeed marry when
they will, they will be prosperous
.thereby. If awoman, her husban shall be of proud and austere
manners, and without she take extreme caution, the.only thing for
which she will condemn herself will be an evil marriage. They
.must beware of cards, dice and gambling, especially with elderly-
upersons. ln their amours the men shall much pride themselves, but
'once in a thousand, or thereabouts, they may meet with a
virgin.
-They will notwithstanding be much given to illegitimate love, the
natural consequences of which is severe trouble. »
In the fourth house, they have Rubens, which shews danger of
,imprisonment and restraint, with a mixture of loss and gain;-'
They shall be successful in metals, `earths, liquids, poisonous, or
conceive acids, either in dealing in, or perfecting, for use in ex-,
periments or
operations; also in sowing, tilling andplanting; also
rn war or battle, niines, fortification, and implements of destruction,
and famous for many new inventions, and in red and green colors.
They shall suffer through treachery, andtoo much confidence; they
will meet with much envy and be nmjustly scandalized, but in old
age, shall become rich. .
»
If hom at sun-rise they will be as a Prince
among
their household,
and have as it were an
army at their command. I bom at the time
of sun-setting, exactly, they will if no good aspect of Jupiter in-
tervene, lose their life in battle or
public strife. Let them always
beware of explosions and sharp instmments.
'
A
`
sunday, is their fommao day, and the am and eighth hm
thereof ; let them choose the moon in Arias or
Sagittarius, and in
her iirst Sextile,~and they will prevail. 1
'lhe name of their guardian Angel is, Michael.
,
.
>
c `
ra rms: rrrrrosopnrcrr rmrrrru.
l==l=
i¢
°l=
=l==ll=
Triosn born under 'this horoscope, are under the spirits of the
earthy region, chielly under Mercury and Venus ; and if in the night,
under Mercury and the' Moon. They will be prone and apt to amor#
ous incitements, desiring a
perpetual friendship, and intercourse
with the opposite sexes.
'
'
'
They are skilful in dreams, ominous forebodings, and much given
to prying after, and
desiring
an insight into, the unfathomable 'depths
of futurity. They `will b lovers of the artsand sciences, :diligent
in business, of an excellent memory, though subject at 'times to defect
of utterance, or else too much volubility, in either case
very hurtful."
'
They will be expert at inventing and diligent in executing, espe-
cially in the sciences, of optics, acoustics, -pneumatics, and the
higher branches of experimental philosophy. Believers in animal
magnetism, or
very occult
sympathy. If bom at midnight, Astro-
logers, possessed of celestial and mystical knowledge, reading the
Stars as
easy and facile as an
Epistle.
'
'They will, if in inferior life, be excellent accountants, artists,
lawyers, hydrographers and mechanics, expert in occular
memory,
and very fond of displaying their extraordinary faculties. They will
subsist by their talents, and obtain much 'honor through tall thin
persons, of scientific but studious habits.
'
g
In the mid-heaven will be the symbol, Albus, denoting them to
be humane and courteous, but given to covretousxiess, or else very
eager, and arduous, in their respective pursuits. Fortunate in buying
and selling,_ and merchandize in general. If bom at midnight, and
the Moon' in conjuction with the Sun, namely a new Moon, the dead
'in their graves shall scarcely rest for them, such will be, their desire
for mysterious intercourse, magic and necromancy. (The manuscript
ihere relates that Edward Kelly, Chiancungi, and Agrippa, were
born under this horoscope, with similar configurations, one of
which, the second, was crushed to atoms by infernal spirits./
If
tlrey_do not
follow these
arts, they will be expert in ancient things,
Antrquxtres,
Egyptian
and hreroglyphical learning, translations, and
beconre famous inguists.
'°
-
.
They will have moles on the feet, knees and arms, of plain fea-
tures
gerrerally, but voluptuous and warm in passion. Subject to
falls, bruises and danger through experiruerrts. In danger of break-
THE, PH1Loso1>H1cAL_.MERL1N.-» . is
=ll='K<
=l=
*IE
=l= =l=
ing an arm, or leg; and if bom on a new or
_fhll ltloon in danger of
drowning. If born in February, March, July, September or Novem-
ber, this judgment is still, more certain; and they will not escape
drowning 0r_shipwreck, unless Jupiter be in the very degree as.
eending. They will be subject to head-aches, bowel complaints,
and in old age to the gout and rheumatism. They will acquire an estate
by some public or
religions employment, and be the head of their
house. They shall_generall bear rule over others, and in old age be
happy. At ten, thirty, andlforty-two,they will have great changes.
They will either be much conversant with exports or
imports, or else
take many journeys both by sea and land.
I .In the descendant will be Letitia, denoting them to be much and
publicly known, every twelfth year meeting with a
change in life,
and similaracquaintance. They shall much desire Battery and
praise, though strictly worshipping Plutus. If a man, he shall
marry a fair and atl`able woman, liberal, but a
good horsewife, a.
stranger by birth, and met by accident. If a woman, she will be
much beloved by great persons. In either case, they may not ex-
pect much gain by marriage. The men will be so far amorous, 'as
to desire the company of married persons. At nineteen and twenty.
four, either sex will be near marriage.
In the north angle will be posited, Acquisitio, denoting easy per-
forming of difficulties, good fortune through discovering hidden or
lost things, and through secret science. -
Gain also by houses, lands,
wate things or
places, agriculture, and horses; 'also by chemical,
metallic, and fiery things; A legacy from a middle aged person,
fair complexion. Death of the children, or much illness to them,.and
loss thereby. Their end will be very happy.
Lofty places and the sea coast is their properest residence. They
will be successful in black and blue, spotted colors. Let them choose
the Moon in Cancer, by day, and Virgo, by night, and both in-
creasing, and in Trine to the Sun.
Wednesday is their best day, and also Saturday night. The name
pf their Genius is, Raphael.
'ri
`
r
'tus PHILOSOPHICAL MERLIN. _
4%
=X='=l=
a#
__'H '=R<
i
'THOSE born under Puella, governed by the airytriplicitie,are
chiéliy
under Venus. They will be skilful and ingenious, 'votaries of pleasure
-and curiosity. Subject to much siclgness and many falls and casualties;
especially from horses, and by the fall of old buildings. They will
have many troubles, dangers, and adversaries, b`e near rovoked
to iight duels, and at times suffering through law suits andiconten-
tions. Their life will be at times very prosperous, _' biut amazingiy
subject to mutability.~ Though timourous, yet they will be uuoon-e
querable, and when provoked, fiery in anger." 0fte'n'those' born
under such a
symbol, are
enthusiastically religious, having singing
and extraordinary dreams and visions. Having moles on the thee,
loins, feet and arms. In manners conceited and fond of praise,
thereby often risking their own future fame, despising the intreaties
and supplications of others, to their future detriment. -'
'
~
'
They will be ambitious, and paiticularl fond of -line
apparel 'arid
outward shew. Particularly fond also oty fine gardens,
'
trees'and
aromatic shrubs. At the ages of thirty and_/i_/ty-three, they will be
inlgreat danger of their lives, and especially nz the latter period,
V
_ln the zenith they will have the symbols Via, and Populus.
which will make them famous, invincible and illustrious, richand
wealthy; they shall subsist by the gettings of others, and be` high
in office, but too often given to cruelty or
oppression, ln 'the flaw,
or the church, they would succeed to amiracle. ' -T l
'
»
Those bom in the day time, and especially at sun-setting, and at
noon, are the most fortunate, and will be employed under Kings;
Those also who are bom on the day of the Autumnal equinoit 'tire
very famous, and will enjoy a
posthumous reputation. Upon those
born_at the point of the Summer and Winter solstice, are eminent in
war, battle, and destruction of theirfellow men.;
' '
They will have in the seventh house, the symbol Puer, which
will make them great travellers and voyagers,
continually going
amongst great companies of people. They will see the eath of
their mother, and of many other relatives. In- the element of water,
in Hydraulics, perfumes of a
liquid nature, and Indian articles -of
luxury; they will be successful, but lose through eudeavoring to
pep
1
,THE Pl-IILOSOPHICAL MERLIN. 14
as
=r=»|=
'se
* I
vert-justice. Distinguished families underthis symbol, arrive to
great' military and naval command. fThe Emperor Napoleon,
himself was born under this horoscope.)
'
Imprisonment they may expect to suffer, unless Jupiter, very
favorably beholds the horoscope. lt will, however, not be long in
duration. They ,will also, if born in the day time, and in any other
time except winter, be liable to attacks upon their life, and be much
exposed to fraud' and violence. They will also be much instrumental
in their own
'
death, if very strong testimoniesdo not intervene.
They, must beware of midnight and desert places. They will marry
lively and shrewd persons, rich and powerful, probably noble.
In the north, angle will be Career, denoting much danger by law
suits, and public contentions; stout, short, and fair or
ruddy persons
will be great enemies. They will. nevertheless profit much by their
mvn industry aud unremitting labors.-and will be fortunate in dark
crimson and purple colors, _
At forty-two, much prosperity and public notice or advancement
may expected; attended, however, with much and eminent dan-
ger;
The?
shall be unfortuwte in their own
odspririg, and in houses,
lands, an hereditaments, but never
meeting much poverty.-They
-will much delight in splendid dwellings. Also in ponip, and out-
ward shew, bestowing much time, labor, and expence, in ambitious
pursuits; but in their old age, their former fluctuating fortune, shall
*give place to a. settled and tranquil series of years j rendering their
decline of existence, both rich and happy, especially if they attain
to the age of jijty-six.
_
iln their chief undertakings, let them choose the Moon, if possible,
in Cancer or Capricom, the latter ifat night; and let her be applying
to Venus, and near the last triangle with the Sun.
'
'
Friday is their fortunate day, and
Monday night, _
I
i
I
~
They are under the Genius Agzael. ~
I5 THE PHILOSOPHICAL MERLINT
-l 'I-
.*._
'I'-*
I'
~
TH-EY who are"born under this symbol, 'are under fthe benevolent
and auspicious rule of Jupiter, in the regal sign of the Archer.
They will be of generous and free disposition, but very tenacious of
rule, and bearingauthority. They are born to the greatest good
fortune, and if duringrthe day time, an-iving toimmense riches.-
¥et notwithstanding this, the horoscope is reckoned amongst those;
which will during youth cause a sea of troubles, manifold perils and
extreme dangers. '
y _
i
_
Their youth will also be laborious, and unsettled.
They will have
many adversaries, but have an estate most unexpectedly conferred upon
them, -
without the least probability thereof. They will frequently
travelrinto strange countries, commit themselves to the wide ocean,
and great waters; or else be very conversant with the water, and
fluids. They will be alwa s doing things for the most public notice,
and those
generally outrtl; and eccentric. They are of excellent
parts, and superlative memory, wit, promptitude, and understanding,
ingenious and skilful in all arts_ and sciences, following nature, and
noted for both neatness and elegance. Most excellent horsemen, and
particularly fond of athletic sports.
A
-
'
'
u
'They are
chiefly under the region of -the fire, and have moles on
the arms, thighs, neck and throat. Very subjectto falls from horses,
and high places, blows and contusions. Also to scalds and burns.
They will also receive a bite from some camivorous animal.
In the zenith is found, Conjunctio, of the earthy trigon, which
denotes their being preferred to great power, and magistracy. They
shall be
obeyed by the common people, and regarded as a
prince
amongst therrhousehold; continually bearing away the palm of
niet-it. From their public situations, manyshall subsist by them,
but generally those on whom they bestow their favors, will prove
vez
ungrateful. In the law, or clerical affairs, they will meet wi
great preferment, but meet with uniform loss in martial affairs.
If a female, she will be much beloved and rule the tide of fashion,
in her sphere of life, but let her beware of too much capiice ; or it
may be that her old age may suffer from it, chieiiy through the re-
jection of good offers. In love and marriage, this judgment will be
found very correct, and if born exactly at noon-day, they will refuse
a coronet.
PHILOSUPHICAL 'MERIQlN. 15
* ~l~
'l~
.
I* I'
~l>
In the descendant will be placed the noted symbol Albus, ofthe
airy region, denoting astrange love for secret and hidden things;
curious and mystical sciences, and ancient learning. They will be
eminent teachers, and trainers of youth, especially in the polite arts.
Also expert in the different branches of experimental philosophy;
They will many tall, fair, persons, generally, and will be liable tb
disputes and 'vexatious in the marriage state. In early life they
will have amours, but marrying before twenty-four years of age, for
the most part.
They may expect a numerous
family, and very un-
ruly, though some o the children will arrive to great honor and re-
nown. 'Although not exactly felicitous in wedlock, yet they will'be
inuch admired, courted and also followed by fair women, and by the
sex in general. Females, bom under this symbol, are
lively, and
well formed for the mysteries of Venus, and generally
manéy
both
rich and powerful persons. Most of the fmil votaries, of the yprian
goddess, are under this horoscope; as it is the symbol of 'mirth in
love. V
'
In the Nadir, or-north angle is found Letitia, which will make
them fortunate in blue, light green, olive and citron colors. y
Caus-
ing them also to be the keeper of others secrets, and not unfrequently
to be ennobled. This causes much disatfection in, the uuptial state,
and often causes the native to marry an unchastet woman, (unless
-Venus, be well disposed, in the horoscope). At the ages of ten,
_/ijleen, twenty-one, and thirtyzfive, great changes may þÿl)6» ¬XP6Cf£d
in their fortune, also a
probabilit of joumeys and voyages. They
mvillhave legacies left them, andy be fortunate in discovering con-
cealed things and lost treasure. Let them beware of poisonous and
pernicious drinks, and corrosive liquids, also of two much revelling
In the enjoyments of Bacchus. They will be continually subject to
petty losses, but though' at times unsuccessful, yet they will enjoy
much prosperity in their old age, and laugh at the frowns of fortune.
If born during the end of November, and from thence to the
_middle of December, and especially if horn in the day, at that time,
they will be eminently successful, the highest personages admiring
them. Thursday is their fortunate day, and at the hours of nine
and twelve. Let them choose the Moon in Pisces, in trine to Ju.
;piter or the Sun, and above all, let them shun t.he new Moon, in
-their undertakings.
' `
'
The`name of their Angel or
Tutelary Spirit is, Zadkiel.
16
`
'rar-: 'PHILOSOPHICAL Menus.
if -u-
* -
are
*_*
f
'THE natives lrormunder this symbol, Rubens, a
figure of the
watery triplicitie, under the aquatic Genii, are chieily govemed by
Mars, that fiery and warlike Planet, so much celebrated in mythof
logical lore. They are
generally very prone to anger, warm in pas-
sion, and fond of combats, fighting, and 'very revengeful. It were
better to' quarrel with an
angry lion, and excite his tremendous fury,_
than topointedly offend such persons, as
they seldom or ever forgive
an injury. (lf bom at the time the Moon is in evil aspect to the
.planet Mars, which may be known by an Astronomer, they are
back-lbiters, perjured, cnlel and malicious, and often murderers.)
They have moles on the neck or throat, and concealed parts. They
will be
ver?
fortunate as surgeons, chymists, apothecaries, mann,-
facturers o acids, corrosives, poisonous articles used in dying, or
coloring; also as sailors, fishermen, and those subsisting by the
ocean; painters, artists, and sculptors. _Subject during infancy to
,perpetual falls, quarrels, blows and cuts. 'Invincible obstinate,
never to be forced to anything, (even though the torture were
used,)
but soon won
by flattery, and gentle persuasion. In youth, 'they
shall be subject to many misfortunes, towed to and fro, with many
perils, -whereby they will be almost driven to desperation, but
afterwards, becoming rich and famous. They will be
nerymhigh
spiritert proud and conceited, perpetually running into ger,
often t rough persuasion of false and wicked counsellors, and
chiefly through great vigor of mind. They will be subject to bilious
and liver complaints. »
'
In the mid-heaven is the symbolical figure, Fortuna Minor,
giving great fortitude and strength, but denotingthat although they
will be wearied with many labors, yet they shall obtain a
place' of
honor and dignit under some great person, where they shall be
much Battered and servilely applauded, by which means they wiH
raise many others. They will also enjoy their paternal estate, and
increase their
hereditary property. By the good graces of emi-
nent females, they will e advanced, also by the liberal and polite
arts. At the age of
twenty:/ive andiforty, remarkable events,
conducive to an entire change rri life, may he expected. They will
take several journeys, and travel over the ocean
many thousand
miles. If born on a
full Moon, they will also be shipwrecked, or
cast away uporp some desolateisland. Let them he bom at what
time they will, they will hardly escape imprisonment.
~
Stout, fair
persons will prove eminent friends, more especially if they are born
A
.
'
THE-FH!L®0P&¢JAL: 16
`
'
if if
=l=
1=~ #`
=l=~1l=
in'=the~ month o'f ,August lf* born ot Sun-rising, they 'will be
sevdrelywtung, bysome noxious insect, and have a
perpetualsdreml
¢her~aof.~ lf» so8nn~seuing»,~they will be in great danger of. poison,
espeeiallyéffim themonth ofDecember. If they are born onamew
Maun<,.¢hey!will:escape without harm, V
r . r »
_
4'-|51 f ,. |» .>».|' .1 v '
:. . , ,
westom homo; isfound, Qiminio, which will give victory r
ovorenemiesy both public and =private~; they wilhhowever, b6»S|1b4
jeetito great loss through women andpleasure. .
They ,shall be very
remarkable for the singularcircumsmnce of twiceinftheir life, being
nearly beggars, but willdin rich., Let them beware' ofbecominga
sunny -for any oieyy or of being responsible for thein words. or
acnonsw* f' - -
I .
_Theywvill much' admire alark eyed women, and marrywell, but,
newer keepingwo one
person. If a woman, she is masculinefand
scarcely walitingmfou- the ordinations of nature, but 'will ,marry well,
Theys all lose several.o£<.their children, but retain tl)Bil1.f||.V0l'ltB5;
They twill be successful in dark brown, V
and fiery red colors... .
,
r .. ,
the Nadir, will be.»the watery Tristitia, which signifies some,
dangereby fluids or water,-_and evinces gxeat ingmtitude of friends,
chielly there; where much ought to beexpected. r If' they .go through'
life.free~ fmmnucidents, theywilhdie. of a
gentle. consumption.-'_
They will have great difficulties to overcome, through the meanness of
their family, and often lose thereby. They will also delight in an,-'
cient (houses, .castles and.old buildings.. They must beware of law,-
suitsrwith females, and must.be also careful ip lending money to the
fair sex.=~= ln horses, especially those for war and battle, or forfthe
use, of noble persons, theyrwoulrl be fortunate in speculating; also
inother gaenerouslanimals. _ .
'
`
`
'
.
-
' ,
,
. 1 ,
Tuesday is their fortunate day, andthe night ofjiriday.
'
let them choose the insCancef, and anproaching thefull, if
theywould. wish to be
successful intheir undertakings. . n _
The of their 'nomar Angel is, samez,
`
D _
I7 THE PHILOSOPHICAL MERLIN.
T'
fl* ~1l¢
l= l=
l¢ i=
l¢
.
THEY who are bom under the symbolical figure Tristitia, ure
under the spirits of the airy regions; and chiefly rmder the planets
Satum and Mercury. They will be of free and rather prodigal mau-
nem, .fond of the arts and literature. They will have moles on the
legs, arms and breast, and be subject to sprains, or ,slight injury to
the extremities. This horoscope denotes that they shall'waste, and
lose, whatever they gain; but being born rather fortunate, they will
again recover their losses. They will be great lovers of hospitality,
and patrons to scientific persons, especially to the meaner sort; for
this horoscope disposes them to be very just, liberal and humane.
Let them be in what state they will, they will be in ,many dangers;
but.uniformly overcoming their didiculties, although at times they
shall be almost driven to desperation. They will be much subject to
calumny, and feel the shafts of envy most acutely, hut in the end,
seeing their most rancorous and malignant persecutors utterly de-
stro ed. ,
. ld the zenith will con equently (from the nature of the scheme)
be ibund Rubens, of the aquatic region, causing. them to be valiant
and courageous, giving promotion, and good fortune, in divinity;
law, or
physic, hut causing their life and actions to he laborious, and
at times obnoxious to the meaner class of persons. This_figure also
denotes perpetual changing, and shifting from place to place, in the
commencement of their lives, causing themto bein servile or laborious
otliees, but the result of all their- actions to be prosperous.-
They will be often troubled with sudden and unaccountable depression
oft
pirits, and humid melancholy,
proceeding
from too great arednn-
dance of phlegmatic moisture. T ey are from the same cause often
pensive and shunning public company, and tinctured with a kind of
austerity of manners, bordering upon pride. »
They will scorn con-
trol,,although generally living underrestraint, andlove nothingso
much as
liberty. They will be very fortrmate in recovering lost
things, and discovering treasure, or lost rarities; also eminently
attached to the study of antiquities, aircient curiosities, fond of_`the
wonderful and romantic, hating sameness, and delighting in ancient
armour, excavations, marine productions, geological rarities, details
of sieges, battles and ancient warfare; but often the dupe of the
designing. They will he eminently fortunate in buildings, especiall
in civil architecture, constructing aqueducts, bridges, public
ings and courts of justice. Tall, thin, dark persons, and memorial
persons will prove their friends. In combats, they will be nearly
overcome at the first, but shall bear away the laurel at the end. Thq
will be eminently skilful in tireaworks, and uncommonly tenacious
of ancient customs, rites and manners, believing themselves in these
'culars superior to eve other rson. The Chinese are chic
mer this symbolicalj¥gZ°e./
Pe ( Ji,
THE 'YBILOSUPHNJAL þÿlIERI.I ¬N.
, W
=l'l=
lt#
ii
I#
.__In the westem angle isposited Fortuna Major, of the fiery re-
gions, denoting ill foitunelby his wife or children; and if a hulls,-
rather an# evil marriage. They will many with persons older than
themselves, and will often times be at variance with their partners,
as their husbmds or wives, shall promise much fidelity, but in reality
love others better than themselves.
,
Their own-household will also prove their enemies, too often, and
assist their public oppressors, in injurious proceedi,;ngs, to their great
detriment. They also generally marry widows, or widowers, but
rather wealthy. In -their youth, they will be the uniform rivals of
others, both in love and honor, but -especially in the former. They
will deal largely in beasts, articles for thefire, and foreign luxuries,
bebig also very successful in aromatic perfumes, odours, and rich
unguents; also in sky-blue and black colors.
They will be eminently successful in law suits and public actions,
at times also fortunate in games of chance, especially if they venture
while the Moon is in .Taurus and Virgo, increasing,_and in the
night time. By, day, they will notbe so fortunate. Every twelve years
they will be eminently successful in this and other chance specula-
tions. Their_ friendships and enmities will be of very long duration.
_
In the verge of heaven, they will have the symbolical and terrene
figure Amissio, which represents some considerable gain by legacy,
or death of persons not related, The would be amazingly luckyfm
performing the. last rites -of the desi and also as rmdeitakers or
cemetrians. .
-
_ This promisestricbes in extreme old age, with eminent fame, from
distinguished persons, but their youth shall be restless "as the troubled
One' of .their children shall arrive to great honors, and rule
his brethren: butat thirty years of age, both parents and children
will suffer imprisonment. »
< ~
. This figure' promises- the favor of a rich and distinguished lady, (if
the native be male,) who shall delight in his embraces. 'l`hey will
entirely lose their patrimony, by theparents folly, but is as said above,
acquire adequated compensation in contingent successes. If they
who are born under this symbol are seamen or merchants, their vessels
will be in danger from pirates, and be slow in their voyages. They
will uniformly burytheir parents, especially the father.
If born on a full Moon, they are more fortunate than at any other
time, especially ithappens in the month of
Januzgly
or
February.,
Saturday is their most fortunate day, and
especi y at sun nse.
Let them also choose the Moon in Capricorn and in Sextile to the Sm,
The name of their Angel is called Cassiel. ~
18 THE P1-IILOSOPHICAL-MEHLIN.
a
are
'es
'ar
WHEN this symbolicalligure, Carver, arises, the persons are bom
under the spirits of the earthy region, and chiefly unde Mrars and
Saturn. They are endued with a
strange, mysticallimagination, and
strange fancy, naturally prone to see
spirits and visions; and also
to be soon terrified with supernatural noises or
appearancesr
`
They
are invincible in battle, and invulnerable as the Achillean armour,
to any thing like fear, in war or strife; but in mystical and visionary
things, mere cowards. Their imagination, naturally born to-soar
above the earth, and 'their mind, prone by nature to spum every
terrene obstacle, is notwithstanding perpetually -tinged with an un-
accountable gloom. They see objects as it 'were through a-dense
and distempered medium, and where the greatest tritler would enter
unawed, they shrink back as
theywould from the icytouch ofmortality,
and their mind unconsciously bows in humble submission to an
imperceiptible influence, which they cannot define; but which is in
realty e effect of planetary agency. They are much subject to
danger and casualties, bites of camivorus animals, vultures, and
inhabitants of the desert. They will be great warriors, captains, and
conquemrs. /Suchas' Hannibal the Carthagenimr, Cesar, Edward
the Black Prince, and last, though not least, Napoleon.) With
the eyes of eagles, and the foresight of an almost supematural-intel-1
lent, they will _inherit the -subtilty of the serpent; and in deci..
sion be swift as the winged lightning, Bom to live as heroes, and
die in the tinn grasp of victory, yet at-times, to remind them' of
their mortality, subject to losses, crosses and calamities,
"
If born at sun-rising, the world shall 'scarcely hold their vast de-
si s, but can never contain their victorious actions. Their fame
wigilbe high' and glorious as the bright and shining orb which gave it.
In the' midst of heaven will be found Puella, denoting the persons
under her influence to be merry, faithful, but rather crafty, of an
eccentric life, and 'for ever exposed to public gaze. They will 'be
true and sincere frienrb, much given to travel into strange countries,
and relieve strangers, who will be generally ungrateful. They will
be long lived, andarrive to great riches, studious in searching atlaer
secrets, and very ambitious. ln love and marriage, as strange as in
other things, and altogether remarkable. ~
ln the westem angle will be found Via, denoting greatly the love
of women, 'and that they shall marry happy, but seldom keeping to
one person. Their first child will probably be a son, but very sickly.
~
They will often be gainers through the misfortunes of others, espe-
inferior persons, but uncoasciorsly and without injustice.-
An be apt to travel much. -~ V
- - »
_
-
THE PHILOSOPH-ICAL MERLIN.
'
is
#
#ak
=I=#
l=
'
If born in the end of March, and from thence to the middle of
April, they will receive a fall from an horse, or
injury from a four-
iboted beast. They will also have asoar, or mark, in the head or
face, and receivesome injury in their teet. If hom in the end of
April or
beginning of May, or until the first half of that .month be
past, they will he bit by a dog in the twenty-eigth or
tlrirtygifilt
year of their age.
`
They 'will many fair persons, of mild, atfable, but timorous dis-»
positions, who shall receive immense wealth by legacies or fortuitous
events. At twenty years of age, and at forty-two, they will bow as
submissive victims to the prowess of the Paphian goddess, and ac-
knowledge the universal induence of all powerful- love; although
they generally separate for a time from their first wives; and if a
woman, generally leaving her first husband. _
'
They will be continually going into immense companies, and large
concourses of people, of different habits, customs, and manners, or
else, which has nearly the same sigrrification, they will spend great part
of their time on the stormy and turbulent ocean ; in either case, appear.
ing like Neptune with his Trident, majestically ordering, stilling and
silencing the- waves of public opinion, or of that tempestuols ele-
ment, which so
nearly resembles it.
~
ln the Nadir, or north angle, is found Puer, denoting a variable
and remarkable life, at times sinking (but never sunlr,) into despair,
yet quickly assisted by their good fortune, which will enable them to
overcome every temporay difliculty. From thesame cause
they
will
enjoy good lrealth and much felicity in their latter years, an ,like
the renowned "Hero of ancient times, be remembered when _the very
seprrlchre which enclosed -their mortal remains shall 'cease to exist.
-
Those in more inferior stations of life will be famed for original
and curious inventions, or individual prowess, athletic force, or, pro-
found knowledge. They will do well to- cultivate -their knowledge
of the arts, and would be eminently successful as mathematicians,
geometricians, machinists, founders, searchers after ores, minerals or
cnriosities. They will be so far raised as to become rulers.of the
towns or
villages where they reside; and thus in their sphere of
birth, exercise authority, in a manner the same as those whoarebom
in the higher stations of life. i
Saturday is their fortunate day, and the night of Wednesday; ge-
nerally about the first hours of each, that is, at Sun rising and Sun
setting. ,
_
~
_
Let them choose the Moon in Aries, and in Trina to Jupiter,
when they begin any thing of import, alsp let her be in equal degrees,
and above all, let her not be in the Tail of the Dragon.
They are under the Angel Samuel.
/
1° run Pu1LosorH1c.iL;manL1u=
-»
`
as 4
l' I*
» 4+
THEY who are bhm lllder this figure, Letitia, are under the aqua-
tic element, and chiefly under the planetdupiter. If bom at night,
Venus will have some claim -in, their horoscope. They will be ings-Q
nions, prudent, faithful _in friendship, but high-mined, and rather
avaricious, or else extremely careful, and wishing- to amass asuflici-»
enqy or
surplus of the goods of fortune. They are generally Witty,
and having excellent memories, a fund of genuine sarcastic humour,
and have great presence of mind, abhorring war and bloodshed. _
They will make excellent musicians, painters, astronomers, and-
amateurs in the polite arts. Composersof music and attached firmly
to the drama. Often, teachers of ,youth, and generally admirable for,
justice and _piety. They are generall unbelievers in mystical appear-
ances, and so much given to mathematical demonstration, as
_to
doubt 'almost all which they cannot comprehend, but in their belief:
of Religion and of the Deity more firm; though even _in this re-
peatedly changing their tenets, and following ,many new opinions.
,They have an inward hatred to strife and warfare, but are rather
given to craft and, subtilty, and are not the tirmest in unlimited
things, when they have no control, being rather prone to conceal vice
with the transient polish of llattery, especially when their interest
is in any way much concemed. ,
.
, ,
They shall have many enemies, and be inclined to travel, voyage,
and sojourn in foreign countries, or if abiding in their native land,
yet having, much to do with merchandize and foreign negociations.
The have moles on the feet and arms, _and are subject to bilious or
else plilegmatic complaints, redundancy of moisture, and inflam-
rnations. They will be at some time of their lives in great danger
from water, and narrowly escape drowning, if born onafull Moon
especially. But they will die a
naturally and easy death, though in
a strange and distant part to where they were born.
In the midst of heaven, the above figure causes the s mbol Acqaai.
sitio to culminate, belonging to the fiery region, and ruhzdby Jupiter,
giving many imminent perils, toils and dangers. Causing great
variance with great and distinguished persons, law suits and con-
tentions ; they will also he subject to loss, through becoming surety
foranother person, whereby they shall lose the whole of theirestate and
possessions, but in the end, they shall obtain the dominion and
possession of another's' estaw, and possess that to which they have
no just claim. They will be fortunate in articles of the fire, and for
common use, in steel, iron and metallic productions, extracts, tint'-»
tures, andrpungent essences; _In horses, menageries, and homed
cattle, being also excellent sportsmen, anglers, fishermen, teachers of
.'
THE PHILBSOPHICAL MERLIN. 19
I'
l~<l~
*I*
il'
human exercises to docile animals, trainers of generous quadrupeds,
and attached 'tot all kinds of animals, birds, and remarkable produc-
tions. They 'shall succeed in pure white, and glistening or
sparkling
colors. In phosphoric or combustible ingredients, and in generous,
exhilarating liquors; to which last, they will however be rather too
much attached, for their personal and salific good. lf hom from the
middle of May' to the middle of June, they are more fortunate, but
will receive a bite from a
dog, hurt b a
weapon, or fire, at twentyf
three ears old. If born from the midiile of June to the same period
of July, they willbe amazingly fortunate alter the age of twenty-six.
'
In the west angle, will be consequently found the symbol Con-'
junctio, nrled by the spirits'of the earthy region; making them
lovers of hospitality, hearty, but rather ostentatious, having many
faithful secrets committed to their care, raising many friends by their
help, but they always retuming the favors conferred upon' them by
ingratitude.
They
will attain to riches and grandeur, but suffering
much misfortune t rough marriage. If a man, he shall immoderately
love, honor, and esteem his~wife,' and idolize his offspring, but they
shall prove both treacherous and ungrateful, and requite for his love,
hatred, and for his esteem, contempt; making his life thereby a chaos
of misfortune. *lf they bury their lirst wife, the second promises
more fair, but she will be of mean origin. Atfourteen, eighteen,
and twenty:/`our, they will bow to the shrine of Venus. At twelve,
twenty, and _forty-one, they will have a change in their whole life,
probably taking strange residences, or laborious journies.
»
In the north angle, Albus, of aierial quality, promises much
fortune, and a never dying fame. But they will be troubled with-a.
*secret constitutional disease, which none can heal or even discover;
They shall obtain an estate on a sudden, unlocked for, and unex.
pected.
They
will also be liable to sudden death, or to the apoplexy,
unless born w eu
Jupiter had great predominence in the 'eigth house
of their horoscope. If born at the hours of two and _/ive in the
afternoon, and twelve at night, they are sure to be first of their kin.;
_dred.` If at nine in the morning, they will be secretaries to persons
ruling under the government. They will sul'l¥:r`at times through
law suits and tall, thin, women, of rather artful manners, and be
more than once in danger of personal restraint, but in the end most
assuredly overcome their enemies.
'
`
S
Thursday and Sunday 'are their best days.
Let them choose the moon in 'Libra, and in her first Sextile with
the
Sun,
if possible,_also in a Triangle with Saturn; and they will
preiar .
'
'
,
-
'
They are
chietly under the Tutelar Spirits, Zadkicl and Anael.
_
»
N
'
THE PHILOSOPI-IICAL 'MERLlN'.
r
r we
,
i=
I
=l=
2%
>ll<
Tins. symbolical ,figure is termed Viq., Those_hqrn under; `t,, are
'under the spirits who rule the world of _wa,ters, and chic# ,
underthe
Moon. Partaking ,greatly of her nocturnal induence., ,%`hey_,l1aye
moles on.the breast, side, and shoulders ;_ are of
.a,pe¢agea$;le,_inil;L
but yvaveringxdisposition. ,
Patient intheir labors, note for neat.
ness, fairness and cleanliness, Hating and abhorring oppressio and
tyraun .
Loquacious, seldom retaining secrets, lidt'a1though_ gckle
minded, when once resolved, firm, and not to be charmed from their
purpose. They _are much noted for strange and, remariable
Filled with strange and unaccountable mysterious foréhodings ;
ing nnconscionably and unwittingly into the dread secrets of futunty;
making.use of oracles, visions, omens, traditions, occult testimonies,
sayings, and all kinds of facile divination, Astutely and well rn;rL
naging their household concerns, tenacious to a degree of their name
and fame, looking forward to the honors of
posterity, and endeavoring
to .secure them. Subject to strange fancies in most things
'aimdi
to
surprising mental depression. They have a natural dread ol' wa er,
"dare often horror struck at the fidea of drowning, or the sight of
'
A
, _lakes or rivers. If a man, he will be an
enpeit swimmer
y
t,se],dom venturing, after his youthful days, to _tempt the deceitful
element. In either case
they will be in danger on voyages, from
decayed yessels or carelessness of mariners. ,
If
' '
`
'_
_ .Females horn under thisfgure are fruitful, having lively children,
but pregnancy subject to
pains i_n the side, and not entirely
free from danger in child-bearing'.` They will he much followedlby
the male sex, especially dark persons, and those under the dominion
9f,Mercury. In demeanor, the females are chaste and virtuous, void of
yqluptuousncss, hutsugell calculated to ,perform the ul steries of Venus
lf born between midnight and morning, »tl1eyu/ill actually behold
yjgionary appearances, and be firm believers in the` secrets of'fthe
"her wm,1d_ ,
They shall be fortunate _in green colors.
`
`
,
_
Atjifjteen, seventeen and twenty-two,
the%
will have amours
or
They will be very fond of anirna s, and also of solemn,
mournful sounds, _such as tolling of bells, and funeral elegies, also of
ghrill,
piercing,
and thrilling music. They are also_ continually
apprehensive o death, and thereby destroying much of their own
happiness, through fruitless and unnecessary'vexation. Theywill he in
danger from a
spark of tire, and from a sudden or casual fall. lf
born on a full Moon, in the day time, they will arrive to great for-
gtnie, _and be rich
in
their old age. Every twelfth year will prove
rl e same to t em.
'
`
!§aMd'nd1ziy'nightis'their most fortunate time, and let' them choose thfe
Moon in'C'apricorn-or Virgo, and avoid the day of the new'Moon.'
They are under the Angel, Gabriel.
'
'
'
MM'¢;i2LIr;;;;znd
the other three rqmainingjigures, have but one angle,from Qhida
ey ar . 4
_
,
.;..»_._,,l.1-.-;;,-
~
_
THE PHILOSOPHICAL MERLIN. 21
-we
_
V
*
. -is --x-
-» -as
`
THEY who are found to have this figure, Fortuna Minor, arise, are
under the nocturnal influence of the Sun. If born in the night, they
are ambitious, romantic, and aspiring, and more fommate thanlf
born in theday time. If bom in the month of April, they will be-4
come very rich,-and amass great and sudden wealth. They are gene-
rally fond of adulation, great boasteis, often beyond all bounds of
probability, and skilful in philosophy or chemical, enperiments.-
They have moles on the_knees, legs and loins, are
subject to scllds
and burns, and in danger of personal injury from noxious eflluyiaor
poisonous mixtures. 'l`hey are fond of travelling, change and cu#-1
riosity. They shall also, during the whole period of their lives, be
well known and in public estimation. They will marry more than
once, and generally prosper thereby, gaining much money by wed-
lock. They will have few or no children, but may expect an illegi-
timate ofllspring to provide for.
'
Let the men beware of dark women, and especially of those who
come from adistant part. If females, let them beware of elderly men.
Those born under this figure will travel out of their native country,
and cross the ocean more than once, perhaps several times. They
will also live by the produce of foreign countries, or lend all their
money to persons in a distant nation. They will be fortmmate in
articles of ornament, decorations, in gold and silver, precious stones,
and luxurious rarities. But often losing through useless specula-
tions. The will also be successful in mines, ores, and minerals.
_
If born_ tirom the middle of July to the same time in August, but
more
especially if in the beginning of August, they will bein great
danger from tire and hot waters. But after the age of twenty-one,
becoming suddenly wealthy; If from the middle of August tothe
same period of September, they will rise to great eminence inthe
world and be employed under a
King _or -Prince. If a woman, she
will many young, and be
violently
in love at the age of _/rf/teen years.
But subject to many crosses an envious rivals. If born from the
middle of September to the same period of October, they shall gain
by rich perfumes and spices; and shall be interpreters of dreams and
visions. lf awonian marrying about the age of twenty-three, but
liable toscalds and violent burns in youth, in old age becoming rich.
Generally those under this symbolical _figure gain by illicit love.
Also, if born near to the period of the Sun reaching the ninth house
of heaven, (which in summer is from noon-day till past two in the
afternoon, and in winter from noon-day till half-past one,) they will
be eminently Successful in their
public and private concerns ;- and
wanting none of the luxuries of lite. Nevertheless, they will once
suffer a short imprisonment. ,
'
'
1
.
Saturday night, and Thursday at nooii, are theirmost lucky times.
~
Let them also choose the Moon in"Leo 'or "Pisces, and ihcreasing
in light. Theytareunder the >Angel,f Michael. -
'
-
E
~
4
22 THE
PHILQSOPHICAL .MERLINJ
-u-
-n-
iz-
-» 4
Tamar who have this figure, Cauda Draconis, arising _are chiefly
u.pdar_ the Spirits ruling the fiery region, and'under'the South nodecf
the.Moon, when she crosses the ecliptical line, receding from our
hemisphere. - ~
i
_
' ' '
~
They are by no means bom to riches, and although they will
throught
the capriciousness of fortune, rise to eminent preferment, bearing
rule and having many persons at their command, yet will they never
be wealthy, but amidst all their greatness, acutely feel the`wantof
money. If hom at sun-rise, which then, may possibly favor them a'
little, they will be noted misers, penurious, and die wretched. J ~'
1
.They will be much subject to hurts by tire, falls frdm horses,
thrusts or attacks from beasts, danger from mines, explosions, suffo-'
cation,_ premature interment, danger from noxious vapo|~s,~and1n-'
flammable gasses, gun-powder, pyrotechnical experiments, audfif-
visiting desert countries, be in danger of being devoured bywrltl
beasts. If bom on the'new Moon, they will be imprisoned, and
nearly ruined by false, and by -perjured accusers, but overcoming nr'
the end. If born in the night, -they are more fortunate -than -if
'born
in the day time, the surrounding darkness being a fit emblem of then'
bewildered fate. The north, with its frozen regions is their
proper
element. And the winter more successful to them than the summer.
Let them beware of sword fencing, and of sharp instruments, ns-
they are horn under a noxious and hurtful Constellation, and shall*
hardly escape .iujury.~ f The original relates, that they will 'be
wounded either by an arrow, or
pointed instrument in the head:
and _/izrther says, that, Harold, King fy" England, and Henry'
King of France, were both under this _)i`g/ure, the former- of
whom was shot through the head with-an arrow, and thelaller
slain by a
spear, at u tournament, but these weapons now beingi
disused, another signgfcation munvbe taken./ They will be fund'
of battle, war, blood-shed, and destruction. And be successfuillliu
colours of a sanguine, and blood-red hue. If born at noon-day;
while,the.Suu is on the cusp of the meridian, and in the month of
December, they will scom the control of every one, even of -heaven's
puisqant monarch, and be a curse to all mankind. If hom
at_the
rising of the Sun, and
setting
of' the Moon, their fate will be a
little
altered_for the better, but no essentially good. (Scarcely one in a
million, isborn entirely imderthis fatal symbol, it -being so mis-
chieyous,~,that even in Astrology, every celebrated Professorf of that
sublime art, knows it to be a certain fact, that the llragorths Tail,
which this symbol represents, is worse than the most evil Planet.-
Therefore the diviner, need not fear being under such a
sign, as it so
rarely happens.) -»
'
-
Tuesday is their unifonn fortunate day. Let' them also choose
very point of a ew
Moon, or
Eclipse, as that alone can favor their
dark designs, %'heyare under the Angel of Destruction," Banzdbel,
THE ,PHILOSOPHICAL MERLIN. 93
fl' ik
*
.
ar
ar
,From the above-mentioned horrible and destructive sign, we turn
witha pleasing emotion to the rich and fortunate symbol, Caput
Draconis, of the earthy triplicitie, ruled chieiiy by .love and Ve-
nus, in their exaltations.
1Th.ey.are tirm, just, benevolent, and full of humane actions," al-
ways promoting the public good, and eminent in philanthropic'
undertakings. They have moles or marks on the face, and are sub#
ject to head-aches, and diseases proceeding from a~
redundancy of
moisture. They are
very fortunate in bringing to perfection other
men's labors, making also eminent Poets, Musicians, Astronomers,
Aitisans, Mathematicians, Senators, and Law-givers. Invincible in
battle, though loving peace and quietness; {Solon, and Lycurgus,
those famous Law-givers, were under this symbol, as also the
immortal Alfred, the divine Raphael, and the _far famed Bards
and Mincstrels of olden times.)
'
If born at sun-rising, noon-day, or
sun-setting, they will bear*
rule and authority as Princes, in their household, and be the judge of
other 1nen's actions. Nevertheless, they shall not be entirely tree from;
the attacks of an assassin. If in very inferior stations, they will
ltterly eclipse their contemporaries.
`
~
'
.lf a female, she will be as a Cleopatra, without her lustful coque.
try, being followed and beloved by every one; 'but in matrimony let
her beware, or she will meet with a
sting. If they have a son td
survive, he shall be the advancer of his house, tixst amongst his
brethren, and. reflect immortal honor upon his ancestors.
If a man, whohas this symbol, he will marry rich and wealthy, felicit-
ous and happy, but will, notwithstanding, see the object of his dearest
affections snatched in an instant, from his grasp, by the ic hand of
death; and with tears of heartfelt remorse, follow her coldy remains
to the dreary and remorseless
sepplchre.
After this, a
bright and
joyful sun-shine shall arise upon 's fate, and rank and fortune bend
submissive to his gras .
The persons under this sign shall travel much, but not often, as
the whole events of their lives will happen in climaxes and extremes,
both of good and evil. The Bar of Justice will be once graced with
their presence, but they will vanquish every opponent, and come off
as conquerors,-(In veritate victoria.)
' ' '
'
They have no
Nparticular fortunate
da(y,
but will generally succeed
better while the oon
increases in the onstellation, Gemini.
They are under the Angels; Raphael and Uriel,
M
"
_'ms PHILOSOPHICAL MERLIN.
CONCLUDING AND EXPLANATORY REMARKS.
It is necessary for the Reader to observe that, if on trial, the an-
swer does not correspond with the known part of his fate, (and
particularly the disposition and bodily marksg) he may be sure that
some mistake has been made by him in the process, or else in the
want of mental energy, and belief in the mysterious practice to which
he has resorted. This being the case, {which sometimes will neces-I_
.rarily happen,j let him, if during the Summer Season, wait dur-
ing the full space of an hour and a
142%
and if during. the Winter
Season, one hour, before he again m es his divining points. The
Editor has also discovered from repeated trials, among his Friends,
that it would be better for each person to make three trials, (after the
roper time has intervened), and if two, out of the three trials, pro-
Xuce similar fi ures, let him choose that particulariigure, which
comes twice ie same, for his Horoscope. But if all three are
different, let him choose that which most corresponds with his own
ideas, and bodily marks or moles, as described in the Work.
The Editor scarcely need make any remark, to impress upon the
mind of his Readers, the necessity of being serious in their trials,
and with a full desire to attain .a correct answer, as they will find
from experience, that, the hidden mysteries of nature, are
only to
beobtained, by an earnest and serious desire to come at the truth.
But, if tn:/iers try them, they try, only, to be tnfjiod with. _
-
R. C. S.
FINIS.
Part 2,-containing a number of curious and valuable' Secrets in
As'r|tor»oGY and Gnomsucv, will shortly be Published. ,
_
Farguel, Printer, 47, Berwick-street, Oxford-street.
