{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1823__jarvis___accredited_ghost_stories.pdf","mytitle":"Accredited Ghost Stories","mylang":"de"}
ACCREDITED
GHOST STORIES.
COLLECTED
BY T. M. ~ARVIS, ESQ.
There are more things iu heiiven and earth, Horatio,
Than are dreamt of in your pbiloeophy.
SltabpdtlH· H""'"'.
I think a penon who la terrified wilb the lmaclnatlon or ch0111 and
spectre• moch more reaaonable than one who, contrary to the reporta of
all billoriea, 1acred and profane, ancient and modern, and to all tradidona
of all natioua, thinks the appearances of 1pirill fabulone and rronndleu.
JJ.d4;,.,.. Specta1or, 110.
There are no ~ople, rode or learned, amonr whom apparition• of tbe
<1-i ar~ not related and believed. Thi.I opinion could become univenal
only by Ila truth, Jo/ouoJ&. &.111/41.
Glanville bu adduced aome evidences of appariliooa, wblcb It 11 euler
to ridicnle than to dilprovt.
&,mau Hder. Lif• of Taylor, p. cxl.
LONDON:
PRINTED FOR J. ANDREWS, NEW BOND STREET.
182S.
r
£. Wbftthigbam, C!t1Ji1111>ic\.
o''"'""b'Google
CONTENTS.
Page
INT·RODUCTION••••• ••••• ••••••·•·•••••• ••••••••••·•••••••••••• 1
Apparition of James Haddock, accredited by
Bishop Taylor....... .................. ................ 15
Apparition of Mr. Wynyard to SH- John Shcr-
broke and General Wynyard.............. ...... 26
Apparition of Mr. Dcsfontaines to Mr. Bezucl... 35
Apparition of Sir George Villiers to Parker, Ser-
vant to the first Duke of Buckingb111n.... ... 3£1
Apparition seen by the Konigsberg Professor of
l\foral Philosophy.............................. ...... 42
ApparitiOn to the late Marquis of Londonderry 51
Apparitions mentioned in Boswell's Life of
Johnson............................................ ...... 58
Apparition seen hy Lord Lyttelton ................. 62
Apparition seen by Mt. Walker, Curate of
W arblington..................................... ...... 69
Apparition of Lord Tyrone to Lady Beresford. . 79
Apparition of Ficinus to Michael Mereato........ 94
Apparitions seen at Portnedown Bridge after
the Irish Massacre................................... 96
Extraordinary Instances of Second Sight, in a
Relative of Dr. Ferriars......•...•.....••......,.. 102
o''"'""b'Google
n CONTENTS.
Pace
Apparition seen by Richard Bovet .................. 106
Apparition seen by Mr. B. L. at York•........•.•• 110
Apparition seen by Lady Pennyman and Mrs.
Atkins:.................................................. 116
Apparition of the Daughter of Dr. Ferrar to her
Father...•.••••...•..•........••.•..........•••••.....•••• 130
Apparition of Mrs. Button, related by Mr. Ed-
ward Fowler, Prebendary of Glouces,er,
afterwards Bishop of that Diocess......•....•• 132
Apparition of l\111jor Blomberg to the Governor
of Dominica............................................ 138
Supernatural Disturbances in the House of the
Rev. Mr. Wesley..................................... 142
Apparition of l\lrs. Veal to Mrs. Bargrave. ..•... 156
Apparition of the Chevalier de Sa.xe, raised by
Schrepfer..................... ........................... 176
Apparition of Mrs. Donne, Wife of the cele-
brated Dr. Donne.................................... 191
· Apparition of Lady Lee ................................ 194
Apparition of Major Sydenham to Captain Wil-
liam Dyke. From Mr, James Do~ch•....... 198
Apparition of the Duchess of Ma;zarine to
Madame de Beauclair.............................. 204
Apparition attested by the Rev. Mr. Ruddle,
Minister of Launceston in Cornwall.......... 218
o''"'""b'Google
GHOST STORIES.
~oogle
INTRODUCTION.
" THAT the dead are seen no more," said
Imlac, " I will not undertake to maintain
· against the concurrent and unvaried testi-
mony of all ages and of all nations. There
is no people, rude or learned, among whom
apparitions of the dead are not related and
believed. This opinion, which perhaps
prevails as far as human nature is diffused,
could become universal only by its truth.
Those that never heard of one anotjier
would not have agreed in a tale which no-
thing but experience can make credible ;
that it is doubted by single cavillers, can
very little weaken the general evidence ;
B
INTRODUCTION.
and some who deny it with their tongues
confess it by their fears•." These are the
sentiments uttered by the enlightened and
the eloquent companion of the Prince of
Abyssinia: the character of lmlac has al-
ways been considered as the self-drawn
portrait of the author of Rasselas. His
words are therefore to be received with
deference, as conveying the opinions of
Johnson ; and they allude to a subject,
which is perhaps unrivalled in the univer-
sal and the almost painful nature of the
interest which it inspires.
No man has ever been present at the
recital of a story connected with circum'-
stances ofa preternatural description, with-
out witnessing the eager, the breathless,
the motionless expectation, which is im-
• RR8Selas, chapter xxxi.
INTRODUCTION, 3
mediately excited in the audience. What-
ever may have been the .preceding gaiety
ofthe party,the laugh is silenced; the song
is broken off; the jest is interrupted on
the lips ofthe speaker;
Such stories ever change the cheerful spirits
To gloomy pensiveness; the rosy bloom
To the wan colour ofthe shrouded corpse•.
Whatever may have been the preceding
lassitude, it is immediately dispersed by
the mention of any event remotely con-
nected with the appearance of a departed
spirit. " Carelessness grows convert to
attention." The various occupations of
the hour are neglected. Every individual
is attracted to a common centre, and be-
comes alike partaker of a common inte-
rest. The book of the most persevering
student is disregarded ; the needle invo-
• Miss Baillie's Tragedy of Orsa.
4 INTRODUCTION.
Iuntarily 'Omits its incessant and indefa-
tigable labours ; the pen is arrested in its
progress ; the voice of the politician is sub-
dued; there is a truce to the contests of
the chess board; while the old listen to the
wondrous narrative with looks of assumed
wisdom, and a smile of condescending in-
credulity; and the young throng together
about the speak.er, with their eyes riveted
upon his countenance, and as " the icy
scalp of fear" grows colder upon their
heads, they gather towards each other
closely and more closely, as if, by the con-
tact of the living, they would secure them-
selves from the intnision of the dead.
That the accounts by which these power-
ful emotions are awakened and continued
contain nothing but the errors of the ima-
gination, or the false visions that float be-
fore the eye of the diseased, is more than
o''"'""b'Google
INTRODUCTION. 5
any man who has seriously reflected on the
mysterious conditions of human existence
can possibly have the temerity to advance.
That such tales are true may reasonably
be doubted: but that they are false cannot
with any degree of confidence be affirmed.
If there be a spiritual world, and unless
there be the being of the material world is
perfectly inexplicable; who shall prescribe
the laws by which the disembodied soul
shall be restrained1 who shall analyse its
powers1 who shall appoint the limits of its
action1 In the state of uncertainty and
doubt, which, from the commencement of
the world to the present hour, has been
maintained by the public mind upon the
subject of spiritual visitations, it may per-
haps be difficult to decide, whether the
testimony is more in favour of their truth
or of their falsehood. The argument of
Dr. Johnson is one, which, in any case of
B2
o''"'""b'Google
6 INTRODUCTION.
a less miraculous nature, would immedi-
ately be admitted as conclusive. " All the
nations of the world have agreed in a tale
which nothing but experience can make
·credible." But this agreement is not sim-
ply confined to a belief that the spirits of
the dead have the power of sensibly pre-
senting themselves to the eyes ofthe living,
and that such events have occasionally
taken place.. The universal consent of the
nations to such an opinion would alone
carry with it a persuasion, which very few
would dare to contradict, on the mere ne-
gative evidence of their never having wit-
nessed such an occurrence. Butthis agree-
ment extends still further. Nearly all the
tales of Ghosts and Apparitions, which
are familiar in France, in Spain, in Ger-
many, in Italy, and in England, are accom-
panied with circumstances so similar that
they JJrlght almost be regarded as different
o''"'""b'Google
INTRODUCTION. 7
accounts of the same event. Nearly all of
them are supposed to have taken place
at the moment of the soul's. separation
from the body. The spirit seems to have
followed the direction ofthe dying thoughts,
an'd to have stood before the being who
was dearest to its affections before it was
removed for ever from the interests of the
earth, to share the retributions of its im-
mortality.
Narrations of this kind are so common
in every country, in every neighbourhood,I
had almost said in every family, that there
is scarcely a single individual who is not
acquainted with some instance of this pecu-
liar kind of preternatural event, which has
fallen under his more immediate knowledge,
whichhashappened to persons ofcredit and
veracity, and which, however he may assert
his incredulity,will involuntarily impairthe
force and the conviction of his philosophi-
o''"'""b'Google
8 l~TRODUCTION.
cal unbelief. It is extraordinary that man-
kind should so generally agree in imagining
the appearance of the departed spirit to be
possible and frequent; it is extraordinary
they should prescribe the same particular
moment for its appearance; it is extraor-
dinary they should fix upon a moment
when the dreams of the fancy could have
no basis to work upon; it is extraordinary
that they should not wait the authentica-
tion of the death, before they held imagi-
nary communication with the spirit. It is
still more extraordinary that these antici-
pations should so often have been corrobo-
rated by the event, and confirmed by their
exact coincidence with the truth.
:Before I proceed to unfold my store of
accredited Ghost Stories, I must first no-
tice some of the objections which are gene.
rally advanced to invalidate the influence,
o''"'""b'Google
INTRODUCTION. 9
to controvert the truth, and to silence the
narrator of these mysterious legends.-lt
is by some thought irreligious to believe
them; they say since the death of the Sa-
viour miracles have ceased.-As a layman,
I have nothing to do. with the theological
part of this argument. It appears to me
perfectly unfounded. But what is a mira-
cle?-A miracle consists ·in the violation
of the ordinary laws of nature; but how·
do we know that the spiritual intercourse
of the dead and living is to be classed
among the violations of those laws? An
event may be rare in its occurrence and
extraordinary in its character; but these
circumstances alone do not render it mira-
culous.
It is asked, whether it is consistent with
the benevolence of the Deity to permit the
o''"'""b'Google
i.O INTRODUCTION.
dead to interpose for the disturbance of
the living? If they came to disturb the
living, I should say, certainly not: but I
never heard of any one who was injured by
the real or the imaginary·presence of the
departed. If spirits have indeed been vi-
sible to the corporeal eye, they have been
innocent either of designing or effecting
any evil. It has indeed been said by
Johanna Baillie, a person whose opinions
must always be received with the most re-
spectful deference, for she is of omnipotent
authority in all cases respecting the pro-
perties of the human heart, and the extent
of its passions and emotions ; that " could
we suppose a person with a mind so con-
stituted as to bold intercourse with such
beings entirely devoid of fear, we should
tum from him with repugnance, as some-
thing unnatural, as an instance of mental
o''"'""b'Google
INTRODUCTION. 11
monstrosity•." To this sentiment, I, for
my part, feel it perfectly impossible to as-
sent. I do not perceive why the soul of
any man should be distressed by the vi-
cinity of a beingwho was dear to him, whe-
ther the form approached in the body or
out of the body. So far from finding any
occasion of anxiety in this mysterious mo-
ment of silent and visionary farewell ; un-
less he had cause to doubt the import of
the spiritual converse, unless his heart was
conscious ofingratitude, unless he believed
the unearthly presence was designed as a
reproach to his past unkindness, he would
hail the apparition as a relief to the dis-
tressed affections, and learn from the part-
ing vision, that he lived upon the mind of
the dying among the dearest things that
the spirit regretted upon earth, and which,
• Johanna Baillie's Preface to the Third Volume
of Plays on the Passions.
o''"'""b'Google
12 ll'f!J'RODUCTION,
in its ascentto heaven, it looked back upon
with the lingering sentiments of human
pity, and the awakening purity of angelic
love.
It is also continually demanded, for
what reason the dead should be permitted
to appear1 To this I answer, for the most
important reason that can possibly be ima-
gined ; to keep alive in the memory of
mankind, the persuasion that there are
more things in heaven and in earth than
are dreamt of in the school of atheistical
philosophy, and to preserve unfading, in
the minds of the great and of the little vul-
gar, the belief in the immortality of the
soul*.
·• The author of this essay appears to have forgot-
ten that Lucretius decried the immortality of the
soul, and yet admitted the truth ofspcctrous appear-
ances of the dead. The testimony of the fact wns
irresistible, and bis attempts to reconcile the pheno-
lNTRODUCTION•. 13
Whether the tales which are commonly
.-elated in society, and of which I purpose
io give a selection are true or false, I do.
not take upon myself to express any opi-
nion. They may be real, they are probably
imaginary, but I ca~ot help agreeing with
Addison, when he says, " That the person
who. is terrified with the imagination of
ghosts and spectres is much more reason-
able than one, who, contrary to the reports
of all historians, sacred or profane, anci-
ent or modem, and to all traditions of all
nations, thinks the appearance of spirits
mena with his system of philosophy is so curious that
I here insert it. He tells us that the surfaces of all
bodies are perpetually flying off from their respective
bodies, one after another; and that these surfaces,
or thin cases that included each other, whilst they
• were joined in the body, like the coats of an onion,
are sometimes seen entire when they are separated
from it; by which means we often behold the shapes
and shadows of persons who are either dead or ab-
senl-Lut'Tetiiu, Book iv. p. 34.
c
14 INTRODUCTION.
groundless. Could I," says the Author of
the Spectator, "not give myself op to this
general testimony of mankind, I should to
the relations· of particular persons who are
now living, and whom I cannot distrust in
other matters of fact. . I might here add,
that not only the historians, to whom we
may add the poets, but likewise the phi-
losophers of antiquity have favoured this
opinion. If any man thinks such facts in-
credible let him enjoy his own opinion to
himself, let him not endeavour to disturb
the belief of others, who by instances of
this nature are exhorted to the study of
virtue*·"
•Addison, Spectator, 110.
o''"'""b'Google
GHOST STORIES.
THE
APPARITION
OP
AT MICHAELMAS, 1662.
FRANCIS TAVERNER, about twenty-five years
old, a lusty, proper, stout fellow, then servant
at large (afterwards porter) to the Lord Chiches-
ter, Earl of Donegal, at Belfast, in the north of
Ireland, county of Antrim and diocess of Con-
nor, riding late in the night from Hilbrough
homeward, near Drum Bridge, his horse, though
of good mettle, suddenly made a stand; and
he, supposing him to be taken with the staggers,
alighted to blood him in the mouth, and presently
mount.ed again. As be was setting forward
o''"'""b'Google
16 GHOST STOJUES.
there seemed to pass by him two hor~emen,
though he could not hear the treading of their
feet, which amazed him. Presently there ap-
peared a third in a white coat just at his elbow,
in the likeness of James Haddock, formerly an
inhabitant of Malone, where he died near five
years before; whereupon Taverner asked him,
in the name of God, who he was1 Be replied,
I am James Haddock; and you may call me
to mind by this token, that, about five years
ago, I and two other friends were at your fa-
ther's house, and you, by your father's appoint-
ment, brotaght us some nuts ; and therefore be
not afraid, says the apparition : whereupon Ta-
verner, remembering the circumstance, thought
it might be Haddock; and those two who passed
him he thought to be his two friends with him
when he gave them nuts, and courageously asked
him why he appeared rather to him than any
other? Be answered, because he was a man
of more resolution than others; and, if he would
ride his way with ..him, he would acquaint him
with a business he had to deliver him; which
Taverner refused to do, and would go his own
J.AMES HADDOCK. 1'7
WfAY (for they were now at a quadrival), and so
rode homewards. But, immediately OD their
departure, there arose a great wind, and withal
he heard very hideous screeches and noises, to
his great amazement; but, riding forwards as
fast as he could, he at last heard the cocks
crow, to his comfort: he alighted off from his
horse, and, falling to prayer, desired God's as-
sistance; and so got safe home.
The night after there appeared again to him
the likeness of James Haddock, and bid hiOl
go to Eleanor Welsh (now the wife of Davis,
living at Malone, but formerly the wife of the
said James Haddock, by whom she had an
only son, to whom the said James Haddock
bad by his will given a lease which he held of
the Lord Chichester, of which the son was de-
prived by Davis (who had married his mother),
and to ask her if her maiden name was not
Eleanor Walsh; and, if it were, to tell her that
it was the will of her former husband, James
HaddoCk, that their son should be righted in
the lease. But T-vemer, partly loath to gain
c2
o''"'""b'Google
18 ·GHOST STORIES.
the ill will of his neighbours, and partly thinking
he should not be credited, but looked on as de-
luded, long neglected to do his message, till,
having been every night for about a month's
space haunted with this apparition, in several
forms (every night more and more terrible),which
was usually preceded by an unusual trembling
over his whole body, and great change of coun-
tenance, manifest to his wife, in whose presence
frequently the apparition was (though not visible
to her), at length he went to Malone, to Davis's
wife, and asked her whether her maiden name
was not Eleanor Welsh? If it was, he had
something to say to her. She replied there was
another Eleanor Welsh besides her. Hereupon
Taverner returned, without delivering his mes-
sage.
The same night, being fast asleep in his bed
(for the former apparitions were as he sat by
the fire with his wife), by something pressing
upon him hew.as awakened, and saw again the
apparition of James Haddock, in a white coat,
as at other times, who asked him if he had de-
o''"'""b'Google
JAMES HADDOCK. 19
livered his message? Be answered, he had
been there with Eleanor Welsh; upon which
the apparition, looking more pleasantly upon
him, bid him not be afraid, and so vanished in
a flash of brightness.
But s~me nights after (be having not delivered
his message) he came again, and, appea1ing in
many formidable shapes, threatened to tear him
in pieces if he did not do it. This made him
leave his house where he dwelled, .in the moun-
tains, and betake himself to the town of Belfast, .
where he sat up all night at one Prince's house,
and a servant or two of the Lord Chicbester's,
who were desirous to see or hear the spirit.
About midnight, as they were all by the fire-
side, they beheld Taverner's countenance to
change and a trembling to fall on him, who pre-
sently espied the apparition in a room opposite
to him where be sat, and took up the candle
and went to it, and resolutely asked him, in the
name of God, wherefore it haunted him? It
replied, because he bad not delivered the mes-
sage, and withal threatened to tear him in pieces
o''"'""b'Google
GHOST STORIES.
if he did not do it speedily; and so, changing
itself into many prodigious shapes, it vanished
in white, like a ghost; whereupon Francis Ta-
verner became much dejected and troubled, and
next day went to the Lord Chichester's house,
and, with tears in his eyes, related to some of
the family the sadness of his condition. They
told it to my lord's chaplain, Mr. James South,
who came presently to Taverner, and, being ac-
quainted of his whole story, advised him to go
at this present time to Malone, to deliver punc-
tually his message, and promised to go along
with him. But first they went to Dr. Lewis
Downes, then minister of Belfast, who, upon
bearing the relation of the whole matter, doubted
at first the truth of it, attributing it rather to
melancholy than any kind of reality; but, being
afterwards fully satisfied of it, the only scruple
remaining was, whether it might be lawful to
go on such a business, not knowing whose er•
rand it was; since, though it was a real appari..
tion of some spirit, yet it was questionable whe-.
ther of a good or bad spirit: yet, the justice of
the cause (it being the common report the youth
o''"'""b'Google
JAMES HADDOCJt.
was wronged) and other considerations prevail-
ing, he went with them. So they three went
to Davis's house, where, the woman being de-
sired to come to them, Taverner did effectually
do his message, by telling her he could not be
quiet for the ghost of her former husband, James
Haddock, who threatened to tear him in pieces
if he did not tell her she must right John Had-
dock, her son by him, in a lease wherein she
and Davis, her now husband, had wronged him.
This done, he presently found great quietness
in bis mind, and, thanking the gentlemen for
their company, advice, and assistance, he de-
parted thence to his brother's house, at Drum
Bridge,where, about two nights after, the afore-
said apparition came to him again and, more
pleasantly than formerly, asked if he had deli-
vered the message? He answered, he had
done it fully. It replied that he must deliver
the message to the executors also, that the bu-
siness might be perfected. At this meeting
Taverner asked the spirit if Davis would do
him any hurt? To which it answered at first
somewhat doubtfully, but at length threatened
o''"'""b'Google
GHOST STORIES.
Davis if he attempted any thing to the injury-of
Taverner; and so vanished away in white.
The day following, Dr. Jeremjah Taylor,
Bishop of Down, Connor, and Dromore, waa
to go to keep court at Dromore, and commanded
me who was then secretary to him to write for
Taverner to meet him there, which he did; and
there, in the presence of many, he examined
Taverner strictly in this strange scene of Provi-
dence, as my lord bishop styled it; and, by the
account given him both by Taverner and others,
who knew Taverner and much of the former
particulars, his lordship was satisfied that the
apparition was true and real, but said no more
there to him, because at Hilborough, three milea
from thence, on his way home my lord was in-
formed that my Lady Conway and other persons
of quality were come purposely to hear his
lordship examine the matter. So Taverner
went with us to Hilborough, and there, to sa-
tisfy the curiosity of the fresh company, after
asking many things anew and some over again,
my lord advised him to ask these questions the
JAMES HADDOCK. 23
next time the spirit appeared :-Whence are
you? Are you a good or a had spirit? Where
is your abode1 What station do you hold ?
How are you regimented in the other world?
And what is the reason that you appear for the
relief of your son in so small a matter, when so
tnany wi~ows and orphans are oppressed in the
world, being defrauded of greater matters, and
none from thence of their relations appear, as
you do, to right them1
That night Taverner was sent for to Lisburn,
to my Lord Conway's, three miles {tom Hil-
borough, on his way hence to Belfast, where he
was again strictly examined in the presence of
many good men and women of the aforesaid
matter, who was ordered to lie at my Lord
Conway's all night; and, about nine or ten
o'clock at night, standing by the fireside with
bis brother and many others, his countenance
changed, and he fell into a trembling, the usual
prognostics of the apparition: and, being loath
to make any disturbance in his lordship's house,
he and his brothei::. went out into the court,
o''"'""b'Google
24 GHOST STORIES.
where he saw the spirit coming over the wall,
which, approaching nearer, asked him if he had
done his message to the executors also? He
replied he bad, aad wondered it should still
haunt him. It replied he need not fear; for it
would do him no hurt, nor trouble him any
more, but the executor, if be did not see the boy
righted. Here his brother put him in mind to
ask the spirit what the bishop bid him, which
he did presently; but it gave him no answer,
but crawled on its hands and feet over the wall
again, and so vanished in white, with a most
melodious harmony.
NoTE.-1. That Pierce, at whose house
and in whose presence the apparition was, being
asked whether he saw the spirit, said he did
not, but thought at that time he had a mist all
over bis eyes. 2. What was then spoken to
Taverner was in so low and hollow a voice that
they could not understand what it said. 3. At
Pierce's house it stood just in the entry of a
door; and, as a maid passed by to go in at ~he
door, Taverner saw it go aside and give way to
o''"'""b'Google
JAMES HADDOCK, ~5
the maid, though she saw it not. 4. That the
lease was hereupon disposed of to the boy's use.
6. The spirit at the last, appearing at my Lord
Conway's house, revealed somewhat to Taverner
which he would not discover to any of us that
asked him.
This Taverner, with all the persons and places
mentioned in the story, I knew very well; and
all wise and good men did believe it, especially
the Bishop and the Dean of Connor, Dr. Rust.
Witness,
Your humble servant,
THOMAS ALCOCK.
D
o''"'""b'Google
GHOST STORIES. ·
THE
STORY*
OF
SIR JoHN SilERBROKE and General Wynyard
were, as young men, officers in the same r.egi-
ment, which was employed on foreign service in
Nova Scotia: they were connected by similarity
of tastes and studies, and spent together in lite-
rary occupation much of that vacant time which
their brother officers aquandered in those ex-
cesses of the table which, some forty years ago,
were reckoned among the necessary accomplish-
ments of the military character. -·They were
one afternoon sitting in Wynyard's apartment:
· • Thia story bas been read by a relation of Geoeral Wyo-
yard, who states that, in all important circomstaoces, it is
atrictly true.
o''"'""b'Google
GENERAi. WYNYARD'S BROTHER, ·27
it was perfectly light, the hour was about four
o'clock; they had dined, but neither of them
bad drank wine, and they had retired from the
mess to continue together the occupations of the
morning. I ought to have said that the apart-
ment in which they were had two doors in it,
the one opening into a passage, and the other
leading into Wynyard's bedroom: there were
no means of entering the sitting room but from
the passage, and no other egress from the bed-
room but through the sitting room; so that any
person passing into the bedroom must have re-
mained there, unless he returned by the way he
entered. This point is of consequence to the
story. As these two young officers were pur-
suing their studies, Sherbroke, whose eye hap-
pened accidentally to glance from the volume
before him towards the door that opened into
the passage, observed a tall youth, of about
twenty years of age, whose appearance was
that of extreme emaciation, standing beside it.
Struck with the appearance of a perfect stranger,
be immediately turned to his friend, who was
. sitting near him, and directed his attention to
o''"'""b'Google
28 GHOST STORIES.
the guest who had thus strangely broken in
upon their studies. As soon as Wynyard's
eyes were turned towards the mysterious visitor,
his countenance became suddenly agitated: "'I
have heard," says Sir John Sherbroke, " of a
man's being as pale as death, but I never saw
a living face assume the appearance of a corpse,
except Wynyard's at that moment."
As they looked silently at the form before
them-for Wynyard, who seemed to apprehend
the import of the appearance, was deprived of
the faculty of speech, and Sherbroke, perceiving
the agitation of his friend, felt no inclination to
address it-as they looked silently upon the
figure, it proceeded slowly into the adjoining
apartment, and, in the act of passing them, cast
its eyes with a somewhat melancholy expression
on young Wynyard. The oppression of this
extraordinary presence was no sooner removed
than Wynyard, seizing his friend by the arm,
and drawing a deep breath, as if recovering
from the suffocation of intense astonishment and
emotion, muttered, in a low and almost inaudible
o''"'""b'Google
GENERAL WYNY ARD'S BROTHER. 29
tone of voice, "Great God! My brother!"-
'' Your brother!" repeated Sherbroke, "What
can you mean, Wynyard? There must be some
deception: follow me:" and, immediately taking
his friend by the arm, he preceded 'him into the
bedroom, which, as I before stated, was con-
nected with the sitting room, and into which the
strange visitor 'had evidently entered. I have
already said that from this chamber there was
no possibility of withdrawing, hut by the way
of the apartment, through which the figure had
certainly p!lssed, and as certainly never had re-
turned. Imagine, then, the astonishment of the
young officers when, on finding themselves in
the centre of the chamber, they perceived that
the room was perfectly untenanted. Wynyard's
mind had received an impression',..at the first
moment of his observing him, that the figure
whom he 'had seen was the spirit of his brother.
Sherbroke still persevered in strenuously be-
lieving that some delusion had been practised.
They took note of the day and hour in whi~h
the event had happened ; but they resolved not
to mention the occurrence in the regiment, and
D2
o''"'""b'Google
,.-
30 ·GHOST STORIES.
they gradually persuaded each other that they
had been imposed upon by some artifice of their
fellow officers, though they could neither ac-
count for the reason nor suspect the author, nor
conceive the means of the execution : they were
content to imagine any thing possible, rather
than admit the possibility of a supernatural ap-
pearance. But, though they had attempted
these stratagems of self-delusion, Wynyard
could not help expressing his solicitude with
respect to his brother, whose apparition he had
either seen or imagined himself to have seen;
and the anxiety which he exhibited for ·letters
from England, and bis frequent mention of his
fears for his brother's health at length awakened
the curiosity of his comrades, and eventually
betrayed him into a declaration of the circum-
stances, which he had in vain determined to
conceal. The story of the silent and unbidden
visitor was no sooner bruited abroad than the
destiny of Wynyard's brother became an object
of universal and painful interest to the officers
of the regiment; there were few· who did not
inquire for Wynyard's letters before they made
o''"'""b'Google
GENERAL WYNYARD's BROTHER. 31
any-demand for their own, and the packets that
arrived from England were welcomed with a.
more than usual eagerness, for they brought not
only remembrances from their friends at home,
but promised to afford the clue to the mystery
which had happened among themselves. By
the first ships no intelligence relating to the
story could have been received, for they had all
departed from England previous to the appear-
ance of the spirit. At length the long wi~hed
for vessel arrived; all the officers had letters
except Wynyard; still the secret was unex-
plained. They examined several newspapers:
they contained no mention of any death, or of
any other circumstance connected with his family
that could account for this preternatural event.
There was a solitary letter for Sherbroke still
unopened: the officers bad received their letters
in the messroom, at the hour of supper: after
Sherbroke had broken the seal of his last packet,
and cast a glance on its contents, he beckoned
his friend away from the company, and departed
from the room. All were silent. The suspense
of the interellt was now at the climax; the im-
o''"'""b'Google
32 GHOST STORIES.
patience for the return of Sherbroke was inex-
pressible: they doubted not l)ut that letter had
contained the long expected intelligence. At
the interval of an hour Sherbroke joined them.
No one dared be guilty of so great a rudeness
as inquire the nature of bis correspondence; but
they waited in mute attention, expecting that he
would himself touch upon the subject.
His mind was manifestly full of thoughts
that pained, bewildered, and oppressed him : he
drew near the fire place, and, leaning his head
on the mantelpiece, after a pause of some mo-
ments, said in a low voice to the person who
was nearest him, "Wynyard's brother is no
more!" The first line of Sherbroke's letter was
"Dear John, break to your friend Wynyard the
death of his favourite brother:" he had died 011
the day and at the very hour on which the
friends had seen his spirit pass so mysteriously
through the apartment.
It might have been imagined that these events
would have been sufficient to have impressed
o''"'""b'Google
GENERAL WYNYARD'S BROTHER. 33
the mind of Sherbroke with the conviction of
their truth ; but, so s·trong was his prepossession
tgainst the existence, or even the possibility, of
any preternatural intercourse with the souls of
the dead, that be still entertained a doubt of the
report of bis senses, supported as their testimony
was by the coincidence of vision and event.
Some years after, on his return to England, he
was walking with two gentlemen in Piccadilly,
when, on the .opposite side of the way, be saw
a person bearing the most striking resemblance
to the figure which had been disclosed to Wyn-
yard and himself: his companions were ac- ·
quainted with the story, and he instantly di-
rected their attention to the gentleman opposite,
as the individual who had contrived to enter and
depart from Wynyard's apartment, without their
being conscious of the means.
Full of this impression, he immediately went
over, and at once addressed the gentleman: be
now fully expected to elucidate the mystery.
He apologized for the interruption, but excused
it by relating the occurrence which had induced
o''"'""b'Google
34 GHOST STOBIBS.
him to the commission of this solecism in man·
ners. The gentleman received him as a friend:
he had never been out of the country, but was
the twin brother of the youth whose spirit had
been seen.
The reader of the above story is left in the
difficult dilemma ofeither admitting the certainty
of the facts or doubting the veracity of those
whose word it were impossible even for a mo.
ment to suspect. Sir John Sherbroke and Ge-
neral Wynyard, two gentlemen of distinguished
honour and veracity, either agreed to circulate
an infamous falsehood, which falsehood was
proved by the event to be prophetic, or they
were together present at the .spiritual appearance
of General Wynyard'a brother.
This story silences the common objection
that ghosts always appear at night, and arn
never visible to two persona at the same time.
o''"'""b'Google
35
APPARITION
OF
MR. BEZUEL, when a schoolboy of fifteen, in
1695, contracted an intimacy with a younger
boy, named Desfontaines. After talking toge-
ther of the compacts which have been often
made between friends, that in case of death the
spirit of the deceased should revisit the sur-
vivor, they agreed to form such a compact to-
gether, and they signed it respectively with their
blood in 1696. Soon after this transaction,
they were separated by Desfontaines' removal
to Caen.
In July, 169'7, Bezuel, while amusing him-
self in haymaking near a friend's house, was
seized with a fainting fit, after which he bad a
bad night. Notwithstanding this attack, he re-
o''"'""b'Google
36 GHOST STORIES.
turned to the meadow next day, where he again
underwent a delirium; he again slept ill. On
the succeeding day, while he was observing the
man laying up the hay, he had a still more se-
vere attack. The subsequent part of this nar-
rative is given in the words of Bezuel himself
as it appeared in the Journal de Trevouse, in
1726.
" I fell into a swoon : I lost my senses : one
of the footmen perceived it, and called out for
help. They recovered me a little, but my mind
was more disordered than it bad been before; I
was told that they asked me then what ailed
me, and that I answered I have seen what I
thought I should never see. But I neither re-
member the question nor the answer. How-
ever, it agrees with what I remember; I saw
then a naked man in half length, but I knew
him not. They helped me to go down t~e lad-
der; I held the steps fast; but because I saw
Desfontaines, my schoolfellow, at the bottom of
theladder, I had again a fainting fit; my bead got
between two steps, and I again lost my senses.
o''"'""b'Google
DESFONTAINES.
They let me down, and set me upon a large
beam, which .served for a seat in the great
Place de Capucins. I sat upon it, and then I
no longer saw Mr. de Sortoville, nor his ser-
vants, though they were present. And per-
ceiving Desfontaines near the foot of tho lad-
der, who made me a sign to come to him, I
went back upon my seat as it were to make
room. for him; and those who saw me, and
whom I did not see though my eyes were open,
observed that motion. Because he did not
come I got up to go to him: he came up to me,
took hold of my left arm with his right hand,
and carried me thirty paces farther into a by-
lane, holding me fast. The servants believing
that I was well again, went to their business,
except a little footboy, who told Mr. de Sorto-
ville that I was talking to myself. Mr. de Sor-
toville thought I was drunk. He came near
me and heard me ask some questions and return
some answers, as he told me since.
I talked with Desfontaines nearly three quar-
ters of an hour. I promised you, said he, the:t
E
o''"'""b'Google
38 GHOST STORIES.
if I died before you I \vould come and tell you
so. I am dead: I was drowned in the river .
of Caen yesterday about this hour: I was walk-
ing with such and such persons ; it was very
bot weather, the fancy took us to go into the
water; I grew faint and sunk to the bottom of
the river; the Abbe Menilgian, my schoolfellow,
dived to take me up; I took hold of his foot,
but whether he was afraid, or had a mind to
rise to the top of the water, be struck out bis
leg so violently that be gave me a blow on the
breast, and threw me again to the bottom of the
river, which is there very deep.
He always appeared to me taller than I bad
seen him, and even taller than he was when he
died. I always saw him in half length, and
naked, bareheaded, with bis fine light hair, and
a white paper upon bis forehead twisted in bia
hair, on which there was a writing, but I could
only read /'If. crelo qtiie1.
o''"'""b'Google
3!}
APPARITION
OF
SERVANT TO THE FIRST DUKE OF BUCKINGHAM,
BEING A LETrER FROM MR. DOUCH TO MR. GLANVIL,
SIR,
SINCE the writing to you last, a passage con-
cerning an apparition of Sir George Villiers
giving warning of bis son's (the Duke of Buck-
ingham's) murder, is come into my mind; which
has been assured by a servant of the duke's to
be a great truth, thus : Some few days before
the duke's going to Portsmouth (where he was
stabbed by Felton), the ghost of his father Sir
George Villiers appeared to one Parker (for-
merly his own servant, but then servant to the
duke), in bis morning gown, charging Parker
to tell his son that he should decline that em-
o''"'""b'Google
40 GHOST STORIES.
ployment and the design he was going upon, or
else he would certainly be murdered. Parker
promised the apparition to do it but neglected
it. The duke making preparitions for his ex-
pedition to Rochel, the apparation came again
to Parker, taxing him very severely for his
breach o_f promise, and requiring him not to de-
lay the acquainting his son of the danger he
was in : this Parker the next day told the duke
that his father's ghost had appeared twice to
him, and had commanded him to give him that
warning: the duke slighted and told him he
was an old doting fool. That night the appa-
rition came to Parker the third time, saying,
" Parker, thou hast done well in warning my
son of his danger, but though he will not yet
believe thee, go to him once more, however, and
tell him from me, by such a token (naming a
private token), which nobody knows but only
he and I, that if he will not decline this voyage,
such a knife as this (pulling a long knife out
from under his gown) will be his death." This
message Parker also delivered the next day to
the duke, who, when he heard the private token
SIR GEORGE VILLIERS. 41
believed that be bad it Crom his father's ghost,
yet said, that his honour was now at stake,
and he could not go back from what he had
undertaken, come life, come death. These
three several appearances of this apparition to
Mr. Parker was always at midnight when he
was reading some book. This fact, Parker,
after the duke's murder, communicated to bis
fellow servant, Henry Ceelery, who told it to
a reverend divine, a neighbour of mine, from
whose mouth I have it. This Henry Ceelery
has not been dead above twenty years, and his
habitation, for several years before his death•
was at North Currey, but three miles from this
place.
My friend, the divine, aforesaid, was an inti-
mate acquaintance of this Henry Ceelery's, and
assures me he was a person of known truth and
integrity•.
• Thia story ia related in Clarendon'• Hulory of llu &-
bcllion, and is also told by Lilley' in bis Ob.rervalioru on lhe
Lif• and Death of King Charles llie First.
E2
o''"'""b'Google
42 GHOST STORIES.
APPARITION
SEEN BY THE
AS RELATED BY THE COUNT FALKESHEIM.
"I AM not so decidedly sceptical on the possi-
bility of supernatural appearance," said Count
Falkesheim to Sir Nathaniel Wraxall, " as to
treat. them with ridicule, because they may
appear to be unphilosophical. I received my
education in the university of Konigsberg, where
I bad the advantage of attending lectures in
ethics and moral philosophy, delivered by a
professor who was esteemed a very superior
man in those branches of science. . He had,
nevertheless, though an ecclesiastic, the repu-
tation of being tinctured with incredulity on
various.points connected with revealed religion.
When, therefore, it became necessary for him
THE KONIGSBERG PROFESSOR. 4"d
in the course of his lectures to treat on the
nature of spirit as detached from matter, to dis··
cuss the immortality of the soul, and to enter
on the doctrine of a future state, I listened with
more than ordinary attention to his opinions. In
speaking of all these mysterious subjects, there
appeared to me to be so visible an embarrassment,
both in his language and in his expressions,
that I felt the strongest curiosity to question him
further respecting them. Finding myself alone
with him soon afterwards, I ventured to state to
him my remarks on his deportment, and en-
treated him to tell me if they were well founded
or only imaginary suggestions.
" The hesitation which you noticed," an-
swered he, " resulted from the conflict that
takes place within me, when I am attempting
to convey my ideas on a subject where my un-
derstanding is at variance with the testimony of
my senses. I am equally, from reason and re~
ftection, disposed to consider with incredulity
and contempt the existence of apparitions.
But an appearance, which I have witnessed
44 GHOST STORIES.
with my own eyes, as far as they, or any of the
perceptions can be confided in ; and which has
even received a sort of subsequent confirmation,
from other circumstances connected with the
original facts, leave me in that state of scepti-
cism and suspense which pervaded my dis-
course. I will communicate to you its cause.
Having been brought up to the profession of
the church, I was presented by Frederic Wil-
liam the First, late King of Prussia, to a small
benefice, situated in the interior of the country,
at a considerable distance south of Konigsberg.
I repaired thither in order to take possession of
my living, and found a neat parsonage house,
where I passed the night in the bedchamber
which bad been occupied by my predecessor.
"It was in the longest days of summer; and
on the following morning, which was Sunday,
while lying awake, the curtains of the bed being
undrawn, and it being broad daylight, I beheld
the figure of a man, habited in a sort of loose
gown, standing at a reading desk, on which lay
a large book, the leaves of which he appeared to
o''"'""b'Google
THE KONIGSBERG PROFESSOR. 4r.
tum over at intervals ; on each side of hini
stood a little boy, in whose faces he looked
·earnestly from time to time, and as he looked
lie seemed always to heave a deep sigh. His
countenance, pale and disconsolate, indicated
some distress of mind. I had the most perfect
view of these objects, but being impressed with
too much terror and apprehension to rise or to
address myself to the appearances before me, I
remained for some minutes a breathless and
silent spectator, without uttering a word or
altering my position. At length the man closed
the book, and then taking the two children, one
in each hand, he led them slowly across the
room ; my eyes eagerly followed him till the
three figures gradually disappeared, or were
lost behind an iron stove which stood at the
farthest corner of the apartment.
" However deeply and awfully I was affected
by the sight which I had witnessed, and how-
ever incapable I was of explaining it to my
own satisfaction, yet I recovered sufficiently the
.possession of my mind to get up, and having
46 GHOST STORIES.
hastily dressed myself I left the house. The
sun was long risen, and directing my steps t.o
the church, I found that it was open ; but the
sexton had quitted it, and on entering the chan-
cel, my mind and imagination were so strongly
impressed by the scene which had recently
passed, that I endeavoured to dissipate the re-
collection by considering the objects around me.
In almost all Lutheran churches of the Prussian
dominions, it is the custom to hang up against
the walls, or some part of the building, the por-
traits of the successive pastors or clergymen,
who have held the living. A number of these
paintings, rudely performed, were suspended in
one of the aisles. But I had no sooner fixed
my eyes on the last in the range, which was
the portrait of my immediate predecessor, than
they became riveted to the object; as I in-
stantly recognized the same face which I had
beheld in my bedchamber, though not clouded
by the same deep impression of melancholy and
distress. The sexton entered as I was still
contemplating this interesting head, and I im-
.mediately began a conversation with him on the
o''"'""b'Google
THE KONIGSBERG PROFESSOR. 47
subject of the persons who bad preceded me in
the living. He remembered several incum-
bents, concerning whom, respectively, I made
Tarious inquiries, till I concluded by the last,
relative to whose history I was particularly
inquisitive. ' We considered him,' said the
sexton, ' as one of the most learned and amia-
ble men who have ever resided among us. His
character and benevolence endeared him to all
his parishioners, who will Jong lament his loss.
But he was carried off in the middle of his
days by a lingering illness, the cause of which
has givf:n rise to many unpleasant reports
among us, and which still form matter of con-
jecture. It is, however, commonly believed
that be died of a broken heart.'
"My curiositybeing still more warmly excited
by the mention of this circumstance I eagerly
pressed him to disclose to me what he knew or
had heard on the subject. ' Notbing respect-
ing it,' answered be, ' is absolutely known,
but scandal bas propagated a story of bis
having formed a criminal connexion with a
o''"'""b'Google
48 GHOST STORIES.
young woman of the neighbourhood by whom it
was even asserted be had two sons. As con-
firmation of the report, I know that there cer-
tainly were two children who have been seen
at the parsonage, boys of about four or five
ye11.rs old. But they suddenly disappeared,
some time before the decease of their supposed
father; though to what place they are sent, or
what is become of them, we are wholly igno-
rant. It is equally certain, that the surmises
and unfavourable opinions formed respecting
this mysterious business, which must neces-
sarily have reached him, precipitated, if they.
did not produce the disorder of which our late
pastor died : but be is gone to his account,
and we are bound to think charitably of the.
departed.'
" It is unnecessary to say with what emotion
I listened to this relation, which recalled to my
imagination, and seemed to give proof of the
existence of all that I bad seen. Yet unwil-
ling to suffer my mind to become enslaved by.
phantoms which might have been the effect o(
o''"'""b'Google
THE KONIGSBERG PROFESSOR. 49
error or deception, I neither communicated to
the sexton the circumstance which I had wit-
nessed, nor even permitted myself to quit the
chamber where it had taken plac~. I continued
to lodge there, without ever witnessing any
similar appearance ; and the recollection itse1f
began to wear away, as the autumn advanced.
When the approach of winter rendered it ne-
cessary to light fires through the house, I or-
dered the iron stove which stood in the room,
and behind which the figure which I had be-
held, together with the two boys, seemed to
disappear, to be heated for the purpose of
warming the apartment. Some difficulty was
experienced in making the attempt, the stove
not only smoking intolerably, but emiting an
offensive smell. Having, therefore, sent for a
blacksmith to inspect and repair it, he disco-
vered in the inside, at the farthest extremity, the
bones of two small human bodies, correspond-
ing perfectly in size as well as in other respects
with the desc1iption given me by the sexton, of
the two boys who had been seen at the par-
sonage.
o''"'""b'Google
•
,-
GHOST STORIES.
" Thia last circumstance completed my asto-
nishment, and appeared to confer a sort of
reality on an appearance which might otherwise
have been considered as a delusion of the
senses. I resigned the living, quitted the
place, and retired to Konigsberg: but it has
produced on my mind the deepest impression,
and has in its effect given rise to that uncer-
tainty and contradiction of sentiment which you
remarked in my late discourse."
o''"'""b'Google
THE RADIANT BOY. Sl
APPARITION
TO THE LATE
j!ltarquill of 1Lonbonbttt!?•
I'I' is now more than twenty years since the late
Lord Londonderry was, for the first time, on a
visit to a gentleman in the north of Ireland.
The mansion was such a one as spectres are
fabled to inhabit: it was associated with many
recollections of historic times; and the sombre
character of its architecture and the wildness of
ita surrounding scenery were calculated to im-
press the soul with that tone of melancholy and
elevation which, if it be not considered as a
predisposition to welcome the visitation of those
unearthly substances that are impalpable to our
sight in moments of less hallowed sentiment, is
indisputably the state of mind in which the ima-
o''"'""b'Google
62 GHOST STORIES.
gination is most readily excited, nod the under-
standing most favourably inclined to grant a
credulous reception to its visions.
The apartment, also, which was appropriated
to Lord Londonderry was calculated to foster
such a tone of feeling, from its antique appoint-
ments; from the dark and richly carved panoels
of its wainscot; from its yawning width and
height of chimney, looking like the open entrance
to a tomb, of which the surrounding ornaments
appeared to form the sculptures and entablature;
from the portraits of grim men and severe-eyed
women, arrayed in orderly procession along the
walls, and scowling a contemptuous enmity
against the degenerate invader of their gloomy
bowers and venerable halls; and from the vast
dusky, ponderous, and complicated draperies
that concealed the windows, and hung with the
gloomy grandeur of funereal trappings about the
hearse-like piece of furniture that was destined
for his bed.
Lord Londonderry, on entering his apartment,
o''"'""b'Google
THE RADIANT BOY. 53
might have received some painful depressions
and misgivings of the mind; surrounde_d by
such a world of melancholy images, he might
perhaps feel himself more than usually inclined
to submit to the influences of superstition. It
is not possible that these sentiments should
have been allied to any feelings of apprehen-
sion. Fear is acknowledged to be a most mighty
master over the visions of the imagination: it
can "call spirits from the vasty deep," and they
do cqme when it does call for them : it trembles
at the anticipation of approaching evil, and then
encounters in every passing shadow the sub-
t1tance of the dream it trembles at. But such
could not have been the origin of the form that
addressed itself to Lord Londonderry: fear is a
quality that was never known to mingle in the
character of a Stewart.
Lord Londonderry examined his chamber; he
made himself acquainted with the forms and
faces of the ancient possessors of the mansion,
as they sat upright in their ebony frames to re-
F 2
'GHOS1' S1'0RIES.
ceive his salutation; and then, after dismissing
bis valet, he retired to bed. His candles had
not been long extinguished when he perceived
a light gleaming on the draperies of the lofty
canopy over his head. Conscious that there
was no tire in the grate-that the curtains were
elosed-that the chamber had been in perfect
darkness but a few moments before, he supposed
that some intruder must have accidentally en-
tered bis apartment; and, turning hastily round
to the side from which the light proceeded, saw,
to his infinite astonishment, not the form of any
human visitor, but the figure of a fair boy, who
seemed to be garmented in rays of mild and
tempered glory, which beamed palely from his
slender form, like the faint light of the declining
moon, and rendered the objects which were
nearest to him dimly and indistinctly visible•
The spirit stood at some short distance.from the
side of the bed. Certain that his own faculties
were not deceiving him, but suspecting he might
be imposed on by the ingenuity of some of the
numerous guests who were then visiting in the
o''"'""b'Google
TltE J!ADlANT nov.
inune house, Lord Londonderry proceeded to-
wards the figure :-it retreated before him :-as
be slowly advanced, the form with equal paces
slowly retired :-it entered the gloomy arch of
the capacious chimney, and then sunk into the
earth. Lord Londonderry returned to his bed,
but not to rest: bis mind was harassed by the
.consideration of the extraordinary event which
had occurred to him.-Was it real7-Was it
the work of the imagination?-Was it the result
of imposture1 It was all incomprehensible.
He resolved in the morning not to mention
the appearance till he should have well observed
the manners and countenances of the family:
:he was conscious that, if any deception had
been practised, its authors would be too delighted
with their success to conceal the vanity of their
triumph. When the guests assembled at the
breakfast table, the eye of Lord Londonderry
search11d in vain for those latent smiles-those
conscious looks-that silent communication be-
tween the parties, by which the authors and
o''"'""b'Google
66 GHOST STORIES.
abettors of such domestic conspiracies are ge-
nerally betrayed. Every thing apparently pro-
ceeded in its ordinary course: the conversation
flowed rapidly along from the subjects afforded
at the moment, without any of the constraint
which marks a party intent upon some secret
and more interesting argument, and endeavour-
ing to afford an opportunity for its introduction.
At last the hero of the tale found himself com-
pelled to mention the occurrence of the night:
-It was most extraordinary:-he feared that
he should not be credited :-and then, after all
due preparation, the story was related. Those
among his auditors who, like himself, were
strangers and visitors in the house, were certain
that some delusion must have been practised:
the family alone seemed perfectly composed
and calm. At last, the gentleman whom Lord
Londonderry was visiting interrupted their va-
rious surmises on the subject, by saying-"The
circumstance which you ban just recounted
must naturally appear most extraordinary to
those who have not long been inmates of toy
o''"'""b'Google
THE RADIANT BOY. 57
dwelling, and not conversant with the legends
connected with my family ; to those who are,
the event which has happened will only serve
as the corroboration of an old tradition that long
bas been related of the apartment in which you
slept. You have seen the Radiant Boy-be
content-it is an omen of prosperous fortunes.
I would rather that this subject should no more
be mentioned."
o''"'""b'Google
GHOST STORIES.
APPARITIONS
MENTIONED IN
TALKING of ghosts, Dr. Johnson said he knew
one friend, who was an honest man, who had
told him he had seen a ghost; old Mr. Edward
Cave, the printer, at St. John's Gate. He said
Mr. Cave did not like to talk of it, and seemed
to be in great horror whenever it was mentioned.
Boswell said, "Pray, sir, what did he say was
the appearance?" JOHNSON. "Why, sir,
something of a shadowy being." Goldsmith
told us he was assured by his brother that he
also had seen one. General Oglethorpe told
us that Pendergast, an officer in the Duke of
Marlborough's army, had mentioned to many of
his friends that he should die on a particular
o''"'""b'Google
PENDERGAST-PARSON FORD. 69
day: that upon that day a battle took place
with the French; that, after it was over, and
Pendergast was still .alive, his brother officers,
while they were yet in the field, jestingly asked
him where was bis prophecy now? Pendergast
gravely answered, "I shall die, notwithstanding
what you see." Soon afterwards there .came a
shot from a French battery, to which the orders
for a cessation of arms had not reached, and he
was killed upon the spot. Colonel Cecil, who
took possession of his effects, found in his
pocketbook the following solemn entry :-(here
the date)-" Dreamt or was told by an appari-
tion Sir John Friend meets me"-(here the very
day on which he was killed was mentioned).
Pendergast bad been connected with Sir John
Friend, who was executed for high treason.
General Oglethorpe said he was with Colonel
Cecil when Pope came and inquired into the
truth of this story, which made a great noise at
the time, and was then confirmed by the colonel.
BosWELL. Was there not a story of the ghost
of Parson Ford having appeared?" JOHNSON.
"Sir, it was believed. A waiter at the HHm-
o''"'""b'Google
60 GHOST STORIES,
mums, in which Ford died, had been absent for
some time, and returned, not knowing Ford was
dead: going down to the cellar, according to
the story, he met him; going down again, he
met him a second time. When be came up be
asked some of the people of the house what
Ford could be doing there? They told him
Ford was dead. The waiter took a fever, in
which he lay some time: when he recovered,
he said he had a message to deliver to some
women from Ford, but he was not to tell what
or to whom. He walked out; he was followed,.
but somewhere about St. Paul's they lost him:
he came back, and said he had delivered the
message, and the women exclaimed~ "Then we
are all undone!" Dr. Pellet, who was not a
credulous man, inquired into the truth of this
story, and said the evidence was irresistible.
My wife went to the Hummums (it is a place
where people get themselves cupped): I believe
she went with intention to hear about this story
of Ford. At first they were unwilling to tell
her; but, after they had talked to her, she came .
away satisfied that it was true. To be sure
o''"'""b'Google
PARSON FORD. 61
the man bad a fever, and this vision may have
been the beginning of it; but, if the message to
the women and their behaviour upon it were
true, as related, there was something superna-
tural: that rests upon his word, and there it re-
mains.'~
G
o''"'""b'Google
GHOST ITOJllES.
APPARITION
SEEN BY
iLotb iL!!tttlton.
THERE have been two Lord Lytteltons, both of
whom were marked and distinguished men in
their respective generations-the great and good
Lord Lyttelton, .-at\d his son, the witty and pro-
fligate, who is the hero of the present narrative.
Lord Lyttelton, in the winter of the year
1778, had retired from the metropolis, with a
party of his loose and dissipated companions,
to profane the Christmas by their riotous de-
baucheries, at his country house, Pit Place,
near Epsom, in Surry. They had not long
abandoned themselves to the indulgence of these
desperate orgies, when a sudden and unexpected
gloom was cast over the party by the extraordi-
nary depression of spirits and dejection of coun-
tenance which were observed to take possession
o''"'""b'Google
LORD LYTTELTON. 63
of their host: allhis vivacity had departed-be
fted from the society which he had so solici-
tously collected round him: his laugh became
forced; his eye was fixed upon the ground, arid
his attention always wandering from the present
topic of consideration or amusement; his mind
was occupied with a subject that distressed
it; and if, unchecked by the visible melancholy
of the master of the mansion, the spirits of the
guests rose to their accustomed vivacity, as the
wine aod jest and song and laughter circulated
about the table, a sigh, coming from the very
inmost recesses of the heart, with a painful
and laborious effort, as if it would rend the
bosom from which it with difficulty escaped,
instantly checked the awakening gaiety of the
party, and, in spite of every endeavour of Lord
Lyttelton to restore a brighter tone of feeling,
communicated a sympathetic sadness to the as-
sociates. It was in vain that he attempted to
silence the inquiries of the guests on the sub-
ject of his uneasiness: they were con'vinced that
he was ill, or had met with some loss at play,
or was croSBed in love: and his denial of all
o''"'""b'Google
.GHOST STORIES.
these imputations only excited a more eager cu-
riosity to be informed of the real origin of bis
depression. Thus urged, be at last determined
to reveal the secret that so painfully distressed
him.
Two nights before, on his retiring to his bed,
after bis servant was dismissed and his light
extinguished, he had heard a noise resembling
the ftuttering of a dove at his chamber window.
This attracted bis attention to the s~t ; when,
looking in the direction of the sound, he saw
the figure of an unhappy female, whom he bad
seduced and. deserted, and who, when deserted,
had put a violent end to her own existence,
standing in the aperture of the window from
which the ftuttering sound had proceeded. The
form approached the foot of the bed :-the room
was preternaturally light; the objects of the
chamber were distinctly visible:-raising her
hand, and pointing to a dial which stood on the
mantelpiece of the chimney, the iigure, with a
severe solemnity ofvoice and manner, announced
to the appalled and conscience-stricken man
o''"'""b'Google
LORD LYTTELTON.
that, at that very hour, on the third day after
the visitation, bis life and his sins would be
concluded, and nothing but their punishment
remain, if be availed himself not of the warning
to repentance which he had received. The eye
of Lord Lytteltoo glanced upon the dial; the
band was on the stroke of twelve:-again the
apartment was involved in total darkness:-the
warning spirit disappeared, and bore away at
her departure all the lightness of heart and
buoyancy of spirit, ready flow of wit, and vi-
vacity of manner, which had formerly been the
pride and ornament of the unhappy being to
whom she had delivered her tremendous sum-
mons. Such was the tale that Lord Lytteltoo
delivered to bis companions : they laughed at
his superstition, and endeavoured to convince
him that his mind must have been impressed
with this idea by some dream of a more consis-
tent nature than dreams generally are, and that
he bad mistaken the visions of his sleep for the
visitations of a spirit. He was counselled, but
not convinced: .he felt relieved by their distrust,
aad, on the second night after the appearance
G2
o''"'""b'Google
66 . "GHOST STORIES.
of the spectre, he retreated to his apartment,
with his faith in the reality of the transact.ion
somewhat shaken ; and bis spirits, though not
revived,certainly lightened of somewhat of their
oppression.
On the succeeding day the guests of Lord
Lyttelton, with the connivance of his attendant,
had provided that the clocks throughout the
house should be advanced an hour and a half:
by occupying their host's attention during the
whole day with different and successive objects
.of amusement, they contributed to prevent his
discovering the imposture. 1:en o'clock struck;
, the nobleman was silent and depressed :-eleven
struck; the depression deepened, and now not
even a smile, or the slightest movement of his
eye indicated him to be conscious of the efforts
of his associates, as they attempted to dispel
his gloom :-twelve struck: "Thank God! I'm
safe," exclaimed Lord Lyttelton: "the ghost
·was a liar, after all:-some wine, there:--con-
gratulate me, my friends--congratulate me on
my reprieve:-why; what a fool was I to be
o''"'""b'Google
LOltD LYTTE'LTON. 67
cast down by so silly and absurd a circum-
stance !-But, however, its time for bed:-we'll
be up early, and out with the bounds to-mor-
row:-by my faith, it's half-past twelve; so
good night, good night:" and he returned to his
chamber, convinced of his security, and believ•
ing that the threatened hour of peril was now
past.
His guests remained together to await the
completion of the time so ominously designated
by the vision. A quarter of an hour had elapsed:
-they heard the valet descend from his mas..
ter's room :-it was just twelve:-Lord Lyttel-
ton's bell rang violently: -the company ran in
a body to his apartment:-the clock struck one
at their entrance•:-the unhappy nobleman lay
extended on the bed before them, pale and life-
less, aad his ·Countenance terribly convulsed.
This is the account which the narrator re-
ceived from a lady, a relation of Lord Lyttel-
• It had been advanced an boor; and it w1111, io fact, bot
twelve, the hour intimated by the spectre.
o''"'""b'Google
68 ~HOST STORIES.
ton's: the subsequent passage is from Sir Na-
thaniel W raxall: " Dining at Pit Place, about
four years after the death of Lord Lyttelton, in
the year 1783, I had the curiosity to visit the
bedchamber, where the casement window, at
which Lord Lyttelton aBBerted the dove appeared
.to ftutter, was pointed out to me; and, at his
stepmother's, the dowager Lady Lyttelton's, in
Portugal Street, Grosvenor Square, who, being
a woman of ve.ry lively imagination, lent an im-
plicit faith to all the supernatural facts which
were supposed to have accompanied or produced
Lord Lyttelton'a end, I have frequently seen a
painting which she herself executed, in 1780,
expressly to commemorate the event: it bung
in a conspicuous part of her drawing room.
There the dove appears at the window, while a
female figure, habited in white, stands at the
foot of the bed, announcing to Lord Lyttelton
his dissolution. Every part of the picture was
faithfully designed, after the description given
to her by the valet de chambre who attended
him, to whom bis master related all the circum-
stances."
60
APPARITH)N
SEEN BY
CVR,\TE 01' :WARBLINGTON, IN ,HAiMPSHJ,RE.
THE following letter from Mr. Caswell, the
mathematician, was found among Dr. Bentley's
papers:-
"SIR,
"When I was in London, April last, I fully
intended to have waited upon you again, as I
said, but cold and lameness seized me next
day: the .cold took away my voice, and the
other my power of walking: so I presently took
coach for Oxford. I am much your debtor;
and in particular for your good intentions in re-
lation to Mr. D. though that, as it has proved,
w-0uld not have turned to my advantage: how-
o''"'""b'Google
70 GHOST STORIES.
ever, I am obliged to you upon that and other
accounts, and, if I had opportunity to show it,
you should find how much I am your faithful
servant. I have sent you enclosed a relation
of an apparition: the story I had from two per-
sons, who each had it from the author, and yet
their accounts somewhat varied, and, passing
through more mouths, bas varied still more;
therefore I got a friend to bring me to the
author's, at a chamber, where I wrote it down
from the author's mouth; after which I read it
to him, and gave him another copy. He said
he could swear to the truth of it, as far as be is
concerned; he is curate of W ar~lington, bache-
lor of arts of Trinity College, in Oxford, about
six years standing in the university; I bear no
ill report of his behaviour here; he is now
gone to his curacy; he has promised to send
up the hands of the tenant and his man, who is
a smith by trade, and the farmer's men, as far
as they are conce111ed. Mr. Brinton, the rec-
tor, would have him say nothing of the story;
for that he can get no tenant, although he has
offered the house for ten pounds a year less.
o''"'""b'Google
MR. P. 71
Mr. P. the former incumbent, whom the appari-
tion represented, was a man of a very ill report,
supposed to have got children of his maid, and
to have murdered them; but I advised the cu-
rate to say nothing himself of this last part of .
P. but leave that to the parishioners who knew
him. Those who knew this P. say be bad ex~
actly such a gown, and that be used to whistle.
"Yours,
"J. CASWELL."
NARRATIVE.
AT Warblington, near Ilavant, in Hamvshire,
within six miles of Portsmouth, in the parson·
age house, dwelt Thomas Perse, the tenant, with
his wife and a child, a man servant, Thomas,
and a maid servant. About the beginning of
August, 169a, on a Monday, about nine or ten
at night, all being in bed, except the maid with
p= o''"'""b'Google
72 GHOST STORIES.
the child, the maid, being in the kitchen and
having raked up the fire, took a candle ia one
hand and the child in the other arm, and, turning
about, saw one in a black gown walking through
the room, and thence out of the doer into the
orchard. Upon this the maid, hasting up stairs,
having recovered but two steps, cried out; oa
whicl!. the master and mistress ran down, found
the candle in her hand, she grasping the child
round the neck with the other arm : she told
them the reason of her crying out. She would
not that night tarry in the house, but removed
to another, belonging to one Henry Salter, far-
mer, where she cried out all the night, from the
terror she was in; and she could not be per-
suaded to go any more to the house, on any
terms. On the morrow (Tuesday) the tenant's
wife came to me, lodging then at Havant, to
desire my advice, and have consult with some
friends about it; l told her I thought it was a
tlam, and that they had a mind to abuse Mr.
Brereton, the rector, whose house it was: she
desired I would come up; I told her I would
come up, and sit up or lie there, as she pleased;
MR. P. '73
for then, as to all stories of ghosts or appari-
tions, I was an infidel. I went thither, and sat
up the Tuesday night with the tenant and his
man se"ant: about twelve or one o'clock I
searched all the rooms in the house, to see if
any body was hid there to impose upon me.
At last we came into a lumber room: there I,
smiling, told the tenant that was with me that I
would call for the apparition, and oblige him to
come. The tenant then seemed to be afraid;
but I told him I would defend him from harm,
and then I repeated-" Barbara, celarent Darii,"
&c.: on this the tenant's countenance changed,
so that he was ready to drop down with fear;
and I told him I perceived he was afraid, and
I would prevent its coming, and repeated-
" Baralipton," &c.; then he recovered his iipi-
rits pretty well, and we left the room and went
down into the kitchen, where .we .were before,
and sat up there the remaining part of the night,
and had no manner of disturbance. Thursday
night the tenant and I lay together in one room,
and the man in another room; and he saw
something walk along in a black gown, and
H
o''"'""b'Google
GHOST STORIRS.
place itself against a window, and there stood
for some time, and then walked off. Friday
morning, the man relating this, I asked him
why he did not call me, and I told him I
thought that was a trick or a flam; he told me
the reason why he did not call me was that he
was not able to speak or move. Friday night
we lay as before, and had no di1turbance either
of the nights. Sunday night I lay by myself in
one· room (not that where the man saw the ap-
parition), and the tenant and the man in one
bed in another room: and, betwixt twelve and
two, the man heard something walk in their
room at the bed's foot, and whistling very well;
and at last it came to the bed's side, drew the·
curtain, and looked on them; after some time
it moved off; then the man called to me, desired
me to come, for that there was something in the
room went about whistling. I asked him whe-
ther ·he had any light, or could strike one; he
told me, no. Then I leaped out of bed, and,
not staying to put on my clothes, went out of
my room and along a gallery to the door, which
I found locked or bolted; I desired him to un-
MR. P.
lock the door, for that I could not get in; then
he got out of bed and opened the door, which
was near, and went immediately again to bed.
I went in three or four •teps; and, it being a
moonshine night, I saw the apparition move
from the ,bedside, and clap up against the wall
that divided their room and mine. I went and
stood directly against it, within my arm's length
of it, and asked it, in the name of God, what it
was that made it COD>;e disturbing of us. I stood
some time, expecting an answer, and, receiving
none, and thinking it might be some fellow hid
in the room to fright me, I put out my arm to
feel it, and my hand seemingly went through
the body of it, and felt no manner of substance
till it came to the wall; then I drew back my
hand, and still it was in the same place. Till
now I had not the least fear, and even now had
very little. Then I adjured it to tell me what
it was: when I had said those words, it, keep-
ing its back against the wall, moved gently
along towards the door; I followed it, and it,
going out at the door, turned its back towards
me : it .went a little along the gallery, and it
o''"'""b'Google
76 GHOST STORIES,
disappeared where there was no corner for it to
turn, and before it came to the end of the gallery
where were the stairs. Then I found myself
very cold from my feet as high as my middle,
though I was not in great fear: I went into the
bed betwixt the tenant and his man, and they
complained of my being exceeding cold. The
tenant's man leaned over his master in the bed,
and saw me stretch out my hand towards the
apparition, and heard me speak the words: the
tenant also heard the worda.
The apparition seemed to have a morning
gown of a darkish colour, no bat nor cap, short
black hair, a thin meagre visage, of a pale
swarthy colour; seemed to be of about five and
forty or fifty years old; the eyes half shut, the
arms banging down, the hands visible beneath
the sleeve; of a middle stature. I related this
description to Mr. John Lardner, rector of
Havant, and to Major Batten, of Langstone, in
Havant parish; they both said the description
agreed very well to Mr. P. a former rector of
the place, who bad been dead above twenty
MR. P. 77
years. Upon this the tenant and his wife left
the house, which has remained void ever since.
The Monday after last Michaelmas day, a
man of Chodson, in Warwickshire, having been
at Havant fair, passed by the aforesaid parson-
age house about nine or ten at night, and saw a
light in most of the rooms of the house. His
pathway being close by the house, he,wondering
at the light, looked into the kitchen window,
and saw only a light; but, turning himself to
go away, he saw the appearance of a man in a
long gown: he made haste away; the apparition
followed him over a piece of glebe land of seve-
ral acres, to a lane which he crossed, and over
a little meadow ; then over another lane to some
pales, which belong to farmer Henry Salter, my
landlord, near a barn, in which were some of
the farmer's men and some others. This man
went into the barn, and told them how he was
frightened and followed from the parsonage
house by an apparition, which they might see
standing agaiAst the pales if they went out: they
went out, and saw it scratch against the pales
H2
o,,, .Jb,Googlc
'78 GHOST STORIES.
and make a hideous noise; it stood there son&e
time, and then disappeared: their description
agreed with what I saw.
This last account I had from the man him-
self, and also from the farmer's men.
THOMAS WILKINS,
Curate of·Warburton:
December 11, Ul!IS, Oxoo.
79
APPARITION
or
iLorb 1r12ront to i£ab12 J!Jere11forb.
l...ORD TYRONE and Miss ---- were born
in Ireland, and were left orphans in their in-
•
fancy to the care of the same person, by whom
they were both educated in the principles of
deism.
Their guardian dying when they were each
of the~ about fourteen years of age, they fell
into very different hands. The persons on
whom the care of them· now devolved used
every means to eradicate the erroneous prin-
ciples they had imbibed, and to persuade them
to embrace revealed religion, but in vain. Their
arguments were insufficient to convince, though
they were strong enough to stagger their former
faith. Though separated from each other, their
o''"'""b'Google
80 GHOST STORIES.
friendship was unalterable, and they continued
to regard each other with a sincere and fraternal
affection. After some years_ were elapsed, and
both were grown up, they made a solemn pro-
mise to each other'that whichever should die
first, would, if permitted, appear to the other,
to declare what religion was most approved by
the Supreme Being. Miss --- was shortly
after addressed by Sir Martin Beresford, to
whom she was after a few years married, but
a change of condition had no power to alter
their friendship. The families visited each
other, and often spent some weeks together. A
short time after one of these visits, Sir Martin
remarked, that when his lady came down to
' breakfast, that her countenance was dis~bed,
and inquired of her health. She assured him
she was quite well. He then asked her if she
bad hurt her wrist: " Have you sprained it?"
said he, observing a black ribbon round it. She
answered in die negatiye, and added, " Let me
conjure you, Sir Martiu, never to inquire the
cause of my wearing this ribbon; you,will never
see me without it. If it concerned you as a hus-
LORD TYRONE. 81
band to know, I would not for a moment con-
ceal it: I never in my life denied you a request,
but of this I entreat you to forgive me the re-
fusal, and never to urge me farther on the sub-
ject." "Very well," said be, smiling,"since you
beg me so earnestly, I will inquire no more."
The conversation here ended; but breakfast was
scarce over when Lady Beresford eagerly in-
quired if the post was come in; she was told it
was not. In a few minutes she rang again and
repeated the inquiry. She was again answered
as at first. " Do you expect letters ?" said Sir
Martin, "that you are so anxious for the arrival
of the post7" " I do," she answered, "I ex-
pect to bear that Lord Tyrone is dead; he died
last Tuesday at four o'clock." " I never in
my life," said Sir Martin, " believed you su-
perstitious; Rome idle dream has surely thua
alarmed you." At that instant the aervant en-
tered and delivered to them a letter sealed with
black. "It is as I expected," exclaimed Lady
Beresford, " Lord Tyrone is dead." ·Sir Mar-
tin opened the letter; it came from Lord Tyrone's
steward, and contained the melancholy intelli,
GHOST STORIES.
gence of his master's death, and on the very
day and hour Lady Beresford had before speci-
fied. Sir Martin begged Lady Beresford to
compose herself, and she assured him she felt
much easier than she had done for a long time :
and added, " I can communicate intelligence
to you which I know will prove welcome : I
can assure you, beyond the possibility of ·a
doubt, that I shall in some months present you
with a son." Sir Martin received this news
with the greatest joy. After some months,
Lady Beresford was delivered of a son (she
bad before been the mother of only two daugh-
ters). Sir Martin survived the birth of his son
little more than four years. ·After his decease
his widow seldom left home ; she visited no
family but that of a clergyman who resided in
the same village; with them she frequently
passed a few hours every day; the rest of her
time was spent in solitude, and she appeared
determined for ever to banish all other society.
The clergyman's family consisted'of himself, bis
wife, and one son, who, at the time of Sir
Martin's death, was quite a youth; to this son,
o''"'""b'Google
LORD TYRONE. 83
however, she was after a few years married,
notwithstanding the disparity of years and the
manifest imprudence of a connexion so unequal
in every point of view. Lady Beresford was
treated by her young husband with contempt
and cruelty, while at the same time his conduct
evinced him the most abandoned libertine, ut-
terly destitute of every principle of virtue and
humanity. By this, her second husband, she
had two daughters ; after which such was the
baseness of bis conduct that she insisted on a
separation. They parted for a few years, when
so great was the contrition he expressed for his
former conduct, that, won over by his suppli-
cations, promises, and entreaties, she was in-
duced to pardon, and once more to reside with
him, and was in time the mother of a son.
The day on which she had lain-in a month
being th~ anniversary of her ~irthday, she sent
for Lady Betty Cobb (of whose friendship she
bad long been possess~d), and a few other
-~
friends to request them to spend the day with her.
About seven, the dergyman by whom she had
84 GHOST STORIES.
been christened, and with whom she had all her
life been intimate, came into the room to inquire
after her health. She told him she was per-
fectly well, and requested him to spend the day
with them; for, said she, "This is my birthday.
I am forty-eight to-day." " No, madam," an-
swered the clergyman, " you are mistaken;
your mother and myself have had many dis-
putes concerning your age, and I have at last
discovered that I was right. I happened to go
last week into the parish where you were born ;
I was. resolved to put an end to the dispute;
I searched the register and find that you are
but forty-seven this day." "You have signed
my death warrant," she exclaimed, " I have
then but a few hours to live. I must, there-
fore, entreat you to leave me immediately, as I
have something of importance to settle before I
die." When the clergyman had left her, Lady
Beresford sent to forbid the company coming,
and at the same time to request Lady Betty
Cobb and her son (of whom Sir Martin was.the
father, and was then about twenty-two years of
age), to come to her apartment immediately.
o''"'""b'Google
LORD TYRONE. 85
Upon their arrival, having ordered the attendants
to quit the room, '.'I have something," she said,
" of the greatest importance to communicate'
to you both before I die, a period which is not
far distant. You, Lady Betty, are no stranger
to the friendship which subsisted between Lord
Tyrone and myself: we were educated under
the same roof, and in the same principles of
deism. When the friends, into whose hands
we afterwards fell, endeavoured to persuade us
to embrace revealed religion, their arguments,
though insufficient to convince, were powerful
enough to stagger our former feelings, and to
leave us 'vavering between the two opinions:
in this perplexing state of doubt and uncertainty,
we made a solemn promise to each other, that
whichever died first should (if permitted) ap-
pear to the other, and declare what religion
was most acceptable to God : accordingly, one
night, while Sir Martin and myselfwere in bed,
I suddenly awoke and discovered Lord Tyrone
sitting by my bedside. I screamed out, and
endeavoured to awake Sir Martin; ''For Hea-
ven's sake,". I exclaimed, " Lord Tyrone,· by
I
o''"'"°b,Google
r
86 GHOST STORIES.
what means or,for what reason came you hither
at this time of night." " Have you then for-
gotten our promise 1" said he. " I died last
Tuesday at four o'clock, and have been per-
mitted by the Supreme Being to appear to you,
to assure you that the revealed religion is true,
and the only religion by which we can be saved.
I am further suffered to inform you that you
will soon produce a son; which it is decreed
will marry my daughter : not many years after
bis birth Sir l\fartin will die, and you will·marry
again, and to a man by whose ill treatment you
will be rendered miserable : you will have two
·daughters, and afterwards a son, in childbirth of
whom you will die in the forty-seventh year of
your age." " Just Hea'f'ens !" l exclaimed,
" and cannot I prevent this 1" "- Undoubtedly
you may," returned the spectre; " you are a
free agent, and may prevent it all by resisting
every temptation to a second marriage ; but
your passions are strong, you know not their
power; hitherto you have had no trials. More
I am not ·permitted to reveal, but if after this
warning you persist in your infidelity, your lot
•
LORD TYRONE. 87
in another world will be miserable indeed !"
" May I not ask," said I, " if yoti are happy?"
" Had I been otherwise,'' he replied, " I should
not have been permitted to appear to you." "I
may then infer that you are happy?" He smiled.
" But how," said I, " when morning comes,
shall I know that your appearance to me bas
been real, and not the mere representation of
my own imagination?" " Will not the news of
my death be sufficient to convince you?" "No,"
I returned, " I might have bad such a dream,
and that dream accidentally come to pass. I
will have some stronger proofs of its reality."
" You shall,'' said be, " and waving his hand,
the bed curtains, which werf) crimson velvet,
were instantly drawn through a large iron hoop
by which the tester of the bed was suspended."
" In that," said he, " you cannot be mistaken ;
no mortal arm could have performed this."
" True,'' said I, " but sleeping we are often
po11essed of far more strength than when awake;
though waking I could not have done it, asleep
I might; and 1 shall still doubt." " Here is a
pocket-book in this,'' said he; " I will write my
o''"'""b'Google
88 GHOST STORIES.
name: you know my band writing." I replied,
. " Yes." He wrote with a pencil on one side of
the leav.es. " Still," said I,." in the morning I
may doubt; though waking I could not .imitate
your hand, asleep I might." " You are bard
of belief," said be: " it would injure you irre-
parably ; it is not for spirits to touch mortal
flesh." "I do not," said I, " regard a slight
blemish." " You are a woman of courage;"
replied be, ''bold out your band." I did: he
struek my wrist: bis hand was eold as marble :
in a moment the sinews shrunk up, every nerve
withered. " Now," said he, " while you live
iet no mortal eye behold that wrist: to see it is
sacrilege." He stopped; I turned to him again;
he was gone. During the time I bad conversed
with him my thoughts were perfectly calm and
collected, but the moment he was gone, I felt
chilled with horror, the very bed me>ved under
me, I endeavoured, but in vain, to· ~ake Sir
Martin, all my attempts were ineffectual, and in
this state of agitation and terror I lay for some
time, when a shower of tears came to my relief,
and I dropped asleep. In the morning1 Sir
LORD TYRONE. 89
Martin arose and dressed himself as usual with-
out perceiving the state the curtains remained
in. When I awoke I found Sir Martin gone
down ; I arose, and having put on my clothes,
went to the gallery adjoining the apartment and
took from thence a long broom (such as cor-
·nices are swept with), by the help of this I took
down with some difficulty the curtains, as I
imagined their extraordinary position might ex-
cite suspicion in the family. I then went to the
bureau, took up my pocket-book, and bound a
·piece of black ribbon round my wrist. When ·
I came down, the agitation of my mind had left
an impression on my countenance too visible to
pass unobserved by my husband. He instantly
remarked it and asked the cause; I informed
him Lord Tyrone was no more, that he died
at the hour of four on the preceding Tuesday,
and desired him never to question me more
respecting the black ribbon ; which he kindly
desisted from after. You, my son, as bad been
foretold, I afterwards brought into the world,
and in little more than four years after your
birth your lamented father expired in my arms.
I 2
o''"'""b'Google
DO GHOST STORIES.
After this melancholy event, I det.ermined, as
the only probable chance to avoid the sequel of
the prediction, for ever to abandon all society;
to give up every pleasure resulting from it, and
to pass the rest of my days in solitude and re-
tirement. But few can long endure to exist in
a state of perfect sequestration : I began all
intimacy with a family, and one alone ; nor
could I then foresee the fatal consequences
which afterwards resulted from it. L;ttle did I
think their son, their only son, then a mere
youth, would form the person destined by fate
to prove my destruction. In a very few years
I ceased to regard him with indifference ; I en-
deavoured by every possible way to conquer a
passion the fatal. effects of which I too well
knew. I had fondly imagined I had overcome
its influence, when.the evening of one fatal day
terminated my fortitude, and plunged me in a
moment down that abyss I had so long been
meditating how to shun. He had often .soli-
cited his parents for leave to go into the army,
and at last obtained permission, and came to
bid me adieu before his departure. .The instant
o''"'""b'Google
LORD TYRONE. 91
he entered the room he fell upon his knees at
my feet, told me he was miserable, and that I
alone was the cause. At that moment my for-
titude forsook me, I gave myself up for lost,
and regarding my fate as inevitable, without
farther hesitation consented to a union ; the
immediate result of which I knew to be mi-
sery, and its end death. The conduct of my
h'!sband, after a few years, amply justified a
separation, and I hoped by this means to avoid
the fatal sequel of the prophecy; but won over
by his, reiterated entreaties, I was prevailed upon
to pardon, and once more reside with him,
though not till after I bad, as I thought, passed
my forty-seventh year.
But alas ! I have this day heard from indis-
putable authority, that I have hitherto lain under
a mistake with regard to my age, and that I am
but forty-seven to-day. Of the near approach
of my death then I entertain not the slightest
doubt ; but I do not dread its arrival ; armed
with the sacred precepts of Christianity, I can
meet the King of Terrors without dismay, and
without fear bid adieu to .mortality for ever.
o''"'""b'Google
92 GHOST STORIES.
When I am dead, as the necessity of con·
cealment closes with my life, I could wish that
you, Lady Betty, would unbind my wrist, take
from thence the black ribbon, and let my son
with yourself behold it. Lady Beresford here
paused for some time, but resuming the conver-
sation she entreated her son would behave him-
self so as to merit the high honour he would ill
future receive from a union with the daughter
.of Lord Tyrone.
Lady B. then expressed a wish to lay down
011 the bed and to endeavour to compose her-
self to sleep. Lady Betty Cobb and her son
immediately called her domestics, and quitted
the room, having first desired them to watch
their mistress attentiv.ely, and if they observed
the smallest change in her, to call instantly.
An hour passed, and all was quiet in the
room. They listened at the door, and every
thing remained still, but in half an hour more
a bell rang violently ; they flew to her apart·
ment; but before they reached the door, they
heard the servants exclaim "Oh, ~t1e is dead !"
o''"'""b'Google
LORD TYRONE. 93
Lady Betty then bade the servants for a few
minutes to quit the room, and herself with Lady
Beresford's son approached the bed of his mo-
ther; they knelt down by the side of it; Lady
Betty then lifted up her hand and untied the
ribbon ; the wrist was found exactly as Lady
Beresford had described it, every sinew shrunk,
every nerve withered.
Lady Beresford's son, as had been predicted,
. is since married to Lord Tyrone's da11ghter, the
black ribbon and pocket-book were formerly in
the possession of Lady Betty Cobb, Marlborough
Buildings, Bath, who, during her long life, was
ever ready to attest the truth of this narration,
as are, to the present hour, the whole of the
Tyrone and Beresford families.
o''"'""b'Google
GHOST STORIES.
APPARITION
OF
§iclnuf to jl!lftbael jlllemto,
llll!NTlONl!D BY BARONIUI.
THOSE illustrious friends, Ficinus and Mercato,
after a long discourse on the nature of the soul,
had agreed, that, whoever of the two should die
first, should, if possible, appear to ~is surviving
friend, and inform him of his condition in the
other world.
A short time afterwards, says Baronius *, it
happened, that while Michael Mercato the elder
was studying philosophy, early i!I the morning,
• Baronii Anualea.-Tbis story was told to Barouiua by
the grand1011 of Meroato, who was protbonotary of the
church, and a man of the greatelt probity, u well 11 of
general knowledge.
FICI NUS. 96
be suddenly beard the noise of a horse gallop-
ing in the street, which stopped at his door,
and the voice of bis. friend Ficinus was beard,
exclaiming-" 0 Michael! 0 Michael! those
things are true." Astonished at this address,
Mercato rose, and looked out of the window;
where he saw the back of his friend, dressed in
white, galloping on a white horse. He called
after him, and followed him with his eyes till
the appearance vanished. Upon inquiry, he
learned that Ficinus had died at Florence, at
the very time when the vision was presented to
Mercato at a considerable distance.
Many attempts have been made to discredit
tbis story, but I think the evidence bas never
been shaken. Baronius adds, that after this
occurrence, Mercato neglected all profane stu-
dies, and addicted himself entirely to divinity.
o''"'""b'Google
00 GHOST STORIES,
APPARITIONS
WHICH WERE
SEEN AT PORTNEDOWN BRIDGE
AFTER THE IRISH MASSACRE ;
BEING COPIES or
i!l:bt 0billmcc ptolluttll flv iir 31obn ~cmplc.
JAMES SHAW, of Market Hill, in the county of
Armagh, innkeeper, deposeth, that many of the
Irish rebels, in the time of this depooent's re-
.straint, and staying among them, told him very
often, and it was a common .report, that all
those who lived about the bridge· of Po~tne­
down were so atfrighted with the cries and
noise made there of some spirits or visions for
revenge, as that they durst not stay, but fled
away thence, so as they protested, atfrighted to
Market Hill, saying, they durst not return thi-
o''"'""b'Google
SEEN AT PORTNEDOWN BRIDGE. 97
tber for fear of those cries and spirits, but took
grounds and made (creaghs), in or near the
parish of Mulabrac.
Jurat, August 14, 1642.
2. Joan, the. relict of Gabriel Constable, late
of Dutmant, in the county of Armagh, gent,
deposeth and saith, that she often beard the
rebels, Owen O'Farren, Patrick O'Connellan,
and divers others of the rebels at Durmant,
earnestly say, protest, and tell one another, that
the blood of some of tb.ose that were knocked
on the bead and afterward~ drowned at Portne-
down bridge, still remained on the bridge and
would not be washed away; and that oftea
there appeared visions or apparitions, sometimes
of men, sometimes.of women, breast-high above
the water, at or near Portnedown, which did
most extremely and fearfully screech and cry
out for. vengeance against·the Irish that had
murdered their bodies there : and that their
eries and screeches did so terrify the Irish.
thereabouts, that none durst stay nor live longer
there, but fled and removed farther iato. the
K
o''"'""b'Google
GHOST STORIES.
country, and this was common report amongst
the rebels there; and that it passed f'or a truth
amongst them, for any thing she could ever ob-
se"e to the contrary.
Jurat, January 1, 1643.
3. Katherine, the relict of William Coke, late
of the county of Armagh, carpenter, sworn and
examined, saith that, about the twentieth of
,\December, 1641, a great 'number of rebels, in
that county, did most barbarously drown at that
time one hundred .and eighty Protestants, men,
women, 11nd children, in the river, at the bridge
of Portnedown; and that, abopt nine days after-
wards, she saw a vision or spirit, in the shape
of' a man, as she apprehended, that appeared in
that river, in the place of the drowning, bolt
upright, heart high, with hands lifted up, and
stood in that pl$Ce there, until the latter 'end of
Lent next following; about which time some of
the English army, marching in those parts,
whereof her husband was one (as he and they
confidently affirmed ~ the deponent), saw that
spirit or vision standing upright in the posture
o''"'""b'Google
SEEN AT PORTNEDOWN BRIDGE. 90
!'forementiooed; but, after that time, the said
spirit or vision vanished, aod appeared no more
that she knoweth. Aud she heard, hut saw
not, that there were other visions and appari-
tions, and much screeching and strange noises
heard in that river at times afterwards.
Jurat, February 24, 1643.
4. Elizabeth, the wife of Captain Rice•Price,
of Armagh, deposeth and saith that she and
other women, whose husbands were murdere~
bearing of divers apparitions and visions that
were seen near Portoedown bridge, since the
drowning of her children aod the rest of.the
Protestants there, went unto the aforesaid
bridge about twilight in the evening: then there
appeared unto them, upon a sudden, a vision or
spirit, assuming the shape of a woman, waist I
high, upright in the water. naked, with elevated
and closed hands, her hair hanging down very
white, her eyes seemed to twinkle, and her skin\
as white as snow; which spirit seemed to stand
straight up in the water, and often repeated the
words "Revenge, revenge, revenge!" whereat
o''"'""b'Google
100 GHOST STORIES.
this deponent and the rest, being put into a
strong amazement, and affrighted, walked from
the place.
Jurat, January 29, 1642. ·
6. Arthur Azlum, of Clowargber, in tlie
county of Cavan, esquire, deposeth that he was
crediblyinformed bysome that were present there
that there were thirty women and young children,
and seven men flung into the river of Belturbet;
and, when some of them offered to swim for
their lives, they were by the rebels followed in
carts, and knocked upon the head with poles.
The same day they hanged two women at Tur-
bet; and this deponent doth verily believe that
Rutmore O'Reby, the then sheriff, had a hand
in commanding the murder ofthose said persons;
for that he saw him write two notes, which he
sent to Turbet by Brian O'Reby, upon whose
coming their murders were committed : and
those persons who were present also affirmed
that the bodies of those thirty persons drowned
did not appear upon the water till about six
weeks past: as the said Reby came to the town,
o''"'""b'Google
SEEN AT PORTNEDOWN BRI DGR. 101
all the bodies came Boating up to the very
bridge; and those persons were all formerly
stayed in the town by bis protection, when the
rest of their neighbours in the town went
away•.
• History or the Irish Rebellion, by Sir John Temple,
knight, p. 123.
K2
o''"'""b'Google
102 GHOST STORIES,
OP
SECOND SIGHT.
A GENTLEMAN connected with the family of
Dr. Ferriar, an officer in the army, and certainly
addicted to no superstition, was quartered early
in life, in the middle of the last century, near
the castle of a gentleman in the north of Scot-
land, who was supposed to possess the second
sight. Strange rumours were afloat respecting
the old chieftain : he had spoken to an appari-
tion, which ran along the battlements of the
house, and had never been cheerful afterwards~
his prophetic vision excited surprise even in that
region of credulity, and his retired habits fa-
voured the popular opinion. My friend assured
me that, one day, while be was reading a play
to the ladies of the family, the chief, who had
been walking across the room, stopped suddenly,
o''"'""b'Google
}
SECOND SIGHT. 103
and assumed ·the look of a seer: he rang the
bell, and ordered the groom to saddle a horse,
to proceed immediately to a seat in the neigh-
bourhood, and to inquire after the health of
Lady ---; if the account were favourable,
he then directed him to call at another castle·,
to ask after another lady whom he named. The
reader immediately closed his book, and de:.
clared that he ·woald not proceed till these
abrupt orders were explained, as be was con-
fident they were produced by the second sight·
The chief was very unwilling to explain himself,
but at length he owned that the door had ap:.
peared to opea, and that a little woman, without
a bead, had entered the room; that the appari-
tion indicated the sudden death of some person
of his acquaintance, and the only two persons
who resembled the figure were those ladies after
whose health he had sent to inquire.
A few hours afterwards the servant returned,
with an account that one of the ladies had died,
of an apoplectic fit, about the time when the
vision appeared.
- o''"'""b'Google
104 GHOST STORIES.
At another time the chief was confined to his
bed by indisposition, and my friend was reading
to him, in a stormy winter night, while the fish-
ing boat belonging to the castle w11:s at sea.
The old gentleman repeatedly expressed much
anxiety respecting his people, and at last ex-
claimed-" My boat is lost!" The colonel re-
plied-" How do you know it, sir7" He was
answered-'' I see two of the boatmen bringing
in the third drowned, all dripping wet,.and lay-
ing him down close beside your chair." The
~hair was shifted with great precipitation: in the
course of the night the fishermen returned, with
the corpse of one of the boatmen.
o''"'""b'Google
•
103
APPARITION
SF.£N 8¥
lUtbarl> Jlfobet.
ABOUT the year 1667,_
I was staying with some
persons of honour in the house of a nobleman
in the west country, which had formerly been a
nuDoery.-1 must confess I had often heard the
servants and others that inhabited or lodged
there speak much of the noises, stirs, and appa-
ritions that frequently disturbed the house, but
had at that time no apprehensions of it; for, the
house being full of strangers, the nobleman's
steward, Mr. C. lay with me in a fine wainscot
room, called my lady's chamber. We went to
our lodging pretty early; and, having a good
fire in the room, we spent some time in reading,
in which he much delighted: then, having got
into bed and put out the candles, we obs~rved
o''"'""b'Google
JOG GHOST STORIES.
the room to be very light by the brightness of
the moon, so that a wager was laid between us
that it was possible to read written hand by that
light upon the bed where we lay.
We had scarce made an end of discoursing
upon that affair, when I saw (my face being
towards the door, which was locked), entering
into the room, five appearances ofvery fine and
lovely women : they were of excellent stature,
and their dresses seemed very fine, but covered
all but their faces with their light veils, whose
skirts trailed largely upon the floor. They .en-
tered in a file, one after the other, and in that
posture walked round the room, till the foremost
came and stood by that side of the bed where I
lay (with my left band over the side of the bed:
for my head rested on that arm, and I deter-
mined not to alter the posture in which I was):
she struck me upon that hand with a blow that •
felt very soft, but I did never remember whether
it were cold or hot. I demanded, in the name
of the blessed Trinity, what business they bad
there, but received no answer. Then I spoke
o''"'""b'Google
RICHARD BOVET. 107
to Mr. C.-"Sir, do you see what fair guests
we have come to visit us7" before which they
all disappeared. I found him in some kind of
agony, and was forced to grasp him on the
breast with my right hand (which was next him
underneath the bedclothes), before I could ob-
tain speech of him: then he told me he had seen
the fair guests I .spoke of, and had heard me
speak to them; but withal said that he was not
able to speak sooner unto me, being extremely
affrighted at the sight of a dreadful monster,
which, assuming a shape betwixt that of a lion
and a bear, attempted to come upon the bed's
foot. I told him I thanked God nothing so
frightful bad presented itself to me; but I hoped
(through his assistance) not to dread the am-
bages of hell. It was a long time before I
could compose him to sleep: and, though be
bad many disturbances in bis own room, and
understood of others in the house, yet he ac-
knowledged he had never been so terrilied during
many years' abode there.
The nest day, at dinner, be showed to many
o''"'""b'Google
108 . GHOST STORIES.
persons of principal quality the mark that had
been occasioned on his breast by tlte gripe I
was forced to give him to get him to speak, and
related all. the passages very exactly; after
which he- protested never to lie more in that
room; upon which I set up a resolution· to lodge
in it again, not knowing but something of the
reason of those troubles might by that meana
be imparted to me.
The next night, therefore, I ordered a Bible
and" aootlier book to be laid in the room, and
·resolved to spend my time by the fire, in reading
and contemplation, till I found myself incliued
to sleep;· and accordingly, having ta-ken leave
of the family at the usual hour, I addressed
myself to what I proposed,. not going into bed
till past one in the morning. A little afler I
was got into bed, I heard somewhat walk about
· the room,like a woman in a tabby gown trailing
about the room: it made a mighty rustlin,;
noise·, but I could see nothing, though it .was
near as light as the night before. It passed by
the foot of the bed, and a little opened the cur-
o''"'""b'Google
RICHARD BOVET. 100
tains, and thence went to a closet door on that
side, thr?ugh which it found admittance, although
it was close locked: there it seemed to groan,
and draw a great chair with its foot, in which it
seemed to sit, and turn over the leaves of a
large folio, which, you know, make a loud clat-
tering noise; so it continued in that posture,
sometimes groaning, sometimes dragging the
chair and clattering the book, till it wu near
day. Afterwards I lodged several times in tbi1
room, but never met with molestation.
This I can attest to be a true account of what
pused in that room the two cle.cribed nightl;
a.I. though Mr. C. be lately dead, who wu a
"f!!IJ iapiou - . aad a.8irmed the first pert
..to -..y with wboaa be was CODYerlUt, it re-
-.im dial I appeal to the bowledge cil tboM
.tao lai-e befit iehabituts OI' lodgen ie die said
~ for what ,...;,. to jeitify die eredibility
oldie reR.
L
110 GHOST STORJES.
APPARITION
SEEN BY
IT is not many years ago since Mr. B. L. ac-
companied some friends on a visit to York Ca-
thedral : the party was numerous, and amongst
them were a gentleman and his two daughters.
Mr. B. L.. was with the eldest of these ladies,
exploring the curiosities of the building, rather
nt a distance from the rest of their companions.
On turning from the monument to which their
attention had been directed,an officer in a naval
uniform was observed advancing towards them.
It was rather an unusual circumstance to en-
* In the original MS. of Ibis •lory, the name was given
at length; but, while the sheets were p•••iog through the
pre11, a friend of the party stated lo the publisher that makiug
public the names would distre11 the feelings of more thau
one individual: they are therefore withheld.
o''"'""b'Google
A NAVAL OFFICER. 111
counter a person thus accoutred in a place so
far distant from the sea, and of so unmilitary
a character. Mr. B. L. was oo the point
of making a trivial observation oo the subject
to his companion, when, oo turning his eyes
towards her and pointing out the approaching
stranger to her notice, he saw an immediate
paleness spread over her face, and her counte-
nance became agitated by the force of the pow-
erful and contending emotions which were sud-
denly excited by his presence. As the stranger
drew more near, and his figure and his features
gradually became more distinctly visible through
the evenin~ gloom and the dim religious light of
the cathedral, the lady's distress was evidently
increased: she leant on the arm of Mr. B. L.
with the weight of one who was painfully af-
flicted and felt the necessity ofsupport. Shocked
at the oppression which he witnessed, but wholly
ignorant of the cause-alarmed-hurried-sup-
posing her to be suffering from the paroxysm of
some violent and sudden indisposition, Mr. B. L.
called to entreat the assistance of her sister.
The figure in the naval uniform was now imme-
m o''"'""b'Google
112 GHOST STORIES.
diately bofore them: the eyes of the lady were
fixed upon him with a gaze of silent and motion-
less surprise and a painful intensity of feeling;
her lips were colourless and apart, and her
breath passed heavily from the full and 'over-
burthened heart. The form was close upon
them:-it approached her side :-it paused but
for an instant:-as quick as thought, a low and
scarcely audible voice whispered in her ear-
" There is a future state;" and the figure moved
onward through the retiring aisle of the minster.
The father of the lady arrived to the assistance
of his daughter, and Mr. B. L. consigning her
to his protection, hastened in pursuit of the
mysterious visitor. He searched on every side:
no such form was to be seen in the long perspec-
tive of the path by which the ill omened·straoger
had departed. He listened with the most ear-
nest.attentiveness: no sound of retreating foot-
steps was to be heard on the echoing pavement
of the cathedral.
Baffled in his attempt to discover the object
whose presence had thus disturbed the tranquil-
A NA\TAL OFFICER. 113
Jity of the time, Mr. B. L. resought his friends,
The lady was weeping on the shoulder of her
father: she avoided evel'y inquiry respecting the
cause, the seat, and the nature of her illness:-
"It was slight; it was transient; it would im-
mediately be over." She entreated the party to
continue their examination of the building, and
to leave her again to the protection of her for-
mer companion. The request was granted; and
no sooner had she thus possessed herself of an
opportunity of confidential communication than
she implored him, with a quick and agitated
voice, to con~eal for a little while the occur-
rence of .which he had been a witness:-" We
shall never be believed: besides, it were right
that my poor dear father should be gradually
prepared for the misery that he is destined to
undergo. I have seeu the spirit, and I have
heard the voice of a brother, who exists no
longer: he has perished at sea. We had agreed
that the one who died the first should reappear
to the survivor, if it were possible, to clear up
or to confirm the religious doubts which existed
in both our minds."
L2
o''"'""b'Google
114 GHOST STORIES• .
Jn due time the account of the event arrived
to verify the spiritual intimation : the brother
was indeed no more. His death had happened
on the very day and hour in which his form was
seen by Mr. B. L. and his sister, in the north
aisle of York Cathedral.
o''"'""b'Google
APPARITION
SEEN BY
AT the commencement of the French revolution,
Lady Pennyman and her two daughters retired
to Lisle, where they hired a large and hand-
some house at a very trilling rent. During their
residence in this abode, the lady received from
her husband, Sir John Pennyman, a draft for
a considerable sum, which she carried to the
banker of the town, and requested to have
cashed. The man, as is much the custom on
the continent, gave her a large portion of silver
in exchange. As Lady Pennyman was pro-
ceeding to pay some visits, she requested that
the banker would send the money to her house,
'?f which she described the situation. The par-
cel was instantly committed to the care of a
o''"'""b'Google
116 GHOST STORIES,
porter; and, on the lady's inquiring of him whe-
ther he understood, from her directions, the
place to which his charge was to ~e conveyed,
the man replied that he was perfectly aware of
the place designated, and that it was called the
" Haunted House." The latter part of this
answer was addressed to the banker in a low
tone of voice, but was overheard by Lady Pen-
nyman: she paid, however, no attention to the
words, and naturally supposed that the report
connected with her habitation was one of those
which are raised by the imagination of the igno-
rant respecting every dwelling which is long
untenaated, or remarkable for its antiquity.
A few weeks afterwards, the words were re-
called to her recollection in a manner that sur-
prised her: the housekeeper, with many apolo-
gies for being obliged to mention any thing that
might appear so idle and absurd, came to the
apartment in which her mistress was sitting;
and said that two of the servants, who had ac-·
companied her ladyship from England, had that
morning given warning, and expressed a deter-
o''"'""b'Google
LADY PENNYMAN. 117
mination of quitting her ladyship's service, on
account of the mysteriOus noises by which they
had been, night after night, disturbed and terri-
fied. "I trust, Carter," replied Lady Penny-
man, "that you have too much good sense to
be alarmed on your own account by any of these
superstitious and visionary fears; and pray exert
yourself in endeavouring to tranquillize the ap-
prehension of others, and persuading them to
continue in their places." The persuasion of
Carter was ineffectual: the servants insisted
that the noises which had alarmed them were
not the operation of any earthly beings, and
persevered in their resolution of returning to
their native country.
The room from which the sounds were sup-
posed to have proceeded was at a distance from
Lady Pennyman's apartments, and immediately
over those which were occupied by the two fe-
male servants, who had themselves been terrified
by them,and whose report bad spread a general
panic through the rest of the family. To quiet
the alarm, Lady Pennyman resolved on leaving
o''"'""b'Google
118 GHOST STORIES.
her own chamber for a time, and establishing
herself in the one which had been lately occu-
pied by the domestics.
The room above was a long spacious apart-
ment, which appeared to have been for a length
of time deserted. In the centre of the cham-
ber was a large iron cage: it was an extraordi-
nary piece of furniture to find in any mansion,
but the legend which the servants had collected
respecting it appeared to be still more extraor-
dinary: it was said that a late proprietor of the
house, a young man of enormous property, had
in his minority been confined in that apartment
by his uncle and guardian, and there hastened
to a premature death by the privations and cru-
elties to which he was exposed : those cruelties
had been practised under the pretence of neces-
sary correction. It was alleged that '' He was
idle, stubborn, inattentive, and of an untOward
disposition, which nothing but severity could
improve." In his boyhood, frequent chastise-
ments, continued application, and the refusal of
every interval of relaxation were in vain essayed
o''"'""b'Google
LADY PENNYMAN. 119
to urge and goad him to the grave, and to place
his uncle in possession of the inheritance: his
constitution struggled with the tyranny of his
unnatural relation, and, wasted as it was by the
unmitigated oppression, still resisted with an
admirable vitality the efforts which were inge-
niously aimed against his existence. As be
drew nearer the age in which he would have
.been legally delivered from the dangers and
impositions of his uncle, his life was subjected
to more violent and repeated severities: every,
even the slightest o~ence was succeeded by the
most rigorous inflictions. The iron cage was
threatened, was ordered, was erected in the upper
chamber. At first, for a few weeks, it remained
as an object of terror only: it was menaced that
the next 'transgression of his guardian's wishes
would be punished by a day's imprisonment in
that narrow circle, without the possibility of
rest, or the permission of refreshment. Twice
the cage was threatened and remitted, from an
affected show of mercy, and the better to cover
and to palliate the premeditated enormities : the
youth, who was about sixteen, from the dread
o''"'""b'Google
120 GHOST STORIES.
of this terrible infliction, applied himself with
sleepless diligence to labours difficult to be ac-
complished, and extended, purposely extended
beyond the capacity of the student: his lessons
were exacted, not in proportion to his abilities,
but his endeavours and performance:
The taskmaster eventually conquered: then
followed the imprisonment, and the day without
food. Again the imposition was set; again
executed with painful exertion : again length-
ened; again discovered to be impracticable, and
again visited with the iron cage' and the denial
of necessary subsistence. The savage purpose
of thus murdering the boy, under the pretence
of a strict attention to his interest or his im-
provement, was at last successful: the lad was
declared to be incorrigible: there was a feigned
necessity of more severe correction: he was
sentenced to two days' captivity and privation.
So long an abstinence from food and rest was
more than his enfeebled frame and his broken
spirits could endure: and, on his uncle's arriv-
ing, with the show of an hypocritical leniency,
o''"'""b'Google
LADY PENNYMAN. 121
an hour previous to the appointed time, to deli-
ver him from the residue of his punishment, it
was found that death had anticipated the false
mercy, and bad for ever emancipated the inno-
cent sufferer from the hands of the oppressor.
The wealth was won; but it was an unprofit-
able acquisition to him, who had so dearly pur-
chased it:-" What profit is it," demands the
voice of Revelation, "if a man should gain the
whole world, and lose his own soul?" His
conscience haunted him: the form of the dead
and inoffensive boy was constantly before him.
His dreams represented to his view the playful
and beautiful looks that won all eyes towards
him, while his parents were yet alive to cheer
and to delight him: and then the vision of his
sleep would change; and he would see his calm
suffering and his silent tears, and his patient
endurance and his indefatigable exertions in at-
tempting the accomplishment of difficult eX!lC-
tions, and his pale cheek, and bis wasted limbs,
and bis spiritless countenance; and then, at
last, there was the rigid, bony, and distorted
M
o''"'""b'Google
122 GHOST STORIES.
form, the glazed open eye, the mouth violently
compressed, and the clenched hands, on which
his view had rested for a moment, when all his
wicked hopes had attained their most sanguine
consummation, as he surveyed the corpse of his
murdered relative. These recollections banished
him from his home; the mansion was left tenant-
less; and, till Lady Pennyman had ignorantly
engaged it, all had dreaded to become the in-
mates of a dwelling which had been fatal to
one possessor, and shunned as destructive to
the tranquillity of his heir.
On the first night or two of Lady Pennyman's
being established in her new apartment, she met
with no interruption; nor was her sleep in the
least disturbed by any of those mysterious
noises in the Cage Chamber (for so it was com-
monly called in the family) which she had been
induced to expect by the representations of the
departed servants. This quiet, however, was
of very short duration : one night she was
awakened from her sleep by the sound of a
slow and measured step, that appeared to. be
o''"'""b'Google
LADY PENNYMAN. 123
pacing the chamber overhead: it continued to
move backwards and forwards with nearly the
same constant and regular motion for rather
more than an hQUr-per.haps Lady Pennyman's
agitation may have deceived her, and induced
her to think the time longer than it really was.
It at length ceased: morning dawned upon her.
The lady naturally felt distressed by t~e occur-
rence of the night; it was in every point of view
alarming: if she doubted its being the effect of
any preternatural communication, there was only
another alternative, which was almost equally
distressing-to suppose that there were means
of entering the house, which :were known to
strangers, though concealed from the inhabitants.
She went down to breakfast, after framing a re-
solution not to mention the event.
LadyPennyman and her daughters had nearly
completed their breakfast before her son, a
young man who had lately returned from sea,
descended from his apartment. "My dear
Charles," said his mother, "I wonder you are
not ashamed of your indolence and your want
124 GHOST STORIES.
of gallantry, to suffer your sisters nod myself to
finish breakfast before you it.re ready to join us.'~
-"Indeed, madam," he replied, "it is not my
fault if [ am late: I have not had any sleep all
night. There have been people knocking at my
door and peeping into my room every half-hour
since I went up stairs to bed: I presume they
wanted to see if my candle was extinguished.
If this be the case, it is really very distressing:
as I certainly never gave you any occasion to
suspect I should be careless in taking 110 neces-
sary a precaution; and it is not pleasant to be
represented in such a light to the domestics.''-
• "Indeed, my d~ar, the intenuption bas taken
place entirely without my knowledge. I assure
you it is not by any order of mine that your
room has been looked into : I cannot think what
could induce any servant of mine to be guilty of
such a liberty. Are you certain that you have
not mistaken the nature and origin of the sound
by which your sleep has been disturbed?''-
" Oh, no; there could have been no mistake: I
was perfectly awake when the interruption first
took place, and afterwards it was so frequently
o''"'""b'Google
LADY PENNYMAN. 125
repeated as to prevent the possibility of my
sleeping."
More complaints from the housekeeper; no
servant would remain; every individual of the
family bad bis tale of terror to increase the ap-
prehensions of the rest. Lady Pennyman be-
gan to be herself alarmed. Mrs. Atkins, a very
dear and approved friend, ca~e on a visit to
her: she communicated the subject which bad
so recently disturbed the family, and requested
her advice. Mrs. Atkins, a woman devoid of
every kind of superstitious fear, and of tried
courage, understanding, and resolution, deter-
mined at once to silence all the stories that bad
been fabricated respecting the Cage Room, and
to allay their terrors by adopting that apartment
for her own bedchamber during the remainder
of her resimmce at Lisle. It was in vain to
oppose her purpose: she declared that no half
measure could be equally effectual: that, if any
of the family were to sleep there, though their
rest should be perfectly undisturbed, it would
have no efficacy in tranquillizing the agitation
of the family; since the servants would natu-
M 2
126 GHOST STORIES.
rally accuse either Lady Pennyman or her son
of being interested witnesses, and doubt of the
fact of their having reposed in the centre of the
ghost's dominions, without undergoing any pu-
nishment for the temerity of their invading them.
A bed was accordingly placed in the apartment.
The Cage Room was rendered as comfortable
as possible on so short a notice; and Mrs. At-
kins retired to rest, attended by her. favourite
spaniel, saying, as she bade them all good night,
" I and my dog, I flatter myself, are equal to
compete with a myriad of ghosts; so let me en-
treat you to be under no apprehension for the
safety of Rose and myself."
Mrs. Atkins examined her chamber in every
imaginable direction: she sounded every pannel
of the wainscot, to prove that there was no hol-
lowness, which might argue aconcealed pas-
sage; and, having bolted the door of the Cage
Room, retired to rest, confident that she was
secure against every material visitor, and totally
incredulous of the airy encroachments of all
spiritm1l beings. Her assurance was doomed
o''"'""b'Google
LADY PENNYMAN. 127
to be shortlived: she had only been a few mi-
nutes asleep when her dog, which lay by the
bedside, leaped, howling and terrified, upon the
bed; the door of the chamber slowly opened,
and a pale, thin, sickly youth came in, cast his
eyes mildly towards her, walked up to the iron
cage in the middle of the room, and then leaned
in the melancholy attitude of one revolving in
his mind the sorrows of a cheerless and unblest
existence: after a while he again withdrew, and
retired by the way he entered.
Mrs. Atkins, on witnessing his departure, felt
the return of her resolution: she was reassured
in her original belief in the impossibility of all
spiritual visitations: she persuaded herself to
believe the figure the work of some skilful im-
postor, and she determined on following its
footsteps: she took up her chamber lamp, and
hastened to put her design in execution. On
reaching the door, to her infinite surprise, she
discovered it to be fastened, as she bad herself
left it, on retiring to her bed. On withdraw-
i11g the bolt and opening the door, she saw
o''"'""b'Google
128 GHOST STORIES.
the back of the youth descending the stair-
case: she followed, till, on reaching the foot of
the stairs, the form appeared to sink into the
earth. It was in vain to attempt concealing the
occurrences of the night: her voice, her manner,
the impossibility of sleeping a second time in
the ill omened chamber would necessarily betray
that something of a painful and mysterious na-
ture had occurred.
The event was related to Lady Peonyman :
she determined to remain no longer in her pre-
sent habitation. The man of whom the house
had been engaged was spoken to on the subject:
he became extremely violent-said it was no
time for the English to indulge their imaginations
-insinuated something of the guillotine-and
bade her, at her peril, drop a single expression
to the injury of his property. While she re-
mained in France, no word was uttered upon
the subject; she framed an excuse for her ·
abrupt departure: another residence was offered
in the vicinity of Lisle, which she engaged, on
the pretext of its being better calculated to the
o''"'""b'Google
LADY PENNYMAN. 129
size of her family; and at once relinquished her
habitation, and with it every preternatural occa-
sion of anxiety.
The above, like the Beresford story, has evi-
dently been amplified by the fictions of some
novel writer; but they are both founded on
facts, and accredited by the ·families of the indi-
viduals to whom the events respectively occur-
red; and, since the "plain unvarnished tales"
can no longer be obtained,the Editor has thought
it right to give the purest versions of them
which he had the power of obtaining.
o''"'""b'Google
130 OHOST STORIES.
APPARITION
OF THE
JDaugf)ter of J!Jr. .:fmat to bet .:fatf)er.
THIS week, Mr. Pearson, who is a worthy good
minister of this city of London, told me that bis
wife's grandfather, a man of great piety, and
physician to.this present king, his name Ferrar,.
nearly related, I think brother to the famous
Mr. Ferrar, of Little Giddon-1 say this gentle-
man and bis daughter (Mrs. Pearson's mother,
a very pious soul) _made a compact, at his en-
treaty, that the first of them that died, if happy,
should after death appear to the survivor, if it
were possible: the daughter, with some difficulty,
consented thereto. Some time after, the daugh-
ter, who lived at Gillingham Lodge, two miles
from Salisbury, fell in labour, and, by mistake,
o''"'""b'Google
DAUGHTER OF DR. FERRAR. 131
being given a noxious potion, instead of another
prepared for her, suddenly died: her father lived
in London, and, that very night she died, she
opened his curtains, and looked upon him: he
had before heard nothing of her illness; and,
upon this apparition, confidently told the maid
that his daughter was dead, and, two days after,
received the news. Her grandmother told Mrs.
Pearson this, as also an uncle of hers, and the
abovesaid maid; and this Mrs. Pearson I know,
and this is a very prudent and good woman.
The above is taken from· a letter of the
Rev. Mr. Fowler to Dr. Henry Moore, dated
May ll, 1678.
132 GHOST STORIES.
APPARITION
OF
~ris. 11Jutton.
RELATED BY
MR. EDWARD FOWLER, PREBENDARY OF GLOUCESTER,
AFTERWARDS BISHOP OF THAT DIOCESS.
DR. BUTTON, late Rector of Ludgate and
Deptford, lived formerly in ·Herefordshire, and
married the daughter of :Mr. S---. This
gentleman was a person of extraordinary piety,
which she expressed as in her life, so at her
death. She had a maid that she had a great
kindness for, who was married to a near neigh-
bour, whose name, as I remember, was Alice.
Not long after her death, as Alice was rocking
her infant in the night, she was ca.lied from the
cradle by a knocking at the door, which open-
o''"'""b'Google
MRS. BUTTON. 133
ing, she was surprised at the sight of a gentle-
woman not to be distinguished from her late
mistress, neither in person nor habit. She was
in a morning gown, the_ same in appearance
with that she had often seen her mistress wear.
At first sight she expressed very great amaze-
ment, and said, Were not my mit1tress dead, I
should not question but that. you are she. She
replied, I am the same that was your mistress,
and took her by the hand; which Alice aflitmed
was as cold as a clod.
She added, that she bad business of great
importance to employ her in, and that she must
immediately go a little way with her. Alice
trembled and beseeched her to excuse her, and
entreated her very importunately to go to her
master who must needs he more tit to be em-
ployed. · She answered, that he, who was her
hiJsband was not at all concerned, but yet she
had a desire rather to make use of him; and in
order thereunto, had several times been in bis
chamber, but he was still asleep, nor had she the
power to do. more than once uncover his feet
N
o''"'""b'Google
134 GHOST STORIES.
towards the awakening of him. And the doc-
tor said, that he bad heard walking in his
chamber in the night, which till now he could
give no account of. Alice next objected, that
her husband was gone a journey, and she had
no one to look to the child, that it was very apt
to cry vehemently, and she feared if it awaked
before her return, it would cry itself to death, or
do itself mischief. The spectre replied, the
child shall sleep till you return.
Alice, seeing there was no avoiding it, sorely
against her will, followed her over a stile into a
large field, who then said to her, Observe how
much of this field I measure with my feet. ·And
when she had taken a good large and leisurely
compass, she said, All this belongs to the poor,
it being gotten from them by wrongful means;
and charged her to go and tell her brother,
whose it was at that time; that he should give
it up to the poor again forthwith as he loved
her and his deceased mother. This brother
was not the person who did this unjust act, but
bis father. She added, that she was more con-
o''"'""b'Google
MRS. BUTTON, 135
cerned, because her name was made use of in
some writing that related to this land.
Alice asked her how she should satisfy her
brother that this was no cheat or delusion of
her fancy. She replied, Tell him this secret,
which he knows that only himself and I are
privy to, and he will believe you. Alice having
promised her to go on this errand, she proceeded
to give her good advice, and entertained her all
the rest of the night with most heavenly and
divine discourse. When the twilight appeared,
they heard .the whistling of carters and the noise
of horse-bell~. .Whereupon, the spectre said,
Alice, I mu~t be seen by none but yourself, and
so she disappeared.
Immediately after Alice makes all haste
home, being thoughtful for her child, but found
it as the spectre had said, asleep as she left it.
When she had dressed it and committed it to
the care of a neighbour, away she went to her
master the doctor, who, enraged at the account
she gave him, sent her to his broilier-in-law• .
o''"'""b'Google
136 GHOST STORIES.
He, at first, hearing Alice's story and message,
laughed at it heartily. But she bad no sooner
told him the secret, but he changed his coun-
tenance, told her be would give the poor their
own, and accordingly he did it, and they now
enjoy it. This, with more circumstances, hath
several times been related by Dr. Button him-
self, who was well known to be a person of
great goodness and sincerity. He gave a large
narrative of this apparition of his wife to two
of my friends. First, to one Mrs. Needham,
and afterwards, a little before his death, to
Dr. Whichcot.
Some years after I received the foregoing
narrative: viz. (near fo'll' years since), I light
into the company of three sober persons, of
good rank, who all lived in the city of Hereford,
and. I travelled in a stage coach three days
with them. To them I happened to tell this
story, but told it was done at Deptford, for so I
presumed it was, because I knew that there
Dr. Button lived. They told me, as soon as I
had concluded it, that the story was very true
MRS. BUTTON. 137
in the ruain, only I was out as to the place.
For it was not Deptford, but, as I remember,
Pembridge near Herefol"d, where the doctor
was minister before the return of the king. And
they assured me upon their own knowledge,
that to that day the poor enjoyed the piece of
ground. They added, that Mrs.· Button's father
could never endure to hear any thing mentioned
of his daughter's appearing after her death, but
would still reply in great anger, that it was not
his daughter, but it was the devil. So that he
acknowledged that something appeared in the
likeness of his daughter.
This is attested by me,
the 16th of February, 1681.
EowARD FowLER.
N .-,
o''"'""b'Google
..
138 GHOST STORIES.
APPARITION
OF
j!llaJot l!Jlomllng to tbe e!iobemot of J9omlnfca.
EARLY in the American war, Major Blomberg,
the father of Dr. Blomberg, was expected to
join his regiment, which was at the time on ser-
vice in the island of Dominica. His period of
absence had expired, and his brother officers,
eagerly anticipating his return, as vessel after
vessel arrived from England without conveying
the looked for passenger, declared one to an-
other," Well, at all events, he must come in
the next." His presence in the island now be-
came indispensable; and the governor, impa-
tient of so long au absence, was on the point of
writing a remonstrance on the subject to the
authorities in this country, when, as he was sit-
ting at night in bis study with his secretary, and
remarking on the conduct of the absentee, with
o''"'""b'Google
MAJOR BLOMBERG.
no very favourable or lenient expressions, a step
was beard to ascend the stairs, and walk along
the passage without. " Who can it be?" ex-
claimed the governor, " intruding at so late an
hour." " It is Blomberg's step," replied the
secretary. "The very man himself," said the
governor; and, as he spoke, the door opened,
·and Major Blomberg stood before them. The
major advanced towards the table at which the
gentlemen were sitting, and flung himself into a
chair opposite the governor. There was some-
thing hurried in his manner; a forgetfulness of all
the ordinary forms of greeting; and abruptly
saying: " I must converse with you alone:" he
gave a sign for the secretary to retreat. The
sign was obeyed. There was an air of con-
scious superiority about the manner of the
visitor that admitted no dispute. " On your
return to England," he continued, as soon as
the apartment was cleared of the objectionable
witness, " On your return to England, you will
go to a farm house, near the village of ---,
in Dorsetshire; you will there find two children;
they are mine ; the offspring and the orphans of
my secret marriage. Be the guardian to those
o,,,,, db,Googlc
140 GHOST STORIES.
parentless infants. To prove their legitimacy,
and their consequent right to my property, you
must demand of the woman, with whom they are
placed at nurse, the red Morocco case which
was committed to her charge. Open it; it con-
tains the necessary papers. Adieu ! You will
see me no more." Major Blomberg instantly
withdrew. The Governor of Dominica, sur-
prised at the commission, at the abrupt entrance,
and the abrupt departure, rang the bell to desire
some of his household to follow the major and
request his return. None had seen him enter:
none had witnessed his exit. It was strange !
it was passing strange ! There soon after ar-
rived intelligence that Majo~ Blomberg had em-
barked on board a vessel for Dominica, which
"bad been dismasted in a storm at sea, and was
supposed to have subsequently sunk, as she
was· never more heard of, about the time in
which the figure had appeared to the governor
and his secretary.
All that Major Blomberg had communicated
was carefully stamped in the memory of his
friend. On his return to England, which oc-
MAJOR BLOMBERG. 141
curred in a few months after t:he apparition above
described had been seen by the governor, he
immediately hastened to the village in Dorset-
shire, and to the house in which the children
were resident.
He found them ; he asked for the casket; it
was immediately surrendered. The legitimacy
and the claims of the orphans of Blomberg were .
established, and they were admitted to the en-
joyment of their rights without any controversy
or dispute.
This tale was related to the late Queen Char-
lotte, and so deeply interested her that she
immediately adopted the son as the object of
her peculiar care and favour. He was brought
to Windsor, and educated with his present
Majesty, of whom he has through life been the
favourite, the companion, and the friend.
o''"'""b'Google
142 GHOST STORIES.
SUPERNATURAL DISTURBANCES
IN THE HOUSE Of
THE following account was drawn up by the
celebrated John Wesley, and published by him
in the Arminian Magazine:-
When I was very young, I beard several let-
ters read, wrote to my elder brother by my fa-
ther, giving an account of strange disturbances,
which were in his house at Epworth, in Lincoln-
shire.
When I went down thither, in the year 1720,
I carefully inquired into the particulars. I
spoke to each of the persons who were then in
the house, and took down what each could tes-
MR. WESLEY'S NARRATIVE. 143
tify of his or her own knowledge. The sum of
which was this.
On Dec. 2, 1716, while Robert Brown, my
father's servant, was sitting with one of the
maids a little before ten at night, in the dining
room which opened into the garden, they both
heard one knocking at the door. Robert rose
and opened it, but could see nobody. Quickly
it knocked again and groaned. "It is Mr.
Turpine," said Robert: "he has the stone, and
uses to groan so." He opened the door again
twice or thrice, the knocking being twice or
thrice repeated. But still seeing nothing, and
being a little startled, they rose and went up to
bed. When Robert came to the top of the
garret stairs, be saw a hand mill, which was at
a little distance, whirled about very swiftly.
When he related this he said, "Nought vexed
me but that it was empty. I thought, if it had
but been full of malt, he might have ground his
heart out for me." When he was in bed, he
heard as it were the gobbling of a turkeycock,
close to the bedside; and, soon after, the sound
/
..... o''"'""b'Google
144 GHOST STORIES.
of one stumbling·over his shoes and boots, but
there were none there: he had left them below.
The next day, he and the maid related these
things to the other maid, who laughed heartily,
and said, " What a couple of fools are you! I
defy any thing to fright me." After churning
in the evening, she put the butter in the tray,
and had no sooner carried it into the dairy than
she heard a knocking on the shelf where several
puncheons of milk stood, first above the shelf,
then below: sbe took the candle and searched
both above and below; but being able to find
nothing, threw down butter, tray, and all, and
ran away for life. The next evening, between
five and six o'clock, my sister Molly, then about
twenty years of age, sitting in tbe dining room,
reading, heard as if it were the door that lead
into the hall open, o.od' a person walking in, that
seemed to have on a silk nightgown, rustling
and trailing along. It seemed to walk around
her, then to the door, then round again; but she
could see nothing. She thought, "it signifies
nothing to run away; for, whatever it is, it can
run faster than me." So she rose, put her book
MR. WESLEY'S NARRATIVE. 145
under her arm, and walked slowly away. After
supper, she was sitting with my sister S~ky
(about a year older than her), in one of the
chambers, and telling her what had happened,
she quite made light of it; telling her, "I won-
der you are so easily frighted; I wot1ld fain see
what would fright me." Presently a knocking
began under the table. She took the candle
and looked, but could find nothing. Then the
iron casement began to clatter, and the lid of a
warmingpan. Next the latch of the door moved
up and down without ceasing. She started up,
leaped into the bed without undressing, pulled
the bed clothes over her head, and never ven-
tured to look up till next morning. A night or
two after, my sister Hetty, a year younger than
my sister Molly, was waiting as usual, between
nine and ten, to take away my father's candle,
when she heard one coming down the garret
stairs, walking slowly by her, then going down
the best stairs, then up the back stairs, and up
the garret stairs; and at every step it seemed
the house shook from top to bottom. Just then
my father knocked. She went in, took his
0
~·
o''"'""b'Google
146 GHOST STORIES.
candle, and got to bed as fast as poBSible. In
the morning she told this to my eldest sister,
who told her, " You know I believe none of
these things. Pray let me take away the can-
dle tc>-night, and I will find out the trick." She
accordingly took my sister Hetty's place, and
had no sooner taken away the candle than she
heard a noise below. She hastened down stairs
to the hall, where the noise was; but it was
then in the kitchen. She ran into the kitchen,
where it was drumming on the inside of the
screen. When she went round, it was drum-
ming on the outside, and so always on the side
opposite to her. Then she heard a knocking at
the back kitchen door. She ran to it, unlocked
it softly, and, when the knocking was repeated,
suddenly opened it; but nothing was to be seen.
As soon as she had shut it, the knocking began
again; she opened it again, but could see no-
thing: when she went to shut the door, it was
violently thrust against her; she let it fly open,
but nothing appeared. She went again to shut
it, and it was again thrust against her; but she
set her knee and her shoulder to the door, forced
o''"'""b'Google
MR. WESLEY'S NARRATIVE. ·147
it to, and turned the key. Then the knocking
began again; but she let it go on, and went up
to bed. However, from that time she was tho-
roughly convinced that there was no imposture
in the affair.
The next morning, my sister telling my mo-
ther what bad happened, she said, "If I hear
any thing myself, I shall know how to judge."
Soon after, she begged· her to come into the
nursery. She did, and heard, in the corner of
the room, as it were the violent rocking of .a
cradle; but no cradle had been there for some
years. She was convinced it was preternatural,
and earnestly prayed it might not disturb her in
her own chamber at the hours of retirement;
and it never did. She now thought it was pro-
per to tell my father. But he was extremely
angry, and said, "Suky, I am ashamed of you:
these boys and girls fright one another; but
you are a woman of sense, and should know
better. Let me hear of it no more." At six
in the evening be bad family prayers as usual.
When he began the prayer for the king, a
o''"'""b'Google
148 GHOST STORIES.
knocking began all round the room; and a
thundering knock attended the amen. The
same was heard from this time every morning
and evening, while the prayer for the king was
repeated. As both my father and mother are
now at rest, and incapable of being pained
thereby, I think it my duty .to furnish the seri-
ous reader with a key to this circumstance.
The year before King William died, my father
obse"ed my mother did not say Amen to the
prayer for the king. She said she could not;
for she did not believe the Prince of Orange
was king. He vowed be never would cohabit
with her till she did. He then took his horse
and rode away, nor did she hear any thing of
him for a twelvemonth. He then came back,
and lived with her as before. But I fear his
vow was not forgotten before God,
Being informed that Mr. Hoole, the vicar of
Haxey (an eminently pious and sensible,·mau),
could give me some farther information, I walked
over to hitn. He said, "Robert Brown came
o''"'""b'Google
MR. WESLEY'S NARRATIVE. 140
over to me, and told me your father desired my
company. When I came, he gave me an ac-
count of all that had happened, particularly the
knocking during family prayer. But that even-
ing (to my great satisfaction) we had no knock-
ing at all. · But between nine and ten, a servant
came in and said, 'Old Jeffries is coming (that
was the name of one that died in the house):
for l hear the signal.' This they informed me
was heard every night, about a quarter before
ten. It was toward the top of the house, on
the outside, at the north-east corner, resembling
the loud creaking of a sa\v ; or rather that of a
windmill, when the body of it is turned about,
in order to shift the sails to the wind. We then
beard a knocking over our heads; and Mr.
Wesley, catching up a candle, said, •Come, sir,
now you shall hear for yourself.' We went up
stairs; he with much hope, and I (to say the·
truth) with much fear. When we came into
the nursery, it was knocking in the next room:
when we were there, it was knocking in the
nursery. And there it continued to knock,
though we came in, particularly at the head of
o2
o''"'""b'Google
160 GHOST STORIES.
the bed (which was of wood) in which Miss
Hetty and two of her younger sisters lay. Mr.
Wesley, observing that they were much affected
though asleep, sweating and trembling exceed•
ingly, was very angry, and, pulling out a pistol,
was going to fire at the place from whence the
sound came. But I catched him by the armi
and said, •Sir, you are convinced this is some-
thing preternatural. If so, you cannot hurt it;
but you give it power to hurt you." He then
went close to the place, and said 'sternly, 'Thou
deaf and dumb devil, why dost thou fright these
children, that cannot answer for themselves?
Come to me in my study, that am a man!' In-
stantly ,it knocked his knock (the particular
knock which he always used at the gate), as if
it would shiver the board in pieces, and we
heard nothing more that night." Till this time
my father had never heard the least disturbances
in his study; but the next evening, as he at-
tempted to go into bis study (of which none had
any key but himself), when be opened the door,
it was thrust hack with such violence as had
like to have thrown him down. However, he
o''"'""b'Google
MR. WESLEY'S NARRATIVE. 151
thrust the door open and went in. Presently
there was knocking, first on one side, then on
the other; and, after a time, in the next room,
wherein my sister N aocy was.. He went into
that room, and (the noise continuing) adjured it
to speak; but in vain. He then said, "These
spirits love darkness: put out the candle, and
perhaps it will speak:" she did so, and he re~
peated his adjuration: but still there was only
knocking, and no articulate sound. Upon this
be said, "Nancy, two Christians are an over-
matcb for the devil. Go all of you down stairs;
it may be, when I am alone, he will have cou-
rage to speak." When she was gone a thought
came in, and be said, "If thou art the spirit of
my son Samuel, I pray knock three knocks and
no more." Immediately all was silence; and
there was no more knocking at all that night.
I asked my sister Nancy (then about fifteen
years old) whether she was not afraid when my·
father used that adjuration? She answered, she
was sadly afraid it would speak when she put
out the candle: but she was not at all afraid in
the daytime, when it walked after her as she
o''"'""b'Google
162 GHOST STORIES.
swept the chambers, as it constantly did, and
seemed to sweep after her. Only she thought
he might have done it for her, and saved her the
trouble. By this time all my sisters were so
accustomed to these noises that they gave them
little disturbance. A gentle tapping at their
bedhead usually began between nine and ten at
night. They then commonly said to each other,
" Jeffery is coming: it is time to go to sleep."
And if they beard a noise in the day, and said
to my youngest sister, "Hark, Kezzy, Jeffery
is knocking above," she would run up stairs and
pursue it from room to room, saying she desired
no better diversion.
A few nights after,: iny father and mother ·
were just gone to bed, and the candle was not
taken away when they heard three blows, and
a. second and.a third three, as it were with a
large oaken staff, struck upon a chest which
stood by the bedside. My father immediately
arose, put on hi1fnightgown, and, bearing great
noises below, took the candle ~nd went down:
my mother walked by bis side. As they went
o''"'""b'Google
MR. WESLEY'S NARRATIVE. 153
down the broad stairs, they heard as if a vessel
full of silver was poured upon my mother's
breast, and ran jingling down to her feet.
Quickly after there was a sound, as if a large
iron ball was thrown among many bottles under
the stairs; but nothing was hurt. Soon after,
our large mastiff dog came and ran to shelter
himself between them. While the disturbances
continued, he used to bark and leap, and snap
on one side and the other; and that frequently
before any person in the room heard any noise
at all. But after two or three days .he used to
tremble, and creep away before the noise began.
And by this the family knew it was at hand;
bor. did the observation ever fail. A little be-
fore my father and mother came into the hall, it
seemed as if a very large coal was violently
thrown upon the floor and dashed all in pieces;
but nothing was seen. My father then cried
out, "Suky, do you not hear1 All the pewter
is thrown about the kitchen." But, wheri they
looked, all the pewter stood in its place. There
then was a loud knocking at the back door.
l\fy father opened it, but saw nothing. It was
154 GHOST STORIES.
then at the fore door. He opened that; but it
was still lost labour. After opening first the
one and then the other several times, he turned
and went up to bed ; but the noises were so
violent all over the house that he could not
sleep till four in the morning.
Several gentlemen and clergymen now ear-
nestly advised my father to quit the house.
But he constantly answered," No; let the devil
flee from me: I will never ftee from the devil."
But he wrote to my eldest brother at London
to come down. He was preparing so to do
when another letter came, informing him the
disturbances were over, after they had continued
(the latter part of the time day and night) from
the second of December to the end of January.
o''"'""b'Google
165
APPARITION
OF
(PROM DRELJNOOURT ON DEATH.)
THIS thing is so rare in all its circumstances,
and on ,so good authority that my reading and
conversation has not given me any thing like it:
it is fit to gratify the most ingenious and serious
inquirer. Mrs. Hargrave is the person to whom
Mrs. Veal appeared after her death; she is my
intimate friend, and I can avouch for her reputa-
tion, for these last fifteen or sixteen years, on my
own knowledge; and I can confirm the good cha-
racter she had from her youth to the time of my
acquaintance, though, since this relation, she is
calumniated by some people, that are friends to
the brother of Mrs. Veal who appeared; who
o''"'""b'Google
)6() GHOST STORIES.
· think the relation of this appearance to be a re-
flection, and endeavour what they can to blast
Mrs. Bargrave's reputation, and to laugh the
story out of countenance. But by the circum-
stances thereof, and the cheerful disposition of
Mrs. Bargrave, notwithstanding the ill usage of
a very wicked husband, there is not yet the
least sign of dejection in her face; nor did I
ever hear her let fall a desponding or murmuring
expression; nay, not when actually under her
husband's barbarity, which I have been witness
to, and several other persons of undoubted re-
putation.
Now you must know Mrs.Veal was a maiden
gentlewoman of about thirty years of age, and
for some years last past had been troubled with
fits, which were perceived coming on her by
her going off from her discourse, very abruptly,
to some impertinence: she was maintained by
an only brother, and kept his house in Dover.
She was a very pious woman, and her brother
a very sober man, to all appearance; but now
he does all he can to null or quash the story.
o''"'""b'Google
MRS. VEAL. 157
Mrs. Veal was intimately acquainted with Mrs.
Bargrave from her childhood. Mrs.Veal's cir-
cumstances were then mean; her father did. not
take care of his children as he ought, so that
they were exposed to hardships: and Mrs. Bar-
grave in those days had as unkind a father,
though she wanted neither for food nor clothing,
whilst l\lrs. Veal wanted for both: insomuch
that she would often say, " Mrs. Bargrave, you
are not only the best, but the only friend I have
in the world; and no circumstance of life shall
ever dissolve my friendship." They would often
condole each other's adverse fortunes, and
iead together " Drelincourt upon Death," and
other good books: and so, like two Christian
friends, they comforted each other under their
sorrow.
Some time after, Mr. Veal's friends got him
a place in the Custom House at Dover, which
occasioned Mrs. Vea!, by little and little, to fall
off from her intimacy with Mrs. Bargrave,
though there was never any such thing as a
quarrel; but an inditferency came on by de-
1'
158 GHOST STORIES.
grees, till at last l\lrs. Hargrave bad not seen
her in two years and a half~ though, above a
twelyemonth of the time, Mrs. Hargrave bath
been absent from Dover, and this last halfyear
has been in Canterbury about two months of
the time, dwelling in a house of her own.
In this house, on the eighth of September,
one thousand seven hundred and five, she was
sitting alone in the forenoon, thinking over her
unfortunate life, and arguing herself into a due
resignation to Providence, though her condition
seemed hard: "And," said she, "I have been
provided for hitherto, and doubt not but I shall
be still: and am well satisfied that my aftlictions
shall end when it is most fit for me:" and then
took up her sewing work, which she had no
sooner done but she hears a knocking at the
door. She went to see who was there, and this
proved to be Mrs. Veal, her old friend, who
was in a riding habit. At that moment of time
~be clock struck twelve at noon.
"Madam," says Mrs. Hargrave, "I am sur·
MRS. VEAi.. 159
prised to see you, you have been so long a
stranger;" but told her she was glad to see her,
and offered to salute her; which Mrs. Veal
complied with, till their lips almost touched;
and then Mrs. Veal drew her hand across her
own eyes, and said, "I am not very well," and
so waved it. She told Mrs. Hargrave she was
going a journey, and had a great mind to see
her first. "But," says Mrs. Hargrave, "how
came you to take a journey alone? I am amazed
at it, because I know you have a fond brother."
"Oh!" says .Mrs. Veal, "I gave my brother
the slip, and came away, because I had so great
a desire to see you before I took my journey."
So Mrs. Hargrave went in with her into another
room, within the first; and l\frs. Veal sat her
down in an elbow chair, in which Mrs. Bar·
grave was sitting when she heard Mrs. Veal
knock. Then says Mrs. Veal~ "My dear
friend, I am come to renew our old friendship
again, and beg your pardon for my breach of it;
and if you can forgive me, you are the best of
women." "Oh!" says Mrs. Hargrave, "do
not mention such a thing; I have not hrid an
160 GHOST STORIES.
uneasy thought about it; I cao easily forgive
it." "What did you think of me?" said Mrs.
Veal. Says Mrs. Bargrave, " I thought you
were like the rest of the world, and that pros-
perity had made you forget yourself and me."
Then Mrs. Veal reminded Mrs. Bargrave of the
many friendly offices she did her in forme~ days,
and much of the conversation they had with
ea.ch other in the times of their adversity; what
books they read, and what comfort, in particu-
lar, they received from "Dreliocourt's Book of
Death," which was the best, she said, oo that
subject, ever written. She also mentioned Dr.
Sherlock, the two Dutch books which were
translated, written upon death, aud several
others; but Dreliocourt she said bad the clear-
est notions of death and of the future state of
any who had handled that subject. Then she
asked Mrs. Hargrave whether she had Drelin-
court? She said "Yes." Says Mrs. Veal,
"Fetch it." And so Mrs; Bargrave goes up
stairs and brings it down. Says Mrs. Veal,
"Dear Mrs. Bargrave, if the eyes of our faith.
were as open as th.e eyes of our body, we
MRS. VEAL. 161
should see numbers of angels about us for our
guard. The notions we have of heaven now
are nothing like what it is, as Drelincourt says.
Therefore be comforted under your afflictions,
and believe that the Almighty has a particular
regard to you, and that your afflictions are
marks of God's favour; and, when they have
done the business they are sent for, they shall
be removed from you. And, believe me, my
dear friend, believe what I say to you, one mi·
nute of future happiness will infinitely reward
you for all your sufferings; for I can never be·
lieve (and claps her hand upon her knee with
great earnestness, which, indeed, ran through
most of her discourse) that ever God will suffer
you to spend all your days in this afflicted
state: but be assured that your afflictions shall
leave you, or you them, in a short time." . She
spake in that pathetical and heavenly manner
that Mrs. Hargrave wept several times, she
was so deeply affected with it.
Then Mrs. Veal mentioned "Dr. Horneck's
-Ascetick," at the end of which he gives an ac·
P2
o''"'""b'Google
162 GlfOST STORIES.
count of the lives of the primitive Christians.
Their pat~rn she recommended to our imitation,
and said "Their conversation wati not like this
of our age: for now (says she) there is nothing
but frothy vain discourse, which is fa1· different
from theirs. Theirs was to edification, and to
build one another up in faith; so that they were
not as we are, nor are we as they were: but,"
said she, "we ought to do as they did. There
was an . hearty friendship among them; but
where is it now to be found 7" Says Mrs. Har-
grave, "It is hard indeed to find a true friend
in these days." Says Mrs. Veal, " Mr. Norris
has a fine copy of verses, called 'Friendship in
Perfection,' which I wonderfully admire. Have
you seen the book?'' says Mrs. Veal. "No,"
says Mrs. Hargrave; "but I have the verses of
my own writing out." "Have you?" says Mrs.
Veal; ''then fetch them;" which she did from
above stairs, and offered them to Mrs. Veal to
read, who refused and waved the thing, saying,
"Holding down her head would make it ach ;"
and then desired Mrs. Hargrave to read them to
her, which she did. As they were admiring
o''"'""b'Google
MRS. VEAL. 163
friendship, Mrs. Veal said, "Dear Mrs. Har-
grave, [ shall love you for ,ever." In these
verses there is twice used the word Elysian.
"Ah!" says Mrs. Veal, "these poets have
such name!! for heaven." She would often
draw her hand across her own eyes, and say,
"Mrs. Hargrave, do not you think 1am mightily
impaired by my fits?" "No," says Mrs. Bar•
grave; "I think you look as well as ever I
knew you."
After all this discourse, which the apparition
put in much finer words than Mrs. Hargrave
said she could pretend to, and as much more
than she can remember (for it cannot be thought
that an hour and three quarters' conversation
could all be retained, though the main of it, she
thinks, she does), she said to Mrs. Hargrave,
"She would have her·write a letter to her bro-
ther, and tell him, she would have him give
rings to such and such; and that there was a
purse of gold in her <:abinet, and that she would
have two broad pieces given to her cousin
lVatson."
164 GHOST STORlES.
Talking at this rate, Mrs. Hargrave thought
that a fit was coming upon her, and so placed
herself in a chair just before her knees, to keep
her from falling to the ground, if her fits should
occasion it; for the elbow chair she thought
would keep her from falling on either side; and
to divert Mrs. Veal, as she thought, took hold
of her gown sleeve several times, and com-
mended it. Mrs. Veal told her it was a scoured
silk, and newly made up. But, for all this,
Mrs. Veal persisted in her request, and told
Mrs. Hargrave she must not deny her: and she
would have her tell her brother all their conver-
sation when she bad opportunity. "Dear Mrs.
Veal," said Mrs. Bargrave, "this seems so im-
pertinent that I cannot tell how to comply with
it; and what a mortifying story will our conver-
sation be to a young gentleman I Why," says
Mrs. Bargrave, "it is much better, metbinks,
to do it yourself." "No," says Mrs. Veal,
"though it seems impertinent to you now, you
will see more reason for it hereafter." Mrs.
Hargrave then, to satisfy her importunity, was
going to fetch a pen and ink; but Mrs. Veal
MRS. VEAi•• IGa
said, ''Let it alone now, but do it when I am
gone; butyou must be sure to do'it:" which was
one of the last things she enjoined her at part-
ing, and so she promised her.
Then Mrs. Vea) asked for Mrs. Bargrave's
daughter. She said she was not at home :
"hut if you have a mind to see her," says Mrs.
Bargrave, "I'll sE'.nd for her." "Do," says
Mrs. Veal. Oh which she left her, and went
to a neighbour's to see for her; and, by the
time Mrs. Bargrave was returning, Mrs. Veal
was got without the door in the street, in the
face of the beast market, on a Saturday (which
is market day), and stood ready to part, as soon
as Mrs. Bargrave came to her. She asked her
why she was in such haste. She said she must
be going, though. perhaps she might not go her
journey till Monday; and told Mrs. Bargrave
she hoped she should see her again at her cousin
Watson's before she went whither she was ,go-
ing. Then she said she would take her leave
of her; and walked from Mrs. Bargrave in her
view, till a turning interrupted the sight of her,
o''"'"°b,Google
166 GHOST STORIES.
which was three quarters after one in the after-
noon.
Mrs. Veal died the 7th of September, at
twelve o'clock at noon, of her fits, and had not
above four hours' senses before her death, in
which time she received the sacrament. The
next day after Mrs. Veal's appearing, being
Sunday, Mrs. Bargrave was mightily indisposed
with a cold and a sore throat, that she could
not go out that day; but on Monday morning
she sent a person to Captain Watson's, to know
if Mrs. Veal was there. They wondered at
Mrs. Bargrave's inquiry, and sent her word she
was not there, nor was expected. At this an-
swer, Mrs. Bargrave told the maid she bad cer-
tainly mistook the name, or made some blunder;
and, though she was ill, she put on her hood
and went herself to Captain Watson's, though
she knew none of the family, to see if Mrs.Veal
was there or not. They said they wondered at
her asking, for that she had not been in town;
they were sure, if she .Dad, she would have been
there. Says Mrs. Bargrave, "I am sure she
o''"'""b'Google
MRS. VEAL. 167
was with me on Saturday almost two hours."
They said it was impossible; for they must
have seen her if she bad. In comes Captain
Watson, while they were in dispute, and said
that Mrs. Veal was certainly dead, and her es-
cutcheons were making. This strangely sur·
priaed Mrs. Hargrave, when she sent to the
person immediately who had the care of them,
and found it true. Then abe related the whole
story to Captain Watson's family, and what
gown she had on, and how striped; and that
Mrs. Veal told her it was scoured. Then Mrs.
Watson cried out, "You have seen her indeed;
for none knew, but Mrs. Veal and myself, that
the gown was scoured." And Mrs. Watson
owned that she described the gown exactly;
"for," said she, "I helped her to make it up."
This Mrs. Watson blazed all about the town;
and avouched the demonstration of the truth
of Mrs. Bargrave's seeing Mrs. Veal's appari-
tion. And Captain Watson carried two gentle·
men immediately to Mrs. Bargrave's house, to
hear the relation from her own mouth. And
when it spread so fast that gentlemen and per-
168 GHOST STORIES.
sons of quality, the judicious and sceptical part
of the world, flocked in upon her, it at last be-
came such a task that she was forced to go out
of the way. For they were, in general, ex-
tremely satisfied of the truth of the thing, and
plainly saw that Mrs. Hargrave was no hypo-
condriac; for she always appears with such a
cheerful air and pleasing mien that she has
gained the favour and esteem of all the gentry:
and it is thought a great favour if they can but
get the relation from her own mouth. I should
have told you before 'that Mrs. Veal told Mrs.
Bargrave that her sister and brother-in-law were
just come down from London to see her. Says
Mrs. Hargrave, "How came you to order mat-
ters so strangely?" "It could not be helped,"
said Mrs. Veal. And her brother and sister
did come to see her, and entered the town of
.Dover just as Mrs. Veal was expiring. Mrs.
~Hargrave asked her whether she would drink
some tea. Says Mrs. Veal, ''I do not care if
I do; but I'll warrant you this mad fellow
(meaning Mrs. Bargrave's husband) has broke
all your.,trinkets." "But," says Mrs. Hargrave,
o''"'""b'Google
MRS. VEAL. 160
••I'll get something to drink in for all that;" but
Mrs. Veal waved it, and said," It is no matter,
let it alone;" and so it passed.
All the time I sat with Mrs. Bargrave, which
was some hours, she recollected fresh sayings
of Mrs. Veal. And one material thing more
she told Mrs. Bargrave, that old Mr. Breton
allowed Mrs. Veal ten pounds a year, which
was a secret, and unknown to Mrs. Hargrave
till Mrs. Veal told it her.
Mrs. Bargrave never varies in her story,
which puzzles those who doubt of the truth, or
are unwilling to believe it. A servant in the
neighbour'& yard, adjoining to Mrs. Bargrave's
house, heard her talking to somebody an hour
of the time Mrs. Veal was with her. Mrs.
Bargrave went out to her next neighbour's the
very moment she parted with Mrs. Veal, and
told her what ravishing conversation she had
with an old friend, and told the whole of it.
Drelil\court's book of death is, since this hap-
pened, bought up strangely. And it is to be
Q
o''"'""b'Google
170 GHOST STORIES.
observed that, notwithstanding all the trouble
and fatigue Mrs. Bargrave has undergone upon
this account, she never took the value of a far-
thing, nor suffered her daughter to take any
thing of any body, and therefore can have no
interest in telling the story.
But Mr. Veal does what he can to stifte the
matter, and said he would see Mrs. Bargrave;
but yet it is certain matter of fact that he has
been at Captain Watson's since the death of his
sister, and yet never went near Mrs. Bargrave;
and some of his friends report her to be a liar,
and that she knew of Mr. Breton's ten pounds
a year. But the person who pretends to say
so has the reputation of a notorious liar among
persons whom I know to be of undoubted cre-
dit. Now Mr. Veal is more of a gentleman
than to say she lies; but says a bad husband
bas crazed her. But she needs only present
herself, and it will effectually confute that pre-
tence. Mr. Veal says be asked his sister on
her deathbed whether she bad a mind to dis-
pose of any thing; and she said, "'No." Now
o''"'""b'Google
MRS. VEAL. · 171
the things which Mrs. Veal's apparition would
have disposed of were so trifling, and nothing
of justice aimed at in their disposal, that the
design of it appears to me to be only in order
to make Mrs. Bargrave so to demonstrate the
truth of her appearance as to satisfy the world
of the reality thereof, as to what she bad seen
and beard; and to secure her reputation among
the reasonable and understanding part of man-
kind. And then, again, Mr. Veal owns that
there was a purse of gold; but it was not found
in her cabinet, but in a comb box. This looks
improbable; for that Mrs. Watson owned that
Mrs. Veal was so very careful of the key of
the cabinet that she would trust nobody with it.
And if so, no doubt she would not trust her
gold out of it. And Mrs. Veal's often drawing
her band over her eyes, and asking Mrs. Bar-
grave whether her fits bad not impaired her,
looks to me as if she did it on purpose to remind
Mrs. Bargrave of her fits, to prepare her not
to think it strange that she should put her upon
writing to her brother to dispose of rings and
gold, which looked so much like a dying per-
o''"'""b'Google
172 GHOST STORIES.
son's request; and it took accordingly with
Mrs. Hargrave, as the effect of her fits coming
upon her, and was one of the many instances of
her wonderful love to her and care of her, that
she should not be affrighted; which, indeed,
appears in her whole management, particularly
in her coming to her in the daytime, waving the
salutation, and when she was alone; and then
the manner of her parting, to prevent a second
att.empt to salute her.
Now, why Mr.Veal should think this relation
a reflection (as it is plain he does, by his endea-
vouring to stifle it) I cannot imagine, because
the generality believe her to be a good spirit,
her discourse was so heavenly. Her two great
errands were to comfort Mrs. Hargrave in her
aflliction, and to ask her forgiveness for her
breach of friendship, and with a pious discourse
to encourage her. So that, after all, to suppose
that Mrs. Hargrave could hatch such an inven-
tion as this from Friday noon till Saturday noon
(supposing that she knew of Mrs. Veal's death
the very first moment), without jumbling circum-
o''"'""b'Google
MRS. VEAL. 173
stances, and without any interest too, she must
be more witty, fortunate, and wicked too than
any indifferent person, I dare say, will allow.
I asked Mrs. Bargrave several times if she was
sure she felt the gown. She answered modestly,
"If my senses be to be relied on, I am sure of
it." I asked her if she heard a sound when she
clapped her hand upon her knee. She said she
did not remember she did; but said she ap-
peared to be as much a substance as I did,who
talked with her. "And I may," said she, "be
as soon persuaded that your apparition is talk-
ing to me now as that I did not really see her;
for I was under no manner of fear, and received
her as a friend and parted with her as such. I
would not," says she, "give one farthing to
make any one believe it: I have no interest in
it; nothing but trouble is entailed upon me for
a long time, for aught I know; and, bad it not
come to light by accident, it would never have
been made public." But now she says she will
make her own private use of it, and keep her-
self out of the way as much as she can; and so
she has done since. She says, "She had a
Q2
o''"'""b'Google
,
174 GHOST STORIES.
gentleman who came thirty miles to her to hear
the relation; and that she bad told it to a room
full of people at a time." Several particular
gentlemen have bad the story from Mrs. Bar-
grave's own mouth.
This thing has very much affected me; and
I am as well satisfied as I am of t.he best
grounded matter of fact. And why we should
dispute matter of fact, because we cannot solve
things of which we can have no certain or de-
monstrative notions, seems strange to me. Mrs.-
Bargrave's authority and sincerity alone would
have been undoubted .in any other case.
o''"'""b'Google
17i
APPARITION
OF THE
THE man who exhibited at Dresden this extra-
ordinary proof of his art; for such it must, in
every case, be esteemed; was a person of the
name of Scbrepfer, who originally resided at
Leipsic, of which city be was a native, and
where be kept a coffee-house. But, bis busi-
ness not producing him either as much profit,
or as much diatinction as be aspired to possess~
be pretended to study magic, and to have ac..
quired many secrets or powers connected with.
that imaginary science. He boldly asserted
that he had intercourse with, and a control
over spirits, whom he could summon, command,
and cause to disappear, if not altogether at his
176 GHO"ST STORIES.
pleasure, yet by the force of his invocations.
These agents he had the ingenuity and effron-
tery to divide into three classes, the friendly,
the evil, and the neutral; all of whom he knew
how to distinguish at their approach, or on
.their appearance, by the sounds or noises which
preceded and attended them. Whenever he
affected to exert his magical powers, he always
began by calling to his assistance the bene-
volent spirits; in order, as he said, to defend
him against the attacks of the malignant ones.
Pretensions so extraordinary, sustained by
some exhibitions which impressed the specta-
tors with astonishment, soon .procured him no
little reputation.
Schrepfer, about this time, while he still re-
1ided at Leipsic, had given offence to Prince
Charles of Saxony, ·by some expressions re-
lative to him, of an umbecoming or insolent
nature. The prince, irritated at such conduct,
ordered an officer belonging to his household
to repair to Leipsic, and there to inflict on
Schrepfer, in his name, personal chastisement.
CHEV ALIER DE SAXE. 17'7
His orders were exactly executed : but Schrep-
fer, though he attempted no other resistance,
running into a corner of the room, threw himself
on his knees, and loudly invoked his invisible
allies to come to his assistance. Their visible
appearance or interposition were however un-
necessary, in order to rescue him fr-0m further
violence: the officer, it is asserted, having been
so much alarmed at the invocation and its pos-
sible consequences, as to quit the chamber with
the utmost precipitation.
A circumstance of such notoriety, as well as
so degrading in itself to Schrepfer, induced him
to leave Leipsic. After an absence of some
time, he appeared at Dresden, where he as-
sumed a fictitious name, and announced that
he was a colonel in the service of France. In
that quality he even made an attempt to be
presented to the elector; but· Monsieur de
Marbois, who acted as Charge d' Affaires in
the absence of the French envoy, refused to
carry him to court. His real name soon bll·
came known : and his pretences to skili in
178 GHOST STORIES.
magic attracting many followers, bis reputation
speedily reached Prince Charles. It was ac-
companied with such extraordinary accounts of
Schrepfer's powers as to induce that prince to
make every exertion for obliterating the recol-
lection of the indignity lately offered him. As
one s~p towards it, be did not hesitate to go
in person to the " H6tel de Pologne," an inn
where Scbrepfer lodged; and in presence of
various witnesses, to ask his pardon for the
blows given him, as well as to offer every
amends that the nature of the affront admitted. ·
Schrepfer, flattered by such a condescension,
having accepted the apologies, the prince then
requested to see some proofs of his sµpematural
art. It is pretended that he exhibited many ;
all of which only tended to augment the prince's
admiration, and to stimulate bis curiosity for
further specimens.
But, the most difficult or sublime operation
of magic in all ages bas ~een to raise departed
spirits from the tomb; a prodigy which Schrep-
fer made no secret of his ability to perform.
o''"'""b'Google
CHEV ALIER DE SAXE. 179
Prince Charles having earnestly, as well .as
repeatedly besought it of him ; after many re-
fusals, real or affected, obtained at length a
reluctant promise to present before his eyes an
apparition : for Schrepfe~ artfully professed the
greatest repugnance and disinclination to the
act, as being perilous to himself, and att~nded
·with various circumstances of horror. The
promise thus obtained, it only remained, there·
fore, to fix on the spirit to be summoned from
the tomb. After long consideration, the Che-
valier de Saxe was named, and Schrepfer un-
dertook to present his ghost in a visible form
before a select company. ·The place chosen for
making the experiment, was Prince Charles's
palace in Dresden. But, as it was well known
that the elector, having the misfortune to be
neither credulous, nor inclined to permit such
exhibitions in his capital, might disapprove and
prohibit it, the strictest secrecy was observed
previous to the affair.
The Chevalier de Saxe, third in order of
birth, among the natural sons of Augustus the
o''"'""b'Google
180 GHOST STORIES.
Second, King of Poland, was only half brother
to the famous :Marshal Count Saxe; as they
were sprung from different mothers. In right
of his, who was a Princess Lubomirska, of a
very illustrious popisb family, the chevalier in-
herited considerable property in that country,
as well as in Saxony. lfe resided principally
in Dresden, and died only a few years ago, at
his palace in this city : which bis nephew
Prince Charles, who became his principal heir,
occupied after his decease. In addition to
his maternal estates, the chevalier possessed a
vast income from his milit11ry and other ap-
pointments in the electoral service : and as he
left no issue, be was supposed to have amassed
great sums. Reports had been circulated, that
money was concealed somewhere,in the palace;
but no person pretended to ascertain the pre-
cise place where it was deposited. If his
spirit could be compelled to appear by magic
power, that interesting secret might be ex-
torted from him. Thus curiosity combining
with the hope of discovering a considerable
·treasure prompted Prince Charles, as it is sup-
o''"'""b'Google
CHEVALIER DE SAXE. 18\
posed, to name his uncle, for the object of the
.experiment.
Schrepfer naturally prefer.ring darkness, as not
only more private in itself, but every way better
calculated for the effect of incantations ; the
company assembled on the appointed night.
They were nineteen in number, of whom I per-
sonally know several, who are persons .of con-
sideration, character, and respectability. When
they were met in the great gallery of Prince
Charles's palace, the first object of all present
was to secure the windows and doors, in order
equally to prevent intrusion or deception. As
far as precaution could effect it, they did so;
and were satisfied that nothing except violence
could procure access or entrance. Schrepfer
then acquainted them, that the act which he
was about to perform would demand all their
firmness; and advised them to fortify their
nerves by partaking of a bowl of punch, which
was placed upon the table. Several of them
(indeed, as I believe, all except one or two,
thinking the exhortation judicious), very readily
R
o''"'""b'Google
182 GHOST llTORtES.
followed it; but, Ole gentleman from whom I
received these particulars, declined to profit by
the advice. " I am come here," said he to
Schrepfer, " to be present at raising an ap-
parition. Either I will see all, or nothing.
My resolution is taken, and eo inducemeat can
make me put any thing within my lips." An-
other of the company, who preserved bis pre-
sence of mind, placed himself close to the prin-
cipal door, in order to watch ifany one attempted
to open or to force it. These preparatory steps
being taken, the great work began with the
utmost solemnity.
Sehrepfer commenced it, by retiring into a
corner of the gallery, where kneeling down,
with many mysterious ceremonies he invoked
the spirits to appear, or rather·to come to his
aid; for it is allowed that none were ever visi-
ble. A very considerable time elapsed before
they obeyed; during wnich interval, he labour-
ed apparently under great agitatioll of body and
mind, being covered with a violent sweat, and
almost in convulsions, like the Pytboness of
o''"'""b'Google
CHEVALIER DE SAXE. 183
antiquity. At length, a loud clatter was heard
at all the windows on the outside: which was
soon followed by another noi11e, resembling
mo.re the effect produced by a number of wet
finge1·s drawn over the edge of glasses thaa
any thing else to which it could well be com-
pared. This sound announced, as he said, the
arrival of his good or protecting spirits, and
seemed to encourage him to proceed in his ia-
cantation. A short time afterwards a yelli11g
was heard, of a frightful and unusual nature,
which came, as he declared, from the malig-
nant spirits, whose presence, as it seems, was
necessary and indispensable to the completion
of the catastrophe.
Th.e company were now, at least the greater
part of them, electrified with amazement or
petrified with horror ; and of course fully pre-
pared for every object or appearance which
could be presented to their view. Schrepfer
continuing his invocations, the door suddenly
opened with violence, and something that re-
sembled a black ball or globe, rolled into the
o''"'""b'Google
184 GHOST STORIES.
room. It was invested with smoke or cloud,
in the midst of which appeared ·to be a human
face, like the countenance of the Chevalier de
Saxe; much in the same manner, it would
seem, that Coreggio or Annibale Carac~i have
represented Jupiter appearing to Semele. · From
this form issued a loud and angry voice, which
exclaimed in German, " Carl, was wolte du mit
mich ?" " Charles, what wouldst thou with me?
Why dost thou disturb me?"
Language is inadequate to describe the con-
sternation produced among the assembled spec-
tators at so awful a sight. Either firmly per-
suaded that the appearance which they beheld
was spiritual and intangible ; or deprived of
resolution to appl'oach and attempt to seize it;
they appear to have made no effort to satisfy
themselves of its incorporeal nature. The
prince, whose imprudent ·curiosity had sum-
moned his uncle's ghost, and to whom, as
the person principally responsible, 'the spectre
addressed itself, far from manifesting self-pos-
session, or attempting any reply, betrayed
o''"'""b'Google
CHEVALIER DE SAXE. 185
the strongest marks of horror and contrition.
Throwing himself on his knees, he called ea
Heaven for mercy; while others of the terrified
party earnestly besought the magician to give
the only remaining proof of his art for which
they now were anxious, by dismissing the ap-
parition. But Schrepfer, though apparently
willing to gratify them, found, or pretended to
fin41, this effort beyond his power. However
incredible, absurd, or ridiculous it may be
thought, the persons who witnessed the scene
protest that near an hour elapsed, before, by
, the force of bis invocations, the spectre could
be compelled to disappear. Nay, when at
length Schrepfer had succeeded in dismissing
it; -at the moment that the company began to
resume a degree of serenity, the door, which
had been closed, burst open again, and the
same hideous form presented itself anew to
their eyes. The most resolute and collected
among them were not proof to its second ap-
pearance, and a scene of universal dismay
ensued. Schrepfer, however, by reiterated ex-
orcisms or exertions, finally dismissed . the
R2
o''"'""b'Google
166 GHOST STORIES.
apparition. · The terrified spectators soon dis~
persed, overcome with ·amazement, and fully
satisfied, as· they well might be, of Schrepfer's
supernatural powers.,
Having ·thus related as seriously and cir~
cumstantially as I am able; the principal ·facts
relative to the affair in question, it is natural to
ask my own opinion of the story; and to demand
whether I can explain or account for it in any
rational manner. To such inquiries I · must
frankly reply, that I can neither give any satis,,
factory solution of it, nor have I heard any
attempted, except the obvious and general one
of human credulity and terror, operated upon
by imposture and deception. But, the manner
in which so wonderful an illusion was. pro-
duced, I am, in common ·with every person
here, at a loss to understand. I believe, no
man has yet clearly explained how the lique-
faction of St. 'Januarius's blood is performed;
though, out of ·Naples, I imagine few persons
attribute it to miraculous or supernatural inter-
position. We know from experience, how pro-
o''"'""b'Google
CHEVALIER DE SAXE. 187
digious are the deceptions practised in -and
upon optics. Nineteen men, met together for
the avowed purpose of seeing an apparition,
and believing that it is in human power to ren-
der a departed spirit visible, are already half
.subdued to any imposition, however gross.
Night, darkness, and the imposing solemnity
of magic invocations, bereave the strongest
minds of their self-possession. A bold and
artful impostor might then trample on their
rea8on, and present to their eyes some hideous
figure properly accoutred for the occasion. It
must, however, always excite some astonish-
ment and more regret, that among near twenty
persons, not one should have endeavoured to
lay hands on the spectre. Its second appear-
ance is likewise a circumstance very difficult
to account for, as i,t was unnecessary in order
to -produce conviction, which had been fully
effected. That it was a deception, no man of
sound understanding will doubt; but how it
was managed or produced, ·the persons who
were duped have either not yet discovered,
.Qr they do not think proper to disclose. They
188 GHOST STORIES.
are all, or nearly all, still alive in this coantry,
and they by no means boast of their adventure,
or derive from it any sort of vanity. On the
contrary, independent of the ridicule annexed
to it, they all feel and express the utmost re-
pugnance to relating, or even to recollecting a
scene, which bas impressed on their imagina-
tion so much horror. Their friends dread and
deprecate a renewal of the images then pre-
sented to those who were present; and a lady
earnestly besought of me, not to press her hus-
band on a subject, of which he could never
think or converse without .passing a sleeplesa
night. We must be content therefore I believe
to resolve it into German credulity or supersti-
tion, and congratulate ourselves on our aupe-
riority to such puerile terrors.
The story no sooner spread through Dresden
than the elector ~xpressed his disapprobation
of such scenes, and issued his peremptory in-
junctions not to repeat them. Schrepfer soon
retired to his native city, Leipsic; where bis
fame accompanied him, and drew after him a
o''"'""b'Google
CHEVALIER DE SAXE. 189
crowd of disciples or votaries. To them he
continued to give, as is confidently asserted
here, numerous and astonishing proofs of his
supernatural power, some of which I have
heard related; but after the specimen that I have
detailed, all others would be at once tedious
and superfluous. Schrepfer did not long enjoy
his celebrity, and his death is not the least
extraordinary part of his history. Three gen-
tlemen, whom he had in some measure initi-
ated into his mysteries ; for he professed to
instruct in the science of magic ; were promised
by him an exhibition more wonderful than any
at which they had yet assisted. For this pur-
pose they attended him into the wood of Ro-
sendaal, which is at a small distance without
the gates of Leipsic. It was in summer, before
the sun rose, between three and four o'clock in
the morning. When they came to a certain
part of the grove, he desired them to remain
there a little, while he went on one side, to
make the requisite invocations. After waiting
a few minutes, they heard the report of a pistol.
Hastening to the spot, they found that he had
190 GHOST STOJUBS.
shot himself, and was already without sense.
He soon afterwards expired. All those wbo
believe him to have had intercourse with evil
spirits, affirm that he was tormented by them
perpetually, which rendering his life miserable,
induced him to have recourse to a pistol. I
imagine, however, you will think with Horace,
that it is not necessary to call in supernatural
interference, in order to accouut for the violent
end of such a man. He has left behind him
maay proselytes; but, I believe, no one who
pretends to equal knowledge of his secrets.
o''"'""b'Google
101
APPARITION
OF
Jtlld· ilonne, Bift ~ tbe celrontcb ilt. ihnne.
FRO~ ISAAC WALTON.
DR. DoN_
NE and bis wife living with Sir Ro-
bert Drury, who gave them a free eotertaiameot
at his house in Drury Lane: it happened that
the Lord Haye was by King James seat on an
embassy to the Freach King, Henry IV. whom
Sir Robert resolved to accompany, and engaged
Dr. Donne to go with them, whose wife was
then with child at Sir Robert's house. Two
days after their arrival at Paris, Dr. Donne
was left alone in that room, in which Sir Robert
and he, and 11ome other friends, had dined toge-
ther. To this place Sir Robert returned within
half an hour, and as he left, so he found
Dr. Donne alone, but in such confusion, and so
192 GHOST STORIES.
altered in bis looks, as amazed Sir Robert to
behold him, insomuch that be earnestly desired
Dr. Donne to declare what bad befallen -him
in the short time of his absence? To which
Dr. Donne was not able to make a present an-
swer; but after a long and perplexed pause,
did at last say, I have seen a dreadful vision ;
since I saw you I have seen my dear wife pass
twice by me, through this room, with her hair
banging about her shoulders, and a dead child
in her arms ; this I have seen since I saw you.
To which Sir Robert replied, Sure, sir, you
have slept since I saw you, and this is the re-
sult of some melancholy dream, which I desire
you to forget, for you are now awake. To
which Dr. Donne's reply was, I cannot be surer ·
that I now live than that I have not slept since
I saw you, and am as sure at her second ap-
pearing she stopped and looked me in tbe face
and vanished. Rest and sleep bad not altered
Dr. Donne's opinion the next day; for be then
affirmed this vision with a more deliberate and
so confirmed a confidence that be inclined Sir
Robert to a faint belief that·the vision was true,
o''"'""b'Google
MRS. DONNE. 193
who immediately sent a servant to Drury House,
with a charge to hasten back and bring him
word whether Mrs. Donne were alive: and, if
alive, what condition she was in as to her
health. The twelfth day the messenger returned
with this account : That be found and left
Mrs. Donne very sad and sick in bed, and that
after a long and dangerous labour, she had been
delivered of a dead child, and upon examination
the abortion proved to be the same day, and
about the very hour, that Dr. Donne affirmed
he saw her pass by in his chamber. Mr.Walton
adds this as a relation, which will beget some
wonder, and well it may; for most of our world
are at present possessed with an opinion, that
visions and miracles are ceased ; and though it
is most certain that two lutes, being both strong
. and tuned to an equal pitch, and then one played
upon, the other, that is not touched, being laid
upon the table at a fit distance, will (like an
echo to a trumpet), warble a faint audible har-
mony in answer to the same tune, yet many will
not belie,.e that there is any such thing as a
sympathy with souls, &c.
i
194 GHOST STORIES.
APPARITION
OF
THE following account was communicated by
Sir Charles Lee to the Lord Bishop of Glou-
cester, and afterwards publi"shed by Mr. Beau-
mont in his Treatise of Spirits :-
Sir Charles Lee, by his first lady, had only
one daughter, of which she died in childbirth ;
and when she died, her sister, the Lady Eve-
rard desired to have the education of the child;
and she was by her very well educated till she
was marriageable ; and a match was concluded
for her with Sir William Perkins, but was then
prevented in an extraordinary manner. Upon
a Thursday night, she, thinking she saw a light
LADY LEE. 196
in her chamber after ·she was in bed, knocked
for her maid, who presently came to her; and
she asked why she left a candle burning in her
chamber? The maid said she left none, and
there was none, but what she brought with her
at that time. Then she said it was the fire :
but that the maid told her was quite out, and
said she believed it was only a di:eam ; where-
upon ahe said it might be so, and composed
herself again to sleep ; but about two of the
clock she was awaked again, and saw the appa-
rition of a little woman between her curtain and
her pillow, who told her she was her mother,
and that she was happy, and that by twelve of
the clock that day, she should be with her ;
whereupon she knocked again for her maid,
called for her clothes, and when she was
dressed, went into her closet, and came not out
again till nine; and then brought out with her a
letter sealed to her father, brought it to her
aunt, the Lady Everard, told her what had
happened, and desired, that as soon as she was
dead, it might be sent to him; but the lady
o''"'""b'Google
100 GHOST STORIES.
thought she was suddenly fallen mad, and
thereupon sent presently away to Chelmsford
for a physician and surgeon, who both came im-
mediately; but the physician could discern no
indication of what the lady imagined, or of any
indisposition of her body ; notwithstanding the
lady would needs have her let blood, which
was done accordingly; and when the young
woman bad patiently let them do what they
would with her, she desired that the chaplain
might be called to read prayers, and when
prayers were ended, she took her guitar and
psalm-book, and sat down upon a chair with-
out arms, and played and sung so- melodiously
and admirably that her music-master, who was
then there, admired at it; and near the stroke
of twelve, she rose and sat herself down in a
great chair with arms, and presently fetching a
strong breathing or two, immediately expired,
and was so suddenly cold as was much.won-
dered at by the physician and surgeon. She
died at Waltham in Essex, three miles from
Chelmsford; and the letter was sent to Sir
LADY LEK. 197
Charles, at his house in Warwickshire : but he
was so afflicted with the death of his daughter,
that he came not till she was buried: hut when
he came he caused her to he taken up, and to
be buried by her mqther at Edmundton, as she
desired in her letter. This was about the year
one thousand six hundred and sixty-two or
sixty-three.
s2
198 GHOST STORIES.
APPARITION
OF
j!ltajot ~!!benJ>am to <!taptaln Billiam D!!fte.
FROM MR. JAMES DOUCH.
CONCERNING the apparition of the ghost of
Major George Sydenhan (late of Dulverton, in
the county of Somerset), to Captain William
Dyke (late of Skilgate, in this county also, and
now likewise deceased); be pleased to take the
relation of it as I have it from the worthy and
learned Dr. Thomas Dyke, a near kinsman of
the captain's, thus: Shortly after the major's
death, the doctor was desired to come to the
house to take care of a child that was there
sick, and in his way thither he called on the
captain, who was very willing to wait on him
to the place, because he must, as he said, have
MAJOR SYDBNHAM. 199
gone thither that night, though he bad not
met 'with so encouraging an opportunity. After
their arrival there at the house, and' the civility
of the people shown them in that entertainment,
they were seasonably conducted to their lodg-
ing, which they desired might be together in
the same bed; where, after they bad lain a
while the captain knocked and bids the servant
bring him two of the largest candles lighted
that he could possibly get. Whereupon~ the
doctor inquires, what he meant by this 1 The
captain answers, You know, cousin, what dis-
putes my major and I have had touching the
being of a God, and the immortality of the soul.
In which points we CC?uld never yet be resolved,
though we so much sought for and desired it.
And therefore it was at length fully agreed be-
tween us, that he of us that died first should,
the third night after his funeral, between the
hours of twelve and one, come to the little
house that is here in the garden, and there give
a full account to the survivor touching these
matters, who should be sure to be present there
at the set time, and so receive a full satisfac-
200 GHOST STORIES.
tion. And this, says the captain, is the very
night, and I am come on purpose to fulfil my
promise. The doctor dissuaded him, minding
him of the danger of following those strange
counsels, for which we could have no warrant,
and that the devil might, by some cunning de-
vice, make such advantage of this rash attempt
as might work his utter ruin. The captain re-
plies, that he had solemnly engaged, and that
nothing should discourage him: and adds, That
if the doctor would sit up a while with him, he
would thank him, if not, he might compose
himself to his rest; but for his own part he was
resolved to watch, that he might be sure to be
present at the hour appointed. To that purpose
he sets his watch by him, and as soon as be
perceived by it that it was half an hour past
eleven, he rises, and takes a candle in each
hand, goes out by a hack ~oor, of which be b!Ui
before gotten the key, and walks to the garden-
house, where he continued two hours and a
half, and at his return, declared that he had
neither seen nor heard any thing more than
what was usual. But I know, said he, that·
o''"'""b'Google
MAJOR SYDENHAM. 201
my major would surely have come, had he been
able.
About six weeks after the captain rides to
Eton to place his son a scholar there, when
the doctor went thither with him. They lodged
there at an inn, the sign was the Christopher,
and tarried two or three nights, not lying toge-
ther now as before at Dulve1ton, but in two
several chambers. The morning before they
went thence~ the captain staid in his chamber
longer than he was wont to do before he called
upon the doctor. At length he comes into the
doctor's chamber, but in a visage and form
much differing from himself, with his hair and
eyes staring, and his whole body shaking and
trembling. Whereat, the doctor wondering,
presently demanded, ''What is the matter, cou-
sin captain?" The captain replies, '' l have
seen my major." At which the doctor seeming
to smile, the captain immediately confirms it,
saying, " If ever I saw him in my life, I saw
him just now." And then he related to the
doctor what had passed, thus : " This morning,
o''"'""b'Google
202 GHOST STORIES.
after it was light, some one comes to my bed-
side, and suddenly drawing back the curtains,
calls' Cap, Cap,"' (which was the term of fami-
liarity that the major used to call the captain
by). "To whom I replied, 'What, my major!'
To which he returns, ' I could not come at the
time appointed, but I am now come to tell you,
That there ia a God, and a very jtUt at&d terri-
ble one ; aad if~ dAJ not turn over a ne10 leaf
(the very expression as is by the doctor punc-
tually remembered), you tDill jiad it ao.' (The
captain proceeded.) On the table by, there lay
a sword which the major had formerly given
me. Now, after the apparition had walked a
turn or two about the chamber, he took up the
sword, drew it out, and finding it not so clean
and bright as it ought, ,' Cap, Cap,' says he,
' thia aword did not uae to be kept after tkia
manner when it waa miu.' After which words
he suddenly disappeared."
The captain was not only thoroughly per-
suaded of what he had thus seen and heard, but
was from that time observed to be very much
o''"'""b'Google
203
affected with it. And the humour that before
in him was brisk and jovial was then strangely
altered. Insomuch as very little meat would
pass down with him at dinner, though at the
taking leave of their friends there was a very
handsome treat provided. Yea, it was observed
·that what the captain had thus seen and heard
had a more lasting influence upon him, and it is
judged by those who were well acquainted with
his conversation, that the remembrance of this
passage stuck close to him, and that those words
of his dead friend were frequently souoding fresh
in his ears, during the remainder ofhis life, which
was about two years.
206 GHOST STORIES.
After tbe burning of Whitehall, these two
ladies were allotted very handsome apartments
in the stableyard, St. James's; but the face of
public affairs being then wholly changed, aad a
new set of courtiers as well as rules of behaviour
come into vogue, they conversed almost only
with each other.
About this time it was that reason first began
to oppose itself to faith, or, at least, to be set
up against it by some who had an ambition to
be thought more penetrating than their neigh-.
hours. The doctrine soon spread, and was too
much talked on not to be frequently a subject
of conversation for these two ladies; and,
though I cannot say that either of them was
thoroughly convinced by it, yet the specious ar-
guments made use of by persons of high repu-
tation for their learning had such an effect on
both as to raise great doubts in them concerning
the immate1iaJity of the soul and the certainty
of its existence after death. In one of the se-
rious consultations they had togethe1· on this
o''"'""b'Google
DUCHESS OF MAZARINE. 207
head, it was agreed between them that, on
whichever of them the lot should fall to be first
called from this world, she should return, if there
was a possibility of doing so, and give the other
an account in what manner she was disposed of.
This promise, it seems, was often repeated, and
the duchess happening to faJl sick, and her life
despaired of by all about her, Madam De Beau-
clair reminded her of what she expected from
her; to which her Grace replied, she might de-
pend ,upon her performance. These words
passed between them not above an hour before
the dissolution of that great lady, and were
!!poke before several persons who were in the
room, but at that time they were far from com-
prehending the meaning of what they heard.
Some years after the duchess's decease, hap-
pening, in a visit I made to Madam De Beau-
clair, to fall on the topic of futurity, she ex-
pressed her disbelief of it with a great deal of
warmth, which a little surprising me, as ·being
of a quite contrary way of thinking myself,
and had always, by the religion she professed,
o''"'""b'Google
208 GHOST STORIES.
supposed her Jtighly so. I took the liberty of
offering some arguments, which 1 imagined
would have been convincing, to prove the rea-
sonableness of depending on a life to come: to
which she answered that not all that the whole
world could say should ever persuade her to
that opinion; and then related to me the contract
made between her aed her dear departed friend,
the Duchess of Mazarine.
It was in vain I urged the strong probability
there was that souls in another world might not
be permitted to perform the engagements they
had entered into in this, especially when they
were of a nature repugnant to the divine will,
"which," said I, "has manifestly placed a
flaming sword between human knowledge and
the prospect of that glorious Eden we hope, by
faith, to be the inheritors of hereafter: there-
fore," added I, "her Grace of Mazarine may
be in possession of all those immense ·felicities
which are promised to the virtuous, and even
now interceding that the dear partner of her
heart may share the same, yet be denied the
o''"'""b'Google
DUCHESS OP MAZARINE. 209
privilege of imparting to you what she is, or that
she exists at all."
Nothing I could say made the least impres-
sion; and I found, to my very great concern,
that she was become as much an advocate for
the new doctrine of nonexistence after death as
any of those who had first proposed it; on
which, from that time forward, I avoided all
discourse with her on that head.
It was not, however, many months after we
had this conversation that I happened to be at
the house of a person of condition, whom, since
the death of the Duchess of Mazarine, Madam
de Beauclair had the greatest intimacy with of
any of her acquaintance. We were just set
down to cards, about nine o'clock in the even-
ing, as near as I can remember, when a servant
came hastily into the room, and acquainted the
lady I was with that Madam De Beauclair had
sent to entreat she would come that moment to
her, adding that, if she desired ever to see her
more in this world, she must not dellly her visit.
T2
210 GHOST STORIES.
So odd a message might very well surprise
the person to whom it was delivered; and, not
knowing what to think of it, she asked who
brought it; and, being told it was Madam De
Beauclair's groom of the chambers, .ordered he
should come in, and demanded of him if his lady
were well, or if he knew of any thing extraor-
dinary that had happened to her, which should
occasion this hasty summons1 To which he
answered that be was entirely incapable of tell-
ing her the meaning; only, as to his lady's
health, he never saw or heard her complain of
any indisposition.
"'Vell then," said the lady (a little out of
humour), "I desire you'll make my excuse, as
I have really a great cold, and am fearful the
night air may increase it; but to-morrow I will
not fail to wait on her very early in the morn-
ing."
The man being gone, we' were beginning to
form several conjectures on this message of
Madam De Beauclair; but, before we had tjme
o''"'""b'Google
DUCHESS OF MAZARINE. 211
to agree on what might be the most feasible oc-
casion~ he returned again, and with him .Mrs.
Ward, her woman,· both seemiag very much
confused and out of breath.
" 0 madam!" cried she, "my lady expresses
an infinite concern that you refuse this request,
•
which she says will be her last. She says that
she is convinced of not·being in a condition to
receive your visit to-morrow; but, as at&ken
of her friendship, bequeaths you· this little cas-
ket, containing her watch, necklace, and some
other jewels, which she desires you will wear
in remembrance of her."
These words were accompanied with ·the de~
livery of the legacy she mentioned, and that, as
well as Mrs. Ward's words, threw us both into
a consternation JVe were not able to express.
The lady would fain have entered into some
discourse with Mrs. Ward concerning the affair;
butshe evaded it, by saying she had left only
an undermaid with.Madam De Beauclair, and
must return immediately: on which the lady
o''"'""b'Google
212 GHOST STORIES.
cried, all at once, "I will go with you; there
must he something very uncommon certainly in
this." I offered to attend her, being, as well I
might, desirous of getting some light into what
at present appeared so mysterious.
In fine, we went that instant; but, as no
mention was made of me, nor Madam de Beau-
clair might not probably be informed I was
with the lady when her servant came, good
manners and decency obliged me to wait in a
lower apartment, unless she gave leave for my
admittance.
She was, however, no sooner informed I was
there than she desired I would come up. I
did so, and found her sitting in an ea5y chair
near her bedside, and, in my eyes, as well as
all those present, seemed in as perfect health as
ever she had been.
On our inquiring if she felt any inward disor-
der within herself, which should give room for
the melancholy apprehensions her message tes-
o''"'""b'Google
DUCHESS OF MAZARINE. 213
ti'fied, she replied iti the negative; "yet,'' said
she, with a little sigh, ''you will soon, very
soon behold me pass from this world into that
eternity which I once doubted, but am now .as-
sured of."
As ~he · spoke these last words, she 'looked
full in my face, as it were to remind me of the
eonversation we frequently had held together
oo that subject.
I told her I was heartily glad to find so great
a change in her ladyship's sentiments, but that
I hoped she had no reason to imagine the con-
viction would he fatal; which she only answered
with a gloomy smlle: and a clergyman of her
owri persuasion, whom she had sent for; that
moment coming in, we all quitted the room, to
lea.ve him at liberty to exercise his function.
It exceeded not half an hour before we were
called in again, and she appeared, after having
disburthened her conscience, to be more cheer-
ful than before; her eyes, which were as pierc-
o''"'""b'Google
214 GHOST .STORIU.
ing as possible, sparkled with an uncommon vi-
vacity; and she told us she should die with the
more satisfaction, as she enjoyed, in her last
moments, the presence of two persons the most
agreeable to her in this world, and in the next
would he sure of enjoying the society of one
who, in life, bad been the dearest to her.
We were both beginning to diss1,1ade her from
giving way to thoughts which there seemed not
the least probability of being verified; when she
put a stop to what we were about to urge, by
saying, "Talk no more of that: my time is
short, and I would not have the small space
allowed me to be with you wasted in vain delu-
sion. Know," continued she, "I have seen
my dear Duchess of Mazarine. I perceived
not how she entered; but, turning my eyes to-
wards yonder corner of the room, I saw her
stand in the same form and habit she was ac-
customed to appear in when living: fain would
I have spoke, but had not the power of utter-
ance : she took a little circuit round the cham-
ber, seeming rather to swim than walk; then
o''"'""b'Google
DUCHESS OF MAZARINE. 216
stopped by the side of that Indian chest, and
looking on me with her usual sweetness,
'Beauclair,' said she, 'between the hours of
twelve and one this night you will be with me.'
The surprise I was in at first being a little
abated, I began to ask some questions concern-
ing that future world I was so soon to visit;
hut, on the opening of my lips for that purpose;
she vanished from my sight, I know not how."•
The clock was now very near striking twelve,
and, as she discovered not the least symptoms
of any ailment, we again aimed to remove all
apprehensions of a dissolution ; but we had
scarce begun to speak when, on a sudden, her
countenance changed, and she cried out, " 0 ! I
am sick at heart!" Mrs. Ward, who all this
while had stood leaning on her chair, applied
some drops, but to no effect: she grew still
worse,and in about half an hour expired, it being
exactly the time the apparition had foretold.
I have been so particular in relating all the
circumstances of this affair, as well to prove I
o''"'""b'Google
216 GHOST STOJlll!.S.
could not be deceived in it as to show tllat
Madam De Beauclair was neither vapourish
nor superstitious, as many believe all are who
pretend to see any thing supernatural. I am,
indeed, very ready to allow that the force of
imagination may impose upon the senses, and
that it frequently bas done so, and that the sk>-
ries. told us in our infancy leave ideas behind
them which, in· our riper years, are apt to make
us fanciful; but in the case I have mentioned
there could be nothing of all this; ·the lady, you
may perceive, was so far from any apprehen-
sions or prepossessions of tbat nature that, on
the contruy, she looked upon them as ridicu-
lous and absurd, and.could have been convinced
9y nothing but the testimony of her own eyes
and ears•.
It must be confessed, such extraordinary
means of warning us of our fate but rarely hap-
pen; nor can it be supposed departed spirits
have the power of visiting us at pleasure; for
which reason I look upon all such agreements
as wer~ made between these ladies as highly
DUCHESS OF MAZARINE. 217
presumptuous; and when permitted to be fulfil-
led, we are not to imagine it done to gratify the
vain curiosity of those who doubt a future state,
but to strengthen the faith of those who believe
in it.
I think, therefore, whoever is well assured of
the truth of such an incident ought to communi-
cate it to the public, especially in these times,
when all the belief of another world, on which,
of consequence, our good behaviour in this de-
pends, stands in need of every help for main-
taining any ground among us.
u
218 GHOST STORIES.
APPARITION
ATTESTED
MINISTER or LAUNCESTON IN CORSWALL.
TN tlie beginning of the year 1~, a disease
happened in this town of Launceston, and some
of my scholars died of it. Among others whe
fell under its malignity, was John Elliott, the
eldest son of Edward Treberse, Esq., a stripling
of about sixteen years of age, but of uncommon
parts and ingenuity. At his own particular
request I preached at the funeral, which hap-
pened on the 20th day of June, 1665. In my
discourse I spoke some words in commendation
of the young gentleman; such as might endear
his memory to those that knew him, and withal
tended to preserve bis example to those who
went to school with him, and were to continue
DOROTHY .DINGLEY. !Ut
there after him. Ao ancient gentleman, who
was then in the church, was much affected with
the discourse, and was often heard to repeat the
1ame evening, one expression 1 then used o.ut
of Virgil:
Et puer ipse foit contari dignu».--
The reason ·why this grave gentleman was so
concerned at the cl~aracter was a reflection he
made upon a son of bis ow-0, who being about
the same age, and but a few 111.Qnths before, not
unworthy of the like character I gave of the
young Mr. Elliott; was now by a strange acci-
dent. quite lost as to his parents' hopes, and an
expectations of any farther comfort by him.
The funeral rites being over, I was no sooner
come out of the church, but I found myself
most courteously accosted &~ this old gentle-
man ; and with an unusual importunity, almost
forced ·against my humour, to see his house that
aight; nor could I have rescued myself from
his kindness, had not Mr, Elliott interposed ancl
o''"'""b'Google
220 GHOST STORIES.
pleaded title to me for the whole day, which
(as be said) be would resign to no man. Here-
upon I got loose for that time, but was con-
strained to leave a promise behind me, to wait
upon him at bis own house the Monday follow-
ing. This then seemed to satisfy, but before
Monday came, I had a new message to request
me, that if it were possible, I- would be there
the Sunday. The second attempt I resisted,
by answering that it was· against my conveni-
ence, and the duty which mine own people
expected from me. Yet was not the gentle-
man at rest, for he sent me another letter the
Saturday by no means to fail the Monday, and
so to order my business as to spend with. him
two or three days at least. I was indeed star-
tled at so much eagerness, and so many dunnings
for a visit, without any business ; and began to
suspect that there must needs be some design in
the bottom of all this excess of courtesy. For
I had no familiarity, scarce common acquaint-
ance with the gentleman or bis family; nor
could I imagine whence should arise such a
flush of friendship on the sudden.
o''"'""b'Google
DOROTHY DINGLEY. 221
Oa the Monday I went and paid my promised
devoir, and met with entertainment as free and
plentiful as the invitation was importunate.
Tllere also, I fouud a neighbouring minister,
who pretended to call in accidentally, but by
the sequel I suppose it otherwise. After din-
aer this brother of the coat undertook to show
me the gardens,- where, as we were walki11g, he
gave me the first discovery of what was mainly
intended in all this treat and compliment.
First he began to inform me of the infelicity
oftbe family in general, and then gave instance
in the youngest son. He related what a hope-
ful sprightly lad he lately was, and how melan-
cholic and sottish he was now gyown. Then
did he with much passion lament, that his· ill
humour should so i11credibly subdue bis reason;
(saith he) the poor boy believes himself to be
haunted with ghosts, and is confident that he
meets with an evil spirit in a certain field about
half a mile from this place, as often as he goee
that way to sehool. _ In the midst of our dis.-
u 2
222 GHOST STORIES.
course, the old gentleman and his lady (as ob-
se"ing th.eir cue most exactly) came up to us.
Upon their approach, and pointing me to the
arbour, the parson renews the relation to me,
and they (the parents of the youth) confirmed
what be said, and added many minute circum-
stances, in a long narrative of the whole : in
fine they all three desired my thoughts and
advice in the affair.
I was not able to collect my thoughts enough
on the sudden, to frame a judgment upon what
they had said. Only I answered, that the
thing which the youth reported to them was
strange, yet not incredible, and that I knew not
then what to think or say of it; but if the lad
would be free to me in talk, and trust me with
his counsels, I had hopes to give them a better
account of my opinion the next day.
I had no sooner spoken so much, but I per-
ceived myself in the springe their courtship had
laid for me; for the old lady was not able to
o''"'""b'Google
DOROTHY DINGLEY. 223
hide her impatience, but her son must be called
immediately; this I was forced to comply with,
and consent to, so that drawing off from the
company to an orchard hard by, she went her-
self, and brought him to me, and left him with
me.
It was the main drift of all these three to
persuade me, that either the boy was lazy and
glad of any excuse to keep from the school, or
that h.e was in love with some wench and
ashamed to confess it, or that he had a fetch
upon his father to get money and new clothes
that he might range to London after a brother
he had there ; and therefore they begged of me
to discover the root of the matter, and accord-
ingly to dissuade, advise, or .reprove him; but
chiefly by all means to undeceive him as to the
fancy of giiosts and spirits.
I soon entered a close conference with the
youth, and at first was very cautious not to dis-
please him, but by smooth words to ingratiate
o''"'""b'Google
224 GHOST STORIES.
myself and get within him, for I doubted be
would be too distrustful or too reserved. But
we had scarce passed the first situation an~
began to speak to the business, before I found,
that there needed no polwy to screw myself
into his heart: for be most openly and with all
obliging candour did aver, that he loved his
book, and desired. nothing more than to be bred
a scholar; that he had not the least respect for
any of womankind, as his mother gave 01it ; and
that the only request he would make to his
parents was, that they would but believe hie
constant assertions concerning the woman he
was disturbed. with, in the field, called the
Higher-broom-quartils. He told me with all
naked freedom and a flood of tears, that his
friends were unkind and unjust to him, neither
to believe nor pity him; and, that if any man
(making a how to me), would but go with him
to the place be might be convinced that the
thing was real, &c.
By this time be found me apt to companion-
o''"'""b'Google
DOROTHY DINGLEY. 225
ate his condition, and to be attentive to bis
relation of it, and therefore he went on in this
manner:
This woman, which appears to me (said he),
lived a neighbour here to my father, and died
about eight years since; her name Dorothy
Dingley, of such a stature, such age, and such
complexion. She never speaks to me, but pass-
eth by hastily, and always leaves the footpath
to me, and she commonly meets me twice or
three times in the breadth of the field.
It was about two months before I took any
notice of it, and though the shape of the face
was in my memory, yet I could not recall the
name of the person ; but without more thought-
fulness, I did suppose it was some woman who
lived thereabout, and bad frequent occasion that
way. Nor did I imagine any thing to the con-
trary, before she began to meet me constantly
morning and evening, and always in the same
field, and sometimes twice or thrice in ·the
breadth of it.
o''"'""b'Google
226 GHOST STORIES.
The first time I took notice of her was about
a year since ; and when I first began to sm1pect
and believe it to be a ghost, I had courage
enough not to be afraid ; but kept it to myself
a good while, and only wondered very much at
it. I did often speak to it, but never had a
word in answer. Then I changed my way and
went to school the under horse road, and then
she always met me in the narrow lane, between
the Quarry Park and the N urse1y, wllich was
worse.
At length I began to be terrified at it, and
prayed continually, that God would either free
me from it, or let me know the meaning of it.
Night aod day, sleeping and waking, the shape
was ever running in my mind ; and I often did
repeat these places of Scripture (with that he
takes a small Bible out of his pocket): Job. vii.
14. "Thou searest me with dreams, and ter-
rifiest me through visions :" and Deut. xxviii.
67. " In the morning thou shalt say, would
God it were evening, and at evening thou shalt
JJay, would God it were morning, for tbe fear of
o''"'""b'Google
DOR01''JIY DINGLl':Y. !27
thine heart, wherewith thou shalt fear, and for
the sight of thine eyes which thou shalt see."
I was very much pleased with the lad's inge-
nuity, in the application of these pertinent
Scriptures to his condition, and desired him to
proceed. Thus (said he), by degrees, I grew
very pensive, insomuch that it was taken notice
of by all our family; whereupon, being urged to
it, I told my brother William of it, and he pri-
vately acquainted my father and mother, and
they kept it to themselves for some time.
The success of this discovery was only this :
they did sometimes laugh at me, sometimes
chide me, but still commanded me to keep my
school, and put such fopperies out of my head.
I did accordingly go to school often, but
always m(!t the woman in the way.
This, and much more to the same purpose
(yea, as much as held a dialogue of near two
hours), was our conference in the orchard;
o''"'""b'Google
228 GHOST STORIES.
which ended with my proft'er to him, that (with-
out making any privy to our intents), I would
next morning walk with him to the place about
six o'clock. He was even transported with joy
at the mention of it, and replied, But will you
sure, sir? Will you really, sir? Thank God,
now I hope I shall be believed. From this
conclusion we retired into the house.
The gentleman, his wife, and Mr. Williaµi
were impatient to know the event, insomuch
that they came out of the parlour into the hall
to meet us; and seeing the lad look cheerfully,
the first compliments from the old man was,
Come, Mr. Ruddle, you have talked with Sain,
I hope now he will have more wit; an idle boy,
an idle boy. At these words the lad ran up
the stairs to his chamber without replying; and
I soon stopped the curiosity of the three expect-
ants, by telling them I had promised silence,
and was resolved to be as good as my word;
but when things were riper they might know all ;
at present, I desired them to rest in my faithful
o''"'""b'Google
DQROT!f\' DINGLEY. 229
promise, that I would do my utmost in their
service, and for the good of their son. With thi•
they were silenced, I cannot say satisfied.
The next morning, before five o'clock, the lad
was in my chamber, and very brisk; I arose
and went with him. The field he led me to I
guessed to he twenty acres, in an open country,
and about three furlongs from any house. We
went into the field, and had not gone above a
third part, before the spectrum, in the shape of
a woman, with all the circumstances he had
described her to me in the orchard the day
before (as much as the suddenness of its ap-
p'earance and evanition would permit me to
discover), met us and passed by. I was a little
·tmrprised at it, and though I had taken up a firm
resolution to speak to it, yet I had not the
power, nor indeed durst I look back, yet I took
care not to show any fear to my pupil and
guide; and, therefore, only telling him that I
was satisfied in the truth of his complaint, we
walked to the end of the field, and returned,
nor did the ghost meet us at that time above
x
Di111iz..abyGoogle .. ~ 1
230 GHOST STORIES.
once. I perceived in the young man a kind of
boldneH mixed with astonishment; the first
caused by my presence, and the proof he had
given of his own relation, and the other by the
sight of his persecutor.
In short, we went home ; I somewhat puz-
zled, he much arrimated. At our return, the
gentlewoman (whose inquisitiveness had missed
us), watched to speak with me. I gave her a
convenience, and told her that my opinion was,
that her son's complaint was not to be slighted,
nor altogether discredited, yet that my judgment
in his case was not settled. I gave her caution
moreover, that the thing might not take wind,
lest the whole conotry should ring with what we
yet had no assurance of.
lo this juncture of time I had business which
would admit no delay; wherefore, I went for
Launceston that evening, but promised to see
them again next week. Yet I was prevented
by an occasion which pleaded a sufficient ex-
cm1e : for my wife was that week brought home
DOROTHY DINGLEY. 2:U
from a neighbour's house very ill. However,
my mind was upon the adventure ; I studied
the case; and about three weeks after went
again; resolving, by the help of God, to see.
the utmost.
The next morning, being .the 27th day of
July, 1661'>, I went to the haunted field by
myself, and walked the breadth of it witbo~t
any encounter; I returned, and took the other
walk, and then the spectrum appeared to me,
much about the same place I saw it before
when the young gentleman was with me: in my
thoughts this moved swifter than the time be-
fore, and about ten foot distant from me on
my right band; insomuch that I bad not time
to speak as I determined .with myself before-
hand.
The evening of this day, the parents, the
son, and myself being in the chamber where I
Jay, 1 propounded to them our going all together
to the place the next morning; and some asse-
o''"'""b'Google
232 GHOST STORIES.
veration, that there was no danger in it, we all
resolved upon it. The morning being come,
lest we should alarm the family of servants,
they went under the pretence of seeing a field
of wheat, and I took my horse and fetched a
compass another way, and so.met at the style
we had appointed.
Thence we all four walked leisurely into the
Quartils; and had passed above half the field
before the ghost made its appearance. It then
came over the stile just before us, and moved
with that swiftness, that by the time we had
gone six or seven steps it passed by. I imme-
ately turned my head and ran after it, with the
young man by my side; we saw it pass over
the stile at which we entered, but no ·farther. I
I stepped upon the hedge at one place, be at
another, but could discern nothing; whereas, I
dare aver, thai the swiftest horse in England -
could not have conveyed himself out of sight in
that ~hort space of time. Two things I observed
in this day's appearance.
o''"'""b'Google
DOROTHY DINGLEY. 233.
1. That a spaniel dog, who followed the
company unregarded, did bark and run away,
as the spectrum passed hy ; whence it is easy to .
conclude that it was not our fear or fancy which
made the apparition.
2. That the motfon of the spectrum was not
gradatim, or by steps, and moTing of the feet;
but a kind of gliding as children upon the ice,
or a boat down a swift river, which punctually
answers the descriptions the ancients gave of the
motion of their Lemures.
But to proceed: this occular evidence clearly
convinced, but withal strangely affrighted the
old gentleman and bis. wife, who knew this
Dorothy Dingley in her lifetime, were at her
burial, and now plainly saw her features in this
present apparition. I encouraged them as well
as I could; but after this they went no more.
However, [was resolved to proceed, and use
such lawful means as God hath discovered, and
learned men have successfully practised, in these
1mvulgar cases.
x2
234 GHOST STORIES.
The next morning, being Thursday, I went
out very early by myself, and walked for about an
hour's space in meditation and prayer in the field
next adjoining to the Quartils. Soon after five
I stepped over the stile into the disturbed field,
and had not gone above thirty or forty paces
before the ghost appeared at the farther stile.
I spake to it with a loud voice, in some sucl_i
sentences as the way of these dealings directed
me, whereupon it approached but slowly, and
when I came near it moved not. I spake again,
and it answered, in a voice neither very audible
nor intelligible. I was not in the least terrified,
and therefore persisted until it spake again, and
gave me satisfaction. But the work could not
be finished at this time; wherefore, the same
evening, an hour after sunset, it met me again
near the same place, and after a few words of
each side it quietly vanished; and neither doth
appear since, nor ever will more to any man's
disturbance. The discourse in the morning
lasted about a quarter of an hour.
These things are true, and I know them to
o''"'""b'Google
DOROTHY DINGLEY. 235
be so with as much certainty as eyes and ears
can give me; and until I can be persuaded that
my senses do deceive me about their proper ob-
ject, and by that persuasion deprive myself of
the strongest inducement to believe the Christian
religion, I must and wiU assert, that these
things in this paper are true.
Fl.SIS.
Printed by C. Whiltinaham, Chil•1rk.
o''"'""b'Google
,,._, .. /;/.,,,,..; ,1",.z~ .PL /,.·~~«-te._4.A-1,..,, ,,h.-~.., ......,
,...e,_,,.,._,;(.,,. __v ,,,.,_ _.,,,.,,.~~ ~- _,,.',.•.; .::c.,..,,.
J!J>-vLC., I(. k 11..r.,..,.~, A ~n. e~ _ ,A,.;4
::r, 4':..~... fa.~~ .; ~ r.:~!.-4':...~ ""'- - ~"7
.// ~..,_,._-/, ~,. ,-:-1.,,..,.,....--.·,< - ucTlo
~ ,-.'- Dg11z by on....
