{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1823__mackey___the_mythological_zodiac_of_the_ancients____part_two.pdf","mytitle":"The Mythological Zodiac Of The Ancients","mylang":"de"}
WrrºrDLD&IDAI,
ASTRO.N"O./MY
OF THE
ANCIENTS;
PART THE SEcoSD :
OR THE
E&EY (IBBF (UER:ANEA,
THE WARDS OF WHICH
WILL U.W.”L O C ſº
ALL THE
sºpºttrits of 3ntguity. -
BY
SANTPSON ARNOLD WIACKEY.
I have entered the venerable courts of science; and, from
the department of ancient historians (who wrote the History
of the Earth among the Stars, aud that of the heavenly motions
upon the Earth) have brought a fund of information, which I
shall so blend with Astronomy, as to be able to raise the sacred
head of truth above the Lumber of two thousand years, and prop
her ThroNe with LEARNING's proUD REMAINs.
-
~~~~
NO H. W. I C H 3
Printed by R. Walker, near the Duke's Palace.
t
1823.
|-|-·~~
~
~
~
~
~
~·*-
-|-•|-*
*·.*----,
-，
--~~~~---
-
~~
|-|--|-|-
||-
+|-
··!
|-
|
|-|-
·|
·}
·|-|
…»|
●|-
|-|
|-----
|-→
|-|
|-
|-
·
●
|-
|-
|--*|-
|-
→|
|-
!
|-|
：
|-|
|-|
|-|-
·
|-
|-
·
Q \, , ,
- -
ſº ).
V, D
PREFACE
- - TO
2nd Part of Mythological Astronomy.
Since writing the two sheets on the Missionary
Papers, in the first part of my work, I have had
access to the libraries of several gentlemen in this city;
some of whom directed me to read the Asiatic Re
searches : others pointed out the necessity of my
reading Bryant's Mythology : whilst others, struck
with the manner in which I had accountedfor the rava
ges committed on the earth by “the havoc of waters,
in the story of PHAeton, thought it highly proper
that I should read Parkerson's Organic Remains.
Vol.NEY’s New Researches have also added to the list
ofauthors whichI have lately read. This author,though
he has given us Mr. Dupuis' Analization of the
Mystical Numbers of the Hindus, is still unsatisfied;
as we may judge from the following passage in Vol.
ist. page 191.
“ If at somefuture period, some cne endowed with
Wº%34th:3
iv.
“ talent unites to Astronomical Science the erudition
“ of antiquity too much separated from it, that man
“ will instruct his age in many things, which the va
“ nity of ours has no notion of.”
I am not surprised that Mr. J. Bently has whiten
with such virulence against the antiquity ofthe Hindu
Chronology, mor, that he continued to write in the same
illiberal strain after he became J. Bently, Esqr. Nor
that Francis Wilford wrote as a negative friend to
Truth both before and after his being Captain. But,
that Mr. Dupuis should have displayed such a want of
Science as he has done, in what is called his Analisis
of the MysticalNumbers of the Hindus ; is, to me very
surprising. But, that I may not be thought too severe
upon so learned a gentleman, I'll transcribe a few lines
from the authority of M. Polney's New Researches,
“Astronomically speaking, there exists no period
“ of 12,000 years; that is to say, this number does’
“ not agree with any of the simple or compound revo
g
‘lutions of the Stars or Planets. Why then is it em
“ ployed in that sense by the ancients This is
“ another astrological enigma, whose solution can
“ only be found with the adepts in the secret science.”
V.
This solution is given us by the ingenious and learn
ed Dupuis, in his Memoirs on the great Cycles or pe
riods of restitution.
“When we attentively compare the several periods
“ of the Indians and Chaldeans,” says he, “in purport
“ we discover that their composition is owing to an in
“ creasing or decreasing addition or subtraction of a
“ first elementary number following the direct arithme
“ tical order of 1, 2, 3, 4, or the inverted one of
“4, 3, 2, 1; as is demonstrated by analysis.
“ SPECIMEN.
“ 1st age 4,000 years
“ 2nd do. 3,000 do.
* 3rd do. 2,000 do.
“4th do. 1,000 do.
g
“It clearly results," says he “if you take away the
“ noughts, that there will remain 4, 3, 2, 1.”
O ! Dupuis, Dupuis 1 if ever the learned men in
India read this, thy pretended Analysis of their sa
-
cred numbers, how will they pity the ignºrance of
vi.
Europeans ! Will they not exclaim, “ What t are
these men of Europe eminent in nothing but those qua
lifications, from which, in our holy books, their coun.
try wasjustly denominated Frankinstan?
The wrankling and illiberal attacks on their anti
quity. by J Bently, Esq. and by Lieu. Francis Wil
ford, they could easily aceount for—they were in the
service of that power by whom their country was sur
rounded, and filled with cannon and bayonets; these
men, therefore might have had an interest in endea
touring to pervert the meaning, and depreciate the
merits of their holy books; but when they read the
unmeaning analysis of the ingenious and learned Mon.
Dupuis, will they not lament that there is not one
FRANC in our whole STAN with a mind sufficiently ~
larged to receive the great truths contained in their
Vedas, &c.
O 1 ye slandered sous of venerable sires who have
preserved, thro' myriads of years, the sacred numbers of
more northern climes; whileI'vourMaha-Yugas analize,
I'll write your Panegyric;---'tho' Bentley rave, I'll
prove your ancient numbers arose not from vissionary
vii.
*
dreams,” nor ideal systoms ; nor yet from vanity, igno
rance, or credulity; nor from any petty fiction or pious
fraud,t which the above irritable gentleman asserts to
have been committed by the crafty sons ofBrahma; but
! from real periods of Time, which your sires observed
and registered: and though your Cali-yug continued
through the regions of eighteen original Shastras of
astronomy, which amounted to 432,000 3years; it will
be seen that it did not arise from the childish combina
tion of a decreasing substraction of a first elementary
number following the inverted arithmetical order of
4, 3, 2 with the increasing addition of three cyphers;
nor did it arise from multiplying the newt age or yuga
of216,000 by 2. Nor was their divine age of 4,320,000
formed by adding a cypher to 432,000; but by mul
tiplying 1,080,000, whichis their Maha-yug, by 4,
because the poles had been four times inverted since the
commencement of their observations.
But, as thesegreat truths have been long obscured by
the people of the west, it is my duty to place them in
such light that men of science may perceive they are
* See Asiatic Researches, Vol. 6, P. 575.
# Diito, Vol. 8, P. 195.
viii.
the true periods of time which have been described by
the pericyclosical motion of the pole.
I shall not, however, reply to all the ertravagant
absurdities which I have seen in ten or a dozen large
quarto volumes of four or five hundred pages each ; I
shall take the shortest road to the delightful object of
my eyes, and prop her throne with learning's proud
remains.
And as I proceed, I shall draw such auxiliaries
from our holy books, into the service of Urania, that
shall be found to perform each manaeuvre, and go
through all her compler evolutions with such celestial
order, that every General will declare that they are
all deserters from her ancient service, though they
have long been disguised in new regimentals.
pigrºggibºintroduction
In consequence of the imprudence of Captain
Wilford and some other writers in the Asiatic Re
searches in endeavouring to blend the ancient symbols
and symbolical phrases, of the Hindu Astronomers,
with the sacred person of Jesus Christ, I feel myself
called on to deviate a little from the path first laid
down.
Whether the above gentlemen had any sinister de
sign in blending the sacred names of Jesus Christ with
the mythology of the Pagans I do not determine: but
as they are at present so closely connected by various
writers, it seems almost impossible to defend the anti
quity of the one, without offending the votaries of the
other. I have no desire to offend any man, or society
of men; but I will defend the ancient astronomy of
the Hindus; and prove that their divine child born of
a virgin, who was impregnated by a carpenter, (accor
ding to the translation of Captain W.), had no allu
sion to .the Child born of the Virgin which Isaiah
X.
speaks of. Why Captain Wilford has translated the
word Tacshaca by the course epithet of Carpenter, ap.
pears to me a greater mystery than their Hindu num
bers, or their Yudhistirs; their Sacas,their Menus, their
Rishis, &c., present. Did he think, that, by tacking
the mutilated numbers and names of ancient astro
nomy, to the modern religion of the Christians, men
would be deterred from explaining them 7 Few men,
, I believe, would call the great Fabricater of the Uni
verse---the Divine Architect, by the degrading name
of Carpenter. It is not an appellation so respectful as
the deity ought to have conferred (on him, in conse
quence of his being the builder of the universe. But,
as the Hindu prophecies of the birth of the Orb of
day in the celestial constellation of Virgo, has been
fulfilled more than 200,000 years ago; it is evident
they could not have had any allusion to the great pro
mulgator of Christian Morality, which the Prophet
Isaiah is supposed to have foretold, when he said “Be
hold a Virgin shall conceive and bear a son.” It is
evident to all, that this virgin was not a Constellation;
nor has Isaiah conveyed any idea of astronomy. His
expression, it is true, is figurative; and as more
human blood has been spilled about the true meaning
X1.
of this short passage, than any other of the same
length, it may not be amiss to enquire, what was the
Virgin of Isaiah?
If I can divest Jesus, the Christian Moralist, of
his Pagan vestments,and shew him in his original purity;
Christians then might become unanimous, and meet
and worship God in one temple: and astronomers
would then be at liberty to trace back the path of the
Polethrough all the various mazes of the labyrinth.
But before we can become acquainted with the true
spirit of ancient authors, it is absolutely necessary
for us to become familiar with their customs and man
ner of speaking.
The Bible, like all the writings of the ancients, was
originally written in poetry: it almost every where
abounds with sublime phraseology, bold metaphors,
and lofty flights of the imagination. But, though
this mode of writing is one of the chief ornaments of
poetry, yet it is this alone that has produced so much
strife. Dull men will seldom see beyond the oil and
lamp-black, or, what is generally termed the literal
xii.
sense of a passage; and though that be impossible, yet,
such is their veneration for the sacred book, that,
though they do not perceive the drift of the author,
they are positive that, that alone is the true meaning
which they have imbibed, although it is contrary to all
the known laws of God.
Isaiah in his 14th c. v. 8th. makes the firtrees and
sedars of Lebanon rejoice at the death of the King of
Babylon, saying, “ Since thou art laid down, no Feller
is come up against us.” This song of the Fir-trees and
cedars, is, no doubt, beautiful in the original * its
charms are distinctly seen through its english dress :
but surely no tyrant, not even those in the ninth verse
ever thought of punishing a man for not believing that
the trees did really sing the above strain
It is apoetical embellishment; and none but those of
the most depraved understandings would contend for
its literal meaning
Countries and cities were frequently represented by
women; surrounded by attributes expressing their con
dition, or situation; thus Britannia is seated on the
xiii.
waves, to shew the insular situation of England. Her
olive-branch, spear, and shield, bespeak her desirous
of peace, yet, ever ready for war, &c.
The VirginAndromeda, the daughter ofCepheus and
Cassiopeia" was the representative of Palestina; a
long, narrow, rocky strip of land; figuratively called
the daughter of Rocks and Mountains; because it is a
country abounding with rocks and stones. And the
Greeks, really supposing Cepha, a rock or stone, to
have been the young ladies father, added their sign of
the masculine gender to it, and it became Cepha-us.
And mount Cassius being its southern boundary was
called Cassiobi; from its being also the boundary of
the overflowed Nile, called Obi, which the Greeks
softened into Cassiopeia, and supposed it to have
been her mother; of whom there is, in Ovid's Met.
a long story.-But I have never read that either the
Greeks or Romans ever madeit “Part and parcel” of
their laws to put a man into prison for not believing
that mount Cassius was the mother of the virgin
Andromeda.
* See Note fourteen, part first.'
xiv.
Every body knows that Mount Zion stands like a fa
ther in the midst of Jerusalem; Jerusalem was,
therefore, called the daughter of Zion.
The Prophet Ezekiel calls Babylon, the daughter of
Babel; and when those daughters were spoken of, or,
to, in terms of friendship they were frequently called
virgins; thus we find Jerusalem is called the virgin
daughter of Zion, and Babylon is called the virgin
daughter of Babel, &c.
It is well known that the Jews lived in Palestine,
which is a small country situated on the confines of
three powerful empires; the governors of which were
frequently changing their boundaries: this was not
done without fighting battles; the Jews weretherefore,
being but a petty state, always included in the conquest
of the victor.
If Babylon fought with Egypt, or Persia with eithel,
Palestine was sure to be the prize-fighting stage. The
Jews being thus involved in war, were always swallowed
up by one or other of the surrounding Monarchs, who
constantly placed a King in Jerusalem according to his
XV.
own choice: thus being tributaries to various nations,
the Jews often despaired of being sovereigns of the
world; but were as often assured by their Priests that
the time would come when a King born in Jerusalem
would make them masters of the world; thus we find
Isaiah comforting the Jews in the days of Ahaz, telling
them that a child would be born in Jerusalem, upon
whose shoulders the government should be, and in
whose reign they would have peace. Jerusalem was,
at that time, threatened with war by the King of Israel
and the King of Syria---Ahab, King of Jerusalem, was
terrified at their united forces.--Isaiah, in his 7th c. v.
4th bids Ahaz “fear not, neither be faint-hearted for
“ the two tails of these smoking firebrands: for
“ behold the virgin shall conceive and bear a son.”---
and “ before the Child shall know to refuse the evil
“ and choose the good, the land that thou abhorrest
“shall be forsaken of both the Kings.”
In this seeming digression from the astronomy of the
ancients, the reader will observe, that, it is not the
history of the Jews, to which his attention is directed;
but to the flowery style of its win: particularly in
those passages just quoted. “Behold the virgin shall
xvi.
“ conceive,” &c. is an expression, which, in its literal
sense, is so contrary to all the operations of nature—so
repugnant to all the known laws of God, that, weare
certain that the writer had a figurative meaning in it
as well as in that, where he calls the King of Israel
and the King of Syria the TWO SMOKING
FIRE BRANDS.
I know that many authors, to shew their learning in
the Hebrew Language,have said that the word which is
translated virgin, means also a young unmarried
woman. Such disputants aniuse the crowd without
adding much to their stock of knowledge.—so do
stage fighters.
It is a fact known to all, that ancient writers, whe
ther of prose or poetry, in reciting the speeches of
kings andemperors, constantly put into their mouths a
lofty phraseology very unlike that of the plebeians,
whilst the language of their gods and goddesses is fre
quently given in the style of sublime incomprehensibi
lity? The Jehovah of the Hebrew poets never speaks
to his people but in metaphors and parables; and as
this passage in Isaiah is a speech of the Lord's, it
must be metaphorical.
xvii.
We have seen by what figure of speech Jerusalem is
called the daughter of Zion, and very often the virgin.
In fact, we need but read a few of the passages where
such phrases occur, to know that they can have no
other meaning. I will quote one or two.
When Sennacherib, King of Assyria, threatened
Jerusalem with destruction; Isaiah was ordered to in
from the bombastic, blaspheming King, that they
were not afraid of him. But as Isaiah spake the words
of the Lord on the occasion, them I shall give as they
stand in the 21st v. 19th c. ii. book of Kings and in
he 22nd v. 37th c. of Isaiah, “The Virgin the daughter
“ of Zion hath despised thee, and laughed thee to
“ scorn.”---Here we find that the Lord calleth Jerusa
lem the virgin, the daughter of Zion.
There is a passage in Amos, wherein the city of
Bethel is called the Virgin of Isreal. Amos 5, 2–
The Lord purposed to destroy the wall of the daugh
ter of Zion, Ezek. In short, the phrases occur so fe.
quently in the sacred writings, and are so pointed,
that every body, who is but a little acquainted with
them, are certain, that by the Virgin daughter ofZion
xviii
Jerusalem is understood. And if we carry the figura
tive sense to the 14th v. of the 7th c. of Isaiah, we
shall find that, that passage might have been figura
tively true ; and all that was intended by it was to
inform the people of Jerusalem, who were so op
pressed by Kings which were imposed upon them by
surrounding tyrants, that the time should come, when
the Virgin, i. e. the City of Jerusalem should bear a
son, upon whose shoulders the government should be ;
and in whose reign they should have peace!!
This is another poetical beauty, which is no more
literally true, than the singing of the firtrees and cedars
of Lebanon.
This sublime poet of the Hebrews, in his 30th c.
makes the dreadful effects of the south wind to be the
burden of his song.
Verse 6. “The burden of the beasts of the south
“ into the land of trouble and anguish, from whence
“cometh the young and the old lion, the viper, and
“fiery-flying-serpent.”
xix.
A man must be very unacquainted with natural
history, if he believes this passage to be literally true:
since, although we have read of flying dragons, and
luminous worms, we have never Iead, in natural histo
ry, that blazing snakes were ever seen to fly about;
And he must have the heart of a fiend, who would
persecute a man of genius forasserting it to be a poeti
cal epithet for a THUNDER CLouD ; which the ancients
used to call the GIANT EPHIALTES.
The polite conversation in this country abounds with
figurative expressions, and yet we do not find any con
fusion arising from their use. How frequently do we
call the lovers of Music “ The Sons of Harmony, and
yet we do not understand Harmony to be a woman,
who was their mother?,---Soldiers are called the Sons
of Mars--Theologians, the Sons of God.--and, Astro
nomers, the Sons of Heaven. But yet we cannot be
indulgent to the Chinese, who call their Emperor the
* Son of Heaven,” in quality of his being the first
Astronomer, or the head ofAstronomersin his country.
But the female symbols, that represented the vari
XX.
ous cities, were sometimes spoken of, and to, in terms
of reproach. The Prophet Ezek, calls Jerusalem the
Whore Aholibah,and the City of Damascus,he calls the
Whore Aholah, and loads them with every opprobious
epithet, as if the two cities had been two women of
the most licencious characters; but for decency sake,
I forbear to mention either chapter or verse. Jeremiah
46th c. 20th v. calls Egypt a very Fair Heifer; but
after Egypt had been destroyed by the Persians, the
Greeks, and theRomans, we find the Jew, John, who
wrote the Revelations, calling Egypt “ The seat ofthe
Beast.”
Thesesymbols of cities must have been distinguished
by a difference of dress or attributes: and as Babylon
was the seat of a large empire, it must have been re
presented by a symbol dressed in a profusion of splen
dour, to shew her superiority over her tributary cities;
and'tho' Ezekiel called her the virgin, daughter of Ba
bel, when the Jews were slaves of Babylon; yet, when
Persiahad destroyed the Babylonian Monarchy, the
Jews, being then the slaves of Persia, rent their throats
with roaring BABYLON the great Scarlet Whore
IS FALLEN, IS FALLEN 111
xxi,
If the French had ever conquered England, and
had they been as unpolished as the Jews, they would
have exulted over her fallen state; and rent their
throats with roaring Britannia, the great briny Whore
is fallen, is fallen. But she still remains the VIRGIN,
SOWEREIGN OF THE SEA.
Enough has been said to prove, that, the virgin of
Isaiah, whom the Christians supposed to have been
the mother of Christ has nothing to do with the virgin
of heaven, i. e. the Constellation of Virgo; whom the
Hindus assert was the mother of Chrisna, i.e. the
Sun: of whom so manystrange stories are told in the
Hindu books; the recital of which would swell a book
to the size of the Earth itself. In his infancy, how
ever, it is said, he led a very humble life; in his ma
tured age, he is represented as leading a life of gaiety;
dancing and carousing with lady after lady to the
amount of a dozen. That he overcame all the demons
of darkness, serpents and dragons: but died at last
between two thieves. All this is purely astronomical :
and alludes to the reappearance of the Sun in the sign
of Virgo; to his passage through the twelve signs of
the Zodiac in a milder age; when the twelve months
xxii.
were represented by twelve gopis or houris, or ladies
of yielding,which the 1rish call cropies,and the English
W***es: and to his disappearing in winter between
Mars and Mercury.
As I have now drawn a proper line of distinction
between what is considered religion, and science; I
assure the religionist that I shall not molest him in his
department; and I hope, if he enters mine, it will be
in the way of friendship.
The judicious reader will see the propriety of the
abovedigression; as it will enable me to defend the
sacred province of Urania with more vigonr; because
I can now draw more powerful auxiliaries from the
sacred writings of the Jwes, without interfereing with
those that belong to the sacred person of the great
ProMUL.GATER of Christian Morality; whose life
and character has been too mnch blended with rhapso
dies on Astronomical Symbols. But it is now time, now,
when “ thefiery passions” are beginning to yield to the
bridle of reason—when all seems disposed to go in
search of long lost TRUTH, to unclose the mouth of
her “well,” that she may ascend therefrom and harmo
hize mankind.
. The JVſythological•Astronomy
OF THE ANCIENTS:
OR THE
KEY OF URANIA.
→ºka–
When men of learning prostitute their talents
before the world as the defenders of TRUTH ; for
the sole purpose of serving falsehood more effec
tually, they may deceive the ignorant: but how
contemptible are such men in the estimation of
her more learned votaries.
Christian Theologians think it their duty to
write against the long periods of Hindu Chrono
logy; and in them it may be pardonable : but
when a man of learning crucify the names and
the numbers, of the ancients; and wring and
twist them into a form, which means something
quite foreign to the intentions of the ancient
authors; but which, so mutilated, fits in
with the birth of some maggot pre-existing in his
own brain with so much exactness, that he pre
24
tends to be amazed at the discovery, I cannot
think him quite so pardonable.
To cut down the Hindu divineage of 4,320,000
years, with the cleaver of “probability:” to
4,320 years, is, at best, but a clownish way to
make things fit. And then, to make his 4,320
years to have commenced 4,320 years before a cer
tain event took place, and then to seem amazed at
the coincidence, is no better than an insult to
any man of plain sense. Did Captain W. think
that all the disinterested part of his countrymen
would seem blind, as well as those that have an
interest in seeming so
But the advocates forfalsehood gain their point
if men do but lose time in replying to all the
idle suggestions of their “HUMBLE opinions”—
their probabilities and extravagant inferences.
By supposing Prithu to be Noah at one time;
and Satyavrata, to be Noah at another: and
Dhruva, to be Enos ; and Iswara, is made to be
Assur, &c. it is astonishing to see what wonder
ful things Captain W. can prove. It is like
saying, that, black is white; for by supposing
black to be white; and white to be black : it is
very obvious, that there can be no difference.
25
And after this manner have books been written
volume upon volume; pretending to light men
in the road to truth: but which like a will o'
whisp, have guided men now here, now there;
until they have sunk, into their graves with
out having once seen a single ray of her beam
ing radiance. . -
However, notwithstanding all that has been
said by Lieutenant, afterwards Captain Wilford,
and Mr. J. Bently, afterwards J. Bently, Esq.
and some others, respecting the mythology of the
Hindus, and their sacred numbers; it is very
evident that the major part of the Honourable
Society, of which they are members, are not
satisfied. For in the 7th vol. of the Asiatic Re
searches, page 8, there is the following desi
deratum.
“Whether the historical periods of the four
“ages and manwantaras, mentioned in the
“ Purans, did not depend on ancient astro
“ nomical systems; and if so, what were the
“ duration and times of commencement of
“ such periods º'
Satisfactory answers to the above questions can
not fail of being of the utmost importance to men
C
26
of science, and 1 am possitive that I shall
answer them with such precision, -
That all the learn'd in Europe will approve;
And every Braman hail a new RACHA.
Time, has been variously divided by different
nations; and by many, in an arbitrary manner;
it has been divided into three ages by some; and
into four ages by others.
All the nations, from Tibet, Tibud, or Bud
tan, as it is sometimes called, to the extremity of
the Hindustan peninsula; and in the same lati
tude, from China to the extremity of the west,
have divided time into four ages. These, by
some authors, were the four seasons of the tropi
cal year: but as they are nearly of a uniform
length, they by no means agree with the four
ages of the Purans, as the length of the Hindu
ages are so very different. But if we consider
them as portions of the great cyclic year; which
the Hindus call the Maha-yugaor great age, they
will be found to agree in all their parts. This
Maha-yuga contained 1,080,000 tropical years;
which contained the four agesso celebrated in the
books of the Hindus called the Puranas,
27
In the Asiatic Res, the four ages are given in
the following quantities.
1st, age - 108,000 years.
2 216,000
3 324,000
4 or Kali - 432,000
: 1,080,000
The PrajanathaYuga contained 2,160,000
And the Divine Yuga contained4,320,000
These are the numbers, about which so much
folly and weakness have been displayed. And
as they are numbers which may be formed various
ways, their true construction may bethereby kept
secret; thus, the 2nd age of 216,000, is made to
be derived from a cycle of 5 × by 12=60 × by
60=3600;4by 60=216,000,which is the Prajan
atha-yug (see Asiatic. Res; vol 8, page 491).
What satisfaction can the mind of man receive
from such an unmeaning play of numbers.
I hope the learned reader will pay proper at
tention to the order or arrangement of the seven
numbers or ages: as I have condensed them into
a narrow compass they are always easy of access.
28
1 shall now proceed to shew how the first four
were formed according to the present known peri
cyclosical motion of the earth's axis.
We have seen in, the first part of this work,
how there would be formed a spiral of 22#volves
from the pole to the equator: which must be
doubled when the pole became inverted. There
would then be, from pole to pole, 45 of those
rounds. Now, as the ancient Astronomers of
upper India reckoned 24,000 years to each
round, the whole number of years, then, that
the pole of the earth would take in passing from
one pole of heaven to the other would be 45 times
24,000 years: which every school boy knows
would be1,080,000,what a remarkable coincidence
and that, too, without chopping off any of the
cyphers l l ; During this Maha-yuga, or great
age, the inhabitants of the earth must have felt
all the various seasons that can possibly happen
under every angle of the two poles; and while the
N. pole was returning to its original place among
the stars, the same seasons must again, be repeated
This whole round of the axis of the earth, from
north to south, and back again to the north, was
called the prajanatha-yuga, or great age of the
earth; which must have taken a time double the
former, viz. 2,160,000. And as their Deva
*
29
yuga, or divine age is 4,320,000, it shews that
the axis of the earth has made two such rounds
since the commencement of their astronomical
observations; besides 8, or 9,000 years of a new
reckoning.
But the ancient Brahmins,divided their Maha
3yuga into four component parts of unequal
lengths: as if its first part was the remains of the
whole yuga, after the first joint of its tail had
been cut off; thus the 1,080,00|0, would become
1,080,00; which is down right nonsense; there
fore the cutting and maiming gentry range the
figures thus 108,000 for the first age: which they
multiply by two for the second age, and by three
for the third age, and by four for the fourth age.
The numbers thus obtained would fit, it is true;
and may satisfy the Captain and the Esq. But
let me point out the way that will satisfy men of
learning.
It is asserted in many parts of the Asiatic
Researches, that, the BRAHMINs are not the
aborigines of the hindustan peninsula; but that
they came from a higher latitude. Mr. J. Bent
ly informs us in the 6th vol. of the Asiatic Re
searches, page 575, thatthe numbers were hand
ed down to the present men by “'Sages who were
“ supposed to have lived in the remotest periods
30
“ of antiquity, to the number of eighteen alto
“gether. These eighteen are now called, by
“ way of distinction, the eighteen original shas
“ trars of astronomy.” What a pity that Mr.
J. Bentley did not obtain some of the names of
these eighteen very ancient sages . In the lat. of
Delhi they talk of fourteen sages, called Menus
who presided over fourteen Manwantaras, or
periods of time.
In vol. 8, p. 289, Asiatic Res. we are told that,
“ seven was, formerly a favourite and fortunate
“ number among the Hindus: eight among the -
* Baudhists; and nine formerly in the west,
“ and in the north of Assia!!! Nine was held
* a sacred and mystical number in the north parts
“ of the old continent, from China to the ex
‘ tremity of the west.” And in the 3rd vol. p.
382, we are told that the Chaldeans, and that
the Turdulians, an ancient and learned nation in
Spain, had preserved the same long periods
of time. -
&
&
From the above data, we shall be able to draw
the most positive assurances that the numbers
before mentioned are astronomical. But how has
it happened that the above nations preserved the
same numbers. Let us begin with Spain. The
ancient province of Turdulia or Turdetania,
31
(which is the ancient and learned nation spoken
of) had its capital city, called MUNDAE, in the
36th degree of north lat.—BABYLoN, the Capi
tal of Chaldea, had existed but 470,000 years,
in the days of Alexander; and being built bythe
Assyrians, whose capital city was NINEvah ;
the learned men, therefore, when they estab
lished themselves at Babylon, preserved the an
cient numbers of NINEvAH, their mother country;
which, like Mundae, stood also in the 36th de
gree of north lat. And if we trace, upon a map
orglobe from Mundae to Ninevah, onwards to the
east, till we arrive at China, we shall find the
line pass through BACTRIANIA and TIBET, T1
bud, or BudtAN, i.e. the country of Buda;
and the famous Vale of CassimeRe, so celebra
ted by the ancient Bramins. • , , . . . .
These places; “ From China to the extremity
“ of the west, had the same mystical numbers.”
And, why? because the people there lived under
the sameelevation of the pole : ; –They allsaw
the great DIAL-OF-THE-DEITY from the same
point of view, they all saw Menu from the 9th
stage of the world, i. e. the 9th climate; from
which, MERu would be seen as a PY.RAMID
with NINE steps : while from the lat. of 32,-
the EIGHTH stage of the world, or 8th climate,
MeRu would be seen as a cone or pyramid with
132
EIGHT STEPs.” At DELHI, in 28 degs. which is:
in the 7th stage, or climate, of the world, they
represented the pole, or meru, by a cone of
seveN STEPs. Hence, we find, the cause which
induced the ancients, in the above latitude, to
venerate the nos. 7, 8, 9, was astro-geographi
cal: and hence also wesee the impossibility of ma
king the astronomical numbers of a large empire
agree with one capital. Consequently the num,
bers of 36 degs. cannot agree with the numbers
of Delhi in 28th deg. nor with those of Benares,
in 25 degs. nor with those in any other part more
southward.
But let us see why the astronomers in the 36 deg.
divided the great age of 1,080,000 years into four
parts of such unequal lengths.--Rectify the plate
Cyclob'thiad in part Ist, to the given lat. by put
ting the pole to 36 above the north horizon. Wery.
well.
THE FOUR AGES.
We will begin with the Cali-yug or fourth age
because that is the most celebrated. At the set
ting in of the Cali-age, in the lat. of 36 degs.
the tropics must be 54 degs. from the equator.
* See Tower of Babel, Part first. *-
{
r
33
The summer tropic would coincide with the north
horizon, and extend up to the 72 deg. of north
altitude; and the winter tropic would coincide
with the south horizon, and describe a circle
round the south pole, to the 72nd, deg. below
the south horizon. By inspecting the plate you
will perceive, between the horizontal thread and
the poles,that there are 9divisions of 4 degs. each
And as the tropics, at this time, are receding
from the equator, we know, that in 24,000 years,
according to the testimony of very ancient ob
servers, the summer tropic, would be 4 degs.
nearer to the north pole; and as there are nine
such steps for the tropic toascend before it would
coincide with the north pole, there would be.
nine times 24,000 years before the middle of their
cali-yug: and of course there would be nine
more such periods before the end or close of their
Cali-yug.
These then are the eighteen original shastrars
of astronomy which being multiplied by 24,000
will produce the celebrated number of 432,000
without having recourse to the childish whim of .
Mons. Dupuis of “Arranging a few figures in
“arithmetical progression in a decreasing sub
“ traction of a first elementary number.”
Now let us proceed to the first age. We have
34
seen, at the end of the Kalee or Cali-yuga,
that thetropics would be 36 degs. from the poles.
The northern tropic would, therefore, extend
from thenorth horizon to the 72nd degree, or to
within eighteen degrees of their zenith; which
is another remarkable point in the starry canopy;
and which would be the boundary of the next.
yuga. The tropic, then, in this age had to pass,
over only a space of 18 deg. or four divisions
and a half, out of the 45. But 24,000 multiplied
by four and a half, is 108,000, which is precisely
the number of years in the first age in the lat. of
36 degrees: The next remarkable point in the
meridian is that which is intersected by the equa
tor; let it be the boundary of the SECOND
AGE. From the genith to the equator we find
36 degs. or nine divisions of 24,000 years each,
which amount to 216,000; the exact number.
given us by the “crafty sons of Brama.”in their,
ancient second age; in the lat, of 36 degs.
The next point on the meridian below the
equator, is the south horison: this forms the
boundary of the THIRDAGE, which continues.
whilst the tropic passes through the 54 degrees,
or 13 divisions and a half: and 24,000 multiplied
by 13 and a half, will give 324,000, the number,
of years in the third age.
35
We have now seen that the ancient Hindus did
not form their sacred numbers from visionary
dreams, or childish whims; but from real Astro
NoMICAL observations, through a series of
4,320,000 of tropical years. Before the com
mencement of which time, astronomy must have
long occupied their attention. I am aware that
Mr. John Bently" has given the component parts
of the Divine Age in a seemingly different way.
His numbers are, for the |
“Satya-yug 1,728,000—or 4th age
Treta do, 1,296,000— 3rd age
Dwaper do. 864,000— 2nd age -
Calido. 432,000— 1st age *
Divine 4,320,000 Age
Why Mr. Bently has compounded the divine
age in the way he has ; rather than by multiply
ing the maha-yug of 1,080,000 by four, I cannot
guess 2 nor has he assigned any reason for it.
He has also placed one age twice over, to different
numbers. Does he not know that the Cali-yug is
the age of the annual Floods, and, that the
* vol. 5, page 16.
a
36
Satya-yug means the SAME Age For though
Cali-yug means the age of extreme heat; the
cartreme heat can only happen in that age, when
the Sun is on the SATY, i. e. the monument of
Budha—THE S. Pole. But let us rescue the above
numbers from that confusion into which the above
pretended advocate for TRUTH has thrown them.
As the great age of 1,080,000 years has been re
peated four times: its four component parts must
also have been repeated as often.
Thus 4 times432,000 are 1,728,000
324,000 — 1,296,000
216,000 – 864,000
108,000 – 432,000
1,080,000 — 4,320,000
I wish Mon. Dupuis could see with what
harmony I have arranged all these numbers with
out casting away any ofthe noughts . . .
We have now seen that all the mystical num
bers—these grand divisions of time, have been
measured out to man by the Pole—that great
INDEX of TIME upon the D1AL OF THE
DEITY.
37
And we shall see a further corroboration of the
Fact, as we examine the hindu subdivisions of
time. But to avoid confusion, we must take our
station in one fixed latitude; let it be at Delhi, in
the latitude, of 28 degrees. Here, of course,
we find the numbers different; here we no longer
find the veneration for the nine, nor the eighteen
original Shastras : but the number seven, and the
fourteen Manwantaras; and it is very likely, that
here they might reckon each Manwantara, or
round of the equinoctial points, at 25,000 tro
pical years. For we are not to suppose that,
because the ancients reckoned 24,000 years only,
to each round, that was the precise quantity;
that was the nearest even number that could be
divided by two and by four without remainders;
and hence the ancients have furnished us with a
period of 6,000, and one of 12,000 years; for in
6000 years the Solsticial Colures would come to
the equator; and in 12,000 years they would have
gone backwards six signs; and the summer
constellations would be changed into wintry ones;
which in 12,000 years more would be reinstated
in their former splendour; and be once more
considered as “glorious angels of light.”
But we are quite certain, that there were more
than 24,000 in each round or manwantara; be
D
38
cause in the 2nd vol. of the A. R. p. 131, we are
informed that the last round of the brazen age
eontained 27,000 years. From which, we find,
that, the hindus had a way of putting in a few
more years, at certain intervals of time, to keep
their reckonings free from confusion ; just as we
do with our five hours and forty nine minutes of
time, over 365 days. Into every fourth year we
put 366 days. What a difference in the scale :
But the hindus have expressed this circum
stance in a manner highly poetical, and therefore,
I am willing to allow men that are blest with dull
organs, to be a little waspish when they read the
following hindu account of the fact.
“ The great ancestor of YUDH1s'TIR reign
“ed 27,000 years, at the end of the brazen
“ age.”—That a man should reign 27,000 years
seems incredible ; but as I am not favoured with
his name, we will make some enquiry about his
son YUDH1s'TIR or JUDHis'TIR. We are in
formed that “ Yudhis’tir, was the first of the
“six Sacas; he was born on the Sabe-Sringa,
“ or mountain with 100 peaks, at the extremity
“ of the world; beyond which nobody can go.”
And “ that Yudhis’tir or Judhis’tir, began his
“reign immediately after the Flood.” and vol.
9, p. 364 we read, The beginning of the Cali
39
“ yuga in the reign of Yudhistir.” Though
these two last statements seemed to disagree, yet
they are proved to be true, from this fact, that
the reign of Yudhis’tir began when the tropic
touched the north horizon; which it must have
done both at the beginning and ending of the
Cali-yug.
This Judhistir was the first of the six SAGAs:
which shews the origin of the history to have been
in or about the latitude of24 degrees, from whence
the pole, amongst the ancients, was represented as
a cone with sixsteps, or a six coiled snake; where,
also, by dividing the 432,000—the Cali-yug of
36 degrees, by 12, the divisions in the Cali-yug
of 24 degrees, they make each round of the equi
noctial points to be 36,000 years, instead of
25,000; but this error is easily accounted for,
when we consider, by how many truth-destroying
monsters their country has been overrun.
Very fortunately, for Astronomers, we are
furnished with five names out of the six Sacas;
and these are enow to prove that they are the six
pericyclosical volves round the north pole. The
first is Yudhis’tir, the second is Wicrama-ditya,
the third Salavahana, 4th Vijaya'dhi-Nandana,
and thesixth and last was Bali,or Bala. Yudhis'-
tir or Judhis’tir, means the outer circle of the
40
six ; from ieda or yudah—the extreme end—His
reign was at the extreme end of the yuga, i. e.
the first end-the beginning; and as there are
six in all, the last must ascend to the pole; but
the name of the sixth saca who is the last, is
Bali, now Bala, is the temple of Budha; i. e.
the north pole: This hindu word bala, the
mountain of Budha, is closely allied to the latin
b allum, a mound of earth, or bank.
It is impossible for scepticism itself to desire
stronger proofs of astronomical antiquity, than
those which are every where found among the
various tribes or casts of the Hindus; if but a
few of their numbers and names have been pre
served.
But these people have not only registered a
knowledge of heaven; but they have also given
us a knowledge of the earth. They have given
us the latitude and longitude of that island
of splendour, (mentioned by Plato, and some
others in Europe and Africa, by the appel
lation of ATALANTIs) which they call Atala :
and in vol. 8, p. 286, A. R. it is called Atlantis.
The following passage is, therein, said to be
taken from the Puranics.
“ This Atlantis was overwhelmed by a flood”
*
41
–Plato says it was swallowed by an earthquake
in one night, about nine thousand years ago.
But as this island was on the 7th stage of the
world, or in the 7th climate, I shall notice it
more fully when I go back to Delhi,
This Yudhis’lir, the first Saca, was born at
“ The extremity of the world” Vicrama'dilya,
the second Saca, was born at Tramba, or Tam
ra-vati-nagari, a town, abounding with copper.
These gentlemen are clothed with Mystery;
but the sun of science will dispel the Fog.
Elevate the pole of a Ter. Globe 24 degrees
above the artificial horizon; and then turn the
Globe about until 70 degrees east longitude from
London be under the meridian. The town; of
Itadimpour will then occupy the zenith; and, a
little to the east of which, at the mouth of the
river Paddar, is the town of CAchA; and be
tween the Paddar and the mouth of the Indus is
Jaganat; which stands near the centre between
the two rivers. To thenorthwest of Jaganat isa
desert of rugged mountains, called the mountains
ofthe household gods. These mountains, the sea,
and two rivers, are boundaries to a country, of
which, Jaganat is the centre, and Cacha at the
extremity, by the sea, in the latitude of twenty
four degrees north.
42
From all these considerations, I suppose that
the history of the six Sacas originated in this
part of the vast empire of Hindostan. Jaga
nat’hi is allowed to mean the Lord of the uni
verse, and Cacha approximates in sound to Sacer,
holy; whence the six Sacas, or six holy person
ages, were invested with dignities, &c. We
are quite certain, however, that in the 24th deg.
of north latitude, the inhabitants could see but
24 degrees between their horizon and the pole:
in which space the pole of the ecliptic would
seem to describe six rounds, by the present rate
of its motion. The hindus of Cacha in giving
names to the six divisions of the polar space, and
in speaking of the ravages of the elements as the
summer tropic slowly passed up to the pole and
returned again to the horizon, as of the conquer
ing deeds of great monarchs, have not only made
a surprising display of astronomical and geogra
phical knowledge, but have greatly embarrassed
the Europeans who are disposed to read their his
tories. The Europeans can easily believe, that
the personified Decans were real human beings.
The equator is known to pass by ten degrees of
the ecliptic in about 700 years, or one sign in
2100 years. The personification of the twelve
grand divisionsof the eclipticare received bymany
nations as 12 Gods, or holy personages: but tho’
43
the equator allows 2100 yrs. for the reign of each
yet 1 have no where seen that any nation speaks of
beings whose lives continued just so long. The
Egyptians personified every ten degrees of the
ecliptic; the representatives of which are called
Decans, whose reigns con inued, upon an aver
age, about 700 years each, or while the equator
passed over ten degrees of the ecliptic. That
thesesymbols ofspace were named agreeably to the
season and operation of the elements, during the
passage of the sun through each division, can
admit of no doubt. And according to the rules
of astrology, the first decanate or ten degrees of
a sign, are allowed to possess more influence
than the other. And when personified must have
been represented as a chief among three. In the
oblong zodiac of Tentyre, in which the pole is
parallel with the ecliptic, wesee the twelve signs
thus divided ; but as there is a breach in the ceil
ing between Virgo and Leo ; it may be disputed
whether there was one or two Decans in the bro
ken part; the length of the fracture in the plate
of DeNoN would admit of two; and if so,
there must have been thirty seven in all, i. e.
eighteen on the one side, and nineteen on the
other. Of these thirty seven, the sun must have
been represented as president.—The sun was
frequently called the Lord—the Master—the Ru-.
ler, &c. He was called by the jews and some
44
others, ADoNI or ADINo ; and it is very remark
able that Samuel, the Hebrew historian, in the
23rd Chap. 2nd Book, has given the names of
the thirty seven Mighty MEN of DAvid, many of
which, if not all, agree with the functions of the
37 Decans of the Zodiac in Tentyre as they must
have been posited when the Constellation of Leo
was in the bottomless pit, i. e. at the south pole.
t is further to be observed that the Captain, or
Chief of the first three is called Adino, which
epithetis as applicable to the sun as it is to God.
Benaiah, the Son of God was Chief of the second
three. Abi-albon was, also, the Chief of three;
this would be very well rendered into English by
Father of Snow ; an epithet that strictly agrees
with the first Decan of the month ofsnow, If the
reader will peruse the above chapter, he will
there find that the mighty men of David are
classed in companies of three, after the manner
of the Egyptian Decans; and that many of their
names are applicable to the seasons of the year.
But, after all, the passage of the equator
through each Decanute of the ecliptic allows
about 700 years for the reign of each of the re
presentatives; which seems to have given rise
to the idea that men formerly lived to that age :
but astronomers having personified the whole
45
round of the pole or the equator, by one symbol;
whose reign continued for 24,000 years, it is
thought to be incredible that a man can live so
long; even those who believe that Methuselah
lived 969 years, as a real mortal man, are not
willing to believe that the ancestor of Yudhistir
could live as a man 27,000 years; but willing to
preserve the MAN, they solve the difficulty, by
casting away some ofthe noughts. I shall, on the
contrary, preserve the names and noughts, tho’ I
destroy the man, by proving the six Sacas to be
sic spaces of the Polar sky, included between
six parallels of declination surrounding the north
pole, at four degrees asunder; which were for
merly as many places occupied by the tropic
during a run of 300,000 years.
The globe being rectified to the above latitude
and longitude, let there be described round the
north pole six concentric circles at four degrees
asunder; then the last or sixth will coincide with
the horizon; and the whole together would re
present Meru with six steps; the lowest of which
formed by the outer circle of the six, would co
incide, also, with the extremity oftheir north ho
rizon, the space above, included between thatand
the next circle was called the region ofYudhis’tir,
from ieda, yuda or juda, the extreme end.
46
Yudistir was born at the extremity ofthe world
beyond which nobody can go. The precise point
of contact, formed by the horizon and outer cir
cle will be found, by inspection, to be in 66
degrees, north lat. and 110 west lon. which
is described by the hindus as a place of very high
impassable mountains, beyond which nobody can
go; This geographical fact will pay us for un
ravelling some of their mysteries. -
During the time the tropic passed through the
2nd space of the northern sky, which is in
cluded between the 4th and 5th parallel circles
round the pole, the elements were said to be un
der the influence of Vicramaditya, the2nd Saca,
of whom it is said that he ruled over eight hun
dred vassal Kings 1
Are we to understand that all these slavish kings
lived in India at one time under the government
of an earthly sovereign Ought we not rather
to suppose, that, when the summer sun was
six or seven degrees above the north horizon at
midnight at midsummer, and six or seven below
the south horizon at their sunless noon in winter,
that, all the sovereigns on the earth were slaves
to the tyrannical elements But Wicramaditya
was born at Tramba, which is a town abounding
47
with copper, according to the information given
in the Asiatic Researches.
The finding of this town will pay us for much
labour. Let the globe remain as before, and you
will see that the 5th circle from the pole, crosses
the circle of the meridian four degrees above the
north horizon, which is at 70 degrees north lat.
and 110 west longitude, or nearly so. Here
began the 2nd region of space, or here, in poetical
language, was born the 2nd Saca called Wicram
aditya; and, behold ! to our amazement, here is
the copper mine in North America!!! And
though the town of copper no longer exists, being
overwhelmed with a deluge of sand, as the hin
dus inform us, yet we are certain that the mine
must have had men; and men must have had
habitations; whose utensils would be chiefly of
that metal which was produced by the mine !!!
What can the infidels to hindu science say to
this Will they still say that they might be ac
quainted with the present motion ofthe pole, and
that they might amuse themselves with tracing all
its consequences, and in erecting monstrous sym
bols to express them But how did they become
acquainted with the latitude and longitude of the
copper mine in North America : They are much
48
further from it than we are, and yet we are but
now sending out men to explore that region.
The sixth and last Saca must be the circle round
about the north pole at four degrees distance,
and which extended up to the very pole—called
the mountain or temple of Budha. And behold :
this division of space was personified by the
epithet of Bala, i. e. the Mountain : From the
agreement ofall these facts with the polar motion,
we are quite sure that the six Sacas were not hu
man beingsthat made war with one another : but
that they were names given to imaginary beings,
of which they related stories that kept alive, in
their minds, the history of the elements, and the
state of nature in remote antiquity.
I shall next proceed to shew that the seven Me
nus and the fourteen Manwantaras are of the same
genus with the six Sacas; and their being seven
in number direct us to look out for their genera
tion in the lat. of 28 deg. which is very likely to
have been at DELHI.
We now find ourselves entering a new Theatre
of celestial observation; in which the sons of
Urania have testified their vigilance upon a more
elevated stage : and of course some of their num
bers must be unlike those given by their brothers
49
at Cacha, on the sixth stage ; whose Cali-yug was
confined to 12 rounds of the equinoctial points;
or, whilst the tropic passed through the six con
centric circles round the pole : but here, in the
lat. of 28 degs. their Cali-yug must have con
tinued while the equinoctial points made fourteen
revolutions, which the Bramans denominated
fourteen Manwantaras : or , while the tropic
passed through the seven concentric circles de
scribed round the pole ; which the Brahmins
denominated seven Menus. Hence, it is easy to
conceive how the astronomical numbers of the
Hindus may vary, and yet agree with the truth
directing FINGER of UR ANIA, as it has been
seen to point upon the Dial of the Deity, from
differentstages of the world.
In the A. R. we have the names of three Menus,
with the leading traits of their reigns. In vol. 2,
ps. 116 and 117, we have the following informa
tion from Sir W. Jones. “ In the present day
“ of BRAMA the first MeNU was surnamed Sw A*-
“ YAMBHUv.A, or son of the self-existent.” In
page 117, he says, “ of the five Menus who
“ succeeded him, I have seen little more than
“ their names; but the Hindu writings are
“very diffuse on the life and posterity of the
“ seventh Menu, surnamed WAIvaswatA, or
D
50
“Child of the Sun. In the reign of this Sun
“ Bo R N Mon a Rch the Hindus believe the whole
“ earth to have been drowned ; which general
‘ destruction is the subject of the first Purana,
* or sacred poem, which consists of Fourteen
“ thousand stanzas.”
&
&
In vol. 9, A. R. we are informed that the name
of the fourth Menu was called Tamasa on account
of the total darkness which then overspread the
earth.
Although I have not been able to obtain the
names of more than three of the seven Menus ;
yet, as they are the first, the fourth, and the se
venth, we shall be able to satisfy ourselves of the
rest, from the consequences attending these.
The pole of the globe must now be elevated so
as to admit seven concentric circles round the pole
at four degrees asunder, which would be 28 degs.
above the north horizon ; and as there must be
28 degs. between the south horizon and the south
pole, there would be room for seven circles at 4
degs. asunder round the lower pole. And as the
Bramins of Delhi; or in 28 degs. north latitude,
have given us the consequences attending the
winters of their Cali-yug, it is to the seven cir-,
51
cles below the south horizon that we must now
turn our attention. But the mind will receive
the same information from the plate of the Cy
clops, as from the globe; by elevating the pole
of the revolving plate to 28 degrees : then will
there be seven divisions of four degrees each,
between each pole and its respective horizon. And
as the Cali-yug, in every country, must begin
when the tropic, receding from the equator,
first touches the horizon; and here, i. e. in 28
degrees, it would arrive at the poles in seven pe.
riods of time; called Manwantaras, And in
seven more such periods of time, the tropics
would have passed over seven divisions, on the
other side of the poles; which would again bring
them to the north and south horizon, as they are
returning to coincide with the equator. These
fourteen periods constituted the Cali-yug at Delhi,
and are called Manwantaras; from Menu, regu
lation; and Antura, a period of time. See A. R.
It is very renarkable that Manah is the Hebrew
word for regulation.
Now, the seven divisions above and below each
pole would be included in seven concentric circles,
at four degrees asunder, round each pole. These
are the seven Menus or divisions of the polar
sky, through which the tropics had been seen to
pass in their Cali-yug.
53
As soon as the tropic descends below the south
horizon, the sun, in winter, would be below the
south horizon,--it would be in the dominion of
the first Menu, and Sir W. Jones informs us
that the first Menu was called Swa-yambhuva.
We find then, that in the reign of Swayamb
huva the sun was below the south. Now let us
see who, or what Swayambhuva was, it is com
pounded of three Hindu words—Sw AR, the So
lar,Orb: YAMA, regent of the south or lower
world or Pluto; and BhuvA, the Earth; which
makes Swa-yam-bhuva to be the SUN below the
south or in the realms of Pluto ; for Yama is
acknowledged to be synonymous with Pluto.
The name of the next Menu, which occurs in
the 8th vol. p. 229, A. R. is that of the fourth
(which I suspect to be misplaced, from the cir
cumstance attending his reign, which more strictly
agrees with that of the fifth Menu.) It is said
“ his name was ealled TAM AsA from the total
darkness which then overspread the earth.”
If there be no mistake in this little scrap of
Oriental History, if Tamasa is really the name
given by the ancient Hindus to the fourth Menu,
53
Then TAMASA the fourth Menu
ought to be written in letters of Adamant. Or
this Tamasa, the AstronoMeR, the Geologist,
and the CheMist ought alike to enquire; whether
it was the fourth Menu of the first Cali-yug; or
of the second, &c.; for, in our time the sun must
be down eighteen degrees below the horizon be
fore it will be totally dark, which will be in the
middle of the fifth Menu ! which is included be
tween the second and third circles round the south
pole. And the author of the REVELATIONS
in giving us his version of the seven Menus,in his
16th c. v. 10, informs us that the Pagans of Pal
mos assured him that the total darkness did not
take place till the reign of the fifth Menu, His
words are “And the fifth Angel poured his vial
upon the seat of the beast, and his Kingdom was
full of darkness! This fifth Menu, or Angel of
John, is one of the polar divisions of the last
Cali-yug, which I shall demonstrate when I ana
lize the astronomical parts of the Hebrew books,
of which the Revelations is one : from which we
assure ourselves that the Pagans of Patmos in
their religious ceremonies, connecting the great
events of natural history with those of astronomy,
have informed us that, in the last yuga of Cali,
the sun, must be more than sixteen degrees below
54
the horizon before it was totally dark; or before
daylight ended : but if total darkness commenced
when the sun was less than sixteen degrees below,
or in the reign of the fourth Menu, as is asserted
in the A. R. then, it is evident, that the atmos
phere must formerly have been more dense or
more cartensive than it is in our time; or was in
the time commemorated by the Priests of Patmos;
according to the testimony of him who wrote the
book of the Revelations.
The extension and density of the atmosphere
are points which are not connected with my pre
sent work. But much do I lament that I have
not been able to obtain the least glimmering of
light relative to the precise time when the fourth
Menu was “ called TAMASA from the total dark
“ ness which then overspread the earth. When
the women of Syria mourned for the death of
Adonis, or the lost sun, the Prophet Ezekiel ex
pressed it by saying he saw “women weeping
for Thamuz ;” which in Hebrew signifies the
concealed or the hidden; as the sun must be,
when daylight disappears. The Tomb of Adonis
was not designed,among the ancient Syrians as the
tomb of a mortal man ; whose name was Thamux
or Thaumuz, nor is it very likely that a Jew from
Palestine, called St. Thomas was buried in India.
55
The tomb of that name in India, mentioned in
the A. R. is more likely to be one which was
erected to Tamasa, the Sun concealed, as it must
be wherever it is totally dark.
WAIVASWATA or Child of the SUN,
was the seventh Menu. —PHAEToN was, also a
Child of the Sun, who set fire to the earth, by
driving the chariot of the sun up to the pole.
But “in the reign of this sun-born MonAach,
“ Vaivaswata, the whole earth was drowned ;
“ which general destruction is the subject of the
“ first purana or sacred poem which consists of
* 14,000 stanzas.
4
Ovid, in his Phaeton, describes the summers of
that age, when the sun visited the poles; but the
Hindus have given us the consequences which
must have attended the winters and springs of
that age or Yuga ; but more particularly those in
that part of the age when the tropic was within
the first circle round the pole,at the distance of four
degrees ; which must have continued fifty thou
sand years with aggravated violence: from which
Ovid took the materials ofthestory of DeucALIan!
Another sect of Hindus denominated those por
56
tions of polar space by the appellation of Bud
has, or Tirt'han-caras : of which they reckon
seven ; and to whom these Sectarians attribute ac
tions as to great monarchs. However, one speci
men of their history will be enough to prove
their astronomical origin. In vol. 9, p. 302, A.
R. we are informed by — Colebrooke, Esq. that
“ The last TIRT'HANCA R A became incar
“ nate towards the close of the fourth age in the
“ womb of Trisala, a princess of the CAsYAPA
“ family.” Now Casyapa is thesixth Budha, of
whom Tirthamcara, the 7th or last was born,--
whose reign finished the age of horror, or the
fourth age, after which, the tropic, again ascend
ing above the south horizon, the sun would
be visible every day for several hundred thousands
of years to come : which circumstance was ex
pressed by the Jinas, by saying the sun or Budha
was born for the purpose of confounding
Demons; &c.
In vol. 2, p. 122, we have the following:
“ From a book called the Nectar of the Bha'-
“gawat, written in poetry, there is a couplet on
“ BUDDHA, of which the following is a literal
“ translation:
“He became visible, thc-thousand-second
57
“ year-of-the-Cali-age being past : his body of
“ a-colour-between-white-and-ruddy, with-two
** arms, without-hair on his head.”
“ N. B. Cicata is supposed to be a wood near
“"Gaya, where there is still a collossal statue
“ of Buddha.”
Let us endeavour to reduce the above infor
mation to the standardof European intelligence.
The Sun,in our time,is seen in an angle of about
32 minutes: but to avoid fractions we may take
its diameter at 30 minutes; and its semi-diame
ter at 15 minutes. At the end of the Cali-yug,
the tropic, coinciding with the south horizon,
would place the centre of the sun upon the point
of intersection, at noon on the shortest day. At
the end of the Cali-yug, then, there could be seen
but half the body of the sun; and as the tropic
would rise but one degree in 6,000 years; it
would rise half a degree, or 30 minutes in 3,000
years and 15 minutes of a degree in 1,500 years.
In 1,500 years, then, after the Cali-age being
past, the whole body of the sun might be seen
above the horizon on the shortest day. But the
Jinas of Hindoostan have recorded that the sun
or Buddha became visible, the 1,002nd year after
58
the Cali-age was past. But it was at Cicata
where he became visible. Is it not likely that
Cicata may be a place a little matter elevated,
from which fortunate situation the whole of the
sun might be seen 3 or 400 yrs. sooner,and which
might induce some speculative men to erect a col
lossal statue ofthe Sun or Buddha upon that spot,
to commemorate the event; or, for the profits
that would arise from the visits of pilgrims. His
colour between white and ruddy agrees very well
with the horizontal position of a noontide sun;
whose feeble light, or want of rays was repre
sented as a head without hair: and as they used to
represent the greatest power of the sun by many
arms; two only were thought sufficient to repre
sent his weakness in this stage of his life. Among
the nations in the west of Asia or about the
shores of Mediterranean they used to represent
the power of the summer sun by putting a great
club into the hands of Hercules ; but to express
the sun's want of power in winter, they put a
spindle into the hand of Hercules. It is further
said of Hercules, that he slew the hydra with
firebrands that he received from Iole or Iolaus.
And do we not all know that those rays of the
sun which he borrows from the month of July
are more destructive to our waters.
The Jews, however, in their description of the
59
summer and winter suns, have kept nearer to the
Hindu figure of expression. The name by which
they have personified the sun is SAMson or Shim
shn, from shimish, the sun, or fire of fires;
a very proper epithet for the sun ; like Hercules
from her'cali; hero of heat.
In all the fables of the sun, the representative
hero is always made to be a vanquished victo R.
The two personifications of the sun, Hercules
and Appollo were conquered as well as conquerors,
like the sun whom they were intended to repre
sent, who conquered in the summer, but was over
powered in winter. These vicissitudes have been
beautifully preserved by the hebrew poet in the
story of Samson and Delilah. Thisstory is told
with such seeming simplicity that it appears to
have nothing about it that is of a mythological
nature; which I take to be a proof of the great
judgment of the writer. He has not, however,
made any great display of geographical, know
ledge, having confined his hero and his actions
within very narrow limits. The Jews at that time
knew of no other enemies but the Philistines:
their hero, therefore, was madeto overcomethem,
by whom he was overcome.
His chief weapons of destruction were a Jaw
60
bone of an ass and fire brands, with which he
did so much mischief to the Philistines and the
vegetation of their country. The firebrands of
Samson are exactly upon a par with the fire-brands
of Hercules; for Palestine the field of Samson’s
actions is a barren soil, to which the sun beams in
summer must have been very hurtful. But why
Samson the fire of fires, or the sun was made to
scatter his fire brands by means of fores I have
no guess : I think it is an incongruous translation;
as the word in the Pebrew for For, means fist :
but to make the sun throw his beams or his fire
brands about with his fist, is not so meat a way as
that of converting his rays into arrows and fling
ing them into space with a bow. There is, how
ever an astronomical beauty in thejaw-bone of the
Ass, which makes me willing to overlook the
strange whim of comparing the sun and his rays
to a man throwing fire brands.
Although many of the anecdotes in the history
of Sampson evidently belong to the astronomy of
the Cali-yug when the sun used to disappear in
winter; yet we find them mixed with others that
bespeak the time when it is supposed to have been
written. About 3,000 years ago the Solsticial
Colure passed through the Constellation of Can
cer, in which there are two stars called Aselli,
61
i. e. the Asses; one of which is on the ecliptic;
and as the Sun's beams were very destructive to
the vegetables in the barren soil of Palestine,
when the Sun was in conjunction with the star
called the ASS, its baneful influence was ex
pressed in the flowery phraseology of the east, by
saying that Samson or the Sun scatters hisflaming
vengeance armed with the mighty Jaw-bone of
an Ass.
In the feasts of Vesta, the goddess of fire, the
bakers used to put crowns of bread upon the
heads of the asses; to denote that the Sun was in
conjunction with that animal when they had
bread made from new corn.
This must have been about three thousand
3years ago, because in our time, the star in the
tip of the Bull's south horn is within seven or
eight degrees of the Solsticial Colure. But after
these things Samson ascends the top of the rock
Etam ; from which he is dislodged, and then he
descends into the valley of Sorek where he finds
Delilah, who cuts off his seven locks and shaves
his head; he is thereby deprived of his great
strength, is taken by the Philistines, who put
out both his eyes.
R
62
This is a true picture of the sun in the age of
horror, whose rays must all disappear in thegreat
night of winter; when the Demon of which put
out both his eyes, emblem of total darkness :
That these anecdotes belong to the sun in the age
of horror is evident from the names which are
given : for the father of Samson is Manoah,
which like Menu is from Manah ; and the Hin
dus inform us that Menu was the offspring of the
Surya—the Sun: but here we find that the Sun,
or Samson is the offspring of Manoh or Menu.
What a remarkable coincidence 1
But Samson was overcome by Delilah. This is
more remarkable ; for Delilah means the great or
sufficient night, as it is compounded of Di, suf
ficient; and lilah or liloth, night—liloth is, also,
the Hebrew for owl, the bird of night : it is also
a name for the moon; because it shines in the
night. This Samson the son of Manoh had his
head shavedofhis seven locks and both his eyes put
out by the great night !!! and we are further in
formed, that after having been in prison his hair
began to grow again till he had gained fresh vi
gour; when he again performed amazing deeds
of valour. -
The story of Hercules and his twelve labours is
63 -
generally understood to relate to the Sun and the
twelve Zodiacal constellations: his vanquishing
the Lion alludes to the time when that constel
lation was at the south pole. Samson the He
brew Sun also slew a Lion ? But the Hindus
assert that, the Lion killed the sun Chrisna, vol.
3, p. 290, A. R. The Sun in that age annually
ascended to the pole—the Mountain of Budha :
which fact has been kept in sight by most of the
ancient poets.—The Sun, PHAEToN, was upon
the mountain :-The Sun HE RCULEs was upon
the lofty mount OETEN ; * and The Sun SAMson
was placed by the Hebrew poet, upon the rock
ETAM : " + -
The seven locks of hair given to Samson in his
greatest strength point out the origin of the story
to have been in the latitude of 28 degs. or on the
seventh stage of the world: but in what longitude
it does not appear. If, however, I be allowed to
hazard a conjecture I shall give the Jews a very
different origin to any other writer whose works
have come within the narrow limits of my reading.
It is allowed by all that they were slaves in
Egypt, that is, they were men that had no land of
* Ovids Met. hook 9, line 204.
+ Judges, Chap. 15, Verse 8
64
their own, either in Egypt or elsewhere. And
moreover they were always a people distinct from
the Egyptians, and consequently vagabonds. As
there are no writings to be found that furnish the
world with a rational account of the above singu
lar people previous to their entering Egypt, every
man is at liberty to supply the void. That such
a people was in Egypt we are sure ; that such a
people came out of Egypt, we are sure, also :
but from whence they came, and how long they
had been there previous to their departure we
are not so certain. Here we must look round
the world for historieal facts, and then try what
light may be derived from their union.
* The Delta, or Lower Egypt was anciently a
“ Tongue of the Egyptian Sea,” which in time
became firm land. It must, however, have
passed through several stages which may be
quicker understood than described.
The extensive level of mud, abounding with
stenchy pits, must have been one of its stages ;
the soil and air of which were very unfit for the
residence ofman; all the difficulties,however, were
encountered and overcome, by a people who were
not Egyptians; for history informs us that the
Egyptians warred against them after the country
|
º
65
became fertile, &c. But from whence came a
population so wretched as to first undertake so
forlorn a task None, sure, that could set their .
feet upon firm ground would quit it to drain a
bog, where PEstilence must have held her head
quarters; and which had, perhaps, for ages
been the greatest safeguard of Egypt from the
Kings of the east,
Let us now turn our attention to another part of
the world. We have seen a large fertile eountry
slowly rise above the level of the sea; formed
entirely by the annual depositions of the soil
brought down by a tremendous river Now let us
turn our attention to a picture of an opposite na
ture;—to the sudden submersion of a large mari
time island—the island of Atlantis. The disap
pearance of so vast an island in one night's time,
must have occasioned scenes ofthe mostterrifying
aspect. How would her sons, coming from long
voyages, feel; who, expecting to find a family
and home, found children, wife, home, and coun
try gone!—all swallowed down by that turbulent
and never-sleeping dragon, the sea Ship after
ship would arrive at the spot where harbours had
welcomed them home. And those on the land
thatsurvived the dread shock, were alike doomed
as vagrants to roam. Here, then, we have found
66
a numerous body of miserable wretches who were
not deserters of their country, but whose country
had deserted them 1 and as that country had long
been mistress of the sea, her sons, who survived,
disdaining, though in distress, to become the
subjects of other realms, might be supposed to
endeavour to maintain their independence by sub
duing the venomous LeRNEAN SER PENT, or pes
tilential bog of the Nile.
The existence of the above island has been
much disputed; although it has been so accurately
described by Plato; but it seems that the chief
objection of those writers against its existence is
the antiquity of its fall. Eleven thousand years
seem to frighten the writers of modern Theology:
but it could not have been thought so extravagant
in the days of Plato; for surely some contempo
rary writer would have given his objection. But
unfortunately for the opposers of antiquity, Plato
has described the west indian islandsand America
which are known to exist.
I have not had the advantage of reading Plato,
in his original language, the Greek; but extracts
in English, are given by good authorities, on
most of the subjects on which that philosopher
wrote; and there is scarcely a book on geology to
67
be found that has not given us an account of the
loss of that island of splendour and power called
AtALANtis; from which, it is very likely, that
the Atlantic Ocean derived its name.
At the word Atalantis in most of the Encyclo
pedias you may find something about it, as well
as in other books: where you are informed from
Plato that “ About nine thousand years have
“ passed since the island of Atlantis was in being.
“ The priests of Egypt were well acquainted
“ with it; and the first heroes of Athensgained
“ much glory in their wars with the inhabitants.
“ This island was as large as Asia Minor and
“ Syria united; and was situated beyond the
“ Pillars of Hercules (or Strait of Gibraltar)
“ in the Atlantic Ocean : from which there was
“ an easy transition to other islands in the neigh
“bourhood of another large continent.” But
alas ! alas ! this vast island the mistress of univer
sal commerce and power, in one day's time was
overturned by an earthquake and buried in
the sea.
But Plato is not the only authority for the ex
istence of the above island; the Hindu books
speak of it frequently by various names, as we
are informed by the Asiatic Society, in Calcutta,
68
who speak of it by the epithet of Atala, Atlan
tis, the White Island; and in vol. 8, p. 280, it
is called the White Devil or demon of terror. The
passage in the A. R. runs thus-“ In their ro
“mances, we see Cai-caus going to the moun
“tain of As-Bunj, at the foot of which The
“ sun sets, to fight the Div-sefid, or white devil,
“ the Taraduita of the Puranas,and whoseabode
“ was on the seventh stage of the world answer
“ing to the seventh zone of the Budsoists, or in
“ other words the White-Island.”
There is another passage in the A. R. vol. 3. p.
325, relative to the power of the inhabitants of
the above island which I shall transcribe.
“ On the banks of the Nile there where fre
“quent contests between the Devatas and the
“ Daityas, but the latter tribe having prevailed,
“ their king and leader SANc'h Asun A who resi
“ ded in the occan, made frequent excursions in
* the night,” &c.—Hence arose the idea of sea
Monsters, who, cutting the foaming billows
with their prow, rushed furiously on shore, plun
dered the inhabitants, burned their towns; and
after having committed various deeds of horror,
dive into the deep and disappear. What a poe
tical description of a horde of PIRATEs. And, it
&
69
is very likely that from the distant wars between the
people of Athens and Egypt, and the people of
this ancient island, Home R collected the materials
for his poem of “The Battle of the FRogs and
Mice,” in which, after a well fought battle on
the side of the Mice, the Frogs, (inhabitants of
the water) were victorious.
But we will take our leave ofthe Daityas, or de
mons of the White Island, whose king was Nep
tune, called by the Hindus SANc’hAsu RA, from
sanc’ha, a sea shell: and let them remain quietly
in the ocean, while we consider the latitude and .
longitude of the lost island, and of the remaining
Mount Ag-burj. It was on the seventh stage of
the world, i. e. in the seventh cliMAte or MeA
suite oF HEAT, which is between the latitude
of 24 degs. and latitude 28 degs. north, and this
White Island, which is called, also, Adbhi'-
tanaya, or daughter of the ocean, is frequently
described as lying in the west ; and the sun is
represented as setting at the foot of Mount Az
burj to fight (scorch with his vertical beams) the
White Devil or White Island From these ex
pressions, which are very poetical, we shall be
able to ascertain the longitude of this White
Island of the Hindu historians, which will be
found to be in that place where Plato had placed
the ATALANTIs. -
70
In the above accounts the Hindus speak of this
island as eristing, and in great power; it must
therefore, have been more than eleven thousand
3years ago; and if we assume that time when the
summer tropical colure passed through the pleiades
then would Cor Leonis be upon the equator;
and when Leo was vertical at the island of Ceylon
at sunset. Then would Taurus be vertical at the
island of Atlantis at noon. And we are informed
in the A. R. that Ceylon was so called from sing
ha, a Lion 1 And in 9th vol. p. 78, that the Oz
Nandi resided in the White Island 1 These are
very remarkable occurrences which must have
happened about 23,000 years ago: at which time
the obliquity of the ecliptic must have been rather
more than 27 degrees : and consequently Taurus
must have passed over ATALA or ATALANTA.
But let us enquire after Mount Azburj; at the
foot of which the sun sets, &c. Az-burj is spelt
various ways in the A. R. But they all may be
reduced to Ash-ber1, a mine of fire; from Ash
or Ish, Fire ; and BER1, a mine, or vault, or
grave: A MINE of FIRE is a proper epithet for a
volcano; which may very well be denominated
by a poet “A Monstew vomiting FIRE :” and do
we not all know that TENERIFFE is still remaining
and in that latitude and longitude so often alluded
to in the Hindu books : Teneriffe is in 28 degrees
71
north latitude; which is in the seventh climate or
measure of heat; from Cali, heat; and med or
metre, measure; which is the seventh stage of
the world—the seventh zone, &c. And its longi
tude, is such,that when the sun is vertical thereto,
it is near the horizon of Delhi ; and as Delhi
and mount Az-burjor the peak of Teneriffe are in
the same degree of north latitude ; the Island
of ATALANTIs, or the WHITE IsLAND to which
it belonged must have been to the west of Delhi
according to the ancient Hindu mode of drawing
the parallels of declination: (which will be ex
plained by a plate given at the end ofthis work),
from which we are assured that by the White
Island in the west the Hindus did not mean either
England or Novazembla; but the island of Atala
or Atalantis. Besides in vol. 8, p. 302, A. R.
we are informed that the WHITE Island has dis
appeared or sunk below the surface of the earth:
the words are “ The Indians believe the White
“ island became black on account of the sins of
“ the people?” And in p. 286, we are told that
“ This Atlantis was overwhelmed by a Flood.”
There is another sect in India called, the
JAINAs or JINAs, who have given us their testi
mony in favour of the division of the earth into
climates of four degrees each: which they called
******
72
RACHAs or Rishis; of which there are seven ;
corresponding with the seven parallels of declina
tion from the equator. The information given us
in the A. R. at p. 353 is quite conclusive on this
head: the words are “ Every Rishi represents
this Lo RD of MountA1Ns,” i. e. the pole, as it
appeared to him from his station.” Again : “The
“ earth has two sp1NDLes, which are surrounded
“ by seven tiers of earths and hells at the distance
“ of one RAJU each.”
Here is no gaudy colouring of fancy from a
poets pencil, to hide the true picture from the
dullest eye This is true science without any
embellishment ; which shews, to the plainest
mind, that at the end of the first RAchA, or at
four degrees from the equator, they represented
the pole, Meru, or the Lord of mountains as
a hill or cone with one step; at 8 degrees from
the equator or second climate, or Racha they
would represent Menu as a cone with two steps 3
and so on, until we arrive at the latitude28 degs:
on the seventh Racha, where MERU, the pole or
spindleof the earth must be 28 degrees above the
north horizon; and consequently appear as a cone
with seven steps.
Thus the seventh Rishi would represent this
73
Tord of Mountains as a cone with seven steps: or a
spindle surrounded by seven tiers of earths at the
distance of one Raju (or Racha) each. And the
other pole or spindle below the south horizon,
would appear to be surrounded by as many tiers
called hells, from the misery the people must
suffer in the northern hemisphere while the sun
was there.
A Rishi is acknowledged to be a sacred per
sonage or “Saint of u Mantra,”—so is Menu,
and so is sacha : they are all names of singular
import. And I have shewn that all their
Long Lived Hol.IN esses are but names given
to the different portions of the sky which the
pole of the earth described every 24, or 25,000
years; or every time the equinoctial points made
one revolution; or to the sections of the earth
bounded by the tropics at each such revolution.,
These divisions of the earth are called DwipAs,
i. e. Two-waters; from dwi, two; and apas,
waters; this is confessed in the A. R. but there is
a great want of correct application.
If the earth be cut into two sections at the
equator, we term them the northern and southern
hemispheres; but in Hebrew they are called by
G
74
names that mean the northern slice and the
southern slice. Now if we make parallel secti
ens at the distances of 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, 24, and
28 degrees from the equator, then will there be
seven slices, which being cut across the conti
ments of Asia and Africa, each slice must have
water at each end; each one of these slices then
would be a dwipa and all collectively would be
the seven dwipas ; which proves that this division
originated in the longitude of 28 degrees. And
we are informed in the A. R. that other sects
reckoned eight.
N. B. Is it not extremely remarkable that
these sections or slices of the earth are by the
Hindus called RAchAs and that we in Norfolk
still call slices of bacon, RASHERs 1
In one place of the A. R. it is supposed that
the seven stars in Ursa-major were the seven
rishas. It is a long while since they were the
seven steps on Meru ; and it is still longer since
they extended from LANCA to DELHI.
Men should be careful how they endeavour to
support false systems. It is 70,000 years since
the pole of the earth pointed to the tip of Ursa
major's tail? - - -
75
Much has been said about the locality of Men's
by Europeans : one while it is allowed to be the
north pole, and another while it is said, in vol.
8th p. 341, that it is 90 degrees from the horizon,
not from the equator . . But observe, the judicious
writer does not draw this eonclusion from what is
said in the Hindu books called the paur'anics;
but from his own construction, or rather, his
own misconstruction of what he has there read.
He is giving us the Hindu description of the
NonthE RN H emisphe RE, having the poſe or
MERU in the centre and the outward circle the
equator: from which is it not easy to describe
the situation of places in any other way so con
spicuous as that which has been adopted by the
Hindus : for, from the pole every where is south :
but if through Delhi, or Lanca a line be drawn
through the pole, they would call all those places
to the right of that line either east or west of that
line. And by drawing a line through the pole at
right angles with the first line, they would dis
tinguish the places on each side of this last drawn
line by different appellations; and as they could
not be east or west, they were for distinction called
north or south of the pole. -
At p. 351, we are informed that “ the two
“ countries north and south of Meru are shaped
76
its like a bow.” “And that one half of the sur
** face of the earth is on the south of Meru and
“, the other half on the north of Meru—beyond
“ which is half Pushcara,” that is to say half
America. And we all know that the northern
part of Asia and AMERICA surround the fro
zen ocean in the form of two bows; and we know,
also, north curu or North America is beyond the
pole, and that it is to the south of the northern
ocean. From the north pole, also, “one half
“ of the surface of the earth is on one side, and
the other half on the other side:” for the two
hemispheres as we generally represent them have
nearly all the new world or America called Push
cara in one, and very nearly all the old world in
the other: and if the two hemispheres were pro
jected on the plane of the horizon of Lanca
(allowing Lanca to have been on the equator) it
would be more so. “And these expressions
“ prove very plainly,” says the writer of the
article, “ that by Menu the PAURANAs did not
“ originally understand the north pole,” which
they call SIDD'HAPUR.
feel myself much obliged for the information
here given by the writer of this article; but I shall
... greatly neglect my duty if I do not shew that
* All these expressions prove very plainly that
77
“ by Menu the Pauranics did originally un.
derstand the north pole. -
* Imagine a circle of any sweep, crossed by two
lines at right angles in the centre, which we will
call the pote; and the circle the equator : then,
if we go back to the time when Brama GUPTA
conquered India; which is stated to be about
3,000 years ago, then the poles made an angle
of 24 degrees, and the tropics were as far from
the equator. Project the two circles round the
pole, one at the distance of 24 degrees from the
pole, as the then polar circle ; and the other at
the same distance from the equator, as the summer
tropic. The diagram is now divided into three
circular ranges with the pole in the middle, and
taking the upright diameter for the meridian of
Lanca, the horizontal one would divide Asia
from America, and cut the three circular ranges
into sir parts or semicircular ranges: the first
three of which are between LANcA on the equa
tor, and the pole, and contain Asia and Europe,
and a great part of Africa: and the other three
would contain North America; which like the
first half of the hemisphere would be divided into
three ranges in exactly the same latitudes, reck
oning from the opposite side of the equator,
which circumscribes the northern hemisphere.
.78
And, beyond which is the other half of America.
All these expressions are sufficiently understood
by modern Geographers, and they exactly agree
with the Hindu accounts by substituting Meru
for Pole, and Pushcara for America.
The words given in the A. R. vol. 8, p. 321, are
“ BeyondMeru is half Pushcara,”i.e. between the
north pole and the equator. And “beyond this
“ circular range is the other half of Pushcara;”
i.e. beyond the equator (from Meru or the north
pole) is the other half of America. Why this
gentleman has laboured so hard to make it appear
that thepole is not the pole, does not surprise me.
What if there be SOMETHING beyond the
Pole that will prove that the milk of his nursery
was notthe milk of TRUTH
The only reason given by the writer why the
north pole is not the north pole is “ because it
was in the track of the Sun.”
The Pole called Siddhapur was once within
the track of the sun : !! “ Ah—there's the
rub."—The sun was once at Siddhapur, the
“ country of the Gods ; for when the sun is there
“it is midnight at LANcA and in India.-The
* Pauranics formerly considéred the earth to be
79
“flat, with a immense converity in the centre,
“ behind which the sun disappeared gradually,
descending so as to grase the surface ofthe sea at
“ Siddhapura.
What! a flat with an immense convexity
What a flat . And so, because the Hindus had
hemispheres which they might easily study as
they were placed with theflat side upon a table,
are we to be called upon to believe, that, they
were flat enough not to distinguish their table from
the hemisphere. But I shall not allow my atten
tion to be 'lured from the ancient sacred truths
contained in the above lines by ridiculing the
European absurdities with which they are
blended.
That Meru and the north pole are the same has
not been denied from any positive conviction that
they are not so : but the writer suggests that they
cannot be the same, because Meru, called Sidd'-
hapur is within the track of the Sun. But it has
been sufficiently shewn that the pole is within the
track of the sun for the space of 50,000 years in
every Maha-yuga. Besides, “ the sun's disap•
“ pearing gradually, descending so as tograze the
“sed at Siddhapura,” is an expressionwhicheX*
actlyagrees with theastronomicalphanomenaia or
80
near the age of horror, in all those parts of Hin
dostan that are between the equator and the latitude
of Delhi, just before and after midsummer. And
about the time of midsummer, just before and
after the Cali-yug, or age of horror. In all these
times the “ Sun would descend so as to graze
“ the surface of the sea at Sidd'HAPUR, i. e. the
country of the gods—the northern ocean ; which
is at their horizon: at which time it would be
midnight at Lanca and in India. But what could
induce the writer of the above article to think of
placing Sidd'hapur—the Country of the Gods on
the equator, opposite Lanca It is not necessary
that the sun should be on the equator to be mid
night at Lanca ; it is equally midnight there
when the sun has gradually descended below their
north horizon so as to graze the surface ofthe sea
in the northern ocean. Besides, were SIDD'-HA
PUR on the equator, the sun, to pass over it, must
plunge deep into the sea in a perpendicular de
scent, and be absent for twelve hours; but here
we are informed that “the Sun gradually disap
“ peared, descending so as to graze the surface of
the sea;” which it cannot do in any other places,
than those near the NorthERN horizon: conse
quently Siddhapur, the Country of the Gods,
must be beyond the north pole, which is Meru.
And which, we are here told, “ wasformerly inthe
81
“ track of the sun t” But these evidences not
: only prove that the pole was formerly in the plane
of the ecliptic; but that theancient Hindus were
well acquainted with North and South America,
which they called Pushcara ; and say that it is
divided into two parts, &c.
But if it is still asserted that the ancient nations
had become acquainted with the pericyclosical
motion of the pole and had all of them been
amused with schemes of inventing tales and sym
bols to express all the vast complicated conse
quences that could possibly have happened in
every part of the earth, and under every angle
of the two poles; yet, such an assertion can
bring theEuropean no relief: for then all the con
sequences must have been only imaginary. But
the consequences were real. The Pyramids of
Egypt are real; and itisnot likely that such pro
digious buildings were erected asadefenceagainst
such ravages as were only imaginary; that would
have been carrying an idle joke to a serious
heighth. The Walls of Babylon 60 miles long,
and 87 feet thick, and 300 feet high were a sense
less waste of stuff and time if they were in
tended to prove the existence of those evils that
never could occur. But it may be asked, if all
these vast tales of remote antiquity arose from
82
“ the baseless fabric of a vision,” how did they
... obtainsuch an accurate accountof America solong
before us? And how does it happenthat the peo
ple in America, whom we call savages, have
preserved a knowledge of those distant ages when
the sun used to disappear in winter Could they
have had an ancient knowledge of the polar mo
tion and with it have had the same senseless whim.
of reckoning consequences for millions of years.
back that could never occur.
Their country, like most of the other parts of
the earth contain surprising excavations, the ori
gin of which the present race of people know
nothing of Are we to suppose that they were
hollowed out by imaginary beings that never
did (xist.
It is acknowledged by most writers on Theology
that the Mysteries contained in the holy books of
the Hindus, are so like the mysteries contained
in ours that the Hindus have borrowed theirs
from ours. But I have demonstrated that the
seeming mysteries of the Hindus and other an
cient nations arose from the operation of the ele
ments as they must have been governed by the
angle of the two poles or most powerful Gods.
called the Cabirim; and if it is contended that
83
their mysteries were invented to agree with celes
tial motions that never existed, how does it hap
pen that these same polar motions agree so closely
with our holy mysteries 2
The division of time, by the Hindus must not
go unnoticed, as we shall find the same idea pre
vail relative to a vast antiquity. -
The day is the first sensible divison of time,
which was reckoned from sunrise to sunrise, and is
divided into the light half and the dark half; and
is called a day of mortals ; the month is lunar,
and also divided into the light halfand dark half;
and is called a day of the Pit RIAs or people
that inhabit behind the Moon, to whom the dark
fortnight is peculiarly favourable; for they have
their day when the moon is in conjunction with
the sun; and their night when she is in oppo
sition to the sun. Here, we find the Hindus, in
their sacred books, speaking of the moon like
Astronomers; conveying an idea that it made one
revolution on its axis every time it went round the
earth, and that the people behind the moon had
no light but from the sun. They could not learn
this from Moses, because he calls the moon a
great light But the Hindus called the people
that inhabit behind the moon, the Pitrias, whose
84
day is a month long : hence has arisen the grossest
errors among the European writers, which I am
sorry to see copied into Wolney's new Re
searches; and which are used by some to explain
the mystical numbers of the Hindus; but when
men endeavour to explain what they do not un
derstand by what is known to be false, it is impos
sible for their conclusions to be true. “A month
is a day of the Pitrias” (i.e. of the people who
inhabit the moon) has been treated by a gentle
man in the A. R. as if it had been “a month is a
day ofthe Pat RIARchs,”the great progenitors of
mankind.—Gracious God l how can the Pitrias
that live behind the moon, have any thing to do
with our Patriarchs. And because the people in
the moon have but twelve of their days in our
year, the lunatic of Calcutta thought that he
could solve the Hindu numbers by taking 12 of
our days for a year; and after bandying their
numbers about for some time with his twelve day
years, having heated himself with his conceit,
he concludes by heaping a string of angry epi
thets upon the “ petty fictions, and pretended
“ antiquity of the fraudulent crafty sons of
* Brahma.”
The solar year, is called a day of the Gods.
This is what we shall find will answer our Pur
85
pose very well. The Hindus speak of the
morning of the gods, and the night of the gods,
in a way not easily to be misunderstood. The
gods are placed by the Hindus round the north
pole, or about the region of the frozen ocean;
which may be limited by the polar circle, in
which, in the winter there can be no sun, conse
quently that is the night of the gods, and in
which in the summer the sun shines continually;
which constitutes the day of the gods. This is
so clear that it needs no explaining ; and J. D.
Paterson, Esq. in vol. 8, A. R. says “ When
“ the sun begins his southern declination, the
“ night of the gods begin.” And we are cer
tain that the morning of the gods must begin
when the sun begins his northern declination.
But it is asserted in theA. R. in one place of vol.
3 “ that the night of the gods begin with the
“ summer solstice;” and in another place, “that
“ the morning of the gods begin at that time.
In England we say it is morning immediately
after midnight, but it is certainly very unnatural.
Our winter is the night of the gods, and who
would think ofsaying that the winten begins at
midsummer. Had the gentleman said that the
night of the godsformerly began when the sun
H
º
86
was in our present summer solstice, he had been
right; for in an ancient zodiac given in the A. R.
there is a point in Capricorn called “the morning
“ of the gods,” Here, then, in Capricorn, the
sun used to make his first appearance at the
north pole. In our time he begins to rise at the
north pole in the constellation of Pisces. But in
the time of BRAMA GUpt A when the Hindus
were obliged to adopt (in a great measure) the
astronomy of the Egyptians, the sun used to
rise at the north pole, when he was in the Ram,
or Aswina, i. e. the Mare ; which is the first of
the twelve houses in the zodiac of the Hindu As
tronomers. In fact, the equator formerly crossed
the ecliptic in Capricorn, and it now crosses it
in Pisces: and if you count the signs backwards
from Capricorn to Pisces there are ten; which at
only 2,000 years to each sign would take the
tropic 20,000 years to pass from one to the other
We see into whatever part of their history we
strike, we are sure to find marks of vast antiquity.
But “ the morning of the gods” strictly speak
ing, cannot be understood at all in the present
state of the poles. For the gods were supposed
to reside among the stars that were vertical to the
polar part of the earth; where they held their
87
congregation in the sides of the north,ſrom whence
they might look down and behold all the dwellers
upon earth; that is, the northern hemisphere.
And it does not appear that the ancients had an
idea that their gods could see * beyond the equa
tor, i. e. into the other hemisphere: the inhabi
tants of which, were under the controul of the
Daityas or Demons who resided upon Badawa
mal or Asura—the south pole.
- *
Consequently the true night of the gods could
only take place when the earth was between the
imaginary inhabitants on Meru and the Sun, for
then the Sun shining at the south pole, was sup
posed not to be seen by the gods on the north;
and as the whole of the northern hemisphere was,
then, totally dark, the earth presented no object
for their gods to look at, all was dark,-'twas
night with their gods. And this night of their
gods must have continued, in every winter,
• Perhaps this notion of theirs arose from a beliefthat the my.
of vision were produced in right lines: not considering that the
medium of the atmosphere would raise to their view some part of
the southern hemisphere. *
Sia Isaac Newron was of opinion “ that the atmosphere of
“ the earth was the sensory of GOD ; by which he was ena
“ bled to see quite Round the earth :” which proves that Sir
Isaac had no idea that GOD could see through the earth.
88
through the Cali-yug : whilst in every summer
the sun must have approached the head-quar
ters of their imaginary Deities.
All nature was then supposed to be more under
the direction of the gods than at any other time.
The Sun, himself, was, at that time, more im
mediately under the controul of their guardian
deities, 'twas the reign of the gods; andaseach
step of Meru had its guardian angel, or deity;
whether it was a Sacha, or a Menu, or a Rishi,
or a Shastra : or what ever other name the dif
ferent orders of their heavenly host were distin
guished by, they were all supposed to be under
the government of a sovereign who resided at the
pole; the whole earth was supposed to be go
verned by one God, for whom we find the name
adopted by various nations was Yao, Zao, or Jao.
Now, if we imagine that a nation reckoned the
time that the tropic was passing over one of
these polar spaces, to be a year of that God's
reign; then we shall be able to understand very
clearly what is meant by that passage from Father
Martini, relative to the reign of YAO the se
venth Emperor of China ; which is mentioned in
the Appendix, page 4I, part Ist.
But the whole of this article relative to the
89
night and morning of the gods, is of very little
importance to this work; since all that can be
proved by it, relative to antiquity, is, that the
pole of the earth was formerly in the plane of the
ecliptic. And as that has been done before by an
host ofevidences without a single opponent from
the ancients, the above article may be very well
dispensed with.
In various parts of the A. R. much emphasis is
laid upon the time when Brama Gupta conquered
India. Which is placed at about 3,000 years
ago. From that time, it is stated, that the an
mals of India wear a more rational appearance—
the reigns of their kings are brought within the
natural limits of men's lives; and their zodiac
was made to assume an Egyptian form; for Bra
ma Gupta means the God or Lord of Egypt.
And we know that it was customary with the an
cients to prefix to the name of conquerors the
epithet of Deity. Hence, ScANDER the great
was honoured, in Egypt, by the prefix Ali,
which his name afterwards retained, being
blended into Alexander. When Buon APARTE
conquered that country he was called ALLI Buo
NAPARTE.
As a proof of the conquest of India by the
Egyptians,we find a gigantic SPHINX in India
90
a plate of which is given in vol. 2nd or 3rd, of
the A. R. it is there said that the Brahmins knew
but little about it: and that little is nothing to the
purpose. In fact they could say nothing about
it that is true without bringing their country into
disgrace by confessing that it had been under the
paw of Egypt.
The monster is a Lion with a human head ha
ving martial whiskers. He presses beneath him a
crouchant Elephant; his right paw is raised in a
threatening attitude; which speaks as plain as an
attitude can speak; “ If you offer to stir my
orEN PAw is ready.”
As the Elephant is a Symbol of India and the
Sphinx of Egypt, it is impossible to make silent
matter more expressive of the subjugation of
India by Egypt.
From several passages in the A. R. we are in
formed that a great many constellations are de
scribed in the sanscrit books very nearly as we
have them on our globes. Particularly those of
Cepheus and Cassiopia,Andromeda and Perseus;
which are mentioned by names of similar sound
in the sanscrit, and are given in the A. R. as
follows; Capeya and Casyapi, Antarmada and
91
Parasica; these are evident synonims, and are of
Egyptian or Phenecian original, as is sufficiently
demonstrated by the ABBE PLUCHE.
But whoever will read the story in the 4th book
of Ovid's Met. from about line 000, will find that
though Pluche has given the etymologies of An
dromede and Cepheus and Cassiopeia, yet he
has quite mistaken that of Perseus the deliverer
of the virgin, i. e. the rocky coast of Palestine.
Pluche had no inclination to believe that this
story related to a time about 11,000 years ago,
when the Island of Atlantis was in existence.
The story of Andromeda delivered by Perseus,
is a fine specimen of poetical history as given by
Ovid. The story in laconic prose is this ; Egypt
and Palestine were at varience ; Egypt or Am
mon refused to let Andromeda or Palestine have
her supplies of food, &c. and she being block
aded by land, the people of Palestine were in
danger of being starved, but rather than yield
to the oppression of Egypt (Ammon) they al
lowed Perseus the King of Atalis to be their king
on condition of his bringing them relief, which
he did from the furthest parts of the earth.
Pluche says, she (Andromeda or Palestine) was
relieved by ships from Egypt; but Ovid descri
bes the country of Perseus at the furthest part of
the earth; and speaks of it in terms of rapture;
but that which is most to our purpose, is, that it
92
was situated at the furthest part of the earth, in
the sea that receives the weary charriot and pant
ing horses of the sun, i. e. the sea where the
sun set, and no neighbourhood disturbed his
land, line 636 (how expressive of an insular
country). Perseus is afterwards described as fit
ting out an armed fleet, which cleaves the liquid
air with its wings, speedily leaves innumerable
nations behind (as he sailed up the Mediteranean
Sea) and soon came in sight of the nations of the
Ethiopians and lands of Cepheus, where the un
just Ammon (King of Egypt) had ordered the
innocent Andromeda to suffer punishment for her
mother's tongue, line 670. But before Perseus
could arrange matters with Cepheus, the Egyp
tian fleet covered the sea far and wide, line 690.
a dreadful sea-fight ensues in sight of the shore
in which, Perseus, by boarding sword in hand
gained a complete victory over the fleet of Egypt
then lands and takes possession of Palestine, from
the incensed majesty of the Nereids, the horned
Ammon, the monster of the sea (the king of
Egypt)book 5,1ine 17.—But it will here be worth
the readers while to read the story at large in the
last 200 lines of Ovid's 4th book; where if he
reads attentively and with penetration,he will find
another evidence for the existence of the island of
Atalanta,
But though the above names and outlines of the
93 +-
story are found in the books of the sanscrit that
does not prove the story to be an Hindostan story:
but that it was part of the history of Egypt or
Palestine which the Hindus recorded. The Hin
du books contain the ancient history of the whole
earth and are still worth our notice if we wish to
become acquainted with real antiquity.
But the antiquity of India had nothing to fear
from the Egyptians; this, however, was not the
case when the Mahometans rushed into their coun
try with fire and sword. These truth-destroying
monsters, were not content with taking the gold
and jewels; they were filled with a pious fury to
destroy the books of science and the annals of
the country; and such was their destructive vigi
lence that few escaped except what were saved at
the bottom of their wells : from which circum
stance we may imagine arose the proverb that
“ Truth lies at the bottom of the well.”.
After such dreadful losses, what shall we say
of other conquerors who insult the robbed his
torian when he relates his tale of elements, by
enquiring where are your ancient written evi
dences 2 -
* But notwithstanding the ravages committed by
the destroyers of ancient books and monuments,
- - - 94
the world is still rich with the historical monu
ments that will prop the throne of truth too firm
to be shaken by thefrail battery of falsehood.
We have now taken a most extensive survey
of all the ancient nations, from the atlantic ocean
to the extremity of the east, and from the
equator to the 36th deg. of north latitude. In all
this vast portion of the earth we have found the
remains of an ancient knowledge which proves in
the most satisfactory manner, that, the poles of
the earth were formerly in the plane of the eclip
tic; and that they have been separated from itby
a slow progressive motion—by a spiral recession
which, at once, in our time, produces that
effect which we call the precession of the equinoc
tialpoints, and the diminution of the angle of the
ecliptic with the equator. º,
I am aware that this very delicate point is op
posed : but it is by gentlemen whose decissions
are at variance, and whose assigned causes are
inadequate to produce the effect. I mean not,
however to be understood as saying that the at
traction of the sun, moon, and plannets have no
influence on the earth : they may accellerate and
retard this motion, though they do not produce it.
We know nothing, at present, of the cause of
the earth's diurnal motion, which is the most ob
95
* -
vious of all. Walker, however, attributes it to
the efflux of light, flowing in tangents from the
sun : but this, though it helps to produce the or
bicular or annual motion of the earth, can have
no influence on the rotary motion. Nor can the
attraction of the sun and planetsconfine the angle
of the poles within the limits prescribed by the
above learned gentlemen, whose limits, l am
told, DIFEER considerably: which must destroy
their hypotheses. -
The astronomical numbers of the ancients dif:
fer; but what delightful harmony is produced
thereby. The Kalee or Cali-yug in the latitude
of 16 degrees continued 200,000 years; reckon
ing 25,000 years to one round of the equinoctial
points : while in the latitude of 36 degrees the
Cali-yug in remote antiquity, when they counted
24,000 years to a round, continued for 432,000
years. It is more than twice the former; but the
latter country is more than twice the distance of
the former from the equator. Thus, though
they differ, in their numbers, they differ in the
proportion to their distance from the equator; or
according to the elevation of the pole in each re
spective country. Here we find heavenly music
in their discords ! Here we find the history of
heaven and earth united and here we find that
“Every Rishi represented the Lord of Moun
96
tains” i.e. the pole “ as it appeared to him from
his station.”.
I shall here take my leave, for the present, of
the much slandered sons of Hindostan Urania,
heartily wishing they may find A MoRE ABLE
ADWOCATE.
I now come to the most dificult part of my
task,--to the investigation of the writings of a
PEOPLE who have given us no regular clue for
our guide. A people who were acquainted with
most of the nations which have passed in review;
and who having no astronomical science of their
own; nor any long catalogue of ancestry to boast
of, equal to the great nations in which they re
sided, they supplied its place by blending in
with their real history such anecdotes from the
histories of their various masters as best suited
their views; which they have strung together
with some ingenuity. But still there is that irre
gularity in their heterogeneous characters which
proves clearly that they were not human beings.
Many eminent writers have shewn that their an
cient personages were not governed by the rules
of nature which govern all. But none have been
able to measure them by that stan DARD from
which they were originally taken; which, it will
be seen, was the STANDARD OF URAN1A.
97.
THE ANALYZATION
of The
warTINGS OF THE JEws,
As far as they are found to have any connexion with the sublime
Science of Astronomy.
6"ºs-9
The writings of this wandering and broken
people, have occupied the pens of every theolo
gical writer in Europe for several centuries,
without having produced any thing of a satisfac
tory nature concerning them : and much it is to
be lamented, that such is the difference of opinion
about certain passages, that some authors have
forsaken all bounds of decency; and treated the
books and their defenders with the most inveterate
malignity, being determined to see nothing but
the dead letter, or literal meaning from Genesis
to Revelations. Whilst the others pretend
TO SEE a spiritual meaning in every line.
As I am disgusted with the coarse ribaldry of
the one set; and am in possession of eyes that
cannot see the spirits of the other, I must be con
tented to draw such information from their holy
l
98
books as will be found best pleasing to the flowery
Urania of the ancients: from whose truth-direct
ing finger so many passages of their books have
been written.
Let none but poetsjudge the poet's song,
To whom alone sublimer thoughts belong.—
Tho' fancy's fond delirium fires his brain,
And airy phantoms swell his pompous strain ;
Where v1RGIN Mothers godlike infants bear :
And Chrisna's offspring fill the shining sphere;
Where battling kings with battling kings engage,
Whose wrath not twice 12,000 years assuage.
Where conquering demons kill a vanquish’d god,
Who in his turn inflicts the vengeful rod.
And where, tho’ ANTiquared ladies teem,
Still, true to SCIENCE is the poet's theme.
Truth can no longer be concealed.
European Theologians insist, that the ancient
mysteries of the east and the present mysteries
of the west are so nearly similar that they must
have had one common origin; but it is quite
certain that the ancient HINDUS who lived in the
ninth climate, or in the 36th degree of north
latitude, and who were acquainted with the
motions of the earth and all their consequences
four millions of years ago, could not pos
99
sibly have borrowed a single idea from men or
books whose antiquity is but a few centuries.
The known history of the Jews proves that
they were frequently in bondage to various na
tions, that were widely diffused throughout
various climates, and of whose religion (which
was the worship of the stars, i. e. the study of
Astronomy) the Jews had no knowledge: for
though “Moses was learned in all the learning
of the Egyptians” it does not appear that he taught
any of it to his countrymen: they were excel
lent “ dreamers of dreams” but they were not
astronomers. Some of them we are informed saw
VISIONS. Ezekiel saw a vision when he was a
slave in Babylon ; Daniel saw a vision when he
was a slave in Persia ; and a Jew called John
a long while afterwards saw several visions in the
isle of Patmos while he was a prisoner there.
As I have nothing to do with the dreamers of
dreams, nor can build any edifice upon “the
baseless fabric of a Dream,” I shall consider
what has been said by the SEERS OF VISIONS.
It is very evident from the writings of the
above men, who were captives in different na
tions, that it was a common practice among
100
them to endeavour to instil into the minds of
their Hebrew captives some knowledge of the
science of astronomy; but it appears from the and
recitals of those who were selected for pupils,
who were to teach the rest of their brethren, that
they always missed of their aim, as we do now
a-days; they will never become christians with
all our endeavours to make them so; nor could
the ancients make them understand astronomy.
It is really curious to notice with what confirmed
apathy the Jews always attended the astronomi
eal lectures of their masters: they heard indeed,
but understood not ; they saw, but did not per
ceive. They constantly paid divine honours to the
lecturer, calling him their lord, and mistook the
scene-shifters and crank-turners for angels.
When Ezekiel had received orders to go and
instruct his fellow captives in the astronomy of
the Babylonians, he opens the scene in a manner
truly sublime. Whether the scene opened by
the drawing up of a curtain, or the shifting of
doors, or otherwise it is not said; but the expres
sion is truly grand, Ezek. 1. ch. 1. v.–“ The
heavens were opened and I saw VISIONS OF
GOD.” This expression is truly worthy of an
astronomical lecture ; and from the brilliancy of
the scenes they must have been worthy of such a
101
holy expression, The sun and the living crea
tures, meaning the constellated animals, appear
to have been highly illuminated transparencies,
while the stars are described as burning lamps.
The first four living creatures are described as
compound sphin.res, aſter the manner of the
Egyptians, each having four faces, viz. of a
man, of a lion, an ox, and an eagle. The SUN.
in his annual round through the signs of the
Zodiac, is described as the spirit of God moving
up and down among the living creatures.—The
STARS, represented by burning lamps, are
called EYES, while some of the constellations
are called the beasts.-And the beast had “eyes
before and eyes behind.”—Taurus having a re
markable star in each horn, may very welf} be
taken for the beast with eyes in his horns. Had
the popular T. P. been a man who could have
blended genius with astronomical knowledge, he
had not ridiculed the poet Ezekiel for speaking
of the four circles, viz. the Equator, the Ecliptic,
and the two parallels of declination, called the
Tropics, as having the appearance of a “wheel.
within a wheel.” There is in the tenth ch. v. 13,
a very remarkable expression concerning the
wheels.-:“As for the wheels , it was cried unto
them in my hearing, O WHEEL.” Whoever
will diligently compare verses 16, 17, ch. 10,
102
with verses 18, 19, ch. 1, will not hesitate to
say that this wheel was no other than the Ecliptic;
as it moved up FRom the earth along with the
constellations, or living creatures.
Hence it is very evident that the Babylonians
in their superb and splendid representations of
the starry firmament, had not forgotten the
varying obliquity of the Ecliptic. In the open
ing of the scene in the 4. v. ch. 1, the attention
of the spectators is drawn to the NORTH by a
whirlwind and dreadful fiery clouds, &c. in v. 16
the spectator beheld one wheel upon the earth,
by the living creatures.—“And as the wheels
were lifted up from the earth, the cherubims.
were liſted up—and they turned not as they
went.” Here we have a correct description of
the commencement of the age of horror, when
the tropical circle and the ecliptic coincided with
the North horizon; and at which time the actors
might well cry “O WHEEL.” O wheel, is
an exclamation of sorrow, and sorrow and woe.
must have been the lot of nations while the wheels
mounted Up from the earth with the cherubims at
THE NORTH, and till they passed over the
pole as far on the other side.
We are informed by this Hebrew historian, in
103.
his first chapter, that his first vision was at Baby
lon, in the 5th year of his captivity: but that his
2nd vision was a year afterwards, ut Jerusalem.
Both the chapters are so nearly alike that we are
assured that in the short space of six years the
Babylonian artists had erected, in the Temple of
Jerusalem, a most magnificent and elaborate
machine to explain the science of astronomy.
according to all the present known motions of the
earth within its orbit. But though the hebrew.
writers seem to think the Temple of Jerusalem.
prophaned by the exhibition of such a glorious.
monument to URANIA, yet he deserves to be.
held in high veneration for having written, such
a detailed account of what was to be seen in the
temples of the Pagans; and his descendants de
serve the thanks of every man of science for
having preserved two such precious articles of
antiquity—the first and second chapters of the
hebrew historian Ezekiel: whose descriptions of
the labyrinth of Egypt I have noticed before,
The visions of Daniel are twofold (perhaps)
one, of the ram and the goat, is evidently
political, and consequently does not come under.
the cognizance of an astronomer: the other was
ordered to be sealed to the end ; and of course.
cannot come underthe inspection ofanybody; but
104.
THE VISIONS OF JOHN:
were like those of Ezekiel, i. e. they were
Astronomical; and as he has been more open
minded than Daniel, we shall find ourselves more.
enlightened.
It is true, that there is a vast deal of hetero--
geneous matter inserted in the book of Revela
tions it was written by a JEW of the sect of
the Pharisees ; who in his 2nd chap. verse 9th,
says—“ I know the blasphemy of them which
“say they are Jews, and are not, but are of the
<< SYNAGOGUE OF SATAN ?”—And in his
21st chap. verses 12th and 14th, speaking of a
new city which he had seen, with twelve
GATEs and twelve-foundations, he says that on:
the TWELVE gates were written the TWELVE
TRIBEs of Isr AEL ; and on the TWELVE
Foun DATIoks were written the names of the
TWELVE Apostles of the LAMB, and the
foundations of the wall were garnished with all
manner of precious stones. The first foundation
was of jasper (clear as crystal); the second
sapphire; the third, a chalcedony; the fourth,
an emerald; &c, and the TWELFTH, an
amethyst.
105
It is very remarkable, that these TWELVE
precious stones, were those that were set in the
breast-plate of the Jewish High-Priest : which
was called the “ URIM AND THUMIM,”
which ought to be URIM AITH-OMIM.
Urim and Thumim is translated sights and per
fections; but those that understand the Hebrew
know very well that URIM is the plural of UR,
and ur is a word, for heaven; and Thummim is
an abbreviation of AITH, fire, and om, all ;
and im, plural termination. Thus we shall find
that $6 URIM AITHOMIM” means “ All the
* FIRES of the heavens !” i.e. all the stars in
the twelve signs of the Zodiac. And it is wor
thy of notice that they were placed so as thatthe
green gems represented the spring months, &c.
the Amethyst, (A DARK PURPLE) represented
the last month of winter. Those glittering gems
as symbols of the twelve signs of the Zodiac
were used by the Pagans nearly in the same way,
Their priests used to place six on the right
shoulder and six on the left, thereby representing
the six summer and the six winter signs. But
to prove that these things are astronomical is to
prove what is already allowed to be so by many.
But I shall show that these visions of St. John
as well as those of Ezekiel, were grand astrono
mical spectacles wherein they took notice of the
reRicyclosicAI, motion of the pole, -
106
It is quite clear that Ezekiel's wheels (the tro
pic and zodiac) rising up from the northern
horizon along with the living creatures (the
zodiacal constellations) that turned not as they
went, but whithersoever the spirit (the sun) was.
to gothither they went ; allude to the setting in of
the “ age of horror;” when the sun, (i. e. the
spirit of God) the TROPIC, and the nothern
part of the ecliptic, with the tropical sign as
cended up from the earth towards the pole;
which is the well known consequence of the in
creasing angle of the poles till they arrive at 90
degrees. There is not however, in Ezekiel, any
clue given by which we may guess at the latitude
of the country. But in the Revelations, the
writer has been very minute in that part of astro
nomical history, for he has given us the conse
quences of the different stages ofthe age ofhorror
in different latitudes, with much precision. It
would, perhaps, be tiresome to follow the writer
through all his splendidºscenery, because he had
been introduced to a temple of the Pagans, after
the conquest of Babylon bythe Persians: and from
their exulting over the fallen state of Babylon,
we are quite certain that it could not be long after
the Persian conquest; and of course the recitals
of astronomical relations are frequently broken
by reiterated shouts of FALLEN BABY I.ON,
107
interspersed with extravagant scenes of van.
quished heroes, perhaps, drawn with the rancor
ous and most envenomed pencil of foul distortion 1
The Persians had gained a most extensive empire
by conquering Babylon and Egypt, and being
mad with success they had the most extravagant
rejoicings in their temples, and that they might
extend their empire to the utmost bounds of the
earth,they endeavoured to establish A NEW RE
L16ION, which had for its object the placing
of the whole earth under the government of a
universal monarch—the sovereign of earth and
sky, the king of kings and lord of lords. But
under this celestial government, the whole earth
was to pay tribute to Persia, who might think to
screen himself from the vengeance of an oppres
sed people, by saying that he was but a SUB
KING, “for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth.”
Rev. 19 chap. v. 6. -
Between four and five hundred years before we
place the birth of Christ, the Persians, assisted
by Zoroaster and some of their Hebrew cap
tives, had brought forth a new religion, regulated,
however, still by the motion of Astronomical
circles; and as the equator, about that time, cut
the ecliptic in the constellation of the ram, the
ram was therefore the leading character in their
108
new drama. They had also established a notion
of dying and coming to life again; with many
other things of a spiritual nature, (which, I
must confess, I do not understand,) all of which
however, were instilled into the minds of specta
tors by the most magnificent and splendid scenery
and mechanism that can be imagined. Into one
of the temples where these glorious scenes where
exhibited, we will now enter, along with the wri
ter of the book of Revelations.
The Writer informs us that he was in the
spirit on the LORD'S DAY, and heard behind
him a great voice as of a trumpet, saying, I am
ALPHA AND OMEGA. * And turning to see the
voice, he saw seven golden candlesticks, and in
the midst one like unto the son of man, clothed
with a garment down to the foot, and girt about
the paps with a golden girdle (the zodiac). His
head and his hairs were white like wool, as white
as snow; and his eyes were as a flame of fire ;
and his feet like unto fine brass, as if they burned
in a furnace; and he had in his right hand seven
stars ; and his countenance was As The SUN
sHINETH IN His strae NGTH. Who can here
mistake this scene It is the symbol of the su N
surrounded by the seven planets.
* These are the first and lastletters of the Greek Alphabet :
which is like saying in English, I am A and Z, i. e. the first letter
and the last letter; which includes all Thar ar.
109
But what follows in the 18 verse ch. 1, puts it
beyond all doubt.—“ I am he that liveth, and
“ was dead; and behold, I am alive for ever
“more; and have the keys of HELL and DEATH.”
These expressions are truly applicable to the sun
after the age of horror.—He was dead; but now
he is alive for evermore. It is well known that
the ancients expressed unlimited time by saying
“for ever and ever;” and that by “for ever,”
they intended a long time,but not time without end.
And if we admit that the glorious and magnifi
cent astronomical exhibition, which the Hebrew
writer has so accurately described, was adapted
to the latitude of 28 degrees, which the number
seven, so often repeated, in the book, points out,
then there would be full 750,000 years, before
the sun and the seven planets could revisit the
pit of death—the unfathomable'Gulf of Pluto–
“ the seven tiers of hells round the lower spindle
“ of the earth”—the south pole . . .
Well might the ancient priests of Urania make
the symbol of the sun to say—“ I was dead but
“ now I am alive for evermore,” having 750,000
years to come in which he would be able to shine
more or less every day; and having locked the
pit of death had kept possession ofthe key.
- --
*
K
110
In the 4th chap. a door is opened, into the
space of which, Johm is summoned to attend,
where he secs nearly the same scene of awful
magnificence described by Ezekiel. The Zodiac
is represented in the Temple precisely like that
which Ezekiel describes by the river Chebar in
Babylonia; each having the constellation of Leo,
Taurus, Aquarius, and the flying Eagle in the
quadratures. *
Both writers speak of a throne in the scene of
heaven, on which was “ the appearance of
a man.” Ezekiel describes the colour of the
throne “ as the appearance of a saphire stone,”
which is a deep sky-colour, Ezekiel, chap. Ist,
ver. 26; and chap. 10th, ver. 1st. There was
seen also a circular radiation like a rainbow
round the throne; from which proceeded thun
derings and lightenings and voices, which must
have made the scene majestically terrific. Sha
kespeare frequently had recourse to this theatrical
expedient to work upon the passions of his
audience.
• Why the Jews always substitute the constellation of Aquila -
for that of Scorpio, I know not; but I have been informed by the
learned Hippolito Joseph da Costa, Esq. that it is because Scor
rio is called an accursed sign; for which reason the Jews would
never prophane their holy lips by pronouncing its name.
111 ~
St. John has taken notice of the ‘Milkey Way'
which was before the throne, which he compares
to a sea of glass like unto crystal mingled with
fire; and he saw them that had gained a victory,
stand on the sea of glass, having harps of God.
This is a very correct description of that part
of the galary, VIA LACTEA or “Milkey Way,”
which extends from the horns of the Bull and feet
of Gemine, to the constellation of the Harp ;
for that part of the galaxy is thickly crowded
with people, among whom the great warrier Per
seus is extended, brandishing his sword in a most
victorious manner. The four and twenty elders
which sat round the throne are allowed to be the
twenty-four constellations which formed the sum
mer hemisphere; and which, from the descrip
tion given by the writer, must have been repre
sented by living actors.
In opening the book of seven seals, we see
many of the consequences that must have
occurred in the age of horror as the sun descended
step by step down the seven tiers of hells round
the south pole, which seem to have been pro
claimed to a vast congregated assembly, as each
of the seals were opened. There seems to have
been some mistake in the narration; for the Writer
H12
has given the consequences of the sun at thepole,
at the opening of the sixth seal, see c. 6th. verses
13, 14, 15, where the sun becomes extinct, the
lamps, which represented the stars, all fall down
to the stage; and the scene which represented hea
ven was rolled up like a scrowl. This must have
been the end of the great year, or Maha-yuga,
so that the opening of the seventh seal must be
misplaced, as it is not opened till the 1st verse of
the 8th chap, and then nothing but half an
hours silence ensues.
The dreadful effects of the age of horror are
again repeated by the sounding of seven
trumpets; and here we may observe a more regu
lar connexion of the times and consequences;
but here I observe, at the sound of the 2nd and
3rd trumpets, that two wonderful things are re
corded, which, perhaps, belonged to the history
of those remote times when the sun visited the
2nd and 3rd steps of the second age of horror.—
The casting of a great mountain burning with
fire into the sea, would very well express the
submersion of a grand VOLCANO. But be
that as it may, there is such a close affinity
between the consequences that follow the sounding
of the seven trumpets and those that follow the
pouring out the seven vials of God's wrath, that
they seem intended to convey an idea that the age
1I3
of horror had been repeated three times. Upon
the sounding of the 3rd trumpet, the rivers and
fountains of waters were effected in the same
manner as they were after the pouring out of the
third vial. And the sun is effected after the
sounding of the fourth trumpet, and after the
pouring out of the fourth vial ; the conse
quences, though different, both point out the
same period of an age—the fourth trumpet direct
us to the state of the winter sun ; and the fourth
vial to the state of the summer sun; when the
respective tropics are four stages from the hori
zon ; the north above and the south below.
At the sounding of the fourth trumpet we hear
an angel, flying through the midst of the scene,
saying with a loud voice, “ Woe, woe, woe,
“to the inhabiters of the earth by reason of the
“other voices of the trumpets ofthethree angels,
“ which are yet to sound.” Here we find St.
John giving us the consequences of the age of .
horror, in detail. Ezekiel gives us one general
cry of woe, as the tropic ascended above the
north horizon, at the beginning of the age of
horror, by informing us that he heard the cry of
O Wheel ! But here we are shewn the effects,
produced by the tropic, as it descends to the
south, or ascend at the north, at every step: and
when the sun had descended four steps, or, was
114
found to be sixteen degrees below the south
horizon at noon at mid-winter, we find his power
diminished in winter; but his heat is so increased
in summer, by shining six or seven weeks with
out setting, that “ he had power given him to
** scorch men with fire, Chap. 16th, verse 8th.
But more woe is threatened as the tropics shall
approach the poles through the other three steps.
When the FIFTH Angel sounded, a star fell
unto the earth with the key of the bottomless pit,
which he opened. Here we find a strong allusion
to the sun in the fifth space, or 20 degrees below
the South horizon, when there could be no ves
tage of him seen, he was now dead, and plunged
into the bottomless pit; where he would continue
to sink more and more, every winter till he would
be at the pole.
When the sun descended to the FIFTH stage
below the South horizon, in the third age of hor
ror, it is expressed by the FIFTH Angel pouring
out his phial upon the seat of the beast, and his
kingdom was full of darkness. How happily is
the result of the sun's being 20 degrees below the
horizon expressed,—When every vestage of day
light must disappear, the place must be full of
darkness.
*I I5
When the SIXTH Angel sounded, the effect,
of the elements are described as being felt upon
the great river Euphrates, in a very distressing
manner; much as they happened to effect it after
the pouring out of the SIXTH phial, “ and the
“ waters were dried up, that the way of the Kings
“ of the Eust might be prepared.” Here we find
an historical fragment of the utmost importance,
relative to the Empire of Babylon; where we
shall see its antiquity of 470,000 years corrobo
rated by the Polar motion 1
If we take the 403,000 years mentioned by
Berosus, as the time that has passed by since the
pole of the earth was in the plane of the ecliptic,
there will remain 67,000 years for the antiquity of
Babylon at that time; when the tropics must have
been about ten or eleven degrees from the poles,
with the angle of the poles increasing. The sun
then, in the summer, would be vertical to the in
habitants of the 76th or 80th degree of North
latitude; and it would then shine two months
without setting; the summer heats would then
begin to dry up the waters of the Euphrates; and
the Armies of the Kings of the East might find
an easy passage into the fertileplains of Chaldea:
to prevent which, the kings of Nineveh found it
necessary to remove the seat oftheir empire nearer
I 16
to the Persian Gulf, and built Babylon | * And
as the age of horror was then in its sixth circle,
the winters must have been dreadful, and the
melting of the snows in the latter end of February
and beginning of March, made it necessary to
surround their city with those stupendous walls
ahready taken notice of. The close agreement of
ancient writers, both those that are called sacred
and those that are called prophane, deserve our
most serious attention. Isaiah assures us that
Babylon was built by the Assyrians ; and St.
John tells us that sometime in thereign ofthe sixth
Angel, (which must have been, in the latitude of
Babylon, somewhere between 50,000 and 75,000
years before the pole of the earth was in the plane
of the ecliptic,) the heat of the sun was so great
that the water of the Euphrates was dried up, so
that the armies of the east used to go over: and
Berosus informs us that 67,000 years before that
time, their city was in existence . . After the
sounding of the seventh trumpet, and the pour
ing out of theseventh phial, both scenes conclude
amidst the horrors of earthquakes, lightnings,
thunderstorms, and hailstones: “ every stone
“ about the weight of a talent.” +
* See Isaiah chap. 23, verse 13,
+ A Talent is 113 pounds.
117
After the grand astronomical exhibition is over,
they sing “ Te Deum” for the victory over
Babylon, (which I have already mentioned in
another part of this book) and that is a great
proof, that, the time of this astronomical vision
was soon after the conquest of that empire by
Persia; and before the conquest of Egypt by
Cambyses. They however, take eare to stimu
late the spectators againt the Egyptians, by
speaking of them in terms of disrespect, but
never speak of them as of a people whom they
had conquered. Besides, another proof of the
time of this astronomical vision is the exaltation
of the constellation of the Lamb, Rev. chap.
19, verse 7, for the marriage of the Lamb is come,
—ARIES being then the vernal equinoctial sign,
Again in verse 9 we read, “Blessed are they
which are called unto the marriage supper of the
Lamb.” Here, indeed, we are coming very near
to the true point of time; when, in a temple of
the Pagans, John saw the glorious vision of the
astronomy of remote antiquity. It was at the
supper of the Lamb : It was at a time when the
Equator was about to leave the stars of Aries, and
enter those of Pisces. Now, the Equator entered
Pisces about 490 years before Christ : John's
vision of the supper of the Lamb must, therefore
118
have been more than 490 years before Christ.
The conquest of Babylon by Cyrus king of Persia,
was about 538 years before Christ; John's vision
must have been after that. But Cambyses con
quered Egypt and laid it to his Empire of Persia
525 years before Christ, and as John saw nothing
relative to the conquest of Egypt in his vision,
we may safely conclude that it was more than 525
years before Christ, but less than 538. These
things point out in the most positive manner, that
the time of John's Astronomical vision was more
than 525 years before the birth of Christ.
How, therefore the name of Christ came to be
repeated so often in the book of Revelations, can
only be accounted for, by its having been handed
down to us through the medium of the Greeks;
in whose language ARIes, the Ram, is called
KRios or Chrios . . . At the time that the Chris
tian religion began to "be brought forward in
the Roman Empire, the Equator cut the
ecliptic in the constellation of the two fishes.
And it is well known, that the early Christians
had a great veneration for FISHERMEN, who
filled two ships with one draught of their net, so
that they began to sink. And we are informed,
that to distinguish the tombs of Christians from
those of other people, it was customary to draw
I 19
twofishes on them l—About 1,500 or 1,600 years
ago, the equator passed between the two fishes,
without touching either, crossing the ecliptic in
such an oblique manner, as to form a kind of
cross, having about six degrees of the ecliptic
towards ARIEs, and about twenty-four degrees
towards AquaRIUs,
The rest of the book relates, chiefly, the
new religious tenants of the Persians; such as
the resurrection of the SOUL. The last judge
ment, with the rewards of the just and punish
ment of the bad. It must have made an awful
impression upon the minds of the ignorant
spectators to see the souls + of the wicked, after
having received their sentences, cast into a lake
of fire. I have seen how the minds of timid
people have been hurt in our Theatres when they
have seen seven or eight men, cased in black cha
mois leather, rise up, through a trap door, from
the PIT below the stage, and dash down, through
the same, with the wicked hero of the entertain
ment, amidst the flames of fire which ascended
from the PIT BELOW. This, it is true, is but
an awkward representation: but there is every
reason to believe, from the description given by
• Rev. Chap. 20th, verse 4th.
120
John, that “ they managed these things better in”
the magnificent theatres of Persia.
The splendid scenery of New Jerusalem must
have been glorious beyond the power of words to
describe; its twelve foundations, garnished with
the twelve precious stones representing the stars of
the Zodiac, and having the throne of the Lamb
in the centre, and together with its cubical form,
shew the whole to be emblematical of the STAR
RY MANSION.—’Twas the Sapphirine TEM
PLE OF URANIA, garnished with FLAMING
GEMS ' ' | -
Although I have promised to confine myself to
those parts of the sacred volume that are astro
nomical, yet, 1 cannot resist the impulse I feel
to mention the sublime admonitions of one of the
actors, whenever John fell down at his feet to
worship him.—Rev. chap. 19th, verse 10th and
chap. 22nd, verse 9th, “, then he saith unto me
see thou do it not: for I am thy fellowservant,
&c. WORSHIP GOD.—Hence we find that
these angels call themselvss MEN–the fellow ser
vants of John, who was a man. But chap. 21st,
verse 17th, puts man as synonimous with angel.
The great wonder in heaven; a woman clothed
121
with the sun, and the moon under herfeet ; is an
astronomical shew, which points out to us the
time of the moon's age when the ancients held
their monthly festivals. It is well known that
they kept those festivals, not on the day of the
new moon, but on the night when the new moon
first made her appearance ; which could not be
until she had gone past the sun about twenty de
grees. And if the sun was fifteen degrees in
Virgo, the new moon would make her first
appearance in Libra ; directly under the woman's
feet as the writer has described in c. 12th, v.
1st, and of the truth of which any person may
convince itselfby assuming the moon's place, on
a globe, at twenty degrees on the ecliptic, passed
the middle of Virgo. The phrase of “A woman
“ cloathed with the sun,” has all that sublimity
of expression which we find in the 104th Psalm,
where David, addressing himself to the deity,
sings, “ With light as a robe thou hast thyself
“ clad.”—So far the poet has embellished a
picture which was before, only astronomical.
But let us endeavour to investigate the phrase
without its embellishments; let us place fifteen
degrees of Virgo, with her “ wings of a great
eagle,” behind the centre of the sun, and, then
let us observe how small a portion of the whole
L
122
constellation would be perceptible.—No-ti,
all hid from our view.
“With light as a robe the whole virgin is clad,”
Tho' her head dress and buskins are seen thro'a veil,--
Thro' the twilight of morning her ringlets are spread,
And her feet thro’ the night's seem the moon to assail.
But this womanbrought forth a man child, who
was to rule all nations with a rod of iron : and
her child was caught up unto God, and to his
throne, chap. 12th, verse 5th. It is impossible
not to see, in this emphatical verse, its direct
allusion to the middle of the age of horror, or
iron age; when the sun seeming to be dead in Leo
at the south pole, rose again from the dead—re
turned to new life, and seeming to be born in the
bosom of the Virgin, i. e. in or about nine or ten
degs. of the constellation of Virgo : from whence,
in less than three months, he would be see n,
at noon, in the very midst of heaven ; i. e. in the
Zenith ; and in about two months more he would
be caught up unto the pole,_the Temple of
Budha; the throne of Jove.
But there appeared another wonder in heaven;
a great red dragon with seven heads, whose tail
drew the third part of the stars of heaven, and
did cast them to the earth ; and the dragon
123
stood before the woman to devour her child
and he persecuted the woman—and the serpent
cast out of his mouth water as a flood, after
the woman ;–and the earth opened her mouth,
and swallowed up the flood which the dragon
east out of his mouth.
This story of the great red dragon being
blended in with the woman which brought forth
the man child; is an accurate description of that
part of the heavens from the head of Virgo to
that of Serpens, and onwards through the heads
IIercules and Serpentarius to the tail of Serp
ens. The above line would be found to pass
through 120 degrees of longitude; and the space
included by it, and a line uniting Virgo with that
part of Serpens which comes down to the knee
of Serpentarius, would include in its sweep many
notable stars, which may be sufficient to justify
the writer in saying “ His tail drew the third
part of the stars of Heaven.” This serpent, I
have shewn in the former part of the work, is a
symbol ofthe River Nile in its manageable state;
its epithet of red alludes to the vast quantity of
vegetables growing on its stagnant surface, which
at the time of its lowest ebb, in April and May,
in consequence of the suns great heat at that
time, assumed an arid hue ; and as the river
124
runs into the sea in seven chanels or mouths, it
was called the GREAT RED DRAG on witH seven
HEADs, &c. And there are, still to be seen
globes where the constellation of Serpens is re
presented with seven heads. The serpent of
John's vision cast out of his mouth water as of a
flood after the woman. This exactly agrees
with the diurnal phenomena of the heavens ; as
Virgo appears to move towards the western hori
zon. Serpens follows after her with his seven
heads, which seem to persecute the woman by
pushing her forward with his seven heads, vo
miting water as of a flood.
But there was a war in heaven; Michael and
his angels fought against the dragon: and the
dragon and his angels fought and prevail'd
not, &c.
This metaphorical battle between Michael
the great arch-angel, and the great red dragon
with seven heads, that old serpent, called the
devil, and satan, is precisely the same astrono
nomical story which is told in the fables of Her
cules and the Hydra ; and that of Apollo and
Python : they allude to the power of the sun in
drying up the waters of the Nile; to the SUN–
that mighty arm of the Lord that smote the river
125
of Egypt in its seven streams that men shouldgo
ever dry-shod. In this story, the writer has
spit all his spite at the river of Egypt, by
stringing together “ All the odious names that
“ mortals ever knew that rivers ever bore;” but
they all mean no more than the River Nile, over
flowing its banks. I have shewn before that the
dragon, the old serpent, the 'L-evi-aith-an, and
the D-'evi-'l in English and Di-ob-al in French
mean the great powerful river in Egypt, and
here is but one new epithet added, which is
SATAN ; * the meaning of which is allowed to
be the enemy, the adversary, &c.
This river was the dragon that gave power to
the beast; and is as applicable to the swollen Nile
as the others; for what had Egypt been but for
the Nile Had the Nile failed, the beast (their
favourite Ox) would have had but little power—
But Michael fought against the dragon and
• The word Satan has a close affinity with the Sanscrit Saty.
SATAN is allowed to mean the King of Hell; it is known to be
an eastern word; and SATY in the Sanscrit language is the very
ckNTRE and pivot of Hell---the ToMB cr BUDHA, i. e. the south
pole. As SATY is the south pole, SATAN or Satº-an” would in
clude the seven tiers of hellsround the south pole, and thereby
retain the sense of adversary or enemy; for reasons too obvious
to mention in this part of the work.
126
prevailed, i. e. the sun dried up the water of the
Nile. We have, before, seen the sun Apollo,
dry up the overflowed Nile, called Python; and
we have seen the sun HERCULEs, dry up the
overflowed Nile, cALLED HYDRA ; and we here
see the sun, Michael, * dry up the Nile, called
THE GREAT RED DRAGON, THE OLD sen PENT,
The D'-Evi-'L AND sat AN.
1n the epistle of Jude, there is a dispute be
tween Michael the arch-angel, and the devil
about the body of Moses; in which it is said,
yet Michael durst not bring against him a railing
accusation, but said. “ The Lord REBUke
Thee.” I feel myself at a loss to express my
approbation of the words made use of by the
ancients to distinguish the different powers of the
sun and elements in the different ages of the world,
and under the different angles of the poles. I
observe, that this is not a battle between Michael
and the D’-evi-'i, this is only a dispute. What
an admirable distinction . In John we are told
that Michael fought the Devil and prevailed, i.e.
the sun had power to dry up all the water and
kill the river,the old serpent,theL'-evi-'I, &c. but,
* Michael, signifies the God of Fire, or the God that supports
life. It is composed of Michia, the support of life, and El, God,
127
herethe sun disputes with the riveraboutthebody
ofMoses. Now,Moses is precisely the same name
as Muses ; and both of them are from mesha,
which means saved from the water. Exodus,
chap. 2nd, verse 10th, “And she called his
name Moses; and she said, because I drew him
out of the water, The Egyptians used to apply
the word mesha to their land when it was saved
from the water, and hence we call our land which
is saved from the water by the name of marsh :
which is similar both in seNs E AND sound which
ought to be our only guide in etymologies.
From the above derivations we find that the
sun, Michael, in Jude, did not dry up the
water of the Nile, i.e., did kill the D'-vi-'l, but
rebuked him, i.e. kept the river in due bounds:
but which of the two had the greatest share of *
mesha is not determined. Michael, or the sun is
here called the arch-angel; we know the poets of
the ancients called the stars by various names :
sometimes they were called lamps, sometimes
fires, and eyes, spirits of God, and very often
ANGELs. And the sun, being the largest of the
• Thisdispute between the SUN and the NILE about the Mup
at the bottom reminds me of the PABLE of the Sun and the
wind; who strove to rob a traveller of his cloak.
123
stars was frequently distinguished by a prefix of
emminence, FIRE-of-FIREs ; Osh-iris, flaming
eye, or great eye; and ARCH-Angel !!! Thus
Micha-EL, THE ARCHANGEL is but an epithet
of the sun, in quality of being the great sup
port of life—the ARch-star in heaven . . .
Jude, in his 6th verse, calls the stars angels :
and the angels which kept not their first estate,
but left their own habitation, he hath reserved
in everlasting chains under darkness, unto the
judgement of the last day. If in this verse we
put stars for angels, the sense would be, that, the
stars which are for ever hid under the south ho
rizon, were formerly in the northern hemisphere.
We have now faken a very ample survey of the
ancient astronomical mysteries which were re
vealed to a Jew, in a pagan temple, when the
sun passed over the equator in the constellation of
the Ram, without having seen any thing about
the downfal of Popery, the earthquake that swal
lowed Lisbon, or any thing about “ The great
“ BATTLE OF WATERLOO,” which a late
writer on the Revelations pretends to have dis
covered. We have seen, however, in their new
regulated scenes of astronomy, they have given
us some new symbols, equally as explicit as those
129
that had gone before them. They signified the
beginning of the year when the sun crossed
the equator in ARIes, by a fêADIANT LAMR
holding a section of the ecliptic crossed by the
equator :
We find, also, in this ancient book that they
signified the twelve months by twelve beings
called twelve Apostles of the Lamb, whose names
were placed in twelve precious stones, piled one
upon another as supporters of the Sapphirine
Temple of Urania.
It is much to be lamented that John, who has
given us so much important information in the
Revelations of the ancient mysteries, should not
have revealed so much as one of the names of
these new symbols of the twelve months.
Perhaps, as he is a Jew,he did not wish to reveal
so delicate a point to any but jews; and they may
know the names of the twelve new representatives
of the year by the gems in which they are placed;
the last of the twelve, I perceive, is an ame
thyst; a dark purple, symbol of winter :
which, in the urim aithomim is placed in the
lowest left hand corner with the signofthe Lion,
which is the Lion of the Tribe of Judah : so
130
, called because placed at the extreme end. * But
as the Jews began their years at different seasons,
very little information is to be expected from
them on that head. We know, however, that
the middle month of spring was called Meah,
because the sun then was in conjunction with a
cluster of stars, called the Pleides, in our time,
but by the ancients Meah, i. e. the multitude.
This month is called by the Latins Mai, and by
us May. The third month in the spring is
called by us June, from Jon or Ion, because in
that month the sun is in conjunction with the
finest constellation in the heavens, called Or-ion,
whether it was so called from Ion, a violet I am
not certain; June, however, is not a violet
month with us, but the sun must formerly
have been in conjunction with that fine constel
lation in the violet month, which probably gave
the constellation name. t
I have somewhere seen a picture of the sun
and twelve months represented by thirteen human
* The book of Jude was formerly the last book in the New
Testament; till a few years ago: when it was thought proper
to add the book of Revelations; which, as it is now the LAST,
ought to be called JUDE. *
We find that the month of June is highly favoured by the
sun ; between, which there seems to be a kind of KINDren
sympathy : and still, in the Furopean calendar, there is one day
in June dedicated to John I
131
figures; where the blaze of Glories pointed out
the great ARch-ANGEL, the sun, and the faces of
the others are so exquisitely delineated that each
seemed to express the season which it was in
tended to represent: they are clustered into four
groups of three men each as symbols of the four
seasons of three months each ; and such has been
the skill of the artist that you might point to each
of the faces and say, that is such a month, &c.
'till coming to one that possesses all the loveliness
of spring you could not hesitate to say, this must
beJune: and glancing your eyesalong the picture
till they reach the end of the throng, you see one
at the very extreme end, which is the face of an
old wily traitor, skulking as it were, from the
rest, and meditating in private how to dash
“ the blaze of glories” from the head of the
solar symbol, and deliver him into the hands of
the persecuting demons of winter, whenever, in
a friendly visit, he may enter into his dreary
-dominions.
Again, after the age of horror, when the sun
no longer visited the dreadful realms of Satan,
which are spread in seven tiers of hells; concen
tric, from the pivot Satya, to where the utmost
sweep of Swayambhuva's wheel the south ho
rizon meets, they did not represent the wintry
sun by putting a dead man upon the back of a
132
Ilion, with his virgin mother weeping by his
side; as was done by the Egyptians; nor, by
putting a dead man under the feet of a Lion, as
was done by the Hindoos ; * nor yet by putting
out the eyes of the man that was the symbol of the
sun ; nor yet by shaving the seven locks of hair
off his head, but by putting thereon some thorns
without leaves; because, in winter the trees have
no leaves. And another people took the club
from their summer symbol, which was exchanged
for a spindle. The Egyptians no longer placed
a dead Osiris on a Lion bier, but placed their
symbol of winter gently reclined upon the Lion's
back, and invested with ensigns of majesterial
authority.
When I reflect on the various means made use
of by nations of antiquity to express the state of
the heavens and operations of the elements I
cannot help exclaiming in rapturous symphony
O sculptured poetry, how rich are thy charms :
Though all eyes behold thee, how few can per
ceive the volumes of information that emane
from the folds of thy mystic dress .
• In the Asiatic Researches, vol. 3, page 290, we are informed
that Chrisna was killed by a Lion. And among the gems
called Abraxas, preserved at the British Museum, there is one
which shews a Lion with a Cock's head, standing on the back of
a dead man.
[33
Although, it is generally allowed that the book
of Job is not an hebrew book; yet, as it is a book
evidently written by a person of general know
ledge, I cannot let it pass by unnoticed. It dis
plays a knowledge of the geography of the polar
sea in these words: “ He spreadeth the North
over the empty space.”
The allusions to astronomy are frequent; and
as the names of several of the Constellations are
mentioned, yet, though this book is esteemed
very ancient, astronomy must be more so. There
is not, however, a single passage in it that points
to any precise period of time. His “ bringing
forth MAzen oth in his seasons” may allude to
the precession of the equinoctial points, which
brings’M-ash-uroth, i. e. all the fires of heaven
(the stars of the zodiac) to the season of Spring.
There are expressions in the 37th and 38th chaps.
of a very mysterious nature. “Who can num
ber the clouds in wisdom *" or who “ can stay
“ the Bottles of heaven, when the dust grow
“ eth into hardness, and the clods cleave fast
“ together " ' Who can stay the bottles of
“ heaven,” seems to shew that the writer was
acquainted with all the consequences of the polar
motion, and had in view the setting in of the
winters of the age of horror, when the seven
M
134
angels began to pour out their vials of God's
wrath; and we are here informed that the rapid
rains or the contents of the bottles or vials + of
heaven came down “when the dust groweth
“ into hardness, and the clods cleave fast toge
ther, what sudden transition from extremity to
extremity!
Again verse 22nd, hast thou seen the treasures
of the hail, which I have reserved against the
time of trouble, against the day of battle and
war * This can have no allusion to any
battle between man and man, or between nation
and nation; no—this must allude to the war of
elements in the time of trouble—in the age of
horror, when the sea break fourth, as if it had
issued out of the womb, cloathed with a garment
of clouds, and bound with a swaddling-band of
Thick DARKNEss:—“ when the waters were hid
“ as with a stone, i. e. Ice; and the face of the
“deep is frozen—when every man's hand is
* In the cracular and onLong Zodiacs from the Temple of
Tentyra or Dendera, we see the constellation of Aquarius repre
sented by whole-length human figures pouring down the contents
of inverted Bortles. In the oblong Zodiac the first Decanate
has a man standing on the back of a Swan,—symbol of snow; in
the third the symbol's head is decorated with flowing , feathers,
which seem to indicate that the downfal from its invested sor
TLes is snow.
135
“ sealed up, (i.e. can do no work) and when
“ the beasts go into their dens.
In how few strokes of the pen does this father
of Arabian poetry give us a bold and correct out
line of his picture. Ovid, in his PHAETon and
DeucALIon, has given the world two beautiful
pictures of the summers and winters of that for
lorn age, but, he has takenno notice of “the face
of the deep being frozen;” a circumstance,
which must have happened twice a year on the
equator, one when the sun would be near the
north horizon for several days, and again when
he would be as long on their south horizon : at
which time the Mediterranean Sea must have
been hid as with a stone. But neither this nor
any other sea in the neighbourhood of Arabia,
can be frozen and hid as with a stone, unless the
angle of the two poles was MoRE than VINCE
and LA-PLACE allow it to have been.
It seems as if this Arabian poet had been dis
gusted with the licence taken by poets of sur
rounding nations ; which is that of personifying
inanimate nature.
This poet has not represented the snow, the
gentle rain, and the dew drops, as three sisters,
136
by the names of Leucothea, Erse, and Pandrosa ;
nor the great rains ofhis strength by a giant named
Enceladus ; nor hath he named the whirlwind Bri
arius; nor does the giant Naphalim represent the
garmentof clouds which covered the sea-pressed
hemisphere of winter in the age of horror; nor do
we, here, see the tremendous thunder, nor the
lightening, which extends from the ends of the
earth, represented as a flying, roaring dragon vo
miting fire: but all the ravages of the elements are
happily expressed according to the true language
of nature. The author's dislike to the personifi.
cation of the elements, isshewn in the 28th and 29th
verses, chap 29th, by modestly asking “ Hath
the rain, or the drops of dew a father or from
what mother came the ice 2
Had poetry never assumed any other language
than that which the writer ofJob hath put into the
mouth of the Lord, speaking out of a whirl
wind, the nations of the world had not now been
cursed with battles wherein both sides butcher
one another for the GLoRY of GoD ! When the
ancient historians recorded the operations of the
elements under the various angles of the poles,
they spoke ofthem as of the actions of intelligent
beings: and those which were beneficial to man
kind were spoken of in terms of praise, and
figures of them were drawn with all the extrava
137
gant embellishments of a brilliant imagination;
Pandrosa, so delightful to the village throng,
would be described as a beautiful young lady,
dressed in a light verdant robe covered with bril
liant gems of purest crystal, in which you might
behold all the beaming radiance of her sister's
eye—the heart-elating, joy-diffusing, yellow hair
Nympth AGLAURos : * when human forms had
been spoken of in such like terms as these, the
illiterate might soon forget that they were but
symbols of a fine morning, when the sun shone
through branches all spangled with dew, and from
contemplating them as benign beings, long re
vered by their ancestors, might, in time, enter
tain some strange ideas about them: which would
paint them out as beings more than mortal, and,
as worthy of divine honours. But, alas ! with
what ardour soever we might offer up ourprayers
at the shrine of Pandrosa and Aglauros they
would not drive away the boreal clouds of De
cember 1 We do not see that one of the thousand
rosy fingered nymphs that string their flowery
chaplets round the sun, when he drives his blaz
ing chariot through the realms of June, come
with her smiles to charm away the rage of
those fell ruffians which surround the persecuted
* Aglauros, means the splk NDou R of The SUN.
I38
: sun while in the dominions of that traitor Judas,
called December,
If it is really true that the vulgar people in
India do mistake their symbols of the ancient
operations and configurations of astronomical
circles for those of intelligent beings which are
capable of dispencing good and evil, I think
that the ignorant part of the people in Europe
who fancy themselves to be Christians, ought
not to be set so much at variance against them on
the part of religion, as we every wheresee they are
both by ranting preachers, and missionary pa
pers; which are alike disgraceful to any sect of
religion: invective and insult being their constant
theme. As it is confessed that many of their
dogmas are so similar to those professed among
Christians themselves, that, they must have had
one common origin, would not an impartial man
ask, may we not as well conclude, as the Hindoos
were a learned and polished people while we lived
in forests and cloathed ourselves with skins, that
our ideas are a corruption of theirs? Observe I do
not saythattheChristian religion is a corruption of
the symbols of ancient astronomy, when the sun
used to be represented as dead in Leo, when Leo
was in the pit of Satan; and when he used to rise
to new life in the bosom of Virgo—but I think I
139
might be allowed to ask of the ranting declaimers
against the Hindoo antiquity, -As the religious
ideas of the Hindoos have evidently been derived
from the astronomical symbols of so remote a
time as 4,320,000 of years; how has it hap
pened that the dogmas of Christians are so
similar.”
In the oblong zodiac of Tentyra, each of the
twelve signs is divided into three parts of ten de
grees, and each part is represented by a human
figure (with attributes expressive of his functions)
called a Decan; and as each sign of the zodiac
has three of these, the first of each was called a
powerful leader * of three. To this company of
thirty-six decans they attributed the management
of the seasons. These were the powers whose
functions were more durable than those of the
twelve Zodiacal Constellations which are
still found to alter their position every 2,000
years, relative to the seasons; and to move, in
that time, through a space of thirty degrees from
the equinoctial points. Not so the more pow
erful and constant gods called the Decans, or
• Samuel, book ii. chap. 23rd, verse 1th, to the end of the
chap. and i. book of Chronicles, chap. 11th, verse 10th, to the
end of the chap. The reader will compare the two chapters
and make their own comments.
, 140
Eloim ; those of that rank which are fixed at the
equator are still supposed to compel the sun to
shine twelve hours a day all the world over; and
those at the opposite parts of the equator con
stantly prepel the sun the same way through their
dominions, i. e. those at the spring node will not
suffer the sun to pass out of their palace the same
way by which he entered; but order him to move
on to the sign more northward. This is known.
to be the constant order of the sun, moon, and
planets; which must continue till the CABIRI,
the Most powerful of all the gods, shall unite;
and then the functions of the Decans are at an
end; and one unbounded spring shall govern all;
until A POWER MoRe powerful than the Cabiri,
shall cause the poles again to separate; when the
seasons will again return, and the Decans again
take their stations: but now, observe, all topsy
turvy turned 1 and what before was north, the
northern pole forsakes | The Lion now, which
trod beneath his feet the hydra Nile, is decorated
with a hydra tail, that casts his venom over the
Lion’s Back 1 ! ! And now the Decan-trio of the
wintry sign, when ever the Lion comes within
their reach, decoy the sprawling monster back
wards down; but by such slow degrees, that in
twelve visits, seen from Delhi’s plain, he still is
freefrom Swayambhuva's den. But steadyto their
R41
dreadful word of woe, when the great twelve have
ten more circling revolutions run, hell's central
Pivot strikes the Lion's heart.
The Orphic hymns commemorate the van
quished Lion sprawling on his back, which the
Greeks have preserved in the story of Orpheus
and Euridice; which is explained in the first
part of this work. The gem preserved in the
British Museum shew us the Lion erect. And
though the lion would go from pole to pole in
about 12,000 years by the precession of the
equinoctial points, and return to the south pole
again in about the same time; yet he would return
in the same order; viz. he would return with
his back the same way to the pole: and in that
order he would descend through the seven tiers of
hells—the seven regions of the MENus; the terri
tory of the seven angels pouring out the bottles
of God’s wrath in heaven, and of those who
sounded the seven wor-proclaiming trumpets;
but he would leave the SATYA or south pole pass
ing through the seven stages on the opposite side;
and in seven times 25,000 years, would appear
above the horizon standing upright thereon, at
noon; in that order he would be seen to approach
the equator in fifteen revolutions of 25,000 years
each; from whence, in the same time, he would
142
descend with his feet to the horizon, and so on,
to the region of the Satya, i. e. the south pole.
Here the intelligent astronomer will see the
true order of the heavenly motion. In forty
five revolutions of the zodiac all the constellations
would be reversed, i.e. if the equator and the
ecliptic coincide with all the backs of the ani
mals tothe north pole, after forty-five revolutions
they will coincide again, but with their backs
towards the south pole. But though the same
seasons return in that time it would take twice
thattime to bring the constellations into the same
state, as seen from the earth; which is what con
stituted the Prajanatha Yuga of 2,160,000 years,
being twice 45 times 24,000.
But the stories which have been the result of
the particular method made use of by ancient
historians to express the various changes of the
constellations and seasons of the great year; and
the causes of those changes; may be worth our
while to examine.
The Elohim, the Decans, or the symbols
which presided over the thirty-six sub-divisions
of the Zodiac, or, more properly speaking of
the year, each month having three ; were those
143
Gods whose care it was to regulate the weather in
the different seasons, and who were supposed to
vary it according to their will : if the planet
Venus or Jupiter paid a visit to any of their
Godships, he would not fail to let us know how
pleased he was by sprinkling the earth with
growing showers. Mars perhaps might persuade
him to throw down a few thunderbolts : and
Mercury—but there would be no end to stories
of this kind—nor are they to our purpose.
These Decans or Eloim are the Gods of whom
it is said he created the universe.
They arranged the order of the zodiac. The
Eloim of the summer month were three gods ofa
benevolent disposition : they made the days long
and loaded the sun's head with Topaz : they
were doubtless of kin to the sun, upon whom they
bestowed so many favours : while the three
wretches that presided in the winter month,
which were at the extreme end of the year, seem
to be of kin to none but a society for the suppres
sion of Light and HospitaLITY Hid in the
realms below, from mortal eyes concealed, they
joy'd to see the sun's declining orb retire to rest,
and flung a misty curtain round his couch : then,
soon, a host of foes, in various forms, absorb his
Crown of gems.
144 ,
But we have seen the process by which the sun
descends from the south horizon to the pivot,
Satya, i. e. the south pole : let us now, for a few
minutes, place ourselves in a situation similar to
that of the ancients at the setting in of the winter
of the age of horror ; and if we possessed their
piety we should assemble in our temples to take
the last-long-lingering-look of the descending
sun; and hymn our doleful dirge as Chrisna
dies; in some such words as these :—
“I cannot live without thy light,
“Cast out and banish'd from thy sight.
“ —Let thy good spirit ne'er depart;
“Nor hide thy presence from my heart.”
The above lines are in strict conformity with
the loss of the sun Chrisna in remote antiquity.
And there can be no doubt that there were some
sages who said that “ His death was necessary
for our salvation.” Again, they might comfort
the poor in spirit by saying that “ It is requisite
that he should become poor; that by his poverty
we might become rich.” These expressions are
strictly applicable to the state of nature: for if
the sun were to shine with a very considerable
altitude all the year round, it is evident we could
have no vegetation: it is therefore necessary that
145
the sun should seem to lose his power in winter,
thatthe earth may be well saturated with water to
sustain the next year’s treasure. When these
expressions are applied to the conquering and
conquered Chrisna we do not find in them any
mystery h
Again, admitting that the Eloim were powerful
and intelligent beings that managed these things,
we would accuse them of being the authors ofall
the sufferings of Chrisna. And, as they and the
constellation of Leo were below the horizon and
consequently cut off from the end of the zodiac,
there were but eleven constellations of the zodiac
to be seen ; the three at the end were wanted, but
those three would be accused of bringing Chrisna
into those troubles which, at last, ended in his
-death. All this would be expressed in the east
ern language by saying, that, Chrisna was
persecuted by those Judoth Ishcarioth !!! !! But
the astronomy of those distant ages, when the
sun was at the south pole in winter, would leave
five of those Decans cut off from our view, in
the latitude of twenty-eight degrees; hence
Chrisna died of wounds from five decans, but the
whole five may be included in Judoth Ishcarioth!
for the phrasemeans the men that are wanted at
the extreme parts. Ishcarioth is a compound
N
146
of ish, a man; and car at, wanted or taken away;
and oth, the plural termination, more ancient
than im, which make Ishcarioth * to mean men
separated from, or men cut off, or men wanted.
These exactly agree with the conditions of the
five Decans or Eloim that cannot be seen in the
latitude of twenty-eight degrees, in the middle
of the age of horror. For if we take the three
in Leo, with the middle one at the pole, then the
one on each side would extend fifteen degrees
each way from the pole; to which if we add the
last decanate of Cancer and the first Decanate of
Virgo, the whole extent of the five decanates
would not come to the horizon of Delhi; by
three degrees: of course, five men or Decans
would be cut off at the end of the ecliptic.
What sinister policy can induce a certain
description of men to be constantly stunning the
ears of their deluded hearers by asserting that,
* I am aware that there are those that in translating IscARiot,
make it to mean a man of murder but it is done in the whof E
sale way; what they would make of it in the retail I have no guess:
but as his history goes back no more than 17, 18, or 19 hundred
years at the most, his history of persecuting Christ the saviour
of the Christians,can have no connexion with the Five IshcarioTh
who persecuted Chrisna the Saviour of the Hindoos 400,000
years ago. -
147
the poor Hindoos have had some faint glimpses
of divine truth, which they must have received
from the spurious gospels of the early Christians,
I know not; unless it be that of dragging vast
sums of money every year from their pockets.
I have sufficiently proved that the, hitherto
mysteries of the ancient nations have not been
borrowed from any books of the moderns ; nor
from any book but the great book of God, which
is published to all nations of the earth in letters
of Topaz, Carbuncles, and Rubies, set in one
extended gem of Saphire :
The Jews might, with equal propriety, assert
that the Hindoos borrowed their superstitious
notions from the Pentateuch; and the custom of
bathing in the Ganges, from Elisha's directing
Naaman to bathe seven times in Jordan as a cure
for the leprosy Kings, 2nd chap. verse 5th.
We know that the custom in India of bathing in
the Ganges, and even DYING on ITs BANks have
been held sacred from time immemorial, and
even the desire of being buried in its stream ;
but what proves the vast antiquity of the custom,
beyond that of the Jews, is that, an old bed of
the Ganges has been lately discovered at a very
considerable distance from, and at a_vast depth
º
148
below the level of the present chanel; the bottom
of which is filled with human bones of all sizes.
mixed with a variety of those of other animals,
These things put the passion for Gangetic ve
neration beyond the time of Elisha.
Indeed, after considering the vast quantity of
incontrovertible proofs of Hindoo antiquity, de
duced from the exact agreement of their recitals
with the present well known complicated motions
of the earth in its orbit, it would be the greatest
insult to human reason, to assert that the poetical
history of the eighteen original shastras of astro
nomy, or the fourteen Menus orManwantaras,&c.
&c. which carry us back into time more thanfour
millions of years could have been borrowed from
books whose utmost antiquity is not more than
sir, or seven thousand years: or eight thousand
at most.
The Jewish history, therefore, that is, the mar
wellous part of it, seems not to be composed of new
materials : but of such as they had gleaned up
from the various nations among whom they had
been in bondage: and that their annals might
have some appearance of originallity they took
the liberty to make such alterations as would
give them the superficial appearance of novelty,
t
I49
by turning singulars into plurals ; and plurals
into singulars; and what was femenine with their
masters, they made to be masculine; in working
it into their histories ; and in some places things
inanimate have been turned into men by adding
the sign of the masculine gender; this was fre
quently done by the Greeks. But as assertions
are not so satisfactory as proofs, we will inves
tigate some parts of their history.
According to the testimony of Sir W. Jones,
in the Asiatic Researches, vol. 2, page 116, the
Hindoos call the MENUs, Children of the Sun,
Chrisna; But the Jews, on the contrary, tell us
in Judges, ch. 13th that MANo was the Father
of the Sun; they have, however, endeavoured
to do away with every idea of mythology by add
ing to Meno, their sign of the masculine gender,
ah, which makes Menoah look more like a
man's name. In the Grecian mythology Cli
MENE was the mother of the Sun PHAEToN ;—
but Climene, is from Cali-MBNAH-the regulating
period ofheat—the spirals roundthe poles, called
Menus. AlcMENE was the mother of the Sun
Hercules: Alcmene is from Alca-MENAH the
all powerful MANAH or menu, which must mean
the Menu round the pole, as in that circle aear
est the pole the sun's power must be most
150
invincible, whether he is called Hercules,
Phaeton, Shimson,-Samson, or Krisna. Those
tales all relate to the sun in the age of horror
and all bear the same complexion;--The two
Grecian suns have a female parent, called Menus;
but the Hebrew sun has a male Meno for his
parent; whilst the sun of the Hindoos is father
to the Menu.
The story of Noah deserves particular atten
tion; because, of late, so many men of great
tearning with but little genius, have written so
many large volumes about it for no other purpose,
that I can find out, than that of driving every
vestageof reasonfrom ſhe heads of their readers
and of making perplexity more perplert.
Captain Wilford says that Satyavrata is Noah.
Now Satyavrata is that circle of the seven tiers
of hells round the south pole, which is called
Satya, and because the whole world was under
water when the sun was there, (that is, the two
hemispheres alternately) the Cap. has no doubt
that this symbol of the lowest hell was Noah. I
have no objection, whatever, to call the whole
age of horror, the age of Noah ; for Noah is
from no, a boat, and ah, a masculine termina
tion, similar to the os of the Greeks. And as it
151
is only by rendering the true meanings of these
words into familiar English that we can obtain
their fair sense—in familiar English then, Noah
is, Mr. Boat, as the Father of Samson, Manoah,
is Mr. Menu, whose father was a certain man.
of Zoreh. -
Noah, is a word, to which, like most others
of the ancient Hebrew or Phenicean, several
meanings are attached; all, however, are ap
plicable to the boat ; as rest, repose, to quaver,
and to totter. No, is also synonymous with
habitation: as in the ancient name of Thebes,
which was Ammon-No ;—the HABITATION of
Ammon. Here are five significations to No, all
of which are applicable to boat. In Lower
Egypt we know the country was underwater
three months in the year, during which time the
people lived in boats and did no work.—It was
the time of rest, the no or boat was a symbol of
repose; and when boats are afloat on wide waters
agitated by the wind, they are tossed up and
down—and consequently they totter about. But
no, a boat, is synonymous with habitation, be
cause, in Egypt the people used to live so much
in boats. Before we had houses in England we
lived in bowers, and we still call the people who
live contiguous to one another neighbours, which
*
I52.
originally meant nigh-bowers. But in Egypt
there was a populous city, called No. It was
surrounded with waters, and consequently was a
city of boats. See Naaham, chap. 3rd, verse
8th, “ Art thou better than populous No,
that was situate among the rivers, that had waters
round about it, whose rampart was the sea,” &c.
But when men lived in boats it was necessary
to have some sort of covering to them, that they
might nestle in them, secure from the wind, the
rain, the sun, &c. Now if we add to no, a pre
fix indicative of nestling in repose, every body
would know the no, when so united, to be a
boat. In the Hebrett language, the word Ken
means à nest, and if we place it before no it
would strike every reader ; for who does not
know that canoe is a boat which is formed from
ken-no-a boat to live in.
If we turn our attention to the state of man in
the age of horror, we shall assure ourselves that
he must have had recourse to the aid of flotillas
in all extensive plains. In mountaneous coun
tries, where he found a safe retreat from the great
waters, in that forlorn age, flotillas were not ne
cessary; the mountains would give refuge to
multitudes, for whose subsistance, the vallics
I53
between would furnish but a scanty pittance,
while the plains manured by the water, must
have been fertile beyond description; but the
presence of man was necessary, to assist nature
in producing her abundance ; which could not
be done by those from the mountains, upon such
vast plains as those of Chaldea and Hindoostan ;
where the memory of those times have been pre
served in numerous volumes. Here, then, lived
the Noachidae or children of the boats; the
fragments of whose history, the Jews may have
blended in with some traits of their own.
But the custom of living in boats, in the age
of horror, was not confined to the plains of Asia;
but must have been common to all large plains ;
the inhabitants of which,in that age must havebeen
Noachidae. And as the plains of Europe, which
was peopled by the descendants of Iapeto, had
their Noachidae : and the plains of Egypt called
the plains of Am, from its amazing fertility; had
their Noachidae; and the vast plains of Asia,
(which last country, abounding with astronomers,
who studied the science of heaven, might have
been called the country of Shemim, which is
hebrew for heaven) had their. Noachidae ; we
see of what vast antiquity is the story of Shem,
Am, and Iapet being reduced to the state of
154
Noachidae, or people living in boats : Hence
would very naturally arise an idea that the Noa
chidae were the children of Noach as if Noach
had been a man or a woman. People who live in
poverty, are called the children of D1st Ress,
and yet we do not enquire whether Distress be
either a man or a woman.
There is a writer who asserts that Menu was
JYoah; Menu was never a man that lived,—it
was a symbol of laws and regulations, and is
precisely the Manah of the hebrews which means
to regulate or to cast up ; i. e. to reckon : it is
varied in pronunciation, and is sometimes called
menus, manes, and monah ; hence the English
Moon, which is the regulater of time. The
same writer says that Nau was Noah ; naus is
a Greek word for ship; but whether Noah be a
boat or a ship, are alike fatal to his existance as
a man. In another place he informs his readers
that Hippomenes, is Noah . This is still fatal to
the existance of JWoah as, an identical man; but
it will establish Noah as a mythological being, as
no—a boat, with the masculine affix, ah, is, at
most, the man of the boat, i.e. a boatswain, or
if you will a captain of a boat or ship—some
man or other, not any particular man. In this
sense Noah is Hippomenes; for Hippomeness.
155
aceording to the poetical history, in the tenth
book of Ovid's Met. was Admiral of the navy of
the Island of Atalanta. * It seems, from the
narrative beginning at line 560, that, at the time
of the above story, the form of government, in
that island, was republican, that many herocs -
had attempted to become sovereigns, but had
been cruelly repulsed; none were to be admitted
but such as would comply with certin conditions:
which proves that the people wanted a limitted
monarchy. After several heroes had been slain,
Hippomenes, the Admiral, had the daring te
merity to offer himself: him the people had the
power to refuse (proof of their freedom) but Hip
pomenes had plenty of gold, which had been
clandestinely obtained from the mines of Peru
or Merico; + with this he bribed the people of
Atalanta three several times, and gained his elec
tion. But, observe, upon his assuming the regal
* We must go back more than eleven thousand years into time
for the existance of this island, how far further, for the time when
its Admiral was elected King we know not ; but if Noah was
this Admiral—was this Hippomenes what are we to think of the
Jewish history Mr. Faber was not aware of the difficulties
which his bantering etymologies might bring him into.,
+ Called by Ovid TAMASEN, i. e. the LAND of DARK Ness, from
ThAMUs—HIDDEN: because in India, America was below the
horizon. See N. B. page iii, book first of this work,
156
+
authority, the Goddess Cybele sunk the island
below the Stygian water |
Hippomenes, is derived from 1ppos, a greek
word for horse, and that from a word which
signifies to fly : this then is the flying horse Pe
gasus ; which is a ship. And from Manah, a
regulater: Hippomene, then, as connected with
the Island of Atalanta, must have been, at least,
Admiral of a fleet. But what puts it beyond all
doubt is, his boasting of his pedigree, which is
but four removes from JWeptune the king of the
waters. However, an acquaintance with their
gradations of rank would determine that point.
I cannot conclude my remarks on the Noa
chidae, or people who inhabit extensive plains in
the age of horror, without observing the necessity
of taking into their arched flotillas some of their
most useful cattle, which must otherwise have
perished: this we are certain of without a re
wealation and in the oblong zodiac of Tentyra,
where we find cancer at the south pole ; and the
divisions of Gemini crouded with seven persons
all busily employed in arranging matters of some
serious importance, previous to their getting into
winter quarters, we find, also, in the last de
canate but one, to the south pole, there is actu
157
ally an OX placed in a BOAT : this is not the
constellation of Taurus, for that is on the other
side of Gemini, where we see him with a circle
on his neck which informs us that there was a
full moon in the last decanate. Was this a type
of what was afterwards to happen among the
Jews borrowed from their books, it could not
be, as it is well known that they had no books of
Moses till nine hundred years after his death, un
less we call the ten commandments by that name,
which were engraved on the two tables of stone :
for, “ There was nothing in the Ark save the
“ two tables of stone, which Moses put there at
“ Horeb, when the Lord made a covenant with
“ the children of Israel, when they came out of
“ the land of Egypt.” This confession is re
corded in the 8th chap. of the first book of Kings,
verse 9th. Here is an indisputable proof that
there was no book of Moses in the Ark, nor do
we hear any thing about the books of Moses,
either in Judges or Samuel, or in the reign of
David, or of that of Solomon, or in the reign of
any other of their Kings, till the eighteenth year
of Josiah: when all of a sudden the High-priest
said to the scribe, “I have found a book in the
house of the Lord,” second of Kings, chap. 22nd
verse 8th. Strange : that this book should be
called the book that contained the books ofMoses.
O
158
by whom was it written ? and where concealed for
nine hundred years: When Solomon dedicated
the temple, he knew nothing about it; there was
“nothing in the Ark but the two tables of stone,”
second of Chron. chap. 5th, verse 10th. Having
found a book it was read to the king and people
by little and little : the king rent his clothes, and
the people, for the first time in their lives, now
heard of the marvellous things that were
done in old time, &c.
All the directions and patterns for building
the temple were given to Solomon by David,
first of Chron. chap. 28th, verse 19th. All this,
said David, the Lord made me understand in
writing by his hand upon me, even all the works
of this pattern. But least there should be any
mistake, we are told that the Lord himself came
down to converse with Solomon about it ; which
would have been quite unnecessary, if they had
known any thing about it by its having been com
municated to a man five hundred years before. ,
We have seen from what ancient memorials
the story of Noah may have arisen—from the
necessity of living in boats at a very remote pe
riod : and we shall see how a similar mistake may
have given existance to a Moses. The book,
159
which first sprung to life in the sight of the
High-priest Hilkiah, about twenty years before
the babylonish captivity, and which had never
before been heard of was called the book of the
Covenant of the Lord ; in one place it is called
the book of the Law by Moses, or the book of
Moses, the law of Moses, the code of Moses,
&c. All these expressions seem to point out that
there wasa book written by Moses.—The history
of a woe fraught heart might, with much pro
priety, be called the book of Misen Y : but what
Englishman could be prevailed upon to believe
that mistry was either a man or a woman, by
whom that book was written:—a foreigner how
ever, who did not understand the meaning of the
word misery might very pardonably mistake
Misery for the name of the author of the book :
instead of understanding it to be a book THAT
TREAted of GR1evous things. Hence we see
what errors may arise from ignorance 1 and alas ;
it is these errors—these fatal errors, that have
given birth to so many Mystic characters,
whose lives of wonder swell the volumes of his
tory. But the mystic offspring of ER RoR, are
the figurative children of FALSEHood, whose
miraculous recitals have instilled into the minds of
man that poison which has been productive of his
greatest woe: the only antidote to which must
160
flow from the throne of truth, when he shall
allow himself to be guided by that precious ray
of divine essence, which we call REAsoN : for it
is that alone which distinguishes the man from the
brute; and it is that alone which has brought
man from the cave to the PALACE. -
As we are assured, from the authority of the
bible, that the book produced by the HIGH-priest
Hilkiah, about twenty years before the babylo
nian captivity, was not written by a man who lived
nine hundred years before, called Moses : it was
therefore a book of the laws About Moses—of, or
concerning Moses; a book concerning whatever
was mosaic. But Moses means saved from the
waters. It is a name that the Egyptians gave to
the land every year when the water of the Nile
returned within its banks, and the land was saved
from the waters,(see part first, page 14,)or rather
the name that was given to the symbol which the
Egyptians set up,when the water had left the land,
that was calledMoses, * orMouses. And the code
oflaws by which they governed their husbandry
during the nine months that their land was safe
jrom the water, was called THE Code of Moses.
This term was applicable to the laws of all the
* See Pluche's History of thc Heavens, vol. 1st, page 98.
161.
inhabitants of extensive plains, subjected to in
undations,—to the people called Noachida.
But the whole world, in the age of horror, was
not peopled by the No achidae; there was another
description of people that inhabited the moun
tains; these could not be governed by the laws
of Moses, or the laws of Noachidae, FIRE, not
water was their foe; they wanted no laws of the
Noachidae; they wanted a code of laws by which
they might be able to defend themselves from the
ravages of the burning sun, when men hid them
selves in the holes of the rugged rocks “ from the
fierce anger of the Lord, and from the glory of
his majesty, when the mountains flowed down at
his presence.” -
The laws of Persia bore a title relative to fire
under the name of ZER busr or Zoroasten.'
The Jews, willing to monopolize all ancient his
tory to themselves, have very ingeniously cou
pled the code of the inhabitants of the moun
tains, with that of Noachidae, or inhabitants of
the plains, by adding to their code the names of
Moses and AA RoN-1—Moses was taken from the
bottom of the water, and Aaron they acknowledge
was a Mountaineer What a newAnkAble
coincidence: tops and bottoms—what extremes:
162
second of Sam, chap 22nd, David is drawn outof
many waters. In chap. 23rd, he is burned with
thirst and longed for a drink of water of the
well of Bethleham, which is by the gate. David
has been said, by many authors, to be a mytho
logical character.—His name and his songs are
exactly upon a par with Apollo and his canti
cles. His marshalling his mighty men into
twelve companies of three men each, and his
having twelve captains, one for each month in
the year, &c. look very much like an astrono
mical arrangement. There are three different
muster-rolls of his mighties which differ from
one another: they may, however, be all seen,
free of expence in the bullitins of the Kings
of Israel and Judah, first of Chronicles chap. 27,
verse 11 ; and second of Samuel, chap. 23. His
conduct beforethe hand-muids of his servants, for
which his wife Michal reproves him, looks very
much like the Chrisna ofthe Hindoos who danced
with the twelvegopies or twelve female repre
sentatives of the twelve signs.
But what has still more the appearance of As
tronomy is, that, David, who had so many
traits in his character of the singing conqueror
Apollo (which is known to be the name of the
sun, in the forlorn age) is the offspring of Iesse :
163
this is but the constellation of Virgo, almost un
disguised.—The 1sheh of the Egyptians, which
the Greeks called Isis, the virgin mother ofyoung
Orus, the sun. Here, again we see the poverty
of the inventive faculty of the hebrew historians;
ever despising the annals of the pagans, and yet
always taking them for their guide without being
able to disguise their symbols so as to hide them
even from ordinary observers; for who does not
know that neither the Jews nor Phenicians had a
letter J, in their alphabet, they could not there
foresay Jesse, but Isse, orsometimesyesse;—Ishu
is the hebrew for Jesus and by the affix of an h,
becomes Ishuh or IshuAh which we writeJoshua,
in general, but his name is spelt four different
ways in the Bible; in Num, 13, 16, Moses calls
OshEA the son of Nun, Jehoshua : in Deut.
chap. 32, verse 44 it is Hoshea; when we see the
different scribes among the Jews, varying the
same word we need not dispute about Isse the
father of David and Ishe the mother of Apollo,
or the sun. But what may we THINK of Ishu,
Jesus, the son of God, and Ishua, the son of
the eternall for Nun, or Non, as it is written in
the first of Chro. chap. 7, verse 27, is the
Eternal 1
-* -- - ºf
We have seen from what astronomical conse
164
quences the the sun stood still on Mount Gibeon,
in the first part of the work; we have now to con
sider by whose command it seemed to be station
ary at the pole; we are told it was atthe command
of Ishuh the son of the Eternal.—Is not the sun
itself, that stood there, the son of the Eternal.
But when we reflect upon the unsettled state of
the jewish nation, we need not be surprised at the
various ways of expressing and writing the same
word; nor, indeed, of their having different
shades of ideas attached to the same word.
Were they again to be united, they would be
several years before they could establish a regular
language; which after all their endeavours, would
at last be but a heterogeneous dialect ; a kind of
latin-grecian-phenician-syrio--babylonic--medio
persiac-sanscrit sort of tongue: for such a mixture
it had obtained among their writers, when their
sacred books were written: from which confusion
we may easily account for such mistakes as
the above. -
The festival of the passover is confessedly as
tronomical; it wasalways kept at the vernalequi
nox. Much mystery and miracle have been
blended into this annual festival by the lovers of
wonden; but, as she is a lady whose charms I
--
165
never admired, I always stretched my optic
nerves into the very back ground of her picture :
where I perceive, that when the angel of the
Lord pass oven the land of Egypt, it is precisely
the time when the sun (the great angel) pass overt
the equator l—for that festival is still kept at the
time when the sun is passing over that circle,which
is about the 21st day of March, when the sun
rises in the east, from which circumstance we call
our festivel about that time the feast of Easter.
But we are told,that,at that time,inEgypt,all their
first born were slain ; this would be a melancholy
consideration to those who did not know, that,
this was the time when the people in Egypt were
cutting down their hay and corn, which is well
known to be the first born “ of the year, their
fruits not coming to perfection till afterwards.
The plagues which we hear of, were very common
in that country—some of them, however, go
back to the age of horror, the true age of plagues:
but the frogs are a very common plague in
Egypt : and the waters being turned into blood
is but a poetical expression for the stagnant water
• None but the first born of the Egyptians were slain—the
plague shall not be upon you to destroy you, Exod. chap. 12,
verse 13. This plague of cutting the hay and corn did not fall
upon any of the Children of Israel–Very true; for being Slaves
they had no land, consequently they had no hay or coin to cut,
I66
in the month of May, when it is covered with
arid weeds, and emits a putrid stench, from which
it was with some propriety called the RED dragon.
At the time that the Jews left Egypt, the equa
tor passed through the constellation of the Ram ;
and at the above time of the year all Egypt was
gay; they had a festival at which they used to
decorate their houses with branches of trees and
surround their door posts with wreaths of flowers;
and, to shew their knowledge in astronomy, they
decorated a ram with ribbons and flowers which
, they led in triumph, thereby acknowledging
their gratitude to God for favours received while
the sun was in that constellation.
The Jews, however, hating every thing that
related to astronomy, though they had a festival
at the same time, had a lamb which they slew,
and they decorated their two side posts and the
upper door posts, not with wreaths of flowers—no
no, they smeared their doors with the blood ofthe
lamb, * Exod. chap. 12, verse 7.
• The time that the Jews left Egypt was near a thousand years.
before the vision of John, who was called unto the surren of the
Lamb ; and as the woolly constellation occupies a smaller por
tion of the Zodiac than thirty degrees, this feast must have
been the an eakfast of the Lamb.
167
But from the wonders of this part of their his
tory, concerning their coming out of Egypt, we
are led to those of a higher antiquity, when
Abram first went down into Egypt : as this is
placed further out of our reach we shall find it to
be more astronomical. What motives first in
duced nations to trace their history up to the
beginning of the world, I do not know: to me
it has ever appeared a monstrous folly, and I
cannot now be prevailed upon to believe that any
of the ancients intended such a thing, they traced
histories up to the beginning of some astronomical
period and from that recited the events; and if
their annals were barren of events they could fill
up the deficiency, with the history of astrono
mical occurrences. Whether the Jews intended
their history of the creation and the subsequent
parts, as real occurrences of human beings is not
certain,but it is certain that they have the appear
anceof mythological beings; we haveseen the my
thological connexion of Samson and Delilah, of
David and his mighty men, of Moses and Aaron
and of Noah, and his descendants ; and we shall
find the history ofAbram agreeing with the phe
… nomena of that science withoutgoing in search of
it into a remoter time than what is stated in their
own books. It is asserted, in them, that Tarah
was the father of Abram, whose wife was Sarah,
168
by whom he had a son whose name was Isaac ;
whose seed was to be numerous as the sand on the
sea shore: and whose son Jacob wasfather to the
twelve tribes of Israel. M. Volney asserts that,
All “the pretended personages, from Adam to
“Abraham, and his father Tarah, are mytho
“ logical beings, stars, constellations, and coun
“ tries.” Adam, he says, is Bootes; but he has
offered no proof of it. Noah, is Osyris ; but I
must confess that I do not feel much conviction
flash into my mind from either of these assertions.
Abram, which was the original name of Abraham
is precisely the Brama of the Hindoos : it seems
that this people had a way of placing the as, of
foreign words last in order, as in this wordAbram :
by transposing the a, it becomes brama ; again,
when India was conquered by the King of Egypt,
they called him BRAMA Gypta : here we see the
a transposed; which seem to shew that they
were fond of an a terminal : but whether the
meaning of the name remained the same I am not
certain : we know, however, Brama was their
grand name for the Deity, we know, also, that
they held the Bull in high veneration, but whes
ther there was any connexion in their minds with
the Bull and Brama, I am not certain; but we
know that AbiR signifies the BULL ; which the
Greeks corrupted into Apis : both names, how
169
ever are compounds, and are applicable to the
Bull, in consequence of his being the most dis
tinguished constellation in the zodiac, and of
his being used in ploughing the ground ; which
| last employment procured him the epithet of
| Apis or Ab-is—AB-Isis, contracted : Isis with
the ear of corn is the symbol of harvest, and as
| the bull ploughed the ground, he was thefigura
tive father of harvest, i. e. Abis from AB, father;
and Isis, harvest. In the circular and oblong
zodiacs from Tentyra (both of which may be
seen in DeNoN’s Travels in Egypt) the bull is the
most distinguished of all the animals, in the solar
round , he was, therefore, the FATHER of the
FIREs, i.e. he was Ab-irim. The bright star in
that constellation, is the most brilliant of all the
stars or fires in the zodiac, it was the FATHER
FIRE, i. e. it was AB-IR, and this etymology is
confirmed by the arabic name of that bright star,
which is Al-de-'bir-an, i. e. the-great-father of
fires. The city of ABBIRopolis in Goshen, and
ARA Ris in Hindoostan were so called from the
abundance of cattle.
Now the veneration of the ancients for the
constellation of the Bull, is well known; and at
the return of the equator to the various stars that
composed it, one or other of the great nations
P
170
ended and began their reckoning, at which time
they had a grand festival, and then putting of
the old man with his deeds, they began a new
aera, of 1, 2, 3, 4, &c. of this the Jews were
acquainted ; and being willing to have some
thing of antiquity prefixed to their annals, they
began a narrative from the beginning of Taurus:
and during the passage of the equator from the
first star in the Bull's north horn to the bright
star Al-de-brn they have given a list of ten ances
tors in one line, and seven in another. The
reader ought to examine the fourth and fifth chs.
of Genesis, where he will find a great sameness
in the two lines of descent. In one Methusael,
begets Lamech; in the other it is Methuselah.
The Irad in the one, and Jarad in the other are
precisely the same names; and so are Enosh and
Enoch; which two occur, in both genealogies,
the third in descent. Enos, in hebrew is mortal
man or mortal thing : it isthe Enys of the greeks,
the goddess of war; but the Jews having altered
the sex, and made it masculine, it becomes the god
of war, i. e. MARs. For it is a well known fact
that Mars is rated in the third rank of mytho
logical beings, and as such, he was worship
ºped on the third day of the week ; and
still, in France the thirdday of the week is called
Mar-di, i.e. the day of Mars. I might ask,
here, how has it happened that in both lists of the
171
hebrew patriarchs, they have placed the god
Mars as their third patriarch 2 In page 58, part
first, I have shewn that Maha-la-leel lived at the
time when the equator was in that cluster of stars
in Taurus, called Meah : and l shall here ob
serve, that in one of the lines of descent we are
told that Cain was the father of Enosh or Mars;
now, CAIN, according to their own account, was
a murderer — it is the true sublime of romance,
to make the father of the bloody god of war, to be
a murderer. In the list of ten, seth is the second
in order; and seth is but Iseth badly disguised,
which is a well known Egyptian name for the
Moon, and the moon was the second mythological
being which has given name to the second day of
the week, (Monday.) In Adam both lines unite ;
he is the first of men, he is the FATHER of Life
—-the father of all living ; which is a proper :
epithet ſor the first man; the sun, is, also the
father of life, he is the first in the order of the
adorable beings among mythologists, and his
worship, and name, graced the first day of the
week, called SUN-day. Among the many hun
dred names given to that glorious luminary that
of ADAM would be among theforemost; in quality
of his being the father of life, for Adam is a
compound of Ad, a syriac word for father; and
am, life. Thus we find how easy it is to com
172
pose a list of progenitors. SUNDAY begat Mon
day, and Monday begat Tuesday : which in
French is Mar-di;—and so on till we come to
Saturday, the seventh day of the week, which
was a day of rest : and behold, they worshipped
Saturn the seventh planet on the Saturday, the
seventh day of the week; and as saturn is a very
slow paced gentleman; being two years and a
half in creeping through one house, which is al
most like doing nothing, the Jews have, in the
most accommodating way imaginable, made
his day, a day of rest: which is a collateral
proof that they began their march from Egypt on
the Sunday morning, and pursued their journey
six days by forced marches; at the end of which
finding that they were safe from the Egyptian
officers, they rested on the seventh ; and a law
was made by the order of God, to rest every
seventh day through all theirgenerations for ever,
as a memorial of their quitting Egypt : from
which country they were thrust out,
and could not tarry, Exodus, chap. 12, verses
27, 16, 17, 39, Deut. chap. 5, verse 15, Chro
nicles, chap. 16, verse 3.
It is very remarkable, that, the ten command
ments which were put into the temple, at its de
dication, by Solomon, and which were given by
173
!
God at mount Horeb, should not contain any
thing about the creation of the world in six days;
it is said in the fifth chap. of Deut. verse 15th,
that “the Lord thy God brought thee out thence
“ (Egypt) through a mighty hand and by a
“ stretched out arm ; therefore, the Lord thy
“ God commanded thee to keep holy the sabbath
“ day.” But notwithstanding this we hear of no
observance of the sabbath for several hundred
years before Josiah ; neither to commemorate
their leaving of Egypt; for which it was first
instituted; nor yet to remind them, that, in sir
days the Lord made heaven and earth, &c.; and
as there is but one solitary witness in favour of
the institution of the sabbath in consequence of
God's six days labour; and such a host in
favour of its being observed in consequence of
the sir days labour of the Jews in marching in
the wilderness six days in haste; we may there
fore conclude, that, the eleventh verse of the
twentieth chap. of Exodus, was put in after the
babylonish captivity: but why not expunge all
the other passages which state, that the sabbath
was first institued to commemorate the leaving of
Egypt in six days forced marches These things,
which are in contradiction to each other cannot be
both true. Besides, we are assured, from the
whole tenor of the Jewish history as it is con
tained in the Bible, that there was no observance
-
174
of a sabbath on any account, till the days of
Nehemiah, (see Neh. chap 8, verse 14, 15.
But independent of its first origin, the observ
ance of a day of rest from labour once in seven
days, is a very agreeable regulation. Its origin,
however, is evidently an improvement of an
astronomical observance, which had a festival at
the full and new moons, and at the quadratures ;
these sometimes happen at six days, and some
times at eight days asunder, and require a con
siderable knowledge in that science to enable a
man to make the necessary calculations, which
becomes useless to an inland people when once
custom had established the regular observance of
a seventh day. In England this was done by an
act of parliament : which was ofsufficient power:
but all the commandments of God were not suffi.
cient to prevail upon the Jews to cease from la
bour on the seventh day, not even in the days of
Nehemiah, who saw some in Judah, in his days,
treading wine presses on the sabbath, and bringing
in sheaves, and lading asses ; as also wine, grapes
and figs and all manuer of burdens, which they
brought into Jerusalem on the sabbath-day.
It may, perhaps, be thought foreign to a work
of this kind to spend so much ink about what
may seem to be of a religious concern, but the
unfounded assertion that the sabbath was instit
.
.
175
tuted in consequence of God having created the
world in six days is not altogether of a religious
nature: it is well known how that assumption af
fects Geology ; which is a science that must
for ever be involved in mystery, till its students
shall call in the aid of its parent AstRonoMY,
such as I have shewn her to be in this work. And
as there is not a single line in the history of the
Jews, from their coming out of Egypt at the co
venant at Horeb down to the days of Nehemiah,
inclusive, that speaks of the sabbath as arising
from the six days of God creating the world,
we may safely conclude, that, the six days, has
some hidden meaning, like that of the six peri
ods of time among the hindoos which they call
six sacas.
If we take the assumed “beginning,” from the
middle of the age of horror in the latitude of
twenty-four degrees, then would there be six peri
ods of time,of25,000 years each, before the world
would become a comfortable abode for man and
animals, which story is again repeated in what is
called the flood; which did not continue 150,000
3years but 150 days; i.e. one day for 1,000 years.
But they have placed ten generations between the
creation and the flood; and between the flood and
the birth of Abram are ten generations: this is
176
another remarkable point in the history of the
Jews; they seem to have had a great veneration
for the numbers seven, ten, and forty ; for they
were forty years feeding upon Manna; Moses was
forty days and forty nights upon a MoUNTAIN
with God, during which time (perhaps) he
fasted ; all which, seem strongly to favour their
having been, originally refugees of the island of
Atala, which anciently extended as far as the
Azores * in the latitude of forty degrees: from
whence the polar mountain would be seen as a .
cone with ten steps, and on which, the sun, in
the age of horror, would be twice forty days in
passing through the ten menus, or circles round
their mount Menu : and Moses went twice up
the flaming mount Horeb for his ten MENUs or
regulations; and was gone forty days and forty
nights each time.—The doubleascent to the moun
tain seems to indicate, that the age of horror had
been repeated but twice in that part of the Island
which extended to forty degrees, it having sub
mitted to the ravages of Neptune, long before that
part about the neighbourhood whichis mentioned
by Plato to have disappeared about 11,000 years
ago. But this would more properly come under
the consideration of the Geologist.
*
* Asiatic Researches, vol. 8, page 286.
177
We have seen in a former part of this work,
that, when the ancients rectified the heavens and
the earth about 23,000 years ago, the constellation
of Leo was verticle at Lanca or Ceylon, and
Taurus, at that part of Atala near Teneriffe,
which was called the residence” of the Bull: and
we find that the Jews preserved such a veneration
for the Bull, that they have made him to be
their great progenitor; for though we admit that
there may have been a man whose name was
Abram, &c. &c. yet the history of him has an
exact parallel in astronomy; with which it will
be found to agree, much better than it does with
the lives of human beings. ,
The story of Abraham, notwithstanding all
the endeavours of theologians to give it the ap
pearance of the history of human beings, has
preserved its mythological features with an out
line and colouring, easily to be recognised by
every son of Urania. We have just seen that the
Egyptians have their harvest about the time
which the sun passes over the equator, and if we
go back to the time of Abraham we shall find that
the equator was in Taurus; the Egyptians must,
then, have had their harvest while the sun was in
* Asiatic Researches, vol. 9, page 78.
| 78
the Bull; the Bull, was, therefore, in their figu
rative way of speaking, the father of harvest, not
only because he ploughed the ground, but, be
cause the sun was there when they got in their
harvest : thus the Bull was doubly distinguished
as their banefactor; he was now, more than
ever, become the Bull of life, i.e. he was not
only called Abir, the Bull, but Abir-am or Ab'-
r-am, the Bull of life, the father of harvest.
And as their harvest was originally under the di
rection of Isetb, or Isis, whatever belonged to
harvest was Isiac, but the Bull, Abiram, was
now become the father of Isiac and to give this
the appearance of a human descent, they added
to Abir, the masculine affix ah; then it became
An’-RH-AM who was the father of Isiac. And
we actually find this equivoque in the hebrew
history of Abram whom the Lord afterwards
called Abraham, who was the father of Isaac,
whose seed was to be as countless as the sand on
the sea shore for multitude; even this is truly
applicable to Isiac the offspring of Ab’rh-am :
for countless indeed are the offspring of the scythe
and sickle 1 but if we allow Isiac to be a real son
of Ab'rah-am, we must enquire after his mother.
During the time that the equator is passing
through the constellation of the Bull in the spring,
the Bull would rise in the east every morning in
179
w
the harvest time, in Egypt, but in the poeti
cal language of the ancients, it would be said that,
when AB1R-AM consorts with Aurora he will pro
duce Isiac. But Aurora is well known to be the
golden splendour of the east, and the brightness
of the east is called Zara, and the morning star
is Serah, in the eastern languages, and we find a
similar change of sound in the name of Isaac's
mother,whom theLord would no longer call Sarai
but Sarah. These ARE remarkable coincidences :
But Ab’ram is the astronomical offspring of
Tarah, which in the eastern language has a
meaning like our word terror, and when the
ancients wanted to express, in one word, all that
was frightful, they doubled the word tara and
said TARAtARA, from which the greeks made
TARTA Rus, which we translate Hell. The
reign of winter was the reign of terror or tarah,
and before the Bull came to the equator it was a
wintry constellation; but when it had risen or
while it was rising above the equator it was the
offspring of Tarah ; but the land of the nativity
of Abraham and Terah was UR ; Tarah, Abra
ham, &c. belonged to a urane family: and Ta
rah and Abir-am and Zara, the Bull's wife or
sister are also a URane family—all the offspring
of the chaste virgin URAN1At ,
180
24%
It is really surprising to see with what ease
and exactness all the very remote and miraculous
histories of the ancients, agree with the symbol
ical and highly poetical expressions made use of
by ths sons of Urania to commemorate the various
effects produced by the complex motions of the
earth, through a series of painful observations for
more than four millions of years. And I am
quite certain that if the sons of Geological re
search would take this Theory of TIME for their
guide, we might soon be in a very fair way of
obtaining a more correct history of the EARTH
Itself, and all its various strata, than has
hitherto been given. This had been my task
some years ago, but, that I found it necessary,
as a solid foundation for such an undertaking, to
reduce the vast chaos of time which the earth
must have been in existance into its regular com
ponent parts or subdivisions, as they have been
marked out by thefinger of truth upon the Dial
of the Deity.
THE END.
Printed by R. Walker, near the Duke's Palace.
