{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1823__oliver___antiquities_of_free-masonry.pdf","mytitle":"Antiquities Of Free-masonry","mylang":"de"}
THE
ANTIQUITIES
or
F~EE-MA.SONRY;
COIIP&ISUIG
ILLUSTRATIONS OF
THE FIVE GRAND PERIODS OF MASONRY,
ROM TilE
CREATION OF THE WORLD TO THE DEDICATION
OF KING SOLOMON'S TEMPLE.
-
r~~;~~bidi ~Jt~VER,
VJC.la OP CUE j;,:~~:~Jf~t..~-LINCOLN; P. G. CHAPLAIN
PO& TRill; BAlfP ~!'Cl'~; ;A)rV ,POJRITJC CHAPLAIN
TO lrld ;~ ••·uu DIIII:NGTON.
.... ..~ .. .. . .
- - AZ:.... wnr o.l)?'I)J., lr .........
a.r• "fXifo 1M .,.......,... .b.>J).Citlf.
~~~8.
r
Dig1tizod by Coogle
. ·-·..·.
·.: ·.:
..... . .
.... ... ·
..:·:::::
.. .. ....
.. ..... .
···:: :-:::: ::::
..·: ..: ·. .. .
·....·::: ..... :::-::::
. ........ .. .
. ... ..... ....
LONPOH•
PAINTED IIY COli: AND 114YLIS, G&lt4T QUEJ:N !ITR.IIE'I1
LINCOt.N's-tN.M FIELDS.
Digitized by Coogle
.I
ADVERTISEMENT.
This oolume is laid before the Public, in the pruent u-
ten.non and ~ popularily tJf Ffw-MtiMIIW!h fllitla
a view ofrecommending it as an au.riliary to Religion. The .
magnitude of our Fratmrily, and the importance attached
to theproceedings of tAe Grand Lodge, as a dignified as-
umhly, with Hu Most Graciow Mqjesty and our Royal
Brethren at its head, malce it essentially necessary that
Mtwmry he reuived in its tTUe and genu_ine.acceptation;
tu a Society ftMnded on the basis of Religicm, which culli-
vates and enfOJ'P!-!: t~ ~C.A~~. ffrwes of Faith, Hope,
and Charity, ~'the'*ai~·~ from them,
~. . •..• . • .•• "'f
like rays of light ~.a.iM~ sun. If this tJI!empl
meet the appro~ :Q/.:'mif..Jiretlu-en, I shall probably
' complete the underidki~· ~·~:future time, by laying
before them a P"aew of the Two 4dclitional Periods of
M~, ending tllith tM Advent of Je~tU Christ; in
wlaiclt the s~, (W its substiiNte, tt!ill be investigated,
in all the varioru forms wlaicA it #IllUmed, in every nation
and~~ evny people of tlae aneimt world.
GrHI GritfiiiJy, Ft:IJ. 17, 18!3.
A 2
G.O.
,
Digitized by Goo Ie
CONTENTS.
-
ADYB&TIUJIBNT •••••••••••••••~••••••••••••~···············~················ iii
PauAcz •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• v-xri
PERIOD I.
CHAPTBa I. On Masonic Tradition . •••••••••••••.••••••.····~···· 1
CsAPTIB II. , View of Masonry as it existed from the Creation
of the World to the time of Enoch ••••••••••••• !8
PERIOD II.
CsAPTn Ill. .On the Origin of the Arts and Sciences • ••••••••• 55
C&APTJ:a IV. VJeW of Masonry from Enoch to the Univenal
CsAPTBa V.
CJrAPTBa VI.
DelliJt•',..,....,........................................ 85
....: : .·.: .. :. : .: : ::
..=).~ion 1i1.... ··=::=
.·.: u::.:.L:J.::
On the l~o~U:•P• ~~-~·~·I••••••••••••••••·····~ 98
View of MasoivJ'4-0tiih;:.nelqge to the Oiler-
• . . .. .... .
ing of IsJAa.c:::.:..:,..~,;.·:~¥··¥··················· 130
.... ..... ....
PERIOD IV.
CsAPTBa VII. On Symbolical Instruction •••...••••••••••••......... l 78
CsAPua VIII. View of.Masonry from the Oft'ering of Iaaac to
the Deliverance from Egyptian Captivity •••••• lH
PERIOD V.
CsAPTBa IX. On the Five Mystic Points of Fellowship ••••••••• !56
CBAPTBa X. View of Masonry from the Deliverance to the
Dedication of King Solomon•s Temple•.•••••• 174
A f
Digitized by GoogIe
PR·EFACE.
THE objection'! which have been so unceasingly urged
against the institution of Free-Masonry, excited in me,
some years ago, a serious desire to obviate the general
and vague charges of envy and prejudice, by some f<?r-
mal examination of the grounds on which they are found- ·
ed. Since this duty has been impressed upon. my mind,
I have preached and pr;inted five Sermons in my official
capacity of Provincial Grand Chaplain for the county of
Lincoln, the tendency of all which has been chiefly
directed towaNi!J1;llls~int;. B~~i6.od, that while I con-
fine myself to a~ti~ ~eeuHar objections, I am only
applying a part;:n~ :~~edy ~~ the-evil. To stem the
torrent which i~ o~V~~...tO.,~, ~d etfectually to divert
the course of its streain, is an undertaking of -a more
broad and extensive nature : and i~ is only from an ex-
position of the pure principles of the science, as it ac-
tually existed in the primitive ages of the world, that a
correct idea of its beneficial tendency can be conveyed to
the mind of those ·who look upon · Masonry as another
•name for licentiousness and excess. ·
An ancient Manuscript, in the hand-writing of King
Henry the.Sixth, gives the following definition of Ma-
sonry: " Ytt beeth the skylle of nature, the undel'stond-
A3
Digitized by GoogIe
vi PREFACE.
ynge of the myghte that ys hereynne; and its sondrye
werckynges, sonderlyche, the skylle of rectenynges, of
waightes and metynges, and the true manere of facon-
nynge at thynges for mannes use ; headlye, dwellynges,
and buildynges of all kyndes, and al odher thynges that
make gudde to manne." The same manuscript, .which
is preserved in the Bodleian library, adds : " Mac;onnes
havethe alweys, yn everyche tyme, from tyme to tyme,
communycatedde to mankynde soche of her secrettes aa
generallyche myghte be u~fulle ; they hauethe keped
backe soche alleine as ,shulde be harmfulle y1f they
comed ynn euylle haundes. Mas:onnes love eidher odher
myghtylye, and yt may not odherwise be : for gude
menne and true, ~e!l~fl!~~. e_id~e.r .~~~~.to be soche,
doeth always love t~~ ~~~· thtj¥e.~~~ good."•
It is truly said that ~OJ!J:f.?!n!~ mankind in the
indissoluble bonds of 1\iric!etf!'Aftttibn,: and if its nature
.... . ....... .
and origin be minutefj ;-4~~) ~i\~will produce a
.perfect conviction, that when its fundamental principles
are strictly adhered to, it cannot possibly be otherwise.
It is not simply practical or operative, but speculative or
11piritual Masonry that produces this desirable consum-
mation. Our ornaments, furniture, and jewels are all
highly emblematical of some greater and more noble
purpose, than the use to which they might be applied
• The whole of this MS., with annotations by our countryman the
learned Mr. Locke, is publiahed in Preston'• " Illustra~ions of Ma·
sonry,"
Digitized by GoogIe
.PREFACE,
as instru~ents of labour' ; and m.w. view it is, that
though the light may shine brilliantly amidst the dark-
ness, yet it is evkknt that the darkness comprehendeth
it not.
I cannot but think, (and I say it with the utmost de-·
ference, as it involves some of the most refined and ·
honourable feelings of human nature,) that the doubts
of conscientious brethren, respecting the propriety .of
committing Masonic investigations to writing, have tend-
ed to impede the study of Masonry; and have prevent-
ed the science from carrying that conviction which an
opposite practice would have commanded.
It is true we enjoy every benefit derivable from oral
communication, yet very great numbers of worthy and
good Masons, residing at a distance from the metropolis,
remain perfectly ignorant of the progress of Masonry in
the darker ages of the world. This is an evil to which
the Grand Lodge is fully empowered ~apply a remedy.
Annual prize essays on Masonic subjects, the establish-
ment of a respectable periodical magazine, under the
immediate auspices of the Grand Lodge, or even private
encouragement or patronage to literary Masons, which
our nobleand royal brethren are well competent to affi>rd,
would create a stimulus in defence of the order, which
might produce the most beneficial results tO Masonry;
and wou~d certainly be a powerful and efficient means
of removing a portion of the unmerited disrespect which
.is systematically 'cast upon ~ by the uninitiated.
-~~ 4
Digitized by GoogIe
viii PRBF.U:E.
I am by no means prepared to admit the policy of
these scruples generally, which, indeed, appears to have
been a matter of regret with all good MasOns, whO&e
sentiments we have any opportunity of becoming ac-
quainted with.. Dr. Anderson, who wrote the history of
Masonry by the com,mand of the Grand Lodge, and
whose book was approved, both iii manuscript and
print, ·by.two separate decisions of that body,• laments
· that " several ·valuable manuscripts concerning the
fra~rnity, their lodges, regulations, charges, secrets,
and usages, parti~ularly one written by Mr. Nicholas
Stone, the Warden under Inigo Jones, were·too ~tily
burnt by some scrupulous brothers, that those papers
might not fall into strange hands.''t And to this the
~tor of the latest edition affixes a note, approved also
by the Grand Lodge, in which he says, " the rash act
above related may be ascribed to a jealousy in these
over.:scrupulous brethren, that committing to print any
thing relating to Masonry, would be injurious· to the
interests of the craft : hut surely such an act of felo de se
could not proceedfrom zeal according to lmowledge!"
1 admit that there are many things in Masonry which
require to be sedulously concealed, and even derive a
superior value from such, concealment ; but I must
contend that great ~vantages would · accrue from
placing the general truths of Masonry before the world,
• March 25, 1722, and Jan. 17, 1723. t Edit. 1784. p. 207.
Digitized by GoogIe
PRRFACJ£. ix
connected as they are with the fundamental principles
· of religion; that thinking men, though not admitted
amongst us, may possess the means of investigating our
preten."ions, without being able to unravel the web in
whose meshes our peculiar secrets are carefully
•
enfolded.
In this work the light actually shines in darkness.
I have blended the whole theory with the history of
Masonry so minutely, that the most penetrating eye
eaooot discover a peculiar secret without the legitimate
-
key; and that key is--INITfATION. I do not profess to
reveal the 8ecrets of Masonry, or to convey any improper
knowledge to those who are not d~ified with the
name of Brother ; nor have I any wish to be needlessly
technical, or to involve the subject more· deeply in .
mystery than its nature demands ; my only 9esire is to
place Masonry on tenable ground as a science, and w
lend my feeble aid, in the hope of wiping otf the op-
probrium too frequently attached to its practice by those
_
who, not devoid of candour in other respects, join in~
· considerately in the cry against Masonry, without_ re-
flecting ._ on its claims, at least to respect, if not to
praise and veneration. It is not a proselyting system,
~t is not made up of plots and i!oo~piracies agains'
peace and soeial order ; it interferes with no other
institution, moral. or religious; nor does it take any
part in the.disputes and broils which periodically agitate
.and enfeeble the ecclesiastical or political world: These
negative merits should entitle Masonry to some degree
Digitized by GoogIe
X . PRJU'AC.S.
of consideration, at least they should protect it froru
that thoughtless and indi~riminate -censure with which
it is too frequently overwhelmed. Its positive merits
I do not press here, as they will be copiously unfolded
in the following page~, and will shew that our employ-
ment is. neither puerile ·nor ridiculous ; but that it
consists in critical investigations of human science,
history, and religious truth, enlivened by the sweet
influences of social converse and mutual communica-
tion of happiness.
Without descending to minute particulars, this may
be illustrated in a few words. The well known symbols
of Masonry are the SQUARE and co~PASsBs, which
convey the abstract means and end of the science in
the most clear and comprehensive manner. The whole
system of man's moral and social duties lies on a level,
as far as relates to his commerce with this world ; but
his duties to God rise into a perperulicular, which
united emblems form a perfect SQUARE. And hence
the propriety of that ornament to decorate the chief
governor of the craft, as it points out the high respon.
sibility which rests upon him, not only to teach, but
also to perform the great duties which we owe to God
and man.• The coMPASSEs not- only describe the
• One of the ancient chiU'ges of Masonry, which ill recited by the
master immediately subsequent to the initiation of ~very candidate, .
contains the following earnest exhortation :
" Aa a Mason, l would first recommend to your most anxious
eontem•
Digitized by GoogIe
PRBJ'AC.t:.
widely-extended circle of Maeonic benevolence, but
also represent the boundless power and eternal dura-
tion of the Creator and Governor of the universe. And
thus it is clear that practical Masonry, in its In08l
extended sense, is but a line extending from the be-
ginning to the end of time, while Bp«Ulative Masonry
is a sphere without dimensions ; it fills all space, extends
-through all extent ; its centre is every where, and its
. eircumference no where ; for Masonry is the only
order amongst mankind whose beginning and end are
equally involved in darkness. For as practical human
Masonry comprehends the whole human race, wherever .
tlrey may be dispersed under the wide clmopy of
heaven, in one great _scheme of social benevolence, eo.
speculative, divine Masonry, comprehends the whole
contemplation the volume of the Sacred Law, charging you to con-
aider it as the unerring standard o£ truth and justice, and to regulate
your actions by the divine precepts it contains. Therein you will be
taught the important duties you ow.e to GoD, your NEIGIUous,-·and
YOURSELF. To God, by never mentioning His name but with that
awe and reverence which are due from the creature to his Creator;
by imploring His aid on all your lawful undertakings, and by looking
up to Him in ev«y emergen~y for comfort and support. To your
neighbour, by acting with him upon the square; by rendering him
every kind office which justice or mercy may require ; by relieving
his di.straael, and soothing his aftlictions; and by doing to him u in
similar cases you would wish him to do'to you. And to yourself, by
such a prudent and well-regulated course of discipline u may best
conduce to the preset"\'8ti.on of your corporeal and meatal facultlel
in their fullest energy ; thereby enabling you to exert the talents
wherewith God baa blessed you, as well to His glory DB to the welfare
~ yeur fellow..creatures."
Digitized by Go62Ie
xii PRIU'.-\.C.K.
Creation, from tbe meanest of God's works, through
the progressive scale of being, and the peopled regions
of unlimited space, to the heavenly mansions of eternal
day. .
I have endeavoured, in the following disqUisitions,
to define these two essential parts of Masonry as mi-
nutely as possible, because their separation led ·to
errors of the most deplorable and fatal nature, in-
troduced idolatry, with all its attendant train of defile-
ments, amongst mankind, and offered sacrifices to the
spirits of darkness on altars stained with human gore.
In successive ages of the· world, Masonry alternately
emitted d brilliant lustre, or shrunk into obscurity, as
the varying shades of a deteriorated worship ·might
preponderate, or casually give way before the effulgent
blaze of truth. The five Periods which I have selected
for ,iflustration, have been equally distinguished by
the practice of Masonry, considered in the perfect
union of its operative and speculative forll,ls. This
.union is essential to Masonry ; and the component parts
of each are so blended in all its disquisitions, that
they can only be separated by a total renunciation of
our belief in the existence of a God, and the conse-
quent rejection of the doctrine of a future state. And
these results did always follow the unnatural severing
of operative and speculative Masonry.
These Periods occupy a space of three thousand
years ; and I have selected them for illustration, be-
Digitized by GoogIe
PR&IfACK• xiii
. cause.it is generally believed that Masonry took its rise
at the building of King Solomon's Temple. To shew
that Masonry e~sted in its .most perfect form before
that event, is a sufficient refutation of the opinion. It
is tme ~he building and history of that most celebrated
edifice furnish matter. for illustrations of great in~re8t.
amongst U.s, which spring from various call,!leS, and
particularly as the tWo grand divisions of Mas61)ry,
which bad been long separated, became re-united at
tbatperiod, and the art was consequently revived, and
shone in its full lustre. A new arrangement of the
system was at this time rendered necessary by the
occm·rence of a most melancholy .event; which arrange-
ment Masonry retains to this day.
The attempt which I have made, how imperfect
l!!oever, to vindicate Masonry from the sneers of erudi-
tion, and the irreverent sallies of wit, may induce
others, poss~sing greater leisure and more extensive
means of information, to take up the pen in her be-
half. The incessant attention which the more weighty
and indispensable duties of my profession demand, has
left me little time for deep and elaborate research.
What I have produced is the mere offspring of re-
laxation ; and if it should stimulate others to. pursue
the same track, my purpose will be fully accomplished:_
for Masonry, the more it is examined, the more beau-
tiful it becomes ; and, like the purgation of a preciqus
metal, it rises from each successive ordeal with renewed
oig,tized by Coogle
Pll KJ'ACIC.
claim• to our admiration from its augtneDted brilliaDC)'
aod worth.
Masonry'has no point, part, or secret, which does not
illustrate some valuabletruth, or recommend some amia-
ble precept of religion~ The furniture of our pedestal
plainly intimates that the object of all our researches •
the glory of God; the end of all our illustrations,
happiness in a future state. The many dignified nam~
• Tbe followiug chronological list of Gra.od Masters and PatroDa.
from the time of the Anglo-Saxons, will be a decisive testimony that
the·order contains nothing repugnant to civil or religious liberty: ·
Jl. D.
597. Austin the Monk.
680. Bennet, Abbot of W'll'l'lll.
857. Saint Swithin.
87i. King Alfred the Great.
900. Ethred, King of Mercia.
924. King Atbelatane.
957. St. Dunstan, Archbishop of Canterbury.
J04J. King Edward the ConfeBBOr.
1066. Gundulpb, Bishop of Rochester.
1100. King Henry the First.
1!16. Peter de Rupt"bus, Bishop of Winchester.
1172. Walter Gift'ard, Archbishop of York.
1307. Walter Stapleton, Bishop of Exeter.
1827. King Edward the Third.
13.'i7. William of Wykeham, Bishop of W'mchester.
1375. Simon Langham, Abbot of Westminster.
J413. Henry Chichely, Archbishop, of Canterbury.
1443. William Waynfteet,Bishop of Winchester.
1471. Richard Beauchamp, Bishop of Salisbury.
1485. King Henry the Seventh.
1493. John Islip, Abbot of Westminster.
1515. Cardinal Wolsey.
1549. Edward Seymour, Duke of Somerset.
1551. John Poynet, Bishop of Winchester.
1603.
Digitized by GoogIe
which grace our annals, sufficiently prove tb4t our
institution is of the mO&t social and beQeticial tendeQcy..
. No "Bge has exceeded the present in the ~t _o{ ita
illustrious patrons, who dare not stoop to sanc~OQ
vice, or lend their influence to the p.-omulptiQA of
fraud .and deception. The Royal Brothers) united iA
our behalf, aft"ord an irresistible eviden~e tba~ we are
not guilty of disloyalty or tre.ason; and tb.e univ¢r~~al
1603. King James the First.
1607. Iriigo Jones.
16il5. Kine Charles tbe First.
1660. King Charles the Second.
1674. George Villars, Duke of Buckingham.
Ui85. Sir Christopher Wren.
1695. Charles Lennox, Duke of Richmond.
1719. J. T. Desaguliers, LL.D., F.R.S.,
J721, John Duke of Montague.
17~~- Philip Duke of Wharton.
1726. William O'Brien, Earl oflnchiquin.
.17~- Tl!omas Howard, Duke c>f Norfolk,
1732. Anthony Brown, Lord Viscount Montacute.
113Jt T. Thynne, Lord ~iscount Weymouth.
17:Jf). Jobn Campbell, ~arl of Loudon.
: 1738. H. Brydges, Marquis of Caernarvon.
· 1746. James Lord Cranstown. ·
176~. JQhn Lord CarysfQrt•
..: ·: 1757. Sholto Lord Aberdour.
.r 1762. Washington Shirley, Earl Ferren.
1767. Henry Duke ofBeaufort.
1772. Robert Edward Lord Petre.
1777. George Duke of Manchester.
1782. H. R. H. Frederick Duke of Cumberland.
1790. H. R. H. George Princeof Wales.
1813. H. R. H. Augustus Frederick Duke of Sussex.
1820. King George the Fourth, Grand Patron,
e
·.
.
xvi PREFACE.
·diffusion of Masonry at this day proclaims ·to the rest
of mankind, that its pedestal .is Religion ; its shaft, _,../
Morality; and its capital, Virtue: the whole surmounte~
by a beautiful entablature of universal Charity; that
it strongly i~cites us to " Honour all men, to love
the brotherhood, to fear God, and to honour the king!' :
Such a system, which occupies a situation at le~st_
equa1ly elevated with any human institution, is cal- ..
culated to expand our J:lenevolence, to extinguish ani-
mosities, and to destl'oy all uni~portant ilifferenc~\i.
amongst mankind. This indeed is the true cement:and .
""·- •I
intention of Masonry, which embraces all the g;nices- ·
and perfections of holiness ; unites mankind in the
. -~
strictest bonds of amity, as children of a common ~·:
• ·I
parent; and incessantly urges them to ask that·they-'.. .'
' . .
may have, to seek and they shall find, and to knock · .. . -: ..
that th~ door may be opened unto them. And this 'is . ·~..
the conclusion that Masonry draws from all her.jl~us,. ·
trations: he who practises all the virtues thus reco~- ·.•.l> •• ~ .
. J ·-' I
mended in FAITH, will rejoice in HOPE, be in perfect · -..· ·
cHARITY with all mankind, ~~:nd finally receive a PAS~~··_:.,'·· · }
WORD into the Grand Lodge above, where peace, order, ....
..:~· :--- ....;..
and harmony eternally preside. ·· ~ '
;....".. "'·...
...._ ~
·o;g,tized by Coogle
TilE
ANTIQUITIES
or
F R E E .. M A S 0 N R Y.
PERIOD I.
CHAPTER I.
PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS. .
ON ·MASONIC .TRADITION.
" THE true stress oftradition lies in an appeal to
the common sense of all mankind. It is a reliance
upon the testimony of men, considered as men,
and IWt as persons of this or that people or per-
.suasion,·actuated by principles implanted in that
nature which the whole species partake of, and
nofinflu.enced by the power of such as are pecu-
liar· to~ any particular community or religion."•
·On this principle have the traditions of Masonry
been·transferred from father· to son, ·along with
• Stanhope's Boyle Lect.
B
oig,tized by Coogle
ANTIQUITll;S OF
the knowledge ofGod's eternal existence and the
immortality of the soul. Before the time ofMoses
tradition could scarcely err, and that legislator
modelled Masonry into so perfect a system, and
circumscribed its mysteries by land-marks so signi-
ficant and unalterable, that from him its,transmis-
sion was little liable to perversion or error. The
length of life, in the early ages of the world, was
/1\lch, that oral tradition in general might be safely
relied on, proceeding to Amram, the father of
Moses, as it did, from Joseph, who received it
from Isaac, who· received it from Abraham, to
whom it was communicated by Shem, who. had it
from Lamech, and to Lamech it was revealed by
Adam. The Samaritan Pentateuch makes the
communication still more direct, by placing Adam
as contemporary with Noah.
Bishop Tomline inquires, with his usual pene-
tration and judgment, " could the grandchildren
of Jacob be ignorant of their own pedigree, and
of the time when they came i'r~to Egypt? Can we
think that so many remarkable circumstanees, as
attended the ,ailing ~d advancement of Joseph.
couldbe forgotten in so short a time? CouldJacob
be ignorant whence his .grandfather Abraham
came, especially as he lived so long in the country
himself, and married into that branch of the family
which was remaining there? ·Could Abraham be
ignorant of the F1ood, when he was contemporary
Digitized by GoogIe
FltEE-liiASONRY.
with, and descended from ~em, one of the eight
petsons who escaped in the Ark? Could Shem be
ignorant ·of what passed before the Flood, when
Adam, the :first man, lived so near the time of
Noah? and could Noah be ignorant ofthe creation
and fall of Dian, when he was contemporary With
those who conversed.with Adanl?''• ·
Oral tradition is.fairly admissible when its sub-
ject contains nothing improbable or inconsiStent
with ·Scripture or reason ; and the traditions of
Maso~ry, .tried by this standard, will be possessed
of iiresistible claims to our belie£ But in matters
of religion, as we possess a book of revelation to
regulate our faith and practice, it must b~ care-
fully rejected, because the Scriptures-contain every
thing necessary to salvation ; and the'passions arid
contending interests ofmen wou1d induce such nu-
merous perversions, as would place·our h9pes on
·too precarious a basis. A most remarkable instance
of this perversion occurs in the extraordinary ob-
livion of God!s power and providences, as well as
the degeneracy ofman, which so rapidly succeeded
the Deluge amongst the posterity of Ham. It
· appears from the testimony ofSanchoniatho,whom
Eusebius and Theodoret speak_ of as an acc'urate
·and faithful historian, that in the time of Thoth,
the son of Mizrairil, an acknowledgment of the
• El. ofTheol., part 1, chap. 1.
B2
Digitized by GoogIe
..
ANTIQUITIES OF
power of God in the creation of the wodd, and of
his vengeance against idolatrous pursuits displayed
in the universal Deluge, was disallowed and pro-
hibited. In his Cosmogony, which wa8 professedly
compiled from the records of the Cabiri, the sons
of (~t,dvx.) Melchizedek or Shem, the production
ofthe world is described as proceeding from a hete..
rogeneous mixture of wind, air and mud, or putre·
faction. After a visionary account of the creation,
tbe secretaries of Thoth are wholly si~ent about
the Deluge, which creates a suspicion that their
silence is rather the effect of design than igno.-
rance; for they acknowledge that Cronus (H~m)
.was living after the death of his son Misor (Miz-
r,aim) ;· and placed Thoth, the reputed author of
these Records, on the throne of his father, in
Egypt. Now as Ham was one of those who mi-
raculously escaped the general destruction, it can
scarcely be supposed that he would conceal so re-
.markable an event from Thoth, who was his pri-
vate and confidential adviser. But as they intended
to erect themselves into objects ofdivine adoration,•
they erased that great event from their Record&,
lest mankind should be confirmed in their ad-
herence to the true worship, by the recollection of
• " Cronus begat on Rhea seven sons, the youngest of which was
consecrated a God as soon as be was born !"-&neA. in Etueh. de
Prq., 1. 1, c.lO. This infant deity, according to the best authorities,
was Muth, wh.om the Phamicians call Pluto•
Digitized by GoogIe .
FREE-!\IASONRY. 5
so fearful adisplay of vengeance inflicted on the
human ·race for idolatrous practices. ·
The facts of the Creation, and the destruction
of mankind by a general Deluge, were however
too important to be buried in utter oblivion, even
·by apostate nations ; and therefore, as they were
unequivocal testimonies of God's infinite power
and j!Jstice~ they were hid under the impenetrable
veil of mystery, which overshadowed the know.:.
ledge of the one true God. Thus the elevation of
a ship formed a prominent ceremony in these
mysteri~ which, though not explicitly.applied to
that event, could have no significant reference to
any thing but Noah's salvation in the ark : and t6
involve the subject still deeper in .mystery and
darkness,· innumerable fables were invented an&
engrafted on the true account <>f that memorable
occurrence, whicli perplexed even the Ep6ptai
themselves; aDd by directing their inquiries into
4; (alse .channel;. prevented. a. discovery..of the
tmth:~ . ··.
• cc A ·coin ~f Philip the elder, wnich was struck at Apamea, or
Cibotus, contained, on its reverse, an epitome of this history. The
reverse of most Asiatic coins relate to the religion and mythology
of the places they were struck at. On the reverse of this coin is
delineated a kind of square machine floating upon water. Through ·
an opening hi it are seen two persons, a man and a woman, as low as
the breast, and upon the head of the woman is a veil.. Over this ark
is a triangular kind of pediment, on which there sits a dove; and be.
low it another, which seem¥ to flutter it& wings, and hold in its mouth
B 3 a 8mall
Digitized by GoogIe
6 ANTIQUITIES _OF
Thus was the knowledge ofthi!J event obscurely
transmitted in the heathen world. The Deluge
was a. circumstance, which, though omitted in the
public records of many nations, was never wholly
lost. Their theories were indeed much varied as
to the attendant circumstances, but oral tradition
was sufficient to preserve its memory alive. Not
only the Egyptians, with all the caution of their
early monarchs to suppress it, and, after them, the
Grecians and Romans, and all other nations who
adopted their theology; but the Chinese, the Ja-
panese, the Persians, the Hindoos, and even
the Indians of North and South America, have
abundant theories sufficiently circumstantial to
evince that they possess a traditional account of
the Deluge of Noah. Their respective theories
a,re too copious to be cited here ; I must there-
fore refer the curious Mason to " Bryant's System
of Mythology," ".Perron's Zendavesta," " Nieu-
hoff's Voyage to Brazil," " Acasta's History of
the Indies," and " Faber's Dissertation on the
Mysteries of the Cabiri," where he will find this
subject fully treated on.
Antediluvian Masonry depending in a great
a small branch of a tree. Before the machine is a man following a
woman, who, by their attitude, seem to have just quitted it, and to
have got upon dry land. Upon the Ark itself, underneath the persons
there inclosed, is to be read, in distinct characters, NnE."
.Brg(mt'1 Mytft.
o;g,tizedbyGoogle .
FREE-MASONRY. 7
measure upon. oral tradition, from the VA.JCUy of
recordS ascending to these ages,. some degree ot'
conjecture m~st necessarily be used ;. but these
_conjectures, at all times, however distinguishable.
from·fact, ' being founded on the strong~t and:
mo8t irrefragable supposition, wili ..amount to.
nearly. the same thing as direct proof.
- The knowledge of the ancient philo11:0pbers was
all traditionary. Even J!ythagoras and Plato•.
eminent as they were in those dark ages, can
scarcely be said to have broken the trammels, and.
delivered any thing but what they received op, the
authority of others ; for it was an industri.ou",
and indefatigable collection_
of ancient tradi.tions..
which distinguished them from the .rest. of the
world. ·
- Tr~tion ought to be receiv~d as genuine.
when the parties delivering it are not suspected ot
be~g tliemselves deceived, or of a wish to deceive
their successors. And this mJLy be presumed of tb~
Hebrew Patriarchs, through whom alone.Mas~~
is asserted ·to have been truly tr~nsmit~d; for
its deterioration .and ultimate oblivion amPng.
st
idolaters is unequivocally admitted. But if the ·
Patriarchs believed Masonry to contain some
truths inseparably connected witll their religion.,
it is scarcely possible ·to suppose they could.be
deceived in its application ; nor can they. be.
reasonably accused of a desire to deceive poste-
u4.t
Digitized by GoogIe
8 ANTIQf!ITIES OF
rity in a matter which was dignified with the same
high sanctions as their faith and worship. Hence
the traditions on this subject were preserved aJ,nd
conveyed the more carefully, because its essen-
tials, even ~r the invention of letters, could not
he committed to writing. The channel being
pure, the stream was uriaduiterated.
" Ancient traditions have often afforded oc-
casional .assistance to history, by stepping in to.
supply the want of existing monuments and re-
COJ'ds; and·even at this time, in.remote countries,
where letters are .little, if at all known, common
tradition hands down past events with an artless·
sincerity; sometimes wanting where such advan-:-
tages are liable to be perverted for indirect pur-
poses. But Masonic traditions stand upon much
firmerground ; the chief bond of connexionamong
Masons in all ages having been .FIDELITY. It is
well known that in for.tner times, while learning-
- remained in few hands, the antients had several
institutions- for the cultiv3:tion of knowledge,
concealed- under doctrinal and ritual -mysteries,
that were sacredly withheld front all who were
not ii:lltiated into a participation of the-privileges
they led· to, that they might not be .prostituted
to the vulgar. - Among these institutions may be
ranked that of Masonry ; and its value may be
inferred from its surviving those revolutions qf
government, religion and manners, that have waJ..
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE·MASONRY. 9
luWed up the rest. · And the traditions of so ve-
nerable an institution claim an attention, far
superior to the loose oral relations or epic songs:
of any uncultivated people whatever.•" .
Operative Masonry was cherished by the Egyp-
tians, who received it from their great progenitor
Mizraim,t the grandson of Noah. He displayed
· his Masonic skill and taste for the liberal arts,
by building ilie magnificent cities of Memphis·
and Thebre Egyptire: the latter called by the.
Greeks J?iospolis, and by th~ Jews Hammon No.
We learn also from ~ieroglyphical inscriptions,
which still exist on Egyptian monuments, that ~pe­
culative Masonry was originally known amongst
that people, though afterwards deteriorated to
advance a different interest, the propagation of
idolatry. Our claims to antiquity, however, do
not rest upon the exclusive authority of these.
inscriptions, though they are adduced as a cor-
roborative proof of.the existence of Masonry in·
the ages immediately posterior to the Flood ; the
principal evidences being found amongst that
people who preserved the true worship of .God•
.Of these inscriptions candour obliges me to re-
mark, that their interpretation being rather equi-·
vocal~ they are by no means a certain criterion·
• North. Coust., part 1, chap. 1.
t ·This name is said by Bochart to be derived from the Syriac word
M..,WD Mizra, Fau.
. '
Digitized by GoogIe
U> ANTIQtJlTJ.ES OP
•
of Masonic truth ; particuiarly as the institution
is founded on those lege• non ICriptte, which·
are unattainable by all mankind excepting the
initiated.
The tropical hieroglyphic, used for general pur-
poses, was easily comprehended ; but the subse-
quent introductiDn of the tropieal symbol cast the
veil of secresy over their knowledge, and was
employed for the puJpose of concealing their·
sacred mysteries from common observatiDn. But
the tropical symbol was a very late improvement
on the system of hieroglyphical writing: for the
proper hieroglyphic was used many ages before
the- tropical symbol was invented, and possessed
a significant meaning generally understood, and
adapted to the same purpose as modern letterS ;
to perpetuate a knowledge of past events, and to
record the wisdom and experience of every age,
for the benefit of posterity. The early hierogly-
phic.s being of a very simple construction, their
meaning was not of that doubtful character which
rendered the subsequent use of enigmatic symbols
so dil!lcult of comprehension.
In the monumental inscriptions which still
exist, the simple antient hieroglyphic is blended
with the more modern mystic character, which
. makes their interpretation somewhat dubious and
uncertain. If Masonry rested its claims to an-
tiquity, as some have un]earnedly pretended, on
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY. 11
the urilimited construction which niight be given
to these vague aiuJ ~ysterious records, ·it would
be iqlpossible for the m<>&t zealous and.indefatiga.;
ble M~p to trace tbe science back to the ante-
diluvian. ages, amidst the darlmess of ignorance
and barbarity which overspread a great portion of
the globe, at ~arious period~, and under forbidding
forms, from the Delu~e to the full revelation of
Christianity. But the traditions of 1\{~nry re..
·quire not the feeble and a~ventitious aid ofantient
hieroglyphics:· they possess an internal evidence
of ~utlt which no argument can supersede, no
sophism overwhel~, and no incredulity can dis.
sipate.
Our secrets embrace, in a comprehensive man-
net, bUIIlan science and divine knowledge ; they
linlc mankind together jn the indissoluble chain of
sincere affection ; and. w~ch ia of far greater-
, imporf;, they incite to th~ practice of those vir..
tues1 whic;h may do muc;:h towards securing happi-
ne~ in a future s~te. It cannQt then be denied
tha~ ·such valuable secrets might be truly trans.
mitted by oral traditiollt when it is admitted that
the idolatrous mysteries were actually transmitted
through the same medit1m for the !!pace of two
thousand years ; a:Qd ollly s~nk into obliviop with
the systems they were e11tablished to uphold.
Now Christiapity, or th~ system Qf sa.J,vation
thrc;mgh the atonement ·of a crucified Mediator;
Digitized by GoogIe
1~ ANTIQUITIES OF
was the ma1n pillar of Masonry at the fall of
man ; . and there .is, therefore, every .reason to
believe that it will exist until the final dissolution·
of all sublunary things ; and shine together with
perfected Christianity, in the glorified state ofbles-·
sedness for ever and ever.
Masonic traditions could only be· pure when
united with the true worship of God ; and hence
they were miserably perverted amongst idolatrous -
nations, until nothing remained, after this worship
was rejected to ·serve the purposes· of ambition
and pride, but the simple belief of the soul's
existence in a future state, together with the
general principles of operative Masonry. These
were preserved amidst the increasing degeneracy
of mankind, and their apostacy from God and
true religion. That the early idolaters believed
in a resurrection and a future state, is clearly de-
ducible from their practice of deifying dead men;
for without a renewed existence they could·not
have been expected to aid their worshippers~
either by conveying blessings or averting mis-
fortunes. But we are furnished with positive
authorities in proof of this fact. Herodotus in-
forms ·· us that the·Egyptians maintained the im-
mortality of the soul. Tully says that the wisest
of the· heathen ·philosophers taught the sa:me
doctrine. And Homer took it for granted that
the· soul's existence in an after state, either of
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY~ 18
misery or happiness. according to the deeds · don~
in this life, was a doctrine universally ad~itted
by all the world.•
Stillingfieet. lays this down as ~~ axiom:
" there is no certain credibility in any antient
histories which seem to contn~diCt the Scriptures ;
nor any ground of reason why we should asse11t
to them when they differ from the Bible."t This
observation will ~qually apply to Free-Masonry.
If its traditions were in any respect opposed to
-Religion, '!r its precepts at variance with the l{oly
.Scriptures, it ought to be rejected as unworthy
of credibility or attention. On this ground the
cause of Masonry rests, and it is a foundation
firm and immoveable as the basis of our holy
faith ; for nothing can be permanent, nothing
successful, except it .be grounded on .religion.
Hence, when idolatry assumed its empire over
the world, the most .sublime and beautiful part
of Masonry receded from the view ; and when a
false.worship degenerated into little better than
atheism, it became obscured amidst the same
mazes of intellectual darkness; and, like certain
71l!JSterious secrets, was lost to heathen nations;
until, by the practice of operative M~onry, in
• Vide " Addl'efl8el from a Minister to his Pariahioaera," (V.) by
the Author of this work, where the subject is fully discuued.
t Orig. Sacr., I. 1, c. 1.
oig,tized by Coogle
14 ANTIQ.UITIBS Of
building·an actual edifice to the.true God, .fotilre
ages recovered it.
As a man loses not his reason, sensibility, or
activity of intellect by the loss of a limb, so Ma- -
sonry, though amidst the increasing·atheism of the
world it sUffered the loss of many noble members,
was never wholly obliterated. , Enfeebled by the
degeneracy of mankind amongst apostate nations,
its essence was nevertheless preserved by that
small race of men who adhered to .the genuine
worship of God. Hence, though one· of its ge-
neral grand divisions sunk with the knowledge
of God, -the other suffered no material deteriora-
tion; because when the former was finally restored
by Jesus Christ, the latter, having received ac- -
cessions of strength in almost every age, was in
the maturity of its vigour and excellence.
Masonry was known and practised under the
name of Lux, or its equivalent in all languages
used since the creation ; and they who seaich
for its existence,. in its true and spiritual foim,
among~t idolatrous operative Masons, in the early
ages-of the world, may expend much time to a
fruitless purpose, and help to confound our science
with many systems at variance with its great and
prominent designs, though apparently founded on
the same basis. It is ·true that many eminent
men professing the science of Lux, .which in-
cludes a knowledge of all other sciences, applied
Dig:tizod by Coogle
FRU:-MASONKY. '15 '
it..to an operativ-e purpose, and united in the con-
struction of magnificent edifices; but as they
Chiefly soug:ht their own .private interest or emo-
lument, it is no wonder that the true principles
of Lux were sacrificed, founded ·as they are on
the .belief and acknowledgment of one orily
Supreme Being., the Creator a~d Governor of
the .world; when these edifices were dedicated to ·
deceased mortals, or the host of heaven. ·
. After. the. Flood the true professors of Lux
were .termed NoACHIDlE~ but ·the science itself
retained its p~itive name· for many centuries
afterwards. At the building of the Temple by
King Solomon it was known under this appella-
tion;. which certaiilly remained for a' considerable
time.subsequent to that event: for our science· is
recognized by Christ and his Apostles under··this
derioniination; and it even retains the name of
Lux in our Latin Records to the present day.
St. John, speaking in high commendation ofJestis
Christ, says, " He w.as·the true·LroaT" (<l>t.d,) ;•
." and the LIGHT shineth in darkness, · and the
darkness comprehendeth it not."t This Evan-
gelist, as ~e grand patron of-
Masonry, inculcates
·t~e doctrines of our craft throughout the.whole
of.his writings; and on every i.Jnportant appe31
fails not to use such expressions -arid phrases, ~
• 1ohn, i. 9. . t Ibid•. 5.
.
oig•tized by Coogle
16 ANTIQUITIES OF
apply equally and jointly to Christianity and
¥asonry. He considered them in the light of
· two twin sisters, which would grow up together
and moralize the world. His First General
Epistle contains all the sublime and spiritual part
of our ordinary illustrations. Amd our Saviour
says of himself, " I am the LIGHT or" the world " -
(<J>~~).• And again more explicitly, " Yet a .
little while is the LIGHT (<l>W'~) with you; walk
while ye have the light (<l>W',), lest darkness come
·upon you ; for he that walketh in darkness know-
eth not whither he goeth. While ye have LIGBT,
believe in the light, that ye may be the CHILDREN
- or LIGHT "t (vlo1 <l>Wjo~).
At the building of Solomon's Temple the sons
of light associated together, under an exalted
professor of Lux, to devote -themselves to the
service of the true and living God ; but it does
not hence follow that the science was designated
from the operative pursuits embraced on that
memorable occasion, for the appellation of a
science is seldom extracted from any of its in-
ferior branches. Its ·name wa8 more probably
changed by some distinguished founder of a sect ,
ofphilosophy amongst idolaters; because, as I have
already observed, it was acknowledged by Christ
and his Apostles under its primitive designation.
• John, viii. Jf . t John, xii. 35, 36.
Digitized by GoogIe
'
FREE-MASONRY. 17
The word MAsONRY, when first -adopted, was
merely a corruption .of M~ravC{d, sum in medio
aeli ; which· name was applied to the science,
about A.M. 8490; when Pythagoras, after travel~
ling over the whole world, made many additions
to the mysteries of his native country, which he
purified from their gross abominations by the use '
of Lux, which he had learned in Judea ;• and in
Greece instituted, a lodge of geometricians, on a
new principle, compounded from all the existing
- .
systems of other nations. The aspirants were
enjoined a SILENCE of :five years previously to
initiation ; and they who could not endure this
rigid probation were publicly dismissed ; a tomb
was erected for them, and they were ever after
considered as dead men.t
This new institution in Greece would naturally .
produce a Grecian appellation : as the inhabitants
were.in.the constant practice of naming, accord-
ing to the idiom of their own language, not only
other countries but the sciences, and also eminent
men; that the honour of each might be attributed
to their own nation. From this time, also, a more
intimate union took place between the speculative
• A~istobulu~ the Jew in(orm(us (Clem. Ale.r. Strom. I.), that Pytl'la-
goraa transrerred the Jewish doctrines and ceremonie11 into. hi& own
system; and this is confirmed by others. (Hentlipp,i•JfJI,~, Af1<li.b.J,
Orig. con. Ce/1. lib. J.
t Jamb!. vit. Pyth., c. 17.
c
Digitized by GoogIe
18 ANTIQUITIES OF .
and operative professors; and the beautiful co-
lnnms, knowri amongst us by the names of Wis-
- »OM, STRENGTH, and BEAUTY, were brought to
perfection amongst that people. Pythagoras also
invented an invaluable proposition, which he cal-
led the EuP'J'U¥, because it forms a grand basis
for all the laborious calculations of operative
architecture. ·This indefatigable Mason canied
his astronomical studies to such perfection, as ab-
solutely to discover the true system of the uni-
verse, by placing the sun in the centre, round
which the planets made their various revolutions.
From this system originated the name of our .
science, ME<ilfpc¥li:IZ ; and the representation of the
great luminary which invigorates all nature with
its beams, was placed in the centre of his lodge,
as an emblem qf the union qf speculative with operfP. ·
tive Masonry; which had been before practised by
King Solomon in the middle chamber of his temple.
" Greece now abounded with the best archi..
tects, sculptors, statuaries, paintere, and other
fine designers, most of them educated at the aca-
demies of Athens and Sicyon, who instructed
many artists and fellow-crafts to be the best
operators upon earth ; so that the nations of Asia
a,nd Africa, who had taught the Greeks, were
now taught by them. No country but Greece
could now boast of~uch men as Myeo~, Phidias,
Demon, Androcides, Meton, Anaxagoras, Di-
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY. 19
prenus and Scyllis, Glycon, Alcamenes, ·Praxite-
les, Polycletus, Lysippus, Peneus, Euphronor,
Perseus, Philostratus, Zeuxis, Apollodorus, Par-
basius, Timanthes, Eupompus, Pamphilus, Apel-
les, Artemones, Socrates, Eudoxus, Metrodorus
who wrote of Masonry, and the excellent Theo-
dorus Cyrenreus, who amplified geometry and
published the art analytic, the master of the divine
Plato, from whose school came Zenocrates, and
Aristotle, the preceptor of Alexander the Great."• ·
As the Grecian arts, manners, and language
became propagated throughout the· world, their
system of Masonry, together with the name,
accQmpanied them. The Druidieal memoranda
were made in the Greek character, for the Dmids
had been taught Masonry by Pythagoras himself;t
who had communicated its arcana to them, under
· the name he had assigned to it in his own country.
This distinguishing appellation (Men!('"VE~J; in the
·subsequent declension and oblivion of the science, 1
during tlw dark ages of barbarity and supersti~on,
might be·corrupted into MAsoNRY; as its remains,
being merely operative, were confined to a few
hands, and the!Je artificers and working Masons.
Throughout this work I have used the appella-
tion. MAsONRY, as the acknowledged designation
,of o\lr science in its present form ; though it was
• North. Coust., chap. 5. part. 1.
c 2
t Amm. Marcell.
Digitized by GoogIe
'ANTIQUITIES 01'
not known by that name, during any of the pe-
riods I have attempted to elucidate.
The true definition of M~onry is, a science
which includes all others, and teaches mankind
their ·duty to God, their neighbour, and them-
selves. This definition evidently conveys two
distinct ideas ; the former of which is termed
OPERATIVE, and the latter SPECULATIVE MAsONRY.
Architecture, being a science of the greatest use
and benefit to man in .his natural state, was prin-
cipally cultivated by the Masons of that race who
bad separated .from the faithful worshippers of
God, and migrated into distant realms, where,
for want of an intercommunity with the Sons qf
Light, the noble science of Masonry would soon
be forgotten, and operative architecture might,
by their post~rity, be mistaken for the science· of
which it was, in reality, only a constituentpart of ·
an inferior division : and this mistake would not
be rectified, until a renewed association with the
true Masons convinced them practically of their
error, which was effected at the building of King
Solomon's Temple. And hence it has happened
that many excellent and well-meaning Masons
have been led to conclude, that operative Masonry
only was known and practised by our ancient
Brethren before the building of that sacred edifice.
But, if religion be intimately connected with
· Masonry, and essentially necessary to its existence,
FREE-MASONRY. !1
then we must look for it under some unequivocal
and universal form. Now operative architecture
is an insulated science, and depends on some
others to bring it to perfection ; therefore the
perfection of Masonry cannot be found in archi-
tecture alone: and this more particularly, because
the most stately structures of antiquitiy were
erected by idolatrous nations to the honour of
false gods, and consequently in defiance of the
true God, and to the prejudice of that religion on
which we assert that Masonry is founded. It
could not then be Lux or Masonry which stimu-
lated them to a renunciation of God, but a per-
verted 'System, which bore but a slight and fading
resemblance to that science, which gradually sunk
into oblivion as idolatry was disseminated over
the face of the earth. Nor can the declension of
Masonry, in different ages, be attributed to any
other cause : for when the pure worship of the
true· God was the most prevalent, we find Ma.
t~onry blazing forth in 'its ·native and unsullied
lustre. Thus it shone amidst the darkness during
the life of Adam, of Enoch," and of Noah; thus
it displayed i~ radiance in the time of Abraham,
Moses, and Solomon; thus the strong traces of its
existence are discoverable inthe time ofZerubabel
and Jesus Christ; and thus has it flourished in all
ages, when sober religion has characterized the
manners and.infiuenced the morals of civil society.
c3
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
We find that where architecture was cultivated
as an exclusive• science, its professors became
much more ~xpert than those nations who prac-
tised Masonry as an universal system. Hence'
when Solomon had determined to erect a temple
to the living God, he was obliged to apply for as-
sistance to the Tyrians, who were, at that time,
the most expert architects in the world. It is
true the Israelites were not entirely ignorant of
that art, having cultivated operative Masonry from
the time that their ancestors in Egypt built the
cities of Pithom and Raamses. At the building of
this temple, the chief architect was a widow's son
of the tribe of Naphtali, and consequently an
Israelite by his mother's side, though his father
was a man of Tyre. He had been brought up
under the pa~onage of Abibalus, the father of
Hiram, King of Tyre, and was beyond all compe-
tition the best designer and artificer upon earth.
This temple was acknowledged, by all nations.
to be the utmost effort of human genius ; and that
the united excellencies of all the structures in the
world would have been inferior to it in beauty
and splendour, either for grandeur ~f design, ot
delicacy of ·execution ; which shews -that, when
speculative and operative Masonry became thus
united and blended together under the wisest
speculative Mason, the strongest operative Mason,
and the most beautiful designer, and employed in
oi9,tized by Google
FREE•MASONRY.
suc_h a laqdabJe and sacred undertaking, its supe-
riority was fully mamt'ested ; it burst upon the
world with irresistible conviction, and stood UD•
rivalled amidst the proud and estentatious pro-
ductions of art which had previously elicited the
admiration of mankind. The massive Tower of
Babel, the gigantic pyramids ()f Egypt, exceeded
it in ·solidity, but fell far short of it in magni-
ficence. The idolatrous temples of Jupiter, in
Tyre and Lybian Mrica, of Dagon at Gaz~
and many others which had been regarded with
wonder and astonishment, faded into nothing be-
fore it ; and the architects of those respective na-
tions,' forsaking the principles of their former .
practice, resolved to .model theil- futUre works
upon the improvements exhibited in thiS- famous
structure. Hence Jerusalem became the regort of
all other nations ; and hence the true principles
of ancient Lux became more visibly disseminated
· subsequently to the building ofthis temple, which
has induced a belief that this epoch is the earliest
date that can be assigned to Masonry. It is in..
deed true ·that the initiated were, at this timet
.<leclared FREt, and exempted fro.m all imposts.
duties, and taxes, for them and their descend--
ants: for as the remnant of the Canaanites, em~
ployed as labourers and bearers of burdens, were
associated with the free-born at the erection of
this edifice, a distinguishing epithet became ne.:
c4
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OP
cessary to prevent confusion, as well as peculiar
privileges to excite emulation. This epithet was:,
ACCEPTED, and the privileges were a perfect im-
mup.ity from all contributions to the service ofthe
State. A similar plan was pursued by Zerubabel
at the building of the second temple, when Ma:.
sonry was revived after the Babylonish captivity.
These occurrences Rffixed to Masons the honour-
able and permanent appellations of FREE and
ACCEPTED.
' But the union of speculative with operative
Masonry produced advantages much more .sub-
stantial. The idolatrous nations ofTyre, Phrenicia,
Carthage, &c. were much addicted to the shocking
and abominable practice of human sacrifices, to
avert a general calamity. This barbarous custom;
according to the Rabbins, took its rise from the
offering af Isaac ; for Salomon makes God expos-
tulate with them in these words : " I never ·com-
manded that you should sacrifice your sons or
your daughters, either by myself or my prophets;
nor did I intend that Abraham should actually sa-
crifice his son ; but the command was given to
him to display. his righteousness."·• But I am
. • Salomon Jarchi, in Jer. vii. 31. " The Carthaginians and
Phamician!l knowingly and wittingly themselves devoted their own
children ; and they that had none of their owil, bought some of poor
people, and then sacrificed them like Iambe or pigeons, the poor
mother standing by all the while, without either a sigh or tear;
or if, by chance, she fetched a !ligh, or let fall a tear, she lost the price
Dig1tizod by Coogle
FREE·MAIONRY.
rather inclined to think that the practice ortg~­
nated long before the offering of Isaac; forSancho-
niatho records that Ham, " in the time of a great
plague, offered up his son Isoud as a whole burnt
offeririg to his father Ouranus or Noah.'' •
Our excellent brother Hiram AbifF, by the in-
fluence which he .had acquired, not only over the
Tyrians themselves, but also over their monarch,
by the supe~ority of his understanding, was suc-
cessful in abolishing this practice in ·his native
country ; and the neighbouring nations who had
visited ·Jerusalem for Masonic instruction, were
induced in a great measure to relinquish a practice
so destructive of the true principles on which
Masonry is founded. These Masons, in gratitude
to the memory of Hiram AbifF, and to perpetuate
the love and affection ofhis wife (daughter to the
noble Prince AdQniram), who, from excess of grief
at the untill!ely end of her husband, terminated
her ·own existence by casting herself from the
summit of a precipice, erected three statues of
cast brass ; one at Jerusalem, another at Joppa,
and a third at Tyre : the fonner of which re-
mained until the final destruction ofJerusalem and
the Jewish polity, by Titus Vespasian.
of her child, and it was nevertheless sacrificed. All the places round
the image were, in' the mean time, filled with the noise of hautboys
and tabors, to drown the poor infant's crying."-Pitd, u Supcr1t.
• Sanch. in Euseb. Prrep. Evan.
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
,The distinguishing excellence of our ancient
Brethren, was the silence or ~ecrecy they reli-
giously observed respecting the mysteries of our
science, except to thQse whom they found woRTHY
of a participation in them, by a previous trial and
probation : they were imparted only to those who
were .ftee·born amt.well reprwted qf.
The true way of gaining a knowledge of these
secrets, is pointed out byJesus Christin his Sermori
on the Mount : " Au, and it shall be given you ;
SEEK, and !JC Shall .find j KNOCK, and it Shall be-
opened unto you."• And this was an advice ·ve-
nerable for_its antiquity, though used by phiJ.o;.
sophical paganism .to direct the inquiries of its
disciples to,human learning. " Philosophy," says
Shuckford, "was not disputative until it came
into Greece ; the ancient professors had no con~
troversies about it ; they received what was handed
down to them, and out of the treasure of their
traditions imparted to others ; and the principle$
they went upon to teach or to learn by, were not
to search into the nature of things, or to consider
what they could find by philosophical examina-
tion, but ' AsK, and it shall be told you ; s:UBCK
the records of antiquity, and you shall find what
you inquire after.' T~ese were· the maxims and
directions of their studies."+
• Matt. vii~ 7. t Connect. Pref. vol. 1.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-1'4ASONRY.
Hence something more than the mere forms of
initiation is required to constitute a good Mason :
for every one is not acquainted with the true se-
crets of Masonry who has been initiated into the ·
Order. What ability has denied to one, another
loses by his indolence. Honour and probity, di-
ligence and assiduity, truth and fidelity, years,
learning, and experience, are unitedly necessary
to constitute " a good and virtuous Mason ;'' ·for
Masonry is the perfection of all the arts and ,
sciences. As a knowledge of medicine, astro-
nomy, morality, and legislation formed the great
essentials of the ancient mysteries; so faith, hope,
and charity, temperance, fortitude, prudence, and
justice, united with grammar, rhetoric, logic, arith-
metic, geometry, music, and astronomy, form con..
stituent parts ofthe ONE science ofMasonry, which
has beenheld in the greatest estimation in everyage
of the world ; has been honoured with the appro-
bation and public patronage of kings, peers, and
prelates ; and still shines with unabated lustre :-
the perfection of human nature, supported by the
high and unequivocal sanction of revealed tr~
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
CHAP. II.
CONTAINING SEVEN HUNDRED YEARS.
---
VIEW OF MASONRY, AS IT EXISTED FROM THE CREA•
TION OF THE WORLD TO THE TIME OF ENOCH.
" FRoM the commencement of the world,"
says the celebrated Preston, " we may trace the
foundation of Masonry. Ever since symmetry
began, and harmony displayed her charms, our
Order has had a being."• But ancient Masonic
traditions say, ·and I think justly, that our science
existed before the creation of this globe, and was
diffused amidst the numerous systems with which
the grand empyreum of universal space is furnish-
ed. The great Architect of the universe was the
founder·of Masonry; and it would be the province
of bigotry alone to confine His beneficent revela-
tions to so small a portion of created things a5 the
limited dimensions ·of our earth contains. . But .
there existed in infinite space numberless worlds,
before our earth was formed out of chaos ; for it
would derogate from the attributes of an eternal
• Preston's Illustrations, book i. sec. 3. In the thirteenth and last
edition or this mu<-h esteemed work, edited by Stephen Jones, the
History or Free-M~onry is brought down to the present year.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY.
and self-existent God, .to conceive that this great
and glorious Being had remained inanimate, and
in an useless and dormant state, until the com-
mencement of our history, about 5,800 years ago.
Now though we cannot comprehend the nature of
that eternity which existed prior to the creation
of this globe, yet we are certain that our system
does not comprehend the whole of God's created
works. With him a thousand years are but as one
day ;• what then is th~ short and contracted pe- -
riod wh~ch forms the bound of our insignificant
ball ? If we open our capacities, and take an en-
larged view of space, beyond· the reach of our
actual investigation, can we be so blind and faith-
less as. to admit that it is all vacant and unem-
ployed, when almo~ every optical improvement
demonstrates, by new discoveries, the existence
of worlds piled on worlds, too far remote for
human art to·measure?
These orbs were surely not made for ornament
alone, but for use ; and as they possess every re-
quisite for the support of animal life, there can
be no doubt but they have·been. created for the
residence of intelligent beings, of. the same ca-
pacities perhaps as ourselves ; . probably of the
same nature, and certainly intended for the same
immortal destination. On these, or some of them,
the Creator has bestowed his ble~sings from all
• 2d Peter, iii. 8.
Digitized by GoogIe
80 ANTIQUITIES OF
eternity. They have been possessed of all the-
privileges we enjoy, millions of ages before this
globe which we inhabit was reduced from nothing
into its so!id form : privileges perhaps superior to
any we can 'boast, for who can limit the power -of
God to confer gifts upon his creatures ? Amongst
the most valuable of these was speculative Mason-
ry :, for where there exists created be~ there
must exist some knowledge of a Creator, and
some principle of reverence to Him who can save
and who can destroy. And speculative Masonry
is nothing else but a system of ethics, founded on
the belief of a God, the creator, preserver, and
redeemer ; which inculcates a strict observance of
the duties we owe to each other, inspires in the
soul a v~neration for the autf}_or of its being, and
incites to the pure worship of the incomprehen-
sible Trinity in Unity.
It may indeed be replied, " if this be true,
why is it not recorded in the Holy Scriptures?''
These Books were written, after the apostacy of
man, with no other view than to promote hiS sal-
vation, by· explaining the nature Qf that trans.
gression which introduced death. into the world;
and made all the posterity of Adam obnoxious to
divine wrath ; and pointing out the remedy for
sin in the person of Jesus Christ. Thls being
the ehief end of Revelation, it would have added
little to the furtherance of that grand object to
have entered into metaphysical disquisitions on
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY. 81
the nature and extent of God's works before the
creation of man. The ScriptUres, however, are
not wholly silent on this head. They proclaim
the existence of God before the worlds were
made ;• and that Great Being himself declares,
that " when the foundations of this globe were
laid, the morning stars.sang together, and all the
Sons qfGod shouted for joy."t The stars.referred
to. in this pasfSage are pr~-existent worlds, and .the
sons of God are the angels' of heaven. But to
admit that our globe was the first fruits of God's _
power, is to blast and destroy our most valuable
.expectations :' for this admission would deny to ·
God the attribute of eternity, and deprive man
of his faith ,and hope ; for a Being could not be
worshipped, with full confidence in his power to
save to the uttermost, if he possessed any trait of
imperfection.
. There existed also another order of beings
before the earth was created, who had once been
angels of light, and were expelled the society of
heaven.for disobedience.+. And this is a great
and undeniable testimony of the pure existence of
LIGHT and truth, and their determined opposition
·to darkness and error, in times too far remote for
human calculation. ·The angels, who kept therr
• Hebrews, i. f . ; Pfl8lms, xciii. f, &c;' t Job, xxxviii. 7.
:j: Jude 6, and Rev. xii. 9.
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
first estate, continually offer up their praises to
the eternal I AM, in an unrestrained melody of-
" Holy, Holy, Holy Lord God Almighty, which
WAS and IS and IS TO COME."• In such pure
Masonic employment ·were the angels engaged
before the creation of the .world ; and in such
employment will they be engaged to all eternity,
augmented by that glorious assembly, who, having
worshipped-God on earth, shall be placed on the
right hand of the Judge, in the great and terrible
day of the Lord.
In the beginning of this material world the
great Creator sent forth his WORD, and called all
things out of chaos into being. He laid the
foundations of this. earth on such.a solid basis,
that they cannot be moved ; he constructed the
beautiful fabric of the universe without the assist-
ance of a.re, hammer, or metal tool ; lighted, warm-
ed and ornamented ~s it is with all its luminous
attendant orbs. His work was performed- in six
successive days, and the seventh was proclain\ed
an eternal sabbath. This division of time into
·seven parts does not imply that God possessed not
the power of calling his works into immediate
existence, but it affords a striking example of
the WISDOM, STRENGTH and BEAUTY resulting from
a methodical arrangement oftime and labour ; and
• Revelations, il'. 8.
oig,tized by Coogle
FRO·MASONRY.
to impress on ·his creatures the propriety and ne-
cessity of apportioning one-seventh part of their
time to the purposes of rest and devotion. Hence
in the sacred compacts between God and IIian, the
~venth day was uniformly appointed to be kept
holy, because, a public and external worshipbeing
instituted, a certain and specified time was neces-
sary for its performance ; and in the Mosaic dis-
pensation the seventh year was a year of rest;
-and each climacteric, or the recurrence of seven
times seven years, was celebrated by a solemn
jubilee to the Lord.
On the first day God created light, to convince
the future man that without light it is impossible
to accomplish any bene.ficent or useful undertak-
ing. On this day the necessary division of labour
and 1'{/reshment was made by the appointment of
day and night. This light was created in the
eastern part of the hemisphere, and was, accord-
ing to Aquinas, Lumen i1!forme, quod quarto die
formatum est.•
On the second day creation was expanded ;
the higher. and the lower regions of the air were
formed ; the earth was surrounded with an atmos-
phere adapted to its nature and qualities, for the
refraction and reflection o_f light, and for the pre-
servation of animal life. The clouds, which are
• Aq. Sum, p. i, q. 70, art. 1.
D
Digitized by GoogIe
ANT1QUITIE8 OF
denominated the waters above the firmament,
were appointed as vehicles to collect the vapours
of the earth, and condense them into the form of
fruitful and nourishing .mists or showers, that ·it
might bring forth its luxurious productions for the
benefit of man.
On t~e. third day the earth was separated from
the waters, and filled with herbage fitted to the
use .of its intended inhabitants. When the aJl;.
powerful Word was issued forth, plants and trees
sprung up, .in all their beauty and all their variety~
from the majestic oak to the lowly acacia. The
forests put forth their strength to afford shelter
for quadrupeds as well as the feathered race, and
timber for the future use of man. The hills and
vallies displayed their exuberant herbage, for.·nu-
triment to the animal creation ; enlivened with
ornamental flowers, whose fragrance perfumed
the atmosphere, and heightened the ripening
·charms of nature.· Trees laden with fruit, .or
bursting into bloom, shewed the all-provident.
care of a bounteous Creator, who brings every
thing to maturity in its season, for the progressive
use of his ·creatures.
The fourth day was employed in·the formation
of.the planets, which were placed in the heavens,
glittering like the brilliant lustre ofprecious stones
in a superb .diadem ; and in disposing the two
great lights of heaven so as not only to promote
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY.
the benefit and happiness of mankind, by the light
and ·heat emanating from their beams, but to
mark the progress of time, and to divide it into
regular periods of days, months, and years. These
two great luminaries rule and govern the universe
with such amazing regularity, that the returns of
day and night, summer and winter, are precisely
known, and the purposes of civil life answered to
the utmost extent of human wa.'lts or wishes.
The sun and moon, with the attendant planets
which decorate our·system, were formed at this
late period of the creation, to shew that they are
created·beings, and not gods ; that man, being
apprized of this, might not fall into idolatry, by
giving that honour to the creature which is due
only to the Creator; for, though the sun and
moon are justly esteemed the two great lights of
·heaven, they are but instruments in the hands of
God to convey his blessings to the world.; and if
they be converted into objects of adoration; they
become vehicles of the greatest darkness. The
sun rises in the east to open the day with a mild
and geniaJ influence, and all natU:fe rejoices in
the appearance of his beams. · i.fe gains hjs me-
ridian in the south, and shines with full strength
upon the earth, invigorating animftte and inani-
mate matter with the perfection of his ripening
qualities. With declining stre~gth he sets in the
'tcest to close the day, ·leh.ving mankind at rest
D ~
Digitized by Coogle
36 ANTIQUITIES OF
from their accumulated and diversified labOurs.
This is a proper type of the three most prominent
stages in the life of man, infancy, manhood, ·and
old age. The first stage is characterized by the
blush of innocence, pure as the tints which gild
• the eastern portals of the day. The heart rejoices
in the unsuspecting integrity of its own un-
blemished virtue,- nor fears. deceit, because it
.knows no guile. Manhood succeeds; the ripen-
ing intellect arrives at the meridian of its power,
and either conveys blessings or curses on all within
the sphere of its influence. His strength decays
at the approach of old age, his sun is setting in
the west; and, enfeebled by sickness or bodily
infirmity, death threatens to close his variegated
day ; and happy is he if the setting splendours of
his sun gild his departing moments with the
gentle tints of hope, and close his short career
in peace, harmony, and brotherly love.
This globe was yet without inhabitants to enjoy
the bounties of its Creator : for Providence did
not fo.rm living creatures until nutriment was pro-
vided for their support ; on the fifth day, there-
, fore, the waters and the air were furnished with
their scaly and their feathered inhabitants. When
the·Word was given, " let the waters bring forth
abundantly the moving creature that hath life,"
the Ocean swelled with the accumulation of its
new inhabitants, and all the monsters of the
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY.
deep, suddenly bursting into life, and astonished
at their own existence, pierced through the yield-
ing element which enclosed them, and in trackless
paths explored its copious recesses in search of·
nourishment and places of repose. · The winged
fowl, at God's command, rose into life; and all
these .cr~atures were ordered to Teplenish the ·
waters and the earth with their Tespective species•
. On the sixth day Creation was completed. The
powerful Word was uttered, " Let the earth bring
forth the Jiving creature;" the earth, obedient to
His command who made it, instantly yields cattle
.and creeping things, and beasts ofevery kind. Its
bowels open ; the lordly lion, the fierce tiger, the
unwieldy elephant, the gigantic serpent, burst forth
in full-grown strength ; the ti!Did animals scud to
their hiding places. The wild. beasts •seek the
forest; and there, deep embosomed in its imper-
vious recesses, bury themselves in shade and
obscurity. Every creature instinctively seeks
shelter and protection in its natural aoodes, and all
un!te to proclaim the glory of their Creator by
silent marks of gratitude and praise.
Still the magnificent structure of this univ~rse,
· furnished with every requisite for ornament·and
use, was incomplete. It wanted a lord, endowed
with power and dignified with reason, to hold
all creatures in subjection. Last of all, there-
fore, God created man, and placed him on the
D J
Digitized by GoogIe
S8 ANTIQUITIES OF
earth as Lord·of the Creation : he gave him uni-
versal and unlimited dominion over every living
thing that moveth upon the earth ; he endowed
him with the use of speech, gave him an immortal
soul, and, during the forty years that he is
supposed to have sojourned in Paradise, commu-
nicated to him every thing necessary to his hap-
piness ; explained to him the several works of
the Creation, and pointed out to him the seventh
day as a Sabbath, or a day peculiarly consecrated
to the solemn purposes of rest and devotion. Thus
finished, furnished, and decorated, the Almighty
Architect reviewed his workmanship, and pro-
nounced it GOOD: and then it was solemnly dedi-
cated by the hallelujahs of heaven. The angelic
host, in choral symphonies, welcomed Him to his
throne, in the Grand Lodge above, and all heaven.
rejoiced at the perfection of created things~
The seventh day was sanctified as an eternal
Sabbath, because God rested on that day from
the work of Creation~ He did not rest, in the
commonly acc.epted sense of the word, from a sen-
sation of weariness, because OmnipotenCe is not
susceptible of the privations and sufferings at-
tached to human nature in its degraded state ;
but that, from· this example, man might be induced
to appropriate one day in seven to rest and wor-
ship, and to keep up a perpetual remembrance of
, the division of time, and t.he events which took
Digitized by Google
FREE-MASONRY.. 89
place at the creation of the worM : for, before the
invention oi letters, some unequivocal.institution
was necessary, to prevent these important circum-
, stances from .being buried in oblivion.
Placed in the garden of Eden, Adam was made
. acquainted with the nature of his tenure, and
taught, with the worship of his Maker, that
science which is now termed Masonry. This con-
stituted his chief happineas in Paradise, and was
his only consolation after his unhappy fall. To
increase his comforts, every other part of the
Creation corresponded in a high degree with the
sup~riority of his own mind. The whole compass
of this material world was indeed, before Adam's ·
unhappy fall, infinitely nearer to immortality,·and
f.?Onsequentlyits progressive changes, in advancing
tocelestial perfection~ would have been incon.ceiva.-
blylessperceptible,and even attendedwithpleasure
at .every gradation ; instead of those frightful ap-
pearances, heart-rending separations, ·and horrible
convulsions by which every natural change is now
accompanied and effected. .Still the charms of
Nature were exceeded by human dignity and
grace. A companion was provided for the First
Man; in whom were united every perfection and
~v~ry charm which can decorate her species : and
thus amongst the works ofthe Creation,
" Two of far nobler shape, erect and tall,
Godlike erect, with native honour clad
D4
Digitized by GoogIe
40 ANTIQUITIES OF
In naked majesty, aeem'd lords ofall:
And worthy eeem'd; for in their looks divine
The image of their glorious Maker shone,
Truth, wisdom, sanctitude severe and pure
, (Severe, but in true filial freedom plac'd),
,Whence true authority in men; though both
Not equal, as their sex not equal seem'd:
For contemplation he and valour form'd;
For softness she and sweet attractive grace.
Adam1 the goodliest man ofmen since born
His sons; the fairest of her daughters Eve."•
In this state, enjoying almost unlimited faculties
·ofcomprehension, the first created pair were the
companions of angels, and in fUll communion with
God. What wants, what wishes could remain to
render the felicity of these favourites of heaven
more perfect and complete ? Enjoying every i~
dulgence,and possessing every advantage ofwhich
their nature was capable ; with promises and pros-
pects of-increasing happiness and boundless bless-
ings ; scarcely confined by any restraint, or, if
restraint it may be termed, the most trifling pos-
sible; warned of their danger, guarded against
temptation, encouraged by rewards, and alarmed
bythe denunciations ofpunishment, it can scarcely
be conceived possible that even an angel of the
highest order could be. able to prevail oti them.
under all their awful sanctions, to forfeit th.e p_
r.o-
tection of their God, by a renunciation ofthe sane.
• Milt. Par. J,o~t, book 4.
Digitiz by ogIe
FREE·MAiOMRY• 41
.
tity with which they were endowed. The state of
' perfection in·which our first parents were .create~
with all the blessings they enjoined in Paradise,
,were suspended on the observance of a single con-
dition. The·one only prohibition which was pre-·
scribed as the test and confirmation of their hap-
piness, proved the avenue to their misery : for' as
immortality was the promised reward of their
obedience,so death was the threatened punishment
of their sin.. In this primitive·state of purity our
great progenitor lived, it is presume~ for so'me
years, constantly employed in acts of gratitude
and devotion to his Maker; the adoration ofwhom,
as it was the end of his Creation, formed the prin-
cipal delight of his existence.
The perfection in which Adam was created has
been disputed by many authors, both-ancient and
modem ; and some have ventured to pronounc~
that he, and his earliest posterity, were absolute
savages, nnendowed even with ~e gift of speech.
But Adam's knowledge was not of the confined
nature which has been imagined, because God
pronounced ALL his works, amongst which the
Lord of the Creation was of course included, to
be _
VERY GOOD. Now the expression very good,
when used by a divine and perfectly intelligent
Being, must certainly imply something more than
an ordinary and comparative degree of knowledge.
Adam was the _work of ~od, and God's works
Digitized by GoogIe
.lNTIQUlTIES OF
cannot be charged with imperfection. AnatOmists,
in every age, make new discoveries which prove
the excellence and perfection ofthe human body :
but the mind i~J the noblest part of man, and it will
scarcely be assumed that God would exhaust his
gifts upon the body, and leave the mind barren
and desolate. In Paradise he was the perfection
of God's created works, because every thing wa.S
placed under his .dominion; but it may be con-
jectured that after the Fall, when the whole crea;.
tion became deformed with sin, he might be
changed from his original state, and lose a portion
of that knowledge which he enjoyed in the imme.;
diate communication with God and angels. He
might, indeed, forfeit, with his purity, the ines-
timable gift of divine inspiration, but he would
certainly retain a recollection of those-degrees of
knowledge which are within the compass of human
capacity. Amongst the rest, or as a general desig-
nation, common to them all, he retained a perfect
recollection of that speculative science which is
now termed Masonry.
The happiness of our first parents in the garden
of Eden was too profound, nqt to excite the envy
of that malignant spirit, who had been doomed
to eternal punishment and despair ; stimulated, a!
it'was, by resentment against the Most High,
·whose favour he had for ever forfeited. With a
view, therefore, of blasting the felicity of our
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY'" 46
happy progenitors, and through them of destroy•
ing man's obedience for ever, he assumed the
form of a' serpent, applied himself to the com-
panion of Adam, and with plausible arguments
and fair speeches succeeded in convincing her,
that the prohibition of God was made with the
selfish intention of monopolizing immortality and
power ; and that instead of death being the r~
suit of disobedience, eternal life and ever-in;.
creasing happiness would be communicated, and
man would assuredly become equally powerful
with God himself. Seduced by these specious
declarations, the mother of all Masons violated
the sacred injunctions of God, and,· through her
intreaties, Adam followed the pernicious example,
·and both miserably fell from a state of innocence
ami purity, to experience all the bitter fruits of
sin; toil and labour, misery and death. On this
unhappy dereliction from purity are founded some
of those characteristic insignia ofMasonry, which
convey a lasting remembrance of our degenerate
state, as well as the glorious promise of redemp-
tion. These TOKENS were unnecessary when man
was ·in a state of perfection ; but after the Fall
they were practised by Adam, and are considered
as the immoveable landmarlcs of the order unto this
day. The FIVE events attending this transgression
and expulsion fi·om Paradise;· viz. the transgres-
sion, shame, sentence, prayer, and promise, are
Digitized by Coogle
ANTIQUITIES OF
distinguished amongst Mason~ by such signifi-
cant tokens of reverence, penitence, sympathy, fa-
Jigue andfaith, that the unhappy consequences of
the three former, as well as the hope derived to
mankind from the two latter, can never be blotted
from the recollection.
Expelled from Paradise, into a world cursed
for their sake, our first parents must have sunk
-under the effects of this terrible change, if the
PROMISE had not ·lent them support under the
extremity ofmisery. Their calamities were great,
but FAITH and HOPE supplied them with fortitude
.to endure the penalty of their disobedience. Their
firit object, on passing from ineffable light to
, temporary darkness, was to clothe themselves
with the skins of beasts slain in sacrifice, accord-
ing to the immediate command of God.
One grand principle of antient Masonry was
to pre~erve alive in men's minds the true know-
ledge of God, and the great idea of an atonement
for sin by animal sacrifices; typical of the one
sacrifice of the Lamb without spQt, as a propitia-
tion for the sins of the whole world. This was
the animating idea which increased men's faith,
wheresoever Masonry was practised; an idea
which was never entirely obliterated, even amongst
the idolatrous nations, by whom our science was
most deplorably prostitute~, and reduced to some-
thing_worse than the shadow of its image. Hence
oig,tized by Coogle
FREE-MASONRY.
Abel's sacrifice was more acceptable than that of
Cain, because it was an animal sacrifice, and offer-
ed conformably to the divine appointment; while
that of Cain, being unbloody, was an abomina-
tion, 'because it_~id not contain any reference to
the atonement of Christ, without which all sacri-
fices and offerings were unacceptable to God : for
" without shedding of blood there could be no
remission,"• " for it is the blood that maketh
atonement for the soul!'t It was the object,·there-
fore, of our antient brethren to preserve, through
the inedium of our institution, a lively remem-
. brance of the great object of their faith and
hope, that the result might be pleasing to God, and
produce an unfeigned charity to all mankind.
The wants and calls of nature impelled our
first parents to labour for their subsistence ; and.
ihe inclemency of the seasons cal1ed for habita-
tions to shelter them from heat and cold ; from
the scorching fervour of the meridian sun, and
&om ·the overwhelming influence of midnight
damps, arising from mists and vapours with which
the earth was watered.' Here they cultivated the
barren ground, and with infinite fatigue procured
their daily food. Cheered by the divine goodness,
however, and penetrated with gratitude and love
to the great Father of Mercy, they never again
• Hebrews, ix. 22. t Leviticus, xvii. 11.
Dig1tizod by Coogle
AMTIQUITIBS OF
deviated from the path of purity and devotion.
The principles of speculative Masonry, which
had been communicated to Adam in Paradise,
were nev~r by him forsaken after having ~ted
the bitter fruit of the forbidden tree ; and as_
his progeny increased, he communicated to them
the divine precepts and injunctions which were
enfolded in that pure and sublime science. When
men became numerous upon the earth, the evil
spirit of d_
arkness was very busily engaged in the
corruption of their morals ; and succeeded in
working up the malevolent passions in the heart
of Cain, until he apostatized from Masonry, and
- slew his brother Abel. God expostulated with
the fratricide on the he~nous nature of his sin;
and justified himself from the imputation ofbeing
the author of evil; He pronounced an addition-
al curse on Cain and his posterity, and declared
that the ground should not henceforth yield to
him its strength, though cultivated with the ut-
most labour and ingenuity. The principles, in
which he had been educated, thus forsaken, he
was banished from his kindred, and sent forth wt
a fugitive and a vagabond ; protected, however,
from personal violence, by a peculiar mark, which
was acknowledged by all mankind.
~' This mark was a SIGN or TOKEN that no one
should kill him. The ridiculous conjectures upon
this point have been almost without number.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-HA~N'BT.
Some imagine that God imprest a letter upon·his
forehead: and others have been so curious in,
their inquiries as to pretend to tell what the letter
was. A letter of the·word ABEL say some; the
four letters of JEHOVAH say others; or a letter
· expressing his ·repentance, say a third sort of
writers. There have been some that imagined
that Abel's dog was appointed to go with him
.wherever he went, to warn people·not to kill
him ; but this does not come up to the humour of
a mark set upon Cain ; and, therefore, other
writers rather think his face and forehead were
leprous ; others that his mark was a wild aspect .
and terrible rolling eyes; others say that he was
subject to a terrible trembling, so as to be scarcely
able_
to get his food to his .mouth ; a notion taken .
from the LXX, who translate " fugitive and
vagabond," ~Ei!WY 'X.Dfi TP~f'MJY· And there are some
writers that have improved this conceit, by adding,
that wherever he went the earth shook and trem-
bled round about him. But there is another no-
tion of Cain's mark, as good as any of the .rest,
;;u. that he had a hom fixed on his forehead, to
teach men to avoid him!"•
Being, however, by the mercy of God, protect-
ed from the summary vengeance of his fellow
men, Cain migrated from the residence .of ·his
• Shuckford's. Connect., book 1.
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
parents, as many of Adam's posteritY had done
before him, and planted a colony in.the land of
Nod. Here his race forsook every good ·and
laudable pursuit, along with Masonry, and de-
generated into every species of impurity and wick-
edness ; though there were a few of hfs immediate
descendants, who retained so much virtue as to
exert the faint remains of their ·Masonic talents
for the benefit of mankind. Thus Jabal, the sixth
in descent from Cain, invented the use of tents ;
Jubal, his brother, invented ·music, and Tubal
Cain, ·his half-brother, invented the art of forging
.or working metals. Here Cain, with the assist-
ance of these artists, reduced the knowledge he
had acquired from Adam to practice, and con-
structed a city, ·which he named Hanoch, after
his eldest son.•
The family of Cain lived in much ·fear of the
• " The invention of building is by Moses attributed to Cain and
his issue : for it is certain he must have had many hands to join with
him when he built the first city. But in what year, or rather century of
his life this was done, we are not informed; only ·we have reason to
judge that he lived as many years as his brother Setlt, which were
912; and he might build this city, such as it was, in an,y part of his
time after his son's birth; agreeably to the Mosaical history. We may
suppose, therefore, that he did it when he was about seven or eight
hundred years old, and had seen seven or eight generations descended
from him ; each of which was in such numbers increased, as was not
only sufficient to build it, but to inhabit and defend it. In so much ·
time all the arts might easily be invented which were requisite to such
an undertaking."-Cumh. &nch.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY.
rest of Adam's po_
sterity, \vhom they conjectured
would reyenge the death of Abel upon them when
a favow·able opportunity should pres~nt itself:
Lamech was the first who endeavoured to remove
their apprehensions, and proposed a fortification
as the most certain means of safety. By his ad-
vice, Cain, with the assistance of Jabal and Tubal
Cain, encompassed his city with walls, as a place
of refuge, in case of interruption from the people
around them. This city, being the first practical
exertion of operative Masonry, was necesSarily ill-
. constructed, and probably worse defended. The
habitations were merely tents or J:luts, which
served, indeed, to shelter them from the in-
clemency of the seasons, but whose conveniences
were little superior tQ the dens _and caves which
had hitherto been used as their places of domestic
retreat. The only great advantage derived from
the construction of this city was that of associa-
.tion, from which many important benefits result-
ed. The blessings of superior civilization might
· .ensue, in a well regulated commonwealth, from
an union of interests and a reciprocity of benefits :
· which· could n~ver be obtained while men de-
pended on their own insulated exertions for the
necessaries of life ; and existed, .if not in absolute
enmity .with all others of their species, at least
without the conviction that each occasional com-
panion or associate was a firm and constant friend.
E
Digitized by GoogIe
50 ANTIQUITIES OF
And 'if, in this solitary mode of living, the duty
of laying up stores of provision and comfort for
·the winter were neglected, in that inclement sea-
son the improvident individual must inevitably
perish with cold and hunger ; unless, with the
strong ann of violence and injustice, he wrested
the miserable pittance from his more provi-
dent neighbour. This, we are assured by Dio-
dorus Siculus,• .was frequently the case; and ·
hence murder and homicide were ·very common
among the Antediluvians, and were the particular
species of violence which elicited the wrath of
God to sweep them from the earth.
But by the formation of a society or compact,
in which the bond was mutual security, these evils
might have been prevented; the social virtues of
·the heart might display themselves, traces of civil
governm~nt might be visible, to restrain the im-
petuosity of human passion ; and some notions of
the moral government of the universe, by a Su-
perior Being, become impressed upon their miBd8,
and possess a genial influence on their morals.
·Unfortunately the commonwealth of Hanoch eiJ·
joyed but few of these benefits, from a want of
regularity in its founder. Rough and inhospitable
himself; his posterity were fierce and ungoverna-
ble, and more distinguished by violence and li-
-Lib. J.
Digitized b
y
Google
FREE-MASONRY. 51
centiousneSs, than peace and social order. They
' had either forgotten God, or were wilfully dis-
posed to act in direct opposition to his commands.
Their hostility to the divine Author of their
being announces the decay of primitive Masonry
amongst them; and their subsequent degeneracy
ahews how the human . heart may be debased,
when divested of these true principles, which so
strongly stimulate to virtue and holiness.
After this public renuBciation of.God's laws,
vice rapidly increased, until it brought on man's
destruction. Lamech, who appears to have pos..
seued great influence in the city of Hanoch, in-
troduced the ·evil of bigamy ; and the effects of
his example increased to such a degree, that, be-
fore the flood~ there existed amongst his posterity
an indiscriminate community of wives, as well as
a bestial intercourse with each other.• Holy
Scripture has not recorded their l!lOnstrous enor-
mities ; and as Masonry was at length wholly
. given up by this race, I return to the line of Seth,
amongst whom it was yet cultivated, and its pre-
cepts obeyed. ·
Seth, the son of Ad.aln, was educated .by his
father in the atrictest principles of piety and de-
.voti.on ; and when he arrived at years of maturi.ty
was admitted to a participation in the mysteries of
• Euseb. Eccl. Hist., I. i. c. 2.
E ~
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
':., Masonry, to which study he applied himself with
.· the most diligent assiduity. The progress he made
in this science is fully demonstrated by the purity
of his· life. Associating with himself the · most
virtuous men of his age, they formed lodges, and
discussed the great principles of Masonry with
FREEDOM, FERVENCY, and ZEAL. These Masons,
in a few centuries, made such progress in the
science, that they received from their contempo-
raries the appellation of SoNs OF LIGHT, or SoNs
oF Goo. Their system of Masonry was purely
theological :- its illustrations explained the nature
and attributes of God, the creation of the world,
and the unhappy fall of man. It pointed out the
difference between moral good and evil, and com-
pared the happiness of Paradise with the pain,
disease, and misery of this wretched world;· that
the mind might be incited to avoid a much greater
punishment, and aspire to the enjoyment of a
much higher degree of happiness in a future state.
It inculcated the precepts of religion, and the ne-
cessity of divine worship ; the sanctification of
the seventh day, with other particula;.s which
every Mason is acquainted with, who is master of
· our inimitable FellowTraft's Lec'ture.
From general illustrations of God's attributes,
these indefatigable Masons proceeded to the study
and investigation of God's created works. Of
these the celestial orbs appeared the most promi-
Digitized by GoogIe
FRKK~lKASONRY.
nent and splendid, and were, therefore, contem.
plated with a~ eagerness .of research which pro-
duced the most important results.~ The rudiments.
QfAsTRONOMY were not only formed in these eariy
ages, but the science was carried to some degree
of perfection; and certainly inspired a sublime
idea of that glorious Being, who could creat~ and
govern so vast and complicated a machine.
The Jewish Rabbins, in describing the holiness
Qf t}\is race while engaged in these pursuits, pre-
lent to the view a true and beautiful picture qf
th.e results of Masonry,, when practised in its na-
tive purity. Separated, by the divine economy,
from the rebellious race of Cain, they preserved
the primitive sanctity of their progenitors until
about the year of the world .500. Their occupa-
tions were purely spiritual, for they lived almost
solely on the spontaneous productions of nature.
The laws and motions of the celestial bodies
constituted their chief study, and their usual
amusement consisted in singing of psalms to God.
Endued with that benign principle which we term
CHARITY, the passions of envy, hatred and re-
venge found no place amongst them ; inju~tice
and deceit were banished from their society ;
sincerity and plain-dealing were their distinguish-
ing characteristics; and they lived, daily ripening
for that state which is enlightened by the presence
of God fop evermore. To the purity of these
E 3
Dig1tizod by Coogle
ANTIQUITIES OF
SoNs OF Goi> our most excellent patron, St. John
the Evangelist, compared that of'the Christian
converts. ·He addresses them by·the same appel-
lation' and contrasts their conduct.with that of
the Wicked, whom he compares with the Ul).o
righteous race of Cain.•
Seth continued to preside over theSe sacred
assemblies until the time of Enoch ; and finding
that·the spirit of God was in that highly favoured
individual, and that he excelled his brethren in
wisdom and knowledge, he installed him Grand
Superintendent in his stead; happy to leave b
science under the direction of so excellent a pr0o
tector.
• btEp.; iii. 1-lf.
Digitized by GoogIe
l>ERIOD II.
--
CHAP. Ill.
ON THE ORIGIN OF THE ARTS AND SCIENCES.
IT has been already explained that l\1asonry is ·
divided into two distinct parts, OPERATIVE and_
SFBCV~.A.liVE ; the latter and most noble portion
of which declined amongst the descendants of
Ham and Japhet, when they reno~nced the wor.:..
ship. of the true God, and degenerat~ into .ido-
latry. They cheri$hec;l, however. "Ule·former di-:
Yision, amidst all the fluctuatiQJ;lS of their fortune,,
and diversities of modes of faith and worship.
The coquptions which gradua.I:ly debased ~e
~ral. principle in m,an, did not check his ar.dour
in the pursuit of scie11ee, o~ ~estrain the avidity
with which he cultivated wisdom, and the love of
every useful art. The Egyptians were celebrated.
fo.r geometry, the fhrenicians for the perfection of ,
their arithmetical calculations, the Chaldeans for
their knowledge of astronomy, and the Cretans
for music.
'J'he island of Crete, which was planted in the
ag~s ante:rior tQ 4,braham, so far excelled in thecul-
tivation of the Fine Arts, that men of learning and
E 4
Digitized by GoogIe
56 ANTIQUITIES OF ·
research, from other countries, visited this people
to reap the benefit oftheir improvements.• Under
the patronage and genial encouragement of their
kings, they excelled not only in music, but also in
medicine, and the arts of~ivil and social life ;t they
carried the art of working in brass and metals to a
greater perfection than any nation had done before
them;! they communicated their knowledge very
freely to other nations who applied for it, and even
appointed public teachers, whose office was to pre-
serve their acquirements pure and free from so-
phisticated- adulterations. These teachers were
appointed by an edict of the State, and. heavy·
penalties were denounced upon any person who
- should attempt to give instruction in the scien.ces
without this authority. Thus Prometheus was_
conqemned for inculcating the art of forging me-
tals, Without being duly invested with authority
from the deputies legally appointed to grant it;~
~e was.pronounced a seducer of the people, and
suffered banishment for violating the laws of his
country.
yet even when mankind had degenerated into
perfect religious indifference, and would scarcely
acknowledge that God was ·the supreme architect
of the world, or of the human structure, but de-
· • ))iog. Laert. t Diodor. Sicul. t Xenop. de Institut. Cyri.
§ Plato in Protag. '
Dig1tizod by Coogle
FREE-MASONRY. tJ7
duced the original of all things from a fortuitous
concourse of atoms, they still encouraged the
nne arts, and advanced them to a high degree of
perfection. Hence the age of Augustus, the most
dark and ambiguous with respect to religion, was
esteemed the brightest era of time with respect to
. .
the extent of human learning, and the perfection
of human science.
THE SEVEN LIBERAL SCIENCES,
Originally invented by Masons,• were trans-
mitted almost solely through their indefatigable
zeal, before the invention of printing. These
sciences were much cultivated by the idolatrous
nations, though they erred in not applying their
attainments to the knowledge and worship of the
Supreme Creator and Governor of the World,
which is the only true end of every scientific
• A Record which is preserved in the Bodleian Library, and wu
written aliout the latter end ofthe fifteenth century, thus particularizes
the arts invented by Masons.
" Quell. Whatte Artes haveth the Ma~onnes techedde mankynde?
" ..dmw. The Artes, Agricultura, ArchitectUra, Astronomia, Geome-
tria, Numeres, Musica, Poesie, Kymistrye, Governmente,and Rely-
gyonne. .. .
" Quell. Howe. commethe Ma~onnes more teachers than odher
menne? . .
" .Amw. ·The hemselfe haveth alleine in arte of fyndynge newe
artes, whyche arte the ffyrste M~onnes receaved from Godde; by the
whyche they fyndethe whatte artes hem plesethe; and thetreu way of
techynge the same. Whatte odher menne docthe ffynde out, ys
onelyche bey chaunce."
oigitiz~d by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
pu.nuito The .study of the seven liberal sciences
constituted the usual course of ~ducation pres..
cribed by philosophers for the higher ~s c;»f
mankind, and .this course was termed encyclo-
·predia, or instruction in a cycle.
The high antiquity of these and other philoso-
phical attai.fi:IDeBts shews the avidity with which
our ancient brethren pursued knowledge, even
after they had deviated from the true worship of
God. To trace these sciences back to their ori-
ginal may be counted an adventurous task~ but
if, amidst the·doubtful evidence which remains of
these times, we 1ind strong presumptive proof that
they were in the. exclusive possession of Maso~s
in the most early ages of the world, it will shew
that Masonry is not a negative institution, but
that it is o.f some actual benent to mankind.
GRAMMAR
" Teaches the· proper arrangement of words
according to the idiom or dialect of any parti-
cular people, and that excellency of pronuncia-
tion which enables us to speak or write a lan-
guage with accuracy, agreeably to reason and
correct usage."•
It is highly probable that there existed a great.
variety of dialects before the Flood, which would
cause some general elements to be both useful and
• Lect. of Masonry. Vide Pre~ton's " Illustrations."
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY..
necesSaty for a beneficial intercourse amongst
mankind. The migration of Cain into distant
parts would separate his family from the rest ·of
the world-for some ages; and the exclusive pur-
suits in which they were engaged would materially
alter the _
original language: for new·wants and
new acquirements would demand new names and
phrases, which, being adopted from fancy or ac-
cident, would in a few years change the character
of the language altogether. The same causes
would produce an alteration in the language of
every tribe which lived .separate from the general
settlement of. Adam ; and repeated migrations -
doubtless took place, even during the life-time of
that Patriarch, from the rapid increase of the
human race, under the advantages _
of antediluvian
longevity, which, without intercourse, must of
necessity produce so many radical changes in the
primitive language, as to fill the world with new
and .differing dialects, as infinite as the .numerous
tribes who might plant colonies in every part ofthe
habitable globe.
Before the time of Enoch, neighbouring tribes
had established-a social intercoursewith each other,
which, by the invention of boats, might in 8ome
cases be extended.to a considerable distance over
the sea, having for its basis mutual wants and mu..
tual conveniences. This intercourse rendered some
simple medium necessary for the 15etter interpreta-
Digitized by GoogIe
60 ASTIQUITIES O.F
tion of strange languages. An object so desirable
became the universal study; and it was at length
effected byEnoch, who invented an alphabet toper-
petuate sounds, and with it adopted some general
rules for fixing the characteroflanguage :-and this
was grammar, which had indeed been long used
before such a science was actually known in its
proper and specific fo~m. Its essence was coeval
with language : for the use of speech includes
the idea of arranging words in such order as to
convey an intelligible meaning. The invention of
letters would naturally inspire the idea of con-
verting this faculty into a science ; and hence its ·
most simple elements may be ascribed to Enoch.
This alphabet acquiring increased accessions of
grammatical improvement before the translation
of Epoch, was committed by that excellent Pa-
triarch to Methusaleh, and by him to Noah, with
whom it survived the Flood, and was transmitted,
by him and his sons, to all the generations of the
w_orld. Noah carried his alphabet to China, where,
in the hands of a jealous and suspicious people,
it underwent changes without improvement. With
the descendants of Shem it continued to improve,
until it !Lrrived at the perfection which the Hebrew
dialect so early attained. The Persian language
· was founded by his son Elam, and is evidently a
dialect of the Hebrew. The thirteen sons ofJok-
tan carried the s~me language and alphabet into
Digitized by Google
I'REE-JriASONRY. 61
Arabia; ,where, unpossessed of literary genius, its
inhabitants suffered it to assume a new character,
.which, though nervous and bold, retained its ori-
ginal simplicity. This w~ the dialect in which
_the Book of Job is said to have been-written, By
.Ham and his son Mizraim, this alphabet wa~f con~
.veyed to Egypt, whose philosophers and priests,
in process of time, substituted.hieroglyphical for
alphabetical characters, that . their . attainments
might be kept secret from the mass of mankind.
The Egyptian Cadmus, .improving upon the ge-
neral principles of alphabetical knowledge, con-
ceived the idea of adapting an alphabet peculiar to
.·the characteristic principles of every distinct lan-
guage. He carried a new alphabet, consisting of
sixteen letters, into Greece, and for this reason
is considered by many as the inventor of letters.
The descendants of Japheth carried the_ same al-
phabet and the same language into the more re-
mote parts of the world, varying into different
shades, as new tribes were formed, and fresh mi-
grations emanated from the colonies planted by the
.pare.nt stock. · ·" The. Greek, the Latin, and the
Sanscrit languages," says Sir W. Jones, " bear so
·.great a resemblance to each other, that no philo-
lager could . examine them all three without be-
.Jieving them .to have sprung from some common
.source, which perhaps no longer exists."*
• Asiat. Researches, vol. i.
Dig1tizod by Coogle
ANTI<!UITIES- OF'
After the invention of letters, it would not be--
long before the difference between substances and
qualities, action and passion, &c. would be
marked by some peculiar desigHation ; and this
improving into a system, would define the ,precise
limits of every national language, and an unerring
standard would be produced, by which the ine-
qualities of a wild or barbarous dialect might be
-reduced into -symmetry and order.
RHETORIC.
" Rhetoric teaches us to speak copiously and
fluently on any subject; not merely with pro-
priety alone, but with a11 the advantages of force
and elegance : wisely contriving to captivate the
hearer by strength of argument and beauty· of
.expression, whether it be to intreat or exhort, to
admonis~ or applaud."
LOGIC.
" Logic teaches us to guide our reason discre-
.tionally in the general knowledge of things, and .
directs our inquiries after truth. It consists of a
regular train of argument, whence we infer, de-
duce,·and conclude, according to certain premises
laid down, admitted, or granted ; and in it are
employed the faculties of conceiving, judging,
reasoning, aBd disposing, allof which are naturally
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE•MASONRY.
'led on from one gradation to another, till the
point in question is finally determined."•
Rhetoric,. acco~ding to Aristotle, is a kind of
scion growing out oflogic;t and these are corres-
pondent the one to the other.t Like gram~ar,
·they naturally spring from ·language: for the.
rudest savages will use different powers ofIan-
.guage to express love and hatred; accusation,
persuasion or defence. · Hence these scieDces ex-
isted in the very first ages, unrestricted by rule or
·method; and governed only by the passions and
affections ef those who used them. Primitive ar-
gumentation was rude and unembellished, and
directed solely tothe purpose in view. A striking
instance of this is exhibited in Cain's defence
against the accusation of God. At first he sternly
denies any knowledge of the fate of his brother;
but, to qualify this bold falsehood, he resorts to
subterfuge: am I my brother's keeper? When
his sentence is pronounced, he endeavours, by a
•subdued language, to awaken the pity of his
-Judge, in mitigation·of.punishment : " And Cain
said unta the Lord, my punishment is greater than
I can bear. Behold, thou hast driven me out this
day from the face of the earth~ and from thy face
shall I be hid ; and I shall be a fugitive and a
.vagabond in the ·earth ; and it shall come to pass
• Mas, Lect. t Rbet., I. i. c. 2. ± Ibid, I. i. c. J.
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQ.UITIES OF.
that every one that findeth me shall slay me."•
Another specimen of this sort of rhetoric occurs
in the address of Lamech to his wives ; and these
.are sufficient to shew the originality .of these
sciences. The invention of letters might lend·an
. assisting .hand to their improvement ; but it was
.no~ until many other refinements were introduce4
into the world, that they were arranged into the
form of regular systems, and governed by specific
laws. ·
Thest! sciences were much cultivated by the
.early Masons, .and vigorous efforts were made, in
every age, to attain .superior excellence in those
acquirements which conveyed a decided superio-
rity over the passions of men. By the practice of
these sciences Thoth, the son of Mizraim, ac-
quired much of his celebrity : for he was an able
rhetorician; and even received the appellation of
Hermes for his superior skill in logical disquisi-
tions.t The persuasive eloquence of Abraham
was celebrated throughout the world ; and from
the specimen recorded by Moses (Genesis, xviii.
!!8. adfin.) his fame was not undeserved. In this
.respect Aaron is spoken of in terms of high cqm-
mendatioii by God himself;+ and hence we may
dedQce that these sciences were already re~og­
nized, and reduced, at least, to an elementary form.
- -- - - --- - - - - ·--- -
• Gen. iv. 13, 14. t Tertul. de Cor. Fe.~t. t Exod. iv. H.
Digitized by Coogle
FREE-MASONRY.
ARITHMETIC.
cc · Arithmetic teaches the powers and properties
of numbers, which is variously effected by letters,
tables, figures and instruments. By this art, rea-
sons and demonstrations are given for finding oul
any certain number, whose relation or affinity tO
another is already knownor discovered/'•
This science, according to Gale,t had its origin
with God himself; because the first computation
of time i~ made by the Deity at the creation.t
Some authors are of ·opinion that, in the :first
ages of the world, arithmetic proceeded no farther
than counting the fingers of the left hand, which
was the ne plus ultra of ·notation ; and here it
remained without any advances fOf' m~ny cen-
turies; and that even at the time of the Odyssey
it had scarcely advanced further; for Proteus is
there said to number his herd byjives. But surely
this ··reaSoning is very insufficient; f<?T if a sabbath
was instituted at the creation, and .a day of rest_
was ordained to succeed every six days of la.bou·r,
it must be admitted that Adam ·was acquainted
with ·the art of nUmbering by sevens; and as there
existed.no visible objects to guide and assist him
in this calculation, it,must have been effected·by
·the · exercise ·of his reason and ingenuity. And
• M~aa. Lect. t Court of the Gentile~~. t Gen. ii. 2, 3.
F
Dig1tizod by Coogle
66 , ANTIQUITIES OF
if lhis conjecture be true, it may be reasonably
supposed that his knowledge of.this science.ex-
tended much farther. The computations, as we
are assured from the only legitimate source of in-
formation which we posses~ respecting the know•
ledge of those very remote ages, were similar to
the.mode in use at this day; viz. by tens; and of
this we have a very satisfactory evidence in the
prophecy of Enoch : " Behold the Lord cometh
with ten thousand of his saints, &c."• The coil•
struction of the Ark, according to certain speci-
fied dimensions, proves that Noah was acquairited
with the more abstruse calculations attached to
space·and symmetry.
It may be generally asserted that ·wheresover
Masons were congregated for any particular pur-
pose, there arithmetic ·was known and practised.
The proportions of an edi.Dce could not be cor-
rectly ascertained without a knowledge of figures;
and calculations could not be effected without the
aid of arithmetic. Besides, as the riches of man-
kind consisted, in those early times, of ft.ocks and
herds, some knowledge of numberS was absolute.:.
ly necessary to form a standard of comparative
wealth, by which the strength or power of a par-
ticular tribe could alone be estimated.
After the Flood we find arithmetic much culti-
• Jude, 14.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE·MASONRY.
vated; and the patriarch Abraham eminently
· - distinguished for a <;ompetent knowledge of this
science, which he taught, in conjunction with
other illuminated attainments, to his family and
- friends.· His calculation of just men, proposed· . ·
to .the· Almighty as a test or condition on which
w~s to be suspended the safety of Sodom, and the
rest of the.cities threatened with destnteti.on, was
made by tens; and the same method preVa.iled
-amongst the relations of Abraham when they de-
livered Rebekka as the wife of Isaac; they prayed
that she· might be the mother of thousands of
millions; which shews· that this science had,. at
that time, attained full perfection in one of its
~otnponent parts; for no better method.has been
since devised of expressing an infinitely extended
notation.
Abraham introdueedi arithmetic as.a science·into
Egyp~ and: the·philo8E>pher8 wet:e so·fully impres:..
·sed.with its trariscerident advantages, as to mallle:iti
an object ofincessant applieati<m. They blended>
it with·ilia mysteries oG their religion aml politi~.
and. in after· ages their general elucidations were:
e&cted b:r the. assistance of arithmetic. From
Egyphit spread.to other. parts: of the world; and
Pythagoras, who investigated its1properties wi~
a. more. than common assiduity, pronounced it to
be an attainment more than human, ahd, publicly
F ~
Digitized by GoogIe
68 ANTIQUITIES OF
asserted, that a knowledge of numbers -was a
knowledge of God.
GEOMETRY.
" Geometry treats of the powers and properties
of magnitudes in general, where length, brea.Qth,
and thickness are considered, from a point ·to a
line, from a line to a superficies, and from a su-
perficies to a solid."•
According to Josephus Geometry was known
to the antediluvians. '' Providence," says he,
·u found it necessary, for the promotion of virtue,
and for cultivating the study and improvement of
astronomy and geometry, to give a long date to
the life of man ; for, agreeably to the compu~
tion of the great year, no less a space of time than
six hundred years was required for making accu-
rate·experiments in those sciences."t As geometry
is a science ·on which all others depend, this con-
jecture of the Jewish historian is undoubtedly
correct; for Cain could scarcely practise. archi-
tecture with any degree of success without'the
aid of geometry ; nor could he apply himself to
apportion and divide the land of Nod amongst his
children,t had he not possessed some knowledge
of this fundamental science. ·
• Mas. Lect. t Ant. L i. c. 4• t Ibid. I. t c. 3.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY.
After the Flood we have positive evidenc~ of
the use ·to which these _sciences were applied.
Not to mention the negative proofs .disp~ayed in
those gigantic monuments erected by the most
antient inhabitants of the post-diluvian world; the
old constitutions of Masonry affirm that Abraham
wa8 an eminent geometrician, and communicated
this science to the.free-born only.
Diodorus, Proclus, and others, attributed the
invention of geometry to the operative Masons of
Egypt, under the direction of Mizraim ~d Thoth.
It· is certain that the early Egyptians were well
versed·in this science, which·they applied to as-
tronomy and all the liberal arts.. They found it
particularly serviceable in.ascertaining the situa:-
tion of landmarks, which fonned the boundaries
of.their respective estates, usually obliterated and
destroyed by the annual inundations of the river
·Nile.
Herodotus records the practice of geometry in
the ·reign, of Sesostris, t.o whom, indeed, .he at-
tributes the invention ofthis science. "Sesostris,"
says this historian, " made a regular distribution.
of the lands of Egypt. . He assigned ·to every
Egyptian ~ square pie~e of ground; and his re-
venues were drawn ·from the rent which every
individual annually paid him. Whoever w~s a
sufferer .by the inundation of the Nile, was per-
mitted to make the King acquainted with his loss.
F 3
Digitized by GoogIe
70 ANTIQUITlES OF
Certain officers were appointed to inquire into the
particulars of the injury, that -no man might be
taxed beyond his ability. It may not be improha- ·
ble to suppose," adds Herodotus, ." that this was
the origin ,of Geometry."•
" The.study of geometry among the Egyptians
owed its original to. necessity ; for the river Nile
being swelled with the showers falling.in Ethiopia.
and tlu~nce ann.ually overflowing the country _of
Egypt, and by its violence ov.
erturning all the
marks they had ,to distinguish their lands, made
it oocessary for them, upon every abatement of
~he flood, to survey their lands, to find o~t ~very
one his own by the quantity of .the ground upon
the survey ; the necessity of which put them upon
a more diligent. inquiry into that study, that
thereby they might attain to some ·exactness in
that, which was to be of such necessary, con.,.
stant, and perpetual use."t
The precise description of the promised land,
which.was surveyed and marked out by unequivo-
cal boundary lines, prove~ Moses to have had a
mathematical knowledge, which was ·a .part of
the. learning of the Egyptians in which he was
skilled.+
Pythagoras, who introduced Masonry into Eng·
land, was taught the elements of geometry in
"' Beloe. Euterp. t Orig. Sac. book ii. c. 2. t Cumb. Orig. Tt'act. 3.
oig,tized by Coogle
71
Egypt,• ·which he reduced to .a .regular science.
on fixed and certain principles. He taught that
a geometric point corre~ponded with an unit in
arithmetic ; a line with two ; a superficies .with
three, and a solid .with four. A principle still
preserved amongst Masons, and inculcated in the
second lecture.
" After Pythagoras, ·geometry became the dar-
.ling study·of the Greeks; and their learned men
applied its principles to mechanical purposes in
general, as well as to operations in stone or brick.
And as Masonry kept pace with geometry, so
many lodges appeared, especially in the Grecian
Republiel9, where liberty, trade, and learning
flourished ; as at Sicyon, Athens, Corinth, and
the cities of Ionia, till they perfected their beau-
.tiful Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian orders."
" From this time we date the strict union be-.'
tween the free and accepted Masons, which baa
subsisted ever since in all regUlar lodges."t
Plato entertained so exalted an opinion ·of geo-
metry, that he inscribed on the portal ·of his
school, " Let no one ignorant of Geometry enter ·
. '
. • -~ ~n from Diodorus Siculus. that the antient poets and
philosophers resorted to Egypt for the purpose of learning their laws~
.ma acq\Jiring every species of useful knowledge from thst people:
Euseb. Pnep. Evan., 1. x. ·
t Anderson's Hist. of Masonry.
. . F 4
Dig1tizod by Coogle
,_
ANTIQU~TIES OF
here;" thus making geometry an introduction to
.the study of philosophy.
Euclid, a .zealous and indefatigable Mason, ap-
plied himself sedulously to the exclusive study of
this science. He coiiected all the existing works
of ancient mathematicians, reduced geometry into
order and regularity ; and brought ii t9 a degree
of perfection, which has been exceeded only by a
truly Masonic genius of our own nation, .who~
modesty declined the laurels which his merits en-
titled him to wear ;.. and the illustrious name of
Sir Isaac Newton will elicit_the admiration.ofJ;Dan-
kind, so -long as Nature follows her accustomed
course, and the frame ~f thi~ world is governed by
her laws.
Under.. this head may be properly classed the
science of Architecture, which .is "the .art of
building edifices proper for habitation o~ defence.
Although architecture, in its utmost latitude, m~y
be defined. a· mathem~tical sci.ence, containit:lg
rules for designing and raising all sorts of struc-
tures, acc9rding to geometrical p:l,"oportion, yet j1~
its ordinary acceptation it is applied only to ~e
·construction of such buildings as are necessary
for the purposes of civil life."• It is divided into
three parts : civil architecture ; military architec-:
ture, or fortification ; and naval architecture, or
--- - .. --- -------
• Mas. Lcct.
Digitized by GoogIe
F.REE·.MA&ONRY.
ship building. As the former of these divisions
appears more intimately connected with Masonry,
as an institution of peace, harmony, and brotherly
love, I shall confine my brief notices exclusively
.toit.
Civil architecture, we certainly know, was ·prac-
tised before the Flood, though' we are ignorant of
the precise nature of their buildings, as the Flood
destroyed every antediluvian monument, except
one of the pillars of Enoch. We have positive
evidence, from the Books of Moses, that Jabel
built tents, and afterwards, probably, Cain built a
city : for " in the ·space of nine hundre<! years
assigned to his life, he might live with, and make
use of ta build his city, those whom Sanchoniatho
names in the fifth and seventh generations from
Protogonus; viz. in the fifth Memrumus, who also,
in Greek, is called Hypsuranius. He made houses·
about Palretyrus, compassed and covered with or-
dinary reeds, rushes, and the paper reed. In ·his
seventh generation,. he puts Chrysor, whom he
affirm~ to be the Hephaistus of the Greeks, and
the Latin Vulcanus, and his brother, the inventor
of bricks, tiles, and walls. These men joined to-
gether will easily do all that belongs to the build-
ing of one or many cities."•
Very early after the Flood, architecture was
• Cumb. Snnch.
Digitized by GoogIe
74 ANTIQUITIES 01'
considerably advanced. The .most noble monu-
ments of antiquity, the pyramids, obelisks, and the
gigantic Sphynx,• added to those mighty efforts
ofhuman genius displayedin the Tower of Babel,
the wonders of the city of Babylon, the Egyptian
labyrinth, &e. assure us of the great perfection to
which this science was carried in the most early
ages of the. world. The primitive inhabitan~ of
Ethiopia, who received their knowledge of Ma-
'SOnry from Cush the grandson of. Noah, erected _
monuments of art which remain to this day. Bruce
tells us of obelisks, pillars, and prodigious frag-
ments of colossal statues of t}le Dog Star, which
are of the highest antiquity, and are still to be
seen in this country : and adds, that " the Cush-
ites, with unparalleled industry, and with instru-
ments utterly unknown to us, formed to them-
selves commodious yet wonderful habitations, in
the heart of mountains of granite and marble,
which remain entire in great numbers to this day,
and promise to do so till the consummation of all
things."
• This monstrous statue, formed with a virgin's head and a lion's
body, was symbolical of the overflowing of the Nile, which happened .
when tbe sun was in tbe signs ofLeo and Virgo. It bad its name from .
this circumstance; for tbe word lpk!Jnz, in the Cbaldean language,
signifies, to overflow. This monument of Egyptian assid~ity, which
will exist as long as the world shall endure, was cut out of a solid
rock, and was intended as a sepulchre for King Amasis.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASON~Y.
MUSIC. .
" Music teaches· the art offorming concords so
as to compose delightful harmony, by a mathe..
matical and proportional arrangement of acute,
grave, and mixed sounds. This art, by a series
of experiments, is reduced to a demonstrative
sci~ce, with respect to tones, and the intervals Of
sound. It inquires into the nature of concords
and discords, and enables us to lind out the pro-
portion between them by numbers."•
Music, the next in order of the seven liberal
sciences, was snccessfully cultivated by the idola-
trous nations as well as the true worshippers of
God, and has been a general Masonic pursuit from
the time of its invention in the most early ages.
This science was practised before the Flood ; for
Moses informs us that Jubal, the son of Lamech,
" was the father of all such as handle the harp
and organ :"t and this is aU we know, with any
degree of certainty, of the origin and use of
mtisical instruments before the Flood. Thoth or
Hermes is said, by Apotlodorus, to have invented
music. ·"But no one person ought &trictly to be
called the inventor of an art which seems t6 be
natural :to, and coeval with, the ~uman species ;
but the Egyptian Mercury is, without doubt, en-
• Mas. Led. t Gas. iv. iJ.
Digitized by GoogIe
•·
76 ANTIQUITIES OF
titled to the praise of having made striking im-
provements in music, aswell as ofhaving advanced,
in various respects, the civilization of the people,
whose government was chiefly _
committed to his
charge."• His invention of the lyre was the
effect of accident. Striking his·. foot against a
dead tortoise, on the banks of the river Nile,
whose cartilages were distended across the shell,
and dried by the heat of the sun, t;he concussion
produced a distinct and continuous sound. Im-
pressed with this idea, he constructed an instru-
-ment in the form of a tortois.e, and strung it with
' the dried sinews of ·animals.t This instrument
consisted of three strings ; to improve which
Apollo (who was cotemporary with -Hermes; for
he is said to be the Phut of Moses, and was
esteemed the inost able musician of antiquity)
added a fourth ; a fifth was added by Corebus ; ·a
sixth by Hiagnus ; a seventh by Terpander ; and
Pythagoras increased the number of strings to
eight, and practised the method of tuning diato-
nically. ·This great man afterwards made an in-
strument with fifteen strings, which completed the
double octave, and his system became at length
. distinguished by the appellation of the Pythago-
rean System. In process of time, the system was
perfected by the introduction of the Chromatic
• Morison. t Apollodorus.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY. 77
and Enharmonic Scales ; the former ·by Timo-
theus, ll.nd the latter by Olympus.
Eusebius relates• that Osiris, when he travelled
about the world to plant colonies and civilize
mankind, had with him, as companions, Apollo
and Pan, as well as Nine Virgins, so celebrated for
their respective talents as to be afterwards termed,
in Greece, the Nine Muses, because of the sweet-
ness of their voices and instruments.
The extraordinary effects produced by music
on the passions of ·men in ancient times caused it
to be much used in religious ceremonies. From
Egypt the science was carried, by the children of
Israel,· into Canaan; and so attached were they
to it, that .every rite of their worship was accom-
panied with music. The priests. were n~cessarily
musicians ; and the assistance of a musical instru-
ment was a usual accompaniment to the delivery
of prophecies, to express more feelingly the s_
enti:-
mentof joy or terror which they were intended to
inspire.
The ancient .Lodges of Free-Masons, whether
congregated on the highest ofhills, or in the lowest
of vallies, were opened and closed, as we' have
reason to believe, with solemn music, as well as
sOlemn prayer._ And at the dedication of King
Solomon's Temple, as we are informed by Jose-
• De Pnep. Evan; I.!, c, 1.
Digitized by GoogIe
,
78 .A.NTIQUITIES OF
phus, there were present twenty thousand mu-
sicians.
At this day our meetings, dignified by literary
research and scientific illustration,are enlivened by
the enchanting power of music, which lends a por-
tion of refinement to our more social and relaxed
pursuits, and adds a charm to Masonry, which
_leaves no sting behind.
.
ASTRONOMY.
" Astronomy. is that divine art by which we
are taught to read the .wisdom, strength, and
beauty of the Almighty Creator; in those. sacred
p~es the celestial-hemisphere. Assisted by astro-
nomy, we.can observe the motions, meastire the
distances, comprehend· the magnitudes, and cal-
culate the periods. and eclipses of the heavenly
~odies : by it we learn the use of the globes. the
system of the world, and the preliminary law- o~
nature. While we are employed in the·study .of
this science, we ~ust perceive unparalleled in-
tances of wisdom and goodness,.and through the
whole creation trace the glorious Author by his·
works."•
Philosophy and astronomy, as we ream. from-
Strabo, were cultivated by the Egyptian~ who:
kept their mysteries secret J~om all but the ini--
• MaL Lect.
oig,tized by Coogle
FREE·MABONRT. 79
tiated : this practice they derived (rom Thoth
their second monarch, whose wisdom exalted him
to the colifidence of his grandfather Ham. Now
as Egypt is one ofthe most ancient nations in the
world of which we have any authentic records, to
Egypt we must look for the early perfection of
many sciences, which have not been noticed in·
the Mosaic Records.
The science ofastronomy was certainly invented
by the posterity of Seth, though the Jewish Rab-
bins insist that it was revealed to Adam by God
himself. Josephus does not sanction this hypo-
thesis ; he merely observes, " that the children of
Seth were the first persons who studied the mo-
tions and influences of the heavenly bodies."•
But Eupolemus absolutely ascribes the invention
of astronomy to Enoch :t and it is thought,_
from
an observation ofJosephus, that the antediluvians
were acquainted with the grand period of six.
hundred years, in which the heavenly bodies
return to the same relative situation.
Shuckford says, "Noah mu5t be w:ell apprized
of the usefulness of this study, having lived six
hundred years before the Flood; an.d· he .was,,
without. doubt, well acquainted with an·the arts
of life that had been invented in the first world ;
and this of observing. the stars had been one of
• Ant. I. 1, c. 3. t Euseb. Pnep. Evan. I,!), c. 17.
Digitized by GoogIe
80 ANTIQUITIES OF
them ; so that he could ' not only apprize
his children of the necessity of, but also put
them into some method of prosecuting those
studies."•
After the Flood, therefore, the line of Ham
were by no means ignorant of this science ; on
the contrary, the Phrenicians and Egyptians at-
tained a very early knowledge of the planets as
distinct from the stars ; and even arranged the
clusters of stars into constellations, by which
they are in the present day distinguished. Thus
Cronus or Ham was consecrated into the planet
Saturn.t Thoth or Athothes was consecrated
into Mercury.t The bodies, according to Plu-
tarch, of Osiris, Isis, Typhon, &c. were worship-
ped on earth, and their souls shone as the stars in
heaven. Isis was called the Dogstar ; Orus aP-
peared in the constellation known by the name
of Orion, and Typhon in Ursa Major.§
Chronologers tell us that the first cele~tial ob-
servations afte~ the Flood, were made immediately
subsequent to the erection of the Tower of Babel;
and this seems to be confirmed by what Por-
phyry tells us, that when Alexander took Baby-
.Ion, he found in ·that city astronomical observa-
tions for nin,eteen hundred and three years ; and
• Con. Bk. 6. t Sanch. in Euseb. Pnep. Evan. I. I. c. 10.
t Eratos. Catas. cap. !3. § De laid.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY. 81
·this brings them within fifteen years of . the
building of Babel.
" Berosus, who collected the ancient Chal-
dean monuments, and published treatises of their
·astronomy and philosophy, gave an account in his
history, ofa man among the Chalrueans in the tenth
generation after the Flood, ' who was righteous,
and great, and skilful in the celestial science ;'•
which character agrees with that ofAbraham, who
is said by Josephus to have taught the Egyptians
astronomy and arithmetic, of which sciences they
were utterly ignorant before his time."t
The investigations in this chapter are calcu-
lated to shew, that the science of Masonry, which
embraces every branch of human learning, and
·applies each to the only end which can make
men truly useful here, or happy hereafter; the ·
glory qf God; was practised amongst the de-
scendants of Ham and Japheth as far onlyas its
operative nature extended; for they stopped short
at the portal of that most. sublime and spiritual
edifice, " a building not made with hands, eter-
·nal in the heavens."t Hence at the coming of
Christ to restox:e the primitive religion, and with
it the es8ence of speculative Masonry, the idol-
• Jos. Ant. I. I. c. 7. t Bp. Tomline.
t !. Cor. v.i.
G
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
atrous worship .sunk to de~y. and all the works
founded on its ba.Sis mouldered Into dust and'
ruin.s. At his birth, the popular legend accre-
dited amongst the idolaters was, that the groves
and temples consecrated to dremoniacal worship
echoed with the most tremendous howlings ; the
waves of the adjacent seas swelled with an ,un-
usual agitation; the priests, ·overwhelmed with
awe, enquired of their oracles the ,causes which
produced these alarming and supernatural phre-
nomena ; when a voice was said to answer,
" Our reign is· expired. ·we .are struck dumb
by the appearance of a superior power !" How-
.ever this may be, the fatal shock which idolatry
received by the appearance of Jesus Christ on
earth, is attested by evidence of a much more
certain and specific character ; the public con-
fession of Dremons expelled by Our Saviour from
possessed indiWduals, (as recorded by the Evan-:-
gelists ;) whose uniform cry was, torment us not!
We know and acknowledge thy superior power,
as the Son of God most High ! And nearly four
c~nturies after this, when Julian, in his attempt
to restore the idolatrous worship, urged the or~
cle of Apollo at Daphne to declare the cause ·of
his silence ; the God repli~d, by /Us Priests, that
he was prevented from answering, by the bones
of a Christian Saint which were buried adjacent ·
to the' temple. The bones were removed by
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY. 88
Julian's order, and the temple was soon after
destroyed by a fire from heaven.
The triumph -of Christianity over Idolatry and
J udais'm is amply corroborated by the conduct
of this apostate Emperor, in his impio~s .attempt
to frustrate the prophecy of Jesus Christ, and
rebuild the Temple of Jerusalem. The miracu-
lous interposition of heaven to prevent the ex-
ecution of this project, and assert the truth of
· Christiani~y, is recorded by Christian, Jewish,
and_ Pagan writers. Gregory Nazianzen thus
expresses himself on this mysterious subject.
"The Jews set about the work of rebuilding with
great a~tention, and pushed on the ·project with
the utmost labour and application. But .when
now driven from their work by a violent whirl-
wind and a sudden earthquake, they fled together
for refuge to a certain neighbouring church.
There are who say, the church refused them
entrance, and that when they came to the ·doorS,
which were wide open but a moment before, they
found them on a sudden closed by a secret and
invisible hand. As they strove to force their
way in by violence, the FIRE whick bui:st .fh»n,
the fomulatiom qfthe temple met and stopped them,
'
and one part it burnt and destroyed, and another
-it .desperately maimed, leaving them a living monu-
ment of God'~ condemnation and wrath against
sinners.". " The day after the earthquake," adds
G~
Digitized by GoogIe
84 ANTIQUITIES OF
the Rabbin Gedaliah ben Joseph Iechajah, " a '
dreadful fire fell from heaven, which melte4 all
the IRoN TooLs and Instruments employed about
the work ; and destroyed many, nay, incredible
numbers of the Jews." And the truth of thi
statement is confirmed by the confession of Am-
mianus Marcellino , Julian's profes ed Pagan
apologist, who describes this miracle in the fol-
lowing words: " Julian committed the conduct
of thi affair to Alypius of Antioch, who formerly
had been Lieutenant in Britain. When therefore
this Alypius had set him elf to the vigorous ex-
ecution of hi charge, in which he had all the
assistance that the governor of the province
could afford him ; horrible balls of fire breaking
out near the foundations with frequent and re-
iterated attacks, rendered the place, from time
to time, inacces ible to the scorched and blasted
workmen ; and the victorious element continuing
in this manner, obstinately and resolutely bent,
as it were, to drive them to a distance, Alypius
thought it best to give over the enterprize."•
The particular stone in the foundation from
which these terrible flames issued, is said by oid
Masons, to be the arne which Jacob used for a
re ting place, when journeying towards Padana-
ram in Me opotamia.
• Vid. Wnru. Julian.
Dig1tizod by Coogle
F.REB·llriASONRY.
CHAP.· IV.
_CONTAINING NINE HUNDRED AND FIFTY-SIX YEARS.
--
VIEW OF MASONRY FROM ·ENOCH TO THE UNIVERSAL
DELUGE.
THE great and prominent truth to be illus-
trated.in these views of antient Masonry, is, that
religion or the genuine worship of God, was the
chief object of Masonic practice in the primitive
ages of the world. And 1;his may be deduced
from · t:Jie existence of pure Masonry at the pre-
sent day; .for had it been erected on anyother
foun~tioil but the glory of God ; had it been
instituted solely to exalt human wisdom, . or to .
promote human greatness; it would ·have been
but ·as· a flitting sunbeam, which passeth away
and leaves no trace behind.
·R~ligion was the only foundation on which
our order could be securely placed ; for no in-
stitution can be firm or permanent, which is not
.supported by the favour . and protection of the.
Deny. Every thing merely human must inevit-
ably decay and crumble to ruins before the all- ·
devouring hand of time.
G 3
Dig1tizod by Coogle
86 A.MTIQUITJU OF
"' The cloud<apt towers, the gorgeous palaca,
The solemn temples, tlfe great globe iteelr,
Yea, all which it inherit, shall dissolve,
And, like the buelesa fabric or a vision,
Leave not a rack behind.',.
But the word of God, and every thing founded
on that basis, shall never pass away. Even " the
heavens shall pass away with a· great noise, and
the elements shall melt with fervent heat ; the
earth also, and the works that are therein,. shall
be burnt up ;"• but Masonry, pure and uncon-
taminated with earthly abominations, shall triwnph
over the general and universal dissoiution, and
shall cement the Host of Heaven in a hoi] union
and communi001 to all eternity.
Before Enoch assumed the superintendence
of our Order, there appears to have been some ,
intermixture of the two lines of Seth and Cain,
for the world does not exhibit so bright an aspect-
-as during the last period. Adam, however, was
yet living, and his authority was sufficient -to.
restrain the race over which he possessed the-
supreme government, as king, priest, and pro-
phet, from those rash and violent deeds,' which,
after his death, deformed the face of nature.
Enoch prosecuted his scientific researches with
indefatigable industry, and communicated his dis-
• Shake. Temp. t !. Pet. iii. 10.
Digitized by GoogIe
I'RE£..MAiONRY.
. .
coveries to his brethren. The line of Seth were
indeed Jess eminent than the Cainites for ·mecha-
nical arts, because .their attention had been .de-
voted to more sublime pursuits. They practised
very successfully the speculative sciences which
form a constituent part of Masonry. The celes-
tial bodies were objects of their constant inv~sti­
gation. · In the science of astronomy Enoch -made
many improvements; and it is thought that be
was acquainted with the grand period of six
hundred ,years, at the expiration of which, the
sun and moon return to the precise situation
.which they occupied at the beginning of it.
Other sciences were invented and ·perfected by
Enoeh, which tend to illustrate God's attribute&
and perfections ; and hence this extraordinary Pa..
triarch earned a distinguished reputation, whicla
will endure,·both amongst Masons and Christians,
until the frame of this world shall be shook in
pieces by the voice of the Archangel and the
·trump of God.
But the_ study of human science ~ not the
sole·intention of God in' the creation of man :
He formed him for a nobJer purpose·; and these
·studies were but secondary considerations, spring·
ing as natural ·effects from natural causes. Of
this truth we have had abundant proofs, -in the
view we have already taken of the origin of the
. sciences. -For it appeari that the idolatrous na-
o4
Digitized by GoogIe
88 ANTIQUITIES OF
tions were not deficient in scientific knowledge,
thoug.h they had renounced their allegiance · to
the true God.
Enoch practised Masonry, of which he .was
now installed Grand Master, with such effect, that
God vouchsafed by immediate revelation, to com-
municate to him some ' peculiar mysteries, in ·
· token of his approbation. The most valuable
of these, according to old tradition~ was that
SACRED NAME OR WORD, which demands OUr Ut-
most veneration ; ana enables man to reflect on
the goodness of his Maker, with renewed senti-
ments of reverence and devotion•
.The degeneracy of mankind increasing, Enoch
exhorted them to turn ·from their unrighteous
ways, and imitate the purity of their ·forefathers.
He pressed upon them the nature of their obliga-
tions; he reiterated their duty to God and·man;
bUt the fascinations of pleasure had so intoxicated
their senses, that the sober admonitions of reason
and duty were ~ittle regarded. He therefore
called a special assembly of Masons in whom he
could confide ; and ·in the presence of Adam,
Seth, Jared his father and Methusaleh his son,
he e~umerated the accumulating wickedness of
man, and the enormous evils which were desola.o
ting the earth ; and, implored their advice and
assistance in stemming the torrent of impiety
which threatened an universal corruption. lt
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE·MAiOKRY. - 89
was here Adam communicated that terrible pro-
phecy, that all mankind, except a few just per-
sons, should so far swerve fi·om their allegiance
to God, as to cause the destruction of all created
.things by water and fire. . '
From tllis information Enoch formed his plans
for ·preserving the knowledge he had acquired,
amidst the devastation necessarily attending the
predicted calamity. The sacred mysteries com-
mitted to his charge occupied his first and most
anxious solicitude. Being inspired by his Maker,
and iti commemoration of a wonderfol vision on
the holy mountain, in which these sublime secrets
were revealed to him, he built a temple in the
bowels of. the earth, the entrance to which was
through nine several porches, each supported by
a pair of pillars, and curiously concealed from
human observation. The perpendicttlar depth of
-this temple was eighty-one feet from the surface~
Enoch, Jared, and Methusaleh were the ·three
architects who constructed this subterranean edi-
.fice ; but the two latter were not acquainted with
the secret motives which influenced Enoch in ·
causing this cavern to be dug. The .arches were '
formed in the bowels of a mountain, which was
afterwards · denominated Calvary in the land of
Canaan ; and the temple was dedicated to the
~iving God.
He then made a plate ofgold in the form of
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
an equilateral triangle, 'each of whose sides was
eighteen inches; which he enriched with precious
stones, and encrusted it on a triangular agate of
the s~me dimensions. On this plate he engraved
the ineffable characters he had seen in his vision ;
and alone, in silence and solitude, he descended
through the nine portals into the temple, and
placed this invaluable treasure upon a cubical
pedestal of white marble. ·
When the temple was completed, Enoch made
nine secret doors of stone, and placed them at
the entrance of the portals, with an iron ring in-
serted in each for the facility of raising, in case
any wise and good man of future ages should be
led to explore the secret recesses of this sepulchral
vault.- He then closed up the whole, that ·the
secrets there deposited might remain in perfect
security amidst the anticipated destruction of
mankind; for the contents of this temple were
not entrusted to any human being. Enoch paid
occasional visits to the temple, for the purpose of
offering up his prayers and thanksgivings in a pe-
culiar manner to the God who had vouchsafed to
him alone such distinguished favours.
As the world increased in wickedness, and the
threatened destruction visibly approached nearer
a?d nearer, Enoch, trembling for the fate of those
useful arts and sciences which he had invented or
improved, proceeded without delay to provide for
Digitized by GoogIe
'FREE-JriAIOKBY. 91
their transmission to future ages : for the accom.
plishment of which, his knowledge of lettei!:J lent
the greatest facility. Upon a high mountain,
the.refore, he erected two great pillars, one of
marble, and another of brass, to preserve·the true
principles of science for the benefit of a future
world ; the former of which he conceived-would
withstand fire, and the latter 'fl)ater. On these he
.engraved the elements of the liberal sciences, in-
cluding Masonry ; and also a notification that he
had concealed a valuable treasure .in the bowels
of the earth, which contained the essence and end
of Masonry, and was consecrated to the only true
and living God. Let him that hath W'ISDOJI find it I
Enoch perceiving that men did not reform from
his repeated exhortations, instituted that form of
excommunication known amongst the primitive
Christians by the name of Maranatha, being
derived from Maran, the Lord, and Ath, fire.
After·giving them a solemn warning of the dread~
ful punishment which .awaited their obdurate ini-
quity, he resigned the government to his son
Lamech ; and on his fervent petition for death, it
pleased God to translate him from the Lodge on
earth to the Lodge above, .where his piety wu
rewarded with everlasting glory. His farewell
exhortation was calculated to awaken mankind
from their lethargy, if they had not been dead to
every impulse but that of vice. " Behold," says
Digitized by GoogIe
92 ANTIQUITIES OF
he, " the Lord cometh, with ten thousand of his
Saints, to execute judgment upon all, and to con-
vince all that are ungodly among them of all their
ungodly deeds which they have ungodly com-
mitted, and of all their hard speeches which un-
godly sinners have spoken against him."•
Being liberated from a monitor whom they re-
garded with some degree of awe and reverence,
mankind proceeded to the unlimited gratifica-
tion of thei'r rebellious passions, without fear of
restraint.
The fascin~tions held out by the Cainites were
too powerful for the children ofSeth to resist, a:rid
their minds became rapidly tainted with the abo-
minations of idolatry : they worshipped the host
of heaven ; they erected shrines to the honour
of imaginary rural deities ; and at length Tubal
Cain was exalted to the dignity of a god, under
the appellation of Vulcan. This was the first
instance of a mortal being deified, and it took
place in the seventh generation from Adam.t To
this god the Egyptians afterwards assigned the
attributes of prescience, power, and unlimited
duration or immortality. While the reign of other
gods was confined within certain and specific li-
mits, the reign of Vulcan was declared without
.end.
• Jude, 14, 15. t Sanch. in Euscb. Prrep. E\'Rn.l. I, c.IO.
oig,tized by Coogle
1
FREE·MASONRY. 98
Lamech, unable to stem the torrent of depra-
vity, placed the government in the hands of Noah,
who endeavoured to restore the principles_ of
CHARITY, or love of God and man, which appeared
to be in danger· of universal deterioration. To
accomplish this purpose, he did not confine his
Lectures to the private and select assemblies of
immediate friends, but publicly denounced the
judgments of God against those wicked practices
to which they were inordinately addicted, and at
the same time persuaded them, by the most af-
fectionate exhortations, to keep their passions
within compass, to adore their Creator, and to act
·upon the square with all their fellow-creatures.
In the first ages of the antediluvian world, all
men lived in the enjoyment of unrestrained .free-
dom, and it was impossible for any person to be
reduced to a state of bondage : and this was
one of the primitive laws of civil society, as
many_ writers are of opinion. Personal slavery,
which, according to Cicero, means the devotion of
an abject mind which has no will of its ,own, is
· supposed to have begun amongst that race of
people whom the Scriptures denominate giants.
By the hand of violence they assaulted and made .
slaves of men and women, whom they kept in _a
degrading state of servitude; and compelled to
administer to their pleasures or their vices. This
was so terrible an innovation in the divine eco- .
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
nomy, and so:destructi\'e of the principles of Ma..
sonry, that Noah laboured with incessant diligence
and assi~uity to restore the primitive laws against
slavery, and prevent amongst mankind an unna-
tural traffic in their own species.
Mankind, thus besotted·with their lusts, and
advancing by rapid, but almos_
t imperceptible gra..
dations to the utmost extent of wickedness,
slighted the precepts of wisdom and experience ;
even Noah himself was derided, and esteemed
little superior to a visionary enthusiast. Fore-
seeing, therefore, the world's destruction to be
inevitable, he proclaimed himself clear of their
blood, and offered up his prayers to God for the
salvation of his house. The prayer of Noah was
· heard, for he had found grace in the eyes of the
Lord. And God said unto Noah: "The end of
all flesh is come before me ; for the earth is filled
with violence through them ; and behold I will
destroy them with the earth ! Make thee an ark
of gopher wood : rooms shalt thou make in the
ark, and shall pitch it within and without with
pitch. And this is the fashion which thou shalt
make it of:-the length of the ark shall be three
- . hundred cubits, the breadth of it fifty cubitB, and
the height of it thirty cubitB. A window shalt
thou mal<:e to the ark, and in a cubit shalt thou
finish it above ; and the door of the ark shalt
thou set in the side thereof; with lower,- second,
Digitized by GoogIe
95
and third stories shalt thou.make it. And behold
I, even I, do bring a flood of waters upon the
earth, to destroy all flesh, wherein is the breath
of life, from under heaven, and every ~ing that
is in the earth shall die. But with thee will I
establish my covenant, and thou shalt come into
· the ark, thou, and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy
sons' wives with thee. And of every living thing
of all flesh, two of every sort shalt thou bring into
the ark to keep them alive with thee."•
In obedience to the commands of God, Noah
began the work, and proceeded in it amidst the
.ridicule and derision of mankind ; who slighted
his warnings, despised his promises, and even
thr~tened to recompense with personal violence
his benevolent intentions towards them. The ark
was :finished in three periods of forty years each,
which was the term to which God limited human
life after this event.t At the expiration of on.e
hundred and twenty years, Noah, with his family~
entered into the ark, with the clean beasts by
sevens, and the unclean by pairs.
The form and dimensions of the ark have af-
forded much speculation amongst the learned,
who have almost unanimously pronounced its ca-
pacity too small, according to the common mode
of calculation, to contain the number of animals
• Gen. vi" S...:..l9. t Jo11. Ant. I. 1, c. 4.
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQU~TIES OF
which went into it. But Bishop Wilkins shews,
that, by taking the cubit at eighteen inches, the
ark was rather too .large than otherwise. This
learned prelate concludes, that there were only
seventy-two species ofquadrupeds in the ark ; the
carniverous animals, he computes, would not oc-
cupy more room, or consume a greater quantity
of food, than twenty-seven wolves, and for these
about one thousand eight hundred sheep would
be sufficient for food. The remainder would take
up ·no more r()om than two hundred and eighty
oxen, and would consume about 109,.500 tons of
hay. These would not be sufficient for the ca-
pacity of the two first stories, as it would allow a
space of upwards of sixteen square feet for each
animal; and Noah and his family, with every
I
species of winged fowl, would leave room, in the
third story, for the necessary offices, besides a
considerable space for exercise.
" In the six hundreth year of N'Oah's life, in the
second month, the sev:enteenth day of the month,
the same day were all the fountains of the great
deep broken up, and the windows of heaven were
opened. And the rain was upon the earth forty
days and forty nights ; and the waters prevailed
· exceedingly upon the earth, and all the high hills
that were under the whole heaven were covered.
Fifteen cubits upward did the waters prevail, and
the mountains were covered. And every living
Digitized by GoogIe
/-
FREE-MASONRY.
substance was det,.qroyed which was upon th('>
face of the ground, both man, and cattle, and the
creeping things, and the fowl of the heaven ; and
they were destroyed from the earth ; and Noah
only remained alive, and they that were with him
in the ark. And the waters prevailed upon the
earth an hundred and fifty days."•
This great convulsion of nature not only de-
stroyed all created flesh (and the antediluvian
world is supposed to have containe"d two millions
of millions of souls), but washed away and ob-
literated almost every vestige of the works of art.
Scarcely a building, or the remains of a building,
was left, to mark the spot where human greatness
or·human folly had reared the proud monument
of emptiness and vanity ; even the brazen pillar
of Enoch gave way before the overwhelming tor-
rent of destruction, which even removed moun-
tains and shook rocks from their solid base. But
God preserved the pillar of stone, and by .this
means the state of Masonry, before the Flood,
was transmitted to posterity.
• Gen. vii, 11, 12, 19, 20, 23, 24.
H
Digitized by GoogIe
.~· ·
ANTIQUITIES OF
PERIOD III.
----
CHAP. V.
ON THE IDOLATROUS MYSTERIES, AS CONTRASTED
WITH FREE-MASONRY.
ThE mysteries practised by idolatrous nations
were nothing else but the secret solemnities of
divine worship, and were invented to cast a solemn
veil over their rites, which might sanction and re-
commend the worship of false gods to those who,
without some splendid and imposing stimulus,
might be disinclined to renounce the true God,
and embrace the worship of idols. These mys-
teries, avowedly established on the same basis as
Masonry, were secretly intended to produce an
effect quite the reverse; for they were instituted
with the express design of Qlaking our science
subservient to the very worst and most degrading
practices of idolatry. Hence the two institution
have been frequently confounded together ; and
Masonry becomes stigmatized with infidelity, if
not atheism, and charged with renouncing every
scriptural doctrine contained in the genuine foun-
tain of revealed truth. A comparison between
the mysteries of idolatry, and genuine Masonry
Dig1tizod by Coogle
. \
FREK-MASQNRT.
will show how far the latter was practised in these
institutions, and will distinctly mark the line of
separation which distinguishes the one from the
other. ·
_ The EletJsinian, ·the Orphic, the Bacchic, t~e
Samcthracian, and all those innumerable mysteries
practised by the heathen in every age, were insti-
tuted to perpetuate a remembrance of the events
which occurred at the universal Deluge, and to
preserve the knowledge of a foture siate qf re-
'tiJards and punishments. But, while inculc-c1ting
that true doctrine, they added many false and
pernicious tenets, which perverted both its nature
and end. "They taught," says Warburton, "that
the initiated should be happier than all other
mortals in a future state ; that .while the souls of
the profane, at their leaving the body, stuck fast
in mire and filth, and remained in darkness, the
souls of the initiated winged their}light directly to
the happy islands, and the habitations qfthe Gods."•
: Now Masonry does not inculcate any such
doctrine : a doctrine not less impious than the
Roman indulgences, and which, if true, would
have effected tM dissolution of our Order many
ages ago. The design of Masonry, concisely and
truly defined in Arnold's Dictionary, proves the
direct contrary to be true. "Masonry," says that
• Div. Leg. I. ii, s. 4.
H2
Digitized by GoogIe
100 ANTIQUITIES OF
lexicographer, '~ is a moral Order, instituted with
the praiseworthy design of recalling ,to our re-
membrance the most sublime truths in. the midst
of the.most innocent and social pleasures, foWJded
on liberality, brotherly love, and charity.''
The idolatrous mysteries date their origin from
the Cahiri,• andThoth, who were certainlyMasons;
but, forsaking the pure channel ofGod's worship,
they sunk into the grossest defilements of idolatry,
an~ founded, on the. pat«!rn ·of our craft, .an in-
stitution calculated to ma~e the worship of imagi-
nary deities fascinating and permanent. ·In .the
time when the pastor kings reigned ~ver Egypt,
~any ~oble Egyptians, with their families and
attendants, migrated into other countries, and
disseminated throughout the world th~ improve-
ments in the mysteries of that superstitious nation. ,
Masonry.originated with God ; like that eternal
Being, existed before time was; and .shall exist
when time shall·be no more•
. The former and the latter degrees ofthe ancient
idolatrous mysteries were inconsistent, and even
positively contradicted each other : those of Ma-
sonry are a regular and progressive series ; ~ e.ach
superior degree .strengthening.and confirming.the
prec~ding, u~til we arrive .at the perfect kn<?w-
l~~e .of the ·truth : aptly.compared to .the steps
• Diod. Sic. I. i.
Digitized by GoogIe
101
I
of a ladder, by each of which we advance nearer
to "a building not made with hands, eternal in
the heavens."
To the nocturnal celebra:tion of these mysteries
women•.were adinitted .; a practice which led to
the most shocking a'huses, and the indiscriminate
practice oflicentiousness and vice. And this was
soon carried ro such a dreadful pitch of shameless
pro1ligaey, that the x·w) and q;aMo) were actually
exposed+ and carried about in public procession !
• " At the celebration of these solemn festivals, the woinen were
carried to Eleusis in covered ·weggons, which were ~ed along very
slowly, by way of imitating the carrying ofcorn in harvest. The middle
uys of.the Thesmophoria were observed with peculiar solemnity :
they aat all day upon the ground, near the statue .of .Ceres, keepibg
fast and lamenting."-Note 12, Beloe'1 Herodot. Erato.
t "From the idea of the patriarch Noah being the father, and the
ark the mother of mankind, uni~d, perhaps, with some traditional re-
membrance of the crime of Ham, I doubt not but that the whole of
_ the· detestable Phallic orgies derived their exisience. ,They were .early
introduced into the Cabiric, or Diluvian mysteries; and the abo~na­
tions which accompanied them called forth the loudest and most
pointed invectives from Amobius and Clemens Alexandrinus. The
Ionim, or Yonijas of Deucalion, brought them to the temple of the
Syrian goddess Atargatis, and erected a number of Phalli in the area
before the vestibule, for the special purpose of commemorating the
events of the Deluge. Twice each year, in allusion to that dreadful
catastrophe; a person climbed to the top of one of the Phalli; where
he remained seven days, the precise period which elapsed between
each time of Noah's sending forth the dove. Lastly, the aame inde-
cencies w~re practised in the rites of the Cabiric Ceres, as in those of
Bacchus, Osiris, and Maha Deva: her deluded yotaries vied with each
other in a studied obscenity oflanguage, and her nocturnal orgies were
contaminated with the grosaest lasciviousness."- Faher, My1. Cob. c. 8.
. H8
Digitized by GoogIe
102 ANTlQUITIEI OF
In Masonic Lodges such abuses are effectually
guarded against by the exclusion offemales.
In the early ages of Christianity, the mysteries
were inimical to the propagation of the Gospel,
and' the Mystagogues branded every Christian
with the appellation of an atheist. Masonry re-
vived with the appearance of Christ in the world,
and flourished abundantly in the first ages of the
Gospel, under the sacred patronage of apostles,
evangelists, and martyrs.
The legend preserved in the Eleusinian myste-
ries is briefly as follows:
Osiris, King of Egypt, willing to confer an in-
deprivable benefit on all the nations around him,
by communicating to them the arts of civilization,
left the government of his kingdom to the care of
his wife Isis, who was the same with Demeter or
Ceres,* and made an expedition of three years to
effect his'benevolent purpose. Oq his return, he
fell a sacrifice to the intrigues' of his brother
Typhon, who had formed a conspiracy, in his
absence, to destroy him and usurp his throne. At
a grand entertainment, to which Osiris was invited
to meet the conspirators, Typhon produced a va-
luable chest, richly adorned with work of gold,
and promised to give it to any person present
• Herod. Euterpe.
Digitized by GoogIe
YREE-JIASONRT-. 108
whose body it &bould most -convenientJ,y hold.
Osiriswas tempted to try the e~periment: bot was
no sooner laid in the chest, tbaR it was nailed down
aud thrown into the river. The body of Osiris,
thus committed to the oercy of winds and wav~
Wli8 cast up at Byblus in Phrenicia, and left at the
feOt.of a;tamarind tree. lsiSy in the extremity of
sorrow and despair at the loss of.her husband, set
out in·company with Thoth, aDd trav~d the
earth in search of the body, making the air re-echo
with her lamentations. After encountering the
~t extraordinary adventures, they at length
gaiiled possession of her husband'1l ~one, with
which she returned to Egypt, in greatjoy, iDteDd-
ing to give it a splendid interment. By the
treachery of Typhon, she was again deprived of
tbe. body, which wa.<J severed into fourteen parts,
aDd deposited in as many different places. Isis,
with uuparalleled zeal and perseverance, unciel'-
took a second journey to search for these scat-
t.end remnants ; and, after considerable fatigue
ad diappointment, succeeded in Snding every ·
,.n, and buried them in the several places where
they. were disc()\Tered ; et:ecting an altar over
..y.pve. ~ muk the place where her hus-
ban~,l. remains were deposited.
The rites founded on tlW! legend were the
~minations shewn by the Lord to the prophet
Ezekiel, in his vision at Jerusalem. " He said unto
1::4
Digitized by GoogIe
1(}1. ANTIQUITIES OF
me, ' turn thee yet again, and.thou·shalt see greater
abo.minations that they do.' Then he brought me
to the <loor of the gate of the Lord's Ho11se, which
was toward the north ; and behQld there sat wo-.
men weeping for Tammuz~ Then said -he unto
me, ' Hast thou seen this, 0 son of man? turn
thee yet agai_
n, and thou shalt see greater abo-
minations than these.' And he brought me into
the inner court of the Lord's House; and behold,
at the door of the temple of the Lord, between
the porch and the altar, were about five and
twenty men, with their backs toward the temple
of the Lord, and their faces towards the east ; and
they worshipped the sun towards the east."•
" The month which we call June, was by the
Hebre•ws called Tamuz, and the entrance of the
sun i~to the sign Cancer was, in the Jews' astro-
nomy, termed T ecuphre Tamuz, the revolution of
Tamuz. Concerning Adonis, whom sometimes
ancient authors call Osoris, there are two things
remarkable: d,~a,trrf-o, , the death or loss of Adonis;
and lup~rrtr, thefinding of!tim again. As'ther-e was
great lamentation at his loss, especially amongst
the women, so there was great joy at his finding.
By the death or loss qfAdonis, we are to understand
the departure of the sun ; by hisfinding again, we
are to understand his return. Now he seems-to
* Ezekiel, viii. 13 - 16.
Digitized by Google
FREE·MASOMBY. 100
depar~. twice in a year : first, when he is in the
trop~ q[Gancer, in the farthest degree ·northward;
secondly, when he is in the tropic ofCopricorn, in
the farthest degree southward : answerable unto
these two departureswhich maybe termeddq;a:vtcr,u.ot,
disparitions, or losses of the sun; there are two
returns immediately succeeding, which may be
termed lupEcr<t~, the finding, or newappearance oftbe
sun. Hence we may note that though theEgyptians
celebrated their Adonia in the month of November,
when the sun began to be farthest southward ; and
the house of Juda theirs in the month of June,
when the sun was farthest northward; yet both
were for the same reasons, and in substance they
agreed. And of this the prophet Ezekiel is thought
to have spoken (Ezek. viii, 14): ' There sat wo-
men weeping for Tamuz.'
" These solemnities were chiefly observed be-
tween the Byblienses and the Ale.xandrini. The
manner was thus: when the Byblienses solemnized
the death or loss of Adonis, at that time the
Alexandrini wrote a letter; this Jetter was en-
closed in an arlc of bulrushes; therein they signi-
fied that Adonis, whom they lamented, was found
again ; this ark being, after the performance of
certain rites and ceremonies, committed to the
sea, forthwith it was carried by the stream to
Byblus; upon the receipt thereof, the lamenta-
tion of the women was turned into joy. Others
Digitized by GoogIe
106 AWTJQUITIBa OF
say, that this lamentation was performed over an
image, in the night season ; and, when they bad
sufficiently lamented, a candle was brought into
the room, (which ceremony might mysticaUy sig-
-nify the return of the sun) ; then the prim, with
a soft voice, muttered this form ofwords: 'TrrMt
ye in God,for out Q/pain salvation is come unto tt~.'
There .are likewise of the Jews that say their Tao.
muz was an image whose eyes they filled with
lead, which lead being melted by the means of
fire under it, the image itself seemed to weep!'•
Hence was Ezekiel carried to the north ·door
ofthe temple, to behold the women weeping, &c~,
because the north was the most unpropitious
aspect, as the sun darts no rays from that quartei
to enlighten our hemisphere. ·
The recital and mimic perfonnance of the ad-
ventures of Isis in search of her husband's body,
constituted a part of the ceremony of initiation
into these mysteries. The wildness and terror of ·
the scenes exhibited to the Aspirants' view, con-
. veyed a species of horror to the mind calculated
to encourage the natural ferocity of their temper,
and to suppress and extinguish those mild and
amiable feelings of humanity ~hich unite the soul
of man in communion with his God.
The following is a brief description of the cere-
• GodwyD's Motea and AaroD,l. iv. e. t.
Digitized by GoogIe
I'RE"£.-IIAsONRY-. 107
monies attending the initiation of candidate_~ into
these mysteries:
The Aspirants ":ere required to be men of the
strictest morality and vift:ue, of spotless reputa-
tion, and eminent for their piety and devotion to
the Gods. As a preparation .to some of these
mysteries, particularly the rites of Mithras, cele-
brated in Persia, a probation of seven years was
enjoined, the last fifty days of which period was
employed in acts of austerity, in fasting and
prayer, amidst the most rigorous extremes of heat .
and cold, hunger and nakedness, and not unfre-
quently the severe infliction ofwhips and scourges.
Previously to initiation they were habited in new
garments, expressive of the new life they.were
about to commence ; and, after a pu~Iic proces-
sion of matrons, and some trifling introductory
ceremonies, they were admitted within the hal-
lowed walls of the cavern• where those orgie•
·were celebrated at dead of night. The Hiero-
• Mr. Faber is of opinion, and I think the conjecture is too rea-
sonable to be lightly reje.cted, that St. Patriclr.'a purgatory, the
pyramid at New Grange, the temple of Muidhr in the small ialand
oWSligo, together with the Cornish Tolmen, Stonehenge, and tlte stu-
pendous natural cave of Castleton in Derbyshire, were all places des-
tined for the celebration of the Phallic worship. With respect to the
latter, I beg leave to quote his own worde, which appear to carry con-
Viction with them : " With regard to tbe interior Df the Derbyshire
cavern, I am persuaded that any person who descends into it, after
having first attentively perused the sixth boo~-of the Eneid, wilJ be
not
Digitized by GoogIe
108 ANTIQUITIES OF
phant, hahited·like the Creator, then pronounced.
the tremendous sentence of exclusion to the u:n.:.
initiated, E~, Ex.ot) ErrrE bEbfJi..ot, on which the
doors were closed, and the rites .commenced. A
sacred hymn was chaunted ;• and the wanderings
not a little 11urprised at its singular resemblance .to the Hades of the
mysteries, though the terrific machinery, once introduced into it, exists
no loager. You first enter into :m immense and mllgnificent Jl8Wral
. cave, the whole of which, however, is perfectly vi~Jible by the duslry
light admitted through its noble arched gateway. From this cave you
are conducted to a small narrow door; having passed through which,
you rapidly deseend, till you find yourself upon the brink ofa subter-
rane~ms river. Over the river you are ferried in a small boat ; and;
after reaching the opposite side, you continue your course along ita
bank, through an alternate succesijion of narrow passages and lofty
caverns. At length you arrive at a beautiful arched grotto cif very
large dimensions, in the centre of which rises a natural rock, which you
are surprised to find illuminated ready for your reception. The rock
itself is occupied by a number of persons, who had previously entered
for that purpose; and your ears are forthwith saluted by a variety ·or
wild.songs, which forcibly remind you of the old popUlar superstition
respecting elves and fairies. I have little doubt but that this is done
pursuant to an immemorial custom ; all traditions respecting the
origin and import of which have, however, long been obliterated from
the minds of the guides."-Faher, My1. Cab. c. 10.
• This hymn, according to Warburton, may be translated as
follows : " I will declare a secret to the initiated, but let the doors
be shut against the profane. But thou, MuS&ms, the offspring of fair
&lene, attend carefully to my song; for I shall speak of important
truths. Suffer not, therefore, the fof!IIer prepossessions of your mind
to deprive ·you -of. that happy life, which the knowledge of these
mysterious truths will procure you. But look on the divine nature,
incessantly contemplate it, and govern well the mind and heart. Go
on in the right way, and see the sole Governor of the World. HE IS
ONE,
. Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY• 109
. of Ceres, with her lamentations for the loss of her
daughter 'Proserpine, or of Isis for Osiris, or
Venus for Adonis, or Rhea for Bacchus ; all these
being but typical of the same event, were repre-
sented in mimic shew. A burning brand was
furiously waved round the Mystm, accompanied
with dreadful shr~eks and frantic gestures, to
represent the roaring and tumult of Mount Etna,
where it was ~aid that Ceres, with a serpent twined
round her body, kindled a pine tree, that her
search might not be interrupted by the darkness
of the night. A representation of a corpse laid
in an ark hollowed out of a pine tree, was placed
in view, and the death was lamented with loud
and incessant wailings. An awful pause succeed-
ed this clamour, which afforded the mystagogue
an opportunity to deliver a lecture on the origin
and symbols of idolatry ;• after which the · pa-
ONE, and of himseif alone; and to tlwt one oll thing& owe tlteir being.
He operates through all, was never seen by mortal eyes, but does
himself see every thing.!'-Div. Leg. vol. 1. p. 154.
• The historical part of the Eleusinian mysteries comprized an
explanation of the formation of the world out of chaos; the pro-
duction of men and animals; fabulous accounts of their gods and
heroes; the origin of sacrifices, with other illustrations all pointing
to the same end, the propagation of idolatry.
The historical part of Masonry commences with the creation of
the world; notices the' translation of Enoch, the deluge, the rejec-
tion of Ishmael, the sacr.ifice of Isaac, the journey of Jacob to
'Padanarum,
Dig1tizod by Coogle
110 A!rTIQUITIEI OF
geants of their Gods, surrounded with beams of
light, were exhibited, in the style, as I conceive,
of our modem phantasmagoria or magic lantern.
All this was performed in the gloom of darkness,
in allusion to the darkness of the ark, which con-
tained only one small window; and emblematical
also of the darkness of the grave, in the inter-
mediate state between death and the resurrection.
Tremendous thunderings and noises occasionally
broke through the solemn silence, and every
object was introduced which could possibly inspire.
terror and dismay. Their benefactors or national
Gods were represented as existing in Elysium,
enjoying eternal youth and never-ending plea-
sure ; whilst wicked men, termed the offspring of
Typhon or the Devil, were exhibited in the dark-
est shades ofTartarus, tormented with the punish-
ment of fire and brimstone. Here the mystagogue
expatiated on the benefits of virtue, and the
dreadful nature of vice. These scenes were re-
lieved and diversified with plaintive music and
· Padanarum, the delivery of the children of Israel from Egypt, the
erection of a Tabernacle in .the Wilderness for the sacred purposes or
divine worship, the building of the Temple of Solomon and of Zerub-
babel, the invincible zeal and perseverance of the two great parallels
or Masonry and Religion, who sprang up to enlighten and adorn the
era in which Jesus Christ appeared amongst mankind, and many other
important particulars, perfectly corresponding with the history or
Moses, and all tending to promote the glory of God, peace on earth,
and good-will towards men.
Digitized by GoogIe
FltEE•IIriASONRT. 111
the.burning of rich perfumes, which were calcu- '
lated to affect the senses and spread a softness
over 'the mind. The mystm, however, were not
suffered long to enjoy the agreeable sensations
thus produced ; the apparatus of terror was now
unfolded in all its appalling forms. Hideous
spectres flitted before them, who rent the air
with dreadful cries and acclamations. The furies,
whose heads were covered with coils of· hissing
snakes, rushed forward in wild disorder, followed
by Cerberus with his three heads, whose fearful
barkings and howlings struck the hearts of the
mystre cold with astonishment and horror.
u Of various forms, unnumber'd spectres more,
" Centaurs, and double shapes, besiege the door.
" Before the passage horrid Hydra stands,
" And Briareu1, with his hundred hands;
" Gorgons, Geryon with his triple frame,
" And vain Chima:ra vomits empty flame."
Dryden's 2Eneis, 1. vi.
Scenes of Elysium and Tartarus were rapidly
exhibited ; darkness was succeeded by the most
brilliant glare of light, which was as suddenly
extinguished to make room for the blackest dark-
ness. Pompous processions, acco~panied by the
elevation of the Phallus, and all the gross in-
decencies which more peculiarly marked this part
of the ceremony, passed in review before the
astoni.shed eyes ·of the Aspirants ; who were
invested ·with the peaceful olive branch ..as a
Digitized byGoogle
llt ANTIQUITlEi. OF
mark.of protection amidst all the dangers which
might assail them ; :commemorative of the branch·
brought by Noah's dove, which .convinced ·him
that the waters had subsided. Beautiful and en-
chanting views were introduced, enlivened by all
the variety. of landscape ; where distant music
gradually swelled into the full tide of harmony,
and the sacred hymns of Orpheus were chaunted
by numerous unseen voices, ~hose varying mea-
sures swelled the heart with fury, or sunk it to
despair. This was ,termed celestial music, and
the pupils were thus confirmed in the superstitious
worship of false Gods. At length the body being
restored, their former grief was turned into joy;
and, amidst loud acclamations, its return to-life
was celebrated with every demonstration of plea-
sure. The Hierophant addressed to the mystre
a verse denoting a speedy termination of their
troubles, and entered upon an exposition of the
design and end of the institution into which·they
had been initiated.
The secrets inculcated in the lesser mysteries,
or the inferior degrees, consisted principally in
abstruse disquisitions on the origin of the universe,
the arcana of hieroglyphical knowledge,• under
• Ramsay in his Travels of Cyrus, gives the following explanation
of the Egyptian hieroglyphics, which he says, " are to be found with
the explications here given of them in Plutarch, Iamblichus, Damas-
cius, and Horus Apollo, quoted by Kircher and Cudworth."
oig,tized by Coogle
,
I
I
I
FREE·MASO.NRY. 118
whiclt many valuable and sublime truths were
said to be shaslowed ; plausible theories of reli-
d The temple was consecrated to the goddess Isis, and built in an
oval form, to represent the egg of the world ; over'the great gate was
this inecription, To tAe godde11 flllw u Ollt', arul ua6o uall. The altar
was a great obeliak of porphyry, on which were engraven several
hierOglyphics; containing the secrets of ih~ Egyptian religion. T~
wards the top appeared three dark clouds, which seemed to rueet m
a point; somewhat lower, a tree planted in a muddy marsh, upon
whose branches, which reached up to ihe clouds, sat'a hawk; by. the
aide of this tree was a winged globe, with a serpent coming oat of it.
at the bottom of all, a crocodile, without a tongue, ~id itself in the
waters of an abyss, a sphynx at the same time walking upon the
anrface. On one 11ide of this altar stood the statue of the goddess,
covered with a veil, upon which were represented the figur'es''of. th(l
celestial and terrestrial bodies; on the o!lter side was the statue of
Harpocrates, holding one hand upon his mouth, and pointing to the
goddess with the other.
" ·The high-priest, clothed in his pontifical robes, explained th~
meaning of these.symbols, before be began the sa<:rifice. · ' We adore,>
said he,' no other but the great Ammon, that is to say, the unknown.
(l(xl; we consider him sometimes as he is in himself, and at other
times as manife~ted by n~ture. In the first sense we call him ·Eictou,
E~eph, Pih~ Life~ Light, and Love; all whose operations, though~s,
and affections being concentred in himself, he remaiJIII in his.solitary
unity incomprehensible .to mortal~ ; thus considered, we adore rum
only by silence•. or by the name. of incompreheruiMe dar/ozm thri~
repeated; and we represent him by the clouds which you see towards
the top of .ihe obelisk.
" . Then we. c~nsider him, aa he h~s manifested himself in th~
multiplicity of nature, by .a di1fusive goodness that communicates
itself everywhere, by a aover~gn wisdom..which forms within. itself
the ideas ~f all thiDgs, and by an infinite power that produces, ani·
mates, preserves, and governs whatever has a being. We call these
three forma of the divinity, Oairis, Isis, Orus, and we represent them
I ~
Digitized by GoogIe
114 ANTIQUITIES OP
·gioa and worship adapted to their peculiar system
.of idolatry ; and on the nature and attributes.of
each particular god. But after a probation of
four years,• the mystre were admitted to a parti-
cipation in the a1ro~·rnTa or inejfoble secrets. A
knowledge of the general deluge and the alva-
tion of Noah and his three sons in the ark, with
all the circumstances attending that remarkable
event were com{llunicated; the my tre wer
taught that the gods they worshipped had beeu
mere mortals like themselves, and had not the
by many different S) mbols: Sometimes by an hawk, which having
of all birds the most piercing eye, and the most rapid flight, serves
to express the divine intelligence and activity. This bird sits upon
the top of a tree, to signify that the eternal nature is infinitely exalted
above matter, which is as dirt, in comparison of the pure essence of
the Deity. The globe denotes the indivisible unity without beginning
or end; the serpent the supreme wisdom, and the wings that active
spirit which animates and gives life to all. The crocodile, which ap-
pears under a deep water, and without a tongue, represents the great
Osiris hidden in the abyss of nature, and doing all in a profound
silence; but you see walking upon the surface of this abyss, a sphynx,
which, being half man and half lion, signifies the wisdom and strength
of the two other principles. Lastly, the goddess Isis, covered with a
veil, and having, as you see, this inscription on her pedestal, I mu
aJJ t!UJt i1, hat been, or 1hall be, and no mortal can remove the f!eil tlud
cooer1 me, declares, that universal nature is but a veil which covers
the Divinity, and that no one can behold the splendour of l1is pure
and naked essence. The posture of the god Harpocrates denotes,
that we ought never to speak of the incomprehensible essence of
,Isis, but only of her manife$tations."
• Clem. Alex. Strom. 5. ...
Digitized by GoogIe
Fl'tEE-l\IASON.IlY;. 115
most distant claim to the rites of divine· WOrShip ;
but for reasons of state that delusion was neces-
sary to be preserved amongst ~e people. The
unity of the Godhead was then inculcated, ~
gether with the doctrine of a future state of re-
wards and punishments. And when these secrets
had been communicated, together with the sys-
tem of morality conveyed in embleffiatical and
hieroglyphical symbols, the perfect mysue were
termed Epoptre, which implies that they see
every thing truly and without disguise. Mter
all the rites of initiation were completed, they
:were termed regenerate ;• the words Koy~ and
OtJ-w"~ were entrusted to them and ·they were
dismissed.
,• " It is worthy of observation, that an idea seems always to have
prevailed among the initiated, that the groundwork of their mysterie, .
-was a sort of wonderful regeneration, or new-birth. Hence w.ere
,iastituted the singular rites of the Taurobolium and the C~lium,
.of which the following account is given us by Prudentius. ·
" When the day set apart for the consecration of the bigh-prier.t
jlllll'ived, be descended,. arrayed in Ius pontifical robe~, into a .pit,
~bich bad previously .been dug for that purJ>9se. Above the pit waa
ill kind of door, the boards of which wete perforated with an infinite
..aumber of boles. Upon this door they led a bull crowned with
, ·AIIaplets of dow""" .and there cut his throat. The reeking blood,
~ding upon the boards, fell in aho;JVers through the holes i!JtO
,die pit.; and wauecei-ved by the priest upon hia head, his ~J'• and
..Jwis raimeat. Wilen all the blood was drained, the victim was re-
~. aOO··* ·hlsh.prieat c.a~,~~oe out. It was a horrible spectacle
to 'He aim in .this plicJlt, his head covered with blood, clotted drops
:Mi«*inc toJus.~d, and all his garment distaincd: ana yet, as soon
I f aa
Digitized by GoogIe
116 .ANTIQUmEs OF
Though I cannot contrast with the above, by
a particular description, the sober and rational
ceremonies in use amongst Masons, yet I can
•
assure my readers, that Masonry admits not a-
single rite, which may not be defended on the
pure principles of Scripture and reason. The cere-
monies of the Order are calculated to expand the
m~nd with ·piety and devotion, and to lead it by
imperceptible degrees to an union with its Maker.
There is indeed some degree of resemblance,
in respect of the moral duties inculcated by each,
as well as in the purity required from candidates
for initiation. Not that I believe the inculcation
of virtue to idolaters was likely to produce any
·--·--------------
as he appeared, he was received with a general congratulation; and
the assembled mnltltudes, not daring to approach his person, adored
him at a distance, esteeming him a man awfully pure and holy.'
" This baptism of blood was conceived to regenerate those upon
whom it was conferred ; and, in token of such regeneration, they ltore
their blood-stained clothes as long as possible.''-Fakr, My•. Clf6.
c. 10.
But this mysterious regeneration was usually conveyed by pasllin&
through a small cavity composed of consecrated J)etre, which wu
to represent the door of the ark, through which the Noachidte iBBUed
after the waters of the deluge had subsided, which in the phrueO)ogy
ot the mysterie11, was termed a new or second birth ; and which. after
·the gt'!nr.ral introduction of the Phallic worship, was designated by
aymools and perpetuated by rites, disgustingly filthy and obec:ene,
but · characteriatic of the degradation to which humanity mipt be
red\lc~, after the true worship of God had been renounced to make
way for ~he introduction of an unrestrained and impure worship,
which canonized vice, and erected temples to the gro8188t and molt
t1isgr'!aeeftJI to human passions and propensitiet~.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY. 1_
17
~utary eft'ects. For e.ril'mf.Jk being more power-
ful than precept, .the practical vic~s .of a sirigle
god, were sufficient to produce a proportion of
~oral .evi1, which could never be obviated by the
theoretical incitements to virtue proceeding frorri
~1 the philosophers· and mystagogues in the 'uni-
ver8e. ·.But however in some points the · two
institutions agreed, it only proves that the· one
was .founded on· the general principles ,of the
.other•. Their discrepancies already noticed are
tOo evident and irreconcileable, to sanction the
hypothesis, that these mysteries.were the Maaonry
of ancient times.
t. ·By the constitutions of Masonry, the persons
craving to be admitted members .of a Lodge,
must be " .good and true men, free hom, and of
mature and discreet .age; no bondmen, no.women, .
.no . immoral or scand.alous men, but of good
report."* ~nd each candidate, previously to ad-.
mission, is .obliged to sign a declaration·couched
'in' .the .following terms, and .addressed to the
master and wardens of the Lodge. " I, A. B.,
beingfree by birth, and of the·full age of twenty~
·one years, do .declare, that unbiassed by the_im..
· proper solicitation of·friends, and uninflu.en·ced
by mercenary or other unworthy motives, I freely
and voluntarily oWer myself a candiAate for the
mysteries of .Masonry ; that I am prompted by
• . Con~t. p. 181.
Digitized by GoogIe
118 ANTIQUITIES Of
a favoutable opinion concei-ved of the institutiOn;
and a desire of knowledge; and that I will cheer.
fully conform to all the ancient usages and es.
tablished custom" of the Order. Witness my
hand, &c.~' •
The system ofmorality taught amongst Masons,
is briefly set forth in the·following extracts from
an Ancient Charge : ·
u As you have now passed through .the cere.
monies of your initiation1 allow me to congratulate
you: on being admitted a member of our ancient
and honourable Society. No institution can b04$t
a more solid foundation than that on which Free..
Masonry rests :-THE PRACTICE OF sociAL AN~
MORAL viRTUE. As a MAsoN, I would :first recotnA
mend to your most serious .contemplation the
volume of tbe Sacred La"· ; charging you to con.
sider it as the unerring standard of truth· and
justice, and to regulate your actions by the divine
precepts it contains, &c. As a Citisen c!ftlte. Worhlt
I am riext to enjoin you to be exemplary in tho
discharge of your civil dbties; 'by never proposing,
or at all countenancing, any act that may have a
tendency to subvert the peace and goo4 ord.er of
•ociety, &c. As an individual; I am further to
recommend the practice of every domestic, as welt
as public virtue. Let PaunENCE direct you! T:EH-
PERAN'c~ cha,sten you ! FOJlTITUDE. support you !
- ------
• Const. p. 181.
Digitized by GoogIe
ftlEE-MASONJt\1\ .
:tnd JusTICJ: be the guide of all- your actions·!,
Be especially careful to maintain, in their fullest
splendour, those truly Masonic ornaments-BENE- ·
VOLENCE and CHARITY. Still however, as a Mason,
there are other excellencies of character to which
your attention may be peculiarly and forcibly
directed. Among the foremost of these are, se-.
crecy, fidelity, and obedience, &c. : and, as a
last general recommendation, let me exhmt you
to dedicate yourself to such pursuits as may
enable you to become useful to mankind ; that
you would more especially devote your leisure
lwurs to the study qf such ([/' the liberal arts and
sciences as may lie within the compass of your
attainment ; and that, without neglecting the or;
dinary duties of your station, you would consider
yourself called upon to make a daily advancement
in MASONIC KNOWLEDGE.'~*
The precepts taught in the Eleusinian mysteries,
which, as they ultimately swallowed up all the rest,
may be considered as a fair specimen ofthe whole,
were principally these; " They perpetually incul-
cated, that it was the chief business of the mys:.
teries to restore the soul to its original purity ;
they made every thing tend to shrw the necessity
• The whole of this excellent charge, which is now generally
used in our Lodges, may be found it1 the last edition of Preston's
lllustrations.
I 4
Dig1tizod by Coogle
ANTIQ.UITIE& .Ot
of virtue. · ' ThUs,• says Epictetus, ' the mysteries
become useful ·; thus we seize the true spirit of
them, ·that every thing therein was instituted by
the ancients, for instruction and amendment of
life/ In pursuance of this scheme, it w.
as required
in·the Aspirant to the mysteries, that he should
be of an unblemished and virtuous character, and
free, even from the suspicion of any notorious
c~e : for the discovery of which, he was severely
interrogated. On this account, Suetonius tells us,
'that when Nero, after the murder.of his mother,
took ajourney into Greece, and had a mind to be
present at the celebration of the Eleusinian fR!JB-
teries, the conscience of this parricide deterred
him from it.' So the good Emperor M. Antonius,
when he would purge himself to the world of the
death ofA•oidiu$ Cassius, chose to be initiated into
. the Eleusinian mysteries ; it being notorious to·
~II; that none were admitted to their participation
'\_Vho laboured ·under the just suspicion ·of any
heinous immorality. The initiated were enjoined,.
during the celebration oftbe mysteries, the grea~t
purity and highest elevation of mind. ' When you
sacrifice or pray,' says Epictetus in Arrian, 'go
~th a prepared purity of mind, and with ~posi­
tions so previously disposed "as are.required qfyou
when you approach tlte ancient rites and mysteries.'
And Proclus tells us, ' that the mysteries and ini-·
tiations drew the soul~:~ of men from a material.
Digitized by Coogle
FREE-MASONRY. 1!1
sens'ual, and merely human life, and joined them
in cotn~tiliion with the gods.' "• · ·
This degree of resemblance, however, cannot
assimilate Masonry with the worship offalse gods :
for,· though idolatry might and did imitate the
true worship in all·practicable points, 'it could·not,
for that reason alone, be deemed the true reli-
gion; and ctetera paribus, though the mysteries
here -spoken ·of ~ight be founded upon the an-'
ciertt practice of Masonry, its members, while
worshipping the creature, could not preserve the
purity of that Order·whose sole foundation is the
unsophisticated worship of the Creator. ·
It has been observed, that the Epoptm were
taught, when admitted to the greater mysteries,
that the deities generally worshipped were but
dead men, who had been deified on account of
s.ome real or imaginary benefit which they had
rendered to mankind; and that the only true God
was oNE,t the creator and preserver of all things; ·
As these mysteries became universally dissemi-
na~d amongst mankind, an altar was publickly
erected to the divine Being, taughtin·the d.7r6p'p•'1'T«,
-~Y the advice of Epimenidas, during the time .of -
a destructive pestilence : but their ideas respe.ct-
. ing his nature and attributes were so very con-
• Div. Leg. l. ii. s. 4.
t fl.fi,JBf'¥OS·
Digitized by GoogIe
·~
ANTIQUlTlBS OF
fused and ob8cure, even in a city celebrated for
religious knowledge, and denominated by Sopho-
clnA~vfA/"1 'TW"I 9<-D~'J.TW'I'. that this altarwasinscribed
" To THE UNKNOWN GoD !'' And this apinioli ttl
the Athenians was so very popular, that the rieig~
bouriDg nations used to swear by HIM that 1tas
uDknown at Athens: .N~ T~~ Ev A~)/"JI~If' «?-·)l(.d!ov·:ff
yet the.communication of this limited knowledg~
~as esteemed the only means qf combating the
practice of vice proceeding from the contagious
e%ample of their libidinous deities•
.These mysteries were received with the greatest
avidity by all nations ; they were supposed to be
a -potent and effectual charm to prevent or avert
calamities ;t and individuals were taught -that· aU
• Electra, Act ii. 8. 1. t Lucian in Philopatrlde.
t The Druids, who practised the Cabiric mysteries, presented th~
iui~d with an amulet, called ang11inum ovum, wboae propertinwere
to make.the possessor fortunate in all his undertakin!JS J to plQC:Qr'hiw -
the 'most exalted patronage, and to give him a decided advantage over
his antagonists in every contest for supeciority. This egg was produced
from theB&liva of a large ball offlerpents dosely intt:rwoven togetlift!;
t,\Dd, being impelled into the air by the hissing of'he serpents, was_
r~
4:eive<l in its fall on a.. pur-e white £loth, held by a horseman, wlw w~
obliged to retire precipitately from the spot, to escape the fur! o~d!e
serpe!l~, who usually purmed him until they wert impeded&y & MeP
whieb they were unable to crosa. T~ virtue~~ ~tbia egg wer, tffenJill~ ·
to the te8t: it was enchased in gold; and being cast into the water, if
genuine, it would swim against the most rapid 'stream. Precisely oi
the same nature were tb,e magical aiUulets of the Basilideans (a sect
of visionariea, who flourished in the-_
second century from Christ),
called
Digitized by Google
the initiated should receive divirie honours after:
called·Abraxas, which, they asserted, was the sacred and incommuni.;
cable name of God the Autlior of the circle or 366 days ; and belled
tlae.f:tlieN iiUppOaed to worahip the san, whose annual coune was ac-
compliahed in that" period. The numerical computation is as.(ollowa.;
.. .
A, 1.
B, 2.
P, 100.
A, I.
X, 60.
A, I.
1:,200.
:16.5.
From Abraxas, say they, comes Logos (the Word); from Logos,
Phronesis (prudence); from Phronesis, Sophia and Dynamis (wisdom
and strength); and so on to the above number of 365. This Word,
which is of the same signification with Abracadabra, was the name of
a god worshipped by the Syrians, and was used as a charm to prevent
misfortune.
In a circle, the emblematical representation of a year, was inscribed
trbngularly this Word, which was supposed to convey perpetual health
and happiness, and protection from temporal dangers.
A
AB
ABR
ABRA
ABRAC
ABRACA
ABRACAD
ABRACADA
ABRACADAB
ABRACADABR
ABRACADABRA
Some
Dig1tizod by Coogle
ANTIQUITIES OF
death,• and their souls be assuredly received into
the blest abode of the gods.t Hence arose that
great anxiety for initiation ; which produced such
immense profits that, in a time of scarcity, the
public treasury of Athens was amply replenished
from the emolume'nts arising out ofthese mysteries.
In the dark history of the heathen world, we
•
discover few appearances of Masonry, except in
Egypt, Greece, Phrenicia, and Rome ; idolatrous
fable, and improbable mythologies, supply the
place of truth and reason ; and it is a remarkable
evidence of the connection of Masonry with reli-
gion, that, in proportion as the knowledge and
worship of the true God has declined in .all the
countries of the earth, Masonry has also receded
from the view, as the glorious light of the sun va-
nishes beforethedarkness of the night. And itmay
be safely added, that no certain traces ofgenuine
Masonry have been found to exist in any country,
or amongst any people, who have altogether re-
Some of these gems have been preserved. " Joseph Scaliger had one
of them in his possession, and the excellent Pci1·eskius very many.
Amulets they were, and symbols too of their deities, whose names of
.Abmxas, 1l!Iichael, Gabriel, Ouriel, Raphael, Ananael, P1·osoraiel, Yab-
soe (names of their god, and their seven angels, the p!'esidents of their
seven heavens), were inscribed on them, together with the figures of
men, beasts, fowls, plants, stars; the schemes of which may be seen
in Pignorius. Ahi'Oxas is represented with a human body, with bucklet'
and whip, or sword in hand, as ensigns of power; and with serpents
as feet."-Tenison's Idolatry.
• Aristoph. t Plato Phred.
Digitized by Google
,
FREE-MASONRY. liS
nounced the true worship of God, and set up an
idol in his stead.
The mysteries which were esteemed as a plau-
sible substitute for Masonry, attained such an
influence over the minds of men, that even the
great moralist !socrates confessed that the mys-
teries were what h~uman nature principally stands
in need of.• .t\nd almost all the ph~osophers of
antiquity_
speak highly of their original purity, and
the great and b~neficial effects they were calcu.
lated to produce both to states and individuals.
Socrates approved of them, though he long re.
fused to be initiated; Tully gave them the highest
character, in a moral and political point of view ;
and Plutarch could say, that " their mythologies
contained nothing weak, unreasonable, or super..
stitious; but that, under every fable, was hid some
moral, historical, or philosophical truth."t
In the history of an idol~trous nation, the de..
clension of Masonry may be very accurately·de.
fined, . as its decay is visibly connected with the
corruptions of religion. At the dispersion from ·
Babel, the original planters of nations carried with
them a knowledge of the principles of our sdence,
more or less deteriorated, according to the practice
of their former associates ; but in no one instance
entirely lost. After these planters were settled in
• Paueg. t De laid. et Oair, p 363.
Digitized by GoogIe
126 ANTIQUITIES OF
their respective colonies, we behold the"unceasing
efforts of the Cabiri used to perirert it from ita
original intention, and make it subservient to their
ow_
n private views of aggrandisement. Thes.e in-
novations brought on idolatry; every nation had
it favourite deity; and, in after ages, these
gods bee me incorporated, and hosts of mediator
were worshipped by many individual nations, till
atlength the meanest reptiles, and even inanimate
stocks and stones, were worshipped as gods ; and,
in the time of Hesiod, the world contained no less
than thirty thousand objects of" Pagan adoration.
_ Amidst such a gross defection from God's worship,
it is no wonder that Masonry, clothed in purity and
perfection, should hide her face in shame and sor-
~row ; it is no wonder that they should reject her
.as a meddling andunwelcomeintruder, when, faith-
ful to her trust, she denounced judgments against
their apostacy ; overthrew their idols with contu-
mely, andpointed outcharity, oruniversal brotherly
love, as the medium through which tbey might
8-ttain to the knowledge and love of their Maker.
The Eleusinian mysteries were transmitted by
oral tradition, for a period of more than two
thousand years, and continued until the 1·eign
of Theodosius, who gave the finishing blow to
idolatry, an.d all its accompaniments, throughout
his extensive empire. Their secrets were never
committed publickly to writing except in the very
Digitized by Google
:latest. ages ; when their abominable praCtices
brought them into·disrepute, and accelerated their
dissolution.•
How very sacred the ancients deemed 'these
mysteries, appears from the following passage in
Apollonius Rhodius :
"To Samothrace, Electra's isle, they steer,
That there initiated io rites dil·ioe,
Sad'e they might sail the navigable brine.
Bat, JDWJe, preaume aot of tbele ritei to teU:
Farewell, dread isle ! dire deities,,farewell !
Let not.my verse these mysteries explain ;
n, '"'"'~ u imJrlotu, 1o rftJt!fllproja11~.,. .
~~.
The mysteries in every nation were committed .
to the custody of the priests. The Bramins of
India were wanderfully tenacious of their secrets.
and deviating from the practice of other nations,
concealed them from all the world except those
:woo aspired to the sacerdotal dignity. Their
secrecy was so severely maintained, that death
_:was the certain punishment for the slightest breach
of faith. The Hindoos were idolaters, yet, the
general truths of religion ran obscurely through
their system of false worship. They represented
the Supreme Being under A THREEi'OLD SYMBOL.
• _Warburton aays, that the myattries are laid open, and the tedioua
bmt of'bsiciaeioa IJIIy dt!MriW by ViJ'Ril.-.B...U. Bl, 6. ' .
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF ·
They b~lieved that " God created the world ;
that he is eternal, omnipotent, knowing all things,
and present everywhere." They admit the reality
of a future state, though their theory on this
.point is somewhat vague and fanciful. . The
threefold symbol evidently shews that these idola-
ters had some general ideas respecting the doc-
trine of the Trinity; which appears ·indeed to
have ran through all the systems of fal~e as well
as true worship in every age of the world. Suidas
.inform~ us that the name Trismegistus was given
t<? Thoth or Hermes " because he taught the
doctrine of the Trinity."
Stanhope says : " Some very learned hea-
thens have made approaches to this doctrine,
under the names of one or good, mind or cause,
and soul; sometimes called, the soul qf the world,
at other times the soul above the world. The same
bave been again distinguished by i'IJ:finite GOODNEss,
i'IJ:finite WISDOM, and i'IJ:finite LOVE ; but these dis-
tinctions are not made to employ three different
.principles, but as united in one common pnnci~
pal or universal cause." ·
. " The first of these was said to be derived from
none; the second to be derivedfrom the first; the
third from the other two. In the production of
the _world, the first was the original MOVER ;
the second was the ARCHITEC'I; ; the third was the
. ' ,,
GIVER oF LIFE: but still all these was affirmed to
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MA.IONRY. 1!9
have but one operation, and all things.to be pro-
duced by the common consent of the three."•
Every Mason will fully comprehend this rea-
soning, because it is nearly allied to a most beau-
tiful illustration contained in the first Lecture of
Masonry.
• Boyle, Lect.
Digitized by GoogIe
lBO ANTIQUITIES OF
CHAP. VI.
CONTAINING FOUR HUNDRED AND SEVENTY-SEVEN
YEARS.
---
VIEW OF MASONRY FROM THE UNIVERSAL DELUGE
TO THE OFFERING OF ISAAC.
NoAH remained in the ark while the waters
inundated the world, for the space of six month~
at the expiration of which time the ark rested on
Ararat, a mountain in Armenia. After remaining
about three months in that situation, Noah sent
out a dove, that he might ascertain whether the
waters had subsided. This bird very soon returned
to the ark, unable, from the prevalence of the
waters, to find a place of rest. At the end of
seven days he sent forth the dove a second time,
which returned to the ark with an olive leaf in
her mouth, as a token of peace and reconciliation
with God ; and the olive branch has consequently
been adopted as a symbol of peace by every nation
under the sun. When seven days were agaiuex-
pired, he sent forth the dove a third time, which
returned to him no more. Hence Noah concluded
that the waters were dissipated from off the face
of the earth ; and at the end of twelve months
Digitized by GoogIe
. FREE-MASONRY. 181
and ten days from his entering the ark, he left it
on the summit of th-e mountain, and all the crea-
tures in it were soon dispersed over ~he earth.•
The first act of' Noah, after his escape froin the
general destruction of all created fiesh, -was an
act of gratitude and devotion to his Great Pre-
server. He erected an altar and ofFered a burnt
ofrering of every clean beast and fowl. Here
God covenanted with Noah, that he would no
more destroy the world by water, and placed a
rainbow in the clouds as a token, which was to
remain as a perpetual memento of His most gra-
cious promise.
A phrenomenon. so remarkable and so fre.
quently recurring amidst ,excessive rains, serves
to impress this assurance firmly on our minds.
The appearance of this bow is said to excite very
extraordinary sensations upon the Jews, even to
this day: superstitiously imagining the sacred
name of God to be visibly displayed in the rain-
bow, they tum from it in the utmost veneration,
.lest they should behold the majesty of God,
" • In the time of Josephus there waa a city in Armenia, which he .
calls Atroi3aTJtf111', or the place of descent: it is called by Ptolemy,
Naxuana; by Moses, Choronensis ldsheuan; and at the plac& itSelfit
tis ealled Nal:h•Idsheuan, whith sigililiea the first place of descent.
Tbillcity was alllll:iag monument ol the pre.enation of Ne»M iD the
Ark, upon the top of that mountaiD, at whoie foot it Will built, as
the first city or town after the Flood."-BUAop f'otltliw'• 'I'Mol.,
ftt. i. c. 1.
Digitized by GoogIe
13! .ANTIQiriTIES OF
whom no one may see and·Iive; and· after. an
h.umble confession of their sins, they acknowledge
themselves.worthy to be cut off by a similar visita- ·
tion, and celebrate His clemency who spares them,
while deformed by a series of accumulated trans-
gJ:esswns.
The assurances . of preservation delivered to
Noah, were accompanied by an injunction to ob-
serve .certain precepts, which the Jewish ·Rabbins
say were seven. I. Judgment ; or punishment for
.the commission of unnatural crimes. ~. Blessings;
particularly the , institution of the Sabbath~ and
praising the name of God~ 3. Against the ·pra·c-
tice of Idolatry. · 4. Uncovering our-own naked-
ness forbad. 5. Punishment for shedding the
blood.of our fellow creatures. . 6. Against theft,
fraud, . ana dissimulation : and the seventh .for~
.bad eating the flesh of a beast, taken from it -~
fore it be dead.*
In· process of time. the unnatural conduct of
Ham ·elicited his father's curse. He denounced
judgments upon.his posterity ; and particularly on
Canaan, which were inflicted with unremitting
vengeance. The curse of ·a father, in .anCient
times, ·.was .deemed an inexpiable' .· misfortune. -
Heathen nations ,were :impressed with an ·idea,
that ·one principal commission of the· furies was~ ·
• Sheindler in Pentaglot.
Dig1tizod by Coogle
FREE-MASONRY• 1S3
.to execute vengeance on wayward-children, lying
under the parental curse. In after ages the des..
cendants of Canaan became addicted to the very
worst species of Idolatry ; and even sacrificed
their sons and their daughters on the impious
altars of false and impure deities.• - They prac-
tised the -most monstrous and unnatural vices,
and lost every·vestige of that pure science which
places a restraint on their unruly lusts and pas-
sions. T~ey wer.e guilty of incest, sodomy, and
every kind of bestiality.t Thus-when the Israel-
i~es, who sprang from Shem, had been delivered
from their Egyptian bpndage, and brought with
them the Scienc~ of Masonry, which they pra.c~
tiSed· under- the auspices of their grand -master.
Joshua, who succeeded Moses in that high office,.
the~ effects of Noah's. curse became visible ; for
the Canaanites were- destroyed or driven out of
the land; to experienc~ every privation and misery:
in strange lands, where human foot had never
befure trod. And those that escaped destruction;
and remained in the land, were made hewers of
wood and drawers of water to the Israelites~
They who fled and planted other nations obtained
no continuanc_e of rest or peace. The Tyrians
were ·destroyed by Alexander, a descendant of
Japheth ; and the Carthaginians by the Romans,
• Deut. xii. 31.
'
t Levit. xviii.
K. 3
Digitized by GoogIe
1M .4-NTIQUITIE& 0,
who were of the. same origina.I. And the miserable
remain,s of th,is unh$ppy people ~e slaves. to,the
Turkish nation, descen«hJ.nt& ~lSQ from the same
Patriarch. " Egypt was. the land of Ha.m, _as it
is often called in scripture, and for many yeaxs. it
was a great and flourishing kingdom; but it was
subdued by tbe Persians, who descended from
Shem, and afterwards by the Grecians,_ who des--
cended from Japheth; _
and £rom that time to-this
it hath -constantly been in, subjection to_
some oP
other of the posterity of Shem or Japhetb.. The
whole Continent of Africa was peopled princip~ly
by the children of Ham_
; and for how maniY ages
h~ve the better parts of that country lain unde11
the dominion of the Roma.J;ls, a11d then o£ tlu~
Saracens, and now of the Turks ? ll}.!What wick-:-
edpess, ignorance, barbarity, slavery._misery, live
most of the inhabitants? And of the poor Ne..
groes, how many hundreds every year, ~e sol&!
and bought like beasts ill the market, are con..
veyed frQIIl one quarter of the-world-to dQ the
work of beast.'l in another? Nothing,can be mor~
complete than the execution o£ t;be, ~ntence
upon Ham as well as Canaan !"•
The immediate posterity of Hain partook largely
of their-pr.Qgenitor's inherent perver~ity; stinm:-
la~<};-probably by the curse pronoun~ed by Noah~
• New.ton on the Proph. Diss. I.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE·MASONBY,
·They removed by gradual migrations from east
to west, until they found themselves on the Plains
Of Shinar, about a century after the Deluge. The
children of Japhet principally accompanied them ;
aad on these immense plains they laid the founda.
ti!>n of a mighty kingdom, · which, under the
name ofthe Babylonian Monarchy, continued-in a
flourishing state for many centuries. Here they
forined the great project of erecting. a Tower,
whose·height and magnitude should be a sufficient
protection against any future inundation of the
world.
A part of the race o( Shem,, who had been.
induced te join in the migrations of mankind un..
der their respedive Patriarch, were·engaged with
Ham anci' Japhet in the eonstrueti011 of this Tow-
er. They did not, however, suspect' what was
the secret desigu of Nimrod~ and therefore en•
gaged in the work from principles of public utility;
and without imagining that any evil consequences
would result. The building was erected· tO the'
honour of fal8e gods, as well as' to prevent di~·
persion. It was composed; of enomnous· brickar
dried in the suit, each being 197 feet in ·Iengthl,
l$r feet broad, and· 77 feet in thickness. Theser
bricks were cemented byslime or bitumen,• whicht
wereresulered by time as hard· 88 the substance.or.
• Gen. xii. 3.
K ,:~_.
Digitized by GoogIe
136 .A.NTIQUITIEiil OF
the brick. Three years were occupied in making
these bricks, though the greatest part of.mankind
were employed in the work.. Many·improbable
and groundless conjectures have been offered resr
pecting the magnitude of this celebrated edifice.
Jerome says, ·from the testimony of ocular demoil-
stration,. that it .was four miles high; and of pro-
portionable dimensions in Jmlk. Some Oriental
writers have· pronounced it to be at least 12 miles
in altitude ; and one author in partict.dar, is bold
enough to make it 5000 miles h~gh ! . This build-
ing, it is true, must necessarily have been of very
large dimensions, considering the . numbers of
people who were engaged in it upwards of forty
years :• Yet·these preposterous accounts exceed
all the bounds of human credibility. .The most
probable dimensi.ons of this building are those
proposed by Noorthouck in his History of Ma.-
sonry: " The foundation is . reported to .have
been a square of half a mile iri compass·; and the;
building tO have consisted of eight square .towers;·
rising in stages above each other, with an ascend;;.
ing passage on the outside, all the way up tO an:
observatory on the top,· whicli was 600 feet from;
the ground. In the grand tower were apartment&
with arched roofs, supported by pillars, r;5 .feet
high, intended for.a _Temple, .in which the idola-.
• ~nee!. Chron.
Digitized by Google
FREE-MASONRY~ lS7
.
trous worship of the god Belus was afterward!f
_performed."• In tlie interior of-the bottom story
was a cavern in which the Cabiric mysteries were
celebrated.
·To prevent the select people from imbibing the
idolatrous sentiments ·which God foresaw would
be .rapidly and widely propagated, he resolved
to disperse mankind over the face of the .earth.
The families then in ·existence appeared to form
one great community, each governed by its
respective patriarch, and compacted together
under .one monarch, with the exception of Noah
and his adherents, who had already colonized
Chfua. As the building of this tower advanced,:
inen became more confident of their own power
and importance, and less inclined to yield obe-
dience to the seven precepts of Noah. Each
father of a family, as private interest or inclina-·
tion might prompt, assumed to himself the power
of legislating for his immediate followers ; and~
departing from primitive usage, adopted such
rites of divine worship as were best suited to the
Iiew and local object ofhis adoration. The variety
of"forms which idolatry would assume, under such
circumstances, would lead to a direct oblivion of
the true God and religion ; and the fascinations of
• Noortb. Cons. part 1, c. t.
·Digitized byGoogle
13R .-\NTIQUITIES OF
aovelty being almost irresistible to human nature
in its degenerate state, the righteous line of Shem
was threatened with contamination ;. and thUB the
knowledge of God might have been totally lost:.
(for it is recorded• that Shem married into ·the
&mily of Ham; an union which produced ~
three extraordinary men named Axieros, · .Axia-
kersa, and A:xiokersos, or the THREE MIGHTY Gali'.8,
who, with indefatigable industry. disseminatedthe
practice of idolatry throughout the then· knowu
world;) God, therefore, to preserve a remem-
brance of himself upon earth, gave to every divi-
sion of idolatry a separate language ; the line of
'Shem alone retaining the primitive speech of man•
kind : this impelled the disappointed architects to
wander in search of other settlements, where aD
uniformity of language might unite them in some
bond of society.
It is thought that, at the dispersion, there were
only three languages essentially different, which
were exclusively appropriated to the three distinct
posterities of Shem, Japheth, and Ham. And, if
this be admitted, the ensuing variety of tongpea
will not he difficult to,account for. The posterity
of these original patriarchs, having migrated· to.
some distance from each.other, and forming sepa-
• Sanch. in~useb. Pnep•.Evan. 1.1. c. JO.
Digitized by GoogIe
~REE-MASO~RYl 139
rate communities,. as they encountered different
obstacles.and eJ~:perienced a differeDt fortun~ every
circumstance which produced a shade of variety-
would be.dignified with a -new appellation,,varying
with the- vari.ous fancies and dispositions of their
re~Jpective leader.s. These new phrases, though
at first only casual and adventitious,_ would ill
time give a )Jew character to the originallanguage,_
which would at length become changed both ra
idiom and words. And hence ~very .nation woulQ
be distinguished by its own peculiar dialect..
This rendered the adoption of signs and tokens.
absolutely necessary as an universal language, byr
the use of· which they might occasionally com~.
municate with ·each other, aJDidst all the variety·
and change of speech.
" The migration from.~hinar commenced fifty-.
three years after they began to build the tower.,.
or one hundred and fifty-four yeam after the-
Flood; and. they went off at various times, ~
veiling nor.th, south, east, and. west, .with their
M-8$onical skill, and found the good use of it inl
s,ettling their ~olonies. From Shinar the science
and the.art were carried to the distant parts. of
t;Jle earth,. notwithstanding the confusion of dia-.
lects, by the Masonic practice of conversing
without speaking, and of knowing each other by
signs and tokens; which expedient,,according to
Digitized by GoogIe
140 ANTIQUITIES OF
an old tradition, they contrived upon the disper-
sion, in case any of them should meet in distant
parts who had been before in Shinar."•
· This great event made such a terrible impression
on the minds of all the workmen concerned in
this bUilding, that they kept as ·near to ea:ch
other·and to their orginal settlement as possible,
apprehensive ·of some further and more signal
judgments, until increasing numbers compelled
them to ·extend their migrations, and seek for
refuge in more extensive regions, where their ac-
cumulating population might be less likely to
prove incommodious ; and a general tradition re-
mains, · distinct from the writings of Moses, in
· every country to which they migrated from Shinar.
Abydenus, the Assyrian, says : " The first men
of the, earth, being of gigantic form, and insolent
in strength, despised their gods, and undertook a
tower where Babylon now stands : but when the
building had nearly reached the heavens, the gods,
assisted by the winds, threw down the edifice·
upon them. Hence the ruins were called Babylon.·
Till this time all mankind had the same sjleech, but
now the .qffended gods brought upon them a cia..
niOurous coryusion qftongues."t Eupolemus, from
• Noorth. ·Cons. part 1, c. 2.
t Euseb. Prlllp. Evan. L 9, c. 14.
Digitized by GoogIe
'FJtEE·MAIONRY. 141
Alexander Polyhistor, says the same thing.• The
Sibyl1ine oracles give a s.imilar testimony to the
same truth.t And many ancient authors indirectly
allude to the ruin an·d devastation occasioned by
the general·dispersion of mankind from the plains
of. Shinar.
" ':~;'here are other reasons of the dispersion of
mapkind into the several countries of the known
world, than those that are most commonly offered
to us, and they are these : the fruitfulness ofmany
countries above others, as Egypt, Canaan, Greece,
and of Asia Minor, be~ides the islands, were
known to Noah and his sons before the Flood,
and therefore they would acquaint their offspring
thereWith, which would na:turally excite in them a
desire to be early possessed of those .fertile lands,
which· could not be without first removing froin
their old habitations."t
An 'old Eastern tradition specifies that Noah, a
short time previously to his death, made a formal
.division of .the earth between his three sons, and
bound them by oath .not to encroach -on each
others.territories : but there does not· appear any.
foundation in· Moses' history for such. ~ . supposi-
tion ; for after enumerating the seventy p~tive
nations springing from Noah, he says .expressly,
• Euseb. Pr~rp. Evan. I. 9, c. 17. t Jos. Ant. I. I, e. 5. ·
t Cumb. Orig. Tract 4.
Digitized by GoogIe
AN"nQUITIES OF
" These are the families of the sons of Noah,
after their generations, in their nations ; and b!J
these were the nations divided in the earth after
the Flood." •
It is remarkable however, that, with very few
exceptions, the dispersed workmen migrated to
difterent situations, according to their respective
pedigrees. The descendants of Shem continuing
in Asia, of Ham penetrating into Africa, and of
Japheth into ,Europe ; and in the several divisions
of the earth which they respectively peopled,
exercised those principles which were recom-
mended by their leaders. Ham built Byblus in
Phoonicia, previously to the general migration of
his posterity into Africa ; and, after having re-
mained there many years, visited his children in
their new settlements, and ultimately retired to
that city as a place of settled residence : his eldest
son, Cush, who had originally colonized that por-
tion of land encompassed by the river Gihon, was
induced to retire, and furm a new colony, when
his country had become subject to the arbitrvy
governmentinstituted byhis sonNimrod; he there-
fore travelled south-westward, and founded that
90untry known by the name of Ethiopia. MiEraiin
settled in Egypt, and exercised the art of opera-
tive Masonry with considerable effect, in building
• Gen. x. 3!.
oig•tized by Coogle
FREE-MASONilY. 148
the cities of Memphis and Diospolis. Phut pe-
netrated into the heart of Africa, with his fol-
lowe~s, about the same. time; and his youngest
son, Canaan, built the cities of Hebron and Zoan,
' in the land called after his own name, immediately
after the dispersion.
Such were the situations chosen by Ham and
his sons for the seat of their respective·govern-
ments. His grandsons were also assiduously em-
ployed in promoting the great work of dispersion.
Nimrod, the son of Cush, retired from Babel or
Babylon, to avoid the inundations with _which
· that city was aimoyed ; built the city of Nineveh,
and founded the great Assyrian Empire. The
other descendants of Cush spread over Arab41,
Felix, and Ethiopia. The sons of Mizraim esta-
blished so many nations known by their names
in Lower Egypt. The Ludim, or Lybia.ils ; the
Anamim, or inhabitants of Delta; the Pathrusim,
or ,inhabitants of Thebai.s ;. and the Caphtorim.
Naphtuhim settled at Memphis in Upper Egypt;
and Philistim planted the country between Ca.Daan
and the Mediterranean sea; and his descendants
were the Philistines. Phut peopled the northern
borders .of the Persian Gulf, and the children of
Canaan settled in Phoonicia. · Sidon built a city
and called it by his own name ; his other sons
founded nations known by their respective names, '
Digitized by GoogIe
144 ANTIQUITIES .OF
which were afterwards destroyed by the children
of Israel. •
" The posterity of Japheth inhabit Europe,
Asia Minor, Media, a part of Annenia, Iberia,
Albania, the vast regions of the north, which for-
merly the Scythians, but now the T11:rtars, possess:
to say nothing of the New World (America), into
which,:it is most probable, they migrated by the
· straits of Anian." 411 •
Japheth led his colony into Arcadia,.and they
were afterwards named the Pelasgi,t because their
principal migrations were perfonned by sea
(r.~yo,). Not .long after this, the Sicyoni.ail
kingdom _
in the same regio11, was founded by
lEgialeus, in whose reign the oraCle ·of Dodona
was set up by an Egyptian .priestess, who had
been taken captive by the Phrenicians and sold
into Greece. . Thus early was Masonry prosti-
tuted amongst the posterity of Japheth. . Gomer,
Magog, Tubal, and Meshech dispersed with their
colonie.s to the north part of Syria. : :Their chief
city was -called Magog, and afterwards Hierapolis,
or the sacred city. Askanez, the son of Gomer,
established the kingdom ofAnnenia, and probably
Phrygia.+ Togarmoth, another of his sons, placed
• Bochart Phaleg. 1. 3, c. I. t Cumb. OJia.
t Boch. Phaleg. I. 3. c. 9.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONltY. 145
himself near the country planted _by his father.-
Javan Wa$ king of the Ionians, afterwards called
the Athenians, and Greece ; his son ·Elishah
reigned in Peloponessus ; whose descendants were
celebrated for the blue, purple, and crimso!l
dy<:.•· Tarshish retired into Spain; his posterity
traded in silver, iron, tin, and lead.t Kittein
reigned in a part of Italy; the excellence of his
posterity was chiefly in ·works of·ivory.t Doda..
nim advanced farther north, and took possession
of Fra~ce ; and hence Great Britain and the
northern part o~ Europe were peopled.§
Shem settled in Salem, and was afterwards its
monarch, under the name of Melchizedek. He
lived to an .old age, and preserved the principles
of Masonry amongst his descendants, until he
ultimately committed them unsullied into the
custody of Abraham, who was- upwards of one
hundred and fifty years old when Shem died;
His posterity spread over the ·vast continent of
Asia, except such part as had already ·been colo•
nized by Noah, and amongst a certain select por-
tion of his descendants, the knowledge of Ma-
sonry was never wholly lost.
Elam planted•Persia, which·soon became a great
and -flourishing nation. · Ashur, after building Ur
of the Chaldees, which became the residence of
• Ezek. xxvii, 7. t Ibid. 12. t ·Ibid. 6. ~ Bochart• .
L
Digiti~ed by GoogIe
146 ANTIQUITIES OF ,
~is brother Arphaxad, succeeded Ni~rod in the
government of Assyria, which was so named after
tum·; and continued for many successive cen-
turies in the plenitude of its vigour. Arphaxad
settled with his colony in Ur of the Chaldees,
which was situated in Mesopotamia ; and here
his descendants, deluded by the fascinations
of ·the Cabiric rites, sunk into idolatry, and
renounced the practice of Masonry altoge-
ther. Lud was the planter of the Lydians in
Asia Minor. Aram planted some part of Syria,
but the particular situation of his colony is un-
certain.
Ebt,'!r was the father of God'!$ chosen people
the Hebrews, to whose custody the sacred oracles
were afterwards committed, and who preserved a
knowledge of HIS NA~E when all the rest of the
world were polluted with the grossest defile.
ments of idolatry. His son Joktan led a_colony
beyond Mount Mesha ; and his thirteen sons
spread over Mount Sephar, and penetrated iJJto
India ; but Peleg and his descendants contin_
ued
at Ur, and lived amongst the idolatrous Chal':"
deans, until the time of Terah the fat,he( of
Abraham, when the Chaldeans drove them out
of their land, and wrested their possessions from
them, because they openly renounced the worship
of idols, and returned to their allegiance- to the
true God.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY. H7
The Phliasians had a temple witlu>ut an idol;
or any visible oqject Q[ adoration, for which they
professed to have a special reason, but asserted
that it was incommunicable.• Here then we have
a testimony that some traces of our scien~e were
visible in a Grecian city, amongst the posterity of
Sheni : for Phlius was built by Haram, the elder
brother ofAbraham ; and perha:ps this small tract
in ·Peloponessus was the only part of Greece
·where any part of Shem's posterity settled. This
peninsula had been very early corrupted, for the
mysteries of the Cabiri were established there
by Magog. or his immediate descendants, which
paved the way for the worship of it.lols ; and this
worship is the most certain test of the deteriora-
tion· of ancient Masonry, which inculcated a8 an
indispensable d1lty the worship of one God, un-
connected-with any visible symbol.
: Thus were the dJ."fferent quarters of the world
peopled by the descendants of Noah, the pafri_.
arch himself founding the empire of Chin'a ; and
thus was our science disseminated al\d spread
over the earth. - Its spirit, amongst many of these
nations~· continued to invigorate the minds of
men, and it sunk into oblivion by gradual and
almost imperceptible degrees ; amongst others,
more bold and enterprizing, it served only as a
• Pallsan. Corinth.
L fl
Digitized by GoogIe
148 ANTIQUITIES ·oF
model for new. systems, where, divested of its
native purity, it was perverted to advocate and
support a cause diametrically opposite, and de-
cidedly hostile to the views of its Divine Author,
in its original establishment. It assumed in these
nations· a daring character, and was invested with
an absolute and undi puted authority over the
lives and property of its deluded votarie . It
boldly proclaimed idolatry to be the genuine and
primitive worship, and inflicted the most severe
punishments on all who refused to acknowledge
its sovereign authority, or to practise the dutie
prescribed by its dogmatical laws.
The patriarch Shem continued, until the time
of his death, to practise those principles of the
Masonic science which he had learned of Lamech,
Methusaleh and Noah before the Flood. He
communicated to his immediate descendants the
mysteries of Enoch's pillar, and hence his sons,
the Cabiri,• became fraught with that knowledge
• which rendered them so celebrated throughout
the world. At their migration, they entered into
a solemn league with Thoth or Pathru im the son
of Mizraim, who was intent on converting the
• The Cabiri are made the sons of Shem by a daughter of Ham by
Sanchoniatho'; and, it is believed by the learned Bishop Cumberland,
justly. They were said to be three in number, Axicro , Axiokersa,
and Axiokcrsos; but some say their number was six: and add to
these, Cnsmillus, Jove, and Dionysius.-Vide, Cu111b. Orig. p. 355.
oi9,tized by Google
FREE-MASONRY. 149
imperfect knowledge of Masonry which he had
learned · from Ham, to his own individual .ad- -
vantage. Finding the sons of Shem in possession
of that information to which he so ardently as-
pired, he eagerly embraced their offers of friend-
ship and mutual amity, and even gave them a
share in the government of Egypt. Their ambi-
tion being thus excited, little further was neces-
sary to engage the prostitution .of their acquire-
ments to the furtherance of any scheme, dictated
by their patron, the powerful king of Egypt.
The great end to be accomplished was their own
apotheosis; and this could scarcely be effected
but through the medium of superstition. To
awaken this feeling, and enthral the mind most
successfully, it was determined, after mature de-
. liberation, to institute mysteries founded on the
plan of Masonry. This produced the desired·
effect. .The numerous rites and imposing cere-
monies attached to these mysteries were celebrat-
ed in the most secret places, and covered with
the shades of midnight. Confined at first to a
select few, they were treated in public with such
a high degree of veneration, that it was accounted
alm9st an inexpiable crime to mention them.
These precautions, artfully used, infused into the
multitude a superstitious awe, and a dread which
they could neither acc9unt for .nor define ; and
caused them to shudder with involuntary dismay,
LS
Digitized by GoogIe
l.50 ANTI~UITIE& OF
if these solemnities were named. It. w~ then
suggeste£1 that these feelings were inspired by
the superior and invisible beings, under whose-
immeqiate prqtection the mysteries were pl~ce<J,.
The people ·achnitted the inference to be just,
because they were unable to assign a more prO-
babl~ cause a~ the so~.Jrce of their inherent terror!!.
The scheme succeeded but too well. Founded
' . . ·' . I . .
oq the same general priq.ciples with ancient ~~
sonry, the mysteries were modelled so as to 11erve.
the very worst purposes of idqlatry ; ~nd through
their infl~enc~ jdoJatry assumed a gross and bes.,. .
tial form, even ill th~ early ages of the Egyptian.
~onarchy.
To <Jjsseminate the newly established mysteries,
an~ extend the infl4ence of idolatry in other
coqntri,es, tlw C11.biri travelled through Egypt, .
.Asia, apd Gre~ce; a11q in all lodges or societies
whicp haq preserved any rememb:r~nce of M~son­
ry_ they introduced ~mongst the NoachidJe ~heir·
~ophisticated innovations, and by their extraordi-_
nary at~inmen~, and insinuating 11;1anners, were
generally s~ccessful . in blending ancien~ M~ .
~nry with their mysteries, so that the true im- -
port of our science was but obscurely_ ~onveyed,
if conv~yed ~t a~l, amidst the multiplica:tion of
lll>surd and unintelligible ceremonies. To dissi-
pp.te all suspicious doubts, and to make their im-
positions tlw wore palatable, they.taught, tqat all.
oig,tized by Coogle
t5i
who· were initiated into their mysteries were
under the protection of the Gods, and ·conse-
quently were exempt from e\rery danger, whether
of fire or water~ the sword or famine. Such
promises, enforced by the information communi-
Cated to these nations by the Cabiri, impressed
the inhabitants with such a veneration for their
persons, that they were deified~ as if by mutual
consent ; and the mysteries promulgated by them
were termed n The Rites of Dn CABIRI."
These men, I should conjecture, were the first
priests who officiated in open violation of the
patriarchal privileges attached to primogeniture; .
and by means of superstition, added to the in.
fluence of their mysteries, they gained 'such an
ascendancy over the minds of the people who
embraced their systems, as to be allowed to make
what regulations they pleased in the civil and
religious polity of states and empires ; and after
death, to be worshipped as the greatest and niost
powerful Gods. Thoth, their patron, enjoyed an
equal.share of celebrity, for he was also worship..
ped under the ·name of Anubis; hieroglyphically
designated by a dog's head, to signify ·his watch..
fulness, and the quick scent of his understanding.
Osiris and Isis were consecrated into the sun and
moon, and Ham into the planet Saturn. The
Cabiri laid the ~oundation of the high rank and
dignity which the priesthood enjoyed in Egypt i
L 4
Digitized by GoogIe
15~ ANTIQUITIES OF
and their plans were so rapidly improved by their
successors, that before the time of -Joseph, the
priests-had one-third of the land allotted for their
subsistence, exempted from all imposts, dutie~
· and taxes ; and their persons were accounted
sacred as the Gods they worshipped. .
The population of Europe was commenced by
the posterity of Japheth, who carried ~th them
a knowledge of the genial science of Masonry,
which they inherited from their progenitor, who
had practised it before the Flood. This know-
ledge was not perhaps unadulterated with a tinge
of the Cabiric mysteries; for Pausanius• informs
us that Ceres, who, according to the best authori-
ties,t is the same with Isis the wife of Osiris or
Mizraim, and the daughter of Prometheus or
Magog the son of Japheth, initiated her father
into the mysteries of the Dii Cabiri, and accom-
panied him in the propagation of them through-
out Macedonia, Attica, and Bcetica. Three of
the sons of Japheth extended their wanderings
even to the north of Europe ; Magog at length
ended his life in Scythia, Tubal in Spain, and
Gomer in France or Britain.
The Pelasgi wandered as far as Ireland, and
\>rought with them the Cabiric mysteries, to which
they were inordinately de-voted. And there yet
" ,Bretic, p. 300. t Diod. Sicul. in Euscb. Prrep. Evan.
Digitized by GoogIe .
FREE-MASONRY. l$8
remain -in .that' country several monuments of
· antiquity, which were erected for the express
purpose of the·secret celebration of these rites.•
· Thus were these rites 'disseminated throughout
. Europe by the posterity of Japheth, and i:eaclled
the distant isles in the north, amongst which were
Great Britain and Ireland ; and thus was the
science of Masonry overwhelmed with an incon-
gruous mass of superstition. · Brit every thirig in
these ages was prostituted to serve the purp~es
-of. idolatry : yet though the true· religion and
Masonry were overturned, the false were founded
on precisely the same principles, but with a ·dif-
ferent end in view~ The idolatrous worship ·had
its oracles,·priests, altars, sacrifices, purifications,
and temples, bearing a very ·close resemblance,
both in external appearance and internal economy,
to the ordinances of the true religion. And the
mysteries, in like manner, had their solemn initia- -
tions, their distinguishing signs and tokens, their
systems of.morality, their philosophical disquisi-
tions, and other· rites and·ceremonies peculiar to
the science of Masonry, and perverted to impure
purposes by the·secretaries of Thoth. And in the
same proportion as the· true religion was faintly
disseminated in idolatrous nations; the true science
of Masonry was recognized in the Cabiric myste-
• Vide Faber on ·the Cabiri, c. 10.
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
ries ; until, in after ages, the shades of truth· grew
lighter and lighter, and were almost lost at the
eoming of Christ to restore the purity o( both.
The Cabiri very studiously inculcated the ttW
principles of operative Masonry, because they
assisted the views of their own aggrandizement,
and theii· disciples appear to have greedily imbibed
the knowledge thus communicated. They tra-
velled round the inhabited world, as did also
Ham and his sister Astarte, as well as Mizraim, in
various directions, for the purpose of making their
systems universal. Stately structures arose in
every country which they visited ; and many na-
tions, under the immeqiate superintendance of
these extraordinary men, made rapid progress in
philosophical pursuits: their knowledge of naval
architecture enabled them to extend their: im-
provements to distant continents and islands, and
the principles of operative Masonry very early
extended their influence to almost all parts of the
habitable globe.
It is evident that, before the call of Abraham to
1·estore the true worship along with the purity of
Masonry, the efforts of the Cabiri, in conjunction
with Thoth and others, had succeeded in substi-
tuting their mysteries for truth amongst the poste-
rity of Shem, as well as of Ham and Japheth,
which they might do the more readily from their
intimate connection with that race, as descending
Digitized by GoogIe
\
FREE-MASONRY.' 155
from Shem themselves, though their mother was a
daughter of Ham, who was the King of Byblus.
A short time after the deification of Thoth and
the CaQiri, Abraham was born ; a man who was
destined to impede the rapid progress of idolatry,
to reduce the influence· of the Cabiric mysteries, '
and to advance the ·interests of true Masonry
and religion amongst mankind. The exertions of
Abraham to promote the genuine worship of God,
are ·finely contrasted with the restless activity of
Thoth and -his secretaries to propagate the per-
nicious mysteries ofidolatry. Brought up amongst
the Clialdeans, and his parents and·friends inte-
rested in 'the success of idolatry, he was early
initiated into the mysteries used by the Chal-
deans, and studied their tX'1ToppJTot. with the most
indefatigable industry and perseverance. The
wild and improbable myth~logies there displayed,
appeared, to· his superior understanding, incon.;
sistent with the truth, and contradictory to each
other. He analyzed, with a philosophical eye,
their bold cosmogonies, and wondered how the
earth could make itself, or be produced by a ·
fortuitous mixture ofwinds, and chaos, and muddy
atoms ; his knowledge of astronomy enabled him
to take a correct survey of the celestial system,
and he proposed to his own mind these startling
questions : Can the immense orbs which beautify -
and adorn the spangled canopy of heaven be
Digitized by GoogIe
'
1.56 ANTIQUITIES OF
formed out of nothing, be suspended in the air
without any visible support, and perform their
courses with such order. and regularity from the
sole effect of chance ? Did chance ever produce a
minor work since the Creation? how then could
' this imaginary cause produce so august and stu-
pendous a system as this universe contains ? The
cosmogony being .false, he began to entertain
doubts respecting the purity of the system alto-
gether ; and at length was quite dissatisfied with
the popular motives for its establishment, and
the doctrines which it taught.
In this state of uncertainty he consulted with
the priests and hierophants; but they were too
much interested in the success of their own im-
postures to satisfy his doubts, even· if they had
been able. Hearing that the old patriarch Shem
was living at Salem, he applied to him for as-
sistance and information. The Patriarch on exa-
mination, finding him worthy and of good re-
port, admitted him to a participation of those
invaluable secrets, which pointed to the one true
God, the creator of the universe, as the sole
object of adoration. He communicated the true
system of th~ creation, and the history of the
world before the Flood ; shewed that that great
judgment was brought on the world for the sins
of its inhabitants ; revealed the seven precepts of
Noah, as the conditions of God's covenant with
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY. 157
man ; .imparted the origin of sacrifices, and the
most acceptable offering which can be made. by
man ; cautioned his ·pupil against the misc;:hiefs of
idolatry, and finally received him as. one of the
Noachidre, or faithful followers of Noah. .
Having studied Masonry under Shem with \
unabated diligence and assiduity, until he was a ;
perfect master of the art, he communicated with
a select few of his own family, who retained some
indistinct remembrance of Masonry, though much
adulterated and obscured by innovations pf Cahiric \
introduction, and prevailed on them to renounce
the worship of idols, though his father was an
idol-maker.
The manner in which Terah was reclaimed is
thus told by the Jewish Rabbins : Abraham en-
tered into his repository during his absence, and
hewed all the statues in pieces with an axe, except
the I~gest, in whose hands he placed the weapon.
When his father returned, he angrily inquired who
had been the cause of all this devastation ? Abra-
ham·answered, that the Gods had been quarrelling
who should enjoy an offering· of flour which had
been presented ; and that, to put.an and to the
contest, the most powerful amongst them had cut
the .rest to pieces, with the axe in his· hand.
Terah replied, that the statue was inanimate,
and could not possibly ~ccomp1ish ·such an un-
dertaking. . His son, on this, urged the impro-
Dig1tizod by Coogle
1~8 ANTIQUITIES OF
- priety of worshipping images which, by his own
acknowledgment, could neither act nor speak.
This argument, enforced by other considerations,
produced a salutary effect on Terah, who ap-
peared convinced of the wickedness of idolatry,
and he and his family renounced the worship of
false gods ; and by the influence _
of Abraham,
through the medium of our science, returned to
the worship of the God of heaven.
Thus successful in his own family, Abraham
endeavoured to extend the benefit to his more
distant relations, and was strenuous in his exer-
tions to restore the true principles of Masonry, as
the most effectual means of leading men's minds,
by gentle and imperceptible degrees, to the true
worship of God. This was an attempt replete
with danger, in those ages of violence and aTbi-
trary power. The vengeance of the Chaldeans
was elicited against the innovator ; and they ap-
plied to the king of Assyria to stand forward
in defence of their religion, which was openly
threatened with destruction. The authority which
Abraham possessed was scarcely sufficient to pro-
tect him from the fury of this potent monarch.
Trembling for his own sovereignty, if the mys-
teries by which his despotism was upheld were
exposed to public execration, he overwhelmed
the patriarch with every species of p-ersecution,
Digitized by Google
FREE-MASONRY. 159
and condemned him to perish by fire. He escaped
this judgment by a precipitate flight.•
Thus expelled from their native country by the
hand of violence, Terah, with Abraham his son,
Lot his grandson, and others who acknowledged
the God of their fathers, took refuge in the land
afterwards called Haran, in honour of their rela-
tive of that name, who died before they migrated
from Ur. They remained in this country, in the
peaceable practice of our rites, for about five
years : but the fascinations of the Cabiric rites,
strengthened by the force of ancient preposses-
sions, and the practice of their neighbours, caused
Terah and his son Nahor, who had long oscillated
between the two opinions, to decide at length in
favour of the splendid error ; and they deviated
from the practice of piety to the true God, and
returned t() their superstitions.t The Almighty,
therefore, selected Abraham for the subject of a
peculiar revelation ; he separated him from his
kindred, and with promises of superior blessedness
to himself and his posterity, he sent him fort-h,
accompanied by his nephew Lot, into the landr of
Canaan, the place he had selected for his own
peculiar residence ; and the scene on which his
glory was to be displayed to the world.
Abraham, believing the promises of God,
• Judith, v. 8. t Josh., xxiv. ~
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES O:i'
obeyed the divine command without knowing
where he went, or what dangers he might en-
counter in entering on the possession of a land,
to which he had no claim by inheritance. Here
he dwelt in tents with his family, looking for
u a city which hath foundations, whose builder
and maker is God."• And here God renewed
the ancient covenant, which appeared to be lost
amongst mankind.
After a residence of about three years in this
country, Abraham was stimulated with a desire
· to propagate his knowledge, and assert the honour
of God in other countries, which were deeply
impregnated with the defilements of idolatry.
In the first rank of corrupted nations stood Egypt,
and thither he resolved to go. ·Animated with
the hopes of vindicating and restoring the worship
of God, he introduced himself to the priests by
his knowledge of the mysteries acquired in the
land of Chaldea, and endeavoured to convince
them of the great absurdity of their cosmogony,
and the dishonour they did to God by encourag-
ing the worship of dead men. He exhibited the
superior advantages of the science which he prac-
tised, and even initiated some of them into its
mysteries. But the temporal honours and emolu-
ments they enjoyed were too valuable to be relin-
* Heb., xi. 8-10.
Digitized by Google
FREE~MASONRY. 161
quished for a science, whose rewards were deferred
to a futtire state. The favour and 'countenance
of their ~onarch, and the influence they had
acquired in his councils, were objects of too great
importance~ even with the most learned and con-
scientious of them, to be changed, probably, for
persecution or death ; and, therefore, though
they esteemed Abraham as a man of most extra-
ordinary erudition and ability, they declined em-
bracing his systems for reforming theit religion
and worship.. . .
Abraham became so eminept throughout the
world for his piety and learning, that from his
· e~ample the kii1gs of the surrounding nations,
untaint~d with the stubborn policy of Egypt;
were incited to study deeply the mysteries of their
national religion. But it was generaHy too much
interwoven with the selfish designs of priests and
hierophants to be renounced for a system of infe-
rior splendour, though of greater purity and truth ;
and few natiohs were actually led to embrace the
true religion through the principles of Masonry
communicated by Abraham.
The Persians were .descended from Shem
through his son Elam, and adhered to ·these
prin~iples for some time after they became a dis-
tinct nation; until, either by the Cabiri them-
• Nice>!. Damas., in Euseb. Prep. Evan.
M
Digitized by GoogIe
16i ANTIQUITIES ·oF
selves or their descendants, they were seduced
into the worship of the sun, moon, and stars, .by
th~ fascinating ~ysteries of these eminent men.
The patriarch Abraham had the honour to con-
vince them of their own erroneous practic~•
He reformed amongst them the rites of Masonry,
and converted them to the worship of God their
creator. The fame of his opposition to the Chal-
d¢an mysteries, the credit he had acqui.-ed in
his disputations with the Egyptian priests, as well
as his knowledge of ancient Masonry, had reached
Persia; which induced some learned Persians to
pay him a visit, for the. purpose of studying a
science so much celebrated. Abraham complied
with their wishes, and taught them the superiority
of Masonry over the absurd rites of idolatry;
shewed them how the LIGHT shined amidst the
DARKNEss of the heathen world, which the dark-
ness could not possibly comprehend ; and impart;.
ed many valuable theological and philosophical
secr~ts, to regulate their faith and practice, and
wean them from the· superstitious mysteries of
their own depraved worship.
On their return these men succeeded in restor-
ing the primitive religion ; which, however, r~
tained its,influence only a very short time, for the·
wild and marvellous fables of error being more
'*' Hyde, Rei. veter. Pers.
Digitized by GoogIe
FJlEE·MASONRY. lf>S
fascinating than the sober dictates of truth, they
became more enamoured with the license of their
former follies, after having reluctantly submitted
to the restraints imposed by reason and religion.
The disquisitions of Abraham on the comparative
merits of LIGHT and DARKNESS, being voluntarily
. misunderstood, were. perverted to lend a sanction
to new and i~probable superstitions. So great
was the avidity with which they returned to their
former errors, that,· not content with practising
Zabiism, they added to it the horrid and unnatu~·a)
rites of Magiism : which embraced the acknow-
ledgment of a God called Yazdan or LIGHT, who
had existed from all eternity ; in opposition to an
evil demon called Ahraman or DARKNESS,. to
whom they ascribed every evil that fell upc:m
them.
The prophecy of Enoch being communicated to
them, that the Lord shQuld be reveale-d in the latter
days, wflaming FmE, totake vengeance on the wol·-
shippers of false gods, they miserably prostituted
thitJ great truth to advance the interests of super.
stition, and worshipped fire a~ the represe~tative.
of Yazdan or Light : hence their priests were
Called .Magi, which signifiel' worshippers of fire.
The ·cabiric mysteries were remodelled in Persia
by Zoroaater, and consecrated to the sun under
the appeUatioo. of Miduas; and this worship.
supported by these rites, remained in Persia long
)I ~
Digitized by GoogIe
164 ANT1Qt1ITIE8 OF
after the introduction of Christianity into . the
world.
Here we have a striking exemplification of the
, proneness of mankind to embrace a splendid error,
'
J rather than sober truth. The rites of the Dii
Cabiri, combining magnificence with mysterious
secrecy, were received with unqualified and even
tumultuous approbation, by almost every people
to whom they were pro.Posed ; while the sedate
and unassuming science which taught the placid
worship of one God, unadorned with sumptuous
statues or imposing embellishments, was rejected
by all mankind, except a seleCt portion of the
descendants of Abraham.
Abraham returned from the land of Egypt, and
settled at Mamre, after dividing the unoccupied
land in Canaan with his nephew Lot, and built an ·
altar to the Lord, for the more convenient prac-
tice of the rites of his religion. About this time
the Assyrians made war upon- the cities of the
Plain, which were become the residence of Lot ;
and not only obtained a complete victory over,
their kings, but took Lot and all his family and
substance~ and carried them away with the pur-:
pose of selling them as slaves. Abraham received
early intelligence of the captivity of his relations,
and arming his followers, pursued the Assyrians,
and overtook the rear of their army, which had
charge of the prisoners, at D~n. With the small
Digitized by GoogIe
f'REE·MASOlifRY. lt)5
force he had suddenly .collected he immedjately
attacked the enemy with courage and resolution,
and res.cu~d the prisoners ·and spoil out of their
hands. Mekhizedek or Shem resided at Salem,
and maintained the · true Patriarchal dignity of
king, priest, and prophet, living in the immediate
practice of our science, and the genuine worship
of the mo.
st ·high God. Hearing of Abraham's
success, he went out ceremoniously to meet him
on·his return; publickly applau~ed his .courage and
.conduct, and rewarded him with a solemn bene-
diction, in his official capacity of a true and re-
gularly constituted priest of the true God.
A short time after this transaction, which con-
ferred on Abraham a great share of reputation
amongst the nations around him, God promised
hlm a,son, in a~swer to his prayers, whose pos-
terity·should be as the stars of heaven for multi-
tude ; and covenanted to give his seed the land of
Canaan for an inheritance.
·~rah his Wife continuing barren, Abraham took
her maid Hagar for his concubine, and she bare
him Ishmael, whom Abraham acknowledged as
the child ~f promise ; and he was not undeceived
till Ishmael was twelve or thirteen years of age.
The Lord·JEHOVAH appeared to him, and declared
that the child to whose posterity he had promised
th·e land of Canaan ·should be born of Sarah his
M3
Digitized by GoogIe
166 ANTIQUITIES OF.
wife ; but that Ishmael also should be the &tber
of a great nation.
The inhabitants ofSodom and Gomorrab, hav-
ing degenerated from tlae principles inculcated
by Noah, were addicted to every species of abo-
minable wickedness. JEHoVAH, accompanied by
two angels, appeared to Abraham in the plains
of Mamre, and renewed the promise of a SOil by
his wife. He further revealed the heavy judg-
ments about to be inflicted on that devoted city,
of which Lot was'an inhabitant, for the &c~:um\P
lated sill8 of its population. Abraham, trembling
for the safety of his own connexions, undertook to
.intercede for the salvation of the city; and re-
ceived an assurance that if ten men, unpolluted
with the prevailing vices of the city, could be
found amongst its inhabitants, their virtues should
redeem the rest. The conditions of this test
could not be complied with ; and after the safety
of Lot, his wife, and two daughters was pro-
vided for, the cities were utterly destroyed by
fire from heaven ; and the very scire swallowed
up, and converted into a lake of the IJlOit pas~
lential qualities.
Abraham now removed to Gerar, a Philistine
city, with his family; and Abimelech, its monarch,
·being struck with the beauty of Sarah, proposed
to marry her as the sister of Abraham. He ap-
pears to have possessed !tOme knowledge of that
Dig1tizod by Coogle
FREE·MASONRY. 167
science which teaches the worship ofGod in spirit
and truth: for when he thus erred in coveting
the wife of Abraham, God vouchsafed to appear
- to him in a dream, and expostulated with him on-
his violation of the laws of hospitality, in endea-
vouring to deprive the sojourner of his wife. But
Abimelech, terrified at the recollection of the
judgments- God had inflicted on the cities of the
Plain, appealed to the Lord in defence of his in-
tegrity, and was justified; for God said, " I know
that thou didst this in the integrity of thy heart,
for I also withheld thee from sinning against me:
therefore suffered I thee not to touch her. - Now,
therefore, restore the man his wife ; for he is a
prophet, and he shall pray for thee, and thou shalt
live ; and if thou restore her not, .know thOu, ihat
thou shalt surely die, and all that are thine/'• -
And God recommended. him to cultivate the
friendship of Abraham, by whom he should learn
more _
perfectly the true way of His worship and
reasonable service. Alri.melech profited by this
vision, and with the assistance of Phicol his chief
captain, prevailed on .Abraham to enter into co-
venant with him, that he might be successful in all
his public and private undertakings. The sign
and token of this covenant were seven ewe lambs,
• Gen. xx. 6, 7.
M4
- Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OP
the word Beersheba ; and it was ratified by the
solemn obligation of an oath.
Sarah was now delivered of the child ofpromise,
in the hundredth year of Abraham's age, whom
he named Isaac, and circumcised on the eighth
day. The birth of this child proved a cause of
rejection, both to Hagar and Ishmael. In this
remarkable transaction between Abraham and his
Egyptian servant is displayed the dilference
between BoNo and FREE. Abraham made a grand
festival at the weaning of his son I~~, because
he was the child of promise, ~nd born of a free
woman. But Ishmael, born of a bond-m&i~ and
brought up under her direction, was addJcted to
many vicious habits, arising out of the con-
taminated education of his mother in Egypt. At·
this great feast, Sarah detected Ishmael mocking
and perplexing her son, on account Qf the great
preparations that were making to celebrate his
. ablactation. Fearing lest Isaac should be con.
taminated by the effects of evil example, she
conjured Abraham to cast out the bond-woman
and her son ; and urged as an incitement to this
apparent act of injustice, that the son of the
· bond-woman could not unite in the inheritance
with her son Isaac. She knew that from the loins
of Isaac should issue a great and mighty people.
who sho'uJd serve the Lord with freedom, fer-
vency and zeal, and in. whom all the nations of
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY. 169
th.e earth should be blessed; and fearing that, ifthe
two youths should be brought up together, Isaac
might imperceptibly imbibe some of Ishmael's
depraved and slavish principles, being apprehen-
sive that the minds of slaves contained a species of
contamination and servility, distinct from the
honourable and uncorrupted mould in which the
mind of the free-hom ~s fonned and brought to
maturity. Influenced by these considerations, she
urged the dismissal of Ishmael with great warmth
and earnestness. The severityofthis request, how-
ever, raised sotne degree of compunction in the
breastofAbraham; and with all the- tenderness and
solicitude which a parent feels for the preservation
of his offspring, he hesitated to comply _
with his
wife's injunctions, and put up his petitions to God
for advice and assistance in this trying extremity.
But the Lord, who had pronounced that Ishmael
_should be a wild man ; his hand against ·every
man, and every man's hand against him,•
thought proper to divest him of Abraham's pro-
tection, that he might be prepared to convey a
peculiar character to his posterity; and to rely on
his own exertions alone for support in every ex-
tremity of his fortune. Hence Abraham was
commanded ·to send away Hagar and her son,
because in Isaac alone the promises ·of peculiar
• Gen. sri. Ul.
Digitized by GoogIe
{
I
\(
'
170 ANTIQUITIES OF
blessedness centred. Hagar and Ishmael were
therefore banished from his presence, and all his
property and substance were inherited by Isaac ;
together with .the privileges· of birth·right, the
sacerdotal, prophetical, and regal functions over '
his family.
Ishmael was at least fifteen years of age when he
left his father's house, and was very expert with
his bow. He procured a plentiful supply of pro.
vision in the desert of Beersheba by archery ; and
water was miraculously supplied in this barren
waste by the visible interference of God himself,
who continued his protection until the descendants
of Ishmael became a very numerous and powerful
people.
The typical sacrifice which Abraham was di-
, rected to make upon the summit ofMount Moriah,
is the next Masonic transaction which the history
of the world displays in this period, and is one of
the three. grand offerings which have consecrated
the floor of a Mason's lodge.
The true notion of ·a sacrifice is, an offering, by
an authorized person, of some animal, first killed
and then placed upon an altar and consumed by
fire, as an humble acknowledgment of God's
power and goodness to mankind, in their creation
and preservation from evil ; or as a full atonement
for the defilements of sin.
The sacrifice of Isaac was a sacrifice of atone.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY. 171
ment, and according to the rites of the patriarChal
worship, if he had been offered, he must have
fallen by the hand of his father. ISaac had
attained the twenty-fifth year of his age, and by
the sweetness of his disposition, and urbanity of
his manners, had not only endeared himself to his
aged parents, but had conciliated the_affections of
all his kinsfolk and acquaintance. But at this
period, when Abraham hoped to close his career
with joy, in the assurance of leaving his in-
heritance in the possession of a son, who would
keep the commandments of God, and practise
that mode of pure worship recommended by the
Deity himself, he unexpectedly ·received this
paralyzing command : " Take now thy son, thine
only son Isaac ·whom thou lovest, and get thee
into the land of Moriah, and offer him there for a
burnt offering upon one of the mountains which
I will tell thee of!"• Abraham~ though doubtless
. thunderstruck with so peremptory an order, sup..
pressed the tenderness of parental feeling, and
obeyed the divine injunction. " He rose up early
in the morning, and saddled his ass, and took two
of his young men ,with him, and Isaae his son,
and clave the wood for the burnt offering. and
rose up, and went unto the place of which God
had told him ;t" reflecting on the chequered and
• Gen. xxii. 2. t Gen. xxii. 3.
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
variegated scenes of this s~blunary state of ex-
istence.
The obedience of Abraham·in offering his son,
was founded on the strictest belief in the power
and promises of God ; for though it had been
declared that in Isaac all the nations of the
earth should be blessed, yet, when he had built
an altar on Mount Moriah, he fearlessly bound
Isaac and laid him thereon, and stretched forth
his arm to slay him, "accounting that God was
able to raise him up, even from the dead ; from
whence also he received him in a figure."• It
pleased the Lord, however, after the faith of
Abraham had been proved by his obedience, to
arrest his outstretched arm, and to provide a more
agreeable victim in the stead of Isaac, pointing
out a ram entangled in a thicket by his horns, ~ a
substitute for the human sacrifice he was about to
offer.
This was the proper type and representation of
the death of Christ. Isaac was born of Sarah,
contrary to the common course of nature, and
Jesus Christ was so born of a pure virgin. Three
.days elapsed fmm the C01'1imand to sacrifice Isaac
(from which time Abraham looked on him as dead)
and the ojfering, when he was, as it were restored
to life ; and precisely the same time elapsed
• Heb. xi. 19.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY. , 17S
between the actual death and rest.UTection ot
Christ. Isaac carried the wood to the top of
Moriah for his own sacrifice ; and Christ bare the
cross on which he was to .be suspended, to the
summit of C-alvary, an adjoining mountain. Isaac;
submitted without a murmur to be bound and laid
on the altar for sacrifice ; and Christ voluntarily
offered up his life ·upon the cross, as an eternal
sacrifice and propitiation for the sins of the world.
By this transaction Abraham was made ac-
quainted with the mystery of human redemption;
he saw the day of Christ and was glad.• And
this is a complete answer to those who assert that
Masonry contains no Christianity ; for this promi-
nent illustration of Masonry, the offering ofIsaac,
was the most significant tYI~e of the blessings to be
conveyed to man by the influence of Christianity,
that was ever revealed to a human being. Indeed
Christianity is the perfection of our institution ;
for if the great duties of Christianity be, as its
Divine Author has assured us, the performance of
our duty to God, our neighbour and ourself,t it
has directly the same tendency as Masonry, which
inculcates, as an object of primary importance,
the performance of precisely the same duties.
Christianity recommends love to God,t the sacred
T~ty in Unity; so does Masonry., Christianity
• John, viii. 56. t Mark, xii. 33. t 1st Epist. St. John.
Digitized by Google
)
174 ANTIQUITIES OF
inculcates .brotherly love,., relief,t and truth jl
.Masonry inculcates the same thing. Christianity
and Masonry unite in e~forcing the necessity of
faith, hope, and charity; and both say, " the
greatest of these is charity."§ The four cardinal
virtues, temperance, fortitude, prudence, and
justice, are amongst the number of both their
objects of general illustration ; and both equally
enforce the necessity of a holy life, through faith
in a mediator, from the most awful subjects of
contemplation which can impress a human being,
viz. death, resurrection, and an eternal existence in
a future state of happiness or misery, to be deter-
mined by the deeds done in this probationary state.
Who then shall say that Masonry contains no
Christianity? Or rather, who shall assert that its
illustrations are not principally Christian? For
if the virtues and doctrines I have enumerated
be Clwistian virtues and doctrines, they are also
Masonic; nay, they contain, with their parallels,
the whole system of speculative Masonry ; and
I do not know, were Masonry minutely analyzed,
that it contains a single illustration which does
not enforce a Christian doctrine, or recommend a
Christian virtue. If Masonry contain no Christia.
nity, why are our Lodges dedicated to Saint
" l st John, iv. ~1.
:j: 2d Cor. xiii. !:!.
t Acts, iv. 34, 37.
§ lst Cor. xiii 13.
Digitized by GoogI.e
FB.EB-MASONRY.
John the Evangelist? and why are our solemn
attestations ratified by an appeal to the truth of
God declared in the Gospels ?
But it is said that no institutions can assimilate·
whose origins are not coeval ; and as Masonry
was introduced on this globe at its first creation,
.and Chris~anity four thousand years afterwards, ·
it follows that Masonry and Christianity cannot be
assimilated as sister institutioas.
To say nothing of the IllQjor, the minor of this
argument is untrue. Masonry, to the inhabitants
of this g~obe, was indeed coeval with its creation ;
but the same may be said of Christianity, if the
Scriptures are to be believed : for they ascribe
the salvation of mankind, .both under the patri-
archal and the Mosaic dispensation, to faith in
Jesus Christ. It was through faith in the pro-
mised Messias that Enoch was translated. By the
exercise of the same faith Noah was saved amidst
the general destruction of the world. By the
same faith, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, Moses,
and all -others celebrated for their piety in the·
Old Testament, were approved, and obtained a
good report, though they received not the pro-
mises, •which rested in Jesus, the author and
finisher of our faith.• Henc~ it may be deduced
that the only true and permanent religion from
the creation of this globe is what we now term
• V~de Heb. xi.
Digitized by GoogIe
176 ANTIQUITIES OF
Christianity ;-• and if Masonry be founded on that
universal system of religion which is' calculated
to make men good and virtuous, it must be as-
similated with Christianity, as the only existing
religion·which encourages the kindly affections_ of
the human heart.
It is true that Masonry is not confined ex-
clusively to Christianity, but embraces all that is
great and good in every religion under the sun,
because it. confines its excitements to the practice
of morality, whatever the system of faith may be;
because it is an institution of charity or brotherly
love, and is not consequently a system of faith
but of practice ; but it does not embrace, or lend
the most indirect sanction to any religious institu-
tion which diverges, in the smallest 'degree, from
the systematic worship of one God, the Creator
and Governor of the world. But Masonry is
more peculiarly adapted to the genius of the
Christian than ally other religion, because in Chris-
tianity no1hing is erroneous; and if Masonry be
actually the beautiful system we believe and ac-
knowledge it to be, it can only be assimilated
with a pure religion. The professors of other
religions may indeed urge the same plea,· but as
truth must have some irrefutable standard. of
reference, our claims are founded on the most
• Vide AddreMeS from a Minister to bill Parishioners (II.), by the
outbor of tbis work, where the subject is minutely analyzed.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-~IASONR Y, 1?'7
ancient and most singularly protected books in
the world ; books which carry an internal evi-
dence of their authenticity which no · force of
argument has been able to remove. In a word,
the existence of Masonry in these times, purified
from the defilements which it contracted by an
incorporation with false systems of worship, in
every ager and amongst every p~opl~ for many
successive centuries, suffieiently evinces that its
origin was pure ; and that, though debased ·by
idolatry, amidst the moral darkness which ob--
scured the world during the long reign of super-
stition, when· the true religion laid prostrate the
usurpations of idolatrous worship, Masonry -
hailed
the great work of reformation, and appeared
am<>ngst mankind pure arid bright as in the days
of Enoch, Abraham, Moses, or Solomon. ·
·The· conclusion then· is this : Masonry on our
globe was coeval with .true religion, .which- we
now cali Christianity; was originally considered
a beautiful hand-maid to religion, and fr?m this
-belief was incorporated by the . descendants of
Noah into every new system formed by the vary-
ing fancies at vicious and designing men ; hence
its universality as a speculative or an operative
pursuit;' its 'essence continued Visible amidst the
fluctuations of all religious systems, and was more
or less expanded as they approximated to, or
diverged from the only true plan ofdivine worship.
N
Dig1tizod by Coogle
178 ANTIQUITIES OF
PERIOD IV.
--
CHAP. VII.
ON SYMBOLICAL INSTRUCTION.
THE great end and design of Masonry is to
make men virtuous and happy by the inculcation
of moral precepts, enforced by the most engaging
coJ}siderations that can be presented to the mind.
The medium of instruction used by our ancient
brethren, and still preserved pure and unimpared,
was by visible SJ!mbols, in which precepts of mo-
rality were curiously enfolded, and veiled from
common observation. Thus, in the Egyptian hie-
roglyphics, achild, an old man, a hawk, a fish, and
a riyer horse, properly arranged, 'were intended
to express this precept : " Let all mankind, from·
youth to old age, know th~:t.t the gods hate im- .
pudence.'' -
"In this hiero~lyphic system .the hero gods
not only represented, and were symbols of the
, supreme gods and subordinate _
deities, ~ut they
had each their animal symbol to represent their
peculiar power, energy, and administration ; and
tl;teir figures were compounded ofone part or other
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONItY.- 179
of their aymbols, to express more sensibly the
natural effects of divine energy attributed to them.
Thus Osiris, when he represented the power and
all-seeing providence of the .Supreme Being. had
a human body with a hawk's head, and a sceptre
in his hand, and decorated with the other regalia·
or ensigns of royalty. Orus was represented with
a staff or pillar, the capital of which was sur-
. mounted by the head of the upupa, to signify, by
the variegated feathers of that bird, the beautiful
variety of the Creation. In one of his hands
he held a lituus, to denote the harmony of the
system ; -and a gnomon in the other, to shew the
perfect proportion of its parts. Behind him wae
a triangle inscribed in a circle, to signify that the
world was made by the unerring wisdoni of God.
He had sometimes a cornucopia .in his hand, to
denote the fertility and production of the earth."*
This method of communicating instruction was
absolutely necessary in the Pythagorean school,
where each probationer was enjoined a five years'
silence. A great precept,of this school wu 'XtJtiJ~-W~
ixmexl'ri"'• abstai~ from Qeans. This was princi-
pally intended as a persuasive to continence, and
to refrain from the ~ontagion of illicit amours :
for Pythagoras inculcated· science upon his dis.
ciples as the best incentive to the practice of moral
• Smith's Use and Abuse of Masonry.
N2
Digitized by GoogIe
•
180 ANTIQUITIEi OF
virtue. This emb..ematicai species of instruction
was equally delicat~ "nd just, and served to inspire
the mind with the noble ardour of emulation, and
love of truth and virtue. The precepts of Pytha.
· goras were, indeed, all veiled in allegory; for
Jamblichus saith,* "he used to propound.an in-
finite number of significations to his .disciples by
short·and pithy sentences, in a symbolical manner.
The most divine Pythagoras wrapped up sparks
of" truth, for such as could kindle them, in a
concise way of speech, treasuring up in hidden
sentences most abundant theories, as ,PtA.61l/,, :a-6Tfl,,
friendship, equality; ,.,fxr~, world or heaven~
and the famous word tetractys•.
" Some of the
most celebrated symbols of Pythagoras are thus
explained by Jamblich~:~s. "Sacrifice and wonmip
barifoot" signifies that, in the worship of God,-we
ought to divest ourselves of those passions which
degrade our nature, and go into hiS; presence pure
and uncontaminated by any humaa defilement.
" Keep a tongue qf good report, following the
gods,'' carries its own explanation with it. " Take
oft'·your right shoe first, but put your ldtfoot first
into the ba.Son,'' is an earnest recommendation to
prudence and ·activity; that good actions may be
perfonned, and bad ones rejected. " Pass not
over~ balance," reCommends justice and tempe-
. • Jamblich.ts, cap. !9, p. 146.
Digitized by GoogIe
J'REE·MA$0NB.Y. 181
ranee in every pursuit. "Engrave not the image.
qf God in a ring," refers to the immateriality of
the gods, who ought to be worshipped without
:nny visible symbol. " Take not every one by.
the right h~nd," that is, contract not friendship
with the uninitiated, but confine your esteem to
those who, by long trial and probati'On, have been '
found faithful and worthy of your confidence. ·
" The first Hermes," .says the Chevalier Ram-
say, '' invented the ingenious art of expressing
all sorts of sounds by the different combinations.
of a few letters ; an invention most wonderful for
its simplicity, but not sufficiently admired, because
it is common : besides this manner of writing,
there was another, ·which was consecrated ~
divine· thing~ and which few persons understood•
.Trismegistus expressed the virtues and the pas-.
sions of the soul, the actions and the attributes of
the gods, by the figures ot animais, insects', pl::uits,
stars, ~d divers .o.ther sy;nt>olical characters:
hence it is that sphynxes, serpents, birds, and
crocodiles were placed in· their ancient ·temples,
and upon their obelisks ; but these were not the
objects of their worship. .Trismegistus concealed
the mysteries qf religion under hieroglyphics and
allegories, and exposed nothing to the eyes of the
vulgar, but the beauties of his morality. This
has been the method of the sages in all times, and
of the .great legislators in ·all countries ; these
N8
Digitized by GoogIe
1~ ANTIQUITIES OF
divine men were sensible that corrupted minds
could have no relish for heavenly truths, till the
heart was purified from its passions ; for which
reason they spread over religion a secret veil,
which opens and vanishes when the eyes of the
tmderstanding are able to support its brightness."*
The same system of instruction wa& practised
by the Jews under the Patriarchal as well as under
the Mosaic dispensation. The prophecies were
frequently delivered symbolically. Thus the Holy
Land is termed God's vineyard by Isaiah and other
prophets. The hiding of Jeremiah's girdle im-
plied the destruction of idolaters,t as the breaking
of a bottle did that of Jerusalem in generaU
Ezekiel pourtrayed the filthiness of the Jews by
the scum of a boiling pot ;§ and the union of
Judah and Israel by joining together two sticks.u
The series of prophecies uttered by Daniel, com-
prehending everymaterial transaction which should
take place in the world to the end of time, are
all delivered in the same manner ; and the Foun-
der of Christianity explained to his disciples the
mysteries shadowed beneath his symbols, but he
spake unto the rest of the world in parables,
which, without embracing his faith, they were
unable to understand.,
• Travels ef Cyrus, I. 3. t Jer., xiii.
(i Eze.k., xxiv. II Ibid, xxxvii. 16.
t Ibid, xix.
'l[ Mark, iv.ll. ·
Digitized by GoogIe
·FREE~MASONRY. 188
· To :fill the mind with images which may present
~emselves hi every transaction of life, which,
if evil, may call loudly upon the conscience to
shuri the danger, is surely a medium not to be
despised, particularly when recommendeg by such
high and unequivocal-sanctions. When engaged
in sinful practices, if any object appear in which
is wrapped up a familiar precept, indicating' the
punishment of sin, how insignificant soever ·that
object may appear to an eye unenlightened by
the rays which burn around it ; ·if it rouse the
sinner to a sense of his duty, and cause him to
abandon his evil pursuits, it has performed a
service over which angels shall re~ice, though
fastidious mortals may ridicule such a medium,
and pronounce it trifling and absurd.
The uninitiated may urge the absurdity of
·squares and compasses, mallets and chisels, be-
cause being mere instruments of labour, they· do
not present immediately to the. mind any visible
tendency to the cultivation of moral virtue. But
were the useful lessons they contain openly dis-
played and fully comprehended, Masonry would
n'o longer be an object of ridicule.or aspersion,
but would occupy the :first rank amongst those
human sciences which confessedly promote .the
benefit of mankind. From the chequered ground-
work of a Mason's lodge to its splendid and ce.:
lestial covering, it conta.inA lio point, part, or secret
N 4 '
Digitized by GoogIe
184 ANTlQ.UITIES OF
which does not convey a fund of valuable infor-
mation. The Mason in his full clothing is a strik-
ing emblem of integrity, and a perfect m~del of
wisdom, strength, a:nd beauty. The white apron,
gloves and wand~ which are characteristic of his
profession, have a direct reference to the inno-
cence and purity with which he ought to be in-
vested, by an adherence to the invaluable lessons
which they contain. In all ages, .and amongst
all people, white robes have been assumed as
characteristic of innocence and ·purity. Such
were the robes worn by the priests of Egypt and
Greece, the Druids of Gaul and Britain, the
Bramiru; of India, th~ Gymnosophists of Persia,
&c. And in such garments, under the Christian
dispensation, were the Catechumens habited after
baptism, to express the purity they had obtained
through the performance of that initiatory rite.
The ·universal c.xtent of his lodge, referring to
the unlimited obligation of Masonry, is well ex- .
pressed by Zophar in his Masonic address to Job :
" It is as high as heaven, deeper than hell; the
measure thereqfis longer than the earth, and broader
than the sea."*' It stands due east and west, that
its governors may behold the rising and the setting
of the sun, with sentiments of devotion and gra-
titude to Him who appointed that luminary as a
• Joh, ,..j, 8, 9.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE·.MAiONRY. 185
blessing to his creatures. Its peculiar situation
is in the vale of Jehosaphat. The highest qf hills
or the loav:st qf valliet was in ancient times ac-
counted most sacred... Thus tradition placed the
peculiar residence of God on the summit of Mo11nt
Horeb ; and Ezekiel declares that " on the top
of the mountain the whole limit thereof round
shall be most holy."• The Bible, square, and
compass point out the sacred source of his faith,
and the rectitude of his practice : for while the
former, which is always open in the lodge, is
considered the rule and standard of his faith and
hope, the two latter have the same reference to
his life and actions. The Bible is the sacred
compact between God and man; for in that holy.
book the divine will in essentials is so clearly re-
vealed that he who runs may read ; and the way
of salvation is so explicitly pointed out, that the
sojourner shall not err therein. TQe· compass is
appropriated to the Grand Master, as the supreme
governor of the institution, because it is the most
comprehensive and useful instrument in fonning
plans and designs, which belong exclusively to
his province ; for on the art and judgment with
which he applies this instrument depend the ge-
neral beauty_and harmony of the whole. The
square belongs to the brethren m general,· be-.
• Ezek., xlili. 12.
Digitized by GoogIe
186 A:NTIQUITI£11 OF
cause their obligations are founded upon, and they
are consequently bound to square their actions by~
theprinciplesefvirtueand right reason. From these
visible symbols Masonry teaches, in its beautiful
and expressive phraseology, to keep within com-
pass, and act upon the square with all mankind, but
more particularly with brethren. And this is con-
sistent with the teaching of Christianity. St. Paul
·· has interpreted this precept in his truly Masonic
address to the Galatians : " As we have therefore
opportunity, let us do good _
unto all men, espe-
cially unto them who are of the household of
faith."•
The jewels, both moveable and immoveable,
have a significant reference to what is most dear
and valuable to man in this mortal state; exposed,
as he is, to sorrow, sickness, pain, and adversity.
The square is an instrument by which truth and
perfection are attained in all manner of architec-
ture ; and consequently recommends morality
and justice in all our commerce with mankind.
The level is an emblem of equality, and demon-
strates, that as we are descended from the same
stock, partake of the same nature, and share .the
same hope, we ought strictly to render unto
others the same measure of kindness and affection
which, in similar circumstances, we should require
• Gal., vi. 10.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY. 187
of them. The plumb is an emblem of integrity,
_
and admonishes to walk uprightly in our station ;
to hold the scale of justice in equal poise ; to
observe the happy medium between intemperance
and rigid self-denial ; and to make our passions
and prejudices coincide with the straight line of
duty. The tracing board refers to the eorrect
plans and designs traced by the great Architect
of the U!)iverse in the Holy Bible, which consti-
tute the summit and perfection of a Mason's
faith and hope. We have also other emblematical
jewels, to.denote the mind qf man in its progress
from infaDcy to old age, from ignorance to know~
ledge. In the dawn of Jife, uncultivated nature
feels -its own inferiority, and is like a rough and '
shapeless stone newly taken from the quariy,
'!hich requires the skilful hand of patient indus-
try to mould it into ·form. Manhood succeeds,
and the ripening faculties, emulating perfection,
press on with diligence and assiduity, to the great
object of .rational attainment. And when old
age comes on, the placid mind, reflecting on a
well spent life, devoted to acts of piety and
virtue, looks forward to another and a better state
of existence, where,· infinitely perfect, it will be
-filled with the fullness of God. This state of
mind may be aptly compared to a well wrought
and highly polished cubical· stone, accurately exact
in all its lines.and angles; which thwgh mi.tw~ly
Digitized by GoogIe
188 ANTIQUITIES OF
tried ·with the square and compass, will be pro-
nounced good,·perfect, and complete.
That most brilliant virtue prudence is repre-
sented in a Mason's Lodge by a blazing star,
which is placed in the c~ntre that every Mason's
eye may be upon it, to ·expand his heart and
influence his actions ; that his conscience may
never condemn him for exceeding the bounds
which prudence prescribes, and that he may al-
ways be animated with the cheering reflection of
its unqualified 'approbation. The starry zone of
prudence, like the broad and spangled ecliptic
illuminated with studs of brilliant stars which
circumscribes the universe, fom1s the sacred en-
,.elope of all human virtues.
The groundwork of a Lodge points out the
recurrence of prosperity and adversity with which
the life of man is variegated and chequered; a~d
administers the most soothing consolation under·
the pressure of calamity or afBictioii. It displays
the God of all comfort in his dispensations ·or
mercy and justice ; and shews that however man
may be exalted above his species here on earth.
while blest with prosperity, and animated with
strength and health and spirits, in the humble
grave all are on a level, death destroying all
human distinctions, for the dust of the most
potent monarch is not ·distinguishable from the
dust of the lowly pauper. Thus is humility in-
Dig1tizod by Coogle
FREE-MASONRY. 189
culcated; and thus are we instructed to submit
with cheerful resignation to the dispensations of
Providence ; assured that the hand which gives
can also take away. This is a subject which
_affords ample scope for illustration, and has a
rank assigned to it in the Lodge commensurate
with its high and paramount importance. _
The covering of a Lodge.is that superb canopy
spread over it by the Almighty Creator of all
things. ·The blue, purple, and crimson covering
of the first temple erected to the exclusive wor-
ship of God by Moses in the wilderness, was a
striking symbol of this splendid arch, illuminated
with the rays of that great and burning luminary
which cenveys life, light, and motion to all
earthly things. The ground and covering are
connected .by means of a ladder consisting of
three principal steps and resting on the Holy
Bible ; by which every .Mason, who firmly exer-
cises the ·virtues they represent, hopes to. leave
behind the unsatisfactory pursuits of mortality;
and mount, with the angels in Jacob's vision, to
a better country, even the holy city of God.
Thesethree principalstepshave adirect reference
to three theological virtues, FAITH, HoPE, and
CHARITY, of which Charity possesses the highest
and most distinguished rank : and the reason of
this will be evident, if we distinctly consider the
Digitized by GoogIe
190 ANTIQUITIES Oil
eXclusive-properties of these virtues, and <kduce
from thence the incomparable.excellence of uni-
versal charity.
FArTH is a firin and sincere assent to the funda-
mental truths of.religion, the being of a O'o~ the
divinity of Christ, the saviour and judge ofman-
kind, a future state of rewards and punishments,
and the means and conditions -of avoiding the
one and securing the other. This faith, as the
true basis of all religion, is the first incentive to
holiness; and through its medium we are justi-
fied, accepted, and finally received.
HoPE is an earnest and well-assured eKpectation
of _escaping threatened dangers, and obtaining
promised rewards. The simple act of faith, or
belief, in the existence of a heaven to rewud,
and a hell to punish, without knowing how to
obtain the former and avoid the latter, would hE'
a state of suspense, dark and appalling as the
shades of midnight,. without a ray to cheer us in
our passage through the gloomy vale :·hence arise
the consolations of hope, which prompts us to a
steady perseverance in the path of duty, that
we may finally surmount all impeding obstacles,
and receive the eternal rewards of our virtuous
endeavours.
CHARITY, in its greatest latitude, ·is an ardent
love of God, united· with an unfeigned affection
Digitized by GoogIe
{"REE·MASONRY. 191
for all his creatures. The love of God naturally
inspires the· love of our brother,• created by the
same architect, formed of the same clay, spring-
ing from the same common parent, and cemented
by the most indissoluble ties. The love of our
brother is one of the principal conditions of our
initiation into God's friendship, who is the father
and generous preserver of us all. Hence, ifcthe
vivifying beams of God's love be not shed abroad
in the heart, there will exist little fraternal affec-
tion ; but the common bond of Masonry and
religion being violated, there can be no hopes of
good fruit proceeding from so impure a stoek,
and thus ·both are c3lumniated from the vicious
conduct of some o( their professors. Charity is
not' capable of a more restricted sense : for, if it·
be disunited from the love of God, and under-
stood simply of brotherly love, it would be a
virtue of inferior rank, and must yield precedence
to both faith and hope. But consider charity in
its most extended signification, as the pure and
unfeigned love of God and-man; and the doctrine
of ·Masonry, corroborated by the argument of
Saint Paul,t will be fully understood and ad-
mitted : and this argument lends a most powerful
and decisive sanction to Masonry, which, shielded
by the unequivocal support of such a high autho-
. " 1 .John iv. :10. t 1 Cor. xiii•
Digitized by GoogIe
..,.
19~ ANTIQUITIES OF
rH:y, can never be overthrown by the united force
of prejudice and passion.
A comparison of these virtues will shew, more
distinctly, why charity is so preeminently exalted
above the other two.
Faith is the evidence of things not seeri, the
substance of things hoped for. Charity is the
sublimity of faith and hope, and may be deno-
minated a grapd and beautiful entablature of good
works, supported by the strong pillar of hope,
and founded upon the wise and broad pedestal of ·
·faith. From this uncontaminated source we are
supplied with WISDOM from above, which sheds its
light like the BLAZING STAR in the centre of
heaven's glorious arch, with STRENGTH to support
US while treading the MOSAIC PAVEMENT of this
uncertain life, chequered with the variegated
scenes of good and evil, and with BEAUTY like
a rich TESSELATED BORDER of brilliant stars, to
adorn our good works, which, shining before men,
may tend to the glory of our Father who is in
heaven.
Faith is the basis of religion ; it points to duty
and reward, deafly presents to view the means of
·obtaining the promises, strongly obligates the
conscience and inclines the will to compliance.
'fhus We.ascend the FIRST STEP of the MASONIC
LADDER. Hope is a column raised on the basis of
faith that God is, and that he is a rewarder of
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY. 198
them that diligently seek him: this consoling
\
, assurance adds vigour to the performance of duty,
quickens the pursuit after ,happiness, circum-
scribes our wishes within the compass of God's
· promises, and enables us to win the SECOND. STEP.
Charity is the ornamented capital which completes
the fabric, even the THIRD and SUBLIME STEP,
embosomed in clouds and encircled wfth rays of
everlasting glory.
0
Digitized by GoogIe
' .
J94 ANTIQUITIES
-
. CHAP. VIII.
CONTAINING THREE HUNDRED AND EIGHTY YEARS.
-
VIEW OF MASONRY FROM THE OFFERING OF
ISAAC TO THE DELIVERANCE FltOM
EGYPTIAN CAPTIVITY.
THE opening of this period displays Masonry
as inculcating the principles of Christianity still
more unequivocally and distinctly, if FAITH, HOPE
and CHARITY be considered as Christian virtues ;
for amongst Masons they are referred to a transac- .
tion which illuminates this age of the world ; and
by which all good Masons hope to arrive at a
building not made with hands, eternal in the
heavens.
Abraham buried· his wife Sarah in a sepulchre
in the field of Machpelah, at the age of one hun-
dred and twenty-seven years. He endeavoured
to console himself for her loss by obtaining a wife
for his son Isaac ; and bound his ste'Yard by a
most solemn oath to procure one amongst his own
kindred 10 the land of Mesopotamia. His com-
mission was successful, and he returned with Re-
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY. . 195
bekkah the daughter of Bethnel, the son of Nahorr
Abraham's brother.
In those ages an oiith was used on all solemn
and extraordinary occasions. · It was considered
as an awful ackn~wledgment of the ~niversal
presence of God, as well as of his supremacy over
all created things, including a belief that he has
power to avenge himself on all who shall _
violate
such a solemn appeal to his truth and justice:; and
soliciting help fro,m God implies also a desire to
avoid the penalty, by a firm resolution to ~bserve
the prescribed condition. In primitive times men
sware by lifting up their hands 'to heaven ;• by
putting their hand under another's thigh ;t by
imprecation ;t and by standing before the altar.§
This last method of making an oath was in use
also amongst the idolatrous nations ; particularly
the Athenians, the Romans, and the Carthagi-
nians.
The mysteries and worship of idolatryt not..
withstanding their rapid progress by the indefati-
gable zeal of Ham, Mizraim, Isis and Ashtaroth,
wit~ their able coadjutors the Cabiri, had ·not
wholly superseded Masonry in Arabia "Oeserta ;
for Job publickly renounces both the O!lP. a111d the
other in the presence of his friends, and·acknow-
• Gen. xiv. 22. t Gen. xxiv. 2 and xlvii. 29. :1: 1st Sam,
xiv. 44.: lat Kiagc, xx. 10. . § 1st Kings, viii. 31.
0 Q
Digitized by GoogIe
196 ANTIQUITIES OF
ledges the practice of them worthy of punish-
ment.• The conclusion of his speech, in answer
to Bildad the Shuhite, contains a series.of Masonic
dutieS;. all of which he solemnly declares he has
uniformly executed.t And hence his integrity
excited the Jiesentment of Satan, whose ordinances
he had despised and rejected. " Job qnd hi friends
wor hipped the one true God in incerity and
truth ; and their religious knowledge was in ge-
neral such as might have been derived from the
early patriarchs."+ He reiterate the doctrines
and duties of Masonry throughout the whole of
his expostulation s.In oppo ition to the multi-
plicity of gods, taught in the les er mysterie , he
appeals to the brute creation for an acknowl dge-
ment of one God, the creator and preserver of all
things. " Ask the beasts, and they hall teach
thee ; and the fowl of the air, and they hall
tell thee : or speak to the earth, and it shall teach
thee ; and the fishes of the sea shaH declare unto
thee. Who knoweth not in all these that the
hand of the Lord hath wrought this?"§
After the death of Abraham, Re~ekkab bore
unto Isaac twin children, Esau and Jacob; of
whom it had been predicted, that the elder should
serve the younger. ~ Esau, of a wandering and
unsettled di po ition, avoided the society of his
• Job, xxxi. 26-28. t Ibid. xxxi. 14. to end. t: Bishop
Tomline's Thcol., oar c. 2. § Job, xii. 7, 8, 9. , Gen. xu. A
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY. 197
own kindred; associated with. the inha~itants of
Canaan, and with the Hittites ; and probably
his wanderings might occasionally extend to
Egypt. He was, howev:er, early initiated into
and tainted With, the idolatrous rites of the neigh-
bouring nations ; and gradually seceded from the
God of his fathers. His indifference to the rights
of primogeniture, which included the sacred office
of priest or sacrificer to his family, induced him
tO dispose of them for a trifling consideration : he
was, therefore, rejected by God, termed a '4 pro-
fane person,"• because he slighted that privilege
which gave him undisputed dominion over the '
spiritual as well as the temporal affairs of his
brethren: but JlJ-cob, who adhered to our science
as revived by Abraham and practised by Isaac,
·received the approbation of God, and was suffered
to obtain, not only Esau's birthright; but also his
father's blessing.
··Isaac secretly encouraged a partiality for his
.eldest son, in whom he might conceive the pro-
mises centred; and hoped, notwithstanding he
bad deviated from the faith of his fathers,. that
the blessing of Abraham might descend through
him. · But Rebekkah, grieved at the preference
given ·to · Esau ; who had already taken wives
from among Hittites, and· given in other respects
• Heb. xii. 16.
0 8
'
Digitized by GoogIe
198 ANTIQUITIES _OF
- strong symptoms _of apostacy ; hoped to find
means of obtaining for her son Jacob, his father's
blessing. Apprized therefore of Isaac's intention
to confer oD Esau the great' privilege of .his
birthright; and hearing him give directions for
a collation of venison, as a preparatory ceremony ·
to ·imparting his final blessing ; by policy .she
obtained for Jacob the rights and privileges of
primogeniture, which were solemnly conveyed
and ratified by the irrevocable covenant, to which
God himself was a witness.
Esau was exasperated almost to madness at
being thus supplanted a second time by his bro-
ther ; and only waited until the death of ISa.ac
to execute his resentment upon Jacob, and avenge,
by a deed of violence, the privileges he had ·
lost ; for he bad become fully sensible of their
value and consequence. His. mother, to avert
the threatened danger, sent Jacob to Padanaram,
a distant country in the land of Mesopotamia, ·
that he might remain in 'safety under the pro-
tection of his maternal uncle Laban. A fugitive
from his own country, alone and friendless, over-
come with the bodily exertion of his journey,
·augmented by anxiety of mind, he laid himself
down to rest at a place called Luz, with the
cold earth for his bed, a stone for his pillow, and
the cloudy canopy of heaven for his covering.
Here it pleased the Lord to impart that comfort
which his situation so imperiously demanded ;
• Digitized by GoogIe
J'REE·liASONRY. 199
S.nd which was conveyed to his senses through
the medium of a most extraordinary vision.• -He
.thought he saw a LADDER, composed of staves or
rounds innumerable ; whose foot was placed or.
the earth, but whose top extended to heaven, and
was enclouded with a radiant circle of celestial
glory. On this ladder the angels of God ap.
peared as the authorized ministers of his dispen-
sations ofj ustice and mercy. Some were ascend-
ing to receive divine.commissions from the foun.:
tain of all goodness, and others_were descending
to execute these commissions on the earth. Sud-
denly there appeared, amidst the beams of glory
which encircled the ladder's top, the Almighty
Architect of the universe in person ; who ad-
dressed the sleeping Jacob in words ful1 of peace
and consolation. " I AM the Lord God of Abr:a-
ham thy·father, and the God of Isaac : the land
whereon thou liest, to thee will I give it, and-to
thy seed, and thyseed shall be as the dust of the ,
earth ; and thou shalt spread abroad to the west,
and to the east, and to the north, and ·to the
south : and in thee, and in thy seed shall all the
families of the earth be blessed. And behold, I
ain with thee, and will keep thee in all _places
whitllE~r thou goest, and. will bring thee again
• The three most remarkable visions recorded in Scripture, are,
this of the Ladder, the vision of the Burning Bush, ·and- that of the
Ancient of Days vouchsafed to Daniel.
o4
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
into this land; for I will not .leave the~ until
I have done that which I have spoken to thee
This ladder, was a type of Christ, who is tlie
only way by which a created mortal can attain
the kingdom of God ; for no one ~an ascend up
into heaven, but through him who came down
from heaven. Its staves or rounds point out the
innumeraQle duties man is called on to perform
oh his jQurney from this world to a better. The
most prominent of these, and from which all the
rest emanate like rays diverging from a common
centre, are the three theological virtues, Faith,
Hope, and Charity. These virtues are of the
greatest estimation amongst Masons, for they
form the grand and fundamental basis of their
profession.
When Jacob awoke, he consec.rated the place,
which he conceived to be the house of God and
the gate of heaven, by the name of Bethel; be
set up the stone on which his head had reclined
for a pillar of testimony ; and vowed a vow, say-
ing, " If God will be with me, and will keep me
in this way that I go, and will give me bread to
~t, and raiment to put ~>D, so that I come.again
t.o my father•s house in peace, .then shall the Lord
o~ my God, and this stone which I have set for a
• Gen. xxviii. 13, 15.
Dig1tizod by Coogle
FREE-MASONRY.
pillar sh~1.ll be God's house;_and- of all that thou
shalt give me, I will surely give the ten~ unto
thee."• ,
Jacob married Laban's two daughters in Pada- '
naram, and, through the blessing ofGod, acquired
great possessions while in the ·humble capacity of ·
shepherd to his uncle. At length he was seized
with an ardent desire of returning to his own
country; and, despairing to obtain permission, he
departed secretly with all his substance.· Laban
followed him in great anger ; but being admo-
nished of God, he entered into a solemn league
with Jacob of mutual peace and amity, and set up
a pillar at Galeed as a sacred boundary to defend
their possessions from hostile encroachment.
Being thus relieved from the fear of Laban,
Jacob began to entertain alarming apprehensions
for the reception he was likely to meet with from
his .brother Esau, who had acquired authority
amongst the Horites, a powerful and barbarous
people who inhabited Mount Seir. These fears
were much increased when his messengers re-
ported that Esau was on his way to meet him, at
the .head of four hundred armed men. He con-
cluded that the hour of vengeance was arrived,
and gave himself up for lost. After preferring
the.most solemn petitions to God for assistance,
" Gen. xxvili, 20, !!,
Digitized by GoogIe
·ANTIQUITlES OF
in this extraordinary pressure of dreaded calamity,
he devised an expedient which he hoped woul~
appease his brother's anger, and disarm his re-
sentment. He separated his company into tw.o
divisions, that one might endeavour.to escape by
flight, if the other Khould,be destroyed ; he then
seleded a choice present of. his best flocks and
herds,_ and sent them before in separate droves,
removed his wives and children and women-ser-
vants over the brook Jabbok, and remained that
night alone.
To alleviate his distress, God vouchsafed to give
him a most extraordinary sign or token. The
same divine personage whom he had before. seen
at Bethel appeared to him in the form of a man,
and wrestled with him all that night; butcould not
prevail against him. At break of day, the angel
gave up the contest, and changed his name to
Israel, because he had power both with God and
man ; and assured him that, as he had not been
vanquished in that trial, so should he remain un-
subdued amidst all the apparent dangers which ,
might afterwards assail him.
The brothers met in the course of that day,
and a scene of the most affectionate tenderness
passed betweeri them. .When the first ebullitions
had subsided, Esau invited Jacob and his family
to reside at Seir, which he thought proper to de-
cline, under the apprehension that his flocks and
Digitized by GoogIe
'FREE-MASONRY.
herds might suffer by travelling through that
mountainous country. Esau, therefOf'e, ·returned
to his o~ land, and Jacob proceeded towards
Canaan.
Jacob had promised to worship God at Bethel,
on his return from Syria, and this promise -was
faithfully performed ; for when his 8WS had con-
quered and captivated the Shechemites, who had
become incorporated with his own family, he re-
formed the religion of that people, and ·wor-
shipped God· at Bethel. The Lord, therefore,
renewed the ancient covenant with him, and con-
firmed the promise of giving to his posterity the
land of Canaan for an inheritance. Jacob·after-
wards removed to Hebron, where his father still
lived, and, though old and labouring under tbe
afl_liction of total blindness, continued to practise
that science which we call Masonry.
Rachel, the beloved wife of Jacob, had died
in childbed of Benjamin, which afBicting circum-
stance, united with other· troubles of a domestic
· nature~ had partly aliel)ated his mind from •his
family. His daughter Dinah had been ravished
by the King of Shechem, for which his sons Si- ·
meon and Levi stimulated their brethren to the
slaughter of that people. Reuben had defiled his
bed by lying with his concubine :Bilhah at Edar,
which was detected by Joseph, which, added to the
dissentions of his children, had almost made him
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
weary of his life : he, therefore, secluded himself
from their society as much as possible; and his
sole enjoyment appeared to be in the education of
his son Joseph, ·whom he loved more tenderly than
his other sons, from the resemblance he bore to
his deceased mother.
He bestowed J?Ore than ordinary pains in illus-
trating the objects embraced by the science of
Masonry : he taught him the love of God to man
in his creation and preservation, and to himself
and his forefathers in particUlar, by selecting them
to be the m~ans of propagating the true religion
upon earth, and the medium through whom all
the nati.ons of the earth should be blessed ; he
described the wickedness· of the antediluvian
world, and the equity of God's vengeance in their
destruction by an universal Deluge: he instructed
him in all the mysteries of Providence, and
shewed him how God had rejected the idolatrous
nations for their irreligion, and had given theni
over to the sword and pestilence: he solicitously
taught him .the arts of social life, explained to.
him the system of the universe, shewed him· the
stars in their courses, and pointed out the divine
"
hand which had placed them in .the firmament
~nd directed all their motions ; ·expatiated on the
origin of sacrifices,_and the imminent peril of
deviating from the express commands of Go<J;
exemplified in. the punishment of Cain, and the
Digitized by GoogIe
· FREE-MASONRY.
judgments which had been inflicted on the Gentile
world ; denounced the curses of heaven on adul-
tery and fornication, and cautioned him against
contracting the.·moral defilement resulting from
such pernicious practices ; advised him to par#
with his life rather than part with his honour, and
bid him .gilard against a breach of the laws oi
•
1
hospitAlity.
He added to iliese instructions, the knowledge-
of.his duty to God, his neighbour, and himself,
and the exercise of that universal benevolence or
charity which constitutes the purest emanation of -
the Deity:· he taught his son the difficult task of
forgivi~g injuries, and of ·doing to others as -he
would have thelll' do to him : he neglected not to
inculcate the duty of.self-government, including I
a strict regard to temperance in his habits as well
as his passions, to fortitude regulated by pru-
dence, and to justice both distributive and com-
municative·: he shewed the necessity of a rigid
·?idherence to truth, as tile grand and jmmutable
test of moral virtue; and to mercy, as the digni-
fied attribute of heaven : he taught him secresy
and brotherly love, and bade him never to violate
'the sacred deposits of friendship, which would
be ·even worse than the Villainy of an assassin.
who stabs his adversary when unarmed and not
suspicious of a foe ; to sympathize with the af-
fiicted, to compassionate their sorrows, and to
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
relieve their distress, were duties he .taught him
, to regard as indispensable. In fine, he stored the
mind of his son with every precept which might
be useful in. prosperity or adversity ; either in his
commerce With God or man.
By a series of such instruction Joseph excelled
all his brethren in the knowledge of Masonry,
which excited their envy and hatred in the highest
degreti'. This was increased by the recital of
some dreams which indicated his superiority ; and
they resolved to accomplish his d~truction. His
death was decreed : but some of his brethren
relenting he was sold to the Ishmaelites ; · who
disposed of him to Potiphar, a chief officeriri the
court of Thusimares, king of J;.ower Egypt.
The knowledge which Joseph had acquired
from the sedulous industry of his father, assisted
doubtless by his grandfather Isaac, who was living
when he was sold into slavery, proved of infinite
service.to him in Egypt.' He resisted the attempts
of Potiphar's wife on his ch~tity, and suftered
imprisonment rather than violate the marriage ti~
Here God revealed to him the ·interpretation of
two remarkable dreams ; which introduced bini to
the notice of the·king; and eventually raised him
I
to a very dignified rank in _
the kingdom. In his
exaltation his knowledge of the social arts was of
peculiar .service·to ~imself, as well as beneficial
to the Egyptians ; and the authority he acquired
Digitized by GoogIe
PRE£-JriASONRT'.
in consequence, was equal, if not superior to that
of the king himsel£
The superiority of true Masonry over that which
had been deteriorated by the corruptions of idola-
try, is fully evidenced from the estimation t:hose
few were held in who practised it in purity, when
accident or design led them into idolatrous nations.
Thus Abraham was honoured by Janias, the nftb
pastor king of Lower Egypt, the .very c~tre of
~alse. and corrupted Masonry. And Joseph, who
excelled in the knowledge of this science, was so
highly distinguished by the same people, that they
requested him to accept the supreme government
of the fraternity, and to restore the primitive
, purity of ancient Masonry ; that they might be .
reconciled to the God they had renounced. He
was therefore installed their grand master, and
Thusimares placed him over all the land of E~
acknowledging that the spirit of the true God was
in him.• ·
Under his supe~tendence the learning of
Egypt was .much purified and advanced. He
communicated. wisdom to her rulers and chief
men;t and gave an impulse to their studies, which -
they had never before experienced. Encouraged
by new and unlooked.-for discoveries, the Egyp-
• Gen. ;di. 3P-. t Psalm•, cv, 22.
Dig1tizod by Coogle
ANTIQUITIES OF
tian priests pursued their scientific researches with
diligence and success.
Being appointed grand master of Masons, Jo-
seph took up his residence at Heliopolis, which
possessed the most celebrated college in Egypt
for wisdom and learning ; • and married Asenath
the daughter of Potipherah, the priest or prince
of that city. The dignity of Joseph's office is
forcibly expressed in the popular cry of Abreck,
translated in our Bibles- ' bow the knee ; ' t but
actually signifying tender father ; father to the
king; and the nature of his office is equally de-
signated by the appellation assigned to it by
Pharaoh. ZAPHNATHPAANEAH, a revealer qfsecrets.
Joseph now entered with great diligence and
assiduity on the active duties ofgrand master and
viceroy over all the land of Egypt. His prudence
and discretion .during the years preceding an ex-
pected famine, dictated a remedy for so dreadful
a scourge. He erected public granaries, and laid
up a fifth part of every year's produce in store,
as a ·certain .provision when the famine should
arrive. Here Joseph displayed that knowledge
and wisdom which he had received from his father.
·He divided the Masons into lodges, and placed
over each an expert master to direct its operations,
• Herod. Hist., I. ii. c. 3. t Ge11. xli. 43. ; and vide
Marg. Trans.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE:.MASONRY.
and to be responsible for every act of negligence
or error committed by the brethren under. his
superintendence. Over the whole he placed the
most eminent and skilful architects ; reserving to
himself the general direction of the works, and
the supreme authority vested in him by Thusi-
mares. From the excellency of the arrangements
and the regularity of the proceeding, these exten-
sive edifices were carr.ied on with amazing rapi-
dity, and were- prepared to receive the allotted
stores at the end of the first year.
During the famine Joseph had an opportunity ·
of practising that divine quality, inculcated so
earnestly by his father, as the ornament and per-
feCtion of Masonry, brotherly love. His bre-
thren, who had threatened his life, and had actually
sold him into slavery, pressed by the wants and
calls of nature, appeared before him in the guise '
of humble suppliants at his footstool, to beg a
supply of corn, that themselves and their children
might not perish by famine. Joseph knt:w them,
and beheld the accomplishment of his dream.
Acquainted with the perversity of their hearts, he
forbore to reveal himself, until he had ascertained
whether adversity had taught them that wisdom
which precept had failed to inculcate. After a
full probation of their present sentiments .and
feeling, he was fully convinced of their remorse
for past transgressions ; and, dismissing his at~
p
Digitized by GoogIe
~10 -~NTIQUITIIi:S OF
tendants, he gave his brethren a TOKEN, which
none but Masons are possessed of, and said, " I am
Joseph your brother ! Doth my father yet live?"
Their fears and compunction were only equalled
by their astonishment at finding Joseph-in such an
exalted situation, after having represented him as
dead for the space of twenty-two years. In the
true spirit of Masonry, Joseph gave them the right
hand qffellowship, dispelled their apprehensions,
and administered comfort, by assuring them that
- he harboured no. resentment for what they had
done, because he considered them as instruments
in the hands of a superintending Providence, to
save them from perishing with hunger.
They were invited with their .father and his
whole family, consisting of seventy persons, to
reside in Egypt ; and Thusimares gave them an
exclusive province of his empire for their habita-
tion, where they continued to practise the rites
of their religion in peace and harmony, under the
direction of the venerable patriarch Jacob, until
the time of his death ; which event took place
about seventeen..years after he had settled in the
land of Goshen.
The brethren ofJoseph, fearing lest the hitherto
stifled emotions of resentment should burst forth
and accomplish their destruction, now they were
left unprotected by the sanction of their father's
presence, dispatched an embassy, soliciting par-
oig,tized by Coogle
P'REE·:\IASONJtY,
don and forgiveness. Joseph's reply was cor..
respondent with the education he ha:d received.
Reminding them of the sacred principles in which
they had been nurtured, he assured them that
those principles were too firinly rooted in his heart
to permit him to return ~vii for evil. He advised
them to persevere in the worship of Him who
created ~d governs the world ; and while they
relied on that GRAND PILLAR for protection they
need not dread any interruption from him;· or
~m the people of that land over which he held
the viceroyalty.
Joseph retained his dignity eighty years, during
the reigns of four succ~sive monarchs ; and ~ied
at the advancedage of one hundred and ten years,
regretted both by prince and people for .his un-
paralleled wisdom and universal philanthropy.
He studied the best interests of the people, as
connected with the prosperity of the crown ; was
distinguished as an eminent legislator, in a land
celebrated for its excellence in the science of
legislation ; and raised, EKypt to a rank in the
scale of nations which it had never before at-
tained.
After the death of Joseph the Israelites re-
mained in Egypt until they became so numerous-,
that the inhabitants began to entertain apprehen-
sions for their own safety : for the miseries their
ancestors had suffered under the Paators' Iron
r ~
Digitized by GoogIe
'
ANTIQUITIEiii OF
Uod, gave them a fearful presentiment of what
might be their own ,unhappy lot if the Israelites
should rebel, and bnng them under subjection to
their authority. The lawless hand of power was
therefore raised against the unhappy descendants
ofJacob. Heavy burdens were imposed, in hopes
that their numbers might be reduced, and their
spirits broken, by degrading employments and ri-
gorous exactions. Distinguished by a difference
of apparel, as a badge of slavery,• they- were
compelled to work at public buildings ; and ac-
tually fortified Pelusium, and constructed the
cities of Raamses and Pithom. These oppressive
measures, however, -wer.e productive of much be-
nefit to the Israelites : for their native genius
being thus brought into action, they acquired a
competent knowledge of operative architecture ;
and by studying the most eminent productions of
that people, they became qualified for an indepen-
dent inheritance in the promised land. And the
knowledge thus acquired was fully displayed in
the wilderness, by the construction of a Taber--
nacle lor divine worship, undet the direction of·
Aholiab and Bezaleel.
But the more the Children of Israel were af-
flicted the more they multiplied and grew.t To
accomplish the utter destruction of this race of
• Eupol. in Euseb. de pnep. Evan. t Exod. i. 1i.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-.M:A&ONRY. 218
people, therefore, the king issued an edict, com-
manding all the male children of the Hebrews to
be cast into.the river, for they did not fear any
danger from the other sex. The Jewish females
being fairer than the ·Egyptian women, and ex-
celling in the arts of spinning and needle-w~rk,
they were preserved to minister to the pleasures,
and to conduce to the emolument of their unfeel-
ing masters.• ·
About this periodJochabed, the wife of Amram,
the grandson of Levi, was delivered of a male
child ; and dreading the consequences of that
cruel decree which devoted her sorr to death,
contrived for the space of three months to secrete
him from public observation. But when she was ·
cert;ainthat a discovery must inevitably take place,
~' she took for him an ark ofbulrushes, atid daubed
it with slime and with pitch, and pt.it the child
therein ; and she laid it in the flags by the .river's
.brink,"t and with many prayers left him to the
direction of Providence. He was discovered by
Thermutis, the daughter of the king ofEgypt, who
was fascinated with the child, as the most divine
beauty beamed in his counten~nce.t She took him
under her immediate protection, and named him
Moses, from the circumstance .of his miraculous
preservation, the word being derived either from
• Pererius. f Exod. ii. 3.
1' s
t Acts, vii. 20.
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUlTlEi OF
11WS, water, and ises, saved ;• or from massah, to
draw out.t Thermutis, under the ditection of an
especial Providence, placed him under the care of
his own mother ; and, at a proper age, removed
.him thence, and educated him as her own son.
Under the guardianship of the priests, he was in.
structed in all the learning of Egypt, and attained
considera~le proficiency in the sacred mysteries of
their religion.
Thus prepared for the extraordinary service to
which he was afterwards called by the Almighty,
he became the admiration of Pharaoh and his
court.. Having no male issue, the King solemnly
pronounced Moses as his successor to the throne
of Egypt: but, being now made acquainted with
his extraction, and with the peculiar circum.
stances which introduced him to the daughter of
Pharaoh, he declined this distinguished honour,
in full expectation of the deliverance of Israel:
for God had promised to give them possession of
. the land.of Canaan, in the fourth generation after
their entrance into Egypt, which was accom.
plished in the person of Moses : for Levi .
was the
son of Jacob, Kohath of Levi, Amram of Koba.th,
and Moses of Amram. The specified period of
four hundred and. thirty years from Abraham's
iirst arrival in Canaan .being also nearly expired, -
• Jo1. Ant I. 2, c. 9. t Osiander.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREI:·.MASONRY. !15
Moses was induced to hope for the speedy per-
formance of the divine promise.
Destined to purity Masonry and religion from
the filth which had accumulated over them in
successive generations, many particulars m~t in
him which had distinguished the most holy men
of old. Enoch was the seventh generation from
.Adam ; Moses was the seventh frol.!l Abraham.
Enoch walked with God, and Mo-
ses had several
personal confecences with the same Great Being.
The name of God was revealed to Enoch; so was
it also to Moses. Noah was saved in an ark; so
was Moses; and the same word, TEBATH, is used -
·alike for both.
An Egyptian soothsayer had predicted, that an
Hebrew child should be born during the reign
of the present monarch, who should prove a
scourge to the Egyptians, and exalt his own
nation to great ~glory : and this prediction was
confirmed to Amram in a vision a short time be-
fore the birth of Moses. When he came to man's
estate, after having received a princely education,
he displayed the most brilliant talents, both as a
legislator and a warrior : his intrepidity and per-
sonal bravery, his coolness and conduct in the
midst of danger, excited the envy of the Egyp-
tian princes; and the same soothsayer unhesitat-
ingly pronounced Moses to be the person who
;Should bring destruction upon Egypt. A confe-
P 4
Digitized ill' GoogIe
216 ANTIQUITU..
'S OF
deracy was formed against him, and his dea~h
was clamorously demanded, as a sacrifice to the
welfare of their country ; but the influence Jlf
Thermutis was sufficient to preserve him from the
open machinations of his enemies, and it was only
by the exercise of the most consummate policy
that the king was at length prevailed on to con-
sent to his death. when a plausible pretext should
arise to justify that cruel measure.
This pretext soon arrived. The chief study
and employment of Moses was to relieve his
, Hebrew brethren fi·om the burdens imposed by
their unfeeling task-masters'; .and by his exalted
situation and high authority he was enabled to
render them the most essential services. One day
he witnessed a transaction which elicited his per-
sonal resentment : he beheld an ·Egypti~ over-
seer wantonly punish one of his countrymen on
the slightest provocation. Moses immediately
drew his sword in defence of natural justice, and
succeeded in slaying the tyrannical Egyptian,
whose body he buried in tbe sand, and hoped the
transaction was unobserved, as it would subject
him to the vengeance of the king, whose servant
he had slain. The circumstance was, .however,
reported at court, with many aggrayations, and
Moses was ordered into custody. An early intel-
ligence of his danger convinced Moses that he
could only obtain safety by flight ; he, therefore,
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY.
took refuge in the land of Midian, where he was
soon distinguished by Jethro, its. prince or priest.•
Moses had been initiated into all the peculiar
mysteries practised amongst the Egyptians, to
which privilege he was entitled by his adopted
relation to the royal family. It was during a
series of discourses on the nature and tendency
of these mysteries with Jethro, who had acquired
a competent knowledge of their design and end
in the course of his education for the priesthood,
at the celebrated College of Memphis, that Jethro
became convinced of the divine appropriation of
Moses to the accomplishment of some important
undertaking. This belief was much strengthened
by the miraculous manner in which the mysterious
Roo oF AoAl\1 was placed in his hands, by whose
apparent agency he wrought all his miracles in
Egypt. Encouraged by these supernatural tokens
of a divine interference, Jethro gave Moses his
• The legendary account of Moses' escape is thus given by Jewish
Rabbins. When it was discovered that- he had killed the Egyptian,
he Willi apprehended and brought before Pharaoh, who demanded the
reason of that act of violence towards one of his servants in the
di&eharge of his . duty. Moses boldly avowed its justice; and un-
dauntedly declared that he had but inflicted due punishment on a
nptorious and tyrannical olfender. Exasperated at so open an avowal
of guilt, Pharaoh condemned him to immediate death; but the execu-
tioner was struck with blindness, and Pharaoh with idiotcy, so that '
he had no power to prevent the escape of his prisoner, who ·fled into
tbe land of Midian.
o;g,tized by Coogle
218 ANTIQUITIEi OF
daoghter Zipporah in marriage ; and communi-
cated to him, as the last and best endowment he
could bestow, the sublime secrets of Masonry, •
which opened the understanding of Moses to
things of far superior import, and infinitely pre-
ferable to any thing inculcated in the mysteries of
idolatry. These secrets pointed, not only to one
God the C,reator, but to the true method of
rendering a· service acceptable to :ijim ; not only
.to a future state of rewards and punishments, but
to the way by which reward may be attained, and
punishment avoided. By this science Jethro, in
the midst of an idolatrous nation, was enlightened
with the truth, and performed services approved
of God.
At the end of forty years God vouchsafed to
Moses a direct testimony of his approbation, by
inspiring him with a perfect knowledge of that
science which inculcates, as the chief excellence
of man, piety and devotion to God. He resided
with Jethro in the humble capacity ofa shepherd.
Such is the mutability of human life, that Moses,
holding the exalted rank of a prince and leader in
a dignified and powerful nation, was now obliged
tq embrace a profession which he had been taught
to consider highly dishonourabl~, if not an abso-
lute abomination.'* He appears to have relin-
• Gen.. xlvi. 34.
Digitized by GoogIe
FJlE£-MAIONitl'. 219
quished all expectations of deliverance, after a
suspense offorty years' duration, and had probably
given up the idea of again visiting the Israelites
in Egypt, .as he had been. rejected from all share
of temporal government among them.
Employed in his usual avoca~on of tending his
father's sheep, he drove them to the back side of
the desert, and came to the Mount of Horeb,
which, by an ancient tradition, was considered
the peculiar residence of Go~ on earth ; and was,
therefore, regarded by the inhabitants of Midian
with such a high degree of reverence, that they
dared not to approach it on any occasion. To this
solitary and unfrequented spQt, Moses often re-
sorted for the purposes of study and contem-
plation. At the .foot of the mountain Moses
was one day seated, reflecting on the wonderful
works of God, when raising himself from the
musing posture in which lie had been placed, he
beheld a particular bush burning with fire, with-
out any visible appearance of decay. The tra-
ditionary accounts of the mountain immediately
recurred to his recollection, and he felt some
symptoms of alarm ; but confiding in the integrity
of his heart, he approached the spot with awe
and reverence. Here, qfter being taugltt how to
.4DY.4NCE without polluting hol:!J ground, God re-
vealed himself to Moses, and instructed him in
&Orne signiticant ceremonies, which are still used
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
in our Lodges ~ here he communicated to him
HIS SACRED NAME, inspired· him to work
miracles, taught him the miraculous powers which
he had vested in the ROD, commissioned him to
engage his brother Aaron as an associate, gave
him a new siGN ~r TOKEN, and sent him forth as
an authorized minister of His divine will and
pleasure, to display the almighty power of God in
the land of superstition, to deliver his people from
the galling and oppressive yoke of EgyPtian sla-
very, and directed himJ when the Israelites had
escaped from the tyranny of Egypt, to offer his
first sacrifice on that holy mountain.
An unshaken confidence was thus excited in
the mind of Moses of the superiority of the true
God over the Egyptian deities, and nothing but
this confidence c~uld have induced him to return
into Egypt, on so vast and dangerous an under-
taking, and in the face of every impeding obstacle.
But the prescribed period of their captivity being
now expired, Moses, nothing doubting but God
was able- to perform the promise made to Abra-
ham, ventured into the.presence o( Pharaoh with
a certain assurance of success•
. Such is a general view of the transactions which
took place at the mission of Moses; but as a di-
vine communication was at this time made, which
unequivocally assimilates Masonry with religion,
it may be useful to take a more minute view
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY.
of the circumstances attending this important
event.
Horeb and Sinai were two eminences oli the
, same mountain, which was celebrated for seven
particular transactions, connected with the great
deiiverancefrom Egyptian bondage. 1. The vision
of·the Burning Bush. 2. The opening of the
Holy Lodge. 8. The drawing forth water !>y a
stroke of Moses' rod. 4. The elevation of Moses'
hands, while the children of Israel, under the
command of Joshua, vanquished the Amalekites.
5. The delivery of the law amidst thunderings
and lightnings and noises. 6. Here Moses fasted
forty days and forty nights ; and, on his return,
found the people performing the idolatrous cere-
monies of Egypt, and brake the two tables of
stOne containing the decalogue, · or moral law.
·And 7. Here the ceremonial law was deiivered,
as well as the pattern and dimensions of the
tabernacle. · -
This mountain was covered with shrubs, or
bushes,· called seneh, which are described as being
full of strong thorns, and so thick that a bird can
scarcely penetrate through them ; and hence it is
said to have derived the name of Sinai.• One
of these bushes Moses discovered on fire, and his
philosophy could not account for a phenomenon
• Pererin ~.
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
so contrary to the established laws of nature.
The essential properties of fire are to bum and _
give light ; but God, by a supernatural exertion
of His power, took away its destroying quality;
and hence, though the bush actually burned with
fire, yet it was not consumed. Thus the only es-
sential property that remained was Lux, or light; a
type of that true worship which was now about to
be placed on so strong a basis, that no innovations
of idolatry would be able to prevail against it.
Moses drew · near to investigate· the causes
which produced this extraordinary appearance :
but lest he should presume too far, and pollute
himself by approaching the Divine presence with-
out due preparation, God called to him in a voice
which the Hebrews think bore a striking resem-
blance to that of Amram his father, " ' Moses,
Moses !' And he said, ' Here am I.': And he said,
' Draw not nigh hither : put off thy shoes from
off thy feet ; for the place whereon thou standest
is HOLY GROUND.'" • The custom of taking off
the shoes, amongst the -Hebrews, signified the
ratification of a bargain, or contract, wherein all
right to a possession was yielded ·up, or re-
nounced ; but this command was issued to Moses,
that by obedience he might shew his veneration
for a place sanctified by the immediate pre-
• Exod. iii. -4, 5.
Dig1tizod by Coogle
FREB·MASOMRY,
' sence of God. Moses immediately, took .his
shoes from off his feet, and placed his hand hifore
his eyes,• as a SIGN of sympathetic reverence and
humility.
The Almighty, by the same voice issuing from
. the flame, declared that the time was at length
arrived when,_ with a mighty hand and with an
outstretched arm, he would deliver his p~rsecuted
people from slavery~ and give them possession of
the land of Canaan, as he had promised his ser-
vant Abraham; and that he should entrust to him
the conduct of the Israelites in their escape.
Moses professed a ready obedience to the com-
mands of God ; but entertained some doubts of
his ability to accomplish so great an undertaking,
particularly as the Israelites had rejected his me-
diation before His departure from Egypt. But
God furnished him with a sign, that the captive
people would not onJy accept his interference,
but also that his efforts for. their deliverance,
· sanctioned by his divine authority and_ protected
by His power, should be crowned with success.
He commanded Moses to cast his rod upon the
ground, which, to his surprise and terror, became
a serpent, and, elevating its hissing crest, assumed
a posture of immediate attack. Moses was di-
• Exod. iii. 6.
Digitized by GoogIe
. .
ANTIQUITIES OF
rected to take it by the tail, and it again became a
rod in his hand.
The transformation of Moses' rod into a ser-
pent had a reference to events of the greatest
importance to man. As our ·first parents were
beguiled by the Del-il in the fonn of a serpent, so
that miraculous rod, which had its origin in the.
garden of Eden, and is supposed by the Jewish
Rabbins to have been one of the ten things
created on the evening of.the first Sabbath, . was
changed into a serpent, as a sign to confinn the
promise of delivering a select portion of their
posterity from Egyptian bondage. This rod also
referred to the mighty work about to be accom-
plished in Egypt ; for as the rod of Moses'
government was fearful as the attack of a serpent
to the Egyptians, so it was a sceptre of righteous-
ness to the children of Israel. It was called the
rod of God,• and used by Aaron in Egypt, and
by Mosea in the wilderness. It was a sign of the
divine authority, and a visible demonstration of
God's power ;t used to confound the pretended
skill of the magicians, to show the Omnipotence
of the Deity, and to humble the pride of Pharoah,
when he beheld mighty wonders wrought by so
apparently contemptible an agent as a shepherd's
• Exod. iv. 20. t Pellican.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY.
staff. • But, above all, this rod metamorphosed ,
wa.S a type of Christ's death, to which indeed all
Masonry ultimately. points; for as bya serpent death
came into the world, so by the death of the Son of
God the serpent, or Satan, was fully vanquished
and trodden under foot. Thus Moses lifted up the
serpent in the wilderness, that as many as looked
on it might be healed of the wounds inflicted by
fiery serpents for their disobedient murmurings ;
and the death of Christ upon the cross, thus typi-
fied, was to deliver us from sin and death, and to
be a full satisfaction and atonement for the sins of
all mankind.
Moses became possessed of .this rod in a very
extraordinary manner. Walking one day in·
Jethro's garden, and conversing with the priest
of Midian about the misery of the children of
Israel in Egypt, he remarked a peculiar staff
which was set up in the garden without any
visible design ; and, inquiring its use, attempted
to take it up. In .this he succeeded, very much
to the surprise of Jethro, as no one had been
hitherto able to remove it from the place where it
had been involuntarily planted. Moses took pos-
session of the .rod, after Jethro had explained all
the particulars relative to its preservation from
the time of Adam ; and it was directed by the
• Sinclair.
Digitized by GoogIe
AlfTIQlTITlltB OP
Almighty, to be used as the apparent agent of all
his miracles. It was changed into a serpent tlrr«
several times. First at Horeb ; again in the land
of Goshen, before the congregation of the elders;
and lastly in the court of Pharaoh.
To give Moses a further assurance of his power
and protection, God commanded him to put hia
hand into his /bosom, whiclt by that simple act
contracted a supernatural leprosy ; but soon be-
came sound and healthy as the other. A small
quantity of water was also changed into blood at
the word of God. The astonishment of Moses
was somewhat a1layed, and his faith confirmed by.
the assurance that he should perform the same
and greater miracles in the land of Egypt, to in-
duce Pharaoh to set his captive brethren at liberty.
As a concluding confirmation of his mission,
Moses required to know in whose name he was to
demand the liberation of the Israelites; and-the
Almighty condescended to reveal to him that aw-
f~ name which makes the pillars of the earth
tremble. This tremendous word is i1V1' ; trans-
lated, I AM THAT I AM.
St. Jerome says • that there are several names
given to God in Scripture, but none is more ex-
pressive of His attributes than the name ;n.-,.
He is called ELoHIM,t because he is str~ngi
• Epie. J:16. ad. Marcell. t Gett. i.
Digitized by GoogIe
I'REE·MASONilY.
mighty and powerful. SABAOTU.• ot the God of
· Hosts. ELION,t Most High. EHEIE or EI,t from -
his eternal and seit:existent being. EL SH.t.DDAI,§
Omnipotent. And JAH,II a contraction of JEHo-
VAH. . The true pronunciation of this word is said
to have been lost during the Bal'!flooish Captivity~
TheJe'!'s abstained from using it on any occasion;
and substituted in its stead the word AnoNAI; not
only from the dread of profanation, but because
its use was forbid in the Levitical law, WJder
heavy penalties., Yet though the Hebrews were
10 particularly tenacious of this name, the idola.
trous nations became possessed of it; used it
pnder ·every variation, and even inscribed it on
their temples. The great portal of the Egyptian
temples was inscribed, EGo SuM OMNE; QUOD
l'uiT, QUOD EST, QUOQUE FUTURUM EST. I am,
tDhatsoever was, and is, and is to come. In the
Temple of Apollo at Delphos was written ~e
essential name of God, EI. Plutarch h~ written
a book on this word, and detemines its significa.-
tion to be, " the eternal and self-existent Being,
who is denominated God." The heathen nations,
even at the most deplorable period of their idola-
try, uniformly asserted,the superiority of some .
oil~ God above the rest; to whom they attributed
•- Pa.lix. 5. t Gen. xiv. 22. t Exod. iii. 11. § Gen. xrii, 1.
II Pt. lxviii. 4. , Levit. xxiv. 16.
Q 2
Digitized by GoogIe
228 ANTIQUITIES 01'
the most perfect attributes, and gave this sacred
and comprehensive appellation.
It was a custom amongst these people, derived
from the very earliest times, to keep inviolably
secret such names as were considered sacred. In
the books which Thoth or Hermes left behind
ilim, these remarkable words are said to be found :
•• Wilt thou see and behold the Deity? Consider
the sun, the moon, and the course and order. of
!he stars. His NAME is unspeakable; incommuni..
cable : let Him be adored in SILENCE !" In the
city of Rome a certain Mme was held in such
reverence, by the command of the gods as was
pretended, that· fol' want of use it became lost.
and is not now known ; and a person ~amed Ma-
renus Soranus was condemned to torture and
death for having incidentally pronounced it.•
Demogorgon, an appellation given to the supreme
God of the Gentiles, was considered ineffable ;
and it was believed that the whole earth would
tremble if that name were uttered. Erito the
sorceress; to command the obedience of evil spi-
rits, threatens to pronounce this terrible name, as
a potent charm which would shake hell itself to
the centre.t
The name of God, here given to Moses, is well
expressed by St. John the Evangelist in his book
of Revelation,t and clearly poin.ts out the eternity
• SoHnus~ Polyhiat. de RomL c. i. t Lucan de Bel. civ. I. Yi. t I. 8.
Digitized by GoogIe
PllEE·MASONRT.
Qr the godhead, and embraces unlimited and in-
terminable space. It is termed by St. Augustine,
nomen incommutabilitatis, and shews God's perfec-
tions ei 'l»isdom, Mmlipotence and·goodness. The
mat from'the incomprehensible excellence of the
echeme of man's redemption~ the second in the
power by which he is able as wen as willing .·to
execute and perform every gracious promise for
man's benefit; and the third from the revelation
()f that beautiful system of faith and practice
whereby he enables man to work out his own
salvation. It declares his infinity, and shows his
immutability, being always the same, withOJlt be-
ginning and without end.
Digitized by GoogIe
•
ANTIQUITIES O.F
The ancient Jews discerned the mystery of the
• tririity in this name ; , Jod, signifying the FA-
THER, the first and only self-existent Being : n
He, the SoN; and"' Vau, the HoLY GHosT, as
proceeding from the Father and the Son. It was
composed c4 three sortl of letters only, though
de~ominated Tetragrammaton; for the letter n
He recurs twice, and was thought to have a mya-
:terious rererence to the two distinct natures of
Christ, the divine and human. This name was
considered of so sublime a nature as to be incc>in-
' · munteable; and is expressly asserted to be so by
Jose}'bus.• This beliefmight originate in a dread
lest the name should be profaned by the sur-
rounding idolaters ; who, no~ithstanding every
precaution, gained a knowledge of it, and desig-
nated their chief god by its ·corruption, l«tc~,
l«ecif«, &c.; for it could not be expre~d in other
languages without circumlocution. It was be..
lieved also that God created the world by this
_
letter n He, which is, in reality, THE WoRD, or
Jesus Cluist.
This word or name was thought of such a mys- -
terious construction that none .but an inspired
person could pronounce it.t Many virtues were
ascribed to the letters which compose it ; and to
. its possessor was attributed the power of working
• Joa. Ant. I. ii. c. 5. t Ficini.
Digitized by GoogIe
I'REK-M.ASONRY. · 181
~cles and ~ring inveterate diseases. Hence
tne Jews urged against our Saviour, .that this ·
word had be~u deposited in the Temple, and was
guardedby two lions ; that it was placed there by
Solomon at the erection of the first Temple; had
remaioed undiscovered at the destruction of that
edifice by Nebuchadnezzar ; owas not found at the
btPJding qf tlze second Temple by Zerubbabel; and
after remaining hid for more than a thousand
years, Jesus closed. up the lion's mouths by some
power inherent in himself; and furtively conveyed
it thence: and that it was by the. use of this om-
nipotent, all-powerful word, that his miracles were
performed ! This is, however, littJe more than
an idle fancy. The sons of Sceva could perform
nothing by the use of this word, though they had
full confidence in its efficacy.• The miracles of
Jesus were not the efFects of an extraordinary ar-
rangement of letters into a word; but because he
was himselfJehovah, the lord and giver of life and
light to the human race ; for the same Being that
created the universe could. alter its course, when
tbe welfare of his people demanded a supernatural
exertion of his power.
In :a subsequent revelation, God said to Moses,
'~ I appeared unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto
Jacob, by the name of God Almighty, but by my
• Acta, iii. 16.
Q4
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
name JEHOY..IH was I not known unto them.''• And ·
yet in Jacob's vision of the ladder God revealed
to him his IJ.ame, as he had before done to.his
forefathers Abraham and Isaac; ''I am JEHovAH.
the God of Abraham thy father, and the God of
Isaac."t And we have the most satisfactory evi...
dence to prove that this was the same name which
God revealed to Adam, and afterwards to Enoch.
Shuckford says, with his usual penetration ; " our
English translation of the latter part of the 8d
verse of the 6th chapter of Exodus, "but.by my
name Jehovah was I not known unto them," is.
undoubtedly a faulty translation ; not rightly ex-
pressing what Moses intended in this place. The
best and most accurate .writers have remarked upon
this place, that the latter part of the verse should
·be read interrogatively, thus ; by my name Jeho-
vah was I not known unto them? If we take the
sentence interrogatively, ·every one will see that
it plainly intimates that the Lord had revealed
himself to them by this name ; which is agreeable
to Moses' account of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob's
knowledge and worship of the Deity : but to take
·the words without the interrogation, and suppose
th~m to intend, that the Lord who appeared to
Abraham was not known to him, to Isaac, and to
Jacob by his name Jehovah, cannot be reconciled
• Exod. vi. 3. t Gen. xxviii. 13.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY.
to some very express passages in the book of
Genesis."..
The covenant with Abraham might be liable to
misconstruction, because he was the father of the
Ishmaelites, and other nations founded by the sons
of Keturah ; it was therefore renewed to Isaac.
But Isaac was the father of Esau, who founded
the nation of the Edomites ; and therefore the
promise was confirmed to Jacob, who was the
father only of the Twelve Tribes of Israel. These
distinctions were pointed out to Moses at the
Burning Bush, as an incentive to undertake the
deliverance of the Hebrews ; who, he was there
assured, were God's peculiar people, notwith-
standing their present miserable and degraded ·
situation.
Moses, having obtained the blessing of Jethro,
returned into Egypt, and found it governed by
Amenophis, a prince with whom he was unac-
quainted ; agreeably to the information which God
had given him at the bush. By the divine com-
mand· Aaron met Moses in the wilderness, and
received ·the joyful intelligence that the hour of
deliverance was at hand. In obedience to the
.command of God,t Moses delivered to him that
·miraculous Rod, as a token of his appropriation
also to the accomplishment of this great work ;
• Connect• book 9· t Junius, in Exod. rii. 19.
Digitized by GoogIe
A.NTIQUITI£8 OF
which waa to end in their oomplete triumph,· and
the destruction of the Egyptian army, as intimat-
ed to Abraham more than four hundred years ·
before.•
Aaron, was an able rhetorician ; and on this
account was selected to be the associate of Moses,
who had pleaded his own imperfection of speech
as most unlikely to make an impression on the
King of Egypt. This 4efect is said to have
· arisen from an ordeal of fire which ·bad been im-
posed on him in Egypt when but a youth. Ph•
raoh had selected him, as the adopted son of his
daughter Thermutis, to be his successor to the
throne of Egypt; and put the crown upon his
head_as a token of his sincerity. Moses removed
the crown in haste, cast it on the ground and
trampled on it.t This action, though committed
only by a petulant child, was construed tJy the
soothsayers into an evil omen for the nation; aDd
they conjured the king, as he valued his own
safety, or the prosperity of his subjects, to put
Moses to ·death. Thermutis pleaded for his life;
and proposed to submit his innocency to any test.
Tbe superstitious custom of trying innocence by
a &ry ordeal was then in use amongst the Egyp-
tians, and was instantly applied to Moses.t A
red hot cinder was introduced into his mouth;
• Gen" XT. 14. t Josephua. :j: Pererius.
Dig1tizod by Coogle
FREK·lrfllONRY.
which burnt the tip of his tongue, and caused
him to lisp or stammer in his speech. Being a
man of the greatest meekness and diffidence, h~
urged this imperfection as an impediment which
would doubtless operate to defeat the undertak- ·
ing, should he assume the arduous office of a
deliverer. But God chose him the rather for this
defect; that all the honour might be ascribed to
himself, and nothing to human ·
exertion.•
On their arrival in Egypt, they. congregated
the heads ·of the twelve tribes as in a Grand
Lodge; and Moses communicated the extraor-
dinary circumstances which produced a mysterious
commission to conduct the captive descendants
of Jacob into the promised ·land. The trut\1 of
thes~ assertions was proved by the miracles which
Godnad authorized him to perform; and further
evinced his claim to be received amongst them
as a deliverer sent in ·the name of JEaovAH.
These unequivocal proofs of a divine commission,
convinced the assembly of the reality of Moses'
pretensions ; i' and when they heard that the
Lord had visited the children of Israel, and that
he had looked upon their affliction, then they
bowed their heads and worshipped."+
Thus commissioned and endowed with super-
natural powers, Moses and Aaron appeared before
• Theodoret. t Exod. iY. 31.
Digitized by GoogIe
AM'TIQUITIES OF
Amenopbis, King of Egypt;• and demanded
permission for the Israelites to go three dayst
journey into the wi1derness to offer sacrifice to the
Lord. This request the king peremptorily denied,
though under their peculiar circumstances they
were unable to sacrifice in Egypt ; for they sacri-
ficed such animals as the Egyptians worshipped.t
" Creso ariete velut," says Tacitus, " in contu-
meliam Ammonis ; bos quoque immolatur, quem
Egyptii Apim colunt." Lest therefore he should
elicit the vengeance of the Egyptians, and bring
. on an open and violent persecution, he demanded
leave to sacrifice in the wilderness; for this tribute
of gratitude was due to the Almighty as an act
of religion, on the re-establishment of the cove-
nant. The request was therefore perfectly rea-
sonable, and Moses enforced it in the name of
- tqe Lord Jehovah.
Amenophis evaded the appeal by denying the
authority of Jehovah, the God of the Israelites,
over him as the king of another people, and under
the 'especial protection of other Gods. He there-
• This king is said by Simlerua to have been the same with Hem-
non j whose image, holding a harp, was celebrated for emitting 10unCI1
of joy at the rising of the sun, and of sorrow at his setting.
t Pererius refers these three days' journey into the wilderness, to
the three theological virtues, FAITH, HoPE, and CHARITY.
; Exod. viii. !6.
Digitized by GoogIe
FliEE·MASONRY.
fore put the power of Jehovah to the test; and
opposed to it, the power of the Gods of Egypt.
A tremendous contest ensued between Moses
as the agent of the true God, and the m3gicians·
·as the agents of the Egyptian Gods. Moses,
armed with that powerful rod which Adam ·was
permitted to take from the tree of knowledge,
and which was the acknowledged testimony of
his divine .commission, wrought in the presence
of Pharaoh and his. court, at Tanis, an extraor-
dinary.miracle, as a proof that his appeal to the
God of Israel was not to be slighted with im-
punity. The rod was cast by Aaron upon the
groun~ and it immediately became a serpent,
twining i!self in folds to the consternation of the
whole court. Amenophis called for Jannes and·
Jambres,• his magicians, who undertook to per·
• A strange legend about Jannes and Jambres, ia told by Pal-
ladius in his life of Macarius. These magicians, in the midst of a
grove of trees, and beside a fountain of water, built a mausoleum for
their own interment, which by magical arts was placed under the pro-
tection of evil spirits. Macarius having heard the wonderful stories
which were related of this fountain, determined to visit the place, and
prove the truth o£ these reports by ocular demonstration. Having
-penetrated the external avenues of the grove, he was encountered by
seventy devils, who with much grimace, threatened ~o attack him.
Without giving way to fear, he recommended himself to God, and
these outre spirits of darkness vanished away. Coming to the sepul-
chre, he was met by a gigantic devil with clattering hoofs, a!ld armed
with a naked sword, who attempted to drive him back, but without
success. Here he saw a brazen bucket suspended by an iron chain
consumed
Digitized by GoogIe
!iSS l\NTIQUITIE8 or
form the same miracle. :8ut the serpent of Moses
displayed his superiority by devouring the ser.:
pents of the magicians. But the king confident .
in the power of these men, and the knowledge.
he had himself acquired of the mysteries of their
religion, did not feel inclined to make any ac-
knowledgement derogatory to the homage due to
his own national Gods ; or concession to a power,
which, as the tutelary deity of another people,
and that people his slaves, he heid in ·the most
sovereign contempt. To correct this error,' God
directed Moses to stretch the rod over the waters
of Egypt, which should thus be turned into
blood, and engender such prodigious quantities
of frogs, that the whole land of Egypt should
be infested. But these miracles being also imi-
tated by the enchanters, Pharaoh was confirmed
consumed with rust; and also some pomegranate.s and other fruit
dried up and wasted away. In what manner the enchantment wu
dissolved, this author does not say ; but it appears unlikely that this
legion of tremendous devils would suft'er Macarius to explore their
secret recesses with impunity ; or permit him to depart in safety ;
~~ vanquished by 110me counter-charm more pote~t than their
own.
The truth is; this and similar accounts of the eft'ects of enchant-
ment might be wonderfully amusing in an age of SUptlrstition. But
these delu.aiops are no more, and it is now clearly understood, and
univenally admi~ted, that no miracle aft'ecting the ..£onatituted order
of things, has ever been performed, from the creation of the world,
by the assistance or intenention of evil spirits, without u ea~ial
.eommiasioa from on high.
oig,tized by Coogle
li'&EE-MAION&Y.
in his hardihood, and pesitively refused to let
the children of Israel go.
The great superstition of Egypt was a belief
mjudicial astrology and natural magic. It was
held that the stars possessed a secret and potential
influence over human affairs, and that every stu~
diO.US man, deeply read in the mysteries of nature.
as Moses was known to be, might direct ~ese
influences at pleasure to produce any extraor-
dinary eff'ect out of the common course of things.
Hence the King of Egypt required some more
decisive proofs of a divine interference, before
be would consent to relinquish so great a source
of profit and gratification as was afforded by his
Israelitish slaves ; and persisted in his determina,.
tion not to set ·them free, until his whole nation
was almost depopulated and destroyed by a sue.
cession of desolating judgments. He was willirig
to enter into a comp~omise with Moses under the
immediate influence of his sufferings ; and pr()o.
mised to allow the Israelites permission to sacri1ice
in Egypt, 4Ccording to .the rites of their own
religion, but would not consent to let them depart
into the wilderness. He frequently relented, i~r
deed, and. cried out, " I have .sinned against the
Lord! The Lord is righteous, and I and my
people are wicked !" But his repentance dis-
appeared with the evil ; and it was not till the
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OP
whole land of Egypt felt the blow in their fami:.
lies, that he consented to their departure.
The plagues inflicted on the Egyptians were of
such a nature, as to point directly to the sacred
objects of their worship. In the opinion of Pha-
raoh the contest was between the tutelary deity
of the Hebrews, and his own national Gods ; it
was therefore a righteous display of God's justice,
to shew the fallacy of his reliance on objects of
worship which were unable to protect themselves
against defilement, or the infliction of grievous
calAmities.
The first plague was directed against their great /
god the river Nile; its sacred waters were-turned
into blood. There was a great propriety in this dis-
pensation ; not only because the Egyptians held
that water was the first principle ofall things,• but
because they paid divine honours to the Nile,
and superstitiously adored its inhabitants. Their
country.was greatly benefitted by the annual over-
flowing of this river, which they conceived was
owing to the sacrifice every year performed on
its banks in honour of that divinity. Immediately
before the expected inundation, solemn proces-
sions were formed; the deity of the Nile was
invoked with many superstitious ceremonies ; and,
to render him propitious, an immaculate virgin,
• Philo.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-:.\IASONRY. .. 241
richly attired and ornamented, was cast into the
river, as a sacrifice of atonement.•
.This plague was also a .judicial punishment for
_ their cruelty to the Hebrew children ; and served
as a fearful token to the Egyptians, that the time
was now arrived· in which a dreadful retaliation
should be inflicted, for all the innocent blood
which had be~n shed in that river.t This is
plainly referred to by St. John the Evangelist ;:t
and Josephus says, "They who drank of it were
afBicted with a violent cholic ; whilst to the
Hebrews it was perfectly wholesome."§
The second plague with which the Egyptians
were.troubled, was, swarms of frogs, which came
up from their sacred river, and filled their sti:eets,
their houses, and even· climbed up into their bed-
rooms. No place was free from them. They
covered the tables of refreshment, defiled their
provisions, and corrupted the water through9ut
the land of .Egypt; so that the very gods they
held in veneration became a pest and a nuisance.
This terrible afHiction pointed also to their .unna-
tural destruction of the innocents in the river '
NiJe, .which now sent forth its reptiles in such
numbers as·almost to destroy the inhabitants.
The third plague of lice referred to Pharaoh's
cruelty to the Israelites themselves. He con-
• Herod. Clio. t Lyran. :t Rev. xvi. 6. § Ant. 1. 2, c. H .
R
Digitized by GoogIe
A:STIQUITIES OF
demned them to perpetual slavery, and that of
the vilest and most degrading nature ; to make
brick from the dust of the earth, and to erect
buildings for his convenience or pleasure. From
the dust of the earth, therefore, arose an an-
noyance, which must convince them of God's
power, who could so severely afflict them by the
most contemptible creatures.• This plague was
also directed at their habitual cleanliness, and
fear of pollution. -Herodotus says, " that the
· Egyptians, and particularly the priests, from a
principle of cleanliness, -shave every part of their
bodies on each third day, to prevent vermin, or
other impurity, from remaining about their per-
sons."t Hence to persons of such peculiar habits
and propensities, the plague of lice must have
been an evil of the greatest magnitude.
The fourth plague brought mingled swarms of
Hies, which not only corrupted the earth, but
almost destroyed man and beast. It is supposed
that they consisted not only of common Hies,
wasps, gnats, hornets, &c., but also of venomous
·reptiles, such as scorpions, asps, vipers, &c. The
fly in,Egypt and Phrenicia received the honours
of divine worship ; and one of their chief deities .
. was denominated Baal Zebub, which signifies the
supreme lord of Hies. This was, therefore, a
• Ps. lxxviii. 46. . t Euterpe.
oig,tized by Coogle
FREE-MASONRY.
grievous judgment, as it appeared to come under
the sanction of Baal Zebub, on whom they relied
for protection from every annoyance ofthat nature.
The fifth plague was less personally trouble-
some to the inhabitants, for it was inflicted on their
most powerful gods. The bull, the ox and cow,
the sheep and goat, were supreme objects of
adoration ; a murrain was, therefore, sent amongst
them, to show 'the unstable support on which the
. Egyptians rested : for if their gods could not
protect themselves, much less could they render
assistance to their worshippers. ·
The sixth plague was inflicted on the Egyp-
tians' persons. Moses, by God's command,
sprinkled handsful of ashes into the air, which
immediately formed a thick white cloud over all
the lan-
d ; and which, falling on the inhabitants,
produced large ulcers, attended with a burning
pain, similar to that produced by the application
of a red hot iron to the naked flesh ; they spread
over the whole body, and swelling at length into
one massive sore, caused the most excruciating
sufferings.• This calamity was brought on by
means of an agent intended to convict the Egyp-
tians of wanton cruelty to their slaves, for the
ashes were taken from the furnace where the
Hebrews had been engaged in· burning brick.
• Philo.
R2
Digitized by GoogIe
244 ANTIQUITIES OF
The magtctans of Egypt, struck with these
grievous l;>oils and blains, now became fully sen-
sible of God's power, and fled from the face of
Moses, confessing their inability to cope with him
in the art of performing miracleF.
The seventh plague was a mighty tempest of
hail, rain, thunder, and fire ; which appeared the
more dreadful to the inhabitants, as in that
country such phenomena were very rareJy seen.
This judgment was directed against their super-
stitious worship of the elements: for their gods
were again c~nverted into ministers ofdestruCtion.
- The eighth plague is called the Lord's great
army,• and consisted of innumerable swarms of
locusts, cankerworms, caterpillars, and palmer-
worms, which filled thei.t· houses, and " covered
the face of the whole earth, so that the land was
darkened ; and they did eat every herb of the
land, and all the fruit of the trees which the hail
had left, and there remained not any green thing
in the trees, or in the herbs of the field, th~ougb
all the land of Egypt/'t Nay, they even bit and
killed the inhabitants.~
The ninth plague was a thick darkness over the
land of Egypt, which completely overwhelmed
their chief deity Osiris, or the Sun, which they
adored as the fountain of light. This was ren-
- ··---- · - · - - · - --·· ---- ---- - - --
• Joel, ii. 2S. t Exod. x. J5. f Wisd. ui. 9.
Digitized by GoogIe
PREE-NASO.NRY.
dered more distres.sing by the appearance .of
horrible apparitions, fearful sights, and flitting
shadows, which haunted them incessantly, night
and day.• Dreadful noises assailed their ears, as
of the roaring of a cataract, the' horrible yellings
and barkings of wild beas~ the hissing of ser-
pents, and the whistling of winds, succeeded by
.the melodious voice of birds, and aggravated by
the ·reproaches of an accusing conscience.t The
darkness- was so thick and palpable, that arti-
ficial lights could not penetrate through it;t
and consequently they were unable either to
provide subsistence, or to pursue their usual avo-
cations for the space of three days. " They saw
not·· one another, .neither rose any from his
place,''§ during this period, which was passed in
solitary confinement, under the effects of 'bodily
weakness, occasioned by hunger and thirst, aug-
mented by mental agony from the dread of pe-
rishing. with hunger, increased by .the appalling
visions which fiitted before their eyes, and made
them "swoon away"ll with apprehension. They
who were in the field when the darkness surprised
them, could not return .to their habitation, but
·remained bourid to the spot as· with a chain.,
During this period of overwhelming darkness,
• .Wisd. xvii. 15. t Ibid. 9, 11, 18, 19, t Philo. § Exod.x.l3.
D W'lSd. xvii. 19. 'f Ibid, 17,
R:J
Digitized by GoogIe
!46 ANTIQUITIES OF
the children of Israel had light in their dwellings ;
a striking emblem of that intellectual darkness
which evershadowed· the heathen world, unblest
with the light of truth; and of the children of
the world, who sit down in the region of darkness,
and the shadow of aeath, and reJect that light
which would lead them to eternal life. So true
is that observation ofSt. John, "The light shineth
in darkness, and the darkness comprehendeth it
not.'~•
The ROD of Moses was the visible medium by
which these miracles were performed ; but lest
it should be believed that the virtue was in the
rod alone, God directed some of these miracles
to be performed without its assistance, and· used
other agents, · to convince mankind. that it was
only the exertion of his Almighty power which
diverted the course of nature, and wrough~ the
miracu1ous works which preceded the great de-
liverance. 'fPus the rod wa:s not used in the
fourth, fifth, sixth, ninth, and tenth plagues, but
other means were substituted : as ashes in the
sixth, the word of Moses in the fourth and fifth,
and the stretching forth of his hand in the ninth
plague, were sufficient to produce· the intended
effect.
·In these plagues it is remarkable, that those.
------..-----·
• John, i.5.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY.
which proceeded from the earth were produced
by the agency of Aaron, and those which came
from heaven: by the agency of Moses ; for whicli
this reason i'S given: M~ses had been constituted
Pharaoh's God,• and therefore was made the
chief minister to direct the extraordinary appear-
ances of the heavens.
During the continuance of these plagues, the
heart of Amenophis was a prey to the wildest
agitation. Proud and ungovernable, his haughty·
spirit was scarcely subdued by the recurrence of
such dreadful afflictions. He wavered, he 're-
lented, he attempted to compromise ; but pride
and passion supplying ~he place of reason, his
implacable resentment against the supposed au-
thors of his calamities superseded the workings·
of conscience, and stifled the risings of convic-
tion ; and when the effects of one judgment were
re~oved, he dared the vengeance of God to in-
flict another. His contempt for the Almighty at
length arose to desperation, and~ refusing to corn-
ply with the demands of Moses, he commanded.
him, at the peril of his life, to see his face no more.
God had r~served the most terrible display of
his power and justice for the tenth and 1ast plague
to be inflicted on the Egyptians, and it was con-
sequently ushered in with appropriate solemnity.
* Ex01t vii, I.
R 4
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
The Israelites were directed to institute a Pass-
over, which should be kept as a distinguishing
rite of their religion, and an everlasting memorial -
-of their deliverance from captivity, by the des-
- truction of the first-born in every family through-
out the whole land of Egypt, both of man and
beast. Each Hebrew family, or ten persons,•
was commanded to kill alamb, and to strike the
two side posts and upper door post of their dwel-
ling with the blood ; that the destroying angel
' might pass over the houses thus marked for pro- .
tection, while engaged in smiting the first-born.
The lamb was to be eaten in haste, with loins
girded, shoes on .their f~et, and a stafF in their
hand, ready for immediate departure. The Is·
raelites were strictly commanded to confine them-
selves to their respective dwellings ; lest, by a
promiscuous intercourse with the Egyptians, they
should become .sharers in their calamity : for
though ~od knew his own people, and could haye
protected them in any situation, yet he demanded
implicit obedience, and rather chose that they
should owe their safety to the blood of the Lamb.
Thisjudgment was the more signai and terrible,
as it was inflicted on them immediately after the
darkpess was removed, and while they were still
deeply impressed with the terrors of that visita-
• Jos. de Bel.1ud. I. Tii. c. 17.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREii:-MASONRY. !49
tion. The lamb for the passover was killed on
the tenth day of the month, and ordered to be
eaten on the fourteenth. The darkness com-
menced on the eleventh, and ceased on the thir-
teenth. The last interview of Pharaoh and Moses
was·on the· morning of the fourteenth ; and at
midnight the first-born were slain.
When every thing was thus formally prepared
for the departure of the Israelites, and the Egyp-
tians were bUrled in profound repose, after the
fatigue of three days spent in indescribable agony,
both of body and mind, " it came to pass, that
at midnight the Lord smote all the·first-born in
the land of Egypt, from the first-born of Pharaoh
that sat on his throne, unto the first-born of the
captive that was in the dungeon : and all the first-
born of cattle. And Pharaoh rose up in the night,
be, and all his servants, and all the Egyptians ;
and there was a great cry in Egypt; for there was
not a house where there ·was not one dead."•
The inhabitants started simultaneously from their
beds, in the greatest horror and consternation,
and assembling round the king's palace, clamou-
.rously -demanded the dismissal of the Israelites.
Amenophis, at le~gth subdued, and trembling for
his own life, acceded to their proposal ;·and the
people urgently petitioned the causes of all their
• Es.od. s.ii. i9, 30.
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
misfortunes to be gone, for they were afraid the
whole nation would become a sacrifice to the
offended God of Israel. They did not spare their
most valuable property ; but, to induce their im-
mediate departure, gave them silver, gold, and
raiment in great abundance, including blue, ·pur-
ple, and scarlet silk, fine linen and precious
stones; and with these the Tabernacle was after-
wards adorned.• And. even the king himself,
with all his boasted firmness and impiety, struck
with the extraordinary powers vested in Moses
and Aaron, called on them for a blessing before
their departure: an evident acknowledgment of
the superiority of God over all created things.
The Israelites, bearing the bones of Joseph,_
departed early in the morning, in sight of the
- ------- -- -- -- -- - -------
• St. Augustine thinks that the mystical signification of these
valuable ornaments refers to the liberal arts invented or improved by
the heathen; which were afterwards, by the judicious management of
wise and pious men, wrested from them, and converted to the service-
of the true and living God, and made subservient to the interests of
religion.-Af18tul. de Doct. Cllrilt. 1. ii. c. 4. Porphyry, in Eusebius,
accu~es Origen of " calling in the assistance of Grecian learning to
confirm the ltrange ah1urditie1 of Jewilh fahle."-Emeb. Eccl. Hut.
1. vi. c. 13. The liberal arts and sciences were considered of such
essential service to the propagation of Chris.P~ity, that Julian the
apostate enacted a law, prohibiting Christians from being instructed
in human arts.- Socrat. l. 3. c. 10. And the learning of the present
day abundantly she~s that the spoils of Egypt and other heathen
nations are posseued now, in full .perfection, only by the true wor-
shippers of God.
Digitized by GoogIe
.FREE-MASONRY. ~1
Egyptians, who were busily employed in burying
their dead.• They travelled with all their pos-
sessions from Rameses to Succoth, a distance of
about twelve miles ; and here Moses reviewed
and numbered the people, and found with him
600,000 Israelites, besides ·children ; ·making, as
is thought by learned writers, at least 1,.500,000
souls.t With them Moses also found a mixed
multitude of other nations, who had foll<'Wed this
remarkable people out of Egypt. This event
happened 480 years after Abraham's vision i.n
Canaan, and ~1.5 years from the entrance of Jacob
into Egypt.
Thus did God by his servant Moses redeem the
Israelites f~om their Egyptian bondage, with a
high hand and with an outstretched .arm ; marc.h-
ing before them in a Pillar of a Cloud by day, and ·
a Pillar of Fire }Jy night ; and the Deliverance
was finally perfected by a mighty wind, the agent
of his power.
The Egyptians, repenting that.they had suffer-
.ed the Israelites, who were valuable servants, to·
depart, and endued with an evil heart of unbelie4
which caused them to doubt the actual power of
God·, even in the face of such tremendous judg-
ments, collected an imll.lense army of 600 cha-
riots, .50,000 horsemen, and ~00,000 foot soldiers,t
• Num. xxxiii. t Tomline's Theol. p. i. c. 3. t Jos. Aut.). ii, c. 15.
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
and followed them, having, with the plagues, lost
their impressions of God's power, and conse-
quently their reverence for his name. Indeed
Amenophis appears in reality to have been more
in awe of Moses than of any superior being; for
" Moses was very great in the land of Egypt, in
the sight of Pharaoh's servants, and in the sight
of the people."• _ _
The braelites, by the direction and command
of God himself, were encamped before Pihahiroth,
or the Strait of Hiroth, between Migdol, a tower
or 'Citadel of defence, erected on the borders of
the Strait ; and Baal Zephon, or Temple of Baal,
wh~re was kept burning a holy fire, which served
also as a beacon to direct shipping in the dan-
gerous navigation of the Red Sea. In this temple
was kept a continual watch, as is implied in the
name. Thu·s were they encompassed on three
sides by fortresses, inaccessible mountains, and
the Red Sea ; the isthmus between that sea and
the Mediterranean being protected by the well
fortified city of Pelusium, and other fortifications,
which had been erected by the Israelites them-
. selves ~uring their oppression.t
Arriving in sight of the Israelites, Amenophis
contemplated their def~nceless situation with se-
cret delight, and concluded that the moment was
----------
• Ex. xi. 3. t Marsh. Can. Chron. p. 106. .
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY.
arrived in which he could take ample vengeance
for all his wrongs. Believing their escape to be
impossible, he encamped· with his army behind
the Israelites, waiting only the approaching day to
attack and put them to the sword. But his career
was now verging rapidly to its close. That re-
markable pillar, which accompanied the Children
of Israel in their flight, was by day a cloud only,
to convince them of the presence of their great
deliverer. This cloud, which was also a fire by
night, placed itselfbetween the two encampments,
and involved the Egyptian host in impenetrable
darkness, while_it communicated sufficient light
to enable Moses and the Israelites to pursue their
destination. By the divine command Moses
stretched out his rod over the sea, and a strong
EAST WIND arose, which divided the waters; so
that the Israelites marched through the sea on
dry land, Moses leading the way and exhorting
them not to fear ; for, said he, " the Egyptians
whom ye have seen to-day, ye shall see them again
no morefor ever."•
· The Egyptian army followed their course amidst
the darkness, furious as the tempest which tears
down all that impedes its progress; rapid as the
cataract pouring down its waters from the summit
of a lofty -mountain, determined either to compel
• Exocl. xiv. 13.
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
them to return, or utterly to destroy them;· and
knew not their danger until they were a11 inclosed
within the waters ; for the waves, ·on the right
hand and on the left, were invisible, from the
effects of that divine cloud which overshadowed
them. At length their ·chariot wheels were en-
cumbered by the mud at the bottom of the sea,
so that they " drave heavily;" which, obstructing
the general . movements of the soldiers, reduced
·the whole army into confusion. In this situation
the cloud was removed, the morning light ap-
peared, · and they beheld the threatening waves
ready to burst upon them, and the Israelites safe
on the opposite shore. They were allowed but
little time to deliberate on the means of escaping
the cal~mitous death which they·saw suspended
over their heads.· They fled; but what could flight
accomplish for so unwieldy a body of chariots,
horses, and footmen, incumbered with armour ;
their ranks broken, their chariot wheels entangled
with each other, and forcibly wrested off, and
themselves paralyzed with confusion and dismay !
Harassed by a long and expeditiouPJ march, after
three days spent without rest or refreshment, ·and
alarmed at the dreadful ·appearances before them,
to augment which the heavens sent forth all their
artillery of thunder, lightning, and rain,* their
• Ps. lxxvii. 18.
Dig1tizod by Coogle
FREE-MASONRY. ,
escape was altogether impracticable. .Besides all
this, the Lord looked upon them in anger, and in-
fused a deadly fear into their hearts, which made
them irresolute and wavering ; until Moses, who
saw the Israelites in safety, and all the host of
the Egyptians inclosed beyond the power of es-
caping, stretched his rod again over the sea, and
God, by a strong WEST WIND, suddenly brought
the waters upon them with irresistible impetuosity,
which utterly overwhelmed and destroyed them,
with their horses, and chariots, and horsemen ;
" and Israel saw the Egyptians dead upon the sea
shore."• .
• Esod. x.iv. 30.
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
PERIOD V.
CHAP. ix.
ON THE FIVE POINTS OF FELLOWSHIP.
IN every well regulated society, some bond of
union, some reciprocal and mutual' interchange
of benefits forms a distinguishing feature, which
no vicissitude of circumstances can remove. Ma-
sons profess to be united in an indissoluble chain
of sincere affection, called the five points of fel-
lowship; by which, when strictly adhered to, they
are bound heart and hand so firmly, tP,at even
death i~elf cannot sever the solemn compact,
because in another and more glorified state those
- relations are perceived and acknowledged, which
have characterized the union here on earth.
These five P<?ints refer to certain virtues requisite
to be practised in this world in order to the en-
joyment of happiness in a future state, and mark
.distinctly the differe~ce between virtue and vice.
I. BROTHERLY LOVE.
The first point is that on whi~h all the rest
principally depend, for they are bi1t emanations
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE·MAIONRT.
-from the great virtue of charity or brotherly
love.
Brotherly love is an active principle, which
encloses all mankind in the same bond of recipro-
cal union, however they be otherwise diversified
by birth, climate,. or education. The inhabitants
of this globe proceed from a common parent, and
hence, how remote soever the connection may ap-
pear, all mankind are brothers, and as such are
b.ound to execute the duties attached to this
tender and endearing relation. This general
relationship is not broken by distance, climate,
form, or language; but aU the-world are brethren, ·
and the hand of mercy ought to be extended
equally to the destitu~e stranger, as to an imme-
diate friend or relation. Nay, the stranger, the
fatherless, and the widow, are superior objects of
man's benevolence. Masonry inculcates love to
the human species as the certain indication 9f
uprightness ; it teaches that without this love we
are nothing. Though we speak with the tongues
of men and ·angels ; though we have ·the gift of
prophecy, and understand all mysteries and all
knowledge ; though we have faith so that we
could remove mountains ; though we bestow all
our goods to feed the poor, and though we give
our bodies to be burned, if we are not possessed
of brotherly love, or charity, an this extent of .
power, all these acquirements of knowledge, will
s
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTJQUITIES OF
profit us nothing. The love of a Mason must be
pure both in principle and practice, unwarped by
prejudice or passion; unalterable in persecution,
unabated hmidst calumny, slander, and detraction.
Filling the heart with pious fervour and with holy
resolutions, exalting it from earth to heaven, from
a perishable mortality to a. celestial intercourse
with the very source and essence of love ; en-
nobling the nature of man, and raising it to that
sublime pitch of excellence which alone can im-
part true satisfaction under every species of ad-
versity and pain. Masons are bound by the most
· solemn obligations to practice this virtue one
towards another. Not to rest satisfied with mere
. .
external acts of kindness, which may be displayed
without feeling any emotions of the pure affection
of brotherly love ; but to be the active friends
of all mankind.
Such were the effects produced by this prin-
ciple amongst the early Christians, under the
wise superintendence of St. John the Evangelist.
Their brotherly, love exceeded all in.stances of
recorded attachment in former times. The ac-
counts transmitted to us of the affection which
Christians bore towards each other, in the ages
immediately subsequent to Christ's death, would
be incredible, were they not fully attested. An
affection so disinterested and pure struck the
heathen worl~ with astonishment ; they deemed
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY.
it more than human, and attributed a feeling
which the practice of, their own philosophy c;ould
not attain, to the secret influence of magic. Each
individual was considered ·in the light of 'a bro-
ther, united- by the ~ender ties of a common faith
and a ·common hope ; whole possessions were
given up to. the relief of indigence; every selfish
thought was banished and the general welfare of
the community was the fir~ wish of their hearts,
the first motive of .the\r actions. This was ~he
incentive to great and glorious deeds. " Some
gave themselves up to bonds," says Clement,
" that thereby they might fi·ee others from them.
Others sold themselves into bondage, that they
might feed their brethren with the price of them..
selves." But the testimonies to this effect are not
confined to ChristiRn writers ; their heathen ad-
versaries unequivocally admitted the purity of
their fraternal attachment in its fullest extent.
Hence Julian, the apostate, that deadly and im-
placable foe to the Christian name, as the most
- effectual method of extirpating the new religion,
commanded his priests to model paganisJll after
the same fashion : for the universal benevolence
of the Christian brethren had become a current
proverb, .and " See how these Christians love !" ·
was the spontaneous tribute paid to their-integrity
by every people amongst whom they,resided.
s Q I
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIII:i OF .
2. BENEVOLENCE.
The second point inculcates universal benevo-
lence, on the ground of obligation and duty..This
virtue doe~ not consist merely in satisfying the
pecuniary wan~ of the virtuous distresse~ or of
fu~;nisbing a friend with the loan of some neces-
sary comfort or convenience, .in the hope of re-
ceiving an equivalent; but comprehends the gene-
ral capacity of communicating happiness to our
fellow-creatures, including the practice of our rela-
tive duties to God, our neighbour, and ourselves.
The first great and important duty of benevo-
lence should excite in our bosoms an unaffected
veneration to our Maker, whose bounteous good-
ness to his creatures can never be compensated
by all the exertions in our power. What He has
commanded we must perform. Prayer, praise,
and thanksgiving, are His due ; and, if these be
neglected, it is impossible to expect his blessing.
The name of this awful Being.is a sacred deposit,
. which ought never to be irreverently pronounced
with polluted lips ;· for the violations of .thjs
WORD ·are threatened with ac.companyi.Dg ven-
geaqce. If His almighty aid be necessary to
promote our success here, or happiness here-
after, let us implore. it humbly and sincerely, in
the hope that it will not be withdraw~ when we
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-1\IASO'SRY. ~61
are most in need of it, in the hour of sickness or
adversity, persecution or death.
The preservation of order and social virtue· in
civil society rests upon the obligations we are
under to keep up a constant interchange of·rim-
tual good offices with our.neighbour. They who
are in the habitual practice of benevolence expe-
rience an uniform gratification, -and h~ve within
their bosoms a certain source of pleasure, which
selfish mortals can never attain ·or enjoy. The
glow of charity warms their -bosoms with unequi-
vocal love to their fe11ow-creatures, and they
~njoy a foretaste of heaven upon earth ; they
search for misery and distress in all their appalling
forms, and they administer comfort from a pure
principle of ·benevolence ; for the east is not
farther from the west, or the surface from the
centre, than pride and ostentation are from genuine
goodness and disinterested virtue.
But the exercise of this virtue does not end
·here. innumerable are the offices of kindness,
indefinite are the ·shades of afFection which the
practice of benevolence necessarily assumes. Re-
commendations of an unblemished character, ex-
·pressions of good-will, advice when under the
influence or doubt, civility and gentleness, as well
as actual offices of assistance, form distinguishing
features of this virtue, and these are in the power
of all who have not the means of performing
sS
Digitized by GoogIe
..
ANTIQUITIES OF
substantial services. If, as philO&Oph.ers tell us,
much of human misery is idea), he acts the part
of a sincere friend who endeavours to soothe con-
flicting passions to repose, to remove the weight
whic!t presses on our spirits, and teaches us to
forget our woes by pointing to the opening scenes
of prosperity and joy.
The exercise of benevolence, then, may be
practised every hour of our lives. 1t is an inno-
cent and laudable method of gaining t,Jle esteem
of men, of promoting universal good-will, of
vanquishing the turbulence of passion, of secur-
ing peace of mind, and of laying up a store of
satisfaction for old age, which will make the end
of life a scene of felicity and contentment.
Our duty to ourselves, rendered almost perfect
by the practice of benevolence to our neighbour,
may be comprehended in a few words : not to
prostitute our hu_
manity by intemperance, eftemi-
JlaCY, indolence, or any of those vices which
degrade man below tbe brutes ; but t? cultivate
health by exercise, cleanliness, and regularity; ~o
practise the four cardinal virtues, Temperance,
.lt~rtitude, Prudence, and Justice ; recollecting
that man's happiness is progressive, and depends
entirely on himself whether it increase or dimi-
Bish ; for it. is impossible to hold a ·s ationary
place in the mind so long as any portion of acti-
vity remains ; and if the mind become dormant,
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY.
and perfectly insensible to praise or dispraise,
virtue or vice, we may be assured that its happi..
ness is at the lowest ebb, and it becomes doubtful
whether the capacity for enjoying it be not wholly
expired.
It may, therefore, be concluded, that if hat>pi-
ness be the object which man ·has in view in his
commerce with the world, it can only be found in
the practice of virtue.
S. PRAYER.
The thi_rd point·teaches us to bow our knees to
the Almighty Father of the universe, and pray for
:blessings on ourselves, and on those united to us
by the nearest and dearest of ties. Prayer is a
duty of such paramount importance, as to involve
consequences the most awful.and tremendous : if
rightly performed, it conveys a blessing ; if wholly .
neglected, it elicits a curse.
With this responsibility the Mason is fully im-
·pressed, and therefore his Lodge is never opened
without a solemn appeal to the Deity, and a
humble supplication of his blessing ; consci()us
that, if deprived of this; nothing that he niay be
engaged in can reasonably be expected to prosper.-_
Our initiations, and every other business, are
founded on the same appeal ; our ·pedestal is
furnished with the book of God's Word, which is
considered the GREAT LIGHT OF FAITH, to .direct all
s 4
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
our motions, and inspire us with the rich hopes
which it contains ; our Lodges are dedicated to
God and holy St. John the Evangelist ; and the
unequivocal posture of one of our most sacred
ceremonies is, bended knees, erect body, and
faithful heart. ·
If a Mason's Lodge be built on holy ground,
and supported by wisdom, strength, and· beauty ;
if it be of that immeasurable extent, which has
no bound but the four quarters of the compass,
and covered with a cloudy canopy which can only
be penetrated by ascending the theological lad-
der ; if we commemorate the three grand of-
ferings of ancient religion, and have in perpetual
recurrence the wonders of God in cr{'ation, re-
demption, and deliverance from temporal danger
and afBiction, it. will surely be admitted that our
rites have a reference beyond mere conviviality ;
that they are founded on the most awful images
in existence, a belief in a God, and the doctrine
of a .future state of rewards and punishments ;
that they are opened, conducted, and closed \Vith
prayer ; and hence that they must leave an im-
pression on the mind ol' eyery reflecting brother
of God's beneficence to man, and the consequent
necessity of a regular and uniform attendance on
His authorized worship.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY.
4o. SECRECY.
" Of all the arts which MasoQs profess, the .
art of secrecy particular!y distinguishes them.
Taciturnity is a proof of wisdom, and is allowed
to be orthe utmost importance in the different
transactions of life. The best writers have de-
clared it to be an art of inestimable value ; and
that it is agreeable to the Deity himself may be
easily conceived,_fro~ the glorious example which
He gives in concealing from: mankind the secrets
of His Providence. The wisest of men cannot
penetrate into the arcana of heaven, nor can they
divine to-day what to-morrow may bring forth."•
A regard for this virtue has characterized every
nation and people of the world, from the earliest
times on record. There are many things which
it woul~ be highly improper, and even criminal,
to communicate. To reveal the secrets of a
friend, confid,ed to our care, would be worse than
the treachery of an assassin who stabs his adver-
sary when unarmed, and not the least .auspicious
of a foe.
The Egyptians venerated this virtue, and veiled
all their religion and politics under its impene-
trable mask. Origen tells us, that " their philo-
..sophers had sublime notions with regard to the
• Pres. Illus. book iii. sec. 2. ·
Digitized by GoogIe
Divine nature, which they kept secret, and never
discovered to ·the people hut under the veil of
fables and allegories."• Their god Harpocrates
was represented with his finger on his mouth, and
was painted full of eyes and ears, to shew that
every person may hear and see, but they are not
always at liberty to disclose the information which
they derive fi·om the use of those senses : this
god was much honou_red by the Egyptians.
The Roman~ had a goddess, who was repre-
sented with a finger on her lips, called Angerona ;
and to shew their respect for the virtue of taci-
turnity, they offered sacrifices to her.
" All the Easter_n nations, the Persians, the
Indians, the Syrians, concealed secret mysteries
under their religious fables. The wise men of all
those religions saw into the sense and true
meaning of them; whilst the vtilgar and unini-
tiated went no farther than the outward and .
visible symbo1, and so discerned only the bark by
which they were covered."t
Pythagoras carried the virtue of secrecy so
high, as to demand from his scholars a probation
of tive years' silence, accor.npanied with excess of
abJtinence and mortification, before he .would
~dq1it them to a participation in the knowledge
which he had acquired bylong experience, and a
• Orig. eon Cela.l. 1, p. 11. . t Ibid.
oig,tized by Coogle
FREE-MASONRY.
residence with the most learned philosophers in
every nation under heaven.
Th~ Druids conveyed their inf!truction by
secret and enigm11tical language: their philoso..
phical knowledge was ·very extensive ; but they
had so strict a regard for secrecy, that it was
.esteemed a crime worthy of death to attempt to
·penetrate into their mysteries. Their l~arning was
communicated orally, and in verse; and .as no
part of their instructions was allowed to be com-
mitted to writing, the number of verses which
the memory must necessarily retain was almost
incredible.
" But," says the sceptic, " where is the neces-
sity of secrecy now ? If your institution be laud~
able, a~ ·you describe it, why not rev~~ it for the
benefit_'of mankind?, I should as soon look for
a star to fall from the firmament, as for a caviller
against Masonry to be satisfied, even with a rna- ·
thematical demonstration. The benefits of Ma~
sonry can only be enjoyed by their union with
secrecy. Lay these seci}ts open te the world,
and the charm would cease to operate. _They
would become familiar as the growth of a plants
and ljke that incompreheusib~e phenomenon,
would be negJected, and perhaps despised. At -
the reformation of our Chur~h from the errors of
popery. what could exceed the curi~ity of man-
kind to read and investigate the hidden stores of
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
the Bible, which had been a sealed book for many
centuries ; and though it contains secrets of far
greater importance than those of Masonry, yet,
curiosity being gratified, the rage is over, and it
is regarded with as much indifference by the mass
of mankind, as though it contained nothing af-
fecting man's temporal or eternal welfare. So
Masonry,. were it made public, would probably
be neglected, because the stimulus would be
wanting from which it derives its chief popularity,
if not its principal importance. The secrets of
Masonry are open to the inspection...of the worthy
and the good in every class of mankind. The
page is displayed before them, and if they refuse
to read, it is too much to hear them complain of
ignorance, and to .revjle a science which they
want the inclination or capacity to understand.
It is further objected, that the use we make of
the implements. of architecture, as ·vehicles of
secrecy, is frivolous, and unworthy the·dignity of
human ·beings. These implements are of no
further benefit to us thOn as they convey a series
of the purest precepts of morality, and the most
useful instruction for ·the regulation of our con-
duct in every circumstance and situation of life.
In these emblems our secrets are chiefly con-
cealed ; and the valuable lessons they contain;
elevate them from the character of mere instru-
ments of labour, and they become jewels of in-
.. · estimable ,·alue.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY.
5. ON SLANDER.
The fifth point teaches us to support a brother's·
character when he is absent, and consequently
unable to defend himself from the tainted breath
of defamation. It forbids us to retail slanders
derogatory to our brother's reputation, which is
a sacred deposit, and if once wounded, ten thou-
sand words in vindication will scarcely be suffi-
cient to repair the mischief which ten words have
occasioned.
Masonry inculcates this lesson in every part
and, point of every degree ; aware that .the ev:U
consequences of slander are innumerable, whether
by giving a false testimony in a public cause, or
by injuring our brother by private defamation.
This practice is the vilest of all robberies. Injure
his property, and you may make him reparation ·;
wound his body and the physician may heal the
wound ; but if his sacred reputation be touched,
if his good name be taken away, it can never be
restored, but may pursue his offspring after death,
may descend to'his children's children, and blast
their prospects to the latest posterity.
Defamation is always wicked; the defamer is
always despised. And what gratification can be- _
·found in a practice which elicits universal con;.
tempt? Can it be found in the lust of evil
speaking, and cutting up reputation, as with a
Digitized by GoogIe
~70 ANTIQUITIES OF
sharp razor ? Can any gratification proceed from
the practice of private scandal at the expense
of another's character and honest fame? Does
such a practice add to the slanderer's peace of
mind or importance amongst his acquaintance ?
does it confer a dignity not to be procured by
other more innocent means? A negative answer
may be safely given to these inquiries; and it is
rather to be feared that every honest and upright
man will regard him with the scrutinizing eye
. of jealous suspicion, and shun him as a public
nuisance. His deeds are baser than tho~e of the
assassin, in proportion as a man's unsullied fame
is dearer to him than life. The assassin kills tlie
body of his enemy, and there the mischief ends ;
but the slanderer attacks the immortal part of
man, and inflicts a stab in the hope of blighting
his fame for ·ever. None can be safe where
slander finds admittance. The virtues wither
round him, and fade and die before his baneful
touch. His practices are made up of fraud a~d
artful treachery. He dares not to bring the bold
and open accusation, but looks and whispers·
death. To misconstrue motives; to place trifling
incidents in contemptible points of view ; to insi-
nuate by mysterious signs and broken sentences,
that " more is meant than meets the ear," are
his study and delight. They become, by the force
of habit, as necessary as the food which affords
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY. i71
him nourishment, and this for no other putpose
than the selfish aim of depriving his acquaintance
of that estimation from which he can derive no
benefit, and which can scarcely be restored by all
the united efforts of charity and benevolence: for
evil reports .spread with unaccountable facility!
and extend to distant parts, where the evidences
of their falsehood will never be heard, and thus
the record is handed .to posterity in all the
decoration of unrefuted truth.
But it must be observed, on the other hand,
that we are not bound to applaud the character
and conduct of bad men, merely >
to avoid the
imputation of illiberality. If the actions of a
brother betray baseness of heart ; thougli it may
not be commendable to magnify his vices, or make
them a perpetual topic of conversation, yet it
would be equa11y injudicious to praise him, or
bear a testimony to virtues which he does not
possess. " None but a good man deserves to be
loved or praised by any one. He who says of a
bad man, whom he knows, and whom all that
know him know, to be a bad one, I have reason
to speak well of him, for he has beeh kind to me,
utters a detestable falsehood, aad discovers a base
disposition."• The course to he adopted, under
• Fawcett.
Digitized by GoogIe
.\NTIQUITIES OF
these circumstances, is faithfu11y· prescribed in
those lectures which fonn the subjects of discus- ·
sion at all our meetings. ·" Always speak of a
brother as well in his absence as in his presence ;
and even more particularly so, because when-pre-
sent he has an opportunity of defending himsel£
Never defame him yourself, nor suffer him to he
defamed by others, if in your power tQ prevent
it ; and if his conduct be so dishonourable that you
unfortunately cannot sp~ak well of him, adopt
the distinguishing virtue of our science, sile~ce,
or se~recy."-*
If a brother be calumniated falsely, it becomes
a paramount duty to defend him in the face of
the world. He who stands boldly forward to re-
but a deliberate slander upon another's reputation,
I regard in the light of something more than a
common friend : he reduces to practice the dig-
nified theories of Masonry ; his benevolence is
pure and unsullied by human' passion, and he
richly merits the obligations of gratitude in this
world, as he is in the hope of receiving the appro-
bation of his Judge in the world to come.
Speak then no evil ofyour brother. Ifhe have
virtues, (and surely all have some,) let them he
the theme of your discourse j if he have faul~,
• Mas.Lect.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY.
(and who is free from them ?) mention them not;
but in all your commerce with your brethren or
the world, " supply the wants and relieve the
necessities ofyour brethren to the utmost of your
power and ability; on no account wrong them or
see them wronged, but" timely apprize ·them of
approaching danger ; and view their interest as
inseparable from your own.'••
• Charge to the Second Degree.
T
Digitized by GoogIe
AYTIQlilTIES OF
CHAP. X.
CONTAINING FOUR HUNDRED AND EIOHTY..SEVBN
YEARS.
VIEW OF MASONRY FROM THE DELIVERANCE TO
1JIE DEDICATION OF KIMG SOLOMON'S TEMPLE.
IN every society, however constituted, some
form of government is necessary to preserve a .
spirit of subordination amongst its members ; and
to prevent it from degenerating into contempt or
oblivion. In this respect also Masonry supports
its claim to respect and veneration. An argument
favourable to its beneficial tendency may be de-
duced from the excellence of its government ;
. which is founded upon a pattern the most pure
ana perfect; the government of the Jewish and
Christian churches.
In the early ages of the world, every head of a
family united in his own person the threefold
office of priest, prophet, and king ; and it was
n~t until the Mosaic dispensation was revealed
that the concerns of religion were conducted by
three distinct officers, or orders of men. Masonry,
Digitized by GoogIe
I
'I
i
FREE-MASONRY.
in like manner, was transmitted, during the an~­
diluvian ages, without the regular government
which afterwards distinguished it.
At the Flood there is an appearance of some-
thing like a regular government, consisting of
three distinct officers, who unitedly formed tlte
·head of the . establishment, when organized in
DUE FORM. But it was not until the erection of
the tabernacle that our craft was reduced to the
.perfect form which it has ever since retained.
Moses, when, by the revelation of God, he was
dividing the priesthood into three distinct heads,
modelled ~asonry after the same fashion ; hi~self
being grand master, and Bezaleel and Aholiab
grand wardens.
The false religions, which, indeed, were ori-
ginally but perversions of the true, acknowledged
the same form of government ; because the in-
genuity of man could not discover any form more
firm and permanent than that which had been re-
vealed from heaven. Hence Thoth, the great
founder of idolatry, after the Flood, was surnamed
Ter ma.rimus; because he was Phi/Qsophus maxi-
mus, Sacerdos maximus, and Re.x maximus.•
After prophecy had ceased the teachers of Israel
. continuedto be distinguished under three several
appellations, each possessin' distinct a~tributes ;
• Alex. Neapolit. I. ii. c. 8.
T~
oigiti~ed by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF ·
viz. wisemen, scribes, and disputers. These were
comprized by St. Paul in a single verse, when
writing to the Corinthians: " Where is the wise?
Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer ?''•
This number, it should seem, constitutes per-
fection ; for the Christian church, of which all
other dispensations were only types and shadow~
has been placed under the same system of govern-
ment. Jesus Christ united the threefold office of
the ancient patriarchs in his own person, for he.
was a priest for ever, after the order of Melchize-
dec; who was no other, according to the best
authorities, than the patriarch Shem, the son of
Noah, who was king, priest, and prophet of his
family ; and in that capacity blessed Abraham,
who was his child in the ninth generation. These
offices, however, were distributed by our Saviour;
who divided the priestly dignity amongst three
distinct orders of men, in imitation of the tem-
porary dispensation of Moses.
Hence if the government of the Jewish church,
established under the immediate superintendence
of God, or if the Christian church, modelled by
Jesus Christ, ·be considered as specimens of per-
fection, the same must be admitted of Free-
Masonry ; as one of its orders, confessedly not
Christian, is governed by a king, a priest, and a
prophet, invested with an equal dignity ; and the
rest of Masonry, which inculcates the only true
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE,..:.VIASONRY. ~77
religion, is directed by a mode of government
equally perfect, and equally unobjectionable.
When Moses had escaped from the snares of
the Egyptians he conducted his charge towards
Mount Sinai, where he had received his commis-
sion from God; intending to offer sacrifice on that
spot, in obedience to the divine command. But
his progress was obstructed by. the Amalekites,
who entertained many jealous fears respecting the
·movements of such a large body of people;
against whom, however, they hoped ·to wage
sUccessfuL war, encumber.ed as they were with
women and children, flocks and herds. Four
other nations joined in this enterprize against the
Israelites; tempted, most probably, by the hope
of an easy conquest and abundant spoils.
The Providence of God had prepared the Is-
raelites ·for this exigency, by casting up the dead
bodies of the Egyptians on the shores of the Red
Sea. For the Israelites had retired from Egypt
without weapons ·or means of defence against the
numerous enemies they would probably have to
contend with, before they should be peaceably
settled in the promised land. They spoiled tht:
Egyptians of their offensive and defensive armour, ·
and·thus became prepared to meet every obstruc-
tion which·might i~pede their design of entering
into Canaan~
Thus provided, Moses placed his army under
T S
oig,tized by Coogle
fl78 ANTIQ\IITfES OF
the command of Joshua the son of Nun: a mau
in every respect worthy of the distinction thus
conferred upon him. Moses, Aaron, and Hur
ascended the mountain, and the two armies rushed
to the onset with the utmost fury. Moses, in
prayer and supplication, elevated his ROD towards
heaven ; and it was observed that whilst this ex-
- traordinary rod was in this position, the Israelites
successfuJly mowed down all before them. Fa--
tigue at length compelled Moses to lay down the
rod, and·the battle turned in favour of the enemy.
Aaron and Hur were therefore requested to assist
Moses in supporting the rod, and the setting sun
beheld the Amalekites entirely defeated. The
slu~ttered remains of their army effected their re-
treat amidst the darkness of the night, leaving all
their most valuable property at the mercy of the
victors. In commemoration of this decisive Vic-
tory .Moses erected an altar at the Lord, which
he called Jehovah-nissi, which signifies JEHOVAH
is my BANNER.
J..,rom hence the Israelites proceeded to Sinai ·
and pitched their tents at the foot of the moun.
tain. Moses marked out a camp about the Mount,
and remained here for rest and worship, according
to the directions be had received from God him-
self when he revealed His sACRED NAME. After
solemn sacrifice. Moses disposed the people ac-
eording to their tribes, and opened the FIB.ST
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY.
:t.onoE of which we possess any certain tradition
since the time of Joseph. ·Here he held a solemn
convocation to the Lord; and the people returned
thanks for their miraculous·deliverance, and en-
tered into those sacred and indissoluble vows,
which implied unlimited and universal obedience
· to the c~mman<f:ments of God. Over this lodge
presided Moses as grand master, Joshua as his
deputy, and Akoliab and Bezaleel grand W8:f~
dens. •
Here he was visited-by Jethro, to whom he bad
been indebted, under the dispensation· of heaven,
for his clear and perfected knowledge of our
science; which appeal'S to have been prese:t:ved.in
amost extraordinarymanner bysome distinguished
individuals, even in nations degraded by idolatrous
.practices. Lot in the midst. of Sodom practised
¥asonry. The mixture of idolatry· and Maaonry
is perceptible in Laban. He worshipped·Penates,
or household gods, and yet re~ned such a· sense
of his allegiance t-o the true God as to.be·favoured
. With a celestial ·vision. Job was a.true. Mason
amidst an idolatro\}S people ; atid his addresse~t
to his friends may f9rm a grand synopsis of our
present lectures. Balaam was a true prophet
· though he lived in an idolatrous· nation. The
.Midianites. were idolaters, yet Jethro presewed ·
• North. Const.
'f 4
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
his faith in the true God ·pure and unsullied
through the medium of Lux or Masonry. And
· he was held in .such high . estimation, ·even by
Moses, who was, beyond all competition, the
most learned man then existing in the world, that
he united himself to this priest by the most tender
ties of affection.
On.this visit, though the actions of Moses were
directed by the immediate inspiration of God, be
preserved his usual reverence for Jethro. He ex.
plained to his father.in~law liow God had effected -
the miraculous deliverance of Israel with a high
band and a stetched.out arm, and expatiated ou
the mercies of Jehovah in the most animated
terms. Jethro rejoiced in the omnipotence of
this great and good Being, and offered up a 8()..
lemn -sacrifice of thanksgiving, in his sacred cha-
racter of a prieat. . He gave M6ses some weighty
advice on the subject of legWation and govern-
ment ; in obedience to which he divided the
twelve tribes into separate societies or lodges,
over which he placed masters, with certain speci.
fied powers, which they were prohibited from ex-
ceeding, without a reference to himself 8s the
grand superintendent of the whole system. After
this a great chapter, or grand assembly of the
tribes was instituted, consisting of six rulers from
_
_...each ; ' of which Moses was the PRINCIPAL go-
vernor. ·
Digitized by GoogIe
~81
In this place Moses was publickly ordained by '
the command, sanctioned by the presence, and
hallowed by the visible acceptance of his God.
He was.first charged with a message to the people, .
directing them to assemble on the third day, pu-
rified from their uncleanness, to witness a solemn
revelation of laws, which should be binding on
them and their posterity. Since they were now
about to be embodied as a separate people, for the
preservation of the true worship .of God amidst
an·idolatrous world, some test of their obedience,
.as well as a code ·ofJaws for their civil govern;.
ment, became necessary, to secure their indepen-
dence and to advance their posterity. For the
former purpose, and as a basis on which to found
the latter, the DECALOGUE w~ delivered to Moses
from.this mountain, together with a full revelation
~f . the principles requisite·to preserve them, under
a perfect theocracy, from the cOntaminations with
which they might otherwise be infected by the
pernicious examples of the surrounding nations.
God himself, therefore, condescended to re-
h~arse in their ears a summary of the moral and
ceremonial ·law, and promised a rich and con-
tinued succession of blessings on their obedience ;
~timulated by the denunciation of the most heavy
judgments if they should disobey the ordinances
thus prescribed for their observance. He had
selected this .people to be a witness of himself in
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITLES OF
the midst of a world already defonned by apos-
tacy, and the renunciation of every virtuous pro-
pensity ; and to preserve his worship uncontami-
nated by those superstitions which the subtlety of
the devil or the craft of man had introduced into
the systems, which, in the patriarchal ages, were
ordained to keep up a perpetual knowledge of
God, and the service most acceptable to him.
It became, therefore, necessary to deliver'a writ.
ten law, that the plea of ignorance might not
be preferred in palliation of guilt ; " lest men
should complafu something was wanting, thai was
written on tables which was not in the heart."• -
The law was to prevent the prostip!tion of re..
vealed truth, when conveyed through the medium
of tradition.
The moral law is divided into two distinct parts,
which were engraven on two separate tables ; the
former declaring our duty to God, and the latter
our duty to ·our neighbour and ourselves. And
this arrangement being the work of the Deity, is
absolutely perfect in all its parts. The opening
of the decalogue is most sqlemn and impressive,
for it. displays that SACRED NAME which compre-
hends every thing excellent, every thing gracious,
and every thing lovely. The worship of God
. .
• Ne aibi homines aliquid defuiase quererentur, scriptum est in
tabulia, quod in eordt"bus non legebent.-Atlfllll. iD Ps. 57.
Digitized by GoogIe
FllEE·JrfA80NRY. !88
being inculcated in the first table, shews, that oor
first duty is owing to the Great Author of our
being. This elicits our faith, stimulates our hope,
and leads necessarily to the performance of those
practical duties inculcated by the second table,
which exhibit our charity, that most excellent of
. all human virtues, in its_fairest and most brilliant
form. This, then, is a system of perfection.: for
by the exercise of these virtues, through the
merits of JEHOVAH incarnate, we may attain pos-
session of an immortal inheritance in those
heavenly mansions of eternal felicity,. veiled from
mort.al eye by the starry firmament, into which the
gr.eat · ~ AM shall bid us enter, to, enjoy the
blessings of that eternal Lodge, which is irradiated
with the. brightness of Him that sitteth on the
throne.
But while Moses was with God in the Mount,
the people had defiled themselves by idolatry. At
their deliverance from Egypt, a great number of
men, women, and children, from many idolatrous
tribes, had followed them to their encampment.•
·Whether converted by the miracles, or merely
desirous of fo1lowing the fortunes of this extraor-
dinary people, history does not inform us ; but we
may conjecture that they were but irregular ad-
venturers, unpossessed of any settled place of
• Exod. xii. 38.
Digitized by GoogIe
284 ANTIQUITIES CF
residence, and whom, consequently, no ·change
could injure~ If we may believe the Jews, it was
owing to.the pernicious counsel of these strangers
that their forefathers so freque~tly tempted God,
by their disobedience, fo inflict his chastisements
upon them. Thus the molten calf, which they
had now erected as an object of divine worship, .
bas been imputed, not so much to the~ cupidity
of their progenitors, as to the sorceries of the
Egyptian . sojourners. " Concerning the sin of
the Israelites," says Godwyn, " in making this
calf, or ox, the modern Jews do transfer the fault
upon certain proselyte Egyptians who came forth
with them ; and they say that, when Aaron cast
their jewels into the fire, these Egyptians, con-
trary to their expectation, by their art tnagic,
produced a calf; to which purpose they urge
Aaron's own· words: 'I did cast the gold into
the fire, and thereof came this calf;' as if his act
or will was not with the making thereof, put of
itself it made itself."*
" Some of the Hebrews give this ridiculous
reason why the image of a calf was made rather
than of any other thing., When the Israelites
were coming out of Egypt, and intended to bring ·
out Joseph~s hones with them, they say the river
Nile had overflown the place were his bones
• Mos. and Aar., I. 40 e. 5.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE·MAiONRY. 28.5
were ; and so Moses made the picture of a calf
in a certain golden plate, which floating upon the
water showed the place where Joseph's bones
lay; which plate, they say, was brought among
other jewels to Aaron, and cast into the fire, by
virtue whereof the whole mass of gold was turned
into the shape of a calf: but it is most like that
Aaron, according to the desire of the people,
made a calf like unto the Egyptian god Apis,
which they had seen the Egyptians worship, and
therefore they were drawn by the corrupt imita-
tion of them to have the image of a calf made."•
The tribes of Egyptian strangers who are ac-
cused of inciting tl}e Israelites to commit this
wickedness were partially incorporated with them,
and dwelt within the camp ; but the main body
dwelt without the camp, and were subject to
reproach and indignity : these seized with avidity
every opportunity of inspiring the Israelites with
a contempt for the theocracy, and rebellion
against its edicts and authority. Hence in every
act of disobedience which merited divine· dis-
pleasure, the wrath of God was poured .out upon
these strangers, and such of the Israelites as had
become their associates in opposition to the express
command of God, communicated through their
great Legislator.t
• Willet in Ex. xnii. 4. t Num. xi. 1-4.
Digitized by GoogIe
~86 ANTIQUITIES OF
Against a people guilty of this. wickedness the
anger of the Lord waxed bot, and He would
utterly have destroyed th~m, but for the inter-
cession of Moses, who was himself so violently
agitated at the sight of this monstrous idolatry,
that he brake the two tables of stone which he
had in his hand, containing the ten command-
ments.
The zeal which Moses displayed in purifying
the people from their aboininations, induced God
to pardon them for his sake, and to promise a
renewal of the decalogue, and a sight of His
glory. ·
·On this occasion the SACR.E!D NAME of JEHovAB
was proclaimed with eleven different attributes,
expressing as many divine properties, and God
gave a visible token of His immediate presence
and protection, not only by thunderings and light-
nings, the cloud and thick darkness on the Mount,
which caused even Moses himself to quake for
fear, but by a diffusion of His glory over the
countenance of the Legislator, so that, when he
descended from the mountain, the Israelites were
dazzled with the celestial brightness, and Moses
was o~liged to cover his face w_
ith a veil, before
they could converse with him.
As a means of securing the practice of Ma-
sonry, and with it true religion amongst the
children of Israel, until a prophet like himself
Digitized by GoogIe
'FREE-MASONRY.
should appear amongst them, to expand its bleaA-
ings and convey them to all the nations of the
·earth, Moses convened a general or grand as.
sembly of all the Lodges, whether of speculative
or operative Masonry, to consult about erecting
a tabernacle for divine worship, as no place since
the creation of the world had been exClusively
appropriated to religion and dedicated to ·the
true God, which He had condescended to honour
with His immediate presence. Before this period,
the service of divine worship was performed on
;Utars erected in the open air. Thus Adam, Abel,
Seth, Enoch, and Noah had their several altars
for sacrifice. Abraham, in his wanderings~ 'erec~d
an altar in every place where he remained for a
short space of time stationary. At Moreh, be-
tween Bethel and Hai, and in the plain of
Mamre. Isaac had an altar at Beersheba, and
Jacob at Salem and Bethel. The ancient prepa-
ration for sacrmce was a baptization or washing, to
remind them how God had purged the defilements
of the antediluvian world by a deluge of water,
which washed away every vestige of idolatry.
Hence water was used as a medium ofpurification.
In obedience to the mandate of Moses, the
masters of all the newly-formed Lodges, the prin-
cipals of ·the chapter, the princ~s of the tribes,
with .other Masons; assembled to receive t~e
instructions of their grand master. To this grand
Digitized E>y GoogIe
!88 ANTIQUITIES O"F
·Lodge Moses gave wise charges.. He told thein
that it was the will and pleasure of Almighty
God that a tabernacle should be erected .in the
midst of their camp, which He had promised to
make His temporary residence on earth. As the
plan of this tabernacle had been supernaturally
revealed to him, he informed them that God had
chosen his wardens, Aholiab and Bezaleel, as the
principal architects and artificers . in the work,
whom therefore, by divine appointment, he So-
lemnly invested with full powers to superintend
the erection of the proposed edifice. To furnis~
treasure for the work, he levied a tax of half a
shekel for every person above twenty years of
age, ·which amounted to the sum of thirty-seveu
thousand seven hundr-ed and twenty-one pounds se-
ve~teen shillings and sixpence of our money. This
being incompetent to complete the structure with
its proposed magnificence, Moses called upon them,
according to their- tribes and families, to con-
tribute voluntarily, and with all possible dispatch,
as much gold, silver, copper, precious atones,
dyed wool, and sheep-skins of blue, purple, and
crimson, shittim wood, and oil and spices, as
might be necessary to complete the work ; and
gave directions to his wardens, and to Joshua hi11
deputy, to arrange the operative Masons of every
denomination into Lodges, ~ccording to their
-several occupations and abilities. Nothing could
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-liASONRY.
exceed the. enthusiasm of the people in contri-
buting their most valuable property to this under-
taking, and their liberality became at length so
unbounded, tha~ Moses was obliged.to restrain it
by an express prohibition•.
Every. arrangement being made, and the ma-
~rials provided, Moses· entrusted to his wardens
the plan and dimensions of the tabernacle, as they
had been communicated by God himself;• apd
placed in their hands the accumulated offerings
of the people as materials for the sacred building.
After solemn prayer and sacrifice to God, Moses
appointed the seventh day as a day of rest, and
commenced the work 'Yith an awful feeling of
respect and solemn veneration.
The tabernacle, with its attendant ornaments,
furniture, and jewels, needs not a particular
description here, as it is so minutely laid down
in the book of Exodus. It was constructed of
a white . timber which grew plentifully at Abel
Shittim, an~ was hence called Shittim-wood. The
metals used in its construction and ornament were
confined to gold, silver, and brass ; all the baser
metals being. excluded. A space of ground or
• It is thought by many authors (ltupert, Oleaster, and others), that
Moses not only had the tabernacle described to him very minutely on .
the Mount, but that ·a pattern was also· shewn to him of every article
to be constructed for its use; as well as a representation of the "hole·
whea completed.
u
Digitized by GoogIe
.ANTIQtiiTIES OF
court wai inclosed for its reception, in length one
hundred and fifty feet, and in breadth seventy..
iive feet. The tabernacle itself consisted of three
divisions, which symbolically referred to the three
great churches of God on earth and i1_1 heav~.
The outer court wa;:; emblematical of the Jewish
church. under the Mosaic dispensation ; the holy
place, of the church of Christ ; and the sanctum
sanctorum, of the church triumphant in the skies.
The threeposts in the sides of the outer court ar~
considered by Beda to represent the three thea..
logical virtues, Faith, Hope, and Charity. ·
, The two first divisions of the tabernacle were
accessible to the priests, and were furnished with
a small altar of incense, the table of shew-bread,
and the golden candlestick ; but the holy of
holies, containing the ark of the covenant, over-
shadow.ed by the Shekinah, being the peculiar
residence of the Almighty, was only ~ntered by
the high priest, and that after innumerable puri-
fications. The floor of this most holy place was
composed of square stones of an equal size, and
placed alternately black and white.; _which me-·
thod of paving has, from this circumstance, been-
termed Mosaic. It was disposed in this chequer-
ed and variegated form to remind the high priest
of the vicissitudes of human life, that he might
not be puffed up with the..p~e-eminence of his. '
dignified station ; .hut in the, midst of prosperity.
Digitized by GoogIe
to be. h4mble, m~ek, patient, and ascri~ pis di~4
tinction solely to the· goodness of ()-Qd~ Pros~
perity and adversity, lik'e the white- ~nd blaQ~
stones in this pavement, are equally intei"II\ingled
in the cup of buma_
n life, to shew that this world
afforda no· permanent good; that how.ever an
individual may he disting~ished by birth, wealth,
()I" hereditary honours, death will speedily destroy
the splendid fascination, and ted!)ce all mankind
to ~heir printitive level; and that therefor~ we
ooght to study how to approach that perfection
- here, which shall be revealed to us in the effulgen~ ·
regions of·eternal light.
The ark qf the covenant was a: small woo~en
chest, made .of imperishable materials, ap.d over-
l~d with gold by Bezaleel; whose principa,l us~
was- to suppQrt the propitiatory or ~ercy s~at,
from whence the oracpla~: responses were deliver-
ed. It was used also as a sacred reposjtory to
contain the two tables of ~tone, on -whic~ .the
decalogue .was .jnscrll>ed ·l}y ·the finger of G~d~
It wa$ about three feet three..quarters _ip l~ngtq,
two feet and a qua.rter ip bre~th, an<! :two~~~~
and· a qU~¢r high••
:_'!'he Jl.lercy sea~ w;w _marlt:
~f pure .g9ld, and was ,of th~ sa0;1~ 4iwem~io.ns
~the. upper sutfJLc~ of the ark; Upon ~ile· fllftr~
cy seat were two _
cherubims of gold, :witb t;heir
wings extended towards each other, forming a-
kind of t4rone or chariot, on which the She.kinah
u '!l
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
rested ; and hence the .Lord ia said to _
dwell
between the cherubims.• The upper extremity
of the ark was encircled with a crown ·of gold.
In or near the ark was afterwards laid up a small
·quantity of the manna with which God miracu-
lously sustained his people in a barren wilderness
forty years. This food fell upon the ground like
the hoar frost, and tasted like wafers sweetened
wiih-honey. It derived its name from the surprise
of the people when they received their first
supply. They asked each other, man ltu! What
is this? And ·hence it acquired and retained
the name of manna. In commemoration of this
miraculous sustenance, an omrer ofthe manna, con-
.taining about three pints and a-half, was deposited
in a pot of gold, and·placed in the sanctum sanc-
torum, as an everlasting testimony that they owed
their preservation to the immediate providence
of GcxL
The ark itself was esteemed so sacred, that
whoever looked upon it was instantly put to
death. ·Fifty thousand men of Bethsbemesh were
alain for being guilty of this impiety.t It was
an agent in the performance of miracles. · The
river Jordan was divided as soon as the feet of
the priests who bare the ark were dipped in the
edge of the water, so that the _
Israelites passe.d
• leai., xn.vii. us. Ps. r:in. }. t J Sam. Yi. 19.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASON'&T.
Over dry-shod.• The walls of Jerieho fell .dOWQ
when the ark had encompassed the city seven
times ;t and when the same ark was deposited in
the temple of Dagon, the idol fell prostrate'from
its pedestal, and was shivered in pieces.t.
. The holy garments worn by the high .priest
were directed to be made of fine twined linen,
of the three colours, richly embroidered with gold.
Two -oayx stones were placed upon the shoulders
:Of the ephod; set in ouches of gold, and the
· names of the twelve tribes engraven on them ac-
cording to seniority. The stone on the right
.shoulder contained the names of Jleuben, Simeon,
.Judah, Dan, Napthali, and Gad; aod that oo the
left shoulder the names of Asher, Issachar, Zebu-
.lun, Ephraim, Manasseh,. and Benjamin. These
two stones referred to the two grand luminaries
.the sun· and moon, for as the former rules the
day and the latter the night, so these stones were
intended to point out.thatGod, the maker ofthese
luminaries, rules and governs the whole world by
His wisdom, strength, and goodness ; and that the
twelve tribes written on these stones were under
the more especial protection of His superintend-
.ing providence..
The breast-plate was a square of nine inches,
.made of the same materials as the ephod, and
• Josh. iii. 14. 17. . t Josb. Yi. 20. f J Sam. Y. 4.
u 8
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
'
set with twelve precious stones, three iii each
row, on which were also engraved the names of
the twelve tnbes. The colours of the banners
were identified by these stones, each tribe bearing
the same colour ~ the precious stone .by which
it was represented in the high priest's breast-
plate. ·
The first stone was a ruby or sardius. Its
colour was RED, ~U~d it has a direct allusion to the
fiety lust of Reuben, who violated Bjlhah,- his
father's concubine, at Edar. ·
The second was a topaz, of a YELLow colour,
and referred to Simeon, from his jaundiced and
distempered rage in the slaughter of the Sheche-
mites.
The third was a
·carbuncle, a stone of' such
·e-xceedil)g brightness and glory, that it flames
with CRIMSON light in a dark place. This refer-
·red to Judah, a princely-tribe, out· of which
sprang the Messiah, who was the brightness of
his Father's glory, and the express image of his
person.•
The fourth stone in the breast-plate was an
emerald. It was of a shining GREEli colour, and
represented the green serpent which Jacob in his
prophecy likened unto Dan.
The fifth stone was the sapphire. The colour
• }feb. i. 3.
Digitized by GoogIe
. FREE-MASONRY•
.of thiS gem lS.SKY BLUE, interm~xed with sparkling
gold spots ; and was appropriated to the tribe of
:Naptkali.
The sixth was a diamond, and was appropriated
to the.tribe of Gad, whose hardihood and invinci-
ble courage were very aptly represented by a
diamond; which is the hardest and most impene-
trable substance in nature. In colour it was
WHITE, and transparent like crystal.
The s~venth stone was a turquoise, which is
BLUE. This gem is endued with the properties
of amber ; and will attract light bodies to its
.surface. It is resembled to Asher from the multi-
-
tude of blessings with which that tribe was en-
dowed.
The eighth was an achate or agate, which is a
stone intermixed with many splendid colours, as
BLUE, GREEN, RED, AND WHITE. On this was en-
graven the name of Issachar, whose occupation
being husbandry, was fitly represented by this
stone from the' variety exhibited in .the produc-
tio)ls of nature.
The ninth was the PURPLE amethyst, referring
to the sails of shipping, which were of that
. colour ; and hence it was applied to Zabulon,
which tribe became afterwards celebrated for
their knowledge and practice of·navigation:
The. terith was the beryl. The colour of this
gem is sea GREEN, and was referred to Ephraim,
u4
Digitized by GoogIe
.ANTIQUITIES OF
the son of Josep_h, whom Moses afterwards bles-
sed with precious things from the depths below~41'
The ~leventh was the onyx, of a FLESH colour ;
and represented the tender affection of Joseph
towards Manasseh.
The twelfth was the jasper. Its colour was a
transparent GREE:bl', spotted and veined with red.
Pliily says of the jasper, " tot habet virtutes, quot
t:JeniJS, it hath as many virtues as veins ;"·and was
herice appropriated to Benjamin, whose virtues
caused the Lord to seiect this tribe as his peculiar
residence, when Israel had obtained full posses-
sion of the Holy Land, and an universal peace
pointed out the time for erecting and dedicating
a temple for the exclusive pm_
pose of His worship.
The tabernacle, under the judicious direction
of Bezaleel and Aholiab, was conducted ·with
such amazing dispatch, that notwithstanding the
variety and exquisite richness of its ornaments,
it w_
as completed in seven months ; and dedicated
on the first day of the month Nisan or Abib, , ·
about the middle of March A.M. 2514 ; and ·
from hence was reckoned the- first month in the
year; for, previously to this tinie, the computa-
tion of their year began with the month Tisri or
Ethanim. At this dedication it pleased the Lord
to give the Israelites a miraculous token of his
'
• Deut. xxxiii. 13.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-~IASONRY.
approbation by a fire from heaven~ like a flash of
lightning, ·consuming the sacrifice ;· and a cloud
of glory which covered the tent of the congrega-
tio!l, and IDled the whole space occupied by the
tabernacle.
" The structure ofthe tabernacle, the sacerdGtal
garments,·and the.various vessels and.instruments
appertaining to the service of the altar, bear a
striking analogy to the structure of the univei'Se.
The three divisions of the tabernacle may be, with
great :propriety, compared to the earth, the sea,
and the heavens; the twelve months of·the year
are .signified by the same number ·of loaves of
·shew-biead. The s_even lamps over the branches
of· the· golden candlestick ·refer to the ·seven
planets; and the seventy pieces of which the
candlestick is composed, denote the twelve signs
of the zodiac. The colours which are wrought
into the curtains, as well as the curtains ·them-
selves, are intended to represent the four elements.
The earth, from .which the flax is produce~ may
be considered as typified by the fine .linen. The
sea is represented by the purple colour, ·which
derives its origin from· the. blood of the fish
murex. The violet colour is an emblem of the
air; as the crimson is of the fire. With respect
to the garment ·of the high priest, the linen of
which it is composed represepts the whole earth,
and its violet colour the heavens. The pome-
granates refer to the lightning, and the noise of
Digitized by Google
298 A~TIQUITIES OF
the' bells to the thunder. The eph<><t with its
four several colours, has a reference to the very
-nature of the universe ; and the intermixture of
gold which we observe in it mdy, in my opinion,
. be considered as regarding the rays of the sun.
The essen or rationale, which is placed in ·the
middle of the garment, denotes the situation of
the suN, in the centre of the universe. The
girdle which passes round the body of the priest,
· is a symbol of the sea environing the earth. The
ami and moon may be supposed to be expressed
by the two sardonyx stones ; and either the
twelve months, or the twelve signs of the zodiac,
by the twelve other stones. The violet. colour of
the tiara resembles heaven ; and it would have
manifested a great want of reverence to the
Deity to have inscribed Hrs SAcRED NAME on
any other colour. · The splendour of the majesty
of the Supreme Being are _signified by the triple
crown, and the,plate of gold."•
The tabernacle was erected due east andwest, in
:reference to the rising and setting of the sun. In
'<>pposition to this illustration, it has. been urged
that the changes occasioned by the precession of
the equinoxes have altered the position of ancient
buildings ; and that, if the eastern and western
points are to be determined by the rising and
.setting of the sun, these edifices, being at va-
- ------------ - --~
• Jos. Ant. I. 3, e. 7.
Digitized by GoogIe
1
I
1
I
I
FUEE-MASONRY••
riance with the points thus as~ertained, do not
truly exemplify the position. It will be seen at
once that this objection is too replete with fallacy
and subterfuge to need a passing remark. The
terms east and west have been honoured with ·
peculiar notice ever since the world began; and
it is from tlie uniform practice of our ancient
brethren that we retaip a regard for those points
in all gur ceremonies. · The Garden of Eden ·was
placed in the east, and our first parents 'were
expelled towards the west. ~e ark of Enoch was
placed due east and west, as were also 'the taber-
nacle. of Mose~, and the Temple of Solomon.
Judah, the most distinguished of the tribes, had
·the eastern part of the camp assigned to him, a.S
the most· honourable station. The Gospel was
first published in the east, and afterwards spread
over the western part of the globe. Jesus Christ,
its divine author, was crucified with his face
to the ·west. Christian churches and Masonic
·Lodges are built due east and west, and the
·eastern part in each is deemed the most sacred;
and all interments of the dead are conducted on
the .same principle. Whence then this perfect
·uniformity, from the creation to the present time?
'Fhe same gystem is visible throughout the works
of nature, and must, therefore, be referred to the
Great Creator of all things. The sun, that great
source of light and heat, created for the benefit
and convenience of man, ri'les · in the east to
Digitized by GoogIe
800 .\NTIQVITIES OF
. .
open the day, gains·his meridian in ·the -south,
and retires to set in the west, to close the labotm~
of the day. The ancient inhabitants of the world
considered the. east to be the face·of the world
·from this very appearance, and the west the hack
of it. The first edifice appropriated to the ex-
clusive purpose of divine worship was the ta-
bernacle; and this, by God's immediate direction,
was placed due east and west: ·and as the taber-
nacle was only intended as a temporary substitute
for a more permanent- building, constructed on
the same model, when his people should have
obtained peaceable possession ~f the promised
land, it may be justly inferred that this practice is
&anctioned by the divine command. Our Saviour
is denominated, by St. Luke, 0RIENS ; • and,
therefore, the early Christians worshipped widl
their faces to the east ; for they were taught to
abjure·Satan towards the west, and covenant with
Christ towards the east.t
· This peculiar ·situation of the tabernacle re-
ferred significantly to the memorable deliverance
of the children of Israel from their Egyptian
bondage,·and to the east and west winds, which
·Were the apparent causes of that division of .the
Red Sea by which it was accomplmhed. The
·- --- ----- - -- -- - --------- - - -- ----
• Luke, i. 78. And Zechariah says (vi. 12), 'I~Ii ct,;,e a.cz.ro~
oro~"" lvri, Ecce vir, Ouua nomen ejns. ·
mbro~e. DiQn. Areop~
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE- MA:SONRY. 801
miracles recorded in · Scripture have generally
been effected ·by the mediate ·agency of natural
causes. Thus the Egyptian miracles were many
of them performed. by the stretching forth of
Aaron's rod; the waters of the !led Sea dividecl
by the same means which produced an east and
· afterwards a west wind. The bitter waters at
Marah were corrected by putting into them the
branch of a tree, &c. &c. These were true mi~
racles effected -by the .almighty power of God;
through the medium of natural agents.
The tabernacle thus erected, and the Jewis~
ritual fully established, the patriarchal institution
was dispensed with, and the right of primoge»i-
ture to officiate at the altar was superseded by
the appropriation of the tribe of Levi··to that
exclusive service. This dispensation .·. was made;
lest during so long a pe~od as their sojourning,
was to, con~nue, the people might degenerate
from .His worship, and . embrace the ·Egyptian
idolatry. And this was further provided·agaiiist
by a peJ.]>etual symbol of God's presence among
them, in the pillar qf a cloud. ·
This. remarkable pillar, w~ich directed · the
Israelites through the Red Sea, and attended them
during their journeyings in ·the wilderness, was
intended as a visible manifestation. of the divine
presence, and a token that JEHOVAH was at hand
to render them assistance in all cases of difficulty
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUI.'l'IES OF
and distress. It assured them, at the. co~nce­
~ent of every change of situation, that while
they implicitly relied on that grand pillar for
protection, they might safely rise, follow their
Divine Leader, and fear no danger : for .while
their faith was so firmly founded, they could cer-
tainly have nothing to fear. This pillar, which
assumed the form of a cloud by day, and afire,
which afforded light to the whole camp, by night,
appeared at their very first departure from Egypt,
did not forsake them until they came to the
borders of 'the promised land, and rendered them
inestimable services whilst .traversing that vast
~d trackless desert. When the cloud moved, ·
the Israelites struck their tents and marched for- '
ward; when it rested, they pitched their tents,
and remained stationary, until the moving of the
pillar directed them again to change their situa-
tion. It never altered i~ form, but, like Jacob's
ladder, its base w~ near the earth, and its top
ascended- to the heavens. After the tabernacle
was erected, it took its station over the sanctum
sanctorum, and served. to shade the whole camp
from the intense heat of the sun in that parched
AP.d inhospitable climate.•
The tabernacle being completed, the next care
of Moses was to regulate the tribes, and fo~
• Ps. c:v. 39. Num. xiv. 4. Isai, iv. 5, 6.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE·MA~ONRY. ·
- each into its proper order, as a constitueu.t pau-t :Pf
.the general force necessary to- defend themsE:lves
against the incursio~s .of .their hostile neighbours,
~ well as to jnflict the threatened vengeanci on
.the inhabitants of Canaau. To accomplish thi$ ·
purpose, he numbered the males according tQ
their families, and armed every one who had at-
_
tained the age of twenty years: he had been
furnished with armour, both offensive and de-
fensive, by the special Providence of God, in th~
destruction of the Egyptian army. Commanders,
or princes of tribes, were appointed by Moses,
.and, on reviewing his army, he found it consisted
of 603,550 fighting men. Banners were appro:
priated to the several divisions, with . device$
emblematical of the genius or disposition of e~ch
~ribe.
The form of the camp was a square, each sid~
of~which was twelve miles ;• and the tribes wer~
placed according to their degrees of consanguinity,
Thus the east, being the most honourable station,
was occupied by the tents of Judah, lss~c~r,
and Zebulon, the children of Leah. On the
west were placed the tribes of Ephraim, Manasaes,
and Benjamin, the .descendants ~f Rachel. On
the south Reuben and Simeon, the sons of Leah;
and.Gad, the-son of Zilpah, h~r handmaid. And
• Targum of .Tonath. ben Uziel -
in Num. ii.-3.
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
. on the north were stationed the tribes of Dan,
Asher, and Napthali, the descendants of Bilhah
and Zilpah. The spaces between each tribe were
used for the transaction of public and private
business. The tabernacle, attended by the cloud
of glory, was placed in the centre, about a mile
from each tribe. The tribe of Levi were distri-
buted around the tabernacle in every quarter.
Moses, Aaron, and the priests in the east ; th~
Gershonites in the west, the Kohathites in the
south, and the Merarites in the north.
The disposition of this camp was so beautiful
and imposing, that Balaam was struck with as-
tonishment at a sight so magnmcent and unex-
pected, and exclaimed in the spirit of prophecy,
" How goodly are thy tents, 0 Jacob, and thy
tabernacles, 0 Israel! As the valleys are they
spread ·forth, as gardens by the river's side, as
the trees of lign aloes which the Lord hath plant-
ed, and as cedar trees beside the waters."•
" Every man of ·the children of Israel" was
commanded " to pitch by his own standard with
the. ensigns of their father's house."t . In each .
quarter of the camp was a princip~ standard
or banner, which unitedly bore a device emble-
matical of the angelic nature. This is represented
by the prophet Ezekiel to be comprehende~.under
• Num. xxiY. 5, .6. t lllid.ii. 2.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY. 805
the combined figures of a man, ·a lion, an ox, and
an eagle. A man to represent intelligence and
understandit?g, a lion to personify strength and
power, an·ox to denottl the ministration of patience
and assiduity, and an eagle to denote the prompt-
ness and celerity with which the will and pleasure
of the Supreme are executed.•
_The standard borne by Nahshon, the leader of
the tribe pf Judah, and of the first great division
of the Israelites, who led the van on every expe·
dition, was emblazoned with the image of a lion
couchant between a crown and sceptre; .for Judah.
was a princely tribe, according to the blessing of
Jacob, who declared that "his hand should be
on the neck of his enemies, and that his father's
children should bow down before him. Judah is
a lion's whelp," said the dying patriarch, illumi-
• " Angeli ex hoc versu definiri possunt. Sunt enim Spiritus in-
teUigentes ut Homo ; potentes ut Leo; ministratorii ut Bo1; et
celeres ut Aquila.-Tremel. in Ezek. 1.
These several hieroglyphics are referred by ma~y of the fathers
( Jerom. in Matt. L: Gregory in Ezek~ 1. : Augu~t. ~c.) of the
Christian church to the four evangelists. The man is said to represent
St. Matthew, because his gospel commences with an account of the
genealogy of Christ, according to his human extraction. The lion is
referred to St. Mark, because his gospel begins with the Yo.r clmrultil,
not unaptly compared to the roaring of a lion. The ox to St. Luke,
because he begins with the priest Zacharias ; and the eagle to St.
John, who, as with the wings of an eagle, soars aloft in the spirit of
in11piration, and commences his gospel with the eternal divinity of
Jesus Christ, the woRD of God.
X
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
nated with the spirit of prophecy ; " from the
prey, my s~:m, thou art gone up : he stooped
down, he couched as a lion, and as au old lion ;
who shall .raise him up ? The sceptre shall not
depart from_Judah, nor a lawgiver from between
his feet, until Shilo c?me, and unto him shall the
gathering of the people be. Binding his fole
unto the vine, and his asses colt unto the choice
'ine ; he washed his garments in wine, and his
clothes in the blood of grapes ; his eyes shall be
red with wine, and his teeth white with milk."~
_
Here the sceptre was distinctly placed in the
hands of Judah; and accordingly we find that
from David, the second king of the Israelites,
to the 'Babylonish captivity, this tribe was never
without a sceptre. After this captivity Cyrus
placed the holy vessels in the hands of Zerub-
babel, who was a prince of Judah; and there the
sceptre remained, until Herod, who was neither
of their regal line, nor yet a Jew, was constituted
governor of Judea by the Romans, in whose time
the prophecy was completed by the advent of
Jesus Christ. This tribe produced many pr?.nces,
who eminently fulfilled this prediction, and lite-
rally trod upon the necks of their enemies ; par-
ticularly Jesus Christ, who is denominated the
lion of the tribe of Judah, and will ultimately
-. - ·- -- -- ------- - - ---------
Gen. xlix. 8-1!.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY.
subdue all things to hims,elf; " for he must reign
till he hath put all enemies under his feet/'• The
country adjoining Jerusalem, appropriated to this
tribe, waf) a land of vineyards, and peculiarly
famous for the size and beauty of its grapes.
The banner of lssachar was borne by Nethaneel,
the prince and leader of his tribe, and was em-
blazoned with a device represe~ting a strong ass
.crouching between two burdens; for Jacob had
doomed his posterity to strong and toilsome la-
bour ;t .and this people were accordingly very
·patient and assiduous in the laborious employment
of cultivating the earth, and rather chose to sub-
mit to any extent of imposts, duties, and taxes,
than .forsake their beloved quiet, and take up
arms in defence of their natural rights and privi-
-leges. The banner of Zebulun, . erected under
the command of Eliab, bore a ship; for Jacob
had predicted that Zebulun should dwell at the
haven of the sea, and he should be for an haven
for ships.t This prophecy was minutely fulfilled ;
for the portion of Canaan allotted to this tribe
was on the coasts of the Mediterranean sea, west-
ward, and extended to the lake of Tiberias, to-
wards the east, where they followed the avocation
of mariners and fishermen.
• 1st. Cor.xv.ili. t Gen. xlix.14, 15,
X~
t Ibi~. 13.
oig,tized by Coogle
308 ANTIQUITIES OF .
The second . grand division was led on by
Elizur, a prince of the tribe of Reuben. His
banner was distinguished by a man in the full
vigour of his strength, because Reuben was the
". first born of Jacob, his might, and the begin-
ning of his strength."• The privileges attached
to primogeniture were forfeited to this tribe by
the misconduct .of its patriarch, who committed
incest with his father's concubine, and were trans-
ferred to the tribe of Judah. The host of Simeon
was headed by Shelumiel; who bore a standard
emblazoned with a sword, as " an instrument of·
cruelty."t Simeon laboured under his father's
curse for the part he had taken, in conjunction
with his brother Levi, in the cruel and unjusti-
fiable slaughter .of the Shechemites. Hence the
descendants of Levi had no inheritance amongst
their brethren, but were scattered abrpad in forty-
eight cities throughout the land of Canaan; and
Simeon .was a tribe of schoolmasters, with an
inheritance consisting only of a small portion of
land in the midst of the tribe of Judah. In
process of time this settlement became too small
for their increasing population, and they were
obliged to take refuge amongst the Idumeans.
The tribe of Gad was led by Eliasaph, and was
designated by a troop of horsemen ; for it had
• Gen. xlix. 3. t Ibid. 5.
Dig1tizod by Coogle
FREE-1\fASONRY.
been predicted that " a troop should overcome
him, but that he should overcome at last." •
This prophecy was fulfilled by his situation on
the eastern side of Jordan, exposed to the attacks
of the Ammonites, who harassed the tribe by re-
peated·incursions, until Jephtha ruled over Israel,
who repelled ·the invaders, carried the war into
their own country, and compelled them to sue
for peace on terms equally honourable and ad-
vantageous to the tribe over which they had ·
exercised their tyrannies.
The third grand division of the Israelites
was conducted by Elishama, the leader of the
Ephraimites. Ephraim, though only a younger
son of one of the patriarchs, was appointed to
be a- leader of the tribes, in consequence of the
peculiar blessing of his grandfather. His standard
bore the image of an ox. The tribe of Manasseh
was led by Gamaliel, and the banner was em~
,blazoned with a luxuriant vine planted by the
side of a wall, which the tendrils overhung. These
two tribes sprang from Joseph, and were account-
ed peculiarly blessed. They produced more-emi-
nent men than any other tribe, except Judah,
in which tribe was preserved the line of the
Messiah. Joshua, Gideon, Jephtha and others,
proceeded from them ; under whose able super-
-------------·
• Gen. xlix. 19.
X 8
Digitized by GoogIe
310 ANTIQUITIEi OF
intendance Israel acquire~ much renown and
-many permanent advantages, which inspired the
sWTounding nations with terror at the name of
Israel and its God. The tribe of Benjamin was
designated by a ravening wolf, borne by its prince
Abidan. This was a fierce and warlike people,
and in battJe were more terrible to ·their enemies
than any of the tribes of Israel; conformably
to .the unerring voice of prophecy, which had
declared, " Benjamin shall ravin as a wolf; in
the morning he shall devour th~ prey, and at
night he shall divide the spoil."•
The last grand division was led on by Ahiezer,
a prince of the tribe of Dan. His standard was
distinguished by a serpent attacking the heels of
a horse on which a rider was placed ; for Jacob
had prophesied that " nan shall be a serpent in
the way ; an adder in the path, that biteth the
horse heels, so that his rider shall fall back-
wards."t This division, which was very nume-
rous, and appointed to protect the rear of the
congregation, was distinguished also by a grand
banner emblazoned with tb.e figure of- an eagle.
This is attested by many eminent authors. Vata-
bulus says, " the banner of Reuben was a man,
signifying religion and reason; Judah's was a
lion, denoting power; Ephraim's was an oz, to
• Gen. xlix. 9//. t Ibid. 17.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY. 311 .
denote patience and toil; an~ Dan's an eagle,
denoting wisdom, sublimity, and swiftness.''*
Aben E~ra attests the same. "Dicunt," says he,
" ·in vexillo Reuben fuisse imaginem kominis :
in vexillo Jehudah imaginem leonis; -in _
vexillo
Ephraim imaginem bovis ; in vexillo Dati imagi-
nem aqf!,ila." The banner of Asher was unfolded
by Pagiel, and bore a flourishing tree i for Jacob
had sai~" Out of Ash-
er, his ·bread shall be fat,
and he shall yield royal dainties ;"t which re-
ferred to the rich and fertile· possessions allotted
to- him in the land of Canaan. The tribe of -
Naphtali was commanded by Ahira, and desig-
nated by a hind let loose, alluding to their free
spirit and unrestrained love of liberty. ·
The banner of .Joseph is said to have been a
luxuriant tree, from Jacob's.prediction, "Joseph
is··a fruitful bough ; even .a fruitful. bough by a
wall, whose branches run over the wall."t But
I can sc~rcely admit that. any separate host was
asSembled .as ·the tribe of Joseph, who (indepen-
dently of the total silence of Moses on the sub-
ject) was fully represented by his sons Ephraim
and Manasseh, who were advanced to the rank
of princes and tribes in the room of Joseph and
Levi.§ I have therefore given his banner to
• Vat. in Num. ii. ~. t Gen. xlix. 20.
t Ibid. 22. § Jos. Ant. I. iii. 12.
X 4
Digitized by GoogIe
81!! ANTIQUITIES OF
Manasseh, who was Joseph's- eldest and most
beloved son, though Ephraim is preferred before
him. Joseph was thus actually at the head of
two distinct tribes, which was a fulfilment of
that prophecy of Jacob, " I have given to thee
oil~ portion above thy brethren, which I took
out of the hand of the Amorite with my sword
and with my bow."•
The banner of Levi bore a dagger, as Simeon's
did a sword. These were the instruments of
cruelty which Jacob pronounced were in their
habitations. The tribe of Levi had no distinct
place among the tribes during their encampment
in the wilderness ; but in consequence of its ap-
propriation to serVe at the altar, it was divided
into four companies and. placed east, west, south,
and north about the tabernacle. This tribe.was
afterwards dispersed amongst the other tribes,
and was never possessed of a separate and in-
dependent inheritance. It is true that in the
enumeration of the tribes of Israel by St. John
the Evangelist, Joseph and Levi are both men-
tioned, and Dan and Ephraim, though leaders of
divisions, are omitted. This exclusion is attri-
buted to the idolatrous pursuits of those two
tribes, who, being foremost in their respective
aosts, endeavoured to distinguish themselves still
'* Geri. xlviii. 22.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY. 318
more by promoting and encouraging innovation
in the divine economy, with the design of ele-
vating themselves to a supreme dignity, which
under the theocracy they were ineligible to fill.
The following table will exhibit at one view
the precise order and rank, as well as the strength
of the Israelites in the wilderness, when ranged
under their respective leaders and standards.
Digitized by GoogIe
0
~
;;;·
<D
a_
~
C)
0
~
-
rv
Names of Tn'bs.
1
1 Names of Leaden. Ban)!.,etL Number I .Situation
· r c 1o D I ' of Souls. lb the Camp.
o ur. 1 nee.
(--~----------.-----------;-----------
Judah • . •••••••••••• Nah"bon.. •••••• Crinlson ••••··IA Lion........ 74.600 }
Issachar............ Netbaneel ...... Blue, &c...... An A"s. ...... 54,400 East.
Zebulun ........... Eliab........... purple•••••••• ! A Ship • ,••... 57,400
Reuben. •••••••••••• Elizur ••••.••••• Red.• ••••••••• A Man.. ...... 46,5oo }
Simeon • ............ Sheluniiel....:.. YeJiow........ A Sword ••.... 59,3001 South.
Gad. . •••••.••••••••. Elia~aph . ••••.. White ••••..••. IA Troop ••.••. 45,650
Ephraim . • ......•.. Eli"hama ....... G1·een .......... 1An Ox.......•. · 40,500 }
Manasseb.. ••••••••• Gamaliel. •••••• Flesh.••••••••• ,A Vine. . •••••• 32,200 \-Vest.
Benjamin. • ••••••••• Abidan ••••••••• Green ••••••••• ~ A Wolf. ••••••• 35,400
Dan..............·... Ahiezer......... Green .......··IAn J::agle...... 62,700 }
Asher .............. Pagiel .......... Blue .......... .A Tree. ....... 41,500 North.
Naphtali...·•••~ ••••• Ahira .......... Blue .......... A Hind........ 53,400
{
Moses and Aaron . ••••••••• - - ' - East.
Levi Gershon .••• EJia.qaph .•••} !7,500 West.
· Kohath ...... Elizaphan ... C_rimson ...... A Dagger..... 8,600 South.
Merari. •••••• Zuriel. ... ... . 6,200 North.
c.o
....
~
>
z
"i
i5
c:
...
:=!
&l
0
..,
FREE·'MASONRY. 815
Besides the banners already enumerated, there
Were abundance of inferior standards in the camp,
under which the separate companies, or smaller
divisions, were ranked, and these were embla-
zoned with devices according to the fancy oftheir
respective leaders.
The two most numerous, led by Nahshon of
the tribe of Judah, and Ahiezer of the tribe of
Dan, were placed in front and rear of the Israel-
ites when on the march ; the former to attack
the enemy, if any should attempt to obstruct their
progress ; and t~e latter to protect the move-
ments of the whole body, as well as to take
charge of the sick, lame, and wounded ; and
hence they were termed "The gathering host."
When the congregation rose to move onwards,
Moses said, " Rise up, 0 Lord, and let thine
enemies be scattered ! and let them that hate
thee flee before thee." And when it rested, he
said, " Return, 0 Lord, unto the many thousands
of Israel."• And the whole people sung the
former part of the sixty-eighth psalm.
" Concerning their marching on their journies,
they either moved forward, or abode still, accord-
ing to the moving or standing of the·cloud which
conducted them. The manner thereofis as follows :
When God took up the cloud, Moses prayed, and
- - -- · ·- ··-------
• Num. x. 30, 36.
Digitized by GoogIe
316 ANTIQUITIES OF
the priestswith their trumpets blew an alarm ; then
Judah,the first standard,rose up, ·with Issachar and
Zebulun, and they marched foremost ; then fol-
lowed the Gershonites and Merarites, bearing the
boards and coverings ofthe tabernacle in waggons.
The trumpets sounded the second alarm, then
Reuben, Simeon, and Gad, rose up, and followed
the tabernacle ; and after them went the Koha-
thites, in the midst of the twelve tribes, bearing -
on their shoulders the ark, candlestick, table,
altar, and other holy things. At the·third alarm,
rose up the standard of Ephraim, Manasseh, and
Benjamin, and these followed the sanctuary.
Unto this David hath reference when he prayeth, _
' Before Ephraim, Benjamin and Manasseh stir
up thy strength, and come and save us.'• At
the fourth alarm arose the standard of Dan,
Asher, and Naphtali; and to these was committed
the care of gathering together the lame, feeble,
and sick, and to look that nothing was left
behind ; whence they were called ' the gathering
host.'t Unto this David alludeth, 'when my
father and mother forsake me, the Lord will
gather me.' " +
At Kibroth Hattaavah, the grand sanhedrim
was appointed by the command of God, consist-
• Pi.lxxx. 2. t Josh. vi. 9.
t Ps. xvii.lO. 'Mos. and Aar. lib. 6. 8.
Digitized by GoogIe
FltEE·MASONRY;. 817
ing of !fix rulers out of each tribe, to the number
of seventy-two, over which Moses presided as
the nasi, or prince of th~ sanhedrim. The
learnirig and power of this body, which continued
until the destruction of the Jewish polity by the
Romans, have been very highly panegyrized by
the Rabbins. They possessed the privilege of
re-judging any cause which had been determinec;l
by the inferior courts, if an appeal was made to
their decision. Sentence in criminal causes was
necessarily pronounced by them, and they had a
power of infficting personal correction on ·the
king himself, if guilty of certain specified of..
fences. The first sanhedrim was endowed with
the gift of prophecy, and were of peculiar service
to Moses in the assistance they rendered towards
keeping the rebellious Israelites in subjection.
The Israelites had now arrived at the borders
of the promised land ; and their leader, who
foresaw the difficulties which presented themselves
to the conquest of that country, proposed, . in a
public assembly, that each tribe. should furnish a
man of approved courage and conduct to explore
the land, and report their joint opinion on the
manners and customs of the inhabitants, as well
as the strength of their cities, the nature of their
fortifications, and the most practicable method of
successful attack. Twelve men were, therefore,
appointed, under the conduct of deputy grand
...
Digitized by GoogIe
318 ENTIQUITIES OF
master Joshua, who represented his tribe in this
undertaking. They entered on the duty with
alacrity and zeal, and travelled quite through the
land of Canaan, even to Lebanon, the most
northerly district. Their inquiries were extended
to the most minute particulars ; and, at.the end of
forty days, ·they returned to give an account of
their mission.
The inhabitants of Canaan at this period were
a hardy race of people, having been trained to
the use of arms in a long war with the Egyptians,
whom they had formerly conquered and tyran-
nized over during a succession of six kings, and
a period of more than two hundred years. They
were expelled a short time before the birth of .
Jacob, and from that period had been engaged
in perpetual warfare .with their neighbours. Their
cities were consequently so strongly fortified, and
the communication between them was so carefully
guarded, that they were deemed impregnable.
Their form was gigantic and robust, their horses
sagacious and w~ll trained, and they used chariots
of iron,• which they had brought with them out
of Egypt. These formidable circumstances made
such a unfavourable impression on all the delegates,
except Joshua and Caleb, that they returned· to
their brethren under the effects of insurmountable
• Josh. xvii. 16.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY, 819
apprehension, which all the coolness and courage
of Joshua were unable effectually to repress.
The whole. congregati-on were infected with their
pusillaniffiity, and entered into a resolution to put
Moses and Aaron to death, and return to their
Egyptian slavery. The.. influence of Joshua was
scarcely sufficient to allay the tumult. Their
fears were, however, groundless ; for God had
weakened the CaQaanites by the migration of
many colonies into other countries before this
time, particularly t~at into Greece under Cadmus,
and that into Bithynia under Phrenix, that the
settlement of his peculiar people might be accom-
plished with greater ease.
The.complaints and imprecations of the people
subjected them to a severe judgment. God issued
a decree, that not one of that generation should
enter into the promised land, except Joshua and
Caleb, the only two who had been tried and found
faithful amidst the universal defection, that the
holy land might be peopled with a race free from .
the degeneracy of their forefathers.
The Israelites, by a common.fluctuation in the
human mind, were so disconcerted by this un-
expected decree, that, urged by despair, the..y
united themselves into a body, and, contrary to
the positive injunctions of Moses, they made a
desperate attempt to force their way into the land,
an~ gain possession, without the divine assistance.
Digitized by GoogIe
820 ANTIQUITIES OF
·But the Canaanites and the Amalekites were
prepared to receive them, repulsed them with
great slaughter, and drove them back into the
wilderness. Grieved at their disobedience, and
afraid of retaliatioil·from an enemy, l\'hom they
had incensed by an unprovoked attack, Moses
reconducted them from the borders of Canaan
towards the Red Sea. But the people, entirely
dissatisfied with these retrograde movements, were
easily incited to open rebellion against the autho-
rity of Moses, by Korah, Dat}lan, Abiram, and
On, who aspired to the priesthood and supreme
government of the people. They accused Moses
and Aaron of an assumption of authority, to
which all the people had an equal claim, and
demanded a restitution of their rights into the
hands of the congregation. This conduct so
provoked the Lord, that he destroyed them by a
terrible judgment, in the presence of all the
people ; and appointed a visible and obvious test,
which might remain a perpetual ·demonstration
that Aaron and his seed were appointed to the
priesthood by divine commission. He commanded
the heads of the twelve tribes to take each of
tltem his rod, with his name inscribed upon it ; and
the miraculous rod, which had been the principal
agent in the performance of those supernatural
acts which at. this day excite the astonishment of
mankind, was directed to be inscribed with the
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY.
name of Aaron for the tribe of Levi. These
rods were laid up in the tabernacle of the con-
gregation before the testimony, under an Al-
mighty promise that the man's rod whom he
would choose should blo-
ssom before the morning.
- " And, in the morning, Moses went into the
tabernacle of witness, and behold, the rod of
Aaron for the house of Levi was budded, and
brought forth buds, and bloomed blossoms, and
yielded almonds."• The choice of A_aron being
thus publicly confirmed, Moses ·was directed to
lay up the rod in the tabernacle, as a visible
evidence that this dispensation · proc~eded from
God ·himself, and that the heads of his family
might for ever remain in undisturbed possession
of the high priesthood.
When the time was nearly expired which God
had prescribed for the Israelites to remain in the ·
Desert, he determined to correct a mistaken
notion which they had received from their fathers,
that Moses was indebted to the rod, which was
now laid up in the testimony, for the success of
his miracles. To convince them, therefore, that
it was His Almighty power alone which had
wrought these wonders in .their behalf, and to
inspire them with confidence in His protection
when surrounded . by enemies in the land of
" Num. xvii. 8.
y
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
Canaan, he led them to Kadesb, ·where there was
not water sufficient for their necessities ; and
commanded Moses and Aaron to stand before
the rock only, and, without the use of any visible
agent, the wa~er should hurst forth in the presence
of the whole congregation. In this instance, how-
ever, Moses was disobedient, and attempted to dis-
play his own power rather than the glory of God.
Upbraiding the people for their repeated mur.-
murings, he struck the rock twice with a rod he
held in his hand, and said : " Hear now, ye re-
bels, must u~e fetch you water out of this rock ?''•
The water, indeed, hurst from the rock; but the
arrogance of Moses and Aaton excited God's
indignation, and their crime met with its due
punishment ; for God pronounced that , they
should not live to conduct the people to their
promised rest. And the name of that water was
called Meribah.
Aaron died upon Mount Hor, and Moses being
unable to quell the mutinous spirit of the people
at Punon, it pleased God to send fiery serpents
among them, which destroyed great quantities of
men, 'fOmen, and children ; and they were under
the necessity of applying to Moses to remove so
great a calamity. In this extremity Moses prayed
to God in the behalf of his repentant people, and
• Num. xx. 10.
Digitized by GoogIe '
'
FREE-MASONRY.
was directed to set up a serpent of brass in the
midst of the camp ; the operation of which should
be so sudden and miraculous as instantly to cure
all who looked upon it. This brazen serpent was
not endued with any inherent miraculous powers;
but was the medium only through which the
miracle was wrought, and the looking upon it
was the requisite test of moral obedience.
The Israelites having ravaged the open country
of the Amorites, and the land of Bashan, and
slain their kings,_their success excited the jealousy
of the Moabites, who trembled for their own
security, if assailed by such an active and success-
ful foe. .Tiley therefore ~ent an embassy ·to the .
Midianites, requesting their assistance to ex~l
the invader from their borders. The latter having
already suffered from the attacks of the common
enemy, entered into a league with the Moabites,
and declared war against Israel. To ensure
success they applied to Balaam, a prophet of the
Lord, offering the most extravagant rewards, if
he would attend and ·denounce curses upon the
Israelites, before they ventured to hazard an
attack. .v
Balaam was a most extraordinary character, and
many opinions have been advanced respecting
his country·and religion. It is supposed by some
that" he lived in Chaldea, then under the govern..
ment of the king of Assyria, and ·that he con.
y 2 .
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF--
tinued in the secret practice ofthose rites of·true-
worship for which Abraham and his family were
expelled that country in times past. His true place
of residence is believed to have been·at Pethor,
in the eastern part of Syria, where he practised
our science in its purity with a few ~thful
brothers. He was the principal of a society or
lodge who adhered strictly to the precepts of
Lux, and the patriarchal form of worship ; and
were acknowledged by God as His worshippers,
for he inspired Balaam with the gift of prophecy.
As he steadily refused to minister at the altars of
idolatry, the prophet attained no honours in his
own country, though he was a man of much
learning and eminence ; the hope, therefore, of
.w~alth and distinction induced him to accept the
splendid offers of Balak the King of Moab, con-
trary to the command of God.
When Balaam arrived in sight of the lsraelitish
camp, after an ineffectual attempt to curse the peo-
ple, he broke out into a strain ofblessing and pro-
phecy, unequalled in beauty, subJimity, and pathos.
God ·made a full revelation to him of things to
come, in distant generations, which 1.~ faithfully
laid before the king of Moab. This proceeding so
exasperated Balak, that he dismissed the prophet
without reward : but his cupidity had been ex~
cited, and he was resolved it should be gratified,
even at the expense ·of his integrity to God. He
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE·:MASONRY, 3fl5
therefore went amongst the Midianites, and in-
cited them to .seduce the children of ISrael to
idolatty, as the only ~eans of vanquishing them
in battle, wisely judging that if they were for-
saken of God they would be easily overcome.
The advice succeeded but too well, and the
Israelites were severe sufferers from their defec-
tion : but the purpose of Balaam was not an-
swered; he sought promotion and honour, and
met with a violent death, for he was slain by the
Israelites in battle.
Having received a divine notification of his ap-
proaching death, Moses deposited a copy of the
Holy Law in the custody of the priests, and ap-
pointed Joshua to succeed him in his high and
dignified office. After bestowing on the people
a solemn benediction, he directed them to erect
a pillar on Mount Ebal, on the other side .of
Jordan, and ins·cribe upon it the blessings of
obedience and the .curses of disobedience, which
be pronounced at that time before all the con-
gregation. T_
hese monumental inscriptions, as
we have already seen, were ancient as the in-
vention.of letters, and were in use amongst every
nation and people in the world.
At this. time, a little before his death, Moses
divided the land of Canaan, pointed out the
boundaries of the. several tribes, and gave direc-
tions . about building cities of refuge. Then
y 3
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES QF
ascending to the summit of Pisgah, he took a
survey of the land, and died in the one hundred
and twentieth year of his age.
-.Joshua immediately assumed the office of grand
master, and appointed Caleb his deputy, and
.Eleazar and Phineas ·his grand wardens ; and, to
shew that these appointments met the divine
approbation, God made the river Jordan dry for
the Israelites to pass over, by a miracle similar to
what had been before practised at the Red Sea.
Thus the Israelites entered the land of Canaan
· under the visible protection of the Almighty, and
encamped in full strength in the plains of Gilgal.
It was here that Jesus, the captain of our sal-
vation, appeared personally to Joshua, and en-
couraged · him to persevere in the great work
committed to his charge by certain ass~nces of
ultimate success. Joshua recognized thiB Great
Being; and accosted him with the delivery of
the incommunicable name or word confided to
Moses at the B\lrning Bush. Jesus acknowledged
the propriety of the appellation, and directed
Joshua in what manner Jericho was'to be success-
fully assaulted. Confiding -in the miraculous in·
telligence, he led his army to the attack, and
Jericho was taken and utterly destroyed.
The Canaanites were idolaters of the moat.
maiign.ant character, and worshipped the element~~
as well as the host of heaven. The su~ and
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY;
moon were denominated the king· and queen of
heaven, and to these luminaries their false worship
was principally directed. To place the weakness
and instability of their gods in the most prominent
point of view, the true God made them his agents
in the destruction of their infatuated worshippers.
The combined armies of Jerusalem, Hebron, Jar-
muth, Lachish, and Eglon attacked the Gibeonites,
who had entered into ·,a league with the Israelites;
Joshua therefore assembled his army and gave
them battle. To accelerate the victory God rained
down ·prodigious hailstones upon the Amorites,
an9 destroyed great numbers who escaped the
sword of Joshua. They fled in teuor, as if for-
saken by their gods; and while the Israelites pur-
sued them, the principal objects of their blind
devotion, the sun and moon, ·kept their places in
the heavens, and hasted not to go down for the
space of a whole day added to its usual length,
- that the army of Joshua might have full time to
avenge themselves of their enemies.
When the Israelites had penetrated as far as
Shilo, where God orginally set his name ;• and
the'tribes had entered into the peaceable posses-
sion·of their respective settlements, Joshua assem-
bled the people and set up the tabernacle of the
congregation.t This was a solemn act of·dedica-
• Jer. vii. 12. t Jos. xviii. I.
Dig1tizod by Coogle
ANTIQUITIES OF
tion, by which they declared their resolution to
devote themselves to the worship of God, under
whose exclusive protection they had obtained the
inheritance promised to their fathers.· The taber-
. nacle remained at Shilo until the wickedness of
Eli's sons elicited the wrath of God, who suffered
the ark of the covenant to be violently rent from
the tabernacle by the Philistines, and carried away
in triumph.•
A little time before his death Joshua convened
a general meeting of all the lodges, and delivered
a charge containing the great principles of Ma-
Ronry, which tend to establish the true worship of
God in opposition to the errors of idolatry. Tiris
charge contains a fuJI disclosure of Joshua's fear
lest the lsJ:aelites should be enticed by the fasci-
nating mysteries of the nations around them, and
thus be weaned from the allegiance due to their
great Deliverer from Egyptian bondage.
We now come to the history ofJephtha, in whose
time a Masonic le$1 was instituted, which remains
in fuH force to this day, and will do to the end of -
- --- -------- ---------
• When the Israelites had gained poaseaaion of the land of Canaau,
the tabernacle was deposited at Gilgal, where it remained seven yeara.
It was alierwarda removed to Sbilo, where it remained three hundred
years. On dte rejection of Shilo by the Almighty, Samuel the prophet
set up the tabernacle at Nob. After the death of Samuel it was a-.
moved to Gibeon; where it continued until the dedication of the
temple.
Digitized by GoogIe
FRE&-MA&ON&Y.
time. Jephtha was the son of Gilead by a con.
cubine. He possessed the most exalted virtues
in ·early life, and frequently distinguished him-
self for valour and military conduct even beyond
his years, which caused his father to esteem him
more than all his other children. This excited
their jealousy and hatred, and in the end drove
him fro111 his father's .house. Abeliacab, one of
~s sons, stung with envy at his father's partiality
for the son of a concubine, bribed an Ammonitish
chief to murder Gilead, that his brethren might
with greater security execute their vengeance
upon Jephtha. The attempt succeeded, but not
unrevenged, for Jephtha slew the Ammonite after
he had perpetrated the deed. Wh~n Gilead was
dead the brethren expelled Jephtha from their
presence, contending that as the son of a bond-
woman he had no right of inheritance to the pos-
sessions of the free-hom. Jephtha, destitute of
every means of subsistence, collected together a
band of adventurers, who lived by tl,e forced con-
tributions of the neighbouring countries.
A war being declared between the Gileadites
and the Ammonites, the fofiJler were defeated in
several successive battles for want of an expe-
rienced general to take the command of their
army. The military fame,of Jephtha induced them
to apply to him in this.emergency, who stipulated
to assist them, provided they would banish Abe-
Digitized by GoogIe
-
ANTIQUITIES OF
liacab the murderer of his father, and constitute
him perpetual governor if he returned successful
from the war. These preliminaries being acceded
to, Jephtha reviewed his forces; and after an hu-
mane .but ineffectual attempt to settle their diffe-
rences by treaty, both parties prepared for battle.
Before Jephtha commenced his attack upon the
Ammo~ites, he humbled himself before God,
and vowed a vow, that if God would grant him a
decisive victory he would sacrifice the thing which
should first pass the threshold of his own door to
meet him as he returned home in triumph. Jephtha
then Jed his army against the Ammonites, and
after a bloody battle totally routed them with
great slaughter, drove them from his native land,
took possession of twenty rich and flourishing
cities, and pursued them to the plain of vineyards
at Minnith. As he returned at the head of his
victorious army, to receive the honours due to his
valour, and to reign in peace over his people, his
only child, a virgin just arrived at maturity, issued
from his dwelling, and hastened to welrome the
victor with timbrels and dances, followed by a
.splendid train of exulting damsels. The sight of
· his daughter, under such peculiar circumstances,
was a judgmeJ)t he was unprepared to meet. . Had
the earth opened and swallowed up his whole anny
before his face, he could not have received a
greater shock. He rent" his clothes, and, fhl.ling .
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE·MASONRY. 881
on her neck, revealed to her his imprudent vow;
cursing the hour which gave him birth. She re-
ceived the doom of death with dignity and forti-
.tude, bid her father calm his agonizing passions,
and at the end of two months cheerfully became
the sacrifice of his ambition.
The Ephraimites, hearing of Jephtha's success,
collected an army, and accused him of a breach
of faith in going out against the Ammonites with-
out their assistance, with whom the Gileadites
were in league. Jephtha expostulated with them
on the folly of their plea, as he .had solicited ·
their aid and they refused to join him in the
expedition. His reasoning was totally ineffectual,
and they threatened to destroy him and his house •
with fire. He therefore gave them immediate
battle in a field of standing com, and totally·
routed .them. And to secure himself from such
hostile incursions in future, he sent detached par-
ties to secure the passes of the river Jordan, with
positive-injtmctions to let none escape, but if an
Ephraimite should appear, and acknowledge him-
self to be such, he was to be slain with~ut mercy.
As, however, the love of life might induce many
to deny their country, a word was directed to be
proposed to them, which, from the peeuliar dia-
lect of their coimtry, they should be unable to
pronounce. Thus the word Shibboleth, invariably
pronounced by the Ephraimites Sibholeth, was an
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
· unequivocal indication of their tribe, and carried
with it certain death. In the field of battle and
by the passes of the river there fell forty-two thou-
sand Ephraimites, andJephtha thus securedhimself
from further interruption.
The heathen world, confined to the exclusive
pursuit of operative architecture, excelled greatly
in every branch of that noble science ; for though
the Israelites had improved every opportunity of
cultivating a taste for the liberal sciences, they
were far exceeded by the inhabitants of Tyre in
these pursuits. Thus the epithet Sidonian became
proverbial for every elegant and scientific attain-
ment. The city of Tyre, and the temple of
Dagon, built by the Phrenicians at Ga.za, were
esteemed master-pieces of art, and rendered the
name of the architects deservedly celebrated
throughout the world. This temple was so art-
fully contructed, that the whole weight of the
edifice was supported by two slender piJiars only,
and exhibited the taste as weJI as the judgmP.nt of
Sanchoniatho, whose fame is transmitted to pos-
terity, though the building gave way under the
giant grasp of Sampson the Nazarite.
Hiram, king of Tyre, became grand master of
Masons within his dominions, and erected many
stately edifices, which improved his subjects in
architecture, and gained them the fame of being
the best operative Masons in the world. Hiram
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE~MASONRY. 888
was the firm friend of king David, and from his
- reputation in the liberal sciences, the latter was
induced to form a plan the.most comprehensive
and vast that had ever been em9raced by the hu-·
man mind.
King David felt, in their full force, the obliga-
tions be ·was under to the Almighty, for placing
him, after a series of unparalleled difficulties and
dangers, in undisturbed possession of the kingdom
of Israel, and for the felicity he enjoyed after the
ark of the covenant was removed to Jerusalem.
As an imperfect return for these benefits, he was
inspired·with a design of erecting a temple to the
Living God, which should exceed every building
in the world for riches and glory. His ardour in
this sacred cause was increased by considerations
. of the impropriety and indeeency of permitting
the ark of the covenant, overshadowed with a
cloud of glory, implying the immediate presence
of God, to remain in a tabernacle, while he him-
self resided in a splendid palac~. Moses bad
prophesied to the Israelites of a remarkable epoch
in their history, ·when they should be at peace with
all the world, for then should the Lord choose a
place amongst their tribes to dwell in upon earth.•
This prophecy David conceived was fulfilled in
himself, as his country was in a state of, profound .
• Deut. Xii. 10, ll.
Digitized by GoogIe
884 ANTIQUITIEi OF
peace, and the Ark ofGod was removedto Mount
Zion in the city of Jehus, now called Jerusalem.
The only difficulty which remained was to ascer-
tain the precise spot of ground which the Lord
had chosen as his residence amongst the tribes of
Israel.
So carerul was the Almighty lest the place
which he had selected for the situation of His
holy temple should be polluted with idolatry, that
it was specially protected, and had been distin-
guished by repeated acts of worship and obedience
from the earliest times. This secret was withheld
from mankind rmtil the time of David, and then
it was revealed by the mouth of Nathan the pro- ·
phet that the place should be speedily appointed;
but as the hands of this monarch had been imbrued
in lwman blood, from the continued series of war-
fare in which he had been engaged, the Almighty
would not consent that the building should be
erected by him, though his devout intentions
met with unqualified approbation. The advanced
period of his life was also another obstacle to this
great undertaking. It was therefore reserved
for the accomplishment of ·his son and successor,
who, being a man of peace, should execute the
magnificent design which he had formed.
David, however, was very inquisitive to ascer-
tain the peculiar spot of ground which God had
sanctified as his immediate dwelling upon earth.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY. S85
He vowed a vow to the mighty God of Jacob,
that he .would neither slumber nor sleep until he
had discovered the place which God had appointed
as the site of his intended building."" He con-
jectured that Bethel was the place, because it was
there that Jacob had his vision, and declared that
the stone which he ~et up for a pillar should be
Goo'~ uousE~ Under this persuasion David co-
venanted with the God qf Jacob expressly, rathe~
than of Abraham or Isaac; for there existed a
tradition·amongst the Hebrews that the house of
God sh~uld be erected at Bethel. But David was
mistaken, for Bethel afterwards became so de-
formed ·by idolatry as to be denominated Beth-
aven, which signifies the house of idols. IfDavid
had been inspired with .a knowledge of the true
spot of groun~ which God had chosen to place
his NAME there, he would have appealed to . the
God of Abraham, as that patriarch actually wor-
shipped on the very mountain where the temple
was ·afterwards erected. He declares, therefore,
that it was immediately revealed to him at Ephrata,
that the temple should be erected on Mount
Moriah, called figuratively, the Fields of the
_ Wood.t This was the spot where Enoch b~t
his subterranean temple ; where Abraham offered
Isaac when it pleased God to substitute a more
• Ps. cxxxii. 1-.$, t Ibid. 6, 13-18.
Digitized by GoogIe
' 886 ANTIQUITIES OF
agreeable victim in his stead ; and where David
had offered up his prayers to the Almighty to put
a stop to the pestilence which raged amongst his
people, as a just punishment for his imprudence
in causing them to be numbered, which the Lord
accepted, and gave him a token of reconciliation
by a fire from heaven consuming his sacrifice.
. Having discovered this much longed-for secre~
he exclaimed,. " this is the house of the Lord
God, and this is the altar of the burnt offering
for Israel."• And from this moment he. applied
himself with diligence and assid~ty to collect
materials for the building.
When David perceived his latter end draw nigh,
he assembled the princes of the people and the
chief. men of Israel and Judah together, and in-·
formed them that it was the will of God that
Solomon, his son and successor to the throne,
should erect a superb edifice as a depository for
the ark of the covenant. To facilitate the execu-
tion of this design, he informed them that he.bad
collected ten thousand talents of gold, one hun-
?red thousand talents of silver, besides an incredi-
ble quantity of wood, iron, and stone. At the
same time .he produced plans and drawings of the .
intended structure, with copious directions res-
pecting the division and use of the several ap~
• 1 Chron. zm 1.
Digitized by GoogIe
FR~F.-M ASONRY.
' '
ments of the interior, and laid his last injunctions ,
on them to assist his son in this splendid under-
taking. -.David then gave Solomon some private
counsel respecting his future conduct, and expired
in the seventieth year of his age.
When the time of mourning fo·r King David
was at an end, his faithful ally, Hiram, king of
Tyre, sent an embassy to Solomon to congratulate
him on his accession to the throne of his father ;
and in return Solomon wrote a letter to Hiram in
.the following terms :
" King Solomon to King Hiram, greeting.
" As thou didst deal with David my father,
and didst send hiri1 cedars to build him an house
to dwell in, even so deal with me. Behold I build
an house to the NAME of the LoRD MY Gon, to
, dedicate it to him, and to burn before him sweet
incense, and for the continual shew bread, and
, for the burnt offerings morning and eveni!lg, on
the sabbaths, and on the new moons, and on the
-solemn feasts of the Lord our God. This is an
ordinance for ever.to Israel. And the house which
I build is great; tor great is our God above all
gods. But who is able to build him an house, ,
seeing the heaven and the heaven of heavens can-
not contain him ? 'Vho am I, then, that I should
build him an house, save only to burn sacrifice be:
fore,him ? Send me now, therefore, a man ·cuu-.
ning to work in gold, and. in silver, and in,brass,
z
Digitized by GoogIe
S38 ANTIQUITIES OF
and in iron, and in purple, and crimson, and blue,
and that can skill to grave with the cunning men
that are with me in Judah and in Jerusalem, whom
David·my father did provide. Send me also cedar
trees, fir trees and algum trees out of Lebanon ;
for I know that thy servants can skill to cut timber
in Leba~on : and behold my servants shall be with
thy servants ; even to prepare me timber in abun-
dance ; for the house which I am about to build
shalJ be wonderfully great. And behold I will
give. to thy servants, the hewers.that cut timber,
twenty thousand measures of beaten wheat, and
twenty thousand measures of barley, and twenty
thousand baths of· wine, and twenty thousand
baths of oil."
This letter was infinitely gratifying to Hiram,
as it not only contained a very high compliment
to his skill in the liberal sciences,' but also afforded
him an opportunity of carrying operative architec-
ture to a higher pitch of magnificence than had
yet been attained, and would tend to perpetuate
the fame of his nation to the latest generations of
the world. He therefore immediately returned
the following answer.
" King Hiram to King Solomon, greeting.
u Because the Lord hath loved his people, he
hath made thee king over them. Blessed be the
Lord God of Israel, that made heaven and earth,
who hath given to David, the king, a wise ROn,
Digitized by GoogIe
FRF.E·:MASONRY. 889
endued ·with prudence and understanding, that
might build an house for the Lord, and an house
for his kingdom. And now I have sent a cunning
man, endued with understanding, of Huram my
father's, the son of a woman of the daughters of
Dan, and his father was a man of Tyre, skilful to
work in gold, and in silver, in brass, in iron,
in stone, and in timber, in purple, in blue, in
fine linen, and in crimson ; also to grave any
manner of graving, and to find out every device
which shall be put to him, with thy cunning men,
and with the cunning men of my lord David thy
father. Now, therefore, the wheat and the bar-
ley, the oil and the wine, which my lord hath
spoken of, let him send unto his servants, and we
will cut w.ood ou~ of Lebanon, as much as thou
shalt need ; and we will bring it to thee in Boats
by sea to Joppa ; and thou shalt carry it up to
Jerusalem."•
King Solomon was now prepared to ct.rry into
execution the vast design he had formed, with the
assistance of " the cunning man," whom Hiram,·
king of Tyre, had presented to him. Hiram
Abiff, who is termed in the above letter " the
son of a woman of the daughters of Dan," is
described in another part of Scripture+ as " a
- :vidutll's son of the tribe of Naphtali." · In fact,
• !d Chrtm. ii. t ht Kings, vii. 13-li.
z 'l .
Digitized by GoogIe
840 ANTIQUITIES OF
his mother was a native of the city of Dan,· in
the tribe of Naphtali, and was really a Naphtalite..
This extraordinary man, whose prodigious genius
exceeded every thing which · had yet appeared
upon earth, the united talents of Bezaleel and
Aholiab not excepted, had displayed the supe-
riority of his Mas<>nic attainments before he was
appointed to the superintendence of building the
temple : for it was he who planned that famous
city, the remains of which have created so much
speculation and research amongst the·learned of
all ages, called Tadmor or Palmyra.
The preliminaries being thus settled, Solomon
appointed his officers, and made the most perfect
and judicious arrangements befo.re he commenced
the work. He appointed HIRAM ABIFF, deputy
grand master ; the illustrious TITo, prince HARO·
DIM, senior grand warden; and ·the noble prince
AnoNIRAM, junior grand warden. The presidents
of the twelve tribes, appointed by King Solomon
in grand chapter to superintend the work, were : ,
Joabert, whopresidedoverthe tribeofJudah.
Stockyn ...................................BeiJjamin.
Terrey ....................................SiiJleon.
Morphey .................................Ephraim.
Alycuber .................................Manasseh.
Dorson ..................................Zebultin.
Kerim.....................................Dan.
Berthemar. ...., .......................~ ..Asher.
Digitized by GoogIe .
FR.EE-MASONR.T. S41
Tito, who presided over the tribe of Naphtali.
Terbal ....~ ...............................Re.uben.
Benachard.......:·...~ ..I • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • Iss8.cltar.
Tabar......................................Gad.•
These twelve presidents rendered a daily ac-
count to the grand master of·their respective
tribes, and received the power of punishment and
reward, according to desert. They were also the
mediumfor distributingthe workmen's dailywages.
The apprentices, fellow-crafts, and masters, were
partitioned into lodges, and the ·utmost regularity
was preserved throughout the whole undertaking•
. The number of men employed, arranged, and
classed in every department of the work, was as
follows:
" 1. Harodim, princes, rulers, or
provosts .. ~ ........ ~........ .................. 800
" !l. Menatzchim, overseers and com-
forters of the·people in working. These
w~re expert master masons •..•...o
..o.... S,SOO
"3. Ghiblim, stone squ~rers, polishers,
and sculptors ; Ish Chotzeb, hewers ;
and Benai, setters, layers, and builde~.
These were expert fellow crafts ......... 80,000
Carried forward•..... •
.83,600
" Free-Mason':> Monitor, part 2, book 1, chap. 8.
z ~
oig,tized by Coogle
ANTIQUITIES OF
Brought fol"Ward...... 88,600
" 4o. The levy out of Israel, appointed
to· work in Lebanon, one month in
three, 10,000 in each moJith; under
_the direction of Adoniram, who was
the junior grand warden••••.,,........... 80,000
"Hence all theFree.Masons employed}
in the work of the templef exclusive of 113,600
the two grand wardens, were ••.•...•.... _
" Besides the Ish Sabbal, or men of burden, the
remains of the old Canaanites, amounting to
70,000, who were not numbered among Ma-
ROns."•
These men were employed three .years in pre.
paring the materials for the building. In the
quarries were teven hundred and :fifty lodges, each
containing a master, two wardens, and eleve1t
times seve~~, brethren, which amount to · sixty
thousand men. In the fo~sts of Lebanon were
fuur hundred and tweno/ lodges, containing the
same number in each, which make a total of thirty-
three thousand six hundred. The levy out ofIsrael
· had always twenty thousand at rest; and these .
sums make together one hundred and thirteen
thousand six hundred, the exact number employed
• Noorth Const. pt. I, c. 3.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY.
at tre work, exclusive of the Ish Sabbal, who were
literally slaves to the workmen.
The entered apprentices were arranged to mess
by sevens, and the fellow crafts by jives ; and
their wages were even paid with the same scru-
pulous regard to regularity. To prepare th_
e
foundation " for the purpose of erecting this
temple; the most astonishing hollows were filled
up ; for the earth was raised four hundred cubits,
in order to form it on a level with the surface
of the rock on which the building was rai$ed !"•
Every thing being prepared, King Solomon,·in the
fourth year of his reign, on the second day of the
month Zif, four hundred and eighty years after
the delivery of the children of Israel from their
Egyptian bondage, laid the foundation stone at
the north-east angle of the temple, on Mount
Moriah, one of the three hills ofJe~salem, amidst
the acclamations and rejoicings of his assembled
subjects.
The structure thus begun, according to a plan
given to Solomon by David, his father, upon the
ark of alliance, every energy was used to render
it a perf~ct specimen of art. Every stone, every
piece of timber, was carved, marked, and num-
bered in the quarry and the forest ; and nothing
• Jos. Ant. I. 8, c. ! .
.z 4
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
remained for the workmen at Jerusalem but to
join the materials with precision, on a reference
to the marks and numbers. This was effected
without the use of either axe, hammer, or metal
tool ; so that nothing was heard at Zion, save
harmony and peace;
It may appear astonishing that, in the erection
of so superb an edifice, " there was neither ham-
mer nor axe, nor any tool pf iron heard in the
house while it was building."• This arrange-
ment was, however, necessary, to shew the supe•
rior degree ot excellency which Masonry attained
by the union of operative architecture,-which hlld
been exclusively cultivated and brought to per-
fection in the heathen world, and Lu.r, which
was now almost solely confined to the Jewish
.nation. And this superiority is displayed in a
much more striking point of view, when we con-
sider the excellency of the arrangements made
to prevent confusion, and to ascertain the indi-
vidual production of every craftsman, though
there were eighty thousand ·employed in the
quarry and the forest. Thus were the means
provided of rewarding merit, and punishing in-
dolence ; and thus was indifference stimulated
into zeal ; and by the precepts and admonitions
• ht 1\ins~. vi.·7
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE·MASONRY.
of super.excellent Masons, the most perfect
master.piece of art was produced that· ever
adorned the world.
There appears to have been a peculiar idea of
pollution in the use of iron tool~ about the holy
structure of a temple. In the directions given
by the Almighty to Moses from Mount Sinai, res."
pecting the construction of the tabernacle, and
· more particularly about the altar, the use of
metal tools is prohibited in ·the strongest terms,
as conveying pollution.• The instruments used
in the temple service were composed chiefly of
gold, silver, brass, and w<;>od. And David, in
prospect of this temple's desecration by unsanc.
tified hands, complains, as the greatest aggrava-
vation of insult which the adversary could offer,
that the carved work thereof was broken down
with axes and hammers.t
During the construction of this wonderful
building, many striking instances of fidelity were
elicited ; and some shocking treasons occurred
from the congregation of so great a body of men,
governed by human passions, and subject to the
bias of human propensities; many of whom, as
they did not acknowledge the same God, scarcely
considered themselves amenable to the Israelitish
law, and regarded with a jealous eye the superior
" E1od. ;u; !5. t Ps. lniv. 6.
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
privileges which the true worship appeared to
convey. On these events are ·founded the de.
grees of Masonry termed INEFFABLE. I will not
enter into a discussion here, to shew how far they
ve consistent with the true spirit of Masonry ;
hut proceed with the main subject of this period,
which consists chiefly of historical detail.
The temple was completed in about seven
years and seven months, on the eighth day of the
month Bul, in the eleventh year of King Solo..
mon's reign ; and the cape stone was celebrated
with unfeigned joy by the whole fraternity. It
was constructed on precisely the same plan as
the tabernacle of Moses, but on a more firm and
extended scale. The two edifices were emble-
matical of the Jewish and the Christian churches.
The tabernacle was a temporary and a moveable
edifice ; the temple fixed and permanent. The
Jewish dispensation, in like manner, was but a
shadow of good things to come, and was to be
done away on the appearance of a more perfect
system; which, though founded on the same
basis, was to endure for ever. The· temple,
erected and dedicated to the exclusive wor~thip
of the true God, by ordinances of his o~ ap. ·
pointment, is considered by Beda• to be a type
of the church of God in Heaven, the seat of
--- -
----------
• De Tabern. I. !, e. I.
oig,tized by Coogle
perpetual peace and tranquillity, in allusion to
the harmony and peace which existed aiJ}ongst
the Masons of Zion, who cemented the temple
without the use of axe, hammer, or metal tooL
The felicity which Solomon and his workmen
enjoyed at the celebration of the cape stone was
of short duration, for the sudden death of the
principal a~:chitect clothed them in mourning, not
unmixed with horror and dismay.•
The consternation excited by this melancholy
event was' much increased by a circumstance
which prevented the · ceremonies mmal in such
cases from being performed before his interment.
His eyes were not closed by his nearest relations ;
his body was not washed or baptized with the
C!JStomary formalities, nor was· his corpse em.
balmed. To compensate for these omissions,
after being raised by the five·points of fellowship,
the honours of his funeral were splendid·beyond
all former precedent.
This great architect was not removed into his
own nation, and amongst his own kindred, to be
interred with the rites of idolatry ; for being, by
his mother's side, of Israelitish extraction, he
.. appears to have worshipped the true .God, a.c.
cording to the usage and directions of the Mosaic
la~ ; ·and the Jews were extremely superstitious
• Noorth. Cons. pt~ 1, c. 3.
.
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITJEI OP
respecting the place of their interment. They
believed.that, if an Israelite were buried out of
Canaan, he will not so much as be entitled to a
resurrection from the dead, much less to eternal
felicity, unless_God vouchsafe to form subterranean
cavities in the bowels of the earth, through which
the body may pass from its place of interment
into the promised land ! " The grQund hereof,"
says Godwyn, " is ·taken from the charge of
Jacob unto his son Joseph, that he should not
bury him in the land of Egypt, but in Canaan'.
For which charge.they assign three reasons: First,
because he foresaw, by the spirit of prophecy,
that ·the dust of that land should afterwards be
turned into lice. Secondly, because those who
died out of the holy land, should not rise again
witholit painful rolling and tumbling of their
bodies thorow these hollow passages. And, thirdly,
that the Egyptians might not idolatrously worship
him."*
The temple of Solomon was only a small build-
ing, and very inferior in point of size to some
of our churches, its dimensions being only one
hundred and fifty feet long, and one hundred and
five feet broad; its splendour and superiority lay in
the richness of its materials, its ornaments, and
the cloisters and other buildings with which it
" Mos. ami Aar. I. 6; t'. ,'),
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-!\fASONRY. S49
was surrounded. It was built of white marble;
so excellently put together that the joints could
not be distinguished, and the whole building
. looked as though it had been cut out of one en*e
stone. The timber was cedar and olive wood,
covered with plates of gold, and studded with
jewels of inany hues.
" The whole expense of this building," says
Prideaux, " was so prodigious, as gives reason
to think that the talents, wh~reby the sum is rec-
koned, were another sort of talents of a far less
value than the Mosaic talents: ·for what is said
to be given by David,• and contributed by the
princest toward the bUilding of the tempie at Je-
rusalem, if valued by these talents, exceeded the
value· of SOO,OOO,OO<f of our money, which was
enough wherewith to have built all that temple
of solid silver."t
But if we take the valuation of the talent from
Villipandus, ·the expense of the building and orna-
ments amounted to £6,904,8~2,500 sterling ! The
val\,\e of the gold vessels alone was £54.5~296,20$
sterling, and the silver ones £489,844,000. Added
to this·were the wages, provisions, and other ne-
cessaries for 11 0,000 workmen and 70,000 slaves,
for upwards of seven years ; besides 300 grand
• 1st Chron. xxii. 14, 15, 16; and xxix.-3, 4, 5.
t Ibid. xxix. 6, 1, 8. t Prid. Con. vol. 1, pt. 1, bit. 1.
Digitized by GoogIe
.\NTIQUITIES OF
masters, and 3,800 overseers, to whom, in addi-
tion to their wages, king Solomon presented, as
a fre~ gift, £6,763,977·
Hence the treasure left by Da~d amou..;ted
to £91 1,416,207. The princes of Israel, animated
by this example, presented a still greater sum
towards the accomplishment of tl!is glorious un-
dertaking. In addition to these treasures, Solo-
mon devoted the greater part ofhis annual income
to the same purpose, and this was immense. Hero-
dotus• informs us, that the yearly treasures impor-
ted from Ophir amounted to £3,!l40,000 sterling
of our money, and that his annual tribute from
dependent n·ations was £4,796,200.
The two great seaports on the Red Sea, Elath
and Eziongeber, which belonged to Solomon,
were chiefly inhabited by Tyrians, who were in-
duced· to reside there by that wise monarch ;
who foresaw the great use they would be of to
him in navigating that dangerous sea, from thefr
superior skill in the art of sailing. As it was from
hence that his ships sailed to Ophir and Tarshish
for goid, silv.er, and precious stones, the most
valuable part of his revenue, he visited those
towns in person ; and with his usual wisdom
superintended, not only the colleges .of naval ar-
chitecture established there, but also the fitting .
• Bt>loc's Tran~•.vol. 3, p. •.M.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE·MASONRY. 851
out of his ships~ and the improvement of ~ '
important branch of traffic, which enabled him to
beautify the temple with such a profusion of or-
nament and splendour, that it was acknowledged
to surpass all the buildings in the worl4 for riches
and glory. The precious metals at Jerusalem
were so exceedingly plentiful, that Solomon was
equally celebrated for wisdom and for wealth.
Rich and superb as the temple was in itself, its
principal excellence .consisted in five distinguish-
ing particulars, which were never enjoyed by any
ott.er building either before or since. These
were, the ark ·of the covenant, the shekinah, the
urim and thummim, the holy fire, and the spirit
of prophecy.
The ark of the covenant was a small chest, in
length three feet nine inches ; its breadth and
height were equal, being each two feet three
inches : it was constructed in the wilderness by
Moses, and ·used by Solomon in his temple from
a principle of reverence. The wisest of kings.
.did not dare to remodel that sacred utensil which
ha~ been the peculiar residence of God for SC)
many ages ; and therefore, when the temple was
finished, the ark was removed into the holy of
holies by the priest.~, and the pleasure of the
Almighty was disph~yed by a· cloud of glory
which filled the temple. St. Paul says,• that the
.. ····· - ---- · -- --
- - -- ------- -
• Heb. ix. 4.
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIEi OF
golden pot which contained the manna, the rod
of Aaron, and the tables of the covenant, were
put within the ark. The book of the law was
placed in a coffer beside the ark, which afforded
a fa~ility of reference unattainable, had it been
placed within the ark itself. •
The mercy seat was the lid or cover of the ark,
and properly termed the propitiatory, because it
hid the tables containing the moral law, and
_
thils was said to ·prevent its appearing 'in judg-
ment-against man. This mercy seat was typical
of .the Messiah, who is distinguished ·by the
same appellation tii.!Y.;Yi?tOll, both hiSt. Paul• and
St. John.+ It was made of solid gold, four
i.1~ hes thi k; and was, to6ether with the cheru-
bims which were upon it, formed from a solid
mass of gold by the effect of art, and without the
use of solder. The cherubims being placed at
each end of the inercy seat, with wings ou~
stretched towards ·each other, formed a cavity in
the centre, ' which has been denominated the
chariot of God ; and hence that saying of David,
" God sitteth between the cherubims.":t: In this
chariot God perpetually resided, in the form of a-
bright cloud, or shining luminous body, from
whence the divine oracles were audibly delivered.§
This light ~as called the shekinah. - The ark
• Rom. iii. 25. t 1st John, ii. !.
§ Exod. xxv. :u .
t Pa. xcix. 1.
Digitized by GoogIe
with the mercy seat were considered. so indispen-
sable to the effect of Jewish worship, that ·the
- temple itself, if deprived of their presence, would
have been esteemed in no respect superior to a
common dwelling ; and hence it was that the old
men wept over the temple of Zerubabel, because
it wanted these great essentials of Levitical
worship.
A room, called the sanctum sanctorum or holy
of holies, was built to contain the ark and mercy
seat. It was a perfect cube of thirty feet, wains-
cotted with cedar, and overlaid with plates of
gold to the amount of £4,3~0,000 sterling. In
the centre of this most sacred place, was the ark,
placed on a pedestal elevated three inches abo~e
the floor. Ori each side of the ark was a massive
cherubim of gold, plated upon olive wood, fifteen _
feet in height. Placed in the holy of holies, with
their faces to the east, their expanded wings em-
bracing the whole space_
of that sacred enclosure,
they served not only as an ornament, but as a
visible sign or symbol of God's immediate
presence.
This ark was doubtless destroyed by Nebu-.
chadnezzar.·
The urim and_thummim was some mysterious
power inherent in the high priest's breas~plate,
which was placed there at its consecration for the
general benefit of the Jewish people. The manner
~A
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
of using the urim and thummim has been much
controverted ; it is clear, however, that oracles
were delivered by them,· though the best authors
are not agreed as to the precise method of their
delivery. Urim and Thummim signify PERFECT
LIGHT ; and hence the information derived from
their use was not of the ambiguous cast of hea-
then oracles, but of that clear and perfect nature
which could not be misunderstood, and which led .
the Israelites safely through so many dangers, and
placed them at length in undisturbed possession of
the promised land.
The holy fire, with which all the burnt offerings
were offered, descended ·from heaven at the con..
secration of Aaron, and was preserved by the
priests so long as the tabernacle wa8 in existence.
It descended a sec:!ond time on the altar at the
..consecration of the temple, and continued there
until the Babylonish Captivity, from which time
it was never renewed.
The spirit of prophecy was enjoyed by the
Jewish nation after the building of the second
temple, for Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi lived
subsequently to this peri()d ; but their death. which
happened in one year, put a stop to the prophetic
spirit, and it was only revived by John Baptist,
the forerunner of Christ.
Besides these there were several. holy utensils
Digitized by GoogIe
I'REE-MASONRY. 355
e11sentially necessary to the- celebration of divine
worship, 'Viz. the altar of· incense,·the table of
shew bread, the altar for burnt offerings, the laver.
and the golden candlestick ; which had all a _
typical signification.
· The altar of incense was placed in the middle
of the sanctuary, and was sprinkled once a year
with the blood of the sacrifices. The inceilse·was
typical of prayer, and the ceremony of sprinkling
reminds us, that the prayers of the devout are of
no value, e]Ccept fi·om the purification of Christ's
blood. The twelve loaves referred.to the twelve
tribes, ·and were renewed every ·Sabbath day.
The golden candlestick was a type of the word of
God, or preaching, as the incense was of prayer.
The laver and altar were emblematical of the water
and blood issuing from the side of Christ upon the
cross, and point out-our sancti1ication arid. justi-
fication.
, Before·I dose this brief noti~ of the most re-
·markable things which this temple contained, I
must not omit to mention the·~ofty porch, placed
nearly in the centre of the mass of buildings.
,At the entrance of this pprch were two pillars of
hollow brass, which had been cast in the clayey
ground between Succoth and Zeredathah, by ·
Hiram Abiff, and are said by Josephus to be the
most difficult and curious work assigned to this
!A2
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQ.UITIE8 OF
artificer.• They were placed_in this situation as
emblems.of the stability of the temple in particu-
lar, and of God's true worship in general. The
right hand pillar was termed JACHIN, which signi-
fies to establish, and the left hand one BOAZ, which
signifies strength. They were twenty-seven feet in
height, eighteen feet in circumference, six feet in
~ameter, and the brass of the outer rim was four
inches in thickness. They were richly adornedwith
chapiters seven and a half feet high, and enchased
with lily-work, net.work, and pomegranates; and
surmounted by two spherical balls, which repre-
sented the two globes ofthe earth and heavens, and
pointed out Masonry universal. They were thus
placed by the express direction of King Solomon
himself, in reference to the remarkable pillar of a
cloud and of fire, which proved a·light and guide
to the·braelites in their miraculous escape from
Egyptian bondage ; and, covered with darkness
to the Egyptians, proved theii destruction in the
Red Sea. King Solomon, fearing the obduracy
of his subjects might, at some future time, cause
them to forget the circumstances attending that
remarkable deliverance, placed the pillars thus
surmounted.in this eleVated situation, as a public
monument, to remind the Jews, when they entered
• Jos. Ant. t. viii. c. ~.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE..MASONRY. 857
in or left the temple, of the mercy of God to their
Dation in that great event.
These two. noble pilJars were _
of such vital im-
portance to the support ·of the temple, that at its
destruction by Nebucbadnezzar, the Lord, stand..
ing upon the altar, commanded the destroying
angel to strike only the caphtors,• chapiters, or
beads of these pillars, that the ruin might_ ensue,
Dot only of the piJlars and port·h, or the temple
itself; .or even all Jerusalem, but also o( the whole
Je.wish nation and polity. Hence, as the erection
of these pillars is recorded in Scripture as an
eminent proof .of the magnitude and splendour
of Solomon's empire, as well as of the. wisdom,
strength, and beauty of the three united grand
masters ; so was their destruction typical of the
ruin of the Jewish .state, which received a tempo..
rary annihilation of seventy years when this tem..
pie was destroyed, as predicted by Jeremiah and
other prophets, for their sin in neglecting to keep
holy the Sabbatical year, according to the com..
mandment of the Lord.
The priests in this temple performed every ~oly
office of their religion with feet uncovered. " It
is not indeed any where commanded that the
priests should officiate barefooted, but among the
garments assigned for the priests,t shoes not being
, • Amo11. ix. 1. t Exocl..xuiii.
Digitized by GoogIe
858 ANTiQUITIES OF
named, they were supposed, therefore, to be for-
bid ; and the text• saying, ' these ~;~ore the gar-
ments which they shall make;' this, they say, ex-
cludes all that are not there named. And Moses
being.commanded at the burning bush to.put oif
his. shoes, for that the ground on which he stood
was holy, because of the extraordinary presence
of Go4 then in. that place, this they make a fur-
ther argument for it. For, say they, the temple
was all holy for the same reason, that is, because
of the extraordinary presence of God there re-
siding in the Shekinah over the• mercy seat. And
for these reasons it W!l5 most strictly exacted; that
Ule priests should be always barefooted in the
temple ; although their going there with their bare
feet upon the marble pavement was very pernicious
to ~e health of many of them."t _
.On entering into a place dedicated to the wor4
ship of God, Christians, as a token of reverence,
uncover their heads : but the Jews and eastern
nations did more than this, they uncovered their
feet, that no dust or pollution might profane the
holy ground. Hence pulling ofF a shoe amongst
the ancients indicated reverence for the presence
of God. This custom was also expressive of the
cement of a bargain or contract amongst the eas-
tern nations ; the party conveying away a right or
• Exod. xxmi 4. t Prid. Con. \tOI. i. p. J.b. 3.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY. 8.59
privilege, took off a shoe and gave it to his fellow, , _
as a pledge of his fidelity. Amongst the Jews it
was a token of renunciation. Thus the kinsman
of Ruth renounced.his claim upon her in favour
of Booz. She loosed his shoe from his foot, to
~ew that she was released from all engagements
-by which the laws of her country had bound her
to the claims of her nearest relation.•
In this glorious undertaking nothing was omit-
ted which art and genius, aided by wealth and .
industry, could supply. The twisted and highly-
carved work of the Parian marble columns, the
platings of embossed gold, blazing with diamonds
and other precious stones ; the gorgeous and mag-
nificent sculpture~ all contributed in rich union
to display the wisdom qf Solomon in his appropria.
tiori of this grand Masonic pile to the sacred pur-
pose of God's worship; the strength qf King
Hiram, for his abundant supplies of materials
and men, and the beauty qf the ingenious .Hiram
Abiff, who, with a capacity more than mortal, ex.
ercised his shining abilities·to their utmost streteh
in devising and executing such a perfect model of
art
• The token of renunciation among the more modern Jew11, ac-
cording, to Solomon- Jarchi, was a handkerchief. Amongst otfler
ancient nations it was the girdle of the loins, which, being used to
support keys, purses, &c., became an acknowledged symbol of
property.
! A 4
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
Before the conse~ration of the temple, it was
inspected by the king of Tyre, who was a com-
plete master of the science of operative Masomy,
and after fully viewing all its parts, he pronounced
it to be the highest effort of human genius ; and
bestowed a high panegyric upon Solomon Jedidiah,
the beloved of God ; in which he renounced his
claim to preeminence in this noble science, which
before this period had gained him the undisputed
title of grand master qf ALL Masons.
On the fuJI completion ofthe temple, the twelve
tribes of Israel were summoned by their leaders
to attend its solemn dedication to the exclusive
purpose of divine worship. The countless multi-
todes of this people assembled at Jerusalem in the
month Tisri. Solomon had provided for -this au-
gust occasion, oxen and sheep without number,
for the purposes of sacrifice, and provision for
his numerous subjects. The ceremonies com-
menced with sacrifice ; and the priests bare the
ark of the covenant into the holy of holies, and
placed it under the wings ofthe cherubims, amidst
the united anthems of the whole congregation,
accompanied by cymbals, andharps, and psalteries,
and trumpets, who chaunted forth the praises of
God, saying "Thou art holy and good, 0 Lord,
for thy mercy endureth for ever!" When the
ark was thus placed in the situation whence it was
Dig1tizod by Coogle
FREE-MASONRY. ·861
never removed U)ltil destroyed by Nebuchadnezzar
along with ·the city and temple, the Lord visibly
took possession of his house in a palpable cloud of
glory, which at length subsiding, remained sta-
tionary over the mercy seat. · This was considered.
by the Jews so invincible a protection, ,that they
believed the temple impregnable to, all the efforts
of human art or strength, so long as the shekinah
remained in this situation••
Solomon then ascended a brazen scaffold; which
had been erected for the purpose in the midst of
the court, and kneeling down in the sight of all
· the people, he spread his hands towards heaven,
and made a solemn invocation to God ; pra)ing
that he would sanctify the temple,.. and bless his
people by pardoning their involuntary transgres-
sions.
" 0 Lord God of Israel, .there is no God like
thee in the heaven, nor in the earth, which keep-
est covenant and shewest mercy unto thy servants,
• It was universally believed that when a city was about to be taken
by an enemy, it was forsaken by thegods : and thia waa the creed, not
only of idolatrous nation&, but alao of the Jews; for aome authon
are of opinion, that before the temple at Jerusalem wu destroyed by
Nebuchadnezzar, the ahekinah was withdrawn. Herodotus (Clio}
teUa us #!at when Ephesus waa besieged by Cnnua, the inhabitants
made a aolemn dedication of their city to Minerva, COftMCtiflg tlu:ir
1ca/ll to tlae Te111pk '!f tile Goddm (a distance of nearly an English
mile) tDitJa a rope!
Digitized by GoogIe
ANTIQUITIES OF
that walk before thee with .all their hearts : thou
which hast kept with thy servant David my father
that which thou hast promised him, and spakest
with thy mouth, and hast fulfilled it with thine
hand, as itis this day.
'' Now, therefore, 0 Lord God of Israel, keep
with thy serv.ant David my father that which tbou
hast promised him. saying, there shall not fail
thee a man in my sight to sit upon the throne of
Israel ; yet so that thy children take heed to their
way to walk in my law, as thou hast walked' be-
fore me.
"Now then, 0 Lord God ofIsrael, 1et thy word
be verified, which thou hast spoken unto .thy ser-
vant David.
" But will God, in very deed, dw~ll with men
on earth ? Behold, heaven and the heaven of hea-
vens cannot contain thee ; how much less this
house which I have built !
" Have respect, therefore, to the prayer ofthy
servant, and to his supplication, 0 Lord my God,
to hearken unto the cry and the prayer which thy
servant prayeth before thee : that thine eyes may
be open upon this house day and night, upon the
place whereof thou hast said that thou would.est
PUT THY NAME THERE ; to hearken untO th~
prayer which thy servant prayeth towards this
place.
Digitized by GoogIe
FREE-MASONRY.
" Hearken, therefore, unto the supplications of
thy serYant, and of thy people Israel, which they
shall make toward this place : hear thou from thy
dwelling place, even from heaven ; and when thou
hearest, forgive.
" Now, therefore, arise, 0 Lord God, into thy
resting place, thou and the ark of thy·strength :
Jet thy priests, 0 Lord .God, be clothed with
salvation, and let thy saints rejoice in good-
ness."
This solemn invocation being ended, the ·holy
fire came down from heaven and consumed the
burnt offering, and the temple was filled with the
glory of the Lord ; thus fulfilling the prophecy
of Noah: " God shall dwell in the tents of
Shem."•
The assembled multitude were so exceedingly
alarmed at this unexpected and miraculous occlJ.l\.
renee, that. overcome by the united feelings of
awe and veneration, they simultaneously fell pros-
trate, with their faces to the earth, exclaiming,
" praised be God, for he is good, for his mercy
endureth for ever!"
The Lord vouchsafed to answer the prayer of
Solomon, and said :
" I have heard thy prayer, and have chosen
this place to myself for an house of sacrifice.
• Gen. ix. f/1:
Digitized by GoogIe
864 ANTIQUITIES OF
. " Now mine eyes shall be open, .and mine ears
attend unto the prayer that is made in this place.
For now have I chosen and sanctified this house,
that my name may be there for ever: and mine·eyes
~d mine heart shall be there perpetually.
" And as for thee, if thou wilt walk before me ,
as David thy father walked, and do according to
all that I have commanded thee, and shalt ob-
serve my statutes and my judgments, then will I
establish the throne of thy kingdom, according
as I have covenanted with David thy father,
saying, there shall not fail thee a man to be_ruler
in Israel.
" But if ye turn away and forsake my statutes,
and my commandments which I have set before
you, and shall go and serve other gods and wor-
ship them ; then will I pluck them up by the roots
.out of my land which I have given them ; and this
house which I have sanctified for MY NAME, will
-I cast out of my sight, and will make it to be a
proverb and a byword among all nations. And
this house which is high, shall be an astonishment
to every one that passetl1 by it; so that he shall
say, why hath·the Lord done thus into this land,
and unto this house? And it shall be answered,
because they forsook the Lord God of their fa-
thers, which brought them forth out of the land
of Egypt ; and laid hold on other gods, and wor-
Dig1tizod by Coogle
FREE-MASONRY. 865
sl)jpped them and served them ; therefore hath he
brought all this evil upon them."•
The feast of dedication continued twice seven
days, and was terminated by the sacrifice of
twenty-two thousand oxen, and one hundred and
·tw-enty thousand sheep ; and the happy subjects
ofking-Solomon retired to their respective homes,
-iriipre5sed with the goodness of God to the Jew-
. ish·nat;ion, and astonished at the unrivalled mag-:
nHrce~ce of their monarch, who surpassed all the
..~SS of the earth for wisdom and glory.
·. ·;'~: The fame of this grand edifice soon prompted
. . · ihe inquisitive of all nations to travel, and spend
:··some time at Jerusalem, and survey its excellen-
..· .'. ·~s, -as far as was allowed to the Gentiles; and
·:, .~soon found, that the joint skill of all the
. ~.:. world came infinitely short of the Israelites, in the
: · ¥isdom, strength, and beauty of their architecture;
:..·. when the wise King Solomon was grand master of
· :ail; masons at Jerusalem, when the learned King
Hiram was grand master at Tyre, and the inspired
.H,iram Abiff had been master of the work : when
#J.e.Masonry was under the care and direction of
•·he.aven ; and when the noble and the wise thought
·Jt an honour to be associates of the ingenious
· ·craftsmen in their well-formed lodges. Accord-
• id Chron. vi and vii.
Digitized by GoogIe
866 ANTIQlilTIES OF FREE-IIASONilY.
ingly the temple of JEB~VAH became the just
wonder of all travellers, by which, as by the mOst
perfect pattern, they resolved to correct the ar-
chitecture of their ·own countries upon their re.
turn.''•
• Noorth. Coast. part. i. c. S
THE END.
J,U N DON:
PIU!IT&D 111' COX AND ftA1'LIS, O~&AT QU&O:M !IT~Irft.
Digitized by Coogle'
' '
THE FOLLOWING WORKS
MAY BE HAD OF THE PUBLISHERS:
ILLUSTRATIONS of MASONRY. By the late WlLLLUr Pazs..
'lOll, Eeq., Past Master of the . Lodge of Antiquity, acting by immemorial
Cou.titution, with Conections and Additions, by Srarnx Jolll:s, Past
Master of the said Lodge. Thirteenth Edition. Humbly imcribed to His
Royal Highnaa the Dnke of Suaex, &c. &c., Most Wonhipful Grand
Mater. 12mo. price 8a. boards.
THE SECRET REVEALED!! and T1011 MYSTic Bu.nn:s of
Fan MAsoii&Y D&vu.oun!! By AN Axcu!IT B&OTH&&, 18mo. price
21. 6d. bauds.
A DICTIONARY of QUOTATIONS in most frequent Use, taken
chiefly from the Latin and French, but comprizing many from the Greek,
Spanish, and Italian Languages, translated into Engli&h; with Illustrations
Historical and Idiomatic. By D. E. MACDONII&L, of the _Middle Temple.
The Seventh Edition, revised and corrected. 12mo. price 11. 6d. boards.
The SECRETARY'S ASSiSTANT; exlu'biting the various and
most correct Modes of Superscription, Commencement, and Conclusion of
Letters to Persona of every degree of rank; including the Diplomatic, Cle-
rical and Judicial Digniwies; with Lists of the Foreign Ambaaaadora
and Consuls. Also, the Formt1 necessary to be used in Applications or Peti-
tions to the King in Council, Houses of Lords and Commons, Government
Offices, Public Companies, &c. &c. By the Author of the " Puua& and
BA&OII&TAG& Charts," &c. Second Edition. Price 51. extra bo&Ids.
" This little work ia a desirable appendage to the writing-desk, and fully
enables its possessor to fulfil the precepts delivered to us in the Scriptures-
' Give unto every man his proper title, lest he be offended, and ye betray your
.iporance."'-N&w MoNTHLY M.a.oAZIN&.
" The Secretary's Assistant iz an inthlh'ble guide, and we give it ourhearty
recommendation."-LnnAII.Y CuaoNICLL ,
The LIFE and OPINIONS of SIR RICHARD - MALTRA-
VERS, an English Gentleman of the Seventeenth Century. In 2 vola.
Post Octavo, Price 1&. boards. ,
"This is a philosophical romance, in which the author (Lord Dit.LON)
launches into speculations on all subjecta, moral, political, civil, and religious.
It iz a compound of ancient prejudice and modem philosophy, combining a
gau venera&ioo for the ama of chivalry, and the domination of the old feudal
Barons, with a qualified predilection for popular rigbts and public fteedom.-
llle original tone of thinking of these volumes cannot but cause them to be
much read."-MoNTHLY MAoA&Ufa,
The BEAUTIES, HARMONIES, and SUBLIMITIES of NA-
TURE. With occasional Remarks on the Laws, Manners, and Customs of
Y&rioua Natien.s. With Notes, Commentslies, and Illustrations. By C.
Bvcn, Eeq. In 4 vols.Svo., price £2. 2s. boards.
" This production embraces a most extensive aubject,-the wbole field af
Nature, with its relative associations. What baa been said of Lord Bacon
may, with great truth, be applied to Mr. Bucke :-that ' biz feeling for
Nature was the main side on which his philosophy ran into poetry, and vented
itself in a very l[r&Ceful, as well as grand ent.huaiasm, befitting one.of the
High Priests ofWisdom.' "-LIT&U&Y CHILONICLS, Mayl2, 1821.
Digitized by GoogIe
The LIFE of JOHN· MILTON. By ,Cuuus STli:Moll's, D.D., late
of Jeeus College, Oxford.
" Si tyrannos inspector, quid hoc: ad reges? quos ego a tyrannis longiflllim~
seJungo."-Dtjim. «cutu/.-
Third Editiob, in 8vo. price Hs. boards.
A HISTORY of ANCIENT INSTITUTIONS, CUSTOMS, and
INVENTIONS; selected and abridged from the Beytrage sur Geschidlte
,der Eraudungen of Profeesor BECKMANN, of the Univenity of Gottin-
gen. With various important Additions. In 2 vols., 12mo. price ISs. boards.
" These two little volumes preaent such a DWI8 of the useful and enter-
taining, that we should be puzzl~ to name their perallel. Beckmann's great
work is a rich mine of intelligence, on almost every possible subject of~b,
curiosity,.oramusement; and the Editor of this English Abridgment bM not.
only exercised a sound discretion upon bis original, but baa superadded much
intereoting information of his own.-LnEILU'I' G..t.U'J"'._ Narc/a 8, 1828. •
Tbe SCRINIUM. By RniiCC..t. Ena!ooa. As the Bee stops on ewry
Sower, collecting sweets, and stores his hive with honey, so should Medi-
tation rest on. each event, collecting wisdom, to store the mind with virtue.
2 vola. 12mo., price 15s. boards.
"We would sum up our whole renew of the 'Scrinium' by saying that it
io, except the 'Sketch Book,' the best miscellaneous Prose work of ita kiDd
which baa come under our notice."-LnER..t.a.Y RaaiSTEa, Jtdg 6, 1829.
SYMBOLICAL ILLUSTRATIONS or the HISTORY or ENG-
LAND, accompanied by a Narrative of the principal Events; deeigned more
particularly for the Instruction of Youn' Persons. By M. A. Ro~tD..t.LL,
Author of "The Grammar of Sacred Htstory." Second Eclitiob, in oae
thick Volume, 12mo., with forty-two Engravings, price !Is. boards.
EPITOME or ENGLISH HISTORY; or, British Cbronologn •
being a Catalogue of Mo~hs, from tile In'VUi.on of Julius c- to the
Conquest of William Duke of Normandy. To which are added, Chronolo-
gical Tables, from the Conquest to the present Reign. Fifth .Ediaon, with
Alteralioos and Additions. By the Rev. G11:o. Wutnun, A.M. Price
:2s. bound.
LETTERS on ANCIENT HISTORY, exhibiting a summary View
of the History, Geognpby; Manners, and Customs of the A.yrian. &byJo.
niau, Median, .P81'1ian, ~ llllleJitiab, and Grecian Nations. B7
Ana Wu.ao•. Third Edition, 12mo. price 5s. bound.
The ROMAN HISTORY, from the Foundation of Rome to the Sub-
fti'Sion of the Eastern Empire, and the taking of Constantinople by tbe
Turks, in the yeaz of our S.riour One Thousand Four Hundred and Fiftr·
three : indudiog the Antiquities, Manners, and Customs, u well u the Ju-
risprudence and :Military Establishment of the Romans. In Seven Boob,
on a new and interesting Plan. By the Rev. JoH)I An..t.xa, A. M. Third
Edition, 12mo., price 41. Gd. bound.
A Series of QUESTIONS to the above, price b. sewed.
Digitized by GoogIe
29
25
Bri~t/h Smtuft' Hilr:.r
..10 to 3n 411 .1o Ho ;o
I
I
I
I
II
\
rr. t
I.
!
I •
I
I
t
I
<J• 1-
~ f
"1
\
I
'2:.! 1
,
--·- ···-·---·- I·
I I
I '
t
II I
I
t
.cl>. 33 3.1
,,...,oo1 oogle
\I,...._
~
•'
I
~
Lt:tn,bw,J'ItMt..d#trf hf G-.(: WIJ _
WhtN.tiA'l'r..t'nf /.V !,,
l~U'LAl-'f.A,'l.: tOlf.
lloy>\l- Cities ________it,
Lemti.col D~ __
__ __ _.&
1\dil';O" J) ~--------:~
l\f.ClaeJ:J\._1Stuncs a.~ -!i!!!A
NoT E.
-
TJU.r ("ount:ry H'f,., sua:rs.riv~y CllDai hy .telleru/.rtnfllL,J';
1-"!!'hLLand.of'C81l.a.an.fi'Om tit£ sons ofCaruu:ut
pofNiWl.C.,1"faleftinernm• dze J'lliiolincs who •
the .Y'('a t'Vd.sr.s ~:'l'hrL'l~Jldof'J?.a:C\.ntU;e !Jn)(l.LL.l.,(}ml
promi.,·d iHo ./Jhra/uun and Ju:< dr.m•ndan<>" 4-r'l"lw
LQ»3.cl'f.Lu.-ael. trom the.f.<trvu'llitvs /ui'Vt'n9 obtwiud pf1.r·
-.'tf'.«-.NiJ.n ut'ir ..t,"!'!l.1tot..anaoi'Juaab.. from rhuttribc
which was dze nlwt l'(m.,•iJu"O.hk oi"dw r;wcl.ve ,vfj)
6"! l?tr Holy Lanit·fi·orrv z'rs having beLli tiu:
j(Y"ILC ot"our.lledccmlr!r birtk,nu'rat:lf'.r,dlnlh,
llrul re.rurection. b t".J· 11t pr,-..unt tuuVr d•-· '
,WminiJJn ot"tlw:f'urN·
,.
"
"
lJ 1111 jb (~oogk
