{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1824__a_barrister___the_vagrant_act_in_relation_to_the_liberty_of_the_subject.pdf","mytitle":"The Vagrant Act In Relation To The Liberty Of The Subject","mylang":"de"}
THE
VAGRANT ACT,
IN RELATION TO THE
LIBERTY OF. THE SUBJECT.
SALUTARIS SEVERITAS! UEAT.l 8ECUKITAS !
Lord Coke.
BY A BARRISTER.
LONDON:
JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE-STREET.
MDCCCXXIV.
,
Co. \~f lo Q ,
HARVARD COLLEGE MttMW
FROM
THE BEQUEST OF
iVERT JAN6EH
tita
London : Printed by C. Itonoith,
Bell-Yard, Temple-Bar.
THE measure proposed for consideration in the
following pages, and principally, in comparison
with former provisions upon the same subject, is
the " Act of the 3 Geo. 4. consolidating into one
" Act, and amending the laws relating to idle and
" disorderly Persons, RoguesandVagabonds, 8$c."
but better known by the name of the " Vagrant
Act." No sooner had this measure, as we must
all recollect, passed into a law, than the whole
artillery of what is called the " Public Press"
was levelled without mercy against it :(it was
said to be framed in a spirit unknown to the
constitution ; endangering the ancient liberties
of Englishmen—the summary, and, as we con
tend, the salutary and necessary powers thereby
continued or created, were pronounced to be
at once dangerous and despotic, converting not
only the public office of the police magistrate,
but the private study of the country justice into
an inquisition the most detestable, j The great
B 2
( 4 )
/principle of penal legislation was represented as
violated ; arid the means adopted of preventing
. the mischief " more mischievous than the mis
chief itself.'M Such was the general tenor of
the objections, prematurely at least, poured forth
upon this occasion, and had there only existed
sufficient foundation for them, it must on all
hands be admitted, that the measure could not
too soon have been repealed ; but so far is this
from the case, that, as we hope to prove, an
act more sound in its principle/ niore essen
tially merciful in its provisions ; more beneficial
and salutary in its execution, is scarcely to be
found in the whole circle, large as it is, of
penal enactments ; and when we consider who
are the objects of these laws ; their numbers;
the depravity of their habits ; their readiness
ever to join in popular commotion, in a coun
try too where there is even a pernicious excess
of charity, by law, we ought rather to admire
the lenity of the measure than reproach it for
its rigour. J This " unruly brood," as Lambard
describes them, may be compared to the over
flowings of a stream left to stagnate—impover
ishing the land, and distempering the air ; or
like those lazy peccant humours of the body,
which, unless dispersed, or purged away,
weaken and eventually destroy the constitution.
( 5 )
To regulate and coerce this class, is strictly the
business of police ; and the powers that have
from time to time been entrusted to it for that
purpose, have invariably been founded on the
principle* ofpunishing idleness to prevent crime;
of holding in check those who live without vi
sible means of subsistence, and of repressing
that vagrant spirit which but too generally pre
vails among the lower orders, and disposes them
not only ignobly to rely on the misplaced bounty
of others, but to resort to plunder when that
bounty fails them. Of the summary jurisdiction
of the magistrates, by which they take cogni
zance of offences 'committed against this act, in
derogation, as it is termed, of trial by jury, we
shall speak hereafter. We-wiLLSisl,consider the
law as it now stands^ and even, before we enter
upon a detailed examination of that law, it may
not be altogether unamusing or uninstructive
briefly to notice some of the measures taken by
* " Ogni nazione ha alcune leggi di polizia che hanno un'
" influenza immecliata e diretta sull' ordine publico.
" La, mendicita e 1'ozio negli uomini che non hauno altro
" patrimonio che quello delle loro braccia dovrebbe esser pu-
" nito dalla legge ; essa dovrebbe punire quell' uomo che
" perde nell' inazione la sua vigorosa gioventu, e che stende
" con bassezza e villa al ricco quella mano che potrebbe cs-
" sere utile allo Stato."—(Filangieri, La Scienza della Legis-
lazione, lib. iii. tit. 7-)
this and other nations, in remoter periods, to rid
themselves of these pests of well-ordered states.
Among the Egyptians, who were distinguished
for their domestic polity, we find this law
recorded, I" That every man should go be
fore a magistrate and declare his name and
business, and whence he derived his means of
subsistence, and if convicted of making a false
declaration, or of following an illicit trade, he
was to suffer death,3 LThis severe law was sub
sequently introduced into Greece by Solon, upon
his return from Egypt, Sand the powers of exe
cuting it entrusted to the Areopagus : of such
importance to the state did that great legislator
deem it, that every one should, in his youth, be
taught some art or trade by which he might
afterwards gain his livelihood, that he expressly
exempted those whose parents had not so in
structed them, from the penalties of the law,
which declared infamous all who did not contri
bute to the support of their father and mother.
In the infancy of the commonwealth of Rome,
we see the same principle wisely adopted by
Romulus in his distribution of the business of
the state, to each citizen, according to his rank
and circumstances.*
* " Patres sacra, magistratusque soli peragunto ineuntoque,
( 7 )
(In a later period of the empire, we have the
ordinances of the emperors Gratian and Valen-
tinian, commanding diligent search to be made
after such as led a vagrant and mendicant life :
and from a law in the Theodosian code, it would
seem that a runaway slave was to be at the dis
posal of an officer of the statejj and the idle
freed-men were liable to be employed in *per-
petual labour in thefields.
l^In France, during the reigns of Louis XIII.
and Louis XIV., we find some severe pro
clamations issued respecting the vagrants and
idlers then in Paris : ) " Avons enjoint suivant
les ordonnances et arrests de la cour ci-devant
donnez a tous vagabons sans condition et aveu,
m6me a tous garcons barbiers, tailleurs et de
toutes autres conditions, et aux filles et femmes
debauchees, de prendre service et condition dans
vingt-quatre heures, sinon vuider cette ville et
fauxbourgs de Paris, a peine contre les hommes
d'etre mis a la chaine et envoyez aux galeres ;
et contre les femmes et filles, du fouet, d'etre
jus reddunlo, rem-publicam cum rege gubernanto ; Plebei
agros colunto, questuosa opificia exercento."
* Codex Theodosianus, lib. iv. tit. 18. De Mendicantibus
non Invalidis. The words of the original are, " colonatu
perpetuo fulciatur."
( 8 )
rasees et bannies a perpetuite, sans autreforme
de proems."* However harsh this may appear to
those who are so ready upon all occasions to
vindicate the right of loco-motion in a set of
vagabonds, who are themselves but little dis
posed to respect that right in others, we shall, in
the sequel, have occasion to notice some regula
tions in our own country which, in severity, may
fairly vie with these foreign fulminations. If
we turn to the " Code Penal " of France, we
shall perceive that the existing law upon this
point is infinitely more rigid than our own ; but
we will now, cursorily, consult the annals ofour
own country, from which we shall be enabled
to judge how far the present law is an hasty en
actment concocted in a spirit of oppression and
innovation upon our liberties ; or a measure
framed on principles that have subsisted and
been recognized by our constitution for ages—
that it has its faults we do not mean to deny,
and which, when we come to the discussion of
the act itself, we shall, with great deference to
its projector, notice.
In the reign of Edwin, king of the Northum
brian Angles, so strong and so well executed
were the laws, that it became an aphorism, that
* Delamare, Traite de la Police, p. 137-
( 9 )
a woman with her new born infant might walk
from sea to sea without fear of insult* It is
singularly striking, that one of the earliest regu
lations that was made in England for the co-
o
ercion of the vicious part of the community,
should be the simplest and best element of Police
that ever was/devised by the intellect of man ;
equally adapted, under certain modifications, to a
country in its barbarous or in its civilized state :
the regulation to which we allude was that by
which all persons were compelled to findsecurity
to the state for their good behaviour. It was
introduced into this country by the Anglo-
Saxons, who borrowed the idea from the mutual
suretyship of the Germans ; among whom the
head of a family was not only answerable for
the good conduct of the individuals belonging
to it, but of any stranger who shared his hospi
tality. Alfredf saw the advantage of this insti
* Turner's History of the Anglo-Saxons, vol. i. p. 354.
t The system of placing all the people under borh, origi
nated from Alfred, according to the historians ; but we first
meet with it clearly expressed in the laws in the time of Edgar.
By his laws it is thus directed, " Every man shall find and have
borh, and the borh shall produce him to every legal charge and
shall keep him ; and if he have done any wrong and escapes,
his borh shall bear what he ought to have borne. But if it be
theft, and the borh can bring him forward within twelve months,
then what the borh paid shall be returned to him."—Turner,
vol. iii. p. 577.
tution, and more systematically organized it.
During his reign the counties were divided into
friborgs, or tythings, to which every man be
longed ; the members of it were answerable for
each other to the tything, while the tything
was answerable to the King for the good con
duct of the whole body; and he who from the
badness of his character was unable to find
pledges, was in a state of outlawry, and became
a vagabond.
In the reign of the Conqueror, it would seem,
from the Saxon Chronicle, that this country
justly prided itself on the infrequency of crime,
" amongst other things (it is observed in that
work) is not to be forgotten the good peace that
he made in this land, so that a man of any ac
count might go over his kingdom unhurt with
his bosom full of gold." The first statute that
we meet with expressly for the regulation of
police, is the Statute of Winchester, in the thir
teenth of Edward I., in which we find the fol
lowing enactments :—" no one is permitted to
lodge in the suburbs of the town except in the
day time, nor even then except his host answer
for him. Bailiffs to make inquiry of persons so
lodged every week or fifteenth day, and if sus
pected persons are found, to do right therein :
strangers are to be detained by the watch till
4. 11 )
the morning," and other useful provisions of the
like nature.
By the 11 H. 7. c. 2. '{vagabonds, idle and
" suspected persons shall be set in the stocks
" three days and three nights, and have none
" other sustenance but bread and water, and
" then shall be put out of the town ; and whoso-
" ever shall give such idle person more shall for-
" feit twelve-pence. Every beggar not able to
" work shall resort to the hundred where he last
" dwelled, is best known, or was born, and there
" remain, upon pain aforesaid.^
By the 22 Hen. 8. c. 12. it was provided,
" That if any person being whole and mighty in
" body and able to labour, was taken begging, or
" vagrant, and could give no reckoning how he
" lawfully got his living, he might be brought
" before ajustice of peace, high constable, mayor,
" or other officer of the place, who might direct
" him to be whipped out of the place at the end
"of a cart till his back was bloody." And by a
statute passed in the twenty-seventh of the same
reign, those who were found a second time in a
state of vagrancy, were not only to be whipped,
but to have the gristle of the right ear clean
cut off.
Notwithstanding the severity of these laws,
the country still appears to have suffered from
C 12 )
the great increase of these " valiant vagabonds,"
in consequence, in all probability, of the dissolu
tion of the religious houses, at whose gates the
aged beggar and the young idler had been alike'
accustomed to find relief. To suppress this'
growing evil a measure was resorted to of_which
we give the preamble, on account of the stateli-
ness ofits eloquence, and the principal enactment
for its complicated cruelty.
" Fprasmuch as idleness and vagabondry is
" the mother and root of all thefts, robberies,
" and all evil acts and other mischiefs, and the
" multitude of people given thereto, hath always
" been here within this realm very great, and
" more in number (as it may appear) than in other
" regions, to the great impoverishment of the
" realm, and danger of the King's Highness's
" subjects ; the which idleness and vagabondry
" all the King's Highness's noble progenitors,
" kings of this realm, and this High Court. of
" Parliament, hath often and with great travel
" gone about and assayed with godly acts and
" statutes to repress ; yet until this our time it
" hath not had the success which had been
" wished, but partly by foolish pity and mercie
" of them which should have seen the said godly
" laws executed, partly by the perverse nature
" and long-accustomed idleness of the persons
( 13 )
" given to loitering, the said godly statutes
" hitherto have had small effect, and idle and
" vagabond persons being unprofitable members,
" or rather enemies, of the commonwealth, have
" been suffered to remain and increase and yet
" so do, whom if they should be punished by
" death, whipping, imprisonment, and with other
" corporal pain, it were not without their deserts,
" for the example of others, and to the benefit
" of the commonwealth ; yet if they could be
" brought to be made profitable and do service,
" it were much to be wished and desired." The
statute then enacts, " that whosoever, man or
" woman, being not lame, impotent, or so aged,
" or diseased with sickness, that he or she cannot
" work, nor having lands or tenements, fees,
"annuities, or any other yearly revenues, or
" whereon they may find sufficiently their
" livings, shall either, like a serving man want-
" ing a master, or like a beggar, or after any
" such other sort, be lurking in any house- or
" houses, or loitering or idle wandering by the
" highway side, or in streets, cities, towns, or
" villages, not applying themselves to some
" honest and allowed aft, science, service, or
"labour, and so do continue by the space o£
" three days or more together, andfnot offer
K themselves to labeur with any that will take
( 14 )
" them according to their faculty ; and, if no
" man otherwise will take them, do not offer
" themselves to work for meat and drink, or,
" after they be so taken to work for the space
" agreed betwixt them and their master, do leave
" their work out of convenient time or run away,
" that then every such person shall be taken for
" a vagabond, and that it shall be lawful for
" every such master offering such idle person
" service and labour, and that being by him
" refused, or who hath agreed with such idle
" person, and from whom, within the space
" agreed of service, the said loiterer hath run
" away or departed before the end of the cove-
" nant between them ; and to any other person
" espying the same, to bring or cause to be
" brought the said person so living idle and
" loitering, to two of the next justices of the
" peace there resiant or abiding, who hearing
" the proof of the idle living of the said person,
" by the said space living idle as beforesaid, ap-
" proved to them by two honest witnesses or
" confession of the party, shall immediately
" cause the same Initerer to he. marked with a
" hyt iron mjhe_ breast thejnark^ of_V. and ad-
" judge the same person living so idle, to such
" presenter to be his slave, to have and to hold
" the said slave unto him, his executors or as
( 15 )
" signs, for the space of two years then next
"following, and to order the said slaves as fol-
" loweth ; that is to say, to take such person ad-
"judged a slave with him, and only giving the
" said slave bread and water or small drink, and
" such refuse of meat as he shall think meet,
" cause the said slave to work by beating, chain-
" ing, or otherwise, in such work and labour (how
" vile soever it be) as he shall put him unto."
" And if any manner of slave, either for loitering
" or for the cause before rehearsed, so adjudged,
" shall, within the space of the said two years
" here appointed, run away, depart, or absent
" him from his said master by the space of four-
" teen days together, without a licence, it shall
" not only be lawful to his said master to pursue
" and fetch him again by virtue of this act, but
" also to punish such fault by chains or beating
" as is aforesaid ; and against the detainer, if
" any man do willingly detain him knowing him
" to be a slave as is aforesaid; to have an action
" of trespass, and recover thereby in damages
" ten pounds, besides the costs and charges of
" the suit for so detaining his said slave. And,
" further, every such master shewing and proving,
" by two sufficient witnesses, the said offence
" and fault by his running away, before two
"justices of the peace for the same county,
( 16 )
" whereof one to be of the quorum, the same
"justices shall cause such slave, or loiterer, to
" be marked on theforehead, or on the ball of the
" cheek, with an hot iron, with the Jigure of an
" S. that he may be known for a loiterer and a
" runaway, and shall adjudge the loiterer and
" runaway to be the said master s slavefor ever.
" And if such slave shall the second time run'
" away, or be absent himself, if the said master'
" shall approve the same second time running'
" away, with two sufficient witnesses, before the
"justices of the peace, in their general and'
" quarter session, then every such fault and
" running away to be adjudgedfelony, and such
" loiterer and runaway to be taken as a felon,
" and thereof being lawfully indicted and at-
" tainted, or otherwise condemned, to suffer
" pains of death, as other felons ought to do."—:
1 Ed. 6. c. 3.
This savage act was in the course of two or
three years repealed, and the 22 Hen. 8. revived.
In the reign of Elizabeth, the evil again increased
to such a height as to threaten the existence
of social order. In some counties, bands of
these beggars assembled together to the number
of three to four hundred, bent on plunder, to the
great terror of the people, who were obliged to
watch day and night to protect their flocks and
( 17 )
corn from these lawless marauders.* Nor are
we much surprised at such disgraceful insubor
dination, when we find the justice of peace of
that day described, as " a living creature, who?
"for half-a-dozen chickens, would dispense with
" a whole dozen of penal statutes.^ But what
these " capon-lined" and timid justices shrunk
from doing, the Queen herself, in a spirit quite
worthy of her father, undertook to do, and
forthwith issued the following warrant, which
in violence might vie with the thunder of the
Vatican:— ,k
A. D. 1595.
Elizabeth, by the Grace of God, &c. To
our trusty and well-beloved servant, Sir
Thomas Wyllford, Knight, greeting.
Forasmuch as we understand that of late
there has been sundry great unlawful assemblies
of a number of base people of a riotous sort,
both in our city of London and in the suburbs
of the same, and in some other parts near to our
said city, for the suppression whereof, although
there hath been some proceedings in ordinary
manner by the mayor of the said city, and sundry
offenders committed to several prisons, and have
* Strype's Annals, vol. iv. p. 290. '
t D'Ewes' Journals, p. 66l .
C
( 18 )
also received corporal punishment by direction
and order of our Council in the Star Chamber
at Westminster ; and for the stay of the like
tumults to follow, we have also, by our procla
mation published the fourth of this month,
charged all our justices and other officers having
charge of the keeping of the peace to have
special regard to the inquisition for all that here
after shall attempt to commit the like offence,
and speciallyfor the apprehension of all vagrant
persons, and them to commit to prison and
punish according to the laws of our realm.
Yet for that the insolency of many of the
kind of desperate offenders is such, as they care
not for any ordinary punishment, by imprison
ment and other severe punishment inflicted on
them ; therefore, We find it necessary to have
such notable, rebellious, and incorrigible persons
to be speedily suppressed by execution to death,,
according to thejustice of our martial law; and,
therefore, we have made choice of you, upon,
special trust of your wisdom, discretion, and
other qualities meet for this purpose, to be our
Provost Marshal, giving you authority ; and so
we command you, upon signification given to,
you by our Justices of Peace in our city of Lon
don, or of any place near to our said city, in our
counties of Middlesex, Surry, Kent, and Essex,
( 19 )
of such notable, rebellious, and incorrigible
offenders worthily to be speedily executed by
martial law, to attack and take the same per
sons, and in the presence of the said justices,
according to justice of martial laic, to execute
them upon the gallows or gibbet, openly or near
to such place where the said rebellious and incor
rigible offenders shall be found to have committed
the said great offence.
And furthermore we authorise you to repair
with a convenient company into all common
highways near to our said city, where you shall
understand that any vagrant persons do haunt,
and calling to your assistance some convenient
number of our justices and constables abiding
about the said places, to apprehend all such
vagrant and suspected persons, and them to
deliver to the said justices, by them to be com
mitted and examined of the causes oftheir wan
dering, and finding them notoriously culpable
in the unlawful manner of life, as incorrigible,
and so certified to you by the said justices, you
shall by our law martial cause to be executed
upon the gallows or gibbet some ofthem that are
sofound most notorious and incorrigible offend
ers, and some such also of them as have mani
festly broken the peace, sithence they have
been judged and condemned to death for former
c 2
( 20 )
offences, and have had our pardon for the same;
And we further command as well the mayors
and sheriffs and all other officers within our
said city, and other our justices of peace, and
common officers in any place near to oar said
city, to be aiding and assisting to you in the
execution of the premises, as they will answer
thereto at their peril ; and of your doings to
advertise our council from time to time. And
this our authority committed to you to con
tinue in force until that we or our council shall
signify unto you our pleasure to determine the
cause. And these presents shall be your war.
rant and discharge in thy behalf.
In witness whereof, &c.*
Two years, afterwards the statute of the 39th
Eliz. passed, by which it was enacted that every
person declared a rogue, vagabond, or sturdy
beggar, by that act, taken begging, wandering,
or misordering themselves in any part of this
realm, should, upon their apprehension by the
appointment of any justice of the peace, con
stable, headborough, or tythingman of the same
county, hundred, parish, or tything, where such
person should be taken, the tythingman or head-
borough being assisted therein with the advice
* Rym. Feed. torn. xvi. p. 279-
( Si )
of the minister and one other of that parish, " be
" -stripped nakedfrom the middle upwards, and
" shall be openly whipped until his or her body
" be bloody." , '..'..-, .<„
These measures, too severe one would. sup
pose to have proved otherwise than revulsive
and shocking in their execution, produced an
effect which we will give in the words of Lord
Coke himself, and to which we earnestly en
treat the attention of the reader. Speaking of
the 39th Eliz. he says,* " that upon the making
" of this statute, and a good space after, whilst
"justices of peace and other officers were dili-
" gent and industrious, there was not a rogue to
" be seen in any part of England ; but when
"justices and other officers became tepidi or tre-
" pidi, rogues, 8$c. swarmed again." f . ;
By the statute of the 7th Jac. c. 4. a new class
of persons is described under the vague desig
nation of " idie and disorderly persons:" upon
which Lord Coke makes the following comment:
" Though they have lawful means to live by,
" yet if they be ' idle or disorderly persons,'
" the justices of peace have power to commit
'- • 2 Inst. p. 728.
t Justices will again become both tepidi and trepidi, if their
conduct, like that of the respectable Member for Stafford, is to
be brought before Parliament upon every occasion.
M them to the House of Correction,—a general
"and large.power given to them, without the
"exception of any person.—And their mittimus
" to the House of Correction may be more
" safely upon this statute, quia otiosa et inor-
" dinata persona, than upon the 39th Eliz."*
Through subsequent reigns we find much the
same course of penal legislation pursued in
taming these vagrant spirits.
!A view, too rapid perhaps, has been taken of
the measures Adopted by other governments
as well as our own, to repress a class of people-
outcasts of society, not from misfortune, but
Vice—idle, not from want, but hate of work,-r—
and vagrant from the pure love of vagabondry ;—
eating the hard-earned bread of others, which
they triumph in getting by plunder or fraud :^—
a class which can alone be kept under by laws
tike the present, executed with firmness, temper,
and discretion. If in the exercise of that sum
mary power, so wisely and necessarily entrusted
to, those who execute the Act, some may have
appeared, and perhaps have been, somewhat too
zealous in the application of its penalties, it is
no more than must be expected from our com
mon nature,—Humanum est—
- . , , . : , .-','"'
" 3 Inst, p. 728,
( 23 )
Neither the projector nor the promoters in
parliament of the present measure, nor the in
telligent Minister of the Interior, under whose
eye it passed into a law, could have been in
fluenced by any other feeling than the public
good ; they have created no new law, as it has
been ignorantly imagined, but acting on princi
ples that all times and nations have recognised,
have merely simplified and arranged the pro
visions already existing in our statute books,,
condensing them into one act, and adapting
them to the present state of society. With the
few exceptions which will be presently noticed,
the law is a most salutary one : but instead of
the thanks of the country, to which the learned
framer of it, Mr. Chetwynd, was so justly en
titled, he has met only with reproach and ob
loquy. The same feeling that lauded the mur
derer on the scaffold, is now as busy in abusing
the magistracy, and advocating the cause of
thieves and vagabonds. So constant indeed has
been the attack upon this misunderstood mea
sure and its administrators, that it was not until
it called forth the reprobation of Mr. Hume, that
its real merits began to appear.*
* The case which originated these animadversions was that
of a man of the name of Lotcho, convicted as being of that
sect of philosophers called Cynics, ita dicti (says the Lexicon
( 24 )
.' Come we now to the Act itself. The pream
ble states the expediency of amending the laws
now in force relating to idle and disorderly per
sons, rogues and vagabonds, and incorrigible
rogues, in England, and that it would simplify,
the same if the several provisions relating to such
offenders were consolidated into one act. It
then proceeds to repeal former acts, with a pro
vision that nothing in this Act shall alter any
forcellini) quod amurn more in propatulo coire non dubitarent,
and whose petition for redress of grievance, on that account,
was presented a short time since to the House by Mr. Hum*.
This much-injured and respectable tradesman, as described by
this statesman (or rather in his speech as done into English by
the reporters), is one of a family of felons ; his father and two
of his uncles were cast for death at Chelmsford for a burglary—
his mother keeps an old iron shop (which is another word for
a receptacle for stolen goods) in Essex-street, Whitechapel
where this respectable tradesman occasionally lives. So much
for the accuracy and philanthropy of this Parkins of Parlia
ment. In the course of his vituperation of those who executed
the law, with his usual good taste and gentlemanly feeling, he
more than once bestowed the epithet of hired on the Magis
trates of Police—If indeed the disgrace attendant on holding
a public station were to be measured by the salary attached to
it, the Magistrates of Police would at least have the satisfaction
of coming in for as small a share of it as any functionaries in
the state. At present we will say no more, but content our_
selves with recommending to those who may feel dispirited by
similar reflections from the same quarter, that honest recre
ation just now so much in fashion—" pede luinium quatere."
( 25 >
law now in force for the removal of poor persons
born in Scotland, Ireland, or the Isles of Man,
Jersey, Guernsey, and becoming chargeable to
parishes in England. It then, in section 2, de
fines the persons that are to be deemed idle and
disorderly, which had in the statute of 7 Jac.
been left to the discretion of the justices. .~ i
" Those who threaten to run away and leave
"their families or children chargeable to any
" parish" This proposition is somewhat too
general ; it would be hard to commit a man who
merely threatens, without some overt act to evi
dence his intention. By the statute just men
tioned, of 7 Jac. the man who threatened must
be able to work, and the fact of his threatening
be proved by two witnesses before two justices.
Secondly, " All persons who, being able to
" work, and thereby or by other means to maintain
" themselves andJamilies, shall wilfully refuse
"' or neglect so to do, by which default or neglect
" they or any of them shall become chargeable to
" any parish, township, or place" This, also, is
too general ; all persons would comprise all other
classes of society, as well as the labouring class,
to which, of course, it is intended to apply.
Thirdly, " All persons who shall return to any
" parish, township, or place from whence they
" have been legally removed by order of twojus
V tiees of the peace, and shall there become
" chargeable, without producing a certificate
" owning them to be settled elsewhere." By the
17th of Geo. 2. it was not necessary that a per
son so returning should become actually charge
able to the parish, to bring him within the pe
nalties of the law, which by this Act is humanely
made necessary.
Fourthly, " All common prostitutes or night-
'? walkers wandering in the public streets or
" public highways, not giving a satisfactory ac-
" count of themselves." Night walkers, wander*
ing, is obviously too vague a term, and requires
to be more strictly defined. With respect to
prostitutes, it is somewhat curious to observe,
that this is the only penal enactment upon the
subject to be found in our statute book ; whether
this abstinence is to be attributed to a feeling of
languor in Parliament to every question con
nected with police, or to a feeling of mercy
towards the hapless individuals who are the ob
jects of these laws, or perhaps to a sense of the
total impracticableness of the subject matter, it
is difficult to determine. We should be more
disposed to ascribe it to the latter, since it has
been found by experience that neither the edicts
of piEBtors, the rescripts of emperors, the ana
themas of the church, or the ordinances of kings,
( 27 )
been of the least avail, and statesmen have
at length been obliged to compromise what
they could not restrain. During the middle
ages, this subject was at various times discussed
at councils by the learned men of the church.
" In regimine humano illi," says that eagle of
theologians, Thomas Aquinas, " qui prasunt
recte aliqua mala tolerant, ne aliqua bona im-
pediantur, vel etiam ne aliqua mala pejora in-
currantur."* It would be tedious to enumerate
the many regulations that nations both ancient
and modern have made with regard to this
unhappy class of beings, too often " more sinned
against than sinning." There are some laws,
however, that seem to have pretty generally
obtained in most countries ; such are those COIHT
pelling them to wear a certain dress, restricting
them to a particular quarter of the city, or
obliging them to register their names with the
proper authorities.f
* Quaestiones.
*f" Eodem anno gravibus Senates decretis libido feminarum
coercita; cautumque " ne quantum corpore faceret, cui arus,
aut pater, aut tnaritus eques Komanus fuisset;" nam Vistilia
praetorid familii genita, licentiam stupri apud jEdiles vulga-
verat ; more inter veteres reccpto, qui satis pcenarum advcrsftm
impudicas in ipsd professione flagitii credebant."—Tacitus,
Annal. lib. 2.
In England, fornication has of late years been
cognizable only by the ecclesiastical law, though
anciently, according to Lord Coke, both adultery
and fornication were punished by fine and im
prisonment, and " inquirable in turnes and leets
by the name of Letherwite." We find in Domes
day, " De adulterio vero per totum Ghent, habet
rex hominern, (i. amerciamentum hominis) et
archiepiscopus mulierem, (i. amerciamentum mu-
lieris),£c. Vidua, sialicui senonlegitimecommis-
cet, 20*. emendabit, puella vero 10*. pro consimili
causa."* Fleet-street, from time immemorial,
seems famed as the resort of these " donne pecca-
trici" There is a record in the time of Ed
ward III. which runs in these words : " Rex
praecipit majori civitatis London, quod amoveri
faciat omnes mulieres meretrices in venella
prope fratres Carmelitarum in Flete-street inha-
bitantes." In the reign of Henry VI. there is an
obsolete statute, declaring, that they who dwell
in the stews shall not be impannelled on juries.
In the year 1650 (as Blackstone observes),
when the ruling powers found it for their in
terest to put on the semblance of a very extra
ordinary strictness and purity of morals, not
only incest and wilful adultery were made
* 3 Inst. page 205.
.
( 29 )
capital crimes, but also the repeated act of keep
ing a brothel, or committing fornication, were
(upon a second conviction) made felony without
benefit of clergy ! But at the restoration, when
men, from an abhorrence of the hypocrisy of the
late times, fell into a contrary extreme of licen
tiousness, it was not thought proper to renew
a law of such unfashionable rigour ; and these
offences have been ever since left to the feeble
coercion of the Spiritual Court, according to the
rules of the Canon law,—a law which has
treated the offence of incontinence, nay even
adultery itself, with a great degree of tenderness
and lenity, owing, perhaps, to the celibacy of
its first compilers. So stood the law upon the
subject, until the present Act; and the power
that it entrusts to magistrates should therefore
be used with great tenderness and discretion,
especially as the punishment to which it may
consign them, is one, the propriety of which, as,
far as it affects females indiscriminately, may
admit ofjust objections.*
The Act then, as to the foregoing classes, de
clares it lawful for any justice of the peace to
* The House of Correction for females in Paris, called St.
Lazar, where continual, but not oppressive, labour in the ordi
nary occupations of women is the punishment, may perhaps be
worthy of attention.
( 30 )
commit such offenders (being thereof' convicted,
before him by his own view, or by his, her, oft
their own confession, or by the oath of one or,
more credible witness or witnesses) to the house
ofcorrection, there to be kept to hard labour for
any time not exceeding one calendar month.
By Section 3d, the following classes are to be
deemed rogues and vagabonds : " All persona
" going about as gatherers of alms under false
" pretence ofloss byfire, or by any other casualty,
" or as collectors under any false pretence ; all
" bearwards ; all common stage players, and all
" persons who shall for hire, gain, or reward,
" act, represent, or perform, or cause to be
"performed, any interlude or entertainment ox
"entertainments of the stage, or any part or.
"parts therein, such persons not being authorized
" by law" The first part of this section scarcely
requires any comment, as it is almost entirely
a reprint of what is contained in the old acts i
the phrase " common stage players" which is
here, for the first time, introduced, requires, peri
haps, some little explanation. It is matter,
however, for consideration, whether more power
might not be granted to justices in sessions than
they now have* of licensing certain places of
• . ^ .
• 25 Ceo. II.
( 31 )
public entertainment in and near the metropolis.
At present their power is limited to granting
licenses only "for music, dancing or other pub''
" lie entertainments of the like kind" under
which license nothing in the shape of drama
tic representation can be legally performed,
although it is done by means of various subter
fuges, to evade the penalties of the act.
There is even now a species of amusement
going on, of a very rational kind certainly, and
which is much followed by the higher orders of
society—we mean French plays ; the performance
of which, were the magistrates called upon offiU
cially to notice them, would not only expose
" Messieurs les Artistes" to the appellation of
Rogues and Vagabonds, and to .the pains and pe*
nalties thereunto appertaining, but render the
gay audience liable " to be seized tend dealt with
according to law"* Now it would be somewhat
ludicrous to see a lovely Countess, or perhaps
one of our highest legal characters, distinguished
not more for the depth of his learning than for the
refinement of his taste, running the gauntlet of
a watchhouse—a Bow-street Office,—and- per*
chance, the tread-mill, for the great offence of
enjoying a delightful comedy of Moliere, «tf
l
* Query, what law f "'
( 32 )
Piron. Such, however, is the law; and th«
sooner it is altered the more agreeable it will be
both to actors and audience.
. " All persons pretending to be gipsies ; fill
" persons pretending to tell fortunes, or using
" any subtle craft, means, or device by palmistry,
" or otherwise, to deceive or impose on any of his
" Majesty's subjects, or playing or betting at
" any unlawful game." The last of these pro
positions requires to be more definitely worded ;
for the lawfulness or unlawfulness of a game
may depend on time, place, and person : for ex
ample—By the 33d ofHenry VIII. a game that is
allowed at Christmas is unlawful at another sea
son. 2dly. Games that are prohibited at a com
mon house, kept for the purpose of playing, are
permitted at an inn or tavern for the recreation of
the guests. Sdly. A master is allowed to play at
a game which, in a servant or artificer, would be
punishable. The discussion of the general ques
tion of gaming, of its effects upon society, and
under what restrictions it would be expedient to
place it, must bereserved for anotheropportunity ;
since its investigation would require more re
flection, and occupy a greater space than could
conveniently be spared in a work of this kind.
" All persons who run away and leave their
" wives or children chargeable to any parish,
( 33 )
" township or place ; and all petty chapmen and
" pedlars, wandering abroad, not being duly li-
" censed, or otherwise authorized by law." This
last 'offence is already sufficiently punishable
under the Hawkers' and Pedlars' Act.
" All persons wandering abroad and lodging
in ale-houses, barns, out-houses, or in the open
air, or under tents, or in carts or waggons, and
not giving a good account of themselves"—this
also is a reprint of the old law, but requires to
be more definitely worded.
" All persons openly exposing or exhibiting in
any street, road, public place or highway any in
decent exhibition, or openly and indecently ex
posing their persons"—this is the clause that has
given so much offence, and been the principal
reason of all the outcry raised against the act.
We will, in spite of the clamour, however, ven
ture to say, that there does not exist in the whole
circle of penal legislation a more useful enact
ment, properly understood and applied. It may
perhaps appear incredible to those who judge of
the purity of others by themselves, that there is
to be found in this metropolis and elsewhere, a
class of wretches who really take pleasure in
shocking the eyes of women and children by the
grossest and most shameful exposure of their
persons ; several instances of this kind have fallen
( 34 )
under our notice, and where the offenders, who,
but for this salutary measure, would iu all proba
bility have escaped with impunity, have expiated
their offence by a three months labour* at the
wheel. Whether this punishment should extend
to persons who, without intending, occasionally
offend against the laws of decency, is another
question. That it would be desirable to restrain
such offenders there can be no doubt, but the dif
ficulty is, how to legislate upon such vague and
impalpable subjects, as coarse feeling and bad
taste; and to leave it to the magistrates to deter
mine what is or is not so, where each may have
his own peculiar way of viewing the question,
would certainly be to abandon the liberty of the
subject too much to the arbitrary notions of
these gentlemen. Something, however, should
be done—some enactment made to distinguish
the two classes of offenders above designated :
for those who deliberately and intentionally of
fend, there might be a greater punishment than
even now awaits them ; and upon those who, in
their ordinary functions, are unnecessarily inde
licate, a small fine might be imposed, and, in
* Toute personne qui aura commis un outrage public a la
puilcur sera punie d'un emprisonnement de trois mois d un an,
tt dune amende de seize francs d deux cents francs.—Manuel de
Droit Francois, par Paillkt, p. 1120.
( 35 )
default of payment, an imprisonment for any
time not exceeding a month.
" All otherpersons wandering abroad ofplacing
themselves in streets, public places, highways,
courts or passages, to beg or gather alms, or
causing or procuring, or encouraging any child
or children so to do, or endeavouring by the ex
posure of wounds or deformities to effect the same
purpose." With respect to the propriety of this
enactment, there can be but one opinion ; the
law of France is, on this point, fully as severe as
our own.*
" All persons who shall be apprehended having
in possession any pick-lock key, crow,jack, bit, or
other implement, with intentfeloniously to break
and enter into any dwelling-house, warehouse,
coach-house, stable, or out-building "—-a most
salutary clause, of the benefit of which, how
ever, His Majesty's subjects in Middlesex are in
great measure deprived, by the construction
which the sessions have put on the term " having
* Toute personne qui aura 6t& trouvee mendiant dans utr
lieu pour lequel il existera un etablisscment public organist
afin d'obvier & la mcndicite, sera punie de trois d six mois
d'emprisonnement, et sera apres 1'expiration de sa pcine conduite
au depot de mendicite. Meridians qui feindront des plaies ou
infirmiles seront punis (tun anprisonncment de six mois d deux cats.
—Code Penal de France. Pailliet, p. 1112.
( 36 )
in possession ;" they, in their wisdom, have laid
it down that a man cannot be said to have a
thing in his possession unless he has it actually
about his person.* The words of the statute
23 Geo. 3. c. &8, " that if any person be appre
hended having upon him any pick-lock key, £$c."
made it necessary that a commitment should
state that the implements were upon him at the
time of his apprehension ; and when a convic
tion was quashed in the King's Bench on the
ground that they were not so, Lord Kenyon
yielded, it is said, with the greatest possible
reluctance to the objection.! This obvious de
fect in the 23 Geo. 3. is, when interpreted by
common sense, remedied by this
* A case occurred a short time since of a man whose lodg
ings were entered and searched by the officers of the police ;
he was found in them, and from his pocket was taken a key,
with which they opened his drawers and found an immense
number of pick-lock keys of every description, and of the
most ingenious manufacture; besides which were discovered
his mask, 'dark lantern, phosphorus box, &c. He was taken be
fore a magistrate who, in the simplicity of his understanding,
convicted him, under this act, of having in his possession pick
lock keys, with a felonious intent. This conviction was ap
pealed against and quashed at the sessions, on the ground that,
because he had not the 500 keys upon his person, he could not
be said to have them in his possession.
t R. v. Brown, 8 T. R.
iToutmendiantouvagabondmunidelimcs, crochets ou autres
( 37 )
" All persons having in possession any gun,
pistol, hanger, cutlas, bludgeon, or other offensive
weapon, with intent to assault any person or per
sons, or commit any other illegal act"*—this
clause is not to be found in former vagrant acts ;
it is imported from the 23 Geo. 3. with the ex
ception only, that that act has the phrase " with
intentfeloniously to assault."
" All who shall be found in or upon any dwel
ling-house, warehouse, coach-house, stable, or
out-house or area, or in any inclosedyard, garden,
or place, and shall not be able to give a good
account ofthemselves ; or who shallfrequent any
river, canal, or navigable stream, dock, or basin,
or any quay or warehouse near or adjoining
thereto, or the avenues to any such (juay or ware
house, or the streets or highways leading thereto ;
or any place ofpublic resort, the avenues leading
thereto, or the streets, highways, or places adja
cent, WITH INTENT TO COMMIT FELONY OH the
persons or property of any of His Majesty's
subjects'"—this is partly new matter, and, in part,
taken from the last police act — WITH INTENT
instrumons propres soil a comraettrc des vols ou d'autres delits,
soil a lui procurer les moycns dc penetrer dans les maisons.
* Ou porteur d'armes, bien qu'il n'cn ait use ni menac6, sera
puni de deux <J cinq ans d'cmprisonnement.—Paillict, Manuel dc
Proit Fraitfais, p. 1112.
( 38 )
to commitfelony ;—now, a man's intention may
be collected from the character of the person—
his actions—the time—the place—the company
in which he is found, &c. &c. ; but here, again,
the sessions have interposed, and rendered almost
nugatory a clause which is penned in the best
spirit of police, prevention of crime ! They are
not satisfied that a man is, by repute, a thief;
the place in which he is found, a public street ;
the time, night ; his company, other thieves; but
they require evidence of some open and imme
diate act committed before they will infer the
felonious intent ; and thieves are much too wary
to be often taken in " ipsa rapina et flagrant!
crimine."
" All persons imposing or endeavouring to im
pose upon any church-warden or overseer of the
poor, or upon a charitable institution or private
individual by any false andfraudulent represen
tation, either verbally or in writing, with a view
to obtain money, or some other advantage or
benefit "—This is an entirely new enactment,
and a most useful one it is ; but whether this
imposing or endeavouring to impose must be con
nected with alms—in the way of seeking charity
only ; or is applicable to all cases where one man
endeavours to impose upon another, is the ques-.
tion.
( 39 )
Section 4. describes the persons who are to be
deemed incorrigible rogues.
" All persons apprehended as rogues andvaga
bonds, and escaping from the person or persons
apprehending them, or refusing to go be/ore ajus
tice orjustices of thepeace, to be examined by such
justice orjustices, or knowingly giveafalseaccount
of themselves on such examination after warning
given them of their punishment ; and all persons
who shall break or escape out of any gaol or house
of correction before the expiration of the term
for which they were committed or ordered to be
confined, by virtue of this act ; or who, being
charged with any offence, AND BEING BOUND BY
RECOGNIZANCE, IN MANNER HEREIN-AFTER
MENTIONED, to appear at the next general or
quarterly sessions of the peace, shall neglect to
appear accordingly ; and all persons who, after
having been adjudged to be rogues and vagabonds
and then discharged, shall again commit any
offence under this act."
By Section 9- the Justices in sessions are em
powered to order any rogue and vagabond to be
imprisoned for not more than six calendar months
to hard labour ; and any incorrigible rogue for
not exceeding one, nor less than half, a year, and
during that time to be corrected by whipping
(not females), at such times and places as the
( 40 )
court may think fit; incorrigible rogues, upon a
second conviction as such, may be imprisoned
for not exceeding two years, and during their
confinement to be corrected by whipping. By
17 Geo. II. incorrigible rogues, upon a subse
quent conviction, were treated as felons.
" BEING BOUND BY RECOGNIZANCE, &c." Sec.
15, which gives an appeal to persons aggrieved
in the execution of this act, omits to empower
the justices to bind the appellant to appear per
sonally at the sessions, the words of the section
being, " entering into a recognizance with suffi-
" dent surety to try and prosecute such appeal."
Although perhaps the sessions would not enter
tain the appeal without the presence of the ap
pellant.
Section 6. awards the punishment which any
justice out of sessions may impose upon any
rogue and vagabond, or incorrigible rogue, the
matter alleged and charged being first proved
against them, viz. imprisonment to hard labour
for any time not exceeding three months nor
less than one month. Then follows a most
humane provision, not to be found in any pre
ceding law, that it shall be in the discretion of
the justice either to commit or discharge the
offender, although an act of vagrancy be proved
against him. And the justice may, if he thinks
( 41 )
fit, bind him or her in a sufficient recognizance
to appear at the next quarter-sessions. This
latter provision seems almost useless, for of what
value can be the personal recognizance of a
vagrant ? We will not quote the proverb.
Section 5. empowers justices, if they think
Jit, to reward persons apprehending vagrants
with any sum not exceeding five shillings. By
the former act, 17 Geo. JI. the justices could
award no sum under ten shillings.
Section 13. By this section any justice, " upon
information on oath, that persons described as
idle, and disorderly rogues and vagabonds, or in
corrigible rogues, are reasonably suspected to be
harboured in any lodging-houses, by warrant
under his hand and seal, may authorize a constable
or other person, to enter at any time such house,
and apprehend and bring before him or any other
justice, allpersonsfound therein and so suspected;
and if, on examination, it shall appear to such
justice, that they or any of them cannot give a
satisfactory account of themselves, it is lawful
for such justice to commit them to the House of
Correction to be dealt with as rogues and vaga
bonds." The difficulty here is, when the persons
are so found and brought before the justice, to
produce sufficient evidence of their having ac-
{ually committed some act constituting the
( 42 )
offence of vagrancy ; for, in the absence of such
proof, the magistrate would hardly be justified
in dealing with them as rogues and vagabonds.
By Section 15. an appeal is given to persons
aggrieved by any act of anyjustice in execution
of this act ; but there is this embarrassment at
tending it, arising from its being an appeal against
a commitment in execution, in which case it has
long since been decided* that a party cannot be
bailed, notwithstanding the statute has given a
right of appeal against the conviction to the
sessions. This difficulty has never yet been satis
factorily explained or removed. Let us suppose
the case of a man convicted under the vagrant
act, and committed, six weeks prior to the sesr
sions, for one month, that after he has been in
gaol a week he gives notice of his appeal, enters
into a recognizance to try it, and complies with
the requisites of the act; can, then, a magistrate,
after he has committed, discharge him out of
custody ? the moment the commitment is signed,
the magistrate is functus officio; but if he is not
permitted to be at large on bail, this absurdity
follows, that he appeals against a conviction
after he has undergone the duration of imprison
ment expressed in the commitment, the conse
* R. v. Brookes and others, 2 T. R. 196. per Buller J.
( 43 )
quence of such conviction. If he is permitted
to be at large and the sessions confirm the con
viction, what then becomes of the commitment?
It is like a Lord Mayor, in force only for an
appointed time, and then sinks into nothing.
Thus one of three absurdities must follow, either
the sessions confirm that which is no longer in
existence, or the rogue laughs at justice and
escapes punishment, or they refer him back to his
original sentence, and if asked by what law they
do so, they would find it, or we are much mis-*
taken, difficult to give a satisfactory answer.
Let us consider it by analogy, and suppose a
convict, for a transportable offence, receives
sentence of seven years transportation, and
escapes after he has been six months on board
the hulks, and is not found till after the expira
tion of the term, could he be referred back to his
original sentence ? We say no ! it is true that
had he been convicted of a capital crime* and
pardoned, on condition of his transporting him
self, and had afterwards failed in performing the
condition, he might then be referred back to his
original sentence of death, which might again
be commuted, at the pleasure of the crown, to
transportation. There will be now an opportunity
* R. v. Patrick Madan, 1st Leach, 223.
( 44 )
for the legislature to remove these doubts and
difficulties, which, if they perplex professed law
yers, must of course embarrass our country
squires.
Upon a comparison then of this Act with any
law upon the subject that has ever existed here
or in any other country, the unprejudiced in
quirer must see, first, That it is a most temperate
measure, for it not only adopts the minimum of
punishment ever meted out to the offence of
•cagabondry, but it also empowers the justice*
for the first time, to discharge an offender, where
the offence has been proved against him. 2dly.
That it is an effective one,' since it is simpler,
better arranged, and, when rightly interpreted,
contains more useful enactments than any
former law. 3dly. That it is less expensive to
the country, since it has diminished the amount
of the rewards, and disburthened counties of
that most grievous charge of passing vagrants
from one end of the kingdom to the other.
When this act shall have been carefully revised,
ftr the purpose of giving to its propositions a
* This obviates any oppression which might otherwise arise
towards those who are taken in an act of vagrancy from ne
cessity ; such as Americans and foreigners, &c. in distress,
who have no settlement, and of course no parish on which they
have a claim for relief.
( 45 )
greater degree of convenient certainty and legal
precision, we unhesitatingly assert, that its repeal
would be an evil, and its continuance a blessing
to the commonwealth.
Thus much for the act itself With regard to
the summary power entrusted to the magistrates
in this and other acts ; it has, obviously, arisen
from the necessity of securing to the subject in
certain cases, a cheaper and speedier redress of
wrongs, than he could possibly obtain by the
tedious and expensive mode of trial by jury:
" Justice" being " sweetest" as my Lord Bacon
has it, " when it is freshest" and it is by this
means brought home to every man's door. This
power, decried as it is, of hearing and deter
mining cases without the intervention of a jury,
has within these few years much increased, not
from any love of authority on the part of the
magistracy, or desire on that of the legislature
to innovate, as it has been insinuated, but from
the indisputable benefit that has been felt from
it ii> every part of the kingdom. Its opponents
are obliged to resort to that common vicioijg
mode of reasoning, which draws its conclusions
from the abuse ofthings, the fallacy and absurdity
of which are strikingly obvious in the instance
before us. These sophists proclaim the liberty
and property of the subject to be in danger, as
being left to the decision ofa single judge, whose
( 46 )
haste and ignorance may betray him frequently
into error ; and thence they infer, that summary
power is bad, forgetting at the same time that
they are wholly taking part with the injurer,
and are keeping out of view altogether the right
to redress of the injured. The sum of such rea
soning amounts to this, that because out of an
hundred cases two or three injurers may per
chance be oppressed by a decision, (with the
right, be it always recollected, of appeal reserved
to them) the hundred injured are to be entirely
shut out from all redress, or, which is the same
thing, subjected to the expense of seeking it in
the courts above, which would be much greater
than the compensation asked for the injury re
ceived. Notwithstanding, however, all that the
legislature has already done to secure to the
subject a speedy, cheap, and effectual adminis
tration ofjustice, there remains a mass of unre-
dressed injury pressing upon the lower classes, of
which those who are unacquainted with the
painful detail of the business of life are but little
aware. It may fairly be asked, for example, what
remedy the poor man has to rid himself ofa trou
blesome swindling lodger?—The same machinery
must be put into motion to eject the tenant of a
garret,* as the wealthiest lord from the largest
* Sec Note at the end.
( 47 )
domain. What redress also has a man whose
Avatch or coat, of the value of four or five pounds,
is unjustly withheld from him? It is true, the
Court of King's Bench, it may be said, is open
to him, " so (said Home Tooke) is the London
Tavern, if he can but pay :"—but here, if he
had the means, none but an ideot would think
of throwing away twenty pounds to recover four
or five.* Trial by Jury has received its fullest
measure of praise ; it is, doubtless, between the
crown and the subject, of inestimable value, but
as a universal mode of arbitrament, inapplicable
to the multiplied and complicated interests of
society, in a high state of civilization; in which
disputes are hourly arising among the citizens,
that require immediate interposition. Without
intending to speak of this venerable institution
with the slightest disrespect, it may be com
pared to a rich brocade, or fine old china, to be
brought out on many occasions, but quite unfit
for every-day use. Let any one carefully
watch the proceedings in our civil and criminal
courts of judicature, and he will, if we mistake
not, perceive that, in most instances, the verdict
of a jury is little more than a judgment ex
pressed by twelve men,—right, when it is bor
* See Attorney's bill in note at the end.
( 48 )
rowed from another, and wrong when it is their
own.
Vagrancy, although an important, is still a
very minor branch of Police, which, when essen
tially protective, is of the highest importance to
society. In France it has, particularly since
the revolution) been so elaborately organized,
as to be almost identified with the government
itself,—reduced to a system, detached in part
from the judicial administration: when police
assumes this shape, danger may justly be appre
hended from its abuse; yet even so, in the
hands of a good government, it resembles those
poisons deleterious in themselves, which, when
skilfully applied, work the greatest benefits.
In this country statesmen have not yet consi
dered the subject as worthy of their attention,
and it has therefore not kept pace with the other
improvements of the age. We are almost as far
behind hand in the knowledge of police, con
sidered as a science, as though we had for the
first time turned our attention to the properties
of steam, when the engine had been at work for
years in every other part of Europe. This
neglect is the less pardonable in us, as our con
stitution and code afford elements admirably
adapted and amply sufficient to form the most
efficient yet liberal system in Europe. It is
painfully curious to observe that while French
( 49 )
kid gloves, Irish whiskey, Dutch toys, and
Russia tallow, are considered of sufficient con
sequence to be put under the surveillance of
men of just consideration (we mean the Com
missioners of Excise and Customs); the ad
ministration of this important branch of the
executive power has, till within these few years,
been left to persons who knew no more of the
laws of their country than of those of Confu
cius. The late amiable and judicious Secretary
for the Home Department saw and corrected
this evil, and the office of public magistrate has
since been filled by men selected from the Bar.
Much still remains to be done—between religion
and morality on the one hand, and the penal
laws on the other, there is an immense void,
which it is the business of Police to supply ;
and though it will not perhaps make men more
virtuous, it will diminish the number of crimi
nals. It will not utterly root out moral evil,
but it will prevent much physical, and keep off
the contagion of bad example. Glorious, indeed,
is the yet untrodden path, for a minister to win
to himself honour by promoting this long-
neglected science : thus giving to his fellow
citizens a full and perfect assurance of safety
to their property, their characters, their liberty,
and their lives.
E
NOTE.
Costs of an Ejectment to recover Possession of a Garret,
where the Defendant pleads, but afterwards omits to ap
pear at the Trial, and makes no Defence. See ante,
p. 46.
IN THE KING'S BENCH.
Michaelmas Term.
£. s. d.
Instructions to sue and filling up warrant ... 0 6 8
Paid for stamp for warrant 053
Perusing deeds and abstracting parcels as instruc
tions for declaration 068
Drawing declaration with notice, folio 6. ... 0 6 0
Ingrossing to serve 020
Stamp 004
Service of ejectment on the tenant 050
Affidavit of service, stamp, and oath 088
Copy declaration to annex, and stamp .... 0 2 4
Term fee, letters, &c 0 12 0
Hilary Term.
Instructions to counsel to move for judgment ..026
Paid him 0 10 6
Attending him and court 034
Paid for rule 076
Paid filing affidavit 030
Searching if tenant had entered into consent rule,
and giving receipt for same ..034
Paid filing with clerk of the rules, and for rule . 012 0
4 17 1
s
£. s. d.
Brought forward ..41/1
Fee on signing consent rule 034
Copy and service of rule 030
Drawing issue, fol. 8 0 2' 8
Ingrossing to deliver 028
Stamp 004
Notice of trial 030
Entering issue on the roll, and paid 0 6 10
Warrants and docket 040
Drawing placita and jurata 034
Ingrossing the record, fol. 11 056
Paid for stamp and parchment 0120
Paid passing the record ......... 0 12 0
Fee .thereon 068
Venire 0 11 6
Distringas 0 12 6
Paid returning .. 0 14 0
Attending 034
Paid setting down, cause. 0118
Subpoena ....... V 0 12 6
Copies and service on two witnesses 0 10 0
Paid them 020
Instructions for brief 0134
Drawing same, two sheets 0134
Copy for counsel . . ......... ..... 0 6 8
Paid" him and clerk . ......... ..... 2 4 6
Attending him . . 0 6 8
Attending trial when a verdict found for the plaintiff 110
Paid- court fees (not ascertained)
Term fee, letters, &c 0 13 0
17 18 5
£. s. d.
Brought forward 17 18 5
Easter Term.
Rule for judgment 040
Attending to get record stamped for postea ... 0 3 4
Paid stamping 0 10 0
Drawing and ingrossing postea 050
Paid marking ' .... 0 0 6
Drawing bill of costs and copy 050
Attending taxing 068
Paid the master 050
Drawing and entering final judgment .....050
Attending at Westminster for that purpose ... 0 3 4
Habere facias possessionem 0 14 6
Warrant and messenger 036
Attending the sheriff to take possession (according
to time and distance) but at the least ... 0 6 8
Paid the sheriff—this also depends upon distance
and the value of the premises, according to which
is the sheriff's poundage, but say officers' fees
and assistants 110
Sheriff's poundage
Term fee, letters, &c 0130
Total .£22 14 11
In this bill it is supposed the defendant pleads merely to
annoy die plaintiff; the charges are upon the lowest possible
scale. '
( 54 )
Costs of an Action in Trover to recover a Watch.
See ante, p. 47-
COMMOK PLEAS. f^y Term. *, », *'
Instructions to sue and filling up warrant . . • 0 6 8
Stamp " "... 0 16 0
Capias .--• O5o
Copy and service ....,,,,,. 0 3 4
Searching for appearance 0 6 8
Instructions for declaration '''".' 0 5 <J
Drawing same, folio 5 o 2 8
Ingrossing duty and warrants ' ' ' Q 4 0
Rule to plead •,•••'•'"" Q 5 4
Searching for and demanding plea ' " ' " " Q 3 0
Drawing issue, folio 9 " . _
Inarossing to deliver duty and entering plea . . 0 4
Entering issue on the roll, and paid prothonotary . 0 8 0
Notice of trial "" O4o
Warrants and docket 034
Drawing placita and jurata 044
Ingrossing record, folio 13 0150
Parchment and duty 010
Paid prothonotary marking it 050
Paid passing it 0 6 8
Fee on passing same 0 12 0
Venire ..054
Returning and attending '''.'""" 0 14 0
Habeas corpora juratorum o 12 0
Paid returning 068
Attending for same 0 13 9
Paid setting down cause 088
Associate passing and marking record ' ' ' ' Q w 4
Instructions for brief
10 3 8
( 55 )
£. s. d.
Brought forward 10 3 8
Drawing same, four sheets . 1 6 8
Two fair copies of brief for counsel . . . 1 6 8
Fee to Mr. Seijt. Best with brief and clerk . . . 356
Attending him 068
Paid fee to Mr. Pollock and clerk 246
Attending him . . , . 068
Three subpoenas .... . .... 1 16 0
Copies and service on twelve witnesses .... 300
Attending court, verdict for plaintiff 110
Paid court fees 480
Officers 030
2 10 0
Term fee, letters, &c 0 13 0
Michaelmas Term.
Rule for judgment 040
Attending to get the record stamped for postca 034
Paid stamping 0 10 0
050
006
050
Attending taxing 068
Paid the master 050
Drawing and entering final judgment 050
Attending at Westminster for that purpose . ... 034
0 13 0
Writ of execution 0 14 6
Warrant and messenger 036
Officer's fee, and sheriff's poundage, cannot be pre
viously ascertained, but not less than . . 1 11 0
Total £38 1 2
In an action of Detinue, the costs would be the same, and
then if the article cannot be recovered in specie, damages are
given in lieu ; but it may often happen damages will not com
pensate, as in the case of nfomily watch, or piece of plate, &c.
LONDON:
POINTED BY C. ROWOUTII, BELI/YARD,
TEMPLE BA R.
LONDON, 1834.
BOOKS PUBLISHED IN FEBRUARY,
BY
JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE-STREET.
I.
PLAN for the ESTABLISHMENT of a NATIONAL BANK.
By the late DAVID RICARDO, M.P. 8vo. 2s. 6d.
II.
The SUFFOLK PAPERS. From the Collection of the MAR-
CHIONESS OF LONDONDERRY. Letters to and from Henrietta, Countess of
Suffolk, and her Second Husband, the Honourable George Berkely. With an
Original whole length Portrait ofthe COUNTESS. 2 vols. 8vo. 30s.
This interesting correspondence comprises letters from POPE, SwiFTt GAT, and YOONG ;
the DUCHESSES of M« RLBOROUGH, BUCKINGHAM, and QUEENSBERRY; LADIES HERVEY,
LANSDOWNB, VERE, and HESTER PITT; LORDS BOHNGBROKE, PETERBOROUGH, CHES
TERFIELD, and BATHDRST; MR. LAW (the Financier), MR. PELHAM, MR. HAMPDEN,
MR. KARL e, HORACE WALPOLE, (both senior and junior), and several other persons of emi
nence in the fashionable, political, and literary circles of the reigns of Queen Anne, and
George I., George II., and George III.
III.
The BOOK of the CHURCH. By ROBERT SOUTHEY, LL.D.
2 vols. 8vo. 24s.
IV.
ORIGINAL POEMS, and TRANSLATIONS from the German.
By LORD FRANCIS LEVESON GOWER. 8vo. 9s. Cxi.
V.
ADVENTURES of HAJJI BABA, 3 vols. fc. 8vo. 21*.
VI.
The POETIC REMAINS of some of the SCOTTISH KINGS,
now first collected by GEORGE CHALMERS, Esq., F.R.S., A.S. With a full-
length Portrait ofJames I., and a Fac-simile of his writing. Post 8vo. 10s. 6d.
VII.
CAPTAIN FRANKLIN'S JOURNEY to the COPPER
MINE RIVER and the POLAR SEA. With the Maps. SECOND EomoN.
Two vols. 8vo. 24s.
VIII.
ORIGINAL LETTERS in the TIMES of HENRY VI.,
EDWARD IV. and V., RICHARD III., and HENRY VII. By various Per
sons of Rank and Consideration; with Portraits, Fac-similes, &c. With Notes,
&c., by the late Sre JOHN FENN. 4to. 21. 2».
NEW BOOKS.
IX.
A NEW EDITION of PROFESSOR BUCKLAND'S RE
LIQUIAE DILUVIAN.S, attesting the Action of an Universal Deluge, with
Twenty-seven Plates. 4to. 12. lls. 6d.
X.
The VESPERS of PALERMO. A TRAGEDY. By MRS. HEMANS.
8vo. 3s.
XI.
APPENDIX of NATURAL HISTORY, SEC., to CAPTAIN
PARRY'S FIRST VOYAGE of DISCOVERY. With Plates, 4to. 7s. 6d.
XII.
INFORMATION and DIRECTION for TRAVELLERS on
the CONTINENT. By MARIANA STARKE. A FIFTH EDITION, thoroughly
revised, with important Additions. In a portable volume, post 8vo. 15s.
XIII.
SICILY and its ISLANDS. From a complete Survey under
taken by order of the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, by CAPTAIN W. H.
SMYTH, R.N. With Fourteen Plates, beautifully engraved by DANIELI. 4to.
21. 12s. (iff.
xiv.
LETTERS from the CAUCASUS and GEORGIA. With
Maps and Plates. 8vo. 15s.
XV.
VIEWS in SPAIN, by EDWARD HAWKB LOCKER, Esq., F.R.S.
Number VII., 4to. 12s. 8vo. 8s., containing
' 1. Plaza S. Antonio, Cadiz, Andalusia—II. Valladolid, l.eon.—III. Falling Tower, Zara-
goza, Arragon.—IV. Alcira, Murcia.—V. Ceros, Catalonia.
This Work (to be completed in Twelve Numbers, to appear every Six Weeks,) will form an
appropriate ILLUSTRATION or MR. SOUTHBT'S HISTORY op THE PENINSULAR WAR.
XVI.
RESEARCHES in the SOUTH of IRELAND, illustrative of
the Scenery, Architectural Remains, Manners and Superstitions of the Pea
santry ; from Personal Observations, Ancient Authorities, and Original Manu
scripts. By T. CROFTON CROKER. With 16 Engravings, Wood-Cuts, &c. 4to.
21. 2s.
XVII.
A THIRD EDITION of FORSYTH'S REMARKS on the ANTI
QUITIES, ARTS, and LITERATURE of Italy. In 2 vols. small 8vo. 16s.
XVIII.
REMINISCENCES. By CHARLES BUTLER, Esq., of Lincoln's
Inn. FOURTH Edition. 8vo. 7s. Gd.
WORKS PREPARING FOR PUBLICATION.
I.
CAPTAIN PARRY'S SECOND VOYAGE for the DISCOVERY
of a NORTH-WEST PASSAGE. With Thirteen Maps, Charts, &c., and
TWENTY-SIX FINISHED ENGRAVINGS by Finden, from Drawings of the most in
teresting subjects, by CAPT. LYON. 4to.
This Work will, certainly, bepubliihed on the 27tA o/ MARCH.
II.
JOURNAL of a VOYAGE to the PACIFIC, and RESI
DENCE in CHILI, in the years 1821 and 1822. With an Account of the Revo
lution of 1810, and particularly ofthe NAVAL EXPEDITIONS under LORD
COCHRANE. By MARIA GRAHAM. With Plates. 4to.
III.
JOURNAL of a VOYAGE to BRAZIL, and RESIDENCE
there during parts of the years 1821, 22, and 23. By MARIA GRAHAM. With
Plates, 4to.
IV.
NARRATIVE of a PEDESTRIAN JOURNEY through
RUSSIA and SIBERIAN TARTARY,from the Territories of China to the Frozen
Sea and Kamschatka, performed during the years 1820, 21, 22, and 23, by
Captain JOHN DUNDAS COCHRANE, of the Royal Navy. With a Map. 8vo.
V.
NARRATIVE of a VOYAGE of DISCOVERY in the INTERIOR of
AFRICA, from its WESTERN COAST TO THE RIVER NIGER, in 1818,
19, 20, and 21. With an Account of the Proceedings of the Expedition
under the Command of the late Major Peddie and Captain Campbell, in
the years 1816 and 17. By Brevet Major GRAY, of the late Royal African
Corps, and Staff Surgeon DOCHARD. Undertaken under the immediate Patro
nage and Direction of the Right Hon. EARL BATHLRST. With a Map and
Plates. 8vo.
VI.
EXCERPTA ARISTOPHANICA. By THOMAS MITCHELL,
A.M., Late Fellow of Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge. In one vol. 8vo.
VII.
The ORLANDO FURIOSO of ARIOSTO. Translated, with
Notes, by WILLIAM STEWART ROSE. Post 8vo. Vol. II.
IN THE PRESS.
VIII.
MR. CHARLES BELL'S ESSAYS on the PASSIONS, as
they are exhibited in the CHANGES of the COUNTENANCE ; on the Origin of our
Conceptions of Beauty in the Forms of the Head, &c. A 'new and much im
proved Edition, with numerous illustrative Plates. 4to.
IXt .
MATTHIJE'S GREEK GRAMMAR. By the Rev. E. V. BLOM-
FIELD. A THIRD EDITION. To which is added a complete lndex-of all the
Passages explained in the Syntax. 2 vols. 8vo.
X.
The LATIN GRAMMAR of I. J. G. SCHELLER, translated from
the German, with an Appendix and Notes, by GEORGE WALKER, M.A., of
Trinity College, Cambridge ; and Head Master of the Grammar School, Leeds.
Printed uniformly with Matthite's Greek Grammar. 2 vols. 8vo.
XI.
SIX MONTHS' RESIDENCE and TRAVELS in MEXICO,
containing Remarks on the present State of New Spain, its Natural Produc
tions, State of Society, Manufactures, Trade, Agriculture, Antiquities, &c. &c.
By W. BULLOCK, F.L.S., Proprietor of the late London Museum. With Views
of its Cities, Remarkable Scenery, Costumes of the Natives, and Antiquities ;
with Maps ofMexico andPuebla, and also of Ancient Mexico, from the un
published Original, made by order of Montezuma, for Cortez, now in pos
session of the Author. 8vo.
XII.
TRAVELS in SOUTH AMERICA, during the years 1819,
20, and 21. By ALEXANDER CALDCLEUGH, Esq. With a Map and Engravings,
4to.
, XIII.
NARRATIVE of FOUR VOYAGES of SURVEY in the
INTER-TROPICAL and WESTERN COAST of AUSTRALIA, between
the years 1817 and 1822. Undertaken by order of His Majesty's Secretary of
State for the Colonies ; in H. M. Surveying Vessels, Mermaid and Bathurst.
By PHILIP PARKER KING, R.N., Commander of the Expedition. With Maps,
Charts, Views of interesting Scenery, &c. 4to.
XIV.
JOURNAL of a TOUR in ASIA MINOR, with Comparative
Remarks on the Ancient and Modem Geography of that Country. By
WILLIAM MARTIN LEAKE,F.R.S., &c. , With a Map, 8vo.
POSTSCRIPT.
THE
VAGRANT ACT,
IN RELATION TO THE
LIBERTY OF THE SUBJECT.
3ALUTARIS SEVEHITAS! BEATA SECURITAs!
Lord Cote.
BY A BARRISTER.
LONDON:
JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMA RLE-STREET.
MDCCCXXIV.
r, o N u o N :
rillMFIi BV c. ROWURTII, BUI
7 HI PI li PAR.
POSTSCRIPT.
SCARCELY were the foregoing pages printed off,
when a pamphlet appeared upon the same sub
ject from the pen of a distinguished Barrister;*
and certainly if it fails to give the coup de grace
to this almost expiring Act, which is the subject
of it, it will be for no want of those vehement
denunciations, those exaggerated statements, and
other arts, by which a far less accomplished ad
vocate can " make the worse appear the better
cause." But until it can be satisfactorily shown
that our own and every other civilized nation
known to history have grossly erred in the prin
ciple on which they have ever dealt with the idle
and vicious classes, we shall and do hope that
the legislature will pause before they mistrust
the wisdom of ages by a repeal of the present
law.
* Observations on the Vagrant Act, &c. by John Adolphus,
Esq.
F
( 58 )
Before we notice further the observations of
this gentleman, we shall take the liberty of
opening one or two points which, in the gene
rality of the preceding remarks, have been
left too concisely or perhaps insufficiently ex
plained.
In page 4, where the numbers which compose
this vicious mass are adduced to show the neces
sity of strong measures, it may be more satisfac
tory to state whereabouts those numbers actually
are ; for as little idea can otherwise be formed of
their amount, as of the immensity of meat or fish
daily consumed in this metropolis, from the
sight of a sirloin of beef or a single mackarel.
So long ago as 1794 Mr.Colquhoun stated, " that
in the capital alone above twenty thousand mi
serable individuateof various classes rise up every
morning without knowing how or by what
means they were to be supported through the
day, or where, in many instances, they were to
lodge for the night." This computation appears
even then too moderate; for, of the class of men
dicants alone, we see, from the Report of the
Mendicity Committee of the House of Commons,
the numbers stated by Mr. Martin to amount to
fifteen thousand, of which 5,300 were Irish; and
the Committee state they had reason to believe
the number to be much greater, as by the evi-
( 59 )
dence of Mr. Montague Burgoyne it would ap
pear there were, in 1815, 14, 164 Irish in London,
including adults and children ; and although
these were not all mendicants, yet it appeared
that there were few of them who had not either
begged themselves or employed some of their
family to do so.
The number of prostitutes in London has been
calculated at fifty thousand;* the lowest class
of them live in connexion with the thieves, and
are principally supported by them-t
In the year 1 820,^ there were committed to the
* Colquhoun, p. 340.
t Police Report, p. 50.
+ " You can draw no accurate conclusion from the number
of offenders sent for trial (which for six years preceding 1815
were 38,429), without also adding thereto, the number of other
delinquents who pass through the gaols periodically from year
to year. The whole amount, male and female, may be ascer
tained to a point, by calling on the gaolers of the different
counties to make returns of prisoners (not sent for trial) who
have been committed and discharged in each year. I calcu
late, in round numbers, that about 5000 individuals, not sent
for trial^oof in and out of the gaols of the metropolis in the
course of every year; but keeping in view those that are ac
quitted, you must consider also those sent for trial, but not
prosecuted ; besides those that are imprisoned and discharged
within this period. Supposing that those that have been com
mitted and discharged by the magistrates amount to 10,000,
and those committed for minor offences were 12,000, you have
F 2
..-
( 60 )
different gaols in England sixty-five, thousand
nine hundred andforty-six offenders* exclusive
of the committals to the prisons in the counties
of Durham, Surrey, and Westmoreland, from
which there were no returns. Of this number
13,710 were committed for trial for criminal
offences; the rest were for debt, bastardy, as
saults, vagrancy, &c. Of the debtors it may be
fairly affirmed that two-thirds are little more
than swindlers and sharpers. In the above num
bers we have not taken into account those who
have pursued their career of crime with im
punity.
Of the habits of common vagrants, the Men
dicity Report itself contains a great variety of
illustrative facts, from which we extract a few,
for the information of those who may not pos
sess the public document.
. ' %
a total of upwards of 50,000 floating delinquents, arising from
discharges from prison after the expiration of their sentences—
from acquittals—from liberation for want of prosecutors at the
gaol deliveries—from the temporary commitments and dis
charges of magistrates. It is from this general view only, that
the actual number of criminal delinquents can be estimated ;
and even this will not be accurate, since almost innumerable
larcenies are committed, which never come under the view of
magistrates or courts ofjustice."—Police Report, p. 34, Colqu-
houn's Evidence.
* Vide Returns to Parliament from all the Gaols, &c.
( 61 )
" A beggar will spend 50s. a week for his
" board.
, " Beggars are furnished with children at
" houses in Whitechapel, Shoreditch ; some who
" look like twins; children frequently on wo-
" men's backs.
" Children are annually instructed in idleness
" and drinking, and of course lying; idleness is
" sure to bring on lying and theft.
" One man will collect three, four, or five
" children from different parents, paying 6d. and
" 9d. for each, to go begging with. Parents
" beat their children if they do not carry home
" the sum required.
" A woman with twins, which never grew
" older, sat for ten years. Twins, not the chil-
" dren of the beggars one time in an hundred.
" The beggars, after having perambulated
" their circuits, live well, spending a considera-
" ble portion of money, have hot suppers, and
" regale themselves with various liquors.
" From 200 to 300 beggars frequent two pub-
" lie-houses in St. Giles's, divided into compa-
" nies and subdivided into walks; live luxuri-
" ously at night.
" Beggars scarify their feet.to make the blood
" come; they change their routes every day;
" share considerable sums of money, and get
( 62 )
"scandalously drunk; quarrel and fight; and
" one teaches the other the mode of extorting
" money; they are the worst of characters, blas-
" phemous and abusive; when they are detected
" as impostors in one parish, they go into ano-
" ther.*
Such are the dispositions and habits of a very
large class of those who fall under the denomi
nation of rogues and vagabonds.f
In p. 45, speaking of the utility and necessity
of summary power for the effectual execution
of this and other penal acts, it should have been
observed, that if this power were withheld from
magistrates, and the offences it embraces referred
for trial to a jury, the freeholders, everlastingly
harassed, would be tired and worn out, and vice
and vagabondry unavoidably triumph. The re
luctance not only ofjurors, but prosecutors, wit
nesses, and all not paid for their services, at the
Sessions, to waste their time and money in at
tendance upon them, is already but too manifest
* Vide Mendicity Report, pages 4 and 5.
.t" While upon the subject of vagabonds, we ought to ask
pardon of our friend with the five hundred picklock-keys (men
tioned in p. 36), who was treated with such deserved lenity by
the sessions, 'for having omitted to state, what we ought in jus
tice to have done, that, at the very next Old Bailey Sessions, he
was tried, convicted, and transported for a street robbery !
( 63 )
from the operation of the clause which gives the
right of appeal against the conviction of a jus
tice. People will not voluntarily serve the
public, and the magistrate has not, under this
act, the power to compel them j impunity there
fore as regards the offence, and odium as regards
the convicting magistrate, for not doing what
the legislature has not empowered him to do,
are the necessary results.
If therefore, instead of being summarily pu
nished, offences against this act, as we have said,
should be sent to a jury, the preamble of the
present Act should be struck out, and the fol*-
lowing substituted :— '
Whereas it is expedient that LAWYERS SHOULD
LIVE, and it would materiallyfacilitate this DE^
SIKABLE OBJECT, if the summary power now ex
ercised byjustices of the peace, under the various
penalstatutes now inforce, were, in the COUNTY
OF MIDDLESEX, abolished; and the offences com
mitted against such statutes left, in all cases, to
ajury : Be it therefore enacted, &c.
We will now pass to the pamphlet itself;
which, though written with the usual strength
and fervour of its distinguished author, partakes
so much more of the tone of the advocate than
that of the dispassionate inquirer, that much of
( 64 )
ks effect will, we apprehend, be lost upon the
legislature, who will eventually have to decide
upon the question : for surely, to impute to this
august body, as in page 40, an unnecessary in
fringement of the privileges and the liberty of
the subject, by their " manifest tricking" and
" insincerity" in the means of effecting it, is not
the most conciliatory or likely mode of pro
curing the redress or correction of the evil.
In page 1 8, the writer remarks :—" I am not
" unaware that the Vagrant Act of the 17th
" Geo.'II. gave higher rewards than the recent
" one ; but that act contained no such clause as
" the present ; and there was another very re-
" markable difference : in that, the rewards were
" to be paid by the treasurer of the county, and
" the acts of each individual justice would pass
"under the revision of the whole session, at least
<l once in every year ; in this they are paid by
" overseers of parishes, and, whatever may be
" their extent, they are never heard of in the
" aggregate; but the overseers' account is passed
" in the usual manner, and the justice's order is
" a sufficient voucher."
The 17th Geo. II. made it imperative upon the
justices to allow no sum under ten shillings; by
the present act they are permitted to grant any
sum they please underJive shillings, but nothing
( 65 )
above it; or they need grant nothing at all;
which last will, we believe, be found to have
been the case in the majority of instances. And
as to the other remarkable difference (so ingeni
ously put) in the payment of those rewards, there
is substantially none at all; for although, when
the accounts of the treasurer were laid before the
justices in sessions, they might, to satisfy their
minds as to the accuracy of them, have called
for any voucher they thought proper, yet when
the orders ofindividual justices, for the payment
of rewards, were passing in revision before them
for that purpose only, we never heard of the ses
sions presuming to question the propriety of
them, and for the reason, that they could have no
data on which to found any correct judgment.
In some points, however, we are happy to
agree, as will be seen, with the remarks of the
author. We laugh at and despise, as heartily
as he can do, that sickly sensibility which can
delight in the scarcely-veiled voluptuousness of
Moore, or the broad licentiousness of Byron,
yet affect to be offended with the chaste naked
ness (if we may be allowed the expression) of an
antique statue ; and had the law been made only
for such delicate and sensitive nerves, we should
have been the last to ask for its continuance.
But the object the legislature clearly had in
( 66 )
view, was the preservation of public decency and
public morals; and in the maintenance of that
just principle, it was as clearly their duty to
skreen from the modest eyes of women, as from
the tender minds of children, whatever might
offend the one, or contaminate the other.
We are fully aware of the extreme difficulty
of drawing any line to which all will agree ; but
that our view of the quality of this offence—of
exposure of the person—may not be misunder
stood, we will exemplify it by a case which
actually occurred last year, and ex uno disce—
On the 18th of January, 1823, a fashionably-
dressed, middle-aged man, was charged before
the magistrates of Lambeth-street, by the pa
rents of several female children, with the inde
cent exposure of his person, in different parts of
Stepney and Mile-End. The case was this : a
child (nine years old) proved, that, on Sunday,
the 12th of January, the prisoner exposed him
self to her in White-horse Lane, suum penem
ostendens'—saying, " come here, my little girl,
hunc manu quate, I'll give you half-a-crown."
Another child (about twelve) proved, that on
Friday, the l?th of January, as she was going
along Mile-End road, she saw the prisoner in a
corner, who exposed himself to her, ut supra.—
When she went home, she told her mother there
( 67 )
was a nasty man in the road. Some time after
wards she went out again, and saw the same
man, near Globe-lane, when he again exposed
himself in the same way. A woman, who wit
nessed this last transaction, went and told the
child's mother of it, who applied immediately to
a constable, and had the prisoner taken into cus
tody.
A third child (ten years old) proved, that on
the same 17th, as she was carrying a man's din
ner down Mile-End road, and facing the King
Harry public-house, was looking at some dolls
in a shop, when she saw the prisoner in a corner
—he exposed himself in like manner to her.
On this case, or rather cases, the offender, it
is hardly necessary to add, was convicted; and
committed, in consequence, under the Vagrant
Act, for three months to the House of Correc
tion. Three or four days afterwards he entered
an appeal, and, having found the necessary bail
to prosecute it at the next sessions, he was dis
charged.
Some time, however, before the sessions, it
came to the knowledge of the magistrates, that
great exertions were making with the parents
of the children, who were by no means in afflu
ent circumstances, to compromise the affair,
and every thing was considered settled, so as to
( 6S )
ensure the non-attendance of the children at the
sessions to prosecute ; but on the morning of
the day appointed for the appeal, the magis
trates dispatched a confidential officer to the
school which two of the children attended ; and
finding them engaged in their ordinary occupa
tions, as if no necessity existed for their appear
ance at Clerkenwell, he took them in a coach,
with some of their female relations, to the im
mediate vicinity of the court.
The defendant appeared quite confident of
acquittal ; but the case was no sooner called on,
than, to the surprise of all the parties, the chil
dren were ushered into court by the officers ;
and such was the effect on the defendant, that
the, counsel whom he had retained, declined to
enter upon the case, and submitted to the con
viction of his client, who was immediately re
manded to the House of Correction, in execu
tion of the judgment first passed upon him by
the magistrate, and remained there till the end
of the term.
Now, had not pains been thus taken to secure
the presence of these poor children at the hear
ing of the appeal, and thus to frustrate the
compromise of so gross a case, the transaction
would, in all Hume-an probability, have gone
forth to the public as another instance, like that
( 69 )
of " poor Lotcho," of magisterial oppression—
adding another victim to the number of those
committed to the tread-mill, on insufficient
evidence, under this " odious act."
With regard to indecent exhibitions, the
clause might, perhaps, be better penned ; but
we can see no reason for treating it as a joke,'
and certainly the supposed infrequency of an
offence ought not to be a reason for removing
all restraint upon it.* And although it may be
said that the two last mentioned branches do
not strictly fall within the letter of the term
Vagrancy, it will at least be conceded that the
society of vagabonds is the fittest that could be
found for such offenders.
In page 30, we find the following com
ment upon the enactment which punishes
" the imposing, or endeavouring to impose upon
any overseer of the poor, or other charitable
institution, or private individual, by any false
and fraudulent representation, either verbally or
in writing, with a view to obtain money, or some
* " Toute exposition ou distribution de chansons, pamphlets,
figures ou images contraires aux bonnes moeurs, serapunie d'une
amende de seize francs & cinq centsfrancs, d'un emprisomiement
d"un mois d tin an, et de la confiscation des planches et des
exemplaires imprimes ou graves de chansons, figures ou autres
objets du delit."—Code Penal de France.
( 70 )
other advantage or benefit." " But should this
" clause be allowed to remain in force, even in
" its limited sense (viz. the fraudulently obtaining
" money in the way of charity), every man who
" knows any thing of the management of paro-
" chial funds, and the daily untruths told by
" persons seeking relief, to those who administer
" them, must tremble at depositing in any
" hands the wild and extravagant powers which
" are given by this clause."
We shall here take leave to let in a little light
on this enactment from a Report of the Com
mittee of the House of Commons, on the State
of Mendicity, from which the reader may, per
haps, gather the reason of depositing these
" wild and extravagant powers" in the hands of
justices.
The Report* states, " That some thousand ap-
" plications, by letters, are madeybr charity, to
" ladies, noblemen, and gentlemen in the me-
" tropolis. That two thousand on an average
" were within the knowledge ofone individual,
" who was employed to make inquiries."
" That several persons subsist by writing let-
" ters. That one woman profits by the practice,
" who receives a guinea a week as a legacy
* See Report, p. 8.
( 71 )
" from a relation, and has laid out 200/. in the
" funds. That letters have been written by the
" same person inJive or six different hands"
" That persons who write begging letters are
" called twopenny-post beggars, and profit con-
" siderably by the practice."
" That petitions, carried about, frequently ob-
" tain money, and that many persons live by
" writing these letters."
" That a man who keeps a school, writes
" begging letters for twopence each."
" That the Vagrant Act" — and here, we
think, was cause enough for the " wild and ex
travagant" provision in the new act—" was
" evaded by persons resorting to begging by let-
In page 35, we meet with this remark—
" One of the defences made for this act is, in
" my judgment, even more extraordinary than
" the act itself; that the sixth clause gives a
" discretion either to commit or discharge the
" person brought before a justice, although an
" act of vagrancy be proved. It is new to me to
" learn that the power to be partial diminishes
" the probability of a judge's being unjust. It
" is a curious guarantee for the safety of those
" whom a justice may happen to dislike, that
" those who are more favoured may be dis
( 72 )
" missed with impunity. It must be truly edi-
" fying, at the time of an election, for the
" people to be informed, that if, with one colour
" in their hats, they carry bludgeons in their
" hands, they will be sent to the house of cor-
" rection ; but if they wear the adverse favour,
" his good worship will do them no harm, even
" although an act of vagrancy may be proved.
" How wonderfully it must exalt our morals
" and our patriotism to know, that if a miser-
" able English stroller were to murder Hamlet
" at half-a-crown per box ticket, he might
" spend his next six months in the house of cor.
" rection, whilst a foreigner who might refine
" us with the voluptuous sensibilities of la folle
"journee, at half-a-guinea for a billet, would be
" dismissed from the office with a smile in return
" for his conge, although an act oj vagrancy had
" been proved"
It so happens that very unconsciously we
have been unfortunate enough to make the
" very defence"—here denounced—however, we
shall endeavour to shift, as quickly as possible,
the odium of it from ourselves to those much
better able to bear it—the aforesaid Mendicity
Committee of the House of Commons—who are
" decidedly of opinion that the provision of the
" act (of 17 Cr. 2.); which compels the magis
( 73 )
'" -trates in every case without exception to com-
" mit or punish every person who shall be
" found begging, should be repealed;" and they
give the following absurd reason for their re
commendation : " that the humble mendicant
" asking alms in a state of nearly famishing was
" (under that act) as liable to commitment to
" the House of Correction as the sturdy and in-
" solent beggar living in a state of comparative
" luxury."
The provisions of sections 7 and 13 appear to
be jumbled together for no other purpose than
to cite, with effect, the following terrible tirade,
from the pen of another* barrister, and here
characterised as " happily conceived and inge-
" niously expressed." " Thus then it is at the
" discretion of any justice of the peace to sus-
" pect, to seize, to examine, to imprison, any
" one of his Majesty's subjects!—to seize and
" sell his effects !—to break into any house
" where he may be entertained!—provided he
" be poor /"
# * # * * #
" What then becomes of our old maxims, that
" an Englishman's house is his castle ; that his
" person and property are free and at his own
* On the Increased Powers of Justices of Peace by R. B.
Comyn, Esq. Barrister at Law.
G
( 74 )
" disposal ; that no man is bound to criminate
" himself; and the many other. topics of our
" late national pride and exultation ? The poor
" man (to say the least) must remember that his
" lodging is liable to be broken into : his more
" opulent neighbour must live in dread of the
" awful scrutiny into his trunks and packages
" or the sudden seizure and sale of his beasts
" and carriages ; whilst the whole community
" must bear in mind, that the freedom of their
" persons depends upon the discretion and inte-
" grity of the King's justices of the peace. But .
" when once suspected, seized, examined, con-
" victed, imprisoned, and stripped of his money
" and effects, the unhappy sufferer may console
" himself with the recollection that, after the
" payment of all expenses of the law, he will, at
" the expiration of his term of hard imprison-
" ment, be enabled to visit the world again with
" the surplus of his forfeited property, if any
" there be."
Now who, not deeply skilled in matters of
this sort, reading such a philippic against
our imperial or rather imperious parliament,
would not be apt to ask himself in what coun
try he was; and, whilst he shrugged up his
shoulders at his Turkish and ticklish situa-
( 75 )
tion, bless his stars that his head was permitted
to retain its usual place upon them ? Not only
the habitation of the poor man, " provided he be
poor," is exposed, it seems, to magisterial, and of
course tyrannical invasion, but the baggage of
his opulent neighbour, provided, we presume, he
should travel, is liable to awful visitation and
scrutiny, and his carriages and horses to deten
tion and sale, at the discretion of the first justice
he may meet upon the road, who may make all
this havoc and confusion, merely to fill up an
idle hour, or dispel a gloomy one ! The pas
sage quoted may originally, however, have been
intended but as a joke, and as such we should
be amongst the first to laugh at it, as worthy
either of Colman or O'Keefe ; but when it is
paraded, thus at second hand, as serious argu
ment, by one who does not see the fun of it, we
must pause, and, if we can keep our counte
nance, endeavour to refute it; indeed it is but
fair, after our attention has been thus called to
the pompous effusions of the comic and tragic
muses, to ask a hearing, before it is finally
damned, for the One-Act-piece of Mr.Chetwynd.
That the legislature has empowered the jus
tices, when informed on oath, that vagabonds
are lodged and entertained in certain houses, to
issue their warrants, authorising constables to
( 76 )
» V
enter and search them, and to apprehend all
suspected persons who may be found therein—
is perfectly true ; but what houses are here re
ferred to ? not those of honest and peaceable
poor people, as we are comically and pathetically
besought to suppose, but low lodging houses, for
the avowed reception of " stark, errant, down-
" right beggars, ay without equivocation, sta-
" tute beggars," as the old play* describes
them—houses, " where, in the language of the
" Report,f there are forty or fifty of them like
" a gaol, a porter standing at the door and tak-
" ing money, where for three-pence they have
" clean straw or something like it ; for those who
" pay four-pence there is something more de-
" cent; for six-pence a bed, where they were all
" locked in for the night lest they should take
" the property ; and in the morning there is a
" general muster below, while the servants go
" and examine all the places to see that all is
"free, from felony, and then they are let out
" into the street, just as you would open the door
" of a gaol, forty or fifty ofthem together ; they
" have no settled habitations but those places
" to which they resort."
Nor is it without reason that justices are em
powered to order the search of such persons as
* Jovial Crew, or the Merry Beggars.
t Report of Mendicity Committee, 1815, page 53.
( 77 )
are convicted of vagabondry, their bundles,
packages, &c. for upon reference again to the
Report, we find,* that " beggars, on their being
" searched when brought before the magistrates
" a great deal of money has been found upon
" them, in their pockets and in their clothes ;
" that there was clear proof that a blind man
" with his dog got thirty shillings in one day ;
" that a negro beggar retired to the West Indies
" with a fortune, it is supposed, of £1,500; that
" fifteen, twenty, and thirty shillings have been
" found upon them ; that they get more by beg-
" ging than they can by work—found upon
" beggars eight, ten, and twelve shillings, that
" they had gained in the course of the day ;
" that it was a bad day that did not yield the
" beggars eight shillings and more."
It would hence appear that this "jovial crew'
can very well afford to pay for their own con
veyance to the House of Correction and their
maintenance whilst there.
" Gipsies," likewise, who are proverbially not
over-nice in their distinctions ofmeum and tuum,
but,
" Such of all men's meat and all men's money
" Take a free part, and wheresoe'er they travel,
" Have all things grab's to their hands provided."
Old Play.'
* Report of Mendicity Committee, 181 6.
( 78 )
are surely fit objects of suspicion and search,
without any violent stretch of the liberty of such
subjects.
Petty Chapmen and Pedlars. These have
been described, and we believe truly,* as " prac
* In the reign of Elizabeth, great complaint was made of
this description of persons. In a letter addressed to the
lord treasurer, by Edward Hext, justice of peace of the
county of Somerset, we find the following sensible observa
tions : " And when these lewd people are committed to the
gaol, the poor country that is robbed by them, are forced then to
feed them, which they grieve at, and this year (1596) there hath
been disbursed to the relief of the prisoners in the gaol, .£73,
and yet they allowed but six-pence a man weekly, and if they
were not delivered at every quarter-session, so much more
would not serve, nor two such gaols would hold them ; but if
this money might be employed to build some houses adjoining
to the gaol, for them to work in, and every prisoner committed
for any cause, and not able to relieve himself, compelled to work;
and as many of them as are delivered upon their trials, either
by acquittal of the grand jury or petty jury, burning in the
hand, or whipping, presently transferred thence to the houses of
correction, to be kept to work, (except some present will take
any into service) I dare presume to say, the tenth felony will
not be committed that now is, and if some like course might be
taken with the wandering people, they would easily be brought
to their places of abode; and being abroad, they all in general
are receivers of stolen things that are portable ; as, namely, the
tinker in his budget, the pedlar in his hamper, the glass-man in his
basket, cover infinite numbers of felonies, in such sort that the
( 7.9 )
" tising every species of villany upon the
" country people, as well as upon the unwary
" in the metropolis and all the great towns in
" the kingdom. The artifices by which they
" succeed are various, as for example, by fraudu-
" lent raffles, where plated goods are exhibited
" as silver, and where the chances are exceed-
" ingly against the adventurers; by selling and
" uttering base money and frequently forged
" bank notes, which make one of the most pro-
" Stable branches of their trade; by dealing in
" smuggled goods, thereby promoting the sale
" of articles injurious to the revenue, besides
" cheating the ignorant with regard to the
" value ; by receiving stolen goods, to be dis-
" posed of in the country, by which discoveries
" are prevented, and assistance afforded to com-
" man thieves and stationary receivers; by pur-
" chasing stolen horses in one part of the
" country, and disposing of them in another in
" the course of their journies, in accomplishing
" which, so as to elude detection, they have
" great opportunities."*
tenth felony cometh not to light, for he hath his receiver at
hand, in every alehouse, in every bush, and these last rabble
are very nurseries of rogues."—Strype's Annals, vol. iv. p. 293..
* Treatise on Police by Colquhoun, p. 116.
( 80 )
Mr. Colquhoun is here, be it observed, speak
ing of licensed chapmen only ; what then must
be the particular objects of this law—the unli
censed r*
To the foregoing classes, the propriety of the
application of the act will not, we think, be
denied us : but should it be contended, that
there are yet other classes embraced, to which it
ought not to extend, inasmuch as though pro
perly, they are not technically, vagabonds, we
can only concede the point, or leave it to the
philanthropic and patriotic patrons of such .pro
teges to settle among themselves.
There are other minor points which, inten
tionally, are left untouched, as our only objects
were, to establish the broad principle on which
the bill was framed, and the propriety of its
principal enactments. It has already been
urged, and perhaps may again, as an objec
tion to the line of argument pursued in the
previous pages, that we can new have little to
do with the laws of Alfred or Edward, or with
the early institutions of our country, — a
* When, in page 33, we spoke of this class of vagrants as
sufficiently punished under the Hawkers and Pedlars Act, we
had no conception they were such consummate rogues. We
here retract what we said. A conviction of them is easier
tinder the Vagrant Act.
( 81 )
most convenient mode of reasoning this, truly !
When it suits our purpose, we laud them to the
skies—we cling to them with a passionate af
fection, and are jealous of the slightest innova
tion; but when a statesman, to, guide his vessel
in a dubious track, keeps in view these great
Lights, as beacons whereby to shape his
course, then are . they which were so lately
vaunted, as loudly deprecated and irreverently
scorned. Jt may here, too, be worthy of men
tion, that the very regulation of Alfred to which,
in page 9, we alluded, compelling men, when
called upon, to find security to the state for their
good behaviour, and which was imported here
from the wilds of Germany by our Saxon fa
thers, at this moment actually exists in England,
in its fullest force; and that a magistrate has
at this day, as much as in the days of Alfred,
the power " to take of all them, that be not of
" good fame where they shall be found, sufficient
" surety and mainprize of their good behaviour
" toward the king and his people,"* for any time
he pleases, or to commit such persons to the
common gaol until they do so; and this is recog
nized in the case of Willes and Bridger, decided
by theCourt of King's Bench, Hilary Term, 1819.
Now, although this power is as good in law, and
» 34 Edw. III.
.
as subject to be called into exercise, as any one
contained in the Vagrant Act, yet if the bitter
est opponent of that measure—the warmest ve
nerator of our great patriarch—were asked,
which he would prefer, we are much mistaken
if he would hesitate a moment to close with the
modern statute.
We refrain, at present, from noticing the
other statutes, on which this gentleman so
strongly comments, as unconnected with the
measure proposed for consideration; but we have
a word—and more than one—to say upon the
following passage.
"In the city, the magistracy is composed al-
" most entirely of men of business, unacquainted
" with the mechanism of legal proceedings, and
" informed only by attendance at their offices
" and in session, or by assisting occasionally on
" juries, of the nature of trials, the rules of evi-
" dence, or the manners and usages of courts.
" In the county, on the contrary, almost every
" police justice is a barrister, and it is under-
" stood, that, from that class alone, future va-
" cancies are to be supplied. Yet, strange to
11 say ! there are very few cases indeed sent for
" trial at session from the Mansion-house or
" Guildhall, in which the prisoners are not con-
" victed; while, in the County, it isfrightful to
" look at the number of instances in which
" judges* are obliged to declare their wonder that
" the prisoners were ever committed.
" I entertain very strong opinions on the causes
" of this remarkable difference, a difference al-
" ready noticed, and which I trust will bejear-
" lessly proved by the legislature. / should
" most unwillingly contribute, by any public ob-
" servation of mine, to augment any prejudice on
" this subject; but I am convinced, that a great
* Judges, the best of them, may occasionally lose their tem
per—they are men; but here they must have almost lost their
senses also, before they could express a wonder, that prisoners
indicted and tried should ever have been committed; for un
less true bills had been found, in every instance, against them
by the grand jury, on their oaths, and generally on much
slighter evidence than before the magistrates, thus corroborating
and confirming the sufficiency of the committal, the trials
could never have taken place. Reflections, however, from the
Bench upon the conduct of magistrates are becoming a kind of
fashion with the former. It was but the other day that a
learned judge, authentically informing himself through the
means of some deputy in court, gave it publicly out, that
the magistrates of the police offices returned copies only of
depositions, instead of the original documents, in cases of fe
lony, as it was their duty to have done ; but on inquiry into
the circumstance, it appeared, that (with one exception, we
believe) all the police offices returned, regularly, to the ses
sions the very documents, whose suppression was so injudici
ously deprecated.
','' deal indeed is requisite to render the establish-
" ment useful, and that that great deal ought
" not to consist in the augmentation of pow-
" ers."
Now, though we are willing to admit that
there is not in Europe-—we may include Turkey
—a civic body so imposing (as the French have
it) as a Lord Mayor and Aldermen of London in
their chains, nor one half so well fitted to do,
justice to their high name and calling; nay, that
the least of this divan, in their halls of justice,
is as able a minister of police as the Duke of
Otranto (Fouche") himself—yet no one, we
think, will deny, that it is neither very gracious,
nor very generous, to taunt and tantalize their
stipendiary brethren of the county in the strain
of the fat Friar in the Duenna, to his lean lay-
brother-^-
" No—neither you, nor your fellows mark how the
" hours go ; you mind nothing but the gratifying of your
" appetites; ye eat, and swill, and sleep, and gorman-
" dize and thrive ; whilst we are wasting in mortification.
" Oh, glutton! glutton !"—Act 3. s. 6.
We, therefore, imitating the humility of the
lean brother, shall only presume to suggest, that
all that has been said may not, it is possible, be
quite correct ; and that the statements of this
( 85 )
imposing body may yet, like the couponATION
of our friend the fat friar, be " all wind."
For instance, the relative disparity between the
convictions and acquittals in the city, and the
county, " so frightful" as it is here called, "so
monstrous," as it has been called in a place we
cannot name,* is, upon a closer comparison, in
truth scarcely worth notice—as will be shewn
by the following return, viz.
1823. Committed. Convicted. Acquitted. Proportion
Acquitted.
London - - - 362
Middlesex - - 1358
248
872
114
486
'315
-358
Hence it appears, that of those committed hi
London, rather less than one-third are acquitted,
and of those in the county, rather moTe than
that proportion escape conviction. And when
we consider the difference in the quality of
the juries, the comparative distance of the courts
from prosecutors, witnesses, &c. the reluctance
of parties, who reside so far off, to attend,
and other causes, which cannot be here ex
plained, the experience of the learned gentle
man might have enabled him to account for the
disparity, supposing even a much greater ex
isted, without imputing it to haste or neglect ;—
* The .reader may perhaps smile at our sudden fit of mo
desty.
( 86 )
it could not be to the ignorance of the "police
justices," members of his own profession, who,
as he must have known, had as little to do with
the matter as he had.
Thus from a statement which we have shewn
to be quite erroneous, he kindly hesitates to
infer what he thinks would annihilate, yet just
insinuates what he has not the candour to
avow—a something of too deep a dye to di
vulge ! He talks of prejudice—if any exist :
is it by this affected reserve, exciting alarm
without defining the danger, and suspicion
without affording the opportunity of allaying
it, that prejudice can be removed? It surely
would have been fairer towards a body from
whom he acknowledges to have received " great
personal kindness and civility," to have de
clared at once to what* and to whom this mys
terious complaint attaches, instead of, like a
waspish insect, throwing out its sting, and
again as quickly withdrawing it, as if only to
gratify its own angry instinct.
A Parliamentary Inquiry will doubtless be
instituted into all these matters in the course of
the present session ;—of the result we are little
* " It is the cause, it is the cause—
Let me not name it to you, you chaste Bar,—
Jt is the cause,'' Othello.
( 87 )
apprehensive, notwithstanding the league of
these learned gentlemen against the measure.
It will at least afford consolation to them, to
feel that they have done their utmost to check
the progress of Summary Power, which, albeit
it threatens sad wintry waste to their briefs and
fees, we yet, when duly defined and guarded,
venture to predict will become to the science
ofjurisprudence, what the power of steam is to
that of mechanics—let whosoever or whatsoever
be crushed by its momentum. Yes, the day
must come, when chicanery * and jargon will
alike be dispelled ; and to sickening delay and
ruinous expense in the redress of wrongs, will
succeed cheap, speedy, equal, and intelligible
justice,—accessible alike to the poor man in his
cottage and the prince in his palace.
-. >'! '.ill-,
-" CHICANE—ce monstre odieux
Jamais pour 1'equite n'eut d'oreilles ni d'yeux.
La disette au teint bleme, et la triste famine,
Les chagrins devorants, et 1'infame ruine,
Enfants infortunes de ces raffinements,
Troublent 1'air d'alentour de longs gemissements.
Sans cesse feuilletant les lois et la coutume,
Pour consumer autrui, le monstre se consume ;
lit, devorant maisons, palais, chateaux entiers,
Rend pour des monceaux d'or de vains tas de papiers."
Boileau.—Le Lutrin, chant. 5.
r
( 88 )
We must now take leave of our subject, and
bid adieu to vagrants,
" The only freemen of a commonwealth,—
Free above Scot-free, * that observe no law,
Obey no governor—use no religion,
But what they draw from their own ancient custom,
Or constitute themselves." Old Play.
This ancient and respectable community will
soon become the subject of legislative inter
ference, when their rights and privileges will
be defined.
The question will at last resolve into this—
whether honest men are to live in peace and
security, or the members of this community
* " Scot-free " is an expression that has greatly perplexed
the commentators, though without much reason, as it is point
edly alluded to in the old chorus of all the beggars. The
reader will not fail to be struck with a singular coincidence
of names ; but who the persons were that the vagabond streat
so familiarly in their noisy revels, it is impossible at this
distance of time to say—of no great consequence.
CHORUS.
" If a beggar by chance of the Quorum should be,
He no longer could boast of his living Scot-free ;
But we—do what we will, wench or thieve, let what come,
Like " Lotcho," are sure of a friend in
I. HUMC ! Heigho ! diddle dee."
[Here they all dance and shout.]
OLD PLAY.
( 89 )
to flourish undisturbed : and in coming to a
decision upon this disputed point, let the long-
established principle of salutarily punishing
" idleness and vagabondry, as the mother of
" all mischiefs," be not forgotten, nor the saying
of Lord Coke* pass unheeded, that " of all
" statutes, these are to be preferred which PRE-
" VENT offences before they be done, before those
" which punish them after they be done."
* 3 Inst. 62.
THE END
London : Printed by C. RoworCn
Bell-Yard, Temple-Bar.
LONDON, 1824.
BOOKS PUBLISHED IN FEBRUARY,
BY
JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE-STREET.
I.
PLAN for the ESTABLISHMENT of a NATIONAL BANK.
By the late DAVID RICARDO, M.P. 8ro. 2s. 6d.
II.
The SUFFOLK PAPERS. From the Collection of the MAR
CHIONESS OF LONDONDERRY. Letters to and from Henrietta, Countess of
Suifolk, and her Second Husband, the Honourable George Berkely. With an
Original whole length Portrait ofthe COUNTESS. 2 vols. 8vo. 30s.
This interesting correspondence comprises letters from POPE, SWIFT, GAY, and YOUNO ;
the DUCHESSES of MARLBOROUGH, BUCKINGHAM, and QUEENSBEHRY ; LADIES HBRVEY,
LAKSDOWNB, VEKI:, and HESTER PITT; LOKDS BOLINGBROKE, PETERBOROUGH, CHES
TERFIELD, and BATHURST; MR. LAW (the Financier), MR. PBLHAM, MR. UAMPUEN,
MR. EARLE, HORACE WAI.POLE, (both senior and junior), and several other persons of emi
nence in the fashionable, political, and literary circles of the reigns of Queen Anne, and
George I., George II., and George III.
III.
The BOOK of the CHURCH. By ROBERT SOCTHKY, LL.D.
2 vols. 8vo. 24s.
IV.
ORIGINAL POEMS, and TRANSLATIONS from the German.
By LORD FRANCIS LEVESON GOWER. 8vo. Os. (id.
V.
ADVENTURES of HAJJI BABA, 3 vols. fc. 8vo. 21*.
VI.
The POETIC REMAINS of some of the SCOTTISH KINGS,
now first collected by GEORGE CHALMERS, Esq., F.R.S., A.S. With a full-
length Portrait ofJames I., and a Fac-simile of his writing. Post 8vo. 10s. 6d.
VII.
CAPTAIN FRANKLIN'S JOURNEY to the COPPER
MINE RIVER and the POLAR SEA. With the Maps. SIWOND EDITION.
Two vols. 8vo. 24s.
VIII.
ORIGINAL LETTERS in the TIMES of HENRY VI.,
EDWARD IV. and V., RICHARD III., and HENRY VII. By various Per
sons ofRank and Consideration ; with Portraits, Fac-similes, &c. With Notes,
&c., l>y the late Sin JOHN FENN. 4to. i!/. -%'.
NEW BOOKS.
IX.
A NEW EDITION of PROFESSOR BUCKLAND'S RE-
LIQUIjE DILUVIANjE, attesting the Action of an Universal Deluge, with
Twenty-seven Plates. 4to. il. Us. 6d.
X.
The VESPERS of PALERMO. A TRAGEDY. By MRS. HEMANS.
8VO. 3s.
XI.
APPENDIX of NATURAL HISTORY, &c., to CAPTAIN
PARRY'S FIRST VOYAGE of DISCOVERY. With Plates, 4to. 7s. 6d.
XII.
INFORMATION and DIRECTION for TRAVELLERS on
the CONTINENT. By MARIANA STARKE. A FIFTH EDITION, thoroughly
revised, with important Additions. In a portable volume, post 8vo. 16s.
XIII.
SICILY and its ISLANDS. From a complete Survey under
taken by order of the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, by CAPTAIN W. H.
SMYTH, R.N. With Fourteen Plates, beautifully engraved by DAMELL. 4to.
22. 12s. >ul.
XIV.
LETTERS from the CAUCASUS and GEORGIA. With
Maps and Plates. 8vo. 15s.
XV.
VIEWS in SPAIN, by EDWARD HAWKE LOCKER, Esq., F.R.S.
Number VII., 4to. 12s. 8vo. 8s., containing
I. Plaza S. Antonio, Cadiz, Andalusia.—II. Valladolid, Leon.—111. Falliig Tower, Zara-
goza, Arragon.—IV. Alcira, Murcia.—V. Ceros, Catalonia.
This Work (to be completed in Twelve Numbers, to appear every Six Weeks,} will form an
appropriate ILLUSTRATION or MR. SOUTHET'S HISTORY or THE PENINSULAR WAR.
XVI.
RESEARCHES in the SOUTH of IRELAND, illustrative of
the Scenery, Architectural Remains, Manners and Superstitions of the Pea
santry ; from Personal Observations, Ancient Authorities, and Original Manu
scripts. By T. CROFTON CROKER. With 16 Engravings, Wood-Cuts, &c. 4to.
22. 2s.
XVII.
A THIRD EDVHON of FORSYTH'S REMARKS on the ANTI
QUITIES, ARTS, ana. LITERATURE ofItaly. In 2 vols. small 8vo. 15».
XVIII.
REMINISCENCES. By CHARLES BUTLER, Esq., of Lincoln's
Inn. FOURTH Edition. 8vo. 7s. Od.
WORKS PREPARING FOR PUBLICATION.
*
I.
CAPTAIN PARRY'S SECOND VOYAGE for the DISCOVERY
of a NORTH-WEST PASSAGE. With Thirteen Maps, Charts, &c., and
TWENTY-SIX FINISHED ENGRAVINGS by Finden, from Drawings of the most in
teresting subjects, by CAPT. LYON. 4to.
This Work win, certainly, be published on the 27th of MARCH.
II.
JOURNAL of a VOYAGE to the PACIFIC, and RESI
DENCE in CHILI, in the years 1821 and 1822. With an Account of the Revo
lution of 1810, and particularly of the NAVAL EXPEDITIONS under LORD
COCHRANE. By MARIA GRAHAM. With Plates. 4to.
III.
JOURNAL of a VOYAGE to BRAZIL, and RESIDENCE
there during parts of the years 1821, 22, and 23. By MARIA GRAHAM. With
Plates, 4to.
IV.
NARRATIVE of a PEDESTRIAN JOURNEY through
RUSSIA and SIBERIAN TARTARY, from the Territories of China to the Frozen
Sea and Kamschatka, performed during the years 1820, 21, 22, and 23, by
Captain JOHN DUNDAS COCHRANE, of the Royal Navy. With a Map. 8vo.
V.
NARRATIVE of a VOYAGE of DISCOVERY in the INTERIOR of
AFRICA, from its WESTERN COAST TO THE RIVER NIGER, in 1818,
19, 20, and 21. With an Account of the Proceedings of the Expedition
under the Command of the late Major Peddie and Captain Campbell, in
the years 1816 and 17. By Brevet Major GRAY, of the late Royal African
Corps, and Staff Surgeon DOCHARD. Undertaken under the immediate Patro
nage and Direction of the Right Hon. EARL BATHCRST. With a Map and
Plates. 8vo.
VI.
EXCERPTA ARISTOPHANICA. By THOMAS MITCHELL,*
A.M., Late Fellow of Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge. In one vol. 8vo.
VII.
The ORLANDO FURIOSO of ARIOSTO. Translated, with
Notes, by WILLIAM STEWART ROSE. Post 8vo. Vol. II.
IN THE PRESS.
VIII.
MR. CHARLES BELL'S ESSAYS on the PASSIONS, as
they are exhibited in the CHANGES of the COUNTENANCE ; on the Origin of our
Conceptions of Beauty in the Forms of the Head, &c. A new and much im
proved Edition, with numerous illustrative Plates. 4to.
IX.
MATTHLE'S GREEK GRAMMAR. By the Rev. E. V. BLOM-
FIELD. A THIRD EDITION. To which is added a complete Index pf all the
Passages explained in the Syntax. 2 vols. 8vo.
X.
The LATIN GRAMMAR of I. J. G. SCHELLER, translated from
the German, with an Appendix and Notes, by GEORGE WALKEH, M.A., of
Trinity College, Cambridge ; and Head Master of the Grammar School, Leeds.
Printed uniformly with Multhiu's Greek Grammar. 2 vols. 8vo.
.
XI.
SIX MONTHS' RESIDENCE and TRAVELS in MEXICO,
containing Remarks on the present State of New Spain, its Natural Produc
tions, State of Society, Manufactures, Trade, Agriculture, Antiquities, &c. &c.
By W. BULLOCK, F.L.S., Proprietor of the late London Museum. With Views
of its Cities, Remarkable Scenery, Costumes of the Natives, and Antiquities ;
with Maps of Mexico and Puebla, and also of Ancient Mexico, from the un
published Original, made by order of Montezuma, for Cortez, now in pos
session of the Author. 8vo.
XII.
TRAVELS in SOUTH AMERICA, during the years 1S19,
20, and 21. By ALEXANDER CALDCLEUGH, Esq. With a Map and Engravings,
4to.
XIII.
NARRATIVE of FOUR VOYAGES of SURVEY in the
INTER-TROPICAL and WESTERN COAST of AUSTRALIA, between
the years 1817 and 1822. Undertaken by order of His Majesty's Secretary of
State for the Colonies ; in H. M. Surveying Vessels, Mermaid and Bathurst.
t By PHILIP PARKER KING, R.N., Commander of the Expedition. With Maps,
Charts, Views ofinteresting Scenery, &c. 4to.
XIV.
JOURNAL of a TOUR in ASIA MINOR, with Comparative
Remarks on the Ancient and Modern Geography of that Country. Ky
WILLIAM MARTIN LEAKE, F.R.S., &c. With a Map, Svo.
- ,
.
