{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1824__adolphus___observations_on_the_vagrants_act.pdf","mytitle":"Observations On The Vagrants Act","mylang":"de"}
OBSERVATIONS
ON THE
WAGRANT ACT,
AND
SOME OTHER STATUTES,
THE POWERS AND DUTIES
OF
3|tistices of tipe lºcate.
//
/,
`.
BY JOHN ADOLPHUS, ESQ F.S.A.
BARRISTER AT LAW.
LONDON:
PRINTED FOR JOIIN MAJOR,
ADjor NING serje ANT's INN, FLEFT-STR Err.
1S24. -
OBSERVATIONS
ON THE
WAGRANT ACT, &c.
PUBLIC attention has of late been called so
forcibly, and so justly, to the consideration of
cases arising under the new Vagrant Act, that
it has naturally claimed, in an early period of
the Session, the notice of Parliament. Motions
of censure have been announced, and topics of
justification have been suggested. On one side,
the harshness of the enactments and the bar
barous injustice of some proceedings founded
on them have been forcibly displayed; while,
on the other, it has been asserted, that in the
Act in question, there is little that is new, all
the enactments, except one, being taken from
old statutes, and that it is even more merciful
than the law which has been repealed; inas
much as the highest punishment given by the
B
•)
present Act is two years’ imprisonment, while
the old law allowed, in certain cases, transport
ation for seven years. Of the clauses which are
admitted to be new, namely, those against in
decent exhibitions and indecent exposure of
the person, the latter has occasioned the com
mitments so vehemently censured; and in an
swer to these censures, it is said that the fault
was not in the statute, but in the misconstruc
tion or misapprehension of magistrates.
That some portion of this Statute will be
destroyed by the force of public opinion, is
reasonably to be expected; but should the care
of the Legislature proceed no further, the na
tion will have reason rather to grieve than to
rejoice at their interference. The subject is
now fairly under consideration: if the inquiry
tends to a general examination and revision of
all the laws by which extraordinary powers are
vested in justices of the peace, in and out of
Sessions, a great end will have been attained;
but if nothing is effected beyond the diminution
of some present pressure, the stifling of some
piercing outcry, while the general evil remains
rather sanctioned than redressed, the public
will be great losers by the event, as their com
plaints will afterwards be treated as unreason
able displays of a dissatisfaction that no mo
derate or just attention will appease.
3
In the following pages, I shall first notice
some leading features of the Vagrant Act, and
then offer a few observations on some other
statutes, and on the general system which, in
many important instances, has entirely taken
away the trial byjury, leaving the person andpro
perty of the subject at the mercy of a summary
administrator, (sometimes without even an ap
peal to the session,) and unmeasurably extend
ing the power ofjustices, while their responsi
bility has been reduced almost to nothing.
I do not think any portion of the Vagrant
Act satisfactorily defended by the assertion,
that clauses now censured have before passed the
Legislature. It takes all blame from the indi
vidual who framed the Act, as to invention;
but surely while he was searching with so much
care for Acts of Vagrancy in former statutory
provisions, it would have been reasonable to
examine a little the justice and propriety of
some of them; and while he was rejecting
those which had become obsolete, it would have
been well if he had extended his reform so far
as to exclude also those by which certain
modes of offence were too severely punished,
or which, by their laxity and generality, might
give birth to mistake or abuse.
“In the Vagrant Act, the following persons
are termed idle and disorderly, and subjected,
B Q
4
on conviction before one justice on his own
view, or by confession, or by the oath of one
credible witness, to hard labour in the house
of correction for any time not exceeding one
calendar month.
1. Persons threatening to run away and leave
their wives and children chargeable to the
parish. 2. Persons able to work, refusing or
neglecting, so that they or their families be
come chargeable. 3. Paupers, after removal,
returning and becoming chargeable. And 4,
Common prostitutes or night-walkers wander
ing in the public streets or highways, and not
giving a good account of themselves.
As it is not my intention to make over
strained or fanciful objections to particular
enactments, I shall offer but one observation on
the preceding descriptions. It does seem most
hard and unjust to punish, as in No. 1, a man
for a hasty word or inconsiderate expression,
followed by no act whatever. There is a fe
rocity in such a penalty which cannot be apolo
gised for by any antiquity; and it is the more
galling, as it exposes every man to punishment
on the assertion of any discontented or spiteful
individual.
The next head includes rogues and vaga
bonds, who are, 1, persons going about as alms
gatherers, under false pretence of loss by fire
5
or other casualty, or as collectors under any
false pretence; 2, bear-wards; 3, common stage
players, and all persons acting for hire, or
causing to be performed any entertainment of
the stage, not being licensed ; 4, pretended
gypsies; 5, fortune-tellers; 6, persons using
any subtle craft, means, or device, by palmistry,
or otherwise, to deceive or impose upon any of
his Majesty's subjects; 7, or playing or betting
at any unlawful game; 8, running away and
leaving family chargeable; 9, wandering petty
chapmen and pedlars, unlicensed; 10, persons
wandering abroad, and lodging in alehouses,
barns, outhouses, or in the open air, and not
giving a good account of themselves ; 11, all per
sons openly earposing or eachibiting in any street,
road, public place, or highway, any indecent ea
hibition, 12, or openly and indecently ea posing
their persons; 13, 14, 15, beggars of different
descriptions; 16, persons apprehended with
implements, and intending to break into houses,
17, or having in possession any gun, pistol,
hanger, cutlass, bludgeon, or other offensive
weapon, with intent to assault any person or
persons, or commit any other illegal act, 18,
or who shall be found in or upon any dwelling
house, warehouse, coach-house, stable, or out
house, or area, or in any enclosed yard, garden,
or place, and shall not be able to give a good ac
(5
count of themselves, 19, or who shall frequent any
river, canal, or navigable stream, dock, or basin,
or any quay or warehouse, or the streets or
highways leading thereto, or any place of pub
lic resort, the avenues leading thereto, or the
streets, highways, or places adjacent, with in
tent to commit felony on the persons or property
of any of his Majesty's subjects, 20, and all per
sons imposing or endeavouring to impose on any
churchwarden or overseer, or upon a charitable
institution or private individual, by anyfalse or
fraudulent representation, either verbally or in
writing, with a view to obtain money, or some
other advantage or benefit. -
As I intend to close the analysis of this
Statute (or rather to complete a transcript of
the analysis by its author) before I offer any
further remarks, I proceed to the head incor
rigible rogues. These are, 1, rogues and vaga
bonds apprehended and escaping, 2, or refusing
to go before a justice to be examined, 3, or
giving a false account of themselves, after warn
ing, 4, or (being committed under this Act)
escaping from prison, 5, or not appearing at
Session, if bound by recognizance, for offences
against this act, 6, or having been committed
as rogues and vagabonds and discharged, of
fending again.
To secure these various classes of dangerous
7
characters, it is enacted, “ that any person
“whatsoever, without any warrant, may appre
“ hend and convey before a justice any of.
“fender, together with any horse, mule, ass,
“cart, caravan, or other vehicle in his possession
“ or use.” Peace officers must, and all other
persons, on the requisition of any justice, may
be compelled to assist in such apprehension,
under a penalty of twenty shillings; and they
who do so apprehend, may have a reward, not
exceeding five shillings, to be paid by the over- -
seer of the parish where the offender was se
cured, on the order of the justice.
The justice is next required to inform him
self, by ea'amination of the prisoner, or of any
other person upon oath, of the charge, and if
proved, either to commit until the session for
further adjudication, or definitively for not
less than one, nor more than three months, to
goal, or to the house of correction to hard
labour.
If committed to the session, the rogue and
vagabond may be further imprisoned for six
calendar months; the incorrigible rogue for not
less than six months, nor more than one year;
and the incorrigible rogue offending again, for a
term not exceeding two years, all kept to hard
labour, and to be corrected by whipping at such
times and lawfulplaces during these terms,as, ac
8
cordingtothenatureofeachperson'sdelinquency,
the justices in their discretion shall think fit.
The offences described under these various
heads appear, on the first showing, (and most
of them really are) eminently deserving of
punishment; and if the way taken were direct
and constitutional, little could be said on the
subject; but, on examination of the several
enactments, there will be found in some of
them as much art and spirit of oppression in
the wording and structure, as there has been
tyranny, cruelty, and immorality, in the exe
cution.
I shall not here discuss the wisdom or pro
priety of the restraints on dramatic entertain
ments; but in reference to the head 3, directed
against common stage-players, will it be cre
dited that police officers have, on more oc
casions than one, in the neighbourhood of Lon
don, entered into places where plays were about
to be performed, and seized, not only the per
formers, the door-keepers, and the treasury,
but the whole audience? Thus, young people
in all stations of life, have had their morals
purified, and their predisposition to vagrancy
amended, by a night's lodging in a watch
house, and a morning’s sequestration at the
Brown Bear in Bow-street, or some equally edi
fying recess, amidst the oaths and scurrilities,
9
or the more offensive, and less improving, jests
and narratives of the pickpockets, the prosti
tutes, and other vicious characters whom crime
and misery collect in those abodes. In the
morning, I think, the parties were dismissed,
as we were gravely informed, with a suitable
admonition from the Magistrate,_and to whom?
Not to the officers, who had thus indecently
and wantonly outraged every feeling of pro
priety and humanity, but to the disconcerted
and distressed captives, who saw themselves
thus reduced to a level with felons and mendi
cants; and while their hearts were swelling
with grief and indignation at the treatment
they had undergone, were insulted with boasts
of the great mercy they had experienced.
It may be said, that the parties so appre
hended were not of the inoffensive description
I have supposed. I cannot assert any thing
from personal knowledge, but Camden Town
was the scene of one of these transactions;
and I was informed that very young females,
the daughters of respectable tradesmen in the
place, were among the number thus disgrace
fully treated. Such persons, it may be said,
should have kept their children at home, and
not permitted them to be at such places. If
there are minds capable of such an observation,
I refrain from speaking my opinions of them;
1()
but, whatever inclination may be felt to sup
press all amusements and indulgences for the
lower classes, I hope we are not yet come to
the point of imprisoning, whipping, and con
demning them to hard labour, for slight irre
gularities, attended with no violence, injury,
or public scandal. If a player, who presents
himself to perform at an unlicensed place, is
liable to the severity of the law, I trust it will
be thought, that disappointment and loss of
the entrance-money are sufficient visitations
on those who have attended merely to be
amused by him; and that the sin of not having
money or time enough to visit a Theatre
Royal by seven o'clock, and return to a village
near town an hour or two after midnight, does
not lie so very heavily on the heads of these
persons, that while going to a play at one
place shall procure them the respectable titles
of patrons and supporters of the drama, seeing
the same play, worse represented, at another,
shall bring upon them punishment and dis
grace.
I do not suppose it will be maintained that
the imprisonment of these persons was legal :
there were, “i' th' olden time,” laws against
minstrels, jugglers, and bear-wards, and the
very clause under which these notable captures
were made is taken literally from the 17th
11
Geo. II. c. 5; but until the present times, it
never was heard of that the spectators or au
dience of the bear-ward, the minstrel, the jug
gler, or the strolling player, if they abstained
from all riotous behaviour, were treated as cri
minals, or lost their liberty for a moment.
Whence, then, arises the difference at the pre
sent day ? Are mistakes of the law more fre
quent as the age becomes more experienced 2–
No. The effect is produced by those numerous
enactments which by impunity render justices
of peace and their officers enterprising; which,
by entrusting great powers in the hands of rash
and uninformed people, give them audacity in
their aggression, and screening their acts from
popular opinion, by taking away the trial by
jury, facilitate oppression, and leave no means
of reaching the oppressor.
Passing over gypsies, fortune-tellers, and
palmisters, I shall say one word about persons
playing or betting at any unlawful game. It
is not my intention here to speak of the hue
and cry which has been raised about gaming;
but whatever may be the punishment due to
gamblers, is it not strange, and evidently ex
cessive, to give a magistrate the power of treat
ing as a rogue and vagabond any man, not
taken in the act, or at the time and place of
play, but convicted, on the justice's view, or the
12
evidence of one credible witness, of having
played or betted at an unlawful game It may
be doubted whether or not such a conviction
would be valid; but, even if the defendant can
procure bail to the session, the issue is un
certain; and, if he cannot, the decision of the
session in his favour will only exempt him from
further punishment; but he has neither solace
nor compensation for the past. The enactment
is not new ; but with the feeling at this time
prevalent, it is miserable to think that there is
no nobleman or gentleman, no military or naval
officer, no tradesman, artizan, or mechanic,
whose safety and character may not be made to
depend on the oath of a discarded servant, or
disappointed hanger-on, who shall qualify him
self as a credible witness, and, not in open court,
or before a jury, but in a justice's private room,
make a charge which cannot be answered at the
moment, and which sends the accused to in
stant and odious punishment. But this sup
poses a regular and ordinary course of proceed
ing, leaves out of sight any personal, pro
fessional, or political aversion in the mind of
the justice, and does not even contemplate the
violence to which any gentleman may be sub
jected from a complainant, who, assuming the
full powers of this act, may dare to apprehend
him without a warrant, to convey him with his
13
horse or other vehicle before a justice, and
have him searched, that his money and other
property may be taken, to pay expenses.
We come now to the eleventh and twelfth
heads, the avowed innovations, the clauses re
lating to indecent exhibitions, and indecent ex
posures of the person. If a contrivance had
been resorted to for making edicts peculiarly
tyrannical by their generality and ambiguity,
it could not have been better effected than by
these clauses. Considering how much men, and
women too, differ in their notions of decency
and indecency, how often one man considers
himself far within the line, when another deems
him shamelessly beyond it, by what criterion is
a person to know when he is or when not sub
jecting himself to the punishments of this act?
What precise idea is conveyed to the mind by
the curious phrase, “exposing or eahibiting any
indecent eachibition?” If meant, according to
the popular sense, of a show for money, I must
say I never saw nor heard of such a thing in
the streets or highways, in town or country.
Perhaps I may be thought to assert too much :
I do now recollect that I have seen Punch be
stow wholesome, though not very decent correc
tion on his wife, the showman making his naked
wrist represent a portion of poor Joan's person,
which certainly ought never “to meet the eye
14
of vulgar light.” If, therefore, the exhibitor
cannot, for squeaking through a comb, be
deemed a minstrel, or if his little drama can
not make him a common player, or if there is
no other way to bring him (and the technical
phrase was never better applied) within the
mischiefof this Act, let him beware how he slaps
his own wrist, for he and his whole apparatus
will be conveyed before a justice, a natural
enemy to Punch, to be dealt with according to
law. Perhaps too the peep-shows, for I never
looked into one, may contain something inde
cent, and servant-maids may have more for
their halfpenny than we know of Babylon is
a favourite exhibition, and we know who ap
peared in scarlet there. Is the Act really aimed
at such things, or is there in it a covert inten
tion to subject to the power of village reformers
in the commission, the offensive and indecent
spectacles of Maid Marian and Jack in the
Green, and enable their pious worships to send
to the house of correction the presumptuous
offender who shall make an immodest display
of the intended prize at a smock race? Among
the notions that have been entertained of inde
cent exhibitions, I remember to have heard that
a message was once sent to the proprietor ofa
beautiful mansion near Hyde-park Corner, com
plaining of a bas-relief over his drawing-room
15
window: he took no notice of the application:
the passers-by, having heard of the circum
stance, gazed for a-while at the supposed enor
mity, but finding nothing to wonder at, except
the absurdity of noticing the thing at all, they
withdrew their observation, and were much
more amused and informed by scrutinizing the
pictures of the Belle-Sauvage, the Goose and
Gridiron, and the Bull and Mouth, on the pan
nels of the stage coaches. And as I am in the
neighbourhood of Hyde-park Corner, let me
not forget the Green Man, the Achilles, the
odiously indecent exhibition which ought long
ago to have been sent to the house of correc
tion, or to the breeches-makers', for so, during
several weeks we were continually informed by
puritanical gentlemen, and nervous ladies, who
imbibed their delicacy from the daily press.
Now is it really meant by this statute to em
body all these follies into causes of punishment,
and so give to every old woman's whim the
force of a law; or was the clause, as I much
suspect, purposely left insensible and inopera
tive, in order, when the present Act shall ex
pire in September next, to perform on it the
process of grafting, of which I shall say more
anon, and so give it an extension and effect
which the boldest contriver of such acts would
not at first dare to express: The proceeding,
16
I should apprehend in the present instance,
would be to add only a few words, which, under
the mistaken notion that the enactment was in
substance an old one, would occasion no alarm.
The clause thus engrafted might stand, “Any
“person exposing or exhibiting in any street,
“road, highway, or other place, any indecent
“exhibition,” and then all the caricature shops,
pamphlet shops, toy shops, snuff shops, all ex
hibition rooms, where specimens of ancient and
modern art, pictures, statues, or bronzes, are
displayed, would be at once withdrawn from
the investigation of juries, and turned over to
the summary jurisdiction of a justice of the
peace. Let no man say, “this is a mere phan
“tom of the writer’s imagination:” I engage to
point out shortly, in the very Act now before
me, and in others afterwards, some very curious
specimens of similar management.
The clause respecting indecent exposure of
the person has, fortunately I hope for the nation,
occasioned the present inquiry. The shocking
and disgusting instances of oppression which
have occurred under it are said to have arisen
from misconstruction; but who are they who
have misconstrued?—the guardians of the night,
who for the reward of five shillings, or even
without reward, and in the mere wantonness of
subaltern power, will misconstrue any thing?—
17
or the learned and well-informed magistrates,
who have patronised the oppression, and sanc
tioned the insolence of these men, by granting
convictions on their false, absurd, and ridiculous
charges; who have sent individuals to the House
of Correction for indecent exposure of their
persons, in the dark, in a public place, where
there was no one but themselves, and in the
sight and view, of only one witness, who was to
gain money by swearing he had seen, what the
state of the night, even if his charge were true,
must have rendered imperceptible 2
Nothing is more easy than to rouse indigna
tion, in the truly moral people of this country,
against practices that may offend, and, in some
degree, contaminate female purity; but, on the
other hand, the law is, upon the best of princi
ples, extremely careful in requiring ample proof
of crimes which it is easy to charge, and of
which the accused cannot, without the utmost
difficulty, prove his innocence. Under the
Vagrant Act, however, the proof in these cases
is admitted with the utmost facility, where all
means of defence are excluded. A man and
woman are accused by one interested indivi
dual, their mouths are closed, and there is no
by-stander who can vindicate them. If they
denytheir guilt with the strongest asseverations,
theyare told, that such conduct is no more than
C
t
1S
might be expected : if witnesses to character
are offered, they are told, with the archness pe
culiar to a police-office, that honesty is not in
question, and that, of course, the parties do not
apprize their friends of their private propensi
ties; the facility of questioning the accuser's
character and motives, which a trial by jury
would afford, are taken away, and a summary
conviction sends them at once to prison, and to
hard labour.
A great evil in this enactment is, that it en
gages the police in all cases to appear as wit
nesses, and stimulates them to a determined po
sitiveness, by the hope of reward. This experi
ment had long been tried in criminal law; but
the monstrous iniquities it produced rendered
its abolition indispensable; and the present at
tempt to revive it in some part, is not a very
hopeful characteristic of this new branch of the
statute. I am not unaware that the Vagrant
Act of the 17 Geo. II, gave higher rewards
than the recent one; but that act contained no
such clause as the present, and there was an
other very remarkable difference: in that, the
rewards were to be paid by the treasurer of the
county, and the acts of each individual justice
would pass under the revision of the whole
session at least once in every year; in this, they
are paid by the overseers of parishes, and, what
14)
ever may be their extent, they are never heard
of in the aggregate, but the overseer's account
is passed in the usual manner, and the justice’s
order is a sufficient voucher.
The legislators in both houses, who pass these
statutes, who know the pressures on middle and
lower life only by the information of newspapers
and the reports of committees, can have no
conception of the extensive means of tyranny
and extortion they have put into the hands of
those who never were, and never will be, sparing
in the use of them. They know not the inso
lence and oppression exercised by the guardians
of the night toward those unfortunate creatures,
whom, for stipulated considerations, they tole
rate and protect, and those unguarded persons
whom vice or wine may lead to communicate
with them. When the present system shall
grow to maturity, their means will have become
so much extended, that, not only those miserable
beings, who seem to have forfeited even the
compassion of mankind, but every man and
woman who are found, at a distance from home,
at midnight, will become the unresisting ob
jects of insult and rapacity.
How terrible the operations of this part of
the statute may be rendered, a few recent in
stances may serve to explain. I pass by that
which first instigated public inquiry, and to
C 2
20
which I have already adverted, nor will I dwell
on one subsequently submitted to public notice,
where a young man and woman were abused
and threatened with imprisonment, because a
kiss had passed between them at the moment
of taking leave at the young woman's own door;
but I shall shortly advert to two cases, which did
not come within this act, and show what would
have been the consequence if they had.
The first is that of an officer of rank in the
British army, who was travelling in one of the
short stages to London, in a state of extreme ill
health. His destination happened to be to the
public-office in Bow-street, for the purpose of
making an affidavit. The passengers left the
coach in High-street, St. Giles's, except one, a
female child, who, with the officer, went on to
Bow-street. When he had transacted his busi
ness, he returned, and in two or three days after
ward, was called from his sick bed to attend a
magistrate at the public office, on a charge of
having indecently exposed his person to this
child. Her evidence was, that when every body
else had left the coach, this gentleman had
shifted his position, and gone to another seat:
he had neither spoken to her nor touched her,
but she saw some portion of his person which
she described, and that was all. On this the
gentleman, without being heard in explanation,
21
was ordered to find bail to the session. Anxious
to avoid the necessity of applying to his friends
on such an affair, he offered to deposit the
amount of the recognizance; but this was re
jected: he prayed for a hearing, but was told it
could be of no use; and while his bail was sent
for, he was shut up in a miserable room with all
those whom guilt or need had sent to the same
place. He was bailed, and, as the scene ofthe of.
fence was not laid in any street or public place,
so that he could be convicted as a rogue and va
gabond, and as he was, fortunately, rich enough
to get his case removed into the court above, his
trial was brought before a jury at Westminster,
and on his proving that he was the victim of
a complaint which had kept him for years in a
state of torment, and that the seat of that com
plaint, and the suddenness and violence ofits at
tacks, obliged him to wear a dress of peculiar
construction; and on the other hand, as nothing
appeared against him but the very feeble story
of the child, in whose company he had not been
above three minutes, he was acquitted. But,
had circumstances brought him within the fangs
of the Vagrant Act, his conviction would have
been certain, and it is extremely probable, that
his appeal to the session would have been at
tended with a less favourable result than he
obtained from the trial by a jury.
22
Another case, which occurred about two
years ago, is still more remarkable. A wealthy,
respectable old gentleman, in a very infirm state
of health, was apprehended in Hyde-Park by
one of the under-keepers and some assistants,
with a squalid, shirtless wretch of the very
lowest order, charged with indecent and loath
some practices. The gentleman was taken to
a police-office, where his rank in society, his
abode and his circumstances were well known.
Hearing the nature of the charge, he requested
a private examination; it was refused—he was
put to the bar in the public room, and the de
positions taken against him. He was ordered
to find bail, and although no doubt could be
entertained of his wealth and respectability, he
was detained until inquiry could be made into
the sufficiency of his sureties, and had not even
the means allowed him of sending home to his
distressed and agitated family. At length he
was bailed to the next Westminster Session;
the poor wretch who was taken at the same
time, having no bail, was sent to Tothill-fields.
Bridewell, and the daily prints, of course, gave
unbounded publicity to the case. The gentle
man’s solicitor, Mr. Harmer, without delay ob
tained a certiorari to remove any indictment
which might be preferred against him, whether
alone or with another or others, into the court of
23
King's Bench. At the Session, an indictment
was found against him and the pauper, and the
certiorari being duly lodged, no further mea
sures were taken for the defence, the record
ceasing to be in the legal possession of the
court. The magistrates, however, instead of
looking into books, laid their heads together:
some were of opinion that the man in custody
must be tried there, although the record as
against the other had been removed; others,
who knew the law better, were of a contrary
opinion; and although there was a sufficient
number of persons in custody to occupy the
court during the whole of that and the follow
ing day, yet, as if for fear that time should be
allowed for the justices to recollect themselves,
or for counsel to receive instructions for arguing
the case, the trial was called on immediately,
and the poor creature undefended, (for with
him the gentleman had nothing in common but
a false accusation), was found guilty, and sen
tenced to six months imprisonment. On the
following morning, counsel, having received
instructions, moved the court to discharge this
unfortunate creature from his illegal sentence.
It was shown, and indeed it stood upon first
principles, that they had no jurisdiction over
the indictment, could not legally impannel a
jury on it, could administer no effectual oath ;
24
in fine, were not a court to try the offender.
All this was not denied; but it was answered
that they would not “blow hot and cold;”
they would not “assert a jurisdiction one day
and recede from it on another:” in short, they
would not undo the wrong they had done, and
so the poor wretch remained irremovably in
prison. The trial and the motion were, of
course, both published, and thus the feelings of
the principal sufferer and his family and friends
were again violated and tortured.
At length his day came. A special jury was
struck, and took a view of the place where the
accusers described themselves and the parties
accused to have been : it was evident, that from
the situation described, the witnesses could not
have seen what they asserted, even if it had
passed; it also appeared, that the place where the
supposed offenders had transacted their inde
cencies was one of studied publicity; that, at
noon-day, they had so stationed themselves, to act
the most disgraceful scene, that no one passing
on the opposite and much frequented bank of
the Serpentine River, could have avoided seeing
them; it was proved too, that the fellows who
fabricated this charge had spent nearly an hour
from their first seizing the defendant, in con
veying him to the nearest place of confinement,
not a quarter of a mile off, with the evident
25
design of affording him an opportunity of of.
fering to redeem himself by money. It further
appeared, that he stated to them, and to the
justice, who he was, and where he lived, which
was in one of the best and most opulent neigh
bourhoods in the metropolis; that being in ex
ceedingly infirm health, he had for some time
been in the habit of taking an airing in his car
riage, with his lady and a favourite little dog;
that on the day in question, tempted by the
fineness of the weather, he had walked out with
his dog, which had strayed from him in the
park; that fearing some ill would happen to
the animal, he had intreated the first poor per
son he saw to assist in searching for him, and
that the accident, which so placed these two
individuals near each other, was seized by the
wretched prosecutors, as a foundation for their
most odious charge. The jury were unani
mously rising to acquit, when the Lord Chief
Justice, in kindness to the defendant, recom
mended to his learned counsel just to give
some evidence of his having gone out with a
dog: the fact was instantly and most satisfac
torily shown, and further, that the animal had
returned late at night, scared and dirty, and
without his collar. The defendant was acquit
ted. What would have been his fate if he had
not been rich enough to remove the record,
26
and have the ground viewed by a jury, is per
haps doubtful, considering the spirit which was
manifested in the case; but had the present
Vagrant Act then existed, it is morally.certain
that this unfortunate and infirm gentleman
would have received his death-warrant in a
condemnation to the Tread-mill.
I have used, in a former page, the word “in
grafting” to describe the manner in which,
under the semblance of re-enacting an old
clause, the legislature is surprised into the use
of terms which give it an unthought-of latitude,
or an unforeseen direction; and if I show this
by several instances in the Vagrant Act, the
reader will know how to judge of the assertions
made in defence of it, that it contains no
novelty, except the atrocious clauses I have
just been noticing. .
The 23d Geo. 3. c. 88, makes a rogue and
vagabond of “any person who shall have upon
him any pistol, hanger, cutlass, bludgeon, or
other offensive weapon, with intent feloniously
to assault any person:” the new act totally al
ters this provision, by omitting the important
word “feloniously,”andadding thestill more im
portant words, or “commit any other illegal act.”
To what dreadful extent the power of a justice
over any man who carries a stick may be ex
tended by this clause, it is difficult to conjecture;
27
but let me suppose that some worshipful per
son has an avenue of walnut-trees; what diffi
culty can he find in convicting under this clause
all the young people in the parish, on his own
view, for that is sufficient? He sees them with
sticks; their intentions are entirely in his con
struction; and if they were to knock down a
walnut, it would be an unlawful act.
Again, the same statute of George 3. deno
minates rogues and vagabonds, “All persons
“who shall be found in or upon any dwelling
“house, warehouse, &c., or in any enclosed
“yard or garden, or area, belonging to any house,
“with intent to steal any goods or chattels.” The
more recent statute says, “who shall be found
“in or upon any dwelling-house, &c. or in any
“enclosed yard, garden, or place,” omitting the
words “belonging to any house,” and substi
tuting for the words with intent to commit felony
those terms of glorious uncertainty, “ and shall
“not be able to give a good account of themselves.”
In plain English, therefore, this clause imports,
that if any man shall be in any enclosure, and
not give such a reason for his being there as
will satisfy his worship, he is a rogue and va
gabond, and if he does not surrender into cus
tody when required by the justice, who on his
own view condemns him, he is an incorrigible
rogue. I say, give such a reason as will satisfy
28
the justice, because this clause has been so
lemnly construed so at session.
Again the 54 Geo. 3. c. 87, and several former
statutes, which gave the very exorbitant power
of apprehending any persons frequenting places
of public resort, the avenues leading thereto,
and the streets, highways, and other places ad
jacent, with intent to commit felony on the per
sons and property of his majesty’s subjects,
limited the operation of this power to suspected
persons and reputed thieves, and the officer
who attempted to convict them was held to strict
proof that he knew them to have been ap
prehended and examined, on reasonably well
founded charges of felony on former occasions.
The new act dispenses with these requisites,
and enables the officer to convict any one, what.
ever may have been his previous course of life,
if he can only swear that he believes he intended
to commit felony. And what makes this clause
the more extraordinary, and shows the confiding
negligence which sometimes accompanies these
very important acts through the two houses,
the old clause in its very words is re-enacted
in the 3 Geo. 4. c. 55, the Vagrant Act being
c. 40 of the same session.
One more instance, and this also appears to
me a new description, framed with most de
ceptive subtlety. It is this: “All persons im
29
“posing, or endeavouring to impose upon any
“churchwarden or overseer of the poor, or
“upon a charitable institution, or private indi
“vidual, by any false andfraudulent representa
“tion, either verbally or in writing, with a
“ view to obtain money or some other advantage
“ or benefit.” Persons in or out of parliament
who might read this clause cursorily, would
imagine that, if severe, it was well intended, and
had no other object than to protect the parochial
purse, the benevolent fund, and the pockets of
the humane against unprincipled impostors. But
reading only the words in italics, and they are
all that contain any operative meaning, it will
be seen that every one who not only should
commit the acts supposed, but who should
tell a falsehood to borrow a horse, offer himself
at the door of a theatre with a last year’s ticket,
or do a thousand other things equally ordinary
and frivolous (if considered as subjects of cri
minal law), might be visited with all the seve
rity of this statute; not to mention, that all the
care which has been taken to define the crime
of obtaining money or goods by false pretences,
and the anxious solicitude always evinced to
leave the finding of the intent to cheat and de
fraud to a jury, together with the numerous
decisions that a mere untruth is not a false
pretence, are by this apparently well intended
30
clause entirely done away; and although the
sentence cannot be extended to transportation,
neither can the accused have the inestimable
benefit of a trial by jury. But should this clause
be allowed to remain in force, even in its limited
sense, every man who knows any thing of the
management of parochial funds, and the daily
untruths told by persons seeking relief, to those
who administer them, must tremble at deposit
ing in any hands, the wild and extravagant
powers which are given by this clause.
I may perhaps be thought to have asserted
unadvisedly, that the vigilance of parliament
may, on some occasions, be accidentally and
sometimes designedly surprised. I refer to the
clauses I have cited, and to some which I shall
produce hereafter, and inquire whether any one
will believe that they could possibly have passed
had their effect been duly considered; but I
remember the following fact, communicated to
me by one who was personally engaged in it.
At the time of passing the Police Act, 1 and 2
Geo. 4. c. 118, it was thought desirable to put
down, in a summary way, the nuisance of selling
newspapers and other wares, by blowing horns,
and making other noises in the streets. A
member of parliament thought the measure too
strong, and wished to have the clause with
drawn. One of the promoters of the bill inti
31
mated, that, perhaps there might be no objection,
if the clause were confined to the Lord’s Day.
The member agreed to this: the words “on
Sunday” were inserted in the margin of the
Bill; but the clause remained as it was, and was
continued the next time, probably without a
struggle.
Before I take leave of this very extraordinary
statute, I shall notice one more section, the
7th, and conclude this part of my subject with
some remarks very justly conceived and happily
expressed by my friend, Mr. R. B. Comyn, in
a pamphlet published by him last year, in the
form of a letter to Lord Folkestone. I wish
the leisure of that learned gentleman had per
mitted him to exert his talents in a more de
tailed investigation, as he would have rescued
me from the performance of a task to which I
am never able to devote unmixed attention, and
which I can only execute at moments snatched
from other avocations, or retrenched from the
hours of repose.
The section runs thus: “And whereas it often
“happens that persons who are in possession of
“money or other property, commit acts of va
“grancy; be it therefore enacted, that every
“justice of the peace, by whom any person shall
“be adjudged to be a rogue and vagabond, or
“incorrigible rogue, shall order such rogue and
32
“vagabond or incorrigible rogue to be searched,
“and his or her trunks, boxes, bundles, parcels or
“packages to be inspected, in the presence of
“the said justice, and shall also search or cause
“to be searched, the persons so offending, to
“gether with any cart, car, caravan, or other
“vehicle which may have been found in his, her,
“or their possession or use; and it shall and may
“be lawfulfor thesaidjustice,to orderany money
“which maybe then found,to be paid, or so much
“ of such other effects found with or upon such
“rogue and vagabond or incorrigible rogue, tobe
“sold, and applied for and towards the expense
“of apprehending, conveying to gaol or to the
“house ofcorrection, and maintainingsuch rogue
“ and vagabond or incorrigible rogue, during the
“ time for which he or she may be committed,
“returning the overplus (if any there be), after
“ deducting the charges of such sale, to the said
“ rogue and vagabond, or incorrigible rogue.”
On this clause, and some which I have ad
verted to, Mr. Comyn says, “Thus then, is it
at the discretion of any justice of the peace to
suspect, to seize, to examine, to imprison, any
one of his majesty's subjects;–to seize and sell
his effects;—to break into any house where he
may be entertained, provided he be poor; thus
is it competent to any one man, without any
warrant, to seize another, unless that other be
33
pleased to give a good account of himself: and
thus are the justice and his agents protected by
the awful penalty of treble costs *. I speak not
of those parts of this act where the offence is
defined; but I complain ofits want of definition.
I complain that, whereas, heretofore, no man
could be apprehended but for the commission
of an offence, or at least for such a manifestation
of his evil intention as rendered immediate pre
caution necessary for the welfare of the public,
* Given by s. 20 in these words: “That in all cases where
“proceedings shall be had against anyjustice orjustices of the
“peace, constable, or other person, for or on account of any
“matter or thing whatsoever done, commanded, or eapressed
“by him or them, in the execution of his or their duty or office,
“whether such proceedings be by action, motion, rule to show
“cause, indictment, information, affidavit, certiorari, or any
“other application or process which may occasion or subject
“him, or either or any of them, to trouble or expenses under
“ this act, the said justice, or justices, constable, or other per
“son, if he or they shall recover or be exculpated, shall have
“any sum not exceeding treble costs awarded to him or them,
“by the judge, court, or jurisdiction wherein such proceedings
“shall have been had, commenced, or determined, to be paid to
“the saidjustice, orjustices, constable or other person, by the
“person or persons so having proceeded, who shall discontinue
“his suit, or become non-suit, or shall have a verdict against
“him, or shall have his application in any manner whatsoever
“ dismissed or ended, unless the judge or court shall certify
“ that there was a reasonable cause for such proceeding, in
“formation, or complaint."
D
34
the being suspected by a magistrate, and the
inability or refusal, upon examination, to give
what that magistrate shall deem a good account,
now draws down all the penalties ofa substantive
offence absolutely committed; and puts the
alleged offender in as bad a predicament, in
respect of imprisonment and forfeiture, as if he
had been tried by a jury and sentenced by a
judge. What then becomes of our old maxims
that an Englishman’s house is his castle, that
his person and property are free and at his own
disposal,—that no man is bound to criminate
himself; and the many other topics of our late
national pride and exultation. The poor man
(to say the least) must remember that his lodg
ing is liable to be broken into: his more opulent
neighbour must live in dread of the awful scru
tiny into his trunks and packages, or the sudden
seizure and sale of his beasts and carriages;
whilst the whole community must bear in mind,
that the freedom of their persons depends upon
the discretion and integrity of the king'sjustices
of the peace. But when once suspected, seized,
examined, convicted, imprisoned, and stripped
of his money and effects, the unhappy sufferer
may console himself with the recollection that,
after the payment of all expenses of the law, he
will, at the expiration of his term of hard impri
sonment, be enabled to visit the world again
$35
-
with the surplus of his forfeited property, “if
any there be.”
One of the defences made for this act is, in
my judgment, even more extraordinary than the
act itself; that the sixth clause gives a discre
tion either to commit or discharge the person
brought before a justice, although an act of va
grancy be proved. It is new to me to learn
that the power to be partial diminishes the pro
bability of a judge’s being unjust. It is a curious
guarantee for the safety of those whom a justice
may happen to dislike, that those who are more
favoured may be dismissed with impunity. It
must be truly edifying, at the time of an elec
tion, for the people to be informed, that, if with
one colour in their hats, they carry bludgeons
in their hands, they will be sent to the house of
correction; but if they wear the adverse favour,
his good worship will do them no harm, even
although an act of vagrancy may be proved. How
wonderfully it must exalt our morals and our
patriotism to know, that if a miserable English
stroller were to murder Hamlet at half-a-crown
per box-ticket, he might spend his next six
months in the house of correction, whilst a fo
reigner, who might refine us with the voluptuous
sensibilities of la folle journée, at half-a-guinea
for a billet, would be dismissed from the office
D 2
36
with a smile in return for his congé, although
an act of vagrancy had been proved.
It may be too late, at such a distant period
from the first enactment, to inquire into the
consistency or policy of loading with the same
opprobrious names, and subjecting to the same
punishment, persons whose offences differ so
widely both in their origin and their probable
effects as those enumerated in the vagrant act;
but if that statute is to remain in its present, or
any thing approaching to its present extent, it
would be candour to the objects, and charity to
the administrators of it, to shorten and simplify
the act into a brief declaration, that all persons
wherever they may be, or whatever doing, may
be seized by any person with or without warrant
or authority, and if they cannot give such an
account of themselves as will satisfy the next
justice of the peace, shall be described and pu
nished as rogues and vagabonds; and if they
dislike such treatment and escape, or give un
true answers before the justice, he being the
only judge of their verity, then, as incorrigible
rogues. -
But should the awakened sense of the legis
lature and the strong expression of public opi
nion prevail so far as to cause a revision of this
obnoxious act, little will have been done for
37
-
liberty and the true spirit of the law, unless the
whole system of convictions before justices of
the peace, their general powers and authorities,
their jurisdiction in and out of session, their
duties and their immunities, are carefully re
viewed.
Perhaps it is not known to all who discuss the
present state of this question, that beside the
commitment of all persons charged with felonies
and misdemeanours, besides the ample and ge
neral authorities entrusted by the poor-laws;
beside their share in the administration of the
revenue-laws, and many other branches of in
quisitorial and ministerial jurisdiction, justices
have power judicially to alter and take away the
possession of freehold property”; to confiscate
vessels and their cargoes f; to break into houses
on suspicion of misdemeanours: ; to arrest and
imprison for small trespassesS ; to fine from
500l. down to 5s.l; and to imprison for inde
finite terms, as, until large fines be paid, or for
determinate periods, from two years downwards;
and all this, in every case, without the finding
of any one fact by a jury, and in some (though
* 57 Geo. 3. c. xxix.
+ 22 Geo. 2. c. 49 s. 12. and by the Police Act.
# By various statutes against gaming, lotteries, &c. the
Police Act and some others.
§ 1 Geo. 4. c. 56. | In very numerous acts.
3S
not many) without even the miserable and in
adequate resource of an appeal to the session.
As it is not my intention, and indeed the la
bour would be immoderate, to notice all these
statutes, I shall content myself with directing
attention to some of the most prominent, as
sured that if I shall be able to excite the feeling
I wish to see prevalent in those who can, with
beneficial effect, take these matters into their
consideration, I shall have done quite enough
to answer the purpose I had in throwing to
gether these observations.
I proceed, therefore, to the 1st Geo. IV. c.
56, commonly called, the Small Trespass Act.
This statute directs that if any person or per
sons shall wilfully or maliciously do or commit
any damage, injury, or spoil, to or upon any
building, fence, hedge, gate, stile, guide-post,
mile-stone, tree, wood, underwood, orchard,
garden, nursery-ground, crops, vegetables,
plants, land, or other matter or thing growing
or being thereon, or to or upon real or personal
property, of any nature or kind soever, and shall
be thereof convicted within four calendar
months next after the committing of such in
jury, before any justice of the peace, every per
son so offending, and being thereof convicted
as aforesaid, shall forfeit and pay to the person
or persons aggrieved, such a sum of money as
39
shall appear to such justice to be a reasonable
satisfaction and compensation for the damage,
or injury, or spoil so committed, not exceeding,
in any case, the sum of five pounds; but if any
such damage, injury, or spoil shall have been
done or committed as aforesaid, to or upon any
church, chapel, bridge, building, common way,
or other property whatsoever, whether real or
personal, of a public nature, or wherein any
public right is concerned, it shall and may be
lawful to and for any such justice to proceed
against and convict the offender or offenders,
within the time aforesaid, and in the manner
aforesaid, in any sum not exceeding five
pounds, as to such justice shall seem just
and reasonable, at the instance, and upon the
information, of any person prosecuting such
offender or offenders, and to order and direct
one moiety of the sum to be paid for such
offence, to be paid to the person so prosecuting,
and the other moiety to and for the use of the
poor; and in default of payment of the sum in
which any such offender or offenders shall have
been so convicted as aforesaid, together with all
costs, charges, and eapenses attending such con
viction as aforesaid, such justice shall and may
commit such offender or offenders to the com
mon gaol or house of correction, there to be
40
kept to hard labour, for any time not exceeding
three calendar months, and offenders may be
apprehended and taken before a justice without
any warrant.
The first thing that occurs on reading this
enactment is its manifest tricking and insin
cerity; the same characteristic which I have
had occasion to notice in the former statute.
This bill was no doubt recommended to the
Legislature, and hastily adopted by many mem
bers, on a supposition that it extended only to
the protection ofbuildingsand fences, or oftrees,
woods, and growing vegetables; few gentlemen
imagining that by a dexterous turn, it would be
applied to real and personal property of any na
ture and kind soever. If no deception was in
tended, all the antecedent particulars were
needless, for words more generally descriptive
could not be found than those here employed;
combined with those in the latter part of the
clause, they extend to every thing, from the
parish church to the glasses and tobacco-pipes
in the ale-house; the justice has sweeping
jurisdiction over them all, rating the damage at
any sum he pleases within five pounds, and
giving costs without stint, or imposing three
months’ imprisonment, with hard labour, if the
trespasser submits quietly; but if he is refrac
41
tory, and dares to appeal, his penance and pur
gation are extended to twice that period. If
the offender be a male, and under sixteen years
of age, the justice can commit only for six
weeks; but if he appeals, I do not find that the
power of the session is abridged on account of
his youth. -
An anonymous reviewer of Mr. Comyn's
Letter to Lord Folkestone has anticipated many
of the remarks which I should have thought it
necessary to offer on this statute.
“The culprit who has damaged, spoiled, or
“injured any of the articles comprehended in
“these two great classes of public and private
“property, is to be apprehended and carried
“before a magistrate; no warrant or official
“sanction is required; the complaining owner,
“his servants, or any persons acting under his
“authority, or called upon by him for assist
“ance, may seize and detain the aggressor;
“nor is this power bestowed only during pre
“sent emergency, and to suppress outrage
“actually going on; it is ‘for the more easy
“‘bringing of offenders against this act to jus
“‘tice,” and extends to those who shall have
“committed, as well as those who shall be com
“mitting, offences. It is not even necessary
“that the fact should be recent, for conviction
“may take place any time within four calendar
42
“ months: a labourer may be dragged before
“the justice in August for having cut a turf in
“May; a servant for having carved his name
“on the kitchen table at his former place; or
“an apprentice for a window broken while he
“was at school. Can any thing be more un
popular, and more substantially oppressive,
“ than a law which allows the prosecution of
“such trifling injuries to remain four months
suspended ? Can discord and disorder be
“more effectually promoted than by enabling
“any private individual to arrest another, at
“his own time, and in his own manner, for a
“trespass which, at the worst, is not in itself
“seriously important, which is easily feigned or
“exaggerated, and, if real, may, in many in
“stances, have escaped the transgressor's me
“mory, and been maliciously recollected by
“the complainant?”
Then having noticed the conviction and ap
peal, he proceeds:—“If the mischiefs provided
“against by this Act are multifarious and
“loosely described, it will be owned that our
“legislators have been no niggards of discre
“tionary power to those who administer re
“dress; and we may reasonably ask, in the
“words of Mr. Comyn's letter, if it be ‘pru
“‘dent to invest the justice with the power of
“‘ determining the several questions—whether
C. º
&
4. &
43
“‘ a trespass have been committed; whether
“‘ that trespass were malicious or even wilful;
“‘what is a fair compensation; and whether
“‘the injury be too great for the limits of his
“‘narrow jurisdiction;' then whether the in
“jury were committed ‘under a fair and reason
“‘able supposition of right;" in case of con
“viction, at what time the penalty and costs
“shall be paid ; and lastly, “whether he be
“‘satisfied with the security which the defend
“‘ant offers for prosecuting the appeal against
“‘ his judgment with effect? Are we prepared,’
“ the writer continues, “to admit, that all these
““ considerations, which have been heretofore
“‘the occupation of several departments of our
“‘jurisprudence, are wisely entrusted to the
“‘ discretion, discernment, and impartiality of
“‘ one single country’squire P’ ‘I am far,’ he
“adds, “from wishing to impeach the respect
“‘ability, or to undervalue the services of the
“‘ unpaid magistracy’ of the country “But
* (he argues) if some persons have objected to
‘the discretionary power of punishment, even
““ as vested in the twelve judges of England,
“men regularly schooled in legalprinciplesand
‘judicial practice, and unaffected by local in
“terest or prejudice, how much more danger
‘ous is it to entrust a similar authority with
‘gentlemen who are ‘not peculiarly addicted
“‘ to legal investigation;’
ç
who are resident
44
“‘ among the people for and against whom they
“‘ are called upon to act; not altogether un
“‘acquainted with the cares and heats of elec
“‘tions; and sometimes sufficiently versed in
“‘the local state of politics, even though they
“‘have the good fortune to keep alooffrom the
“‘petty squabbles and cabals of the neighbour
“‘hood, or are so happy as to feel none of the
“‘heart-burnings occasioned by vestries, ca
“‘nals, rates, and road bills.’”
“The exemptions given by this statute are
“no less remarkable than its other provisions.
“First, the act, it is said, shall not extend to
“any case in which the damage claimed shall
“exceed five pounds. We do not understand,
“with Lord Folkestone's correspondent, that
“the justice is precluded, by this enactment,
“from interfering where the damage really ex
“ceeds five pounds. We apprehend that any
“claimant may enforce the summary rigours of
“the statute, if he will only confine his claim to
“the prescribed áñount; and the magistrate is
“not called upon to inquire whether the case
“ demanded a larger ºjº>
“the statute is not to take effect whº it shall
“appear ‘to the satisfaction of the jus;* OT
“‘justices,’ that the offender acted and ' "
“‘fair and reasonable supposition” of ght.
“As it is observed in the passage we ju now
“quoted, the discretion, and perhaps the IIIl
45
“partiality, of a single justice, may be often
“severely tasked by the question, What is a
“reasonable supposition of right? a question
“which, in cases, for example, of disputed pos
“session, or of assumed custom or privilege,
“will present much greater difficulties than
“ought to exist, where a quarter of a year's
“liberty is made dependent on the opinion of
“a solitary private gentleman. Thirdly, the
“act does not give jurisdiction over trespasses
“committed in hunting, or by a qualified and
“ certificated person in pursuit of game; a
“ most considerate reservation,-for how would
“a keen fox-hunter survive the affront of being
“forcibly dragged from the chase by a posse of
“rustics, to await the judgment, perhaps, of a
“brother sportsman, for having done damage,
“injury, and spoil, to a matter or thing grow
“ing or being upon land ; But while our legis
“lators were contemplating the vexations to
“which gentlemen might be exposed in the
“prosecution of their sports, it would have
“been well if they had also considered the op
“pression which might be practised on humble
“individuals, by a similar abuse of the law
“they were preparing*.”
The examination of this proviso leads na
* New Edinburgh Review, Vol. V. p. 316.
46
turally to some consideration of the powers in
trusted to magistrates by the game laws. In
mentioning this part of our system, it will not,
I trust, be expected by any one who knows me,
however slightly, that I shall augment the tide
of abuse so commonly thrown out against the
country gentlemen who are anxious to defend
this fugitive portion of their rights. I have no
interest in the question, for I do not possess
land enough for a partridge's nest to lie on,
and am so absolute a cockney that I never dis
charged a fowling-piece, nor rode a hunting in
my life; yet, in this, as in other cases, I can
see and respect those rights and privileges in
which I have not the hope, nor, perhaps, the
wish to share, and regard with indignation
those attacks, which, if they could be success
fully directed against one class or species of
privilege or property, would gain strength by
every fresh success, and in time overwhelm and
envelope all. I think that the power to possess
and preserve the game, as at present claimed
and exercised by the proprietors, is as much
their property, as the freehold, in right of which
it is exercised, or the horse on which the
sportsman pursues his favourite amusement.
The arguments and invectives by which this
right is assailed, might, without change in their
essence, and with little variation in their form,
47
be urged to the abolition of all other seignorial
rights, of all claims and duties in respect of the
possession of land, tithes, the various incidents
of copyhold tenure, and finally, of all exclusive
appropriation; and their success would lead to
an agrarian law, or the recognition of a sup
posed natural right to take all that opportunity
can present and strength can acquire. When
maxims of injustice are once reduced to prac
tice by those whom numbers will render con
fident, and inconsiderateness will make san
guine, the boldest man who ever raised a
popular storm in the hope of profiting by its
agitations, ought to tremble for the conse
quences. If I wanted a better motive, this
very fear would make me an earnest advocate
for a just, mild, and temperate use of power,
both in the creation and enforcement of any
system which is to bear upon the rights, pro
perty, or liberty, of the more numerous and
unprivileged class, whether they be in industry
or in mendicancy, whether innocent or delin
quent.
I do not agree with a modern French writer,
that to the preservation of game is owing the
presence of the nobility and gentry of Great
Britain, during so great a portion of the year,
at their country seats. The pursuit of game is
welcome as a recreation, but the attachment of
48
a country gentleman to the scenes of his youth
and infancy is secured by stronger affections
and higher associations of ideas than belong to
the preservation or pursuit of animals of the
chase. Still less do I agree with those who
have determined, that in aid of the general
security afforded by law, and the ample means
of protection and punishment given by nu
merous statutes, those diabolical engines called
spring-guns may, in any case, be legally used
for the safeguard of such property, or rather
(for such is the true sense of the question) be
employed vindictively, and by way of punish
ment, to maim or kill on the spot, without re
morse, any person, drunk or sober, infant or
adult, male or female, whose licentious foot
shall have strayed, whether by design or acci
dent, in daylight or darkness, beyond the point
where the proprietor shall have fixed a board
announcing his decree of death againstall trans
gressors. It does seem the very sublime of
mockery and insult, to tell the people of this
country that the Christian religion is parcel of
the law of the land, and in the same breath, that
they may be shot like polecats if it can only be
proved that they have received warning to
avoid their fate. A great deal has been said by
those who have decided this question, on the
legality of keeping these machines infernales,
49
because if it were not legal to keep them, it
would not be trespass to remove them. Surely
this argument, if well founded, addresses itself
to the legislature; and they who can empower
a justice to send any man to the house of cor
rection who shall carry a bludgeon for any
illegal purpose, could have very little notion of
justice or equality, if they would not enable the
same officer to remove, as a nuisance, that re
proach to humanity, that standing proclamation
of premeditated murder, which, as I am in
formed, is not to be found in any other country
in Europe.
But (if what I have just said is a digression)
to return, the numerous penalties inflicted by
the game laws on persons offending, the au
thorities given against those who are suspected
of having offended, or intending to offend, are
so ample, and the powers of imprisonment con
fided to justices of the peace so numerous, that
it does seem like throwing an additional weight
into a scale already too preponderant, to give
sportsmen an exemption from the summary pro
cess designed to place in the reach of all per
sons a compensation not exceeding five pounds,
for any wilful or malicious trespass on their real
or personal property.
I cannot help imagining how a poor peasant
must be edified, how highly and solemnly im
E.
50
pressed with veneration for the equity and be
nignity of the law, when convicted in the sum
of twenty shillings, and what costs his worship
may direct, for trespassing on the property of
a gentleman, under circumstances which may
very easily be imagined. Suppose him sum
moned before a justice for taking turnips in a
field, breaking through the hedge, and tram
pling over other turnips, the property of the
'squire. The poor delinquent might say in his
defence, that he was extremely sorry; that till
within a week, he had a little patch of cabbages
of his own, but the 'squire in the heat of the
chase had found it necessary to break down his
fence, gallop over his ground, destroy his cab
bages, and thus leave him and his family desti
tute of that which he had treasured as a neces
sary of life. He had, therefore, for an imme
diate supply, the 'squire being gone to town, so
that he could not ask permission, taken the
liberty to furnish himself to a very small extent,
and without intending any injury. The Justice
would answer him with “wise saws and modern
“ instances.” “A man must be taken to intend
“ that which he does, and if he commits an in
“jury with his eyes open, no man can say he
“ does not intend it; as to the 'squire having
“ done you some damage, you cannot avail
“yourself of that plea, no man is permitted to
51
“take the law into his own hands; God forbid
“he should! wild work indeed we should then
“ have of it!—The case is clear; the defence
“too shallow to deserve a thought; the damage
“is very moderately estimated at twenty shil
“lings, and you must pay it with the costs of
“the summons, service, and hearing.”—“But,
“your worship,” the defendant might say, “I
“cannot pay the money; five and twenty shil
“lings are as much as I earn in three weeks,
“and what I receive on Saturday night is al
“ways paid away before Monday noon; if your
“worship would grant me a summons against
“the 'squire, I could prove damage to the
“amount of fifty shillings, and would gladly
“pay him his claim out of it, and declare my
“self sorry for what I have done.”—“I have
“no authority,” the magistrate would reply,
“to institute any proceeding against a gentle
“man for trespass committed in sporting; in
“such cases, mischief may be done unintention
“ally; but the wisdom of the law refers that to
“ the constitutional tribunal of the country;
“you may bring your action; the law, thank
“God, is open to every man—you profess sor
“ row, but it is too late; you say you cannot
“pay for the damage you have done, you must
“suffer in your person, if you cannot in your
“purse; take him away.” I need hardly add,
E 2
52
that the prisoner cannot without absolute ruin,
while it is certain that he can gain no benefit,
present himself at the magnificent portal of
Westminster Hall for redress. -
This may be deemed an extreme case; but
it is within the contingency of the statute, and
the true way to try any legislative ordinance is
to suppose an extreme case. I do not say that
all justices are narrow-minded, tyrannical, over
bearing, or cruel; most happy should I be if my
experience would enable me to affirm that none
are so. I do not insinuate that sportsmen de
light in doing wanton mischief to their poor
neighbours; on the contrary, I firmly believe,
that any one who should do an injury without
making prompt and ample compensation would
be brought to reason and justice by the undis
guised scorn ofhis free, open-hearted associates:
but still the contrary case is possible, and ac
tions are tried for trespasses committed in the
chase which have a better foundation than the,
mere spleen or pride of the plaintiffs. -
I quit now the examination of those statutes,
which have evidently a general extent and dif.
fusive application, (although the subject is far
from being exhausted), to notice some which
appear, and some which really are, local and
limited in their objects. -
The reform of the common people seems to
53
be a favourite project in these times, and, as,
in every reform, one must see something of
the temper, habits, and propensities of the re
formers, so I observe, with regret, in these at
tempts a manifestation of a gloomy, austere,
and unsocial temper, an inclination to break
up the accustomed forms ofpopular intercourse,
to render difficult, if not impossible, the enjoy
ment of ordinary indulgences, and to enforce,
in appearance at least, a rigid, formal, inflexi
ble piety, and an unintermitting attention to
the externals of exact religious observance.
For this purpose, charity and benevolence are
by many persons converted into engines of
torture. The divines proclaiming from their
pulpits the imperious duty of renouncing all
worldly amusement, and even declining the
acquaintance of those who are not prepared to
make the same sacrifice; while ladies assume
also the task of ghostly directors, and stationing
themselves at the bedside for the apparent pur
pose of giving charitable aid to distress, din
into the ears of excruciated sufferers, and even
of lying-in women, the terrors of everlasting
perdition, and the dangers of dying in sin.
However fit and necessary such exhortations
might be from proper persons, and in a well
selected time, the praise of benevolence and
true piety can scarcely be awarded to those
54.
who have been known to enhance the supposed
total of their merits by enumerating the suicides
they have caused, and the milk-fevers they have
produced.
The same spirit prevails to a great extent in
our modern legislation, and has a strong influ
ence in the execution of it. The observance
of the Sabbath is a never failing point, with
persons who wish to gratify their pride or latent
disposition to tyranny, by overbearing those
around them, and it is only a portion of the same
spirit which occasions the severe restrictions
laid on many of the usual modes of social inter
COutSe.
To the production of this effect generally,
the recent act for licensing ale-houses (3 Geo.
IV. c. 77) is powerfully conducive. The au.
thority exercised by the justice over the pub
lican is founded on an enactment directing a
recognizance to be entered into at the time of
taking out a license, the first violation of which
incurs a penalty not exceeding five pounds,
with costs, or a month's imprisonment; the
second, ten pounds, with costs, or two months;
and the third, a fine not exceeding one hun
dred pounds, or forfeiture of the recognizance,
and the license is at the same time to be de
clared void; but for this last adjudication a
jury must be impannelled.
55
The recognizance, among other very useful
regulations, binds the publican not to keep
open his house, nor permit or suffer any drink
ing or tippling in any part of his premises
during the usual hours of divine service on
Sundays; nor to keep open his house or pre
mises during late Hours of the night, or early
in the morning, for any other purpose than the
reception of travellers.
To those readers who have neither feeling
for the wants, nor sympathy in the enjoyments
of the industrious and humble classes, I cannot
urge, with any hope of success, that these re
straints are not wholesome, reasonable, inca
pable of being abused, and irksome only to the
idle and vicious. If, in the gloom of their poli
tical melancholy, they have convinced them
selves, that, because the people must be go
verned, no rule of government can be too strict
and severe; if they have strained their reli
gious zeal to the pitch of believing that the
sanctity and repose of the Sabbath are incom
patible with rational recreation and moderate
enjoyment; or if, without adopting these ex
tremes, they have heated their imaginations
with reports of the midnight carousals of merry
mendicants, or the assemblages of lawless ruf
fians, who at theirflash-houses, as they are called,
dissipate the produce of one crime, while they
56
r
plan the execution of others; if the reader's
mind is pre-occupied with such views of the
subject, this part of my observations will ap
pear in his eyes worse than tedious or useless.
But if I address any who, uninfected with the
political and religious punctiliousness of the
day, can see the propriety and possibility of
restraining excess and curbing licentiousness,
without ruthlessly destroying some of the best
and most cherished popular enjoyments, to them
at least, I shall not appear quite unreasonable,
though I should fail to carry their opinions with
me in all points.
Society must always be considered by poli
ticians as a mixture of the bad with the good;
to derive advantage from both, and to regulate
all without violence to national character, forms
the highest reach of the art of governing. Good
and bad are not contrasted in politics as they are
in morals; many deviations from that exactness
of regulation which a strict morality would en
force, are, in society,not only tolerable, but often
indirectly useful and beneficial. Against these
observations a formidable battery ofbook-autho
rities may be ranged; but, to write an essay and
to rule a country require talents widely dif.
ferent, and, it is much to be feared, and much
to be deprecated, that in many late regulations,
the one talent has been mistaken for the other,
57
“The English,” says Mr. George Chalmers
in his Estimate, “ are a hard-working and
a free-spending people:” the character is ju
diciously and forcibly drawn. The pride of an
Englishman, in the use of money, is divided
between the expense he can afford to bestow
on his own family, and the reputation he shall
derive from it among his neighbours. The toils
ofthe day are compensated by the club, or other
social meeting of the evening; and he who has,
with decent pride, and honest satisfaction, in
dulged himself, his well-dressed wife, and bloom
ing children with a short excursion on a Sunday,
finds his pleasure mutilated, if he is restrained
from the luxury of a country tavern while in
their company, and the satisfaction of meeting
at night with his equals, and comparing notes on
the enjoyments, the expenses and the adventures
of the day. But, no! says the legislative pre
cisian, all this must not be l—nightly pleasures
lead to daily sins, and the Sabbath ceases to be
kept holy, if any man presumes to think of un
reverend amusements.
Acting on this principle, and fortified by the
new act of Parliament, the justices in Middle
sex, in their respective districts, have issued their
edict that eleven o’clock at night is the just
medium between late and early, at which pub
lic-houses must be closed.
w 58
To those who have wine cellars, and beer
cellars, and cellarets, and liqueur cases, always
well stocked, in their own houses, who, if their
fancy leads, can sustain the evening revel till
scared from it by the light of morning, there
will appear no great mischiefin this regulation;
but all who know, and will recollect, or, not
knowing, will condescend to be informed, that
the public-house is the wine cellar, and the beer
cellar of the lower, ay, and of the better
classes to a very great extent, will pause be
fore they pronounce too decidedly in favour
of the restriction. If the late hours to which
modern luxury has driven many who are em
ployed about the great and the opulent are
considered; if that consideration should be ac
companied with a thought, that they who have
toiled for their betters, may, themselves, want
refreshment, or benefit by recreation, perhaps
the wisdom of such close restraint may be still
more decidedly questioned.
I do not know whether the modern Puritans
ever frequent places of public entertainment or
not; but ifany one concerned in the framing of
these laws should happen to be at a play-house
on a benefit might, let him, from his box, cast a
glance on the delighted tenants of the pit and
galleries; and, when he sees them at one o’clock
in the morning (for to that time the late hours
59
adopted in polite life have driven those enter
tainments), exhausted and fatigued with the
pressure of their neighbours and the expression
of their own joys, if he can omit to reflect with
pity and regret that many of those honest crea
tures, after a walk perhaps of two or three miles,
must retire to rest without even a draught of
beer to allay their thirst, he must be made of
more obdurate materials than befit the compo
sition of an English gentleman. “Let them stay
at home !” the tyrant of social life may exclaim;
“let them read the Bible, attend to family exer
cise, drink tea, and go to bed!” the Puritan may
cry. If these are the principles by which the
country is to be governed, I have of course
mistaken the matter.
But I confess, my opinions go much further:
I am no enemy to those forms of social inter
course, where internal regulation, general com
munication, limited contest and unrestrained
hilarity, keep parties together always till a cer
tain period of the night, varying according to
the convenience and business of each individual,
and leading in some undoubtedly to protracted
enjoyments, and what the statute calls tippling
at late hours. If not an advocate for the prac
tice, I am decidedly hostile to the legislative or
magisterial restraint. If there are evils in these
societies called clubs, there are much greater to
60
be apprehended from the suppression of those
means of familiar intercourse by which men are
enabled to know their neighbours, to appreciate
their good qualities, to measure their talents,
and to mark their faults. “Talk not to me of
the meritsofthese ale-houseassemblies,”says the
fierce reformer, with his act of Parliament in
one hand, and the report of a committee in the
other; “they are the nurseries of sedition, and
the hot-beds of crime: in them, men are taught
to meditate plots against the government; in
them, the arrangements are made for robbery
and assassination " Are you quite sure of
that, good sir?—Can you recollect whether the
late murder, which has so long been the talk of
the whole nation, was contrived in a public ale
house meeting, or in the abodes and private
lodgings of the parties?—Was the Cato-street
conspiracyarranged and matured in a club-room,
or at a private and obscure apartment engaged
for the occasion ?
From the observations I have been enabled to
make on the feelings and principles ofthe British
people, Iampersuaded,that ifopportunity tempts
them too easily tothe commission ofsmall crimes,
nothing butworking on them in private can bring
them to unite in the perpetration of enormities.
Individuals may be found every where who can
excite themselves to a pitch of murderous reso
61
lution; but if the least intimation of their pro
pensities were let loose in a promiscuous meet
ing, every mode of expression, from mild cen
sure to deep and bitter execration, would re
strain the communication, if it could not repress
the design.
But, if I have advocated without success the
cause of good fellowship, let me at least implore
a little compassion for mere necessity. Many
are obliged to pursue those callings to which
the wants of the opulent devote them till hours
beyond midnight; I will, for a moment, con
cede, that cold tea, or dead beer, is good enough
for them ; yet let me suppose a sudden illness
or accident to demand relief by immediate ap
plications. Is it not monstrous that no publican
would dare, under the mostpressing solicitations,
to supply a little brandy for the occasion ? The
watchman, deserving the name perhaps in that
single instance, would be upon the look-out, and
as he would be entitled to half the penalty,
would not fail in laying his information.
These are not fancied cases. I have seen
numerous informations under the present sta
tute for offences of the slightest description, or
for acts of positive merit, tortured into grounds
ofaccusation; and I have much reason to believe
that the terror of the increasing penalty on every
complaint, has induced many publicans to pay
62
compositions rather than face a justice, though
they knew the menaced charge to be unfounded.
Among the curiosities of this act is the form
of conviction. On these forms in general, I
shall hereafter make a few observations; their
laxity and generality are, in most instances, suf.
ficiently odious, but under this act the convic
tion is made to specify no offence. It is in these
most extraordinary words:
Middlesex.-Be it remembered, That on this
day of in the year A. B. of
was duly convicted before us, C. D. and E. F.
two of his majesty's justices of the peace for
the county or city of of an offence against
the condition of a recognizance entered into by
the said A. B. on obtaining a licence to
sell ale, beer, or other exciseable liquors by re
tail, whereby he, she, or they has or have for.
feited the sum of this being the first
[or, second offence, as the case shall happen to
be] besides the costs and expenses of this con
viction, which costs and expenses we the said
justices of the peace do hereby ascertain and
assess at the sum of pursuant to the sta
tute in such case made and provided. Given
under our hands and seals the day and year
above written.
63
Mr. Bayes commends his prologue because
“it will suit any other play as well as this,”
and the person who drew this form may pique
himself on an invention which shall fit every
possible case, and put it out of the power of
the accused to know what he has to answer.
It may be for not keeping true assize, or frau
dulently adulterating his liquor, or using false
measures, or getting drunk, or allowing others
to do so, or permitting some sedentary game,
as cards or dice, or some active sport, as bull
or bear-beating, or cock-fighting, or in short for
a failure in any one of the numerous particulars
specified in the recognizance, and, what is
better, if the informer shall by evidence be
beaten from the point on which he founded his
accusation, he may, from the appellant's evi
dence, extract and substantiate another charge.
This very proceeding I witnessed a short time
ago. A publican in Mary-le-bone had been
convicted in the form above specified. The
charge was supported by the evidence of a
watchman, who swore that the publican had,
at a quarter before twelve o’clock, kept his
house open, and admitted a man and two women
of the town, and he asserted that another watch
man saw it as well as he, but this man was not
called for the prosecution. He was examined
for the appellant, and proved that what the other
64
had swore was utterly untrue; the house had
been shut up before eleven, and no person had
gone in after that hour but one female whom
he well knew, an industrious, hard-working
woman; that she had by much persuasion got
the people within to open the door, and had
returned in less than three minutes. One
would suppose that this flat contradiction of
an only witness would have ended the case,
especially as the court declared, that they dis
believed the former testimony, and believed the
last; but it was insisted, that if the conviction
failed as to the offence intended to be proved,
yet there was a breach of the recognizance in
the very evidence produced for the appellant.
It then became necessary to examine the woman
for whom the door had been opened ; she stated
that she was the sister of a laundress in the
neighbourhood, and well known to the publican,
and that this woman, finding herself nearly faint
ing with the fatigue of ironing in hot weather
till almost midnight, had requested her to obtain,
if possible, a little beer; that with much dif.
ficulty she had prevailed on one of the servants
to open the door, and draw some beer, the mas
ter and mistress being in bed, and the bar
closed; and that the whole transaction had not
occupied two minutes. The servant confirmed
the fact, and the appeal was allowed, so that
65
the publican was only put to about ten pounds
expense on this inquiry, after the same facts
had been detailed at the session, which were at
first given in evidence before the justice at the
office.
Some may perhaps think that a beneficial
effect results from this statute, in its keeping the
streets clear during the night. They who think
so, should take the trouble to look from their
carriage windows, when returning from the
opera, or a party; and while they survey the
chilly solitude which prevails at one or two
o'clock in the morning, let them reflect whe
ther their persons or their dwellings are more
secure under these circumstances, than they
were, when the streets were fully peopled with
those who were running after or retiring from
their business or amusements. I remember
being told when I was a youth, by an old gen
tleman who had long lived in town, that there
were not above two hours in the four-and-twenty,
during which the tide of society was intermitted,
and in those two hours all the burglaries were
committed. The operation of this statute, and
the regulations enforced under it, will, before
long, reduce the streets of London, during many
hours of the night, to that dreary solitude; and
as soon as time shall have permitted new asso
ciations in wickedness to be formed, in secret
F
66
haunts, unchecked by observation,we shall hear
of the frequent perpetration of those frightful
enormities, which, because they are now rare,
appear prodigious and unnatural.
On the portion of the publican's recognizance
which relates to the Sabbath, I shall be very
sparing of observation. The temper of the
times, and particularly ofsome sects which have
a prevailing influence, tends rather to a Judaical
than a Christian observance of that great day.
Considering, that it is the only time in which,
consistently with their duties in other respects,
the shop-keeping and labouring classes can
enjoy any relaxation, or invigorate themselves
by wholesome exercise, I think much ought to
be left to good taste, to religious feeling, and
to pious example; and very little, beyond the
avoiding of gross impropriety, enforced by le
gislation or superintended by the magistracy.
Prayer, public and private, reading and medi
tation on the word of God, are undoubtedly
the proper employment of all Christians on that
day; but convenience, the forms and usages
of society, and even the calls of necessity, re
quire that the divine should operate most, and
the magistrate least on such a subject. True
piety is quiet, contented, modest, unobtrusive.
He who attends divine worship, from honest
and sincere motives, twice or even thrice every
67
Sunday, is entitled to applause ; but if his spleen
is excited when he sees that others do not par
take in his pious propensities, it is much to be
feared that the blossoms of his holiness are in
fected by the canker of pride, and that the best
fruit of his pharisaical self-sufficiency will only
be animosity and persecution.
To the shutting of public houses during the
time of morning service, that is, from about
eleven till half past one, no man can object;
but when the necessities of many of the hum
bler class who live in town, and of all who mi
grate on a Sunday, to taste the sweet air of the
country, are considered, it may be doubted
whether severe restriction can, with propriety,
be extended further. To those who dine at
six o'clock, or later, the inconvenience arising
from a more rigid observance may appear
slight and trivial; to the sufferer it is serious,
and, by comparison, galling. The benevolence,
as well as the rigour, of legislation should be
equal to all; but if some portions of society
have their small faults purged with fire, while
others, from the same source, have propensities
of a like nature cherished and encouraged only
by a genial heat, the contrast will ever occasion
gloomy submission and ill-restrained discontent.
But even if it should be generally felt that,
during the usual times of divine service, both
F 2
6s
morning and evening, all access to the cellars
of the poor should be denied, and all attempts
to approach a house of hospitality repelled,
those usual hours ought surely to be fixed by
known law, and not left to the caprice of local
regulation or particular influence. I found this
observation on a fact which occurred within
my own knowledge.
A village near the metropolis happened to be
blessed with the presence of a very pious jus
tice, who with some of his neighbours, thinking
that the regular service performed by the rector
or vicar was inadequate to their spiritual needs,
formed a subscription, and paid a minister of
their own, to give evening service in the parish
church, which began at six and lasted till past
eight. So far as this related to themselves, it
was extremely proper, and there could be no
possible objection. But it happened that the
worshipful justice could not be contented with
his evening exercise of piety, unless the whole
parish, containing several thousand inhabitants,
were at least as much incommoded as he was
edified. Accordingly, having duly conned and
construed the statute, he sent forth the beadles
on Sunday evening, on cruises of discovery
among the public-houses, and prepared I know
not how many informations. This holy zeal
was so little seconded in his own neighbour
64)
hood, that the established minister refused to
have any thing to do with his informations, and
he could not find a justice to sit with him (the
statute requiring two) without coming to a
police-office in town. There I had the honour
of seeing this godly personage leading his own
causes as advocate, in some degree supporting
them as witness, and deciding upon them as
judge. He apologized, with a flood of elo
quence, for his appearing in that situation, and
then calling the beadles, as witnesses, proved
that divers publicans, some of them residing, I
think, three-quarters of a mile from the church,
had wickedly, during, what he was pleased to
call, the usual hours of divine service, supplied
wayfaring persons with pints of beer, contrary
to the form of the statute in such case made
and provided. It was proved by the beadles,
that there was no disorder, no revelry, no tip
pling, no irregularity whatever, in any of the
houses, and that they had all been shut up
during the supposed usual hours of divine ser
vice. One honest Boniface (and he looked
the character very well) remonstrated with the
bench in this fashion. “Please your worships,”
said he, “I have kept my house many years,
“ and there never was a complaint made against
“it. It is frequented by the very best of com.
“pany, and it is only a few Sundays ago, that
7()
“ some magistrates of the county did me the
“honour to dine at my house. They sat down
“at five, and an excellent dinner I gave them.
“But now, your worships, what was I to do?
“When these gentlemen called for more wine,
“at six or seven o’clock, was I to say, “Why,
“gentlemen, the church bell has done ringing,
“I can give you no more at present; but if you
“will sit still till eight o’clock, my whole cellar
“is at your service?" If I had used them so,
“should I ever have seen their faces again?
“Would you yourselves bear such treatment
“from a landlord?” The eloquence of mine
host had no more effect than my own. One
half of the court (to wit, his worship the pro
moter of the informations) came determined on
convicting, the other half would not stand out,
and therefore the parties were convicted, and
entered into recognizances to try their appeal.
Nothing further was done. A light, I believe,
came upon his worship from above, (I do not
mean from Heaven, but from some high autho
rity here on earth), the convictions were never
drawn up, and the recognizances were dis
charged. If the magistrate who is the hero of
this anecdote should see or be informed of this
publication, he will recognize the fact: he will
also perceive, that I have treated him with
levity, because I think his conduct excessively
71
ridiculous; but with no severity, because, as
no great harm came of his officiousness, I feel
no hostility against him. -
I address myself, on this part of my subject,
to those real statesmen, whose enlightened minds
and vigorous understandings qualify them to
defend our unrivalled establishment against the
encroachments of puritanism on the one hand,
and of libertinism on the other; and I implore
them not to aid the cause of both, by lending
themselves to the speculations or fantasies of
either. If there are any who, in this matter,
halt between two opinions, and incline to think
that the cause of the church may be aided by
a little excess on the side of strict observance,
I would only entreat them to go back in re
collection to those times when the hierarchy
was discarded, the nobility destroyed, the con
stitution subverted, and the sovereign himself
murdered, and consider by what class of re
ligious professors all those dreadful changes
were first moved, and ultimately accomplished.
Quitting this topic, I come now to the police
of the metropolis; but as the scope of this
pamphlet is limited, I shall not enter in a ge
neral dissertation on the subject. I must, how
ever, observe the extraordinary difference which
prevails between that part of the metropolis
which is in the city of London, having only its
**
* -
ancient, known, established police, and that in
the county, which, for the last two and thirty
years, has had a system made on purpose for
it, of stipendiary magistrates, continually strug
gling for, and obtaining, augmentations of power
and jurisdiction, while crime is not, even by
their own accounts, at all decreased, or the real
cause of good government at all advanced.
In the city, the magistracy is composed almost
entirely of men of business, unacquainted with
the mechanism of legal proceedings, and in
formed only by attendance at their offices
and in session, or by assisting occasionally on
juries, of the nature of trials, the rules of evi
dence, or the manners and usages of courts.
In the county, on the contrary, almost every
police justice is a barrister, and it is understood
that, from that class alone, future vacancies are
to be supplied. Yet, strange to say, there are
very few cases indeed sent for trial at session
from the Mansion-house or Guildhall, in which
the prisoners are not convicted, while in the
county, it is frightful to look at the number of
instances in which judges are obliged to declare
their wonder that the prisoners were ever com
mitted.
I entertain very strong opinions on the causes
of this remarkable difference, a difference al
ready noticed, and which I trust will be fear
73
lessly proved by the legislature. I should most
unwillingly contribute, by any public observa
tion of mine, to augment any prejudice on this
subject; but I am convinced that a great deal
indeed is requisite to render the establishment
useful, and that that great deal ought not to
consist in the augmentation of powers.
Until the year 1792, there were no police
offices, as they are now called. The justices of
peace in Middlesex acted, as they do in other
places, without any salaries; but as they had a
right to certain fees, and convictions on penal
statutes afforded considerable emolument, a few
men, under the common description of trading
justices, carried on an active, and, it was thought,
a lucrative traffic. The rapid growth of the
metropolis, both in extent and population, which
was then in progress and has since made such
wonderful advances, rendered a regular police,
and the abolition of the offices conducted under
the degrading name I have cited, not merely
desirable, but indispensable. An office had
been formed in Bow-street, then called, I think,
the Rotation office, and the system which had
most beneficially prevailed there, under several
successive magistrates, encouraged government
to try the experiment of adding seven new ones,
including that in Union-street, Southwark, but
exclusive of the Thames Police, which was called
74
into being seven years afterward, by the statute
39 and 40 Geo. 3, c. 87.
At the time of passing the first act (32 Geo. 3,
c. 53) an opportunity occurred of forming an
establishment of justices in Middlesex, which
should have been of the most respectable cha
racter, and perfectly congenial with the spirit
of the British constitution. The plan was de
graded, in the first place, by considering the
offices merely as police stations, and not invest
ing them with a more evidently judicial appel
lation. As mere agents of police, the justices
were placed below those of other counties, but
if they were to exercise, and to be the probable
means of extending, the jurisdiction of justices
ofthe peace, they should have been raised much
higher than they were, in the scale of social
distinction. Parsimony and jealousy of the in
fluence of the crown lent their aid in frustrating
any benefit that might be expected on an
enlarged scale. The duration of the statute
was limited to three years, the salaries of the
justices to four hundred pounds per annum,
none of them were to sit in parliament, and
they and the receiver, and all their constables,
were prohibited from voting at, or interfering,
by word, message, writing, or in any other man
ner, in any election for Middlesex or Surry,
Westminster or Southwark. This last piece of
75
paltry jealousy was to protect a population of
about a million and a half, from the dangerous
influence ofsome threescore persons, forty-two of
whom would necessarily be in a very humble
station of life”. With whatever indifference some
men mightview such an exclusion, many who pos
sessed lofty spirits and glowing principles, would
have disdained the thought of being thus se
questered from all gentlemen in the commission
of the peace, in all other parts of the kingdom,
at being thus themselves made the first public
eaxmple, under their own act.
Had the views respecting the establishment
been less ungenerous, the remuneration more
liberal, and the duration more certain, it is not
to be doubted that many gentlemen of consider
able standing in the law, and, which is more im
portant, who had really been engaged in an ex
tensive course ofactive business, would have em
braced these offices as an honourable retirement
from the bustle of courts, to the useful activity
of the magisterial functions. Gentlemen well
educated and used to good society, would have
lent their aid, and from these two and other
equally wise and honourable classes of society,
might have been formed, not a detached set of
* Three justices at each office, 21—six constables, for no
more were allowed, 42, and one receiver. Total 64.
76
police establishments, with justices ever seeking
to change their stations from the extremity to
the centre, as opportunity might permit, but a
solid, systematic board of magistracy and police,
which would have commanded the gratitude of
the country, and the admiration of the civilized
world. How the offices were filled, and how
they have been recruited, it is not for me to de
scribe. I knew most of those who are departed,
and all who remain. To all I have many ac
knowledgements to make for great personal
kindness and civility, and I will not risque the
friendly feelings which I ought to maintain
with so many individuals, by any reflections
which might be considered personal, in investi
gating the composition of a class.
Be it, however, permitted me to say that the
inherent faults of the first formation of police
offices have never been effectually surmounted.
Frequent renovations have given to the system
an acknowledged permanency; the salaries have
grown up to six hundred pounds a year; but
still, much improvement is wanting.
In power, certainly, great acquisitions have
been made: the unpretending modesty of the
first, is strangely contrasted with the grand as
sumptions of the last police act". The first
* 3 Geo. 4, c. 55.
77
gave to these justices no extraordinary powers;
it seated them in their places with six consta
bles around them, and limited the expense of
each office to two thousand pounds per annum,
salaries included.
That the first act gave no extraordinary
powers is almost a literal truth; the only new
power created, is that of arresting ill disposed
and suspected persons and reputed thieves, fre
quenting the avenues to places of public resort,
and the streets and highways, with intent to
commit felony. This was to be done by any
constable, headborough, patrole, or watchman,
and the party to be conveyed before any
justice, and if to him it should be made appear
that he was such ill-disposed or suspected person,
and he could not give a satisfactory account of
himself, and if it also appeared that he was in
the place where found, with such intent, he was
to be treated as a rogue and vagabond; but
with liberty of appeal to the session. How this
power has been improved by the modern vagrant
act, I have already had occasion to observe,
and lest that should fail, expire, or be repealed,
the old clause is re-enacted with some strong
additions, extending it to parks and fields, to
the parishes of St. Mary-le-bone, Padding
ton, St. Pancras, Kensington, and Chelsea;
the river Thames, and the docks, creeks, quays,
78
and warehouses adjacent, and the streets, high
ways, and avenues leading thereto, and giving
the right of apprehending all whom they may
choose to suspect, not to peace officers, or per
sons acting in their aid, or under their di
rection alone, but to all persons whomsoever. In
the name of God, where does an Englishman’s
right of protecting himself against illegal re
straint, by the use of arms or of his natural
strength begin, if any ruffian may seize him in
any part of the metropolis, or any where within
the bills of mortality, and drag him to a place
of confinement, merely because he thinks that
he is after no good? And this is really what the
clause amounts to. -
When I speak of amplified powers in the new
act, I do not mean to say a word in censure of
those clauses which augment the salaries of the
justices, increase the number of the constables
to any extent the secretary of state may approve,
and give them authority in all the counties of
Middlesex, Surry, Essex, and Kent; nor do I
object to the appointment of thirty fit and
discreet men to be Thames police surveyors,
(although I have some observations to make on
the powers confided to them), nor to the re
moval of the old restriction on expenditure,
which is now permitted to amount to “the an
“nual sum of sixty-eight thousand pounds, over
79
“ and above the necessary disbursements for
“ purchasing, hiring, repairing, fitting up and
“furnishing the houses and buildings wherein
“ the offices are held.” All these are matters
of regulation and expense, the direction and
management of which are very properly en
trusted to the responsible ministers of the crown.
The first material extension of power by the
last act, relates to the regulation and suppression
of fairs, holden within ten miles of Temple-bar.
The regulation is, that business and amusements
of all kinds shall cease at eleven at night, and
not recommence earlier than six in the morning,
and if any house, shop, room, booth, standing,
tent, caravan, waggon or otherplace,shall bekept
open, during the prohibited hours, in the place
where the fair is held, or within three hundred
yards thereof, the peace officer may take the
person having the care or government of any
such place into custody, and also every person
being therein, and who shall not quit the same
Jorthwith upon being bidden by the peace officer,
and on being convicted before one justice, the
master of the house or show shall pay five
pounds, and every one of the others shall be
fined forty shillings, which sums, if they do not
pay, they are to be committed to the house of
correction, to hard labour for not more than
three months, nor less than six days. Whatever
desire may exist any where to suppress the sup
S()
posed licentiousness ofthe fair-frequenting class
of the community, it will not easily be imagined
that such severe penalties can have been de
liberately affixed to such small transgressions.
Forty shillings for staying in an alehouse till his
pot of beer is out, or not quitting the puppet
show just when the trumpet sounds to battle in
Bosworth field, is the penalty to be exacted from
the labourer who earns perhaps twelve shillings
a week, or the servant girl whose wages are six
guineas a year.—“Serve them right ! such
people have no business in such places !” says
the pious and prudent reformer;-and I have
no reply. -
The rage for suppressing fairs in and about
the metropolis is so widely spread, that I have
little courage to raise my voice against it. Sup
press or abolish is the word, with all who want
sense to use, or vigour to regulate those institu
tions which habit has rendered part of the po
pular taste, or long usage has brought to be
considered as a portion of public right. The
extension of this principle to many branches of
legislation is calculated to give serious alarm;
that feeling if in any degree expressed with
respect to these fairs, would be ridiculed by
many, and unavailing even if it could produce
conviction. The fairs which have been abolished,
and several have been so, can never be restored:
the very ground on which some of them were
S}
held, having, as I understand, been devoted to
different purposes. If the measure is fit, the
means afforded are neither violent nor uncon
stitutional. Justices, in petty session, are em
powered to summon before them the owners
or occupiers of the spot where the fair is usually
held, and if they fail in proving that it is founded
on charter, or established by prescription, the
justices decree its abolition, and direct the
peace officers to take measures accordingly; if
the party is dissatisfied, he may enter into his
own recognizance in two hundred pounds, to
appear in the Court of King’s Bench in the
following term, to answer an information in the
nature of a quo warranto to be filed by the
Attorney-general, so that the question will in
due course be tried by a jury. The recogni
zance is to be returned to the secretary of state,
and should the Attorney-general not think fit to
proceed, or failinhissuit, thefairremainsas it was.
This is a wise and dignified strain oflegislation.
The justices have also, under this act, new or
augmented powers with respect to coffee-shops,
blowing horns, and bullock-hunting. The first
is an evil resulting from a measure adopted by
government, to relieve the holders of colonial
produce. During the exclusion of British com
merce from the continental ports, encourage
ment was given to the sale of coffee at low
G
82
prices; the shops opened for this traffic became
scenes of vulgar debauchery; restraint is to be
effected by the act, and offenders who cannot
pay fines are transferred from the coffee-mill to
the tread-mill. How the clause against blowing
horns was obtained I have already mentioned,
and I shall here only wish that so great a nuisance
had been got rid of by means more direct. I
remember the beginning of the use of tin-horns,
in announcing the Star, the first daily evening
paper, in 1788 or thereabouts, and I am truly
happy that I have seen the end of it. The
powers for preventing cruelty in driving cattle
are also augmented, and although I think that,
even in these instances, too ample authorities
are given for the imposition of fines and sen
tencing to imprisonment and hard labour, still
the several offences belong so entirely to the de
partment of police, affect general right so little,
and are so limited and defined in their nature,
that with a proper power of appeal, I am not
aware that any just complaint can arise respect
ing them.
But perhaps, in all the acts I have hitherto no
ticed, so strong and oppressive a system is not to
befound, as that which is intrusted to the Thames
Police in the statute now under consideration.
This office has three justices, under whom are
thirty Thames Police surveyors, with all the
S3
powers, authorities, privileges and advantages of
constables in the counties of Middlesex, Surrey,
Essex, and Kent, and they have also power by
night or by day to enter into any ship or vessel
in the River Thames or the creeks, wharfs,
quays, and landing-places adjacent, for the pur
pose of directing the conduct of any constable
who shall be stationed on board, and of inspect
ing and observing the conduct of all other persons
who shall be employed on board in or about the
lading or unlading thereof, and for the purpose of
taking all such measures as may be necessary for
providing against fire and other accidents, and
preserving peace and good order on board, and
jor the effectual prevention, in all cases, offèlonies
or misdemeanors, and for detection of any which
may have been committed, or which such surveyor
may have reasonable cause to suspect to have been
committed.
Such is the outline of the authority intrusted
to these ſit and discreet persons. A ship on her
arrival in an English port has to receive first a
pilot, for fear she should mistake her way to
London; next, such custom-house officers as
may be thought necessary to prevent the captain
and crew from defrauding the Crown; and
lastly, Thames Police surveyors, to make all
these persons and all passengers keep the peace
toward each other, and to pry into all parts for
c 2
84
-
the detection of felonies which they have any
reasonable cause to suspect to have been com
mirted. Perhaps the owners and captains hail
the approach of these persons as of friends and
protectors; if so, no reasonable objection can
be made to their appointment or the terms of
it; if not, it is impossible to conceive a greater
or more vexatious tyranny than is vested in their
hands. A police officer always thinks he has
just reason to suspect that a felony is either
committed or meditated: he lives to suspect,
for if he ceased to suspect, he must find some
other employ, or cease to live; and should he
be inclined to exercise his power offensively, it
is not easy to imagine how a greater latitude can
be given to him than he commands by the terms
of this clause.
But the suspecting power of these officers
barely begins here; by s. 31, if they have just
cause to suspect that any felony has been, or is
about to be committed on board of any ship, or in
the Thames, or docks or creeks adjacent, they
may enter by day or by night, and take all ne
cessary measures for prevention or detection,
and to apprehend and detain all persons suspected
of being concerned in such felonies, and also all
property so suspected to be stolen, and the same
to produce before some justice, to be dealt with
according to law.
S5
The same persons are also “empowered
“to stop, search, and detain, in some place of
“safety, any boat, craft or vessel which there
“shall be reason to suspect of having therein
“any of his Majesty's naval stores, or any ropes,
“cordage, tackle, apparel, furniture, stores,
“materials, or any part of any cargo or lading,
“ or any lead, iron, copper, brass, bell metal,
“ pewter, solder, or other article” (whether be
longing to his Majesty or not), “ stolen, or
“unlawfully procured ; and also to apprehend,
“search and detain any person who may be
“reasonably suspected of having or conveying
“any such articles in such boat, craft, or vessel,
“ or on land, and to convey every such person
“before some justice of the peace; and if such
“ person shall not give an account to the satisſac
“tion of such justice how he came by the same,
“ then he shall be adjudged guilly of a misde
“meanor; and such boat, craft, or vessel, with
“her tackle, apparel, furniture, and loading,
“shall, upon such conviction, be forfeited.
“And if, on information given on oath, it
“shall appear to any justice, that there is rea
“sonable cause for suspecting that any such
“articles as aforesaid, after having been so
“stolen or unlawfully obtained, are concealed,
“ or otherwise lodged, in any dwelling-house,
“warehouse, yard, garden, or any other place,
86
“it shall be lawful for such justice, by special
“warrant, directed to any Thames police con
“stable or surveyor, or other constable, to cause
“every such place to be searched at any time
“of the day, or by night; and the justice may
“empower such constable or surveyor, with
“any such assistance as to the said justice may
“appear, or by such constable or surveyor may
“be found necessary, to use force for the ef.
“fecting such entry, whether by breaking open
“doors, or otherwise; and if, upon search there
“upon made, any such suspected article shall
“be found, then to convey the same forthwith
“to and before a justice, or to guard the same
“on the spot, while the offenders are taken
“before a justice, or otherwise dispose thereof
“in some place of safety; and, moreover, to
“apprehend and convey before the said justice
“the person or persons in whose house, lodging,
“ or other place, the same shall so have been
“found, as also every other person found in such
“house, lodging, or place, who shall appear to
“ have been privy to the depositing of such
“article in such place, knowing, or having rea
“sonable cause to suspect, the same to have
“been stolen, or otherwise unlawfully obtained;
“and, if such persons respectively shall not im
“mediately, or within some reasonable time to be
“assigned by the justice, make it appear to the
87
“satisfaction of the justice, by what lawful means
“ such article or articles came to be deposited or
“situated in such place as aforesaid, without
“any default on the part of such persons re
“spectively, then the persons in whose house,
“lodging, or other place, any such suspected
“article was found, and also every other person
“so appearing to have been privy to the depo
“siting thereof, knowing, or having cause to
“suspect, the same to have been stolen, or other
“wise unlawfully obtained, shall be deemed and
“adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor. And if
“any person on being produced before any
“justice to give an account of any articles
“seized and detained, shall declare himself or
“herself to have bought, received, or other
“wise obtained such articles of some other per
“son, such justice is authorized to examine
“every such other person, and also every other
“prior purchaser, or pretended purchaser; and
“if, upon the whole evidence, it shall appear
“to such justice, that the party suspected, or
“the party upon whom such articles were
“found, or the person so produced, or such
“ prior purchaser, or pretended purchaser, or
“any of them, at the time of his or her re
“ceiving such articles into his or her posses
“sion, did believe, or had reasonable cause to
“believe, that such articles, or any part thereof,
88
< «
4.
4. •
4.
4. 4.
º «
4.
4. 4.
4. «
4. &
º &
4. &
«4.
4. «
& C
& &
& 4
&
&Ç
&
&&
“
&
4.
< «
4.
« g
&
& 4
& 4
were at any time and by any person unlaw
fully come by or obtained, it shall be lawful
for such justice to adjudge such party to be
guilty of a misdemeanor. And it is further
enacted, That every person who for the pur
pose of protecting or preventing any goods, or
other articles whatsoever, from being seized,
on suspicion of their being stolen, or other
wise unlawfully obtained, or of preventing
the same from being produced or made to
serve as evidence of or concerning any felony
or misdemeanor, shall frame, or cause to be
framed, any bill of parcels containing any
false statement in regard to the name or
abode of any alleged vendor, the quantity or
quality of any goods, the place from whence,
or the conveyance by which, the same were
furnished, the price agreed upon or charged
for the same, or any other particulars, know
ing such statement to be false, or who shall
fraudulently produce such bill of parcels,
knowing the same to have been fraudulently
framed, shall be adjudged guilty of a misde
meanour; and may, moreover, at the discretion
of any justice in whosejurisdiction such offence
shall be committed, be published and adver.
tized as a fabricator of false bills of parcels,
or as a convicted or reputed receiver of goods
stolen, or otherwise unlawfully obtained.”
89
I think it would hardly be possible to find in
the penal code of any country, a system so
fraught with tyranny and oppression, and con
trived in such manifest and ostentatious con
tempt of every fundamental principle of liberty.
I am sure, that if the societies in 1792 had pre
dicted that such enactments would, at some
time, appear in the British Statute book, their
prophecy would have been treated as one of the
audacious means by which, under the semblance
of speculation or conjecture, gross libels were
vented, to render the people dissatisfied with
the government. What! it would have been
said, are we to believe that the legislature of
this truly free and happy country will ever per
mit a mere constable to seize boats and ships
because he chooses to suspect that they have
on board ropes, metal utensils, or any thing else
(for the trick I have formerly noticed of en
larging the apparently intended sense by ge
neral words, cunningly slipped in, is in these
clauses most perseveringly practised) which has
been, no matter by whom, unlawfully pro
cured; to seize, search, and detain any person,
either in the vessels or on land, (in a word, any
where) whom the same salaried suspectors shall
suspect of having, or of conveying such things,
to break into houses by night, and, on suspi
cion, to clear them of every inmate, and of
90
every chattel that they may suspect to have
been (not stolen or received with knowledge of
their being stolen, but) unlawfully obtained,
and convey all before a justice, who is to decide
the whole matter without form or process, to
fine, confiscate, and imprison, without a trial,
and without an appeal . The thing, it would
have been said, is impossible from its absurdity,
and the suggestion of it is atrocious from its
malignity
Such would have been the exclamation thirty
years ago, but we see what is the law now. As
yet, however, we have only brought our sus
pected delinquent before a justice. Let us see
what chance he has when there. The officer
suspects, and swears before one who is daily
recording his suspicions; the party has then to
prove to the satisfaction of the justice by what
lawful means he became possessed of the article;
he fails of that, for the officer’s suspicion must
outweigh his account; he is convicted, and
every one in his house, whom the officer sus
pects to have been privy to the depositing the
chattels, having had cause to suspect that they
were unlawfully obtained (no matter for the
degree of unlawfulness) is to be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and the goods, and in other cases
the boat, craft, or vessel forfeited.
But suppose the person who is seized makes
91
a defence: he says, I bought the things of A.
and here is the bill and receipt. A. is sent
for, acknowledges the sale and the bill; he
says he bought them of B., who is gone abroad;
without more ado, the witness is suspected, the
bill of parcels is suspected to be a fabrication,
and thus a new misdemeanor rewards the saga
city of the officer. Had this statute existed in
1794, we should certainly have had less plea
santry, and, perhaps, less declamation about Ro
bespierre'sfavourite description ofoffenders, who
were imprisoned, on suspicion of being suspected.
But further, any justice before whom it shall
appear, how or by what evidence, is not stated,
that any person, no matter when, or by whom
inculpated, has endeavoured by false repre
sentation ofany circumstance, whether of date,
buyer, quality, or price, to protect goods from
being seized on suspicion of being unlawfully
obtained, he may not only be convicted of a
misdemeanour, but may be advertised as a fa
bricator offalse bills of parcels, or as a convicted
or reputed receiver of stolen goods, at the dis
cretion of the justice. It is an axiom frequently
cited, and certainly most just, that it is an in
dictable offence to publish that a man has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanour, and it
would be no defence to produce the record of
his conviction, comprizing the verdict of a jury,
92
and the judgment, even of the Court of King's
Bench; yet in this instance, without any process
whatever, and upon his own inspection only of
a bill of parcels, any justice of peace in the
kingdom may advertise any tradesman or mer
chant who happens to be obnoxious to him, as
one of the greatest pests that disgrace society,
and that too, with absolute impunity. I may be
told that the honour of the magistrate will be
sufficient to guarantee the subject against such
culpable abuse. When I have far better reasons
than I have at present for believing in the in
tegrity, impartiality, and good temper of all
justices of the peace;—I shall be extremely un
willing to exchange the security of good laws
for the accidental and variable impulses of good
feelings and pure intentions.
Before I explain what is the consequence of
being convicted of a misdemeanour under this
act, I will give another specimen of the offences
to which it applies. In section 38, it is enacted,
that “if any person employed in the loading,
“landing, or warehousing of any goods, or
“any other person (another tricking generality!)
“shall wilfully, or through culpable negligence
“ or carelessness, cause or suffer, or be concerned
“ in causing or suffering to be broken, bruised,
“pierced, started, cut, torn, or otherwise in
“jured, any cask, box, chest, bag, or other
93
“package, containing or being designed and
“prepared for containing any goods while on
“board of any barge, lighter, or other craft,
“ lying or being in the said river, or any dock,
“creek, quay, wharf, or landing-place adjacent
“ to the same, or in or in the way to or from
“any warehouse, to or from which such pack
“age shall have been removed, shall be remov
‘‘ing, or about to be removed, with intent that
“the contents of such package, or any part
“thereof, may be spilled or dropped from such
“ package, every person so offending, shall for
“every such offence be deemed and adjudged
“guilty of misdemeanour.”
I shall waste no observation on this miserable
medley of wilfulness, and culpable negligence,
coupled with an intent which repels the very
idea of negligence, or on the vague phrase of
being concerned in suffering any thing to be
done, and proceed to state the effect of a con
viction of misdemeanour before a single justice.
The party convicted is at the election of the
justice, to forfeit, not exceeding five pounds,
or be imprisoned not exceeding two months, in
any gaol or house of correction within his ju
risdiction; or if the justice shall elect a penalty,
but the offender be unable to pay, then he is to
be imprisoned for the like term, or until the fine
be paid. The conviction is to be returned to
94
the session, but whatever may be its form, it
cannot be removed by certiorari, and there is
no appeal to the session, for the conviction is de
clared to be final and conclusive to all intents and
purposes whatsoever.
Thus then, a house may be broken into in the
middle of the night, searched and ransacked in
every part, the whole family, male and female,
master, mistress, and servant, dragged to a cage
or watch-house, any chattel, however small or
great its value, taken, they and their witnesses
may be convicted, their property confiscated
and sold, their characters blasted by a public
advertisement, themselves sent to prisons in
every corner of the county, and all this perhaps
without the slightest proof, that goods have in
fact been stolen, at the discretion too of one jus
tice, and without even the possibility of redress.
An appeal, even to a session composed of the
justices of the same county, is taken away; a
certiorari is prohibited, and should the sufferer
bring an action, or move for a criminal informa
tion, the worthy myrmidons of the worthy jus
tice would swear last, and the unfortunate plain
tiff or mover of the court would be effectually
reprimanded for his rashness and want ofdecent
submission to just authority, by a writ of exe
cution or an attachment for costs.
Perhaps it may be suggested that these ap
95
parently severe regulations are intended only
for the prevention of robberies on board ships,
and in the vicinity of the Thames, and that
there is therefore no fear of extended evil from
their existence. Such, most probably, was the
assurance by which doubts were calmed and
opposition prevented, but I know that the
operation of the act has already extended to Pad
dington and St. Giles’s, and I can see no reason
why its blessings may not travel to Guildford,
to Colchester, to Rochester, or to Dover.
When I speak of surprises being effected in
Parliament, or inquiries evaded, I mean nothing
disrespectful. Every local and personal act has
its particular promoters and friends, who re
ceive their knowledge from some parties in
terested in, or supposed to be peculiarly ac
quainted with, the matter in question. Bills
like those on which I have been observing,
although classed as public and general, are
treated as if they were local and personal; and
an inquiry into any particular section is deemed
to be sufficiently answered when the inquirer
is told, “that only means—so and so—or that
“is the old clause re-enacted,” especially if the
general reading confirms the assertion, and at
tention is not particularly called to a few words
which have been introduced, and which, as I
have shown in many instances, totally change
96
the apparent intention. It is not very many
years since a select-vestry bill, or some other
bill for regulating the poor of a parish, was
brought into the House of Commons, and had,
I believe, gone through the committee without
any objections but such as were answered by
the remarks, “that is usual;”—“that has been
“ done in the act for such a parish;”—or “that
“ is rendered necessary by our peculiar situa
“tion.” What had passed without notice in the
committee, did not, however, escape the pene
trating glance of Sir Samuel Romilly; he dis
covered in this supposed regulation of course,
clauses, among others, enabling the guardians
of the poor to correct them with stripes, to
mortify them by famine, and to restrain them
by solitary imprisonment. As soon as he re
presented these circumstances, the House would
not permit its dignity to be trifled with, under
specious propositions of amendment, but re
jected the bill altogether. I think that if many
of the matters I have noticed had been simi
larly pointed out, the rescinding of the ob
noxious parts would have been equally spon
taneous and decisive, although public policy
might not have permitted the rejection of the
entire bill.
I conclude the observations I intended to
make on the statutes most recently enacted,
97
but far from exhausting, I have barely touched
upon the general subject of the jurisdiction
of justices. If, as Lambarde has said, in a
passage of his Eirenarcha quoted by Mr. Chet
wynde, the backs of justices were like to be
broken by the stacks of statutes laid upon them
in the sixteenth century, how much must their
vigour have increased in modern times, to bear
the mountains under which they amble and
prance in these days, and which are thus de
scribed by Mr. Colquhoun. “ They are re
“quired to hear and determine, in a summary
“ way, particularly in cases relative to the cus
“toms, excise, and stamps; the game laws;
“hawkers and pedlars; pawnbrokers; friendly
“societies; highways; hackney coaches, carts,
“ and other carriages; quakers and others re
“fusing to pay tythes; appeals of defaulters in
“ parochial rates; misdemeanors committed
“by persons unlawfully pawning property not
“ their own; bakers for short weight, &c.;
“journeymen leaving their services in different
“trades; labourers not complying with their
“agreements; disorderly apprentices; alehouse
“keepers keeping disorderly houses; nuisances
“by different acts of parliament; acts of va
“grancy by fraudulent lottery insurers; for
“tune-tellers, or persons of evil fame found in
“avenues to public places, with an intent to
H
93
“rob: as well as a multitude of other offences,
“in which justices have power to proceed to
“conviction and punishment, either by fine or
“imprisonment.
“The duty of the magistrate also extends to
“a vast number of other objects, such as li
“censing public houses, and establishing rules
“ and orders for publicans; watching over the
“conduct of publicans; swearing in, charging,
“ and instructing parochial constables and head
“boroughs, from year to year, with regard to
“theirduty; issuing warrants for privy searches;
“ and in considering the cases of persons
“charged with being disorderly persons, or
“rogues and vagabonds; in making orders to
“ parish-officers, beadles, and constables, in a
“variety of cases; in parish removals; in bil
“leting soldiers; in considering the cases of
“poor persons applying for assistance, or ad
“mission to workhouses; in granting certi
“ficates and orders to the wives of persons
“serving in the militia, and also in attesting re
“cruits for the army; in attending the general
“and quarter sessions of the peace, and in visit
“ing the workhouses, bridewells, and prisons.
“In addition to these various duties, many
“criminal cases occur in the course of a year,
“which are examined for the purpose, if neces
“sary, of being sent to superior tribunals for
99
“trials: such as charges of treason, murder,
“coining and uttering base money, arson, man
“slaughter, forgery, burglary, larceny, sedition,
“felonies of various descriptions, conspiracies,
“frauds, riots, assaults, and misdemeanors of
“different kinds: all of which unavoidably im
“pose upon every official magistrate a weight
“of business requiring great exertion, and an
“unremitting attention to the public interest,
“in the due execution of this very important
** trust.”
Ample provision has been made by different
statutes for the protection of justices who act
illegally in the execution of these extensive
duties. They are not to be proceeded against
at law without certain notices, nor in any but a
prescribed form of action; they may tender
amends for any wrong they have done, and give
the tender in evidence, which other wrong-doers
cannot; they are protected against all conse
quences resulting from their not knowing the
law, if their intentions appear pure and good;
and after they have sold up a man’s whole pro
perty under a warrant, however unjust the de
cision may have been, the sufferer is without
remedy; for unless he alleges and proves that
the justice acted maliciously, and without any
probable cause, he can recover only the value
H 2
10()
of the goods sold, and twopence, and must pay
his own costs".
Used as we are in other cases to hear the
most ignorant persons told, that every man is
bound to know the law; that the act done is
the evidence of its motive, and that no one who
acts unjustly is entitled to the excuse of pure
intention, it seems rather extraordinary that
they who undertake to execute the laws should
be so absolutely protected in the perversion or
violation of them. I am far from thinking that
captious actions against justices ought to be en
couraged, but a court and jury might safely be
intrusted with the decision of the question,
whether a plaintiff had or had not been in
excusably injured, either in his liberty, his for
tune, or his fame, and with the assessment of
damages, without the insulting limitation im
posed by the statute. At all events, if it be
proper to protect in an extraordinary degree
the unpaid magistracy, who devote their time
and talents gratuitously to the service of the
country, the same reason cannot be extended
to those who, by accepting a salary, acknow
ledge an obligation, and are bound to bring to
* 43 Geo. III. c. 141, commonly called, in terms of ap
propriate compliment, the twopenny Act.
101
the service in which they are to be remunerated
the talent, knowledge, and integrity, which will
enable them to execute their offices without
gross and injurious error. I believe that in
many instances, the certainty of immunity pro
duces an obstinate wrongheadedness, and a de
termined contempt of the law. I have heard,
from the mouths of some of them, such declara
tions as this: “Well, I shall do as I please; if
“I am wrong, I am indemnified.”
When the system of summary convictions had
not yet attained to its present formidable height
and alarming extent, law-writers, sensible of
the encroachment made by it on our justly
boasted privilege of trial, by jury, strove to
apologize for and palliate the evident devia
tion. The history of these proceedings, and of
the judicial power of justices of the peace in
general, is very ably and succinctly given by
Mr. Paley, in the Introduction to his Treatise
on the Law of Summary Convictions on Penal
Statutes. These convictions had their ominous
origin in an act made in the reign of Henry
the Seventh, which seems to have formed a
part of the iniquitous measures of Empson and
Dudley. The repeal was hailed as a triumph,
and Sir Edward Coke adduces the experiment
as an example of the danger of altering the
common law. The statute in question was, to
/
102
be sure, one of frightful generality; it enabled
the justices of assize and justices of the peace,
at their discretion, to hear and determine all
offences short of felony, against any statute then
in being. No modern act contains quite so ex
tensive a description; but could Sir Edward
Coke again direct his eyes toward the statute
book, and consider in detail all the summary
powers given to justices of the peace, he would
abate very much his tone of triumph, and ac
knowledge, that in modern times men are not
so sensible, as he was, of the danger of altering
the common law. To adopt a simile once used
by a king of Sardinia, he would find, that they
who could not swallow the artichoke whole,
have managed pretty well to eat it leaf by leaf.
Writers even of recent times, as Blackstone
and Burn, have viewed with great jealousy this
abandonment of the purity of first principles,
and have supposed that it is, in some degree,
atoned for, by imposing on the justice a very
strict and solemn obligation. It may be worth
while to quote from the last author, a passage
expressing his notions on the subject, and
which has been retained in the last edition,
purposely, perhaps, to show how little restraints
are to be relied on, when deviation has been
found commodious, and the bad act of one ses
sion becomes a precedent for a worse in the
103
next. “The power of a justice of the peace to
“convict an offender in a summary way with
“out a trial by jury is in restraint of the com
“mon law, and, in abundance of instances, a
“ tacit repeal of that famous clause in the great
“Charter, that a man shall be tried by his
“equals; which also was the common law of
“ the land, long before the great Charter, even
“from time immemorial, beyond the date of
“histories and records. Therefore generally
“nothing shall be presumed in favour of this
“branch of the office of a justice of the peace;
“but the intendment will be against it. For
“which reason,where thisspecial power is given
“to a justice of the peace by act of parliament,
“it must appear that he hath strictly pursued
* it; otherwise the common law will break in
** upon him, and level all his proceedings. So
“that, where a trial by jury is dispensed withal,
“yet he must proceed, nevertheless, according
“to the course of the common law in trials by
“juries, and consider himself only as consti
“tuted in the place of both judge and jury.
“charge against a person; then he must be
“summoned or have notice of such charge, and
-“have an opportunity to make his defence;
“ and the evidence against him must be such
“as the common law approves of, unless the
104
“statute specially directeth otherwise; then if
“ the person is found guilty, there must be a
“conviction, judgment, and execution, all ac
“cording to the course of the common law, di
“rected and influenced by the special authority
“given by statute; and in the conclusion, there
“must be a record of the whole proceedings;
“wherein the justice must set forth the par
“ticular manner and circumstances, so as if he
“shall be called to account for the same by a
“superior court, it may appear that he hath
“conformed to the law, and not exceeded the
“bounds prescribed to his jurisdiction.
While these opinions prevailed convictions
were so long and formal, that it was soon found,
or fancied, that justice was obstructed by re
quiring so precise a retention of the common
law requisites. Then began the practice of
giving statute forms, which grew daily more
and more lax; the time of committing the of.
fence; the place of the justice's sitting; the
name of the informer, where he was to receive
part of the penalty, were successively left out,
and, at last, as in the precedent cited in page
62, the very offence itself is kept a profound
secret. It may be said, that some of these
particulars are so evidently requisite that a sta
tute cannot, except by prohibitory terms, give
a dispensation for omitting them. I believe it
105
is thought so at Westminster, but from that
place the party is excluded, and at session, I
know, that one of the objections above stated
has been decided as often one way as the other.
And for fear the subject should benefit by any
residue or trace of the common law, a recent
statute (3 Geo. IV. c. 23) has provided, that in
all cases where the statutes have given no par
ticular form, one which is supplied by the new
actº shall be sufficient; and, as it might have
excited some attention if it had been pro
posed at once to take away the certiorari in
all cases, it has been contrived to render it use
less, by declaring in “holiday and lady terms,”
better fitted to the pages of a romance than
those of an act of parliament, that where it
shall appear on the face of a conviction, that
the defendant has appeared and been tried, and
that he has not appealed, or having appealed
has not succeeded, “such conviction shall not
“afterwards be set aside or vacated, in conse
“quence of any defect of form whatever, but
“ the construction shall be such a fair and
“liberal construction as will be agreeable to
“the justice of the case.” Perhaps the mean
ing of the author of this prettily composed
clause would have been more truly expressed, if
he had omitted the last three words.
It may be said, that, even admitting many
106
of the observations I have made to be well
founded, the evils complained of press chiefly
on the most worthless and abandoned portion
of society. The object of my solicitude is not
the delinquent, but the law. No system of
legal tyranny even yet began in attacks on the
virtuous and the good; persons of bad, or at
least suspicious character, were first pointed
out, and the appearance of a desirable end has
seemed to sanction irregular means; the evil
once committed has formed a precedent, and
by degrees, the mischief has extended to all
classes of society. Thus, in some of the in
stances I have cited, laws, intended originally
against formidable and rapacious bands, which
over-ran the country in different disguises and
under different names, have been made to in
clude within their enlarged and falsified deno
minations of rogue and vagabond, many per
sons very remote indeed from those originally
contemplated. Thus laws which affect to aim
at flagrant offenders against the comfort and
safety of man in his abode and his possessions,
have by alterations almost imperceptible, been
brought to include negligent workmen, idle
apprentices, and even truant schoolboys look
ing for birds' nests. Thus, too, powers which
have been negligently conceded, in the hope
that they would not be abused, have been so
107
extended, that right and justice are made to
depend on the judgment of individuals, more
or less instructed, as it may happen, acting in
private, subject to no control, and protected
against claims for recompense if they act amiss.
What then would you have? may be the in
quiry: the answer is easy—a return to first
principles. I trust I should be among the last
to require that wild reform which, by unhinging
a system on which society has long depended,
would bring on confusion and aggravate the
evils which it pretends to remove; but a wise
and temperate review of what has been done
amiss, and a firm, but not violent removal of
that which if suffered to remain must increase,
and even if it does not increase, is already suf
ficient to introduce fatal disease into the body
politic. It is an old observation, and Machiavel,
I believe, has written a chapter to prove it,
that no reforms are wise but those which bring
nations back to their original constitutions. In
such a voyage, the statesman turns his prow to
ward a known haven, and may hope for a safe
and happy arrival. In reforms attempted on
mere speculation, he launches into an ocean of
which he knows not the bounds, in search of an
undiscovered coast, where he may never arrive,
and where, if he should find himself, every
reality may falsify all his expectations.
108
In our great Charter is the beautiful axiom,
on the preservation ofwhich all our social rights
depend, that “No freeman shall be taken or
“imprisoned, or disseised of his freehold Ot
“liberties, or amerced * but by the lawful judg
“ment of his peers, or by the law of the land.”
I do not pretend to say, that a sentence, even so
great and important as this, is incapable, accord
ing to the necessities of the times, of being
suspended, or in some slight instances super
seded; but, in general, the Great Charter should
be a law to the law-makers, they should con
sider every deviation as a fearful exception, not
to be quoted as a precedent, far less to form the
basis of a system. If it be contended, that the
words, or by the law of the land, in the passage
I have quoted, imply a discretionary power to
enact regulations contradictory to the Great
Charter, I admit that they do; but still, the
Charter ceases to be a protection to liberty,
and a bulwark against oppression, unless the re
presentatives of the people, and the hereditary
guardians of the rights, both of the Crown and
the people, view it with so much reverence as
not to tolerate a systematic departure from its
regulations. If deviations are so frequent, and
extend so widely as they are made to do by
* The word amerced, is in another part of the Charter, but
under the same conditions.
1().9
modern laws, we should boast of our Charter no
more, but consign it at once to the contempt so
openly and indecently expressed for it by Oliver
Cromwell. Taking then the Great Charter for
a rule, let the trial by jury be restored in all
possible cases, and in this mode a sure and easy
return will be made to the liberty and safety
from which we have so widely departed, and we
may resume that boast, to which at present we
have little claim, that in England a man’s house
is his castle; his person and property sacred
until attainted by the verdict of twelve honest
men; and his rights so protected, that no wrong
can be done, even to the meanest of mankind,
without the certainty of an adequate redress.
To state more specifically: I should hope
from the wisdom of the legislature, a repeal of
all the obnoxious clauses in the several statutes
I have alluded to, and in some others; a limita
tion of the immunity of justices of the peace,
by enacting, that wherever the subject shall
complain of injury done by such magistrate, it
shall be left to the jury, under the instruction of
the judge, to decide whether he was gmilty, not
of malice alone, but of gross, wilful, and culpa
ble neglect, malversation or ignorance, and, if
the affirmative were found, to assess the damages
according to their fair and honest discretion;
and lastly, to restore the full benefit of appeal,
1 10
in all cases where the justice has power to fine
exceeding ten shillings; or to imprison for
more than ten days; the conviction to be re
turned to the session, and there,standing instead
of a bill of indictment, and subject to all the
general regularities required in one, to be tried
by the jury impanelled to try traverses, larce
nies, and misdemeanors in general.
In proposing this simple, and, in my opinion,
most effectual and satisfactory alteration, it will
be seen that I have not suggested any thing
that shall weaken the necessary powers of
government, or trench upon the just authority
of magistrates. Should it be intimated that
the course I propose would throw a grievous
burthen on those who prosecute for gross ir
regularities, or sue for small penalties, it would
easily occur to the legislature, and, indeed, be
no new thing, that every appellant should enter
into a recognizance, with proper sureties, to
abide the judgment of the session, and to pay
the penalty, with costs if the case, on appeal,
were decided against them. Nor is this pro
posal altogether an innovation, for in the act
for regulating alehouses, as if one part of it
were made to satirize the other, it is directed,
that, for third offences, the general form shall
not be pursued, but the irregularity complained
of shall be specified in the complaint or informa
111
tion, and a jury impanelled to try the issue,
whose verdict shall be binding and final. If
such a trial is fit where a penalty of a hundred
pounds and a license are in question, it is not
too much to ask for it where sums much inferior
in amount, but perhaps not less important to
the parties, depend on the event, and where
character is implicated and liberty at stake.
My observations are concluded, and I commit
them to the public, not without a considerable
portion of anxiety. I have taken a free view of
what I consider abuses, and in exposing them,
have expressed myself frankly, and perhaps
forcibly. I am conscious that I have advanced
nothing in the way of assertion without knowing
that it was true; nothing in the way of opinion
without a firm conviction that it was just. I ad
dress myself to no party or division, in society,
or in the state, I am only anxious to excite ge
neral attention, hoping to gain for my country,
in a question free from all party taint, the honest
aid of all true patriots; and that by their co
operation, the errors I have described may be
rescinded, and the constitution restored to its
purity, beauty, and vigour.
As no man writes to inform, without having
also some wish to please, I cannot dismiss these
pages without expressing my regret that I have
produced them under circumstances which for
112
:
been my solace, my reward, and my pride.
-bid me to hope that I shall gain any applause
on the score of composition. To be useful at
all, my observations must be published at this
very time, and in order to complete my task, I
have been, from the course of business, oblige
to add the toils of midnight to the fatigues of
the day; to address myself, without time for
premeditation, to the subject on which I had to
treat, and to resume, amid the intrusive pressure
of discordant avocations, the thread ofargument
which I had last pursued. These circumstances
will have given to my present writing a dis.
connected, jejune appearance, and may perhaps
have occasioned some faults more serious than
those of composition alone. I do not make this
statement with a view to deprecate any just
censure: I know I must be answerable for all
my errors; but I hope I shall stand acquitted of
wilfml negligence, or of appearing intentionally
before the public with an implied disregard of
that good opinion of which I have ever been
most truly desirous, and which has so often
-
*** : **
º
-
-
THE END. . . .
LONDON :
PRINten by Thomas bawlson, whitef Ria Rs. : ," ;:
-
B&L :
