{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 3233 9542 5786 8295","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v3_24_april_1885.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V3 April 24 1885","mylang":"de"}
64: Pruident'a Addre88. [April 24,
PROCEEDINGS OF THE GENERAL MEETING ON
FriOOy, April 24, 1885.
The thirteenth General Meeting of the Society was held at the
Rooms ot the Society of British Artists, Suffolk Street, Pall Mall, on
Friday, April 24, 1885.
PROFESSOR BALFOUR STEWART, F.R.S., PRESIDENT, IN TilE CIIAIR.
The President made the following address :-
II.
You will permit me on this occasion to allude to the great loss
which our Society has sustained in the resignation by Professor
Sidgwick of the office of President.
I cannot i:nagine one better fitted than our late President to develop
into vigorous action a struggling body such as ours, and we must all
feel deeply grateful to him for his successful accomplishment of this
object.
He has procured the recognition by men of education of a society
whose advent was at first scmewhat coldly welcomed by the fraternity
of knowledge.
Under these circumstanceseverything depended on the choice of guar-
dians for'the infant Society.Had itbeen injudiciouslyledit wouldcertainly
ha.ve proved a failure, and have thus strengthened the widespread belief
that no good result iH to be obtained by discussing subjects of a certain
class. But things have happily turned out far otherwise, and the recogni-
tion which our Society enjoys to-day is greatly due to its guidance by a.
President and officers who, through a happy mixture of boldness and
prudence, carried ene.·getically into action, have succeeded in bringing it
into its present position. Professor Sidgwick'sbenefits to the Society were
not merely those of a wise and energetic guidance of its affairs. He was
unsparing in e....ery sense where he felt that the interests of the Society
required support, and he is not only our first and honoured President
but one of our chief benefactors.
Success of this nature cannot be equalled or even approached. But
it is not, therefore, with a feeling of despair that I commence this
evening the duties of the office with which I have been honoured,
knowing that gratitude to my predecessor should prompt me to give
Digitized by Google
1885.] Pre8ident'8 Addre88. 65
him what reliet I ca.n, and to do what I can for the benefit of a Society
which has strong claims upon all who are desirous to promote know-
ledge.
It may not be out of place to bring before you a few statistics ofour
progress.
A preliminary conference was con.ened by Professor Barrett (whom
we honour as our founder) on the 5th and 6th of January, 1882. At
this meeting a Committee of sixteen were appointed, to which a few
additions were afterwards made.
The Society was next formally constituted in accordance with the
report of the Conference Committee at an adjourned meeting of the
Conference held on 20th February, 1882, the Committee being consti-
tuted as the Council ofthe new Society under the presidency' of Professor
lIenry Sidgwick.
At the first meeting of the Council, held on the 3rd March, 1882, a
number of proposals for election were brought forward, and at its
second meeting on the 17th March, 20 Members and 11 Associates were
elected.
At the end of 1882 the total number of the Society was 150; at
the end of 1883 it was 288; at the end of 1884 it was 520; while at
the present moment the total number is 586.
If these results are very encouraging as regards numbers it is a
source of equal gratification to think that men of the highest standing
in all departments of knowledge have consented to join our ranks; and
you have been already informed by Professor Barrett that a kindred
Societyhas recently been started in America under very favourable cir-
cumstances, embracing, likewise, amongst its members men of the
highest attainments and standing.
In reply to the question, what has the Society done 1 I may state
that since its commencement it has issued seven parts of Proceeding.,
of which a total number exceeding 12,000 has been distributed to
Members and others, placed in public libraries, sent for review, and sold
through the ordinary channels. An eighth part will be published very
shortly.
Early in 1884 a Joomal was commenced, which has been continued
monthly for private circulation amongst members.
In the autumn of last year a Report of the Committee on Theo-
sophical Phenomena was issued for private circulation only.
A large number of slips has also been printed comprising a
selection of the evidence collected in the various departments of
inquiry.
All these schemes could not have been carried out by means of the
ordinary income of the Society, and their successful accomplishment is
due to the fact that we have Members who are willing not only to
J!
Digitized by Google
66 President!s Address. [April 24,
devote their time and energy, but likewise their private means, to the
advancement of our interests.
The cost of the slips of printed matter and of the Theosophical
Report was bome by our late President. The printing of the slips
is now suspended, it being intended to publish selections from the
evidence in the JOfIIf'n(JZ of our Society. Professor Sidgwick has mea.n-
while agreed to be editor of the Journal, nor while devoting his time in
this way to the service of the Society has he discontinued his former
liberality, but rather transferred it into this new channel.
The library of the Society consists of more than 800 volumes,
of which about 250 are French and German works. A great many of
the English books have been presented through the kind liberality of
Members and friends.
I have read with much interest in the pages of our Journal a.
correspondence between our Secretary, Mr. Gurney, and Professor
Newcomb, the distinguished President of the American Psychical
Society. .
It would appear from this correspondence that there is a perfect
a.greement as to the great importance of studying experimentally the
subject of thought-transference.
To my mind the evidence already adduced is such as to render
highly probable the occasional presence amongst us of something which
we may call thought-transference or more generally telepathy; but it is
surely our duty as a Society to cOntinue to accumulate evidence until
the existence of such a power cannot be controverted. We have not
been remiss in this respect, and it will be found from the pages of our
Proceedings that the main strength of our Society has been given to
prove tho existence of telepathy, in the belief that such a fact well
established will not only possess an independent value of its own, but
will serve as an ndmirable basis for further operations.
But our Society has not only its staffofobserversand experimenters,
it has likewise its literary staff, whose duty it is to collect and
JlCrutinise the existing evidence on the various subjects embraced in
Psychical Research. Now, it would appear to me to be the one
unpardonable offence if this Literary Committee were to decline to
invite, to listen to, to examine, or to register the contemporaneous
evidence on any branch of psychical inquiry.
It is no doubt quite ,--onceivable that after a quantity of evidence
on some subject has been collected, the result of its discussion should
prove that there is nothing in it worth inquiring into, at least nothing
new. But a definite settlement, even of a negative character, is not
without its value, and this can only be obtained as the result of an
exhaustive discussion. On the other hand it is conceivable that the
result of such a discussion ma.y be the establishment of new facts
Digitized by Google
1886.] Presid8nf, .A.ddreu. 67
eminently worthy of record, and the next generation of our Society
would greatly blame the present if we declined to bring together.
examine,and register the contemporaneous evidence, so as to fit it, ifnot
for our own final discussion, at least for that of those who shall come
after UL
But perhaps the best justification of the labours of the Literary
Committee is to be found in what they have already done. As regards
apparitions at the moment of death, I will quote the following state-
ment by Mr. Gurney: " We have," he tells us, II collected more than
a hundred first-hand cases of apparitions closely coinciding with the
time of death of the person seen; and it is only in a. sma.ll minority of
such cases that our informants, according to their own account, ha.ve
had any other ha.llucination than the apparition in question." The
great importance of this statement will be manifest to a.ll.
Ithas, however, been objected that the evidence brought forward
by this Committee is 110 mixture of the strong and the weak ; and some
have even hinted that the effective strength of such eridence is that of
the weakest portions of it. As I know from experience that this
mixed character is 110 stumbling block to many, I will take the present
opportunity of repeating what cannot be too widely known-that the
Literary Committee are themselves very well a\Vare of this difference
between the various items of evidence which they have brought
together. Some of these are regarded by them as peculiarly of an
evidentialna.ture adapted to force conviction into the minds of those who
are sceptica.l. Other items again, while deficient in this respect, may yet
be of importance in bringing out the laws which regulate these strange
phenomena.. For example, the question, Do apparitions of the dying
actually occur 7 is to be replied to by quoting evidence of one kind
while the question as to the exact meaning of these appearances, and
theirpossible relation to telepathy, is to be replied to by evidence of
another kind less important, perhaps, in its value as regards those who
are unconvinced. Similar rules apply to all branches of knowledge.
The thanks of our Society are due to Mr. Myers for the pains he
has taken in classifying the various items, aud it is, indeed, abundantly
obvious that without such 110 preliminary process the full value of the
evidence could not possibly become known.
I have dwelt at some length on this subject because of its import-
ance, and because the public are, perhaps, apt to attach too exclusive a.
value to the experimental part of our work. I have fully recognised
the claima of the experimental part; we need in it far wider assistance
-especia.lly in the way of systematic trials of thought-transference in
private-than we have yet received. But none the less, I think, must
the codification of the current evidence be looked upon as a pressing
and paramount duty.
5' 2
Digitized by Google
68 PreBidlnt', .A.ddre88. [April 24,
We may be told in the kindest manner that there are regions which
it is utterly hopeless to approach-groups of recurrent phenomena so
wrapped about with the garments of confusion that we cannot possibly
disentangle them so as to find whether there is anything new in them
or not.
Our reply to such remarks should not be doubtful. It ought, I
imagine, to consist in a prompt refusal to believe in the existence of
any such region or of any such phenomena. Is it not at once the
privilege and the duty of the human intellect to gain, as time goes on, a.
clearer and still clearer insight into the principles which underlie 0.11
terrestrial occurrences 7 The ultimate explanation of certain classes of
these may, no doubt, be different from what we imagined on our setting
out. This, however, is not the question.
The point is, rather, whether there exist around us groups of recur-
rent terrestrial phenomena which it is utterly hopeless to grapple with.
Surely there is only one proper way of replying to this suggestion, and
that is by making the attempt. Everything is possible to courage and
prudence, coupled with perseverance. Such qualities will enable us to
overcome the preliminary Dragon which guards the entrance to these
interes~ regions, and our united efforts will ultimately result in
obtaining for us the golden apples of truth.
Digitized by Google
1885.] PnantaItM of tn, DIad. 69
III.
NOTES ON THE EVIDENOE, COLLECTED BY THE SOOIETY,
FOR PHANTASMS OF THE DEAD.
By MBa. H. SIDGWICl[.
In the following paper I propose to consider the evidence which the
Society has hitherto collected for Phantasms of the Dead, including
under this term all kinds of impressions on human minds which there
seems any reason to refer to the action, in some way or other, of deceased
persons.·
Most of those to whom this paper is addressed probably belong to
some Christian denomination, and to them the continued existence
of the soul after death is, of course, no new theory invented to
account for such phenomena as we are discussing, or requiring such
phenomena to support it. But few will have any difficulty in agreeing
with me that (I) the possibility of receiving communications from the
dead, here and now, would not follow as a necessary consequence from
the immortality of the soul; (2) that if communication of what I
may call an objective kind-distinguishable, I mean, from our own
thoughts and emotions-is possible to all those of the departed
who desire it, we should naturally expect it to occur more fre-
quently than the most sanguine can suppose that it actually does;
and (3) that its possibility, while not in contradiction with any
of the known facts of physical science, is certainly not supported,
or in any way suggested, by any of these facts. However firmly,
therefore, we may believe in the continued existence of dead
human beings. we cannot regard the supposition of their action on the
minds of the living as if it were merely the reference of an effect to a.
17era MUla known to be adequate to produce it. We must treat it as
we should treat the hypothesis, in any department of physical
investigation, of an entirely new agent, for the existence of which we
have no evidence outside the phenomenon which it is introduced to
explain. If this be so, it will, I think, be admitted that we should be
violating an established rule of scientific method if we introduced such
• This evidence does not of C01llll8 include appearances at the moment or
death, or a few ho1ll'll afterwards, since these, &8 my readers will remember,
have been classed with Phantasms of the Living.
Digitized by Google
70 [April 24,
a hypothesis except in the last resort, when all other modes of
explanation seem clearly to fall.
Exactly at what point of improbability this failure of other
explanations is to be regarded as established, cannot, I think, be
defined-at any rate, I feel quite unable to define it. But I may per-
haps say that, in my opinion, it is a point which can hardly be reached
in the case of any narrative of a single event considered by itself: if
we had only a single ghoswtory to deal with, I can hardly conceive the
kind or amount of evidence which would lead me to prefer the
hypothesis of ghostly agency to all other possible explanations. The
existence, therefore, of phantasms of the dead can only be established, if
at all, by the accumulation of improbabilities in which we become
involved by rejecting a large mass of apparently strong testimony to
facts which, as recounted, would seem to admit of no other satisfactory
explanation: and in testing the value of this testimony we are bound,
I think, to strain to the utmost all possible suppositions of recognised
causes, before we can regard the narrative in question as even tending
to prove the Gperation of this novel agency.
Of course, if its operation should ever be rationally established,
by the cumulative process that I have described, it will then become
reasonable to reconsider our evidence from the new point of view thus
reached ; and to refer to this cause, when once proved to exist, many of
the phenomena which, in the first instance, it was right to put aside
as otherwise explicable. I have made these preliminary remarks,
lest the explanations I shall endeavour to apply to some of the cases
before us should seem unreasonably far-fetched to such of my readers
as may already believe in phantasms of the dead, or are trembling on
the verge of belief.
The Society now possesses, as the residue of a much larger number, So
collection of about 370 narratives,-that seemed to deserve some con·
sideration-of phenomena, not clearly physical, and which believers in
ghosts would be apt to refer to the agency of deceased human beings.
These narratives are printed on slips for consideration and criticism,
and they constitute, probably, a fairly representative collection
of the kind of evidence that we are likely to obtain on the
subject.
I shall not, of course, attempt here to go through each case in detail
and explain my reasons for the view I have formed about it, but shall
merely give the general results of a careful examination of them, with
some examples. The slips themselves are at 14, Dean's Yard, open to
the inspection of any member of the Society ; and to anyone who is
sufticiently interested in the question to wish to examine into it for
themselves, I could furnish, if desired, a list of the narratives classified
according to my view of them, for comparison withltbeir own results.
Digitized by Google
1885.] Pkanta8m8 of tM Dead. 71
In the first partof thispaper I aba.ll explainand illustrate the different
grounds on which I think that the greater number of the cases in the
Society's collection should be set aside at the present stage of our inves-
tigation, as having no important evidential force, for the purpose of
proving the existence of phantasms of the dead. In the second part
I shall examine the residue, consisting of some twenty-five* narratives,
in detail, with a view of ascertaining what psychical theories, if any,
they seem to point to. This residue, though comparatively small and
not suggestive of any satisfactory view as to the conditions of com-
munication with the other world, nor, indeed, by any means conclusive
as to the possibility of such communication, is still, in my opinion,
quite sufficiently important to deserve serious consideration, and to
justify the pains that have been taken in collecting and sifting it.
The possible non-ghostly explanations of what pass as ghostly pheno-
mena may be conveniently classified with reference to the various sorts
of error by which the evidence to such phenomena is liable to be
affected. I should state these as (1) hoaxing, (2) exaggeration or
inadequate description, (3) illusion, (4) mistaken identity, (5) ballucina.
tion.
I. To begin with hoaxing. Probably most sceptical persons, who
have not examined the evidence actually collected, would suppose that
this is likely to be a very fruitful source of fallacious n&lTll.tives, either
(1) through the narrator hoaxing the collector, or (2) from his having
himself been made the victim of a practical joke. I think, however, that
anyone who has read the evidence will at once discard the first of these
alternatives, at any rate so far as the great mass of the first-hand
narratives is concerned.t In most of these cases enough is known of
the narrators to make it highly improbable that they are intentionally
deceiving the investigator; and even were this not so, the stories are
mostly so tame and dull in comparison with the thrilling narratives
which from time to time appear in the magazines, that I can hardly
imagine a hoaxer feeling any pride in having got them accepted as
• I purposely give the number vaguely because there is of course no clear
aDd unmistakable line betweenstories that should be placed in the first class and
thoee that belong to the second. Dift'erent people would take dift'erent views of
BOIDe of them, and I should myself probably estimate them slightly dift'erently at
dift'erent times. Moreover, it is not impossible that further evidence may expose
fatal weakuessee in one or two of those I have selected, and on the other hand
it is probable that some of those which I have for the present set aside as in
various ways insufficiently evidenced, may by additional evidence be raised into
tile firat-elass.
tIt should be observed thatthecollectioncontainsasmall numberofanonymous
stories. printed, as I understand. ouly in the hope of obtaining further informa-
tion about them through members of the Society who may see them. It is not
improbable that one or two of these may tum ont to be pure inventions.
Digitized by Google
72 Phantillsm8 of the Dead. [Apri124,
genuine. This last remark applies also, generally speaking, to the sup-
position tha.t the phenomena described are the result of practical jokes
perpetrated on the narrator. I think, however, that there are a few
which can plausibly be explained as the result of trickery. In some of
these, the ghost only does what, according to the narrative, would be
clearly within the scope of human personation; and in one, though the
apparition can hardly have been a living being of any sort, the immo-
bility and persistence of the figure, and the behaviour of one of the
actol'8 in the scene seem to me to suggest a practical joke. But I do not
think that the number of cases in which this explanation is applicable
can be more than half-a-dozen-atlea.st if we excludethe narratives which
I am disposed to set aside on other grounds.
II. But it.is obvious that without the slightest:intention to deceive,
the stories may contain unintentional exaggeration, or may omit
important details which would give us &. clue to some non-psychical
explanation. We have no means of excluding this possibility in any
case, and we can only form a judgment as to the probability of its
having been realisod in the same way as we are constantly forming
judgments in ordinary life. We know roughly in common life what
sort of things we may believe on the testimony of any ordinarily truth
ful person, and what sort of things are liable to be forgotten, imagined,
misinterpreted, or badly observed; and the weight that we attach to
what people tell us is in accordance with this knowledge.
We have, of course, to do the same thing :with "ghost stories,"
taking care, moreover, to allow full weight or the witness's state of
mind at the time and other attendant circumstances. This is a general
remark applying to all the narratives, but some rules for dealing with
special classes of cases may, I think, be laid down under this head.
All stories at second-hand (and a fortiori those that are more re-
mote) in which it is fundamentally important to know accurately
the details, should be regarded as of low value, so far as the evidence
directly supplied by them is concerned; because it is well known that
few people can repeat quite accurately in detail what they have been
told, and because there is a special tendency to distortion in narratives
of the kind we are dealing with (just as there is in scandalous stories),
owing to the fact that certain elements of the story, in the present case
the marvellous ones, are usually more striking to the imagination, and
therefore more likely to remain in the memory than the qualifying
circumstances. Besides, no description can reproduce to the mind's
eye with certainty the actual scene--no description can include every
detail: the very best may be compared to a photograph-correct as far
as it goes, but incomplete. And thus when the hearer repeats the story
-unless he does it with absolute verbal accuracy-he is liable to
describe &. mental :picture of the scene differing from the original in
Digitized by Goo
lti85.] Pllantrum8 oj the Dead. 73
just the details which would have enabled us to interpret the occurrence
correctly. Hence, in my opinion, a second-hand story, even when
reported by a good witness, can rarely' amount for us to more than this :
that in B's opinion A believed, .on good grounds, that he had seen a
ghost. This, if we have reason to respect the veracity and judgment
of A and B, is doubtless an important fact, but it is less important than
it would be if we could ourselves criticise the grounds on which A's
conclusion was based, and could compare his axperience in detail with
that of others.
On somewhat similar grounds but little definite weight can be
attached to stories which are told with too little care or detail to enable
us to judge what reasons there were at the time for supposing the
phenomenon described to be a "psychical" one. And, again, the value
of a narrative diminishes steadily as the interval between the event and
the record of it increases-not only because the details fade owing to
defective memory, but because they are liahle to be confused and sup-
plemented by subsequent suggestiOD& Hence it is much to be desired
that anyone who has what he regards as a "psychical" experience
should write it down at once with as much detail as possible.
I may here observe that there are certain narratives where the
nature of the phenomenon described seems to preclude the possibility of
obtaining evidence of a "psychical" cause. For instance, we have
several accounts of' horses being frightened in places supposed to be
haunted, where their riders or drivers see nothing. Horses are nervous
animals, and it is difficult to exhaust the possible causes of their alann.
Moreover, they are good readers of both conscious and unconscious
muscular indications-otherwise what is called a good hand in a rider
would not be so important as it is-and thus nervousness of the horse's
master, perhaps conscious of the reputation of the haunted spot, may
sometimes be imparted to the horse. Even when it is a human being
who has a feeling of dread or horror, or of something being wrong, or of
an unseen presence (a not unfrequent occurrence apparently in so·ca.lled
haunted houses), it is very difficult to obtain sufficient evidence that
this feeling was quite peculiar. One might, per/tap8, be sure of it in
one's own case if one ever experienced it, but one could not expect to
convince other people.
On the whole, the evidence appears to me to be, at present, too weak,
or otherwise seriously defective, on such grounds as I have been dis-
cussing, in about one-third of the printed stories, which I, therefore, set
aside for the present. In those that remain we have to consider
whether any known physical explanations will apply, even, as I have
said, with some straining.
III. Illusion, or misinterpretation of what is perceived by the
senses is an explanation, which is, perhaps, possible in a considerable
Digitized by Google
74 PIlanttmIUI of tll8 Dead. [April 24,
number of cases. Most of us have experienced illusions in some degree
though usually if the misinterpreted phenomenon is of more than
momentary duration, we almost immediately correct our impressions.
It must, however, be noted that short-sighted people have to
interpret much smaller indications, and are consequently more
liable to visual illusions than persons whose sight is good. This
makes it very important to know whether our witneBBes have good sight
or not. I would venture to suggest to the Committee that somewhat
more information should, if poBBible, be obtained on this point.
especially as short sight and other defects of vision are, of course.
extremely common. I am told by a short-sighted friend that illusions
will sometimes last with her till she is quite close to the misinterpreted
object, and that, owing to the blurring of the images, she is liable to be
mistaken both as to the size and shape of what she sees-taking, for
instance, a man on the road in front of her for a man on a pony, or for
two or three men walking close together abreast. In a bad light we
are all somewhat in the position of short-sighted people, obliged to
infer from small indications what it is we see, and moreover some
persons with good sight in ordinary light become short-sighted in a bad
light.
Of course, in most cases, whether we are short-sighted or not, the
true interpretation of what we see is ultimately forced upon us, but it is
easy to imagine circumstances in which this would not happen, ana it is
then that what is really an ordinary natural phenomenon is liable to
assume the appearance of inexplicable mystery.
I do not think that our collection includes, among the narratives of
apparitions seen once by a single person, any that can be fairly explained
as ocular illusions; but in examining the rarer cases of those seen by two
persons together, or successively in the same place, I have found some
in which this explanation seems admissible. Two persons seeing some-
thing rather indistinctly from the same point of view may sometimes
help each other to interpret it alike; and a figure frequently indistinctly
seen in a particular spot, especially if in a particular light, may be due
to some constantly recurring E'trect of light and shade, or arrangementof
trees or other objects, sufficiently like what it is taken for· to deceive.
Perhaps about 16 of the narratives may, with some straining, be
explained in this way. One or two specimens may be given. The
ollowing (G. 10)* is one:-
In 1845, my late husband, William Man TOWD88nd, and self, were
residing in a pretty cottage half-way between Thame and Aylesbury, had
• The number in brackets appended to each story quoted, is its number
among the .. G." slips, and the number attached to the original documents
concerning it.
Digitized by Google
1885.] .PAantIumB oj tile Dead. 75
gone there on account of his health, had been there two years, derived great
benefit ; liked itvery much ; had serious thoughts of buying it.
We had gone to bed at our usual time, say 10 ; soon after our dog, a
very intelligent but untrained field spaniel, began to bark in a sharp short
way, and continued to do 10 till 3 ; it vexed my husband and kept him
awake and gave him a bad headache, as it sounded 10 plainly in our room,
and as' the dog obeyed my voice quicker than his, he asked me if I would go
to the window at the back of the house and make him go to his kennel. I
had done 80 before, but had to croll a landing, go through an empty room
into the room ourservant, a woman about 30 years old,was sleeping in, as we
only had one window that looked over that yard. I may say, we neither
of us had any fear of anything and did not believe in ghosts, or anything of
that lOrt,and I preferred goingabout my own house in the dark to taking the
trouble of carrying a candle at any time, as I always knew where to find what
I wanted.
I called to my dear old dog, tried to soothehim, he answered with a whine,
butI heard his chain rattle as he went in, did as I told.him, and we heard no
80und of him again.
Myservant slept, did not know I had been in her room. I turned to go
back to my own room and in paBIling the landing window just outside my own
door I lifted the blind, always liking to look out into the sky ; it was, as I
laid, between 3 and 4:, and in October, and we had been having heavy
dews at night, and it seemed a greyquiet IOrt of morning, no moon, no stars,
all very still, yet I could see distinctly. We had a night-light burning and my
husband was Bitting up in bed. I had stayed "t the back window looking out
lOme time and thought what a strange lightit was, 10 I held the blind only a
little on one side to get a better look at the front, but dropped it and started,
made an exclamation, and my husband heard me and asked what it was ; at
first I did not answer, did not, in fact, choose to believe what I saw ; he
Iprang to the window, did just as I had done; we asked each other, what
can it be, or rather, who can it be. Standing looking at our room windoW'
just at the point of one of my flower beds was an old man in dreuing gown
and nightcap; he looked about 60.
" Ia it anyone you know '1" asked my husband. I did not. Did he, I
asked, or had he ever seen anyone at all like it 7 No. In speaking of it
afterwards to each other, asyou may be sure we oftendid, we always called it
Scrooge, from Charles Dickens' Christmas Carol, so no one knew whom we
meant. My husband atoncebeganto prepare t.() gooutto the garden. I wouldn't
hear of it, a terror came over me and stift'ness. I had only my dightdrell on,
no slippers ; he saw me change and took me up and put me in bed and re-
tumed to the window. I made him promise me he wouldn't leave me, which
he never quite forgave me. He told me after a little time it was getting
shorter and then that ithad disappeared underground. I seemed toJoae all
the use of my limbs for a time.
I was 80 anxious to get into the garden in the morning to see if the grRIIII
had been at all disturbed and the dew showed any foot prints, but no, not a
blade of anything had been intenered with. My husband sa.id, "Now you
must not speak of this to anyone, if your maid has any idea of it she will
leave at once, and we shall have all the country folk here. We will make all
Digitized by Google
76 Pliallta8mB oj the Dead. [April 24:,
the inquiries we can aa to who baa lived. here, what IOrt of p8l'8ODII they
were." We did 10, and found the hOUie had been built by a farmer who had
retired there with hill wife; they had no children; they had been dead
80me years, and there had been several tenant. ; no one used. to stay in it
long; no remark waa ever made to us aa to any reaaon, nor did we make any.
1 aaked one of our friends to give me a description of the owner of the place
as she had known him well; it waa exactly like ourviaitor.
The laat time we spoke of it, we were jUit aa unable to account for it
as whenwe saw it ; had we not both seen it at the same time we agreed we
should never have named it, nor have expected anyone to have believed us.
We did notleave for lOme time after,butnever saw anything elae,nor have
I since, but I have never looked out into the night with the same pleasure,
and it alwaysc1'Ollles my mind.
July 9th, 1883. M. TowNSBND.
[Strange noises were heard on two occasions,which could not be accounted
lor. Once Mrs. Townsend was greatly startled by a tremendous crash, which
Mr. TOWDll8nd did not hearat all.]
Thirty-eight years seem to have elapsed after this experience before
it was written down, and in that time the definiteness of the figure,
and the exactness of correspondence between it and the old farmer may
have, perhaps, grown in recollection. Besides, considering what an
inadequate thing a description is, exactness of correspondence such as
is here meant can never come to very much. I suppose no one feels
that he could at once recognise an escaped burglar from the police
description of him. All he would know would be that certain persons
were excluded by the description while certain others were not. But
to go back to our ghost; some of its characteristics, namely, its being
rooted to the spot and in a. fixed attitude, and its disappearance by ap-
parently sinking into the ground, suggest an effect of light, e.g., of a
rising or setting moon shining through the house on to a shrub or
plant. If Mr. Townsend had but gone down to the garden as he
wished, he would, doubtless, have ascertained definitely whether what
is here suggested,or any other physical explanation, was or was not possi-
ble; and had the occurrence been recent, an examination of the house
and garden might even yet have been worth making. But as the story
stands, it can hardly be thought unreasonable to regard the above ex-
planation as more probable than any "psychical" one.
I will here add a narrative (G. 117) of a kind quite unique in our
collection, and which I am inclined to think may be explained as a.
case of collective illusion, though, if so, the illusion was so remarkable
on account of its persistence and repetition, as almost to suggest a.
borderland between illusion and hallucination.
It has been received directly from the elder of the two ladies who
witnessed the phenomenon; the younger sister has read it through and
Digitized by Google
1885.] P"anta8m8 oj the Dead. 77
appended a brief comment to the account. The maid cannot now be
traced.
" I daresay it is ten or twelve years since this happened. One night in
November my sister C. and myself, with the maid, had been to evening
service in our village church. There was thick fog ; the moon was full, but
it made a BOrt of steam in the fog, instead of shining brightly.
" As we walked we met a man : he was whistling, and we heard his whistle
and his footsteps long before we saw him ; he passtld us on C.'s side, whistling
still. Shortly after he had gone, I was surprised to see another man at C.'a.
aide, who had come there without making a BOund; he was a much &horte\'
man than the first. C. apparently did not see him ; I was walking beside
her, and I pulled her sleeve, whispering • Let that man pass.' C. was
walking on the outside of the three, next the carriage road. As I spoke, the
man disappearEd-it seemed, into C.'s dreBB; neither C. nor the maid had
seen him, and he had made no BOund. In another moment we were all
bewildered at the sight around us; it was as if we were in a crowded street;
innumerable figures were round us; men, ,,'omen, children, and dogs, all
were moving briskly about, BOme singly, others in groups, all without &
BOund; they appeared mist-like. There was a broad strip of grass on our
right, and a narrow strip on our left; the figures were hidden directly they
got on either of these dark strips, or when thtly passed into ourselves; but
&8 we walked on they came from every quarter. Some seemed to rise out of
the graBB on either side of us; others seemed to pass through us, and come
out on the other side. The figures all seemed short, dwarf-like, except o'lte,
of whom I write after. The women were dressed in bygone fashion, high
bonnets, big cloaks or shawls, and large 1l0unces on their dreBBes, such as I
remember my mother wearing when I was a child. We three were never
mistaken as to the identity of the di1l'erent shapes; if one saw a man, aU
saw a man ; if one saw a woman, all" saw the woman; and BO on. Over-
head it was perfectly free of them; they were all walking on the ground, as
we oUl"lleh-es were. We saw two men (at di1l'erent intervals) that had sparks
all round their faces; they appeared to grin. As we saw the second of
these, looking hideous, close to us, one of my companions said •I can't pass
that,' and I answered, •Look at the sky, you don't see them then.'
"There was one man taller than all the rest (he looked '!)ery tall), who
took great strides, though perfectly noiseleBB; he wore a kind of cape ; he
was the only one who walked beside us, and he was on the carriage road ;
the rest all went on in an aimleBB kind of way, losing themselves in thtt
gr&BB, and BO on; but this one never changed his step or swerved.
" As we walked on, and he kept near us, we cast frightened glances at
him, and kept bidding each other in a whisper to look at him, though he
never turned his head to look towards us. ,,-e approached our own gate,
where we should turn in, and then we had a long drive to walk up before we
should reach the house. I think that by the time we reached our gate all the
figures had disappeared except this one tall man. He had quite a di1l'erent
look to any of the others, looked more horrible altogether. Hia way of
walking was quite di1l'erent to the rest, and he was, I should think, twice as
tall or more than any of the others. He looked as if he had a purpose ; the
rest seemed quite di1l'erent. As we had to CroBB the road and enter ourgate.
Digitized by Google
78 PhantfUtnIJ of tke Dead. [April 24;
I thought I could not go if that homble figure went too, but to our intense
relief, he paaaed our gate, and went on with his measured stride up the middle
of the road. As we turned into our gate, he was the only form in sight.-
E. F., Febnlary 7th, 1882."
Mrs. F.'s sister adds:-
"The only thing I do not recollect in this story is where Jc~. says the men
had a gr'n. All the rest is true. I cannotsay I recollect the faces. The
sparks I did see; the faces appeared to me, as did the figures, mist-like.-
C. M. B., February 11th."
In two further lettara, Mrs. F. writes :-
(1) [As to the distance actually traveraedin company with the" spirits.:']
" After talking together and recalling the road, we think we may safely say
we were among them for 200 yards, or thereabouts." [So that the probable
duration of the vision would be from two to three minute•.]
(2) "As to the sparks round the two faces, I certainly think they were
on the faces; they were around the faces, as it might be, on the edge of the
faces ; ~cy were yellow sparks; the twofigures who had the sparks appeared
to me thin and cadaverous, for the faces did not look t"OUnd, but seemed to
fall in under the cheek bones. I wish I could draw, for I can see the
, things' now just as plainly as I saw them then, and 1 could point out the
exact spot of ground on which they stood. We were close to them. As to
the number of sparks I cannot speak definitely: they were placed at regular
distances round the face'; there might be about ten or twelve round each
face, 80 I think. They appeared yellow and bright, and they made a slight
steam in the fog. Their light was not nearly 80 beautiful as a star's light"
[this last a suggested simile]; "it might be more like a sma.ll yellow
candle's flame. There was nothing beautiful about them.
(3) "You ask whether I have any-theory as to the apparition. I have
none whatever, and should be extremely interested if anybody could throw
light upon the matter. The style of the women's dreBS seemed to take me
back as far as I could remember (perhaps t.o 1857), when I seemed to
remember ruy mother wearing the same 80rt of fuhion, but, as you know,
fashions come and go, and repeat themselves a hundred times. I think the
men chielly wore capes or long cloaks; but, you must remember, they all
looked dark and mist-like. • . . I should be myself about 20 when I
saw this appearance, and my sister 16. One might imagine it
to be a kind of mirage, only the whole appearance wu so unlike what one
would have seen in any town at the time we saw it. No woman in
any English town wu dreBSed in the least as were aU the women in our
vision.
(4) " We were a.ll very much frightened. The maid and my sister were
crying aloud ; I was not, for I felt I must keep my wits about me; the teara
were rolling down my cheeks in a kind of bewilderment, yet 1was notcrying,
and my voice was strong and firm. We kept pulling each other from one
and another side of the road, as the spirits came thicker towards us
from different sides, for it was an uncomfortable feeling to see them disappear
into ouraelves.
" When we burat into the house with the history of ourcurious apparition
Digitized by Google
1885.J Pkanta8m8 of tAe Dead. 79
my father and mother came out with us again, to see if anything was to be
seen, but the road WBS quite free of anything, and after walking about for
half-an-hour we went indoors again."
Illusion is certainly not a very plausible explanation of this
occurrence, but it is perhaps possible that the small figures were
irregularities in the density of the fog interpreted into shapes of men
and women, the witnesses confirming each other in their interpretation,
and that the large figure was a real man walking noiselessly, as a man
does, for instance, in goloshes. The fact that the small figures disappeared
directly they got on either of the dark strips of grass, affords, I think,
a strong reason for regarding them as illusions; for it is difficult to see
why a hallucination, veridical or otherwise, should be affected so much
by the background, while on the other hand, an illusion caused, as I have
suggested, by irregularities in the density of the fog, would depend on
the background almost entirely. If the phenomenon was really a
CI psychical" one it is peculiarly unlucky that the one fact of this kind,
recorded in a collection of 370 narratives, should have occurred in
a fog.
So far I have dealt only with visual illusions, but auditory illusions
are, I think, commoner. We interpret sounds from smaller indications
than sights, and more mistakes are possible about them. If we see a
figure, we cannot be mistaken as to the direction in which we see it,
and the relation to other objects, called in optics parallax, I:onstantly
enables us to estimate its distance, and consequently its size. Whereas
in sounds we may easily be wrong about direction, and as to distance,
and consequently absolute loudness, we have, I think, no guide at all,
unless we know independently what the source of sound is. Anyone
may experimentally verify this, if he will carefully observe his first
uncorrected impressions as to the source of unexpected sounds. This
difficulty in the exact localisation of unknown sources of sounds is
a very serious obstacle to discovering their possible physical causes, and
makes it;, I think, on the whole, unwarrantable to assume that
mysterious sounds not showing intelligence are physically inexplicable,
merely because not yet physically explained.
There are, however, three considerations, which, in a more legiti-
mate way, suggest a CI psychical" origin for such sounds, and though I
do not think that as at present exemplified in the collection before us,
these considerations are very weighty, it would he a mistake, in view of
further investigations, to put them altogether out of court. (I) The
sounds sometimes seem to show signs of intelligent agency, or of corre-
spondence with external and physically independent circumstances. For
instance, raps seem to vary in answer to questionR asked, or the sounds
are for the first time heard in seeming connection with a very recent
death. We have not, I think, at present any very strong evidence for
80 Pllanta8tn8 oj the Dead. [April 24,
such psychical signs as these, but if the origin of the sounds be really
non-physical it is in this way that there is, probably, most likelihood of
proving it.* (2) In houses where there seems to be good evidence for
the occurrence of visual apparitions, mysterious sounds also occur, and
if it can be shown that sounds and sights have in these cases some
common psychical origin, this will, of course, afford a primdjacie
ground for attributing similar sounds to a similar origin when they
occur by themselves. (3) Many of the sounds in question appear to
those who hear them to resemble sounds usually made by human
beings, such as footsteps, rustling of dresses, moving of furniture over-
head, the crash of falling china, the smack of a whip on door or
furniture, raps and blows on walls and doors, cries, groans, sobs, sighs.
whisperings and inarticulate voices. I think, however, that little
importance can be attached to this consideration. For none of the
sounds I ha.ve enumerated seem to mo at all unmistakable in character.
For instance, the chief characteristic of footsteps is their periodicity.
Any recurring tap having about the same period might easily be
mistaken for them, and if it gradually increased or diminished in loud-
ness it would suggest a person approaching or receding.t And again,
it is well known that draughts of air under certain circumstances will
produce the illusion of whispering.
It is clear from our evidence that, in many cases, considerable
trouble has been taken to find any physical cause for the mysterious
noises without success-the inhabitants having often before them the.
sceptic's favourite explanation of rats quite as clearly as we have. On
the other hand, obvious causes are no doubt sometimes over-looked, or
their effect under-tlStimated. In one case, for instance, (312) we learn
from the owner of a house that the partition-wall between it and
the next house, is probably not so completely impervious to sounds as
• Careful observations on this point should be made by those residing in
houses where mysterious noises occur. It is satisfactory to know that this is
being done by General Campbell, the narrator of No. 351, and we may hope for
valuable evidence from him.
t In some caaes there seems good ground for thinking that sounds of this
nature were correctly localised though unexplained. The following is an extract
from a recent narration of experiences wMch occurred, unfortunately, 30
years ago. It has been shown to me by the Committee in manuscript, and has
not yet been printedamong the slips :-" Almost every night I used to hear these
footsteps, and used sometimes to sit on the stairs holding the bannisters on each
side with my hands. Nothing corporeal could have passed me; but the foot-
steps distinctly passed me. Two stairs in the bottom flight were in the habit
of creaking when trodden upon; and when I heard the steps coming I used to
count, and the creak came always regularly on these two stairs. It was like a
heavy unshod foot." In this case, and in others, the footsteps have sometimes
been followed about the house.
Digitized by Google
1885.] PnanttUmIJ oj tAe Dead. 81
our informant, who had occupied the former house for some years,
believed it to be.
I do not give any specimen of these narratives of houses haunted
by noises only, because one has already appeared in the Procuding.
of the Society. (Part VI., p. 144.)*
There are, I think, about 30 of the stories which come under the
head of merely unexplained sounds, and about the same number
where there is good evidence for unexplained sounds, and also evidence
for other phenomena, but where the latter evidence does not seem to
me important for our present purpose. Here I should remark that
evidence for the ghostly nature of other phenomena, e.g., apparitions,
is not, in my view, materially strengthened by the fact that there are
mysterious noises at the same time or place, because the existence of
the sounds, and the consequent idea that a house is haunted, may, for
aught we know, produce a state of mind conducive to hallucinations.
It is noticeable that in some accounts of haunted houses, the figure seen
varies with the seer, being seen a.t different times and places and,
perhaps, only once by each person. For instance, in one narrative
(168), one person is said to have seen a figure in white on the stairs;
another person,when in bed,a man in a shootingjacket; and a third, also
in bed, a woman and a baby. Does not this suggest a casual combina-
tion of dreams and either illusions or the merely subjective
hallucinations of which I shall presently speak, to which importance
was attached because the house had already acquired a reputation of
being haunted f I will give here,as an illustration, a case (G. 324) where
the evidence for the phenomena described seems very good, though
they occurred 32 years ago, and where it is, perhaps, possible
that real but unexplained sounds, resembling human footsteps, in some
way caused a purely subjective hallucination:
From Mrs. Watson (written by her daughter), 42, Old Elvet, Durham,
February 24th, 1884.
I am writing at my mother's dictation, her recollection of the circum-
stance which occurred at Armitage during the summer of 1852. She was
alone in the dining-room; her sisterand sister's husband were in the kitchen
about 2 o'clock in the afternoon.
She distinctly heard footsteps loudly running upstairs, and the door at the
top of the stairs" banged." She thought it was her brother-in-law, but he
immediately afterwards opened the dining-room door, and asked btlr if she
had heard the sound.
He and his wife had heard exactly the same while in the kitchen, and the
latter looking up the stairs had seen the figure of a man at the top of the
* I rank this narrative in this class because the evidence in it for
intelligence in the agency producing the sounds seems, to me, too slight and
indefinite for any stress to be laid on it.
G
Digitized by Google
82 PhantfJ8m8 0/ the Dead. [April 24,
stairs, who turned and looked down at her, and then disappeared, the door'
banging after him. She said it was a figure exactly resembling her father.
Every possible search was immediately made, butnot the slightest clue ever
found to the mystery.
ANNIE M. L. WATSON.
The following independent account is from the Rev. R. L. Loughborough,
Pirton Vicarage. Hitchin, brother of Mrs. Watson and of the sister (Mrs.
Swann), above mentioned.
Pirton,
20th. February, 1884.
It Us nearly 30 years since the following account was given to me, in the
house where it occurred, by my sister, Mrs. Swann, who then resided in a de-
tached house in the village of Armitage, in Staffordshire. The house is
surrounded by a garden having back as well as front entrance j the back
entrance led into the kitchen, from whence a back stair, enclosed, led to the
upper rooms. Mrs. Swann was alone in the kitchen engaged at a table
standing against the enclosure. No door opened, but she was startled by
hearing the 80und of footsteps as of one ascending the enclosed stair. She
immediately opened the door at the foot of the stairs, and being broad day-
ight saw a figure ascending, which she at Ol1ce recognised as that of her
father, who had been dead severnl years. She recognised the figUl'e by the
hand placed behind, as was his custom when alive and walking ; and she
recognised the face when he turned at the top and looked back. On reach-
ing the top of the stairs the figure turned round, looked at her for a brief
space, then seemed to pass along the passage. Her husband and sister (now
Mrs. Watson) were in another part of the house, the dining-room; they
both heard the sound 88 of footstept', and, as by an impulse, b:>th quickly
ascended the front stairs, looked through the house, but saw nothing. I may
add that the occurrence took place just before Mrs. Watson's marriage, per-
haps two months or 80, and that I heard of it when I went to Armitage to
perform the ceremony. Mrs. Swann has been deoo some years j but when
she related the affair to me, was fully convinced of the reality of the vision.
R. LnmSAY LoUGHBOROUGH.
-The next account is frem a letter from Mr. George W. Swann, East
Boldon, Newcastle-on-lyne, to Mr. Loughborough.
Febntaf'l! 29th, 1884.
A clearer and more correct description* could not be given, and I have
really nothing to add but that I distinctly heard the noise, and Anne as dis-
tinctly saw what she believed to be her father, running up the
oack stairs. It took Maria and myself very little time to run
through the whole of the house. In vain we looked for signs of
anyone being in j and it was impossible for anyone to have got out, for
men were working outside close by, and told us they had seen and heard
nothing. Maria's version is correct,-that she wasalone in the dining-room,
and that I went hastily to her, and we both rushed up the front stairs,
• Mr. Swann refers to the above account by?tlra. Watson, which had been
aent to him by ~Ir. Lcughborough.
Digitized by Google
1885.] PhanM8m8 0/ the Dead. 83
expecting to meet the intruder on the landing leading from the back to the
front. It W88 after that Anne told us who the figure W88 like, and to her
dying day she W88 convinced that it W88 her father. At this distance of time
I am quite certain of hearing a man's feet going up the u"carpeted back
stairs.
It will be convenient to mention here that there are a few accounts
of phenomena other than sounds---e.g., lights dancing on the ceiling,-
which undoubtedly call for investigation, as the sounds do, but which,
like the sounds, cannot, I think, at present be referred to "psychical"
causes on any better ground than that no physical cause has yet been
found for them; while their fleeting nature and rare occurrence make
the search for possible physical causes difficult.
IV.-The next explanation which I will consider is mistaken iden-
tity in its various forms-including under this head all the cases
where we can suppose that what was taken for a phantasm, was a
living being in the flesh, or otherwise a real earthly specimen of that
which it resembled ; and also eases where there has been a mistake as
to the fact of death, as when a person taken for a ghost has really been
alive all along. About 13 of the narratives may, perhaps, be explained
in this way, though generally, it must be admitted, with some difficulty.
The following narrative (G. 300) received from Mr. William H.
Stone, 1, Park Avenue, Slade Lane, Levenshulme, Manchester, is one
of them :-
I think it W88 in ISM ; at that time we were large leather factors, and
hide and skin brokers in Hopstown ; when I say we, my employers were in
the above line of busineas, and I was mana.ger of the latter department, and
in which we used a large amount of stationery, such as weekly catalogues,
blackleads, and memorandum books, &c., for our buyers and our own men.
I W88 going along from our office, in rather a merry mood, to order from a
stationer in P-- Street a quantity of catalogues wanted for next. Friday's
sale, for we BOld the hides and skins by auction every Friday, at half-past
1 o'clock to the minute, or nearly BO. As I said, I W88 going along P--
Street,-it might be some six or eight days before the great St. Leger day.
I generally had a pound or two on the" Leger," and it was my intention, as
lOOn as my little order was given for stationery, to see a friend about the
horse I had backed. Croasing from left t.o right in P-- Street, whom
should I meet (or as I thought met) but an old customer, as he had been for
some years, of my father's; my father was formerly a brewer, and he had
supplied the party I thought I met with ale, as I said. for some years, and I
used to collect the accounts from him along with others in the same line:
he was a beerhouse-keeper, or as they were then called, a jerry-shopkeeper.
I went up to him, called him by his right name, shook him by the left hand,
for he had no right, it having been cut off when he was a youth; he had a
substitute for a hand in the st-ape of a hook, and he was, said he, very active
with this hook when his services were required in turning anyone out of his
house that was in any way refractory; he was what you might call a jolly,
Q 2
Digitized by Google
84 PIlanttUftl8 of the Dead. [Apri124.
good. even-tempered sort of a man, and much respected by his customers,
most of whom did a little betting in the racing line. He had a very red
countrified sort of a face, and dreaed quite in a country style, with felt hat,
something after the present style of billy-cocks, with thick blue silk hand-
kerchief and ronnd white dots on it, his coat, a sort of chedle-swinger, and a
gold watchgua.rd paBBing round his neck and over his waistcoat ; his clothing
was all of good material and respectably made. The moment he saw me his
face shone bright, and he seemed much pleased to meet me, and I may say
I felt a similar pleasure towards him. Mind, this uccurred in perfect day-
light, no moonlight or darknea so eBBentia] an accompaniment to ghost
atories; many people were passing and repassing at the time. You may be
sure I did not stand in the middle of the street for about seven minutes
talking and shaking hands with myself; someone would have had a laugh at
me had that been the case. I almost at once, after the stereotyped compli-
ments of the day, launched into the state of the odd! respecting the St.
Leger, and into the merits and demerits of various horses. He supplied
me with what information I required, and we each went our way. He was a
mail considered to be well posted up in such matters, had cool judgment and
discrimination; in fact, he was one of those that would not be led away by
what are called tips. I made a memorandum or two, shook his hand again,
and passed on about my busineBB, ordered my catalogues, &c.
I came back sauntering along towards the office, not now intending to
aee the party I had previously intended to see. .As I got to the same part
of P-- Street, on my way back, I suddenly stood still, my whole body
shook, and for the moment 1 tried to reason with myself. The man I had
been speaking to was dead some four years before! Could it be poaiblo that
he had been buried alive 1 This is horribly shocking to think about, but such
things haTe taken place. Decomposition being the only certain indication of
death, might he not have been prematurely buried 1 But, if so, what had I
to do with it1 I had nothing to do with his death, but I am now sorry I do
not know or recollect the particulars of his death and burial. I certainly saw
his funeral. [We have failed to obtain the certificate of death or burial.]
.As I stood in the street I tried to give utterance to my thoughts and
feelings, but no, I felt a sort of dumbness, and fairly gasped for breath. I
felt a cold shiver come over me. although the day was warm; the hair of my
head seemed as if it would force my hat ofl'; my very blood seemed to object
to perform its duty.
The question might be asked: Was I unwell 1 had I been indulging too
freely in stimulants 1 In b,oth cases I answer, No! for at that time I was
particularly moderate in the use of stimulants, or tobacco, and was enjoying
the most robust health, such as I never enjoyed before or since, and had a
constitution like a horse. Was I annoyed in my mind in any way 1 Not in
the least. Was it really a vision of the departed 1 Let the reader judge for
himself. I give it up. Had I been deceived in havin! met the man 1 No
such thing. Then was it someone very like him 1 Nothing of the sort, for
the very words that paBBed between us could come from no other lips but
the man himself, in substantial flesh and blood. Was it an optical
delusion 1 for nothing is 80 deceptive as optical delusions. Certainly not;
we sometimes believe we see what we do not see, but in this case it was
Digitized by Google
188::>.] Phanta&m8 of tM Dead. 85
nothing of the aort, nor could it be aomebody like him, it was him I
As I aaid before, he had but one hand, and his right hand teal hilleft 0116,
in a sense. I had buaineaa tranaactiona with him for many years. He
had entirely slipped out of my memory for a length of time. That
he was in or out of existence it never occurred to me for one moment
till now ; and the thought never presented itself throughout the interval
between my going and coming, and perhaps never would have done,
had I not gone the same way back, by way of P-- Street, and passed.
the identical spot. It may be asked, am I, or was I, superstitious 7 I say,
No, emphatically.
To conclude, and as I have several times aaid before, and as I again say,
I gave a start, and said, Bleaa me 1 how can this be 7 not an optical delusion,
not it. What then 7 Nothing but a slight mystery, and I was confident I
could easily aolve it. Never was I more mistaken, for from that day to this
I still remain in profound ignorance as to what was tho cause or meaning of
what I saw.
Mr. F. A. Whaite, writing to Mr. Gurney from Whaite's Fine Art
Gallery, Bridge Street, Manchester, October 16th, 1883, says:-
.. You ask Mr. Stone if he ever mentioned the circumstance mentioned in
your note of the 14th inat."(i.e., the above account.) "Hedidnameitto
me and my parents $e same day; and I believe it was the truth, for he was
80 excited about it at the time."
This occurrence may, I think, be possibly accounted for by
supposing that the man our informant talked to was a living man, and
that he was mistaken as to which of his father's customers had died
four years before. This explanation may seem far-fetched, but any
other, whether" psychical" or not, is very difficult. It clearly cannot
have been an illusion or a trick, and a hallucination or a ghost behaving
as this one did-touched, heard, seen, and talked to for several minutes,
in broad daylight, in a public street, and presumably seen by all the
paasers-by-would be unique among the hallucinations and ghosts
of our collections.
V. I now come to the discussion of a more important and difficult
part of the subject than any which has yet been before us-namely.
hallucination. The difficulty which at once meets us arises from the
fact that genuine phantasms of the dead such as we are discussing
would themselves generally take the form of hallucinations of the senses
-that is, they would not (at least in my opinion, but I shall discuss
this question somewhat more fully further on) form part of the external
physical world o.round us. It is true that'ghosts are alleged sometimes
to produce a physical effect on the external world; but this supposition
opens up a new field of difficulty, since it rea.lly does bring us into
prim4facie collison with the physical sciences; and on the whole it has
seemed to me best to leave the small group of stories, in which
physical. as distinct from psychical, phenomena. are definitely alleged
Digitized by Google
86 Phanta8m8 of the Dead. [April 24,
to have occurred, to be treated in connection with the records of
physical phenomena, reported to have been experimentally obtained at
spiritualistic seances.
The phenomena with which the mass of the narratives are concerned
-if we omit mere feelings and impressions to which I can attach little
weight-are almost a.ll, at best, indistinguishable from ha.llucinations.
The question then is how are we to distinguish them from ha.llucinations
which are not what is called veridical. !'here is nothing, so far as we at
present know, either in the phenomena themselves, or in the condition
of the percipient, by which they may be distinguished. For careful
inquiry shows that solitary, and seemingly non-veridical, ha.llucinations
of persons whom there is no reason to think otherwise than healthy in
body and mind, do occur. Clearly, then, we should not be justified in
assuming a hallucin..tion to be veridical without some special extema.l
reason for doing so, or, in other words, some confirmatory coincidence.
When the phantasm is that of a living person, information about that
person may aft'ord us the required reason. But in the case of phantasms
of the dead, we are cut oft' from the possibility of any information about
the supposed agent, and are reduced to seek for some other kind of
confirmation. Several kinds of confirmation are possible, and of these
five seem to me to be more or leBB exemplified by the part of our present
collection to which I attach most importance.
Of ha.llucinations without any such confirmation, we have, I
think, about forty, and about as many more where the confirmatory
evidence required does not seem to me strong enough.
The first kind of confirmation which I will consider occurs when
two people have a hallucination simultaneously. It certainly seemB
in the highest degree improbable that two people should independently
have similar subjectively caused hallucinations; but for those who, like
myself, are disposed to regard tlwugkt-trans/erence or telepatl~y as estab-
lished, the fact that two persons apparently see the same apparition at
the same time, does not prove that it is extema.Ily caused in both cases.
We must admit the poBBibility that A. having a hallucination, may
by thought-transference convey the impreBBion to B, and cause B to
have a ha.llucination too ; and even perhaps that A may cause a halluci-
nation to B by some telepathically conveyed impreBBion, though his own
mental disturbance does not extema.lise itself in the same way. At
any rate we know as yet too little about ha.llucinations and the
conditionsunder which they occur, to say that this cannot be so. These
suppositions may seem extravagant; but according to the general
principle with which I started, it seems to me that I am bound to press
the hypothesis of telepathy as far as it will go, no less than the other
hypotheses-exaggeration, illusion, mistaken identity, &c. And it should
be observed that it is not necessary to suppose that the two ha.llucina-
Digitized by Google
1885.] Phantasm& of the Dead. 87
tions, even when believed to be similar, are so in every detail. No one
takes in every detail of an object seen, especially when seen for so short
a time as these hallucinations usually last, and A's description may
easily seem to recall to B's mind points which he did not actually observe
himself, though he did not observe the contrary. The positive evidence
in favour of this hypothesis is not as yet large in amount, or conclusive
in quality. But there are cases among the collected narratives of
phantasms of the living, which seem more easily explained on this h~
thesis than on any other, and whichtherefore supportit as far as they go.
For example (L.1531) a lady tells us that her brother and his wife, both
now dead, once asked her whether she had been thinking of them in
any special way on a certain night some months previously. It ap-
peared that they had both seen her standing at the foot of their bed.
She could not remember anything on her part which suggested a cause
for this phenomenon. Another very interesting case of a similar kind
was printed in the Proceedings, Vol. I., p. 145. Then again there is a
curious story (L. 323) in which the:mother of a dying woman appears
to the nurse at the bedside. There is no evidence of what our Com-
mittee call "agency" on the part of the mother, and she was quite
unknown to the percipient. It seems here plausible to suppose that
the sick person was in some way the agent causing the hallucination.
though we do not know what was her own experience at the time.
If this hypothesis, as to the nature of collective hallucinations, be
regarded as tenable, then all the stories where there is no other ground
for assuming an external cause may possibly be cases of thought-
transference between living persons, and cannot be regarded as affording
arguments for the possibility of communication with the dead or of
apparitions directly connected with them. There are, I think, about
20 such stories in the collection. 'lhe following may be given as a
specimen (G. 405, printed also as 610), the impression of the little
orphan's dream being supposed transferred to the warden. The story
was originally printed in July, 1883, in an account of the Orphanage
where it occurred, entitled "The Orphanage and Home, Aberlour,
Craigellachie," &c. (pp. 44, 45), and we have since obtained confirmation
of it from the Warden.
In 1875, a man died leaving a widow and six orphan children. The three
eldest were admitted into the Orphanage. Three years afterwards the widow
died, and friends succeeded in getting funds to send the rest here, the
youngest being about four years of age. At this time the Orphanage con-
tained nearly 30 inmates,for the smaller ones of whom the Warden did every-
thing that was required. There was not a spare room in the house, and
visitors to the Orphanage had to be lodged in the parsonage. About six
months after the arrival of the younger children referred to above, two
visitors uuexpectedly arrived late in the evening-too la.te to get a. bed aired
Digitized by Goo
88 Phantasms if the Dead. [April 24,
at the parsonage; it was therefore arranged that they should have the
Warden's room, he agreeing to take a bed in the little ones' dormitory,
which contained 10 beds, nine occupied. No other change except this was
made in the usual order of things.
In the morning, at breakfast, the Warden made the following state-
ment :-As near as I can tell I fell asleep about 11 o'clock, and slept very
soundly for some time. I suddenly woke without any apparent reason, and
felt an impulse to turn round, my face being towards the wall, from the
children. Beforo turning, I looked up and saw a soft light in the room.
The gas was burnmg low in the hall, and the dormitory door being open, I
thought it probable that the light came from that source. It was soon
evident, however, that such was not the case. I turned round, and then a
wonderful vision met my gaze. Over the second bed from mine, and on
the same side of the room, there was floating a small cloud of light, forming
a halo of the brightnesa of the moon on an ordinary moonlight night.
I sat upright in bed, looked at this strange appearance, took up my watch
and found the hands pointing to five minutes to 1. Everything was quiet,
and all the children sleeping soundly. In the bed, over which the light
seemed to float, slept the youngest of the six children mentioned above.
I asked myself, .. Am I dreaming 1" No! I was wide awake. I was
seized with a strong impulse to rise and touch the substance, or whatever it
might be (for it was about five feet high), and was getting up when something
seemed to hold me back. I am certain I hoard nothing, yet I felt and per-
fectly understood the words-" No, lie down, it won't hurt you." I at once
did what I felt I was told to do. I fell asleep shortly afterwards and rose at
half-past 5, that being my usual time.
At G o'clock I began dressing the children, beginning at the bed
furthest from the one in which 1 slept. Presently I came to the bed over
which I had seen the light hovering. I took the little boy out, placed him on
my knee, and put on some of his clothes. The child had been talking with
the others, suddenly he was silent. And then, lookin~ me hard in the face
with an extraordinary expreBllion, he said, .. Oh, Mr. J upp, my mother came
to me last night. Did you see her 1" For a moment I could not answer
the child. I then thought it better to paas it off, and said, " Come, we must
make haste, or we shall be late for breakfast."
The child never afterwards referred to the matter, we are told, nor has
it since ever been mentioned to him. The Warden says it is a mystery to
him ; he simply states the fact and there leaves the matter, being perfectly
satisfied that be was mistaken in no one particular.
Letter from Mias Venning.
British Museum,
4th November.
My friend, Mr. Farrer, Rector of Bigbury, Kingsbridge, vouches for the
truth of the story. A week or two ago he visited the Orphanage at Aberlour,
and 8I\W the Mr. Jupp mentioned, whom he describes as a straightforward,
rather matter-of-fact Englishman, and who told him the story almost word
for word as it is iiven in the pamphlet.
1885.] PhantaBm8 of the Dead. 89
Letter from Mr. Jupp to Mr. Gurney.
The Orphanage and Convalescent Home, Aberlour, Craigellachie.
N O1Jember 13th, 1883.
DEAR SIR,-I fear anything the little boy might now say would be
unreliable, or I would at once question him. Although the matter was
fully discussed at the time, it was never mentioned in the.hearing of the
child, and yet, when at the request of friends, the account was published in
our little magazine, and the child read it, his countenance changed, and
looking up he said, .. Mr. Jupp, that is me." I said, "Yes, that is what we
saw." He said, "Yes," and then seemed to fall into deep thought. evidently
withpleasant remembrance., for he smiled so sweetly to himself, and seemed
to forget I was present.
I much regret now that I did not learn something from the child at the
time.
(Signed) CUAS. JUPP.
The following narrative, (G. 127) received from Mrs. Windridge,
is perhaps another instance; the mother here, on the hypothesis
under consideration, causing the child's hallucination.
24, Maitland Park Road, Haverstock Hill, N.W.
9th NCYVember, 1882.
About the year 1869, I was much interested in a poor woman who was
dying in my neighbourhood. 1 used to visit her frequently, until my friends
prevented me from going any more, as the excitement rendered me ill.
Eventually when she died. they concealed the fact from me for some days.
I was taking my.1ittle boy, three years old, up to bed one evening. It
was dusk ; and wh8;Jl half-way up the first flight of stairs, I distinctly felt a.
preuure and a rustling of a dress at my side as if a woman had brushed past
me. There was no one there. On the second flight the preuure was
repeated, but more unmistakably. The occurrence made me so nervous
that, having put the bOy to bed, I decided to remain with him until my
husband came in. I accordingly lay down on the bed, facing him.
Suddenly the boy started up. "Oh, mother, there is a lady standing
behind you," at the same moment I felt a preasure which I knew to be that
of my friend. I dared not look round.
When my husband returned, I heard from him for the first time that my
friend had died three days before.
In the above two cases the percipients had simultaneous, but nol;
similar impressions. The following (G. 151) is an interesting &pecimen
of impressions both simultaneous and simila.r, which might be explained
in the same way. The narrator, who will not allow her name to be
published, is known to Mr. Podmore.
Febn/.aTlJ 17th, 1884.
Shortly after my marriage, about the year 184:7, I went to stay at my
father'. house. I had at that time two sisters at home, unmarried. The
elder of the two was nearly two years younger than myself, and would there-
Digitized by Google
90 Pllantmlnu of tll8 Dead. [April 24,
fore be about 22 years of age at the time I speak of. The other sister W&8
mut.:h younger than us both, and at this time W&8 about 14years old. My
two sisters slept together in a room adjoining mine.
One morning, on my going down to breakfast, my elder sister said to me,
.. Sarah, such a strange thing happened in the night. I was sleeping outRide"
(the otheraide of the bed W&8 against the wall),"and I was awoke by a ieeling
of oppreaaion at my cheat, &8 though there W&8 a weight there, and I could
not breathe. On opening my eyes I W&8 startled to see a veiled figure bending
over me. While I looked I felt Anna's arm come round me. After what
seemed to me a few minutes the form disappeared. Then Anna whispered,
~ 'Oh, Lizzie, I thought it W&8 going to take you away.'''
This was my sister's account. I took an opportunity, when my younger
sister and I were alone, to &8k her whatthat was that ahe and Lizzie had seen.
She said ahe was awoke by a feeling of oppre88ion, as though ahe
~ould not breathe, and on opening her eyes, in the dim light of the room
(the blind was down, but there was a gas lamp in front of the house, which
gave some light to the room), she saw a veiled figure bending over Lizzie,
and ahe put her arm round her, &8 she thought it had come to take her away.
My father and his family shortly after moved into another house, my
sisters still occupyu.g a room togp.ther. They aaaured me that once in this
other house they were visited by the same appearance, but tills time it was
over Anna. She only lived a ahort time after, dying at sixteen and a-half.
On sending this account to my sister, in e&ae I might, through lapse of
time, have altered the matter, ahe aaaures me that it is substantially correct,
and adds that the form W&8 grey, darker and thicker ill the middle j she
also adds that the feeling of horror was intense.if
The remaining kinds of confirmation with which we have to deal
are those which we have (1) When the phantasm conveys correct
information previously unknown to the percipient; or (~) when there
seems to be some clt'arly defined object aimed at in the manifestations ;
(3) when the apparition resembles a deceased person unknown to the
percipient so much that he afterwards recognises his portrait, or when
it has some well-marked characteristic of the deceased which is
unknown to the percipient; (4) when two or more people see, inde-
pendently of each other and at different times, apparitions which seem
clearly to have been very much alike.
Of narratives with the first of these kinds of confirmation we have
five or six. but none of them very recent. Sometimes simply the
fact of the death is learnt from the phantasm, as in the following case,
where the hallucina.tion is auditory (G. 357). It was received by the
Committee from the Rev. C. C. Wambey, 39, Ca.nal, Salisbury.
During my residence in B.C., &8 curate in charge, it was my custom to
walk in the summer evenings over the neighbouring downs.
* This sister has hadotherexperiences ofthekind, which the Committee hope
to obtain accounts of,but there has as yot been no opportunity of communicating
"ith her directly.
Digitized by Google
1880.] PlianttJ8tM oJ the Dead. 91
On the evening of Sunday, August 20th, 1874, 1 was strolling on the
downs skirting Marlcombe Hill, composin~ a congratulatory letter, which 1
proposed to write and post to my very dear friend W., 80 that he might
have it on his birthday, the 22nd, when I heard a voice saying, .. What,
write to a dead man; write to a dead man I" 1 turnedsharply round, fully
expecting to see IOme.one close behind me. There wsa no one. Treating
the matter &8 an illusion, 1 went on with my composition. A second time I
heard the same voice, saying, more loudly than before, "What, write to a
dead man; write to a dead man I " Again 1 turned round. 1 W&8 alone,
at least bodily. 1 now fully understood the meaning of that voice; it W&8
no illusion.
Notwithstanding this, 1 sent the proposed letter, and in reply received
from Mrs. W. the sad, but to me not unexpected,. intelligence, that her
husband was dead.
.. What, write to a dead man ; write to a dead man In
In answer to inquiries, Mr. Wambey says :-1 have an impression-but
only an impreaaion-that 1 have heard other voicea, no viaible person being
near.
In the following case (G. 306), the information is conveyed by an
apparition of the deceased person, accompanied by symbols of death.
The narrator is Mrs. George T. Haly 122, Coningham Road, Shepherd's
Bush, W.
On waking in broad daylight, 1 saw, like a ahadowed reflection, a
very long coffin stretching quite &croBB the ceiling of my room, and &8
1 lay gazing at it, and wondering at ita length and whoae it could
foreahadow, my eyea fell on a ahadowy figure of an absent nephew, with his
back towarda me, aearehing, &8 it were, in my ,book-ahelf. That morning's
poat brought the newa of hia death in Australia. Be tDaB 6foot :e or 3 i7lchu
in Might, and a book had been my last present to him on hia leaving
England, taken from that very bookcase.
Mr. Gurney saw Mrs. Haly in November, 1884, and learnt that
this, and a.n appearance of lights, are the only hallucinations of sight
Mrs. Haly has had, and that she clearly recognised her nephew's figure.
The event occurred in the winter of 1872-3, some six weeks after the
nephew's death.
The ca.se of the apparition of Canon Robinson to Mr. Tandy,
an account of which was printed in the Journal of the Society for
January, 1885, p. 246, is somewhat similar, only no impression that
Canon Robinson was dead was seemingly conveyed by the phantasm.
Both in this story and in the one last quoteel a curious point will be
noticed-namely, that the apparition occurs just before the news of the
death is received. Itis not easyto imagine any reason for this-anyreason
why the supposed agent should intentionally or unintentionally impress
the percipient at that moment rather than another, or why the perci-
pient should be at that moment peculiarly impressible. And yet, if the
Digitized by Google
92 PhanttUfM of the Dead. [April 24,
coincidence be due to chance only, it is curious the.t we should have two
cases of it among so few. It is, perhaps, possible that the immediate
receipt of the news may have caused the apparition to assume in
memory a definiteness wbich it had not in reality, though, if recognition
be distinctly recollected, it would be rather a strange trick for memory
to play; and lIr. Tandy tells us that in his case his recognition of
Canon Robinson-an intimate friend-was very definite indeed.
Another case of an apparition of a dead person whose death was
unknown to the percipient is the following (G. 417), which has not
yet been printed. The writer is Colonel ---, a well-known Irish
gentleman, but we are not allowed to publish his name. He writes
from Arthur's on March 1st, 1885 :-
Some 16 years since Mrs. -- said to me, "We have some people
staying here all next week. Do you know any person I could get to sing
with the girls 'I" I suggested that my gunmaker, Mr. X., bad a daughter
with a fino voice, who was training as a public singer, and that if she, ?tlrs.
--, liked I would write to X. and ask if he would allow her to come down
and spend a week with us. On my wife's approval I wrote, and Miss X.
came down for a week, and then left. As far as I know, Mrs. -- never saw
heragain. Shortly after I called on X., thanked him for allowing his daughter
to come to us, and said we were all much pleased with her. X. replied: "I
fear you have spoilt her, for she says she never passed 10 happy a week in her
life." Miss X. did not come out as a singer, but shortly after married Mr.
Z., and none of us ever saw her again.
Six or seven years passed away, and Mra. --, who bad been long ill,
was dying, in fact ahe did die the following day. 1 was sitting at the foot of
her bed talking over some busineBB matters that she was anxious to arrange,
being perfectly composed and in thorough po8B688ion of her sell8ea ; in fact
she was right, and my solicitor, who advised that the step she wanted to be
taken was not neceasary, was wrong. She changed the aubject and said:
., Do you hear those voicea ainging 1" 1 replied that I did not; and she
said: "I have heard them several times to-day, and I am sure they are the
angela welcoming me to Heaven; but," she added, "it is atrange, there ia
onevoice amongat them I am sure I know, and cannot remember whose voice
it is." Suddenly she atopped and said, pointing straight over my head,
" Why there she is in the comer of the room; it is Julia X. ; she is coming
on ; she is leaning over you ; ahe bas her hands up ; ahe is praying; do
look ; she is going." I turned but could see nothing. Mrs. -- then said,
"She is gone." All theae thinga I imagined to be the phantasiea of a dying
person.
Two days afterwards, taking up the Times newspaper, I saw recorded
the death of Julia Z., wife of Mr. Z. I was so astounded that in a day or
80 after the funeral I went up to -- and asked Mr. X. if Mrs. Z., biB
daughter, was dead. He said, "Yea, poor thing, ahe died of puerperal
fever. On the day ahe died she began singing in the moming, and sang and
u.ng until she died."
Last year I saw mentioned that lome person or persoll8 were collecting
Digitized by Google
1885.] PhanUum& of the Dead. 93
remarkable ghoat atories, and I wrote to Mr. Z.,- telling him shortly what I
have now written at length. Mr. Z.'a answer was, that I had delCribed
80 accurately the lCene of his wife'a death that he ahould like to aee me,
waa coming up to London the week after, and would call. Unfortunately
I was obliged to leave London, and have never seenMI-. Z.
In a subsequent communication Colonel-- adds :-
Mrs. Z. died on 2nd February, at aix or thereabout in the morning, 1874.
Mrs. -- died February 13th, 1874, at about four in the evening.
I saw notice of Mrs. Z.'a death on February 14th.
Mrs. -- never was aubject to hallucinations of any aort.
[For corroboration in this case, aee the Note at tho ond of the paper.]
In this ca.se, as in Mr. Tandy's, no definite impression of the supposed
agent's death is given, so that the coincidence is reduced to the simple
seeing of a person who is dead, but not at the time known to be so.
And it is here further weakened by the fact that dying persons do
frequently hea.r music and see visions, and that the idea. of singing
might naturally have called up Mrs. Z.'s image to Mrs. --'s mind.
Still, there remains a remarkable coincidence, and the na.rra.tive has
moreover great interest in connection with these visions of dying
persons, whose objective origin is firmly believed in by many, but. is
very difficult to prove. Cases like this one, in sufficient numbers,
would, of course, go a. long way towards· proving it, at any rate if it
could be shown that dying persons do-not, under similar circumstances,
see apparitions of persons alive and well at the time.
The apparition described in the following narrative (G. 32), abridged
from Temple Bar for December, 1882, conveys information of a different
kind. The writer is the Rev. Gerrard Lewis, of st. Paul's Vicarage,
llargate, who, in a letter to Mr. Podmore, dated December 30th, 1882,
says:-
I have nothing to add to my " truo ghost story" in Temple Bar. I ahould
not like theyoung man'a name to be published, but will give it you in confi-
dence. As to dates, he died on Thursday, September 19th, 1866. I saw
hiaappea.rance on Sunday, September 22nd, and officiated at his funeral on
Wedneaday, September 25th.
My wife's mother had in her service a coachman named P., with one aon,
James Henry P., who had been brought up by friends at a diatance, and was
apprenticed to a trade in London. His father had only twice casually
mentioned him to me, and he had almost entirely slipped out of my mind,
for, with a large aeaaide pariah on my hands, of which I was curate, my time
and attention were fully taken up with matters nearer home. I mention
this, leat in the course of the following story my readers should chance to
think that a deep impression, previously made on my own mind, had pre-
diapoaed me to see what I saw, and afterwards to regard it in a supernatural
light. I cannot, therefore, too emphatically repeat that I knew next to
Digitized by Google
94 Phantasms of tile Dead. [Apri124,
nothing about James Henry P., my friend'llOn ; that I had never seen him;
and seldom, if ever, thought of him at all
It waa a hot and brightafternoon in summer, and, aa if it were onlyyester-
day, I remember perfectly well walking down the broad bright Itreet in the
broad bright afternoon. I had to p8.111 the hoUle of P. I remarked indeed
that all his window blinds were drawn carefully down, aa if to screen his
furniture, of which his wife waa inordinately proud, from the despoiling blaze
of the afternoon sun. I Imiled inwardly at the thought. I then left the
road, stepped on to the aide pavement, and looked over the area rails, into
the front court below. A young man, dreaaed in dark clothes, and without
a hat, and apparently about 20 years of age, waa standing at the door beneath
the front stePI. On the instant, from hill liken811 to my friend P., Ieemed
to recognise his IOn. We both stood and looked very hard at each other.
Suddenly, however, he advanced to that part of the area which waa imme-
diately below where J waa standing, fixed on me a wide, dilated, winkl811
IOrt of stare, and halted. The delire to speak waa evidently legible on hill
face, though nothing audible escaped from his lips. But his eyes lpoke;
every feature in hill countenance lpoke, spoke, as it were, a silent language,
in which reproach and pain seemed equally intermingled. At first I waa
startled; then I began to feel angry. "Why," I aaid to myself, "does he
look at me in that manner 1" At laet, annoyance prevailing over surprile,
I turned away with the half-muttered thought: "He certainly knows me by
sight aa a friend of his father, and yet haa not the civility to salute me. I
will call on the first opportunity and aak his reason for such behaviour." 1
then pursued my way and thought no more of what had just occurred.
On Wednesday it was my turn to officiate at the local cemetery. On
my aaking who was to be buried, I was told that it waa a young man from
my quarter of the town, who had died of consumption. I cannot give" the
reason, but immediately I felt startled and ill at ease. It was not that I
had the least suspicion that anything extraordinary waa about to happen. I
had quite forgotten young P. The feeling which I think waa uppermost in
my mind waa annoyance at the fact that anyone should have died of such a
slow disease in my parish, but without my knowledge. I asked without
delay for the registrar's certificate. My eyes fell 011 the words, "James
Henry P., aged 21 years." I could scarcely believe my own senses.
I lost but little time before calling on P. and his wife. I found the
latter at home, and what ahe had to lILy only made me more uncomfortable
still. James Henry P: bore such a close resemblance to his father that all
who IILW him remarked on the striking likeneB8. In addition to thill, during
the laat three months of hill life, which he spent under hill father's roof, he
had often wondered that I did not come to see him. His longing for an
interview with me had been JOost intense; and every time he IILW me pass
the house without going in he had both felt and expr8lled a keen dillLp-
pointment. In fact, he died terribly in earnest, wishing in vain to the last
that I would come. That thought pierced me through and through. I had
not gone to him but he had come to me. And yet I would have gone, if I
had but known. I blame the doctor for not telling me; I blame the
parents for not sending for me; and with that awful look he gave me in my
remembrance, I blame myself, though I cannot tell why.
Digitized by Google
188b.J Phanta8m8 0/ the Dead. 95
James Henry P. had died on the ThlU'llday before the Sunday on which I
had seen him. He had died, too, in the front room, on a level with the
area, into which its window opened. He had also lain there till the Wed-
nesday following, awaiting burial. His corpse then was lying in that very
room on that very Sunday, and at the very moment, too, when I had seen
his living likeness, as it were, in the area outside. Nobody, I found, had
passed through the area that day ; the door there had been locked and
unused all the Sunday. The very milkman, the only person who called, had
come by the front steps to the house; and P. and his wife were the only
inmates at the time.
The fact pretty definitely communicated in this case by the
apparition, was the young man's longing, before his death, to see the
percipient.
Mr. Podmore has recently seen Mr. Lewis, and also Mrs. Lewis, who
heard of the experience at the time, and confirms all that Mr. Lewis
says. Mr. Lewis maintains that the likeness of the apparition to the
elder P. was unmistakable, but there seem to be differences of
opinion as to the degree of resemblance between the young man and
his father. Mr. Podmore has also seen the outside of the house, and.
after talking it all over he does not think it likely that it was a real
man that Mr. Lewis saw. Another explanation had occurred to me.
namely, that the apparition was due, not to the agency of the
dead man, but to that of old P., or his wife, whose thought of
the son in connection with Mr. Lewis would be intensified by seemg
him pass. Some little evidence, apart from this narrative, suggesting
the possibility of such an explanation could be adduced, and as the
blinds of the house are Venetian, a person inside might have seen
through them without being seen. But Mr. Lewis does not think it at
all likely that the P.'s did see him, as Mrs. P. expressed some surprise
when he told her, after the funeral, that he had passed on that day.
Mr. Lewis has had no other visual hallucination, veridical or other-
wise.
In the case I shall next consider, the information is given in a.
dream, and as has beenoften said, the evidence afforded by dreams must
always be very inferior to that afforded by waking experiences, because
of the immflllse frequency of dreams, and the large proportioll of them
which are obviously unveridica.l. In the case before us, however, there
is apparently some coincidence between the dream and the facts in two
unlikely and independent points. Mr. D., the na.rrator, does llot wish
his name to be published, but Mr. Gurney has seen hilJl, and talked
over the subject with him. He narrates as follows (G. 406) ;-
I am the owner of a very old mechanical business in Glasgow, with for 20
years past a branch in London, where I have resided for that period, and in
both of which places my professional reputation is of the highest order.
Digitized by Google
Pltanfasms of the Dead. [April 24,
Some 35 years ago I took into my employment a tender, delicate-looking
boy, Robert Mackenzie,who, after some three or four years' service, suddenly
left, as I found out afterwards, through the selfish advice of older hands, who
practised this frightening away systematically to keep wages from being
lowered, a common device, I believe,among workmen in limited trades. Pasa·
ing the gate of the great workhouse (&ottid poorhouse) in the Parliamentary
Road. afew years afterwards,my eye W8.11 caught by a youth of some 18 years of
age ravenously devouring a piece of dry bread on the public street. and bearing
all the appearance of being in a chronic state of starvation. Fancying I
knew his fentures, I asked if his name wero not Mackenzie. He at once
became much excited, addressed me by name, and informed me that he had
no employment; that his father and mother, who formerly supported him,
were now both inmates of the" poorhouse," to which he himself had no claim
for admission, being young and without any bodily disqualification for work,
and that he was literally homeless and starving. The matron, he informed
me, gave him daily a piece of dry bread, but durst not, under the rules, give
him regular maintenance. In an agony of grief he deplored his ever leaving
me under evil advice, and on my unexpectedly offering to take him back he
burst into a transport of thanks, such as I cannot dellcribe. Suffice it to say
that he resumed his work, and that, under the circumstances, I did every-
thing in my power to facilitate his progress. All this was mere matter of
course; but the distinction between it and the common relations of master
and servant was this, that on every occasion of my entering the workshop he
never, so far as possible, took off his eyes from following my movements.
Let me look towards him at any moment, there was the pale, sympathetic
face with the large and wistful eyes, literally yearning towards me as Smike's
did towards Nicholas Nickleby. I seemed to be ", the 'polar star of his
existence," and this intensity of gratitude never appeared to lessen in
degree through lapse of time. Beyond this he never: venturcd to express
his feelings. His manhood, as it were, his.individuality and self-asaertion,
Beemed to have been crushed out of him by privations. I was apparently
his sole thought and consideration, saving the more common concerns of
daily life.
In 1862 I settled in London, and have never been in Glasgow since.
Robert Mackenzie, and my workmen generally, gradually lost their
individuality in my recollection. About 10 to 12 years ago my employes
had their annualsoirOe and ball. This was always held, year after year, on
a Friday evening. Mackenzie, ever shy and distant, as usual, refused to
mingle in the festivities, and begged of my foreman to be permitted to serve
at the buffct. All went off well, and the Saturday was held (more workmen)
as a succeeding day of festival. All this, however, I only learned after what
I am now about to relate. On the Tuesday morning following, immediately
before 8 a.m., in my house on Campden Hill, I had the following manifesta-
tion, I cannot call it a dream; but let me use the common phraaeology. I
dreamt, but with no vagueness as in common dreams, no blurring of outline
or rapid passages from one thing disconnectedly to another, that I was seated
at a desk, engaged in a business conversation with an unknown gentleman,
who stood on my right hand. Towards me, in front, advanced Robert
Mackenzie, and, feeling annoyed, I addressed him with some asperity,
1885.J PlulIItusma of tl,e Dead. 97
asking him if he did n••t see that I was engaged. He retired a short distance
with exceeding reluctance, turned again to approach me, as if most desirous
for an immediate colloquy, when I spoke to him still more sharply as to his
want ofmanners. On this, the person with whom I was conversing took
his leave, and Mackenzie once more came forward. "What is all this,
Robert I" I asked, somewhat angrily. "Did you not see I was engaged? "
"Yes, sir," he replied; "but I must speak with you at once." "What
about?" I said; "what is it that can be 80 important 1" " I wish to tell
you, sir," he answered, ., that I am accused of doing a thing I did not do,
and that I want ?!fI" to know it, and to tell you 110, and th"t you are to
forgive me for what I am blamed for, because I am innocent." Then," I
did not do the tlllng they say 1 did." I said, •• What ?" getting sameanswer.
I then naturally asked, "But llow can I fOnP-ve you if you do not tell me
what you are accused of 1" I can never forget the emphatic manner of his
answer, in the Scottish dialect, .. Ye'll sune ken" (you'll lOOn know). Thia
question and the answer were repeated at least twice-I am certain the
answer was repeated thrice, in the most fen·id tone. On that I awoke, and
was in that state of surprise and bewilderment which such a remarkable
dream, qud mere dream, might induce, and was wondering what it all meant,
when my wife burst into my bedroom, lUuch excited, and holding an open
letter in her hand, exclaimed, .. Oh, James, here's a terrible end to the
workmen's ball, Robert Mackenzie has committed suicide!" With now a.
full conviction of t,he meaning of the vision, I at once quietly and firmly said•
.. No, he has not committed suicide." "How can you possibly know that?"
.. Because he has just been here to tell me."
I have purposely not mentioned' in its proper place, so as not to break
the narrative, that on looking at Mackenzie I was struck by the peculiar
appearance of his counteuance. It was of an indescribable bluish-pale
colour, and on his forehead appeared spots which seemed like blots of sweat.
For this I could not account, but by the following post my manager informed
me that he was wrong in writing me IJf suicide. That, on Saturday nigh~
:Mackenzie, on going home, had lifted a small black bottle containing aqlUl
forti. (wlllch he used for staining the woOd of birdcages, made for amuse-
ment), believing this to be whisky, and pouring out a wineglassful, had drunk
it off at a gulp, dying on the Sunday in great agony. Here, then, was the
solution of his being innocent of what he was accused of-suicide, seeing
that he had inadvertently drunk aqlwfortil, a deadly poison. Still pondering
upon the peculiar colour of his countenance, it struck me to consultlOme
authorities on the symptoms of poisoning by aqua fctrlil, and in Mr. J. H.
Walsh's" Domestic Medicine and Surgery," p. 172, I found these words
under symptoms of poiloning by sulphuric acid. . "the skin
covered with a cold Iweat; countenance livid and expressive of dreadful
luffering.". • "AqlW fortis produces the same effect as
sulphuric, the only difference being that the externalstaius, if any, are yellow
inltead of brown." This refers to indication of sulphuric acid, "generally
outside of the mouth, in the shape of brown spots." Having no deslre to
accommodate my facts to this scientific description, I give the quotations
freely, ouly, at the same time, ltating that previously to reading the passage
in Mr. Walsh's book, I had not the slightest knowledge of these symlltoms.
H
Digitized by Google
98 Phal1ta8ms oj tile Dead. [AprilU,
and I consider that they agree fairly and sufficiently with what I saw, viz.,
a livid face covered with a remarkable sweat, and having spots (particularly
on the forehead), which, in my dream, I thought great bIota of perspiration.
It seems not a little striking that I bad no previous knowledge of these
symptoms, and yet should take note of them.
I have little remark to make beyond this, that, in speaking of this matter,
to me very affecting and solemn, I have been quite disgusted by sceptics
treating it as a hallucination, in so far as that my dream must have been on
the Wednesday morning, being that after the receipt of my manager's letter
informing me of the supposed suicide. This explanation is too absurd tu
require a serious answer. My manager first heard of the death on the
Monday -wrote me on that day as above-and on the Tuesday wrote again
explaining the true facts. The dream was on the Tuesday morning, imme-
diately before the 8 a.m. post delivery, hence the tllrice emphatic "Ye'll
sune ken." I attribute the whole to Mackenzie's yeanling gratitude for
being rescued from a deplorable state of starvation, and his earnest desire to
stand well in my opinion. I have coloured nothing, and leave my readera
to draw their own conclusions.
D.
The following is Mrs. D.'s corl'ohoration :-
In regard to the remarkable dream my husband had when Robert
Mackenzie's death took place through inadvertently drinking some aq'l(J
Jorti3, I beg to inform you of what took place as far as I am concerned.
On the Tuesday morning after the occurrence, I was downstairs early,
and at 8 o'clock was handed a letter, just received from the postman, and
addre88ed to Mr. D. Seeing it was from our manager in Glasgow, I opened
it, and was much grieved to find that it was to tell us that Robert Mackenzie
bad committed suicide. I ran upstairs to Mr. D.'s bedroom with the letter
in my hand, and in much excitement. I found him apparently justcoming
out of sleep, and hastily cried out to him, exactly as he has described to
you. I need not go over the words, which have often been repeated amongst
us since, and I can confirm his narrative regarding them, &8 given to you, in
every particular. The whole affair gave us a great shock, and put an end to
the workmen's ball. for some four or five years. Mr. D.'s dream was a
frequent subject of conversation at the time. I knew Mackenzie ,,·ell. He
was a pale, large-eyed, and earnest-looking young maIl, with a great regard
for Mr. D., through circumstances. The next day's post brought us the
actual facts.
J. D.
The two points of coincidence here are the fact that Mackenzie was
accused of something wrongly, and a certain degree of resemblance
between his appearance in the dream and his appearance as, according
to Walsh's "Domestic Medicine," it should have been, after taking the
poison which killed him. The coincidence is certainly curious, though
it wight, of course, have been stronger. It would be very interesting
to know-though at this distance of time impossible, I fear, to ascertain,
-whether at the time of the dream it was known to any living man
that Mackenzie had not committed suicide.
Digitized by Google
1885.] , Phantaln'8 of the Dead. 99
These cases are a~l I find in the collection with this particular kind
of confirmation to distinguish them from subjective hallucinations. It
will be obser\"ed that, with the exception of the narrative concerning
the nephew who died in Australia, where there was an interval of some
six weeks between the death and the apparition, they have a common
characteristic, namely, that the communication occurs within" a few
days of the death, but it would be absurd to try to infer a general
rule from so few instances.
In dealing, however, with these phantasms manifesting themselves
very shortly after death, it should be noticed that in the collection of
phantasms of the living, cases have been included in which the mani-
festation occurs a few hours after death. For this there are two
grounds, namely, that the exact moment of the cessation of life is, it
must be assumed, to some extent uncertain, and that there is some
reason to think that a telepathic impression may remain latent for a
time and force itself into consciousness only when quiet, or solitude, or
some other condition favourable to its development supervenes. If,
however, the dead can communicate with us, it is possible that these
supposed delayed communications from the living are really communica.-
tions directly from the dead. I think we should also notice that
appearances of those who have recently died, to friends aware of their
death, seem to be not uncommon, and frequently these appearances
have atl"orded great consolation to the survivors. If the dead can com-
municate with us, these appearances, too, may be real messages from
them, though we have no means of distinguishing them from subjective
hallucinations.
I have na.med among the kinds of confirmation we have to dcal with,
that a.trorded by apparent intention consistently carried out by the spirit.
But it is a rather remarkable fact that we have exceedingly little
evidence in our collection clearly tending in this direction. We have
such evidence to some extent in the dream of Mackenzie, already
quoted, where the spirit may naturally have desired to comince Mr. D.
that he had not committed suicide. The only other case we have, I
think, is our single instance of the old-fashioned ghost who threatens
to haunt her husband till he does what she desires, and who
carries the threat into execution. But though the threa.t was not made
to the husband himself, so far as we know, it is yet impossible to feel
sure that the apparition was not simply a morbid etl"ect of his state of
grief and worry, which ceased when the disputed question was settled
and the worry consequently at an end. The narrative (G. (25) is in the
words of the married daughter alluded to.
A young couple were engaged. Her father withdrew his consent, the
mother on her death-bed made its renewal her laat request. The fathllr.
instead of getting over his sorrow, seemed more and more bowed down with
I[ 2
100 Pha"tll8m8 0/ the Dead. [Apri12.J,
an ever-increasing sense of "horror." One day he told his married
daughter and her husband that his wife haunted him every morning at 4,
the hour when she died, always talking of the young couple. They asked
him what clothes the apparition wore, and he said, "The last dreBS I gave.
and a cap of your making." On their way home, the married daughter
told her husband that it was when in that dreBS and cap that her mother had
said to her, "If I die before your father renews his consent, I shall haunt.
llim till he does." She was then in perfect health. Thia was never told to
the father, but he was urged to renew hia consent. For some months he
could only escape the viaitations by having someone aU!(lk~ with him in the
room. From the day he consented again to the marriage hia wife's visits
ceased.
Mr. Sid~ick has had an interview with the narrator of this curious
occurrence, who tells him that she has no doubt that her mother had
made a dying request that he would give consent to the marriage;
but feels sure frow the way he spoke of the matter that she had not
said anything about" haunting" to him ; he clearly did not know that
his consent would put a stop to it, nor did he apparently ever connect
its cessation with her sister's marriage, which followed immediately on
his consent.
In the remaining divisions we shall only have cases of haunted
houses, or what the Committee have called "fixed local ghosts," excf'pt
one where the' supposed ghost seems to have followed the family. In
discussing these, I shall use the expression, tlte B'UpposedglWBt, or shortly,
lIte gll.OBt, without intending either to affirm or tQ deny the existf'nce of a
continuous entity manifesting itself in the apparitions, or even to imply
that there is necessarily any cause for them external to the percipient,
or, in fact, to express any view whatever as to the origin of the alleged
phenomena. I shall use it merely as a convenient name for the
unknQ"'1l cause or causes of a series of apparitions or other phenomf!na.
of the kind, colmected by similarity or locality, or otherwise; or for the
phenomena themselves.
I now proceed to the third kind of confirmation of which the type
is the subsequent recognition bythe percipient of the portrait of the sup-
posed ghost. We have two cases of thisinthecollection, but for different
reasons, which I will mention in their place, they neither of them appear
to me to be of a conclusive kind.
One case has already been published in the Proceed£ngB ef the
Society (Vol. I., p. 106) in the first report of the Committef! on
HauntedHouses. Mr. X.Z. is there describedas recognisingthe supposed
ghost four years after he saw it, in a portrait of the man with whom,
on other grounds, he had connected the apparition. These grounds
were that the man in question waa said to wear a costume resembling
that of the apparition, and to have committed murder and suicide on
the spot where he appeared, and on the same day of the year.
Digitized by Google
1885.J Phantasms oj the Dead. 101
The narrative was written in 1882, 30 years after the appearance, but
against this must be set the fact that (as I understand) a third-hand
account has been obtained substantially agreeing with it, originating in
the account given by Mr. X. Z., much nearer to the event, and whiCh
forms, therefore, a to some extent independent check on the accuracy
of lIr. X. Z.'s recollection. A more serious weakness in the evidence
lies, I think, in the interval between the apparition and the recogniton
of the portrait. Four years seem a long time to keep viTidly in one's
mind a face seen only once, for a few moments, at a distance of 35 feet,
though no doubt under exciting circumstances likely to impress it on the
memory. 'Vith regard to the other evidence connecting the supposed ghost
and the suicide, the dressing-gown and the site of the death were tra-
ditional only (the death occurred more than 50 years before the appari-
tion) ; the date of the death Mr. X.Z. ascertained, he tells us, from the
parish register. But in estima.ting the evidence afforded by the observance
of an anniversary, we must take into account that this is, 1 think, the
only instance of such observance which we have at first-hand in all our
collection-el..cept two, which on other grounds I am inclined to regard
as possibly explicable by personation.
In the next case, (G. 28), the portrait was seen on the day after the
apparition, but it does not seem to have been recognised without a little
prompting. The percipient, who will not allow either her name or the
address of the house to be published, is known to Mr. C. C. Massey and
Mr. Podmore. The account here given was written out in her presence
after a prolonged and careful exanlination of her evidence, and is
certified by her to be correct.
About the year 1872 my husband and I spent one night in the house of
my aunt, in one of the suburbs of London. The house being a very small
one, my cousin gave me up her room, and my husband had to sleep upstairs
with the son. Before she left me my cousin insisted, why, I could not under-
stand, on leaving the gas alight-and did, in fact, leave a faint glimmer. In
the middle of the night I awoke in a. cold sweat, and saw, in the dim light,
a man standing close to my bedside. Thinking it wa.a my husband I called
him by name, and a.a far a.a my recollection serves, I put out my hand. lying
still in bed, to tum up the gas. The figure had disappeared; and I jumped
out of bed, found the door locked, and searched the room through to no
purpolle. I then felt a little nervous, but thinking that I must have been
dreaming, I got into bed and went to sleep again. Twice more that night I
wa.a woke up by the same cause ; I found myself each time, as before,
shivering and in a cold sweat, and saw the same figure standing by me. I
now clearly saw the features and general appearance. It wa.a apparently a
tall, well-built, rather good-looking man, in a. frock coat, and with a long
reddish beard. After the third appearance I lefs the ga.a turned fully on, amI
then got to sleep without further disturbance.
In the morning I spoke at brea.kfa.at time of my nocturnal disturbance,
Digitized b gle
102 Phantasms 0/' tile Dead. [April 24,
and my cousin exclaimed," Now, mamma, you will believe my story: 1 told
. you the room was haunted."
Afterwards 1 went into the dining-room, into which 1 had never
previously gone, and there saw a picture of a man which 1 appeared to
recognise. "Who is that," 1said, "one of your neighbours '/" "Someone
you have seen," my cousin replied; and it then Hashed acroBB me that itwas
the face of my vision. It was the portrait of the late owner of the house-
my aunt had taken the house furnished-who had died of delirium tremens,
a few months before, in the bedroom which 1 had occupied: as I then learnt
for the first time.
NCYOember 23rd, 1882.
The importance of this case is greatly increased by the cousin's
apparently similar experience, which had not been previously communi-
cated to our informant; but unfortunately the cousin declines to give
us any account of it.
Cases having the fourth kind of confirmation-that which obtains
when two or more people see independently of each other and at
dijfdf'ent times, apparitions which seem clearly to have been very
much alike,--constitute the most important part of the evidence
in our collection. A very fair specimen of them was printed in full in
the Proceedings of the Society, Part VI., p. 141. A lady sees one
morning leaning over her in bed, in a certain attitude, a muffled figure
of a woman, which cannot, according t() her account, have been a real
,voman since she saw it gradually becoming transparent and vanishing.
She is certain that she spoke to no one in the house about it, and to no
one outside who could have communicated with her brother; but a fort-
night later he tells her at breakfast that he has seen the .muffled figure
of a woman leaning over him in bed in the same attitude.
The following narrative is an account of a very interesting case of
the same kind, only it is more recent, and the figure that appeared was
more definite. The different accounts are signed by the percipients, whom
Mr. Gurney has seen and with whom he has thoroughly discussed the
evidence. They are not willing that their names, or that of the house
where the phenomena occurred, should be published, but they have
communicated it privately to Mr. Gurney, who hopes to obtain in time
more information about its preyiou8 history and the experience of other
inhabitants. The first account is from Mrs. W.
Febru.af'!1 19t/~, 1885.
In June, 1881, we went to live in a detached villa just out of the town of
C--. Our household consisted of myhusband and my8elf,mystep-daughter,
andtwo little boys, aged 9 and 6, and two female 8ervants. The house was
betw.,en 10 and 20years old.We had been there about three weeks,when,about
11 o'clock one moming, as 1 was playing the piano in the drawing-room, 1
had the following experience :-1 was suddenly aware cf a figure peeping
Digitized by Google
1883.] Phtllltasms of the Dead. 103
round the comer of the folding-doors to my left; thinking it must be a.
visitor, I jumped up and went into t.he passage, but no one was there, and
the hall door, which was half glass, was shut. I only saw the upper half of
the figure, which was that of a taIl man, with a very pale face and dark hair
and moustache. The impression lasted only a second or two, but I saw the
SKETCH PLAN OF THE GROL"ND FLOOR OF THE HousE.
Dining-room Kitchen
Q r; E 0
I I I
I
B
B!k
Front
Drawing-room Drawing-room
A Piano. B First poIIition of fig\1re. C Second poIIition of figure. 0 Garden
door. E Baize door. F }'ront door and porch. G }'ront gate.
face so distinctly that to this day I should recognise it if I met it in a crowd.
It had a sorrowful expression_ It was impossible for anyone to come into
the house without being seen or heard. I was startled, but not the least
frightened. I had heard no report whatever as to the house being haunted;
and am certainly not given to superstitious fancies. I did not mention my
experience to anyone at the time, and fonned no theory about it. In the
following August, one evening about 8.30, I had occasion to go into the
drawing-room to get something out of the cupboard, when, on turning
round, I saw the same face in the bay-window, in front of the shutters,
which were closed. I again saw only the upp8r part of the figure, which
seemed to be in a somewhat crouching posture. 'l'be light on this occasion
came from the hall and the dining-room, and did not shine directly on the
window ; but I was able perfectly to distinguish the face and the expression
of the eyes. This time I 1call frightened, and mentioned the matter to my
huaband the same evening. I then also told him of my first experience.
On each of tllese occasions I was from 8 to 10 feet distant from the
figure.
Later in the same month I was playing cricket in the garden with my
little boys. From my position at the wickets I could see right into tbe
house tbrough an opcn door, down a passage, and tbrough tbe hall aa
far as the front door. The kitchen door opened into the passage. I dis-
tinctly saw the same face peeping round at me out of the kitchen door.
I again only saw the upper half of the figure. I threw down the bat and
ran in. No one was in tlle kitchen. One servant was out, and I found
that the other was up in her bedroom. I mentioned tbis incident at once to
my husband, who also examined the kitchen without any result.
Digitized by Google
lOt Phanta8m8 of tile Dead. [Apri124,
A lit~e later in the year, about 8 o'clock one evening, I was coming down
stairs alone, when I heard a voice from the direction, apparently, of my little
boys' bedroom, the door of which was open. It distinctly said, in a deep
sorrowful tone, "I can't find it." I called out to my littlo boys, but they
did not reply, and I have not the slightest doubt that they were asleep;
they always called out if they heard me upstairs. My step·daughter, who
was dowll8tairs in the dining·room with the door open, also heard the voice,
and thinking it was me calling, cried out, "What are you looking for I "
We were extremely puzzled. The voice could not by any possibility havo
belonged to any member of the household. The servants were in the
kitchen, and my husband was out.
A short time after I was again coming downstairs after dark in the evening
when I felt a sharp slap on the back. It startIed but did not hurt me.
There was no one near me, and I ran dOWll8tairs and told my husband and
my step-daught~r.
I have never in my life, on any other occasion, had any hallucination of
sight, hoaring, or touch.
The following is Miss W.'s account :-
February 19th, 1885.
In July, 1881, I was sitting playing the piano in our house in C--, about
11.30 in the morning, when I saw tlle head and shoulders of a man peeping
round the folding-doors, in just the same way as they llad appeared to my
mother,but I had not at that time heard of herexperience. I jumpedup,and ad-
vanced, thinking it was an 80Cluaintance from a few yards oft'. This impression,
however, only lasted for a second; the face disappeared, but recalling it, I
perceived atonco that it was certainly not that of the gentleman whom I had
for a second thought of. The resemblance was only that they were both
dark. The face was pale and melancholy, and the hair very dark. I at onco
went to Mrs. W. in the dining-room, and asked if anyone had called.
Sho said, " No " ; and I then told her what I h"d seen. I then for the first
time heard from her what she had soen, and our descriptions completely
agreed. We had even both noticed that the hair was parted in the middle,
and that a good deal of shlrt-front showed.
A few weeks later, about 11 p.m., Mrs. W. and I were playing beziquu
in the dining-room. Mr. W. was out, and the servants had gone to bed.
Thedoor of the room was open, and I was facing it. I suddenly had an
impre88ion thatsomeone was looking at me, and I looked up. There was tlle
same face, and the upper half of the figure, peeping round into the room
from the hall. I said, " There's the man again!" Mrs. W. rnshed to thl'
door, but there was no one in the hall or p&.,sage; the front door was locked,
and the green baize door which communicated with the back part of the
bouse was shut. The figure had been on the side of the dining-room door,
nearest to the front door, and could not have got to the green baize door
without passing well in our sight. We were a good deal frightened, and we
mentioned the occurrence to Mr. W. on his return. He wont allover the
house. as usual before going w bed, and all windows were fastened, and
tlverything in order.
A few weeks after this, about 11.30 a.m., I was upstairs playing battle-
Digitized by Google
'1885.] PhantlUtll8 oj tke Dead. 105
dore and shuttlecock with my eldest brother in hill bedroom. The d09r was
open. Stepping back in the courso of the game, I gotout on to the landing;
I looked sideways over my shoulder, in order to strike the shuttlecock, and
suddenly saw the same face aa before, and my brother called out at the same
moment, "There's a man on the landing." I waa startled myself, but to
reaaaure the child I said there waa no one-that he had made a mistake--
and shut the door and went on with the game. I told my father and Mrs.
W. of thiaas BOOn aa I saw them.
Later in the autumn, I waa sitting alone in the dining-room one evening,
with the door open. Mrs. W. had been upstairs, and 1 heard her coming
dqwo. Suddenly I heard a deep melancholy voice say, "I can't find it." I
called out, "'Vhat are you looking for 1" At the same time tlle voice was
not tile leaat like Mrs. W.'s. She then came in and told me she had heard
exactly the same thing. My father waa out at the time. but we told him of
the circumstance on hill return.
In September of 1882, I waa for a week in the house with only the two
children and the servants. It waa about 7.30 on Sund"y evening, and nearly
dark. The others were all out in the garden. [ waa standing at the
dining-room window, when I caught a glimpsp. of a tall man's figure slipping
into the porch. I must have seen if anybody had approached the porch by
the path from the front gate, and I should certainly have heard the latch of
the gate, which used to make a considerable noise, and 1 should al80 have
heard footsteps on the gravel-path. The figure appeared quite suddenly;
it had on a tall hat. I waa very much aatonished, but ran to the door,
tIlinking it might JlOaibly be my father. No one waa there; 1 went to tho
gate, and looked up and down the road. No one was in Bight, and there was
no polBibility that anybody could have got BO suddenly out of view.
1 have never at any other time in my life had any hallucination what-
ever, either of Bight or hearing.
1 remember Mrs. W. telling me of her experience of tlle slap aa lOon as
ahe came downstairs.
1 ought to add that at the time when we were negotiating about the
house, the landlady of the lodgings where my father and 1 were Btaying
told me that all the villaa of the row in which our house was situated, ten in
number, were haunted. 1 waa with my father when 1 heard this. Mrs. W.
waa not with us. 1 am certain that the remark made no impreaion what-
ever on me, and thnt it did not even recur to my mind till 1 saw what 1 have
described. I ilid not even mention the remark to Mrs. W.
lIrs. W. a.dds :-
I distinctly remember my step-daughter coming to me immediately after
her first sight of the figure, and telling me about it. 1 then told her for the
first time of my own experience (I had then only had one), and our deacrlp-
tionscompletely tallied. 1 distinctly remember our agreeing about the part-
ing of the hair in the middle, and about the amount of white shirt-front.
We could neither of us remember whether his tie was white or black. We
agreed that we should know the face if we ever met it. And subsequently,
at an evening party, we both pitched on the same indi\'idual &8 more like our
Digitized by Google
106 PkantfJ8m8 of the Dead. [April 24,
strange visitor than anyone elao we know. The resemblance, however, was
not extremely close.
I distinctly remember, also, my step-daughter exclaiming, "There's that
man again ! " when we were playing bCzique. I rushed at once into Ute hall
and found the door closed as she has d~scribed.
I also remember her telling me at once about what she had seen, and
what her brother had exclaimed when they were playing at battledore
and shuttlecock.
She told me about what she had seen in the porch when Mr. W. and I
returned from town on the next (Monday) morning.
The following is Surgeon-Major W.'s confinnation :--
I was told of these various occurrences by my wife and da.ughter at the
times wlUch they have specified. I only heard from my wife of her first
experience after she had told me of her secolld. After she had seen the figure
during the game at cricket, I went into the kitchen, but found everything aa
usual. On my return home, after my daughter's seeing the figure peeping
round the dining-room door, I went all over the premises as my custom was,
and found windows secured and every tlUng in order.
My wife and daughter are as unlikely as anyone I know to suffer from
eauseleaa frights. They are completely free from nervousneaa, and though
these experiences were startling and bewildering to them, they did not in the
least worry themselves in consequence.
It seems poaaible that the voice may have been that of one of the children
talking in sleep, and the slap some effect of imagination, but it is not easy to
account for the apparitions by any such known causes.
The next case I will give (G. 464) is somewhat less striking, but it
has, like the last, the advantage of being recent. Mr. Gurney has had
a long interview with Miss Leigh Hunt and Miss Laurence, and talked
over the phenomena with them.
From Miss Kathleen Leigh Hunt, 81, Camden Road, N.W.
J1me, l884
Two years ago hust winter I was staying with my cousin at a house in
Hyde Park Place, which we were taking care of for my cousin's brother-in-
Iaw and sister during their absence from England.
One morning after breakfast, I think it was about 10 o'clock, I was going
upstairs when I scemed to sec, about two stairs in front of me, a figure,
which I took to be the housemaid, going up before me. ~. went up the
entire flight of stairs, under this inlpreaaiun, to the first floor, when suddenly
at the top I could see nobody. This puzzled me, as I could not account for
anyone being able to disaPI)ear se. quickly, and I went into the room that
was the nearest to the stairs, tlUnking that in some way the housemaid must
have gone in there without my seeing her. The room, however, was empty,
and so was the drawing-room, which led out of it with folding doors that
wer" kept open. I then went into the only other room on tlmt floor, but no
one was there either. I felt that it was impoaaible that she should have gone
Digitized by Google
1885.] 101
on upstairs, as I Ihould have leen her do 10. I was not at all frightened,
although I begall to believe that it could not have been the housemaid that
I had. seen; still the hour of the day was not one to luggeat ghostly thoughts,
and the figure Itself had nothing lupernatural about it, being limply that of
a servant in a light cotton drep (a white ground, with a Ipriggy pattern all
over it), and with white cap on. Of coune, being behind it, I had not leell
the face. The whole figure had the general appearance of the housemaid,
so tlmt she had been the one 1 had thought of. It was not in the leaat like
the cook, who dr_ed in much darker cottona, and was besides a very littlo
woman, while the figure I saw was of medium height.
I determined not to tell my cousin about this, as 1 was going out for the
day, and I thought ahe might get nervous in thinking about it alone, and
afterwards I forgot about it till seeing it a ICCOnd time imprel!led it upon my
mind.
It was about the same tinle in the morning, about two or tluee weeks
afterwards, as far as I can remember, that ha,ing, as I thought, heard 1\
aingle knock at the Itreet door, and wishing to Blleak to the housemaid as Bhe
returned fronl anlwering it, I ltood in the dining-room, JUBt inlide the half-
open door, waiting to catch her &I Ihe paaaed back to the kitchen, but
atanding a little behind the door 80 that I Bhould not be seen if anybody
ahould come into the house when ahe anBWered the deor. I saw a figure pass
along the p&I!I&ge towards the Itreet door, which I took to be the housemaid
again, becaule I was expecting her to go by, but, owing to my polition, ldid
lIot see her face, but only a piece of her cheek and the lide view of her
figure. On neither occaaion did I hear any 80und of walking, but this did
not lurprise me, although the figure was not two yards from me, because the
housemaid had a very quiet walk indeed, quite remarkably so. As I heard
no door open or Ihut, and no figure returned after waitillg two or three
minutea, I put out my head and looked in the hall. Nobody was there. I
then went acroSl to the only room on that floor belidea the dining-room.
Nobody was there either. Both the little room and the dining-room have
only one door each to them, 10 there was no popibility of her Imving
left the room any way but the way I went in. This time I felt
I must inquire into the puzzle, I\nd I went Itraight to the kitchen,
where I found the housemaid Bitting. I asked her if she had not just been
to the door. She I\llBwered, .. No." "Then," I said, "Iurely you went to
the door just now; you must forget, there was a lingle knock at the door."
But she said Ihe had heard no knock, and had not been out of the kitchen.
I then told my cousin about my two experiences, and she lurprised me by
telling me of hen, and of the former housemaid having told her that Inc
often saw .. skirts going up round the ltairs." We agreed we would not say
anything of this to her lister or her husband, as we were afraid we Ihould
only be laughed at and thought to be nervous, although we did not find our
experiencel made us feel 80, nor was I nervous when I had them. My health
was very fairly good during that time, better than usual indeed ; nor ought
I to omit to say that never before or since have I ever fancied I have leen
anything of a ghostly kind, nor have I ever had any unaccountable experi-
encea of any sort except that twice in that house.
KATHLEEN LEIGH HUNT.
Digitized by Google
108 Phantasm. of the Dead. [April 24,
In answer to inquiries, lIiss Leigh Hunt says :-
July 17th, 1884.
Your conjecture WRS right regarding the servants at Hyde Park Plac.e.
There were only two with us at the time, and I did not question the cook on
the matter because the figure I saw bore no resemblance to her. The cook
WRS much smaller, and always dre88ed in darker cottons; she was, besides,
remarkably heavy footed. I do not remember hearing any noise at all when
I saw the figure, but this did not surprise me, as the housemaid WRS very
'Iuiet in all her movements. I questioned the housemaid once after
the second time of seeing the figure, which was like her in general
appearance.
In another communica.tion, she adds :-
During my visit, I frequently heard noises as of persons walking about
and moving articles in a dreuing-room adjoining my bedroom. '£his room
communicated with mine by a door which was left open, the only otherdoor of
the dre88ing-room being locked. A friend, Miu E. L., who had stayed in
the house the previous winter, told me that she had had the same
experience. I certainly have never thought I have heard such sounds any-
where else.
From l\liu Laurence, 81, Camden Road, N.W.
One morning, about 10.30, I was on my way to my bedroom, situate<1 on
the top 1l0or of the house. The 1light upstairs leading from the second lloor
to the top 1l00r was well lighted by two windows and a large skylight over-
head. When I reached the second-lloor landing I saw a cotton skirt, of a
light lilac shade, and indefinite pattern, disappearing round the bend of the
stairs leading to the top lloor, and, believing it to be the housemaid we then
had, I called out, "Harriet," two or three times. She immediately came
out of a bedroom door to my left on the second 1l0or, whereupon I said to
her, "But you were going upstairs just now, how is it that you are here 1"
She answered, "No, I was in this bedroom," pointing to the one she came
from, "all the time." I then said, .. I saw your skirt going round the bend! "
and she replied, " Oh ! that's nothing, miu, I often see a skirt go round that
corner."
I saw the skirt so vh-idly that had I not known the parlour-maid was in
the bedroom, out of which the housemaid had just come to me, and the only
other servant, the cook, downstairs, I should have concluded it to belong
to one of them. It was as real looking as p088ible, and could not have been
an effect of light. I saw only the skirt, and it was ,about four yards in
advance of me.
I had never before, nor have I since, been subject to an hallucination.
J ESSIB LAURENCE.
In a.nswer to inquiries lIiss Laurence says :-
June 24th, 1884.
I am sorry I cannot be more precise as to the date. The house was taken
in 1877,and we lived there till the autumn of 1882. ItWRS some time between
these years of course, but I really cannot say '{'hat year. My efforts to find
the housemaid, " Harriet," have failed.
Digitized by Google
1885.] Pll(mttUmB oj ti,e Dead. 109
From Mr. Paul Bird, of 39, Strand. Calcutta. who is known to Mr. Gurney.
July 17tJ,. 1884.
I have ]lluch pleasure stating. briefly. what I saw, or thought I saw. at
my late residence. in Hyde Park Place. I came home as usual one evening
about 7.30. the hall lamp being lighted. and while wiping my feet on the mat,
saw one of the maid servants come towards me a few steps and then paa8 into
the dining-room. I took ofl'my overcoat and then went into the dining-
room to tell her to bring dinner. and to my surprise there W88 no one in the
room. There W88 no other poaaible egress from the room than the door she
went in at. I then went upstairs and told my wife. who exclaimed that a
similar figure had been seen by Miu Hunt and others." I never saw the
figure again though I frequently looked for it. My own impreuion at the
time W88 that it W88 an optical delusion. that there 1roB a servant where I saw
her. but that instead of pauing into the dining-room, 88 I could have sworn,
she really paued through another door into the kitchen, which W88 on the
lI8IJle floor 88 the dining-room. and was entered from the hall by a door
opposite the street door. I delayed ,'erifying this theory till too late, and was
besides a little afraid of unsettling tile sen-ants if I made inquiry.
PAUL BmD.
Miss Leigh Hunt adds :-
We carefully compared notes at tlle time, and the descriI,tions agreed.
It seems possible here that the second appearance to Miss Leigh
Hunt may have been an illusion resulting from expectation produced
by the fancied knock at the door, and that what Mr. Bird saw may
have been explicable in the way he Rot first supposed. But the combina-
tion of appearances of a similar kind ill the same house, and inde-
pendently of each other. to two people who never had similar experiences
elsewhere, is certainly curious,
The next case (G. 107) is less recent, Personation of the ghost by
some real human being would be the explanation of it that would
suggest itself, were it possible to suppose that Sir Arthur and Lady
Becher were wrong inbelievingthe door of the bath-room to be effecth'ely
locked. The narrative is written by General Sir Arthur Becher, of
S. Faith's Mede, Winchester, who in sending it, says: "I am not at all
a nervous or superstitious person, but I bear the character of a •ghost-
seer' in my family, as I have seen other, to us, •uncannie I visions, but
not of sufficiently clear details to narrate for the purposes of your
• There seems to be a slight discrepancy between this an(l Miu Hunt's
atatement that she and ber cousin had resolved not to mention the apparition
to Mr. or Mrs. Bird. 1\[iu Hnnt is inclined to think that the moat probable
explauation of it is that it W88 Miu Laurence really 'who exclaimed .. that a
similar figure," &c., linee ahe "·811 present on the occasion.
Digitized by Google
110 Pkanta$tn8 0/ tko Dead. [April 24,
inquiry, excepting one at the Cape of Gooel Hope, which I also enclose
for you to do what you like with."
Apl"illlth, 1884.
General Sir A. Becher. who held II. high appointment on the StaJf in
Indio., went, accompanied by his BOn and A.D.C., to the Hill Station of
Kus8owlie, about March, 1867, to examine a house he had secured for his
family to reside in during the approaching hot SeaBOn. They both slept in
the house that night. During the night the General awoke suddenly, and
saw the figure of a native woman standing near his bed, and close to an open
door which led into a bath-room. He called out, .. Who are you?" and
jumped out of bed, when the figure retreated into the bath-room, and in
following it the General found the outer door locked, and the figure had
disappel\rec.
He went to bed again, and in the morning he wrote in pencil on a.
doorpost, "Saw a ghost," but he did not mention the circumstance to hia
wife.
.-\. few days after, the General and his family took poBBeBBion of the house
for the season, and Lady Becher used the room the General had slept in forher
dreBBing-room. About 7 p.m. on the first evening of their arrival, Lady
Becher was dreBBing for dinner, and on going to a wardrobe (near the bath-
room door) to take Guta dreBB, she saw, standing close by and within the
bath-room, a native woman, and, for the moment, thinking it was her own
ayah, asked her "what she wanted;" as Lady Bechernever allowed a servant
in her room while dressing. The figure then disappeared by the aame door
as on the former occasion, which, as before, was found locked! Lady
Becher was not much alanned, but felt that something unusual had occurred,
and at dinner mentioned the event to the General and his BOn, when tho
General repeated what had occurred to him on the former occaaion. That
same night, their youngest BOn, a boy about 8 years of age, was sleeping in
the same room as his father and mother, his bed facing an open docr leading
into the dreBBing-room and bath-room, before mentioned, and in the midlUe
of the night the boy started up in 11is bed in a frightened attitude, and called
out, "What do you want, ayah 1 what do you want 1" in Hindustani.
evidently seeing a female figure in the dreBBing-room near his bed. His mother
quieted him, and he fell asleep, and the figure was not Been by tu on that
occaaion, nor was it ever again seen, though we lived for months in the house.
But it confirmed our feeling t.hat the aame woman had appeared to ,,,aU three.
and on inquiry from other occupants we learned that it was a frequent
apparition on the first night or BO of the house being occupied.
A native Hill, or Cashmere woman, very fair and handBOme, had been
murdered BOme years before, in a hut a few yards below the house, and
immediately under the door leading into the bath and dreBBing-room, through
which, on all three occasiona, the figure had entered and disappeared. My
BOn sleeping in another Bide of the house never saw it.
I could give the names of BOme other subsequent occupants who have toM
us much the same story. iLl
• The probable address of one only of these other occupants has as yet beeD
obtained, and abe has not answered a letter addreaaed to her on the 8ubject.
Digitized by Google
1885.J Phantasms 0/ tlie Dead. 111
Subsequently Sir Arthur Becher writes :-
Winchester, May 14th, 1884.
I write to say Lady Becher does not desire to write anything more per-
sonally on the subject of the "Ghost Story" I before detailed, as she says
my account of it was given in connection with and entirely in accordance
with her recollection of the circumatances. The woman appeared to me in
the night, and in the ordinary light of a room without any blinds or shutters.
In answer to inquiries, he further tells us that the bath-room door,
was locked on the inside; that the rooms were on the ground floor; but
that there was no exit but by the doors refen'ed to. Also that the
child had certainly not heard of the ghost before he saw it.
The following narrative (G. 378) is sent by Mr. John D. Harry to
Mr. Gurney, who is not personally acquainted with him, but learns
from two common acquaintances that he is a man of acumen in ordinary
affairs. Mr. Harry's residence is in the South of Europe.
Decembel' 8t1~, 1882.
DEAR SIR,-In reply to your circular on Psychical Research, I have great
pleasure in affording you the following facts, of which we (that is, myself and
three daughters, with one of the housemaids) have been from time to time
cogniasnt. I think it was in the.winter of 1871. an apparition, in the exact
likeneBl of a fair woman draped from head to foot in white, glided slowly
through the library of my house and into my bedroom. The face at the
time I did not see, as the figure preceded me to my bedroom. She appeared
t&ll and rather slight. On her entering my room, I immediately followed and
closed tho door after me, with the object of discovering who the person WM
that was playing some sort of trick, but I could find no one in the room, after
searching it thoroughly. I, however, kept the circumstance perfectly secret.
It. might have been two or three years after this last event that I heard screams
from all mydaughters, and, as itappeared after, from their maid as well; this
was about 10o'clock at night, and about the same hour I had seen the appari-
tion previously. One of my daughters the next morning rushed to tell me
of the fright they had had, but before she had time to explain t,he cause I
at once dared her to talk of Rny such nonsense as ghosts, as they might be
sure apparitions were only in the imagination of nervous people. I did not,
however, tell her of what I had seen. From that time to the time my last
daughter was married, it was never alluded to between us, and I did not
know till then, when my daughter was leaving the house for her marringe
journey, that either of my daughters had again seen the apparition. A few
minutes before she left the house, she desired to speak to me privately, and
when she gave me the full particulars of the female apparition which she
had seen repeatedly, I then acknowledged that the same figure had on seven
or eight occasions appeared in my bedroom and twice in the library, and
that on one occasion it lifted up the mosquito curtains and looked closely
into my face. On tJUs occasion I became rather startled, as it was so sudden,
and I uaed not very polite language, when it dropped the curtain and glided
slowly away. It never appeared to walk, but to glide. It is now nearly
Digitized by Google
112 Plum/am'8 qf tile Dead. [April 24,
two years since I have witnessed it for a certainty, as the last time, I believe,
I was merely dreaming of it. So impressed has the face become in my
imagination that I believe I could distinguish it among thousands,-pale,
rather handsome, oblongfeatures, and about 35. My daughter once heard her
sister's name called two or three times, but there was no one in the room or
near to account for the voice.
Had it not been for the scene at my daughter's marriage it would never
have been spoken of (at least, by me); but when she stated in the presence
of others that she was glad to leave the houlle, and hoped never to sleep in
it again, I very reluctantly told some of the friends present; but this took
place eight-and-a-half years after the first time any of us had seen the
apparition.-I am, sir, yours truly,
JOHN D. BARRY.
P.S.-My great reason now for keeping the matter secret is that the
property I inhabit might not be depreciated, as the - - are a most
nervous and superstitious people.
I should add that the figure appeared to all three of my daughters and
their maid at one time, and on the return of my daughter (the eldest), with
her husband, she again saw it, and her husband likewise acknowledged
that he saw something, but could not describe it as he had just awoke.
It has never been seen by any of us except on the particular flat where
the sitting-rooms and bedrooms are.
The following account is from one 'of Mr. Harry'S daughters,-
Mrs. Knight. It will be seen that the details are not in complete
a.greement with his recollection of what his daughter had told him, but
this only illustrates what I have already said about second·hand infomla-
tion. The two accounts agree in the important point that a female
figure draped in white has been ~n by several persons in the house,
and independently by at least two of them; It was apparently seen too
indistinctly by the second witness for any clear recognition of the
features, or she would hardly have taken it for her sister; unless,
indeed, she means us to understand tha.t the face really was exactly
like her sister's, in which case it must have been unlike that of the
figure seen by her father, and which he believes he could distinguish
among thousands. I hope we may ultimately obtain the endence of
Mr. Harry's other daughters as well
May 6th, 1885.
In the year 1871, about May, we moved into --, the family con-
sisting of my father, two sisters, and myself. I was unpacking clothes one
evening,about sunset, in the first week of ourbeing.there,witha woman called
Pepina, when we both saw a shadow of a woman rising out of a bed in a room
which opened out of the one we were in. I spoke first, when we had recovered
our presence of mind, and said, "Pepina, what did you see 1" She said, "Mias
Louie," meaning my youngest sister. I said, .. So did I." We were not
frightened, only surprised. The next evening, at sunset again, my other
sister and I were sitting on top of the house as is the general custom in
-- for coolness sake. Suddenly a figure came to the low door opening on
Digitized by Google
1885.] Plmnta8m8 of tke Dead. 113
to the roof, and diaappeared. I said, "Wasn't that Louie 1" My sister
replied, "Yes, I wonder why she did not come up." She then went to the
top of the ladder and called her, but there was no answer. Then I remarked,
"That is the second time I have seen Louie in this house. I hops nothing
is going to happen to her." Later in the evening I said to mysiater, "Did you
come up to the roof to-night '1 " " Oh, no!" she said, "I wasn't near there. I
was downstairs all the time." Then I remarked, .. Well, something is going
to happen to you, f&r we have scen your ghost twice following," but she
only laughed.
I told my father of it, but he was very angry and said there were
no such things as ghosts, and that we were never to speak of such things for
fear of frightening the servants.
I lived in that house for eight years and never saw it again. Thc last ten
months I was alone with my father, and slept in a room quite away from
anybody, but I never saw anything again nor had any fear. It was only on
hearing from my father, after I was married, that he had seen it once or
twice, that I was afraid to go to the house, and I do not think anything would
induce me to go there again.
My father is afraid of nothing, but I know that he often sees this shadow,
and yet does not believe it is anything supernatural, only he allows that he
cannot account for it. IfI had seen it alone I should have thought I was out
of health or imaginative, but as therewere two people each time it could not
have been imagination. S. E. KNIGHT.
In answer to inquiries, Mrs. Knight adds :-
The figure rose from the bed with its arms outstretched, as if beseeching
or asking for something. I also noticed that it had its arms stretched out in
the same manner the second time I saw it. It vanished into the wall at the
back of the bed as we approached it. It was a white shadowy figure of a
young woman. The face looked pretty, but very sad. I couldn't say how it
was dreued, it all looked white and ffimay, as if you could pass through it.
Itis quite as clear in my memory now as at the time I saw it. I daresay you
have heard from my father that once he saw it in grey instead of white, and
he said it looked to have grown smaller.
Another narrative of appearances last year, in a house in Sussex,
has not yet been printed by the Committee, because they hope to ob-
tain some further evidence about it shortly, but it has been shown to
me in manuscript, and as it relates to a curious variety of these appari-
tiOll8 I will give a brief account of it. We have, I believe, four first,.
hand accounts from different percipients, none of whom had previously
heard what the ghost was like. They saw in the night, by a wardrobe
in a particular room, a column of light vaguely shaped like a woman,
which in some cases moved without changing its shape or attitude,from
the wardrobe to the fireplace, and then slowly back again, and from the
fireplace to the window, there disappearing all at once. The servant,
having heard of the ghost, slept in the room with a view to seeing it,
and succeeded on various occasions, but to her it appeared more like
& ba.ll of light with a sort of halo round it. She saw it once in the
Digitized by Google
114 Pliania8f'M of tke Dead. [Apri12J,
evening as she passed the door of the room, and called others to see it,
but when they got there it had disappeared. This seems to have been
the only occasion on which it was seen by anyone not in bed. One of
the percipients has endeavoured to account for the appearance as a
rellection from the looking-glass, a light shining in at the window, &c.•
but does n:>t seem to have succeeded in doing so satisfactorily. Rumour
in the village says the house is haunted, and that a woman murdered
her mother there, hut such village gossip cannot, I think, be taken 8S
of any value without very careful investigation, since it may quite
possibly have its origin in the very circumstances which it is supposed
to explain and confirm.
I have now, I think, exhausted the cases where we have first-hand
testimony from two or more witnesses who, without knowing what the
apparition was supposed to be like, seem to have seen much the same
thing. But there are other cases which ought not, I think, to be left
out of account, where we have first-hand evidence of appearances to one
percipient, and second-hand accounts of others, only heard of by the
narrator of the first-hand account after his own experience. The
following is an instance (G. 629). Names may not be published, and
further information cannot be obtainLod, which is ruucb to be regretted,
as the story might become very interesting, and afford us useful informa-
tion. It was received by Mr. Myers from a friend who writes on
January 15th, 1884.
The following was written to me by a relative. She learnt from an old
gardener that there is a story ccnnected with the house, but what the story
is she could not find out.
"I have had an odd sensation in summer, early in the morning, that there
was a woman in t.h.e room, but 1 could not look up till she had gone. 1 con-
sidered this to be a sptlCies of nightulare, till last August. 1 was, 88 before,
lying awake, when the IIIlme feeling came over me ; this time far more
strongly. 1 heard a dress rustIe, IUld felt a short, dark woman was coming
towards my bed. She put her hand on my shoulder, and looked over at
my face ; then the spell was o~ and I could turn round.
1 was awake, I know, and was just noticing that the wardrobe door wasleft
a little open. I felt I could not stay in this room after this, and so moved
into another. 1 told my maid what I had seen, saying it must be nightmare,
when she said, 'Why, that is what B. used to say. A ahort, sallow
woman uaed to come into his room, and pass by him to the window.' This
B. was our la'to man-servant, and his room was over mine.
I took an opportunity of asking him, and he said he knew he was awake,
and got up to look, but after a few times he got used to it. '
'Ve are seldom at home in August. I tlO'IO remember when we came here,
17 years ago, being told the house was haunted, but never believed it or
thought of it again.
The sensation was so dreadful, and yet I felt she (tIle apparition) meant
Digitized by Google
1885.J Phantasms of the Dead. 115
no harm, more as if she were looking kindly at me. Her face seemed in
darkness, and yet I could see it. You will laugh, because it was all at mv
back. I am curious to know if anyone will believe in a nC1t-seeing sight. 1
saw her in the back of my head; my face was to the wall. I felt I could not
move.
This is a correct version of my experiences on the morning of August
11th,I883."
Here it will be observed, unlike the other C&8es I have quoted, the
sensation of seeing is produced without any possible intervention of
the eyes.
The following (G. 383) is another instance. It is an account of the
apparent hauntings of a house at Hammersmith, by Mrs. W. B.
&---d, and was written in the summer of 1883.
'''lien we went to live in our house at Hammersmith, we had never heard
a word of its being hsunted, nor had we any sort of feeling that it was a.
ghostly house or anything of the sort, nor had we ever in any other house
experienced any phenomena of the kind. Almost immediately after taking
possession, all the members of the household complained of hearing noises
in the lower part of the house-windows would be violently shaken every
night between 2 and 4 o'clock, and steps were heard apparently going about
the house. I myself frequently had doors opened for me before entering s.
room, as if a hsnd had hastily turned the handle and thrown it open. Then
occasionally we used to hear sounds as of someone sobbing and sighing (deep
long sighs at all times of the day). I used to hear these sounds in my bed-
room, and on the little st.'\ircase leading to it, and my husband would hear it
in the dining-room underneath. Sometimes I would hear a sound of stitch-
ing in the room out of my bedroom, as if some very hard and coarse worlc
were being done, and then asound as of sc.mething being dragged acr088 the
:floor. I got to hsve a feeling which was most uncomfortable, at times, as of
being tootcJl€d. These sort of things went on for about five years, when, in
October, 1875, about 3 o'clock one afternoon I was sitting with three of my
children in the dining-room, reading to them. I wanted to speak to the
parlour-maid, and I rang the bell for her when the door opened, and on look-
ing up I saw a figure of a woman· come in and walk up to the side of the
table, stand there a second or two, and then turn to go out again, but before
reaching the door shelleemed to diBBolve away. She was agrey, short-looking
woman, apparently dre88ed in grey muslin. I hardly saw the face, which
lleemed scarcely to be defined at all. None of the children saw her, and I
did not mention the circumstance to them nor to the servants, lest they should
get frightened and leave. I only told my husband. I was in perfect health
at the time.
During the next two months, a figure, described exactly like the one I
had seen, was seen by two different servants, during the absence of the
family. One of them saw itin the afternoon in daylight, and the other at 10
o'clock at night; one saw it on the little staircase, and one in the day nursery.
Neither of these lIervants had by any po88ibility heard of my hsving seen
anything of the sort. They were both in good health, and, having been
with me Bome time, had long grown accustomed to the noises; but one of
1 2
116 Phanttmn8 of tile Dead. [April 24.
them was 80 upset and frightened by the apparition that she sent word to Us
at once that she must leave us.
The following summer, in July, I was awoke in the night by a frantic
scream of terror from my little girl (then six years old), who slept in a tiny
room opening out of ours. Her father ran to her, when abe said, .. Oh! I
awoke and BIloW a little wicked-looking old grey woman standing at the foot of
the bed, looking at me with a horrid face. and then suddenly she went down
through the Boor with a loud noise, and I screamed out." The child was in
good health, and hadnever heard any talk of the apparition.
In the autumn of 1876 I was awoke one night, and felt an icy "'ind blow-
ing through my room, and heard loud lObs ; the curtains of the bed were
pulled back. and my hair was pulled. Another night I was awo~e by &
brilliant light in my room and the same cold wind. Previously to this, my
husband, on one occasion, heard his name distinctly called in his studIO, as
he sat at work. Since all this (1876) only occasional rappings have been
heard, and I have not felt that feeling of being watched, which Wled to come
over me when sitting in my room, the feeling which I had for years before I
saw any apparition.
The following are letters written later by Mrs. R--d.
March 11th, 1884.
DEAR IlK. GtrRNEY,-As to the night that I told you of last September,
I was, as far as I can remember, awoke by the dog barking about 12 o'clock.
The barking stopped, but I heard what sounded like steps downstairs. Very
lOOn the old noises began in our littlA library: jumping about, the window
rattling, the whole place shaking, till my windows rattled too. The dog
whined inceaaantly, and the banging and jumping seemed to grow more and
moreboisterous. I got up and made lOme noise with the furniture in my room.
lighted my candles, and went on to the landing to listen if there were noises
in the other part of the house, but all was perfectly quiet there, though in
the little room downstairs the dog seemed to grow more and more distreaaed.
and the noises continued more violently than ever. I listened to them till 3
o'clock, and as there seemed no chance of their stopping, I left my room and
paaaed the rest of the night in Helen's. The dog evidently was still afraid of
the room when the morning came. I called to him to go into it with me, and
hecrouched down with his tail between his legs,and seemed to fear entering it_
That was all that disturbed me, but I found it enough, as I was alone in
tIle houle with only Helen and the maid.-Youra sincerely, C. R-D.
April 5th, 1884.
DEAR MR. GUXNEY,-I never heard of any Clewer Sisters having lived.
here. Some person who knew the house, I cannot remember who, told me
an old invalid lady once lived here, but abe is a misty personage.
About 40 or 50 years ago a Mr. Atwood, the tIlen vicar of Hammersmitll.
lived here, and we bought it from his Ion. Our immediate predeceaaor was
a Mr. Seaton, a gentleman much given to horseracing.
In 1804, lome people of the name of Scott lived here, as we know by
having found lOme of their invitation carda behind a mantelpiece, but.
that iI all I can tell of the former inll&bitanta of the house.-Youra very
sincerely, CLARA. R--D.
Digitized by Google
188i>.] Plmnta8ms of the Dead. 117
The appearance to the child is not, I think, important, as it may
bve been merely a bad dream, but there can haldly be a mistake as
to the servants having seen independently a figure very much like that
seen by Mrs. &--d. It will be observed that mysterious noises
occupy a prominent place in this narrative, which has not been the case
in any that I have yet spoken of except the one given in the
Proceeding8, Part VI.
To the present group of cases belong two more which will be printed
when a little more evidence has been obtained. I will give a brief account
of them on account of their great interest. In the first, the o.ppesrances
have taken place, so far as we know, only since the present occupants
came to the house in April, 1882. They have occurred mainly in the
summer, and have been very frequent. The figure seen is that of a
lady in widow's garb, holding a hand and handkerchief up to her brow
and apparently weeping; the face is concealed. It moves about, and has
been seen in various parts of the house and garden, but most frequently
is first seen by the original percipient on the stairs, and has constantly
been followeddownto thedrawing.room,where it sits down in a particular
comer of a particular sofa.-or if the percipient sits in that place her-
self, the apparition stands behind. At first this lady only saw it, and
for some time said nothing about it, but after atime a young brother of
eight years old saw independently what he described as a lady in black
crying in the drawing-room. Three other persons saw independently
what seems to haVE!been the same figure, and since thenother members of
the family have seen it, though some who have tried to do so havefailed.
It has once been seen by two together, and on another occasion by one
only, though others were present. This, and its apparently disappearing
through a closed door, preclude the idea of its being any real person.
The house where this occurs is only about 25 years old, and its history is
completely known. The figure seen is believed to resemble a lady who
formerly lived there, and whose life there was unhappy, but who did not
die there. She was not known to the percipients, and as the apparition
never, I believe, shows its face, the likeness inferred from photographs
must remain somewhat conjectural.
The other unprinted case :relates to an old Elizabethan manor
house. It is well-known as a haunted house, and various exaggerated
accounts of the ghost may be met with. According to some accounts
tha.t reached the Committee, the ghost is continually appearing, but
usually ooly shows its back, which is fortunate since the face is so
horrible that anyone seeing it is frightened almost into fits and
insists on leaving the house! The true history, so far as the Com-
mittee yet have it, is less sensationa.l and seems in brief to
be as follows. The house was, from the summer of 1861 to
the spring of 1863, occupied by a Mr. and Mrs. H. Before he rented
Digitized by Google
118 P"anttwn8 01 the Dead. [April 24,
it Mr. H. had heard many reports of its being haunted, but these were
of a general character; he heard no description of any appearance.
We know also from other sources tha~ the house had previously this
reputation. The H.'s cORstantly heard noises for which they were
unable to account; and their little dog behaved somewhat oddly at night,
refusing, contrary to ib usual habits, to leave its basket on any provo-
cation. One night Mr. H. saw an old woman in a dark gown, grey
.shawl, and poke bonnet standing at the foot of the bed. She vanished,
and he got up and examined thp, room, satisfying himself thatit was no
illusion. He never spoke of this, while lhey remained in the house, to
anyone except a. siswr-in-law whom he bound over to secrecy, and he
is certainshe kept the secret. During his tenancy an old nurse, after
sleeping one night in the house, refused ever to do so again, but would
give no reason. After they left they persuaded her to tell them why
ahe had acted thus, and it then appeared that ahe had seen a figure
which she described exactly as Mr. H. did his, though she had never
heard of his experience. The nurse is dead and we have her account
at second-hand only.
The next tenants are believed to have had experiences, but they have
not yet been got at, and after 1864 the house remained empty for some
time.
From 1867 to 1875 it was inhabited by a clergyman and his family.
In the autumn of 1867 the clergyman, Mr. B., whileunpackingin a dress-
ing-room opening on to the landing, saw passing the door a lady in blue
with her hair down her back, who could not possibly be anyone in the
house. In July, 1868, a similar figure was seen by a lady in nearly the
same place. She saw it very clearly, including fo.ce and bare feet. It
went into the dressing-room and there disappeared. Of these
two appearances we ha.ve accounts at first-hand, but they were
probably not independent in the sense in which I have used the
word, as I believe the lady knew what Mr. B. had seen. There are,
besides, accounts at second-hand of two appearances to a housemaid of
a figure apparently not exactly resembling Mr. B.'s ; and also at second-
hand of two appearances to a gentleman staying in the house, who
described the figure somewhat differently again. These four last-
mentioned appearances also occurred in 1868. It is not clear whether
there have been other appearances to servants or not. The B.'s left
the house in 18i:>. It was then somewhat repaired and altered, and
from 1876 till now has been occupied by another family who have seen
and heard nothing at all remarkable.
We have here the remarkable feature that the haunting, which
continued for at least seven years, and through the occupancy of at
least three families, seems to have changed its character in a. marked
degree.
Digitized by Google
1884.] PllflnUl8ms of tAe Dead. 119
I may add that the ghost is said to be the spirit of a young lady
murdered in the middle of the last century for her jewels. But the
story of this murder is very hazy, and has its origin, I believe, in a
letter received from America, after the appearances .to the B. family.
This letter professed to come from a person who had learnt the story
from the last surviving member of the murderer's family, and received
from her 110 secret plan showing the spot where the treasure was hid.
From internal evidence, I should judge it to be a hoax.
I will now give some cases where the appearances were not strictly
independent, but where it would seem that the previous knowledge
possessed by some of the percipients as to the form of the ghost can
hardly haye operated through expectation in producing it, since their
first impression W8.s that they saw 110 living human being.
The account of an apparition, supposed from a resemblance of figure
to be possibly that of Miss A., printed in the ProcudingB, Vol. I.,p. 108,
is 110 case of this. It is 110 reccrd, as will be remembered, of a shadowy
female figure seen several times.
A somewhat similar ca.se is the following (G. 77), obtained through
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood. The house is in Ireland, but neither its
name nor that of the percipients may be published. The first account
is from Miss C., the goyemess.
On the 18th of April (Thursday), 1867, about 7.40 p.m., I was going to
my room, which I at that time shared with one of my pupils, when just as I
bad reached the top of the stairs I plainly saw the figure of a female
dreSBed in black, with a large white collar or kerchief, very dark
hair, and pale face. I only saw the side face. She moved slowly
and went into my room, the door of which was open. I thought
it waa Marie, the French maid, going to see about A.'s clothes, but
the next moment I saw that the figure was too tall and walked better. I
then fancied it was some visitor who bad arrived unexpectedly (Mrs. S. bad
done 80 a few days previously), and had gone into the wrong bedroom, and
as I had only been at F. H. a short time, I felt rather shy at speaking to
strangers, so waited where I was a minate or two expecting to see the lady
come out, but I never lost sight of the door. At last I went in, and there
was no one in the room. I looked everywhere, and even feltthe backofthe
hanging side of the wardrobe to see whether there was any concealed door
leading into the next room. This idea would not have occurred to me bad I
been able in any way to ac.:ount for the lady's disappearance. She could
not have gone by the window, aa the room was on the second storey. Going
downstairs, I met the cook and another maid, and asked themif any stranger
had arrived, and was answered in the negative. I bad never heard of any
strange appearances in the house, and could not accountfor what I bad seen
that evening.
Some years after, inDecember,1874, aa I wasgoing to bed, about 10 o'clock
(thehouaehadbeenslightlyaltered), I sawmostdistinctly a lady in black leaning
over the fire in the room occupied by the eldest daughter. She waa shading
Digitized by Google
120 PlIanta8ma of tke Dead. [April 24,
her eyes with her hand, and seemed looking for something by tile fender; her
other hand was on the chimney-piece. I walked slowly towards the room,
and said, "Take care, C., you will burn your face, it is .0 near the flame."
As there was no answer I spoke again, I suppose louder, for at that moment
C., whom I supposed the lady to be,came out of her suter', "oom and asked
what I was talking about and why I was in such a fright about her burning
her face.· There was no one in her room and no one could have passed me
unobserved, as I was standing close to the door.
Anothertime, late one evening in September, I was sitting in the school-
room with the door open, when I saw the figure again, standing on the f~
side of the stove in the lower hall. I at once got up to see who it was, but
it had vanished. I think it seemed to go up one step of the stairs,butam not
Bure, as this was the only time I felt rather nervous when seeing it, and that,
perhaps, from thinking it was someone who had no busine88 in the house, or
that someone was playing me a trick. Each time I have seen "the black
lady" she has been dre88ed in what appearedto be black serge or caallmere-
something soft and in heavy folds-with the same large white collar or
kerchief on her neck. Whatever it was, I feel as certain of having seen it
as that I am now writing thisaccount of it, and it may be as well to mention
that I am by no means a nervous person-quite the contrary.
In answer to the inquiry how she knows the dates of the appearances,
Miss C. tells us that she "has kept a diary for many years, putting down
slwrt remarks of remarkable and interesting events, seeing the • Black Lady'
amongst the rest."
She adds that she .. had not heard anything of the house being supposed
to be haunted when she saw the 'Black Lady , in the spring of 1867. It
was not till some months afterwards that she heard the story of MiSB M.,and
the report that she was seen a at times walking about the house and garden."
As regards the story of MiSB M., Mi88 C. sn.ys :-" Part of this house.
nearly all of it, was burnt down in 1752. The room in which MiSB M. slept,
and in which, some sn.y, the fire originated, seems to have been near what is
now the drawing-room and front hall. Some old people in the neighbourhood,
dead now for some years, reported that they had heard long ago that MiBB
M.'s door was locked by the servants, as she was subject either to fits or to
walking in her sleep; that she attempted to escape by the window, which
was not a great height from the ground, but that the sash fell down on tho
hand, cutting off three fingers and causing her to fall back into the burning
room. The house was rebuilt in 1762."
MiSB A. M.'s Account.
J I'M 26th, 1883.
I do not know much of the history of our ghost; all I have heard is, that she
is said to be a lady who was subject tofits ; ahe was under the charge of servants
<IDly, and one night she was locked up in a room by herself, the house was
burnt down at that side, and she was burnt to death. In trying to save her-
self by getting out of the window she smashed two of her fingers.
I do not remember when she was first seen, or who was the first to see
her, but two of my sisters saw her, when they were quite young, at different
times. One of them was coming out of the nursery, which is at one end of
a paa88ge, and she saw this lady standing in the doorway of the room at tho
Digitized by Google
1885.J P/la"tasms 0/ tile Dead. 121
opposite end. My sister was much frightened, and called out that there was
a woman with a white face looking at her; when some one came, the woman
had disappeared. I forget how she appeared to the other child, I think she
II&W her sitting in a chair in a room she had just come into. We did not ask
the child much about it for fear of impressing it on her memory and frighten-
ing her. My eldest sister was one evening standing in her room, and on turn-
ing to the door, there was the ghost standing in the doorway. She disap-
peared almost directly.
My mother twice, that I know of, saw her, both times on the stairs. The
first time, thinking it WILlI one of us, she called but got no answer; she called
several times but got no answer. She says the person turned round and
looked at her, but my mother, who does not see very well, still thought it .
was one of us, and getting angry at not being answered, pursue,d her up the
stairs. The female went into a very small room at the top and shut the
door. My mother went in after her but no one WILlI there. The other time
the lady passed my mother on the stairs; she thought she was one of the ser-
vants, which it was afterwards proved she was not. My mother is not at all of
an imaginative disposition. One of my sisters and myself also saw her at
the same time one evening. We were sitting in the school-room rather late;
there isa hall outside the school-room with a large stove in it. We had no
light but the firelight, the door was wide open, and I was standing facing the
ha.ll, and I saw standing behind the stove the same apparition. She appeared
80 tall that it did not seem ILII if she could be standing on the ground. I
said to my sister, "Look round," which she did. We both looked at her for
a second or two, and then the fire went down; we poked it up but saw nothing
again.
Every one who saw her gives the same description of her, that she is
a woman about middle height, dressed in black, with a shawl over her head.
When we saw her in the hall she had herside face towards us, so we could
not see her well. .
I also saw a very curious reflection once. I was sitting in my sister's
room, and was leaning back looking up, when I saw on the ceiling the
shadow of a head and a hand that appeared as if it had only three fingers.
Thinking it was my sister's shadow I thought what a curious shadow her
knitting made, and looked down to see what she was doing with it ; on looking
up the reflection WILlI gone. We then found that both our shadows were on
the ftoor. I did not know until afwr I had seen this that the lady had lost
two of her fingers when trying to get out of the window.
I omitted to say that there was no egress from the little room my mother
followed the lady into excepting the one by which my mother went in.
In answer to inquiries, Miss A. M. writes, on December 1st, 1882:-
We none of us except Miss C. put down the dates of any time we saw the
ghost, and I hardly remember any of them.
I saw thereftection in May,1877. I think it wasthe yearafter that my mother
AW the ladygo up the stairs in front of her. I think it must been in January
orFebruary, 1880, that I and MissG. M. saw her; Miss I. M. ill May, 1880.
I am afraid I cannot remember any of the other dates.
The ghost WILlI seen by Mrs. M. twice; by Mrs. I. [the eldest sister]; by
MissG. M. when a child, and also at the same time that I saw her myself j
DigitizedbyGoogle .--
1~2 [Apri124,
by Miss M. M. when a child; by Miss I. M. Also by Miss C., our
goveme88, whose account I enclose.
I have heard stories ofservants seeing her,and oneout-of-door servantsays
he saw her in the garden, but I can't rely upon these.
I have put all names with every confidence that they will be kept
strictly private.
Mi88 I. M.'s Account.
I do not think A. knew or remembered about my having seen her when
sho wrote her account. It was in June, 1880 ; I had been out for a walk [to
look at a dance at a neighbouring house] with my youngest sister, and one of
the maids. (Before we left we llad told them not to sit up for us.) When we
got back it was about 120'clock, but it was a very light night. I went to the
window first that wo were going to get in by, and looked through the gl&88
and saw a lady standing at thebottom of the st.airs,I thought it was my mother
at first. She then walked slowly acro88 the hall, and I opened the window,
and there was no one there. I could not see her face; she was all in black.
That is all I can remember.
The evidence of other percipients cannot be obtained at first-hand.
I do not wish to lay much stress on this case because there is some
difference in the descriptions given of the figure. All, how-
ever, agree that they saw a lady dressed in black. The curious
shadow seen on the ceiling cannot, I think, as described, be regarded as
important, as it is not shown that it had no ordinary, though
fleeting, cause. Of the accounts at first-hand only Miss C.'s and Miss
I. M.'s describe appearances taken at first for a real person. Miss A.M.
seems to have surmised at once tha.t she saw the ghost.
The next narrative (G. 110) relates to an old house in London, but
the names are here also to be kept private. Noises again take a rather
prominent place in this account, which has considerable interest, though
it is perhaps a little doubtful whether the nurse had no expectation I)f
seemg the ghost; she was certainly in a nervous state.
The first part of the account was written down by Mr. Podmore,
and afterwards corrected by Mrs. H. The seco nd part is from Mrs.
G., her married daughter. The third part is from the nurse. The
history of the house is not known.
The scene of tho occurrences mentioned below is a large house in London.
The house, which is an old one, has been tenanted by its present occupanta
for about 12 years. Previously to this it hud the reputation of being
haunted; Mrs. H. had heard rumours to that effect from the former
occupants.
Mrs. H., the lady of tho house, has herself seen nothing abnormal in
the house, but she has, of course, heard the account given by succc88ive
servants, and the facts stated below may be taken to be substantially
accurate.
Noises as of footsteps were heard not unfrequently in the dusk and at
night along one of the rooms in the building; these noises would appear to
Digitized by Google
1885.] PnuntfJ8n'8 oj tke Dead. 123
pass quiteclose to the aervant who heard them, but nothing would ever be
seen. Other atrange noises, .. if ,omeone were digging, would be conatantly
heard in a parlour on the ground Hoor of the house. These noisea would be
heard by two or three persons at a time; and either at night or in the day-
time. Aa there are rooma on all aidea of thia parlour belonging to the
house, these sounds could not have been caused by anyone outside the
building itself ; and no natural origin could be aaaigned for them within the
building.
On several occasions, perhaps a dozen in all,'during the 12 years in which
the H. family had lived in tho house, the servants had been frightened by
seeing a woman'a figure. They all gave the same deaeription of the figure:
a pale woman in black, with an evil face. The figure would only be aeen
momentarily; indeed in moat casea the witneaaes appear to have been too
much frightened to wait for it to disappear. As Mrs. H. feared, not
unreasonably, that aome injury might be done to her property if the house
acquired generally the reputation of being haunted, ahe had neverquestioned
the girIa closely on what they had seen, being afraid to show too much
interest in the matter. She had always laughed off their fears, and
endeavoured to make them forget all about it. For the same reason ahe
could not allow us to cross-question the witneaaes ourselves. 'Ve were forced.
therefore, to be content with the following details, with which she and Mila
H. aupplied us.
The figure was first aeen about 11 years ago, by Sarah C., a young aervant-
girl of about 18. She was coming downatairs in the daytime. when she met
the figure, and was so frightened by it that ahe jumped sideways through
the figure and over the stair-rail. dropping a distance of from four to six
feet on the other side.
On another occasion it was seen by one of the servants going downataira
to the kitchen. and she, thinking it to be a visitor, who had missed her way.
followed it, and found no one there.
The figure was also seen by the cook on one of the upper landings, in full
gaslight, and disappeared before the cook came up to it.
Three or four years back, two aervants were together in a long room at
the top of the house, in the daytime. One of them saw a woman's figure
standing by a chest of drawers at the far end of the room. She called her
companion's attention to it, saying. "Who is that 1" but when they looked
again the figure had gone. There was no poaaibility of retreat for a human
being so placed.
The figure was last aeen a few weeks ago, by a girl now in the house.
She was very much frightened, and could give no particulars.
Mrs. H. and her daughter fancy they have detected some connection
between the appearance of this figure, and the subsequent deatll of children.
who have been lying ill at the time.
Mias H. took us all over the house, and we saw each spot where the
figure had been aeen.
From Mrs. G. (Nee H.)
The incident I have been asked to relate happened as follows :-
There were two rooms divided by a fireplace; on the left hand of this
was adoorway connecting the rooms; on the right, a partitionof glaaa to within
Digitized by Google
124 Phantasms qf the Dead. [April 24.
two feet or 80 of the ground, and wood below. This partition divided the
room I was in from a steep staircase into the kitchen below, which staircase
opened into the other room with a door that stood open agaill8t the wall. In
the further room opposite the staircase was a doorway into a garden, on the
right side of this, in the same corner, a door leading by a passage to the street.
The time was about six o'clock on a winter's evening, Gas was burning
brightly in both rooms. I entered the room by a door on your right hand as
you faced the fireplace, and at the opposite end to it. Thus, as I turned to
pass into the second rOOIll, the glass partition was in front of me.
Through this glass partition I saw a woman advancing towards me from
the opposite end of the further room. She was tall, dark, and pale, dre88ed
in black, indoor dre88 ; her head was sideways, resting quite upon her right
shoulder as if her neck was dislocated, Her hair was plainly and smoothly
dre88ed acro88 the sides of her face. She came swiftly towards me, and was
so distinct that I didnot suppose but that she was 80Ille stranger got into the
place. When she came to the stairs she suddenly stood still an ill8tant, and
then disappeared perpendicularly, like one who falls through a trap-door. I
at once ran to the partition, and looked down the stairs, but nothing could
be seen, nothing had been heard. I ran down to the kitchen, but the people
there had not seen or heard anything.. Both rooms were empty. There was
only a child with me about six years old, who had seen nothing,
A month or so after, I was sitting in a room in the same house one after-
noon, when a cupboard standing agaill8t a wood partition between the room
and a passage was rapped as if some one were hammering all over: it. I
opened the door, thinking it was some one in the passage, but while I stood
in the doorway commanding both the room and passage, the knocks were as
loud as ever. I felt so nervous that I went to the nursery and fetched a.
child about five or six years old, to come and play in the room with me.
She was amusing herself with some toys, and I was reading, when she
stopped, and looked intently at the partition just above the cupboard. It
was painted a plain colour; there was no picture, or light or shadow where
she was looking. I asked the child what she was looking at. .. At the
face," she replied. "Never mind," I said, .. go on with your play," and 80
she did, but very soon stopped again. She came up to me, and looking at
the same place, she said, "Oh, the face." "Some one looking out of
window," I replied, inconsequently, as the window was behind us. .. Oh,
no," she said, .. it wants you, Mias Alice, it wants you." I saw nothing, but
picked up the child, and took refuge in the nursery.
From the Nurse.
Fe/wua1'1J 13th, 1883.
I never feel nervous about my nursing capacity, or the recovery of my
pationts, except I am nursing in the place where I am writing this.
The house is old, and like most old houses has its haunted room, in
addition to a subterranoanpassagc, which was blocked up 50 years ago, and
from which, it is reported, strange sounds have come, like the blows from a
mallet, and the sound of somebody digging. I have never heard anything
of the sort, but this much I know for a fact, that often when taking my notes
or watching quietly by my patient, with a good fire, and a light burning, I
Digitized by Goo
1885.] Phanta&m8 of Me Dead. 125
have suddenly felt as if a cool wind was blowing about me so that I could not
help shivering, and as if fingers were lightly touching my shoulders, and
more than once feeling positive that somebody passed quickly through the
room. Now I have never experienced these strange sensations when nursing
in any other house, but I always feel when called here to nurse that I am
about to do battle for the life of my patient, with a foe whose exact power I
do not understand,and have always striven to defeatan influence which I felt
was evil, by soliciting the protection of One Who is Almighty.
About four years ago I came here to nurse a little girl, five years of age,
suft'ering with whooping coughand inflAmmation of the lungs.
My patient was isolated as much as po88ible, as there were other children
in the house. The room in which I was to nurse seemed in all respects
suitable for nursing-large, lofty, properly heated and ventilated. There
was only one arrangement I did not like, and that I did not notice until I saw
my little patient more than once look anxiously towards it, being a large
window or partition, partly of glaBS, which had beenrecentlyadded to make the
room lighter. The door, also partly of glaBS, was at the side oithe partition
and opened directly on to the stairs. One day, shortly after my arrival, I
"'as informed that the baby, only a few months old, was dangerously ill. The
doctor did not think it would recover: Consequently the person who had
charge of my patient while I was oft' duty could not be spared, so when night
came I was rather tired. After giving my patient her medicine, making her
comfortable and attending to the fire, I rested for a short time on a spare bed
which was in the room. When I arose I looked at my watch ; it was just 10
minutes to 1. At that moment the child, who had been sleeping quietly,
sat up, looked wildly at the partition, gave one piercing scream, then hid her
face in the bed clothes. I dared not look at the partition, but turningmy head
went quickly to the child saying, " Did anything hurt or frighten you 1" She
would neither answer nor look up. I then heard a sound on the stairs, as if
somebody was going down without boots on, thud, thud; 80 I called out
" Who's there 1 Do speak, you have frightened us. Is it you, Mrs.-- 1"
meaning the person who waited on us. Not receiving an answer I waited
awhile, then softly opened the door and looked out. All was quiet; the gsa
was burning on the lower landing. By itslight I saw a woman standing at
the foot of the stairs. Her face was turned up towards me. It was perfectly
colourle88, the eyes and mouth were closed ; her hairwas ofa drabbish colour
and her neck appeared to be slightly twisted. I drew back instantly, for the
face I had seen shocked me ; it resembled the face ofa corpse. Fora moment
I thought, is it poBBible that anybody would attempt to frighten us! I
looked again-the woman had disappeared.
There was a bellcommunicatingwith tho housekeeper's l'oom. I rang it
violently, waited a few minutes, then heard the well-known footstep of Mrs.
--. on the stairs. As she came into the room, she said, "Is anything the
matter, nurse 1" Before I could answer, she said, .. The dear baby's gone.
She died just 10 minutes to 1." "Well," I remarked, "tllat is strange."
Then I told her what had occurred, and concluded by asking her if she had
heard orseen either of the servants about the house. "Oh, it's not tIle
girls," she said. "They are all in bed,except the nurse that has been with the
baby. It is not the first time, I can tell you, that strange things have been
Digitized by Google
126 Phantasms of the Dead. [April 24,
Been and heard; to tell you the truth, nurse, I wouldn't Bit in this room
alone, no, notfor a pension. One nurse that was here declared that her
patient's medicine and spoon were thrown across the room, and I myself once
went through the nursery and saw a woman in a dark dreBS looking into one
of the drawers. I went into the next room and said to the nurse, 'Who's
that person at the drawers 7' She answered, 'You must be mistaken,
there isn't anybody in the nursery.' I went back to see and the woman had
disappeared. Yes, it's strange, but it's true, before trouble, sickness or
death, that woman is always seen, but there," she said, "it does not do to
talk about such things. You know what people are, and there wouldn't be 0.
servant got that would stay in the house if they knew all." Then looking at
my patient she said, " I think she seems worse than when I last saw her."
"Well," I said, "sho has been dreadfully frightened," and I thought, but did
not say, ifshe illes, it will bo as much from fright as any other callse. A few
days after, I was called away to a. very important case. My little patient
lived ouly two or three days after my departure. More than once since then
I have asked myself this question, " Was she frightened to death 1"
The following (G. 468) is a.gain an account of apparent haunting in
an old house in London-l 5, St. Swithin's Lane. The events took place
in 1854 and onwards. Mr. Gurney has seen Mrs. and Miss Vatas-
Simpson and discussed their experiences with them personally. I
begin with the recollections of Miss Vatas-Simpson (written in October,
1884), whom Mr. Gurney describes as a sensible a.nd clear-headed
person, and who has never had any other hallucination, veridical or
otherwise.
From Miss Mary E. Vatll.8-Simpson.
I remember well (when a little girl, with a sister and brothers younger
than myself) an old lady who proved the greatest trouble we cllildren had,
first because she was a mystery, and secondly because she got us into trouble
with our father. It happened in this way. Ours was an old house, the clining-
room at the top, three windows front, a fireplace each end, two doors
opposite the windows-one leading into my eldest sister's bedroom and the
other on to the landing at the top of the stairs, which stairs were narrow,
with enormous bannisters turning at every few stairs into a great square
post, on which we used to delight to perch ourselves to see what was going
on below, particularly if the servants let anyone into the drawing-room, which
was under the dining-room.
One day I was sitting thus on a post, when I saw a tiny old lady walk
slowly into the room, all alone. This is what surprised me, for this reason.
There was across the stairs an ornamental iron gate, which shut off my father's
offices from the offices of the lower part of the house. Persons calling had
to ring to gain admiBSion, as they would do at a front door. This old lady
I saw come from the stairs above the gate, but on leaning over I saw the gate
was shut and no one there. After a little whispered conversation with my
brother Walter, who was sitting astride on the post above me, we thought
we would see who she was. So we went gently into the room, quite
expecting to Bee her ; but we were clisappointed, she was not there. I came
Digitized by Google
1885.] PhanwmII cif tM Dead. 127
skipping lightly out of the drawing-room, knowing we had no buaine8B there,
when I screamed with astonishment, for out of a door always kept locked, at
the foot of the very stairs on which we had been sitting, came our old L-wy.
I ran into the drawing-room to tell Walter, and when I reached the top of the
stairs again, 1 saw her below the gate, going slowly downstairs. She
was just out of our sight when my father rushed upstairs, and was veryangry
indeed with us for the noise we made.
A few days after this we were a.ll playing at a very favourite game--chairs
put into form to represent a carriage, in which we sat and covered our heads
with a blue and white cotton table-cover for a roof. My brother Garry hurt
me. I threw off our cover, and just inside the half-opened door stood the
old lady, dreBBed like she was before--black shabby dre8B, rather large bonnet,
and a good deal of velvet on her kind of hanging mantle. I thought she
must have made a mistake and come up too far for father's office. Seeing a
half-smile on her face I walked towards her, when she went out of the
door quite slowly and turned towards my sister's bedroom. I quickly ran
into the dining-room, intending tocatch her to-day by the door between the
two rooms; but I did not see her. Rushed through my sister's room, on to
the landing, down the stairs-when I saw, two or three turns of the stairs
lower down, Walter was running after the old lady, who went very quickly,
keeping close to the wa.ll all down the lta.irca.se. Once again my father came
out of his office and told Walter he would whip him if he heard another
lound. We asked the lervants who this old lady was. They looked at each
other and said "only an old lady who came to lee mamma." Though we
often saw her and were not a bit afraid of her, yet no one leemed to believe
us; BO though we children often talked about her to each other, we did not
mention her in public. This we did do: One of us took to riding outside our
CYriage on purpos~ to watch our Itrange old lady. For she always looked
a great dea.l-or seemed to our youthful eyes to do so-and we rul thought
she would do something horrid to us the first time Ihe caught us under the
table-cloth. We even kept a large ruler close to us on purpose to throw at
her if she touched us. She was very real indeed to us, and I seem to see her
quite vividly now when I reca.ll it a.ll to my mind.
(Signed) MARy E. VATAS-SIMPSON.
'Vhat follows is from Mrs. Vatas-Simpson's Dia.ry.
This is very strange. What can it mean 1 The servants say that they
see queer things moving about, and that they hear peculiar noises. One
servant has left us in consequence. To-day I was told by a neighbour that
the people who lived here before we came could not remain, because there
were always noises and BOunds about the house at night, and that even his
little children were disturbed by them. At la.st they became so very unbear-
able he was obliged to go elsewhere. One hardly knows whether to believe
such reports or to laugh at them. At present we have had no nocturnal
visitors, and I sha.ll not tell my dear ones, to cause apprehension of ghosts
and hobgoblins.
* * * * * •
There must be BOme foundation for the rumours regarding the BOunds,
noises, and appearances in this old house. It has stood here since the Fire
of London. The lower part of the house is very extensive; and then, under-
Digitized by Google
128 Pllantasrm of the Deaa. [April 24,
ground, dark, big, cavernous cellarage (which, it is said, has not been
thoroughly explored or examined for years) where secret passages are believed
to exist, and from whence issue sounds of moaning and sighing, clearly and
quite unmistakably, after dark, when the hum of the busy world is hushed.
Anyone then, by placing themselves over the window grating may hear
distinctly the peculiar noises within. I try to turn a deaf ear to all this, and
to combat the fears such revelations inspire in the household, but am
unsuccessful with the servants, as they leave me in consequence. My husband
says the sounds are produced by the contrary winds careering through the
gratings, and perhaps they are.
A severe illness has kept my pen idle for several weeks. Notso, however,
events. To-day, L. told me that when the children are playing upstairs an old
woman will persist in standing in the doorway, looking in very disconsolately.
She believes in the reality of the occurrence; says that it is an annoyance;
would I give orders to the servants to keep ourgate on thestaircase locked 1-
the iron gate that shuts in the private portion of the house from that which
is below, making it thus quite impossible to pass up the stairs from the offices
below.
*
So late, so tired and weary. Every night now L. and I have to sit up
long, dreary hours to wait my husband coming home, for we are afraid to go
to bed till he returns. There is no feeling of security with only women in
this big, grim, and hollow-sounding house, and though we are both free
from all superstitious fears, and far from timid, we cannot but be sensible
of our unprotected helplessness, left alone, as we are, till the night wanes
into morning.
To-night, and for se\"eral nights now, we have had our courage put to the
test, and most decidedly it has not been found wanting. . The first
evening, about 11 o'clock, sitting with the drawing-room door open, a man's
face was clearly seen abo"e the balustrade, while the old-fashioned size and
the carvings of the supports hid his form from our view. Instantly we both
jumped up, and as instantly started forward. Both thought that he had come
up by mistake, or purposely, perhaps, to see SOmeone in the house. Ere we
could speak he was gone.
The servants, not having gone to bed, were summoned, told to go and
fasten the iron gate, and reprimandedfor their negligence in forgetting to do
so. The gas was alight, illuminating the house from the ground-floor to the
very roof of the house. We stood upon the landing. The servants went down,
protesting that they had locked and fastened securely the gate : and so they
had-it was securely fast.
Then I went for the key, and dOWllstairs, and satisfied myself of the fact,
and also went below to satisfy myself that all doors and every place below
were firmly secured for the night.
Now, then, how did that man get in 1-or rather, how did he get out?
It is possible he might have been concealed during the evening, and so
have been on the stairs-but where could he go, instantaneously as he had
been followed, and by both of us, neither of us suspecting anything more
than that he had obtained entrance through the forgetfulncssof the servants,
and nothing doubting but that he would wait to be spoken to 1 Where could
1885.J PhantfJ8m8 oj tllfJ Dead. 129
he go ?-for in an instant, in the twinkling of an eye, the spot where he had
appeared was vacant.
Well, when my husband came home I told him. He treated it as a good
joke, laughed at our bewilderment, and said we must all have been asleep
and dreaming. He has such a supreme contempt for any supposition of
the supernatural. Has no belief in spiritual visions, in "ghosts," or visiona
of the night. He is far too practical, and only derides my credulity. At.
present I have been able to keep all suspicion of these things from the
household.
* * * * * *
Twice lately, sitting up during the night hours, my L. and I have been
disturbed by that same appearance on the stairs, and each time have done
our best to disco"er the mystery. The face is pale to sickliness, and the eye
steady and mournful. The figure is shrouded in a sort of dark, shadowy
indistinctness, and his departure is sudden and noiseless. The first time he
came we slowly advanced to him, side by side, quite silently, and with fiml
decision of manner, intending to show him our determination to enforce an
interview, and ask explanation for his intrusion. All! he is gone.
The second time I was reading an interesting book. L. looked up from her
employment and, seeing him, touched me gently (we were close together).
when both of us made a sudden dart forward, only to find the spot vacant.
which had, one instant previously, been occupied by his face and figure. It.
is impossible that we can be mistaken or deceived. No, no, we are not.
There is no misapprehension, because no fear quells our courage j no
cowardice prevents the full action of our powers of perception j no alaml
frustrates our intention of grappling with him ifwe can, or of pursuing him,
or of holding him if we can come up with him. We are on our guard against.
surprise, and our nerves steady, prepared to make a decided unequivocal
efl'ort to find out who and what this nocturnal intruder may be.
But nothing avails j he is not here j he is not anywhere near. Looking
keenly at him one moment, the next he has fled, quick as a flash of lightning.
But he wcu standing there j we both saw him, positively and undoubtedly.
* * * * * *
It is useless to contend against facta. Nervous terrors and timorous
imaginations have nothing whatever to do in suggesting the various
appearances and the indescribable sounds which pervade tlle rooms, the
comers, and the recesses of this great house. Superstition might indeed
lupply one person with food for miracles or for belief in deception and
witchcraft j but when there are several witnesses of all ages there must be a.
foundation of truth, and, at all events, each and every one could not be
deceived. If all that is going on here is a strange delusion, then all would
not be affected at the same moment. If it is but a mere sensation or impres-
sion, then it would only be conceived by one mind, not by all. If it were
capable of detection, then so many persons gathered together would surely
find out that it was imposture and deception.
Besides, there is nothing done to annoy anyone of us j no attempt is
made to frighten or even to surprise us. There seems no system or organisa-
tion in all these mysteries. In addition to the little old woman who goes
about the upper floor, and the man who comes occasionally upon the stairs.
K
Digitized by Google
130 P1IAntaBm8 of the Dead. [April 24,
there are other sights and sounds, and other nocturnal disturbances. Very
often a babe is heard wailing and crying in the kitchen, generally in the
evening. We heard these piteous wailings when we first came here to live,
and then imagined that a babe was really within hearing; but when, after
the lapse of many months, the sounds were still those of a new-born babe,
no stronger in tone or di1l'erent in expreBBion, then we began to wonder, and
to strive to penetrate the mystery, and are constrained to believe that no
living infant caU8eB those sounds.
Then again,close to my bedroom door, in a receBB, there are notes of the
most mournful singing the ear can hear-real notes-soft and sad, but clear
and thrilling. Then, in an instant, the notes are prolonged, and change
into short, sharp screams of agony. Then total silence.
All this takes place in the very interior of the house-in parts where
there is no outside wall, but where the wall, thick and maBBive, divides one
room from another.
Incredulous as my husband has always been when I have complained of
our incomprehensible and Bpectral visitants, yet last night he was penetrated
with the belief that there must be truth in our representations, at all events.
So deeply is he impreBBed by the solemn aB8urance of his own scrutiny that
a vision did really appear to him, that doubting, unbelieving, and sceptic as
he is, he confeBBes himself thrilled and pervaded with unwonted sensations
of awe and excitement. I mUBt write it down. It all happened in this way :-
After all outer doors were shut and busineBB hours over, my husband had
for several evenings past devoted his leisure to writing, and to sorting the
piles of letters and papers which had accumulated during his illneBB. Corre-
spondence was behindhand ; so shutting himself up in his own private office,
he directed all his thoughts, energy, and attention to reducing the number of
letters unanswered, and arranging papers and documents in their several
places. His orders were peremptory to the servants to allow no one to
disturb him, and I took my part in securing to him that perfect freedom
from interruption, BO absolutely needed in such an occupation.
This evening the Bilence in the houBe was almoBt oppreBBive. My husband
had not once come up to the drawing-room since he left it after dinner. It
was now 11 o'clock, and the hour for the Bervants to retire for the night,
except when we had company. I Bat with the door open that evening. I have
a habit ofdoing this when I am alone. The large landing and the outletgiveB
more freedom and air. The door of the kitchen iB in close proximity-an
outer door-and alwaYB kept shut. OppoBite the drawing-room door, acroBB
the landing, is the Btaircase, the balustrade of the stairB forming one Bide of
the landing. All at once there was a great tramping upon the office-floor
below; the door of the private office was flung open with much violence. My
llUsband, in angry tones, called to the servant, and demanded "how they
dare permit a stranger to come to him at that time of night 1" Which servant
had disobeyed him 1
No one had done so.
" Don't deny it. Who is the woman 1 When did she come, and what
does she want 1 I Bee no one at this hour of the night. Let her be here to-
morrow if she wants me; Bhow her out and fasten the gate again."
All this was spoken as if the person who had disturbed him was standing
Digitized by Google
1885.] PkaniaMm of tne Dead. 131
there still; addreBSed to the domestics that she might know Ius rules had
been transgressed, and that she might hear him say so. It was in vain that
the servants protested they had let no one in ; and had seen no one pass up
or down the stairs, that every door and window was fastened and secure.
Astonishment kept my husband mute; he stood still, lost to all outward
impreBSions for some time, like one in a dream. Then, with a sort of
shudder he moved away from the door of his office, from whence he had not
stirred, and told the servants to go to bed; he would find out on the morrow
who had taken the liberty of intruding, or perhaps, the person would call
again in the morning.
This was to them, but as soon as we were alone he told me all that had
occurred. . • • . . . Absorbed in deep thought, searching amongst
his papers for one of great importance, he raised his head from them, and
saw, just within his office doorway, a little old lady standing. Even though
an unwelcome intruder, his politeneBS did not fail; so rising directly he ad-
dressed her. Finding that she neither spoke nor moved, but only looked at
him, he advanced a little, speaking again. This forward movement made no
alteration; still she wa.a mute, still not a finger stirred, the eyes still fixed
upon him with a soft, sweet expression, the face very pallid. After allowing
sufficient time for a reply (even if the old lady should be short of breath
from coming upstairs), and still receiving none, he approached nearer, when
she moved gradually and softly a little farther into the room, yet scarcely
nearer to him, for the room is very spacious. Again he altered his position
while she remained motionleBS, thus bringing himself into closer contact with
her; still she was motionleBS.
Making now a quick step towards her, determined to ascertain the cause
of her sileBce-Io ! she was gone! To lUs amazement he lost all trace of her
in one moment. It was then we must have heard the commotion below.
. . After telling me thus far, my husband paused in his narrative.
Again he was wrapt in deep meditation. His face was agitated, his lips
quivered; evidently he was mastering strong emotion. Rousing himself
from the reverie which I had allowed to remain unbroken, he continued to
relate the incidents of the visit, and his own conclusions upon it.
Well, he said he didn't know whether his office door was open while she
waa there ; he knew that he had, shut it, and did not recollect opening it
when he missed her from the room. The gas was giving a full blaze of light,
and no shadow of darkness rested anywhere to deceive him. The whole place
waa illumined.
No suspicion entered his mind of anything like visionary object or
apparitions ; his whole attention was rivetted upon his letters and papers,
and his only idea was that this old lady was in some great trouble, had come
to him for advice, and that her age and probable distreBS might be the excuse
for her untimely visit. It was with such considerations that he first
addreBSed her as he would any lady who came to him upon office busineBS,
but afterwards, when he became annoyed by her silence, he permitted his
irritation to be visible both in voice and manner.
His description of her appearance is this,:-" A little old lady, with a very
pale face, and her hands clasped before her, a cap round her face, and a dark
bonnet, with strings tied under her chin." When I asked him what dreBS,
K 2
Digitized by Google
132 Phanta8m8 oj the Dead. [Apri124,
then he is atfault. He only sawa dark fonn. Well, he cannot say, he was only
lookingat her face. It must have been a dark dress, he believes-it looked
dark. She moved with a gentle, gliding motion j looked at him mostintentlyj
did not move her hands. His face is quite troubled, and he is much excited.
Says that he feels bewildered and embarrassed, and is most unwilling to
admit the reality of the vision.
I believe that he would not have nanled it at all could he have anticipated
the tennination of the scene. As it is, no explanation can do away with the
fact, and it is useless to deny whathe has once admitted. Either way, he is
in a dilemma, from which he cannot escape. He SUlllS it all up by saying,
" I have told you exactly what took place. I know what I saw, and am quite
aware that it cannot be explained. As it is, so let it rest." He will never
again laugh at us for our absurd notions and experiences of "ghosts," I am
quite certain. He is touched in a way that he himself cannot comprehend.
He does not like it-his own feelings puzzle hilll. It will be a long time
before he loses the novel inlpreasion aroused in his mind by that visit of· our
little old lady, who seems to wander about our house whenever and whereso-
ever she pleases.
In the above narrative I only wish to lay stress on the appearance
of the little old lady. The man on the stairs, who seems to have ap-
peared always in the same place and to ha'"e been seen from the same
point of "iew, may possibly have been an illusion; and the sounds, as
Mrs. Simpson suggests, may have been due to wind.
It should be noted that though Miss Mary Vatas-Simpson has not
at any other time seen apparitions, the family seem to have a special
faculty for doing so. Mrs. Vatas-Simpson and another of her daughters
have seen them in two or three houses besides this one, but quite
different in each house. Mrs. Vatas-Simpson has also, it would seem,
some power of receiving telepathic communications (as one would,
perhaps, expect to be the case with a person who sees ghosts, supposing
these to be a form of communication with the dead), for she has given
us an account of several veridical dreams about a son absent in
Australia, between whom and herself there was a very close sym-
pathy.
In the narrative I will next quote (G. 108), it will be seen that the
ghost, which has a. very well marked character, apparently followed
the principal percipient from one house to another.
The committee are not a.llowed to give names, and the initials
used are not the right ones. Mr. Podmore says: " Miss A. T., a younger
sister of the principal percipient, Miss T., related to me the incidents
described below in great detail, and after questioning her at some
length, I drew up the following account in her presence, reading over
to her each paragraph as it was written. Miss A. T. has not actually
seen the figure herself, but she has heard the particulars of each
appearance from the witnesses of it, when the details were still fresh
Digitized by Google
1885.J Pkanta8m8 of tke Dead. 133
in their memory, and she has repeatedly heard the whole matter dis
cussed in family conclave, when the disturbances were still going on.
Moreover, she has herself heard some of the strange noises described.
The account has since been read through by Miss T. herself, and
though she declines to give us any further particulars, she admits that
this account is 'fairly correct.' Though the narrative, therefore, faUd in
value somewhat below a first-band account it is very far superior to an
ordinary second-band ghost story, and may, I think, be taken as almost
entirely correct.
Mrs. T. and the unmarried brother mentioned in the narrative
are both dead. The family, it should be added, have again removed,
buttbe ghost has not, apparently, followed them."
In 1870 the T-- family took a house in West Brompton on lease for
seven years. They entered the house in the spring of that year. This house,
it would appear, is now, and has been since 1877, in the occupancy of Captain
F--. Captain F-- has been asked by a friend of the T-- family
whether anything unusual has occurred in the house du~ his tenancy, and
he bas replied in the negative. There would seem, however, to be some
reason for doubting the accuracy of this statement.
Nothing remarkable occurred during the fi1'st 18 months of the T--
family occupying the house. In the autumn of 1871, when Mrs. T-- and
Miss T-- were going upstairs to bed, leaving the hall in total darkness,
Miss T--, who was then on one of the upper landings, thought she heard
her brother entering the house, and looked over the bannisters. She saw a
grey figure leave the dining-room, cross the hall, and disappear down the
kitchen stairs. Miss T-- told nobody of what she had seen. This was the
first time that anything abnormal was seen in the house.
During their tenancy of the house this same figure was seen repeatedly
by at least five independent witnesses,* Miss T-- being the one who saw it
most frequently. The figure was very taIl, dressed in grey drapery. The
drapery also partially enveloped' the head, though allowing the features to be
seen. The" grey" was a light grey-perhaps such a colour as a white object
would assume in partial darkness. The hands, it would seem, hung down
and were clasped in front of the figure. The expression of the face was very
<l8lm and peaceful-a good face. There was no hair on the face, and it was
only from the unusual height of the figure that it was supposed to be that of
a man.
There was nothing indistinct about the outline of the figure. The drapery
was shapeless-that is, it had no definite shape, such as that of a dressing:
gown, or a monk's gown, -but the lines of it were firm and clear. But the
whole figure was shadowy and unsubstantial-looking. It was never seen save
in the dark, and would appear, therefore, to have been faintly luminous, for
it was seen in all parts of the house, and sometimes in rooms almost entirely
dark. The figure was seen chiefly in Miss T--'s room, or on the landing
near; but it was also seen on the bath-room steps, on the stairs, in the
* It does D:lt seem quite clear that the figure wa.'1 always identical.
Digitized by Google
134 Phantasms of the Dead. [Apri124,
dining·room, and in other bedrooms. The figure never moved its head or
handa, and never spoke or made, apparently, any Bound (with one exception
to be noted below).
Sometimes Mias T-- would see it when in bed, and Bhe would then
frequently put her head under the clothes to avoid it. But if she saw it
when she was about the houBe she would always look at it wltil the figure
vanished. But she is quite unable to say whether she looked at it for
minutes or seconds. It would finally vanish quite suddenly. Occaaionally,
howtlver, it would glide away into another room. The figure never walked;
it glided. There was never any BOund accompanying its movements.
The figure was next Been by an old nurse, Mrs. N--, who met it on
the stairs (1 in the autumn of the same year, 1871). She looked at
the figure until it vanished. She also told nobody at the time of what she
had seen.
Some time afterwards a friend of the family was staying in tlle house.
She complained, on the morning after her arrival, that she had been kept
awake by the noise of furniture, &c., being moved about in the rooms above
her. These rooms were occupied, and no one else had heard the noises com-
plained of. But the occurrence led to a general family diacuasion. Unac-
countable noises had been often heard before in the house, and Mias T--
and Mrs. N-- then mentioned, for the first time, the figure which they
had seen.
Mr. T--, the brother, also saw the figure frequently; on one OCC&Bion
it was in the hall, when he opened the front door. On another when re-
turning from his club late one night, he saw the figure from the street, stand-
ing at the drawing-room window.
Mias T-- frequently saw the figure in her room standingat her bedside,
and on the landing near her room. Sometimes she woke in tlle night, and
found it at her bedside.
N--, the cook, complained angrily to his wife that one of the other
servants would Bometimes come into his room at night. He had, at that
time, not heard of the figure being seen, but he Bubsequently connected
these appearances with the figure.
R-- T--, then a little boy of seven, was sleeping in the same room
as Miss T--. He complained one mornulg that he had had a "horri<l
night" I he had been awake, and had seen L- (MisB T--) standing at
his bedside in her night-dreBB, "only it wasn't L-." Of course, nothing
had ever been told the child about the figure which had been seen. It is not
clear whether any peculiar feelings accompanied the appearance of the figure;
but Mias T-- when in her room, frequently expreBBed a feeling which she
says is quite indescribable. This feeling she always attributed to the pre-
sence of a figure in the room, though she was unable on Buch OCC&Biona to
see it.
Mias T-- would very often hear footsteps and Bighs in her room, as if
someone were walking about and sighing. The most unaccountable noises
were heard all over the house throughout the whole of these seven yeara-
most frequently in the autumn. Footsteps, knocks at the door, bella rung
in the daytime, &c., &c. There were also noises as ifa heavy weight, sucb
as a bundle of clothes, had been dropped from a great beigbt on to one of
Digitized by Google
188ts.] PhantaB1M of the Dead. 135
the landinga-the sound was loud, but muftled. These noises, except the
bell-ringing, were heard almost invariably at night.
Sometimes two or three people heard the noises, or were woke up by them.
At other times only one person would hear them. On one New Year's Eve,
when Miss T-- and N-- were alone in the house, N-- came up from
the kitchen to the dining-room where Mill T-- W88 sitting, to see what
was the matter. He had heard loud noiaea, 88 of furniture being dragged
about in the dining-room. Miss T-- had heard nothing, and the house
seen.ed perfectly quiet.
On another occasion Mill T-- heard tlle same noise, as of furniture
being moved, &c., in the room above hers, which was occupied by her
brother, Mr. T--. She weilt up to see what was the matter, and knocked
at his door, but h. was fast asleep. These noises, as of furniture being moved
about-always in the room above-were of frequent occurrence.
This house formerly belonged to a Mr. G--, an artist, who has now sold
it. He was very anxious for Mrs. T-- to buy it. A few months after the
T-- family had been in the house, and before they had experienced any-
thing unusual, Mr. G-- came to Bee Mrs. T-- and asked her if Bhe was
quite comfortable in the house. AB she rented the house unfurnished, the
question Btruck her as odd, and Bhe remarked upon it at the time.
In the autumn of 1877 the T-- family removed to another house in tile
same neighbourhood, where they remained until April, 1880. Miaa T--
was abroad during the winters of 1877 and 1878 ; but was in the houBe during
the Bummer months of the latter year. She tinally returned in tile Bpring of
1879. Itis to be noted that the T--'B had never mentioned the Bubject
of visions and disturbances to even tIleir most intimate friends whilst they
were still in the first house, but on leaving tile houBe, believing themselves
to be free from their persecutors, tIley mentioned the Bubject freely. In the
spring of 1879 Miaa T-- heard the sa.me noise as before-footstepB and
sighs-but fainter. They gradually, however, increased in intenBity until
they became as bad as ever. She did not mention the subject. The noiBeB,
however, in tile autumn were heard by all tile household-including Miaa A.
T--, my informant, who being only a child, had not heard tIlem in the
other houBe. They were even more loud and frequent than hitherto, and
theircbaracterhad somewhat changed. FootstepB were heard as before;
doors were banged, where no doors or only locked doors were; tIlere was a
noise as of a metal tea tray being rolled downstairs.
There was, also, frequently a Bound of a person breathing heavily, and
walking about, heard in the bedrooms. Knocks two or three times repeated
were also heard at the doors.
A married brother was staying in tile houBe witll his wife and little girl of
three years. Onenight theyall three heard tile soundas of a person walking
upand down the room and breathing loudly. Mrs. T-- struck a light and
lit the gas, when tile noises ceased. They recommenced, however, when the
gas was turned out.
One night in September, 1879, when H-- T--, a boy of thirteen, had
been ill for many months, and was sleeping in tile back dining-room, with
Mrs. T-- in the sa.me room to attend upon him, they both heard a noise
as of a door opening into a third room on the dining-room floor being
Digitized by Google
136 Pllantasma of the Dead. [Apri124,
opened, and the window of that room being thrown open. The door then
banged, and a match was heard to be struck outside. All the household were
upstairs in bed, and the boy became ill with fright. Mrs. T-- had to
attend at once to him and 80 did not open the door. In the morning the
window was found bolted, and the door of the back room locked.
This noise, as of a match being struck, was afterwards heard several
times, both in the middle of the day and night, and by several persons. Also
ill different parts of the house ; but always outside a door.
From this time, until the date of the boy's death, a fortnight or three
weeks afterwards, the noises were louder than at any other time, and
disturbed the boy's rest at night.
On Christmas Day, 1879, Miss T--, going to early service, saw the
figure standing just below her, at the top of the bath-room stairs. She saw
the figure again that afternoon at the foot of her bed, when she had gone up
in the dusk without a light. She saw the figure again, more tIu.n once
before she left the house. On one occasion, when sleeping in the salue room
with Mrs. T--, Miss T-- woke and saw the figure standing between the
beds, near the foot. There was a noise as of a parcel being dropped on the
fioor, and the figure vanished. The noise woke Mrs. T--, who wanted to
know what was the matter.
A child of three years (the same as before mentioned) woke up one night
with a scream, saying that something had come to take her a.way. After this
occasion the child refused to be left alone, as long as she stayed in the house.
A housemaid met the figure standing on the stairs one evening, and ran
down ingreat fear to tell the otherservants.
A nurse, on another occasion, saw a figure which she supposed at the time
to be that of her mistreBS, leaving the bedroom at night.
It is to be noted that during these nine years Mrs. T.-- and Miss A.
T--, and two younger children, who were constantly living in the house,
never saw the figure. Nor did any other members of the family, except
those mentioned, though an elder brother stayed until 1875 with hiB family
in the first house, and a cousin lived with them for 18 months in the second
house.
It will be observed that in the cases I have quoted or mentioned the
ghost has not been traced beyond a single occupancy of the house, except
in the oneinstance where its character seemed to change with the tenants
to whom it appeared. It is true that in other cases there are vague
reports of previous haunting, but:nothing that can be relied on. Nothing
can be inferredfrom this, however, as, except in the case of the weeping
ghost in widow's garb, where we seem pretty clearly to have heard
about the beginning of the haunting, there is no more evidence of the
ghost's previous Lon-appearance than there is of its appearance.
There is in certain cases evidence of the apparently complete cessa-
tion of haunting, but here again it is difficult to draw any certain in-
ference, because the analogy of experimental thought-tranaferencewould
certainlylead us to expect that the faculty for seeing ghosts should varyin
different people and at different times, so that the apparent absence of
Digitized by Google
1885.J Phanta8m8 0/ the Dead. 137
the ghost might arise simply from the a.bsence of anyone capable of
seeing it, and because the long and irregular intervals that are liable to
occur between manifestations make it difficult to determine what length
of interval warrants us in concluding that there will be no more. It is
worth while, however, in this connection, to give a narrative (G. 317) of
a ghost traced back through a considerably longer period than any
other yet, I think, in the collection. I give it with some hesitation, as we
have it only at second-hand, and it, and in a less degree the narrative last
quoted, and one given as an example of collective hallucination,
are the only ones that I shall give in this paper where none of the most
imJ)Ortant evidence is at first-hand, but it seems to be carefully
told, and, I should think, may safely be trusted for its main statements.
It is much to be regretted that after taking the trouble to make the
investigation Mr. Hill did not take the additional trouble to record the
results in writing. The narrative is given to us by the Rev. Chas. O.
Starbuck, Andover, Mass., U.S.A., a Congregational minister, and de-
scribed by Mr. Alfred R. Nichols, of 32, Lawrence Hall, Oambridge,
Mass., as" a man of much scholarship and absolute trustworthiness."
I wish to give an account of what I call "a well authenticated apparition."
I wish to give it, not because it is any better attested than a hundred others,
nor because it is in the least startling, for a quieter ghost never was; but
because there is so little in it that is unique, and it is therefore an excellent
type of the better sort of such accounts, and because the facts are such as
cannot poBSibly be strained into an explanation that treats them as the effects
of one or two excited imaginations, and also because their entire want of
purpose or dramatic effect makes them more credible, and lastly, because they
rest on so eminent and unimpeachable all authority. They were communi-
cated to me in all their details, and in repeated conversations, by the late
Hon. Richard Hill, of the Island of Jamaica. Mr. Hill iwas a gentleman
of eminent character and worth, a privy councillor of the island, but much
more distinguished as the most eminent naturalist of the West Indies.
Charles Kingsley, in his chn.rming book on the West Indics, speaks of Mr.
Hill as a man whom it was an honour to know, and regrets that not visiting
Jamaica he had not had the opportunity to enjoy his acquaintance. He died
about six years ago in the fulne88 of years and honours, and in the fulne88
of a Christian faith.
Mr. Hill, somewhere, I believe, about 1840, took a house in Spanishtown,
the capital of Jamaica. The house was of brick, and was thought by Mr. Hill,
who was a great antiquary, to have been built before 1655,ata time when St.
J ago de 10. Vega was still a Spanish city. There was nothing remarkable
about the dwelling beyond any other house suited for the use of a family
in good circumstances. Mr. Hill, it appears, moved into it quite unaware
that there was anything connected with it above the common. Nor, in the
series of facts which he related to me, are there more than one or two which
of themselves amount to anything. It is the combination alone which gives
them importance.
Mr. Hill, I may remark, was a bachelor, and his widowed sister, Mrs.
Digitized by Google
138 Pluznta8m8 of the Dead. [April 24,
Harrison, lived with him and kept house for him. The shutters of his bed-
room were each in two pieces. One night it chanced that the upper pieces
had been leftopen, and the rain had beaten in. In the morning he complained
to his sister, who promised that the neglect should not occur again. The
Dext evening he was lying in bed awake, while a faint light came into the
room from a hall lamp that shone through the transom. While lying thus
he saw the door opened, and a woman enter the room, crou the floor to the
window, and, as it seemed to him, look up at it. Her face was mumed, and
her whole garb peculiar, but, in the faint light, he supposed her to be Ann,
his sister's confidential servant. He took it for granted that having just
bethought herself of the shutters, she had come in, unaware that he was in
the room, to make sure that they were duly fastened. The woman then
turned and went out, but as she was leaving the room Mr. Hill called
"Ann!" She gave no answer, and closed the door. Supposing that she
was startled at finding that he was in bed, he thought nothing of it. In the
morning he casually remarked to his sister that Ann had been in his room
the night before, and had been thrown quite out of countenance by discover-
ing that he was in bed and awake. " Oh !" said his sister, "Ann would
have known better than to go into your room at such an hour." She then
summoned Ann, who confirmed her mistreu's statement, but intimated,
with a mysterious look, that she could give an opinion as to who the
intruder was. Mr. Hill then learned that whispers were current in the
household to the effect that there was something more than natural in
the new house. On what these surmises were founded will presently
appear.
Mrs. Harrison herself had thus far not soen the strange visitor, and her
little experience with her would not have amounted to much taken by itself.
Her bedroom opened into the dining-room, into which a door also opened
from the hall, or from some other room, upon two orthree steps. TIlls door
was at the head of Mrs. Harrison's bed, divided from it by the partition. One
night Mrs. Harrison heard it open, and someone come down into the dining-
room. She was startled, but presently concluded that a chance breeze had
blown the door open and deceived her oar by counterfeiting the sound of
footsteps. The next night, however, the door was unmistakably opened by
someone who came down the steps and began pacing round and round the
dining-table. Mrs. Harrison was now thoroughly frightened, although what
had happened acquired significance only from its fitting in so perfectly wit!.
what took place at other times.
The second time Mr. Hill saw his former visitor he had been asleep,
and awakened with a start, such as we sometimos give when another is
Pzing at us. He found her standing at the foot of the bed, and apparently
looking fixedlydown at him, although the mumer which she appeared to wear
concealed her face. He asked her who she was, and what she wanted. She
made no answer, but turned and went out.
Putting together his own remembrances and the description of others
who had seen her, he came to the conclusion that she wore the garb which
was in use in the colony in the reign of George the First, that is about 116
years earlier.
He only knew of her coming once again into his bedroom. There was
Digitized by Google
1885.J Plulntrmns qf tke Dead. .139
an old negro woman, to whom, in the intermediate period of apprenticeship
between slavery and full freedom, which prevailed in the island between 1834
and 1838, he had, as stipendiary magistrate, placed in charge of the interesta
of the half-emancipated negroes, had opportunity to show peculiar kindness.
The old woman's gratitude, like a true negro's, knew no bounds. When-
ever she came into Spanishtown from her little place a few miles out, she
would be sure to visit her benefactor, bringing some little present-a few
cocoanuts, a few yams, or a bunch of bananas. And once, when he was
absent from town, her gratitude took the grotesque form of insisting on
being allowed to spread her mat at night in his bedroom and sleep there.
Mrs. Harrison humoured her; but in the night the door opened, and thia
mysterious lady came in. It must be that the old woman had never been
told of her, or else even her gratitude would never have given her the
courage to sleep in a haunted spot. However thia may be, she at once
surmised a ghost, and rushing out in great affright, dragged her mat to the
stable, md spent the rest of the night there.
At another time a new servant-girl had just come. When night fell, she
was told to spread her mat in the veranda. Chairs were standing about here
and there in it, as they had been used through the day. But in the dead of
the night the servant-maid heard them swung back, one by one, against the
wall, andsome one begin to pace back and forth along the porch. Like a
true negro, she too, surmised a ghost, and rushing into the bedroom of
another maidservant, squeezed herself into bed with her as well as she could.
In the morning she tremulously asked Mrs. Harrison: .. Missis, do 'perrita
walk thia house? " Whether she soon left, I cannot say, but my impression
ia that myfriend was obliged to submit to pretty frequent changes of servants
about this time, though I cannot be sure that I was so informed.
Another person, a former servant, had more nerve. This was a respect-
able and estimable mulatto woman who had had the charge of Mrs. Harrison's
little girl in her infancy. Shecame once to pay a visit to herformermistresa
and her little foster child, and at night she spread her mat for rest in an
unfurnished chamber, through the windows of which the full tropical moon-
light poured in. The next morning she said to Mrs. Harrison: "Misais, did
you come into my room last night 1" Mrs. Harrison, at once imagining
what had happened, replied evasively, wishing to lead the nurse to believe
that she had. But she was not to be deceived. .. Oh, no," she said, "it
was not you. You do not wear --," mentioning a kind of slipper,
dragging at the heel, the name of which I cannot recall, but which is now
worn only by the women of the common people, and which, I fancy, is going
out of use even among them, having probably, like so many styles,
descended to them from a higher rank. The nurse then went on to say that
in the night the door of her sleeping-room opened, and thia same lady
(whom, having seen in the full moonlight, she was able to describe), came
in, and began to march round and round her milt, apparently looking down
fixedly at her, although I do not think that at this time, or any other time,
her muftler even permitted her face to be seen. The worthy nurse was
terribly frightened, but being a woman of great nerve she held her ground,
and after a while her unwelcome visitant went out.
One day, before or after this (for I am unable to give the sequence of
Digitized by Google
140 Pllantasms of the Dead. [April 24,
these incidents), Mrs. Harrison, being indisposed, sent out a female servant
to bring her a cup of tea or something of the sort from the kitchen, which,
as usual there, was a little distance away-acrou a paved yard. The servant
met this lady midway, and supposing her to be some stranger, and probably
surprised to find one dreBBed so strangely wandering about the servants,
quarters, asked her what she wanted. She turned, and with some sharp-
neBB retorted: II What is that to you 1" This was tlle only time she is ever
known to have spoken. ABBuming her to have been from ilie oilier side, it
would seem as ifnot even death could extinguish the slave-holding pride of
an old colonist. Search was made for her, after the servant had returned to
make report to her mistreBB, but she was not to be found.
One day Mrs. Harrison was receiving a call from anoilier lady in tlle
drawing-room, which on one side opened on the veranda. Mrs. Harrison's
little daughter and ilie little daughter of her visitor were in one of the
windows looking out upon the veranda while their mothers were talking.
Suddenly ilie children uttered an exclamation, and the ladies, looking up,
saw this same strange visitor paBBing the window at which their daughters
were sitting. She appeared to be coming from the street, and to be going
towards ilie other end of the veranda, at which there was only a window.
All four looked into the gallery after her, but shewas gone.
By iliis time Mr. Hill began til be greatly interested in his mysterious
guest, or hosteBB, as we mny choose to take it. He therefore determined to
sound his landlord, a young gentleman to whom the house had passed from
an uncle. As I believe his name to have been Osborne, I shall call him so.
10 Mr. Osborne," said his tenant one day, "iliere is an interesting
peculiarity about your house, as to which I wish to question you. I hope
you will answer me frankly, for, in my mind, it adds ten pounds a year to
the value of ilie house, so you need not be afraid I am going to beat you
down in the rent." He then described iliese various appearances, and
added: "Now what I want to ask you is, was this visitor known here in
your uncle's time 1" "Since you iliink so well of her, Mr. Hill," answered
his landlord, "I will be fra.nk I wiili you. She was well known here in my
uncle's time." Mr. Hill next, being or becoming acquainted wiili a ladywho
had been in her youth a frequent visitor at the house, asked her what she
knew of this mysterious stranger. This friend informed him that tho
unbidden guest was as familiar then as she had been since be had become a
ten..'lnt. He then prosecuted his inquiries through the little city of 7,000
pe{\ple, and was able to trace her back to about 1806, at which time, he was
&B8ured by his informants, no one knew how much longer she had been
accustomed to frequent the house. At that time, he was told, the bouse
wa'S conveyed by its owner, a Mrs. Deane, or some such name, to a pur-
chaser. As the parties to the sale were sitting in the drawing-room, about
to sign the necessary documents, this same lady was seen, as once after-
wards, to pass along the veranda in front of the drawing.room windows.
One of the compa.ny, noticing her quaint, unaccustomed attire, asked Mrs.
Deane who that old-fashioned visitor of hers was. "Oh," said she care-
leBBly, .. it is a neighbour of ours who comes in occasionally," and the
matter paBBed.
I may remark that, although this personage sometimes appeared to come
Digitized by Google
1885.J Pkanta8m8 of file Dead. 141
from the street, or to go towards it, Mr. Hill's inquiries brought no informa-
tion that she had ever been seen outside of his house and court-yard. This,
in a IIIllIill city of 7,OOOinhabitants, the great bulk of whom were negroes,
cuts off the supposition that she could have harboured elsewhere, and re-
IIOrted at all times of day and night to a neighbouring house. This would
be an incredible explanation even if it only applied to a year or two. Applied
to a space of time outnumbering a generation, and extending back beyond a
time within the memory of anyone knoWJl to Mr. Hill that was acquainted
with the house, the explanation becomes simply preposterous.
In 1848 the interior of the house was completely remodelled, and she was
never seen again. It was not that any hidden passages were blocked up, for
the house had nothing mysterious about it except its mysterious visitor.
But inside it was no longer the same dwelling. It appeared, as Mr.
Hill said, as if she had permission to abide so long as things were as they
had been.
Had such an inexplicable manifestation occurred to one alone, or to more
than one whose minds were full of the story, or in one part of the house, or
only at night, or for a few months, a plausible explanation would be easier.
But, as the account shows, she was seen at all times of the day and of the
night, in various parts of the house and in the court-yard, by persons who
had heard of her and by persons who had never heard of her; by persons
who, when they saw her, at once imagined her to be a ghost, and by persons
who never suspected but that she was a li"ing woman; while, of the latter,
IIOme came to believe her a spirit, and lOme remained wholly unaware that
she was suspected to be anything of the kind. This last point alone is not
covered by anything that occurred during Mr. Hill's occupancy of the house,
although it is reasonably well attested.
I may remark that Mr. Hill, having African blood in his veins, may be
presumed to have inherited with it a certain share of superstition; yet he
was an eminently well educated man, schooled in England, and accustomed,
through a long life, to the close observation and weighing of facts, both as a
magistrate and IL8 a naturalist. Before I had ever heard of the existence of
Charles Darwin from anyone else, Mr. Hill mentioned him to me as an able
young correspondent of his, and quoted with just gratification a sentence of
a recent letter from Darwin to him: "You are an observer after my oWJl
heart." And in the previous narrative all that is really involved is his
veracity, which is unimpeached. The facts were, for the moat part, such as
occurred to others, and tlle combination of them is, of course, open to allY
one to make for himself. He affected no mystery, and made no confidence
of it, but freely communicated all the particulars to anyone of bis numerous
visitors who showed any dtlBire to ascertain them. I may remark that, rich
as Jamaica and the other Antilles preawnablyare in ghostly legends, Mr.
Hill, during my wng acquaintance with him, never adverted to one of them.
The spirit of the precise antiquary always prevailed in him over that of the
story teller. And in his individual experience, with one exception,*I ne,'er
learned that anything had ever happened which bore the stamp of a visit
from beyond the grave.
• This one exception was the appearance of a friend apparently at the moment
of death.
Digitized by Google
142 Phanta8m8 oj' the Dead. [Apri124,
There are in the collection perhaps half-a-dozen other well-attested
narratives of similar apparitions in the same house to different persons.
who cannot easily be supposed to have been in a state of excited
expectation; but, for various reasons, they do not seem to me quite
on a par, from an evidential point of view, with those above given;
though they certainly ought not to be left out of account in estimating
the whole evidence. It is, of course, quite possible by supposing a
sufficient amount of unconscious inaccuracy-varied occasionally by
conscious or semi-conscious inventiveness-on the part of our witnesses,
to explain away all these narratives, and any number of similar ones
that may be hereafter collected. And, as I have already said, we
have no exact measure by which to compare the improbability of the
required amount of inaccuracy or inventiveness with the improbability
involved in supposing the narratives to be substantially true. Hence
I can only say that having made every effort - as my papt'r
will, I hope, have shown-to exercise a reasonable scepticism, I yet
do not. feel equal to the degree of unbelief in human testimony necessary
to avoid accepting at least provisionally the conclusion that there are, in a
certain sense, haunted houses, i.e., that there are houses in which
similar quasi-human apparitions have occurred at different times to
different inhabitants, under circumstances which eXJlude the hypothesis
of suggestion or expectation. If this general conclusion be accepted,
the evidence for the authenticity of the particular narratives here given
appears to me sufficiently good to justify us in regarding them pro-
visionally as accounts, in the main accurate, of actual experiences, and,
accordingly, I propose to review and compare these experiences care-
fully, in order to ascertain what positive or" negative characteristics
they have in common, and what explanation, if any, their common
characteristics suggest.
In the first place, we find no foundation for the very general idea
that ghosts haunt old houses only or even m'J.inly.
Secondly, as I have already said, the evidence for appearances on
certain anniversaries rests, so far as this collecti?n is concerned, on one
atory only.
Thirdly, the evidence connecting such appearances with some crime
or tragedy is extremely slight. }{r. X. Z. believes he identified his
ghost with a person who committed murder and suicide; the other
ghost, recognised from his portrait, had died of delirium tremem; but I
have adduced reasons for some slight doubt as to the unmistakable
recognition in both these cases. A native woman had been murdel'Pd near
where the ayah appeared to Sir Arthur and Lady Becher. The ghost
supposed to be that of Miss A. vaguely resembled in figure a lady who had
lived unhappily and died mysteriously in the house, and the weeping
lady in widow's garb resembles in figure :I. former unhappy inmate. But
Digitized by Google
1885.] Pltanta8m8 0/" the Dead. 143
this is all. In nine cases we have not only heard no rumour of a tragedy,
but no attempt is made to conjecture ;vhose ghost it is that is seen. In
the four remaining ones there is a report of a violent death, but 80
vague and hazy as to suggest that it has arisen subsequently to the
appearance, owing to the supposed necessity of accounting for it in
some such way. As regards identification, moreover, it must be
observed that in many cases-seven Clut of the eighteen I have discussed
-there is not enough seen of the face to make certain recognition at all
possible. In this connection there is a curious point to be noticed. In
these eighteen narratives we have no first-hand account of a ghost
appearing undoubtedly in the dreSll of a distinctly bygone age. Mr.
X. Z.'s ghost would apparently have been entitled to such a dress, but
both as a man and as a ghost he affected a dressing-gown, which is a
vague costume. The blue lady in the old manor house appeared with
her hair dressed in Hogarth fashion to one percipient, but we have his
account at second-hand only, and both the percipients whose accounts
we have at first-hand saw her with her hair down her back. Vague
costumes, not specially appropriate to any particular period, are some-
what the most numerous in the eighteen selected cases, though in seven
or eight of them the dress seems to have been such as would not at all
have surprised the percipients if worn by a living person in the day-
time. And tllese remarks apply not only to these eighteen narratives,
but with comparatively few exceptions to the whole collection. It is
therefore the more remarkable that among all the fixed local glw8t8
described in the collection, who, by their costume, would seem to be
connected with the more or less recently dead, we have no single case at
first-hand, and I think only two dubious onas at second-hand, of an
apparition of anyone known to any of the percipients during life.
Fourthly, there is a total absence of any apparent object or
intelligent action on the part of the ghost. If its visits have an object,
it entirely fails to explain it. It does not communicate important facts.
It does not point out lost wills or hidden treasure. It does not even
speak, except in the instance mentioned by Mr. Hill, where the ghost
replied, "What is that to you 7" to an inquiry; but for this incident
there is at best third-hand evidence, and it may have been a mistake.
Its very movements are of the simplest description in all the cases
that I have selected on evidential grounds.*
• There is among the narratives which I have thought in BOme respects
insufficieutly evidenced, a case of a ghost alleged to ha\'e been seen by one
person only, pointing out a missing will; and I will quote here an account
of an apparition (G. 474) which went through very unusually dramatic
action. I have not included it among the evidentially first·class instances
of haun.ted hoUSel, because with the amount of detail given I am unable to
determine whether the figure seen by different percipients was similar and
seen independently. But for the occunrnce of the apparitions the evidence
Digitized by Google
144 P/talltasms qf the Dead. [April 24,
Fifthly, as to the light by which ghosts are seen, no rule can be laid
down. They are seen in all kinds of light, from broad daylight to the
faint light of dawn-from bright gaslight to the light of a dying fire.
Sometimes they seem to be self-luminous, and sometimes to bring with
them, as it were, an apparition of light (like Mr. X. Z.'s ghost), 80 that
the whole place appears lighted up, though there is no real light there.
The ghost of the man who died of delirium tremens seemed to disappear
owing to the gas being turned up; and on the other hand, some
apparitions, like ordinary external objects, can no longer be seen when
the light goes out. There is even one case where the ghost is described
as having been apparently seen in the back of the percipient's head.
Sixthly, as to sounds, again no rule can be laid down. In some
cases there are unaccounted-for sounds in houses where ghosts are seen,
and in others no sounds beyond what may be noticed anywhere seem to
have been observed. 'Vhere there are mysterious sounds they have
for the most part no obvious connection with the apparitions. The
apparition itself rarely appears to make any noise. To hear its footsteps,
for instance, seems to be unusual. Sometimes an apparition seems to be
heralded by a noise__ sound causing the percipient to look in the
direction in which they see the ghost, but it is difficult to say
whether these noises are not real, and their connection with the
ghost accidental.*
is good. The percipient on this particular occasion was Miss N.Vat&s·Simpson,
a sister of the lady who as a child saw the little old woman in the house in
St. Swithin's Lane.
"When my mother was ill, and I sat up during the night with her, I heard
some one trying the lock of our door, which I had locked. I thought it was W.
come home la.te, as usual, so I went up close to the door and whispered through,
, Do not come in ; mother's asleep.' I "'ent back to the fire, and I do not know
what made me do it, but I gave a great jump, a.nd on looking round found we
were no longer alone-a short, stout, elderly man was midway between the bed
and the door. He went and stood near the bed, but not closf'l, and while I
looked I seemed to know he could do no harm. He stood looking a long time.
He clasped and unclasped his hands frequently. Upon the little finger of his
left hand he wore a wedding ring, and he turned it round and round in his hand
as he stood, and his lips moved, though I could not hear a sound. I tried to flap
him away with a towel, as I had heard that a current of air will make these thinlr-'
go> sometimes, but to no purpose. He took his own time to go. After seeming to
speak to 80me person, whom I conld not see, and pointing to the ceiling a good
deal, he moved, I cannot say walked, to the door; it opened; he went out; it
closed; and I went, too, to try the door. It was still locked. I never saw
him again.
"NETTIE VATAS-SIMPSON.
"September, 1884."
• I said in the earlier part of this paper, that I had thought it best to defer
the consideration of the few cases in this collection of unaccounted for physical
pheuomena ; bllt it is as well to mention here that there are, I think, only two
instances in it, of clearly physical phenomena apparently produced by an appari-
Digitized by Goo
1885.] Plmnta8m8 of tho Dead. 145
Seventhly, the mode of appearance and disappearance of apparitions
is also various. The ghost is usually either seen on looking round, as 0.
human being might be, or seems to come in at the door. Some-
times it forms gradually out of what at first seems a cloud-like
appearance. 1 do not think there are any cases of its appearing suddenly
in a spot which the percipient was actually looking at and perceived to
be vacant before. It disappears suddenly in this way sometimes, and
sometimes if the percipient looks away for a moment, it is gone. Some-
times it vanishes in a cloud-like manner, sometimes, retaining its form, it
becomes gradually more and more transparent till it is gone. Frequently
it disappears through the door, either with or without apparently
opening it, or goes into a room where there is no other exit, and
where it is not found.
Eighthly, as to the seers of ghosts we can again lay down no rules.
The power is not limited by sex, age, or professi~n. It does not, so far
as has yet been ascertained, depend on any obvious conditions of health,
temperament, intellect, or emotion. It is not even certain that it is
possessed·by some persons and not by others, although there are reasons
for thinking this probable. If several persons are together when the
ghost appears it will sometimes be seen by all and sometimes not, and
failure to see it is not always merely the result of not directing
the attention towards it. Perhaps the truth may be that we all have
potentially the power of seeing such things, but that it requires a special
state of mind, or body in us, to coincide with some external cause,
and that that coincidence rarely, and in the case of most individuals,
never, occurs.
And this brings us to the question, What external cause or causes
operate 1 Assuming provisionally that there are haunted houses, in
the sense in which I have used the words, what theory can we form to
explain them 1
I must confess myself quite unable to form any satisfactory theory ;
-any theory which makes us feel that if it be truo, the phencmena are
just what we should expect. I have doubted even whether it is yet of
any use attempting to theorise, but I think the investigation has,
perhaps, arrived at a point at which it is worth while to formulate
such hypotheses as seem to derive any support whatever from the eYi-
tion. One of these is an account ofa ghost that open8 a locked door, and comes
into the room giving a horrid little laugh. But the narrator had not seen
the apparition heraelf-only been told after she had heard the laugh,and found
her door open, that others had experienced the !l8.m" phenomena, but that in
their case they seemed to be produced by a man in grey. In one other narrative,
a cupboard·door is really opened and really shut in apparent connection with an
apparition that is seen coming out of the cupboard, but I do not feel sure that.
draughts of air may not have had something to do with t.his.
L
Digitized by Google
146 P"antaml8 of titS Dead. [April 24.
dence before us, in order that further observations and inquiries may
be partly directed to proving or disprovingthem. I will,therefore, proceed
briefly to state and diacuBB the only four theories that have occurred
to me.
The two which I will take first in order assume that the apparitions
are due to the ~ncy or presence of the spirits of deceased men.
There is first the popular view, that the apparition is something
belonging to the external world-that like ordinary matter it
occupies and moves through space, and would be in the room
whether the percipient were there to see it or not. This hypothesis
involves us in many difficulties, of which one serious one-that of
accounting for the clothes of the ghost-has often been urged,
and never, I think, satisfactorily answered. Nevertheless, I am
bound to admit that there is some little evidence tending to suggest
this theory. For instance, in the account, of which I have given an
abstract, of the weeping lady who has appeared so frequently in a
certain house, the following passage occurs: "They went after it [the
figure] together into the drawing-room; it then came out and went down
the aforesaid passage [leading to the kitchen], but was the
next minute seen by another MiBB D. . . . come up the outside
steps from the kitchen. On this particular day Captain Do's married
daughter happened to be at an upstairs window . . • . and inde-
pendently saw the figure continue her course across the lawn and into
the orchard." A considerable amount of clear evidence to the appear-
ance of ghosts to independent observers in successive points in
space, would certainly afford a strong argument for their having a
definite relation to space; but in estimatingevidence of this kind it would
be necessary to know how far the observer's attention had been drawn to
the point in question. If it had been a real woman whom the MiBB Do's
were observing, we should have inferred, with perfect certainty, from
our knowledge that she could not be in two places at once, that she
had been succeBBively, in a certain order, in the places where she was
seen by the three observers. If they had noted the moments at which
they saw her, and comparing notes afterwards, found that according to
these notes they had all seen her at the same time, or in some other
order to that inferred, we should still feel absolute confidence in our
inference, and should conclude that there must be something wrong
about the watches or the notes. From association of ideas, it would be
perfectly natural to make the same inference in the case of a ghost
which looks exactly like a woman. But in the case of the ghost the
inference would not be legitimate, because, unless the particular theory
of ghosts which we are discuBBing be true, there is no reason, so far as
we know, why it should not appear in two or more places at once.
Hence in the case of the ghost a well founded assurance that the appear-
Digitized by Google
1886.] Phanta8m8 of ths Dead. 147
anees were successive would require a careful observation of the times,
which, so far a.s I know, ha.s never been made. On the whole, there-
fore, I must dismiss the popular theory, a.s not having, in my opinion,
even a primafacie ground for serious consideration.
The theory that I will next examine seems to me decidedly more
plausible, from its analogy to the con~lusion to which I am brought by
the examination of the evidence for phanta.sms of the living. This
theory is that the apparition ha.s no real relation to the external world,
bnt is a hallucination caused in some way by some communication,
without the intervention of the senses, between the disembodied spirit
and the percipient, its form depending on the mind either of the spirit
or of the percipient, or of both. In the case of haunted houses,
however, a difficulty meets us that we do not encounter, or at least,
rarely encounter, in applying a similar hypothesis to explain phantasms
of the living, or phanta.sms of the dead other than fixed local ghosts.
In these cases we have generally to suppose a simple f'appore
between mind and mind, but in a haunted house we have a f'appore
complicated by its apparent dependence on locality. It seems necessary
to make the improbable assumption, that the spirit is interested in an
entirely special way ill a particular house, (though possibly this interest
may be of a subconscious kind), and that his interest in it puts him into
connection with another mind, occupied with it in the way that that of a
living persoll actually there must consciously, or unconsciously be ; while
he does not get into similar communication with the Same, or with
other persons elsewhere.
If notwithstanding these difficulties, it be true that haunting
is due in any way to the agency of deceased persons, and
conveys a definite idea of them to the percipients through the resem-
blance to them of the apparition, then by patiently continuing our
investigations we may expect, sooner or later,to obtain a sufficient
amount of evidence to connect clearly the commencement of hauntings
with the death of particular persons, and to establish clearly the likeness
of the apparition to those persons. The fact that almost everybody is
now photographed ought to be of material assistance in obtaining
evidence of this latter kind.
My third theory dispenses with the agency of disembodied spirits,
but involves us in other and perhaps equally great improbabilities. It
is that the first appearance is a purely subjective hallucination
and that the subsequent similar appearances both to the original
percipient and to others, are the result of the first appearance;
unconscious expectancy causing them in the case of the original
percipient, and some sort of telepathic communication from the original
percipient in the ca.se of others. In fact, it assumes that a tendency
to a particular hallucination is in a way infectious. If this theory be
L 2
Digitized by Google
148 Phantasms 0/ the Dead. [April 24,
true I should expect to find that the apparently independent
appearances after the first, depended on the percipient's having had some
sort of intercourse with some one who bad seen the ghost oofore, and
that any decided discontinuity of occupancy would stop .the haunting.
I should also expect to find, as we do in one of the cases I have quoted,
that sometimes the supposed ghost would follow the family from one
abode to another, appearing to haunt them rather than any particular
house.
The fourth theory that I shall mention is one which I can
hardly expect to appear plausible, and which, therefore, I only
introduce because I think that it corresponds best to a certain part of
the evidence i-and, as I have already said, considering the altogether
tentative way in which we are inevitably dealing with this obscure
suhject, it is as well to express definitely every hypothesis which an
impartial consideration of the facts suggests. It is that there is some-
thing in the actual building itself-some subtle physical influence-
which produces ill the brain that effect which, in its tum, becomes the
cause of a hallucination. It is certainly difficult on this hypothesis
alone to suppose that the hallucinations of different people would be
similar, but we might account for this by a combination of this
hypothesis and the last. The idea is suggested by the clI.I!e of which I
have given an abstract, where the haunting continued through more
than one occupancy, but changed its charact~r.i and if there be any
truth in the theory, I should expect in timfl to obtain a good deal more
evidence of this kind, combined with evidence that the same persons do
Dot as a rule encounter ghosts elsewhere. I should also expect evidence
to be forthcoming supporting the popular idea that repairs and altera-
tions of the building sometimes cause the haunting to cease.*
As I have said, the evidence before us is quite inadequate to enable
us to decide among these theories, or e,,·en to say that anyone of
them is strongly supported by it. The only thing to be done, therefore,
is to obtain more evidence, both for the occurrence of the phenomena
• In an earlier part of this paper, I mentioned CMeS of haunted houses where
the appalitions are various, and might therefore all of them be merely SUbjective
1Ialillcinations, sometimes, perhaps, caused by expectancy. It is, ef course, also
poSllible to explain these cases by the hypothesis we are now discussing. Another
class of cases is, perhaps, worth mentioning in this connection. 'Ye have in the
collection two cases of what was belieYed by the narrators to be a quite peculiar
feeling of discomfort, in 1Iouses where concealed, and long since de<lOmposed
bodies were subsequently found. Such feelings are seldom clearly defined enough
to have much evidential value, for othem, at any rate, than the percipient; even
though mentioned beforehand, and definitely connected with the place w1lere the
skeleton was. But if there be really any connection between the skeleton and
the feeling, it may possibly be a RubUe physical influence Buch as I am
8uggesting.
Digitized by Google
1885.J Phanta&m8 0/ tke Dead. 149
in question, and about the houses where they occur, their former inhabi-
tants and history. The investigation is likely to be a long and laborious
one, for the difficulties of tracing .back such unrecorded history are
often very great, and sometimes insuperable; and even if we could learn
all the facts bearing on the question in any particular case, we should
still very likely find it difficult to draw the right conclusion, owing to
the rare and irregular appearances of most ghosts, and the consequent
difficulty of determining definitely the times at which haunting begins
or ends. Nevertheless, without such investigation we cannot hope to
learn the true explanation of the phenomena; and the evidence already
collected seems to warrant us in thinking that it is worth undertaking,
and not likely to be fruitless. In the meanwhile, it is to be hoped that
all who take an intelligent interest in the subject, and have the good
fortune to live in haunted houses themselves, and to see ghosts, will help
in the search for the truth, by finding out all they can, both about their
own experiences and those of others, and ahout the history of the
houses they live in.
And I should like to sayhere that it would be o. greatpity if anyone
thought that hallucinations, when not veridical, were indications of
anything seriously amiss with the brain. This is entirely unsupported
by the evidence collected by the Society. Hallucinations are, no
doubt, sometimes symptoms of disturbance produced by overwork or
other causes, but so are headaches, and no one is either ashamed of a
headache, orparticularlyalarmed by it. Moreover, if the theory that the
ghosts of haunted houses have their origin in unvcridical hallucinations
be true, one thing that would follow would be that seeing such things
is not necessarily a sign of bad health. For we know that among our
witnesses to such phenomena we have persons not only remarkably
sensible and practical, but remarkably strong and healthy.
If we now attempt to S'lm up the evide.nce afforded by the Society's
collection, for phantasms of the dead,* it seems to stand as follows :-
Firstly.-Thcre are a large nu:nber of instances recorded of appear-
ances of the dead shortly after theirdeath, butgenerally there is nothing
by which we can distinguish thesefrom simple subjective hallucinations.
In a few cases, however, information conveyed seems to afford the re-
quired test, but these are at present too few, I think, for us to feel
sure that the coincidence may not have been due to chance.
Secondly.-There are cases of single appearances at an interval of
months or years after death, but at present none which we have adequate
grounds for attributing to the agency of the dead.
* I must again remind my readers that I am not dealing with the evidence
for communications at the time of death, which is, in my opinion, very strong.
By "phantasms of the dead," I mean communications at least twelve hours
after death.
150 PhanttUmB of tM Dead. [1885.
Thirdly.-There are numerous cases of seemingly similar appari-
tions seen in particular houses,without apparently any possibility of the
similarity being the result of suggestion or expectation; but the evidence
oonnecting such haunting with any definite dead person is,on the whole,
very small; and the evidence for the operation of any intelligent agency
in the haunting, at present absolutely nil; and until we can discover
more about the laws that seem to govern such haunting, we
are hardly justified in forming any theory as to its cause, except as a
provisional hypothesis.
As regards present conclusions, the result of the investigation will,
I fear, appear to many very unsatisfactory. But I do not myself
think that we ought to expect so quickly to come to a conclusion ;
and my emmiw.tion of the evidence has at any ra.t<.. convinced
me that the inquiry, though likely, as I have said, to be
long and difficult, is worth pursuing with patience and energy.
NOTE.-On the very eve of going to press, Mr. Gurney has received
the following letter from Mr. Webley, the "lfr. W." of case 477,
p.93:-
84, Wenman-street, Birmingh&n,
May 18th, 1885.
DEAR Sm,-In reply to your letter, I shall be happy to give you the
information asked for. My wife died on 2nd February, 1884, about5.30 a.m.
The last hours of her life were spent in singing. I msy say notes came
from her within ten minutes of her decease; and beautiful as her voice was,
it never appeared 80 exquisitely beautiful as this.
Yours sincerely,
HENRY WBBLEY.
Digitized by Google
Hallucination•• 151
HALLUCINATIONS.
By EDMUND GURNEY.
SYNOPSIS OF THE ARGUMENT.
Hallucinations of the senses are first distinguished from other
hallucinations, by the fact that they do not necessarily imply any false
belief.
A definition of them is then given which serves to mark them off on
the one hand from true perceptions, and on the other hand from re-
membered images or mental pictures.
The old method of distinguishing the ideational and the BenIJOf"!J
elements in hallucinations of the senses is criticised ; and it is shown
that the delusive appearances are not merely imagined, but are actually
Been and Iteard-the hallucination differing from an ordinary percept
only in the fact of lacking an objective basis.
The controversy as to the physiological start.ing-point of the
phenomena is briefly sketched; and it is shown that the creation
of sensory hallucinations, which is central and the work of the
brain, is quite distinct from the excitation or initiation of them, which
may be peripll.eral and due to some other part of the body that sets
the brain to work.
This excitation may even be due to some objective external cause,
as is shown by the fact that the view of an imaginary object may some-
times be affected, in just the same way as the view of a real one would
be, by a priam or a mirror. The imaginary object becomes (so to speak)
attached to some point de repere--some visible point or mark, at or near
the place where it is seen-and is thus made to follow the course of any
optical illusions to which the said point or mark is subjected. But this
dependence on an external stimulus does not affect the fact that the
actual sensory element in the hallucination is in these, as in all other
cases, created and imposed by the brain.
There are, however, a large number of hallucinations which we must
suppose to be centrally initiated, as well as centrally created. Cases are
considered where the hypothesis that the hallucination depends on an
external stimulus, if possible, is yet very doubtful; for instance, where
the imaginary object is seen in free space j or where it appears to
move independently of the eye. But there are many other cases
where the said hypothesis is plainly excluded j and where the excita-
tion or initiation, if it does not take place in the brain, can only be
Digitized by Google
152 HallucinatWm.
due to some morbid disturbance in the sense-organs themselves. A
variety of instances are adduced where the assumption of such a morbid
di:;turbance would be gratuitous or impossible; as, especially, in
auditory hallucinations; in hallucinations which conform to the course
of some more general delusion; in hallucinations which are voluntarily
originated; and in the so-called "psychic" hallucinations, of which a
new explanation is offered. A further argument for the central initia-
tion is drawn from the fact that repose of the sense-organs seems a con-
dition favourable to hallucin~tions.
This discussion as to the excitation of hallucinations is followed by
a discussion as to their creation-the cerebral process which is involved
in their ha,\-;ng this or that particular (and often elaborate) form.
'Vhere in the brain does this process take place 1-in the particular
sensory centre concerned 1 or in some higher tract 1 Reasons are gi,en
for considering that both places of creation are available; that the
simpler sorta of hallucination, which are often also recurrent, may
take shape at the sensory centres themselves; but that the more
elaborate and variable sorts must be traced to the higher origin; and
that when the higher tracts are first concerned, the production of
the hallucination is due to a downward escape of current to the
sensory centre.
Finally, an argument for the higher origin is drawn from the special
class of veridical Iwllucinations; the nature of which often leads us to
conclude that those tracts of the percipient's brain which are the
physical seat of ideas and memories were the first to be abnormally
affected.
1. Definition.
Is it possible to t.reat hallucinations as a single class of phenomena,
marked out by definite characteristics 1 The popular answer would no
doubt be Yes-that the distinguishing characteristic is some sort of
false belief. But this is an error : in many of the best known cases
of hallucination-that of Nicolai for instance-the percipient has
held, with respect to the figures that he saw'or the voices that he
heard, not a false but a true belief, to wit, that they did not correspond
to any external reality. The only sort of hallucination which is
necessarily characterised by false belief is the purely non-sensory sort
-as where a person has a fixed idea that everyone is plotting against
him, or that he is being secretly mesmerised from a distance. Of
hallucinations of the senses, belief in their reality, though a frequent,
is by no means an essential feature; a tendency to deceive is all that
we can safely predicate of them.
If we seek for some further quality which shall be distinctive of
both sensory and non-sensory hallucinations, the most hopeful sugges-
Hallucinations. 153
tion would seem to be that both sorts are idiosyncratic and tmslwred.
However false a belief may be, we do not call it a hallucination if it
has "been in the air," and has arisen in a natural way in a plurality
of minds. This is just what an idee fixe of the kind above-mentioned
never does: A may imagine that the world is plotting against him i hut
B, if he spontaneously evolves a similar notion, will imagine that the
world is plotting not against A, but against himself. Instances, how-
ever, are not wanting where the idee fixe of an insane person has
graduMly infected an associate i* and as contact between mind and
mind is, after all, the " natural way" of spreading ideas, we can make
no scientific distinction between these cases and those where, e.g., the
leader of a sect has instilled delusive notions into a number of
(teclmically) sane followers. But again, hallucinations of the senses are
also occasionally shared by s'3veral persons. 1\Iost of the alleged
instances of this phenomenon are, no doubt, merely cases of collective
illusion-an agreement in the misinterpretation of sensory signs pro-
duced by a real external object i but, as the result of wide inquiries, I
have encountered several instances of genuine and spontaneous
collecti1,,'e ',allucination. If, then, sensory and non-sensory hallucina,.
tions agree in being as a rule unshared, they agree also in presenting
marked exceptions to the rule i which exceptions, in the sensory species,
are of a peculiarly inexplicable kind. The conclusion does not seem
favourable to our chance of obtaining a neat general definition which
will embrace the two species i and, in abandoning the search for one, I
can only point, with envy, to the convenient way in which French
writers are enabled not to combine but to keep them apart, byappro-
priating to the non-sensory class the words delire and conception
delirante.
Let us then try to fix the character of lwlll£ci1wtions of the senses
independently. The most comprehensive view is that all our instinc-
tive judgments of visual, auditory,and tactile phenomena are hallucina-
tions, inasmuch as what is really nothing more than an affection
of ourselves is instantly interpreted by us as an external object.
In immediate perception, what we thus objectify is present
sensation i in mental pictures, what we objectify is remembered
or represented sensation. This is the view which has been worked
out very ingeniously, and for psychological purposes very effec-
tively, by M. Taine it but it is better adapted to a. general theory of
sensation than to a theory of hallucinations as such. To adopt it here
* See Dr. G. H. Savage's Note on the "Contagiousness of Delusions," in
the Journal of lIfental Scieme, January, 1881, p. 563 ;and the paper on " Folie
a Deux," by Dr. llarandon de Montyel, in the AII/I. MUico·PIt!lch., 6th series,
Vol. V., p. 28.
t De l'Intelligence, Vol. r., p. 408, &c.
Digitized by Google
154 Hallucinatiolls.
'Would .drive us to describe the diseased Nicolai-when he saw phantoms
in the room, buthad his mind specially directed to the fact that they
'Were internally caused-as leBB hallucinated than a healthy person in
the unreHective exercise of normal vision. I prefer to keep to the
ordinary language which would describe Nicolai's phantoms as the 1"(>.&.1
specific case of hallucination. And I should consider their distinctive
eha.racteristic to be something quit-e apart from the question whether or
not they were actually mistaken for real figures-namely, their marked
resemblance to real figures, and the consequent necessity for the
exercise of memory and reflection to prevent so mistaking them. The
definition of a sensory hallucination would thus be a percept wMcl~ lacks,
but whicl, can only by distinct rtiflection b~ recognised as lacking,
the o~jective basis wltich it suggests-where objective basis is to be taken
as a short way of naming the possibility of being shared by all persons
with normal senses.* It may be objected that this definition would
include illusions. The objection could be obviated at the cost of a little
clumsiness; but it seems sufficient to observe that illusions are merely
the sprinkling of fragments of genuine hallucination on a background
of true perception. And the definition seems otherwise satisfactory.
For while it clearly separates hallucinations from true perceptions, it
equally clearly separates them from the phenomena with which they
have been perpetually identified-the remembered images or mental
pictures which are not perceptions at all.t It serves, for instance, to
distinguish,on the lines of common sense and common la.nguage, between
the images of "day-dreams" and those of night-drea.ms. In both
cases vivid images arise, to which no objective reality corresponds; and
* I have indeed referred above to collective hallucinations; but they may
fairly be excluded here, not merely becanse they are very exceptional, but
becaUlie it is a nice question for Idealism to determine how far, or in what sense,
they lack an objective basis. To put an extreme case: suppose all the seeing
world, save one individual, had a visual percept, the object of which neverthe-
less eluded all physical tests. Would the solitary individual be jnstilied in saying
that all the others were victims of a subjective delusion! And it he said so
would they agree with him!
t M. Taine's definition and mode of treatment become unsatisfactory
here. Rega.rding perceptions as in essence hallucinations, he naturally regards
mental images_ince they are the shadowy representatives of former percep-
tions_ hallucinations of an. embryon.ic BOrt. This metaphor commits him to
.ho\ving how the embryo mRoY develop into the full product-which will happen
if the mental image be then and there extemalised,as is often the case in
delirium. The result of this transformation is inevitably ajalae hallucination;
and a special connection is thus suggested between mental images and one par-
ticular sort of percept, namely the incorrect sort. But in ordinary experience,
mental images are of course far more closely and constantly connected with
correct percepts, M. Taine's trlUJ hallucinations, whose relics and representatives
they are, than with falae hallucinations, into which not one in a. million of
them is ever transformed.
Digitized by Google
HallucinatiOliB. 155
in neither case is any distinct process of reflection applied to the dis-
covery of this fact. But the self-evoked waking-vision is excluded from
the class of hallucinations, as above defined, by the point that its lack of
objective basis can be and is recognised without any such process of
reflection. We have not, like Nicolai, to consider and remember, before
we can decide that the friends whose faces we picture are not really in
the room. Wefeel that our mind is active and not merely receptive-
that it is the mind's eye and not the bodily sense which is at work;
withoutattending to this fact, we have it as part of our whole conscious
state. Dreams on the other hand are, as a rule, pure cases of
hallucination, forcing themselves 011 us whether we will or no, and with
an impression of objective reality which is uncontradicted by any
knowledge, reflective or instinctive, that they are the creatures of our
brain.
But, though our definition may be sufficient for mere purposes of
classification, it takes us but a very little way towards understanding
the real nature of thephenomena. It says nothing of their origin and,
though it distinguishes them from mere normal acts of imagination or
memory, it leaves quite undetermined the faculty or faculties actually
concerned in them. And when we pass on to these further points, we
find ourselves in a most perplelted field,where doctors seem:to be as much
at variance as philosophers. The debate, most ardently carried on in
France, has produced a multitude of views j but not one of the rival
theorists seems ever to have convinced any of the others. Still progress
has been made, to this extent at any rate, that it is now comparatively
easy to see where the disputed points lie, and to attack them with
precision.
2. Tl1.8 Dual Nature of Hallucinations.
Itwas,of course,evident from the first tha.t there was a certain duality
of nature in hallucinations. In popula.r language, the 'mind and the sense
were both plainly involved: the hallucinated person not only
imagined such and such a thing, but imagined that he saw such and
such a thing. But in the early days of the controversy, the attempts
...t analysing the ideational and the senS01"/J elements were of a very
crude sort. The state of hallucination used to be treated as one in
which ideas and memories-while remaining ideas and memories and
not sensations-owing to exceptional vividness took on the character
of sensations. It was not clearly realised or remembered that sensa-
tions have no existence except as 'mental facts j and that, so far as a.
mental fact takes on the character of a sensation, it is a. sensation.
This was clearly stated, as a matter of personal experience, by Burdach
and Miiller; in the French discussions, the merit of bringing out the
Digitized by Google
156 Hallucination8.
point with new force and emphasis belongs to Baillarger.* He showed
that when the hallucinated person says "I see so and so," "I hear so
and so," the words are literally true. If the person g~.s on to say
" You ought also to see or hear it," he is of course wrong; but when
he says that lUJ tees or hears it, his statement is to be taken without
reserve. To l,iUl, the experience is not something like or related to the
experience of perceiving a red external object: it is identical with that
experience. To the psychology of our day this may seem a tolerably
evident truth. Still it is easy to realise the difficulty that was long felt
in admitting that any experience that was dissociated from the normal
functions of the sense-organs could be completely sensory in character.
Popular thought fails to see that the physical question which for
practical purposes is all-important-whether the object is or is not really
there-is psychically irrelevant; and a man who has bl'en staring at
the sun will, as a rule, think it ll'.ss accurate to say that he Bees a
luminous disc wherever he looks than to say that he jancieB it. The
best corrective to such a prejudice is Delbreuf's experiment, which
it will be convenient briefly to set forth, for the sake of subsequent
reference.
Two small slits are made in a shutter, and one of them is filled
with a piece of red glass. The opposite wall is therefore lit by 0.
mixture of white and red light. A stick is now placed across the red
slit; its shadow is of course cast on the wall; the part of the wall
occupied by the shadow, though illuminated only by tvltite rays from the
other slit, appears-owing to the optical law of contrast-o. bright
green. t Let this shadow now be looked at through a narrow tube,.
• In the long and rather barren debates which took place in the Societe
l\ICdico-psychologique during 18ii5 and 1856, Baillarger, no doubt, insisted too
strongly on an absolute gulf between percepts (true or false) and the ordinary
images of fancy or memory. But his opponents madca far Blore serious mistake
b so far ideJ.tifying the two 8.8 not to pel'Ceive a difference of kind, at the point
where the sensory element in the mental fact reaches Kuch abnormal strength as
to suggest the real presence of the object. Gricsinger's statement (Ment. Patl!.
mw TIIU., p. 89) and Wundt's(Phys. Psych., Vol. II., p. 353) "cem too un-
guarded in the same respect. As long ago as 1832, the late Dr. Symonds, of
Bristol, drew exactly the right distinction between images and hallucinations.
(Lecture reprinted in lI/i8ccllanics, p. 241).
t Wundt (phys. Psych., Vul. I., p. 463) has described some experiments, on
the analogy of which it seems to me that this first result shonld be explained.
I at any rate cannot concur with Delbamfs explanation of it, which M. Binet
adopts. According to them, it is due to two things: to the fact that the rays
wbich pass from the shadow to t.he spectator's eye are really grey; and to the
Bpectator's knowledge of the further fact t.bat the only colour which, seen
tbrough red light, looks grey, is green. They bold then tbat the sensation,
thuugh of grey, excites through association an image of green. To this there
seem to be three objections. (1) Not one person in 2Opossesses the supposed
Digitized by Google
Hallucinations. 157
which prevents any part of the wall external to the shadow from being
seen. Nothing red is now in the spectator's view, so that there can be
no effect of contrast: the red glass may even be removed; none but
white rays are passing to his eye from the shadow; yet its colour
remains green. And in this case the chances are that, unless previously
wl'.rncd, he will tell the exact truth; he will admit, and e,,-en persist,
that what he sees is green. He will scout the idea that the green is a.
mere memory of what he saw before he applied the tube; he will assert
that it is presented to him as an immediate fact. And such is assuredly
the state of the case; but it is a state which, from the moment that
he has put the tube to his eye, is kept up purely as a hallucination, and
without regard to the facts of the external world. The delusion is of
course instantly dispelled by the removal of the tube-when he perceives
that the only light in the room IS white, and that the shadow is grfJy ;
but for all that he will probabiy never doubt again that a genuine
hallucination of the senses is something more than" mere fancy."
It is impossible to be too particular on this point: for higlt
authorities, even in the present day, are found to contest it. \Vhen a
person who habitually speaks the truth, and who is not colour-blind,
looks at an object and says "1\{y sensation is green," they contradict
him, and tell him that however much he BeeB green, his sensation is
grey. Whether this be a mere misuse of language, or (as it seems to
me) a misconception of facts, it at any rate renders impossible any
agreement as to the theory of hallucinations. For it ignores the very
point of Baillarger's contention-that images sufficiently vivid to be
confounded with sensory percepts l/-ave become sensory percepts.
When once the trnth of this contention is perceived, it is also
perceived that the previous speculations had been largely directed to a.
wrong issue; and that the du.al character of a false perception is aftt>r
all, no other than that of a true perception. A hallucination, like an
ordinary percept, is composed of present sensations, and of images
which are the relics of past sensations. If I see the figure of a man,
then-alike if there be a man there and if there be no man there-my
piece of knowledge. (2) E"en for one who does possess it, the moments in his
life during which he has had experience of the fact that green seen through rell
light looks grey, are surely not sufficiently striking or numerous to have
established an instinctive and inseparable association between the sensation of
grey, occurring in a place where red light prevails, and the idea of green. (3)
Even if this inseparable association could be conceived pO(Vjible, one fails to see
why the result should be the transformation, in the spectator's consciousnes.~, of
the idea green into (what at any rate seems to him to be) the 8cII$ation green;
that being the very sensation which, in the supposed moments of experience, has
been conspicuous by its absence. On Delhrouf's theory, the lawn seen through
red gws ought not only to excite the idea. of green (which it perhaps may do),
but to look green.
Digitized by Google
158 Halluci"atitm8.
experience consists of certain visual sensations, compounded with a
variety of muscular and tactile images, which represent to me properties
of resistance, weight, and distance; and also with more remote and
complex images, which enable me to refer the object to the class man,
and to compare this specimen of the class with others whose appearance
I can recall. If Baillarger did not carry out his view of hallucinations
to this length, the whole development exists by implication in the term
by which he described them~81Jcl/.0-8enBorial. The particular word
was, perhaps, an unfortunate one; since it suggests (as M. Binet has
pointed out) that the psychical element is related to the sensorial some-
what as the soul to the body; and so, either that psychical events are
independent of physical conditions, or that sensations are not psychical
events. Icko-BfJ1UIational would avoid this difficulty; but the obverse
term which M. Binet proposes-cerebro-BenBorial-is on the whole
to be preferred. For this brings us at once to the plty,ical ground
where alone the next part of the inquiry can be profitably pursued-
the inquiry into origin. From the standpoint of to-day, one readily
perceives how much more definite and tangible the problems were cer-
tain to become, as soon as they were translated into physiological terms.
So far as the controversy had been conducted on a purely psychological
basis, it had been singularly barren. In the vague unlocalised use, "the
senses" and other ever-recurring terms become sources of dread to thE"
reader. But as soon as it is asked, where is the local seat of the
abnormal occurrence 1 and on what particular physical conditions does
it depend 1 lines of experiment and observation at once suggest them-
selves, and the phenomena fall into distinct groups.
3. TM question ofCentral or PeripllMal Origin: tlte difference between
Creation and Excitation.
In its first form, the question is one between central and periphsral
origin. Do hallucinations originate in the brain-in the central
mechanism of perception1 or in some immediate condition of the eye,
or of the ear, or of other parts 1or is there possibly some joint mode of
origin 1
}t'or a long time the hypothesis of anexclusively central origin was
much in the ascendan~ But this was greatly because-as already
noted-Esquirol and the older writers did not recognise the sensory
element as truly and literally sensation, but regarded the whole ex-
perience as simply a very vivid idea or memory. If the central origin
is to be established it must be by something better than arbitrary
psychological distinctions. Hibbert and Ferriar, going to the other
extreme, contended that the memory WQ.S 0. retinal one ; if a man ,ees
what is not there, they held, it can only be by a direct recrudescence of
Digitized by Google
Hallucinationa. 159
pastfeeling in his retina. U But,"urged Esquirol, u the blind can have
hallucinations of vision; the deaf can have hallucinations of hearing;
how can these originate in the peripheral organs 1" The obvious answer,
that this did not necessarily thrust the point of origin back as far as the
cerebrum, does not seem to have heen forthcoming; and the opposite
party preferred to fall back on definite experiment. They pointed out,
for instance, that visual hallucinations often vanish when the eyes are
closed; or (as Brewstertirst observed) that they may be doubled by
pressing one eyeball But though there was enough here to suggest
that the external organs participated in the process, there was no proof
that they originated it, even in these particular cases ; while for other
cases the observations did not hold. An immense advance was made by
Baillarger, who maintained the central origin by really scientific argu-
ments. He pointed out (1) that the external organ may often be
affected by loca.l irritants - inflammation, blows, pressure,
galvanism-without the production of any more pronounced
form of hallucination than flashes, or hummings; that is to say, the
peripheral stimulation fails to develop hallucination, even under the
most favourable conditions: (2) that there is a frequent correspondence
of hallucinations of different senses-a man who sees the devil also
hears his voice, and smells sulphur-and that it is impossible to refer
this correspondence to abnormalities of the eye, ear, and nose, occur
ring by accident at the same moment : (3) that hallucinations often
refer to dominant ideas-a religious monomaniac will see imaginary
saints and angels, not imaginary trees and houses. Hence, argued
Baillarger, u the point of departure of hallucinations" is always u the
intelligence"-the imagination and memory-which sets the sensory
machinery in motion. He na.1vely admitted that how this action of an
immaterial principle on the physical apparatus takes place passes all
conception ; but it might he forgiven to a medical man, writing forty
years ago, if he had not fully realised "brain as an organ of mind,"
and so did not see that what he took for a special puzzle in the theory
of hallucinations, is simply the fundamental puzzle involved in every
mental act. Passing him this, we may say that his treatment of the
question entitles him to the credit of the Becond great discovery about
hallucinations. He had already made clear their genuinely sensory
quality ; he no.v made equally clear the fact that the mind (or its
physical correlate) is their creator-that they are brain-products pro-
jected from within outwards.
This is a most important truth ; but it is very far from being the
whole truth. Baillarger BIloW no via media between the theory which
he rejected-that the nerves of sense convey to the brain impressions
which are there perceived as the phantasmal object-and the theory
which he propounded, that u the intelligence" (i.e., for us, the brain, as
Digitized by Google
160 Halluc;lIatUJII8.
the seat of memories and images) of its own accord, and without any im-
pulse from the periphery, excites the sensory apparatus. It seems
ne,·er to have struck him that there may be cases where the sense-organ
supplies the excitant, though the brain is the creator-that irritation
passing from without inwards may be a means of setting in motion the
creative activity. He took into account certain states of the organ-e.g.,
fatigue produced by previous exercise-as increasing the susceptibility
to excitation from "the intelligence," and so as conditions favourable to
hallucin!l.tion ; but he got no further.
The facts of hallucination absolutely refuse to lend themselves to
this indiscriminate treatment. Following the path of experiment, we
are almost immediately confronted with tlVO classes of phenomena, and
tlVO modes of excitation. We need not go, indeed, beyond the ele-
mentary instances already mentioned. Delbceuf's experiment, where
green was seen by an eye on which only white rays were falling,
fairly illustrates Baillarger's doctrine-the green being produced not by
an outer affection of the eye, but by an inner affection of the brain.
But in the case of 1\ person who has been staring at the sun, the "after
image" or hallucination can be clearly traced to 0. continuing local effect
in that small area of the retina which has just been ahnormallyexcited;
and it will continue to present itself wherever the eye may turn, until
rest has restored this area to its normal condition. A still simpler
form of change in the external organ is 0. blow on the eye; and the
resulting" sparks" are genuine though embryonic hallucinations.
Such cases as these last are, however, hardly typical; for in them the
brain is not truly creative; it merely gives the inevitable response to
the stimuli that reach it from below. They are moreover normal ex_
periences, in the sense that they would occur similarly to all persons
with normal eyes. Let us then take another instance, where the mind's
creative role is fully apparent, while at the same time the primary exci-
tation is clearly not central. Certain hallucinations-as is well known
-are 1militeral, i.e., are. perceived when (say) the right eye or ear is act-
ing, but cease when that action is obstructed, though the left eye or ear
is still free. Now this is in itself could not be taken, as some take it,.
for a proof that the exciting cause was not central; it might be a
lel'ion affecting one side of the brain. But very commonly, in these
cases, a. distinct lesion is found in the particular eye or ear on whose
activity the hallucination depends; t and it is then natural to conclude
that the hallucination was the result of the lesion, and that the one-
·Dr. Regis in L'ElldpllUlc, 1881, p. 51; Prof. Ball in L'Encephalc,
882, p.5.
f Dr. Regis in L'EUlxpllale, 1881, p. 46; 1\1. Voisin in the Bulletin de
ThtrapezeUque. Vol. XXXIX. ; Dr. Despine, P8!JMologic ]'"aturclle, Vol. II.,
p. 29 ; Kraft"t·Ebing, Die S;7IlIeaticlirien, p. 25.
Digitized by Google
Halluciliati01l8. 161
sidedness of the one depended on the one-sidedness of the other. The
justice of the conclusion has been proved in many cases by the
fact that the hallucination has ceased when the local lesion
has been cured. Other cases which strongly suggest a morbid
condition of the external organ are those where tho imaginary
figure moves in accordance with tho movements of the eye.
The visual hallucinations of the blind, and the auditory hallucinations of
the deaf, would also naturally be referred to the same class-the seat of
excitation being then, not necessarily the external organ itself, but
some point on the nervous path from the organ to the brain. In the
case, for instance, of a partly-atrophied nerve, the morbid excitation
would be at the most external point where vital function continued.*'
It should be noted, in passing, that a distinct lesion, e.g., atrophy of the
globe of 01UI eye, may give rise to bilateral hallucinations (Vienna
.4.Bylum Report, 1858), or to unilateral hallucinations of the BOUnd eye-
the latter being no doubt affected directly by the brain.
4. External E:r:citation of Hallucinations.
But we may now proceed a step further. The excitation may be
external not only in the sense of coming from the external organ, but
in the seuse of coming from the external world. It may be due not to
any abnormality of the eye or the nerve, but to the ordinary stimulus
of light-rays from real objects. M. Binet is the first who has given the
complete evidence for this fact, accompanied by a scientific explanation
of it it and in so doing, he has made a contribution to the learning of
the subject second in importance only to that of Baillarger.
M. Binet's experiments were conducted on five hypnotised girls at
the Salpetriere, who could be made to see anything that was suggested
to them i and also on an insane woman at St. Anne, who had a stand-
ing visual hallucination of her own. The t:xperiments may be divided
into two sets-those conducted with, and those conducted without,
specie.! optical apparatus. The results of both sets confirmed the rule
first enunciated by M. Fere-that "the imaginary object is perceived
* Delusions due to visceral disturbances are often quote(l as cases of
hallucination excited from parts below the brain. Thus a woman dying of
peritonitis declares that an ecclesiastical conclave is being held inside her
(Eequirol, Maladiu 1f.fentalu, Vol. I., p. 211). But here there is a prior and
independent basis of distinct sensation; 80 that the experience would at most
be an illusion. And it is hardly even that; for one cannot say that the
false object is senaorially presented at all; no one knows what a conclave in
such a locality would actually feel like; the conclave is merely a dIlire-an
imagination suggested by sensation, but which does not :itself take a 8eD8OJy
form.
t In the 1lew, PhilO8OplJilJue, April and May, 1884.
Digitized by Google
- - ------
162 Hallucillatiolls.
under the same conditions as a real one"; but to this M. Binet adds
the further conclusion, that a sensation derived from a real external
source occupying the same position in space as the imaginary object
seemed to occupy, was an indispensable factor of the hallucination. The
results obtained without special apparatus do not appear to me at all to
justify this conclusion. They were (1) suppression of the imaginary
object by closure of the eyes; (2) suppn>,ssion of the imaginary object
by the interposition of an opaque screen between the eye and the place
where the object seemed to be; (3) doubling of the imaginary object
by lateral pressure of one eyeball. M. Binet argues that the suppres-
sion in the first two cases, and the doubling in the third, depended on the
suppression and the doubling of a real sensation, physically induced by
rays from the direction in which the object was seen. But the fact that
external objects are hidden from view by the interposition of our own
eyelids or any other opaque obstacle, has become to us a piece of abso-
lutely instinctive knowledge; and we should surely expect that an object
which was but the spontaneous projection of a morbid brain, might still
be suppressed by movements and sensations which had for a lifetime been
intimately associated with the suppression of objects. And as regards
the doubling by pressure of the eyeball, it can be perfectly explained on
Baillarger's principles-by supposing that an excitation which has been
centrally initiated SPl-ea.dS outwards to the peripheral expansion of the
optic nerve.
When, however, we turn to the other group of experiments, the case
is very different. The instruments used were a prism, a spy-glass, and a
mirror. It would occupy too much space to describe the results in
detail. It is enough to say that the prism applied to one eye
doubled the imaginary object; * that the spy-glass removed or
approximated it according as the object-glass or eye-piece was applied
to the patient's eye; that the mirror reflected the object and gave
a symmetrical image of it; and that the optical effect, as regards
angles of deviation and reflexion and all the details of the illusion,
was in every case precisely what it would have been had the object
been real instead of imaginary. Here then we are fairly driven out-
side the patient's own organism; it seems impossible to deny that some
point of external space at or near the seat of the imagined object plays Itt
real part in the phenomenon.t To this point M. Binet gives the name of
• The observation was first made by M_ Fero; see Le Progres Medical,
1881, p. 1040_
t One reservation must be made. It is just conceivable that the changetl
wrought on the imaginary percept were due, not to the optical iustruments, but
to thought-transference. For 1\1. Binet aud his assilltants of course knew them-
selves, in each case, the particular optical effect to be expected. An experi-
menter who has not expressly recognised the reality or the possibility of thought-
Digitized by Goo
HallllCiJlatioM. 163
poi'" ck r~ere i and he regards it as producing a nucleus of sense.-
tion to which the hallucination accretes itself. When the point ck
r6pere is in such a position as to be reflected by the mirror, then the im-
aginary object is reflected, and not otherwise i the object is, so to speak,
attached to its point de repere, and will follow the course of any optical
illusions to which its sensory nucleus is subjected. According to this
view, the only truly sensory part of the phenomenon is supplied by the
point ck repere j all the rest is a II hypertrophied image" imposed on it
by the mind.
These conclusions are entirely foreign to any former theory of
hallucination. None of the contending parties, not even the early
champions of a purely peripheral origin, had ever dreamt of excitants
outside the eye itself. Oddly 6Jlough, M. Binet seems hardly aware of
his own originality. He remarks that the general view now is that
hallucinations are always the product of real sensation; and he dhidea
them into two classes,-those where the sensation is initiated in the
sensory organ by an external object(" ltallucinationB it eause objeetive ") ;
and those where it is initiated by 110 morbid local irritation of the sensory
organ itself (" lwllucinationB it cause Bubjeetive "). As practically the
inventor of the former class, M. Binet is really the first person who has
h:J.d a rightto this II general view." But his modesty connects itself with
a serious historical error. For he still retains Baillatger·s term-psyclw-
BenBorial-and actually refers to Baillarger as baving meant the same
by that term as he himself does. With Ba.illarger-as we have seen-
the II sensorial JI element was imposed or evoked by II the intelligence,"
not supplied to it; and was not an unnoticed peg for the hallucination,
but its very fulness and substance. Baillarger explicitly lays down, as
one of the prime conditions for hallucination, a II suspension of external
impressioll8 "; and gives as the definition of a psycho-sensorial hallucina-
tion "a sensory perception independent of all external excitation
of the sense organs," including excitation morbidly initiated in
the organs themselves.* The opposition is really complete. Of
all the optical illusions described by M. Binet, the only one
which Baillarger's doctrine would explain is the doubling of the
transference would never think of so arranging his experiment that he himself
should not know, till after the resnlt, which instrument was in use or what was
ita position; nor indeed is it easy to imagine how such a condition conld in
practice be carried out. The point seems worth suggesting, as it would be most
interesting if a state of hallncination turned out to be one in which the
"subject" is specially susceptible to "transferred impressions."
• Baillarger, Du Hallucinatioll8, pp. 426, 469, and 470. A similar
misreading of Baillarger, contained in a single sentence, is the one point from
which [ dissent in the extremely clear and concille chapter on the subject in Mr.
Snlly's IUu8wru.
M 2
Digitized by Google
164 Hallucillations.
object by pressure on the side of the eyeball; for this alone could be
accounted for by supposing the retina to be excited from the brain. The
novelty of l\I. Binet's own results is that they force us to regard the
external impression as not only present but indispensable, at any rate
at the moment when the optical instruments produce their characteristic
effects.
But while admiring the manner in which M. Binet has marshalled
his facts, and recognising that they have led him to a most interesting
discovery, I cannot accept his conclusions beyond a certain point. He
applies conceptions drawn from his special departmcnt of observation to
the whole field, and considers that hallucinations are exhausted by the
two classes just defined-i.e., that there is no such thing as central
initiation. Now E:ven for the cases "i~ cause objectire," to which the
novel experimental results belong, it is important to observe that though
the excitation comes from outside, the lurlllC.cinatwn--the object as
actually perceived-is still (1\8 Baillarger taught) a pure product of the
mind. Everything about it, including its false air of reality, is brain-
created j and the occasioning or evoking cause has no place in it. But
if this be so-and M. Binet himself has practically admitted it-we
cannot consent to call the external excitation of the organ sensation.
M. Binet so treats it throughout-as a sensation atrophied, indeed, and
clothed upon with hypertrophical and delusive images j but still as
sensation--as a psychical element in the result. Now in considering
Delbreuf's experiment above, we objected to the notion that the spectator
had a sensation of grey which he clothed with an il1Ulge of green. The
physical rays that met his eye were such as normally produce the
sensation of grey j that is the only way in which the word grey can be
brought into the account j psychically, no colour but green was present.
Just the same ohjection applies to saying of the hypnotic "suhject " that
he is receiving from part of the table-cloth a " sensation" of white,
which he clothes with an image of a brown butterfly j or of the patient
in delirium tremens, that ho is receiving from the wall-paper "sensa-
tions " of drab which he clothes with images of black mice. In neithe.
case is there a " perturbation of sensorial functions" in ~:L Binet's sense.
The sensorial elements, the brown and the black, spring from a new
activity within j they are not the outcome of functions exercised on
the table-cloth or the wall-paper-not a perverted transcript of white
and drab.
Holding fast to this view, we can still perfectly well
explain M. Binet's results, even in tho hypnotic cl\8es on which
he chiefly relies. If the point de repere is not at, but close to
the spot where the imaginary o~ject appears (as seems to
have been the case in some of the experiments), there is no difficulty.
The point de rl'pere is then itself part of what is all along perceived ;
Hallucittatio1ll. 165
and in any effects produced on it by optical apparatus, it will carry the
neighbouring object with it by auociation. If, howtlver, the actual
area covered by the object is sufficiently distinguished from its surround-
ings to act itself as point de repere, and no other possible points de repere
exist in the field of vision,* the case is different, but can still be
explained. It will not be disputed that a slightly longer time is neces-
sary for the formation of the image of a suggested object and the
conversion of this image into a percept, than for the experience of
sensation from an object actually before the eyes. When therefore the
operator points to a particular place on, the white table-cloth, and says
"There is II. brown butterfly," we may suppose that in the patient's
consciousness a real sensation of white precedes by an instant the
imposed sensation of brown. So when the cardboard on which a non-
existent portrait has just boon seen is again brought before the patient's
eyes, it is almost certain that the recognition of it as the same piece of
white cardboard (known by its points de repere) precedes by an instant
the hallucinatory process and the re.imposition of the portrait. That
there is this instant of true sensation seems to be shown, indeed, by one
of M. BiRet's own experiments. The patient having been made to see
an imaginary portrait on a blank piece of cardboard, this was suddenly
co,'ered by a sheet of paper. The patient said that the portrait di8ap-
pearedfor a moment, but then reappeared on the paper with complete
distinctness. We may thus fairly conclude that an area which was
actually seen before the hallucination was induc('d in the first instance,
will also be actually seen for a moment when vision is redirected to it
(or its reflexion), after the prism or spy-glass has been brought into play.
During that moment, it will of course be seen under the new illusive
optical conditions; and association may again cause the object which
supplants it to follow suit. There can be no objection, however, to
supposing that the supplanted area continues further to lJTovoke the
hallucination, in the same Rense that the white rays provoked the green
percept ill Delbreuf's experiment. The rays which are lost to sensation
continue to excite the sensorium physically; and what 1\1. Binet says of
the sensation only needs to be transferred to the pltysical excitntion-
which will have definite peculiarities, corresponding to the distinguish-
ing marks of the area whence it comes. DouMe this excitation by a.
prism, or reflect it from another quarter, and the percept which it
• I cannot quite make out whether these conditions were ever exactly
realised. In the case where an ima.ginary portrait had been evoked on a piece
of cardboard, and this piece was Ilubsequently picked out by the patient from
among a number of similar ones, I ~:ather that there was BOrne recognisable mark
external to the area of the portrait. It i~ said th1.t lateral pressure doubled the
image, even when the eyes were "fixed on the uniform surface of the wall."
But this particular optical effect, as we have already noticed, does not imply the
presence of poitiU de Tcpere at all.
Digitized by Google
166 Hallucination•.
provokes may naturally be doubled or seen in the new direction. So, if
both eyes were employed in Delbreuf's experiment, might the green
percept be artificially doubled.
I am aware that this substitution of the physical for the psychical
term may appear very unimportant and even pedantic; but in truth it
is not so. For it is really his psychical expression of the external
stimulus in these cases that has led M. Binet to regard hallucinations
as simply a monstrous form of illttBion, and to enunciate a general
formula for them which-for all its attractive and original air-seems
radically unsound. He considers them tlte patlwlogical----aB 0pp086d to
tlte norntal-form of external perception. As in normal perception, we
have a visual sensation which we associa.te with t1"1te images, so, he
holds, in hallucinations we have a visual sensation which we associate
withfalae images. The looseness of this analogy is surely obvious, and
the apparent symmetry of the two cases quite unreal. In normal
vision, the true images which (accordiDg to M. Binet's own account) we
primarily associate with the visual sensation, are not visual, but
muscular and tactile images, whereby we attach the ideas of weight,
solidity, and distance to what we see. The process through which we
get the perception of a real external ohject is thus primarily an associa-
tion between psychical elements belonging to differenl. semes-a visual
sensation, which the brain receives, and non-visual images, which the
brain supplies; and if we convert the non-viAual images into sensations
by touchiDg or pressing the object, we get a verifica.tion of its external
reality. Now, if M. Binet's formula. is to hold, and ha.llucinations are
the pathological forn) of external perception, we ought to find that they
are produced when for the trtte imag(ls of normal perception we substi-
tute faue images. Is this the case 1 Suppose a hypDotic patient to be
impressed with the idea that a piece of white paper is 1\ red rose:
would it be a right account of his hallucination to say that he
receives a "isual sensation, and then associates with it false
muscular and tactile images 1 Certainly not: what he does is
to ",.6 wron!l to begin with, to see false form and false colour-things
quite distinct in character from ideas of weight, solidity and distance,
and which might exist in the absence of any such ideas. It is true that
when he has this visual experience, habit leads him to go on and connect
it with false images of weight, solidity and distance; but that is a
secondary result. Hallucination does not depend on the falsity of those
images j and, indeed, the test of touching aud pressing would often fail
to demoDstratc their falsity, owing to the frequent sympathy of several
senses in hallucination. The essential fact is immediate, and consists
simply in llaving a visual experience tvlticl, ot!ter8 cannot .!tare-in
seeing what is invisible to a normal eye. 'fhis becomes clearer still, if
we make the imaginary object correspond to a real object in everything
Digitized by Google
Hallucination&. 161
except colour. Let the patient be led to believe that a green stick of
sealing-wax is a red stick; then, whatever tests be adopted, he will
share with normal persons every sensation except the visual; but none
the less will the process of hlillucination be complete. This process,
then, is no way parallel to that of normal perception. It is not, as
that was, an association between psychical elements belonging to
different senses; and its sensory part, the essence of which is r!dne8s,
is not-as in the normal perception of a red object--receiwd by the
brain, but is imp088d by it. By what right can processes 80 different
be represented as co-ordinate-as the healthy and the morbid exercise
of the same function 1
5. Casu wI""! External Excitation is Doubtful.
So far I have considered M. Binet's theory only in relation to his
own cases-'\'\"here it was easy to concede the fact of excitation from
without, whatever be our view of its share in the phenomena. It
remains to consider the numerous cases-the large majority of the
whole body of hallucinations-where this excitation is itself doubtful,
or more than doubtful. Let us take the doubtful cases first.
In the optical experiments it was, of course, convenient that the
hiillucination should be projected on 0. flat opaque surface; and on such
a surface the objective points de repere may be easily found. But it is
quite as easy to make the patient Ree objects in free spo.ce-say, out
in the middle of the room ; and such is the common form of spontaneous
hallucinations, both of ss.ne and insane persons, where human figures
are seen. The eyes are then focussed, not on the real objects from
which points de repere would luive to be supplied, but on the figure
itself; which may be much nearer than the wall behind it, and may
thus require a very different adjustment of the eyes. And here lies
a difficulty for the hypothesis that the hallucination depends on some
definite external excitation of the retina. For the real objects which
are the supposed excitants, though in the line of sight, are not within
the range of clear vision for eyes adjusted to the imaginary object.
Can the points de repere be supposed to excite a percept whose position
is such that, for it to be clearly visible, they themselves must cease
to be 80 1 It is a good deal to require of them. Still, M. Binet's
experiment with the insane patient is a very striking one. This woman,
Celestine by name, had an imaginary attendant called Guiteau.
Guiteau lent himself to scientific tests, and was doubled by a prism and
reflected by a mirror in the most orthodox fashion. This undoubtedly
implied points de repere-probably situated near, and not on, the area
which Guiteau concealed. One would like, however, to know exactly
how his figure was situated in relation to its background. The distance
Digitized by Google
168 Hallucination••
between the two may have been ir.considerable; and in that case the
fact of the doubling and the reflection would not prove the pointB de
repere to have been an essential condition of the hallucination. For,
when the patient is made to look attentively at the figure, as a
preliminary to the optical tests, the very fixity of the gaze may then
and there establish the points de repere which will enable those tests
to succeed. It would be interesting to know whether Guiteau would
be l'eflected when he was not being specially stared at, supposing that
there was a mirror in an appropriate position.*
The supposed necessity of the external excitation might be other-
wise tested thus. Suppose Oelestine to be placed in a white spherical
chamber, lit from a point directly above her head. Here there would
be no points de repere-no special points of external excitation with
which an imaginary objectcould be connected. The only excitant to the
eye would be perfectly uniforDl white light; and this excitant would
• In the ca.se of the hypnotic co subjects," a certain peculiarity in the fixed
regard, such a& might establish poi"ta de Tepere, is strongly suggested by the
follo~ing fact. In some C&8es, after a screen had been interposed between the
patient's eyes and the imaginary object, she continued to see not only that
object (say, a mouse), but a real object (II&Y, a hat) on which it had been placed.
Thus the hat &88umed the property-shared by the imaginary mouse, but
uushared by any other real objects~f remaining as a percept in spite of an
opaque barrier.
As regards reftexion, the following C&8e from the Society'S collection is of
interest; it is from Mr. Adrian Stokes, M.R.C.S., of Sidmouth:-
co When I W&8 living in Bedford Street North, Liverpool, in the year 1857
(I think), my wife roused me from sleep suddenly and said, •Oh! Adrian,
there's Agnes!' I started up, crying, •Where! \Vhere !' but, of course,
there W&8 no Agnes. My wife then told me that she had awoke, and had seen
the form of her only sister, Ab
'11es, sitting on the ottoman at the foot of the bed.
On seeing this foml she felt frightened; but then, recalling her courage, she
thought if the figure were real she would be able to see it reflected in the mirror
of tile wardrobe, which she had in full view &8 she lay in bed. Directing her
eyes, therefore, to the mirror, there she saw, by the light of the fire that was
burning brightly in the grate, the full reflection of the form seated on the
ottoman, looking at It bunch of keys which she appeared to hold in her hand.
Under the startling effect caused by this sight, she called me to look at it, but,
before I W&8 awake, the form and its reftexion had vanished. It W&8 not a
dream, my wife is certain.
P.S.-When my wife saw her sister sitting at the foot of our bed looking
at the bunch of keys, she (the sister) W&8 clad in the ordinary indoor dress of the
time. I remember the start of surprise with which I awoke and exclaimed.
My wife has never, that I know of, experienced any hallucination or delirium;
and is a woman of excellent sense and judgment. She never saw any other
vision but that one."
Here, however, the expectant imagination of the percipient may have been
adequate to conjure up the reflected figure, and the ca.se does not therefore
support M. Binet's theory.
Digitized by Google
Hallucinations. 169
remain identical, in whate,"er direction the eye turned. Consequently,
if the external excitation he a necessary factor in the production of
Guiteau, he ought, if seen at all, to be seen wherever Celp.stine looked;
there would be nothing to attach him to any particular spot. It is rash
to prophesy; but I strongly suspect that he would prove more amenable,
and that Celestine would retain her power of turning her back on him.
Such, in my view, would be the natural result: a figure spontaneously
projected by the brain would be located as an independent object, and
looked at or not at pleasure. It would be intel'E'.sting to know, further,
if Guiteau is ever seen in the dark. But it should be observed that
light may favour and darkness hinder the projection of a phantasm,
owing to the different effect of the one r.nd the other on the genera.l
physiological state. The presence of light might thus be a necessity,
quite apart from any distinguishable points de repere. In the same way
the presence of light is occasionally found to be a condition of a.uditory
hallucinations;* which even M. Binet would find it hard to compound
out of a " sensation" of light and an " image" of sound.
But the difficulty of regarding external points of excitation as a
necessary condition becomes even greater when the hallucina.tion is &
moving one. As to these cases, M. Binet ca.n only say that the poi1le
de repe,-e keeps changing; that is, as the imaginary figure passes along
the side of the room, in front of a multitude of different object&-
pictures, paper, furniture, &c.-the very various excitations from these
several objects act in tum as the basis of the same delusive image. We
may surely hesitate to accept such an assertion, till some sort of proof
of it is offered; and it is hard to conceive of what nature the proof could
be. The case of course differs altogether from that where the imaginary
figure follows the movements of the eye, owing to some morbid atfection
of that organ which acts as a real moving substratum for it. Instead of
the figure's following the eye, the eye is now following the figure in its
seemingly indlilpendent course. What is there to produce or to guide
the selection of ever-new points de repere 1 To what external cause can
?tI. Binet ascribe the perpetual substitution of one of them for another'
On my view-that the figure may be centrally initiated, no less than
centrally oreated-none of these difficulties occur. Such a figure may
* Ba.U, L~ons Bur lea Maladies llIenealea, p. 116. See olso the very interest-
ing case given by Profelt8Or F. Jolly in the Archiv fiir Psychiatric, VoL VI.,p.
495. His paper is on the production of auditory hallucinations by tIe applica-
tion of an electric current in the neighbourhood of the ear. In one case, he
shows good reason for attributing the hallucination, not to a stimulation of the
auditory nerve, but to a transference to the auditory centre of the stimulus
given to fibres of the fifth nerve. For the subjective sounds did not, as in all
the other cases, correspond in a regular way to the opening and closing of the
current, but appeared under all conditions in which pain was produced.
DigitizedbyGoogle ...
170 Hall"cillation8.
just as well appear in the empty centre of the room as on a piece of
cardboard, and may just as well move as stand still. The same sort of
arguu:.ent applies to the case where the percipient is haunted by a figure
which, however, can be seen only in one direction.* Thus Baillarger
describes a doctor who could not tum without finding a little black cow
at his side. The mind may locate its puppet according to its own
vagaries; and this experience is yery like a sensory embodiment of the
well-known delusion that somebody is always behind one.
G. Cas" wllere External Excitation is Ab8ent.
So much,then, for M. Binet's hallucinations" acause objectire." We
tum nowto the vast bodyof caseswhere excitation from the outer world is
plainlyabsent. This class includes phantasms seen in the dark, and proba-
blythe yast majority ofauditoryhallucinations,which haveso far been dis-
regarded. To bring these under M. Binet's theory, it has to be assumed
that in every case they are initiated by sonle morbid or abnormal
condi~ion of the eye or the ear. The assumption is, to say the least, a.
very violent one. We ha\'e duly noted the cases where hallucinations
have been undoubtedly due to injury of the external organ; but this
does not establish, or even strongly suggest, the existence of a. similar
condition in cases where it defies detection.t As a. rule, where the
• Ball, L/:fOM8ur lea lIIaladiea 1Ifentalea, p. 73 ; Baillarger, Des Halilldna-
tiOM, p. 312. Another type of tho moving hallucination is presented by Bayle's
case (ReVile Ml.dicale, 182;3, Vol. I. p. 34), where a spider used first to appear
life-size, and then gradually to expand till it filled the whole rooUl.
t The sweepingmethod seems as nmcll in favour now as at the earlier stages
of the controversy. As M. Binet has stated his case in a masterly way, I need
not encnmber the course of the argument by perpetual references to cognate
statements. But there is one mode of presenting the rival views which seems so
established in the recent I<'rench literature that it will be well to reproduce it
here in a succinct fonn. Writersoiauthority (Prof. Ball in L'EncRpltalc, 1882,
p. 6, and in Maladies Mentales, p. lIl, &c., and Dr. Regis in his classical paper
on unilateral hallucinations in L'Ellcephale, 1881, p. 44), seem never to ha,'e
conceived the theory of a purely central origin in any other light than as the
"projection of an idea outwards "-0. doctrine wWch they regard as now
abandoned, and which they refer to only in its most antiquated shape. They
start by treating the "mixed" or "psycho-sensorial" theory as if its point and
purpose had been to assert that the body counts for something in hallucinations
--in opposition to the fonner crudely" psychical" theory, which made" the
imagination" act independently of any bodily affection. Tiley then point to
cases where hallucinations have plainly been due to a lesion or morbid irritation
of the se1l8ory apparatus; and they adopt this morbid condition as the bodily
element or physical basis of the phenomenon-that which gives it its mixed
chlU'aeter and makes it psycho-,en"orial instead of psychical. Thence they
Allllert, as n.n indispen'5&ble condition of every hallucination, that the imagination
nlust be set to work by some .. abnonnall'6lll1&tion" derived from SOlDe point of
Digitized by Google
Hallucinatioll8. IiI
abnormal condition has been made out, hallucinations have not been its
only result. The ulceration of the cornea which initiates visual
hallucinations has begun by afftlCting the vision ofreal objects. Illusions,
or false perceptions of colour, often precede the appearance of more
distinct phantasms.* So, in cases of more transient abnormality-such
as the well-known illunon. "'!Ipn'J,go:Jiqu.es-other signs precede the
hallucination. The observer, whose eyes are heavy with sleep, begins
by seeing luminous points and streaks, which shift and change in
remarkable ways; and it is from these as nuclei that the subsequent
pictures de,-elop. Similarly one of the seers of "Faces in the Dark"
(St. Janl.es's Gazette, February 10th, 15th, and 20th, 1882) described
the frequent vision of a shower of goldfln spangles, which changed into
a flock of sheep. Now, since our physiological knowledge leaves 110
doubt that the points, streaks and spangles are due to the condition of
the retina., it is reasonable in such cases to regard this condition as
initiating the hallucination. But it is not equally reasonable to con-
clude that the process must be the same for cases where the points,
streaks and spangles are absent. I do not forget that even a normal
eye is subject to affections which escape attention, until a special effort
is made to realise them. But wherever the hallucination can be
gradually traced in its development from more rudimentary sensations,
these last are very distinct and exceptional things, unknown in the
experience of most of us, and the vision itself is commonly of a changing
kind-the features developing rapidly out of one another; often also of
a swarming kind-detailed landscapes, elal)orate kaleidoscopic patterns,
actual lesion. This is both confnsed and confusing. Hallucinations, as we ha'·e
Been, are psycho.sensorial in virtue of their nat"I"e, not of their origin-because
they present distinct sensory qualities-are things actually aeen and actually
heard-not because this or that starting·point can be assigned them. As for
their physical basis, that can be nothing else than a concurrent state of morbid
activity at certain cerebral cantres. In some cases this activity is no doubt due
to lesion at lIome point along the sensory track; in others, as I here contend, it
may originate at the centres thelD8elves Bnd may be independent of any excita-
tion pre\ious to or other than itself. Whether right or wrong, this contention
will certainly not be refuted by confoundingit with the antiquated "psychical"
\iew, which took no count either of a physical basis or of sensory qualities. As
for the "projection of an idea outwards," that of course is an expression of the
immediatefact of hallucination, apart from"the question of the excitant. Why
should it be abandoned! Is it not at any rate as well suited to its purpose as
the only piece of information that Prof. Ball offers UII in its stead-namely,
that hallucinations are the creation of a brain predisposed to create them!
The advocacy of the .. cerebral origin" must, of course, not be taken to
imply that the condition of the brain is isolated from that of the rest of the body.
The abnormal excitability of the brain may be intimately connected with morbid
conditions elKAwhere: all that is contended is that no immediate sensory stimu-
lant is needed II.!! a definite basis or peg for hallucinations.
• Dr. Max Simon in the Lyo" Meciical, YoI. xx."{V., p. 439.
Digitized by Google
nallucillation8.
showers of flowers, lines of writing on a luminous ground, and so on.*
Now, compare such experiences with ordinary cases of "ghost-seeing"
in the dark. .A man wakes in the night, and sees a luminous
figure at the foot of his bed. Here the hallucination comes sud-
denly, single and complete, to a person whose eyes are open
and unfatigued; it is not preceded by any peculiar affection of vision,
is not developed out of anything, and does not move, or swarm,
or develop fresh features; nor does it fulfil M. Binet's test of
ha.llucinations due to the state of the externa.l organ, by moving as the
eye moves.t Such visions are commonly explained-and often, no
doubt, with justice-as due to nervousness or expectancy. But ner\'ous-
ness and expectancy surely act by exciting the mind, not by congesting
the retina; they work on the imagination, and their physica.l seat is not
in the eye, but in the brain. Why, then, should not the brain initiate~
t,he ha.llucination 1 Why may not " "isions of the dark," which vary so
greatly both in themselves and in the genera.l conditions of their appear-
ance, vary a.lso in their seat of origin 1
The auditory cases are even plainer. For it is only exceptionally
that the waking ear, like the waking eye, is subjected to marked and
continuous stimulation from without, such as might serve, on M. Binet's
view, asa basis for a prolonged ha.llucination. It is not even subject to
Lorder-land ellperiences analogous to the illu8ions ltypnagogiqttes. The
only alternative, therefore, to supposing the phenomena to be centra.lly
initiated, is to suppose some abnormality in the external organ itself.
Such an abnormality has often been detected ; and even where not
absolutely detected, it may sometimes be inferred from other symptoms.
~'hus, an enlarged carotid canal, or a stoppage which produces an
unwonted pressure on the vessels, will first make itself felt by hum-
mings and buzzings; hallucination then sets in, and imaginary voices
are heard, and these then we should naturally trace to the local irrita-
tion that produced the former sounds. But why are we to treat in the
S8Jlle way cases where there are no hummings and buzzings, and no
• Galton, Illqlliric8 into HUlllall Feumlty, pp. 159-163; llaury, Lc Somlllcil
et lcs Ret'cs, p. 331.
t 1\1. Binet treats all " ghost-seers" as so pa.ralysell with terror that they do
not move their eyes from the figure"":"which leaves it open to him to guess that
the figure would move if their eyes moved. Ha\ing made a large collection
of cases of hallucinations of the eane, I am in a position to tleny this. To
\\Tuntlt, also, stationary hallucinations that can be looked away flOm seem
unknown as a distinct and fairly common type, anti he inclines to regartl them
as lIIere illusions. Brewster's case of 111"1. A., and the well-known cases given
by Patcl'llOn (Edillburgh ltfetlical allei 81l1'gical JOlwool, January, 1843) would
alone suffice, I think, to refute this view. See also Kandinsky's and Scbrocler
,'an cler Kolk's own experiences. (Al'cltic Jil,. Paychiat,'ic, 1881, p. 461, and
PotluJlogy allel Thcrap. oj Mel/tnlDiBcasca, p. 14.)
Digitized by Google
Hallucinatioll8. 173
grounds for supposing that there is stoppage or lesion of any sort T
Among a numerous, though much neglected, class of phenomena-the
casual hallucinations of the sane---the commonest form by very far is
ior persons to hear their name called when no one is by. The experience
is often remarkably distinct, causing the hearer to start and tum round.
It is not at all connected with conditions that produce blood-pressure,
such as lying with one ear closely pressed on the pillow; it comes in :L
sudden and detached way, and apparently at quite accidental moments.
Again, among the insane a well-known form of hallucination occurs in
the form of dialogue; tho patient returns a.nswers to the voices that
haunt him, and is answered in tum. Are we to suppose here an
intennittent abnormality of the ear, which always sets in by chance at
the very moment when the imaginary speaker'S replies fall due 7 Itmay
be added that even where a distinct morbid cause can be traced, it is as
often RS not a central cause. After a long course of alcohol, a man
begins to hear voices; but alcohol, while admittedly affecting brain,
tissue, has no recognised tendency to affect the ear.
A further argument for the central initiation of many hallucinations
of the more distinctly morbid sort may be drawn from the course which
the morbid process takes. The first stage is often not a sensory halluci-
nation at all; it is a mere delusion; the patient thinks that plots are
being concocted against him. After a time his secret enemies begin to
reveal themselves, a.nd he hears tbeir abusive and threatening language.
We surely cannot ascribe the sensory experience here to a lesion of the
ear which happens to occur independently, but regularly, at this parti-
cular stage; it follows, on the other hand, in the most natural way, if
we regard it as imposed from within, as soon as the disease has gone
far enough for the mind to clothe its imaginary fears in a more vivid
form. Specially conclusive in this respect are the cases where voices
begin to address the patient in the most internal way, without sound,
and only after a time talk in a distinctly audible character.* But the
most interesting of all th~ cases in point are those where one type of
hallucination assails one side of the body and another the other. t They
confirm what was said above-that the mere fRct of a hallucination
being unilateral, or peculiar to one side of the body, though
suggesting a defect in the external organ, is by no means a proof
of it.: The double sensory experience follows with exactness thA
course of the delusions. The patient first suffers from melancholy
and discouragement; this develops into a belief that he is surrounded
• Griesinger's 11[ellt. Path. alUi TAtr., p. 89. The bearing of this fact on
the theory of central origin has been noted by Mr. 8n11y, Illu8ion8, p. 119.
t See Dr. Magnan's account in the Archit'u de Neurologic, Vol. VI., p. 336.
t Cf. Dr. A. Robertson in the Repol't ofthe Inte1"lIatiolial Medl'eal COlIgl'U8,
1881, Vol. III., pp. 632·3.
Digitized by Google
174 lIallucinatioll8.
by enemies; and he then hears insulting voices on the right side. To
this unhappy stage succeeds in due course onE' of exaltation and self-
esteem; the patient believes himself to be the Son of God. And now
encouraging and eulogistic voices present themselves on the left side.
"The good and the evil genii form a sort of Manicheism which governs
him." Here the imagination, as its operations became more complex,
and established an opposition of character between its creatures, took
advantage (so to speak) of the {act that the body has two opposite sides ;
it located friends and foes just as they might be located in a picture or
play which represented an impending contest. It cannot surely be
maintained that by accident the right ear began to be locally affected,
just at the time when the development of the plot necessitated the
entrance of the friendly power upon the scene. Another case involves
the sense of touch. A man, after praying for a year that his actions
might be divinely guided, heard a voice say, "I will save thy soul "; and
from that time forward he felt his left or his right ear touched by an
invisible attendant, according as he was doing right or wrong.* Did
the auditory hallucination concide by chance with the commencement
of local irritation in the pinna 'I Dr. Magnan adds three examples of
alcoholism, where abuse and threats were heard on one side, praise and
consolation on the other. In these cases there were crises of fury, in
which hallucinations of all the senses took place, involving both sides
alike, and masking the more ordinary condition. On the decline of these
crises, the opposed auditory llallucinations recommenced. It seems
impossible to resist Dr. Magnan's view, that the poison, distributed
through the whole brain, provokes at times a general crisis; but that
when t.his subsides, it localises its action at the weakest spot. Should
this happen to be the auditory centre on one side, a single unilateral
hallucination would be the result; but if both centres remain affected.
the projection may assume the complex two-sided form.
But the strongest cases of all in favour of a purely central initiation
yet remain-the cases of hallucination 'Voluntarily originated.
Wigan's instance has often been quoted, of the painter who, after care-
fully studying a sitter's appearance, could project it visibly into space,
and paint the portra.it not from the original but from the phantasm.
He ended by confounding the phantasmal figures with real ones, and
became inSane. Baillarger reports another painter, Martin, as having
similarly projected pictures, which so interest.P..d him that he requested
anyone who took up a. position in front of them to move.t A still more
• Bodin, Dcmonomallie rIes SOTeier. (Edition of 1850, Paris), p. 10.
t One of the seers of "}<'aces iu the Dark" reported that he could pJ'O(luce
the vision of the spangles aud sheep at will. His case differs, however, from those
given in the text. For, in the first place, his vision was one of old standing; and,
in the second place, his retina mUKt have been pretty constantly in the abnonnal
Digitized by Google
Hallucination•.
interesting case, recently reported by Dr. V. Parant, is that of an
asylum patient who, when thwarted or annoyed, would go to special spots
to consult imaginary advisers; the replies she received"":"it need hardly
be said-always corresponded with her own desires and prejudices.
Another insane woman used to play" odd and even" with an imaginary
prefect of police, whose guesses were always wrong.* M. Binet
will surely not maintain that in these cases the person first
establishes, by an effort of will, some sort of periphero.l excitation, and
that this then re-e.cts by provoking the hallucination. Such a circuitous
ronte might with equal reason be imagined for any simple act of repre-
sentation or memory.t
The only other group of phenomena that we need notice is
one that all writers since Baillarger seem to have agreed to treat
as a quite nnique type. It is a class of which frequent examples
have been observed among religious mystics and persons who
believe themselves to be in direct communication with spiritual guides.
Such persons describe a voice which is yet soundless, which utters the
"language of the soul" inside them, and which they hear by means of
"a sixth sense," and without any apparent participation of the ear.
Owing to the absence of a definable sensory quality, Ba.illilorger
distingui6hed this cla.ss as p'ycltic hallucinations, in opposition to
psycltio-8e1lMWiali and M. Binet himself is inclined to treat them as
exceptional, and to grant them an origin from within. As one who
holds that that is equally the origin of a large number of the undoubted
state. I should thus ascribe the phenomenon to a concentration ofattention on
actual visual sensations, which fell by habit into the familiar lines. It would
be interestiag to know whether, after the spangles had appeared, it was possible
to cJuck their development into sheep.
• ,A"naluMedico·psych., 6th series,VoL VII.,p379; Ball, ~[aladie8 MImtaiu,
p.98. See also the cases described by Michea, in the Ann. Medico.pltIJch. for
1856, p. 389, and M. Sandras's own experience in the same journalfor 1855;p. 542.
It is odd to find inoollmtarineu not infrequently taken as the distinctive abnor-
mality in hallucinations (Falret, Du MaladieB Mentalu, p. 281, Buchez and De
Caste1nau in the French debates of 1865-6); and the odder, inasmuch as not
only may hallucinations be voluntary, but the mental pictures and memories,
from which they are to be distinguished, are, of course, often involnntary.
t I should have been tempted to regard these voluntary cases as conclusive
had I not found Prof. Ball (~[aladiu lIfcntalu, p. 122) explicitly claiming
them as hallucinations provoked by an .. abnormalsensation." He does not tell
us what the abnormal sensation is, or what causes it. He contents himself ,vith
pointing out that hallucinations are verylike dreams; that some dreams are
(and therefore, apparently, all dreams must be) provoked by extemalstimulation
-say a knock at the door; and that we can sometimes direct the course of a
dream at will: ergo, it is easy to see how some people may start a hallucination
at will. It would be more to the purpose if he would introduce us to a dreamer
who can designedly starta pre·arranged dream by knocking at his own door.
Digitized by Google
176 Hallucillationtl.
psycho-BtmBorial hallucinations, I cannot recognise this exception; and
to me the class in question is of interest, not as diatinguillll.ed from the
psycho-sensorial family, but 1\8 a true species of that genus presenting
the sensorialelement reduced to its very lowest terms. These" pyschic"
hallucinations appear to me as the first stage of a graduated series-the
embryonic instance of the investiture of an image or representation
with a sensory or presentative character. In proportion 11.8 the sensorial
element in hallucination is attenuated and dim, or full and distinct,
will the perception appear internal or external; and these cases are
simply the most internal sort, between which and the most external
sort there exist many degrees of partial externalisation.* This view has
surely e,-erything to recommend it. We can but take the patient's own
account-that he has a distinct impression of words; and that this
impression has an actuality which clearly separates it from the mere
image or memory of words. How can this separation be conceived,
except by recognising the presence of a genuine, though faint, sensorial
element 1 Of what exactly this element may consist, is another
question. Dr. Max Simon (in the L1Jo1& Medical, Vol. XXXV., pp. 435,
486) has made the very plausible suggestion that what is felt is a
muscular impulse to form the words, rather than the sound of them-
an impulse exhibited in its extreme form in the irresistible continuous
vociferation of mania. On this account Dr. Simon even refuses to
regard the experience as hallucination at all. Here, however, I cannot
follow him. For, however much a motor-current or impUlsion towards
speech be involved, the patient's sensation is of something other and
more than this. For him, tlie words are not suggested or initiated, but
actually and completely produced; in his description of the product we
do not encounter terms of impulse or movement, any more than terms
of sound. Here we surely trace the characteristic delusive element:
what a nornlal person would recognise as purely subjective experience
has assumed an objective reality. In what then does the experience
fall short of hallucination 1 If we adopt Dr. Simon's view, so far as
to regard it as hallucination of the muscular sense, it Lecomps of
interest to note that it does not admit of any parallel of a visual sort ;
for no order of visible objects can at all rival language in the closeness
and directness of its association with a particular set of muscular
• Our friend, the Rev. P. H. Newnham, of l\Iaker Vicarage, Devouport, has
described to us some auditory impressions of his own, which are interesting as
exemplifying the stage just abO\-e that of the so-called II psychic" hallucina-
tions. He has occasionally had experience of these "psychic" hallucinatioDB,
as of words which "seem to be formed and spoken within the chest." But he
has also experienced a IIf)lIlullu& voice which yet Bcem8 to Bpeak into hiB right
ear (he is deaf of the left earl-and which thus produces the sense of extemality,
though Dot of actual BOund.
Digitized by Google
Hallucination8. 177
movements. And this very fact-this abscnce of any si.ghtkss halluci-
nations to compare with these soundless ones-is perhaps the reason
why the latter have passed as an isolated non-sensory class, with a
separate mode of origin. I am concerned to substitute my own view
of them; for to admit a genuine sensory element in the most "internal"
species of hallucination-which all agree to be centrally initiated-will
practically be to admit a similar initiation for other psycho-sensorial
hallucinations.
And this leads me to a concluding word of criticism on 1\1. Binet's
hypothesis. We have seen that it is violent; may we not add that it
is gratuitous 1 He has himself most rightly insisted on the fact that
images and sensations are not separated by an impassable gulf, but;.
merge into one another; and he will allow that in many hallucinations,
the image-however evoked-gets charged with the whole fulness and
vividness of sensation. But then how can it he treated Bimply as an
image, superposed on a quite different sensation 1 To recur once more
to Delbooufs experiment, or to the brown butterfly and the black mice.
M. Binet will admit that som,ewl~re in the brain activities correspond-
ing to green, to brown, to black, are going on: he is not the writer to
make "the imagination" bob in among physical facts like a deus e:c
mac/tina. By what right, theu, are these activities to be confined to
ideational tracts, and excluded from all access to a true 8en8ory centre 1
What tem?tation is there to strain facts and theories in order to make
out that the central initiation of sensation is impossible1 The
hypnotic "subject" will smack his lips over the sweetness of sugar
when there is nothing in his mouth-will sniff with delight at 0. piece
of wood when told it is a rose: may not the brain do for sight and
hearing what it does for taste and smell1 M. Binet seems really to
have been led off the track by his own brilliant experiments with
prisms and mirrors. Even in those cases, as he admits, t·he whole work
of creation is done by the brain. Even for him the gist of the
experienc!3 is not the atrophiPd external " sensation," but the
hypertrophied, brain-imp06ed "image." We do but ask him to
concede that the "image," which can here do so much, can else-
where do a very little more and, while charging itself with full sensa-
tion from within, can dispense with the atrophied contribution from
outside. Why should it not 1 There is nothing to lead one to suppose
that images would assume the unwonted vividness of sensations
specially at moments when the external organs of sense are occupied
with oUm" sensations j rather the reverse. Is not the sort of day-drea.m
which comes nearest to hallucination favoured by repose of the sense-
organs 7 When we want to call up the vivid image of a scene, to make
it as real-as sensorial-as possible, do we not close our eyes 1 And
what are the seasons of life in which genuine hallucinations are
N
Digitized by Google
li8 Hallucinatwm.
commonest 1 Are they not seasons of sleep 'I Are not dreams by far
the most familiar instances of the projection hy the mind of images
that are mistaken for realities 1 It is just because they are so familiar,
and waking-hallucinations comparatively so rare, that we are in danger
of overlooking the essential similarity of the phenomena, and the light
which the former class can throw on the latter. Indeed, if waking-
hallucinations are to be taken as the pathological form of any normal
function, much might be said for taking them as the pathological form
of dreaming; and we might present the waking-dreams of haschisch-
poisoning as a sort of intermediate link. The normal dream disappears
when sleep departs; having been able to impose its imagos as realities
only because in sleep our sensory faculties are to a great extent be-
numbed, and images cannot therefore be compared with actual presen-
tations Thus the normal dream cannot survive the corrective which
the contact of the waking-senses with the external world supplies; it
fades like a candle at sunrise; and its images, if they survive, survive
as images and nothing more, emptied of all robust sensory quality.
The hallucination, or pathological dream, on the other hand, does not
require to be thus guarded from comparison with real presentations ;
its "hypertrophied images" are able to resist the normal corrective,
for they are often as fully charged with sensory quality as the extel1\aJ
realities which compete with them. But though we may thus regard
hallucinations as a pathological form of dream, what is here more in
point is the converse view-that dreams are a healthy form of halluci-
nation. For it cannot but appear less likely that excitation of the
external organs is a necessary basis for hallucinations. if hallucinations
turn out to be most common at precisely those times when the external
organs are least excited.
6. T1Ul qtte8tion of Cerebral Localisation.
We may now proceed to an altogether different question-namely,
at what part or parts of the brain the creative process takes place, and
in what it can be conceived to consist. The distinction that has 80
long occupied us, between celltral and peripheral initiation, may hence-
forth be dismissed; for wherever initiaud, hallucinations are assuredly
creaua by the brain from its own resources. An initiating stimulus
may probably come from any point on the line from the external organ
to the central terminus, along which a nervous current passes in our
normal perception of objects. But that stimulus will clearly not
determine what the imaginary object shall be, or invest it with any of
its qualities: it will merely set the creative machinery in motion; and
the same stimulus-the same in1lammation of the eye or ear-may set
the machinery in motion a hundred times, and each time evoke a
Digitized by Google
Hallucillatiom. 179
different hallucination. Where, then, and what, is this creative
machinery 7 It would be out of place here to attempt any minute
a.ccount of the various theories, which have for the most part rested on
anatomical observations; and the more so, that their details are still8ub
judice. But in a more general way the problem can be stated, and even
I think to some extent determined.
If we begin at the beginning, we find agreement among the -
a.uthorities up to a certain point. All are agreed in recognising 8Q1M
part or parts of the brain in which the nerves passing from the various
sense-organs terminate, and where the impressions conveyed by the
nerves produce the changes which are the physical basis of sensa-
tion, or-in the Ol'dinary crude but convenient language-where
" impressions are transformed into sensations." As to the locality and
extent of these parts, there is a conflict of views, which may be to some
extent reconciled if we regard the process as taking place in several
stages. Some (Luys, Ritti, Fournie) believe the principal scene of action
to be the large central masses called the optic thalami; others (SchrOder
van del' Kolk, ~eynert, Kandinsky) would place the centres lower down
-that of vision, for instance, in the corpora quadrigemina ; others a.ga.in
(Hitzig, Ferrier, Tamburini) locate them higher up, in the cortex itself ;
and Goltz assigns them so diffused. an area that the word centre
becomes scarcely appropriate. But all are agreed, I imagine, that
they are distinct from the tracts associated with the most highly-
developed phenomena of consciousness-complete perception, idea-
tion, memory, and volition; and even if the idea of local separation
should come to be modified in the direction indicated by Goltz, the
distinctions would be re-interpreted as differences of less and more
complex activities. The authorities agree further in connecting the
"sensory centres" in a special way with hallucinations. It could not,
indeed, be otherwise when once the full sensory character of the
phenomena is recognised; for that character can only be the psychical
expression of changes at the sensory centres. Any particular activity
of these centres which reaches a certain intensity will affect us as a
particula.r sensation; whether excited (1) normally, from the sense-
organ; or (2) pathologically, by local irritation of the sens6-0l'gan of
along the line of nerve from it to the centre; or (3) pathologically, but
spontaneously, in the centre itself. In the first case the sensation will
be a true one, i.e., will correspond with 0. real external object; in the
second and third cases it will not; but as sensation, it will be the same
in all three.
Now for one view of the creation of hallucination!!. these
data are sufficient. We haye only to suppose that, in cases
(2) and (3), the agitation at the sensory centre falls readily
into certain lines and combinations, so as not only to produce a large
N 2
Digitized by Google
180 Hallucination8.
variety of sensations-colours, if it be the visual centre, sounds, if it
be the auditory one-but to arrange these elements in various definite
groups. Everything will now proceed precisely as if these effects had
been due to the presence of a real object. The excitation will pursue
its ordinary upward course to the highest parts of the brain, and will
lead to intelligent perception of the sensory group as an object; while
by a yet further process (which will probably take place only in the
most complete or "external" form of hallucinations), a refluent
current will pass downwards to the external organ, and the perception
will be referred to the eye or ear, just as though its object were really
acting on those organs from outside.· There then is the full.fledged
hallucination; and its creative machinery, according to this view, lies
wholly in the sensory centre.
But there is another "iew. We have noted tltree ways in which the
machinery may be set in motion; but there is a/ou1·tlt possible way.
The excitation may come downwards from the higher part of the brain
-from tho seats of ideation and memory. And clearly this sort of
excitation will have a dominance of its own. It will have its oU'n
psychical counterpart-an idea or a memory; and when it sets the
sensory machinery in motion, that machinery will not now produce or
combine a group of sensations determined by its own activity; but will
merely embody, or as we might say execute, the idea or memory
imposed on it. Here, then, the only machinery which is in any sense
creative is situated in the higher ideational tracts. And if we wish
• Kraft"t-Ebing, Die Sillllll8cleliriell, p. 11; Despine, Etutlc ScielitijiqlllJ 811r
le Somnambllli811lIJ, p. 328; Tamburini in the Rrvue Sciclltijique, 1881, p. 139_
The mere subjecth'e fact of this reference to the external organ would not
prove (as Tamburini seems to 8R8ume) that the organ had been actually excited
by the refluent current. But, in the case of vision, we have at. any rate a fair
amount of proof. I"irst, there is the fact already noted, that pressure on the
Ride of oue eyeball doubles the phantom. It seems difficult to refer this result
to a880Ciation-the doubling of ordinary objects by such pressure being an
infrequent and little noticed experience. ~econdly, we have a case of hcmiopi(~
hallucination recorded by Dr. Pick, of Prague, where only the upper halves of
imaginary figures were seen; and where it was ascertainell t\1at the upper half
of the retina (to which of collrse the lower half of the figure wou1<1 have corre·
sponded) was anopic. Further, it has been noted by H• .Meyer of " hypnagogic
illusions," and by Gruithuisen of hallucinations which consist in the lIurvhing
of dream-images into waking moments, that they cau give rise to after-images .-
tllis, however, might perhaps not imply more than the brief continuance of
llxcitation at the cmtral cells.
Wundt (PhY8. P'.'Icll., Yol. II., p. 336) seems to tbink that this centrifugal
retinal stimulation is excluded in the cases where the phantom does not mOI-e
with the movement of the eye. But, there being a physical procel8 correspond-
ing to the idea of a stationary phantom, why may not that process extend to
the whole carrying out of the idea, 80 as to include the turning on or off of the
retinal stimulation according as the phantom iii looked at or away from! '
Digitized by Google
Hallucinatu»l8. 181
to identify the exact starting-point of the hallucination, as such, we
must fix it at the point of contact between the ideational and the
sensory activities. As long as the nervous activity is con-
fined to the ideational tracts, though there is creation, there
is no hallucination; that word is never usad to describe the
mere image or memory of an object. It is only when the activity
escapes downwards, with such force as strongly to stimulate the cells at
the lower centre, that sensation floods the image, and we get the delusi"e
percept or hallucination. The force of this downward current may
exhibit all degrees. It is probable that even for the barest idea or
memory of an object there is some slight downward esca.pe, with a
corresponding slight reverberation of the sensory centre ; and where, as
in rare morbid cases,* the escape is wholly barred, all power of calling
up visual images is lost. With every increase in the
force of the escape, there will be a rise of sensory quality,
and a nearer appr:oach to absolute hallucination; and every
stage will thus be accounted for, from the picture "in the mind's
eye" to the phantom completely extemalised in space. But whatever
the degree of the delusion, its local origin is the place where the current,
80 to speak, bursts the sluice-gates which physically represent the dis-
tinction between ideas and percepts.
Here, then, are the two possibilities: (1) that hallucinations are
produced by an independent activity of the specific sensory cells-the
sensations which arise there being perceived as ohjects when the ner-
vous current passes on centripetally to the higher parts of the brain;
(2) that the part played by the specific sensory cells t is only a
response to what may be called ideational excitation, propagated
centrifugally from the higher tracts where the image has been formed.
In attempting to decide between these possibilities, we shall get
little assistance from direct pathological and physiological observa.-
tiOD& These have been mainly directed to an end rather the
converse of ours-to utilising the facts of hallucination for fixing
the locality of the centres, by inspection of the brains of persons
who have been in life markedly hallucinated. But cerebral pathology,
as Ball trenchantly remarks, has a way of lending itself to the demon-
stration of whatever one wants. Lesions rarely confine themselves
lleatly to specific areas. We find }I. Luys, the chief a.dvocate of the
* See the case quoted in the Arcltivu de Nel"'o,logic, Vol. VI., p. 352. II Je
reve seulement paroles, tandis que je possedais aUp&ra\'3nt dans Illes revea 1a
perception visuelle." The l'rogres Medical, July, 1883, bas another interesting
case.
t I eschew here the expre88iou .. sensory centres," merely to avoid con-
IU8ion with the higber " centres" to which the words "centrilJetal .. and
.. centrifugal" refer.
Digitized by Google
182 Hallucinatio1l8.
optic thalami as the primary seat of hallucinations, admitting the
constant spread of lesions from the thalami to the cortex;* and Dr.
W. J. Micklet considers-as the result of a number of very careful
necropsies-that in cases of hallucination "thalamic disease plays a less
important part than cortical." But on the other hand, he did not find
that the lesions were definitely associated with the spots in the cortex
which Ferrier and the advocates of restricted cortical localisation mark
out as the \isual and the auditory centres; while lesions at these
spots-the angular gyrus and the first temporo-sphenoidal convolution-
seem to be found in cases where no hallucination has been observed.t
This want of correspondence will seem less surprising if we remember
the vast number of casual hallucinations where notlling that could be
called a lesion exists; and also that the more persistent hallucinations
of the insane belong, as 0. rule, to the earlier period of irritation,
rather than to the later one when marked lesion has supervened, and
dementia is creeping on.§ Even if we take subsequent cortical lesion
as 0. sign that the weak spot existed from the first in the highest part of
the brain, this would be no proof that the specific sensory centre is
cortical. If lesions are not bound to be locally restricted, much less
are irritations; and there is nothing to refute the supposition above
made, that, when the hallucination occurs, 0. current has passed down-
wards to the lower centre--the mischief in the cortex having been
primarily an excitant of ideational activities only, and the hallucination
being due (as Dr. Mickle well expresses it) to "a tumultuous disorderly
reaction of disturbed ideational centres upon sensorial." The same
may be said of the artificial irritation of the " cortical centres" during
life. Ferrier regards the movements which result when an ele.ctrical
stimulus is applied to these areas, as an indication that visual or
auditory sensations (i.e., hallucinations) have been evoked. We may
quite accept this interpretation, but still suppose that the primary seat
of the sensa~ion was not the spot where the stimulus was applied, but
a lower centre on the path along which the irritation passed.U
" Gazette de&Hupitallx, Dec., 1880, p. 46.
t Jourllal of 1Ilclltal Scicltce, Oct., 1881, p. 382.
t Journal oj lIfClltal Science, Oct., 1881, p. 381, and Jan., 1882, p. 29.
~ Luys, Gazette dca Hupitctllx, 1881, p. 2i6; Despine, Ann. lIItdico-psyclt.,
6th series, Vol. VI., p. 3i5; Tamburiniin the RcvlIc Sciclltifiqu6, Vol. XXVII.,
p. 141.
II It may be remarked, by the way, that what bas been here said &8 to tbe
relation of hallucinatioll8 to cerebral localisation will apply, mutatis mlltandis,
to blindllC8S. We may suppose the action of lower centres to be i'IMbited, as
well &8 abnormally excited, by stimulation from above. Thus the fact that
blindness follows certain cortical lesions does not by any means establish tbe
location of the principal sensory centres in the cortex. And as it happens, some
of the facts of blindness seem absolutely adverse to that location-I mean the
Digitized by Google
HallucilJation8. 183
We are thus thrown Lack on less direct arguments, derived from the
nature of the hallucinations thelnselves. And I think the mistake has
again been in imagining that one or other of two alternatives must be
exclusively adopted-that either the lower or the higher origin of
hallucinations is the universal one. All, I think, that can be fairly
said, is that, while the first mode of origin is a probable one for some
cases, the second mode is a certain one for others. Hallucinations pro-
duced at tlte will of the percipient must first take shape above the
senilory centres. For it is indisputable that tho idea of the object to·be
projt'cted-the picture, face, sentence, or whatever it may be-must
precede its sensory embodiment as a thing actually seen or heard; and
the idea, as well as the volition, is an affair of the higher tracts; :MM.
Luys and Ritti will certainly not locate either of them in the optic
thalami. But if the advocates of the first mode have thus ignored an
important class of cases, the advocates of the second have erred';by adopt-
ing a quasi-metaphysical standpoint. Thus Dr. Despine, who has given
an extremely clear account of the centrifugal process (Annale, Medico-
pl!Jclwlogique" 6th series, Vol.VI.,p. 371),a.rgues that for a hallucination
to arise, we first need an idea-It an object wlticlt doe, 1wt exi,t"; and
if in a way it is endowed with existence, this, as 80 purely constructive
act, can only emanate from the seat of the highest psychical activities.
There is some originality in extracting a physiological conclusion from
the relation of the mind to the non-existent. But at this rate the image
of the sun's disc on the wall would originate in a constructive act of
the mind: it is as much "an object that does not exist" as the most
elaborate phantasm. 'fhe non·existence of an object outside the
organi!im is quite irrelevant to the course of nervous events inside; and
whether we regard a psychic act, for any gil-en case, as comtructiv6 or
receptive, depends simply on whether the nervous excitation is spon-
phenomena of so-called "psychical blindness,"where cortical lesion.has produced
1088 of memory and of the higher functions of perception, while Be1l8atiol&
(according to Munk's view) remains intact, and may gradually give rise to new
perceptions and new memories. The observations of Munk and Goltz as to the
survival of vision, though not of intelligent vision, after extensive cortical injury,
aeem distinctly fa,·ourable to the theory of the lower position of the specific
sensory centres. Nor need that theory conflict with the most extreme dew as
to the absence of circumscribed areas in the cortex. Goltz himself would not
deny that B07ne place or places on the pathfl of the optic and the auditory nerve
are specially connected with the fact that tho fltimulation of the one correspondfl
l\ith 8igltt, amI ot the other with sound. It cannot be maintained that this
PIIychical distinction has no local repre.~ntative ; for such a contention would
logically lead to denying, e.g., that the corpora qUadrigemina in the lower
animals have any particular relation to ~ision. Thns, whatever be the final
i88ue of the vexed question of cortical areas of perception, a local distinction of
genuine centres of 81l1l8ation 80mewhere in the brain seems as certain as the
distinction of the external organs themselves.
Digitized by Google
184 Hallucinati0n8.
taneous, or is received from below. Now this may be applied, as we
have seen, to the lower centres of sensation as reasonably as to the
higher tracts of perceptive ideation; the former Dlay construct as truly
as the latter; that is to say, the configurations and activities of their
cells may produce de6nite groupings of the sensory elements.
And for simple and recurrent forms of hallucination, much may be
said in favour of this lower origin. It is in accordance with all that
we know or conjecture as to nerve-tissue, that certain configurations
and modifications of cells would be rendered easy by exercise; and thus
the changes to which any morbid excitement gives rise might naturally
be the same as have often before been brought about bynormal stimulation
from the retina or the ear. The elements would fall readily, so to
speak, into the accustomed pattern. An object which has been
frequently or recently before the eyes---a. word or phrase that has been
perpetually in the ear-these may certainly be held capable of leaving
organic traces of their presence, and so of establishing a sort of
lower memory. That this lower memory should act automatically,
and independently of the will, seems natural enough when
we remember how large a part even of the higher memory
is also automatic: an unsought word, suddenly reverberating in
the sensorium, is on a. par with the images that emerge into
consciousness without our being able to connect them witll our previous
train of ideas. Now it is remarkable how large a number of hallucina.-
tions are of this primitive type. I mentioned above that. among the
sane, the commonest of all cases is to hear the name called; and even
with the insane, the vocabulary of the imaginary voices often consists
of only a few threatening or abusive words.* So of optical hallucinations.
With the sane, a large number consist in the casual vision-an after-
image, as we might say-of a near relative or familiar associate. More
persisten~ cases are still frequently of 0. single object. I have mentioned
the doctor and the black cow; similarly a lady, when in bad health,
always saw a cat on the staircase.t And among the insane, a single
imaginary attendant is equally common: our friend "Guiteau" above
was an instance. Wherever such simple cases are not C01l1lected with
any special cielire, or ~ny fixed set of ideas, they may, I think, be fairly
(though of course not certainly) attributed to an activity following the
lines of certain established tracts in the sensorium. We might compare
this locality to a kaleidoscope, which when shaken is capable of turning
out a certain limited number of combinations.t
• On this subject, see Dr. V. Parant in the An1l. Medj,co-psyclt., 6th /!eries,
Vol. VII., p. 384. These embryonic hallucinations often develop into more com-
plex form; see Ball, A-faJadiuMentalu, p. 67.
t Blandford, IlIsanity and ita Treatment, p. 155.
t Charcot (LIl Progrts Jltdical, 1878, p. 38) has noted a curious form of
Digitized by Google
HallucillatiOtl8. 185
But, on the other hand, the astonishing variety and complexity of
other casAs-whether visual appearlLnces or verbal sequences-seem
absolutely to drive us to a higher seat of manufacture; for they demand
a. countless store of elementa, and limitless powers of ideal combination.
The pa.tient listens to long discourses, or holds conversations with his
invisible friends; and what is heard is no echo of former phra.ses, but
is in every way a piece of new experience. So, too, the number and
variety of visual hallucinations which may occur to a single person,
sometimes even within the space of a few minutes, is astonishing. The
shapes and features of Dr. Bostock's apparitions were always completely
new to him; the seers of "Faces in the Dark" who had in the course
of their lives seen many thousand phantasmal faces, had never seen one
that they recognised; Nicolai, who was never otherwise than
perfectly sane and who eventually recovered, continually saw
troops of phantoms, most of them of an aspect quite new to
him; and in insanity such a phenomenon is common enough.
Even in the casual hallucinatious of the sane, what is seen is less com-
monly a. mere revival of an object which the eyes have previously
encountered than an unrecognised person. Here, then, we have an
immense amount of high creative work-of what in psychical terms we
should call par excellence the work of the imagination; and this is work
whichwe have good grounds for supposing that the highest cortical tracts,
and they alone, are capable of performing. From our experience of the
number and mobility of the ideas and images that the mind in 0. normal
state can summon up and combine, we know that the cells of the
highest cerebral areas are practically unlimited in their powers
of configuration and association; but we have no right to assume
the same inexhaustible possibilities as existing independently in
any specific sensory centre-we might almost as well expect 0.
kaleidoscope t.., present us with an ever-fresh series of elaborate land-
scapes. And over and above all this, we can point to the constant
connection between the delusions, the conception8 delirantes of the
insane and their sensory hallucinations,· which makes it almost im-
unilateral hallucination, which occurs sometime!! to hysterical patients on the
side on which they are hemianrosthetic-animals, passing rapidly in a row from
behind forwards, which usually disappear when the eyes are turned directly to
them. Examined by the ophthalmoscope, the eyes of these patients appear
absolutely normal. Charcot attributes amblyopy and achromatopsy, occurring
in the same personA (as well as in non-hysterical cases of hemianresthesia), to
lesion at a point which he calls the carre/our leW/itij in the hinder part of the
internal capsule; and I assume that he would refer the hallucination to the
same point. If 80, he may be quoted 1\8 an authority for the infra.-cortical
initiation of simple and recurrent fomw of hallucination
• Falret, Op. cit., p. 269: Wuudt,Op. cit., Vol. II., p. 356; Kraftt-Ebing.
Op. cit., p. 19; Griesinger, Op. cit., pp. 95-6.
Digitized by Google
186 Hallucillations.
possible not to regard the latter as a p:l.rticular effect of the more widely
diffused cerebra.! disturba.nce. The conclusion seems to be that for many
hallucinations the mode of origin can be no other than what I have
called the centrifugal.
I have throughout tried to express what I have called the centri-
fugal theory in such terms that it might be accepted even by those who
locate the sensory centres themselves not below, but in, the cortex.
According to these physiologists, the whole double transformation oi
physical impressions into visual or auditory sensations, and of these
sensations into complete pcrceptions and mnemonic images, would be
practica.!ly referred to one place. It must be admitted that t.his view seems
attimes connectedwiththewant of aduepsychological distinctionbetween
sensation and perception. But even suppo$ing a specific centre of
sensation to be thus equally the seat of psychic functions higher than
sensation, it would still be none the less liable to be stimula.ted by parts
of the cortex external to itself; and the nature of many hallucinations
would still indicate that they depend on this stimulation, and not on a
mere spontaneous quickening of morbid activity in the centre itself.
For instance, a girl is violently distressed by seeing her home in
,flames, and for days afterwards sees fire wherever she looks.* One
must surely trace the ha.!lucination to the distrlll;8, and so to an
"escape of current" from the seat of ideas and imal)'tls other than
visual ones. Again, in the cases described above where the
hallucinations faithfully reflect the changes of the whole moral
and intellectual bias, the local excitement in the sensory centre
would still be traceable to an abnormally strong irradiation
from the regions where the highest co-ordinations take place
-these regions being themselves, CJ; Itypotltesi, already in a
state of pathological activity. The other hypothesis would be that
the mere hyper-excitability at the centre itself made it impossible for
images to arise without getting hurried on, so to speak, into sensations
hy the violence d the nervous vibrations. This seems to be what
'Vundt has in view when he speaks of hallucinations as originating, not
in an actual irritation, but ill a heightened irritability, of the sensory
centres. But then, what should cause images belonging to olle
particular order of ideas-the diseased order-to be picked out for this
fa.te in preference to any others 1 The hyper-excitable centre in itself,
as an arena of images, could have no ground for such a partial selection
among the crowd of them which emerge during every hour of waking
life. Among the endless and multiform vibrations involved, why should
• Griesinger, Op. cit., p. 97, For an auditory case, cj. the account, in the
LyoIJ lIfcdical, Vol. XXXV., p. 437, of a young Frenchman who was rendered
insane by the German invasion, and who was then haunted by the sound of
guns firing.
Digitized by Google
Hallucinations. 187
the excessive a.mplitude that corresponds to sensation be confined to a
particular set 1 A reason must exist. The unique a.greement between
the sensory hallucinations and the more general moral and intellectual
disorder must have its particular physical counterpart; and for this " a.
strong downward escape of current" is at any rate a sufficiently compre-
hensible metaphor.*
7.- V'eridical Hallucinations.
There is one topic which I call1lot altogether pass o,·er here, as it has
a distinct bearing on the centrifugal origin of hallucinations. There is a
class of phenomena, not yet recognised by science, and for which the
evidence has never yet been presented with anything like convincing
fulness; but which-I do not think it rash to say-will be accepted as
genuine by a large number of persons who quite realise the strength of
the a priori presumption against it, whenever the quantity and quality
of the evidence shall be adequately realised; and which is accepted
already by a coru;iderabifl numbcr of such persons as, at any rate,
having a strong prima facie claim to attention. Readers of these
Proceedings will hardly need to be told that I refer to the
telepat/'ic class-hallucinations of sight,. sound or touch, which
suggest the presence of an absent person, and which occur simul-
taneously with some exceptional crisis in that person's life or,
most frequently of all, with his death. Visual and auditory phan-
tasms occurring at such moments may be conveniently termed VeT"i-
dical hallucinations; for while they are completely delusive as far as
the percipient's senses are concerned-while they completely conform to
our definition, " sensory percepts which lack the objective basis which
• KandinsJ..-y (in the Archivfiir PsgcMatric, 1881), agreeing with Meynert,
denies this centrifugal influence, and regards the contribution of the highe!·
(front) part of the cortex to hallucinatious as something quite different-i.e., tlu:
remissio" ofan inMbitoryfUliction normally exercised by this part on the apecific
8ellllOry regions. But he fails to make out even a plausible case. Hia argument
that the higher part cannot initiate hallucinations restsonno better ground than
lIis own inability, when auffering from hallucinations, to transform mental
pictures into hallucinations at will ; and on the further experience-which was
decidedly exceptional-that his haUucinations did not correspond in any marked
way witll his more general mental delusions. Again, if one asks in what the
effect of the supposed inhibitory function would normally be shown, it must
aurely be in preventing ordinary mental images from taking on the more vivid
characters of hallucination,. No,v Kandinsky hirnself admits that in normal
acts of imagination the cortical sensory region is stimulated from the higher part
of the cortex; hence he seems im·olved in the difficulty of conceiving stimula·
tion and inhibition to proceed at the same moment from the same quarter. Nor,
again, does he make any attempt to show why the supposed inhibitory function,
if it is normally operative, does not equally inhibit the normal stimulation de·
rived from the periphery, i.e., normal perception of objects.
Digitized by Google
188 Hallucinations.
they suggest"-they nevertheless have n. definite correspondence with
certain o~jective facts, namely, the exceptional condition of the absent
person. Such cases, if genuine, militate very strongly against M. Binet'8
theory that excitation from the external sensory apparatus is a sine qud
non of hallucinations. For here the occurrence of the hallucination
depends on the distant event; tllat is what fixes it t.o take place at II.
particular time; and an occurrence thus conditioned cannot be supposed
to be conditioned also by the accidental presence of real phenomena.
capable of supplying points de repere, or by an accidental morbid dis-
turbance of the organ or the nerve. Andif the brain be admitted to be the
primary physical seat of the phenomena, there are, further, good reasons
f01" supposing that it!! highest tracts are those first affected, and so that
the hallucina.tion is centrifugal. The chief reasons a.re two. (1) The
phantasm is often bodied forth with elements of a more or less fanciful
kind-dream-imn.gery, so to speak, embroidered on II. groundwork of
fact; and these clements seem clearly to be the percipient's own contri-
bution, and not part of what he receives. (2) Cases occur where actunl
intercourse between the two persons concerned has long ceased; and
where the supersensuous communication can only be supposed to be
initiated by the quickening of long-buried memories and of dim tracts of
emotional association. The hallucination in these cases would thereforc
be a complete example of the projection of an idea from within
outwards; the sensorium reverberates to n. tremor which must start ill
the inmost penetralia of cerebral process.
[NoTE.-I would specially point out that the argument in the last para-
graph does not extend beyond the limits of the percipient's organism. It
invulves no physical expreBBion of the fact of the transmission. If A is dying
at a distance, and B sees his form, it is rarely that one can suppose any
psychical event in A's mind to be identical with any psycltical event provo-
cative of the hallucination in B's mind. That being so, there will be no
simple and immediate concorda.nce of nervous vibration in the two brains;
and that being so, there is no very obvious means of translating into physical
terms the causal connection between A's experience and B's. The C8.Be thus
differs from .. thought-transference" of the ordinary experimental type,
where the image actually present in the one minc:lis reproduced in the other;
where, therefore, a physical concordance does exist, and something of the
nat.ure of a " bl""doin·wave" can be conceived. This WI\8 quite rightly pointed
out in the notice of theProceedil198 a/the Soci.ety for Psychic.al Research wltich
aP}'eared in MIND XXXVI. But it had also been pointed out by Mr. F. W.
H. Myers and myself in the" Theory of .\}>paritiona" there criticised. In our
rappl'tx]/AlTllent ofveridical hallucinationsto experimental thought-transference.
we are confining ourseh-es to the psychical aspect; we connect the phenomena
1\8 being in both casesa.1I'ections of one mind by another occurring otherwise
than through the recognised channels of sense. The objector may urge tlmt
if we have not, we ought to have, a physicltl theory whlch will embrace all
Digitized by Google
Hallucillations. 189
the phenomena-that we ought not to talk about a rappm-t between A's
mind and B's unleu we can establish a brU0e between their two brains. This
seems rather to 8BBume that the standing puzzle of the relation between
cerebral and psychical events ill the illd,,,idual, B, can only be stated in one
crude form-viz., that the former aro prior and prodlICe the latter. For ordi-
nary purposes such an expreuion is convenient ; but the convenience has
its dangers. Still, as the converse proposition would be equally dangerou8,
a en,;!: remains which we cannot evade. Since we cannot doubt that
B's unwonted experience has its appropriate cerebral correlate, we have to
admit that the energy of B's brain is directed in a way in which
it would not be directed but for something that has happened to
A. In this physical e1l'ect it is impouible to 8BBume that an external
physical antecedent is not involved; and the relation of th" antecedent to
the e1l'ect is, as I have pointed out, very hard to conceive, when the neural
tremors in A's bmin are so unlike the neural tremors in B's brain as they
must be when A's mind is occupied with his immediate surroundings 01'
with the idea of death, and B'a mind is occupied with a sudden and un-
accountable impreuion or vision of A. I can only suggest that the
action of brain on brain is not bound to conform to the simplest type
of two tuning-forks; and that a considerable community of experience
(elIpecWly in emotional relatiol1ll) between two pel'8OnB may involvo
nervous records sufficiently similar to retain for one another some sort
of revivable affinity, even when the experience has lost its vividneu
for conscious memory. But, 110We\'er that may be on the physical
plane, the facta of which we have presented and shall continue to pre-
sent evidence are purely I"yehical facts; and on the psychical plane, we
can give to a hetetpgeneoUB army of them a certain orderly coherence, and
present them as : graduated series of natural phenomena. Will it be
aBBerted that tllis treatment is illegitimate unleu a concurrent physical theory
can aiR<> be put forward 1 It is surely allowable to do one thing at a time.
There is an unsolved mystery in the background; that we grant and
remember ; but it need not perpetually opprOBB us. After all, is there not
that standing mystery of the cerebral and mental correlation in the individual
-a mystery equa.lly unsolved and perhaps more definitely and radically
insoluble-at the background of every fact and doctrine of the recognised
PlIychology '/ The psychologists work on as if it did not exist, or rather as
if it were the most natural thing in the world, and no one complains of
them. May we not claim a ainlilar freedom 1]
Digitized by Google
190 TI,e (Jalculu~ of Probabilitie8.
THE CALCULUS OF PROBABILITIES APPLIED TO
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
By F. Y. EDfmwoRTu•
.. NollS sommes si elojgn~ de connaltre tous les agents de 1110 natuN qu'it
serait peu pbilO9Ophiqlle de nier l'existence de phenomenes, uniquement parce-
qll'ils sont inexplicables dansl'etat actuel tIe nos eonnaissances. Seulement nOIlB
devonR les examiner avec une attention d'autant plus scrupuleuse, qu'il pariit
pluK dilficile de Jell admettre; et c'ellt ici que l'analyse des probabilites devient
in(lispensahle, pour determiner jnsqu'a quel point il faut multiplier leB
observations ou leI! experiences, pour avoir, en faveur de l'existence des agents
qu'elles semblent imliquer, une probabilite su~ril'ure a toutes lcs raisollS que
l'on pent avoir d'o.illeurs, de la rejeter."-LAPLACE.
It is proposed here to appreciate hy menns of the calculus of pro-
habilities the evidence in favour of some extraordinary agency which
is afforded by experiences of the following type: One person choose'l
a suit of cards, or a letter of the alphabet. Another person makes 0.
guess as to what the choice has been. This experiment-a choice by
one party, a guess by another-is pp,rformed N times. The number of
successful guesses exceeds the numher which is the most probable on
the supposition of mere chance, viz., 1Il, where m=Nu (in the above-
mentioned cases respectively iN and ~"..v), hy a considemble number n,
where n=.Vv. There follow a second and a third similar series of trials
in which the number of successes exceeds the number most probable on
the hypothesis of mere chance, viz., N'u' Nquq, by ,,: t~q respectively.
As the number of these series is increased, there occur some in which
the numher of successes falls below the most probable number. What
probability in favour of the existence of some agency other than chance
is afforded by (I) a single series such as the first, in which the successes
are in excess; (2) a set of series such as the first two or three, in all
of which the successes are in excess; (3) a chequerecl set of series in
some of which the successes are in exce!'lS, ill others in defect 7
These problems may, for our purpose, be replaced by the following:
Out of an urn known to contain an infinite number of white and black
balls in the proportion u : l-u have been dmwn N balls whereof N
(u + v) are white; and again N' balls whereof N' (u + v~ are white;
and so on. v is sometimes negative. What is the probability in favour of
agency other than chance deducible (1) from the first series; (2) from
a set of series in which 11 is positive; (3) from a chequered set of series T
The evaluation of such a posteriori probabilities involves three
Digitized by Google
TI,e Calculu8 oj Probabilitie8. 191
operations which may be distinguished in analysis, though implicated
in practice. The first (I.) is to determine what junction the required
probability is of two scts of variables; namely, (c priori probabilities not
given by (01' deducible from) direct statistical experience, and" objective"
probabilities (to use the phrase of Cournot), which are deriyed from
statistical experience. The second operation (II.) is the treatment of
the (c priori probabilities; the discovery, assumption, or ignoration of
those unknown quantities. The third operation (III.) is the evaluation
of the objective probabilities. These three operations are taken as the
principle of division for this study; as a principle of subdivision, the
three problems aboye stated.
I. There is apt to appear something arhitrary in the form of the
function expressing an (~posteriori probability. 'Vhen Donkin, for
example, constructs a scheme expressing the probability that chessmen,
found standing on a board in a certain position, or that neighbouring*
stars, haye ~ot been so arrnnged by mere chance, one does not feel very
confident that tlte formula, not merely a formula, is assigned by him.
It should be observed, however, first that an identical value may be
reached in different ways; very much as a multiple integral may be
expressed in different forms. Secondly, and more importantly, there is IL
characteristic defectt of the calculus of probability, which leads us to
expect a real discrepancy in the methods of perfol'ming our first
operation. I allude to the fact that we are often unable to utilise all
our datum, to calculate t,he relatiye probabilities (in favour of mere
chance or some additional agency) for the particular eyent observed, but
only for a class to which that event belongs. And there is something
arhitrary in the selection of this class. An examplet of this peculiarity
will presently appear.
(1) For the solution of our first problem two schemata present
themselves, each recommended by high authority; the first perhaps
more frequently employed in problems of the general sort to which ours
belongs, the second, I think, more appropriate to our particular problem.
According to the (a) first solution we regard the observed event-the
drawing of N (u+v) white balls-as having resulted from some real
constitution or proportion of the balls in the urn, some "possibility,"
in the phrase of Laplace. By inverse probability, upon the principle of
Baya'!, we determine the probability that this constitution, or possibility,
or cause of the observed event, was some ratio higher than u.
Let q, (x) be the a priori probability that the sought ratio should have
heen the particular ratio N' Let j (x) be the objective probability
that, if x : (N~x) were the real distribution of the balls, then exactly
• Phil. jfag., series IV., Vol. I., pp. 463-466.
t Of, Venn, Logic oj Chance, chap. viii., sections 17·23. t See p. 193.
192 TI,e Calculu8 of Probabilitics.
m+n white balls would he drawn in N trials. Then the probability
that the observed event has resulted from some possibility above u, is
expressed by,; cp (x) xf(x), summed from 111 to },~ di1)ided lnJ the same
expression summed from 0 to },-.
This, as I understand, is the method pUJ·sued by Laplace in investi-
gating the probability that the difference in the ratio of male to femalo
births, as observed in Paris and in London (respectively H and I~), is
due to a real difference between the two localities. (" Theor. Analytique
des Prob.," Book II., Art. 29); mutatis mutandis, that is, it being
observed first that Laplace's m is derived only from a finite set of
observations (say at London), whereas ours is del·ived deductively from
an infinite set of observations, the experience of games of chance and
even more* widely diffused experiences, from the beginning of time.
And secondly, in comparing our formula with Laplace's method, we
must allow for his characteristic neglect of it priori probabilities.
Laplace's reasoning is abridged by Mr. Todhunter, in his "HistoI·Y of
Probabilities," Arts. 902, 1018. Laplace is followed by Demorgan, in
the treatise on Probabilities published in the "Encyclopied. Metrop.,"
at section 14:>, which the author entitles, "Determination of the
PI·esumption that Increased Frequency of an vent Ehas a Particular
Cause." The same method is employed hy Cournot in his masterly
discussion of it posteriori Prohabilities (in the eighth chapter of
"Exposition de 10. Theorie des Chances"). The reader who may wish to
see the identical (or as neal·ly as possible the same) problem which we
have in hand, discussed 1Iy a first-rate authOl·ity, is referred to Cournot,
section 99; whel·e it is to be observed that our case is that notp.<l by
Cournot when his ml (our N) is "tres petit par rapport a. m" (his 11£
corresponding to our infinite set of observations afforded by games of
chance, &c.).
But however well estlthlished the preceding formula as an organon
of statistics (b), the following schema, sa,,·ouring more of Ber-
nouilli than of Bayes, is perhaps more 11Ppropriate to the particular
problem ill hanel. Let a be the it pri01"'i probability that chance alone
should have been the regime under which the observed event occurred.
Let p be the oqjective prohability that, clmnce being the regime, a
deviation from u in the direction of success at least as great as v should
occur. Let (3 be the apriori probability that there should have been
some additional agency. Let')' be the (not in general objective) pro-
bahility that, such additional agency existing, the observed e,,-ent should
occur. Then the required a l)osteriori probability in favour of the
additional agency is Q~ ; where a=I-{3.
I-'')I+ap
* I have dwelt upon this sort of experience elsewhere: Mind, April, 1884.
Herlllathcna, 1884.
The Oalculu8 fit' p,.oba6ilitiea. 193
Such, as I understand, is the method pursued by Laplace in his
investigation ("Theor.Analyt.," Book II.,Art. 25) whether the difference
between barometrical observation at different hours of the day is due to
cause or chance alone. Laplace is followed by Demorgan in his section
139 entitled "On the Question whether Observed Discrepancies are
Consequences of a General Law, or Accidental Fluctuations." Such also
is the method employed by Herschel (Essay on Quetelet) in determining
the probability that the difference between the numbers of male and
female births is not accidental, and that the connection between the
binary stars is physical.
It may be objected, perhaps, to both these methods that they do not
utilise all our knowledge; for that, as regards the second method, we
are given the particular deviation from u, namely, 11, while we take
account only of the fact that the deviation belongs to the class extending
from 11 to I-u. In the first method, indeed, we take our stand upon
the particular event, the deviation of exactly 11. But, on the other
hand, we do not take account of our exact knowledge of u. The answer
would have been the same if we had been given only that this fraction
was somewhere between zero and what we now know to be its exact value.
This difficulty may be partially cleared up by the following illustra-
tion (borrowed from Laplace). Suppose we know that there are a.
thousand tickets in a certain lottery, whereof a hundred are red and the
rest white, and that each has a certain number inscribed. If a red ball
is drawn, though it has a particular number inscribed on it, yet we
cannot utilise that knowledge in the absence of any knowledge whether
the agency, other than chance, would prefer one number to another.
We may have to put down the (objective) probability that chance alone
existing the red ball would have been drawn as itT' But now let it be
known that the particular number was prophesied, or is, and might have
been found out to be, the prize-bearing ticket; then, indeed, we obtain a
hoM whereby to bring to bear our knowledge of the differelltial chan.e,
that is Ithrn. In our problem, with reference, for example, to the second
method above exhibited, we can assign certainly the differential pro-
bability that the exact deviation 11 should result from chance alone.
But we cannot similarly differentiate our vague knowledge about the
other agency. We may assign, certainly, the form of such an argument,
but when we come to our second operation we shall find that it is an
empty form. This foredoomed form might be fJ'y~+ apt where, corre-
sponding to the notation above employed, pI is the (yery small) pro-
bability that the particular deviation 11 should occur under the regime of
chance; yl, is the probability (pruullrwhly 0/ the lIame order 0/magnitude)
that, an additional agency existing, the exact deviation 11 should have
occurred; a and fj are as before.
o
Digitized by Google
194 TI.e Oalculu8 of Probabilities.
The only interpretation which I can put on Professor Lodge's reasoll-
ing upon the problem now in hand (in the Proceedings of the S.P.R.,
Part VII.), is that it is an attempt in some way to evade the difficulty
here noticed. But the originality of his reasoning renders it difficult
for the book-taught student to understand it.
(2) Still under the heading de\'oted to the first operation, we
come now to our seeond problem. It seems a sufficient (though
for reasons already intimated it is an imperfect) statement to posit the
same formula I\S in the second method of the preceding problem
( viz., ....!!:L..), substituting for the p of that formula the continued
/fy+ap
product p 1/ p", &c., expressing the probability that under the regime of
chance all the observed results m+tt, m+n', &c., would have diverged in
the same direction from the most probable result, m by n n', &c.
(Had the datum been that the observed results had diverged on one
side or the other, it would have been proper to take each p as express-
ing that degree of divergence on one side or tlte otlter.) The import
of " is analogously modified.
It will be noticed that this formula differs from that offered by
}Ir. Gurney in Part VII. of these Proceedings. But,!l.S above
intimated, it docs not follow that, because two formulre are different,
both cannot be right. They may be equally serviceable and equally
imperfect. In the present case Mr. Gumey's formula appears to be
quite as accurate !l.S ours,* but not, !l.S will presently be pointed out,
substantially more serviceable.
(3) The third problem may he reduced to the second (or first), by
grouping the given series so as to constitute a set, in all of which the
successes are in excess. This method, doubtless, does not utilise all our
information. But it is convenient; and it might be difficult to frame
a more useful formula without special knowledge of the subject-matter.
Much would turn upon the probability that the agency other than
chance, if existing, would have been attended by the observed chequered
result. If it were known or suspected to he a fitful agency, not much
presumption against it would 1)e created by defective set·ies.
II. For the methods appropriate to the second operation the reader
is referred to the paper on a priori probabiliti.es in the PltilosopMcal
Magazine, September, 1884, and to the authorities therein cited. It is
pointed out in the article referred to that an accurate knowledge of the
values under consideration can often be dispensed with, and that an
inaccurate knowledge is often derivable from experience; partly by a
copious simple induction, and partly hy inference f,·om the success which
has attended the hypothetical values which have been usually assigned
• Poisl!On (RC8crcltC8, Art. 64) indicates the difference between these two
procedures, without expressing a preference.
Digitized by Google
The Oll/CII/U8 (:I Probabilities. 195
to these quantities. To apply these principles to the problems in hand.
(1) For the first problem and the (a) first method the a priori facility
function cp (x) can, to a large extent, be ignored, when N is large; as
Coumot has well exhibited in the eighth chapter of the work already
referred to. I would further contend that there is some empirical
ground for treating the function as a constant (as is usual in inverse
reasoning founded on Bayes' theorem and the cognate theory of errors
of observation). Accordingly the sought ap08teriori probability reduces
to the objective probability :s f (a:) between proper limits, divided by
the sanle, summed between extreme limits.
As to the second fomlula offered above under (b) R.~ for addi-
..,+ap
tional agency, it is consonant, I submit, to experience to put ! both
for 4 and fJ. To put that same value for y, appears, while not contradicted
by, yet less agt'eeable to, experience. In fact, we know of some kinds
of agencies which, if they exist, are extremely likely to make themselves
felt (e.g., imposture). Accordingly Mill, discussing a similar problem
(" Logic," Book III., chap. xviii., section 6), says: "The law of
nature, if real, would certainly produce the series of coincidences."
And so Poisson, in a passage above referred to, supposes '.. une cause
capable de Ie [the observed event] produire necessairement." But
it really is not very important what particular value we assign to
one of these apriori constants, provided that we are careful not to build
upon any particularity which does not rest upon our rough though solid
ground of experience. In the present case all that we really know
about y is that it is substantial, not in general indefinitely small. But
we must not build any conclusion on itsfractional charaeter, seeing that
it may very well be in the neighbourhood of unity. The importance of
this remark will appear when we come to the second problem. In the
present case, since neither 4 nor fJ nor y is very small, if p is very
small the above written expression for the a 1)08teMaM probability in
favour of additional agency reduces by Taylor's theorem to I--=--- ;yxp.
Thus the objective probability p may be taken as a rough measure of
the sought a posteriori probability in favour of mere chance. This
reasoning is authorised by Donkin and even by Boole, who is so
mightily scrupulous ahout the undetermined constants of probabilities
(see the authorities cited in the paper on a priari Probabilities in
Philo8opitical Magazine). The conclusion is agreeable to the summary
practice of Laplace and Herschel. They have not thought it worth
while to construct a scaffolding of unknown constants which would
have to be taken down again.
The third formula u ~l 1 attempts to utilise our knowledge of
,..Y+4P
the particular deviation n, and the particular, most probable value from
o 2
Digitized by Google
196 The Oalculw of Probabilities.
which it is a deviation, viz., m, pt, is the objective probability that this
particular deviation should occur in the regim,tJ of chance. pi we knowi
but what is yl 1 It is a magnitude prel1U;mably of tl1.6 BalM order as pl.
Accordingly the above expression is thoroughly indeterminate. It will
be remembered that this formula is here criticised not as being identical
with the rule given by Professor Lodge, but as that tc. which the
principle he employs might seem to lead. His l:ule, however obtained,
is so far a good rule as (in common with an indefinite number of rules
that might be constructed) it always varia in tl1.6 saIM direction as the
rule sanctioned by Laplace, Demorgan, Herschel, and the other masters
of the science of probabilities. What is here termed 1) always increases
with the increase, and decreases with the decrease of Professor
Lodge's ~ (Proceedings, Part VII., p. 261, top). But 'it happens that
q .
Professor Lodge's rule does less than justice to the argument in favour
of agency other than chance.
(2) We come now to the second problem, concerning which, under
the heading of the second operation, there need hardly be added
anything. As under (1) we see (or will see presently) that p is the
effective measure of the probability-the a posteriori probability--of
mere chance, so under (2) the real grip of proof consists in pxp'x, &c.
If we replace ! which Mr. Gurney assigns as "the probability of
obtaining at least that degree of success-if chance +6" act, by
our y, his "final value" will become
:.e -;-;c--:----
x+( ~rXMs'''qn(l' x)
So far as there is reason to think (with Mill) that "the law of nature,
if real, would certainly produce the series of coincidences," Mr. Gurney
seeIns to underrate the probability in favour of a cause other than chance,
by assigning to ! a value (2) which, being raised to the nth power,
unduly swells t1!denominator. If eachp or the average-the geometric
mean--of the p'. were !, Mr. Gunley's fonnula would be void of any
probative content. But this is contrary to common sense. It is
contrary to this elementary principle of statistics: that, if an event may
indifferently happen one way or another, be either p11" or "linus, and
it repeatedly happens one way, then there must be a cause other
than chance for that repetition.* According to this new rule it is no
• It is evidently owing to a mere lapsua plllflla: on the part of Mr. Gurney
that this consequence can be fastened upon him. For at p. 256 he implies the
principle for which we are here contending. It may be as well to repeat that
my contention is not against Mr. Gurney's reasoning, which is excellent: but
.pmst his &88lU1lptioQ of the premiss: that, "if chance +'"act, the pl'obability
Digitized by Google
Ti,e Oalctll148 of Probabilities. 197
argument in favour of causation * that all the planets move in the same
direction. It would be no proof of asymmetry in a coin that it ever so
often turned up in succession heads. Doubtless you never could prove
by repeated throws the existence of such a peculiar kind of asymmetry,
such a wabbling load, that it would be (for each throw) "as likely to
bring the degree of success up to that point" which is observed, that is
to give heads, as" not to do 80," that is to give tails. Pure chance
would always be as probable an hypothesis as that. In a word, Mr.
Gurney's solution underrates the evidence in the case where the
divergence from the most probable value is small or not known to be
large, but is repeatedly in the same direction. In the general case
where p is very small his solution does not differ substantially from
ours. His 2p is as good as our !p, may be regarded as of the same
. y
order of magrutude.
It should be observed that this criticism relates to the second, not
the first operation, as performed by Mr. Gurney. His scaffolding is
more elaborate, if not more serviceable, than ours. But in the building
he uses some materials which, though solid enough for ordinary purposes,
yet will not bear certain strains. It is to be observed, also, that
Mr. Gurney's "at least that degree of success" has here Loon inter-
preted as at least that degree of divergence from the most probable
point in an assigned, say tlt.e plus, direction. If we interpret (violently)
his q as probability of obtaining that degree of divergence in eitlter
direction, we shall be involved in still greater difficulties.
(3) As to our third problem, it has been already resolved into the
other two.
III. We come now to the third, the calculative portion of our work.
(1) As an example of the application of first principles without the
intervention of approximative fonnulre, let us take the experiment
cited by Mr. Gurney at p. 251 of Part VII. of these Pro("('edings,
where the "name thought of" was DOREMOND, and the "letters
of a certain degree of success being attained may be put down &I! ,. Theground
of my contention is that we are;71ot :entirely ignorant of the probability in
question. For we have the datum that it is greater than the probability that
chance alone would attain the certain degree of SUllce88. }'or it is absurd to
suppose that chance + 0. favouring cause is less likely to obtain a certain
degree of sueee88 than chance alone. Acconlingly it might be legitimate to
put ')'=1.J+1~; or rather to rego.nl ')' as an independent \"anable in P, the ex·
pr888ion for the Ii po8terio"i probability in favour of 0. cause, o.nd to integrate
P with regard to ')' between limits p and 1 ; agreeably to the practice recom-
mended by Donkin in his masterly discU88ion of d priori probabilities (Phil.
!t[ag., 1851). It is clear that, when p is in the neighbourhood of 6, Mr. Gurney's
assumption sacrifices much of the cumulative force which properly belongs to P.
• Of. Laplace, E88Ui PhilosophilJlI6.
Digitized by Goo
198 TIle Oalculu8 ql Probabilitie8.
produced" were EPJYEIOD. Here, out of eight guesses, there are
four successes; if success consist in guessing either the very letter
thought of, or either of its nearest alphabetical neighbours, in short any
one of an assigned consecuth'e triplet. The probability that a letter
taken at randolll should fall within any assigned triplet is i. Accord-
ingly (on the supposition that chance is the only agency), the
probabilities of obtaining in the course of eight trials no successes, one
success, two successes, &c., are given by the firat, second, third, &c.,
terms respectively of the binomial (i+i)8. The probability of obtaining
at least four successes is equal to the sum of the fifth, and re~aining
terms; that is
or '011. The probability, then, in favour of an agency other than
chance is about '99.
When larger numbers are involved, approxima.tive formulre become
necessary. According to principles familiar to those who have Ijtudied
the calculus of probabilities, the o~jective probability involved in either
formula «(I) or (b) is approximately*
i [1-2 IT e-t2dt] , 1DII~,.e T=r 1'~:-:N_"'7
',/ 0 2" (1-11)
The approximation requires that n~ should not exceed X, and that .N
should be large. This then, according to the reasoning employed in our
second part, is the measure of the a posteriori probability in favour of
chance alone.
For example, in the first instance given by Mr. Gurney, at p. 241 of
the December number of this Jourrw,l, N is 2927, u is 1, and 'V is
'l~h. As the condition required for the validity of the approximation
is just or very nearly fulfilled, the answer is, if I do the sum correctly,
about '93 as the probability of an agency other than chance; no \'ery
crushing probability, as statistical evidence goes. In Mr. Gurney's
next insta.nce, N is 1833, u still t, v is T~iilJ. Whence in favour of
additional agency a very respectable probability, '997.
(2) and (3). As an illustration of the second problem (including the
Onlitting a certain tenn outside the sign of integration (see Todhunter,
!lee. 997) as here practically, if not in general theoretically, neglectible. It will
be observed that in halt·i1lg the quantity within the brackets we assume that an
excess greater than 11 is equally probable as a defect greater than the same
quantity. This is exactly true only when 11=*. In our case the factor I is too
large. The argument becomes a fortiori.
Digitized by Google
TIle Oulculu8 0/ Prohahilitie8. 199
third), let us suppose that the series just instanced breaks up into four
series, each presenting an excess of successes, with about the same v-
an arrangement to which the experiments of M. Richet (described at
p. 622-628 of the December number of Revue PllilosopMque) seem to
lend themselves without violence. Then for one of the fractional series
we have N=lfI
f11=458, u and " as before. Whence p is found
about '08. Whence p4 about '00004. And I-p, the measure of the
sought probability, ='99996, which may fairly be regarded as physical
certainty. It should be observed that if, as would usually happen,
the " for all the partial series should not be the same, then ceteris
l)(&ribus the above estimate would be below the mark. On the other
hand, if the partial J.V's were unequal, ceteris paribu,s our estimate would
be above the mark. As both inequalities, but especially the former,
are likely to make themselves felt, the conclusion may be regarded
as safe..
Such is the evidence which the calculus of probabilities affords as to
the existence of an agency other than mere chance. The calculus is
silent a.'> to the nature of that agency-whether it is more likely to be
vulgar illusion or extraordinary law. That is a question to be decided,
not by formulre and figures, but by general philosophy and common
sense.
Digitized by Google
