{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1824__anonymous___on_the_impropriety_of_classing_players_with_rogues_and_vagabonds.pdf","mytitle":"On The Impropriety Of Classing Players With Rogues And Vagabonds","mylang":"de"}
-
. * } * . . . . , 1. * / ºf - º&
A
L E T T E R
TO A
MEMBER OF PARLIAMENT,
ON THE
IMPROPRIETY OF CLASSING PLAYERS
WITII ROGUES AND VAGABONDS
1N THE
- - -
-
vAgkANT ACT.
by the Author of “Tilf
waghANT Act IN RELATIon to the Liberty of the subject.”
LONDON :
JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET.
MDCCCXxiv.
London : Printed by C. Roworth,
Bell-yard, Temple-bar.
º
A LETTER,
&c. &c.
SIR,
IN the conversation which I had, a few days
ago, the honour to hold with you upon the sub
ject of the Vagrant Act, you were pleased to
put a question to me, which, at the moment, I
was unprepared to answer;-viz. how far, in
dependently of that act, I considered the existing
laws relating to Plays and Players sufficient for
the punishment of offenders, without the neces
sity of including them any longer in its provi
sions.—I have since looked into those laws with
some attention ; and although I find them at
present too confused and inconsistent to be of
themselves sufficient for the object we had in
view—of their own regulation—yet they might,
I think, without much difficulty, be so moulded
and consolidated as to answer that purpose, and
render any further reference to the act in question
altogether unnecessary. The introduction of
B 2
( 4 )
players indiscriminately into the laws relating to
vagrancy is of modern date, for the act of the 39th
of Eliz. by which a certain set of them are ex
pressly treated asvagabonds,speaksonlyof “com
“mon players of enterludes,” wandering abroad.”
The words are “common players of enterludes and
“minstrels wandering abroad, (other than players
“ of enterludes belonging to any baron of this
“realm, or any other honourable personage of
“greater degree, to be authorized to play under
“ the hand and seal of arms of such baron or per
* In every country there have been theatrical amusements
of an order inferior to the regular drama; such were the Mimi
and Atellanae of the Romans, and the Intermezzi of the Ita
lians. To the Mimes of Rome succeeded the Histrion and
Farceur of the middle ages, who roamed about from place to
place, without any settled habitation, displaying their buſ
foonery and obscene wit. After them came the Trouveur, the
Conteur, and the Jongleur; the first celebrated in verse the
exploits of princes or heroes, interspersing his theme with
sallies of satire, or recited in dialogues the dalliance of lovers,
which were called Tensons, Syrcentes, &c.; the Conteur told
his merry tale; and the Jongleur played upon some instru
ment. They would often unite their talents, and by this
means afforded infinite mirth to their patrons and protectors.
In England, previous to the establishmentof the drama, we had
also our mummeries and masquerades, and at festivals the
castles of our great barons were thronged with minstrels,
mimics, tragetours or jugglers, tumblers, and a whole train
of these amusing vagrants. Then followed the Mysteries and
Moralities, after them the Interludes, and then the Drama. :
( 5 )
“sonage.”). Upon this clause two questions arise—
1st. What were interludes. : 2dly, What were the
players of them intended by the act. Now inter
ludes were not mysteries, which were a sort of
theatrical representation, founded entirely upon
some scriptural or legendary story—They were
not moralities, which principally contained reflec
tions and disquisitions upon vice and virtue—
They were not the regular drama, because they
had little or no pretension to fable or plot; but
they were a species of dramatic entertainment, in
dialogue, inter-personal" as it were, and not inter
scenical—sometimes serious, but oftener comic—
which followed the mysteries and moralities, and
preceded the regular drama. Such were the
interludes of Heywood, in the reign of Henry
the VIII. And now as to the persons.—Mr.
Malone, in his historical account of the English
stage, speaking of the 39th of Eliz. makes the
following remark. “This statute has been fre
quently mistated by Prynne and others, as if it
* “A Play betwene Johan the Husband, Tyb the Wyfe,
and Sir Johan the Priest, by John Heywood, 4to.
A Mery Play betwene the Pardoner and the Frere, the Curate,
and neybour Pratte, 4to. Imprynted by William Rastall, 5th
of April, 1533.
The Play called the Foure P. P.; a new and very mery
Enterlude of a Palmer, a Pardoner, a Potycary, a Pedler.
Made by John Heewood, 4to.
( 6 )
declared all players(except noblemen'sservants)
to be rogues and vagabonds; whereas it was
made against strolling players only.”
As early as the 16th of Eliz. (1574) we find a
license granted by herself to James Burbage and
others, “to use, exercise, and occupy the art and
faculty of playing comedies, tragedies, interludes,
stage-plays, and such like, as they have already
used and studied.”
In Rymer's Foedera there is also to be found
a license from King James the First.—
“Pro Laurentio Fletcher, et Willielmo
“Shakespeare, et aliis. A. D. 1603. Pat.
“l Jac. P. 2. m. 4.—James, by the grace of
“God, &c. to all justices, &c. truly, Know you
“ that we have licensed and authorized, these
“our servants, Lawrence Fletcher, WILLIAM
“SHAKESPEARE, Richard Burbage, Augustine
“Phillippes, John Hemings, Henry Condel,
“&c. and the rest of their associates, freely to
“use and exercise the art and faculty of playing
“comedies, tragedies, histories, interludes, morals,
“pastorals, stage plays, and such like other, as
“they have already studied, or hereafter shall
“use or study, as well for the recreation of our
“loving subjects, as for our solace and pleasure,
“when we shall think good to see them, during
“our pleasure; and the said comedies, tragedies,
( 7 )
“histories, interludes, morals, pastorals, stage
“ plays, and such like, to shew and exercise pub
“licly their best commodity, when the infection
“of the plague shall decrease, as well within
“ their now usual house called the Globe, within
“our county of Surrey; as also within any town
“halls, or moute-halls, or other convenient
“ places within the liberties and freedom of any
“other city, university, town, or borough what
“soever, within our said realms and dominions.
“Willing and commanding you, and every of
“you, as you tender our pleasure, not only to
“permit and suffer them herein, without any
“your lets, hinderances, or molestations, during
“our pleasure, but also to be aiding or assisting
“to them, if any wrong be to them offered, and
“to allow them such former curtesies as hath been
“given to men of their place and quality; and
“also what further favour you shall shew to
“ these our servants for our sakes, we shall take
“kindly at your hands. Witness ourself, at
“Westminster, the 19th day of May.
“Per Breve de privato Sigillo.”
Now let the time be noted when these licenses
weregranted—thefirst,twenty-threeyears before,
and the second within six years after the act
of the 39th of Eliz, when every species of drama
( 8 )
tic representation was perfectly well known, and
understood, and fully recognized in those li
censes;” and had it been the intention of the
framers of that statute, to include the players of
the regular drama, (nay, all players indiscrimi
nately,) it is not very likely they would have made
mention only of common players of interludes and
minstrels, performers of the lowest order—
“wandering abroad,”—thus giving them their
complete vagrant character; nor is it very proba
ble that the players of the regular drama would
so soon after, have been treated with such marked
respect and distinction by King James, had they,
by the act of his predecessor, only been con
sidered in the light of licensed vagrants.
The epithet common, also I take it, was not
without its meaning, further to denote the hum
ble rank of these itinerants, and to distinguish
them from such as were attached to the court,
—the retainers of some noblemen, or such as con
fined themselves to thehigher order of theirart.—
Thus we perceive, that in order to bring a player
within the 39th Eliz. three things were neces
sary 3-1st. He must have been a player of inter
ludes, not of the regular drama–2dly. A common
one, not attached to the court or a noble—3dly.
* Riccoboni–Reflexions Historiques, p. 160.
( 9 )
“Wandering abroad,” not having any regular
abode; this is his distinctive character.t
From this view it seems manifest, I think,
that players such as Hemings, Condel, and Shak
speare himself, in the higher walks of the drama,
—consisting, be it recollected, of the same im
mortal productions which we witness with de
light at this day—could never have been
intended by their royal mistress, to be brought
within the reach of so sanguinary a statute,
mixing them in one indiscriminating mass, with
rogues, vagabonds, and sturdy beggars, and con
signing, them to the same ignominious punish
ment; but even if it were otherwise, and we
could for an instant suppose her Majesty guilty
of so flagrant an anomaly, it surely would not
* See also the statute 10 Geo. 2. c. 19. enabling the autho
rities of the two Universities to restrain players, expressing
doubts whether the law then in force applied or not to players
“ not wandering abroad.”
t A subsidiary reason, perhaps, for the introduction of
players of interludes into the act of the 39th of Eliz. may be
found in a complaint preferred against certain itinerant actors
in the reign of Queen Mary, for it appears from Strype, that
in 1556 a remonstrance was issued from the Privy Council, to
the Lord President of the North, stating that “certain
“ lewd persons, naming themselves to be servants of Sir
“Francis Lake, and wearing his livery or badge on their
“sleeves, have wandered about these north parts, and repre
“senting certain plays and interludes, reflecting on the Queen
“ and her Consort, and the formalities of the Mass.
( 10 )
render the matter the less inconsistent with the
spirit of the present reign—our own enlightened
times—to expose, a day longer, to unnecessary
obloquy, a class of persons, who can boast such
names as Booth, Betterton, Garrick, Quin, Hen
derson, Kemble, Siddons, &c.—extensive learn
ing, sound judgment, brilliant wit, refined man
ners, exemplary conduct, and high character.
I will now endeavour to state as briefly
as I can, the law, both as it has existed and
exists at this moment, regarding plays and
players.” The most ancient statute I have been
able to discover is the 34th and 35th of Henry
VIII. the preamble of which alone remains,
from which it should seem that its object was to
abolish the mysteries and moralities which, about
this time, were made the vehicle of religious
controversy; for it states its view, “that the
“kingdom should be purged and cleansed of all
“religious plays, interludes, rhymes, ballads,
“ and songs, which are equally pestiferous and
“noysome to the common weal.”f
* In the reign of Edward III. an act passed, by which it
was ordained, that a company of men called vagrants, who
had made masquerades through the whole city, should be
whipt out of London, because they represented scandalous
things in the little ale-houses, and other places where the
populace assembled.
+ The performance of French plays is not a novelty in this
( 11 )
In the early period of the drama, the entire
regulation of the plays and players seems to
have been considered as part of the prerogative
of the crown ; and to the chief officers of the
household—the Lord Chamberlain, and the
Master of the Revels—the Sovereign delegated
certain powers of licensing and controuling
them; as is evident from the licenses, before
alluded to, in the reigns of Elizabeth and
James. What these powers exactly were,
or what the punishment was for playing without
such license, does not very clearly appear; but
from the following entry in the Journal of Sir
Henry Herbert, Master of the Revels in the
time of Charles I. and two succeding reigns, it
would seem that a sort of undefined power of
country; for in a book in the Remembrancer's Office, contain
ing an account of the daily expenses of King Henry VII. there
is the following item, “To the French players in reward 20s.”
In the time of Charles I. they were much in fashion at court.
Queen Henrietta Maria, it seems, took great pleasure in this
amusement, and patronized the French company. Sir Henry
Herbert's Manuscript Journal states, that on Tuesday night,
the 17th of February, 1634, a French company of players,
being approved of by the Queen at her house two nights be
fore and commended by her Majesty to the King, were ad
mitted to the Cockpit in Whitehall, and there presented the
King and Queen with a French comedy, called “Melise,”
with good approbation, for which play the King gave them ten
pounds. -
( 12 )
arrest and imprisonment was claimed and exer
cised by the Lord Chamberlain.—“On Monday,
“the 4th of May, 1640, William Beeston was
“taken by a messenger, and committed to the
“Marshalsea by my Lord Chamberlain's war
“rant, for playing a play without a license."—
“The same day the company at the Cockpit
“ was commanded by my Lord Chamberlain's
“warrant to forbear playing, for playing when
“they were forbidden by me, and for other dis
“obedience, and lay still Monday, Tuesday, and
“Wednesday. On Thursday, at my Lord
“Chamberlain's entreaty, I gave them their
“liberty.
“The play I called for, and forbidding the
“ playing of it, keep the book because it
“had relation to the passages of the King's
“journey into the North, it was complained
“of by his Majesty to me, with command to
“punish the offenders.” From the time of
Henry VIII. there appears to be no distinct
legislative provision upon the subjectoftheatrical
amusements, (excepting for the purpose of re
straining the indecent use of oaths in plays,”
and prohibiting performances on Sundays,||
* 3 Jac. c. 21. ‘F 1 Car. c. 1.
t By the ordinances of the long parliament (1647) all stage
plays were totally suppressed.
( 13 )
until the 10 Geo. 2. cap. 28. which, (after
reciting that, “by 12 Ann. cap. 29. all fencers,
bearwards, common players of interludes, and
other persons therein named and expressed,
were deemed rogues and vagabonds; and
that some doubts having arisen concerning so
much of the said act as related to common players
of interludes, it became necessary to explain the
same) enacts, “That every person who shall
“for hire, gain, or reward, act, represent, or per
“form, or cause to be represented or performed,
“any interlude, tragedy, comedy, opera, play,
“farce, or other entertainment of the stage, or
any part or parts therein, in case such person
shall not have any legal settlement in the place
where the same shall be acted, represented or
performed,without authority byvirtueof letters
patent from his Majesty, his heirs, successors,
or predecessors; or without license from the
“Lord Chamberlain of his Majesty's household
for the time being, shall be deemed to be a
rogue and a vagabond within the intent and
meaning of the said recited act, and shall be
liable and subject to all such penalties and pu
nishments, and by such methods of convic
tions as are inflicted on, or appointed by the
said act for the punishment of rogues and va
gabonds who shall be found wandering or
<
. <
. .
. -
< .
4. .
< .
. .
. .
*
. .
*
*
. .
. -
( 14 )
“begging, and misordering themselves, within
“the intent and meaning of the said recited
“ act.”
2. “If any person, having or not having a
“legal settlement as aforesaid, shall, without
“such authority or license as aforesaid, act,
“represent, or perform, or cause to be acted,
“represented, or performed, for hire, gain, or re
“ward, any interlude, tragedy, comedy, opera,
“play, farce, or entertainment of the stage, or
“any part or parts therein, every such person
“shall, for every such offence, forfeit the sum of
“fifty pounds, and in case the said sum of fifty
“ pounds shall be paid, levied, or recovered, such
“offender shall not for the same offence suffer
“any of the pains and penalties inflicted by the
“ said recited act. Provided always, That no
“person or persons shall be authorized by virtue
“of any letters patentfrom his Majesty, his heirs,
“successors, or predecessors, or by the license of
“ the Lord Chamberlain of his Majesty's house
“hold for the time being, to act, represent, or
“perform, for hire, gain, or reward, any inter
“lude, tragedy, comedy, opera, play farce, or other
“entertainment of the stage, or any part or parts
“ therein, in any part of Great Britain Except
“IN THE CITY OF WESTMINSTER AND WITH IN
“THE LIBERTIES THEREOF, AND IN SUCH PLACES
( 15 )
“As His MAJESTY, HIS HEIRS, OR SUCCESSORS,
“s HALL IN THEIR ROYAL PERSONS RESIDE, AND
“DURING such RESIDENCE.”
This is, certainly, when taken altogether, as
pretty a piece of modern legislation, as can well
be found in our statute books. Some one had, it
seems, in drawing up the 12th of Anne, omitted
that strongly-vagrant designation, “wandering
abroad,” and thereby increased the difficulty of
understanding precisely, who were meant by
“common players of interludes.” Another sta
tute, of course, became requisite to explain–
obscurum per obscurius—what had thus been
confused and darkened.
The author, whoever he was, to whom this
task of removing doubts was delegated, not be
ing, perhaps, particularly well versed in the
drama, or disliking the trouble of inquiring who
or what these poor devils of players of interludes
were, at once cuts the Gordian knot, and de
clares allplayers(unlicensed) of whatsoever rank,
not having a legal settlement where they shall
perform, ‘to be rogues and vagabonds.’ And
here one cannot but admire the nice discrimina
tion and good taste of that man, who could per
ceive no difference between the coarse buffoonry
of a strolling player of low farce or interlude,
( 16 )
and him who, catching a portion of the spirit,
“bodies forth,” as it were, the conceptions of
our immortal Bard.
Next came the vagrant act of the 17th Geo.
2. which, with its widely-spreadingclauses,or ra
ther claws, pouncing upon the poor players, made,
and has continued, them ever since its own. Thus
were they of the “learned sock” numbered with
outcasts; and the act of Elizabeth, as much per
verted from its original meaning as that act would
be, which, being passed in restraint of ballad
singers, and organ grinders, should, at this day,
be made to apply to a Catalani, a Stephens, or a
Spagnoletti.
But we have not yet done with this tasteful
and discriminating enactment. It ordains, that
every person who shall, for hire, &c. represent,
&c. or cause to be represented, &c. any interlude,
tragedy, comedy, &c. without the authority of
letters patent from the crown, or license of the
Lord Chamberlain, shall be subject to such and
such penalties. Now, who, upon reading this,
would not think, as it has been thought in the
higher courts, that the power of the crown and
Lord Chamberlain was here recognizedasextend
ing to every part of the kingdom & But, no ;
towards the end we find a provision, by which,
( 17 )
the prerogative of the crown, heretofore unli
mited in these matters, is shorn of its splendour,
and the Sovereign, and the chief officer of his
household, permitted to exercise their power of
licensing theatres, only in the city of JWestmin
ster and the liberties thereof, or where his Majes
ty in person may perchance be resident. This is,
truly, the bathos of legislation; and although
there have been two convictions under this act,
removed into the King's Bench by certiorari, this
objection seems, to one's astonishment, never to
have been taken. The first was a case" for
tumbling without the Chamberlain's license, and
which was quashed by the court on the ground,
that tumbling was not such an entertainment of
the stage as required a license. The second was
a more recent one for performing the tragedy of
“Richard the Third,” at the Cobourg Theatre :
without a similar license, and which was affirm
ed. In the former case there was, I take it, no
law to restrain them ; in the latter, the offence
would have been punishable by the vagrant act;
for although the defendant might have pleaded
a license under the 25th Geo. 2. for certain pur
poses, yet, in the eye of the law, the abuse of a
license, or the not having one at all, would have
* Rex v. Handy, 6T. R.2s6. -
t Rex v. Glossop, 4 B. & A. p. 616.
C
( 18 )
been considered the same thing. The absurdity
in the second case, which strikes one is, that a
man is convicted under an act for not having in
Surrey, what the same act declares cannot be
granted to him, out of Westminster. Thus un
til the 28th of Geo. 3. during the period of half
a century, the whole country, excepting West
minster and its liberties, was altogether shut out
from the rational amusement of the drama, un
less an act of parliament, as occasionally was the
case, were obtained for the express purpose of
erecting a theatre in some particular place.
I come now to the 25th Geo. II. s. 2. which,
although it has properly no more relation to
players, than to any other description of his
Majesty's subjects, has yet, by some unaccount
able perversion, become a statute of great thea
trical consideration: after reciting, that “the
“multitude of places of entertainment for the
“lower sort of people is a great cause of thefts
“and robberies, as they are thereby tempted to
“spend their small substance in riotous plea
“sures, &c.” it enacts, that “any house, room,
“garden, or other place, kept for public danc
“ing, music, or other public entertainment of
“ the like kind, in London and Westminster, or
“within twenty miles thereof, without a license
“from the sessions, shall be deemed a dis
( 19 )
“orderly house or place.” It then empowers any
constable having a warrant, to enter such house
or place unlicensed, and “seize any person who
“shall be found therein, in order that they may
be dealt with according to law.” Then follow
the penalties to which the keepers of such
places are liable.
Now the intention of this statute obviously
was, to put under the controul of the magistracy
in sessions, certain public places of entertain
ment, then in vogue with the lower orders; such
as the Apollo Gardens, Bagnigge Wells, the
Dog and Duck, the Shepherd and Shepherdess,
and “others of the like” (and therefore, neither of
a dramatic or theatrical,) “kind.” Yet, notwith
standing its manifest object, notwithstanding
the opinion of Lord Kenyon, “that it was not
“applicable to entertainments of the stage,”—
and a decided case, to the same effect,f-the
minor theatres, under its presumed protection,
are nightly continuing to perform the regular
drama with impunity. The clause under which
allpersons indiscriminately are liable to be seized
* Gallini v. Laborie.5 T. R. 244. A case, in which it was
decided, that even dancing, as a ballet of action, was not
authorized under the 25th Geo. II. but required theChamber
lain's license.
f Rer v. Glossop. 4 B. & A. G16.
C 2
( 20 )
in an unlicensed place of the sort, is both unjust
and absurd :—unjust, as it confounds the inno
cent with the guilty, and is much the same as
ifa party ofgentlemen, after the opera, whilst—
— “In chat—
“With Champagne, lobster-salad, and all that,” .
at Long's, or Stevens's, were to be arrested and
hurried off to the watch-house, because the
Maitre d'Hotel had not taken out a regular
ale license. It is absurd, because it directs
the persons so “seized, to be dealt with
“according to law,” when, in fact, there is no
law according to which they can be dealt with;
and because, without any reason, it limits its
own operation to London and Westminster, and
within twenty miles of them; as if it were not
just as necessary" that public places of the de
scription contemplated by the act, in other parts
of the kingdom, Manchester or Liverpool, for
instance, should be put under the controul of the
magistrates, as in London and Westminster. The
28 Geo. 3. reciting the 10 Geo. 2. states, that,
“divers acts of parliament had, since that act,
“ been solicited and obtained for divers cities,
“towns, and places, for exempting them respec
“tively from the provisions of the said law, and
* See opinion of Lord Kenyon in the case of the King v.
Handy.
( 21 )
“that it would be expedient to permit in towns of
“considerable resort, theatrical representations,
“for a limited time and under regulations.” It
then proceeds to enable justices in session, un
der certain limitations, to license persons and
places, for the performance of the regular drama,
but omits to impose penalties for playing with
out such license, leaving the offender to be dealt
with under the Vagrant Act.
Thus, Sir, I think I have shown, that these four
statutes, which at this day constitute the laws
relative to theatrical exhibitions, are alike incon
sistent, absurd, and unjust. The (first of them)
10 G. 2. by which for the first time, through the
ignorance or indolence of the framer ofit, players
of every description were branded with the de
grading appellation of rogues and vagabonds,
and which by curtailing the ancient prerogative of
the crown with regard to theatres, rendered nu
gatory its own provisions. The (second) 25 G.
2. under which licenses granted for one purpose,
are applied, with impunity, to another; which
makes also, as we have seen, the innocent re
sponsible for the guilty; and which, then refers
them to a nonentity to be dealt with. The
(third) 28 G. 3. which, although it empowers
justices in the country to license players, im
poses no penalties for the violation of its pro
( 22 )
visions, but hands over all offenders against it to
(the fourth) the Vagrant Act, which consigns
them to the fate of Ixion.
——“ty rrepoevri ſpoxº
IIayrā kvXtvööperov.”—PINdAR.
Under these circumstances, therefore, I ven
ture, most respectfully, to suggest to you, on the
grounds at once of justice and expedience, the
propriety of omitting altogether the players at
tached to established theatres in the bill which
has just been brought into parliament, to amend
the laws relating to vagrancy. The itinerant
tumbler and dancer, and “common stage player”
wandering abroad, – such as usually attend
fairs and horse races—when performing without
a certain license, might with propriety, be
classed among the “idle and disorderly.”
Much, however, Sir, as the regulation of
our dramatic diversions lemands revision and
reform, the task in hands like yours, of accom
plishing it, would not be difficult; and I can
assure you it would afford me infinite pleasure
to contribute my mite of assistance, towards so
desirable a work.
I have the honour to be,
&c. &c. &c.
Temple, April29, 1824.
B&L .R
