{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1824__cole___the_circular_zodiac_of_tentyra.pdf","mytitle":"The Circular Zodiac Of Tentyra","mylang":"de"}
TREATISE
OH THE
Circular of SEentgra,
IN EGYPT.
BY MR. JOHN COLE,
Purser in the RoyalNavy.
SOLD BY
LONGMAN AND Co. LONDON :
HAVTLAND, FRANKFORT- PLACE ; AND ARL1SS,
MARKET-STREET, PLYMOUTH,
1S24.
M
Havilaail, Printer, Frankfort-Place, Plymouth,
PREFACE.
IN submitting this small Treatise on the ZODIAC of
TBNTVRA to the World, the Author trusts, that his substitu
ting' the term Tentyra, .the ancient name of the. Town whence
this.Monument was taken, instead of Dendera, the modern
name of a village, situated one mile and a half distant from the
ruins, will not meet with disapprobation.
The mathematician is not to expect to find in the third
.part any elucidation of that most intricate 'problem in astro
nomy, the precession of the equinoxes, so ably and so wonder
fully managed by Sir Isaac, .N.e.wtpjj in the third book of his
Principia ; as this little ^tract is intended for general reading
;$0 explain as clearly as possible the principal causes of such
precession, and does not aim at embracing an explanation of
the causes of the multiplicity of variations arising from the
r -;| '-I'.-. :l •
combinations of the different attractions connected with it.
The fourth part is the most important in its results ;
it shows the date of the Zodiac of Tentyra, the place where
most probably it was invented, and the uses to which it was
appropriated. In the investigation of these particulars, the
Author was compelled to resort to the Bible, because no other
book extant was sufficiently ancient to communicate the neces
sary information. Hence it will appear, that while philoso
phical results are gained, the truth and accuracy of the Scrip
tural history and chronology are established ; and if the
arguments be admitted, they cannot but be interesting both to
the philosopher and to the Christian.
A2
PART I.
Interesting selections from M. Lelorrain's Travels, and '
his manner of obtaining the Circular Zodiac,
described ty M, Saubtier. Translated from
French.
>els, and ~\
Hoc, as I
rom the f
PART II.
The description of the Circular Zodiac. Also transla- "1
tedfrom the French. f
PART HI.
ion
easyfor general reading.
The causes ofthe Precession oftheEquinoxes, rendered \
j
PART IV.
The philosophical results which the Circular Zodiac
demonstrates. • \
f
Subscribers' Names.
Ctpiti.
Apreece, Sir Thomas Hussey, Bart. 1
Ayling, Rev 2
Austin, Rev
Appleton, Lieut. Edward, R. M.
Arlissj Mr. Ward West, Plymouth
.Byng, Hon. Edmund
Byng, Hon. Capt. Henry, R. N.
Beloe, Rev. P. Surrey
Boileau, J. P. Etq. do 2
Boileau, J. P. Jun. Etq. do. 2
Boileau, Miss do, 2
Bragg, — Esq I
Booker, Charles, Esq. Guildford, 1
Bromley, Richard, Esq. Stoke Damcrel 1
Boger, Capt. R. N. Plymouth 1
Bevians, Capt. R. N. do 1
Brown, William, Esq. Surrey 1
Beddek, R. Esq. Royal Hospital, Stonehouse, 1
Cochrane, Hon. Sir Alexander Inglis, Admiral, G. C. B. 1
Cockburn, Sir George, Ficc Admiral, G. C. B 1
Carr, Rev. John, Storey, 4
Clarke, — M. D. do I
Clarkson, N. Esq. Glostershire, 1
Cobbe, Miss C. Surrey I
Cole, Rev. W. H. do 4
Cowan, Mrs. do -. - . I
Cole, Rev. Samuel, Suffolk, 4
Cook, Saml. Ed. Lieut. R. N.—H. M. S. Windsor Carte, 1
Cole, Rev, W. 8. Worcester College, Oxford, I
Co/u'tt.
Cule, John, Esq, Worcester College, Oxford, 1
Corry, C. O. Neil, Esq. do. do 1
Coxe, Rev. R. C. do. do 1
Dashvrood, C. Capt. K. N.—H. M. S. Windsor Castle,. . 1
Daysh, George, Esq. Petworth, 2
Dalton, George, Esq. Royal Hospital, Stonehouse, 1
Dunning, Richard, Esq. Devonport, , I
Disney, G. Esq. Surrey, 1
Ellis, Richard, Esq. Surrey 1
EIkins, Edmund, Esq. Guildford, .....',. 1
Elkins, William, Esq. Guildford, . ... ] I. T. ..'...'. 1
Edye, Joseph, Esq. Devonport, '....'.'... 1
Easton, Mr. James, Devonport .._,.'...' 1
Evens, C. B. Esq. Plymouth, ' 1
Fraser, Alexander, Vice Admiral, ........'..' T
Farley, Rev. William, Effingham,. . 1 ...... '.. .,.:. 4
Farley, Her. George, do. ..........'.......... 1
Farley, Rev. Thomas, do, 1
Forrest, Thomas, /'-';.,/. Surrey, ....'....' '. . 1
French, John, Esq. do . .\ .....'. '. . ..." 1
Gibson, Miss, do. .'..;..'!
Gordon, G. T. Esq. do'. "..['.. ...,.' . ;/ . .'. . . .'. '. '.'.-. ':1
Gulston, Frederic, Esq. do .' '..'....'.' 1
llotliiitn, Hon. Sir Henry, Hear Adjniral, K. C. B. ...'... t
ll(»ll-nv;iy, [Sir Charles, Major General,. 1
Ihivihm, Jos. /-.'.svy. GuUdJord, . . .............'..'. 1
IlorU I cy , Jos. Esq. do .^ ^ ..'.'. 1
Polt, Rev. R. Surrey '. ..'.'.. v. .,..'. 1 .'.'.... .\ . i
Henderson, J. Esq. H. M. S. Brittania, ~ 1
Podge, William, Esq, Devonport, 1
|{odge, John, Esq. do. ' ' ' ' 1
Pains, Mrs. do. 1
Haviland, Mr. William, Plymouth, '. . '. ..'.... 1
Parris, ,WiUjam, Esg. jdo. i
Harvey, Mr. do. . .' ', ' 1
Tii
Copies.
Jones, E. Major R. M, 1
Jackson, Edward, Esq. Surrey, 1
Ladbroke, James Weller, Esq. Shalford-IIoitse, 1
Lancaster, Mr. Thomas, Devonport, 1
Lierre, Rev. J- S. Surrey, -.-.-..,. 1
Martin, Sir George, Admiral, G. C. B 1
Moore, Sir Graham, Vice Almiral, K. C. B .. 1
Maybanke, John, Esq. Surrey, i. . * .' 1
Mitchener, George, Lieut. R. N. Devonport, /. 1
Mangles, — Esq. Surrey, .' t . . . t . 1
Manning, Mrs. do ; . ; 1
Martyr, Mrs. do
Maybanke, Mrs. J. do. .;......;. i ,
Magrath, Doctor, Plymouth ; ''' ,
Norton, George, Capt. R. N. Guildford ,:...i w ; ;
Newland, William, Esq. do. . . i . . 1 1 . t . . . : v t ; « t , t
Onslow, linn. Col. Edward Manwaring, . . . : i . ; ; < ; : . . 1
PaiTj J. Esq. Liverpool ^ . n .... i . n '.; 1
Parr, W. Esq. A. M, Liverpool, ...... s ...; s ... . ; -^ i I
Perrjj ^— £s? Surrey; ...~. ...... .;:'.:'.;;;....... B
Pollen, Rev; G. P. Boileau, do. ..;......; ; .;.ii ; t '.i •
Parrott, G. L. Esq. R. N. Poole, Dorset.. .......,,t m I
Pierce, George, Capt. R. N. Devonport, . . . n. '. i . ; . v . t % 1
Page, W. B. Esq. R. N. Stonehouse, -. ; i . . i i '.* ^ '. 1
Paramore, 8 . Esq. Devonport, 1
Paramore, 1). Esq, do. v. 1
Rickman, John, Esq. Westminster, 4
Rude, Thomas, Esq. Surrey, 1
Rynd, J. Esq. do I
Rich, Capt, R. N. do 1
Rich. C. Capt. R. N. do 1
Robinson, L. A. Lieut. R. N.—H. M. S. Superb, 2
Sanders, T. Capt. R. N. Devonport, 1
Slater, G. Esq. Stonehouse, 1
Shebbeare, C. I. Esq. Guildford, 1
Ctpiu.
Sibthorpe, Thomas, Esq. Guildford, 1
Sibthorpe J. A. Esq. do. ,.,..,,...... 1
Smith, Miss, do 1
Sparkes, Richard, Esq. Surrey, 1
Steele, —Esq. do 1
Stedman, James, Esq. do. .... j
Stedman, John, Esq. do. 1
Stevens, Rev. F. R. do 1
Stringer, Miles, Esq. do 2
Stirling Capt. R. N. 1
Stevens Mr. J. L. Plymouth, \(Anthor ofFancy's Wreath) 1
Smith, Daniel. Esq. R. N. Storehouse, 1
Torrington, Right Hon. George, discount, Rear Admiral, 1
Taylor, — Esq. M. D. Surrey, 1
Treeby, Mr. Plymouth, 1
Williams, Sir Thomas, Admiral, K. C. B 1
Wyndham, Capt. R. N. 1
Windham, M rs 1
White, J. Capt. R. N. Deyonport 1
White, George, Lieut. R. N. Stonehouse, 1
Warrand, Capt. R N. Devonport, i .- • 1
Yaldwyn, V. H. Esq. Surrey 1
Yaldwyn, Mrs. do 1
....... \
A TREATISE
ON THE
Sgolriac of
IN EGYPT.
' ',—'.—: ' *— '*
.
PART I.
Interesting Selections from M. Lelorraitts Travels, and
his manner of obtaining the Circular Zodiac, as des
cribed by M. Saulnier. Translatedfrom the French.
Mohamed Ali has, by a vigorous
effort, annihilated the remaining power of the
Mamelukes, Egypt, once so miserable under
their disorderly government,assumes a different
appearance. Some traces of their former bar
barity disappear ; and European refinements
are introduced. Public fountains are con
structed ; tillage is extended ; new roads are
made ; and canals are opened.
The organization of the military service has
produced great changes. Manufactories are
established at Alexandria, at Cairo, and at
almost all the towns of Thebais. Commercial
a
transactions have received $\ still more active
impulse. The merchants, supported by the
protection of the Pacha, and by the great
capitals, which he places at their disposal,
attempt, in order to recover the commerce of
India, to make the route thither formerly
pursued, but on account of the insults, and
dangers, to which it was exposed in Egypt,
afterwards abandoned, for that very circuitous
one by the Cape of Good Hope. This beau
tiful "country, subjected for so many ages to
masters, who knew nothing but destruction,
begins to yield the first fruits of a fostering
and protecting government.
Mohamed Ali, not originally French, as
some romanticly pretend, but born of Turkish
parents, in Macedon, is far from participating
with his fellow countrymen in their peculiar
prejudices against Europeans : on the contrary,
they share a great part of his confidence, and
unite with him in the execution of his projects.
He soon discovered, that the present inhabi
tants of Egypt were ill suited to accomplish
its regeneration. Mr. Briggs, an Englishman,
is at the bead of one of his commercial estab
lishments; M. Jennel, a Frenchman, super
intends his manufactories; M. Coste, also a
Frenchman, a young architect of superior
talent, manages his buildings ; and finally,
Col. Seve, a brave Officer, of the old Guard,
(retired from France on account of his Orange
politics) has found an asylum with him, and
enjoys an influence, which he often turns to
the benefit of his fellow countrymen.
To the various means, which the existing
government of Egypt employs for the purpose
of attracting Europeans, we must add the
permission granted to every individual desi
rous of rummaging the soil for discovering
antiquities, and of removing those on its sur
face. These searches, the execution of which
is necessarily entrusted to the Arabs, have
proved very beneficial in procuring a relative
ease to those who have been charged with it,
and above all to the once miserable inhabi
tants of the villages built near the ruins
of Thebes. In vain have some of the Pacha's
counsellors repeatedly endeavoured to cause
these rummagings to be made exclusively on
their own account, and afterwards to collect
the products into Museums. He perceived
that such establishments are ill adapted to a
country, still so imperfectly civilized as that
of modern Egypt. More judicious than Peter
the first, who wished at once to introduce to a
people half savage, the refinements of the
most polished nations ; Mohamed Ali directs
his sole attention to objects of positive utility.
u2
I have described the transactions which
passed in Egypt, not only from the relations
of late travellers, but also from particular
information personally gathered on the spot.
In 1818 I arrived at the Pacha's with some
French books, which he wished to have trans
lated, and which I had obtained in consequence
of a note from M. Boghos, his chief Drogman.
The choice is remarkable.—They consist of
the Biography of Plutarch, the Life of Peter
the First, another of Charles the Twelfth, the
Campaigns of Frederick the Second, those of
Napoleon, and a manuscript of St. Helena. I
received afterwards at Alexandria, many ex
presses with monuments collected at Thebes,
and, among others, a mummy, of which there
is not its equal in any private or public col
lection in Europe. But it was not till 1820,
that I seriously thought on the means of par
taking of the facilities, which the government
of Mohamed Ali affords to the explorers of
Egyptian antiquities. At the same time, I
formed the resolution not to expose myself to
any hazardous chances of rummaging, when
those means which I should have adopted,
had succeeded satisfactorily ; little other effect
would be produced beyond that of increasing
the number of those monuments, of an impo
sing but uniform character, which begin to
encumber the cabinets of Europe. I began to
think it time to neglect these mere copies of
figures, and that I must direct my view towards
some object of acknowledged, and (if 1 may
thus express myself) of individual importance.
I instantly thought on the Planisphere,
sculptured in relief, and situated in the upper
chambers of the temple, at Tentyra : and after
having reflected a long time on it, that it was
the venerable remains ofsuch remote antiquity,
1 resolved to have it transported into the bo
som of enlightened Europe. In the enter
prise of which I was meditating, I could not ef
fectually pitch upon an object more important.
There are three other zodiacs in Egypt, but
their colossal dimensions, and the places occu-"
pied by them in the great buildings of which
they constitute parts, will never permit them
to be separated. Besides those in the temple
of Latopolis do not belong to the same epoch,
as the circular Zodiac of Tentyra, and they
represent the heavens differently. Finally,
what most particularly increases the value ofthe
latter is, that while the others have sustained
more or less injury, this scarcely carries with
it any traces, either of the hand of time, or of
the barbarians.
Other considerations also contributed to fix
my choice on this monument. By a singular
fatality during a long succession of. ages, it
has remained unperceived in the place where
it was discovered. The attentive and intrepid
travellers, Procope, Bruce, and Norden, have
passed near it, without suspecting it. At one
of the most brilliant epochs of our military
exploits, it was discovered by General Desaix,
who was pursuing across the solitudes ot The-
bais, the shattered remains of the corps of
Mourad Bey. M. Denon, whom an active cu
riosity and enthusiasm for the arts, had prompt
ed to share the dangers and fatigues of the
Division of Desaix, delineated for the first time
the Planisphere of Tentyra ; and the scientific
part ofthe French, then in Eg;ypt, have in their
memoirs, since published, brought to light all
its importance. So that this monument has in
some degree become national by the pleasing
remembrances to which it is attached ; and I
conceive that on its arrival in France, it will
be viewed with peculiar regard, and received
as a trophy of the army of Egypt.
Fortunately, neither the scientific men, nor
the French artificers, who followed the move
ments of that army, attempted to separate it
from the vaults to which it was suspended. If
that operation had been undertaken, and had
succeeded, the Planisphere of Tentyra would
infallibly have fallen into the power of the
English ; as did the inscription of Rossetta ; ,
the tomb under which Alexander is supposed
to have been buried : and all the other monu
ments collected by the institute of Egypt;
and which were yielded to them by the con
vention concluded between General Menou
and General Hutchinson.
Since that period the government of Great
Britain has, through the means ol her diplomatic
and commercial agents, not ceased to increase
her collection already so precious. It appears
that she after the examples of the Romans,
entertains the idea of decorating her metropo
lis with the magnificent wreck of Egyptian
civilization. The obelisk, known by the name
of Cleopatra's Needle, has been transported to
London, to be elevated on one of its squares ;
another obelisk, that of Phil®, has also arrived
there, with the colossal head of Memnon;
besides a great number of statutes, and bass-re
liefs, and a beautiful sarcophagus, in oriental
alabaster, discovered at Thebes, in the sepul
chres of the Pharaohs. But if the English have
tooexclusively taken apart from the archeologic
riches, spread on both banks of the Nile; and
ifthe French on the contrary too little profited
from the favourable dispositions, which the
government of Mohamed Ali offers to their
regard ; it appeared to me, that the time lost
by us would be more than compensated by the
work I anticipated. The examination of the
plans drawn up by the commission of Egypt,
had convinced me of the possibility of its
execution.
Unexpected business prevented my depar
ture, and might have delayed it a long time,
had not a friend of mine, M. Lelorrain, whose
imagination had been vividly excited by the
singularity of the project, which I had confided
to him, desired me on no account to relinquish
it, and proposed to charge himself with its
accomplishment. I did not hesitate to accept
his offer, and to receive him as an associate ;
for 1 was satisfied, that he possessed all the
qualifications, which such an undertaking re
quires. From that moment I employed my
self without intermission to collect the several
articles requisite for ensuring success. It
was evident, that M. Lelorrain could not find
in Egypt any of the instruments necessary for
the operation. I consequently made in great
haste, saws of different dimensions, to separate
the monument from its contiguous supports;
chisels to reduce it in thickness; machines to
raise its mass; and a dray to conduct it to the
river Nile. The idea of this dray was con
ceived by M. Lelorrain ; and I regarded the
merit of that invention, as the first guarantee
of the success of the efforts he was about to
perform.
It was during the first days ofOctober, 1820,
that he embarked for Alexandria, with the
instruments which I had caused to be com
pleted. He carried also with him my instruc
tions, as well as those of an able artist, who
had made a profound study of the monuments
ofantiquity ; together with the notes and letters
of recommendation with which many of the
members of the Institute had freely presented
him. M. Le Baron Pasquier, then Minister
for Foreign affairs, was equally interested in
an enterprise, which appeared so beneficial to
the arts; and he transmitted by M. Lelorrain,
a letter for M. Pillavoine, who filled at that
period the office of Consul General of France,
in Egypt. With all these recommendations,
M. Lelorrain arrived at Alexandria in the mid
dle of November.—After having rested some
time, he left this place for Cairo, where he arri
ved in the beginning of January, 1821. His
arrival at this town threw into confusion all the
customary searchers for Egyptian antiquities.
It seemed particularly to prepossess Mr. Salt,
Consul General of England, and M. Drovetti,
Tvho came to be nominated Consul General of
France. It is well known, that these two gentle
men assumed to themselves the almost exclu
sive right over what remained of the beautiful
hermitage of the Pharaohs and the Ptolemies:
10
according to them all the antiquities which
form a part of it, and which are found in the
lands, where they have at any period given a
stroke with the shovel, or with the pick-axe,
have become their legitimate property.
At first they had a great deal of trouble in
reconciling their common pretensions : the
journals of the times, and the relations given
by travellers, have rendered an account of the
debates of their agents, and of the behaviour,
which frequently resulted. At last they came
to an understanding, and concluded a treaty of
pacification. As kings, who in accommodating
their differences wish to prevent all the causes
likely to renew them ; they have taken a river
as the boundery of the respective possessions,
which they claim for themselves in Egypt.
After two or three years, it is the course of the
Nile which separates them.
The Pacha has not«interfered in the arrange
ments, and it may be believed, that he takes
no account of it. The benevolence of that
Prince towards Europeans, is not partial ; it
is open to all, whatever be the different na
tions, to which they may belong. When M.
Lelorrain was presented to him, after having
feceived him in a welcome manner, he demands
of him, by means of % Drogman, (for he does
not himself speak the European languages)
ii
what was the object of hisjourney, M. Lelor-
rain replied, that he desired to search for
antiquities, in upper Egypt. Mohamed Ali
consented without hesitation to authorize these
searches, gave the necessary firman, and at the
same time, as a mark of special favour, sent by
him a letter of recommendation for Achmet
Pacha, Governor of Upper Egypt. Here is
the translation of the firman, which is in the
Turkish language.
Above is written a monogram, which signifies
—GOD. A little below is the seal of Moha
med Ali.
ORDER. " Conformably to the suggestion,
and by the request, made by a nautical travel
ler, subject of France, named Lelorrain, who
desires to proceed as far as Wadi Halsa, to
satisfy his curiosity, and make searches and
rummagings in certain ancient edifices, our
present order has gone forth, and been trans
mitted to him ; in order that he may travel
without fear for the purpose above-mentioned ;
and that, far from opposing any obstacle to his
searches about the ancient monuments, the
governors of the provinces, and other officers
entrusted with the administration of the coun
try, are to afford him aid and protection."
" If it please God, we aet in conformity to
his appointment."
c2
12
" Given the 20th Day ofthe Month of Rebi-
ulthany, 1235." (27th of January, 1821).
This firman afforded M. Lelorrain shelter
from all personal danger in the expedition he
was about to undertake. A person travels
now in Egypt, when he is thus authorized,
with almost the same security as in the most po
lished parts of Europe, and certainly with less
danger, than in many states of Italy. When
Mohamed Ali was raised to the rank, which he
at present fills, by the vote of the Militia, in
which he was a General Officer, he was obliged
to suffer the excesses, to which they abandoned
themselves for three days; but in the midst
even of these disorders, he swore, that in a few
years, a person should walk without fear by
night through the streets of Cairo, with his
hands full of gold; and he has kept his word.
This severe police in countries, where it was
once impossible to travel without numerous
caravans, proves the great changes which have
been effected under the administration of the
real Pacha. So I do not hesitate to say that
his elevation to the government of Egypt, is,
next to the insurrection of Greece, the most
important event that for ages has transpired in
the East, and it may be pregnant with most
important consequences.
1.3.
Mi Lelorrain, having freighted a vessel,
departed from Cairo, on the 12th of February,
with an intelligent interpreter, and a Janisary
of the Guard ofthe Pacha, to protect his effects
and utensils. After a navigation, which was
long, since it continued for a whole month, he
arrived at last at Dendera, in the middle of
the night. The Chiefof that town, from whom
he implored an asylum, received him with the
hospitality of old times ; the pathetic tale of
which the East alone at present preserves.
Dendera is an Arab town, situated on the
eastern bank of the Nile, one hundred and
forty leagues from Cairo, and only twenty from
Thebes. The ruins of ancient Tentyra, from
which it evidently borrows its name, area mile
and a halfdistant. Tentyra was formerly one
of the largest towns in Egypt, and the capital
of one of its nomes or provinces. Elerodotus,
Diodorus, and Strabo, who visited it, all speak
of it. The latter even made particular mention
of the splendour of its temples. That which
is now called the great temple, was dedicated
to Isis, according to the authors who have
described Egypt ; and according to M. De St.
Martin at Nephte. It is one of the largest
buildings of Thebais, and incontestably the
most beautiful, and in the best condition.
14
This monument, which has for ages, excited
the enthusiasm of those who visited it, is built
with brown stone, most probably brought from
the neighbouring mountains. Its front is 182
feet, sortie inches, in length. Enormous co
lumns, 21 feet in circumference, adorn its
portico ; these are twenty-four in number, as
well as those ofthe temple, at Latopolis. The
buttresses of the walls, both outside and inside,
and also the circumferences of the columns,
are covered through their whole height witb.
allegorical and religious representations, sculp
tured in relief, and with an infinite number of
hieroglyphic characters, similarly sculptured,
and intended according to all appearances, for
the explanations of the representations, about
which they are disposed.
The imagination is struck with astonishment
at the enormous sums and time, necessary for
accomplishing this sumptuous edifice. Its as
pect is so imposing, that it seizes upon the
dullest and most uncultivated mind. It issaid,
that the Division of General Desaix, after a
long march, in which the soldiers bad become
a prey to cruel privations, arrived in tbe even
ing at Tentyra ; and that all who composed it,
struck with a sense of admiration at the sight
of the great temple, clapped their hands three
times successively.
-' 'L*i- '^r"™t"TMI
Thejgreat Zodiac, or rather its wreck, (for as
we have said before, it is excessively damaged)
is situated in the ceiling; of the portico. It ap
pears even to have suffered much since M.
Jollois and Devilliers saw it. Many parts
which were represented in the drawing taken
by them, are now entirely destroyed. A very
few years more will perhaps complete the ruin
ofthis old page of the annals of the universe.
In going out of the portico, and in turning
to the right to go round the temple, we proceed
on a mass of rubbish, which rising with a rapid
ascent, envelop by its side, the columns of the
portico to a very considerable height, and the
temple properly so called to the lower part of
its friezes. An opening, evidently forced across
the entablature, gives access to the platform,
which covers this vast circuit. Arab cultiva
tors, probably for the purpose of protecting
themselves from the oppression of the cavalry
ofthe Mamelukes, or from that of the Bedouins,
built a village on the ground, the remains of
which still exist.
Having entered on this magnificent terrace,
we discover immediately on the right, a little
apartment separated into three partitions.
Formerly the passage to it was by an inner stair
case, the steps of which are not yet destroyed,
16
--V *
but are at present much encumbered. The first
partition into which we enter, is uncovered ;
its walls are ornamented with sculptures of
admirable execution. Itis4jFrench measures
broad. We cross it to arrive at the other par
tition; the size of which is the same, arid which
is enlightened by the doors. The sculptures
decorating this second partition are not execu
ted with art inferior to those of the first. On
its ceiling was suspended the valuable monu
ment, which M. Lelorrain came to seek with
such anxious care, with such considerable trou
ble, and with such great expence.
Early in the morning at break of day he left
his host to proceed to the great temple. Never,
as 1 have observed before did any man, en
dowed with any degree of sensibility, behold
this edifice without astonishment; which ap
pears extraordinary even in a country abound
ing with other wonders. We may judge after
all of the trouble M. Lelorrain experienced;
for independently of the ordinary occurrences
which might befal him, as well as other travel
lers : he fancied for a moment, whether our
project was not chimerical, and consequently
whether the voyage which he had undertaken,
and the great expenses already incurred,
would not prove destitute ofbeneficial results.
17
He arrived at last in the enclosure, where he
found the Circular Zodiac; he viewed this fa
mous monument, the object of still unsettled
disputes; he carefully observed its position; he
considered that by means of the rubbish, by
which we ascended to the higher parts of the
temple, we could without much trouble con
duct to the ground the masses, which we came
to separate. It was this rubbish, and the man
ner, in which it was disposed, which gave to me
the first idea of the possibility of the undertak
ing, to which M. Lelorrain so fortunately
consented to associate himself.
After being convinced by his own eyes of the
possibility of the performance, he resolved to
set about the undertaking immediately. Some
English travellers had arrived at Dendera be
fore him, to take drawings; and announced
their intention of continuing there. When
they had departed and been tired of other
concerns, they would probably have spoken of
the works of M. Lelorrain, had he been so im
prudent as to have undertaken them in their
presence. From that time he might have been
exposed to disputes, which on the contrary he
wished by the mystery of his arrival to avoid.
He removed from the Ruins of Tentyra,
with the intention of returning. He entered
into Thebais ; he successively visited its ancient
It
capital; Ksna, the actual capital; Latopolis,
Assouan, and the Isle of Phila?, situated on
the borders of Egypt and N ubia ; and which
in the space of three hundred toises, contains
the remains of nine temples.
At Assouan, he was presented to Achmct
Pacha ; for whom, we have seen, he had a let
ter. He was welcomely received by him ; for
this Prince has the same benevolence towards
Europeans, as Mohamed Ali possesses. It is
under the orders of the Kacbef of Kena, that
the Scheich of Dendera is placed. But as M.
Lelorrain was informed, that one of his rivals
corresponded with the subalterns of the court
of Achmet ; in order therefore to prevent their
penetrating into his real project, he manifests
a desire of having at the same time letters of
recommendation for the Kachef of Kena, and
for those of Quos and Herment.
They were dispatched to him with a great
deal of eagerness, and when he had received
them he took leave of the Governor of Upper
Egypt ; and he did not delay to continue his
rout.
He did nothing at Thebes; the preconceived
idea, which the difficulties of the undertaking
about to be performed at Dendera presented,
absorbed his whole thoughts. The Arabs of
19
Gourna live in sepulchral caves of the Libyc
chain of mountains, at distances still unknown,
for every day new ones are discovered. In the
interior of these caverns we meet with nume
rous single bodies, and in the wells multitudes
in heaps, of a long train ot generations, which
have ceased to existfor many thousand years. It
is there also we find those tombs in granite, and
in sycamore ; those vases known by the name
of canopus' ; that multitude of amulets in co
loured wood, in enamelled earth, in bronze;
and all those sumptuous moveables, with which
the piety of the Egyptians environed their
dead.
The Arabs of Gourna have almost entirely
abandoned their agricultural occupations, for
the purpose of obtaining leisure to search for
the antiquities collected in such abundance in
their miserable habitations. They are not
however sufficiently wise to dispose of the pro
duce of their searchings to the best advantage
to travellers desirous of purchasing. M. Le-
lorrain obtained from them a certain number
of amulets, a few sarcophagus', and two up
per parts of mummies in sycamore wood.
These two upper parts of mummies are cover
ed with paintings, which equal by the fineness
of the stroke, and surpass by the vivacity of
their colours, the beautiful coloured plates of
D2
20
the grand work upon Egypt. The least of
them presents a remarkable peculiarity ; the
person who is represented by it, holds in his
hands two symbols, which are often observed
in the representations of the Egyptian Divin
ities ;—the cross-Handle, and the Nilometer.
It is very probable from this circumstance that
the person whose body was covered by this
monument, belonged to the sacerdotal order.
After M. Lelorrain had made these acquisi
tions, he departed from Thebes to return to
Dendera, where he arrived on the 18th April.
From this period the notes of his journal be
come more interesting, since it was then only
that he commenced executing the work, which
had determined his voyage to Egypt.
As the agents of his rivals would easily have
been able to have extended their influence as
far as Dendera, he led them to believe, that
his intention was to proceed to the banks of the
Red Sea, to make a collection of shells. They
were ready enough, when giving this advice to
their patrons at Cairo and Alexandria, in ad
ding, that M. Lelorrain had been forced by
indisposition to suspend his progress in a town
in Thebais, whose name they did not mention.
On the day of his return to Dendera, he re
pairs to the ruins with his Drogman, twenty
21
Arabs, and a Scheich, to serve as conductor of
the work. In all parts of Egypt the Arabs
have ceased to oppose the searching for anti
quities. Once they prevented as much as pos
sible these searches, because they were persuad
ed, that the Europeans had only a curiosity
for antique monuments, in consequence of the
diamonds, gold and silver, which they would
find concealed in them.
It was to discover these pretended treasures
that the Arabs mutilated the remains of the
most precious arts of Egypt. Even now in
spite of the inutility of their persevering en
deavours, they are still far from being unde
ceived in their foolish ideas, and from enter
taining a more judicious reason to account for
the curiosity of the Europeans. For they
think, that these, all of whom they consider
as magicians, possess alone the art ofextracting
from the monuments, the inestimable riches,
which they contain. Consequently, they sell
to travellers the antiquities which they them
selves have obtained ; or for a sum of money
they help them to carry others away ; convin
ced, that they ought henceforth to desist from
obtaining their most advantageous parts.
M. Lelorrain found at that time no difficulty
in persuading the inhabitants of Dendera to
help him in the execution of his projects.
22
On his arrival at the great temple* he saw
with satisfaction, that it was left to its accus
tomed solitude, The English, whom at first
he had found there, had fortunately departed1.
Therefore nothing prevented his immediately
commencing his labors. 1 have already said
something about the place, which the Circular
Zodiac occupied in this vast building; for the
perspicuity of what follows, I must enter into
some fresh details on this subject.
The ceiling in which it was inclosed, was
composed of three distinct parts; one of its
sides was occupied by this Zodiac, the other by
an astronomical scene of the same dimensions,
and the centre by the figure of Isis or Nephte,
placed between two great hieroglyphic inscrip
tions. From the tenor of the work of the
Commission of Egypt, we might have supposed,
that the Zodiac had been supported by a single
block of wood ;—this is erroneous.
The whole of the ceiling was composed of
three stones, our monument entirely included
one of these stones, and about the fourth part
of another, which was in the middle. On one
side it touched the wall, and on the other one
of the inscriptions which encompass the large
figure of the woman. The two other extremi
ties were bordered by strokes in zig-zag, which
are seen in many of the Egyptian bas-reliefs,
and which are supposed to represent water.
Including these zig-zags, which were two feet
in length on each side, the monument was
twelve feet long, and about eight broad. Jts
thickness was three feet ; and it would weigh
frpni fifty-five to sixty thousand pounds.
I wfll borrow from M. Lelorrain his own
expressions, in order to communicate the
knowledge more exactly of the means which
he adopted to effect displacing this almost
colossal monument. In a letter which he
wrote to me, he has related that operation, the
difficulties of which I was far from foreseeing,
when I concluded the project with him.
These are his words :—
" At first I thought ofpreserving the bonders
in zig-zag ; but besides their not surrounding
the four sides, and their evidently encreasing
the quantity without any advantage ; I concei
ved that the weight of the great stone would
be so enormous, that it wou.ld be impossible tp
manage it. I then confined myself to take
away the Planisphere, with the frame in which
it was enclosed. This representation naturally
obliges me to enter into some details relative
to its movements."
" I was at first very much embarrassed how
to make a hole in the ceiling for the purpose
21
of introducing the saw. We were to encoun
ter stones three feet thick ; and I could not
dream of doing it with the few chisels I pos-;
sessed : if they had been employed for that
use, they would have been no longer service
able for clipping it. I then thought of sawing
diagonally on the outside; but another difficulty
arose ;—the saws would not bite without water,
and remain cool. To remedy this inconveni
ence, I made teeth in the saws, and they then bit
with difficulty. 1 had not yet however reached
the inside of the chamber : to arrive there I
conceived an expedient, which was completely
successful ; 1 had with me some good gun
powder to make presents with ; I began to
undermine a piece, which I had sawed : I did
it at first with great precaution, to ascertain
the ability of the mine, and the force of the
powder. When I was well satisfied on these
points, I worked with safety.—After two days
of very fatiguing labor, during which time I
was even obliged to work in the sun-shine, in
a heat of forty degrees, I had the satisfaction
to succeed in making a hole, which afterwards
I enlarged with a chisel, for the purpose of
introducing the saw. In consequence of the
precautions I had taken, the explosion of the
mine did no damage. I fancied we had gained
a great deal ; but we discovered, that we were
not able to saw above a foot of the stone in a
25
day : the three sides to be «awed were together
twenty feet. By this calculation, it would be
necessary for this part of the operation alone,
to employ a considerable time :for which I was
much pressed. My labors would not for any
length of period remain unknown; and if they
were divulged before they were completed, all
would be lost. 1 then made two other holes
in the zig-zags ; in this manner I was able to
work three saws at once."
"All was in a fair train ; I saw my three saws
employed ; I had stimulated the Arabs, and
they worked with incredible ardor, tn order
to have an eye on my saws I did not quit the
works a single instant ; when overpowered by
the sun, the insupportable heat of which you
cannot imagine, I fell dangerously ill and in
such a way, that it was not possible for me to
move. I was consumed with a dreadful fever;
and all my nerves were contracted about their
articulations. This continued eight days, and
I had no medicine ; I did not judge it fit to ob
tain that of Farchiout. An Arab cured one
with the juice of a plant, the name of which I
am ignorant of.
"In the mean time it was of the greatest im
portance not to interrupt nay work. My Drog-
man was very intelligent ; he had constantly
assisted me in overlooking my Arabs. By way
26
of recompence I engaged him to supply my
place. It was then the work became irregular.
The drogman by excess of precaution, and in
order not to injure the Planisphere, gives to the
saws an oblique direction, which has produced
an irregularity in the thickness of the stones,
and in the cut of the zig-zags. This irregula
rity has indeed done no injury, and it has pro
duced a proof ofthe integrity of the Zodiac."
I had no need of helping him, before the
commencement of this operation. M. Lelor-
rain had supported the monument by interior
scaffolding. When it was finished, in order
to render it more manageable, he reduced it
with the chisel a little less than half the thick
ness of the two stones, upon which the Zodiac
was supported. Then by means of six engines,
and some cords with which he had provided
himself, they were brought successively on the
terrace. All these undertakings at the great
temple were entirely executed in twenty-two
days. '
It was next necessary to provide the means
of transporting the Zodiac to the Nile ; and
this task was not less difficult than that
which he had lately so ably accomplished.
M. Lelorrain had not found a landing place
nearer than two leagues distant from Dendera :
it was there where his vessel waited. To ar
rive at it, a person was obliged to traverse the
ruins, which covered two hundred toises with
their rubbish ; and afterwards over a country
very irregular, intersected with a great number
of little canals.
It was so much the more difficult to transport
a burden so unwieldy as this was, across rub
bish, forming numerous heaps, with very steep
ascents. Nevertheless, at the end of the first
day's journey, the dray, which carried the
great stone, had reached beyond the ruins.
The second day it went half a league ; but the
beams upon which it rolled, were crushed by
its bulk, and were found in the evening in so
bad a condition, that it was impossible to use
them any longer. The following day they
were replaced by small wood, procured in the
country ; but this wood was only serviceable
for a single day.
> ... i ' .* .j ' *,
Afterwards it was only by the application of
the engines, and of levers, assisted by a great
number of Arabs, whom M. Lelorrain employ
ed, that he could make the dray advance.
From day to day its progress became more
slow. At last they employed not less than
twelve hours to accomplish fifty or sixty paces :
the Arabs were oppressed by the intensity of
the suffocating heat, and by labors so painful
and protracted. Our traveller did not content
E2
28
himself with directing the work ; although a
convalescent, he would often take a part in it
himself. It took him sixteen days, and fifty
men, to bring this precious conquest to the
borders of the Nile. The transportation of
the little stone was performed in the same
time as that of the great one, but with much
lees difficulty, although it was not placed on a
dray.
Unfortunately, when they arrived at the
river, the water was too low. It happened,
that the bank was elevated perpendicularly,
more than a dozen feet. For the purpose of
embarking the monument, M. Lelorrain made
a path of about sixty feet in length, which had
an inclination of about forty five degrees.
When it was finished, the dray was brought to
it. Thirty men were employed to keep it with
cords, and at the same time fastened to a palm
tree, which was near.
To render the descent easy, our traveller put
two little soaped planks under six cylinders.
But these planks were scarcely placed, when
breaking violently from its cable, it started,
throwing down the men who held it. After
O
having run with the rapidity of lightning over
a very considerable space, it plunged down
ward to six feet from the Nile, into soft earth,
which the waters had recently moistened.
29 '
How could one judge of the fright which M.
Lelorrain must have experienced at this crisis !
it
Since his return to Dendera, he had concili
ated the affection of the inhabitants by his kind
behaviour, and by the manner he allotted to
them their business. Hence, the courage of
the men whom he employed, was not abated
by this accident; although many, who did not
wish to let go the prize, had suffered their
members to be cruelly bruised. They did not
delay applying themselves to work with re
newed activity, and in a few hours effected
drawing the dray from the place where it had
been sunk, and of transporting it to the bank.
A fresh danger attended it : it was scarcely
on board, before the water penetrated through
the cracks, which had not been observed, and
which probably the extreme heat had occa
sioned.
In less than five minutes, this bark had sunk
a foot, and was continuing to sink more. At
length a party of the intrepid assistants of M.
Lelorrain employed themselves in bailing the
the water ; while others threw themselves into
the Nile to stop up the cracks. They succeeded
immediately. As soon as that was done, 'and
the bark was afloat, the second stone was
deposited.
30
M. Lelorrain not without some emotion, then
thought of separating from the good inhabi-
bitants of Dendera ; who had seconded him so
well in theexecution of his undertaking:. For
O
a moment he anticipated where he could enjoy
in lower Egypt that repose, which was so ne
cessary after so many fatigues and anxieties.
But unforeseen circumstances procrastinated
that desired period of repose. We have al
ready seen him contending with difficulties,
which casualties presented to him: difficulties
which he surmounted with perseverance and
address. We are now going to see him sustain
a dispute still more painful against powerful
men, who were become his enemies.
What was his surprise, after having given
orders to the Rais, or Master of the vessel, that
he wanted to depart ; this man declared to him
that it could not be done, because the waters
were too low at Dischne to allow the vessel to
pass. Uselessly does M. Lelorrian explain to
him by better arguments, that his fears were
chimerical. This man obstinately persists in
his refusal.
Overwhelmed at first by this fresh opposi
tion ; our traveller immediately suspects the
true causes. He recollected that Mr. Bradick,
agent to the United States, had passed to Den
dera, at the moment he was performing his
31
p
operation at the great temple ; and conse
quently it would be known at Cairo. A fact
still more significant is, that while they were
transporting the Zodiac to the borders of the
Nile, he had seen wandering in the neighbour
hood a man, whom he had met at Thebes, and
who was in the pay of his rivals.
During the next day these suspicions were
changed to certainties. His drogman told him,
that in a moment of absence the Rais came to
him, and declared, that the man, whom they
had seen wandering the preceeding days, had
promised him a thousand Turkish Dollars, if
he would delay for three weeks the departure
of the monument. M. Lelorrain comprehen
ded from that circumstance, that it would be
of the highest importance for him to gain that
time, which they were desirous of making him
lose from motives ofthe most mischievous ten
dency. ; '
He did not therefore hesitate to engage to
give the Rais, if he would depart immediately
the sum promised to cause his delay. Touched
with this proposition the Rais fell on his knees,
swearing that henceforth his fidelity should be
secure from all seductions; and really, from
that period his conduct was irreproachable.
After having surmounted these difficulties,
our traveller at last was able to depart; and
32
he only began to breathe with freedom. Un
fortunately, the North wind blowing, was far
from favouring his impatience for arriving-.
Another circumstance also contributed to re
tard his progress. As the waters of the Nile
continued to be very low, his vessel ran aground
almost every day, and frequently many times
in one day.
Having arrived within sixty leagues ofCairo,
after a navigation, which appeared to him very
long, he was hailed by a bark coming down the
river. On approaching, he recognized a
Frenchman, employed by the Consul General
of England. This person signified to him, that
he was the bearer of an order from Raya Bey,
to prevent the removal of the Planisphere of
Tentyra. M. Lelorrain replied, that he had
acted in virtue of authority granted to him by
the Pacha; and that if they attempted to take
his property, which he had legitimately ac
quired, he would first infringe upon the right
of the flag, which he had hoisted on his vessel
for his protection. This menace, and the man
ner in which it was pronounced, apparently
imposed on them ; after some fresh explana
tions, the tone of which was not offensive, they
allowed him peaceably to continue his voyage,
and he arrived at Cairo, during the month of
June.
33
Mr. Salt even dared to implore a monument
obtained with such difficulty. Therefore, all
njy expences, all the pains my associate had
take,n, all the dangers which he had encoun
tered, would have produced no other result.,
than that of bringing the Zodiac of Tentyra to
the feet of our fortunate and lazy rival, if his
pretensions had met with a favorable reception.
The Pacha demanded if the searches of M.
Lelorrain had been authorized by him ; and
upon receiving an affirmative answer, he im
mediately pronounced in our favor. Some
Turks, attached to the person of Mohamed
Ali, did not conceive how two stones could be
the object of contentions so vivid, in a country
where, they said, there were' «ome for all the
world.
M. Lelorrain was soon informed of the deci
sion of the Pacha. When it was known to
him, he returned to Alexandria, where he em
barked the Zodiac on board a ship bound for
Marseilles, on the 18th July 1821.
It was on the 9th September 1821, that the
Circular Zodiac entered the roads of Marseilles.
The vessel on board which it was embarked,
brought me a letter also from M. Lelorrain,
which was transmitted to me immediately. I
had not received one since the month of
F
34
i
March. I then entertained as we have seen
above, very great anxiety for his health, and
even for his life. So that in learning the suc
cess of his operation; I also learnt, what was of
much more importance, that he still existed.
END OF PART I.
PART II.
A Description of the Circular Zodiac of Tentyra.
Translated from the French.
THE apartment, whence the Circular Zodiac
of Tentyra was taken, was appropriated to the
celebration of mysteries. Under this roof the
initiated were taught, that the Divinities,
whom they adored, were only symbolical re
presentations of the celestial bodies ; and their
feigned history was an allegory of the move
ments and revolutions of these phenomena.
The Planisphere of Tentyra would so much
the more exactly produce this result, as the
figures of the constellations represented on it,
precisely corresponded to those of the Gods,
whose images the piety of the ancient Egypt
ians has so abundantly multiplied. This fabu
lous Theogony did, without doubt, cause the
Egyptian priest to make this allusion to Plato :
" you Greeks, you are but infants ; you mis
take allegories for realities."
F2
36
Thales, who lived 600 years before the birth
of Christ, after his return from Egypt, taught
in Greece the spherical form of the earth; the
obliquity of the ecliptic; and the true causes
of the eclipses of the sur. and moon. He even
predicted them, by adopting the method which
the Egyptian priests had undoubtedly taught
him. His disciples afterwards introduced the
use of the gnomon, and geographical charts.
Pythagoras, one of them, also travelled into
Egypt ; and was there initiated in the mysteries.
When he returned to Europe, his ideas respect
ing the system of the universe, were more
correct, than those since professed by the
Greeks from the school of Alexandria.' ;"
He was the first who informed his own coun
try, (and afterwards Italy, whither he retired)
ofthe knowledge of the earth's diurnal rotation
and annual revolution. He also taught, that
comets were not meteors, formed accidentally
in the atmosphere, but permanent bodies mov
ing: round the sun in immense orbits. He
O ' ,, i , ,
conjectured, that the planets were inhabited,
and that the fixed stars were innumerable suns,
dispersed through boundless space, and form
ing as many centres for planetary systems.
These correct notions of the system of the
world, prove what great progress the science
of astronomy had made in Egypt.
37
*Without exposing ourselves to be taxed
with temerity, we may believe that Thales, as
also Pythagoras, and all the other philosophers,
who have drawn their light from the same
source, did, during their stay in Egypt, see the
Planisphere of the great temple at Tentyra, or
at least similar monuments.
This Zodiac, which France at present pos
sesses, does at the same time bring to our
recollection some of the most renowned names
of antiquity, and the most glorious periods of
our recent victories.
It is the only monument of the Egyptians,
which possesses a circular form. The diame
ter of the medallion in which the constellations
are sculptured, is four feet nine inches, French
measure. It is surrounded by another circle
of much larger circumference, containing
hieroglyphic characters : this second circle is
enclosed in a square, whose sides are (seven
feet nine inches long. Four female figures,
and eight men, with hawks' heads, seem to be
supporting the Planisphere with their hands.
The females are placed at the four corners ;
the intermediate spaces are occupied by two
men with hawks' heads, in groups. The
figures at the corners stand alone ; those which
form the groups, are on the contrary, sitting.
In consequence of this arrangement of the
figures, which we have been describing, the
circle containing the hieroglyphic characters, is
divided into eight sections,
The Planisphere contains a certain number
of figures, which M. De St. Martin, in conse
quence of the positions in which they are
placed, think to be the northern constellations.
This thought carries with it a very great degree
ofimprobability for excepting the Great Bear,
which is easily recognised, the other forms have
no analogy to the figures, with which we at
present represent those constellations. Many
of these figures are very remarkable for their
singularity ; and among others, a claw to a
cloven foot, and the body of an animal without
a head.
The asterisms, constituting the Zodiacal
constellations mixed with others, are repre
sented in a spiral. The extremities of this
spiral after one revolution, are Leo and Can
cer. Leo is no doubt at the head. It appears
to be trampling on a serpent, and its tail to be
held by a woman. Immediately after the
Lion comes the Virgin holding an ear of corn.
Further on we perceive two scales of a balance,
above which, in a medallion, is the figure of
Harpocrates. Then follows the Scorpion, and
Sagittarius, to whom the Egyptians gave wings,
and two faces. After Sagittarius are success-
ively placed, Capricornus, Aquarius, Pisces,
the Ram, the Bull, and the Twins. This
Zodiacal procession is, as we have already
observed, terminated by Cancer, the Crab.
All these signs are perceived without diffi
culty, they differ a little from those which are
at present represented in our almanacks ; and
what is still more remarkable, they bear a
striking: resemblance to those of the Indian
O
Zodiac. A great number of other figures,
whose forms are different, make about the
Zodiacal constellations, a double circle. Those
which form part of the last circle, have their
lower extremities upon the border of the
Planisphere. A little inscription in sacred
characters, and a star, are placed near to each
of them, and to some others of the interior
circles. It is very likely, that these single
stars were intended to show, that the figures at
the sides of which they are placed, represent
constellations or asterisms, whose names have,
according to all appearances, been indicated
by the little hieroglyphic characters. Besides,
almost all the asterisms of the inferior circle,
are accompanied with stars placed below, in
different numbers : we suppose with M. De St.
Martin, that they represent the brightest stars
of the different constellations. All the figures
contained in the Planisphere, proceed evident
40
ly in the same direction with the Lion, and the
Signs which follow him.
The great hieroglyphic Zone, and other le
gends also made with sacred characters, and
which are placed in irregular numbers near the
figures, situated at the four corners, are neces
sarily intended to give an explanation of the
monument.
Outside of the Planisphere, between the.fi
gures which are supporting it, are seen two em
blems, which are not easy to be characterized :
they are opposite to each other, and placed at
the extremities of a line, passing through Scor
pio and Taurus. According to the hypothesis
of the Commission of Egypt, they show the
signs, where the equinoxes were at. the .time
the Circular Zodiac was sculptured. Also in
the space, which separates the Planisphere
from the great hieroglyphic Zone, we observe
two short inscriptions, in sacred characters, op
posite to each other. They are situated in a
diameter, which passes through the Lion and
Aquarius ; which were then by the same hy
pothesis, the signs of the solstices. These
inscriptions, and these two emblems, of which
we have just spoken, are the only things
sculptured between the great figures of sup
port ; and this circumstance contributes to
render them more remarkable, and more sig
nificant.
41
In spite of the efforts we have been making
to render the description of the Circular Zo
diac clear, it is impossible that it can be per
fectly comprehended, if 'we have not under our
eyes a faithful representation of the monu~
ment, or, what is still better, the 'monument
itself.
We have already several times spoken of
its high state of preservation. No circumstance
of the Planisphere has disappeared, with the
exception of a small number of hieroglyphic
characters, which have been destroyed with
violence, but which the hand of time seems to
have touched but gently.
This is not the case with the supporting
figures. Those which have hawks' heads, have
all been mutilated in the same place. The bo
soms of three of the females, placed at the
corners, have been attempted to be destroyed.
These damages have most certainly been done
intentionally ; and it is probable that a senti
ment of mistaken modesty prompted the hands
of those who mutilated them.
In other respects, even these damages carry
with them a certain degree of interest. They
are, without doubt, the traces of one of those
great revolutions which Egypt has successively
experienced. We can equally attribute them
42
to the fanaticism of the Persians, to that ofthe
conquered Arabs, or, what is still more proba
ble, to the religious zeal of the hermits, who
lived in the deserts of Thebais, at the period
of the primitive church.
This small number of fractures, with some
others still less considerable, does not diminish
the impression which this memorable monu
ment produces. Its general appearance is
very imposing ; and the admirable distribution
of its parts, equally merit consideration. The
large hieroglyphic belt encompassing the Pla
nisphere, produces a very happy effect. It
was also an ingenious idea to represent the
figures at the four corners standing, while the
intermediate ones were sitting.
It must, however, be acknowledged, that
the human figures sculptured on the Circular
Zodiac, possess all the roughness of outline and
stiffness of standing, which are observed on all
the productions of the Egyptian statuary.
But, by contrasting it with other monuments
of the same original, these animals are, on the
contrary, full of life, motion, and symmetry.
We admire, above all, a furious bull rushing
forward in an open space ; and a lion, >vithout
the Zodiac, which turns his head fiercely. The
vivacity of the action of these animals, and of
many others which are there represented, give
43
to this table, which is purely symbolical, an in
terest and emotion which we did not expect to
feel, and which seems properly to belong only
to historical compositions.
The two stones on which the Zodiac is fixed,
are of the same nature, but of different quali
ties. The grain of the least is both finer and
closer, the consequence of which is, that the
sculptures which are upon it, possess some su
periority over those 'of the great one. The
flambeaux of the people initiated, and of tra
vellers, as well as some other causes, have com
municated to these stones, shades which they
do not naturally possess.
It has often been repeated, that they resem
ble an antique bronze ; perhaps we could, with
greater exactness, compare them to a fire
hearth ; for they have, at the same time,shades
of soot and cinders. The variety of these dif
ferent tints also give, in some respects, to our
monument, the appearance of a great furnace.
We know that Dupuis, Volney, and many
other learned men, have been induced, from
the Egyptian Zodiacs, and more particularly
from those of Tentyra, to assert, that the uni
verse has^existed from all eternity, or, at least,
to go back to a very distant period for its cre
ation. M, Fourier, of the Academy of Sci
G2
44
ences, who has made these Zodiacs objects of
his profound study, in thoroughly considering
their remote antiquity, has given explanations
of them quite irreconcilable with the tradition
of the Hebrews. ' '
According to him.the invention, of the Egyp
tian sphere existed 2500 years before our era.
The people who made it were not long in ob
serving its successive changes. His observa
tions on the precession of the equinoxes were
verified by the astronomical monuments of La-
topolis, and by those of Tentyra. The kind of
procession which the signs of the Zodiac form,
begins in some with the Virgin, in others with,
the Lion. It is these differences which deter
mine the date. It follows from this hypothe
sis, that the Zodiacs of Latapolis form the first
page known of the history of the heavens, and
that those of Tentyra form the second.
•
We, however, take great care in touching
on these high questions in astronomy. They
will be very well treated by M. Fourier
himself, in a series of memoirs which will suc
cessively appear, and some of which are at
this moment in the royal press. These me
moirs will, without doubt, be compiled with the
talent which we'fcave a right to expect from
the author of the introduction of the great
work upon JEgypt ; an introduction not less re
4-5
markable for its loftiness of style than for its
depth of penetration. We shall content our
selves with adding, that in adopting these ex
planations, which M. Fourier has given of the
Egyptian Zodiacs, M. de la Place has esta
blished a prepossession which is necessarily
very favourable to them.
END OF PART II.
PART III.
Explanation of the Causes of the Precession of the
Equinoxes.
JL HE points where the Ecliptic intersects the
Equinoctial, are called the Equinoctial Points,
or Equinoxes; because when the sun is in
them, the days and nights are equal. As the
sun is in one of them in the spring; it is called
the Vernal Equinox ; and in the other in au
tumn, it is called the Autumnal Equinox.
The beginnings of Cancer and Caprieornus
are called the Solstitial Points, or Solstices ;
because when the sun is in them, he seems
stationary, neither encreasing, nor diminishing
his declination for some days. The (irst is the
summer, the other the winter solstice.
The Meridians, which pass through the
Equinoctial Points, are called the Equinoctial
Colures; and those which pass through the
Solstitial Points, are called the Solstitial
Colures.
--
48
The Zodiac surrounds the Sphere, like a
broad belt, whose middle is the Ecliptic, and
whose edges reach five degrees on each side
of the Ecliptic. Within this belt is con
tained twelve constellations of stars, known by
the name of the Twelve Signs, represented
chiefly by the figures of animals, and on that
account called the Zodiac, from a Greek word,
similar to it, signifying an animal. The names
ofthe twelve signs with which this belt is adorn
ed are these : Aries, the Ram ; Taurus, the
BulF; Gemini, the Twins ; Cancer, the Crab ;
Leo, the Lion; Virgo, the Virgin ; Libra, the
Scales ; Scorpio, the Scorpion ; Sagittarius,
the Archer; Capricornus, the Horned Goat;
Aquarius, the Waterer ; and Pisces, the Fishes.
There are two kinds of Zodiacs, one astral,
which belongs to the heavens, and contains
the twelve preceding constellations of stars re
presented in their proper signs ; the other
local, divided into twelve equal parts of 3O
degrees each, retaining the same names, and
commencing at the first point of Aries, as fixed
at the vernal equinox. The astral zodiac is
the real representation of the heavens ; where
as the local one is only adapted to shew the
longitude of a star, or the star's distance from
the equinoctial point eastward, measured on
the ecliptic. This double zodiac should be
4«J
carefully considered, as it has misled many.
When the sun is seen on the vernal equinox, if a
star at the same instant be precisely in the same
position, the following year, when the sun has
arrived at the same equinoctial point, the star
will be observed to be 50 seconds of a degree
more towards the East ; so likewise every suc
ceeding year the star will be found, at the time
of the sun's arrival at 'the vernal equinox, to
have advanced 50 seconds of a degree more
towards the East. In this manner the longi
tude of every star in the heavens has a yearly
increase of something more than 50 seconds of
a degree. This motion of the fixed stars to
wards the East, is called the precession of the
equinoxes ; and causes the astral Zodiac to
move forward, and quite over the local Zo
diac in the space of 25,628 years. The expla
nation of the causes which produce this motion
of the fixed stars towards the East, and which
is called the precession of the equinoxes, is to
be the subject of the present enquiry ; and to
render this as clear as possible, it will be ne
cessary to take into consideration the figure of
the earth, its diurnal rotation, its annual revo
lution, and the effect which the sun, moon, and
planets' attractions consequently produce.
The figure of the earth is most certainly
round, for, during the eclipse of the moon, we
ii
5Q
see its shadow formed by the sun's rays cast
upon the moon's disk ; and this shadow, not
withstanding it has been projected from many
different positions of the earth, has universally
exhibited a circular appearance. We may,
therefore say, that we know the earth is round,
for we see its image reflected in the mirror of
the moon. But whether, or not, it be precise
ly spherical, will be exemplified in the follow
ing demonstrations of the earth's rotation.
It is said, that as Sir Isaac Newton was sitting
under an apple tree, an apple fell on his head :
" how could this happen ?" he exclaimed ;
" how could this apple fall here ? " " why not
remain where it was ? " " there must be some
cause for it."-r-This cause, whatever it be, he
never attempted to explain. It was beyond
the reach of human reason. But he simply
gave it the name of attraction; a word, com
pounded of two Latin words, ad, towards, and
traho, to draw ; because it was a cause which
drew things towards the earth. This force of
attraction when exerted on falling bodies, is
continually encreasing their velocity, and on
this account it is called an accellerating force.
It constitutes the weight of all bodies; whence
it is frequently termed the force of gravity.
By experiments made with the air-pump, we
have discovered, that if a guinea and a feather
51
be let fall together at the same instant in a
place where the air has been exhausted, they
will reach the bottom precisely together.
Hence, when the resistance of the atmosphere
does not interfere, all bodies near the earth
are found to fall through the same distance in
height at the same time.
It is discovered that this force of gravity is
not alone peculiar to the earth, but also exists
in the sun, moon, and planets, which mutually
attract each other, ,
Suppose on the brow of a lofty mountain,
situated in the centre of an extensive plain, we
place a cannon which we can firepoint blank,
as the phrase is, so that the ball may proceed
horizontally out of the cannon's mouth ; and
suppose we call this force, which causes it to
move in a horizontal direction, the projectile
force. If the ball be influenced by this pro
jectile force only, without being resisted by
the atmosphere, or acted upon by gravity, or
any other power whatever, there will exist no
cause for its being retarded in its course, or for
its being drawn from the horizontal direction
O
in which it was at first projected ; and there
fore it will continue moving in that direction,
parallel to the plain below. Since, however^
this is a circumstance, which never occurs, (for
cannon balls, as well as all other bodies, whe
H2
ther separated, like the apple, frocu a place of
rest, or possessed with motion, like a shot, al
ways fall to the ground), hence it is clear
that they must have the same cause for thus
falling, and must be all alike influenced by
the power of attraction. Now because the
projectile force is horizontal, and the force
of gravity vertical, they must be a tright
angles to each other ; so that the force of
gravity will neither accelerate nor retard the
shot's horizontal velocity ; nor will the pro
jectile force encrease or diminish the time of
the ball's fall. Hence, in the time that the
ball would employ to descend from the mouth
of the cannon to the spot immediately below,
when it is acted on by these two forces toge-
gether, it will be found to pitch just so fat dis
tant on the plain, as the projectile force alone
would carry it in the same time, having descri
bed, in its course, a curved line, called a
parabola. Let us now imagine this plain, in
the centre of which stands the mountain,
whence we fire the cannon, to extend itself
evenly, as a plane without thickness, to an im
mense distance, so as to form a kind of tan
gent plane to the earth's surface, which it will
soon cease to touch ; and let us also suppose,
that by the means of encreasing the charge of
gunpowder, we have the power ofcommunica
ting to the ballany degree ofvelocity we choose.
'ft
"V
53
The reader may, ifhe pleases, cast his eye on
figure 1st, to assist his imagination in what fol
lows. Fromwhat has been said, it is clear, that
whatever be the velocity with whichthe ball be
projected out of the cannon, it will always
reach this plane below, which is now supposed
to be infinitely extended, in the same time that
the ball would be falling from the cannon to
the spot immediately below. Now when the
velocity is very great, it will reach the tangent
plane before it arrives at the earth ; it will,
therefore, have some distance farther to fall ;
this circumstance will encrease the time of its
descent. The more we encrease the projectile
force, the further will the ball be on the tan
gent plane, when it arrives there, which it all-
ways performs in the same time ; but the great
er will be the space remaining for the ball to
descend after it has passed the tangent plane,
and consequently the longer will the ball be in
arriving at the earth's surface. Since the
greater the velocity is, which is communicated
to the ball, the further it will proceed, and the
more time it will employ in arriving at the
earth; so if a sufficiently just velocity were
given to the ball, it would not reach the earth
at all, but, like a little moon, would revolve
round it till it struck the cannon, whence it was
fired. Although the ball may not have ap
proached nearer to the centre of the earth than
54
where it was when it was first fired, yet it may
be said that it has fallen through the earth's
diameter to the cannon's antipode ; and (if the
expression may be used) had fallen back again
during the time of its performing this revo
lution.
Although the foregoing illustration of the
effects produced by the union of the projectile
and gravitating forces has been necessarily ex
tended beyond the limits anticipated, yet ano
ther example, (the representation of which is
in figure 2), derived from the motion of a ship,
is also added, because it more immediately
leads to the point at which the author is
anxious to arrive.
When a ship is under weigh, and proceeding
rapidly in smooth water, every thing and per
son on board possess the same projectile force
with the ship, and are carried along with it
without perceiving its motion. If from the
mast head a leaden ball be let fall at the side of
the mast, it will continue falling perpendicu
larly till it strikes the bottom of the vessel,
close to the step of the mast, just the same as
it would do if the ship were at anchor, although,
during the time of the fall, the ship must have
advanced several feet. If the ship be sailing
on a plain surface, the time of the ball's fall
- J
will not be altered by the ship's velocity, how
ever rapid ; but if it be proceeding at a very
considerable rate on a round surface, so as to
have made a little descent from the tangent
plane of the earth during the time of the fail,
the ball will then take some longer time to ac
complish this greater distance. The faster the
ship has proceeded, the greater distance she
will have descended from the tangent plane,
and consequently, the longer time will be em
ployed by the ball to accomplish its fall.
Although the ball, in respect to the ship, des
cends perpendicularly, yet in space, it positive
ly describes a parabola, just the same as if it
were fired from a cannon: and speaking ma
thematically, the step of the mast describes by
its uniform horizontal velocity, the fluxion of
the ordinate, while the accelerated perpendi
cular velocity of the ball, is describing the
fluxion ofthe abscissa of the curve.
'y
We see the sun, moon, and all the stars move
round us every day, rising in the East, and set
ting in the West. How certain is it, that they
must either move from East to West, as they
seem to do, or else the earth must move from
West to East, to produce this appearance. The
latter is most certainly thecase ; for let us con
sider the results, which this rotation ofthe earth
would inevitably produce. Excepting the poles,
56
which are at the extremities Of the axis, about
which the earth turns, every point will describe
during twenty four hours, circles parallel to
each other, encreasing in size, as they are
farther distant from the poles, and nearer to
the equator, the greatest circle being that of
the equator itself. The consequence of this
will be, that every thing on the earth must
possess a projectile force, similar to what has
been represented in a ship. This projectile
force is nothing at the poles ; but in receding
from the poles as the parallel circles encrease,
so must the projectile force, which is always
proportional to these circles, encrease also, and
become greatest of all at the equator. But it
has been shown by the examples of a shot fired
from a cannon, and of a leaden ball falling
from the mast head of a ship, that the greater
the projectile force is, the longer will a body
be in descending to the earth. Hence, at the
poles, where there is no projectile force, bodies
fall quicker than any where else ; and as we
recede from the poles, and approach the
equator, they fall gradually slower; because,
the projectile force gradually encreases : and
at the equator they fall slowest of all, because
there the projectile force is greatest of all.
That this is really the case, we know from
experiments ; for many gentlemen, who have
been sent to make astronomical observations in
-
57
distant countries have observed the pendulums
of their clocks to vibrate slower nearer the
equator than in our country. Now the time of
the vibration of a pendulum bears a certain
proportion to the time of a body's fall through
the length ofa pendulum ; consequently where
the pendulum vibrates slower, the descent of
bodies must be slower. To preserve the time
of the vibration of the pendulum uniform, as
we approach the equator we are under the ne
cessity of reducing its length ; for a shorter
distance is fallen through in the same time by
a body near the equator, than is done by one
more remote; for the slower a body falls, the
less will be the space it will describe. This
plainly shows, that the projectile force exists
on the earth, being properly communicated
from the poles to the equator ; and proves that
the earth must turn on its axis to produce this
effect.
Having proved the rotation of the earth, let
us consider its consequences. As bodies near
the equator fall slower than they do at the
poles, so their weight must be less and their
pressure diminished. The fluid part of the
earth, which is susceptible of every impression,
will yield to the stronger pressure at the poles,
and proceed to the weaker pressure at the
equator, till an equilibrium be produced.
This will cause the parts of the earth near the
poles to be flattened, while those parts near the
equator become more protuberant. Hence the
earth will no longer be a perfect sphere, but
will assume the form that is generally called a
spheroid. Different parts of the earth have
occasionally been measured ; and although the
precise proportion between the polar and equi-
torial diameters has not been exactly deter
mined, yet all the measurements have contribu
ted to shew, that the earth possesses this sphe-
riodical figure.
If the earth performs an annual revolution,
by the theory of motion, each of the fixed stars,
would describe on elipsis in a contrary direc
tion ; but by the nicest and most accurate ob
servations, made by the best instruments, these
motions are insensible. Astronomers did,
however, detect annual variations in the stars,
which were exactly apposite to what they ex
pected todiscover. This apparent contradiction
deterred them from making fresh observations,
till Dr. Bradley at last found out the true phy
sical cause for this apparent motion, which is
called the aberration ofthe stars. From obser-
servations made on the eclipses of Jupiter's sa
tellites, when the earth was near that planet,
and again when it was far distant : it was disco-
O '
vered that when the earth was one diameter of
69
i& orbit more remote from Jupiter than at first,
the eclipse did not take place by 16 minutes so
soon, as it did before; and consequently, thatthis
circumstance must be owing to the motion of
light: so by dividing this time, 16 minutes by 2,
it was ascertained, that light was eight minutes
' ™ t~?
passing from the sun to the earth, a distance
equal to the semidiameter of its orbit. By com
paring this velocity of light with the velocity of
the earth's motion in its orbit,it was proved, that
the lightofeach star did not appear in its proper
direction ; but following the earth in its course,
described an elipsis from West to East, whose
greatest diameter was about 40 seconds of a
degree. This gave a clear insight into the
cause of the aberration of the stars ; while at
the same time it demonstrated to a certainty,
the annual revolution of the earth.
It now remains for us to show the effect,
which the sun, moon, and planets' attractions
produce on this spheriodical figure of the
earth, for it is this effect which exhibits the
cause of the precession of the equinoxes. It is
not difficult to imagine, if the parts near the
equator be more protuberant than the rest of
the earth, that there will be a greater quantity
of matter about it ; and that consequently it
will be more attracted than any other part of
the earth, by any extraneous body. The sun,
12
60
therefore, when rising in the ecliptic above the
plane of the equator, will, in consequence of
the excess of matter contiguous to the equator,
endeavour to draw those parts more than any
other towards it. This will occasion a small
motion of the equator towards the sun ; so that,
the sun will meet it earlier than it otherwise
would do, if the earth were spherical : and be
cause the sun has not had sufficient time to
perform its whole course before it arrives at
the equator, the point of intersection of the
equator and ecliptic, that is, the equinoctial
point, will be more westerly, or have gone
backwards according to the order of the signs.
When the sun descends below the equatorial
plane, the same effect will be repeated : so
that, when the sun again reaches the equator,
the equinoctial point will be still more westerly
than before. This effect will be successively
repeated in every following year, and cause
the equinoctial points to be continually moving
backwards. If therefore' these points be re
garded as fixed, it will produce an apparent
motion of the fixed stars forward, or to the
eastward ; and this is what is termed the pre
cession of the equinoxes. Just in the same
manner the moon and the planets, when they
rise above, or fall below the plane of the
equator, will endeavour to draw the equitorial
regions nearer to (hem ; and will also cause a
61
motion of the equinoctial points to the west
ward, similar to what the sun produces. But
because the moon is much nearer to the earth
than the sun is, the moon's power to cause the
same, is nearly 4'i times greater than the sun's;
while that of the planets' is considerably less.
During the space of a year their united influ
ence occasions the equinoctial points to recede
towards the west 50."57 seconds of a degree :
consequently, if we regard the equinoctial
points as fixed, the stars will appear to have
advanced 50,"57 in their longitude.
But to put these causes of the precession of
the equinoxes in a still stronger point of view,
since we have already treated largely on the
combination of the projectile and gravitating
forces; it will not be amiss to indulge our
J O
imaginations in this beautiful theory, and to
render them subservient to our present pur
poses. Suppose the whole earth to be fluid,
consisting of water, When there is no rotation,
and consequently no projectile force, then will
the uninterrupted power of attraction, model
the water into a perfect sphere. Give a small
rotation to this fluid globe, then will the force
of gravity at the poles, by exerting all its in
fluence iu these regions, become proportionally
greater than at the equator, where the projectile
force endeavours to remove the bodies from the
Garth's centre, and diminish the gravitating
power, the water about the poles will necessa
rily fall ; while that which is contiguous to the
equator, will inevitably swell, in order to pro
duce the requisite equilibrium ; and the spheri
cal figure of the earth will consequently be
converted into a spheroid.
Encrease greatly the earth's rotation, then
will the polar diameter be considerably dimin
ished, and the equitorial diameter will be
exceedingly encreased : for the greater the
celerity of rotation is, the less will be the po
lar, and the greater will be the equitorial
diameter.
Now let the velocity of the exterior surface
of the equator become equal to the velocity with
which a ball, or moon, at the same distance
from the earth's centre, would perform a revo
lution without approaching to the earth ; then
will the water adjacent to the equator, by
having all its propensity towards the centre
counteracted in the same manner as the ball
or moon by the projectile force, loose all its
gravity : and there will exist no power to pre
vent the water at the poles descending, till
their superficies approach infinitely near, and
the whole globe of water will be changed into
an immensely extensive circular plane.
63
Augment the rapidity of the rotation still
more, then will the fluid leave the centre, and
this extensive circular plane will assume the
shape of a still more extensive ring. The
swifter the velocity of rotation is, the greater
will be the magnitude of this ring's diameter,
but the more will its breadth be diminished.
Who knows, but the ring of Saturn is formed
by this excessive rotation ?
In figure 3, let N E N Q, represent a steel
ring capable of being moved with the greatest
ease in all directions about the centre C, where
alone it is supported; and let it be so poized,
as to be inclined to the horizontal plane H N
R N, which it intersects in the points N N.
Move the magnet L with a gentle motion
round the horizontal plane from West to East,
and it will soon be perceived, that the power of
the magnet will cause the steel ring to incline
downward, communicating to it at the same
time a small motion from East to West, meet
ing in its course ; so that the ring will assume
a fresh position N E N Q, cutting the hori
zontal plane in the points N N, more to the
Westward than before. Now suppose this
ring N E N Q, to represent the fluid ring of
water, which wejust now imagined to be formed
by excessive rotation ; and let the moon be
conceived to move in the plane H N R N,
in a circle round the centre of this ring : in the
same manner as the magnet did before incline
the steel ring towards itself, and produce a
motion of the points of intersection IS N, to
wards the west ; just so will the moon incline
the fluid ring towards itself, and occasion a mo
tion of the point N N, towards the west.
It is manifest, that the same effect would be
produced, whether the attracting power moved
in a circle round the ring, or the ring moved
in a circle round the attracting power.
Let us now refer the ring of water E N Q
O, together with the plane H N R N, as re
presented in figure 3, to move in an orbit
round the sun S, as shown in figure 4, the
plane H N R N being identified with the plane
of the orbit. Suppose the first situation of the
ring to be at A, where the interior edge of the
ring is directly turned towards the sun. If
this ring were not influenced by any attraction,
but were to move parallel to itself round the
sun from West to East, it is evident that when
it had performed one quarter of its orbit, and
had arrived at B, that the summit Q of the
ring would then be opposite to the sun : when
it had performed another quarter at C, the
edge, before exterior, would now be interior,
and directly opposite to the sun ; when it had.
accomplished its third quarter at />, the lowest
point E of the ring would then face the sun ;
and finally, when it had completed its last
quarter, and arrived at A, whence it started,
then would the original edge be again exactly
opposite to the sun. But since we have seen
that the ring is influenced by attractions, which
tend to draw the ring round to meet the sun,
it is manifest that the summit Q of the ring
would then be opposite to the sun earlier than
it otherwise would be ; and therefore, this
event will happen at some point B before it
arrives at the first quarter point JB of its orbit.
For the same reason, the exterior edge of the
ring will become interior, and opposed to the
sun at some point C, anterior to C. So like
wise will the inferior point E of the ring face
the sun before it arrives at D, the third quarter
of the orbit ; and finally the ring will turn its
original edge again towards the sun at some
point G, before it reaches its original situation
A, whence it departed.
Next imagine this excessive rotation to
cease—the water will again return to a circu
lar plane, and afterwards assume the figure of
a spheroid, exactly similar to our earth, provid
ed it has the same degree of rotation. Al
though the figure has been considerably
changed, and the power of the sun, moon, and
06
planets' attractions to move the same, has, in
consequence been very much diminished ; yet
the protuberant parts about the equator may
still be considered not to have entirely lost the
shape of a ring, but may be regarded in that
point of view as surrounding a sphere, and will,
therefore, be subject to produce the same effect
only in a less degree. Consequently during
the autumnal equinox, if the earth, possessing
the figure of a spheroid, be situated at A, di
rectly opposite to a star, having the edge of
the equator facing the sun, were to move from
West to East, describing an orbit round the
sun in the same manner as we have seen the ring
revolve, it would, from the effects produced by
the sun, moon, and planets' attractions, be sub.
jected to changes similar to those with which
the ring was influenced, only in a less degree :
consequently, before the earth had entirely
completed its revolution, and had reached its
original situation A, the same edge of the equa
tor which was at first opposite to the sun at A
would be turned towards the sun again at
some point a to the westward of A, so that the
star would then be seen to the eastward.
Now when the edge of the equator is turned
towards the sun, it will be situated in the equa
torial plane ; and the points A, C, where the
earth is at those periods seen in its orbit, are
0r
the equinoctial points, A being the autumnal
and C the vernal.
From what has been said, it is clear that
these points are perpetually moving towards
the west ; therefore if we regard them as fixed
points, whence we measure the distance east
ward, or longitude of the stars, it is manifest
that this eastern distance, or longitude of the
stars, must every year be encreased ; and this
circumstance is what is implied by the preces
sion of the equinoxes, the causes of which we
havejust now investigated
Hipparchus is the first person we read of,
who had any idea of this precession ofthe equi
noxes. Ptolemy compared his observations
with those of Hipparchus, and concluded that
the stars advanced a degree in a hundred years.
Ulugh Beigh made it 51." 43. in a year ; Tycho,
51" ; Copernicus, 49." 8. ; Bulliardus, 50." 94. ;
and Sir Isaac Newton demonstrates from the
sun and moon's attractions only, that it ought
to be something more than 50", or a degree in
72 years, and this is generally followed. But
that renowed astronomer Abbe Piazzi, of Pa
lermo, who has honoured the author with his
publication on the places of the stars, who has
estimated the position of about 8000 stars, and
who, by possessing one of the best instruments
in the world, and by living in a much later pe
K2
68
riod thau Sir I. Newton did in respect to the
progress of science, was consequently possessed
of much better means for obtaining a more ac
curate knowledge ofthe precession of the equi
noxes, estimates the mean effect of the sun and
moon's attractions to produce an advance of the
stars' positions yearly to be 50" 388, and that of
the planets 0.' 1814. making in all 50" 5694.
which the author calls 50." 57. and uses in the
sequel.
' END OF PART III.
PART IV.
The Philosophical Results which the Circular Zodiac
demonstrates.
the author commenced this inquiry
into the philosophical results which the Cir
cular Zodiac demonstrates, he was not aware
that it would tend to corroborate the truth and
accuracy of any part of the Mosaic History, in
the very strong and irresistible manner he
afterwards discovered. He did not anticipate
its close connexion with the Bible, and he was
therefore induced more strongly to engage in
this inquiry from philosophical, than from re
ligious motives. Hence it was not till after
several fruitless attempts to obtain satisfactory
information from Heathen authors, that he was
induced in many instances, to abandon their
accounts, and receive his elucidations from the
light of the Holy Scriptures, in order to gain
the results he so anxiously desired. Indeed,
when it is considered, that the date of the
Zodiac of Tentyra is about 100 years after the
70
flood, it is no wonder if the Heathen authors
are found to be too modern for this purpose.
This inquiry begins with the names and
figures of the Zodiacal constellations, and pro
duces evidence showing very satisfactorily, that
they were originally given at Babylon, and
not in Egypt. It is generally admitted, that
these names and figures were at first designed
to represent emblematically the seasons of the
year, and in some instances it will be seen, that
this is really the case. The significations ap
plied to the Virgin, Sagittarius, Capricornus,
and Cancer, are highly important, and ought
to be particularly attended to : but those which
are attached to the other signs, are for the
most part such as have been usually appropri
ated to them, and because they are unimpor
tant in the result, they are not insisted on by
the author.
We see in the Planisphere the Zodiacal
signs following each other in a kind of process
ion, led on by the Lion and terminated by the
Crab : let us therefore examine their names
and figures, as they appear in succession.
LEO, the Lion. It will be shown hereafter,
that the Star Regulus, in the heart ofthe Lion,
was either on the solstitial colure, or very near
to it, at the time the Zodiac of Tentyra was
Tl
invented ; and that consequently this sign
corresponded to the period between the middle
of June and that of July. It may be imagined
in the figure of this sign, that the raging fury
of the Lion trampling on the serpent, is com
pared to the fiery rays of the sun at this season
ofthe year,. overcoming the stubbornness of the
ground, and causing it to yield its produce to
the tenderest of the creation, the female and
the bird, who are seen standing behind.
VIRGO, the Virgin. The period of the
year, to which she corresponds, falls between
the middle of July and that of August. She
holds in her hand an ear of corn : a most ap
propriate emblem for the time of harvest.
Some of the ancient Zodiacs even represented
her in the character of a female reaper, with
a sickle in her hand. From these circumstan
ces, we may with reason conclude, that she was
placed in the Zodiac to represent symbolically
the time of harvest.
To ascertain how this is adapted to the cli
mate of Egypt, let us consult Rollin's Ancient
History. He says, " Herodotus, Diodorus,
Siculus, and several other authors declare,
that the Nile begins to swell in Egypt at the
summer solstice, that is about the end of June,
and continues to rise till the end of September,
then decreases gradually during the months of
72
October and November ; after which it returns
to its channel, and resumes its wonted course,
As it seldom rains there, this river, which
waters the whole country by its regular inunda
tions, supplies that defect, by bringing as a
yearly tribute, the rains of other countries.
The name of Cataract is given to some parts
of the Nile, where the water falls down the
steep rocks. The river, which at first glided
smoothly along the vast deserts of Ethiopia,
before it enters Egypt, passes by the Cataracts,
then growing on a sudden, contrary to nature,-
raging and violent in those places where it is
pent up and restrained ; after having at last
broken through all obstacles in its way, it
precipitates itself from the top of some rocks
to the bottom, with so loud a noise, that it is
heard three leagues distant." In consequence
of this inundation of the Nile, the Egyptians
sow in October or November, according as the
waters draw off; and their harvest is in March
and April. The situation therefore of the
Virgin in the Zodiac of Tentyra, which is
adapted to the period between the middle of
July and that of August, cannot possibly cor
respond to the harvest of Egypt, which hap
pened in March and April. And yet her situa
tion is precisely adapted to the time of harvest
for all other countries lying towards the south
ern regions of the northern temperate zone.
73
This singular exception in respect to Egypt
alone, is remarkably striking ; for while it does
not produce sufficient power to invalidate the
conclusion, that the Virgin with the ear of
corn in her hand, indicates harvest, since her
position is suitable to represent the harvest
time of all other countries, and since the en
lightened of every age have admitted, that she
is emblematical of harvest, it at the same time
clearly proves that she cannot be indicative of
the harvest of Egypt.
Hence we may reasonably conclude, that
the names of the Zodiacal signs were not ori
ginally given in Egypt, For then the Egypt
ians would have caused the Virgin with the
ear of corn in her hand, to have been symboli
cal of the harvest of Egypt, and would have
placed her in March or April.
LIBRA, the Scales. It is generally stated,
that this sign represents the equality of day
and night, but as it corresponds to the period
between the middle of August and that of
O
September, it can scarcely be regarded as
situated on the equinoctial, at the time this
name was given to it; and therefore, this
thought appears to be erroneous. It is more
probable, that it was symbolical of the weigh
ing out, and distribution of the corn after
harvest.
74
SCORPIO, the Scorpion. This sign falls
between the middle of September and that of
October. The emblem outside of the Planis
phere, which denotes the autumnal equinox,
points to the shoulder of its fore-leg. The
wound which the sting of the Scorpion occa
sions, is supposed to be emblematical of dis
eases, which the immoderate use of fruit at
this season of the year produces; and St. John
in the Revelation uses the term to represent
spiritual disease.
SAGITTARIUS, the Archer. This sign
falls between the middle of October and that
of November. It is so highly symbolical, that
it requires very particular attention. We
have already seen in the instance of the Vir
gin, a very convincing proof, that the names
of the signs were not given in Egypt : but if
not in Egypt, where else could they be given
except at Babylon ? Where did there exist
another place sufficiently noted for astronomy,
and so near to Egypt, whence the Egyptians
could have borrowed this Zodiac ? For if they
were not the people who assigned to the con
stellations of the Zodiac their respective names,
it must have been the work of some other na
tion ; and every degree of probability, as well
as strong corroborating evidence drawn from
Holy Writ, tend to show, that this other na
tion was Babylon.
75
Bishop Newton properly observes, that "God
was pleased to condescend and conform to the
customs and manners of the age, to make
thereby a stronger impression on the minds of
the people. Nor is such a condescension un
worthy of the Deity, nor unsuitable to the other
methods of his providence, but is rather an
argument of his infinite goodness." In the
visions therefore which appeared unto Daniel,
the Almighty chose to employ the symbolical
imagery peculiar to Babylon, where Daniel
was then residing. After the Babylonish cap
tivity, it may be presumed, that the Jews were
acquainted with the emblematical figures of
the Babylonians, and that this is the reason,
that St. John in the Revelation uses symbols
so strikingly similar to those of Daniel ; and
even in Rev. xvii. 5; says, when speaking of
the woman arrayed in purple and scarlet,
" Upon her head was a name written, M YS-
TERY, BABYLON THE GREAT."
Hence we may esteem the visions of Daniel,
and the Revelation of St. John, as the most
accurate accounts we at present possess of the
significations of the Babylonish symbolical im
agery ; and may consequently use those holy
books for the explication of this and following
emblematical figures.
The period to which Sagittarius belongs,
L 2
76
reaches from the middle of October to that of
November, corresponding to thetime ofthe year
when hunting commences ; and its figure has
generally been regarded as a hunter. But its
component parts are so highly symbolical, that
they manifestly do not represent a hunter in
an ordinary point of view, but symbolize a
mighty royal hunter, and a mighty conqueror,
We shall see hereafter, that the date of this
Zodiac is 2261 years before Christ, and we have
already .seen a strong reason for the names
being communicated to the Zodiac at Baby-
Ion. Now this time and place exactly agree
with the time that Nimrod was alive, and the
place over which he reigned. The Bible
speaks of Nimrod, thus: Gen. x, 8, 9, 10,
"And Cush begat Nimrod: he began to be
a mighty one on the earth. He was a mighty
hunter ; wherefore, it is said, even as Nimrod
the mighty hunter before the Lord." Thus
vre see, that Nimrod was both a mighty man,
which expression seems to imply a great con
queror; and a mighty hunter so renowned,
that to speak of him as such became a proverb.
la compliment, therefore, to their founder, we
may presume, the Babylonians chose to put
him in one of their Zodiacal constellations,
galloping on his horse full speed, with a crown
on his bead, bow and arrow in his hands, and
17
wings on his back, to represent the rapidity of
his flight, having made him to be emblemati
cal of hunting, and placed him at that season
of the year best suited for the chase.
This figure of Sagittarius, so highly symbol
ical, indicates his exceedingly great impor
tance. He appears to have a crown on his
head, and two faces, one looking earnestly for
ward, apparently female, the other looking be
hind, having a hawk's head similar to the
men's faces who, in the middle of the sides of
the square, support the circumference of the
Planisphere—representing, by all probability,
the faces of slaves. He has a bow and arrow
in his hand, and his body is united to the neck
of thehorse, which is galloping full speed, with
wings on his back. He has also two1 tails, one
exultingly elevated, and the other hanging
submissively down.
This is extremely ffgtrfative both of hunting
and victory, whether in pursuit of the chase or
of the enemy. In Rev. vi. 2, we read—" And
I sate and behold a white horse, and he that
sat on him had a bow, and a crown was
given unto him, and he went forth conquering
and to conquer" The bow, the horse, and4
tfee crown are proper emblems of victory, tri
umph, and royalty. In Daniel vii. in the'
vision of the four kingdoms, the first is repre
78
sented by a beast which is like a lion, and had
eagle's wings to shew the swiftness and rapidity
of the conquests of Babylon. The third king
dom is also represented by another beast, like a
leopard, which had on its back the four wings of
a fowl, and represented how amazingly swift and
rapid Alexander and the Macedonians were in
their conquests. So likewise, in the figure of
Sagittarius, the wings represent the swiftness
and rapidity with.which Nimrod pursued the
chase and ihe enemy.
In respect to the two faces, we may suppose,
that the female face looking forward, is emble
matical of Babylon ; while the other looking
behind, like that of a slave, represents Nine
veh. For Babylon in Isaiah xlvii, is called a
Lady : 1, " Come down and sit in the dust,
O virgin, daughter of Babylon, sit on the
ground" 5, "For thou shalt no longer be
called the lady of kingdoms" 7, " And thou
saidst, I shall be a Lady for ever" We
have also seen above, that St. John in the
Revelation, unites the term Babylon to the
woman clothed in purple and scarlet. It is
manifest from Isamh, that she called herself a
Lady : and this symbol is not uncommon with
nations, for even we represent Great Britain
by the figure of a female, as may be seen on
every penny. The female face might therefore
symbolize Babylon.
79
Bishop Newton speaking of Nineveh, says ;
" This very ancient city was, as some say,
built by Nimrod for those words of Moses.
Gen. x. 11. ' Out of that land went forth
Asshur, and builded Nineveh ; ' others trans
late as the Chaldee paraphrast translates them,
and as they are rendered in the margin of our
Bibles, 'Out ofthat landhe, that is Nimrod, the
person spoken of before, went forth into As
syria, and builded Nineveh.'' It is well known
that the name Asshur, is the name of the coun
try as well as the name of the man ; and the pre -
position is often omitted, so that the words
may very well be translated, 'he wentforth into
Assyria.'' And Moses is here giving an ac
count of the sons of Ham, and it may seem
foreign to his subject, to intermix the story of
any of the sons of Shem, as Asshur was. Moses
afterwards recounts the sons of Shem and
Asshur among them ; and it is presumed, that
he would hardly relate his actions before he
had mentioned his nativity, or even his name
contrary to the series of genealogy, and to the
order of history." The 10th and Ilth verses of
the I0th Chapter of Genesis, thus corrected,
will be, " And the beginning of his (Nimrod's)
kingdom, was Babel, and Erech, and Accad,
and Calneh, in the land of Shinar. Out of
that land he went forth into Assyria, and
builded Nineveh, and the city of JRehobot/t,
-r ,
and Calak" From the former part we may
conclude, that Babylon was the principal city
in the land of Shinar ; and from the latter,
that Nineveh was the principal city in the land
of Assyria. The expression, "o*rf ofthat land
he wentforth intoAssyria," seemsto imply, that
he conquered that country by proceeding out
of his own territories into those of Asshur : and
therefore, when he had built Nineveh, he
might have regarded it as a city, subjected to
him. Hence, when Babylon was represented
by the face of a female, they might choose to
express Nineveh by the face of a slave, to de
note its subjection ; and place a crown over
both, to show bis sovereign authority over both
cities.
These two faces, symbolizing Babylon, as
the victorious, and Nineveh as the conquered
country, might in a short time afterwards have
been taken in a general sense, and regarded as
emblematical of victory and subjection ; and at
the dispersion of mankind, might have been
carried from Babylon, and preserved by the
ancestors of the Romans in the double face of
Janus, whose temple was open in time of war
and shut in time of peace.
The two tails, one erected triumphantly,
and the other hanging down submissively,
might have more particularly denoted Nimrod's
81
superiority in the chase. The Babylonians
were so bold with their representations, and so
fond of strong symbols, that this apt assem
blage of the two faces and the union of the
man's body to that of the horse, are stronger
proofs that the figure of Sagittarius symboli
cally represented Nimrod, and was devised in
Babylon, than if the man positively possessed
a natural face, and was exhibited properly
astride on his horse.
, r
CAPRICORNUS, the Goat's horn. This
figure belongs to the period between the mid
dle of November and that of December, and
is represented by the upper part of a Goat
with two horns attached to the hinder part of
a fish. It is so highly figurative, that it ought
in every point of view to be regarded symboli
cal. In the explanation of Sagittarius we
have seen that Nimrod was sovereign over
both the cities of Babylon and Nineveh : the
two horns of the Goat may therefore be re
garded as emblematical of these two towns,
subjected to one head or gorernment; just as
Daniel in Chapter viii. in the vision of the Ram
and the He Goat, explains the Ram's horns
to mean Media and Persia, which were also
so closely united, as to be considered under
one head or government. For the figure of a
horn is derived from the oriental languages, in
M
82
which the same word signifies a horn, a crown,
power, and splendor : so that the kings of
Persia used to wear a Bain's horn made of
gold, and adorned with precious stones, instead
of a diadem, It is true, that two horns are
natural to a goat 5 but when an image is so
strictly emblematical as that of Capricoruus
manifestly appears to be, it is correct to pursue
the allegorical analogy throughout. Two
horns are also natural to a Ram in the preced
ing vision of Daniel, yet we find that they
represented two people ; and two horns were
also natural to a He Goat in the same vision,
yet we read that he had only one notable horn
between his eyes, which represented the king
of Grecia. We must therefore consider these
two horns to represent two people, or govern
ments, under one eontroul : and therefore it
is concluded, that they represented the two
towns or governments of Babylon and Nine
veh, under the eontroul of their sovereign
Nimrod.
The head of the Goat with its two horns,
haying its body attached to the hinder part of
a fish, is a very appropriate symbol for Baby
lon. This city was situated in a low watery
plain, was surrounded by water, and had the
river Euphrates running through the middle
part of it : its lower part was therefore most
83
properly represented by a fish, asemblematical
of the situation in which it stood. In Scripture
too it is called a mountain, Jeremiah, xlr, 25,
" Behold, 1 am against thee, O destroying
mountain, sailh the Lord, which destroyest
all the earth ; and I will stretch out my hand
against thee, and roll thee down from the
rocks, and will make thee a burnt mountain"
It is so called on account of the great height
ofits walls and towers, its palaces and temples.
Berosus, speaking, of some of its buildings,
says, that " they appeared almost like moun
tains." Hence a Goat, which lives and delights
in mountains, was an appropriate emblem for
a city, which looked like a mountain from Us
magnificence, and was made so by the labor of
man. Indeed, the delight which the Goat
takes- in climbing, is exactly similar to the de
sire the Babylonians had in building. As a
Goat, after having reached one summit, en
deavours to ascend another, so the Babylonians
when they had attained one height in their
buildings, endeavoured to raise them higher,
till they said, Gen. xi> 4, " Let us build a
tower, whose top may reach unto heaven;"
and thus displeased Almighty God by their
presumption !
The symbol therefore of the Goat rising
from the body of a fish, represents with the
M2
84
greatest propriety the mountainous buildings
of Babylon rising but of its low and marshy
situation ; the two horns of the Goat as being
emblematical of the two towns Nineveh and
Babylon, the former built on the Tigris, the
latter on the Euphrates ; but both subjected
to one sovereignty. Capricornus therefore
may be regarded as the standard of Babylon,
which modern heraldry could not more exactly
devise.
AQUARIUS, the Waterer. This is the
figure of an old man with a long beard, having
a large female breast on his left side, holding
in each hand an urn, from each of which a
stream of water issues on a fish below. When
the ancients represented a river, they always
symbolized it by a man pouring out water from
an urn. The moderns also do the same thing ;
and the beautiful sculptured image at the en
trance of Somerset-House, is an emblem of the
river Thames, which is represented by an old
man with a long beard, pouring water from an
tirn. Here we have an old man with two urns
pouring out water, which evidently resembles
two rivers,
It is manifest, that it does not represent rain
from heaven, as is generally supposed : for the
female breast, which the old man possesses, is
evidently emblematical of fruitfulness, and
86
nourishment to the human race ; and the fish
below, shows the species of nourishment
afforded. We may therefore conclude, that
Aquarius represents two rivers ; and these can
be done other than the Tigris and Euphrates,
on the banks of which Nineveh and Babylon
were built. For no other part of the then
civilized world, where astronomy was cultiva
ted, possessed two rivers ofsufficient magnitude
to be considered worthy to be inserted in the
heavens, as representative of a Zodiacal con
stellation. Therefore, as Egypt has but one
river, the Nile, running through the middle
of the country, and as the territory of Babylon
has two, the Tigris and Euphrates, this figure
of Aquarius could not have had its name given
to it in Egypt, but produces the strongest
evidence of having received it at Babylon.
Aquarius we conclude, represents two rivers,
the Tigris and Euphrates, and corresponds to
the period between the middle of December
and that of January, when those rivers were
swollen by the winter rains.
PISCES, the Fishes. This sign is repre
sented by the figure of two fishes tied back to
back, as symbolical of the fishing season ; and
belongs to the period between the middle of
January and that of February. It may how
ever be remarked, that the three preceding
86
signs, together with this, exhibit a double re
presentation. Sagittarius has two faces and
twotaifs; Capricornus, two horns; Aquarius,
two streams ; and Pisces, two fishes : which
circumstances appear to have some allusion to
the two towns, Nineveh and Babylon, or to
the two rivers, Tigris and Euphrates.
The following signs are represented by sim
ple animals, and do not possess the strong
symbolical character of the Babylonish im
agery ; and consequently they are applicable
t® any part of the world.
ARIES, the Ram. This sign belongs to the
middle of February and that of March ; and
because the Ram is the father of the fleecy
ffock, affording both food and raiment to the
human race, he was deemed worthy of a place
among the constellations of the Zodiac.
TAURUS, the Bull, belonged to the period
between the middle of March and that of
April ; and he was put among the Stars be
cause he was regarded as the pride and strength
of.those numerous heads, which supplied man
kind with their principal subsistence.
The vernal equinox passed through the
middle of this sign. It is possible that the
Egyptians who worshipped the host of heaven,
and made some of the Zodiacal signs objects of
87
adoration, derived their God Apis from this
sign : for the heifer selected for the purpose
ofbeing deified, was necessarily obliged to have
a mark similar to a half moon on his side, just
in the same situation where the equinoctial
point is placed in the bull.
GEMINI, the Twins. This sign reaches
from the middle of April to that of May : it is
represented by a man and woman taking hold
of each others hands. It was perhaps intended
originally to signify matrimony ; or was placed
among the stars in consequence of some parti
cular marriage. At first it might have been
called the Twain, and afterwards corrupted
into the Twins ; or what is more probable, the
Greeks, who made considerble alterations in
the original representations of the heavens,
removed the man and woman, and in comme
moration of the feats of Castor and Pollux in
horsemanship and boxing, converted it into
the sign Gemini.
CANCER, the Crab. This sign, which is
evidently the last in the procession, corres
ponds to the period between the middle of
May and that of June. It received its name
from the very circumstance of its being the
last sign, and from the necessity of moving
backward, after all the stars in the Crab had
been observed, in order to take notice of the
88
stars situated in the head of the Lion. For
the Crab extends itself over about one third
part of the Lion ; therefore, when the last
star in the Crab had been observed, it was ne
cessary to cease to proceed, and move back
ward like a Crab, in order to remark the tirst
star in the Lion. If this be true, as it un
doubtedly seems to be, it produces strong
evidence to show, that the Zodiac of Tentyra
offers to our view a copy of the original one :
otherwise the last sign in the Zodiac would
have been altered, and it would not then have
been discovered, that it received its name from
its position. Indeed, the noble appearance of
the Lion trampling on the serpent, whose head
is so majestically raised, would naturally in
duce one to conclude, that this figure was in
tentionally designed to render conspicuous the
leader of the procession, while the diminutive
figure of the Crab, appropriately designates
the last in the train.
In the preceding French account we are
told, that the Zodiacs of Latopolis begin the
procession with Virgo. Were this true, there
must exist some cause for such an alteration,
which cannot at present be explained for
want of a more exact and particular descrip
tion of those Zodiacs.
For the purpose of pursuing this inquiry
89
into its results, it is absolutely necessary to
ascertain the length of the year made use of at
the time it was invented. Sir Isaac Newton
in his chronology, speaking of A aiinoii, who
reigned in Kgypt 1034 years before Christ,
says, " In his time the Egyptians began to ob
serve the course of the stars, and took their
directions for sailing from the rising and setting
of certain stars, which gave birth to astronomy.
The luni-solar year, which was then in use,
was of an unequal length, and consequently
not fit for astronomy. It was for this reason
that in his reign, and in the reigns of his son
and grandson, much care was employed in ob
serving the heliack setting of the stars ; by
which it appeared, that the solar year exceeded
the soli-lunar year of 360 days by 5." This
is one of the most ancient accounts of the
length of the year that has been obtained from
heathen authors, and yet it does not reach
within a 1000 years from the date of this
Zodiac. But since the period of the Deluge
was only about 100 years prior to this Zodiac's
date, how much more probable it is, that the
year corresponded with that of Noah, which we
will therefore take from the pages of the Holy
Scriptures. There we find Noah extremely
exact and particular in noting the very days
in which he entered and left the Ark. Gen.
90
vii. 2, " In the six hundredth year of Noah's
life, in the second month'; on the seventeenth
day of the month, were the fountains of the
great deep broken up, and the windows of
heaven were opened" v. 13, " In the self
same day entered Noah, <$-c. into the Ark."
Gen. viii, 3. " And the wafers returned from
off the earth continually ; and after the end
of one hundred and fifty days the waters
were abated, v. 4. And the Ark rested in
the seventh month on the seventeenth day of
the month, upon the mountains of Ararat"
Hence we learn that his month consisted of
thirty days ; for the space of time between
the second month and the seventeenth day of
the month, and the seventh month and the
seventeenth day of the month, that is five
months, contained one hundred and fifty days:
consequently one month consisted ofthirty days.
Again, Gen. viii. 5. "In the tenth month on
thefirst day of the month, were the tops of
the mountains seen. v. 6, And at the end of
forty days, Noah opened the window of the
Ark, which he had made, and sent forth a
raven." Hence, forty days after the first day of
the tenth month, will bring the time to the
eleventh day of the eleventh month, when
this circumstance of the raven took place.
V. 10, "He stayed yet other seven days,
•1
and again he sentforth a dove out of the Ark.
v. 11, And the dove came to him in the even
ing, and lo, in her mouth was an olive leaf
pluckt off." By adding these seven days to
the eleventh month, and eleventh day of the
month, we come to the eighteenth day of the
eleventh month for the period when the dove
returned with the olive leaf.
V. 12, " He stayed yet other seven days,
and sent forth a dove which returned not
unto him any more. v. 13, And it came to
pass, in the six hundredth andfirst year, in
thefirst month, on thefirst day of the month,
that the waters were dried up from off the
earth" By adding these other seven days to
the eighteenth day of the eleventh month be
fore obtained, we reach to the twenty-fifth day
ofthe eleventh month for the period, when
Noah for the last time sent forth the dove,
which returned not. But immediately after
wards, he says, that it was in the first month
on the first day of the month, that the water
was dried up. Now it is evident, that he knew
that the waters were dried up from the dove
not returning, whence those periods must be
the same. Indeed, the repetition of the same
period in these 12 and 13 verses, is precisely
of the same character as that in the 3rd and
4th verses. Consequently, the twenty-fifth.
N2
day of the eleventh month falling on the first
day of the following year, proves that the last
month contained only twenty-four days. Hence
the eleven months of thirty days each, and the
twelfth month of twenty-four days, made the
year of Noah consist of 354 days, a lunar year
exactly.
Further. Gen. viii, 14, 15. "And in the
second month, on the seven and twentieth day
of the month, was the earth dried; and God
spake to Noah, saying; "Go forth of the
Ark." We have seen above, that he entered the
Ark in the second month, on the seventeenth
day ofthe month. Iftherefore we count the day
he entered and the day he left the Ark, we
shall find that he was one year and eleven days
in the Ark ; that is, a lunar year of 354 days,
and 1 1 days more, making exactly 365 days,
or a solar year.
It is true, that the Almighty let Noah out
ofthe Ark : and therefore, as the work of God,
it is no positive proof of the knowledge of
man, or that Noah understood the length of a
solar year. Yet, as it coincided so exactly
with the solar year, it is not improbable that
the Almighty 'condescended to suit his time to
the understanding of men. And when we
find that the length of Noah's common year
consisted of 354 days, exactly 12 times 291, or
93
twelve lunations, we have no reason to doubt
but the length of the solar year, which was
much less difficult to discover, was also known.
How much more satisfactory are these lunar
and solar years obtained from the Bible, at a
period of about an hundred years prior to the
date of this Zodiac, than the information re
ceived from the extract from Sir Isaac Newton's
chronology, deduced from Heathen authors
at a period one thousand years posterior to its
date.
It is probable, that during the 365 days that
Noah was in the Ark, and when he had
nothing to engage his attention but the differ
ent animals there, and the phenomena of the
heavens, he united these circumstances in his
mind, and assigned to the several constellations
the names of those animals who were then his
companions; and that this circumstance was
the origin of the Zodiac. For we find that
Noah resided considerably to the eastward of
Babylon ; and the Chinese are consequently
supposed to be his un-expatriated descendants.
To them he might have left his Zodiac. Now
these are the names of the constellations of
the Chinese Zodiac. 1, Mouse; 2, Ox or Cow j
3, Tiger; 4, Hare; 5, Dragon; 6, Serpent;
7, Horse; 8, Sheep ; 9, Monkey; 10, Cock;
11, Dog; and 12, Boar: every one of which
94
animals must have been companions with
Noah in the Ark. A singular circumstance is
this, which does not occur to any other Zodiac
in the world, And when it is considered, that
Noah knew the lunar year, and most probably
the solar year also, there can be little doubt,
that be possessed considerable knowledge in
astronomy ; which indeed was requisite for
preserving the chronology of his generation
with that degree ofaccuracy with which we see
it continued. .
We find that " The children ofmen," as they
are called, in consequence of their vices and
idolatry. (Gen. xi. 2.) "journeyed from the
East, andfounda plain in the land ofShinar ;
and they dwelt there" They also built a city
and a tower, which was first called Babel,
afterwards Babylon. This circumstance is
stated to have taken place under Nirarod, who
was the grandson of Ham. As we have not
the birth of Nimrod given, we may suppose it
to have been cotemporary with that of Salah,
the grandson of Shem, who was born thirty-
seven years after the Flood, or 2310 years
before Christ. When therefore Nimrod was
30 years of age, this transmigration might have
taken place, which would be 2280 years before
Christ. The age of 30 years is given to Nim
rod because most of the posterity of Shem had
96
children by that age, and man must therefore
have reached maturity by that time.
When they had arrived in the plain of Shi-
nar, and had built Babylon, they no doubt
began to make fresh observations on the phe
nomena of the celestial bodies ; and improving
on Noah's example, they in some instances
suited to the seasons of the year, the names of
the animals which they appropriated to the
Zodiacal constellations. In compliment to
their founder Nimrod, they inserted him among
their signs in the figure of Sagittarius : then,
very properly following Nimrod, they display
ed the standard of their country in the figure
of Capricornus; and afterwards by Aquarius
the image of a man pouring out water from
two urns, they made a symbolical representa
tion of their two great rivers, the Tigris and
Euphrates. They also called one sign the
Crab ; indicating by that name, that it was the
last sign in the procession, and that it showed
the necessity of going back, as a Crab walks
backward, in order to proceed to the stars in
the head of the Lion.
.It will appear hereafter, that the date of this
Zodiac, which is 2261 years before Christ, is
19 years after the arrival of the Children of
men in the.plain of Shinar. This corresponds
very nearly with the relation made by Por
M
phyry, who says, that Calishenes, a philosopher
in the train of Alexander, makes mention of
astronomical observations, an account of which
he sent to Aristotle, having been discovered
at Babylon for 1903 years previous. As Baby
lon was taken by Alexander 331 years before
Christ, therefore, astronomical observations
were made at Babylon 2234 years before Christ.
This account differs only 27 years from the
date we have given to the Zodiac. A differ
ence so small, considering the immense number
of years that have since elapsed, and the im
perfect state of astronomy at that very early
period, that we cannot but conceive that the
time assigned by Porphyry, and the date of
this Zodiac, to be one and the same period.
In Gen. x. 25, we are told, " that unto Eber
were born two sons, the name of one teas
Peleg,for in his days teas the earth divided. '»
And from Gen. xi. 16, we find that Peleg was
born 2246 years before Christ. It is therefore
manifest, that the date of 2261 years before
Christ, which we give to this Zodiac, was after
the children of men came into the plain of
Shinar, and prior to their dispersion. If we
suppose that the dispersion took place a few
years after the birth of Peleg, which we rea
sonably may from the expression " in his days
was the earth divided" the period of 2234
97
years before Christ, mentioned by Porphyry,
would also be before the dispersionof mankind :
and this date may be seen in most chronologi
cal tables, as well as in that attached to
Johnson's Dictionary.
This beginning of astronomy in Babylon,
agrees also with what Cicero says, (De Divina-
tione, lib. 1.) " Principio Assyrii, propter
planitiem magnitudinemque regi onum, quas
incolebant, cum caelum ex omni parte patens
et apertum intuerentur, trajectiones motusque
stellarum observarunt." The Assyrians in
consequence of the flat and extensive plain in
which they resided, could see in every direc
tion the sky clearly defined by the horizon,
and uninterrupted by any object, and were
consequently the first who observed the courses
and motions of the stars.
t
At the dispersion of mankind, we may sup
pose, that the Egyptians carried away with
them the plan of the Babylonian Zodiac.
When they placed this plan hi the great tem
ple at Tentyra, they surrounded the margin of
the Planisphere with their own hieroglyphics
for the purpose of explaining when the stars
came in conjunction with the sun ; but they
neither altered the position of the equinoctial
nor solstitial points : for at that early period
98
in astronomy, it is more than probable, that
they were unacquainted with the precession of
the equinoxes. The sacred characters in the
circular belt, as well as those in the corners of
the square, appear to be of Egyptian produc
tion. The Greeks, it is well known, received
their Zodiac from the Egyptians; and the
other European nations borrowed theirs from
the Greeks.
What increases the probability of this rela
tion is, the Indian Zodiac, which is similar to
the Greek or Egyptian, and which Sir William
Jones proves to have existed in that country
from time immemorial. The following is an
extract from the Encyclopaedia Perthensis.
" The identity, or at least the striking similar*
ity of the Indian Zodiac, with that of the
Greeks', is universally known, and 5f. Montucla
has endeavoured to prove, that the Bramins
received it from the Arabs ; his opinion has we
believe been generally admitted, but Sir Wil
liam Jones has proved unanswerably, that
neither of these nations borrowed that division
from the other ; that it was known among the
Hindoos from time immemorial, and that it
was probably invented by the first progenitors
of that race, whom he considers as the most
ancient of mankind, before their dispersion"
Ifthe authority of Sir William Jones can be
99
relied on, we must suppose, that the Indians
received their Zodiac from Babylon at the
time of the dispersion of mankind.
The Indians as well as the Babylonians and
Egyptians, converted their knowledge in as
tronomy to the very worst of purposes—that of
deifying the signs of the Zodiac, and worship
ing those symbols as their gods. When the
English Army under Sir Ralph Abercrombie
was in Egypt, one part of it had marched from
India, and the following is an extract.from Dr.
Clarke's Travels, who was in Egypt at the time.
<e Upon this occasion we heard the extraordi
nary fact, maintained and confirmed by indis
putable testimony, that certain Bramins, who
had accompanied the Indian army in its march
from the Bed Sea to the Nile, from Cosseir to
Kene, saw at Dendera the representation of
their God Vishnu, among the ancient sculp-
tures of the place ; and were with difficulty
restrained by their officers from assaulting the
Arabs, on account of the neglected state in
which his temple, as they supposed, was
suffered to remain." This event which took
place some years before the removal of the
Zodiac of Tentyra to France, may be regarded
as a proof of the similarity of the Egyptian and
Indian Zodiacs.
We have now seen strong reasons for be
o2
100
lieving, that both the Indians and Egyptians
brought their Zodiacs from Babylon at the
dispersion of mankind ; and these two coinci
ding circumstances tend, at this very distant
period of time since the events, to corroborate
very forcibly the veracity of Holy Writ. Gen.
xi. 9. " Therefore is the name of it called
Babel, because the Lord did there confound
the language of all the Earth ; and from
thence did the Lord scatter them abroad upon
the face ofall the Earth."
The next subject necessary to be considered
is the mode that the Ancients pursued in
making their astronomical observations, and in
ascertaining the positions of the stars. We
do not read, that they possessed any instru
ments for obtaining the altitudes ofthe heaven
ly bodies; nor any method of measuring time
by the night, when the sun was down, and
consequently the gnomon became useless.
But all the Heathen accounts agree in stating,
that they were very attentive in observing the
heliacal rising and setting of the stars ; and
'we know from the position of the Egyptian
Pyramids, which are placed exactly to corres
pond with the meridian line, that they knew
very early, how to place the cardinal points
of the compass.
The heliacal rising of a star, is when it rises
.
.101
just sufficiently long before the sun, as to be
come visible to the naked eye, and then disap
pear almost immediately from being obscured
by the splendor of the sun. The heliacal
setting of a star is, when as a star sets just so
long after the sun, as to become visible to the
naked eye immediately before it sets. Ptolemy
states, that the sun is 12° 13° 14° &c. below the
horizon,when stars of the first,second, third, &c.
magnitude, respectively rise or set heliacally.
In this manner therefore, we have every
reason to believe, the Ancients obtained the
situations of the stars. They watched the
rising of a star for some days before it became
obscured by the sun's rays, and having noted
the last day they were able to see the star rise,
they called it the heliacal rising of the star on
that day. They afterwards watched the first
day they were able to see the same star set,
after having emerged from the sun's rays, and
having noted the period, they called it the
heliacal setting of the star for that day. The
time elapsed between the heliacal rising and
setting of the star they divided by two, and
thus obtained very nearly the period when the
star was in conjunction with the sun.
They likewise marked on an horizontal
plane, the direction in which they saw a star
rise, and then the direction in which they ob
102
served it set. The line which bisected the
angle formed by these two directions became
their meridional line ; to which they compared
the rising and setting of all the other stars :
and thus they obtained their amplitudes,
By these means of obtaining the stars' con
junctions with the sun, and their amplitudes,
they were enabled with scarcely anyinstruments
to ascertain the situations of the stars to an
accuracy within about half a degree. But those
stars which were far towards the North, and
never rise nor set, could not have their positions
obtained by these means. Hence in the infan
cy of astronomy, the Ancients had no means
of obtaining: the situations of those Northern
CI '
stars; for without measuring time by night
with considerable accuracy, and without obser
ving the altitudes of those stars, they would
be incapable of doing it.
They were therefore necessarily obliged to
represent only a zone of the celestial sphere ;
and it will appear hereafter that sucli zone
did not originally embrace greater space than
was necessary for comparing the rising and
setting of the stars with the motions of the sun,
moon, and planets.
Let us now return to our main subject, and
cast our eyes on the Lithographic representa-
103
tion of the Zodiac. Here the reader is re
quested to pay particular attention to the forma
of the thirty-six figures which stand in a circle
round the border or margin ofthe Planisphere,
and have sacred characters with a star attached
to each of them ; in order that he may be
enabled to separate from the figures represen
ting the constellations in the body of the Pla
nisphere, the other figures which are similar
to those in the margin, and similarly attached
to sacred characters with a star, and which are
in reality hieroglyphics and not constellations.
Having taken this precaution in order to assist
his imagination, he may draw three pencil line*
within the Planisphere ; one over the heads of
the marginal figures, another under the feet of
the Zodiacal signs, and a third over tbeir beads.
By so doing he will divide the Planisphere into
three parts, each consisting of twelve constel
lations. The first set of asterisms, which is
below the Zodiac find over the heads of the
hieroglyphic figures in the circular margin, is
to the southward of it, and apparently contain
those starts which were at its date, situated in
the southern superficial segment of the celes
tial sphere, comprehended between the Zodiac
and that parallel of declination which then
passed through its southern extremity* Th«
second set contains the Zodiacal signs. The
third set seems to consist ofthose constellations
104
which were situated in the northern superficial
segment of the celestial sphere, and contained
between the Zodiac and that parallel of de
clination which then passed through its north-
en extremity. Wherefore the whole constel
lations in the Planisphere consist of those stars
which were at the time of its invention situated
in a zone of the celestial Globe between two
parallels of declination about 30 degrees dis
tant on each side of the equinoctial. The
twelve constellations below the Zodiac are so
properly situated to correspond with the south
ern celestial segment, besides being placed in
a space not dissimilar in shape, that if there is
any arrangement in placing the constellations
in the Planisphere contiguous to each other in
the same manner as they appear in the heavens,
it is impossible they can represent any other
asterisms, than . those situated between the
Zodiac, and a southern parallel of declination.
The twelve constellations above the Zodiac,
we cannot so satisfactorily refer to the northern
celestial segment. But.when we observe, that
the position which the Zodiac has in the Pla
nisphere, necessarily cramps the proper distri
bution of the northern stars ; and when we
consider that the number of constellations
above, are precisely equal to those below the
Zodiac ; we have a right to suppose that they
occupy an equal space in the heavens, and
-- -sE».r -
105
therefore in all probability represented the stars
in the northern segment of the celestial sphere,
situated between the Zodiac and a northern
parallel ofdeclination.
The figure of the Great Bear, which is very
conspicuous among these northern constella
tions would very much oppose this supposition,
ifhis position could in any way be made to corres
pond to the constellation we now represent by
that animal. There is nothing but its figure to
speak in its favour, its relative situation to the
other stars renders it impossible to represent
the stars placed in the present Great Bear.
Besides, at the period when the Planisphere of
Tentyra was invented, the modern Great Bear
was as far North as it could be ; and therefore
if the observations previously made on the
mode of ancient astronomy be true, they did
not in those days possess the means of obtaining
the positions of the stars composing this con
stellation. It is most probable that the Greeks
who made very great changes in the original
representation of the heavens for the purpose
of inserting their own fabulous theogony, re
moved the Great Bear from its primitive to its
present situation.
Outside of the Planisphere, between the
figures which are supporting it, are seen two
106
emblems, which are not easy to be character
ized : they are opposite to each other, and are
placed at right angles to the spiral form of the
Zodiac. It is universally agreed, that these
emblems point to the positions occupied by the
equinoctial points in the Zodiac at the time of
its invention. Also in the space which sepa
rates the Planisphere from the great hierogly
phic zone, we observe two short inscriptions in
sacred characters opposite to each other. They
are situated in a diameter which passes through
the Lion and Aquarius, and it is generally ad
mitted that they direct our view to the solstitial
signs. If the exterior circle ofthe Planisphere
be parallel to the equinoctial, which most pro
bably is the case, the stars below the Zodiac
seem to be placed in a space of nearly the
same form as would have been the case, when
the Lion was on the solstitial colure.
We have already seen that the year used
about the period of the date of this Zodiac,
was the lunar of 354 days. In examining the
Lithographic representation, we see the Crab
extend itself over the Lion for the space of
about the third of a sign ; consequently the
stars of the Zodiac are doubled through this
space, and the exterior circumference of the
Planisphere cannot correspond to 365 days, for
then the whole ofthe Zodiac would be included
JOT
in one circumference. It must therefore con
tain a space less than 365 days, by about the
third of a sign. This space most probably was
their common year of 354 days, and the
distance extended by the Crab over the Lion
corresponds to the distance through which the
sun passes during the interval of eleven days
and six hours, the difference between the
solar and lunar years.
We will now endeavour to investigate the
use the Ancients made of this Zodiac, having,
first gained what light we can from ancient
history. Rollin speaking of the Egyptian
King Osymandyas, observes : " His Mauso
leum discovered an uncommon magnificence ;
it was encompassed with a circle of gold, a
cubit in breadth, and 365 cubits in circumfe
rence, each of which showed the rising or set
ting of the sun, moon, and the rest of the
planets. For so early as this king's reign, the
Egyptians divided the year into twelve months,
each month consisting of thirty days ; to which
they added, every year, five days and six hours.
The spectator did not know which to admire
most in this stately monument, whether the
richness of the materials, or the genius and
industry of the artists and workmen."
Another extract is adduced from Sir Isaac
p 2
108
Newton's Chronology, which carries with it
the appearance of greater veracity than the
former, because it was impossible for the rising
and setting of the moon and planets to be ex
pressed in a daily manner through any more
years than one. " The Egyptians dedicated to
Osiris, Iris, Orus, Typhon, and Nephte', his
wife and sister, the five additional days, which
were joined to the twelve months of the ancient
luni-solar year of 360 days. They were added
in the year of Ammon, the father of those prin
ces j but the year of365 days was not universally
received in Egypt, till the reign of Amenophis.
It was be that ordered a great circle to be di
vided into 365 parts, each of which had one
day of the year on it, with the heliacal rising
and setting of the stars for the day to be pla
ced in his temple of Abydos, in Thebais."
We may from these extracts suppose, that
the thirty-six symbolical figures standing round
the margin of the Planisphere, explain the
names of the thirty-six constellations which
are represented within : and that the little
inscription in sacred characters, with a star
attached to each, shows the name of a particu
lar star in that constellation, which rises or
sets heliacally, or is in conjunction with the
sun on the day of the year opposite which the
symbolical figure is placed.
109
There is no regular and uniform division of
the exterior circumference to mark precisely
the particular. days: this was an improvement
made in after ages, as may be seen by the
preceding extracts. But we may suppose that
the phenomenon expressed by the little inscrip
tion with a star attached to each of the sym
bolical figures in the circular margin, was
selected so as to preserve, as near as possible,
a certain uniform interval of time with the
others.
We see in the Planisphere the Crab situated
over the head of the Lion ; the reason of which
is no doubt that the exterior circumference of
the Planisphere corresponded to the lunar
year of 354 days; which year we have seen
was used by Noah about 100 years before the
date of this Zodiac : so that the space of a so
lar year of 365 days could not be contained in
one circuit, but necessarily exceeded it. If
we admit, that the circle of the Planisphere
was suited to a lunar year of354 days, we have
also a reason to suppose, that the use they
made of this Zodiac, was to ascertain the pe
riods for the changes of the moon : otherwise
O '
they would not have placed the stars out of
the natural circle and positions, which they
occupy in the heavens.
It is impossible without a knowledge of the
110
Egyptian symbols and hieroglyphics to ascer
tain to a certainty the manner in which they
did obtain a knowledge of the periods of the
moon's changes ; yet, if we can show a method
by which they might arrive at such information,
it will be reasonable until we can be gratified,
with what is not likely to be known,—an
accurateexplanation oftheEgyptian characters,
to suppose that they adopted such a plan.
There are three sets of constellations, each
consisting of twelve ; one below, one in, and
one above the Zodiac, which seem to corres
pond to three following years. The star, which
is particularized in each constellation, and
noted by sacred characters in the margin of the
Planisphere, most probably rose or set helia-
cally, or was in conjunction with the sun, on a
particular day. As there were thirty-six such
stars, so there appears to be a treble set of
twelve months ,• and the space between every
third figure we may suppose to occupy a lunar
month, or as nearly so as the phenomenon made
by the star would admit. Hence, if any change
of the moon, whether new, quartered, or full,
was known to happen when any star, suppose
Regulus, rose heliacally, then, when every
third star noted in the margin from Regulus
rose heliacally, the same change of the moon,
whether new, quartered, or full, would happen
Ill
at those periods. By thus taking every third
star or figure in the circular margin success-
ively, if you began with Regulus, when you
come to the last star in the Crab, or to the
first in the Lion, you will find that you have
passed over twelve lunations, having gone
round the whole circumference and arrived at
the figure whence you departed. But then
you will not have taken notice of the stars in
the head of the Lion ; to do which you must
retreat one figure backward, as is indicated by
the Crab, which walks backward ; and in your
retreat you will have passed over the exact
difference between a lunar and a solar year, or
the space which is passed over by the stars in
eleven days, six hours. Then beginning
another year from this new figure, and taking
every third figure therefrom successively, you
will find when the particular star attached to it
rose heliacally, and likewise when the moon
underwent a change similar to what it under
went the year before.
When you have completed twelve lunations,
you will find you have arrived at the figure
you departed from ; but not having passed over
the latter stars in the Crab, you must again re
treat one figure backward, which is also the
difference between a lunar and a solar year.
From this other figure you must commence a
112
third lunar yAr, and proceed as before. When
you have completed this third lunar year, you
will lind that in respect to Regulus from which
you at first started, you will have retreated
the space corresponding to thirty three days,
eighteen hours. You must therefore give to
the third year another lunation, and begin again
with Regulus. Because 33 days, 18 hours, ex
ceed a lunation of 29£ days, by about 4 days 5
if the moon was new when you originally be
gan from Regulus : now, when you return to
Regulus again after the thirteenth lunation in
the third year, the moon will be four days old
and so it will continue to be in every third
figure following, till the three successive years
are passed over as before, and you again ar
rive at Regulus ; after which it will be eight
days old, altering about four days of its age,
every three years.
By thus keeping the lunar year fixed while
the changes of the moon were compared to the
rising or setting of the stars heliacally, or to
their conjunctions with the sun, a great length
of years would not make them far out in respect
to the moon. For the lunation given by them
was 29 days, 12 hours, differing only 44 minutes,
3 seconds, from what is at present assigned to
that period ; and the errors arising from the so
lar year were corrected by being compared
with the heliacal rising of the stars.
113
Let us now estimate the date of the Zodiac
of Tentyra. In the preceding part ofthis work
we have seen that the precession of the equi
noxes is 50,57 Seconds of a degree of a circle
annually. If therefore at any period we can
ascertain accurately the position of the equi
noxes or the situation of any fixed star, we
can also find exactly the year when the star,
or the equinoxes, were so situated. In the
French description ofthis Zodiac, we have seen,
that the two emblems at the sides between the
Planisphere and the hieroglyphic zone, are sup
posed to direct our view to the equinoctial
points in the Zodiac; and that the Lion, which
leads the procession, is on the solstitial colure.
These particulars can scarcely be doubted ; for
if we make a stereographic projection of the
northern hemisphere upon the equator as a pri
mitive circle; and continue the projection
about 30 degrees, outside of the primitive in or
der to take in all the signs of the Zodiac ; then
will the projections of the Zodiacal constella
tions, if Leo is placed on the solstitial colure
and the signs following in order, appear among
the stars placed similarly to the signs in this Zo
diac, excepting only the irregularity occasioned
by the extension of the Crab over the Lion,
the cause and use of which we have already
seen. This proves that the Lion is properly
114
placed to be the northern constellation, and is
consequently on the summer solstice. '' ' '
It is also evident that the two emblems situ
ated between the hieroglyphic zane and the
Planisphere are at proper distances from the
Lion to direct our attention to the equinoctial
points in the Zodiac. But the emblem which
* .. ' :'!.:. i ".'''';..''
is sharp pointed belonging to the Spring is in
tentionally turned a little from the centre ojf
the Planisphere ; because the constellations not
being quite contained in one circuit, but folding
a little over each other, could not be equally
divided by a line passing through the centre.
The, spring emblem points to the middle of
Tauru£, but the autumn one being curved at top
causes some doubt to exist in respect to, the par
ticular spot in Scorpio towards which it was in
tended to be directed. The star Regulus, in,
the heart ofthe Lion,:—a star of the first magni
tude, is situated exactly 90 degrees from the
point in the Bull to which the vernal emblem
is directed. If therefore you have a* celestial
Globe, and if you count from Regulus, 9Q ^e,-.
grees,onihe Ecliptiq towards the West,, yp^
will come exactly to that spot in the Bui}, which
is pointed at by ,the emblem. ,The ex<jre,mity,,
of the Crab ajsq is exactly .placed qye,r wh^
that star should ?be situated jn the L^ty ,..,,,.,
Now if it be considered that the Ancients
115
received only those stars in their constellations,
which were visible to the naked eye, and the
intermediate space between two constellations
where stars were not visible, was not regarded
as belonging to any constellation, we shall find
that the distance between the first visible
star in the Lion, and Regulus, corresponded
very nearly to the space passed over by the
stars in eleven days and six hours ; the reason
for which we have just seen. All these coin
ciding circumstances tend to prove that the
star Regulus was either on, or very near the
solstitial colure, when this Zodiac was tirst
• ' * ' " i 4" ' ' * ' It* • ' !..* " .-'. f
invented.
• i* *...*'; " ' . ' * . ', •;' '''* / J ' ..'•.
' ,' ' ' i
Now Abbe Piazzi for tfae beginning of the
year .1800, gives to Regulus a right, ascension
149° 26' 33",4 ; and a declination 12° 46' 22"
North. These data by accurate calculation,
makes the longitude to be 147° 2' 57" from the
vernal equinoctial point, or 57° 2' 57" or 205
397 seconds from the summer solstitial colure.
This number 205397, divided by 50. 57 seconds
the mean annual precession of the equinoxes,
produces a quotient of4061 for the number of
years before 1800 of our Lord, and gives the
-date of the Zodiac to be 2261 years before
Christ. This date is only 27 years prior to the
period when by Porphyry's account, (before
taken notice of) astronomical observations were
116
begun at Babylon ; a difference, which in res
pect to the situation of the stars, does not
exceed 20 minutes of a degree, and a difference
not to be observed in the imperfect state of
astronomy at that very early period.
By a retrospect of the evidences resulting
from the foregoing enquiry, we are naturally
led to form the following conclusions.—Two
very powerful reasons present themselves to
show, that the names and figures ofthe Zodiac
of Tentyra were not originally given to it in
Egypt, The Virgin holding the ear of corn in
her hand, being emblematical ofharvest, is not
properly placed to represent the harvest of
Egypt; and Aquarius, holding two urns, as
symbolical of two rivers, could not possibly be
appropriated to Egypt, which country has
only one.
Very many and powerful arguments tend to
prove, that the Zodiac received its names and
figures, and had its equinoctial points fixed at
Babylon. The striking resemblance of Sagit
tarius to Nimrod, the appropriate emblem of
Capricornus for the standard of Babylon and
Nineveh, and symbolical representation of the
rivers Tigris and Euphrates in the figure of
Aquarius,—three signs immediately following
each other, and all possessing the exact features
and peculiarity of the Babylonish imagery,
117
offer strong presumptive reasons for such con
clusions. The date of the Zodiac 2261
years before Christ, only 27 years prior to the
period mentioned by Porphyry, falling exactly
in the interval between the time ofthe children
of men arriving in the plain of Shinah, and
that of the dispersion of mankind, is also a
strong evidence that the Zodiac was invented
at Babylon, and the equinoctial points fixed at
that place.
The situation of the Crab over the Lion, in
dicating by its figure the use to be made of it,
is a very satisfactory proof, that the constella
tions in this Zodiac preserve their original si
tuations, and consequently that this Planis
phere presents to our view the representation
of one of the most ancient of its kind.
It having been proved that Noah was ac
quainted with the lunar year, and great pro
bability having been shown that he knew the
solar year also ; we may rationally conclude
that he was a proficient in astronomy, and that
his great grandson Nimrod might have been
sufficiently instructed in that science to have
pointed out the proper method for commencing
astronomical observations at Babylon.
The striking similarity of the Indian with
that of the Egyptian Zodiac, and the testi
mony of Sir William Jones, that the former
easted before .the dispersion of mankind
miked with tlie proofs we have (seen that the
laltter 'was of Babylonish original, are evidences
very strongly ,«orpobomting the truth ofScripr
tural history. We cannot be destitute of a sense
of admiration 'when we reflect, that a stone
sculptured some thousand years since in Egypt,
should, by almost every particularity which it
possesses, so completely refute the sentiments
generally entertained concerning the Egyptian
Zodiacs,—that they disagree with the accounts
in the Holy Scriptures ; and should on the con
trary, become the means ofconfirming, by such
a vast variety of circumstances, and in fe<» indis
putable -a manner, the Tenacity -of the Bible,
the great accuracy of its chronology, and the
truth of the dispersion of mankind/ ' ;- ''..'' '"
Havilaiul, fruiter, tlj-mouth.
ERRATA.
£::. X;re*,o
cope, read Procopius
**{^*<^,*<|*r«# ,.
. ( ..;;,.,' | J?, ro«<, read route.
52, o frig-Af angles, read dl n>A/ afigki.' "'"
.i v,,.,..,,,,...^ ^^j, r«riW«iM*fc -.V.'.i'... .-. !,,';-,;
Page 6, Procope, read Procopius.
!~V.a ;:'!..' T»
:.i'i/'«ii' i.ic- , vii. H.'i I ' .1) 'n"--/ .ri ./ yi.
,J-.r<*il, »f.l .{.!*«./' ,<i'ii. ti ''{>,''.
./*'!.!' !i.rrnt<a.. r/s
Published by the same Author.
•*—#-
STEREOGONIOMETRY.
A science teaching: the method of calculating the several angles
formed by the inclinations and intersections of the sides of a
trilateral solid angle, applied to terrestrial astronomy and
dialing.—Also, Leeway and magnetic sailings.
•OLD BY LUXN, CLASSICAL LIBRARY, 80HO-SQUARE ;
SHERWOOD, NBBLT, AND JOKES,
TATERNO8TBR-ROW.
Frist Fourteen ShURng* in Btarttt.
