{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1825__anonymous___an_apology_for_the_study_of_phrenology.pdf","mytitle":"An Apology For The Study Of Phrenology","mylang":"de"}
- AN
A POLOGY
For
-
THE STUDY - - |
- or
PHRENoLogy.
. º
º ;
BATH:
PRINTED BY wood AND cunninghAM,
For LoNGMAN, HURST, REEs, orME, BRowN, AND GREEN, London;
AND FOR JOHN ANDERSON, JUN, EDINBURGH.
1825.
NORTHWESTERN UNIV, MED. SCHOOT LIBRARY
) 3G
13 2.5
TO
GEORGE COMBE, ESQ.
THE ABLE AND ELoquENT DEFENDER OF PHRENOLOGY,
THIS LITTLE TRACT
§§ {\ttgttitely,
WITH SENTIMENTS OF RESPECT
AND ESTEEM,
BY THE AUTHOR.
&T.2, 8 || 3
CONTENTS.
PAGE
Introductory Remarks . . . . . . . . . . 5
Phrenology founded on Observation
and Induction . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Phrenology not at Variance with
Religious Faith - C - - - - - - - - - - 17
Uses of Phrenology . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
AN APOLOGY, &c.
Introductory Remarks.
IF Phrenology be founded in truth,
it must be worthy the serious attention of every
reflecting mind; for, next to the Divine truths
(which involve eternal welfare)what subject can
engage the human mind so deeply interesting as
its own nature and functions 2
The philosophyof matterhas long held itsjust
rank among human sciences; and, by diligent
cultivation, has been successfully explored in all
its branches, so as to have attained, at the pre
sent day, a considerable degree of advancement.
The philosophy of mind has also received its
due portion of attention, and been investigated
with as much acuteness of observation, and depth
of reasoning, as human intellect is capable of
exercising.
6
The pre-eminent importance of this latter
inquiry has been always acknowledged, and phi
losophers of the highest intellect have devoted
to it their undivided and unwearied labours.
Whence is it, then, that while Physics, or the
philosophy of matter, has been so successfully
cultivated, Metaphysics, or that of mind, should
have accomplished so little, that, with all the
efforts of consummate genius, no theory of men
tal powers should have resulted on which any
rational mind can rely? Whence, but in the
fundamental disadvantage which Metaphysicians
have ever laboured under, of deriving their prin
cipal facts from individual consciousness rather
than collective observation; from the error of
assuming, though in the face of overwhelming
contradictions afforded by every day's experience,
that all minds are essentially the same, and that
the individual might, in this respect, be consi
dered as representing the species? A course of
inquiry, thus necessarily defective, never could
embrace the comprehensive view of the subject
from which just conclusions could be drawn;
from premises so partial, nothing but imperfect
inferences could be deduced; and consequently
Metaphysics, as heretofore pursued, has utterly
7
ſ
failed in establishing this branch of knowledge
on any sound or permanent foundation. It ap
pears, then, that existing systems, if such they
can be called, possessed no completeness to pre
cludethe necessity of further inquiry; Phrenology
therefore must at least be acquitted of having
engaged in a superfluous undertaking.
But if investigation were requisite, it was
surely desirable to pursue some mode different
from that which, after ages of unsuccessful effort,
had so signally failed. If facts derived from in
dividual consciousness had proved insufficient
for deductions worthy to command general as
sent, what more obvious or natural course could
be devised, than to collect facts, by such exten
sive observation of mental phenomena as by
the copiousness of the induction would lead to
the establishment of irrefragable truths? This
Phrenology has endeavoured to effect; and if, in
pursuing such inquiry, a connexion close and inti
mate has been traced between the several faculties
of the mind and the conformation of that impor
tant organ to which all mental power is almost in
tuitively referred, I own I cannot in this circum
stance see any just ground either for distrusting
the conclusions drawn from the phenomena ob
8
served, or for attaching to the inquiry that ridicule
with which it has been so much the fashion to treat
it. Whether the mind actually possesses the fa
culties deduced from the observations of Phreno
logists, admits of proof by competent evidence;
and it is equally cognizablewhether these faculties
uniformly co-exist with the special developments
of brain to which Phrenologists refer them.
The question seems here resolvable into two
parts: the one referring to the phenomena of
mind; the other, to the alleged connexion of
these phenomena with the conformation of the
brain. And it appears to me, that they who find
anydifficulty in admitting the latter as sufficiently
proved, may nevertheless give truth and consist
ency to their metaphysical inquiries by adopting,
as the ground of their reasonings, those innate
powers which Phrenology has developed, in pre
ference to the gratuitous faculties which Meta
physicians have heretofore assumed. By this
suggestion I mean not, in the slightest degree,
to surrender the claim which Phrenology has to
full belief on both grounds,-for on both the
foundation is equally sure: I merely shew that
the advantages of the science need not be wholly
lost even to those who, from peculiarity of intel
9
lect, strong prejudice, or timid apprehension,
shrink from admitting, or even examining,
the evidences by which the connexion of the
mental faculties with the conformation of the
brain is demonstrated.
The object of these pages is to represent
Phrenology so as to vindicate its claim to can
did examination, rather than to furnish any com
plete development of its principles; to shew,
that, as a branch of natural science, it rests pre
cisely on that foundation by which all natural
truth is upheld, namely, induction from well
established facts; and to obviate certain preju
dices hastily urged and heedlessly admitted, by
which irreligious tendency has been groundlessly
imputed to it. If these several points be main
tained by fair argument, it is difficult to conceive
how an inquiry so interesting and important as
that of Phrenology can fail to arrest general
attention. To those who may be induced to
pursue it the way is open, and ample information
respecting its present state may be obtained from
several elementary works, which the industrious
student can be at no loss to procure. -
10
Phrenology founded on Observation
and Induction.
A brief history of the rise and progress
of Phrenology will best support its claims for
being acknowledged as a legitimate branch of
natural science.
That the brain is the organ of thought, or
subservient in some way to this inscrutable at
tribute of animal life, is admitted in numberless
ways even by those who, in formal argument,
affect to deny its agency. -
I use the term inscrutable in reference to the
real nature of mind and to its inexplicable con
nexion with matter, for these seem to transcend
human comprehension. Into these Phrenology
presumes not to penetrate; it merely deduces
from outward manifestations the general laws to
which they are subservient: but it is not the less
valuable from its inquiries being thus limited,
the knowledge of general truths deduced from
individual facts being invariably the most useful
that can exercise the mind of man.
The apple falls to the ground by a power in
cessantly and invariably operating. The philoso
º,
11
phic intellect of a Newton extended this simple
observation, until he deduced from adequate
facts the truly sublime discovery which has im
mortalized his name. Of the nature of gra
vity we know nothing; our knowledge is strictly
limited to the general fact of such power exist
ing, and to the laws by which it acts; and these
have been deduced from patient observation of
those phenomena which display the power in
operation. By no other process can we ever
succeed in scrutinizing the operations of nature,
and with the knowledge thus acquired we should
be content. Had Newton misapplied his powers
to investigating the intimate nature of gravity,
his life would have been as vain and profitless as
it has been glorious and useful. He acted more
wisely, and confining himself within those bounds
by which the great Creator has circumscribed
human knowledge, he, instead of presumptu
ously attempting to penetrate into mysteries
surpassing human comprehension, devoted his
transcendent talents to establishing the general
laws by which the force of gravity acts in the
economy of the universe. The results of his
inquiries, and their effects on the welfare and
happiness of mankind, are too familiar to every
12
cultivated mind to need any exposition in this
place.
With the intimate nature of mind the Phreno
logist professes no acquaintance: he only inves
tigates the general laws by which it is governed,
and the connexion which the great Author of
Nature has formed between it and animal or
ganization. To establish these, he assumes no
plausible hypothesis; in his philosophy, fancy
and imagination have no share. Abiding by the
maxims of the distinguished founder of sound
philosophy, he has contented himself with pati
ently observing phenomena, and deducing from
accumulated facts those general truths which
their uniform correspondence in certain points
served to establish. If such course of proceed
ing be not conformable to the principles of phi
losophising laid down by the highest authorities,
I must confess myself wholly ignorant of what
these principles enjoin.
The object of Phrenology then is not to pe
netrate into the intimate nature of mind, with
which it has no concern, but to deduce from
mental phenomena those general truths which
man is permitted to explore. To the labours of
the Metaphysicians I shall not advert. They de
13
rived their knowledge of mind chiefly from their
own consciousness; the subject of examination
was the individual, not the species; and hence
the utter inadequacy of their several systems to
embrace the collective phenomena which more
extended observation presented. As already re
marked, their labours produced no system ad
mitting of universal application; it was reserved
for Dr. Gall to institute a different course of in
quiry; and to his genius are we indebted for
whatever lights Phrenology has shed on this intri
cate and interesting subject. From his earliest
days, Gall was led to observe the difference of
intellectual power and of moral feeling evinced
by those around him, and to investigate the
causes from which such differences sprung. Per
ceiving peculiar faculties of mind to prevail in
certain individuals marked by corresponding
peculiarity of aspect, he traced the latter to cer
tain projections of skull which influenced the
features. The projections he found to coincide
with corresponding and proportionate prominen
ces of the brain at the projecting points; and
finding the mental powers and the prominences
to co-exist invariably in all the individual instan
ces which he examined, he inferred that a neces
14
|
sary connexion subsisted between them, and
that the organic conformation was essential to
the exercise of the mental powers; in other
words, that the portions of brain causing such
prominences were the organs of the powers re
spectively with which they so invariably co
existed. In collecting facts, and comparing de
velopments of brain with the mental powers
possessed by those whose heads he inspected,
Galli was unwearied. Of the extent to which
his industry and application in this respect were
carried I could give no adequate notion in this
brief tract; it is sufficient to say, that in tracing
the connexion of development and faculty Gall
represented no special organ as established, until
he had verified his observations by such abun
dant proofs as left no doubt of the accuracy of
his conclusions. Until this degree of certainty
could be attained, he was satisfied to state the
organs as conjectural; and many which were
long regarded as doubtful, became afterwards
confirmed when more ample experience enabled
him to pronounce determinately respecting them.
The caution thus displayed evinces none of that
visionary enthusiasm with which Gall and his
followers have been so unjustly charged.
15
Gall had pursued his inquiries diligently and
extensively for many years ere he considered
them sufficiently matured for promulgation. In
1798 he first announced his intention of publish
ing on the subject: yet not until 1810 did he
produce his great work, which he had prepared
in conjunction with his able coadjutor, Dr.
Spurzheim. This was published at Paris, and
was entitled “Anatomie et Physiologie du Sys
temé Nervaux en general, et du Cervaux en par
ticuliere, &c.” . It embraces the fullest account
of Phrenology that has yet appeared. As yet
no translation of it has been made in this
country: one is announced, however, by the
Editors of the Phrenological Journal as in pro
gress, the appearance of which cannot fail to
benefit essentially the cause of Phrenology by
opening to the general reader the ample stores
of information which the industry and zeal of
the distinguished authors had collected. In the
interim, they who may feel inclined to enter on
the study, or to extend their knowledge, will find
sufficient assistance in the Phisiognomical Sys
tem of Dr. Spurzheim, with his illustrative Tracts
on Education and Insanity; in the valuable
works of Mr. Combe; Forster's Phrenology;
16
Scott's Observations; Sir George Mackenzie's
Illustrations; the Transactions of the Phrenologi
cal Society of Edinburgh; and the Phrenological
Journal: all of which will amply repay the peru
sal. It is needless to discuss this part of the
subject further, as sufficient ground has, I trust,
been shewn for admitting Phrenology to the rank
of a science, and a sufficient refutation given to
those idle calumnies which represent it as foun
ded on visionary conceptions rather than rational
induction. They who deem the refutation suffi
cient, will surely no longer recoil from a study
that promises so much pleasure and instruction.
17
Phrenology not at Variance with
Religious Faith.
THAT Phrenology tends to weaken re
ligious belief can be so readily disproved, that it
excites some surprise how so strange a miscon
ception could ever have been entertained: in
deed it could only have arisen from the objectors
never having condescended to examine the sci
ence which they denounced by so heavy an
accusation.
What does Phrenology profess? Not to in
vestigate the abstract nature of mind, but merely
to develope its phenomena, and to establish, by
observation and induction, the real faculties
which it possesses, together with the dependance
of those faculties on the conformation of the
brain. In representing the brain as the organ
of thought and moral feeling, the Phrenologist
never dreams of attributing to it an independent
agency; nor ever regards it save as the instru
ment by which the spiritual principle exercises
its powers. It seems not to have been suffici
ently borne in mind, that spiritual and physical
truths are supported by evidences wholly dissi
B
18
milar, and that they require to be investigated by
processes which bear no resemblance to each
other.
Our knowledge of the material world is de
rived solely from observation of its phenomena,
the collection of individual facts, and the deduc
tion of truths more general whenever individual
facts accumulate so as to warrant their genera
lisation. For all that we know of the spiritual
part of our being we are indebted to divine reve
lation alone: from no other source could truths
so inscrutable be derived.
The immortality of the soul could be imagi
ned by those whose conceptions had not the
light of revelation to guide them: it could never
be substantiated save by the express declarations
of that Being who is himself the fountain of all
truth. Of physical truths, we judge by the ac
curacy with which philosophic methods have
been adhered to in deducing them; our reliance
on spiritual truths rests solely on the evidences
by which the reality of a divine revelation is
established, which evidences being complete, we
admit the truths implicitly, however they may
surpass our finite comprehension.
The imputations of irreligious tendency cast
19
on Phrenology seem, so far as they have any
specific character, to be bottomed on the silence
which Phrenology observes respecting the spi
ritual part of man. The nature of this spiritual
part admitted of no direct proof from phrenolo
gical inquiry; why then should the Phrenologists
interfere with what belonged not to their pro
vince, or weaken, by attempts to effect what the
course of nature denied, those all-sufficient evi
dences of the existence of soul which the sacred
volume affords? It was enough that the truths
which their philosophy deduced were in perfect
harmony with those which revelation had im
parted, and which they have never, either di
rectly or indirectly, impugned.
The candid mind will readily perceive that
any extension of their inquiries beyond the
natural boundaries which limited them would
have left them justly chargeable with the profane
attempt of shewing revelation to be unnecessary!
Why was revelation vouchsafed to man? because
the truths thus revealed were utterly beyond the
reach of his natural reason. An attempt there
fore to deduce from human inquiry what reve
lation alone could disclose, must, to impartial
judgment, appear no less impious than vain.
B 2
20
The defence of Phrenology against the charge
of impiety might perhaps rest here; for if made
on the ground of Phrenology not embracing
deductions illustrative of our spiritual nature,
(and I am ignorant of any other on which they
can rest,) such accusation can be of little weight
when it is seen that, by an opposite course, a
much more direct charge of impiety would be
incurred. But a matter so important must not
be left to this issue alone. It is right to shew,
not only that Phrenology has no hostility to reli
gious faith, but that, however silent it may be
on the proofs of spiritual existence, its doctrines
throughout imply the presence of an immaterial
principle; in other words, that to be at all
intelligible, they involve the existence of a
rational soul.
Has any Phrenologist ever assigned to the
brain an independent power of thought or feel
ing? or averred more than that these faculties
are exercised through the medium of the brain?
By whom exercised? surely by that spiritual
inmate to whom this corporeal frame has been
given as its earthly tabernacle, and which will
survive when the perishable clay in which it is,
for a time, embodied, becomes resolved into its
21
original dust. I know not what admission the
most staunch believer can require beyond this;
and this I boldly pronounce to be the doctrine of
Phrenologists, though unsuspicious of blame,
they may have been little sedulous to dwell
on professions so uncalled for. Why are Phreno
logists so gratuitously supposed insensible to re
vealed truth Are they so dull in feeling as to
have no regard for those eternal interests by
which every human bosom is more or less agi
tated? or so obtuse in intellect as not to com
prehend the value and importance of that gra
cious dispensation which a merciful Creator has
vouchsafed to his blind and erring creatures to
guide their steps and lead them to Himself? I,
at least, disclaim the unworthy suspicion; and
while the best powers of my understanding ac
knowledge the truths which Phrenology has ex
plored, I feel the far more important truths of
divine revelation, so far from being weakened,
only the more deeply implanted in my mind and
heart by the exquisite harmony which may every
where be traced between the doctrines of Phreno
logy and the inspired writings.
It is almost descending too much to advert
to the close analogy that subsists between the
22
general doctrines of Phrenology, and those which
have ever been maintained with respect to the
external senses. We see with the eye, hear with
the ear—who in pursuing the studies of optics
or acoustics ever imagines that these organs
alone are capable of such functions; or con
ceives otherwise than that they make returns
which are perceived by the intelligent inmate to
whom they are subservient? Phrenology does
no more; it traces to the brain, by a close in
duction from innumerable facts, an agency by
which thought and feeling are exercised. It
establishes a direct connexion between the seve
ral faculties of the mind and those respective
portions of the brain with which it has found
them uniformly to co-exist, and it denominates
these portions the organs of the respective facul
ties. The peculiar mechanism of the eye and
ear, so directly suited to their respective func
tions, procures an unreluctant assent to the con
clusion that they are the proper organs of sight
and hearing. The mode in which the brain
exercises its functions of thought and feeling is
less obvious: but when the fact, that it is essen
tial to their manifestation, is established by such
proofs as are deemed sufficient in all other physi
23
cal investigations, why should we rely on its
truth with less confidence? Are no truths de
monstrable or capable of proof, but such as are
displayed in all their intimate operations to our
view? The advocates of religious faith will do
little service to the cause which they espouse by
maintaining such doctrine. We have in the
inductions of Phrenology the only proofs which
the nature of the inquiry permits; the intimate
operations of the brain in the exercise of the
alleged functions we cannot see, and most proba
bly never shall discover. In all human inquiry
into the laws established by the Creator in the
economy of this world, there is a point beyond
which we cannot soar; but so far as we are per
mitted to penetrate into the mysteries of the
Most High, it is clearly our bounden duty not
to forego, through indolence or misconception,
any investigation of nature's laws to which our
comprehension is equal. To me it appears, that
we have not only a direct interest in pursuing
phrenological inquiries, from the advantages to
which, in common with all natural truths, they
necessarily lead, but that we are under a posi
tive obligation to scrutinize that which our
Maker, by enduing us with faculties suited to the
24
investigation, not only permits but enjoins us
to explore.
I have no hesitation, therefore, in earnestly
recommending the study of Phrenology to all
those whose intellects are fitted for comprehend
ing philosophic truth, and who have strength of
mind enough to sacrifice untenable prejudices
at the shrine of reason and of duty.
Uses of Phrenology.
SUPPOSING Phrenology to be founded
in truth, ‘ can it be applied to any practical use?'
is not unfrequently asked by those who, with
held by prejudice or timidity, hesitate to pursue
it as a subject of philosophic research. And I
hail the question, in every instance, as an evi
dence that the party proposing it may, on further
reflection, open his mind to the truth; for it
clearly implies that he is not satisfied with the
motives which have suspended his researches,
and that he seeks furtherjustification for his own
supineness. A very brief answer might suffice:
for, if founded in truth, Phrenology cannot fail
to be extensively useful, elucidating as it does
25
those mental energies by which the whole fabric
of human society is upheld. In an age when
physical science is so extensively cultivated, and
when the slightest discoveries are, every day,
seen to lead to the most important results, the
usefulness of any general truth might be safely
admitted as a consequence of its establishment.
How pre-eminently useful must those truths be
which illustrate the very powers by which all
science is acquired and improved It is not my
intention, however, to wave a more explicit
reply, though perfectly satisfied myself that the
general question needs no further answer.
To what uses Phrenology may eventually be
rendered subservient, it is impossible to foresee.
When the laws of gravity were first demon
strated, it is highly probable that even the capa
cious mind of the illustrious discoverer failed to
contemplate all the uses to which it has since
been directed. Even in the infancy of Phreno
logy, however, so many uses may be pointed out
as to satisfy the most scrupulous that the time
devoted to its cultivation is not misapplied.
Were there no other use, the advantage de
rivable from this science in the most important
work in which man can be engaged, namely,
26
the exercise of moral restraint and the govern
ment of his passions, would amply repay the
labours of initiation. I know of no system of
ethics so powerful in regulating the conduct of
life, as that which Phrenology comprises. Man
is composed of various feelings, propensities, and
passions: to regulate them in subjection to the
laws which the great Author of Nature has
imposed, is the first duty of this his probationary
state, the main object for which he was sent into
life. Can it be otherwise than highly useful to
him to know more intimately the nature of those
internal impulses by which he is continually in
cited to deviate from the right way? Does he
not derive material assistance in restraining
unruly passions by knowing that the turbulence
proceeds from the partial activity of a mere cere
bral organ; that he has full power, by a mere
act of the will, to keep this under control; that
by steady resistance the activity will moderate;
and that should it continue, he has many correc
tive energies to call to his aid, by which the tur
bulent propensity may be effectually kept in
subjection ?
That Phrenology can minister to all this I
confidently aver, though fully to explain its
27 w
powers in this respect would lead me far beyond
my present design, and indeed be scarcely intel
ligible to those to whom these pages are address
ed. Ifthey will pursue the study of Phrenology
with a sincere desire to profit by its interesting
and instructive truths, they will find the promise
here held out more than confirmed.
Analogous to this use is that which may be
derived from Phrenology in the important busi
ness of education. To the perfection of this it
is essential that the moral sentiments be steadily
exercised in keeping the lower propensities in
due subjection; that the intellectual powers be
cultivated according to the capability which each
individual possesses; and that the appropriate
occupation selected for each be such as to call
forth those special faculties with which Nature
has more particularly endowed him. All this
Phrenology is capable of directing; and were
education universally conducted on these prin
ciples, the general welfare would be incalculably
promoted, and individuals be much happier. It
can never be too strongly impressed that no two
individuals are exactly alike, either in their
moral endowments, intellectual powers, faculties,
or passions; yet human institutions seem almost
28
invariably founded on the assumption that all
mankind are essentially the same. Our Sys
tems of education at least acknowledge no di
versity, for all intellects are subjected to the
same unvarying discipline; to which, as to the
bed of Procrustes, their mental powers, however
dissimilar, are compelled to conform. There
are two main facts which should never be lost
sight of in the conduct of education: the first,
that by calling forth those powers which Nature
has most abundantly given, the great objects of
cultivation will be best served, and the welfare
of mankind best promoted; the second, that the
happiness of the individual is greatly dependant
on his being suffered to exert those talents with
which he is more peculiarly gifted. The influ
ence in this latter respect is not confined to the
mere pleasurable feeling, but extends to the
whole moral character; for occupation is no
contemptible safeguard of virtue: if occupation
be pleasurable, vicious joys will be less sought
after; while the irksomeness of an ill-selected
employment is oftentimes the fruitful source of
sensual depravity. That Phrenology is capable
of much valuable guidance, both in directing
juvenile education and in selecting the employ
29
ments of more advanced life, admits not of
question.
Among the infirmities of life, few are more
deplorable than insanity. Dr. Johnson has ex
pressed this strongly: “Of the uncertainties
of our present state, the most dreadful and
alarming is the uncertain continuance of reason.”
On the magnitude of the evil it is needless to
descant; for where is the individual who would
not submit to any suffering in preference to the
loss of reason 2 That it is an evil of too fre
quent occurrence, the records of insanity amply
prove. How can that science be too highly
prized which extends our power of averting this
infliction, and of mitigating it when it occurs?
That Phrenology gives us a clearer insight into
the several functions of the brain, and thereby
increases our power of correcting the aberra
tions of mind dependant on a disturbance of
those functions, may be confidently alleged.
That phrenological truth may in time exert
an influence on the whole system of criminal
jurisprudence, is in the highest degree probable;
though the supposition has been treated with
such ridicule that I almost hesitate to instance
this as a practicable use. Yet, why should it be
30
otherwise? Are not our laws supposed to be
founded on reason 2 and is there any thing un
reasonable in imagining that laws, enacted for
the regulation of human conduct, and penalties
inflicted for the breach of those laws, should
have some reference to the internal impulses
which incite to their violation ? Here again, as
in education, our policy is too indiscriminating:
we punish with the same severity offences which
apparently correspond, but which differ greatly
in the degree of criminality. We hold up as
preventive of crime, terrors which affect pecu
liar dispositions only, but utterly fail in making
impression on others whose minds are differ
ently constituted. What influence Phrenology
may exert in those respects, or when it may be
resorted to, I am not prepared to say: the day
is probably far distant, but I confidently antici
pate that the time will come when its dictates
will not be disregarded by our Legislature.
I am not anxious to pursue this further,
having, I trust, advanced enough to show that
Phrenology is capable of some useful application.
Having thus attempted to point out some
of the uses to which Phrenology may be directed,
I cannot close this section without an urgent
i
•º|
31
4.
y
º
}
º,
remonstrance against some abuses in which
phrenological tyros may be tempted to indulge.
The applications of Phrenology to individual
character are hazardous in the extreme, and
should never be attempted until a thorough
knowledge of its principles, and a familiar ac
quaintance with organic developments, afford
some security against the mistakes to which
imperfect knowledge is liable. To scrutinize
individual heads for the purpose of ridicule or
levity, cannot be reprobated too severely: it is
trifling with a valuable science; it nurtures dis
positions which every sound Phrenologist will
suppress; and it hazards giving pain, which it is
wanton cruelty thus to inflict. Such abuses are
not chargeable on Phrenology, for it gives no
sanction to practices so objectionable. Even
when individual examination is made from good
motives, extreme care is required to guard
against hasty or erroneous conclusions. Man
is to be judged, not from his propensity to evil,
but from his weakness in yielding to it. Pro
pensities may be strong, yet the conduct cor
rect; in which case the merit of resistance is
greater than if less incitement were experienced.
It should never be forgotten that with reference
