{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1825__bewick_holbein___the_dance_of_death.pdf","mytitle":"The Dance Of Death","mylang":"de"}
A&A . 47
-"
"- f
THE
DANCE OF DEATH,
OF * K
THE CELEBRATED
HANS HOLBEIN;
IN
2, #eries of fifty-tino &ngratings on Čoon
BY
Mr. BEWICK:
WITH
LETTER-PRESS ILLUSTRATIONS.
What's yet in this
That bears the name of life? yet in this life
Lie bid more thousand death: yet death we fear,
That makes these odds all ev **.
****
* Čk:
LONDON:
WILLIAM CHARLTON WRIGHT,
65, PATERNosTER. Row.
1825.
T. White, Printer,
Johnson's Court, Fleet Street.
‘I in E
L I FE
of
H O L BE IN.
JoHN HolBEIN, better known by his German name
Hans Holbein, a most excellent painter, was born,
according to some accounts, at Basil in Switzerland
in 1498; but Charles Patin places his birth three
years earlier, supposing it very improbable that he
could have arrived at such maturity of judgment
and perfection in painting, as he shewed in 1514
and 1516, if he had been born so late as 1498. He
learned the rudiments of his art from his father John
Holbein, who was a painter, and had removed from
Augsburg to Basil; but the superiority of his genius
soon raised him above his master. He painted our
Saviour's Passion in the town-house of Basil; and
in the fish-market of the same town, a Dance of
peasants, and Death's dance. These pieces were
exceedingly striking to the curious; and Erasmus
was so affected with them, that he requested of him
to draw his picture, and was ever after his friend.
Holbein, in the mean time, though a great genius
and fine artist, had no elegance or delicacy of man
ners, but was given to wine and revelling company;
for which he met with the following gentle rebuke
from Erasmus. When Erasmus wrote his “Moriae
Encomium,” or “Panegyric upon Folly,” he sent a
6 LIFE OF HOLIBEIN.
copy ofit to Hans Holbein, who was so pleased with
the several descriptions of folly there given, that he
designed them all in the margin; and where he had
not room to draw the whole figures, pasted a piece
of paper to the leaves. He then returned the book
to Erasmus, who seeing that he had represented an
amorous fool by the figure of a fat Dutch lover,
hugging his bottle and his lass, wrote under it,
“ Hans Holbein,” and so sent it back to the painter.
Holbein, however, to be revenged of him, drew the
picture of Erasmus for a musty book-worm, who
busied himself in scraping together old MSS. and
antiquities, and wrote under it “Adagia.”
It is said, that an English nobleman, who acci
dentally saw some of Holbein’s performances at
Basil, invited him to come to England, where his art
was in high esteem; and promised him great encou
ragement from Henry VIII.; but Holbein was too
much engaged in his pleasures to listen to so advan
tageous a proposal. A few years after, however,
moved by the necessities to which an increased
family and his own mismanagement had reduced
him, as well as by the persuasions of his friend
Erasmus, who told him how improper a country his
own was to do justice to his merit, he consented to
go to England; and he consented the more readily,
as he did not live on the happiest terms with his
wife, who is said to have been a termagant. In his
journey thither he stayed some days at Strasburg,
and applying to a very great master in that city for
work, was taken in, and ordered to give a specimen
of his skill. Holbein finished a piece with great
care, and painted a fly upon the most conspicuous
part of it; after which he withdrew privily in the
absence of his master, and pursued his journey.
LIFE OF HOLBEIN. 7
When the painter returned home, he was astonished
at the beauty and elegance of the drawing; and
especially at the fly, which, upon his first casting
his eye upon it, he so far took for a real fly, that he
endeavoured to remove it with his hand. He sent
all over the city for his journeyman, who was now
missing; but after many enquiries, found that he
had been thus deceived by the famous Holbein.
This story has been somewhat differently told, as if
the painting was a portrait for one of his patrons at
Basil, but the effect was the same, for before he was
discovered, he had made his escape.
After almost begging his way to England, as
Patin tells us, he found an easy admittance to the
lord-chancellor, Sir Thomas More, having brought
with him Erasmus's picture, and letters recom
mendatory from him to that great man. Sir Thomas
received him with all the joy imaginable, and kept
him in his house between two or three years; during
which time he drew Sir Thomas's picture, and those
of many of his friends and relations. One day Hol
bein happening to mention the nobleman who had
some years ago invited him to England, Sir Thomas
was very solicitous to know who he was. Holbein
replied, that he had indeed forgot his title, but re
membered his face so well, that he thought he could
draw his likeness; and this he did so very strongly,
that the nobleman, it is said, was immediately known
by it. This nobleman, some think, was the Earl of
Arundel, others the Earl of Surrey. The Chancellor,
having now sufficiently enriched his apartments
with Holbein’s productions, adopted the following
method to introduce him to Henry VIII. He invited
the king to an entertainment, and hung up all
Holbein’s pieces, disposed in the best order, and in
8 LIFE OF HOLB E IN.
the best light, in the great hall of his house. The
king, upon his first entrance, was so charmed with
the sight of them, that he asked, “Whether such an
artist were now alive, and to be had for money?”
on which Sir Thomas presented Holbein to the king,
who immediately took him into his service, with a
salary of two hundred florins, and brought him into
great esteem with the nobility of the kingdom. The
king from time to time manifested the great value
he had for him; and upon the death of Queen Jane,
his third wife, sent him into Flanders, to draw the
picture of the Duchess Dowager of Milan, widow of
Francis Sforza, whom the Emperor Charles V. had
recommended to him for a fourth wife; but the
king's defection from the See of Rome happening
about that time, he rather chose to match with a
protestant princess. Cromwell, then his prime mi
nister (for Sir Thomas More had been removed, and
beheaded), proposed Anne of Cleves to him; but
the king was not inclined to the match, till her pic
ture, which Holbein had also drawn, was presented
to him. There, as Lord Herbert of Cherbury says,
she was represented so very charming, that the king
immediately resolved to marry her; and thus Hol
bein was unwittingly the cause of the ruin of his
patron Cromwell, whom the king never forgave for
introducing him to Anne of Cleves.
In England Holbein drew a vast number of ad
mirable portraits; among others, those of Henry VII.
and Henry VIII. on the wall of the palace at White
hall, which perished when it was burnt, though
some endeavours were made to remove that part of
the wall on which the pictures were drawn. There
happened, however, an affair in England, which
might have been fatal to Holbein, if the king had
LIFE OF HOL BE IN. 9
not protected him. On the report of his character
a nobleman of the first quality wanted one day to
see him, when he was drawing a figure after the
life. Holbein, in answer, begged his lordship to
defer the honour of his visit to another day; which
the nobleman taking for an affront, came, broke
open the door, and very rudely went up stairs.
Holbein, hearing a noise, left his chamber; and
meeting the lord at his door, fell into a violent pas
sion, and pushed him backwards from the top of the
stairs to the bottom. Considering, however, imme
diately what he had done, he escaped from the
tumult he had raised, and made the best of his way
to the king. The nobleman, much hurt, though not
so much as he pretended, was there soon after him;
and upon opening his grievance, the king ordered
Holbein to ask pardon for his offence. But this
only irritated the nobleman the more, who would
not be satisfied with less than his life; upon which
the king sternly replied, “My lord, you have not
mow to do with Holbein, but with me; whatever
punishment you may contrive by way of revenge
against him, shall assuredly be inflicted upon your
self: remember, pray, my lord, that I can, whenever
I please, make seven lords of seven ploughmen, but
I cannot make one Holbein even of seven lords.”
We cannot undertake to give a list of Holbein’s
works, but this may be seen in Walpole's Anecdotes.
Soon after the accession of the late king, a noble
collection of his drawings was found in a bureau
at Kensington, amounting to eighty-nine. These,
which are of exquisite merit, have been admirably
imitated in engraving, in a work published lately by
John Chamberlaine, F. S. A. certainly one of the
most splendid books, and most interesting collec
10 LIFE OF HOLBEl N.
tions of portraits ever executed. Holbein painted
equally well in oil, water-colours, and distemper, in
large and in miniature: but he had never practised
the art of painting in miniature, till he resided in
England, and learned it from Lucas Cornelii; though
he afterwards carried it to its highest perfection.
His paintings of that kind have all the force of oil
colours, and are finished with the utmost delicacy.
In general, he painted on a green ground, but in his
small pictures frequently he painted on a blue. The
invention of Holbein was surprisingly fruitful, and
often poetical; his execution was remarkably quick,
and his application indefatigable. His pencil was
exceedingly delicate; his colouring had a wonderful
degree of force; he finished his pictures with ex
quisite neatness; and his carnations were life itself.
His genuine works are always distinguishable by
the true, round, lively imitation of flesh, visible in
all his portraits, and also by the amazing delicacy
of his finishing.
It is observed by most authors, that Holbein
always painted with his left hand; though Walpole
objects against that tradition, (what he considers as
a proof), that in a portrait of Holbein painted by
himself, which was in the Arundelian collection, he
is represented holding the pencil in the right hand.
But that evidence cannot be sufficient to set aside
so general a testimony of the most authentic writers
on this subject: because, although habit and prac
tice might enable him to handle the pencil familiarly
with his left hand, yet, as it so unusual, it must
have had but an unseemly and awkward appearance
in a picture; which probably might have been his
real inducement for representing himself without
such a particularity. Besides, the writer of Hol
LIFE OF HOLBEIN. . " 11
*
bein’s life, at the end of the treatise by De Piles,
mentions a print by Hollar, still extant, which de
scribes Holbein drawing with his left hand. Nor is
it so extraordinary or incredible a circumstance;
for other artists are remarked for the very same
habit; particularly Mozzo of Antwerp, who worked
with the left; and Amico Aspertino, as well as
Ludovico Cangiago, who worked equally well with
both hands. This great artist died of the plague at
London in 1554; some think at his lodgings in
Whitehall, where he had lived from the time that
the king became his patron, but Wertue rather
thought at the Duke of Norfolk's house, in the priory
of Christ church near Aldgate, then called Duke's
place. Strype says that he was buried in St. Cathe
rine Cree church: but this seems doubtful.
4, JA60*
THE
D A N C E OF DE AT H.
THE celebrity of a subject which has been distinguished
by the labours of such artists as Holbein and Hollar,
seems necessary to demand some investigation of its
origin.
In the dark ages of monkish bigotry and supersti.
tion, the deluded people, terrified into a belief that the
fear of death was acceptable to the great Author of
their existence, had placed one of their principal gra
tifications in contemplating it amidst ideas the most
horrid and disgusting: hence the frequent descriptions
of mortality in all its shapes amongst their writers, and
the representations of this kind, in their books of reli
gious offices, and the paintings and sculptures of their
ecclesiastic buildings. They had altogether lost sight
of the consolatory doctrines of the Gospel, which regard
death in no terrific point of view whatever; a discovery
reserved for the discernment of modern and enlightened
Christians, who contemplate scenes which excited gloom
and melancholy in the minds of their forefathers, with
the gratification of philosophic, curiosity. Some ex
ceptions, however, to this remark are not wanting, for
we may yet trace the imbecility of former ages in the
decorations of many of our monuments, tricked out in
all the silly ornaments of deaths’ heads and marrow
bones.
The most favourite subject of the kind, however,
was what is usually denominated the Dance of Death,
14 THE DANCE OF DEATH,
or a representation of Death in the act of leading all
ranks and conditions of men to the grave; with gesti
culations not a little bordering upon the grotesque,
though probably without any view to provoke the mirth
of the spectator in those times. One of the most ancient
still existing, is that at Basil in Switzerland, in the
church-yard formerly belonging to the convent of Do
minicans, which is said to have been painted at the
instance of the fathers and prelates assisting at the
grand council at Basil, in 1431, in memory of a plague
which happened soon afterwards, and during its con
tinuance. The name of the painter is unknown, and
will probably ever remain so, for no dependence can be
had upon vague conjectures of those who, without any
authority, or even the smallest probability, have at
tempted to ascertain it. To refute, or even to mention.
the blunders which have been committed by most of
the travellers who have described the town of Basil,
when they discuss this subject, would fill a volume: it
will be sufficient to notice an assertion of Keysler, that
the £ was executed by Hans Bok, a celebrated
painter of this place, who, however, from the testimony
of Scheutzer, in his Itinerary, was not born till 1584.
From some inscriptions on the spot it appears to have
been retouched, or perhaps renewed, in 1566 and 1616;
the first time probably by Hans Klauber, whose name
occurs in the lines addressed by Death to the Painter.
It has been frequently '' that the Basil
painting was the first of the kind;
doubtful, from the knowledge we have of many others
of apparently,equal antiquity. Many of the bridges in
Germany and Switzerland were ornamented in this
manner, a specimen of which is still to be seen at
Lucerne; and it is probable that almost every church.
of eminence was decorated with a Dance of Death. In
the cloisters of St. Innocent’s church at Paris, in those
belonging to the old cathedral of St. Paul at London,”
* On the walls of a cloister on the north side of St. Paul's,
called Pardon-church-haugh, was painted the Machabre, or
but this is extremely:
THE DANCE OF DEATH. 15
and in St. Mary's church at Berlin, these paintings were:
to be seen. At Klingenthal, a convent in the Little
Basil, are the remains of a Dance of Death, differently
designed from that at the Dominicans, and thought to
be more ancient. The figures remaining till very lately
in Hungerford's chapel, in the cathedral at Salisbury,
and known by the title of Death and the Young Man,
were undoubtedly part of a Death’s Dance, as might be
further insisted on from the fragment of another com
artment which was close to them. In the church at
exham, in Northumberland, are the remains of a
Death's Dance; and at Feschamps, in Normandy, it is
carved in stone, between the pillars of a church; the
figures are abouteighteen inches high. Even fragments
of painted glass, whereon this subject has been depicted,
with old English verses over the figures, may contribute
to shew how very common it has been in our own
country. P. C. Hilcher, in a tract printed at Dresden
in 1705, has taken notice of other Dances of Death at
Dresden, Annaberg, Leipzig, and Berne. Dr. Nugent
has described one in St. Mary’s church at Lubeck, which
he states to have been painted in 1463.
The origin of all these is perhaps to be sought for in
an ancient pageant, or religious farce, invented by the
Dance of Death, a common subject on the walls of cloisters or
religious places. This was a single piece, a long train of all
orders of men, from the Pope to the lowest of human beings;
each figure has as his partner, Death; the first shaking his re
membering hour-glass. Our old poet Lydgate, who flourished
in the year 1430, translated a poem on the subject, from the
French verses which attended a painting of the same kind
about St. Innocent's cloister, at Paris. The original verses
were made by Macaber, a German, in his own language. This
shews the antiquity of the subject, and the origin of the hint
from which Holbein composed his famous painting at Basil.
This cloister, the dance, and innumerable fine monuments
(for here were crowded by far the most superb) fell victims to
the sacrilege of the Protector Somerset, who demolished the
whole, and carried the materials to his palace then erecting in
the Strand.—Pennant's London, vol. ii. p. 135.
16 TII E DANCE OF DEATH,
Aclergy, for the purpose of at once amusing and keeping
the people in ignorance. In this all ranks and condi
tions of life were personated and mixed together in a
general dance, in the course of which every one in his
turn vanishes from the scene, to shew that none were
exempted from the stroke of death This dance was
performed in the churches, and can be traced back as
far as the year 1424;" it was called the Dance of
Macaber, from a German poet of that name, who first
composed some verses under the same title. Of this
person very little is known, but Fabricius thinks the
poem more ancient than the paintings f His work has
been translated into Latin and French, in the last of
which languages there are some very ancient and very
modern editions.
The earliest allusion to the subject, but whether to
the above-mentioned farce or to the paintings seems
uncertain, is in the following lines, from the Visions of
Pierce the Plowinan, who wrote about 1350.
Death came drivynge after, and all to dust pashed,
Kynges and kaysers, knightes and popes
Learned and lewde, he ne let no man stande
That he hitte even, he never stode after.
Many a lovely ladie, and lemmans of knights
Swonned and swelted, for sorrow of death dyntes.
When the arts of printing and engraving became
established, various copies of the Dance of Macaber
made their appearance, particularly in the Hours, Bre
viaries, Missals, and other service books of the church,
few of which were unaccompanied with a Dance of
Death; and in these the designs sometimes varied.
Many of our own service books for the use of Salisbury
were thus decorated, and the fashion at length ter
minated in a book of Christian prayers, printed more
than once during the reign of Elizabeth, since which
time nothing of the kind has appeared. In all these are
* Glossar. Carpentier, tom. ii. 1103.
f Bibl. med. et infim. AEtat.
"I'll E DANCE OF DEATH. 17
to be found the same dull and uniform representation of
Death leading a single figure, without much attempt at
character or execution, until at length there appeared,
in 1538, a book, entitled “Les simulachres et historiees
faces de la Mort, autant elegamment pourtraictes, que.
artificieliement imaginees’ It was printed at Lyons
by Melchior and Gasper Trechsel, and is accompanied
with forty-one of the most beautiful groups of figures
that can be well conceived, both for their composi
tion and execution, being most delicately cut on
wood, and surpassing in this branch of art almost every
thing of the kind that has appeared before or since.
This work was often republished, as well in the
French, as in the Latin and Italian languages," and
* The following is presumed to be a tolerably correct list of
the various editions of this book:
“Simulachres et Historiees faces de la Mort, &c.” Lugd.
1538, 4to,
“Imagines de Morte.” Lugd. 1542, 12mo.
“Imagines Mortis.” Lugd. 1545, 12mo.
“Imagines Mortis.” Lugd. 1547, 12mo.
“Les Images de la Morte.” Lyon, 1547, 12mo.
“Simolachri, Historie, e Figure de la Morte.” Lyone, 1549,
12mo, with an address from the printer, in which he complains
of some attempts having been made in other countries to imi
tate the cuts to his book, and informs the reader that he had
caused many more cuts to be added to this edition than had
appeared in any other; a declaration not a little extraordinary,
for both the editions of 1547, which were also published by this
person, have the same number of cuts, and contain twelve
more than the three first editions. These additional cuts were
probably executed from the unfinished designs spoken ofin the
dedication to the first edition. Four of them, being groups of
children playing, are rather foreign to the subject, but are evi
dently done by the same artist who executed the others.
“Icones Mortis.” Basil, 1554, 12mo.
“Les Images de la Mort, auxquelles sont adjoustees dix
sept. figures.” Lyon, 1562, 12mo. There are but five addi
tional figures to this edition, the other twelve being what had
already appeared, making in the whole seventeen more than in
b
18 THE DANCE OF DEATH.
has been usually denominated by most of the writers
upon the arts of painting and engraving, as well as by
many travellers, Holbein’s Dance of Death. It is ex
tremely clear, however, that Holbein did not invent
these subjects, for it appears in a dedication, which is
only to be found in the first edition of this work, that
the painter was then dead, and that he had not lived to
finish some of the designs, which, however, afterwards
appeared in a subsequent edition. The paintcr must
therefore have died before 1538, and it is well known
that Holbein was at this time living, and continued so
until 1555. Unluckily no evidence whatever, nor even
tradition, has been preserved relating to this great
artist, and it is feared that he will ever remain undis
covered.
After what has been said, it becomes necessary to
attempt at least to give some reason for the almost
universal opinion, that these designs were the offspring
of Holbein’s pencil. Most of those writers who have
described the town of Basil, as well as the compilers of
the lives of the painters, speak of a Dance of Death by
Holbein, some referring to the old Dance of Macaber,
and others to the more modern one; but it is not diffi
cult to see, that they have but transcribed from each
other, without taking any pains to examine the subject.
Certain it is, however, that Holbein did paint a Death's
Dance in its improved state, and likewise more than
once. Bishop Burnet, in his Travels in Switzerland,
speaks of a Dance of Death, painted by Holbein, “ on
the walls of a house where he used to drink,” which
was then so worn out, that very little was to be seen
£ shapes and postures. He then mentions the old
Death's Dance at the Dominicans' convent,” which, he
says, was “so worn out some time ago, that they
the first edition. Of these five cuts, which have all the delicacy
of the others, three are groups of boys. *...*
De Doodt vermaskert,” &c. Antwerp, 1654, 12mo.
* By mistake called the convent of the Augustinians.
/
THE DANCE OF DEATH. 19
“ordered the best painter they had to lay new colours
“on it; but this is so ill done, that one had rather see
“ the dead shadows of Holbein’s pencil, (i.e. on the
“walls of the house), than this coarse work.”
This account is corroborated by Keysler, who adds,
that the painting on the house was then entirely obli
terated. Patin, in his travels, also speaks of a house at
Basil, curiously painted by Holbein, but does not men
tion the subject; it was probably the same as Burnet
saw. These are the only travellers who have spoken
upon this subject with any degree of accuracy, and for
tunately their testimouy throws much light upon it.
To the book already mentioned to have been pub
lished by the Trechsels, at Lyons, they sometimes
annexed another, which was in some degree connected
with it, and appears to have been printed by them the
followingyear. This was entitled, “Historiarum veteris
testamenti icones,” the cuts of which are in some
instances much inferior to the others, and apparently
by a different artist. The designs of these are indis
putably by Holbein, as appears from some verses
before the book, composed by Nicolas Bourbon, a co
temporary poet, who also wrote some lines upon a
Dance of Death painted by Holbein.” To these cuts to
the Bible, are prefixed the first four which occur in the
Dance of Death, as they likewise belong to the subject,
and represent the creation and fall of man; but they
are different in size, and were added, not only from the
analogy of the subjects, but from the circumstance of
their £ already in the hands of the printer; and
thus, from an odd coincidence of things, as well as a
palpable confusion of the respective verses of Bourbon,
seems to have originated an opinion, that Holbein in
vented the Dance of Death.
But it has not only been asserted that Holbein
designed, but that he engraved, or rather cut this Dance
of Death on wood. That he practised this art, nay,
that he excelled in it, there is reason to believe, from
* Borbonii Nugarum libri octo. Basil 1540, 12mo, p. 445.
Q0 Tli E DANCE OF DEAT II.
some specimens that have been preserved, and which
hear on them the unequivocal marks of H. H. & HANS.
HOLBEN". A set of cuts with the latter mark occurs
in Archbishop Cranmer's Catechism, printed by Walter
Lyne in 1548; and although the composition of these
is extremely good, their execution is not only inferior
to the Dance of Death, but entirely different in its
manner: and the mark of HB which is to be seen upon
one of the cuts in this latter work, has been ascribed
without any authority to Holbein, upon the strength of
the vague opinions concerning his interference with the
Dance of Death +.
The great popularity and success of these cuts very
soon excited many imitations of them both in copper
and on blocks. In 1541, Aldegraver engraved eight of
them, but with very material alterations Other editions
of the Imagines Mortis, which had been first published
under that title in 1545, appeared in 1555, 1566, 1578,
and probably at many other times; these were also
accompanied with cuts in wood by a very eminent but
unknown artist, whose mark is AP This mark is also
to be found in some of the Emblems of Sambucus and
Lejeunne, in some initial letters to Grafton’s Chronicle,
and in other cuts executed during the sixteenth cen
tul y : It is not a little remarkable, that so late as the
* It is not however impossible that Holbein, in putting his
mark upon these cuts, might only intend to shew that he de
signed them, or drew the subject upon the blocks.
# This mark is also given by Professor Christ, in his Diction
naire des Monogrammes, to Hans Lantensack, and Hans Le
derer, persons of whom absolutely nothing is known.
# The inaccurate Papillon, who in matters of historical dis
cussion is hardly ever to be trusted, has asserted in his “Traité
de la gravure en bois,” that this is the mark of Silvius Antoni
anus, or Antoniano. Having found it upon some cuts, in an
edition of Faerno's fables, printed at Antwerp in 1567, with a
dedication to Cardinal Borromeo, by Silvins Amtoniano, he in
stantly conceived that he had discovered the name of the artist
in that of the author of the dedication. The fact is, that Anto
niano was no engraver, but a professor of belles letters at
T II F, DANCE OF DEATH. 9 |
year 1654, there appeared a Dutch book, printed at
Antwerp, where this artist worked, entitled “Doodt
vermaskert, or Death masked,” accompanied with eigh
teen cuts of the Dance of Death, which in the title page
are ascribed to Holbein. They are all, except three,
impressions from the identical blocks of the beautiful
and original cuts of this subject; but the above-men
tioned artist has had the effrontery to put his mark, to
gether with the figure of a graving tool or knife, upon
several of them. It is, however, possible that he might
have repaired them, as some of the smaller lines, which
in former impressions seem to have been injured, are
here much stronger. . . . .
It might be tedious to describe all the imitations of
the Dance of Death which have appeared at different
times, as they are exceedingly numerous; but it would
be unpardonable not to notice an alphabet of initial let
ters with this subject, which for humour, and excellence
of design, are even superior to the celebrated one; and
with respect to execution, especially when their mi
nuteness is considered, being less than an inch square,
absolutely wonderful. Their composition is entirely
different from that of any of the others, and one of them
is extremely indecent. They appear to have been done
at Basil; for in the public library there is preserved a
sheet, whereon are printed three alphabets, viz. the
Rome, afterwards secretary to Pope Pius V. and at length a
Cardinal. His dedication had already appeared in the first edi
tion of these fables in 1564, which has a different set of cuts
engraved on copper. Another of Papillon's blunders is equally
curious. He had seen an edition of the Emblems of Sambucus
with cuts, on which the same mark occurs. In this book is a
fine portrait of the author, with his dog, under whom is the
word BoMBo, which Papillon gravely informs us is the name
of the engraver, and again refers to it on another cut of one of
the Emblems under a dog also. Had he read the verses belong
ing to this particular Emblem, he would have immediately seen
that it was nothing more than the dog's name, as Sambucus
himself declares, whilst he pays. a laudable tribute to the at
tachment of the faithful companion of his travels.
* 22 THE DANCE OF DEATH.
one above-mentioned, another of boys at play, and the
third, a dance of peasants, &c. The designs of some
of the last are the same as those in a similar Dance
by Holbein, formerly painted on a house at Basil, and
of which some drawings are still preserved; and it is
therefore not improbable that he also designed the
Dance of Death for these initials. They have appa
rently been struck off as proofs or patterns for some
bookseller", and at the bottom of the sheet is the mark
HL with the words “Hans Lutzelburger Formschnei
der, (i.e. block-cutter), in Basel.” In this manner has
been preserved the name of a most exquisite artist
whom, from the similarity of style and subject, there is
every reason to suppose the person who executed the
fine cuts of the first Dance of Death. As he worked
after the designs of Holbein, it is also probable that the
painter might have invented some of the seventeen sub
jects which appeared in continuation of the original
work, and that Lutzelburger also cut them for the sub
sequent editions. From the extreme delicacy with
which the initials with the Dance of Death are executed,
there is reason to suppose that they were not cut upon
blocks of wood, but of metal, as was probably the larger
work of the same subject; and in support of this con
jecture it may be observed, that blocks of this kind are
still preserved in the cabinets of the curious.
. In 1780, Cretien de Mechel, a well-known artist and
printseller at Basil, published forty-five engravings of a
Death's Dance, as part of the works of Holbein, of
which he intends to give a series. Mr. Coxe, in his
travels, has given some account of this work, and
informs us that they are done after some small draw
ings by Holbein, sketched with a pen, and slightly
shaded with Indian ink; that these drawings were pur
*They were actually used by Cratander, a printer at Basil;
and other initial letters, with Dances of Death, are to be seen in
books printed at Zurich, Strasburg, and Vienna,in the sixteenth
century. All the alphabets are in the possession of the compiler
of this essay, but they have not the monogram.
THE DANCE OF DEATH. 23
chased by Mr. Fleichman, of Strasburg, at Crozat's sale.
at Paris, and are now in the collection of Prince Gal
litzin, Minister from the Empress of Russia to the
court of Vienna, at which, last place he had frequent
opportunities of seeing and admiring them. He further
adds, that Hollar copied these drawings, an opinion
which will admit of some doubt. Mons. De Mechel’s
remark, that from the dresses and character of several
of the figures, it is probable the drawings were sketched
in England, as well as Mr. Coxe's conjecture that they
were in the Arundelian collection, will appear but
slightly founded to any one conversant in the dresses of
the French and German nations at that period, to
which they bear at least an equal resemblance: again,
one of the cuts represents a King sitting at table under
a eanopy, powdered with Fleurs de lis, whose figure has
a remarkable affinity to the portraits of Francis I. If
these drawings were copied from the celebrated wooden
cuts, they must have been done after the year 1547, as
eight of them did not appear till that time.
But it has entirely escaped the knowledge of all the
biographers of Holbein, that he painted a Dance of
Death in fresco, upon the walls of the palace of White
hall, which was consumed by fire in 1697. This curious
fact is ascertained from two sets of nineteen very indif
ferent etchings from the wooden cuts, by one Nieuhoff;
they were never published, but copies of them presented
to the artist’s friends, with manuscript dedications in
the Dutch language, in which he speaks of the above
mentioned paintings at Whitehall. The book has the
following title engraved in a border: “Imagines Mortis,
or the Dead Dance of Hans Holbeyn, Painter of King
Henry the VIIIth.” The author, in one of these
dedications, addressed to the Right Honourable Wil
liam Benting, informs him, that “ he had met with the
scarce little work of H. Holbeyn in wood, which he had
himself painted as large as life in fresco, on the walls
of Whitehall; that he had followed the original as nearly
as possible, and had presumed to lay his copy before
him as being born in the same palace; that he consi.
2.1 T II F. - D A N C E OF . DEA 't H. '
dered the partiality which every one has for the place
of his nativity, and that therefore an account of what
was curious and remarkable therein, and of what was
then no more, as being destroyed by a fatal fire, must
of course prove acceptable, particularly as there were
hardly any more remains of the palace left than his own
dwelling.” He then states, that the design of the
painter resembled that of the founder of the Greek mo
marchy, who ordered these words to be written to
remind him of his mortality: “Remember, Philip, that
thou art a man!” and proceeds to describe in a very
quaint manner the different subjects of his work. The
dedication to the other copy is nearly in similar words,
and addressed to Mynheer Heymans, who appears, in
consideration of his singular merits, to have had a dwe!
ling assigned him in the palace at Whitehall. From
the hand-writing and Dutch names in this work, it is
evidently of the time of William III but of the artist no
memo ial is preserved; however, the importance of
the fact which he has recorded, will render him a va
luable personage in the opinion of the lovers of the
att S. -
After what has been said then, it is to be hoped
that no additional evidence will be requisite to shew
that Holbein did not invent the subjects, nor execute
the cuts belonging to the Dance of Death, which is
usually ascribed to him; that he painted it, however,
and most assuredly more than once, seems to be be
yond the possibility of doubt.
It only remains to give some account of the prints
which are the immediate object of this publication,
and to which it is hoped the preceding introduction
will not have appeared uninteresting. It has been
commonly supposed that Hollar copied these prints from
the original cuts; but Mr. Coxe" thinks he followed the
drawings engraved by De Mechel, which he imagines to
have been in the Arundelian collection. Both these opi
nions seem erroneous; for many of Hollar’s prints are
* Travels in Swisserland.
T 111. D A R C 1, 0}. D FATH. 25
materially different, as well from the cuts as the draw
ings; and are, with two or three exceptions, very close
copies of the cuts already mentioned to have been first
published in 1555, with the mark of AP*. He must
therefore have either had before him both the sets of
wooden cuts, or have copied the paintings at Whitehall;
for his acknowledged fidelity would have hardly suffered
him to depart from his originals, whatever they were,
and as they now remain, they are not correct copies of
any single existing model.
Hollar's prints were first published in 1651 t, with
borders designed by Abraham a Diepenbeke, and after
wards without the borders. In this latter impression the
letters HB i. occur upon every print, and are intended
for “Holbein invenit,” as appears from some other of
Hollar's prints, which have upon them these words at
length. No panegyric is here wanting upon the works
of this admirable artist; they are sufficiently known and
esteemed by every collector of taste, and particularly
his Dance of Death. The plates, which appear to have
been but little used, have been till lately preserved in a
noble family, and impressions from them are once
more presented to the public, without the least altera
tion #. \
* It is not a little remarkable, that almost the same varia
tions from the original cuts, are to be found in those of the edi
tion of 1555, in De Michel's prints, and in Hollar's etchings;
a circumstance which renders it probable that these last were
all copied from the same originals, which might have been the
:of Holbein, to whom the variations may be likewise attri
uted.
t In 1682 there appeared engraved copies of the Dance of
Death, in a work entitled “Theatrum mortis humanae,” by J.
Weichard. These engravings are within borders of fruit, flow
ers, and animals, which are executed with an uncommon de
gree of elegance.
# In the present edition, however, it was found requisite
that the plates should be retouched, and it has been done with
the utmost attention to the preservation of their original spirit
and character.
26 THE DANCE OF DEATH,
Vertue, in his description of Hollar's works, men
tions that, he engraved a reverse of the first print, an
additional one without a border, representing the rich
man disregarding the prayers of the poor; and three
others from the set after Hollein, with £ Latin verses
at bottom. He also engraved the six first letters of the
alphabet, adorned with small figures of a Death’s
Dance, and one large plate of the same subject for Dug
dale’s St. Paul’s, £ the Monasticon; but this last
''is only a copy from an old wooden cut prefixed to
Zydgate's Dance of Macaber, at the end of his Fall of
Princes, printed by Tottell in 1554, and was not intended
to represent the Dance of Death at St. Paul’s, as Mr.
Warton has supposed", but only as an emblematical
frontispiece to the verses.
* Observ. on Spencer, vol. ii. 117.
4, JA60
Cht #Banff of £eath.
-25
No. I.–MORTALIUM NOBILITAS.
IT has been supposed by Papillon, without the least
authority, or even probability, that the two figures represent
the persons for whom Holbein painted this work. It has
been already shewn that Holbein did not design this plate.
It is altogether emblematical, and appears to be an heraldi
cal representation of mortality, viz. a tattered shield, sur
mounted with a death's head; the crest, an hour-glass
between two arms of a skeleton, holding part of a skull.
The two figures are probably intended for supporters, and
represent the dress of the Swiss Nobility of the sixteenth
century. The “MoRTALIUM NobiLITAs” was added by
Hollar, and is a very concise and admirable explanation of
the subject.
B.
--
The Banct of Death.
No. II.–SIN.
Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast
eaten of the tree, of which I commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not
eat of it; cursed is the ground for thy sake, &c.---Gen. iii. 17.
HolbeiN has begun the scenes of life by that which had
such influence on all the rest. The mother of the human
race holds in her right hand the fatal apple, which she has
just received from the serpent with a young man's head;
and Adam, at the same time, is plucking another, enticed
by the solicitations of the too credulous Eve, who shows him
the one she has received.
r
The Bante of Beath.
No. III.—SIN.
THE ABOVE IS A SECOND ILLUSTRATION TO THE LETTER
PRESS IN THE PRECEDING PAGE.
B 2
-
-
No. IV.-PUNISHMENT.
Therefore the Lord God sent him forth from the Garden of Eden,
to till the ground from whence he was taken.---Gen. iii. 23.
OUR first Parents, driven out by the Angel, are flying
from the terrestrial Paradise, preceded by Death, who is
playing on the fiddle, and shews, by dancing, the joy he
feels for his triumph.
QThe Pauct of £eath.
No. VI.–THE POPE CROWNING AN EMPEROR.
To bind his Princes at his pleasure, and teach his Senators wisdom.
Psalm cv. 22
A CARDINAL and three bishops are assisting at the cere
mony: Death is there also under the figure of two skele
tons, one of which is dressed in cardinal's robes, the other
embraces the Holy Father, with the left hand, and is
leaning on a crutch with the right.
*
Yk
st
(The Bance of Heath.
>
No. VII.–THE EMPEROR.
Set thine house in order; for thou shalt die, and not live.
saiah, xxxviii. l.
SEATED on a throne, and holding in his hand the sword
of state, he is attentively listening to an advocate pleading,
in a soothing tone, against an unfortunate peasant, who
trembling waits, in the most suppliant posture, the decree
that is to determine his fate. Death at this moment dis
plays all his power; he proudly takes possession of the
bottom of the throne, and is carelessly leaning his arm on
the Monarch’s crown. The angry aspect with which the
Emperor views the advocate and his two clients, who are
seen standing with their heads uncovered, is a happy pre
sage for the poor oppressed peasant.
7
The Bance of Heath.
No. VIII.—THE EMPRESS.
And all the inhabitants of the Earth are reputed as nothing; and
he doeth according to his will in the army of Heaven, and among the
inhabitants of the Earth.---Daniel, iv. 35.
IN the midst of a pompous march, in the court of a great
palace, Death, who seems here to do the office of a gentle
man-usher, leads this princess to the brink of the grave, and
shews her the bounds within which all her grandeur is to be
confined.
*
": , , , ,
J. (M)
The Dance of HDeath.
No. IX.—THE QUEEN.
Rise up, ye women that are at ease; hear my voice, ye careless
daughters; give ear unto my speech,---Daniel, xxxii. 9.
DEATH, arrayed in the habits of folly, drags away vio
lently this young Princess, just as she is coming out of her
palace to enjoy the pleasure of walking. With terror
painted in her countenance, she is making the air resound
with mournful cries; the maid of honour, who accompanies
her, agitated with the most violent despair, is imploring
the aid of Heaven, while the buffoon is making vain efforts
to defend her against Death, who holds aloft his glass, to
shew that the fatal hour is come.
s
f
}
t
*
*
*
:
.
The Bante of HBeath.
No. X. THE CARDINAL.
Which justify the wicked for reward, and take away the righteous
mess of the righteous for him.---Isaiah, v. 23.
A MEssENGER has just presented to him, on his knees,
the bull that constitutes him a cardinal. Death seizes this
moment to make his appearance, and seems to want to
turn his hat upon his head. The messenger is holding in
his right hand a tin box, hung by a strap, in which he had,
no doubt, carried the bull, which the new-made cardinal
holds in his right hand with the seals appended to it.
-
QThe £ance of HBeath.
x
No. XI.--THE ELECTOR.
The king shall mourn, and the prince shall be clothed with desola
tion, and the hands of the people of the land shall be troubled.
Ezekiel, vii. 27.
TIIIs prince, as he is coming out of his palace with his
courtiers, is accosted by a poor woman, who implores his
help for herself and the infant she holds by the hand; but
he, insensible to the distresses of the widow and orphan,
refuses to listen, and is turning aside with a disdainful air
to his courtiers. Death at this instant appears; and his
severe aspect announces, that he is just about to make him
repent his hard-heartedness.
*
* * * *
*
The Bance of £eath.
No. XII.–THE BISHOP.
1 will smite the Shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scat
tered abroad.---4-att xxvi. 31.
WITH an air of tranquillity and resignation this worthy
Pastor follows Death, who is leading him away laughing
and dancing, whilst some shepherds forgetting their flocks,
are wandering here and there through the country, in de
spair for the loss of their chief. The sun, now ready to set,
is just about to leave in darkness the ill-fated flocks, who,
having no longer a conductor, will soon become the prey of
wolves and other ravenous animals.
|
.
Cht #antt of £3rath.
No. XIII.–THE COUNT.
Rebuke the company of spearmen; scatter thou the people that de
light in war.---Psalm, lxviii. 30
DEATH here adds to his usual employment that of aven.
ger of oppressed vassals. He is throwing with violence at
the head of this Lord, his coat of arms, the dear object of
his pride, under the weight of which he is ready to make
him fall. He appears trampling under foot a flail, to mark
his inhumanity to labourers, a class of society so necessary
and respectable. On the ground also are to be seen the
remains of the helmet which formed the crest of his arms,
with the other ornaments that decorated them.
* Xx
The £auct of £Beat).
No. XIV.—THE ABBE.
His own iniquities shall take the wicked himself, and he shall be
holden by the cords of his sins.---Prov. iv. 22.
DEATH, not contented with stripping this fat Prelate of
his crosier, which he is carrying in triumph on his shoulder,
and his mitre, with which he is dressing himself, is drag
ging him away without pity. He raises his breviary with
one hand, and with the other is making some vain efforts
to push him off.
The Bance of Heath.
No. XV. --THE ABBESS.
Wherefore I praised the dead, which are already dead, more than
the living, which are yet alive.--Eccles. iv. 2.
DEATH ludicrously hooded with several flowing plumes,
and robed in a kind of gown, carries out of her convent an
Abbess, whom he is dragging with all his might by her sca
pulary. The reverend Mother with regret is leaving life
and the honours she enjoys; and expresses, by the altera
tion of her features and by her cries, the fright that Death
has produced in her soul. Behind her, under the gate of
the convent, appears a young Nun, strangely agitated with
terror and grief.
(The Banct of 39tati).
%
No. XVI.—THE FRIAR PROVISOR.
And he saved them from the hand of him that hated them, and re
deemed them from the hand of the enemy.---Psalm, cvi. 10.
As he is just stepping into his convent, with his Christ
mas-box and wallet, Death stops him at the door; and deaf
to his cries, as well as regardless of the fright he throws him
into, drags him with all his might by his cloak, and renders
all the good Friar's attempts to disengage himself ineffec
tual.
*
Cht Gantt of Death.
Film
£|
No. XVII.—THE CANONESS.
Enter not into the path of the wicked, and go not into the way of
evil men ---Prov. iv. 14.
THERE appears in this young and beautiful recluse, a
striking mixture of gallantry and devotion. On her knees
before a little altar, with her rosary in her hand, she is
amorously listening to the songs which a young man, seated
on a bed, addresses to her, accompanying them with his
lute. Death comes to put out the tapers burning on the
altar, and to change into sadness the pleasures of this con
versation.
*
The Bantt of Beath.
|
#.
£
IET
- &Ś.| ||| ifth
|
||
|
*III. 6. -
| '' -
*
- -
-
£
-
|
-
| -
'%'.
Militič
-
No. XVIII.-THE PREACHER.
Woe unto them that call evil good, and geot evil; that put darkness
for light, and light for darkness; that put bitter for sweet, and sweet
for bitter! ---Isaiah, v 20
As he is preaching to his congregation, Death, who is
behind him with a stole about his neck, holds over his head
the bone of a dead body, and by shewing it to the assembly,
preaches to them, undoubtedly, the most eloquent of all
serinons.
...:
4.
.*
r
No. XIX.–THE PHYSICIAN.
Physician, healthyself.---Luke. iv. 23.
DEATH is leading to him a sick old man, whose urine he
is presenting to him in a phial, and appears to be saying, in
a jeering manner, Dost thou think that thou art able to save ||
a man whom I have already in my power?
*k P.
The HBance of £rath.
No. XX.—THE ADVOCATE.
A prudent man foreseeth the evil, and hideth himself; but the simple
pass on, and are punished.---Prov. xxii. 3.
THE example of the Judge seems to authorize the Advo.
cate to get himself well paid for his prevarication, and even
in the presence of his poor client, whose wretched condition
would raise compassion to any breast less obdurate than
that of the lawyer. But Death will avenge the oppressed;
he is pouring into the hands of the Advocate money in abun
dance, of which he will have little use, for he is at the
same instant, shewing him, with an air of insult, his sand
run out.
Mk
--
}
…
The £antt of $9tati).
No. XXI.-THE MISER.
Thou fool, this night shall thy soul be required of thee; then
whose shall those things be, which thou hast provided?--Luke, xi.2.
THE character of the Miser is very forcibly expressed in
this sketch. Shut up in a vault, which receives the light
only through a wicket, secured with a double grate of thick
iron bars, he is entirely taken up with his beloved treasure, a
considerable part whereof Death is snatching up before his
eyes. This loss excites in him all the symptoms of the
most violent desperation, and it plainly appears that his
gold is an hundred times dearer to his heart than his life.
r
*x
z'
The £ance of Death.
No. XXII.–THE WAGGONER.
But when they to their trouble did turn unto the Lord God of Israel,
and sought him, he was found of them.---2 Chron. xv. 4.
WE see Death here venting his capricious fury on a cart
of wine that a poor Waggoner is conducting. Without doubt,
the man himself will soon come, in his turn, to be the sport
ofhis caprice; and the same cause that has now produced,
will ere long effectually finish his despair.
-*
The Gance of Death.
No. XXIII.—THE COUNTESS.
What! shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we not
receive evil?----Job. ii. 10.
SHE is wholly taken up with the care of her dress, and is
receiving with eagerness from the hands of one ofher maids,
a very rich robe with a gold chain. Death comes to derange
her toilet, and has already, without being perceived, slipped
round her neck a collar made of small bones.
4. J.A. (0
Cht Bance of Beath.
ift
|
|*:
|
No. XXIV.–THE SWISS SOLDIER.
But when a stronger than he shall come upon him, and overcome
him, he taketh from him all his armonr wherein he trusted, and di
videth the spoils.---Luke, xi. 22.
Death, armed with a buckler and a huge dart, attacks this
warrior, in the bosom of victory; escaped alone from the car
nage of the day, and is giving him some terrible blows. It
is in vain that this brave Soldier, whose courage seems invin
cible, is obstinately attempting to dispute the victory with an
irresistible adversary.
--
The Bance of £3tati).
No. XXV.—THE HAWKER.
Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will
give you rest.----Matt. xi. 28.
BENDING under the weight of his load he is advancing,
with a quick pace, to the neighbouring town, comforting him
self with thinking on the gain he is to make there; but
Death, in the form of two skeletons, is cometo put a sudden
end to his labours and his hopes. One of the skeletons is
dragging him forcibly by the arm, while the other behind
him is playing on a marine trumpet. It is in vain that the
poor Hawker points with his finger to the place where his
business calls him; this disagreeable company appear desi
rous of making him take another road.
The Pance of Grath.
*
No. XXVI.—THE NEW-MATORIED PAIR.
Where thou diest, will I die.--- Ruth, i. 17.
IN the first transports of an happy union, this tender
couple appear so wholly taken up with each other, and so
inebriated with their mutual happiness, that they neither
see nor hear. Death, who is marching before them, beat
ing furiously on a little drum, is soon to give a cruel inter
ruption to their enjoyments.
The £ance of Beati).
No. XXVII.–THE MERCHANT.
The getting of treasures by a lying tongue is a vanity tossed to and
fro of them that seeketh death.--Prov. xxi. 6.
EscAPED from the dangers of the sea, and safely arrived
in port, this rich Merchant believes himself now in perfect
|safety; but he is mistaken. Employed in counting his mo
ney, examining his goods and treating about their disposal,
a bad customer, Death himself, comes up, and it is his per
son only that he wants to bargain for.
*
E 2
- 4. -
* * '. {}{}
Che £ance of £3tath.
No. XXVIII.–THE GAMESTERS.
For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and
lose his own soul ? or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?
Alfatt. xvi. 26.
THE Devil and Death are disputing which of them shall
carry offthe losing Gamester. It is a contest, if we may say
so, frightful as well as ludicrous, so much the more so, that
the second Gamester, interesting himself in the fate of the
first, is addressing fervent prayers to the Devil on his behalf;
but the third is doing still better, taking the advantage of
this moment of trouble and terror, to gather in the money
that is lying on the table.
A {{}
Che Bantt cf Stati).
x
No. XXIX.--THE OLD MAN.
My breath is corrupt, my days are extinct, the graves are ready for
me.---Job. xvii. 1.
HERE we see Death leading away, playing on a psaltery,
an Old Man to the brink of the grave, bent under the load
of years, and verging to the last degree of frailty. The Old
Man allows himself to be carried off, with that calmness
and tranquillity, which are the effects of wisdom, and the
fruits of a good conscience.
4. ... "
t £
* \ }
}{}
The Sanct of #Beath.
*s
No. XXX.—THE OLD WOMAN.
Death is better than a bitter life, or continual sickness
Eccles. xxx. 17,
THE grim countenance of this good old dame does not
indicate the same resignation as appears in the former
subject. Wholly occupied in mumbling her rosary, she
pays no attention to the sound of a dulcimer, on which one
of her conductors is playing. The other skeleton, impatient
of the slowness of the Old Woman's march, is employing
menaces and blows to make her advance.
* 4. JA {{f}
Che Gauct of Peatl).
No. XXXI.–THE CHILD.
Man that is born of a woman is of few days, and full of trouble.
He cometh forth like a flower, and is cut down: he fleeth also as a
shadow, and continueth not.---Job. xvi. l.
IF under the roof of poverty there is any comfort, it is in
having children by whom we may hope one day to be
solaced. This is the case with this poor widow; but Death
is of a different opinion, and is come to carry off her
youngest child, unmoved by her prayers and lamentations.
*
4. . . (50
The Bance of Beath.
*
No. XXXII.—THE DESOLATION OF DEATH.
Woe, woe, woe to the inhabiter of the earth.---Rev. viii. 13.
All in whose nostrils was the breath of life, of all that was in the
dry land died.--Gen. vii. 22.
Woe, grievous woe! to all who now
In this vile world abide;
For times await you big with grief,
And nameless ills betide.
Though now to you a plenteous share
Of Fortune's gifts may fall,
Pale Death will come, or soon or late,
A visitant to all.
4, JA 60.
The Dante of £eati).
*
No. XXXIII.---THE KING.
He that is to-day a king, to-morrow shall die.---Eccles. x. 10.
To him who this day's sceptre sways,
In costly pride a king,
To-morrow's light, with baleful speed,
A direful fate will bring:
For him, who rules o'er nations high,
And powerful kingdoms guides,
When Death his office bids him quit,
The common lot betides.
4 Jabo
The Bantt of Heath.
What man is he, that liveth, and shall not see Death Shall he de
liver his soul from the hand of the grave?---Psalm, lxxxix. 48.
No. XXXIV.--THE GENTLEMAN.
WHAT man is he, however great,
Where'er his lot is cast,
Who in this mortal world shall live,
And death shall never taste?
What man is he, who that fell dart,
Which conquers all, can brave?
Or his own life, by force or skill,
From Death can hope to save?
4, JA 60
No. XXXV.—THE CANON.
Behold! the hour is at hand.---Matt. xxvi. 45.
Though crowds attend thee to the choir,
And flatt'rers throng the way,
An humble suppliant thou must come,
And here thy homage pay.
For thee the Fates do loud demand,
And instant Death does crave;
A day, which no one can retard,
Compels thee to the grave.
r 2
4, JA 60
(Lpe £3ance of HBeati).
No. XXXVI.—THE JUDGE.
I will cut off the judge, from the midst thereof.---Anos, ii. 3
Ye who false judgments now pronounce,
For filthy lucre's sake,
From midst of crowds and judgment-seat,
I, Death, will quickly take.
To Fate's just laws ye must submit,
Nor with my pow'r contest;
Which every trembling son of man
Has hitherto confest.
:
** – ------------->
(Li): $3ance of £5tati). |
2.
-
-
-
%*
No. XXXVII.–THE COUNSELLOR.
Whoso stoppeth his ears at the cry of the poor, he also shall cry
himself, but shall not be heard.---Prov. xxi. 13.
THE rich and wealthy readily
To suitors rich give ear,
Yet scorn the poor and needy man,
Nor deign his suit to hear:
But when themselves, in their last hour,
To God shall earnest cry, -
Their anxious prayers he shall reject,
And their request deny.
|
i
* ––
4, JA 60
Cht #Bantt of Heath.
3.
No. XXXVIII.—THE PRIEST.
I myself also am a mortal man, like to all.--Wisdom, vii. 1.
THE holy sacrament, behold,
Celestial gift! I bear;
The sick man, at the hour of death,
With certain hope to cheer.
But I myself am mortal too,
And the same laws obey,
And must, like him, when time arrives,
To Death become a prey.
4 JA80
Qi)t #auct of £eath.
| 2:
|
|
No. XXXIX.—THE ASTROLOGER. |
Knowest thou it, because thou wast then born ? or because the |
number of thy days is great.---Job, xxxviii, 21.
| Thou, by contemplating this sphere,
Which heaven's bright face does show
Events, which shall to others chance,
Pretendest to foreknow.
Tell me, if thou of fates to come
A skilful prophet art,
When to the tomb the pow'r of Death
Shall urge thee to depart?
x - - -
The #3antt of £3tati).
No. XL.—THE SHIPWRECK.
But they that will be rich, fall into temptation, and a snare, and
into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction
and perdition.---1 Tim. vi. 9.
THAT worldly goods they may procure,
And wealth immense obtain,
What troubles will mankind endure,
What evils, and what pain!
But men whom dangers thus surround,
Will Fortune tempt to bend
Their footsteps to those beaten paths
Which in destruction end.
4. A 60
The 3Dance of £3tat).
#
|
|
''
No. XMLI.--THE DUCHESS.
Thou shalt not come down off that bed on which thou art gone
up, but shalt surely die.---2 Kings, i. 16.
FroM the soft bed, O youthful maid,
Whereon thy limbs now lie,
Permission ever to arise,
Thy cruel fates deny:
For soon shall Death thy lifeless frame
Subdue without remorse,
And in the solemn winding-sheet
#nwrap thy breathless corse.
C#t #ance of £eath.
x
No. XLII.–THE PEASANT.
In the sweat of thy face,shalt thou eat bread.---Gen. iii. 10.
BREAD for thyself, by labour great,
Thou shalt thyself obtain;
Nor from the ground, without great toil,
Thy sustenance shall gain.
Yet after all thy cares below,
And numerous labours past,
Pale Death to all thy hopes and toils
Shall put an end at last.
G
*k
i. J. (30
The Bantt of #Peath.
No. XLIII.–THE KNIGHT OR SOLDIER.
When a strong man armed keepeth his palace, his goods are in
peace; but when a stronger than he shall come upon him, and over
come him, he taketh from him all his armour wherein he trusted,
and divideth his spoils.---Luke, xi. 21, 22.
UNDAUNTED and secure in arms,
While strength and life remain,
The brave his mansions, and his wealth,
In safety dares maintain.
But Death with greater force shall wage
Against him war ere long,
And for the grave shall make him quit
His post, however strong.
G 2
A60
Cht #ante of £eath.
*
No. XLIV.--THE DRUNKARDS.
And be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess.---Ephes v. 18.
WITH wine's excess your soul's to drench,
Ye mortal throng, forbear;
For luxury of every kind,
And beastliness, is there.
Death shall assail you unprepard,
Oppress'd with sleep and wine;
And, in a vomit foul, your souls
Compel you to resign.
4, JA 60
Cht #Bantt of Beath.
No. XLV.–THE FOOL.
He goeth after her as an ox goeth to the slaughter, or as a tool to
the correction of the stocks ---Prov. vii. 22.
‘MADNEss is sweet, the mad-man cries,
And void of care and woe:
Nor serious thoughts engage his mind,
As well his actions show.
Heedless of fate, the witless fool,
Like sportive lambkin, treads,
And knows not that his every step
To Death's sad portal leads.
ait JA 6()
The £3auct of 39tati).
*
No. XLVI.---THE THIEF.
O Lord, I am oppressed, undertake for me !---Isaiah, xxxviii. 14.
MEN to destroy, with fell intent,
The thief by night does rise;
And now to spoil an aged dame,
Of her full basket, tries.
“I suffer wrong, she cries; and God
Sends Death to her relief,
Who frees her from the ruffian's gripe,
And disappoints the thief.
4. 4A60
Zht Hamrt of Beath.
No. XLVII.—THE BLIND MAN.
If the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch.
Matt. xv. 14
THE blind man, to a guide as blind,
Himself does here commit;
And wanting sight, they both descend
Into the fatal pit.
For, while the man does vainly hope
Success his steps attends,
Into the darkness of the grave
He suddenly descends.
-j- JA 60
(Iije #3ance of Reath.
%
No. XLVIII.—THE BEGGAR.
O, wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of
this Death ?---Rom. vii. 24.
‘WHo from the body of this Death
Will me, sad wretch, release ;
And snatch me from this sinful world,
To realms of purest peace?”
So, he who mourns his mortal ills,
And evil nature, cries,
While to the seat of Christ above
His hopes and wishes rise.
4 JA 60
The Banct of Death.
#
I N
'. | >
*y £2.
* .
£
No. XLIX.–THE HUSBAND.
What taketh away the life? even Death.---Eccles. xxxi 7"
Remember that Death will not be long in coming ---Eccles. xiv. 12.
Lo! husband fond the tyrant Death,
The worst of all life's foes,
In prime of youth, to call thee hence,
The dreaded summon blows.
Reflect thou, then, amid thy course,
“While it is call'd to-day,”
That thou art hast'ning to thy end,
With unperceiv'd decay.
* From an old translation.
AC0
The Bance of £3tath.
No. L.–THE WIFE.
Of the woman, came the beginning of sin; and through her’s we all
die!---Eccles. xxv. 4.
FRoM Eve, the mother of mankind,
Our parent Adam's wife,
Sprang Sin; and thence fell Death arose,
The enemy of life.
Let not, howe'er, thy tender mind
To grief a victim fall;
Let faith and hope support thy soul,
'Tis but thy Father's call.
4, JA 60
The £ance of $3tati).
No. LI.—THE LAST JUDGMENT.
We shall stand before thejudgment-seat of Christ.--hom xiv. 10.
Watch, therefore, for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come ...
Matt. xxiv. 42.
FoR all his actions to account,
By God's express command,
Each man before the judgment seat
Of Christ, the judge, shall stand
Watch, therefore, and be vigilant,
Lest, when that time shall come,
God, for your actions, should pronounce
A just but angry doom.’
T. w hit E, PRINTER,
Johnson’s Cou RT, FLEET ST it "T"
