{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1825__oliver___the_star_in_the_east.pdf","mytitle":"The Star In The East","mylang":"de"}
THE
/11/1'21
STAR IN THE EAST,.
IHI<WIIIG
THE ANALOGY WHICH EXISTS
BIETWI'Ii:ll THB
LECTURES OF FREEMASONRY,
TBII:
MECHANISM OF INITIATION INTO ITS MYSTERIES,
AIIJI TBE
-
LONDON:
PRINTED FOR GEO. B. W~ITTAKEB,
AVE•MAlliA LANE.
18!5.
;86
•
1.() 'N 0 0 !'\,
PRINTitD BY CQI: AI<D BA\'LJS, OIIFAT QUEr.lf•liTRIUtT.
PREFACE.
WilEN a publication on a nov.el sub-
ject has .issued! frOm the. pres5,· the·
motives of the Author, and: the ques-.
tion.of .expediency,.are. usually!inves--
tigated with•some:degree:of.eagemess•.
I know not how far it may·be:con-
sid:erednecessar.y to state.theiJJtuilerGUSJ
and complicated'· motives' which·have·
unitedly contributed to originate the·
following essay;. but l max.perhaps.be
permitted to enumerate tlzree. reasons,.
each amply sufficient to decide: the
a 8
vi PREFACE.
question of expediency, and to illus-
trate my design in laying this work
before the Public.
And first we are informed, that the
unsanctified bigotry of a superstitious
creed has again proscribed Freemason-
ry, in some of the continental nations,
as an institution decidedly hostile to
theinterests ofChristianity; and under
the sanction of an "ever-valid" bull
of Pope Clement,• has unbarred the
· • The following extract from this bull will
exhibit the nature of the persecution to. which
our brethren in Spain and Portugal are now sub·
jected.
" Clement Bishop, servant of the servanta of
God, to all ~the faithful of Christ, health and
apostolical benediction.
"Placed (unworthy u we are) by the dia-
poaal
PREFACE. vii
prison gates ·of the Inquisition, and
IOO&ened all its active engines to
posal of the divine clemency, in the eminent
W&tch-tower of the apostleship, &c. &c., it bas
come to our knowledge, even from public report,
thatcertain societies, companies,meetings, assem-
blies, clubs·or conventicle!, ·commooly called
de Li/Jeri Muratori, or Freemasons, or by what·
soever othername the same in dift'erentlanguages
are distinguiahed, spread far aild wide, ·and ·are
every day incieaaing ; in which, personsof what-
soever religion or sect, contented with a ltind w
tdfocled 1Aotil of natural honesty, . oonfedeiate
together in a close aDd inscrutable bond, accord·
ingto lawsandoldenagie'edupon betweenthem;
which likewise 'With private _
ceremonieS,· they
enjoin and bind theinlelves, as well by strict oath
taken on the Bible, ·u ·by the impreeation· Of
heavy p~shments, to preserve With ·inviolable
secrecy.
a4
VlU
apprehend, and punish by torture. and·
death, the h~less · professors, of; a
" -
We. therefure,, revolv4tg·in· 0.111'. miiKis: the~
great Qtischiefs, &c;, by: tbe plenitude of the:
apostolical· pewer,,•• aQCI. by, thia our:· preleflt>
e:JJeT-valid ~~~tu~n, we do~- and:pro~
JUbit the~ sqeie.&ies,.&c•.&ey We-willmore'!'
Qver and ~llliPDd; . That, as well bWiops.and.
superior:!*elate&,and other ol"diili8r.ies:ofparticu-
l&f·pl~cell,,&a the lngu~:'!/ kerttletzl:ptafJily;
uni'tfer8ollgdeput«l•.ofwnat : ~.degree;. candi->
tiori,.order, di!oity;oqn&emiuem:e:soever,. pro--.
ceed aDd:ilaquire,. attil rmraill and: coert¥.> th'e·
StDIU!t-tu --~-'!! Aeruy,.wilh CQ!I••
dign:punilktneftl:. fQr;~hiurand!each.of:thenr,.wei
herebygive:aod·imp.ft:&,!e power ofiproceeding,.
incpliring agtiria~.alld qfr:Hrrling and(r11tmiiciilg
'lllilk·oondppanillimmll; thu11111e tm~Ug'e&IOftt-
1'
and.ifcalli"Bi", ifit:..WJll.'"n_et:a~t~T!/fU.ilqf!!l
the secular arm, ~c; ~c. .' .'·
·. "Dated
.. ·.. ·
_
.... .
, "'eob,Google
P.REF.A.CE•. ix
science,. which. inculcates the. chief
doctrine11.and morality:ofC~stianity;
and assumes, as an universal a:Honi,
the;broad.tenet:of.unrestrained union
and brotherl)do\1e.
'f;be second reason i~·derived from
the general:affuctati014.wltich seems to
pervade the ~ninitiated,: of believing
that ouit institution· was established for
the·purpose. oi:sensual copviviality;.
and henoe. i~ i~raakedt merely on a
revelwith.theuwaietieiu ofl C~·Odre Fel;.
lows.u; and; ''~GwdtFellows:;!'·"•Catch
Cluba;..''' and: '"'SmokiDgiClub& ;"· and
"Dated from Rome, at St. Mary's the_
Greater,
inthe year-ot"the incarpation of our Lord 1788,
tbe 4th-ofthe calends ~Mey1 iJt the eighth of
our·Pontift~e/'·
io
''"";,Google
X PREFACE.
that th~refore our professions of intel;.;
lectual pursuits .are . altogether f&lla-
ciou·s. .-
.
. My third reason .JIJ of· a personal
nature. At the conclusion of ch. 6.
of~' The Antiquities of Freemasonry,"
I offered some observations on the
intimate ·and· necessary connexion
which ·subsists between Masonry and
Christianity. These remarks appear
.to . have .created .a sensation in the
mindS Ofcertain brethren, which I did
not anticipate•.~ I .have receive~ 'seve-
ral admonitory letters, whose common
object is to .impugn this doctrine,
which I consider the fairest gem that
Masonry can•boast.· As all my disqui-
sitions were intended to establish this
PREFACE. xi
a:lliance, I have,.in thefollowing pages,
a~tempted to place the matter beyond
the.rea~h of·dispu~e Q~. contradict~on;
apd I flatter. mytelfi have satis(acto-
. ,. .
r~y pr~ved ~hat Freemasonry is . not
~nly a vehicle· Of religion ingeneral,
but of Christianity in particular.
. To rend~r this little work more
generally:acceptable,1 havein~rwoven
i~ its pages a .considerable portion ~f
our lectures ; distinguishing the seve-
ral degrees .in. which· each portio~ is
delivered in.our Lodges; .which will af..
ford anu~;~objecti01~able an~Jwer tothose
cavillers, who will not be persuaded
that any salutary benefits are derivable
from the practice of Free.m~nry.
. It may be necessary to add, that I
PREFACE.
have here deseribed- our. science as it is·
practised in-a LodgewhicJ1·is indebted
to my exertionsf~r its:origin; and over
whicli ·l presided during manyyears.
If my· infui'Iilatton· on· the 11ubject be
incorrect,: it proceedS·not froin ·a want
of assiduityindie:re8earelt, for I have
bestowed upon~it mtich anxious·att~n­
tWrt.~· and-~ may·be aliow.ed'to·express.
my own-conviction, thatthose.who are
persuaded of the- non-exisrence ofreli~
gion· in the·seienee or·Freemasonry,
have:not given the.subjeetthat mature
con-sideration which- its· :~rtance·
demands. For surely it: must be a·
question of some· nia'gnitude to the·
community at farge, whether religion
be the basts of an institation which
.~~Pt~hends ·.«tvery deseriptioh· .of
.m~kin.d : :which .i$ patronized by
crow~u h~ads, ·and ·:diffuses itself
.;throqgh -eve~y .rank and ,station ; and
I ·think .tha.t :a minute ·comparison
,between. the ·$pirit of ,religion, .and
the spirit of .M~onry, would be sufli-
: cie~t-,to con.vin:ce any ivgenuous mind
-
·.of.their indissoluble -connexicm. ·The
_whole Jewish .Ritual W@S bl)t the per-
.fecti~: of M3SQ11r:Y, ~xhibited in types
.a~d ,e,mblems ~f-~p!ritqal tnil!gS. .Th_e
~ubJime -mark '.or .to~n of. ~~ieJ,:­
'which w~ impres~d ;0,n .the foreh~~qs
.of the J,ewish masons r_~o pr~.serve
.them 'amidst ~he ~hx;-eatened .destr~c­
:tion; was .doubtless that s!gni6Qant
·* .Ezek. 9 c. 4o, 6 y,
xiv PR:EFACE.
emblem which we now caii the masO.
sonic LEVEL. . The most"sublime ordi-
nances of· Christianity · are· shadowed
in ourinstitution undertypes and iUus-
trious symbols. In a word, the.whole
system of·ancient · religion, whether
genuine or spurious, was little ·eise
than ·primitive· masonry under ·various
modifications ; . and, consequently,· it
contained every 'thing thai was condu-
cive to· human· 'happiness both te.mpo-
rarand eternal. For the sake o{ the
institution generally, and for the sake
of its members in particuiar, I shoiud
grieve to be convicted of error ; 'be-
cause ·if 'religion ·be discarded froin
the illustration's of Freemasonry, it can
p•)ssess no charlns for a ·rational being.
PREFACE. XV
Objections may perhaps arise~ . but
none, l trust, of sufficient weight to
invalidate the theory. I conclude,
however, in the words of Tully,
"rifelkre sine pertinacia, et rffelli sine
iracundia, parati sumus.''
CONTENTS.
CHAP. I.
Inuoductol'y Remaru; showing tbe ablolute and im-
...•.
mulable connuion bet'l'l'een Masonry and Religion • 1
CHAP II.
Testimonies exlnlcted from Muonic writers in aupport
of thi& trutJa. ••••••• •• •••• •••• •••• •••••• •• •• S8
CHAP. III.
Cbriatianitr w•tbe true religic.n f'rom tbe fall of man
to tbe eetabi.Ubment of the Jewilh diapenation ;
nen tbe temporu'7 ayatem reYealed to M- WM,
in every material point, trPic:al oftbe perfect Cbun:h
of Jesua Christ; and therefore Speculati't'e Muomy
being srlr united with faith in Christ, hu in all
ages attained the benetltl which it deri't'ed from
thia digoiled alliaace.. •• . • •. •••••••• •••• . . •• 58
b
xviii CONTENTS.
CHAP. IV.
P•s•
Every event alluded to in the HISTOIUCAL part of the
l\lasonic lectures, has s direct refere11ce to Christ or
his religion 85
CHA-P. V.
The MoRALITY of Masonry is precisely the same
as that of Christianity.. .-~ ••• ; •~-.... . . .• •• •• •• 109
CHAP. VL
The JUCBA!IIS• of Masonry is syXIlbolical of Its con•
.Rexion with.the ChristiiiD Religion.•• , •• •• • • •• 145
"· .• b,Googlc
THE
STAR IN THE EAST.
CHAP. I.
Introductory Remarks; shewing the absolute and immu-
table Connexion between Freemasonry and Religion.
BEFORE we enter on this discussion, it
will be proper to de~ermine precisely what
religion is, in the common and most cor-
rect acceptation of the word. According
to Cicero, the ancients believed religion
to be " the study and practice of divine
worship." The Christian differs from the
heathen world in the interpretation for
religion. Bishop Wilkins defines reli-
B
2 THE STAR
gion to be ".that general habit ofreverence
towards the divine nature, whereby we are
enabled and inclined to worship and serve
God, after such a manner as we conceive
most agreeable to His divine will."
And Dr. Watts says, that" religion or vir-
tue, in a lagre sense, includes duty to God
and our neighbour." Religion, tben, is a
system of practical duties, and .thus stands
opposed to theology, which is a system
of spttultJtive trutbs. Tbe moral ·duties,
whieh man commits .to practice in this
probationary state, with a view of pleasing
his Creator, are acts {)( pure religion,
which produce a corresponding inftuence
on the mind and manners:, and di8play his
na~ure, . as superior to the rest of the .crea-
tion, They shew that man bas a rational
soul, and from his unresttamed freedom
IN T B B KAST. 3
of will, by choosing evil or .pursuing
good, his personal responsibility is.demon-
strated ; whence, at some distant period, be
will be brought .to an account for his
aetioos, whether they be good or whether
they be evil, aud receive an equitable
reco.mpence from the even hand of im-
partial justice.
Freemasonry was revealed by God him-
self to the first man. But a wise and
good being would reveal nothing but wha&
had a tendency to encourage the practice
ofthose precep~, which were given to pre-
serve the newly created man in the strict
line of moral duty ; therefore masonry
must be closely interwoven with the prac-
tice of-religion. Its operative portion pro-
ceeded from the effects ofhuman ingenuity
stimulatedby human necesaity afterthe fall.
B2
4 THH STAR
It was merely an application of itsprinciples
to .the benefit of man, as far as was condu-
cive to his comfort and convenience in this
life, without any reference to a future state.
Hence originated the two great divisions of
masonry : operative masonry .was of hu-
man institution ; speculative masonry of
divine.
Masonry, in the first ages of the world,
was therefore a system of pure religion;
and when men degenerated into idolatry,
and in their migrations carried with them
the principles of the orde1·, it was, in every
nation, applied to the same purpose, more
or less perverted, in proportion as the inha-
bitants adhered to, or swerved f1·om, the
rites of true worship. In India, Egypt, .
and other nations, which very early be-
came addicted to Polytheism, it branched
IN THE EAST. 5
mit into pompous ceremonial observances,
shrouded in mystery and withheld from the
profane, but still applied to the national
religion, and the worship of those gods
which had been erected· into objects of
adoration, and placed on· the foundation
which JehOvah himself had laid. Nor is
there a single instance on record, in whieh
the mysterious institutions of any ancient
nation, in any part of the world, having
the least resemblance to freemasonry,
excluded religion from a share in their
solemn pursuits. On the contrary, reli-
gion was the main object of them all.
Whether the Orphic or the Eleusian,
the Gothic or the Dionysian ; whether
the rites of Mithras or Bramha, of
Pythagoras or the Druids; the ·Essenian
or the Kasidean; all were instituted in
B3
THE STAR
honour of religion, and all enforced the
practice of those duties which religion
recommend!!. Shall we then be told
that masonry, the very origin and foun-
dat1C>n of aU these systems, has no con-
nection with·religion, and least of all with
Christianity,· the perfection of religion ?
It is a fact, which I sball endeavour tO
prove, that every c·reditable writel' on
the subjeet· of free'ma\ionry bas publicly
avowed his co1tviction that the most in-
timate aUiance subristi beiweel\ the two
sister institutions; and has left behi1td
him ample testimonies•to repel this novel
and very extraordinary opinioil.
FreemaSOMy, as practised at the pre-
sent day, cC>mmemorates particularly five
great events ·in the hi~oty of the world,
each typical of the Messiah. These are,
IN. TIJX EAST. 7
t!J,e· vi,yi{)n of Jn.cob, where he beheld the
celebrated ladder, reaching from earth to
heaven ; the f!tfe.ring of Isao11 upon Mount
· Mor.i.ah~ when it pleased: the Lord flo sub-
stik.ute a rnore agreeable victim ia his
~tead ; the mi~lous tkliverance from
ElJ!Ipft4n ~ge under the cond~ of
Mose$-; the qfferittg ofDavid on the tbresh-
ing-&or of Araunah the Jeb\ISite; ·and
the building of Solomon's Temple. ~w
these extraordiu_
ary events, whleb. unequi-
voc.ally point to our Saviow: Jesus Christ,
are the principal historical eventJ ~n­
tained in our lectures. This. coi~idence
could not have been accidental~ ~nd
must, therefore, have been designed. It
follows, then, that masonry was it1tended
to perpetuate in the mind of Dlan that
most important fact, the salvation of his
ll4
8 THE STAR
soul through the sacrifice of Christ.. To
accomplish this design more perfectly,
the most prominent types, as they arose,
were incorporated by wise and pious
brethren into the original system, until
it contained a perfect chain of evidence,
which could neither be effaced nor mis-
und~rstood, illustrative of this fact, so
esseDtial to the future welfare of man-
kin4.
I presume not to say that masonry is
exc1usively Christian, because many al'e
daily initiated into its mysteries whose
religious opinions are inimical to Chris-
tianity; I only contend, and shall endea-
vour to prove, that being a system of
ethics, and inculcating the morality of
every religion under the sun, it is. more
particularly adapted to the Christian rc-
IN TUB EAST. 9
Iigion, because Christian ethics approach
neat·est to the standard of ab~olute per-
fection ; and because the genius of ma-
som·y can assimilate with no·other religion
so completely as with Christianity. The
historical part ·of its lectures bears an un-
doubted reference to our pure ·religion ;
and · this coincidence is so remarkably
striking; ·that it would almost ·convince.
an ·unprejudiced mind, that masonry was
formed · as an exclusive companion for
Christianity. The strength of this testi-
mony is increased by the nature and ten-
dency of its symbolical instruction, by the
peculiar cast of its morality, and by the
very extt·aot·dinary nature of its allegori-
cal ·mechanism; extraordinary on any
other principle than with a referen<;e to
Christianity.
B5
10 THE STAR
MasolR'y is eonlessedly an u-niversal sys-
tem, liftft teaches the relative aild social
duties of tnstl on the broad and exten-
sive lfasi·s of general philanthropy. A
J·ew, B' Mabometan, or a Pagan may
attend· our lodges without fear of hearing
hill peculiar doetrines or mode of faith
called in question, by a comparison wilh
others whleh lire repugmint to his creed,
because a perJ\tatient and unalter~ble land-
mark of masonry is, the total absence
· and ~xclusion of religious or political con-
troversy. Each of these pl'ofessors prac-
tices a system of morality suited to the
sanctions ofhis own religion ; which, as it
emanated from the primitive system of
divine worship, bears some resemblance
to it ; and consequently he can bear moral
pr~cepts inculcated, without imputing a
IN THE BAST. 11
designed reference to any peeuliar mode
of faith. But can it be concluded from
these premises that mpaonry contains no
religion ? The whole compass of the
world's experience refutes this bold and
unqualified assertion. AU our charges,
all our regulations, assume, as a founda-
tion which cannot be moved, a belief in
the being of a God, and a future state
of rewards and punishments, and incul-
cate the necessity ·of moral purity, as a
qualification for future happiness; . and
thi8, according to our definitions, forms
the sum and substance of religion: in its
most universal a~eptation.
How can any brother considerately urge
that masonry contains no reference to
religion, when the vel'Y first step which
a candidate makes in advancirJK to the
s6
12 THE STAR
ftoor of the lodge, is attended with an
acknowledgment that he believes in an
omnipresent Deity, and that be puts his
trust in that gt•eat and omnipotent Being
to shield him from danger and to remove
his apprehensions of evil ? What is the
ground of hissolemn obligations? · What
is the sacred subject of the first charge
delivered to him immediately subsequent
to his initiation ? Religion, if Watts'
definition be correct. What can be the
intended effect of our obligations, if they
be not grounded on these fundamental
truths ? The progress of masonic know-
ledge moves step by .step on thelile uni-
versally acknowledged pl'inciple8. 'fhe
first lesson which masonry teaches, is
to persevere in, the constant study of
the Holy Bible as the sacred som·ce of
IN THB HAST. 13
our faith, and containing the only cer-
tain information on . a subject the most
interesting to a responsible agent in this
probationary state ; and the next is an
admonition to practise the three great
duties of morality, one of which is the
duty to God. As its instructions pt·oceed,
we learn that our ground-work is .sanc-
tified by the efficacy of Three Religious
Qfferings, .which are typical of .the gt·eat
sacrifice of .atonement by Jesus Christ;
and that our splendid canopy contains a
LETTER . of the. most extensive reference,
and the most comprehensive mE-aning.
The elevation in the Third Degree refet·s
to the resurrection from the dead ; and
this is a clear admission of the reality of
'
a future state, because, if there be no fu-
ture state, there can be no resurrection.
14 TH.K STA&
Our solemn dedications and consecrations
speak the same language, and they are
irrefragable evidences of the intimate con-
nection which subsists between muonry
and religion. If we proceed another step,
the evidenee becomes stronger. The order
of the Royal Arch is founded exclusively
on religion. The degree is purely re-
ligious, and includes little but what is
connected with the love and worship of
God, and the wise and genial regulations
of Divine Providence for. the benefit. of
man. The very tests are founded on the
fall of Adam, and the consequent aep
dation of the human race, enforced by
the salutary promise of their future re-
storation through the intercession of a
Mediator. If this be not religion, if this
be not Christianity, what is it?
IN T H E EAST. 15
The· Military Degrees, though indeed
they possess only a remote connexion
with masonry, will however testify that
it is very closely allied to religion. They
date their origin from the Crusades, and
have Christianity for their basis and sup~
port. The_whole system if' exclusively
ChriStian. Their banner was a RED c,oss,
ihsCtibed " IN HOC SIGNO VINCBS," Which
was considered a safeguard and protection
~lnst aU assailing dangers ; for the cross
was regarded as a sacred symbol, which
alone could convey safety in their holy
career. The tests and paraphernalia of
these degrees bear the same exclusive re-
ference· to Christianity. It is true they
were grafted upon masonry at the above
period, and consequently form no part of
primitive Lux: but still they bear on the
16 THB STAR
point in question ; for every knight was
necessarily a mason, and. no . one was
eligible for the dignity of the golden
spur; but he who had been prepared by a
previous initiation into the three degrees
of masonry. This is a strong collateral
proof of the ancient alliance .between
masonry and religion ; . for these high-
minded ·men, wbo had nothing ·in view
but the extension of Christianity, evinced
their .reverence for masonry as a religious
system, by making it a sine ·qua non with
all who aspired to admission into their
honourable body. Amidst the, enthusiastic
spirit and sacred feelings which animated
these champions of Christianity, they would
scarcely have shewn such a distinguished
predilection for any system founded on a
basis which excluded religion.
IN THE HAST. 17
The admission, on the part of certain
mistaken brethren, who .are surely unac-
quainted with the true nature of our con-
stitution, that the science we profess does
not inculcate the pt·actice of religious du-
ties, has given rise to an opinion.amongst
the uninitiated, very naturally resulting
from the concession of a point ofsuch vast
importance, that we are infidels, if not
atheists, and consequently friends to re-
volution and disorder. I grant that infide-
lity and atheism are inseparably connected
with anarchy and demoralization ; but it
can by. no means be inferred that we are
atheists, except the proof be founded on
stronger data than the fact of our being
masons, joined with the assumption that
masonry contains no religion ; except Jt be
shewn by undeniable reasoning that we
18 THE STAR
have literally renounced our allegiance to
God, that we inculcate doctrines which
&end to the subversion of r.eligi<m, and
that we are guilty of iosubordiaation aod
eontempt of the laws which are ordained
for the preservafliGD of peaee and orde.r in
~o~ty.
But so far feom encotwaging iasubor..
dmatioo, mMOnry is a perfect systeto of
obedience to superior governors lawfully
eonst.ituted:. And I am happy to he able
to set the plea eDtirely liti rest by a quota.-
tion from our statutes : " The n1lers and
governors, supreme and subordinate, of t86
lodge, are to be obeyed in their respedive
stations by all the brethren, according
to the old charges and regulations, with
all humility, reverence, love, and ala-
crit~." Besides, though political dis-
• Ancient Charges, &c· 1.
IN 'tIt B BAST. 19
cussions ate prohibited in the lodge, our
laws unequivocally iMulcate loyalty as
a primary masonic quaUficatiou. " A
mason ia a' peaceable subject to the civil
powers wherever he resides, and· is never
to be oon~eriled in plots and eonllpiraeies
against the peae!e and welfare of the na-
tion; nor to behave himself undutifully
to the inferior magistrate'S ; for as· masonry
hMh been always injured by war, blood-
shed, and confusion, so a&tient kings and
princes have been much disposed to en·
courage the craftsmen, because of their
peaceableness aml [qyalty ; whereby they
practicall'y answered the cavils of their
adversaries, and promoted the honour of
the ftatemity, whieh e~er flourished in
times of peace.''•
• Ancient Charges, See. 2.
20 THE ST.~R
What were the feelings of our best and
wisest· brethren when this unfounded ac-
cusation was first publicly urged ? Each
worthy brother took up his pen in defence
of an order he revered, eager ·to repel a
charge involving our reputation as indi-
viduals, and our· dearest interests as · a
public body. One says that " the society
of freemasons model their ceremonies
upon this foundation, that there is but
one God, who must be worshipped in
spirit and in truth.''• Another says that
" free-masonry is ·an order whose insti-
tutions arise on the most solemn and
sacred principles of religion." " The
knowledge of the God of nature forms
the first estate of our profession ; the
worship of the Deity under the Jewish
• Lauric's Hist, of 1\lasonry.
I N T H K K A ST. 21
law is described in the second step of
masonry ; and the Christian dispensation
is distinguished in th~ last and highest
order.''•
Another respectable writer on masonry
is still more explicit. He says, " The
royal order of masonry, however secret
from its most early foundation to the
present moment, bas nothing belong-
ing to it, but what is so far from giving
birth or growth to the commission of any
thing inconsistent with the strictest par~
of o:ur holy religion, whether it respects
our duty ·to God or man, that every part
of it, if duly followed, has a direct tendency
to enforce and to encourage the perform-
ance of every one of its .most holy pre-
cepts:" and, " The precepts of the gospel
• Hutc:hioson's Spirit of Muonrr.
22 TBB aTAR
are univwsallg the pmlciple6 oftna~onry.''•
But in the ensuing chapter J shall.brio«
forward abundant proofs, from .the most
celebrated writers on masonry, that tbis
science has in all ages been considered
to have religion for its basis and support.
Those brethren who contend tbat religion
is excluded from masonry, are admitting
for truth a disgraceful imputation, which
was founded on the mere gratuitous as.-
sertions of strangers to our institution,
and who consequently could not be co~
petent judges of the allegations boldly and
inconsiderately urged, and which they
were altogether unable to prov.e.
We need only enquir-e what a system
of secrecy, fouaded on the plan ofmasonry,
but excluding religion, may effect, to be
• Inwood's Sermon• on M11011ry.
IN T H B BAST. 23
convinced that our science, as practiaed
under the auspices of the grand lodge of
England, cannot be that system. Religion
being the only restraint on those who set
at dlefiance.all·human laws, if that be also
rejected, and an .atheistical et·eed be sub·
stituted in its room-if men can so far
sueceed in promoting their own infatua·
tioo, as to .
absolve themselves from .all
appreheDSions of·retributive justice in a
future state, they are prepared .for the
commission of any crime .to which they
may be $timulated by the operation of their
own pasiions, or by the artful duplicity of
designing men, who have purpose&:to fulfil
w.hicb require the expulsion of religion
from the heart before th.ey are capable
ofeQgaging in conspiracies preliminary to
murder and spoliation. The deep·laid
24 THB STAR
plots of Professor Weishaupt are a striking
illustration of the ends to which a secret
society may be made subservient, if di-
vested of its connection with religion. The
system of which be was the inventor held
out to the world a promise of superior
light and knowledge ; enlisted unsuspect-
ing Christians under its banners, by the
plausible and delusive theories of eman-
cipating mankind ft·om the shackles of sla-
vish prejudice, of diffusing human science,
and fixing the mind firmly in the pursuit of
virtue; and, like the serpent at the ear of
Eve, led _them on by imperceptible de-
grees, first to doubt, then to cavil, and
afterwards to reject; the succeeding de-
grees of error making them still riper for
guilt ; and when the demon found his
victims prepared for the reception of any
IN THE EAST. 2iJ
doctrine by a renunciation of religion, the
latent scheme was fuJly developed; that
horrid scheme, which by its mystic agency
and pernicious ramifications struck the
whole continent of Europe with terror ;
which promised unconditional deliverance
from the united .tyranny of religion and
civil government ; and which threatened
the subversion of all existing moral and
religious institutions; to overturn empires,
hurl princes from their thrones, level all
distinctions, and reduce mankind to an
equality on the broad and latudinarian
principle of universal ignorance and im-
piety j and CRUSH THE WRETCH! (meaning,
Jesus Christ) was the infernal watch-wo1·d
to every species of atrocity aud crime !
I confess I shudder while engaged in
this discussion. I tremble at the simple
c
26 THE STAR
idea of the application whic~ our ad·
versaries in, this country may make of the
admitted dogma, that masonry contains no
religion.
We will, however, take a closer view
of the doctrines and practices of the illu-
minati, or mtPJomy wit/una religion ; for
the system of Weishaupt being a system
of secresy, though not actually of masonry,
(fo1· the Professor had not even received
initiation into a single degree of our sci-
ence when be et;tablished it,) was capable
of being applied successfully to the very
worst as well as• the best of purposes.
Zimmerman says, "Whether this sect be
the same with that of the freemasons, or
the Jesuit&, both of w.hicb s.uppositions is
improbable, is uncertain; but in 1774 or
1775, a society w.as undoubtedly esta-
IN T H E E A ST. 27
blished in Bavaria, of which a celebrated
Professor at Ingolstadt has been regarded
a~ the founder. This society, under pre-
text of consulting the happiness of the
people, and supposing that happiness to be
incompatible with every species of reli-
gious and civil establishment at present
existing, said with one voice, Let us dest1·oy
them all, and raze their very foundations!
The secret order of the iHuminati included
among its mysterious principles, at present
exposed to the whole world, the whole
of the doctrine which the J acobins of
Paris have since put in •practice; and it
has been proved by the most irrefragable
documents, that they maintained an inti-
mate correspondence together before the
Fr.ench Revolution. The destruction of
the ChriRiian religion, and the subversion
c 2
Diaitizen JYGoogle
28 THE STAR
of every throne and of all governments,
have been their aim ever since the year
1776. It was not understood, by the new
associates of this order, that the magic
words, the hapPiness of the people, •ere
the surest means to recruit their numbers
with ease, and by which, in fact, the
recruits became so numerous and well
disciplined. Young men were .chiefly
pitched upon, who, not having yet formed
a strong attachment to any particular .
opinion, were the more easily led away
to embrace whatever was offered to them,
and men of literary talents, whom it is
important to secure when the propagation
of any new opinion is in agitation. When
once a person was enlisted, and fully pe-
netrated with the enticing words, the hap-.
piness of the people ; let us labour to pro-
IN THE EAST. 29
wre the happiness of .the peqple; he be·
came impatient to know the obstacles
which were in the way of this purpose,
and the means to be made use of to re-
move them ; these were therefore offered
to his view in succession.."
"The order has five degrees; in the
lower, the mysteries a.re not unveiled;
they are only preparatory, on which the
minds of the noviciates are founded and
. prepared ; then by degrees, those who
are found worthy are initiated into the
higher ranks.""" The mechanical part of
the order bore some faint resemblance to
that of masonry, bttt the principles and
doctrines of our science were never in-
troduced, even subsequently to the admis-
sion of Weishaupt into a masonic lodge;
• Vide Pretton's Illustrations. Edit. IS. p. 304.
c 3
. THE STAR
.nor could they, for bearing a character
so decidedly hostile to his views, they
would have destroyed the very foundation
ou which the illuminating scheme was
erected. The artful Professor adopted our
secrecy to sanction his purposes, by screen-
ing him from public observation and le-
gislative scrutiny. He used his utmost
endeavours, by every means 'vithin his
.reach, not excepting prob"bly his masonic
privileges, to extend his doctrines through-
out the continental nations ; and, as is
usual with all innovators, he succeeded
in making many proselytes. His lodges
were ultimately established all over Eu-
rope ; they regularly communicated with
each other ; and their transactions were
kept inviolably secret from the rest of
the world. Men of all ranks and stations
I N T H E ~AS T. 31
became members of these dark and myste-
rious assemblies; but their most active
emissaries were in the ·armies of every
continental monarch ; they guided the
councils, they filled up the ranks, and
were equally unknown and unsuspected.
The facility with which they succeeded in
subverting the religious principles of their
votaries is a problem which it may be
· difficult to solve; suffice it to say, that
whether the real intentions of Weishaupt
were indeed what are generally imputed
to him, it is certain that the seeds of
impiety and insubordination which he
scattered throughout Europe, impelled
by other powerful incentives, lent their
aid to the production of those rank weeds
of savage crueltyand revolutionary bigotry,
~hich swept a monarch from ·his throne,
c4
32 THB STAR
and produced a twenty years' war, which
deluged the continent with the best blood
of its inhabitants.
Such are the ends to which a system
of secrecy, unguarded by religion, may be
made subservient. But under the sober
garb and genial protection of a religious
and Christian faith, it is capable of pro-
ducing much unqualified good. Ifit makes
men more strict in the performance of
their moral duties; if it conveys firmness
under aftliction, and directs them to look
beyoJld the bounds of hnmanity for relief
under tlle pressure of actual or impend-
ing calamity; if it ameliorates the mind,
and unites men together in a chain of
universal benevolence ; if it instructs
mankind to rule and govern their pa~
•ion!l, to avoid slander and dissimulation,
IN TJI.E EAST. 33
·to look upon the Bible as a rule of faith,
and to regulate their actions by the pre-
cepts it contains ; if it does this, and
much, much more than this, it may surely
be entitled to the praise of conferring
benefits on its professors, by enforcing the
duties of religion. And this is the busi-
ness of masonry. Can it then be a sy~tem
of Atheisin? can it lend a sanction to the
perfidious schemes of revolutionary de-
magogues ? or the designs of those infa-
tuated men, who would·lead us back into
the darkest ages of ignorance and infi-
delity ? I answer, · without hesitation,
No. Masonry is a system of loyalty,
which attaches us to the king, our pa-
tron, and to the soil which gave us birth.
And though political disquisitions are pro-
hibited in our assemblies, yet an inherent
c5
34 1'HE STAR
attachment to our native land can never
be thus suppressed. If masonry were a
system that possessed the most indirect
affinity to rebellion, would it be pa-
tronized by the monarch ? would it be
encouraged by his royal brothers, and
the principal nobility of this realm ?
would it merit or receive the sanction of
a deliberate act of the legislation? The
reign of Solomon wqs a perfect era in
masonry : and why was it so glorious ?
Because of the indissoluble union which
our order conveyed to his subjects, and
their invincible attachment to his person
and government, as king and grand-
ma!!ter ; which causes his reign to be
referred to as the most stupendous spe-
cimen of peace and happinetss under a
monarch, feared for his love of justice,
lN THE EAST. 35
beloved for his munificence, and re-
spected for his piety and virtue.
Such is masonry united with religion ;
and in truth, masonry could not be prac-
tised without the aid of this magnificent
supporter. No company of men, not al-
together confirmed_ in the principles of
atheiem, could so far forget themselves,
their duty, and the supreme Governor of
the world, clad in majesty and splendour,
llS to exclude religion wholly from their
minds, particularly the members of an in-
stitution professing superior light and
knowledge. The Creator cannot be over-
looked amidst every incentive to virtue ;
nor can man eo far disregard the voice of
nature within him as to forget by whom
he was created, and to whom he is in-
debted for every blessing he enjoys on this
c6
36· THB STAR
side the grave. Masonry· bas set forms
of prayer ·adapted to every orie of its
transactions. The lodges are opened and
closed with prayer; the solemn initiations,
pas11ings, raisings and exaltations, are ac-
companied by the same devotional exer-
cise ; and if masonry be not allied to re-
ligion, to whom can these prayers be
addressed, or what can be their efficacy ?
For prayer can ouly be beneficial so far as
it includes a belief in the omnipresence of
God, and his ability as well as inclination
to confer blessings on his creatures, and
to grant his omnipotent aid on all their
undertakings. Indeed, the very act of
prarer is a full acknowledgment of God's
attributes of wisdom, power and goodness,
and thus becomes an unequivocal aet of
religion. But masons habitually use
IN THB BAST. 37
prayer in their lodges ; and therefore it
clearly follows, that masons never as-
semble for any purpose but they perform
acts of religion.
38 THK STAR
CHAP. II.
Testimonies extracted from Masonic Writen in support
or this Truth.
THE observations in the preceding chap-
ter may lend their assistance towards open-
ing an inquiry of the greatest importance
in a Christian country ; no Jess than to
refute an hypothesis which would place a
popular and useful institution on a level
with Anti-Christian club~;, and revolu-
tionary associations. In this stage of the
investigation it may be necessary to exo-
nerate the authors who have professedly
treated on freemasonry before me, from
IN THE EAST. 39.
lending any sanction to the desta-uctive
charge, that religion is excluded from out·
assemblies. · In doing this, I shall collect a
few reputable testimonies, and place them
in chronological order, withtheirdates pre-
fixed, so as to produce an uniform proof of
the belief which has prevailed in all ages,
that the great pedestal of masonry is re-
ligion.
Before the invention of printing these
testimonies are not very numerous, as few
manuscripts are in e~istence which were
produced antecedent to that period ; partly
owiug to " the losses sustained in the year
1720, when the ignorant zeal of some rash
brethren, induced them to burn their
manuscripts, from a dislike, probably, of
having their constitutions printed."• Such
• Noorth Const, Part 1. cl1. J.
40 ." THE STAR
as remain, however, will serve to convince
us that the early masons little anticipated
the appearance of a day, when·their art
would have to combat the charges of some
of its own memberil, avowedly urged to
strip the science of its most brilliant and
imperishable ornament.
About the year of our Lm·d 590, " the
Picts and Scots," says the annalist,• " con-
tinued their depredations with unrt>strained
vigour, till the arrival of some pious
teac~ers from Wales and Scotland ; when
many of these savages being reconciled tQ
·Christianity, masonry got into repute."
The antient constitutions, charges, &c.
were framed about the year 926, from
manuscripts in Greek, Latin, French, and
other languages, which were produced by
.• Prest. Illus. Bk. 4. Sec. 2.
IN THE EAST, 41
the brethren who met at York for the pur·
pose of forming a grand lodge in that city,
pursuant to the summons of Prince Edwin.
From these charges I select the following,
as beal'ing an unequivocal relation to the
point in question.
" A mason is to study the moral law as
contained in the sacred code; to consider
it as the unerring standard of truth and
justice ; and to r«:>gulate his life and actions
by its divine precepts. He is strictly to
observe his duty to God, by never mention-
ing his name but with that awe and reve-
rence which is due from acreature to his
Creator; to esteem him as the chief good,
and to implore his aid in all laudable un-
dertakings."-" A mason is obliged, by
·his' tenure, to obey the moral law ; and if
he rightly understandi the art, he will
42 ,-HE STAR
neither be a stupid atheist nor an irreli-
gious libertine. But though in antient
times masons were charged in every country
to he of the religion of that country or na-
tion, whatever it was, yet it is now
thought more expedient only to oblige them
to that religion in which all men agree,
leaving their particular opinions to tht>m-
selves.''
We now come to a manuscript in the
Bodleian library, written about A.D. 1536,
which is a copy of one still older, wrote by
King Henry VI., about 1440. .This MS.
userts that " Ma~onnes techedde man-
kynde relygyonne."• The excellent Pres-
ton, in his comment on this passage, says :
"It appears to have surprised the learned
annotator (Mr. Locke) that religion should
• Answer 6.
IN THE .&AST. 43
be ranked among the uts taught by the
fraternity; but it may be observed that
religion is the only tie which can .bind men;
and that WHBRB THBRB IS NO llBLIGION,
THBRB CAN DB NO MASONRY.''
In the short reign of King James II.,
A.D. 1686, a MS. was written, which is
now preserved in the Lodge of Antiquity.
It contains the following passages :
" Every man that is a mason take good
heed to these charges, we pray; that if a
man find himself guilty of any of these
charges, that be may amend himself; or
principally for dread of God," &c. ~·
" The PIRST. charge is, that ye shall he true
mm to God and to the holy ~hurch, and to
use no error or heresy by your uodel'8tand-
ing and by wise men's teaching." And
after enumerating more than twenty
44 THE STAR
charges, it concludes thus : " These be
all the charges and covenants that ought
to be read at the instalment of a master,
or making of a freemason or freemasons.
The Almighty God of Jacob, who ever
.have you and me in his keeping, bless us
now and ever. Amen.".
An ancient masonic manuscript, written
about the end of the 15th century, and pub-
lished ~in the Gentleman's Magazine for
June 1815, commences in the following
manner : " The might of the Father of
Kings, with the wisdom of his glorious
grace, through the grace of the goodness
of the Holy Ghost, there bene three per-
sons in one Godheade, be with us at our
beginning, and give us grace so to governe
us here in this mortall life liveing, that we
may come to his kingdome that neve.-
shall have endinge."
JN THE EAST. 45
We now come to modern times, when
testimonies are much more numerous,.
though perhaps not of greater weight and
consequence than the preceding, which
shew so clearly the opinion of our antient
brethren many centuries ago, on this im-
portant subject.
The Rev. JAMES HART, in a sermon
preached at Durham, in the year 1772,
says, n Masonry is founded on that sure
rock, against which let the waves and bil-
lows of temporal persecutioa never so
strongly dash, it will stand erect and se-.
cure, becau::>e that rock is Christ."
The Rev. JoHN HonGETTs, who preached
a ~ermon at the consecration of the Har-
monic Lodge in Dudley, Worcestershire,
1784, after expatiating on the general
truths of masonry, add~, "but this is not
46 THB STAR
all ; the sacred writings confirm what I
assert ; the sublime part of our mystery
being there to be found; nor can any
Christian brother (let me · t~peak it dis··
tinctly) be a good mason, that does not
make the word of God his first and prin-
cipal study."
Brother, the Rev. J ..un~s WarGaT,
Maybole, Scotland. 1786.
" Piety towards God, the glorious master
builder of the universe ; and love to man-
kind; are the two grand immoveable
pillars which support the fabric of ma-
sonry."
Brother THOMAS JrEANs, M.D.,
Southampton. lj92.
" The doctrine of freemasonry embraces
I N THE EAST. 47
all the natural, moral, and political obliga-
tions of society. It directs us to fulfil our
duty to .God, our king, our neighbours,
and ourselves ; it inculcates reverence,
1esignation, and gratitude to Him who
made and preserves us, &c. &c."
Brother JAHEs MACCONOCHII£, Liverpool.
" We venerate and adore the Great First
Cause of All, and we endeavour to exalt
out· views and conceptions of the invisible
Architect, from the contemplation of his
glorious works;
" To look thro' nature up to nature's God."
Brothet· the Rev. JAMES WATSON, Lan-
caster. 1794.
" Masonry has the Omnipotent Archi-
tect of the Uoiverse .for the object of its,
48 THE STAR
adoration and imitation ; his great and
wonderful works for its pattern and proto-
type ; and the wisest and best of men of
a) I ages, nations, and languages, for its
patrons and professors. But though
masonry primarily ~nculcates morals and
the religion of nature, it has caught an ad-
ditional spark from the light of revelation
and ·the SUN OF RIGHTEOUSNESS. And
though masonry continues to burn with
subordinate lustre, it lights the human
traveller on the same road ; it breathes
a concordant spil'it of universal benevo-
lence and brotherly love; adds one thread
more to the silken cord of evangelical
charity which binds man to man, and
crowns the cardinal virtues with CHRISTIAN
graces." " The three degrees of masonry
. seem to have an obvious and apt coinci-
IN T H R EAST. 49
.dence with the three progressive stages of
mankind, from the creation to the end of
time. The first is emblematical of man's
state of nature, from hi.s first di:oobedience
to the time of God's covenant with Abra-
ham, and the establishment of the Jewish
economy. The second, from that pE'riod,
to the rera of the last, fuJI, and perfect re-
-velation from Heaven to mankind, made by
our GREA'r RsnEEMRR. The third, com-
prehending the glorious interval of the
.Christian dispensation down to the con-
·Sttmmation of all things."
Brothe1· WILLIAM PRESTON. 1796.
"Speculative masonry is so far inter-
woven with religion, as to lay us under the
strongest obligations to pay that rational
:homage to the Deity. which at once consti .
D
·
..
50
tute_
s our duty and happiness. 'It leads the
cuntemplative to view with reverence and
admiration the glorious works of creation,
anrl inspires them with the most ·exalted
ideas of the perfections of the divine
Creator. At opening the lodge, a re,•eren-
tial awe for the Deity is inculcated, and the
eye fixed on that olrject from whose radiant
beams LIGHT only can be derived. Hence,
in tbi!' ceremony we are taught to adore
the God of ·Hea,•en, and to supplicate his
protection on our well meant E'ndeavour!!.
In the diligent pursuit of knowledge
gl'eat qiscoveries are made, and the intel-
le<'tnal faculties are employed in promoting
the glory of God, and the good of man.
SUCH IS THE TENDNECY OF EVERY ILLUSTRA-
TION JN MASONRY. Revereuce for the Deity,
and gratitude for the blessings of heaven,
are inculcated in every degree."
IN TH B K A 8 T.
Brother STEPHEN JoNES. 1796.
" The solemnity of our rites, which,
embracing the whole system of morality,
cannot fail to include the first principles
of religion, from which morality is best
derived, necessarily calls our attention to
the great architect of the universe, the
Creator of us all. The masonic system
exhibits a stupendous and beautiful fabric
founded on universal piety. To rule and
direct our passions; to have faith and hope
in God, and charity towards man, I con-
sider as the objects of what is termed
speculative masonry."
Brother the Rev. J ETHao INwooD, Dept-
ford. 1799.
" Masonry is truly the sister of religion;
for she boasts her efficacy in all its native
D2
52 THK STAR
influence ; and is continually the assi~tant
promoter of like principles and of like
actions. The central point of all her io-
nun)erable lines, !lquares and circle!', is
the love of God. And upon this centrel
point she builds her faith; from it she
derive!l her lwpe of glory here and hereaf-
ter; and by it she squares her conduct in
strict justice and univer~al charity. The
centt·al point of all true Christianity and
of all true Masonry is, the love of God."
":Masonry is dedicated only to the Gospel. It
ha.co nothing in its institution but what both
the law of Moses and of Christ will fully
allow and universally sanction. To be
ma!lOnic is to be truly religious in both its
part<"; first seeking and cherishing in our
hearts the true ft>ar of God, and then from
this principle bringing forth all the
amiable fruits of righteousness, which al'e
the praise and glory of God.''
Brother Au:x.-\ND&R J...,walB. 1804.
'~ In all ages it bas been the object of
freemasonry, not only to infol·m the minds
of its .members, by instructing them in the
sciences and useful arts, but to better theit·
hearts by enforcing the precepts of religion
and morality. In the course of the cert'-
monies of initiation, brotherly love, loyalty
and other virtues are inculcated iu hiero-
glyphic symbols, and the candidate is often
reminded that there is an eye above which
obser,•eth the workings- of his heart, and is
ever fixed upon the thoughts and actions
of men."
The author of an .anonymous pamphlet
printed in the year 1804, ~ntitled MAsoslc
D 3
,.'"",,Coogle
THE STAR
UNioN, says, "Masonry annihilates all
parties, conciliates all private opinions, and
renders those, who, by their Almighty
Father, were made ofone blood, to be also
of one heart and one mind ; brethren
bound, firmly bound together by that
indissoluble tie, the love of their God, and
the love of their kind."
Encyclopedia Britannica. 1814.
" The structure of the Lodge is a pat-
tern of the universe; and the first entry of
a mason represents the ~t worship of the
true God." "The 11nn alld moon are em-
blems of God's power, eternity, omnipre-
sence, and benevolence. The ethereal
mansions of the blessed, for possession of
which all men hope, are typified by seven
stars:•
l N T .1:1 Ji. E.\ ST. 55
Brother Wu..J..rAM HUTcHrNso~.
Edition 1Sl4.
"In forming this society, which is at
once religious and civil, great regard has
been given to the first knowledge of the
God of nature, and that acceptable service
wherewith he is well pleased. This was
tbe fil'St and corner ptone on which om·
originals thought it expedient to place the
foundation of masonry. They bad expe-
rienced that by religion all civil ties and
obligations were compacted, and that
thence proceeded all the bonds which
~ould unite mankind in social intercourse ;
thence it was that they laid the foundation
of the edifice on the bosom of religion. lt
is not to be presumed that we are a set
of men professing religious principles
contrary to the revelations and doetrines
D 4
56 THE ST.~l\
of the Son of God, reverencing a deity by
the denomination of the God of nature,
and denying that mediation which is
graciously offered to all true believers.
Tlu members of our society at this day, in
the third stage of masonry, confess them-
selves to be CnaJsTIANS ; tbe veil of the
temple is rent, the builder is smitten, and
we are raised from the tomb of trans-
gression. The master mason represents· a
man under the Christian doctrine, saved
from the !Pave 8f iniquity, and raised to
the faith ofsalvation:•
The mass of evidence here collected,
whic~ needs no comment, will be abun-
dantly sufficient to establish the fact, that
our best and wisest brethren have been·
uniformly of opinion, that the true design
IN_ THE E.\ST. 5f·
and end of masonry is religion. It is in-
deed iu vain to look for excellence in any
system which is not founded on this basis;
because all our hopes and all our fears
aa·e enfolded in the belief of a God, and a
future state of rewards, to be attained by
faith and obedience to his commands, and
of punishments to be inflicted for a wilful
and habitual violation of his laws.
But the design of this little work em-
braces a still wider and more comprehen-
sive field of inquiry. I must show that
the system of freemasonry is more con-
genial with the spirit of Christianity than
with any other religion ever practised
amongst mankind. And &his will be satis-
factorily proved by an attentive considera-
tion of the lectures of masonry, and the
ml'chanism of initiation.
D 5
58 'JRE IT.-\11
CHAP. III.
Christianity W88 the True Religion from the Pall of Man
to the eatabliBbmeJit of the Jewish Dispensation ; even
the temporary system revealed to Moses, was, in every
material point, typtcai of the perfected ChUlCh of Jetn18
CJuilt ; and therefore speculat;iw M.uonry being early
united with Faith in Chrilt, baa, in all ages, retaiDed
the beneita which it derived frolll this dignified alliance.
ALL religions profess et~seutially the
same system of niorality ; but every false
scheme of divine worship was but a per..
verted imitation of the true one which
preceded it; therefore all. the commend-
able parts of every religion under the sun,
are but emanations from the original wor-
15 THB BAST. ,$5:)
ship of God. Now the first form ofdivine
worship established on the earth after the
unhappy fall of man, was the system of
Christianity; and consequently. the mo-
rality of every religion, how imperfect
soever, is a remnant of Christian morality.
If, in this discussion, the holy scriptures
may be appealed to as of undoubted au-
thority~ Jesus Christ was the.creator of the
world. They tell us that Christ " in the
beginninglaid the foundations ofthe world,
and the heavt'Ds were the works of his
bands.""" And again, "By Him (Chdst)
were all things created that are in heaven,
and that are in earth."t "Allthings were
made by him, and without him was not
any thing made that was made."t These
• Heb. e. i. v. 10. from Ps. 102. -25.
t Col. e. i. v. 10. t John e. i. v. 3.
n6
60 THE STAB.
passages, enforced by innumerable othe~,
are sufficient to prove that Jesus Christ
was the creator of the world. It will now
be shewn that he gave His religion to the
newly-formed man.
The conditions being violated by which
the tenure of life and happiness was held,
the parents of mankind were expelled from
Paradise ; and the ·threatened pains and
penalties were inflicted by a hand, which,
while it brandished the sword of inexorable
justice, held out, at the same time, the
golden sceptre of mercy to its fallen crea-
tures. From the recollection of man's
original felicity, and to guard the unhappy
race against the consequences of Adam's
delinquency, the 6rst masons adopted two
signi6cant tokens, which bear a striking
reference to .the penitence of our progeni-
IN THK BAST, 61
torf;, and to the reverence and awe with
which they beheld the radiant glory of
God when summoned into his presence to
hear pronounced the fatal sentence of ex-
pulsion, misery, and death. Thus ba-
nished from the presence of God, into a
world accursed for their sin, and depend-
ing alone on their own exertions for sup-
port, they \Vere reduced to the hard ne-
cessity of using manual labour to procure
the necessaries of life, and to avert the evil
of perishing for want of food ; for the
earth was now deprived of all its sponta-
·neous productions which contained the
aliment essential to the support of human
life. This was a calamity almost insup-
portable to the miserable exile11, whom
habit had rendered unfit for such laborious
employment,, increac;ed, as it wa11, by
THK 6T.-\R
piercing reBeetions on the heinous nature
of sin, which bad desolated a perfect crea-
tion ; and the appalling prot~pect of deat.b,
the agonies of which struck them with
horror, even in the beasts which were slain
for sacrifice. These considerations bowed
them down as penitents before the Throne
of God, and introdueed an habitual system
of piety, which ebeered their labour!', and
removed the apprehension which the sen-
tence of death bad created in their minds.
From the fatigue con11equent on their daily
&oil, and the remembrance of the suppli-
cating posture in which they ·implored
forgiveness, have arisen two other tokens,
commemorative of these particulars. Com-
miserating their unhappy t~ituation, God
gave the repentaut tran11gressors that
soothing promise of redemption which
lN TR B HAST. 63
removed the fe•r• of death ete!"nal ; and
they baiJed with joy the means that should
exalt them to everlasting life. And hence
originated the fifth and last token, ex-
pressive offaith in the promised Redeemer,
and hupe of sharing the blessings be would
convey to mankind.
Here then we have the most intimate
union between masonry and Christianity
from the very fall of man ; and I am not
conscious of the occurrence of any event
which had a tendency to separate them
down to the present time. Enoch, a very
assiduous mason, could not be willing
to make this innovation, because be was
also, in principle, a Christian, and did not
confine his Christianity to the mere in-
dulgence of private speculative opinions
on its mysteries ; but in his charges and
64 THE I!TAR
disquisitions of every kind, be actively eo-
forced its doctrines by that mosf awful of
all incentives, the denunciation.- ofheaven
again11t impenitent sinners.• His faith in
the promise of a mediator was so pleasing
tJ God, that he admitt~d him to the pos-
session of glory without undergoing the
agonies of temporal death.
Noah was the next practical mason we
.
read of in scripture, or who is noticed in
our lecture!!. He did not change the prin-
ciples of masonry, but rather improved
, them by adding another degree which
bears a direct relation to the Christian
faith ; for the covenant was renewed with
him for ever ; and the precepts which be
inculcated were the very same which the
Apostles of Jesus Christ enjoiued on the
• Jude v. xiv, :xv.
IN T H .E EAST.
converts to Christianity when applied to
for a decision respecting ceremonial ob-
servances.• From this circumstance, the
professors ofour science weredistinguished
by the significant appeJlation of Noacbidre.
I do not follow the posterity of Ham
and Japhet in their migrations into distant
parts of the world, though. they carried
with them the knowledge of masonry
which they had acquired from their father
Noah, for this obvious reason, because they
renounced the practice ofthe true religion,
and applied our science to purposes un-
connected with its original designs, and
productive of idolatry and atheism. Their
conduct therefore can have nothing to do
with this discussion, but as it affords a
strong negative proof that masonry was
• Acta C, XV, v. 29.
66 THB STAR
not disengaged from the sanctions of re-
ligion by the race who practised it in
primitive purity ; and to show the ruinous
effects which must necessarily en11ue,
when tempoFal schemes are made to su-
persede the awful concerns of eternity.
We may now safely pass on to the time
<>f AbrahaQ.J., under whom the union be-
tween masonry and Christianity was rather
cemented than broken. He held more
than orie personal communication with
Jesus Christ; and was accepted by faith
·in the future appearance of that divine
personage, rendered perfect by obedience
to His commands. To Abraham it was
therefore covenanted, that the promised
seed should arise from his pqsterity, wbo
should convey etern~tl blessings to the
world ; and this seed, says St. Paul, was
IN THE KAST. fl/
Jesus Christ.• Through faith in these re-
peated promises it was, that all mankind
were saved during the patriarchal ages,
becau~e there never existed any other me-
dium of salvation, but only the name of
Jesus Christ; " for the pa~sioo and resur-
rection of Christ, through which alone
salvation could be had, wit~ the glory
that should follow, were articles of the
prophets as well as the apostles' creed."t
Tbe sovereignty given to the tribe of
Judah by Jacob, was pronounced by that
patriarch to be only a temporary dominion,
which was to expire when the universal
expectation of all nations should appear
to resume hia regal authority over man·
• Gal. c. iii, "· 16.
t Dr. Ellis's inquiry, Whence cometh knowledge and
understanding to man?
THE STAR
kind. And even the Mosaic dispensation,
ushered in with all the !!olemnity which
an omnipotent Being thought proper to
bestow upon it, was but intended to se-
parate the Jews from the rest of the
world who were immersed in idolatry, by
such a series of distinctive observances as
made it impossible, even for tlwir own
tribes to be confounded with ·each other ;
that the expected Saviour might proceed
from a stock uncontaminated with the
pollutions of false worship.
This dispensation was, in every parti-
cular, typical of the perfected church of
Christ ; and was given .to introduce and
restore a permanent religion, which Wall
completed by the sacrifice of its founder;
who opened the door of mercy on all
mankind, by a full rc\"elation of a futur~
IN THE EAST. 69
state, and an unequivocal disclosure of
the means of salvation.
To prevent the- Israelites from retuming
to the idolatries they had left behind them
in Egypt, whose splendid and imposing
ceremonies were calculated to captivate
the human heart, and lead it astray from
the true wor!!'hip of God, to follow the
innovations of men; Mo~es erected a su-
perb tabernacle in the wilderness ; for the
Israelite~ are upbraided with carryi~g in
their wandering11, the portable tabernacle
of MoloclJ, and the image and star of
Rempltan. To 'lbviate these evil~<, the
tabernacle of the true God was set up ;
constructed so ingeniously as to sen·e the
pUI'poses of a temple for divine worship,
and to be expeditiously removable with
c.>very change of situation which they were
70 THE STAR
directed to make. This tabernacle was
fut'Dished with an ark, an oracle, an altar,
&c., and numerous servic~ were', ap-
pointed to be performed by the priests on
the authority of God himself; which,
while they answered every purpose of pre-
sent devotion, bad a reference to a future
dit~pensation, which was to continue to
the end of the world. With this people
then, the original conilexion between ma-
sonry and religion could sustain no de-
terioration ; but an union so genial and
beneficial would be more strongly ce-
mented, and even assiduously cultivated
by all its professors who steadfastly ad-
hered to the tnte worship, and with it to
primitive masonry.
But the Jewi11h religion was only.a tem-
porary dispensation, instituted to prevent
1 N T H E EAST. 71
the tnte system of divine worship from
being lost; and the essential points of that
system were preserved continually alive
in men's minds by a series ~f types and
references which could not. be misun-
der&tood.
And first, the oblations which were
made by the people towards the erection
of this celebrated 'edifice~ were so many
types of the several graces of Christianity.
The gold of Faith, the silver of Hope;
the precious stones of Charity.; the blue
colour of the silks, &c. denoted the lifting
up our hearts to heaven; a .privilege con'!'"
veyed to mankind by the meritorious
atonement of Jesus Christ ; the purple~
OUl' warfare and tribulation for the sake
of religion ; and the crim.son, or as the
original words (tolaghath shani) signify,
72 THK STAR
the double scarlet, the joint love of God
and man.
The tabernacle itself was a distinct type
of the church 0f Christ, the Son of Gud ;
for as the former was his ceremonial, so
the latter was his spiritual residence. It
was built due East an'd JITest, and so are
all Christian churches, to denote the rise
and propagation of the gospel, which was
first preached in the east, and afterwa1·ds
spread over the w:holc population of the
western world, where .it now flourishes
more abundantly than in any other part
of the globe. lt was also intended to
shew further, the vast extent of the per-
fected church, which should reach ·in
length from east to west; in -breadt4
from north to _so•Jth ; and in compass,
should ultimately.include the whole ha-
"· .• b,Googlc
IN THE BAS~ ~
bitable globe, and extend from earth to
heaven. The tabernacle was built rather
for the preservation of unity of worship,
than as a vlace of itself intrinsically holy,
because God is equally present in all
places ; and this is also the peculiar de-
sign of Christian churches, for every indi-
vidual member of Christ is a temple in
which the holy spirit of God resides.
The wisest and best ofmen amongst the
Israeliti11, united in the most perfect bond
of harmony and peace to construct the
tabernacle in the wilderness, as Solomon's
temple was afterwards built, without the
use of axe, hammer or metal tool; so the
spiritual building ofChrist's church sltould
be made perfect, without discord or con-
tentious disputations, for God is not the
author of confusion but of peace.
B
74 THE STAR
The three divisions of the tabernacle,
viz. the outer court, which was open to
the people; the sanctuary, into which the
priests were admitted ; and the holy of
holies, to which none bad access but the
high priest alone, were typical of the con-
stitution of the Christian church. The
whole congregation of the people are de-
noted by the first; the bishops, priests
and deacons, who perform the sacred of-
fices of Christianity by the second; and
Jesus Christ himself, our eternal high
pl'iest, by the third.
At the dedication of the tabernacle, the
glmy of the Lord, in the form of a palpable
cloud, filled it within and without, and at
length remained stationary over the sanc-
lum sanctorum. This was figurative of
Christ's universal presence in his church ;
IN THE HAST. 75
and the continual protection which he has
promised to all his faithful worshippers.
A cloud was frequently used as peculiarly
indicative of the Divine presence. The
token of Noah's covenant was a bow set
in a cloud. God brought his people out
of Egypt by a pillar of a cloud. Moses
communed witb the Lord on Mount Sinai
in a cloud. The dedication of the taber-
nacle and of the temple, were sanctified by
God in a cloud. Jesus Christ was trans-
figured in a cloud ; ascended up to heaven
in a cloud ; and shall come in a cloud to
judgment.
The sanctum sarzctorum was a type of
heaven, whither Christ is gone as our
high priest to intercede before the throne
of God in behalf of his people. It was
tbe immediate residence of the Deity, who
E2
76 THE STAR
dwelt between the cherubims of the
mercy-seat in the form of a bright cloud.
The typical meaning of the ark and its
appendages is this : the ark itself, made
of imperishable materials, was a figure
of Christ's body. It was compo~ed of two
substances, wood and gold, typical of his
two distinct natures, the human and divine.
The three consecrated symbols it contained
referred to the three .sacred offices of
Christ ; the tables of the law pointed to
his regal power ; the rod ofAaron to his
priesthood ; and the pot of manna, with
which the children of Israel were fed in
the wilderness, to his prophetical office,
by which the souls of the faithful are fed
and nourished. The four rings, which
supported the ark, denoted the four gos-
lrels; and the buds on Aaron's rod were
IN THE EAST. 77
symbolical of the revival of the body at
the final resurrection.
The mercy seat had a direct reference to
Jesns Christ, who is the true [M&~YJpfov or
propitiatory, that reconciled mankind to
the Fathe~ by his meritorious death. The
t:heru.hs, with their wings extended over
the mercy seat, wert; emblematical of the
angels who minister in the church of
Christ. This covering of the ark con-
cealed the holy law of God from public
view : so Christ protects his people from
the effects of the same law, whose letter
is eternal death.
The veil which sepal'ated the holy from
the most holy place, was the sacred par-
tition which prevented mankind from
prying into the mysteries which were
concealed in this temporary dispensation ;
E3
78 THH STAR
but at the crucifiXion of Christ it was
supernaturally rent in sunder from the
top to the bottom; thus testifying that the
typical worship was no longer necessary,
now the end of all the types was come to
re-establish the true religion ; for the
knowledge which was prohibited under
the law, was fully revealed in the gospel ;
and as there was no access to God but
through the veil, so there can be none
in the Christian dispensation but through
the intercession of Christ.
In the middle division of the tabernacle
was the altar oj incense, which was sym-
bolical of Christ, through whom mankind
offer up their prayers as incense, and the
lifting up oftheir hands as an evening sacri-
fice. The crown Qfgold was figurative of
Christ's regal dignity, and the horns were
J N T H B BAS ·r. 79
expressive ofhis. power. No incense was of-
fered but upoo·this altar; and no prayers
areefficaciousbutsuchas areofferedthrough
Christ. The shew bread was typical of the
disciples of Christ in all ages of the world,
who are nourished by his doctrine to their
final salvation; for Christ was the true
bread of life. The. golden candlestick
denoted the superior illuminations deriva-
ble from the operation ofGod's holy spirit
under the gospel dispensation; the light
was typical of the word of God, and the
oil ofthe graces and perfections of Chris-
tian holiness.
In the outer court was the altar for
sacrifices, which was also symbolical of
our Saviour, whose sacrifice upon the altar
of the cross, was daily prefigured by the
innumerable sacrifices which were here
H4
80 THE STAlL
offered for sin. The laver symbolized
• the regeneration of baptism, which is the
sacred rite of admission i.nto &heC hristian
church.
The boards or pillara which supported
the tabernacle were emblematical of all
faithful Christians, who are represented in
scripture as pillars in the temple of God;
the bars refelTed·to the miniaters ofChrist•s
church ; aad Christ himself is the founda-
tion, depicted by the bar• and ·aocket1 ;
and as there were two sockets under every
pillar, so they were intended to denote
the two natures of Christ.
It will be seen, that, in following the
arrangement of the master mason•s (or
more properly the past master's) lecture,
I ha,·e been as concise as possible in enu..
merating the typical applications of the
o9 ,e, ,,Coogle
IN THB EAST. 81
tabernacle and its appendages to Chris-
tianity, which was the true religion on
which Judaism was engrafted for wise
and inscrutable purposes ; and if we exa-
mine the services and other component
parts of the institution itself, we shall find
that they all point equally to the same
event, the coming of Shilo predicted by
Jacob while the Israelites were in Egypt;
and the full establishment of Christianity,
by the total subversion of this temporary
and figurative institution.
The Annual Sacrifices were typical of
the sacrifice of Christ. They cleansed the
sinner from all moral as well as ceremo-
nial defilement; but a repetition of them
every year was essential, beeause of the
imperfection of a system which necessarily
ordained that one man should atone for
E5
,.'"",,Coogle
; ·
82 THE STAR
another ; but the one saerifice of Christ;
God as well as man, purifies the con-
science for ever from sin. The burnt
offerings were also typical of the same
Divine person~ge. They were burnt with-
out the camp, and Christ wa8 sacrificed
without the city. Theirblood was sprinkled
on the ark of the covenant to propitiate
the Deity who dwelt between the cheru-
bims; and Christ's blood was poured out
in the face of heaven as a sacrifice of a
sweet smelling savou1·, ·to wash away the
sins of men.
The scape goat, the paschal lamb, the
cities of •·efuge, the daily sacl'itices, the
temple, were equally types of Christ; as
the jubilee waa of the Gospel, and Mount
Zion .of the Chul'ch. It is in fact unne-
cessary, in a disquisition of this nature, to
IN .THE .EAST. 83
multiply evidences for the purpose ofprov-
ing th~t the entire system of Judaism was
typical of Christianity; and consequently
that salvation was then, as now, suspended
on the· indispensable condition of faith in
the Mediator. And this was not an ob-
scure doctrine, partially understood by the
Jews ; for their prophets were conti-
nually sounding it in their ears, and there
was scarcely a generation from Moses to
Malachi which did not hear it enforced by
the awful sanction of rewards and punish-
ments.
Hence, as " the glad tidings of salva-
tion to be attained through Christ, were
as ancient as the time of man's sin ;"•
and as they were constantly and unequi-
vocally acknowledged by. patriarchs and
• Joseph Mede.
E6
TBB STAB
prophets until the actual appearance of
Christ upon earth ; we may safely pro-
nounce that the onetrue and unchangeable
religion, which extends from the begin-
ning to the end of time, and bas hitherto
been distinguished by the express appro-
bation of God in el'ery gradation, is that
which is now known by the significant
appellation of Christianity. But genuine
speculative masonry bas been alone pre-
served by the race of men who were the
conservators of this religion; it folJows~
therefore, that speculative masons, in every
age of the world, have been the exclusive
pr"ofessors of the true reHgion, or Chris-
tianity; and hence masonry and religion
.have been cemented from the creation t()
the present time.
IN TRB BAST. 85
CHAP. IV.
Emy event alluded to in the /,illorictJl part of the 1lrlaacmic
Lectures, baa a direct reference to Jesus Christ, or the
Christian religion.
TaB system which is now practised under
the denomination of freemasonry was ori-
ginally an intellectmll pursuit, which bad
God and his worship for its sole object of
meditation, and consequently was not by
any means connected with a mechanical
craft. Its name corresponded with its
nature, for it was designated by a term
signifying LIGHT, purity, or perfection. To
trace the origin of its present appellation
86 THE STAR
through all its various ramifications, amidst
the gloomy days when ignorance and bar-
barism had overrun the world, .were a for-
bidding and almost an useless task. We
know that thos~ ages abounded in opera-
'
tive architects, who, taking advantage of
the inanity of the few speculative masons
who continued to· practise our science in its
native purity, boldly pronounced themselves
the sole conservators of masonry ; while
the unassuming Essenes were incompetent
to unmask the pretenders, or to refute their
confident assumption of our peculiar pri-
vileges.
The historical part ofour lectures has an
undoubted t•efel'{'nce to something of ..a
higher and more enlted nature than the
mere· construction of sumptuous edifices ;.
something which embraces the vital part
IN -THE EAS1'. 87
ofreligion, and points to an exaltation from
thegrave ofsin, and redemption from eter-
nal death. Privileges which were wrought
out by the great author and finisher of our
faith, and which consequently refer to him
as the object of tht!ir illustration and
fulfilment.
The first great event to which our lec-
tures refer (for I shall take them in chro-
nological order, and not as they occur in
the illustrations), is the creation of the
world.• This work was performed. by
Jesus Christ, and therefore its reference to
the Christian "religion need scarcely be
insisted on. Like the initiation into the
first degree of masonry, there was nothing
before the creation but darkness, a void
space and undistinguishable confusion•
. • F. c; Lect. ~. 2.
88 THE STAR
But from this darkness, at the all powerful
word of Christ, sprang alight ofinconceiv-
able brightness, · which illuminated the
newly created universe ; like the light
which bursts on the aspirant's soul, when
the bandages of ignorance are removed,
and he beholds the first cheering ray of
truth emanate from the shining light of
integrity and devotion.
" Abel offered a more acceptable sacri-
fice than his brother Cain."•
The institution of sacrifices at the fait
was intended to keep alive the great sacri-
fice of atonement by which Jesus Christ
should expiate the consequences of Adam's
sin. These . sacrifices were therefore
ordained to be bloody, as more expressly
typical of that great event. And this was
• E. A. P. Lect. Sec. 8.
. JN TUB BAST. 89
the sole intention of an ordinance which,
abstractedly considered, could possess no
efficacy whatever. For. what is there in
the simple act ofkilling a beast, and offer·
ing certain parts of its body and blood on
an altar, that is capable of appeasing the
just wrath of an offended God ? The
.
sacrifice ofAbel derived its merit, princi-
pally, from the expression of faith in the
antitype, and obedience"to the commands of
God. And these, accordingly, have been
essential conditions of salvation from the
origin of terrestial things ; and will remain
so to the end of time. Hence, at the
emigrations from Shinar, we find that
every tribe which colonized any other part
ofthe globe, preserved the rite ofsacrificing
pure and uncontaminated with the adulte~
rations of religion; and thus with the
90 THE STAR
type, an indistinct knowledge of the anti-
type was preserved in every nation of the
world; and the idea of one dying as an
expiation to the Gods, was not only
believed, but practised in every system of
religion which prevailed among mankind,
whether Jew or Gentile; and the only
reason why Abel's sacrifice was approved
and that of Cain rE'jected, was because the
former being bloody, retained the typical
.
reference to the great atonement, and the
latter, being unbloody, was offered in
disobedience to God's eommands. But
Abel himself was an eminent type ofChrist.
Abel was a shepherd; Christ styles himself
the good shepherd. Righteous Abel was
the first martyr for religion, and was offer-
ed to God as a pure and holy sacrifice ;
Christ too was offered without spot as a
IN TUB BAST. 91
martyr for the sins of the world. Abel
was slain through envy, so was Christ;
and as the offering of Abel was acceptable
to God, so also was the offering ofChrist.
"Noah WaS ajust and up1•ight man, and
obtained salvation in the ark, when all the
human race perished in the fiood, except
himselfand righteous family.''•
This event refers to the salvation which
arises by virtue of Christ's sacrifice, and
the admission to it by the rite of baptism.
The punishment which God has threatened
to infiict on a guilty world, may be averted
by taking refuge under the meritorious
atonement of Christ, as Noah avoided the
deluge by entering into the ark, which
fioated on the waters ofdestruction ; while
they overwhelmed all the faithless and
~ E. A. P. Leet. See. 3.
92 THE STAR
unbelieving who rejected the ark of safety
which God bad provided, under the deceit-
ful expectation that his tbreatenings would
never be executed.
Tbe terrible nature of this judgment baa
induced the unbelievers of the present day
to pronounce it fabulous. But there is no
fact better attested, equally from the tes-
timony of sacred and profane writers, and
from the deductions ofreason. Many hea-
then authors have recorded the circumstan-
ces of that tremendous display of God's
power and justice, and St. Peter refers to
it as expressly typical ofour admission into
the Christian covenant.• There exists a
tradition of it in every nation under
heaven ; and the memory was preserved
amongst the ancient idolaters in their mys.
• 1 fet, c. iii. "· 21,
IN THE BAST. 93
teries; all of which bore an undoubted
reference to this fact.
"At the grand fe!.'tival which Abraham
gave at the weaning of his son Isaac,
Sarah detected Ishmael, the son of Hagar.
the Egyptian bondwoman, in the act of
teasing and perplexing. her son. She~
therefore, remonstrated with Abraham,
saying, cast out tbis bondwoman and her
son, for the son of this bondwoman shall
not be heir with my son, even with Isaac•.
She spake undt'r the impulse of divine
inspiration; well kno~ing that from Isaac's
loins should issue a mighty people, who
should serve the Lord with freedom,
fervency, and zeal; and fearing that from
too familiar an intercourse with a person
of Ishmael's slavish extraction, the pure
stock set apart for the preservation of
94 TUB STAB
God's true worship might become con-
taminated with the degenerate vices of
slavery."•
This transaction is said by St. Paul to be
allegoricalofthe two covenants of Judaism
and Christianity. Ishmael was born after
the flesh, Isaac after the spirit, by the
immediate agency of God himself, which
shews the superiority of the Christian
over the Jewish, or any other religion:
the latter generate to bondage and are
merely ceremonial ; the former is perfectly
spiritual and leads to everlasting life.
"Abraham offered his son Isaac in sacri-
fice, when it pleased the Lord to substitute
a more agre~able victim in his stead.f'
As Isaac was ari express type of Christ,
so this event pointed out the ga·eat atone-
" E. A. P. Lect. See. 6. t E. A. P. Lect. Sec. 3.
IN THE EAST, 95
ment ; Isaac was named by a celestial
messenger before he .was born, so was
Christ ; Isaac carried the .wood on which
he was offered, and Christ bare the cross
on which he was crucified ; Isaac was
offered on mount Moriah; Christ was offer-
ed on an adjoining mountain ; Isaac
was to suffer by his father's band, and
whose sword was it that pierced Christ ?
l988c was redeemed from death three days
after Abraham was commanded to offer
him up; and Christ was raised from the
dead three days after his actual crucifixion.
And laStly, Isaac became the father of the
Jt:ws, as Christ is the universal father of
the Christians. How can these very extra-
ordinary coincidences be accounted for, on
any other principle than type and antitype?
And who can sit in.a mason's lodge and
96 THE STAR
bear them expatiated on, without feeling a
conviction that the lectures of masonry
have a clear and indissoluble connection
with the sacred truths of religion ?
"Jacob was the beloved son ofRe~cca,
the wife of Isaac, &c. &c. To escape
from the fury of his brother Esau, &c. &c.
he was sent by his mother into Mesopota-
mia, &c. Fatigued with his journey be
lay down to rest, &c., and dreamed a re-
markable dream. A LADDBa, whose foot
was plaated on the earth, and whose top
reached to the heavens, was · filled with
angelic messengers ascending and des-
cending, and surmounted by the majesty
of God, &c. &c. In this place the Lord
entered into a solemn league and cove-
nant with Jacob, &c. &c. &c."•
• E. A. P. Lett. See. 3..
I N T H E E A S T. f1l
This ladder, which thus connected hea-
ven and earth, had a plain reference to
that retigion which conveys to man the
privilege of unrestricted communication
with God, by means of prayer and medita-
tion ; and the ministration of angels, as
messengers of heaven, is plainly pointed
out. The angels attended our Saviour
in every step of his divine mission. His
incarnation was aimounced by an angel;
his birth was carolled by choirs of angels ;
they watched with intense interest every
gradation of his great mediatorial under-
taking. They were continually ascending
or descending, to convey tidings or· to·
bring consolation, while his heavenlyfathC:!r
from the summit of the ladder beheld his
conflict with the powers of darkness ; saw
him lead captivity captive ; rejoiced in his
i'
98 THB STAB.
transcendent victory over death and hell;
and at length · received him. amidst the
triumphant acclat.mations .of the. heaven-
ly host
"Jacob wrestled with an angel, and his
successful contention was crowned with a
blessing for himselfand his posterity.''•
The.perseverance ofJaeob~in his con~t
w-ith the Son of God; for. the.holy personage
who appeared to him. at Peniel,, was no
other.than the second person in. tbe _
Tri-
nity ; shews the necaaityof continual ap-
plication for merciea.by p~yer if we ex-
pect.to.receive an anawer to ourpetitions;
for it was to this principle that Ja<1ob . was
.indebted for the blessing: ofGod•.
" Moses: took off his shoes.by the com-
wandofGod, at the bu~uing. b~:in M.ouQ.l,
• E. A. P. Lect. Sec. S.
"· .• b,Googlc
IN T S B B A ST. ' 99
Horeb, that be might be r.eady to offer up
his prayers to the Almighty; to thank him
for mercies received, crave pardon for past
o1fenees, and implore his aid and protec-
tion in all future endeavours."•
This e~raet carries with it its own in-
terpretation. Prayer is an act of religion;
our lectures recommend prayer ; we prac--
tice it in every step of our proceedings ;
and therefore it is·preposterous to argue
that religion is· excluded from our insti•
tution.
"A great and mighty whid blew,. first
from the east to facilitate the passage of
the .Israelites ov:er the R~ Sea in their
escape from Egyptian bondage ; and ·
then from the opposite point of the com-
pass, which overwhelmed Pharaoh and
• R• A. Lect; Sec. I.
1l2
}()() THE STAR
his host in their attempt to follow
them."•
This deliverance, which was precededby
the sacrifice of the passover, prefiguredthe
deliverance of mankind from sin by Jesus
Christ, denoted })y the sacrifice of the im-
maculatepaschal lamb, of whichabone was
forbid to be broken. The passage through
the Red Sea refers to baptism ; for, as the
Israelites were obliged to pass through the
water before they could receive possession
of the promised Jand, so it is necessary
for Christians to be purified with the
waters of baptism before they can obtain
a title to the kingdom of heaven.
" The pillar of a cloud and of fire are
thus represented in a mason's lodge.n•••
'fhey were a light and a guide to the
• E. A. P. Lect. Sec. I.
IN TBB BAST, 101
Israelites in their escape from the pro-
tracted opresl!lion of Egypt ; and also
preceded Pharaoh and his host to des-
truction in the Red Sea."•
'fhe Israelites who followed this pillar
of a cloud by day, and of fire by night,
represent the whole community of Chris-
tians following Jesus, the captain of their
salvation; and were they to forsake the
path which he has marked out for them,
tb~y would soon be left to the uncertain
guidance of their own inventions; and like
Pharaoh and his host, would perish in the
sea of destruction.
" The Israelites were a rebellious and
disobedient people ; and were sentenced
to wander in the wilderness forty years.
Here they were miraculously sustained
• F. C. Lect. Sec. 2.
F 3
102 T ·HB STAR
by the mighty power of God. Bread was
given to them from heaven, and water
issued. from the dry rock at the word of
Moses, &c. &c."•
The chequered scenes of good and eVil
to which' Christians ·are su~ject in this
probationary state are aptly compared to
the miseries and fluctuations of the IS-
raelites during their sojourning& in the
wilderness; and should make us anxious
for a better .country, ·a bouse not made
with bands, eternal in the heavens. The
manna pointed to Jesus the true bread
of life ; the rock from which water was
extracted by the agency of the miracu-
culous rod of Moses, bad a reference to
that fountain -of living waters, of which
be who drinks shall thirst no more;
• N'. N'. Lect. Beet. 5.
,.'"",,Coogle
IN To• EAST. 103
the stretching out of Moses• arms·while
the Amalekites were subdued, was ·aa
emblem of the conquest of sin and Satan,
by the extension of Christ's arms upon
the cross ; the brazen serpent elevated on a
pole that the Israelites might look thereon
and be healed, was symbolical of Christ's
body exposed on the cross for the salvation
of sinners ; and the blood of the sacrifices
signified the blood of Christ, the seal of tlle
covenant, by which our sins and iniquities
are purged and done away.
" Moses caused a tabernacle so be
erected in the wilderness as a repository
for the tables of the law, as well as a
place for .the solemnization of divine wor-
ship, &c. &c:••
The erection of the tabernacle, as well
• • E. A. P. Lect. Sec.S.
11'4
104 THB STAR
as the" services of Jewish worship, baving
already been explained as typical of ChriS:..
tianity, I pass on to the building of the
temple by Solomon.
On the spot·of ground where this famous
edifice was afterwards erected "KingDavid
offered up his prayers to God, wbo was
pleased to put a stop to .the pestilence
which then raged amongst his people, as a
punishment for his own huprudence, in
having ordered them to be numbered; and
gave him a TOKEN of reconciliation/'
&c. &c.•
· This is an undoubted act of geuuine
religion ; and as it forms one fundamental
basis of our Lodge's consecration, it holds
out something more than an equivocal
proof of the existence of l'f.>ligion within
• E. A. P. Lect. Sec. 2.
I N T B E B AS T, 105
our walls; it shews that our illustrations
have a tendency to elevate the heart to
that sublime object who bath raised us
from the grave of sin by the sacred points
ofChristian fellowship ; bath instructed us
in the terms ofreconciliation ; and given us
the glorious Gospel, which points out the
resurrection from the dead, and everlast-
ing life in the paradise of God. ·
" There was neither axe, hammer nor
metal tool used at.the building of King
Solomon's temple, so that nothing was
beard among the workmen of Zion, save
harmony and peace."•
This arrangement of the Most High,
emblematically pointed out that peace,
harmooy, and brotherly love, were to be
characteristic signs of the gospel dispen-
• .E..A. P. Lect. Bec.2.
F5
, "'eob,Google
106 I'B.B ITAll
sation. Thetemple waa built on Moun~
Moriah, one ofthe hills of .Zion, which i8
the name given to the Christian church,
and Christ is the foundation stone on
which it is erected.•
" The stones were carved, marked, and
· numbered in the quarry from whence they
were hewn ; the timber was prepared ahd
marked in the forest; and, when brought
• It is asserted by the · Rabbins, that King Solomon
received a seeret from A.smodeus an evilapirit, mendoned
in the book of Tobit, who had usurped his .throne, and
afterwards became his prisoner. By the use of this he
was enabled to finish the temple without the use of axe,
hammer, or metal tool; for the stone·IChamir, which had
been presented to him by the deemon, possessed the pro-
perty of cutting any other substance as a diamODd euta
glass. This, howner, is wholly tabulous. .Metal toola
were used in the forest and the quarry~ and it was by a
very natural process that the building was constructed
without the pollution of these inatrumenta.
I N T H :& :& A 8 T, 107
to Jeru&aJetn and put together, each part
fitted with such perf~t exactness, as tnade
it appear rather che work of the great
architect ofthe universe, than an exertion
of human skill."•
Every Christian is a stone in this spiri-
tual edifice, which, when properly modelled
and polished bythe exercise ofreligion, and
the practice of morality, and fitted for
translation to a celestial building, he is
cemented with his perfected brethren, by
charity, into a beautiful temple prepared
on earth, and put together in heaven.
I might notice many other particulars, in
this division of the lectures, which point
out the intimate connection between
masonry and religion ; but enough has
.been said to prove the truth of the propo-
• E. A. P. Leet. Sec. 2.
J' 6
lOS TBB STAR
sition, that the historical part ofmasonry
consists purely of unmixed religiou ; and
contains a regular · series· of undoubted
references to Christianity.
IN T B E E ·'ST. }()9
CHAP. V.
The 11wralily of Masonry is precisely the same as that of
Christianity.
Tnts division will consist almost solely
of the morality exhibited in the lectures of
Masonry ; for I conjecture that the doc-
trines will be ·found so closely allied to
religion, that comment wiiJ be scarcely
necessary. The lectures wiJl be quoted
from publications authorized by the Grand
Lodge, and can Uierefore be subject to
no exception on the ground of authen-
ticity.•
• Every quotation brought forward in proof of this pro-
position, will be selected from ~tached parte ·orthe lecture~
already
110 THB STAR
The great characteristic of free-masonrv
which has excited so many unjust suspi-
cions of its innocence, is the secrecy which
has been inviolably observed respecting
its peculiar mysteries, from the creation
of the world to the present time. Our
lectures enforce ·the practice by such
arguments as ihese. · u Of al1 the arts
which masons possess, the art of secrecy ·
particularly distinguishes them. 1'aci-
turnity is a proof of wisdom ; and is
allowed to be of the utmost importance
in the ditferent transaciions of life. The
best writers have declared it to be an art
of inestimable \'alue ; and that it is agree-
lilreadypubliehedln'Preltoll's "IDustraticms," Huehinson's
"Spiritof Masonry," andInwood's " Sermons," underthe
IIIIDCtionorapprobationofthe GrandLodgeofEngland, and
Webb's " Monitot," publilhed under the ezpreu sanction
vi the GnndLodge of Ameriea.
, "'eob,Google
IM THE JUST. 111
able. to the Deity himself may be easily
conceived from the glorious example
which he gives, in concealing from man-
kind the secrets of his providence. The
wisest of men cannot pry into the arcana
of heaven ; nor can they divine to-day
what to-morrow may bring forth.',.
The lectures define free-masonry to be
a " science which includes all others ;
which inculcates human and divine know-
ledge, and teaches man his duty to God,
his neighbour, and himself.''t Here we
have surely a decisive proof, in the very
definition of our Order, that it is · found~
ed on religion ; for nothing but a rE'Ii-
gious system can inculcate this constella-
tion of grand and important duties.
• E A P. Lect. Sec. 1. quoted from Preston.
t R A. Leet. Sec, 2, from Webb.
Jl2 THE STAB
"From east to west free-masonry ex-
tends ; and between the north and south
in every clime and nation are masons to
be found. ·our institution is said to be
supportedby wisdom, strength, andbeauty;
because it is necessary that there should be
wisdom to contrive, strength to support,
and beauty to adorn all great and impor-
tant undertakings. Its dimensions are un-
limited, and its covering no less than the
canopy of heaven. To this ol!fect the
mason's mind is constautly directed, and
thither he lwpes at last to arrive by the aid
of the theological ladder, which Jacob
in his vision saw extending from earth to
heaven ; the three principal rounds of
which are faith, hope, and chal'ity; which
admonish us to have faith in GQd, hope in
immortality, and charity to all mankind."•
• E. A•. P. Lect. Sec. 4o. from Webb.
IN THE EAST. 113
Faith, hope, and charity, are virtues
connected with religion, if any affinity can
be traced between r~ligion and morality.
But charity united with faith and hope is
pureChristianity. Faith imprints a strong
sense of duty on the mind, and displays
the glorious prospect ofan eternal reward.
Hope vigorously discharges the duty under
a strong assurance that the reward is
attainable. But charity surmounts all dif-
ficulties, turns duty into delight, and con-
tributes to a final consummation in glory.
Hen_ce arises the most exalted prerogative
of charity over all other gifts and perfec-
tions. Charity is the distinguishingcharac-
teristic-of the Deity. All other virtues are
mortal; charity alone is immortal. It will
beam resplendent rays through all eternity,
and like the CEN1'RAL STAR of heaven shall
114 THE STAR
utterly extinguish all .inferior lights by its
unfading lustre. " Charity never faileth,"
says a great Christian teacher, " but
whether there be prophecies, they shall
fail ; whether there be tongues, they shall
cease; whether there be knowledge, it shall
vanish away:•• These gifts being adapted
solely to the imperfect state ofhuman na-
ture, their utility will cease in a state of
absolute perfection. Even the glorious
habits of faith and hope, though essential
qualifications in this mortal state, will have
no part in the heavenly life, because they
arP but earthly virtues, for charity is the
only step which penetrares the clouds, even
to the throne of God. The time will come
when, seeing the things which are now
unseen, we shall not need the evidence
• 1 Cor. c. llili. v. 8.
INTHBBAST. 115
of faith ; possessing the rewards now
hoped for, we shall not want the 888uraDce
of hope. But when faith and hope shall
have had their perfect end and consumma-
tion, charity will exist covered with all its
brilliant glories, and ovenhadowed with
a radiance which oan suffer no diminution.
Hence ·the true mason will be transported
beyond all ·bounds, when placed in tbe
immediate presence of the majestic object
of his former faith and hope, and in the
actual enjoyment of celestial bliss. The
inexpressible excellency of the divine light
will continually supply him with freih
ardour of affection, with renewed senti-
ments of adoration. In this Grand Lodge
all will be immutably perfect and happy
under the influence of universal charity.
As there will be no wants to relieve, no
116 1'HB STAR
distress to pity ; all in that blessed assem-
bly will enjoy a plenitude of bliss, emanat-
ing from the sacred source of infinite
goodness, truth, and mercy. The souls of
the just will form but oneglorious company
with the angels and archangels; possessed
ofone mind, and with one voice recounting
the praises of tbe spotless LAMB. With
thoughts, capacities and powers.having but
one tendency, one centre, they will all unite
to adore the Great I AM, in peace, harmony,
and brotherly love.
" Every well-governed lodge is fur-
nished with theHoly Bible, the Square, mul
the Compau. Tbe Bible points out the
:path that leads to happinestz, and is dedi-
cated to God ; the t~quare teaches to regu-
late our conduct by the principles of mo-
rality and virtue, and is dedicated to the
IN T B .E .EAST. 117
master; the compass teaches to Jimit our
desires in every t:tation, and is dedicated
to the brethren. The Bible is dedicated
to the service of God, because it is the in-
estimable gift of God to man; the square
to the master, because, being the propt-r
masonic emblt-m of his office, it is con-
stantly to remind him of the duty be owes
to the lodge over which he is appointed to
preside ; and the compass to the craft,
because, by a due attention to its use, they
are taught to regulate their desires, and
keep their passions within due bounds."""
" The ornamental parts of a lodge a1·e,
the Mosaic pavement, the indented Tressel,
and the blazing Star. The Mot:aic pave-
ment is emblematic of human life, che-
quered with good and evil; the beautiful
• E. A. P. Lect. Sect. 5, from Webb.
us TUB STAR
border which sulTounds it, those blessiJlKs
and comforts which surround us, and
which we hope to obtain by a faithful re-
liance on Divine Providence, which is
hieroglyphically represented by the blazing
!;tar in the centre. The moveable and im-
moveable jewels are the square, the level,
and the plumb-rule, the rough and perfect
ashier and the tressel board. These ap·
pear to be mere instruments of labour ;
but the moral, to which they respectively
point, renders them jewels of inestimable
value. The square teaches morality and
justice; the level equality, and the plumb-
rule integrity. By the rough ashier
we are reminded of our rude and imperfect:
state by nature; by the perfect ·ashier
that state of perfection at which we hop~
to arrive by a virtuous education, aided by
IN TH.E .EAST. 119
divine grace ; and the tressel board re-
minds us that, as the operative workman
erects his temporal building agreeably to
the rules and designs laid down by the
master on his trenel board, so should we
endeavour to erect our spiritual building
agreeably . to the rules and designs laid
down by the supreme architect of the
universe in the Holy Bible, which is a
mason's spiritual tressel board. That
book, which is never closed in any ltJdse,
reveals the duties which the great master
of all exacts from us; and were we
conversant therein and adherent thereto,
it would bring us to a house not made
with.bands, eternal inthe heavens."•
These are extracts from the ·abundant
storesofmorality and religion contained in
• E. A. P. Leet. See. 5 from Webb.
.
120 'PIIB&«'AR"
the~~ ~~~~s. ,C&R itJhtg,.)JecQAte~
ed, W,itb,any degree of r~~- tllf~.tbey
hav~ no r~erence to religlon,?·AJl)'lto ObriJ.·
tianity ? But, to si~nce- : ellefY~ po11i1Xe
objection, to remove .every CJlY.il', I shall
penetrate stUI deeper into this mi.ne of pre·
cious stones; · assured at every. ~ step of
meeting with some val~ble gem. Ifthere
be any truth in a plain symbol, or anr
dependence on the illustration, ~be follow-
lug extract will abundantly prove that no
lodge can be esteemed perfect, which does
not contain a visible and self-interpreting
emblem of the Christian religion.
" In all regularly constituted lodges
there is represented a certain psint witAin
a circle, the poin~ repl't'tlenting an indivi-
dual brother; the circle representing the
boundary line of his duty to God and man ;
I !f T 8 • .K A 8 T. ) 2
beyoni which be il nenr to autrer his pas-
sions, prejudieea, or interests, to betray him
on any oeeaaion. This circle is embordered
by·two perpendicular pamllellioes, repre-
seoHilg St. John the Baptist, and St. John
the Evangelist, who were ·perfect parallels
in . Christianity as well as Masonry ; and
upon the vertex rests the book of the Holy
Scriptures, which point out the whole
duty of man.·· In going round this .circle
we necessarily too.ch upon these two Jines,
as well as on · the Holy Scriptures; ·.and
whilst a mason keeps himself thus circum-
scribed, it is ·impouible that .be should
materially err."• ·
·To the Holy Scriptures the lectures fre-
quently refer. The masonic ladder, say
they, stands ~rmly with its foot on the
• E A. P. Lect. See. 5. from Webb.
G
i22
Holy Bible, wbllst its stinrtnit is lost amidst
the clouds of heaven. Can tiny ·thilig ·be
founded on the Bible, and ba'9e no eon-
nexion ·With religion ? lmpbS'iib1e 1 This
ladder, by 1v~h we all hope to aseend to
the glorldlis•arch b/'heaven at the final con~
mmnuition of alt tbings,'·is a dttect 1ype of
religion; fot religion ·fl! fOUnded on 'the
Holy Bibie, and !s'studded with inmime-
rable theOlogical virtues, 'which point the
way to everlaSting bliss.
we'D<)W' cdihe to the ~iXth 'lind last sec-
tion of edte~ed· apptedtice ~onry, whtch
inculcates the most itisthlctive lessons ; it
expatiates on Brotherly LOve, R~lief, and
Truth, and enforees a ·strict regard to ihe
four catdinal virtue!! : temperance, ·for--
titude, prudence, and justice.
"By the exercise of Brotherly Love we
I N T H E H.A ,S T. J23
are taught to regard the whole .human
-race as one family; the high and law,
the rich and poor ; who, as chiWren of one
almighty parent, _
.aud inhabitants of the
same planet,.are ~o aid, support and protect
,ea~h other~ On this principle Masonry
-tmites men of ·eY.ery oountry, sect, and
-epmion,. and coDciliates: true friendship
amongst· those who might otherwise have
.J"emained.at.a perpetual distance. Relief
is the next tenet of our profession. To
relieve.the distressed is aduty ineumbenfl on
all men, particularly ou masons, who are
.liuked together by an indissoluble chain
·of sincere _affection. To soothe calamity,
:to alleviate misfortune, to compassionate
misery, and to restore peaceto.the.troubled
·mind, is the grand .aim of the true mason.
On thi_s basis be establishes his fri_eodsbipe,
G2
124
and forms his connexioos. '!'ruth is a divi~e
attribute; and the f~undation_of every virtue.
To be good and true is the fint lessonwe are
taught. On this· theme we c~ntempla~e
and by its di~tates _
endeavour :to regulate
our cond1.1ct _
: infiJJenced bnhis princlpl~,
hypo~risy a~d deceit ~re unko.own; s~~c,e~
rity and plain deali~g disting1.1isb, us, ~hi~~
the he~ and .tbe tonpejoin in promoting
. . ..). li .
each ot~r's :w~lfare, •nd ~~icing in e~~h
other's prosperity."•. _
"Without-t~e cardinal virtues, of whic_
h
Prudence is the chief, the name of ma~n
is an empty title, and buta painted bub?le.
Phron~sis, ~he emblem ofprudence, is the
' ' - i . •
first and most exalted object that demands
' ' '
our attention in the lodge. It ls plac~d
in the centre, ever to be present to th~ ~ye
• E. A. P. Lect. See. 6. (fom ~to_n. 1•
·• • ' ."" ' "'" . ,. ' !\ ""' I ~ ; . . . ' • ' 'I •"Y ;, •
of the mason, that his heart may be at-
t~ntive. to .her : dictates, 'a~d steadfast
': ' .1 • . • • , ~ . f" r . •
in her laws : for prudence is the rule
of all .. 'virtues ; ' prudence ' is the' path
which leads·to every 'degree of propriety ;
prudence is tlie channel whence self-ap-
• I " - · I : - ··
.probation flows . for ever ; she leads us
forth to worthyactions, arid'as a .blazing
, I .
star, enlightens us through _the dreary and
~.arksome paths .of life. _That Fortitude
should be the characteristic of a mason
we .need · not argue ; by which, in .the
midst of pres•ing evil!!~, be is enabled
always to do that .which is agreeable. tt
the dietates of right reason. Temperance,
also, must be . one_of his steadfast princi-
ples, and must moderate or .restrain his
JJassions, especially in sobriety and chastity.
We regard Temperance under thevarious
G 3
126 THE STAR
definitions· of moralists, as constituting
honesty and decency; and ia all its poten·
tialparis instituting.meekne.ss; clemency,
and modesty. We profess Justice, as die.
ca~ing to .us t0 do right to all, and to yield
to·every man· what belongs. to him. The
cardinal virtues, Temperance, Fortitude,
Prudence and .Justiee,_ hold in their train
the inferior powers of peace, concord,
quietneSs, libe&-ty, safety, honour, felicity,
piety and charity; with many others,·wbieb
were adored by the antients in those ages
.when they colifounded mythology with the
worship of the.divinity. Within the starry
girdte Qf prudence, all the. virtues are
enfolded. We ID8l)'.apply this emblem to
8 still more religious import : it represents
tile star .which led the wise men to Beth-
lehem ; proclaimed to mankind the nativity
1 N T H E E ,-\ S ·r:~ 12/'
of the So~ of Gods .aQd here, con<lucting
our spiritual pJogtf~.u. ~the author Qf QUI;'
rcQ.~mpti<>.n,"'-
. &uch ar~ ~· few d~~chted extract~ from
~e Jectqres of the. tim degr~. They pro-
cl~im, witq a convictjo~ superior to all
• aJ'(Qmen~ tb~ in~~ unioQ which sub-
siJitS·between Masonry.qnd ReUgic;m, be-
t;ween . Masonry and Chrh;.$l~ity. They
sbew further, tb~ ®!;' purs1,1its are n~ither
t.t:itUng QQ~ msigni~nt, for t~J embrace
topics of geneJlQl aqd ·uuf~d,ing in.terest ;
tqpi4;s on wbicb ~b~ m~t <eelebrl\wd phi-
lo•Qpher4 ~ud PUU'tt.lis~ of all "S'e$ have
e¥,rcised their · bagenuity., to promote
equally th~ welfQr' ofJDNI ~d tl\e glory
of God.
· 'f~ S«JQ~nd dpgr~e i$. devPted tQ the
• E. A. P. teet. Sec. 6. from Hutcbinlon,
G 4
128 TH.t.; STAR
study and iUusta:atioo of human science :
and to trace the greatQess and majes~y of
the. Creator, by· minutely analyzing his
works. 'fhe intellectual .faeulties expand
as a desire of know.edge increases; and by
the stud~es attaehed to· this degree, the
mind is elevated to a communion .with its
Maker. What a field.for m9ral investiga-
tion· and ·critical reseal'Ch do the liberal
sciences afford! The subtilties. ofgrammar,
rhet~ric, aud logic; the wonderful combi-
nations ofarithmetic ; the universal appli-
cation ofgeometry, the delicacy of music,
and the stibliin~ty of astronomy, have each
a separate charm ·to. win ·the heart · and
point to a Creator. · The organization of
the human body is another sublime subject,
to which the attention is particularly
directed in this lec~ure. It embraces every
1,_ TH g. EAST. J29
braneh -of one of the· great divisions of
masonry, its operative part; and hence the
disquisitiot1s - are rather minute on the
Ave or~rs of arehiteeture, the use and
.application of the globes, and other impor--
tant objects connected with useful science.
_
In the !!4e0nd section, the creation of the
•orld,: and -the divine appropriation of the
~e.Yenth --day for the purposes of reat and
devotioa, &-e expatiatt'd o~ as· was the
.uniform pr~tice of our antient brethren
many thoUMnd years ago : and the follow-
ing extract will _
shew tbc object they had
.cQDtiJiualJy ·in view. "In six days God
cr_eated the heaven• and the earth, and
re&ted . on :the seventh day; therefor.e
our antient brethren dedicated the seventh
.day as a "riod ofrest from their labours :
&hereby enjoring frequent opportunities to
G 5
"· .• b,Googlc
130 T ·IJE STA11
contemplate· the glorious works of the
a-eation, and to adore the great Creator."
I shallquote but little from this lecture,
because the illustrations are chiefiy scien-
tific ;.but they aU have a morsl and reli-
.giouS tendeBcy; and the lecture concludes
with that precept, to which every ·point of
discussion bad a direct ·reference. It ex-
hot·ts 'US to feat'« Goo, the great geometri-
cian of the uninrse ; and at all times, and
on <All occasions, cheerfully to submit to his
injunctiocl;, and to obey: his precepts,
which M-e ~ly, jUst;and good.'••
The third degree.is ihe ciement of the
wlaole: it binds men togetber by the mys-
tic poi1ets ;of fellowship, as· in a chain of
indissohrbte aff'eetioin, and teaches them to
· lov~ iheir neighboor as themselves, as the
• F. c: Lect. Sec. 4<.
IN TH~ EAST. 131
bl!~ IJH~~us Qf ev;i.deJUJing that the love of
GQd i,$ li~~d JLbJ~ Jn their b~rts. But it
«f~ more tbQ{his, it aseerts posiovely the
.-«JtUrJ~tiop •of ~he bQdy, and points to a
f~wre state, jp. which . those who have
~ndured. s!J6rings in this world to pre..
.~~ theW- virt.\li' aRd religh)n from pro-
fapa~,: Mall JDee.t a !Witable ·reward ;
while th~ wicked aball ·be .east out as
unwort.hy ofa place in the he.av$ly coun-
try, and .receive the horrible punishment
th~y hav~ bnpr~~ oo tbeDMelves.
The first .polnt i.Pcl.tes us to brotherly
love: tb~ JRv~ which·renders spontaneous
~s,si~tan~e in ,t4me of-pressingneed, without
$e ve~l bope of receiving .an equivalent,
f9r ~ J'eWN!cJ ~ ir.om above. The second
~t ~c;&~f u.iversal benevolence;
,w,hicll mu~t·derive. its satisfaction from a
132 THE STAR
source distinct.from,, and, iadependent of
human appro~~ion : l &Qean·the refteotion
that.it will ensure the approbati~ ot; God,
to which a reward is attached·beyond the
reach of calu~ny. This.enables the··bene-
volent mason.to. pursue his glorious career
like the sun . in the firmament; which,
though tempor~rily intercepted by clouds
·which obscure.his brightness,·SOon diipels
the unsubstantial vapour, resumes hiS
dignity, and bursts upon the world With a
brightness more.vivU'ying.from the effects
of his temporary obscur.ation. · The thin)
point teacbes the· duty · and necessity ·of
prayer to God,.withou.t which, asa solemn
act of religion, ~otbing we can be engaged
in can reasonably be e~ected to prosper.
The fourth point inculcates secrecy, and
points out the eon~equences ofbetrayingtbe
, "'eob,Google
I N T H .& B A ST. 133
confidence reposed in us- by a friend and
brother. For masonry _
asks, if you envy
the pfOsperity of a brother, and wound
him in the. tenderest part by revealing his
secrets: if youbelieve and propagatethe tale
of defamation whispered by th.e slanderer
to his prejudice : ifyou cherish and encou-
rage the evil passions of envy, hatred, and
revenge : ifyou refuse to forgive injuries,
and blot them out from .your recollection :
bow . shall you establish the reputation
either of ,M8..110nry or .Christianity ? The
fifth point teaches ua to bury in oblivion
a brother's. failings, and to raise his virtu~s
from the tomb: to speak as well -of him
iri.Jti~ absence·as in his presence: and if
.qnforturiately his·life be irregular,.and·hia
morals tainted \vitb crime, to say nothiug
rather than defame; for masonry prefers
silence to slander, as-masons .always pour
the healing 9alm of consolation into tbe
.wounds which tyr~Umy.or inhumanity may
have infticted ; to &Ten the pressure of
.
calamity, and wake the widow*.s heart to
1iiug for joy~
- The ·moral and religious precepts of
the third degee, arise out of embl¢ma
,Pf"nliarly .adapted to its nature and end.
. . " The Pot qf I111:eme is .an emblem ofa
:pure heart, _
.which ia:Always an acceptable
--.erifice wt.be Deity; andas thisglows witla
_ferventheat,_
sosb~lde>ur heartscontiuuaL-
·Jy glow with .gratitude to-tbegr.eetand be-
:nificent Author _
oi our existence, for the
lD.IUlifoldbleaaingsaodcomlortaweenjoy."•
.. "Th~Bu-hiveis,an emblemofindulit.ry,
and recommends the practice of that .virtue
.• M. M. Lect. Sec. 7. from Webb.
IN TH~ BAST. )35
to all .created beings, from the highest
seraph in heaven to the lowest reptile in
the dust, &C. &c.''•
" The ·Swltmlpointing to a naked Heart,
demonstrates that justice will sooner or
'later overtake us ; and although our
thought~>, words, and actions may be hid~
den from the eyes of men, yet that ALL..
SBBING EYB which the sun, moon, and sto:n
·obey, and under whose watchful care even
comets perform their stupendous revolu-
tions, pe"ades the i~most reces~es ofthe
.human heart, and will reward or pUnisla
us according to our works."t
" TluJ Anchor and Ark are emblems at
a :m!ll-grouuded_hopeand awell spent life.
They are emblema~ieal ·of that divine Ark
• M. M. Leet. Sec. 7.from Webb:·
' t Ibid
136 TH~ STAR
which safely bears us overthiwtemp(lstuous
sea of troubles; aodtbat Aae~r which shall
safely moor us in a peaceful·.hJlrbour., where
.the wicked ct'BSC from troubling and tbe
weary are attest."• ,·
. "!fbe-.Hotd'-g-/a88isanemblem ofltumn
life. BeboJd how swiftly .the .arid ruas,
and bow rapidly ow Inta are.drawiog·to
a close. We ~aoot· wichout -.tooishment
behold the 'little c
partielee w.hic\ are ~cm­
tained: in this macbme, ~ away almost
impereeptibly, and · ~t, to our·earprlse, in
the short epace ofan hour aiJ are exhausted.
Thus wastes. human life. . At. the end of
man•s · short boor, death ·strikes the~ blow,
and hu!l'ies him oft' t~e stage to his long
and darkseme restibg'place; for there is no
escape from the piercing arrows of death~
• M. M. Lect. Sec. 7. from Webb.
"· .• b,Googlc
J N · T H a a.-\ ST. 137
The 'hick.wails ·of tile- ~ce ~a king,
with .the elayo:J.NUJt,.eocuge .of,.• dowly
pauper;· are ,equally pregnable to.his da•ta.
Strength or weakDC$S, health or sickness,
riches or poverty, all-aU, in. OIMl .oodis-
tinguisbable .Jevel,. fall ~ath bis·..,tghty
arm. · Wherever be levels hiJ ,bQw, the
mark is.certain: the vJ.ctim falls, tbe.silken
cord of Ufe is cut.in ~ain, and the mourn-
ers-weep aboattbe stree&tq for the.re-union
ofeoul and body,.whea once thus sep!P'ated,
.exceeds all bum~ power :.such.hath been
'man in every age of.the wor~, such is
man in his present most exalted mom~nts,
and such are each of us. To-day,. perhaps,
the sun of prosperity and joy shines upon
our persons and our families ; health and
strength invigorate our own persons and
those of our beloved friends, and we only
l:i.e , T Jl E S T 4 R
feel for·the ~orrow$ of anQther's woe ; but
to-morrow .some friendly.h~ may sigll
~ver our: on bre.thle" aorpse, alatJ! my
J>rotber!"•
. " Tlu1 &ylhe ia an emblem of time,
which cu.ts the brittle threNI of life, and
launches us. iow eternity. WbJt havoc:
does the scythe of. Time 8l8ke among the
bum811 race I U by chance we escape t~
numerous evil8 .incident to childhood and
.youth, aad arriYe in perfect health and
strengdl at the yearsofvigorous manhood ;
yiet decrepit old age will soon follow, and
;we must.be cutdown by the all-devouriug
~the of Time, and be gathered into the
land wber.e .our fathers are gone before
:us."t
• 1\f. M; Leet. Sec; '/. from Webb and Inwood. ·
t Ibid, from Webb.
IN .THE JUST. ]89
The Coffin with the Slmll· ana Crosa
Bones are emblems of mortality, and cry
out with a voice almost more than mortal;
prepare to meet t!ty GOO. Infancy or yotith,
nlanhood or old age-all mMt pass to·the
embrace·of. corruption. " How often do
we see the: tear of sorrow· moistening the ·
cheek of venerable age, while hanging over
the Corpse of abeloved !on or daughter,
snatched from life ht the bloom of youth
and beauty 1· How often ·do .we see tbe
strong features of manhood distorted or
broken by unaffected grief, while banging
over the grave of a beloved wife, or even
of an infant child ! H01r often do we drop
a tear \Vhen we behold the disconsolate
widow, leading her trembling orphans
from the grave of their departed father;
\
and before she could leave the hallowed
140 ' ·'t·II B · S'T .o\lt
poartd,ttotallfOUJtd ' to :neave:lb~ tar~well
sigb,··when·6et. sot'~Ws ', Utf )~ S*a~ to
. "-~·th.W S,.,1f8ually&lio~ upOn
a muter~• arpet;·are e~blematieal·of the
three pri*.lpal·ltaA'e& of. htini_
an_·life, youth,
manhood,aaul.old~· In youth, liS entet:ed
apprentlct&jweought indUst.WU.Iy to oc-
cupy ourmin<ls in the attAinment of useful
knowledge;' in .mnhbod, all fellow.era&,
we should apply our kno'W'I~dge ·to the dis-
charge ofeur respective dutiet.to God, our
neighbour•nd ouraelves; that t10 in old age,
8$ master ~WU~Qns, we may enjoy the happy
reflections eoneequent on a well-spent life,
and die in the hope o( a glori6us immor.
taJity."t
• M. M. Lect. Sec. 7. from Inwood.
t H.l\f. Lect. Sec. 7. from Webb,
'S 7'/yJ Sprigqf.ACCICia pointf>to·that state
of D)or~J qblcydty,.to,which the ."lorld was
reduced previoll!ly to the appearance .of
Ghrist u,pqn , ~rtb ; ·wheo •.t~..reverence
a~d _ adp~QQU . ,due to- the :Divinity.; was
~rje~ in~ t~jiltk and.:~h:ohbe:world,
wlleJL:religiQn. s~ ·• Q)t).Ul'idogd.u luael. in
s.@Jekclo~ .aed .Shfs, .Md..·.tnol'31hy ·was
&flq(tJ!red tfl tk j.OUf''winth .qf. hetZVPJ. In
or<ter :thAt ,~all~ i might.· ,bt- ·.preeerved
fawiuAhis:depl~ ~stote .of<1Pkoess.and
~tr.uc.Uorq.JioOd. ' as the old law was dead
l#I!J, ·~ ~~a new doetrine.and
new.preceptswere WaDtiog .to .gi~e the key
to:salv.atfon, iB ~ l~page .of which we
nljgbt touqh:the.ear of an oft'ende~l Deity
and bring forth hope ·for eternity. True
religion was fted ; those who sought her
through the wiE~dom ofthe antients wert>
142 THE STAll
not able to Mise /wr; 1he eluded the
'
grasp, and tlmr polluted lw.tcd& were
stretched forth mvain for her restoration.
Those wbo sought: her. by tbe old law were
frnstra~d, .for death.bad .stepped .between,
and corruptiOn .bad defiled tbe embrace;
sin bad beset her 'Steps, and the ·vices of tM.
world bad overwhelmed her. The Great
Fatht'r of all, comlaiseratiDg the miseries
of the world~ sent his only .Son, who was
innocence (a..Uit) its~ to teaCh the doc-
trineof salvation: hi! wAommanua.taauBD
from the Math ofsin.tmto.allife ofrlKhteOia-
nus; .from the tombof corruption untothe
chambers .of :hope ;:;from the ·darkneSfl of
despair to the.. celestial .beama of fakb ;
and not only working for us this redemp-
tion, ·but making with us the covenant of
regeneration, whence we become the
IN THE 'EAST. 143
.children of God and inbe;itors .of the_
realms of heaven."•
Hert>, then, 11hall elose my extl'bots from
the Lecmres of ·MaSODry. If they do not
refer to. reUgio•, they have no .-
meaning
whatever : and . I will submit ·
to the infer·
ence wblch may then be deduced, that
masonry is a trlftiag· and uulmportuttt
pursuit. All the general truth& ofr~ligion,
as they are received among Christians,
are here broUght into a lucid point·of vicmr;
and their practiee enforeecl flVIQ·a coqli-
deration of the awful doctrine of·future
retribution.
I decline entering, in tb.is place, on the
Royal A-reb · Degree; for . reasons ,which
• M. M. Leet. See.7. from Hutchinson. Many other
moral illustrations may be found on reference to the last
edition of Preeton, p. 83 and f34..
144 TBB STAB
will be obvioua to the COMi~rate muon.
It is so intimately blended with all tbat is
dear to us in aootber state ·of·existence,
and divine and .human aft'airs are inter-
woven so awfully and· minutely in all its
disquisitions , that it would be almost im-
possible to enlarge upon the subject with-
out rending the veil ·which conceals the
most ·sublime mysteries which can engage
the attention of man; suffice it to say, that
the· degree is 'founded ·on ·the ·name of
JKHOVAR, · as Christianity is founded on
the name of Jesus Christ: virtue is its aim,
the glory of God its object, and the eternal
welfare of mao is considered in every point,
part, or letter of its ineffable mysteries.
...f.. _
· ; ~ ' : '·-' . .· .: .·.: ···
CHAP.' VI. .
The 111t...._of ~ts syiiiiiDlieal of its connesion
' with.the am.tila ReJision.
I .BNTU. on the subject matter of this
chapter with extreme circumspection,
aware that the nature of our peculiar
ceremonies cannot be exhibited in a
printed form. The meagre outline only
ofmasonic mechanismcan be described, and
that with the utmost care and delicacy;
aad therefore if this division of my sub-
ject should fail to produce the same degree
of conviction which I flatter myself must
have attended the pret"eding, it will not
H
146 TB. STA&
be attributable to the inadequacy of its me-
rits, because our mechanism is the sacred
fountain whence the stream of its mora-
lity ftows, but from the contracted limits
by which the argument must be necessa-
rily bounded. I shall perhaps, however, be
able to show, even from the scanty use
of these forbidden materials, tliat masonry
iS a religious institution; for each indivi-
dual ceremony, bow insignificant soever it
may appear when standing alone, is still
a star which sheds its lustre on religion,
and the whole united' system is a bright
and burning constellation, which blazes
amidst the darkness with unfading splen-
dour, and proclaims with the voice of
angels, Glory to God, peace on earth,
good-will towards men !-So mote it be.
IN THE EAST, 147
The first important act which takes place
at the establishment of a masonic lodge
is the business of dedication and consecra-
tion. This act is a solemn appropriation
of mru:onry to God; as the lodge is, at
the same time, inscribed to St. John· tJ:te
Evangelist, who finished by his learning
what the Baptist began by his zeal ; and
· these are the two burning and shining.
Lights on earth, which illuminate our
journey as we travel on to attain the third
Great J..ight in heaven.
The ceremonies, which are technically
termed opening and closing 4i< the lodge,
come next to be spoken of. These are
solemn rites, and derive their excellence
from the name of that Being, whose bles-
· • For a description of these ceremonies, vide Preston's
IUuatrations, Book 2. Sec. 6.
H 2
_
/
148 THE STAR
sing is invoked and ·whose assistance is
humbly supplicated, before we can en-
gage in any of the important business of
masonry with a rational hope of success.
After the lodge is closed, the brethren
are dismissed with a prayer of gratitude,
as the incense of an evening sacrifice, fot'
the protection afforded by the great Author
of Good, not only to the few individuals
present, but to the fraternity at large,
wheresoever dispersed under the wide
and lofty canopy of heaven. ·
The lodge being opened with solemn
prayer ; and impressed with the conviction
that the all seeing eye above, observes and
notes our actions, we proceed to the initia-
tion of candidates by progressive steps or
degrees. This plan of gradual admission
to our privileges is sanctioned by the prac-
IN THB BAST. 149
tieeof every system of true religion which
bas flourished in the world. The Patriar-
chal scheme had its three separate degrees
of perfection. The Jews -bad their three
sorts ofproselytes, and three orders of the
priesthood; and the early Christians their
Rulers, Believers and Catechumens, each
corresponding with the three degrees of
Masonry.
The admission into the First degree is on
a certain text of Scripture, sanctified by a
firm reliance on the protection of God.
The reception is by prayer, the candidate
is bound by solemn obligations to keep
faith with his brethren ;• and the illumi-
• The oaths of ancient nations dilrered in their na.ture
and tendency. A moat solemn oath was confirmed by an
appeal to J~~piter, or any other celestial god; but on or-
dinary occasions they •woreby the living or the dead ; by
Sheirbanda, feet, or .head ; by the thigh, which wa8 an em..
JJ 3 blem
150 THE STAR
nation is performed in the name of the
Divinity. The aspirant, with his face to
blem of Noah's ark; by these members in anyotherperson :
and an oath sanctified by an appeal to the head of a king,
or a hero, was considered most sole~ and binding; for
the head being esteemed the seat ofreason, it was deemed
impious to violate a deliberate appeal to so noble a part
ol the human:frame. ·Some think the appeal was Dl8lle to
the headbecause it was the symbol ofhealth. The soldier,
the artificer, the husbandman, each swore by an implement
of his calling.
These oaths were variously confirmed : by lifting up the
bands to heaven, by placing them on the altar, oron altODe,
orin thehandsofthepeliiODadminiateringtheoath,&c ; BDd,
a moetsolemn method ofeonfirming an oath, was byplacinf
a draumiWOf'd acrou the throat of the person to whom it was
administered, and invokingheaven, earth,andsea, to witness
the ratiAcati011. " It was very usual," aye Potter (Arch.
Grl/fJC. L2. c.6.) "toadda tolemn i.mpreeation to their oadu,
either fOl' tile eatJaractioaof thepenon by wJlC)II) the oath
- impGsed. orto lay amore inviolableobliptioRonthem-
.eeke., Jeet they thould at any time repent oftheir p~
and
IN THE BAST. 151
the East, fancies he beholds in succession,
the place where Adam enjoyed the happiest
and take contrary measures to what they then resolved
upon." And the same author gives the following exam-
ples.
This penalty is taken from Sophocles.
" Curses attend you ife'er fa.lse you prove;
Your days in bitter sorrows may you live,
And when Fatecalls (but may thatling'ring come)
Mnyyour dead cqrpse nofit inter'TM'nt find ;"4"c.
And this from Homer.
" While streams of pour'd outwine dye a.Il the way
Thus they address the Gods.
Great, mighty Jove, and a.Il ye powers divine,
Whose justice sulfers no unpunished sin,
Bear witness to the solemn vows we make,
And grant the party which them first sha.ll break;
Whoe'er it be, as now the ground wine stains,
May so o'erspread it with their dashed out brains."
' The meinory of a great and good man was, in antient
times, distinguished with a splendid funera.I, and a tumulus
of extraordinary magnitude, surmounted by a pillar, on
n 4. which
152 THB STAR
period of his existence ; the place where
Christanity was revealed to man; the place
where the star proclaimed the birth of
Jesus; the place where Christ was cruci-
.fied, and the place where he ascended into
heaven. 'J,'he East was always accounted
holy ;• and hence our Saviour was termed
oRIBNS from au impression of the superior
which the name and good qualities of the deceased were
usually inscribed ; whilst criminals, or perjured persons,
were denied the ritee of eepulture ; and, as an eternal
mark of disgrace and infamy, their bodies were cast into
the ground unbumt, ·and thus e%pOIIed to putrefaction ; a
calamity more dreaded than death iteelf, their 6oweU being
.fint taken out and bvmt, and the lllha·letlttered to the Jovr
winds tfheaven.
• The East was considered a fortunate quarterby all the
world, becauee of the light, heat and vigour which the eun
communicates to mankind from that part of the heavens;
and the West nnfortuJJate. beeauee of the eun's departure.
The Scholiaat upon SophoclesC
Ajace. V• 1. 84..) saysth&tthe
right
lN TBB .KAST. 153
~anctity of his person. A white apron,
made of the purest lamb·skin, is presented
to him, which,he is told, derives its distinc-
tion from the purity of its colour, elnblema-
-tical of innocence ; which is an affection
i>f the mind that all human honours are
ineffectual to bestow. But itpossesses a still
higher and more glorious reference : it' is
. .
right band, or the Eut, llignl1lea Prudence, and the left
.band. or West, FoUy. Aflrre~oi .,.~ol TA/A4Jf(,
iUMr, ~?.Ja Tee «urnol.
All omens were .deemed propitiOUB which appeared in
the Ea&t, and the contrary ifexluoited in the West.
" I am told by a learned friend," says Sir John Malcolm,
m·bis History ofPersia, {c. 7) "that the Hebrewterm for
z.&n, means bff~WtJ; WBBT, be/aiM; lOUTH the right and
the •oaT• oblctwe or con«tJled. The three first of these
terma denote the · position of an adorer of the sun ; the
lastdescribesthe dar/mal withwhich the first inhabitants of
the earth believedthe northern part ofthe globeto be en1e.
loped."
H 5
, "'eob,Google
154 ;rnJPJ STAB
a symbol of the innocence and perfection
of tbe Christian life, which makes the lamb
without spot a model for its imitation,
and looks to futurity for a cruwn of glory
and a sceptre of peace. The eacly cate-
chumens, when they were admitted to the
first degree of Christianity, were invested
with a white garment, accompanied by this
solemn charge : " Receive the white and
undefiled garment, and produce it wi,hout
spot before the tribunal of our Lord Jesus
Christ, that you may_obtain eternal life.''
And this is made a distinguished reward
even to the saints in heaven,• for their suc-
cess in combating the three great earthly
powers, the world, the flesh, and the devil.
The candidate is taken by the right
band, as a proof of friendship and faith-
fulness ; for the right hand was always
• Rev. c. iii. v. 5.
IN THE BAST. }55
esteemed an eminent symbol of fidelity.
In all compacts and agreements it was
usual to take each other by ~he right
hand, that being the manner of plighting
faith ; and this was done, either out of ·
the respect they bad to the number ten,
as some say, there being ten fingers in
the two bands ; or because such a con-
junction was a token ofamity and concord;
whence, at all friendly meetings, they
joined hands, as a design of the union of
their souls; and the right hand seems to
have been used rather than the left, be-
cause it was more honourable, as being
the instrument by which superiors give
commands to those below them ; whence
Crinagoras in an epigram saith, it was
impossible that all the enemies in the
world should ever prevail against Rome,
H6
156 THB ST.\R
. " While gocBike Caar, eba1l a ,.;g.\1 hattd have
Fit for c:oiDIDIIIld.-"•
Theaspirantisthen shewnthe threegreat-
er and lesser lights of Masonry ; the former
as rules of faith and practice, and the latter
to express the regularity ·and U$efulness.of
the creatures which. G9(l has graciously
formed for the use of man. The form
and dimensicma o( .the lodge now engage
his attention, while he is taught the in-
valuable lessons which they .inculcate.t
• Potter's Arch. Gnec. L 2. c. 6.
t The form of the lodge is an oblong square, or dO\lble
cube, of extensive dimensiODS. The double cube wu
esteemed sacred all over the world, u an expressive em-
blem of the powers of light and darkneaa, proceeding from
the chaotic egg. The Chinese adored the divinity under
this form; and the inhabitants of Stony Arabia wor-
shipped a black cubical stone. The oracle at Delphos
recommended doublillg the Cldrical altar of Apollo u a
means
"· .• b,Googlc
IN· THB BAST. 157
" When we look. into a Mason's lodge;
we ~boW it ertending from the heavem
to the centre of the earth. High as the
heavens, we. behold Him who is the ma-
nager of all creation, in the exercise of his
wisdom and power. Deeper than bell,
we see Him carrying on redemption
beyond .the narrow limits of all human
philanthropy, sa~ing not'. only a part, but
the whole : saying unto death, ' I will be
thy plagues,' and unto bell, ' I will be thy
destruction ;' breaking all its massy doors;
and setting its despairing prisoners free.
Look we from the East to the Trest, from
tke North to the Sout4, _we see the seasons
means of ltopJiin& a _
destructive pestilence wbieh raged
amongst the people; and even the true religioa had ita
eubieal altars, by the express direction of God bimself;
for .
the ark, and the altar of ineenae were datdJie ~~.
( E:tiOd. tf1 c. 1, t 25 II.J
159 THE STAR
roll their usual round of uninterrupted
variety. First comes smiling Sprlng in
all her tender softness; the fostering sun,
the moistening shower, and all the pleas-
ing promises of plenty. Next shoots the
Summer's sun in full perfection, to bless
the ripening year; which Autumn, with
her full fed fatness, showers upon the
earth for man's enjoyment; and even
when surly Winter blows, we lose its es-
sence of intention, if, even in that incle-
ment moment, we ever lose sight of a
God of Love."•
There are innumerable ceremonies at-
tached to this degree which have a similar
'
reference, but I am withheld from intro-
ducing them here for obvious reasons; but
it will be plainly perceived that they are
• Inwood.
I N T H E E A ST. 159
calculated to promote the glory of God, as
well as the happiness of man, from the
specimen already given ; for they leave
an impression of peculiar solemnity on the
candidate's mind, which is seldom effaced
to the latest hour of his existence. Our
ceremonies embrace such a wide extent of
illustration, that their full import cannot
be wholly developed within the limits of
a single lecture ; much appropriation of
talent, and much deliberate investigation ,
must be used by the Mason who would
become master of the science, or even
elucidate the hidden meaning of all our
forms, symbols, and ceremonies. The
comprehensive nature of Masonry affords
full scope to exercise the abilities of any
friend of scientific research ; while all its
illustrations are accompanied with a warm
160 TRB STAR
glow of devotion which will penetrate the
most indolent, and make him feel and ac-
.knowledge his dependance on the gracious
Author of his being.
Masonry, like all other sciences, cannot
be attained without assiduotis and diligent
Jabour ; for the signs and tokens of exter-
nal commuuication are but the keys of the
cabinet in which· all our valuable know.:.
Jedge is stored up. Without initiation;
this knowledge is unattainable ; and mi•
tiation, without subsequent research, is an
acquisition which can scareely be pro-:.
nounced desirable ; but he who uses the
keys ofour treasure withfreedom, fervency,
and r:eal i or, in the language of Masonry,
he who keeps them highly polished with
chalk, chartcoal, and clay, will find apre-
cious jewel at ew:ery step he takes ; and
IN T R B BAST. 161
while he presses on with' ardour in the
pursuit of knowledge ·and virtue, be may
.be certain of attaining ·the rich prize he
bas in view.
The Fellow craft, like the entered ap-
prentice, is admitted in the name of God; ·
and is received and consecrated by prayer.
He enters·between·the two great pillars,
which ·are emblems of the strength of
mind.and stability of disposition, which he
must display in bis new character as a
Mason ; not only.to promote his own ulti-
mate benefit, but that the order in which
be has enrolled himself may not be ex-
posed to public censure from the licen-
tiousness of his propensities, or the irre·
gularity .of his conduct. Before he can
participate in the privileges of this degree;
the candidate must ascend awinding atair~
162 TH.E STAR
case, after having safely passed the pillars
of strength and stability. This staircas_
e
consists of eleven steps, and jive divisions.
As he ascends the first step he is taught
the unity of the Godhead, who created the
world by his power, and governs it by his
wisdom and justice. At the third step be
is reminded that this one sacred Being
comprehends three distinct persons, the
Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. He
is instructed also in the nature of the three
dispensations, the Patriarchal, the Jewish,
and the Christian. At the filth step his
progress is again arrested to explain the
gooclness of Providence in man's behalf,
by the distribution of the five external
senses ; hearing, seeing, feeling, tasting,
and smelling; all of which· he has also
bestowed on the· brutes ; but to stamp a
.
IN THE EAST. 16.'J
decided ~cendancy on the Lord of the
creation, he endowed him with the attri-
bute of reason, that he might be enabled
to convert the gifts of heaven to his own
eternal welfare. Hence the necessity of.
a diligent application of this inestimable
present, to the service equally of sueh
human sciences as are placed by the AI·
mighty within the reach of his capacity,
and of the study of religion, and the wor-
ship of God. To keep the reasoaiog fa-
culty in exe1·eise, .t4e five .noble orders of
81'ehiteeture are proposed as subjects of
contemplation and research; and this be-
ing a progressive study, if carried to per-
fection, will fill the mind with lofty and
comprehensive ideas of God and his works.
Here, too, the candidate is reminded of
the five remarkable points in the ever-
164 THE STAR
blessed career of our Lord and Saviour
Jesus Christ. A regular series of conse-
quences, affecting our temporal arid eter-
nal welfare, are deduced from his birth,
his life, his death, his resurrection, and
his asc.ension. Bending .in reverence be-
fore the awful subject, the·candidate pro-
ceeds to the seventh• step, where his in-
• The number SEVEN baa been considered, in everyage
of the world, as possessing extraordinary qualities ; and
this belief was most probably derived from the creation
being completed in seven days; The patriarclia.J. sacri-
fices were usually olfered by seveua; and the number of
~Y things recorded in the Apocalypse are seven. This
number, among the Cabalists, denoted universality; and
amongst the Pythagorean& it was termed VI'~ a~~~
worth9 of veneration. They prono\Uieed it perfect, and
moStfit for religioua purpoees. And Bishop Horsley says,
" I am persuaded that thechoice ofthe number seven wu
a solemn and significant appropriation of the olferings of
the supreme God, the makeroftheworld." (Dil. on Propll.)
I N T B B _B A ST. }65
structor pointsout theseven liberal sciences
as objects of his rational ambition ; and
acquaints him that a perfect knowledge of
grammar, rhetoric, logic, arithmetic, geo-
metry, music, and astronomy, will lead
him " through nature up to nature's God,"
and elevate his mind to the contemplation
of heavenly . things ; preparing him by
gradual approaches to .perfection here, for
aJull display of light and knowledge in a
future state. When the candidate has ar-
rived at .the .summit of the winding stair-
case, by ascending the; eleventh step, he is
reminded of the .miraculous preservation
of Joseph, who preceded his eleven bre-
thren into Egypt under the direction of
God, that he might be the means of pre-
serving his whole race from the effects of
the .seven years' famine, which raged with
166 TH.K STAR
unaccustomed violence throughout all the
East. He is further put in mind of the
treachery of Judas Iscariot, who betrayed
his master; and being seized with an
agonizing remorse of conscience, which
rendered life insupportable, he violently
terminated his own existence, and reduced
the number of Apostles to eleven. The
closely tyled door of the middle cbantber
then gives way at his word, and he enters
to behold the superb illumination of that
blazing central star, which refers to the
God of his creation ; and the mystical ap-
plication of the successive numbers of 3,
a, 7, and II, is explained to signify the
GaEAT JsaovAn, who is so brilliantly
represented in the chamber to which that
staircase leads ; for in the Hebrew nota-
tion, I represents 10, the sum of 7+3, A
5, and H 1J.
I N T H E E AS T, 16j'
A certain part of the mechanism at-
tached to this degree cannot be exposed ;
in fact, it requires years and experience,
patient industry and laborious toil, to be-
come acquainted with all the subjects
embraced by this comprehensive step ;
and be whose various talent shall allow
him to conque1· all the impediments op-
posed to his advancement in the knowledge
of fellow craft Masonry, will be eminently
entitled to the honourable distinction of a
master of science, and a perfect moralist.
The ceremonies ofthe Third degree are
introduced by a prayer expressive of the
feeble and inefficient nature of man with-
out the blessing of God's assistance ; and
the duration of that eternity to which death
is the avenue, is depicted by circumambu-
lation. The candidate is burdened with
168 THB STAR
ceremonies, to denote ·the galling nature
of the Jewish dispensation, even when at
its highest stage of perfection. The sur-
rounding idolators, envying privileges
which appeared to insure the favour of
the Deity, determined to become possessed
of these invaluable secrets, or to extirpate
the Jewish nation. The Jews refusing to
abandon their religion to the profanations
of idolatry, finally suffered a ·moral death
in the extermination of their polity. The
three .assassins were the Assyrians, the
Chaldeans, and . the Romans. The first
blow which this dispensation received, was
inflicted by Shalmanezer, who carried the
ten·.tribes into captivity, from which they
never returned. · The second blow was
fltill more severe. It was inflicted by
Nebuchadnezzar, who utterly destroyed
IN T H B B A 6 To }69
their city and temple, and carried the two
remaining tribes to Babylon. Weakened,
but not destroyed by these attacks, they
rebuilt their temple, and assumed the
semblance of their former system of wol·-
ship, though much deteriorated, from the
loss of many valuable privileges. At
~ength . came the ruffian band, more ~e­
termined than either of the former, under
the. command .of Herod, who gave the
tkath .blow to their civil and religious li-
berties by the conquest of Jerusalem, and
the reduction of Judea to the state -of a
Roman province, over which this tyrant,
not of their own regal line, nor even a
Jew, was. appointed king. The old law
~as now dead, and was become perfect
rottenness; her t~ was in the rubbish.
q,ndfilth cast forth ofthe temple, and acacia
I
l70 · THE S'fAR
wove its · branches over. her monument.
Th~ attempted to raise her from the· d~,
bz(t ·slie fell from their grasp, a mass of
pletrejactitm ;· until at length the remrrtc~
tion ofJe5m cemented the bands- of Cbris:-
tiaf)·leUowship, and f()rnted •an indissolu-
.ble chliin ofconne:lricm, of Whieb Christia-
n·iiy was the basi!f amongst aU mankind,
wbo-We«'e inelined:to complywith the terms
~(Initiation into the covenant of·grace.
Here then the perfected mason feels and
ackno"ffledges the power of Relfgiotl oYer
the sool, by a 1\JU and striking proof of
that resu~rection f1·om the dead~ which is
the pn!curwr to a new accession of light
and knowledge,- that bums upon him·like
an etherealft<k>d, and leaveshiftrastonisbed
at his own·acquisitions.
The ~mbols, the tokens, tbelandmarks
of the order, are now fully entrusted t~
,.'"",,Coogle
his care;- but,.lest he- should be too highly
elated by:his·&ewly acquirefl privilege&, a
mon solemn:ebarge is delivered, r:emind-
ing him, that though he is new· ranked
with these disting-uished: fuw w whom the
appellation of master--mason· may with
propriety be ~plied, yet he is srill, in the
sight of GOO, oaly ·a weak aad fallible
mortal ; that death- may in· an iostmst de-·
prive him of that kDGW'l~ge, which it is·
his province to improve ; andthat the·talent
eommitted· to his charge cattnot,. without
danger, be hid in· a napkin, but must be
profitably and actively employed to the
salvation of his 8oul.
Thus is the mechanism of the three de-
grees of masonry most admirably con-
t'tructed to enforce the great truths of
morality and rertgion ; and I see not bow
it ean fail to produce that salutary impres-
Ji2 TBB IT.Aa IN THB BAST.
sion on every mind, except it be distorted
by innovations, prostituted by a deviation
from the antient laudmarks, and thus con-
verted into the mere shibboleth of a secc
or party. But masonry, in its broad and
permanent acceptat1on, is the handmaid
ofreligioo ; and tf prae&ised with his fun-
damental.priociple lu view, may 888lst us
in .profitably running onr race on earth,
that at the final eoaaummation of all things
we may receive the ·reward of our faith,
even a joyful exaltatlon to .t~ bles~
mansiooa of eternal felici'f.
FINIS.
LON DON:
J'JWITED BY COX AND L\YUS, GBEAT QI1BEN S'f&U'!'.
