{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1825__smith___view_of_the_hebrews.pdf","mytitle":"View Of The Hebrews","mylang":"de"}
v o w w m m o m m i
TRIBES OF ISRAEL IN AMERICA.
CHAP« I. T H E DESTRUCTION OP JERU SA LEM . CHAP. II. T H E CER­
TAIN RESTORATION OP JUDAH AND ISRA EL. CHAP. H I. T H E
PRESEN T STATE OP JUDAH AND ISRA EL. CHAP. IV. AN
ADDRESS OF T H E PROPH ET ISAIAH TO T H E UNITED
6TATES R E L A T IV E TO T H E IR RESTORATION.
“ These be the days of vengeance”
“ Yet a remnant shall return”
4
4He shall assemble the outcasts of Israeli and gather together the
dispersed of Judah”
SECOND ED ITIO N , IM PROVED AND EN LA RG ED .
PU BLISH ED AND PRIN TED BY SM ITH k SH U T*,
VOULTNEY, (V T.)
OR T H E
EX H IB ITIN G
1825.
Digitized by
© {strict of SFcrmont, To wit •
.
Be it r em em b er e d , That on the sixteenth day of April, in the
forty-ninth year of the Independence of the United States of Amer­
ica, Sm ith Sc Sh u t s, of the said District, have deposited in this of­
fice the title of a book, the right whereof they claim as proprietors,
in the words following, to w it: u View of the Hebrews; or the
Tribe* of Israel in America. Exhibiting, Chap. I. The Destruction of
Jerusalem. Chapl II. The certain Restoration of Judah and Israel.
Chap. III. The Present State of Judah and Israel. Chap. IV. An
Address of th# Prophet Isaiah to the United States relative to their
restoration. By Ethan Sm ith , pastor of a church in Poultney, (Vt.)
‘ These be the days of vengeance.’ ‘ Yet a remnant shall return.’
‘ He shall assemble the outcasts of Israel; and gather together the
dispersed of Judah.’” Second edition, improved and enlarged.
In conformity to the act of the Congress of the United States, enti­
tled “ An act for the encouragement of learning, by securing the co­
pies of maps, charts, and books, to the authors and proprietors of
auch copies, during the times therein mentioned.”
JESSE GOVE,
Clerk of the District of Vermont.
A true copy of record, examined and sealed by
J. GOVE, Clerk.
♦
/
------- *
s . ; s
FOR TH E SECOND EDITION.
The importance of the question, Where are the Ten
Tribes of Israel? the speedy sale of the first edition .of this
work ; and the obtaining considerable additional evidence
relative to the origin of the American Indians ;—have led
the way to the publishing of a second edition ofthis View.
Additional evidences are adduced from various sources ;
especially from Hunter's Narrative—Baron Humboldtonthe
Kingdom of New Spain—and the American Archaeology.
These authors, without particular design, have furnished
what is deemed material evidence upon this subject.
Some objections are noted, and replies made to them.
The writer has had his ears open to objections ; and he is of
opinion that none have been made, but what are capable
of a fair solution.
Poultney, April 1, 1825.
— 4 - -
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
Digitized by Google
RECOMMEND \TIONS.
Testimonials in favour of this work have not been want­
ing. The ¿ollowing will be here inserted.
The Pawlet Association certify, that they have heard
the Rev. E. Smith read a considerable part of his “ View
of the Hebrews ;” that they do highly approve of the
plan and execution of the work ; do wish its publication ;
and cordially recommend it to the perusal of all classes of
people.
Voted, unanimously.
Attest, RUFUS CUSHMAN, Scribe.
Extractsfrom Reviews of the First Edition.
“ We have been exceedingly gratified in taking a ‘ View
of the Hebrews,’ through the glass that Mr. S. has put to
our eye ; and it is presumed that noue will turn away dis­
satisfied with such a medium ofvision, unless they are dis ­
satisfied that they may not look longer.—The subject is
large enough to engage a more extended discussion ; but
perhaps Mr. S. has said all that need be said at present.
Undoubtedly further inquiries will be made, and more sat*
isfactory results obtained ere long.”— [Boston Becorde .]
“ Oi this we feel convinced, that the religious communi­
ty are indebted to Mr. S. for the pains he has taken in this
his sketch of the Hebrews ; and we hope that his labour
will be amply remunerated, not only in seeing the saluta­
ry tendency of his book in exciting Christians to their duty
jn reference to the Jews, but ajso in its rapid sale. The
sentiments interspersed are calculated tp be profitable to
the pious ; as well as informing to the reader, who is mere­
ly iu pursuit of interesting historical knowledge.” “ We
consider the moral tendency of the publication to be tr*
.. 1*
in , , _
_ _ Digitized by Google
VI RECOMMENDATIONS.
valuable. No person can read it without some benefit, un­
less his heart be strangely perverted.” “ One of the im­
pressions which this work is calculated to make is, the
awful guilt and danger contracted by a rejection of Jesua
.Christ as our atoning Saviour. This we see in the terril
ble destruction of Jerusalem and the temple, and in the
dreadful slaughter and dispersion of the Jews. Another is,
the weight of obligation which now rests on Gentile Chris­
tians, and eminently on American Christians to extend he
gospel to the Jews When this people was rejected from
spiritual privileges, we were graciously received ; and our
duty now is, by every practicable method, to persuade
them to renounce their unbelief and participate with us in
the rich blessings of grace*”—[Christian Watchman, pu6-
lished in Boston ]
“ Certainly, if wç may judge from our own feelings, such
a collection of facts and details, as is presented ^y our au­
thor, must secure for his book an unusual ilogree of popu­
larity.”—[Christian Advocate, publishedat Saratoga, Af. Y.]
Extract of aletterfrom the Rev. Jabes B. Hyde of Eden, Erie county,
A
T. Y. dated Feb. 4, 1825, after having read thefirst edition of this
work.
“ I have long been in the sentiment ofyour book, that
the natives of our country are the outcasts of Is ael. It
cannot well be doubted by any one, who has become ac­
quainted with the religious ceremonies of the Indians, but
that they have a manifest shadow of the Mosaic rituals.
Most of the particulars you have mentioned in your book,
I know to befacts; and were observed by the Seneca In­
dians. When I first came among them, the chiefs invited
me to all their celebrations. For some time (when I could
make it convenient) 1 attended, in hopes of obtaining in­
formation concerning their ceremonies. All the informa­
tion I could obtain from their interpreter was, that all re­
lated to things their fathers taught them many years ago.
“ So our fathers worshipped the Great Spirit !” This was
all the account they could give. I neglected their meet­
ings. After I read Dr. Boudinot’s ‘Star in the West,’ I
again attended their religious ceremonies, to see if l could
discern what he had represented. In 1818, a general re­
ligious excitement commenced among the Senecas. They
attempted to understand and reform their old religious
rites, rather than receive Christianity. This brought to^
Digitized by Google
RECOMMENDATIONS.
gether their wise men, who were best acquainted with
their mysteries. They spent much time to investigate
their religion, its origin and what it taught, and to what it
would avail. They found themselves involved ,in dark­
ness. Of the meaning of words they used in their dances,
and divine songs, they were wholly ignorant. They used
th^ words, Y O-He-Wah, and Hal-le-lu-yah, as Dr. Bou-
dinot has represented of other Indi ns. They became dis­
satisfied with their old rites, and consented that they would
take the book which th white people call the word of
God, to throw light on theirpath. This was the commence ­
ment of Christianity among the Senecas. This in its pro­
gress brought in two who had officiated as high priests in
their religious ceremonies. With these I have had fre­
quent opportunities. They have given me, I believe, an
unreserved account of all they know of their ancient reli­
gion. Their wish has been to obtain information whether*
any thing is found in our scriptures similar to their reli­
gion. They have been firmly persuaded that they are the
people of God ; but that they have lost their way, and are
bewildered in darkness. They call themselves, Hung-
gwa-o-way ;—i. e. the real people.
In all their rites which I have learned from them, there
is certainly a most striking similitude to the Mosaic ritq.ds.
Their feasts of first fruits ; feasts of ingathering ; day of
atonement; peace offerings ; sacrifices. They build an
altar of stone before a tent covered with blankets ; with­
in the tent they burn tobacco for incense, with fire taken
from the altar of burnt offering. All who have seen a
dead human body are considered unclean eight days ;
which time they are excluded from the congregation.
These Senecas observe their separations of females, ,ig
you notice of other Indians in your book. These Indians
are well acquainted, that formerly places like cities of Re­
fuge existed among them. An old chief showed me the
boundaries of one of them. 1 could fill sheets with details;
but it would be unnecessary. '
I remain yours iu the bonds of the Gospel,
J-ABEZ B. HYDE.
Rev.^ETHAN Smith.
vii
Digitized by Google
RECOMMENDATIONS.
From the Rev. Dr. P r o u d f i t , ofSalem, N Y. t
SALEM, FEBRUARY IB, 1825.
“ Reverend and esteemed Brother: 1have examined with
no inconaiderable interest your ‘ View of the Hebrews,’
and have been highly entertain d, and instructed. Érom the
view given of their language, and from the similarity of
their customs and religious rite9, with those of ancient *s-
rael ; from their belief in the existence ofthe one Great
Spirit, as the Creator and Judge ot the world ; from their
existing in tribes, during the lapse of so many ages ; from
the coincidence of their traditions with the events recorded
in the inspired volume ; we have in my opinion satisfactory
evidence that the aborigines ©f our country are thè réna-
nant ofthe ten tribes of Israel.
I am much gratified to hear that you are preparing â se­
cond edition, with additional facts and evidences. If my
name may hate any influence to introduce this work to the
patronage of the religious public, you have liberty to use
'it fofiMhe purpose.
That the blessing of Israel’s God may accompany this,
and every production designed to excite greater exertions
for the missionary cause, and extending the kingdom of the
Redeemer, in the gathering of the Jews, and the fulness
, of the Gentiles, and hastening the progress of the millenni­
al glory, is the prayer ot your brotherjn the faith ofJe­
sus, and fellow labourer in the gospel.
ALEXANDER PROUDFIT.
* Rev. Ethan Smith.
VÜi
'•v
*
-■
%
Digitized by Google
/
C O N T E N T S .
C hapter X.
Page.
T H B DESTRUCTION OF JERU SA LEM , 13
Description of Jerusalem, - - - - 15
of the Temple, . . . . 16
Christ foretels its destruction, - - - - 18
Various figns of the event, - • - - 19
Seven striking portents of it, - - - - 23
Causes of the war, - - - - - 28
Factions of the Jews, - - - - - 28
The Roman army approaching, -
Some prophecies have a primary, and an ultimate fulfilment,
©ftajrter XX.
T H E CERTAIN RESTORATION 0 7 JUDAH AND ISRA EL,
The expulsion of the ten tribes, -
.Arguments in favour of a literal restoration.
1. The distinct existence of the Jews, - - -
2. Their past partial, and short possession of Canaan,
3. Express predictions of the event, . . .
4. A mystical import given to these predictions inadmissible,
6. Their expulsion was literal; hence their restoration may
be expected to be literal, - - - -
©flatter XXX.
T H E PRESEN T STATE OF T H E JEW S, AND OF ISRA EL.
State of the Jews, - - - - - -
State of Israel, - - - - -
Preliminary Remarks.
1. Israel as well as Judah are to be recovered,* -
2. Hence they are now in existence, but in an outcast state,
3. The last account of them, -
4. Suppositions concerning them, - -
5. These suppositions true, -
6 . A prophecy in Amos viii. 11,12, relative to afamine of the
word in Israel^ - - -
Character and writings ot James A<Li.r, Esq.
43
47
ib.
49
ib.
51
64
6$
67
69
70
73
74
75
79
81*
yGoogle
X CONTENTS,
v Commencement of arguments in favour of the natives of America
being the descendants of Israel, - 85
1. These natives all appear to have had one origin, - - ib.
2. Their language appears to have been Hebrew, -- 89
Table of words, -* - - 90
3. The Indians have had their ark ofthe covenant, - 95
4. They have had circumcision, - - - 96
5. They generally have acknowledged one and only on? God, 98
6. Testimonies of William Penn, - - - . 107
7. Their superior tribe, - - - 108
8. Several prophetic traits ofcharacter, - 109
9. Their beiug in tribes with heads of tribes, - - 111
10. Their having an imitation ofcities of refuge, - - 112
11. Various other traditions and arguments, - - 113
Where they came to this country, - - - *- ib.
Promiscuous testimoniesfrom page 114 to 225; a few only of
which shall be here noted.
Notice of some objections from page 168 to 173, also in the
Appendix.
Good original character of the natives, • 132—139,173—177
Natives of New Spain, - - 1 - - 177— 187
Indian Pyramids, - - - - 179,202
American High Places like those oi ancient Israel, - 200
Pyramid of Cholula, - . - - - 179,203
Traditions ofan ancient celebrated character, probably Moses, 180,204
Traditions of a Trinity in'Unity in God, - * - 210
Phylacteries, or ancient Hebrew writings, found on Indian
Hill, in Pittsfield, - - - - - t 217
C hapter X®,
A lt ADDRESS OF T H E PROFH ET ISAIAH, RELATlVjg TO T H E
RESTORATION OF H IS PEO PLE, 227
Preliminary Remarks, - r 228
Exposition of Isaiah xviii. . . . $39
CONCLUSION, - ..........................................................253
APPENDIX, (Objections answered,) * - - 271
AUTHORS AND AUTHORITIES ADDUCED,
Archeologìa Americana, page
188.
Adair, 80,84,88, 89,92,95, 98,
112,116,121,123.
Some of his arguments, 147—
154.
Don Alonzo de Ericilla, 158.
Boudinot, 87, 91, 93,96,98,100,
116, 120,123—125,133,134,
138.
Bertram, 113,123—125.
Buttrick, 130.
Beatty, 96,98,116,119.
Charlevoix, 85,174.
Colden, 94, 109.
Cushman, 105; 174.
Clavigero, 116.
Chapman, 123,157.
Carver, 123,154.
Columbus, 132.
Commissioners, 137.
Casas, 176.
Dodge & Blight, 104.
Edvrards, 86,89,162.
Esdras, 74.
Frey, 118.
Giddings, 88,102.
Gookin, 107.
Hunter, 162.
Humboldt, 177.
Herman, 140.
Heckewelder, 107.
Hebard, 101. 9
Hutchinson, 93,174.
Immanufel de Moraez, 97.
Jarvis, 79.
M’Kenzie,97,114,115. ^
Long, 141,160. *
*
Lewis A Clark, 106,124.
Morse, 91,126,14$.
Mather, 127.
Melverda & Acasta, 162.
Occum, 106.
Pratz, 87,175.
Pedro de Cicca, 88.
Penn, 107,174.
P ix le y ,lll, 113,130.
Robertson, 153.
Sauard,92.
Smith, (Col.) 117,126,134,136.
174,175.
*Schoolcraft, 145.
Ulloa, 88.
Williams, 88,101,110,114.
Williams, (Roger) 107.
Digitized by Google
C H A P T E R 1
THE
The land of promise was long a land of wonders.
The Hebrew nation there was for many centuries the
craJle of the true and only church of God on earth.
There glorious things were wrought for her salvation.
Patriarchs had theFC#prated, sacrificed and praised.
There Prophets had prophesied; and the Almighty
had often made bare his holy arm. There his people
had too often apostatized; had been expelled from
their Canaan ; and again mercifully restored. There
the ten tribes of Israel had renounced the house of
David, and their God ; and were hence banished to
some unknown region of the world, to the present
day ; while the Jews were still retained in the cove­
nant of their God. There God, manifest in the flesh,
made his appearance on earth ;—performed his pub-
lick ministry ;—atoned for the sins of the world ;—
and ascended to glory. There the first heralds of the
gospel dispensation commenced their ministry ; and
thence the wonderful scheme ofgrace was propagated
through the nations.
Jerusalem was the capital of this earthly Canaan.
Glorious things were spoken of this city of our God.
Digitized by Google
14 DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM.
“ Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth,
was thj$ Mount Zion on the sides of the north, the
city of the Great King.5
5 This, for many centuries,
might be called God’s Capital on earth. God said,
alluding primarily to this city; “ For the Lord hath
chosen Zion to be an habitation for himself. Here
will I dwell, for 1have desired it.” Here great things
were dqne in divine faithfulness; which led the psalm­
ist to say ; “ God is known in her palaces for a refuge.
For Jo, the Kings were assembled ; 'they passed by
together. They saw it, and so they marvelled ; they
were troubled, aud so they hasted away.” “ The
Lord of hosts is with us ; the God of Jacob is our
refuge.!’ “ In Salem stood his tabernacle; and hid
dwelling jplace in £ion. There brake he the arrows
of the bow, the shield ahjj the sword of the battle.”
This city of God long answered well to its name,—
Jeru. they shall sec; Salem, peace. Long did the
church, while they walked vrilh God, there see and
enioyjeiKe.
But a’as, w
re find recorded of this city, temple, and
nation of the Jews, a fatal reverse. They found the
sentiment' in their sacred oracles fulfilled; “ The
Lord is w¡ill you while ye be with him ; but if ye for­
sake him, he will cast you ©if.” \
The Jews became carnal; crucified the Lord of
glory; and they fell under the denunciations and the
full execution of his wrath. Their lawgiver Moses
and their prophets had long thundered against them
solemn denunciations, that if ever they should become
of the character which they did impiously assume, the
most signal judgments of God should cut them otF,
And the Messiah uttered against them, in consequence
of their rejecting him,'a new edition of these fatal de­
nunciations, which we find in Matt. xxiv. Mark xiii.
Luke xix. 41—44. chap. xxi. and xxiii. 27—30; to
which the reader is referred. These were to have a
primary fulfillment in the desolation of Jerusalem, and
of the Jewish commonwealth. This primary fulfil­
ment Christ assured should take place on that genera­
tion. ibe denunciation was fulfilled.
DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM. 15
This fulfilment, inasmuch as it demonstrated the
truth and divinity of our Saviour, exhibited a type of
the destruction of Antichrist, and of the wicked at
the end of the world ; and shows the danger of rejec­
ting the Son of God—ought to be duly noted in the
church, and frequently contemplated. It is a subject
too 'much neglected and forgotten in the present
Christian world. I design then, to give a concise de­
scription of the event, in which Jesus Christ came in
awful judgment upon the infidel Jews, and vindicated
his cause against his persecutors and murderers. But
some preliminary remarks will first be made.
This noted city was built on' two mountains ; and
contained two parts, called the Upper and Lower City.
The former was built on Mhunt Sion ; the latter op
Mount Acra; The city m subposed to have been
founded by Melchisedec, and fhen called Salem, or
Solyma. The warlike Jebusites possessed it when Is­
rael entered Canaan.
In the higher city they long defended themselves a-
gainst the Hebrews. Here they remained, till David
subdued them ; and called their city The dtp of Da­
vid.
Herod the Great, when he repaired (or rather re-
builded) the temple, added vast strength and embel­
lishments to this city ; which accounts for its superb
state and strength when it was destroyed.
Most of this city was surrounded with three walls.
In some places, where it was deemed inaccessible, it
had only one. The wall first built was adorned and
strengthened with sixty towers. Fourteen towers
rested on the middle wall. The outside one, (most
remarkable for its workmanship) was secured with
ninety towers.
The tower Psephinos was most celebrated. It
was seventy cubits high ; had eight angles ; and com-.,
manded a most beautiful prospect. Here the visitor
might (in a clear atmosphere) delight himself with a
view of the Mediterranean, forty miles to the west j
and of most of the Jewish dominions. Some of these
towers were nearly ninety cubits in height; and fa*
Digitized by Google
16 DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM.
mous for their beauty, elegance and curiosities. They
were built of white marble ; and had the «appearance
of vast marble blocks. These huge piles gave to the
city, in the view of the adjacent country, a most ma-
jestick appearance.
INear the highest of these towers stood the royal
palace, of the most commanding elegance. Incredi­
ble cost had furnished its pillars, porticoes, galleries,
and apartments. Its gardens, groves, fountains, aque­
ducts, and walks, presented the richest and most de­
lightful scenery. This was the beauty and elegancy
of the north side of Jerusalem.
Qp the east side stood the temple, and the fort of
Anfbnio, over against Mount Olivet. This fort was
built on a rock of fifty fe^in height, and of inaccessi­
ble steepness, overljpj^ith slabs of marble. The
castle of Antonio st3pu in the centre of this fortress.
The workmanship of „this castle made it more resem­
ble a palace than a castle. A tower adorned each
square of this fortress ; one of which was seventy cu­
bits high, and commanded a full view of the temple.
The temple was, in many respects, the most aston­
ishing fabrick ever beheld. Its site was partly on a
solid rock, originally steep on every tide. The lower
temple had a foundation of vast dimensions, said to
be three hundred cubits from its lowest base. This
foundation was composed ofstones sixty feet in length;
and the lower part of the superstructure was compos­
ed of stones of solid white marble, more than sixty
feet long ; and seven by nine feet in bigness. Four
fuHpngs compassed the whole pile of building ; which
Was one hundred cubits high ; with one hundred and
sixty pillars, to afford both support and ornament.
In the front were spacious and lofty galleries, with
cedar wainscot, resting on uniform rows of white mar­
ble columns. Josephus asserts that nothing could ex­
ceed the exterior part of this house of God, for ex­
quisite workmanship and elegance. Its solid plats*
of gold seemed to strive to out-dazzle the rising sun.
The parts of the building not covered with gold, had,
at a distance, the appearance of piiiars of snow, or
i
nr*y^
white marble mountains. And the grandeur of the
internal workmanship of this magnificent dome did
not fail of being fully equal to its external magnifi­
cence. Nothing superb, costly, or elegant, was spar­
ed. The different parts of the world had seemed td
vie with each other, to pour their most costly treas­
ures into this wonderful treasury of Heaven. The
lower story was decorated with the sacred furniture,
the table of shew bread, altar of incense, and the
candlestick of pure beaten gold. The altar and table
were overlaid with pure gold. Several doors of the
sanctuary were fifty-five cubits in height, and sixteen
in breadth, overlaid also with gold. The richest Ba­
bylonian tapestry, of purple, blue, and scarlet, and of
exquisite workmanship, waved within these doors.
Golden vines, with leaves and clusters of grapes of
gold, were suspended from the ceiling five or six feet,
of curious workmanship. The temple had a huge
eastern gate of pure Corinthian brass,—a metal in the
highest esteem. It would be a task jo enumerate all
thè foldings of golden doors in thechambers ;—carved
works, paintings and gildings ;—vessels of gold ; scar­
let, violet, and purple sacerdotal vestments ; and all
the incalculable piles of riches in this temple of Je­
hovah. The most precious stones, spices, and per­
fumes ; every thing that nature, art, or riches could
furnish, were stored within these stupendous and hal­
lowed walls.
Here were the city and temple to be destroyed, for
the infidelity, malice, hypocrisy, and persecution of
the Lord of glory, (in himself, and his followers,)
which characterized its rulers and people, flfere a
measure of unprecedented atrociousness was just
filled up, which should bring down wrath upon them
to the uttermost. This tremendous ruin our Lord
foretold and fulfilled.
The last noted entrance into Jerusalem of Him,
who was God manifest in the flesh, took place on the
Monday before the scene of his s u f f e r i n g s . Amidst
the acclamation of multitudes he was hailed
Zion, with every token of joy and praise* e
2*
DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM.
Digitized by Google
18 DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM.
rang again with their praises, uttered for all the migh­
ty works they had seen. They sang, Hosanna ! Bles­
sed be the King that cometh in the name of the Lord!
Peace in heaven ; and glory in the highest. Our Lord
(superior to all their adulation, and knowing how soon
the hosannas of some of them would turn to, “ Cruci­
fy him —and being touched with sympathy and pity
for a devoted city, now going to fill up their guilty
measure of iniquity) “beheld the city, and wept over it,”
He said ; “ If thou hadst known, even thou, in this
thv day, the things which belong to thy peace ! but
now they are hid from thine eyes ! For the days shall
come when thine enemies shall cast a trench about
thee, and compass thee round ; and keep thee in on
every side ; and shall l|y (hee even with the ground,
and thy children within thee. And they shall not
leave thee one st<5tte upon another; because thou
knewest not the time of thy visitation.’’
The'day but one after, Christ went into the temple
for the last time, to instruct the people. While he was
thus employed, the high priest, elders, Herodians, Sad-
ducees,and Pharisees, gathered in turn aroundhim.with
a malicious view to entangle him in his talk. Christ
returned such answers, spake such parables, and set
home such reproof and conviction to their souls, as
no* only to astonish and silence them; but to give
them, some awful prelibation of the final judgment,
which awaited them at his bar. He thus, in a free and
pungent address to the disciples, administered the
most dignified and keen reproofs for the cruelty, hy­
pocrisy, and pride, of the Scribes and Pharisees. He
foretold the malicious treatment the disciples would
meet with at their hands ; and then denounced the
vengeance on that falling city, which for ages their
crimes had been accumulating. He forew*rjied that
this cup of divine indignation should be poured on
that generation. His tender feelings of soul then mel­
ted in a-'most moving apostrophe : “ O Jerusalem,
Jerusalem ! thou (hat killest the prophets, and slonest
them that are sent unto thee ! How often would I
have gathered thy children together, even as a he«
3
y
Google
DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM. 19
gathereth her chickens under her wings ; and ye
would not ! Behold, your house is left unto you de­
solate. For I say unto you, ye shall not see me hence­
forth, till ye shall say, u Blessed is he that corneth in
the name of the Lord.” Upon this our Saviour left
the temple. The disciples took an occasion to speak '
to Christ of the magnificence of the sacred edifice ;
how it was adorned with goodly stones and gifts.
“ Master, (said they,) s*ee what manner of stones and
buildings are here.” “ Jesus said unto them 5 Sec
ye not all these things?. Verily, I say unto you, there
shall not be left here one stone upon another, that
shall not be thrown down.” How very unlikely must
such an event have seemed ! But it was indeed ful­
filled upon that generation.
Jesus and his disciples retired to the mount of Ol­
ives. Here the temple rose before them in all its ma-
jestick elegance. The surrounding scenery naturally
suggested the conversation which followed. The dis­
ciples petitioned ;—“ Tell us, when shall these things
be ? and what shall be the sign when all these things
shall be fulfilled ?” Their minds seem to have been
impressed with the preceding discourse; and they
fell most readily upon the same subject, and wished
to know when such awful events should come ; and
what warnings should announce their approach. Our
Lord replied ; “ Take heed that no man deceive you;
for many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ;
and shall deceive many.” As though he had said ;
This shall be one signal token of the event, both as
.my denunciations relate to a primary accomplishment
in the destruction of Jerusalem ; and to a more gen­
eral and dreadful5fulfilment in the destruction of An­
tichrist in the last days. Impostors shall ^abound.
False religionists shall deceive and ruin many-.. Let
us trace the fulfilment of this and severahsyceced-
ing predictions.
This fulfilled in relation to Jerusalem. Not
long after Christ’s ascension, the Samaritan Dosithe-
hs appeared and declared hltn?elf the Messiah pre­
dicted by Mose&* JSimon Magus also declared himself
Digitized by Google
20 DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM.
“ The Great power of God.” Soon after, another ina-
postor appeared from the mongrel Samaritans. The
church has ever been annoyed by such kind of Sama­
ritans, who have ever been fruitful in vile impostors,
crying u Lo, here ; and lo there.” This impostor
promised to exhibit to the people sacred utensils said
to be deposited by Moses in Mount Gerazim. Here
a new decision must be given from heaven, to the
question between the Jews and Samaritans, as to the
place of worship; a thing of which schismaticks h-ave
ever been exceedingly fond; to derive some new light
upon their party question directly from above; as
though decisions already given were insufficient.
Armed multitudes sallied forth to follow this Messi­
ah, confident their Great Deliverer had at last made
his appearance. But Pilate, the Roman governor,
checked their fanaticism with the sword, and put their
fancied Messiah to death.
Another impostor, Theudas, arose. He had the
address to persuade multitudes to follow him into the
wilderness, under his promise that he would cause the
river Jordanto divide. The Roman procurator, Fa-
dus, with a troop of horse, pursued them ; slew the
impostor, and many others ; and dispersed the fac­
tion. Deceivers, under the government of Felix,
were multiplied, leading oil* people into the wilder­
ness under the promise and fanatical expectation that
they should there see signs and wonders. The old
Serpent often leads fanatical people into wildernesses
of error and delusion, under similar expectations.
The vigilant eye of the Roman governor rested on
these impostors, and was sure to frustrate their de­
signs, as oft as they appeared.
In the year 55, arose a notable Egyptian impostor,
named Felix. Thirty thousand followed him, under
the persuasion that from mount Olivet they should see
the walls of Jerusalem fall to the ground at his com­
mand, for their easy capture of the Roman garrison
there; and their taking possession of Jerusalem.
They were attacked by the Roman govern«;,; four
hundred were slain, and the rest dispersed* The
y
Google
DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM. 21
Egyptian impostor escaped for his life. In the year
60, another pretended Messiah appeared, engaging to
break the Roman yoke, if they would follow him into
the wilderness ; but the deceiver and his followers
soon fell a sacrifice to the vigilance of Festus, the gov­
ernor. It would be too unwieldy to mention all the
vile impostors of this period. They were a just ret­
ribution of righteous Heaven upon the Jews, for hav­
ing rejected and put to death the true Messiah : and
they fulfilled the warning given by our Lord, of a host
of deceivers at that period. How prone are men to
court deception. Christ had said to the Jews, 61 am
come in my Father’s name, and ye receive me not.
If another should come in his own name, him will ye
receive.’ This was fulfilled ; and not only then, but
in every age to this day. Those who give the best
evangelical evidence of their being ambassadors of
Christ, many will reject; while the confident and noi­
sy claims of egotists are by them fully allowed. “ As
in water face answers to face ; so the heart of man to
man.” ’
Our Lord proceeds ; “ And ye »hall hear of wars,
and rumours of war^:: see that ye be not troubled :
for all these things shall come to pass ; hut the end is
notyet. For natitfh shall rise against nation ; and
kingdom against kingdom; and great earthquakes
»hill be in divers places, and famines, and pestilences;
all these are the beginning of sorrows.” ^
The portentous thunders of wars and rumours
wars may be said to have occupied most of the time
from the death of our Saviour, to the destruction.of"
Jerusalem. The historick pages, which treat of these
times, are stained with blood. A war between Herod
ami Aretas, king of Arabia, opened the bloody scene,
alter a short season of peace. In Seducía, the Greeks
and Syrian^ rose against the Jews, who fled thither
fro.n fhc pestilence in Babylon, and slew fifty thou­
sand of them. Five years after, the Jews i \ Perea
and people of Philadelphia contended about the lim­
its of a city, when many of the Jev^s were slain. .
Four years after this, an insult being offered to the
Digitized by Google
DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM.
22
Jews within the precincts of the temple, by a Roman
soldier ; and being violently resented ; a Roman force
rushed upon them, which so terrified the Jews, that
they fled in vast disorder, and tea thousand of them
lost their lives in the streets. After another four
years, the Jews ravaged the country of the Samari­
tans, in consequence of their having murdered a G a­
lilean, who was going to keep the passover. Many
were slain. Soon after, a contention arose between
the Jews in Cassarea and the Syrians, relative to the. -
government of Caesarea. In the first encounter more
than twenty thousand Jews were slain. This conten­
tion raged in many cities where the J a ^ jind Syrians
dwelt; and mutual slaughter prevailed. ’‘And in five
other cities the carnage among the Jews was dreadful.
At Damascus ten thousand Jews were slain in one
hour. And at Scythopolis thirteen thousand were
slain in one night. In Alexandria the Jews rose upon
the Romans ; and had fifty thousand of their people
slain, without any regard to infancy or age. Soon af­
ter, in a contention at Totapata, forty thousand Jews
perished. These contentions rose and increased, till
the whole Jewish nation took up arms against the Ro­
mans1
, and brought on themselves their final destruc­
tion. Thus the prediction of our Saviour quoted, re- .
ceived in those day* a striking primary fulfilment.
Our Saviour added ; u And-great earthquakes shall
be in divers p la c e s.T h e se significant warnings too
were accomplished in those days. Two are recorded
by Tacitus ; one at Rome in the reign of Claudius ;
another at Apamea, in Syria, where were many Jews.
So destructive was the one at the latter place, that the
tribute due to the Romans was for five years remit­
ted. One also was terjifick at Crete; one at Smyrna;
one at Mdetus ; one $t Chios, and one at Saqaos ; in
all which places Jews dwelt. These are noted by
Philastratus. Soon after, rrt the reign of Nero, both
Tacitus and Eusebius inform, that Hierapolis and Co-
losse, as well as Laodicea, were overthrown by earth­
quakes. Another is noted at Rome ; one at Campa­
nia ; and others tremendous are mentioned a* taking
7 o 1
Digitized by Google
BESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM. 23
place at Jerusalem in the night,just before the com­
mencement of the last siege of that city. Of these,
Josephus gives the following account: “ A heavy
storm hurst on them, during the night ; violent winds
arose, with most excessive rains, with constant light­
ning, most tremendous thunders, and dreadful roarings
of earthquakes. It seemed as if the system of the
world had been confounded for the destruction of
mankind. And one might well conjecture that these
were signs of no common event.5
’
The famines predicted by Christ were likewise ful­
filled. The one foretold by Agabus, noted in the Acts
of the Apostles, was dreadful, and of long continu­
ance. It extended through and Italy ; but
was most severely fell at Judea, and especially at Je­
rusalem. The contributions noted as brought by Paul
from abroad, to relieve the poor brethren there, were
6ent during this sore famine. Authors of that time
mention two other-famines in the empire, previous to
tb* one occasioned by the siege of Jerusalem.
“ Pestilences’’ too, the Saviour adds. Two instan­
ces of this signal judgment took place before the last
Jewish war. The one took place at Babylon, where
many Jews resided; the other at Rome, which swept
otf vast multitudes. Other lighter instances'of this
calamity occurred, in various parts of the empire^ a$
both Tacitus and Suetonius record.
Our Lord also adds. “ And fearful sights and great
signs shall there be, from heaven,” Josephus (who
can never be suspected of wishing to favour any pre­
diction of Christ ; and who probably knew not of any
such prediction, when he wrote,) gives accounts of e-
vents, which strikingly answer to this premonition.
Speaking of the infatuation of his countrymen, in run­
ning after impostor*, while they neglected the plainest
admonitions from heaven, he gives account of the se­
ven following events ;
1. He says -, u On the 8th of the month Zanthicus,
(before the feast of unleavened bread.)-at the ninth
hour of the night, there shone round about the altar
and the circumjacent buildings of the temple, a light
Digitized by Go e
equal to the brightness of the day ; which continued
for the space of half an hour.”
2. “ About the sixth hour of the night, (says Jose­
phus,) the eastern gate of the temple was found to o-
pen without human assistance.” This gate was of solid
brass; and so large and heavy, as to require twenty
men to close it. And Josephus says, “ it was secured
by iron bolts, and bars, that were let down into a large
threshold consisting of one entire stone.” The Jews
themselves concluded, from the miraculous, nature of
this event, that the security of their temple had tied.
When the procurator was informed of it, he sent a band
of men to close the door; who with great difficulty
executed their orders.
3. Again, the same celebrated Jewish author says:
MAt a subsequent feast of pentecost, while the priests
were going by night into the inner temple, to per­
form their.customary ministrations, they first felt (as
they said,) a shaking accompanied by an indistinct
murmuring; and afterwards voices as of a multitude,
saying in a distinct and earnest manner: “ Let us de­
part hence.” How strikiug was this miraculous pre­
monition. It commenced with a shaking, to call and
fix the attention of these Jewish priests. Then was
heard an indistinct murmur> This would make them
listen with all possible heed. Then they heard the
distinct voices, as of a multitude in great earnestness
. and haste ;—“ Let us depart hence!” And their last
fatal war with the Romans commenced before the next
season for celebrating this feast.
4. Another sign was the following. The same au­
thor says; “ A meteor, resembling a sword, hung over
Jerusalem, during one whole year.” This could not
have been a comet, for it was stationary a whole year,
and seems, from the words of Josephus, to have been
much nearer than a comet, and appeared to be appro­
priated to that city. This reminds one of the sword
of the destroying angel, stretched out over Jerusalem,
l Chro. xxi. 16. This stationary position of the
sword for a year, was a lively indication that the im­
pending ruin was fatal.
24 DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM.
Digitized by Google
DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM 25
5. Josephus says again: “ As (he high priests were
leading a heifer to the altar to be sacrificed, she
brought fortlr a lamb in the midst of the temple.”—
Most striking rebuke to those intidel priests, who had
rejected the Lamb of God who had shed his blood
once for all. and abrogated the Levitical sacrifices;
which yet they were impiously eontinuingr This won­
der was exhibited in the temple, the type of the body
of Christ, and at the passev r, when at a preceding
passover Jesus was arrested and sacrificed ; and it took
place before the high priests and their attendants ; so
that the^ could never complain for want of evidence of
the fact. *
0. This author says : -u Soon after the feast of the
passover, in various parts of the country, before the
setting of the sun, chariots and armed men were seen
in the air passing round about Jerusalem.” This
strange sight occurring before sunset, and being seen
in various parts of the country, must have been a mi­
raculous portent; a sign from heaven. The Jews
had said, “ What sign showest thou, that we may see
and believe.’’ Now they had their signs in abundance;
yet they would not believe.
7. The last and most fearful sign Josephus relates ;
that one Jesus, son of Ananus, a rustic of the lower
class, appeared in the temple at the feast of taberna­
cles, and suddenly exclaimed, “A voicefrom the east—
a voice from the west—a voice from the four winds—a
voice against Jerusalem and the temple—a voice against
the bridegrooms and the brides—a voice against the
whole people /” These w'ords he continued to ex­
claim through the streets of Jerusalem by day and by
night, with no cessation (unless what was needed for
the support of nature) for seven years! He com­
menced in the year 63, white the city was in peace
and prosperity, and terminated his exclamaiions only
in his death, amidst the horrors of the siege, in the
year 70. This strange thing, when it commenced,
soon excited great attention ; and this Jesus was
brought before Albmus. the Roman governor, who in­
terrogated him, but could obtain no answer except th*
3
Digitized by Google
DESTRUCTION OT JERUSALEM.
f 8
•ontinuation of his woes. He commanded him to be
•courged, but to no effect. During times of festivals,
this cry of his was peculiarly loud and urgent*
After the commencement of the siege, he ascended
the walls, and in a voice still more tremendous than
ever, he exclaimed, “Wo, wo to this city, this temple,
and this people/” And he then added, (for the first
time for the seven years.) “ Wo, wo to myself/” The
words were no sooner uftered, than a stone from a
Roman machine without the walls, struck him dead on
-•the spot!
Such were the signs in the heavens and ijn the earth,
which just preceded the destruction of Jerusalem.
Several of them are recorded by Tacitus as well as by
Josephus. The veracity of Josephus as a historian is
probably allowed by all. Scaliger affirms that he de­
serves more credit as a writer than all the Greek and
Roman historians put together.
From the conquest of Jerusalem by Pompey, sixty
years before Christ, the Jews repeatedly had exhibited *
a most rebellious spirit against the Romans. The Jews
had basely said to Pilate concerning Christ, “If thou let
this man go, thou art not a friend to Caesar.” But the
fact was, they persecuted Christ because he would not
erect a temporal.throne in opposition to Caesar. Any
impostor who seemed prepared to do this, they were
ready to follow; and were ready to improve every
apparent occasion to evince their decided hostility to
the Romans. And they hardly needed a prophet’s eye
to discern that this spirit and conduct (manifested on all
occasions) would soon draw against them the Roman
•word.
Judas, a Gaulonite, and Saddue, a Pharisee, had
rallied the Jews with the idea that their paying tribute
to the Romans would not fail to confirm them in the
most abject slavery; in consequence of which, their
enmity often burst forth with malignant violence.—
Tumults and riots increased ; and Florus, the Roman
governor of Judea, by his cruel exactions, increased
this spirit among the Jews. Eleazer, son of the high
priest, persuaded the officers of the temple to reject
DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM.
the offerings of foreigners, and to withhold publirk
prayers for them,* The Roman government felt the
insult; and a basis was soon found to be laid for a Ro­
man war! Feuds and contentions increased in Judea,
till Cestius Gallus marched an army thither from Syria
to restore order. His march was. marked with blood
and desolation. The city of Zebulon, Joppa, and
other villages in his way, he plundered and burned.
Eight thousand four hundred of the inhabitants of the
firmer place he slew. The district of Narbatene he
laid waste, and slew two thousand of the Jews in Ga­
lilee ; reduced the city of Lydda to ashes, and
drove the Jews, (who made desperate sallies upon
him) till he encamped within a hundred miles of the
capital. Soon after, he entered Jerusalem, and burned
some part of the city. But through the treachery of
his own officers, he made an unexpected flight. The
enraged Jews pursued him, and slew about sixty thou­
sand of his men. 'Many of the rich Jews, alarmed at
the Roman invasion, fled from Jerusalem, as from
foundering ship. Some suppose many of the Chris­
tians now fled to a place called Pella, in the mountains
oi Judea. Matt. xxiv. 15—17.
Nero being informed of the defeat of Cestius, gave
the command to Vespasian to press the war against
the rebellious Jews. He and his son Titus soon col­
lected an army of sixty thousand men. In A. D. 67,
be marched from Ptolemais to Judea, marking his
steps with ravages and desolation. Infancy and age
fell before the furious soldiery. All the strong towns
of Galilee and many of those of Judea fell before the
victorious arms of Vespasiap, who slew not less than
one hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants. Signal
vengeance was taken on Joppa, which had in part been
rebuilt, after it had been by Cestius reduced to ashes.
Vespasian was enraged at the frequent piracies of this
people. The Jews of this place fleeing before him,
betook themselves to their shipping. But a furious
tempest overtook those who stood out to sea, and they
were lost. The others were dashed vessel against
vessel, or against the rocks. Some in their distress
28 DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM.
laid violent hands on themselves. Such as reached
the shore were slain by the enraged Romans. The sea
for some distance was stained with their blood. Forty
thousand are said to have been swallowed up in the
waves; and not one escaped to relate their catastro­
phe. Truly this was “ distress of their natioii, with
the sea and the waves thereof roaring!’’
Vespasian returned from Jericho to Caesarea, to pre­
pare for a grand siege of Jerusalem. Here he recei­
ved intelligence of the death of the emperor Nero.
This led him to suspend for the present the execution
of his plan against the Jews. This respite to that de­
voted people continued about two years, and but en­
couraged them to deeds of greater enormity.
A spirit of faction now appeared in Jerusalem.—
Two parties first, and afterwards three, raged there ;
each contending with deadly animosity for the prece­
dence. A part of one these factions having been ex­
cluded from the city, entered it by force during the
night; and to such madness were they abandoned, that
they butchered on that fatal night not less than eight
thousand five hundred of men, women and children,
whose mangled bodies appeared the next morning
strewed in the streets of Jerusalem. These abandon­
ed murderers plundered in the city; murdered the
high priests Ananus and Jesus, and insulted their dead
bodies. They slew their brethren of Jerusalem, as
though they had been wild animals. They scourged
and imprisoned the nobles, in hopes to terrify them to
become of their party; and many who could not be
thus won, they slew. * In this reign of terror, twelve
thousand of the higher orders of the people thus per­
ished ; and no relative dared to shed a mourning tear,
lest this should bring on him a similar fate. Accusa­
tion and death became the most common events.—
Many fled, but were intercepted antf slain. Files of
their carcasses lay on publick roads; and all pity, as
wcii ns regard for human or divine authorty, seemed
extinguished. *
Toadd to the horrid calamities ofthe times occasion­
ed by the bloody factions, Judea was infested by bands
Digitized by Google
ii iiM M —
DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM. 2f
of robbers and murderers, plundering their towns and
cutting in pieces such as made any resistance, whether
men, women or children. Here were exhibited the
most horrid pictures of what fallen man is capable of
perpetrating when restraints are taken off; that they
would turn their own towns and societies into scenes of
horror like kennels of mad animals.
One Simon became commander of one of these
factions ; John of another. Simon entered Jerusa­
lem at the head of forty thousand banditti* A third
faction rose: and discord blazed with terrific iury.
The three factions were intoxicated with rage and
desperation, and went on slaying and trampling on
piles of the dead, with an indescribable fury. People
coming to the temple to worship, were murdered, both
natives and foreigners. Their bodies lay in piles, and
a collection of blood defiled the sacred courts.
John of Gischala, head of a faction, burned a store \
of provisions. Simon, at the head of another faction,
burned another. Thus the Jews were weakening and
destroying themselves, and preparing the way for
“ wrath to come upon them to the uttermost.”
In the midst of these most dismal, events, an alarm
was made that a Roman army was approaching the city!
Vespasian becoming emperor, and learning the fac­
tious and horrid state of the Jews, determined to pros­
ecute the war against them, and sent his son Titus
to reduce Jerusalem and Judea. ’ The Jews, on hear­
ing of the approach ofthe Roman army, were petrified
with horror. They could have no hope ofpeace. They
had no means of flight. They had no time for coun­
sel. They had no confidence in each other. What
could be done ? Several things they possessed in abun­
dance. They had a measure of iniquity filled up ; a
full ripeness for destruction. All seemed wild disor­
der and despair. Nothing could be imagined but
the confused noise of the warrior, and garments rolled
in blood. They knew nothing was their due from the
Romans, but exemplary vengeance. The ceaseless',;
cry of combatants, and the horrors of faction, had in- ,
duced some to desire the intervention of a foreign foe
3*
Digitized by Google
3 d DESTRUCTION OP JERUSALEM.
to give them deliverance from their domestic horrors.
Such was the state of Jerusalem when Titus appeared
befofe it with a besieging army. But he came not to
deliver it from its excruciating tortures ; but to exe­
cute upon it divine vengeance; to fulfil the fatal pre­
dictions of our Lord Jesus Christ, that u when ye see
the abomination of desolation standing in the holy
place—when ye see Jerusalem compassed about with
armies,—then know that the desolation thereof is.
nigh.” “ Wheresoever the carcass is, there shall the
eagles be gathered together.” . Jerusalem was now
the carcass to be devoured ; the Roman eagles had ar­
rived to tear it as their prey.
The day on which Titus had encompassed Jerusa­
lem, was the feast of the passover. Here let it be
remembered, that it was the time of this* feast, (on a
preceding occasion) that Christ was taken, condem­
ned and executed. it was at the time of this feast,
that the heifer, in the hands of the sacrificing priests,
brought forth a lamb. And just after this feast at
another time, that the miraculous besieging armies
were seen over Jerusalem, just before sunset. And now
at the time of the passover, the antitype of this pro­
digy appears in the besieging army of Titus. Multi­
tude- or Jews had convened at Jerusalem from surroun­
ding nations to celebrate this feast. Ah, miserable
people,—going with intent to feed on the paschal lamb;
but really to their own final slaughter, for rejecting
“ the Lamb of God who taketh away the sin of the
world !” The Jews had imprecated the blopd of the
true Paschal Lamb, (by them wantonly shed) on them­
selves and on their children. God was now going in
a signal manner to take them at their word. He hence
providentially collected their nation, under sentence
of death, as into a great prison, for'the day of execu­
tion. And as their execution of Christ was signal, low,
degrading,—the. death of the cross ; so their execu­
tion should be signal and dreadful. 'The falling city
was now crowded with little short of two millions of
that devoted people. The event came suddenly and
unexpectedly to the Jews, as the coming of a thief,
Digitized by Google
DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM. 31 .
and almost like lightning. Josephus notes this ; and
thus without design, shows the fulfilment of these hints
of Christ, that his coming should be like a thief in the
night, and like lightning shining under the whole heav­
ens.
. The furious contending factions of the Jews, on
finding themselves environed with the Roman armies,
laid aside (for the moment) their party contentions,
sallied out, rushed furiously on their common foe, an0
came near utterly destroying the tenth legion of the
Roman army. This panic among the Romans occa­
sioned a short suspension of hostilities. Some new
confidence hence inspired the hopes of the Jews ; and
they now determined to defend their city. Bui being
a little released from their terrors of the Romans, their
factious resentments again rekindled, and broke out in
great fury. The faction under Eleazer was swallowed
up in the other two, under John and Simon. Slaugh­
ter, conflagration and plunder ensued. A portion of
the centre of the city was burned, and the inhabitants
became as prisoners to the two furious parties. The
Romans here saw their own proverb verified : u Quos
Deus vult perdere priuse le m e n ta lu Whom God will
destroy, he gives up to madness.
The invading armies knew how to profit by the
madness of the Jews. They were soon found by the
Jews to have possession of the two outer walls of their
city. This alarm reached the heart of the factions,
and once more united them against the common ene­
my. But they had already proceeded too far to re^
treat from the effects of their madness. Famine, with
its ghastly horrors, stared them in the face. It had (as
might be expected) been making a silent approach ;
and some of the more obscure had already fallen be­
fore it. But even this did not annihilate the fury of
faction, which again returned with redoubled fury, and
presented new scenes of wo. As the famine increas­
ed, the sufferers would snatch bread from each oth­
er's mouths, and devour their grain unprepared. To
discover handfuls of food, tortures were inflicted.
Food was violently taken by husbands from wives, and
Digitized by Google
wives from husbands ; and even by mothers from their
famishing infants. The breast itself was robbed from
the famishing suckling, as our Lord denounced : “Wo
to them that give suck in those days.”
This terror produced a new scene of righteous ret­
ribution. Multitudes of the Jews were forced by
hunger to flee to the enemy’s camp. Here instead of
pitying arid relieving them, the Romans cut off the
hands of many, and sent them back ; but most of them
they crucified as fast as they could lay their hands on
them ; till wood was wanting for crosses, and space on
which to erect them! Behold here thousands of those
despairing Jews suspended on crosses round the walls
of Jerusalem! Verily “ the Lord is known by the
judgments that he executeth’!” Yea, this did not
suffice. Behold two thousand Jews, who had fled to
ti e mercy of their invaders, ripped open alive (two
thousand in one night!) by Arabs and Syrians in the
Roman armies, in hopes of finding gold, which these
Jews had (or their enemiesfancied they had) swallozo-
ed to carry off with them!
Titus being a merciful general, was touched to the
heart at the miseries of the Jews ; and in person he
tenderly entreated the besieged to surrender. But all
the answer he obtained for his tenderness was base
revilings. He now resolved to make thorough work
with this obstinate people ; and hence surrounded the
city with a circumvallation of thirty nine furlongs in
length, strengthened with thirteen towers. This, by
the astonishing activity of the soldiers, was effected in
throe.days. Then was fulfilled this prediction of our
blessed Lord ; “ Thine enemies shall cast a trench
about thee, and keep thee in on every side.”
As the city was now cutoff from all possible sup­
plies, famine became mere dreadful. Whole families
fell a sacrifice to it; and the dead bodies of women,
children, and the aged, were seen covering roofs of
houses, and various recesses. Youth and the middle
aged appeared like spectres; and fell many of them
dead in public places. The dead became too nume­
rous to be interred. Many died while attempting to
31 DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM.
Digitized by Google
perform this office. So great and awful became the
calamities, that lamentation ceased ; and an awful si­
lence of despair overwhelmed the city. But all this
failed of restraining the more abandoned from most
horrid deeds. They took this opportunity to rob the
tombs ; and with loud infernal laughter, to strip the
dead of their habiliments of death ; and would try the
edge of their swords on dead bodies, and on some
while yet breathing. Simon Georas now vented his
rage against Matthias, the high priest, and his three
sons. He caused them to be condemned, as though
favouring the Romans. The father asked the favour
io be first executed, and not see the death of his sons;
but the malicious Simon reserved him for the last ex­
ecution. And as he was expiring he put the insulting
question, whether the Romans could now relieve
him ?
Things being thus, one Mannaeus, a Jew, escaped
to Titus, and informed him of the consummate wretch­
edness of the Jews; that in less than three months
one hundred and fifteen thousand and eight hundred
dead bodies of Jews had been conveyed through one
gale, under bis care and register; and he assured him
of the ravages of famine and death. Other deserters
confirmed the account,* aiid added, that not less than
six hundred thousand deati/bodies of Jews had beeja
carried out at different gates. The humane heart of
Titus was deeply affected; and he, under those ac­
counts, and while surveying the piles of dead bodies
of Jews under the walls, and in the visible parts of
the city, raised his eyes and hands to heaven in sol­
emn protestation, that he would have prevented these
dire calamities ; that the obstinate Jews had procured
them upon their own heads.
Josephus, the Jew, now earnestly entreated the
leader John and his brethren to surrender to the Ro­
mans, and thus save the residue of the Jews. But
he received in return nothing hut insolent reproaches
and imprecations; John declaring his firm persuasion
th;ii G<#d would never suffer his own city. Jerusalem,
to be taken by the enemy ! Alas, had he forgotten
DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM. 33
1
yGoogle
34 D e s t r u c t io n o f Je r u s a l e m .
the history of his own nation, and the denunciations
of the prophets ? Micah had foretold that in this ve­
ry calamity they would presumptuously “ lean upon
the Lord, and say, Is not the Lord among us ? No evil
shall come upon us.’’ So blind and presumptuous
are hypocrisy and self-confidence ! “ The temple of
the Lord, the temple of the Lord, the temple of the
Lord, are these.”
The famine in the city became (as might be expec­
ted) still more deadly. For want of food the Jews
ate their belts, sandals, skins of their shields, dried
grass, and even ordure of cattle. Nozp it was that a
noble Jewess, urged by the insufferablepangs of hunger,
*lew andpreparedfor food her ownrinfant child! She
had eaten half the horrible preparation, when the
smeii of food brought in a hoard of soldiery, who
threatened her with instant death, if she did not pro­
duce to them the food she had in possession. She be­
ing thus compelled to obey, produced the remaining
half of her child ! The soldiers stood aghast ; and
the recital petrified the hearers with horror ; and con­
gratulations were poured on those whose eyes death
had closed upon such horrid scenes. Humanity seems
ready to sink at the recital of the wc.V events of that
day. No words can reach the horrors of the situa­
tion of the female part of the community at that period.
Such scenes force upon our recollection the tender
pathetic address of our Saviour to the pious females
who followed him, going to the cross : u Daughters of
Jerusalem, weep not for me ; hut weep for yourselves
and for your children ; for behold the day? are com­
ing, in which they shall say, Blessed are the barren,
and the wombs that never bare, and the breasts that
never fjHve suck.” Moses had long predicted this
very scene. uThe tender and delicate woman among
you, (said he,) who would not venture to set the sole
of her foot on the ground for delicateness ; her eye
shall be evil towards her young one, and toward hfer
children, which she shall bear ; for she shall eat them,
for want of all things, secretly in the siege and strait-
ness wherewith thine enemy shall distress thee in thy
Google
* , . Digitized by
DESTRUCTION OE JERUSALEM. 35
gales.” Probably the history of the world will not
afford a parallel to this. God prepared peculiar
judgments for peculiarly horrid crimes! 4
4These be
the days of vengeance; that all things that are written
may be fulfilled.5’ Josephus declares, that if there
had not been many credible witnesses of that awful
fact, he never would have recorded it; for, said he,
“ such a shocking violation of nature never has been
perpetrated by any Greek or barbarian.55 ,
While famine thus spread desolation, the Roman*
finally succeeded in removing part of the inner wall,
and in possessing themselves of the high and com­
manding tower of Antonio, which seemed to overlook
the temple. Titus with his council of war had form­
ed a determination to save the temple, to grace his
conquest, and remain an ornament to his empire.—
But God had not so determined. And4
4though there
be many devices in a man’s heart; nevertheless the
counsel of the Lord that shall stand.5’ A Roman
soldier, violating the general order of Titus, succeeded
in hurling a brand of fire into the golden window of
the temple; and soon (as righteous Heaven would
have it!)the sacred edifice was in flames. The Jew*
perceiving this, rushed with horrid outcries to extin­
guish the fire. Titus too flew to the spot in his char­
iot, with his chief officers and legion». With loud
command, and every token of anxiety, he enforced
the extinguishing of the fire ; but in vain. So great
was the confusion, that no attention was paid to him.
His soldiers, deaf to all cries, assiduously spread the
flames far and wide ; rushing at the same time on the
Jews, sword in hand, slaying and trampling down, or
crushing them to death against the walls^ Many
were plunged into the flames, and perishen in the
burning of the out buildings of the temple. The fu­
ry of the Roman soldiers slaughtered the poor, the
unarmed, and the rich, as well as men in arms. Mul­
titudes of dead bodies were piled round about the al­
tar, to which they had fled for protection. The wAj
leading to the inner court was deluged with blood.
* Digitized by Google
SG DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM.
Titus finding the fire had not yet reached the inner
temple,entered it with his superior officers, aiid survey­
ed its magnificence with silent admiration, xie found
it to exceed all he had heard. This view led him to
renew his efforts to save this stupendous pile of buil-
d;ng, though so many of the out-buildings were gone.
He even entreated his soldiers to extinguish the ilamcs,
and appointed an officer to punish any who should
disobey. But all his renewed efforts were still in
vain.* The feelings of his soldiery were utterly un­
manageable. Plunder, revenge, and. slaughter had
combined to render them deaf and most furious. A
soldier succeeded in firing the door posts of the in­
ner temple, and the conflagration soon became gen­
eral.
One needs a heart of stegl to contemplate the .
scenes which followed. The triumphant Roman sol­
diers were in a most ungovernable rage and fury.—
They were indeed instruments prepared for their .
work, to execute the most signal vengeance of Heav­
en ; the flame of which was now reaching its height!
The Romans slew of the Jews all before them; sparing
neither age, sex or rank. They seemed determined
to annihilate the Jewish race on the spot. Priests and
common people; those who surrendered, and those
who still fought; all were alike subjects of an indis­
criminate slaughter. The fire of the temple at length
completely enveloped the stupendous pile of building.
The fury of the flames exceeded description. It im­
pressed on distant spectators an idea that the whole
city was in flames. The ensuing disorder md tumult,
Josephus pronounces to have been such as to baffle
all description. The outcry of the Roman legions
was adlgreat as they could make. And the Jews fin­
ding themselves a prey to the fury of both fire and
sword, exerted themselves in the wildest accents of
screaming. The people in the city, and those on the
hill, mutually responded to each other in groans and
screeches. People who had seemed just expiring
through famine, derived new strength from unprece­
dented scenes of honor and death, to deplore their
*
. - - - _d ' . I
DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM. 37
wretchedness. From mountain to mountain, and from
places distant, lamentations echoed to each other.
As the temple was sinking under the fury of the
raging element, the mount on which it stood seemed
in that part of it, (says the historian) to * impress the
idea of a lake of liquid fire !” The blood of the slain
ran in rivulets. The earth around became covered
with the slain ; and the victorious Romans trampled
over those piles of the dead, in pursuit of the thou­
sands who were fleeing from the points of their
swords. In a word, the roar and crackling of fire ;
the shrieks of thousands in despair ; the dying groans
of thousands, and the sights which met the eye where-
ever it was turned, were such as never before had any
parallel on earth. They probably as much exceeded
all antecedent scenes of horror, as the guilt which
occasioned them, in their treatment of the Lord of
Glory, exceeded all guilt ever before known among
men.
A tragical event had transpired worthy oC particular
detail. Before the temple was wrapped in flames, an
impostor appeared among the Jews, asserting a divine
commission ; and that if the people would follow him
to the temple, they would see signs, wonders and de­
liverance. About six thousand (mostly women and
children) followed him, and were in the galleries of the
temple, waitingfor this promised deliverance, when fire
was set to that building. iSotone escaped. All were
consumed in the conflagration of thé sacred edifice!
What multitudes are by false prophets plunged in eter­
nal fire !
The place of the temple now presented a vast pile
of ruins. Here terminated the glory and existence of
this stupendous building, this type of the body of Christ
and of his church; this type of the Millennium, and of
heaven. Here it reached its close, after the period of
one thousand and thirty years, from the time of its
dedication by Solomon ; and of six hundred and thii ty-
niee years, from its being inbuilt in the days of H;*g-
gai, after the seventy years captivity. It is singular,
that it should be reduced to ashes not only soon after
4
Digitized by Google
38 DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM.
the feast of the passover, which convened so many
thousands of Jews to Jerusalem to meet the ruins of
their city and nation'; but that it should be consumed
on the same month, on the same day of the month,
on which the Babylonians had before destroyed it by
fire.
Josephus records another striking event, which seem­
ed a sign of the destruction of Jerusalem. He says;
(addressing the Jews who survived this ruin) 5“ The
fountains flow' copiously for Titus, which to you were
dried up. For before he came, you know that both
Siloam and all the springs without the city failed ; so
tfaat water was brought by the amphora, (a vessel.)—
But now they are so abundant to your enemies, as to
suffice for themselves and their cattle. This wonder
you also formerly experienced, when the king of Ba­
bylon laid siege to your city.”
The priests of the temple, after the destruction of
their sacred edifice, betook themselves (those who
had thus far escaped the general slaughter) to the top
of one of its broken walls, where they sat mourning
and famishing. On the fifth day necessity compelled
them to descend, and humbly to ask pardon of the Ro­
man general. But Titus at this late period rejected
their petition, saying ; “ As the temple, for the sake of
which I would have spared you, is destroyed; it is
but tit the priests should perish also,” All were put
to death.
The obstinate leaders of the great Jewish factions,
beholding now the desperateness of their cause, de­
sired a conference with Titus.* One would imagine
they would at least now lay down their arms. Their
desiring an interview with the triumphant Romangene-
ral, appeared as though they would be gjad to do this.
But righteous Heaven designed their still greater des­
truction. Titus, after all their mad rebellions, kindly
offered to spare the residue of the Jews, if they would
now submit. But strange to relate, they refused to
comply. The noble general then, as must have been
expected, was highly exasperated ; and issued his gen­
eral order that he would grant no further pardon to
yGoogle
the insurgents. His legions now were ordered to
“ ravage and d e s t r o y With the light of the next
morning, arose the tremendous flame of the castle of
Antonio, the council chamber, register’s office, and the
noble palace of the queen Helena. These magnifi­
cent piles were reduced to ashes. The furious legions,
(executioners of divine vengeance, Ezek. ix. 5, 6,)
then flew through the lower city, of which they soon
became masters, slaughtering and burning in every
street. The Jews themselves aided the slaughter.—
In the royal palace, containing vast treasures, eight
thousand four hundred Jews were murdered by their
seditious brethren. Great numbers of deserters from
the furious leaders of faction, flocked to the Romans ;
but it was too late. The general order was given, all
should be slain. Such therefore fell.
The Roman soldiers however, being at length weary
with butchery, and more than satisfied with blood, for
a short time sheathed their swords, and betook them­
selves to plunder. They collected multitudes of Jews,
—husbands, wives, children, and servants; formed a
market; and set them up at vendue for slaves. They
sold them for any trifle ; while purchasers were but
few. Their iaw-giver, Moses, had forewarned them
of this ; Deut. xxviii. 68 : “ And ye shall be sold for
bond men, and bond women; and no man shall buy
you.” Tremendous indeed must the lot of those be,
who reject the Messiah, and are found fighting against
the Son of God. Often had these Jews heard read
(but little it seems did they understand the sense of the
tremendous passage) relative to the Jewish rejectors
of. Christ, u He that sitteth in the Heavens shall laugh;
the Lord shall have them in derision. Then shall he
speak unto them in his wrath, and vex them in his sore
displeasure. Yet have I set my king upon my holy
hill of Zion. Thou shalt break them with a rod of
iron; thou shalt dash them in pieces Kke a potter’s
vessel.” “ Thus saith the Lord, say, A sword, a sword
is sharpened, and also furbished : it is sharpened to
make a sore slaughter; it is furbished that it may-
glitter; (said God by the prophet, Ezek. xxi. alluding
DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM. 39
Digitized by Google
40 DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM.
to this very event;) the sword is sharpened, and it is.
furbished to give it into the hand of the slayer. Cry
and howl, son of man ; smite upon thy thigh ; smite
thy hands together, and let the sword be doubled a
third time ; the sword of the slain. 1 have set the
point of the sword against all their gates, that their
hearts may faint, and their ruins be multiplied: Ah,it is
made bright! it is wrapped up for the slaughter.”—
Such, and much more, were the divine denunciations
of this ■very scene, which the' infidel Jews would not
escape, but would incur! And even a merciful God
shrunk not from the execution! Let antichristian pow­
ers, yea, let all infidels and gospel despisers, consider
this and tremble!
The whole lower city now in the possession of the
Roman legions, (after the respite noted,) was set on
fire. But the insolence of the devoted Jews in a part
of the higher city remained unabated. They even
insulted and exasperated their enemies, as though afraid
the work of vengeance might not be sufficiently exe­
cuted.
The Romans brought their engines to operate upon
the walls orthis higher branch of the city, still standing;
"which aooit gnve vvcry br^re-t]tern. Before their de­
molition, Titus reconnoitred the city, and its fortifica­
tions ; and expressed his astonishment that it should
ever fall before his arms. He exclaimed, u Had not
God himself aided our operations, and driven' the
Jews from their fortresses, it would have been abso­
lutely impossible to have taken them. For what could
men and the force of engines have done against such
towers as these?” Yes, unless their Rock had sold
them for their iniquities, no enemy could have pre­
vailed against Jerusalem. Josephus, who was an eye
witness of all the scene, says ; u All the calamities,
which ever befel any nation, since the beginning of the
world, were inferior to the miseries of the Jews at this
awful period.”
The upper city too fell before the victorious arms
of the Roman conquerors. Tifas would have spared
all who had not been forward in resisting the Romans ;
and gave his orders accordingly. But liis soldiers, cal-
INSTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM. n
lous to all the feelings of humanity, slaughtered the
aged amd sick, as well as the mass of the people. The
tall and most beautiful young men, however, were
spared by Titus to grace his triumph at Rome. Of the
rest, many above the age of seventeen were sent in
chains to Egypt to be disposed of as slaves. Some
were reserved to be sacrificed on their amphitheatres,
as gladiators; to be slain in sham fights, for the sport
of their conquerors. Others were distributed through
the empire. All who survived, under the age of se­
venteen, were exposed for sale.
,The triumphant general commanded whqt remained
of the city, to be razed to its foundation, except three
of the most stately towers, Mariamne, Hippocos, and
Phasael. These should stand as monuments of the
magnificence of the place, and of his victory. A small
part of the wall of the city at the west also, he com­
manded should be spared, as a rampart for his garrison#
The other parts of the city he wished to have so ef­
fectually erased, as never to be recognized to have
been inhabited. The Talmud and Mamonides relate
that the foundations of the temple were so removed,
that the site of it was ploughed by Terentius Rufus.
Thus our Saviour predicted, that “ there should not be
left one stone upon another.”
One awful occurrence is noted as transpiring during
these scenes ; that eleven thousand Jews, under the
guard of one Fronto, a Roman general, were (owing
to their own obstinacy, and to the scarcity of provis­
ions) literally starved to deatji!
Josephus informs that eleven hundred thousand
Jews perished in this siege of Jerusalem; that two
hundred and thirty-seven thousand perished in that
last war in other sieges and battles; besides multitudes
who perished by famine and pestilence : making a to­
tal of at least fourteen hundred thousand. Some hun­
dreds of thousands, in sullen despair, laid violent hands
on themselves. About ninety-seven thousand Were
captured, and dispersed. Relative to the two great
leaders of the Jewish factions, Simon and John, they
were led to Rome, to grace the triumph of Titus ; af-
4*
Digitized by Google
48 ¿tSTRU'CTION OF JERUSALEM.
ter which Simon was scourged and executed as a ma­
lefactor ; and John was committed for life to dungeon.
Thus ended their violent factious contentions.
The Roman army, before they left Jerusalem, not
only demolished the buildings there, but even dug up
their foundations. How fatal was the divine judgment
on this devoted city. Five months before it was the
wonder of the world; and contained, at the com­
mencement of the siege, more than a million and a half
of Jews, natives and visiters ; now it lay in total ruins,
with not u one stone upon a n o t h e r a s Christ had de-
nounced. These ruins Eusebius informs us he beheld.
And Eleazer is introduced by Josephus as exclaiming;
“ Where is our great city, which it was believed God
inhabited.” The prophet Micah had predicted;
“ Therefore shall Zion for your sakes be ploughed as
a field, and Jerusalem shall become heaps, and the
mountain of the Lord’s house as the high places of
the forest.” A captain of the army of Titus, did in
fact plough where some part of the foundation of the
temple had stood, as the Talmud records, aud thus ful­
filled this prediction.
Jesus Christ had foretold of this destruction, that
“ there should be great tribulation, such as was not
since the beginning of the world.’’ Atid of the event
Josephus says; “ If the misfortunes of all nations from
the beginning of the world, were compared with those
which befel the Jews, they would appear far less.”
Again ; N© other city ever suffered such^hings ; as
no other generation from the beginning o fg B W ^ rl^
was ever more fruitful in wickedness.”
Other parts of Jude*! were still to be subdued. Ma-
eherus was attacked. Sarenieen hundred Jews sur­
rendered and were slain ; also three thousand* fugi­
tives taken in the woods of Jardes. Titus at Caesarea'
celebrated in great splendour the birth da) of his bro­
ther Domitian. Here a horrid scene, according to the
bloody customs of those times, was presented* To
grace this occasion, more than two thousand five hun­
dred Jewrs fell; some by burning; some by fighting
with wild beasts; and some by mutual combat with
the sword. ^
yGoogle
^Massada was besieged. The Jewish commander,
in despair, induced the garrison thst to destroy their
Stores, and then themselves. They (nine hundred and
sixty in number) consented to the horrid proposal.
Men, women, mid children took their scaN upon the
ground, and offered their necks to the suord. Ten
men were selec ted to execute the fatal deed. The
dreadful work was done. One of Ihe ten was then
chosen to execute the nine, and then himself. The
nine being put to death, and tire being set to the place,
the last man plunged his dagger into his own heart.
Seven persons, (women and children,) found means
to conceal themselves, and escape the ruin. When
the Romans approached, these seven related to them
these horrid events.
Most of the remaining places now, through sullen
despair, gave up all opposition, and submitted to the
conquerors. Thus Judea became as a desolate wilder­
ness ; and the following passage in Isaiah had at least
a primary accomplishment; “Until the cities be wasted
without inhabitant; and the houses without man ; and
the land be utterly desolate ; and the -Lord have re­
moved man far away, and there be a great forsaking
in the midst of the land.”
A line of prophecies is found in the sacred oracles,
which relate to a signal temporal destruction of the
most notorious enemies of the kingdom of Jesus Christ.
Those were to have a two fold accomplishment; first
upon the Jews; and secondly upon the great Anti­
christ of the last days, typified by the infidel Jews.
Accordingly those prophecies in the Old Testament*
are ever found in close connexion \vith the Millennium.
The predictions of our Saviour, in Malt. xxiv. Mark
xiii. and Luke xxi. are but a new edition of these sa­
cred prophecies. This has been noted as “the destruc­
tion ofthe city and templefo r e to ld It is so indeed, and
more.—It is also a denunciation of the destruction of
the great Antichrist of the last days. The certainty of
this will appear in the following tilings, as New Tes­
tament writers decide. The Thessalonians, having
heard what our Lord denounced, that all those things he
DESTRUCTION OF JERUS\LR\T. €$
Digitized by Google
44 DESTRUCTION1OF JERUSALEM.
had predicted should take place on that generation,
were trembling with the apprehension, that the coming
of Christ predicted, would then very soon burst upon
the world. Paul writes to them, (2 Thes. ii.) and be­
seeches them by this coming of Christ, not to be sha­
ken in mind, or troubled with such an apprehension*
For that day, (that predicted coming of Christ, as it re­
lated to others beside the Jews,) was not to take
place on that generation. It was not to come till the
Antichristian apostacy come first; that man of sin
was first to be revealed. This long apostacy was to
be accomplished before the noted coming of Christ
in its more important sense be fulfilled. After the
Roman government, which hindered the rise of the
man of sin, should be taken out of the way, Paul says,
“ Then shall that wicked one be revealed whom the
Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and
destroy with the brightness of his c o m i n g Here
then is the predicted coming of Christ, in its more in­
teresting sense, in the battle of that great day, which
introduces the Millennium. Here is a full decision that
these noted denunciations of Christ alluded more es­
pecially (though not primarily) to a coming which is
still future.
The same is decided by Christ himself, in Rev. xvi.
After the sixth vial, in the drying up of the Turkish
Euphrates, three unclean spirits of devils, like frogs,
go forth to the kings of the earth, and of all the world,
to gather them to the great battle. The awful ac­
count is interrupted by this notice from the mouth of
Christ; verse 15, “ Behold, Tcome as a thief. .Bles­
sed is he that watcheth and keepeth his garments;
lest he walk naked, and they see his shame.” This
is as though our Lord should say ; now the time
is at hand, to which my predictions of coming as t
thief principally alluded. Now is the time when my
people on earth shall need to watch, as I directed,
when predicting my coming to destroy first the type of
Antichrist, and secondly the antitype.
The predictions in the prophets, which received an ,
incipient fulfilment in the destruction of Jerusalem*
iy
Google
DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM. 45
were to receive a more interesting fulfilment in
Christ’s coming to destroy his antichristian foes. Hence
it is that the seventh vial is called (Rev. xvi. 14,) *
4the
battle of that great day of God Almighty clearly al­
luding to that great day noted through the prophets*
And of the same event it is said, Rev. x. 7 ; 4
4the mys­
tery of God shall be finished, as he hath declared to his
servants, the p r o p h e ts Here again the allusion clear­
ly is to the many predictions in the prophets of the
destruction of the enemies of Christ’s kingdom, which
were to receive an incipient fulfilment in the destruc­
tion of Jerusalem; and a far more interesting one, in
the sweeping from the earth the last antichristian pow­
ers, to introduce the millennial kingdom of Christ.
We accordingly find those predictions through the
prophets clearly alluding to the last days, and the in­
troduction of the Millennium.
Viewing the destruction of Jerusalem then, as but
a type of an event now pending upon antichristian na­
tions, we peruse it with new interest; and it must be
viewed in the light of a most impressive warning to
this age ofthe world.—The factions, madness, and self-
ruin of the former, give but a lively practical com­
ment upon the various predictions of the latter. Three
great and noted factions introduced the destruction of
Jerusalem. Andof the destruction ofAntichrist we read
(perhaps alluding to that very circumstance) Rev. xvi.
19; 4
4And the great city was divided into three parts-”
Then it follows ; 4
4and the cities of the nations fell;
and great Babylon came in remembrance before God
to give unto her the cup of the wine of the fierceness
of his wrath.” In the desolation of Gog and his bands,
faction draws the sword of extermination. 441 will
call for a sword against him throughout all my moun­
tains, saith the Lord God ; every man’s sword shall be
against his brother.” Ezek xxxviii. 2 1.
The great coalition against the Jews, in the time of
Jchoshaphat,was destroyed by the sword of mutiny and
faction : See 2 Chron. xx. And in allusion to this ve­
ry battle which God fought for his church, the vast
eoalitions of Antichrist, in the last days, when the.
Digitized by Google
46 DESTRUCTION OP JERUSALEM*
Jews are restored, is said to be gathered “ to the val­
ley of JehoshaphatS ee Joel iii. The various cir­
cumstances of the destruction of Jerusalem afforded
a lively incipient comment on the many denunciations
of the battle of that great day ofGod Almighty, which
awaits the antichristian world ; while it is fully evi­
dent, that the passages more especially allude to the
tremendous scenes ofjudgment, which shall introduce
the Millennium.
*
C H A P T E R II
THE
C E R T A IN R E S T O R A T IO N
The subject of this chapter is introduced with a con-
case view of the expulsion of the ten tribes from
the promised land. The ten tribes revolted from the
house of David, early in the reign of Rehoboam, son
and successor of* king Solomon. They received from
this young prince treatment, which was considered
impolitic and rough; upon which they separated them­
selves from that branch of the house of Israel, who,
from that time, have been distinguished by the name
of Jews. The revolting ten tribes submitted to anoth-
- er king, Jeroboam. And this breach was never after
healed. Jeroboam, to* perpetuate and widen this
breach, and apprehending that if the Jews and ten
tribes amicably met for public worship, according to
the law of God, the rupture between them would
probably soon be healed, set up two golden calves, one
in D^n, and one in Bethel; and ordered that the ten
1tribes of Israel should meet there for their public wor*
Vhip. He thus u made Israel to sin.’’ And would to
i
God he had been the last who has made the professed
\*^>r£hfppers of Jehovah u to sin,’’ by assigning them
different places of worship, from motives not more
of Jeroboam.
OF
asto m m »
Digitized by Google
AS THE CERTAIN RESTORATION
The ten tribes thus went off to idolatry. A line of
kings succeeded Jeroboam ; but none of them, to the
time of* the expulsion, were true worshippers of the
God of Israel. By their apostacy, folly, and idolatry,
the ten tribes were preparing themselves for a long
and doleful rejection, an outcast state for thousands of
years. This Moses had denounced ; Deut. xxviii.
And this God fulfilled.
Tiglah-Pilnezer, king of Assyria, captured the
tribes of Reuben and Gad, and the half tribe of Ma-
nassah, who lay east of Jordan, and placed them in
Halah, Harah, and Habor, by the river Gozen.— 1
Chro. v. 26. About twenty years after, (134 years
before the Babylonish captivity of the Jews, and 725
years before Christ.) the rest of the ten tribes continu­
ing impenitent, Shalmanezcr, the succeeding king of
Assyria, attacked Samaria, took the remainder of the
ten tribes, in tlTe reign of Hoshea, king of Israel, car­
ried them to Assyria, and placed them with their
brethren in Halah and Habor, by the river Gozen in
Media—2 Kings xvii. This final expulsion of Israel
from the promised land, was about 943 years after they
came out of Egypt. The king of Assyria placed in
their stead, in Samaria, people from Babylon, Cutha,
Ava, Hama, and Sapharvaim. Here was the origin of
the mongrel Samaritans.
From this captivity the ten tribes were never recov­
ered. And they have long seemed to have been lost
from the earth. They seem to have been indeed
“ outcast,” from the social world, and the knowledge
of civilized man. The Jews, long after, were disper­
sed among the nations; but have ever been known at
Jews. But not so with Israel. They have seemed
strangely to disappear from the world ; and for 2500
years to have been utterly lost.
What are we to believe concerning the ten tribes ?
Are they ever again to be restored and known as the
natural seed of Abraham ? Are they now in existence
as a distinct people ? If so, where are they to be
found ? All parts of the world are now so well known,
that one would conceive the commonwealth of Israel
yGoogle
©F JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 49
eannot now be found among the civilized nations.
Must we look for them in a savage state ? If so, the
knowledge of their descent must he derived from a va­
riety of broken, circumstantial, traditionary evidence.
Who, or where, then, are the people who furnish
the greatest degree of this kind of evideuce?
An answer, relative to their restoration, will be in­
volved in this chapter; and an answer to the other
questions may be expected in the chapter following.
That the Jews are to be restored to Palestine as
Jews, seems evident from a variety of considerations.
And that the ten tribes of Israel will there be united
with them, seems also to be plainly predicted in the
prophets.
Let the following things be considered :
1. The preservation of the Jews, as a distinct peo­
ple. among the many nations whither they have been
dispersed, now for nearly eighteen hundred years, af­
fords great evidence, to say the least, that the many
predictions which seem to foretel such a restoration
are to have a literal accomplishment. This their pre­
servation is a most signal event of providence. No­
thing like it has ever, in any other inst*..ce, been known
on earth; except it be the case with the ten tribes of
Israel. Other dispersed tribes of men have amalga­
mated with the people where they have dwelt, and
have lost their distinct existence. And nothing but
the special hand of God could have prevented this in
the case of the Jew s. The eveat then shows, that
God has great things in store for them, as Jews. What
can these things be, but the fulfilment of those many
f)rophecies which predict their ret-.oration to the
and of their fathers, as well as their conversion to the
Christian faith ?
2. That people have never, as yet, possessed all Ihe
land promised to them; nor have they possessed any
part of it so long as promised. Hence their restoration
to that land is essential to the complete fulfilment of
those ancient promises. They were to possess tin? land
to the river Euphrates, andforever; or to the end of
the world. God promised to Abraham, Gen. xv. 18—
5
Digitized by Google
50 THE CERTAIN RESTORATION
“ Unto thy seed have I given this land, from the riv­
er of Egypt, unto the great river,the river Euphrates.”
Exod. xxiii. 31—u And I will set thy bounds from the
Red Sea, even unto the sea of the Philistines, and
from the desert unto the river (Euphrates;) for I will
deliver the inhabitants of the land into your hands,
and thou shalt drive them out before thee.”— Deut.
xi. 24—“ Every place whereon the sole of thy feet
shall stand, shall be yours, from the wilderness and
Lebanon, from the river, the river Euphrates, even
unto the uttermost sea, shall your coast be.” Herje
then, are the boundaries of this ancient divine grant to
Abraham and his natural seed. Beginning at the riv­
er of Egypt, (a river not far from the north-east cor­
ner of the Red Sea, and running into the Mediterrane­
an.) Thence northward, on the shore of the said sea,
as far as the point due west of MountfLebanon.
Thence eastward, over said mountain, away to the
river Euphrates. Thence southward, as far as the
north line of Arabia. Thence westward, to the first
named river. The whole of this territory, the natu­
ral seed of Abraham were to possess “ for ever.”
The inhabitants “ should be driven out before them.”
But this people anciently possessed but a shnail part
of this territory. There was iudeed a kind of typiqal
possession of it in the reign of Solomon;—which
reign was a type of the Millennium. (See Psalm
Ixxii.) David, in his wars which were typical of the
wars that will introduce the Millennium, subdued and
put under tribute the Syrians, Moabites, Ammonites,
and most of the nations dwelling in the above named
territories. And they continued in subjection in the
reign of Solomon. (See 1 Kings iv. 2 i.) But those na­
tions were not then driven out; nor was their land
possessed by the children of Abraham. They after­
ward threw off their yoke, aud were extremely trou­
blesome to the people of God. They were only made
tributary (luring a part of two reigns. But God prom­
ised—Exod. xxiii. 31—“ 1will set thy bounds froiri
the Red Sea even, to the sea of the Philistines, and-
from the desert unto the river (Euphrates.) For 1wilji
deliver the inhabitants of the lanu into your haucte,
Digitized by Goo;
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 51
and thou shall drive them out before t h e e The land
east of Canaan, and away to the river Euphrates, was
never possessed by Israel. Their literal possession of
that extent of territory must be. an event still fu-.
ture.
The promised land was given to Israel “for an ever­
lasting possession;’’ Gen. xvii. 8. Surely this must
mean a longer time tfyan they did in ages past possess
it. This promise remains then to be yet fulfilled. It
must mean an undisturbed possession of it, so long as
the possession of it on earth may be desirable; or to
the end of the world. ' We accordingly find that peo­
ple, at the time of the introduction of the Millennium,
expostulating with God, and pleading that ancient
grant; Isa. lxiii. 17, 18; “ O Lord, why hast thou
made us to err from thy way, and hardened our heart
from thy fear ? Return for thy servants’ sake, the
tribes of thine inheritance. The people of thy holi­
ness have possessed it (thine inheritance) but a little
while : our adversaries have trodden down thy sanctu­
ary. We are thine. Thou never bearest rule over
them ; they are not called by thy name.’’ Here is a
plea put into the mouths of the ancient people of the
Lord, at the time of their restoration, not long before
the battle of the great day, with a description of which
battle this chapter begins. They expostulate relative
to the sovereignty of God, in the resting of the veil of
blindness and hardness so long on their hearts, during
their long rejected state. They plead that they are
GcyPs servants, according to the ancient entail of the
covenant. They plead for a restoration ;—and plead
that their nation had enjoyed, that their everlasting in­
heritance, but a little while ; bift that a people not call­
ed by God’s name, nor governed by his word, had
trodden down the sanctuary; a description exactly
fulfilled by the Turks. This fully implies the enter­
ing again of the* Jews upon their ancient inheritance,
in the last days.
3. I shall now adduce some of the numerous ex­
press predictions of this event. In the prophecy of
Ezekiel, the restoration of the Jews and of Israel to
their own land, as well as their conversion in the last
Digitized by Google
52 THE CERTAIN RESTORATION
days, is clearly predicted. In chapter xxxvi. we have
their long dispersion, and their guilty cause of it. But
God, in the last days, works for his own name’s sake,
and recovers them. God says, u And I will sanctify
my great name, which was profaned among the hea­
then ; and the heathen shall know that 1am the Lord
—when I shall be sanctified in you before their eyes.
For 1 will take you from among the heathen, and gath­
er you out of all countries, and will bring you into
your own land. And I will sprinkle clean water upon
you and ye shall be clean; from all your filthiness, and
from all your idols will I cleanse you. A. new heart
also will I give unto you, and a new spirit will I put
within you ; and I will take away the stony heart out
of your flesh, and I will give you an heart of flesh. And
I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk
in my statutes, and ye shall keep my judgments and
do them. And ye shall dwell in the land that I gave
to your fathers, and ye shall be my people, and I will
be your God. Then shall ye remember your own evil
ways—and shall loathe yourselves.—Not for your
sakes do 1 this, saith the Lord God, be it known unto
you. Thus saith the Lord God; in the day that I
shall have cleansed you from all your iniquities, I will
also cause you to dwell in the cities, and the wastes
shall be builded. And the desolate land shall be tilled,
whereas it lay desolate in the sight of all the heathen
that passed by. And they shall say, this land that was
so desolate is become like the garden of Eden; and
the waste and desolate and ruined cities are become
fenced and are inhabited. Then the heathen who are
left round about you, shall know that 1the Lord build
the ruined places, ancWplant that which was desolate.
I the Lord have spoken it, and I will do it.’’ Here is
their regeneration ; having a new heart; being cleansed
from all sin. And beside this, we find expressly prom­
ised. their being reinstated in the land of their fathers,
which had long lain waste. They rebuild their ancient
cities. That this is in the last days, connected with
the introduction of the Millenniurti, the connexion of
the whole passage, and the following chapters, fully
decide. Both houses of the descendants of Abrahana,
OF JUDAH AND ISltAlSL.
(viz. Israel and Judah.) are recovered, as will be seen.
Those predictions cannot be fulfilled merely by the
.conversion of that people. For over and above their
express conversion, they are established in the land of
their fathers.
The prophet proceeds further to predict and illus­
trate the wonderful event, by the resurrection of a val­
ley of dry bones, chap, xxxvii. which figure God thus
explains : 4
4Son of man, these bones are the whole
house of Israel. Behold, they say, our bones are dried,
and our hopeis lost; we are cut off for our parts. There­
fore prophecy, and say unto them ; thus saith the Lord
God ; behold, O my people, I will open your gravep,
and cause you to come up out of your graves, and
bring you into the land of Israel. And ye shall know
that 1 am the Lord, when I have opened your graves,
O my people, and brought you up out of your graves,
and shall put my spirit in you, and ye shall live, and I
shall place you in your own land. Then shall ye
know#that I the Lord have spoken it, and performed
it, saith the Lord.”
♦Thd^e-union of the two branches oi that people
follows, by the figure of the two sticks taken by the
prophet. On the one he writes, 4
4For J udah, and for
the children of Israel his companions.” Upon the
other; 4
4For Joseph^ the stick of Ephraim, and for all
the house of Israel his companions.”
Lest any should say, the prediction which here
seems to foretel the restoration of the ten tribes, as
well as that of the Jews, were accomplished in the res­
toration of that few of the Israelites, who clave to the
Jews under the house of David, and the ten tribes are
irrecoverably lost; it is here expressed that the Jews
and (hose Israelites, their companions, were symbol­
ized by one stick; and Ephraim, all the house of Israel,
(the whole ten tribes,) by the other stick. These
sticks miraculously become one in the prophet’s hand ;
which is thus explained. 4
4Thus saith the Lord God ;
Behold, I will take the children of Israel (their gene­
ral ancient name, including the twelve tribes) fr6m
amonjg the heathen, whether they be gone; and I will
¿3
Digitized by Google
TilE CERTAIN RESTORATION
gather them on every side?, and bring them into tKeii?
own land. And 1 will make them one nation in the
land, upon the mountains of Israel; and one icing shall
be king to them all; and they shall be no more two na­
tions, neither shall they be divided into two kingdoms
any more at all. And they shall dwell in the land that
I gave unto Jacob, my servant, wherein your fathers
have dwelt, and they shall dwell therein, even they
and their children and their children’s children forev­
er.” Can a doubt here rest on the subject, whether
the Jews and the ten tribes shall be re-established in
Palestine? Can such divine testimony as this be done
away? But similar-testimonies to the point are numer­
ous in the prophets. This passagehasneveryet received
a primary, or paitial fulfilment. The whole of it re­
mains to be fulfilled. Some of the predictions, which
are to have ati ultimate accomplishment in this final
restoration had a primary one in the restoration
from the seventy years captivity in Babylon. But
even this cannot be said of the prophecy under
consideration. None of those written on tfte se­
cond sticky in the band of the prophet, h^ge ever
yet been recovered. The whole passage is intimately
connected with the battle of that great day, which in­
troduces the Millennium ; as appears in the twro fol-
*lowing chapters. Here the house of Israel enter
again upon their everlasting possession of the land of
promise, which God engaged to Abraham.
A reiteration of these predictions is intermingled
with the predictions concerning Gog, or the pow­
ers of Antichrist, to be collected against the Jews,
after their restoration, in the two chapters suc­
ceeding. “ In the latter years thou (Gog) shalt come
into the land that is brought back from the sword,
and gathered out of many peofie, against the moun­
tains of Israel, which hafe been always Waste, (or-
have lain waste for so mal^r centuries during (he dis­
persion of the Jews;) but ttj(lhat nation) is brought
back out of the nations, and $jey shall dwell safely all
of them. Thou shalt asceiifrand cpme like a storm ;
thou shalt be like a cloud to cover the. land, thou and
all tby bands, and many people .with thee. Thus said*
ihe Lord God ; it shall also come to pass, that at the
same time, shall things come into thy mind, and thou
shalt think an evil thought; and thou shalt. say,
U
’I will go up to the land of unwalled villages, (the
state of the Jews in Palestine, after their restora­
tion ;)1 will go to them that are at rest, that dwell safe­
ly, all of them, dwelling without walls, and having
neither bars nor gates; to take a spoil, and to take a
prey, to turn thine hand upon the desolate places that
are now inhabited, and upon the people that are gath-^
ered out of the nations, who have gotten cattle and
goods, who dwell in the midst of the land.” “ Thou
shalt fall upon the mountains of Israel, thou and all
thy bands. So will I make my holy name known in
the midst of my people Israel; and the heathen shall
know that I am the Lord, the Holy One of Israel. Be­
hold, it is come, it is done, saith the Lord God. This
is the day whereof I have spoken. And they that
dwell in the cities of Israel shall go forth, and shall
set on fire and burn the weapons—seven yekrs.”
The whole account is thus divinely summed up.—
“ Therefore, thus saith the Lord God ; now’will 1bring!
again the captivity of Jacob, and have mercy upon the
whole house of Israel, and will be jealous for my holy
name; after that they have borne their shame, and all
their trespasses whereby they have trespassed against
me, when they dwelt safely in their land,' and' pone
,made them afraid. When 1 have brought them again
from the people, and gathered them out of their ene­
mies’ lands, and am sanctified in them in the sight of
many nations; then shall they know that 1 am the
Lord their God, who caused them to be led into cap­
tivity among the heathen ; but I have gathered them
into their own land, and left none of them there (among
the heathen) any more ; neither will I hide my face
any more from them ; for I have poured out my spirit
upon the house of Israel, ‘saith the Lord God.” It
seems as though this w
rere enough, if nothing more
were quoted from the prophets to prove our point.
If this proof should be deemed insufficient, one would
Tie apt to say, nothing that inspiration can assert up­
on the point, could be deemed sufficient!
o r JUDAH AND ISRAEL. $3
Digitized by Google
$6 THE CERTAIV RESTORATION
Bat that it may appear that the prophetic writings
unite to exhibit this as a great object of the Christian’s
belief, I shall note some of the other predictions ofit.
In Isaiaii xi. the stem from the root of Jesse is
promised. The Millennium follows, when the cow
aid the bear shall feed together, and the wolf and the
lamb unite in love; and nothing* more shall hurt or
oiFend. 4
4 Audit shall come to pass in that day that
the Lord shall set his hand again, the second time, to
gather the remnant of his people, who shall be left^
from Assyria and from Egypt, and from Pathros, an<i
from Cush, and from Elam, and from Shinar. and from
Humah, and from the isles of the sea. And he shall
set up an ensign for the nations, and shall assemble
the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispers­
ed of Judah, from the four corners of the earth.”
Here just before the Millennium, the Jew s and tea
tribes ^re collected from their long dispersion, by the
hand of Omnipotence, set a second time for their reco­
very. A body of the Jews, and some of several oth­
er tribes, were recovered from ancient Babylon. God
is going, in the last days, to make a second, and more
effectual recovery, from mystical Babylon, and from
the four quarters of the earth. The prophet proceeds;
“ And the Lord shall utterly destroy the tongue of the
Egyptian sea; and with his mighty wind shall he
shake his hand over the river, and shall smite it in the
seven streams, and make men go over dr) shod. And
there shall be an highway for the remnant of his peo­
ple, which shall be left from Assyria ; like as it was to
Israel in the day that he came up out of the land of
Egypt.” Mr. Scott,’upon this passage, says ; t4For
the Lord will then remove all obstacles by the same
powerful interposition, that he vouchsafed in behalf
of Israel, when He separated the tongue, or bay of
the Red Sea, and destroyed that hindrance to the de­
parture of Israel ; and with a rtiighty wind he will so
separate the waters of the river Euphrates, in all its
streams, that men may pass overdry shod. Thus an
highway §hall be made for Israel’s return, as there
was for their ancestors to pass from Egypt into Ca- 4
yGc c *'
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 57
naan. This part of the chapter contains a prophecy,
which certainly remains yet to be accomplished.”—
Bishop Low-th says the same ; and adds, as quoted by
Mr. Scott, “ This part of the chapter foretels the
glorious times of the church, which shall be ushered
in by the restoration of the Jewish nation, when they
shall embrace the gospel, and be restored to their own
country. This remarkable scene of Providence is
plainly foretold by most of the prophets ; and by St.
Paul.” We thus have the testimony of those great
men, Lowth and Scott, in favour of*a literal restora­
tion of the Jews to their own land, being here predic­
ted. And here is a drying up of a mighty river, to
prepare the way for the event. A river is the sym­
bol of a nation. When Israel were to be redeemed
from Egypt, the Red Sea was to be dried before them.
When they were to be redeemed from Babylon, the
Euphrates was by Cyrus to be dried or turned, to ac­
complish the event. And in their .last restoration to
Palestine, (ere long to be accomplished,) another great
mystical river is to be dried up. The sixth vial dries
up the mystic Euphrates, that th£ way of the kings
of the east may be prepared. Tins is to be fulfilled
on the Turks. Perhaps the event is now transpiring.
This river is to be smitten in its seven streams / as
stated in this prophecy of Isaiah ; perhaps indicating
that the Turks, be they ever so powerful in provinces
and resources, as seven is a number of perfection, they
yet shall fall by the remarkable hand of God, to ac­
commodate the return of his ancient people. These
prophetic hints give an interest to the present strug­
gles in the south-east of Europe, or in Greece.
In Jeremiah, xxiii. 6, 8, is the restoration of Israel.
“ In his days. (i. e. under the millennial reign of the
righteous branch raised up to David,) Judah shall be
saved, and fsrael shall dwell safely ; I will gather the
remnant of my flock out of all countries, whither I
have driven them, and will bring them again to their
folds. Therefore, behold the days come, saith the
Lord, that they shall no more say, The Lord liveth,
who brought up the children of Israel out of the land
Digitized by Google
s i THE CERTAIN RESTORATION
of Egypt; but, the Lord liveth, who brought up, and
who led the house of Israel put of the north country,
and from all countries whither I have driven them,
and they shall dwell in their own land.’* As this
event is under the reign of Christ, so it has never
yet been fulfilled. It is an event of the last days;
and plants the ancient people of God iii their own
land.
The same comparison of the same event, we find
in Jeremiah xvi. 14, 15. After denouncing their
long dispersion for their sins ; God says, “ Therefore,
behold the days come, saith the Lord, that it shall no
more be said, The Lord liveth that brought up the chil­
dren of Israel out of the land of Egypt; but the Lord
liveth that brought up the children of Israel from the
land of the north, and from all the lands whither I had
driven them; and I will bring them into their land,
that I gave unto their fathers.”
In Isaiah xviii. a land shadowing with wings at the
last days, is by the Most High addressed, and called to
aid this restoration of that people of God. “ Go, ye
swift messengers, to a nation scattered and peeled, to
a people terrible from the beginning hitherto; a nation
meted out, and trodden down ; whose land the rivers
have spoiled. In that day shall the present be brought
unto the Lord of hosts, of a people scattered and peel­
ed, and from a people terrible from the beginning
hitherto; a nation meted outandtrodden under foot;
whose land the rivers have spoiled, to the place of the
Lord of hosts, the Mount 55ion.” The people here
described, (to be brought by thatland addressed, as a
present to the Lord, to Mount Zion, or to Palestine,)
are evidently the descendants of Abraham.and au event
of the last days. A further explanation of this chap­
ter is to be given in the last chapter of this work.
The same thing is noted in Isaiah lx. The Jewish
church is called upon; “Arise,shine,for thy light is come
and the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee. The gen­
tiles shall come to thy light, and kings to the bright­
ness of thy rising. Who are these that fly as clouds,
arid as doves to their windows ? Surely the hies shall
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 59
wait for me, and the ships of Tarshish first^ to bring
thy sons from far, thejr silver and their gold with
them, unto the name of the Lord thy God, «and to the
Holy One of Israel, because he hath glorified thee.”
Here are ships conveying the Hebrews to Palestine,
as clouds and as doves to their windows. Chap. lxvi.
30 : “ And they shall bring of your brethren for an of­
fering unto the Lord, out of all nations, upon horses,
and in chariots, and in litters, and upon mules, and
upou swift beasts, to my holy niountain Jerusalem,
saith the Lord, as the children of Israel bring an otter­
ing in a clean vessel unto the house of the Lord.” fu
Zephaniah iii. 10, (connected with the battle of the
great day, andihe Millennium.) we read ; u From the
rivers of Ethiopia my suppliants (or worshippers) shall
bring my offering, even the daughter of my dispersed
as the passage should be rendered.
In Isaiah Ixv. wejfind the sin, the dispersion, and the
gathering again, at the Millennium, of the ancient
tribes of the Lord. In relation to their gathering af­
ter their banishment, and “ their works are measured
into their bosom,” it follows; “ Thus saith the Lord;
As the new wine is found in the cluster, and one saith,
destroy it not; fora blessing is in it; so will I do for
my servants’ sakes that 1 may not destroy them all.
And 1 will bring forth a seed out of Jacob, and out of
Judah an inheritor of ni) mountains; and mine elect
shall inherit it, and my servants shall dwell there.”
Here, after the long rejected slate of Jacob and Judah,
a blessed remnant at last §hall be recovered ;—a seed
from Jacob, (the ten tribes) and from Judah (the
Jews) an inheritor of Canaan shall come and dwell
in that land. This has never *et been fulfilled. But
it will be accomplished when God will (as in the fol-
lowing^erses) “ create new heavens, and a new earth,”
in the millennial glorj of the church.
In Anios ix. H, 15, is a prediction of this event.
“ And 1 will bring again the captivity of my people
Israel, and they shall build the waste cities, and inhab­
it them ; and they shall plant vineyards, and drink the
wine thereof; and 1 will plant them upon their land,
Digitized by Google
€0 THE CERTAIN RESTORATION
and they shall no more be pulled up out of their land,
which 1have given them, saiih the Lord God.” *This
restoration is surely future. For after the restoration
from the Babylonish captivity, they were again expel­
led from their land, now for. many centuries. But af­
ter the restoration here promised, God says, “ They
shall no more be pulled up out of their land.” This
shows that the restoration here promised is both fu­
ture and literal. Jer. xxx. 3 ; “ For lo, the days come,
saith the Lord, that l will bring again the captivity of
my people, Israel and Judah, saith the Lord ; and I
will cause them to return to the land that Igave to their
fathers, and they shall possess it.” In the restoration
from Babylon, Israel was not returned ; and the Jews
possessed their land but a short time. Hence this
prophecy remains to Ik; fulfilled. Read the whole
31st chapter of Jeremiah, and you will find the resto­
ration of the Jews and the ten tribes, to the land of
their fathers, in the last days ; and their continuance
in it so long as the sun, moon and stars endure. “ If
those ordinances depart from before me, saith the
Lord, (i. e. of the sun, moon and stars) then the seed
of Israel shall cease from being a nation before me
forever.” God here promises “ the city (Jerusa­
lem) shall be built to the Lord ; it shall not be plucked
up, nor thrown down any more forever.” Here God
engages that as Ephraim is God’s first born ; so he will
earnestly remember him still, and surely have mercy
upon him, for his bowels are pained with his long out­
cast state. That he will sow the house of Israel and the
house of Judah with the seed of men ; and that “ like
as he had watched over them, to pluck up, and to
break down, to throw down, and to destroy and afflict;
so he will watch over them to build and plant.
That all this shall be, when the new covenant is made
with the house of Israel and the house of Judah, not
according to the covenant that he made wfith their
fathers. Thus it is an event to take place under the
last, the gospel dispensation ; and hence it must be
now future.
yGoogle
®F JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 61
The prophet Joel, when foretelling the last days,
and the Millennium, notes this event; chap. iii. 1.
u For behold, in those days, and at that time, when I
shall bring agaid the captivity of Judah and Jerusa­
lem, 1 will also gather all nations, and will bring them
down into the valley of Jehoshaphat.” The battle
of the great day of God follows; verse 9— 17. Up­
on which follows the Millennium. Jn this series of
events, God “■
brings again the captivity of Judah and
Jerusalem."’
In Zeph. iii. is the same. A new preparatory-
scene of judgment is predicted; verse 6, 7. The
battle of the great day follows; verseS. Then the
Millennium ; verse 9. To prepare the way for this,
the noted restoration is promised; verse 10— 18. And
the scene closes thus ; verse 19, 20. “ Behold, at
that time I will undo all that afflict thee ; and I will
save her thathalteth, and gather her that was driven
out; and I willf get me praise and fame in every land
where they have been put to shame. At that time I
will bring you again, even in the time that I gather
you ; for 1 will make you a name and a praise among
all the people of the earth, when I turn back your cap­
tivity before your eyes, saith the Lord.” <
The prophet Hosea most decisively predicts this
event. His first son must be called Jezreel; for God
would soon avenge the blood of Jezreel; “ and I will
cause to cease the house of Israel.” This house did
cease ; and has been banished and lost to this day.
The name of hfs daughter, Lo-ruhamah, is explained :
“ Ye are not iny people; and I will not be your God.”
Here is their loug excommunication. But he imme­
diately proceeds to predict their restoration. Chap,
i. 10, 11 ; u Yet the number of the children of Is­
rael shall be as the sand of the sea, which cannot be
measured nor numbered ; and it shall come to pass
that in the place, where it was said unto them, Ye are
not im people ; there shall it be said to them, Ye are.
the sons of the living God. Then shall the «children
o f Israel and the children of Judah he gathered to­
gether, and appoint themselves one head ; and they
6 '
Digitized by Google
û2 THE CERTAIN RESTORATION
shall come up out of the land ; (earth ;) for great
shall be the day of Jezreel.” Here the ten tribes
were to be dispersed, and again restored, together
with the Jews; and their numbers and prosperity
shall be immense. St. Paul quotes this passage, Rom.
ix. 26, merely by way of accommodation, to note that
the gentiles were called into the church ; (a tiling no­
ted by expositors as very common in the sacred wri­
tings ;) yet by no means with a view to hint, that this
text is not to receive a more literal accomplishment
4n a future restoration of thè ten tribes. In numer­
ous scriptures the sentiment is confirmed that there
shall be a literal restoration. The bringing in of the
gentile church is a prelude to this. Israel were ex­
communicated that the gentiles might take their place.
But it was to be thus, only “ till the fuh\ess of the
gentiles be come in,” and then Israel sh^lf be grafted
in again, and their promised restoration be accom­
plished.
This prophet proceeds in the following chapters to
predict the same event. See Ho^ca, 2d and 3d chapters.
The account closes thus ; u For the children of Israel
shall abide many days without a king, and without a
prince, and without a sacrifice, and without ah image,
and without an ephod, and without a teraphim. Af*
terward shall the children of Israel return and seek
the Lord their God, and David, their king ; and shall
fear the Lord and his goodness in the latter days.”
Here is a description of the present rejected state of
Israel; and a prediction of their national restoration,
“ in the latter days.”
But few of the predictions of this final restoration
are given. To recite them all, would be unwieldy.
In Isai. xiv. is a prediction of the destruction of a
power under the name of the king of Babylon ;
which event is evidently the same with the destruction
of the mystical Babylon of the last days,—inasmuch
as it is to be accomplished upon the mountains of Is­
rael ; verse 25. To. prepare the way for this, we
have the promised restoration of Israel, verse Las
immediately preparatory to the event ; and therefore
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 63
it must in its ultimate accomplishment be still future.
u For the Lord will have mercy on Jacob, and will
yet choose Israel, and set them in their own land.
And the strangers shall be joined with them., and they
shall cleave to the house of Jacob.” The stranger
being joined unto Israel, restored to their own land,
and what follows in the second and third verses, were
events, which were not fulfilled when the Jews retur­
ned from ancient Babylon ; but are just such events
as are promised to take place after the final restora­
tion of Israel, and the battle of the great day. The
promised restoration is expressly applied to Israel.
Judah and Israel had become two nations long before
this prophecy. The event is then clearly future. Is­
rael shall be again chosen and set in their own land.
This restoration is a great event in the prophets ; /
and we find it in the New Testament. Paul (in his
epistle to the Romans, chap, xi.) notes their being $
again grafted into their own olive tree, as a notable
event of the last days, which shall be the “ riches of
the gentiles yea, “ life from the dead” to them.
See also Isaiah xlix. 18—23. One passage more I
will adduce from the writings of Moses ; Deut. xxx.
The long and doleful dispersion of this people had
been predicted in the preceding chapters. Here their
final restoration follows. “ And it shall come to pass,
when all these things are come upon thee, and thou
sh&lt call them to mind among all the nations whither
the Lord thy God hath driven thee, and shalt return
unto the Lord thy God ;—that then the Lord thy God
will turn thy captivity, and have compassion upon
thee, and’will return and gather thee from all the na­
tions whither the Lord thy God hath scattered thee.
And the Lord thy God will bring thee into the land,
which thy fathers possessed, and thou shalt possess it,
and he will do thee good, and multiply thee above thy
fathers.” This has never yet been fulfilled. For the
Jews, returned from. Babylon, were very far from be­
ing multiplied in their land above their fathers. This
remains still to be accomplished.
Digitized by Google
04 THK CERTAIN RESTORATION
Thirs the prophetic writings do clearly decide,
that both Israel and the Jews shall, in the last days,
before the Millennium, be literally restored to their
own land of Palestine, and be converted to the Chris­
tian faith.
4. To give a mystical import to all these prophe­
cies, and say they will be fulfilled only in the conver­
sion of these ancient people of God to Christianity,
is to take a most unwarrantable liberty with the word
of God. Some have made such pretence ; but far
be it from me to follow them! Why not as well ap­
ply, a mystical sense to every prediction of future
events ? To the predictions of the battle of that
great day ; of the Millennium ; of the resurrection of
the bodies of men ; of the final judgment; of the
conflagration of this world ; of heaven; and of hell ?
Why may not those as well all be fulfilled, not by &
literal, but by some mystical accomplishment ? Is not
this to add and to diminish, with a witness? Pan!
says, (2 Tim. il. 16,) “ But shun profanef and vain
babblings ; for they will increase unto more ungodli­
ness* and their words will eat as doth a canker; of
whom is Hymeneas and Philetns; who concerning the
truth have erred, saying, that the resurrection is past
already, and overthrow the faith of some.” What
was the liberty, taken by those arch heretics ? No
doubt it was this; applying to the predictions of a
resurrection of the bodies of men from the grave, a
mystical resurrection of the soul from the death of
sin. But the predictions of the resurrection are far
less numerous, and are not more express, than are the
predictions of the restoration of the Jews .and Israel
to their own land.
In various of the most remarkable of these predic­
tions, we find it distinctly ascertained that the Jews
shall be converted; shall have a new heart given
them; shall have their hearts circumcised to fear the
Lord. And beside this, it is said that people shall (as
a distinct nation,) be restored 16 the land of their fa­
thers, and shall dwell in temporal prosperity there
through all following ages, and be more numerous than
Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
ever were their fathers. To say then, that all those
predictions of such a restoration to Palestine, are to
be accomplished only in the bringing of that people
(in their dispersed state) to embrace the Messiah ; is
to take a most unwarrantable liberty with the word of
God! Look at one passage; Ezekiel, 3Gth, 37th, 38th,
and 39th chapters. Are the new heart (the heart of
flesh) there promised, and God’s gathering them out
of all lands into their own land, which had so long
lain waste, one and the same event ? What can such
expositors do with the predictions of Gog and hiß
bands, gathered against them, and falling upon the
mountains of Israel ? Are these (and all the predic­
tions in Joel, Zechariah, and other prophets, of the
gathering of all nations to Jerusalem,) to beexpfained
away, so that no “ gathering of the nations, and as­
sembling of the kingdoms” must be expected ? It must
be a dangerous expedient thus to explain away the
clear and express sentiments of revelation. The old
and best expositors generally have believed in a literal
restoration of Judah and Israel. And no material ob­
jections can be raised against it, wdrich might not in
its principle operate as forcibly against all predicted
future events.
5. That the Hebrews are to have a literal restora­
tion, appears from the fact, that the threatenings that
God would cast them off, had their fulfilment in a lit­
eral rejection of them from the promised land. The
promises of their restoration appear to be an exact
counterpart of this ; and hence must have their effect
in restoring them again to Palestine. If such promises
did not design to restore them again to the land of
their fathers ; why should the threatenings of their re­
jection of God, be designed to have their eflect in ex­
pelling them literally from the land of promise ? Why
should one of them receive a literal, and the other a
mystical construction ? No account can be given of
this. If there is no benefit in restoring them to Pal­
estine ; why was there any calamity in expelling then*
from Palestine 1 Why did not God let them continue
there, though he withdrew his spirit and grace from
6*
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 6S
Digitized by Google
them ? But if, over and above this, they must be ex­
pelled from the land of promise ; then surely their
promised restoration must (over and above giving
them the heart of flesh) bring them back to the Ca­
naan, which was given to them for an everlasting pos­
session.
66 THE CERTAIN RESTORATION, &e.
♦
Digitized by
C H A P T E R I l l i
THE
P R E S E N T S T A T E
OF
T
O
i
.
'
J
E
M
E
)MU. '
The present state of the Jews is so well understood
in the Christian and literary world, that very little will
here be said on this part of the subject. While a
more particular attention will be paid to the present
state of the ten tribes of Israel.
The whole present population of the Jews has
been calculated at five millions. But the probability
is, (as has been thought by goodjudges,) that they at^e
far more numerous.* One noted character says, that
in Poland and part of Turkey, there are at least three
millions of this people ; and that among them gene­
rally, there is an unusual spirit of enquiry relative
to Christianity. Mr. Noah says, that in the States of
Barbary, their number exceeds seven hundred thou­
sand. Their population in Persia, China, India, and
Tartary, is stated (in a report of the London Society
for the conversion of the Jews,) to be more than three
hundred thousand. In Western Asia the Jews are
numerous; and they are found in almost every land.
As in Europe this remarkable people have been
singularly depressed, and in ages past, made a taunt*
* Rev. Mr. Frey smys, more than nine millions.
-1-- *
■ --- - Google
efi THE PRESENT STATE
reproach, and by-word, trodden down, scattered and
peeled; one would hope that quarter of the world
woulS feel themselves obligated to be singularly active
in bringing about their restoration. Considerable has
been undertaken to meliorate their condition, and pre­
pare the way for their restoration.
It is fourteen years sincea society was formed in Lon­
don to aid the Christianization of this people. A chap­
el has been erected by this society for their benefit.
The New Testament they have caused to be translated
into the Hebrew language; also many tracts written in
Hebrew. These tracts and Testaments have been libe­
rally distributed among the Jews, and been readJm
multitudes of them with no small attention. Missiona­
ries have been sent among them ; schools opened, and
various means used. A seminary was opened in 1822
for the instruction of the youth of this people. Four
students of the seed of Abraham entered it; one of
them the celebrated Mr. Wolff, a Jewish convert and
missionary. In various parts of the United King­
doms, auxiliary societies have been formed; and the
amount of monies received in 1822, vyas upwards of
/. 10,698 sterling, (between 40 and $50,000.) In the
schools of the society are between seventy and eighty
children of the Jews. In 1822 there were distribu­
ted, 2,459 Hebrew Testaments ; 892 German Jewish
ffoi ; 2,597 Polish Judea do. ; 800 Hebrew Psalters ;
42,410 Hebrew Tracts ; 30,000 English do. for the
Jews ; 19,300 Hebrew cards. The prophets are
about to be printed in Hebrew, on stereotype plates,
for the benefit of the Jews. Places of deposit of
books for the Jews are established extensively in the
four quarters of the world.
Othet and similar societies in favour of the Jews
are becoming numerous. Only several will be given
in detail. One has been formed in Berlin under the
sanction of his Prussian majesty. This society in an
address to the public, observes ; “ Pious Christians
in Germany seem themselves almost excluded from
.the work of converting the heathen ; to whom sea­
faring nations only have an immediate access. May
Digitized by Google
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL, 69
they be of good cheer in turning their eyes to the
millions of the ancient people of God, who live among
them, or in their vicinity. There is no nation provi­
ded with so effective means now to begin the work of
their conversion, as protestant Germany. For this
country the most glorious harvest seems to be in re­
serve. Let us then clear ourselves from the blame
of leaving to perish these millions living among us, or
near our gates, without having ever made any well
regulated attempt to lead them to that cross upon
which their fathers crucified the Messiah. This field
is our owq, and only requires labourers. According
to our best information of its state, we have no doubt
but the soil will readily receive the seed of the divine
. word.” The informations received from Poland too,
are interesting. The Jews there seem to be convin­
ced that some important change in their condition is
preparing ; and they seem ready to co operate in the
means of such a change# Count Von der Recke.
near Westphalia, has established near Dasselsdorf an
asylum for converted Jews. And numerous societies
have been formed in Europe and America, to aid this
great object. The American Meliorating Society,
with its auxiliaries, might be noted in detail ; but they
are well known. The history of the Palestine mis­
sion also; the noted agency of Mr. Frey, and the
mission of Mr. Wolff, the Jewish missionary to Pales­
tine ; also the remarkable conversion of many of the
Jews; but this would exceed my designed limits;
and these things are well known to the Christian
world. •
My present object is rather to attend to the present
state of the ten tribes of Israel• This branch of the
Hebrew family have long been “ outcasts1’ out of
sight; or unknown as Hebrews. The questions arise,
are they in' existence, as a distinct people? If so,
who, or where are they ? These are queries of great
moment, at this period, when the time of their resto­
ration is drawing near. These queries may receive
an answer in the following pages.
yGoogle
70 THE PtlESENT STATË
Some preliminary remarks will be made ; and then
arguments adduced relative to the present state of the
tribes of Israel.
1. It has been clearly ascertained in the preceding
chapter, that the ten tribes, as the Israel of God, are
in the last days to be recovered, and restored with- the
Jews. The valley of dry bones, and the two sticks
becoming one in the prophet’s hand, have been seen
clearly to ascertain this : Sec Ezck. xxxvii. as* well
as the many other passages noted in that chapter. But
as this fact is essential to our inqurfng after the ten
tribes with confidence of their existence, I shall here
note several additional predictions of the event, found
in the prophets ; and note some passages, which dis­
tinguish between the dispersed state of the Jews, and
the outcast state of the ten tribes ; which distinction
will afford some light in our inquiries.
When the restoration of the Hebrews is predicted,
ln1§ai. xi. that Gocfwill in the last days set up an en­
sign for the nations ; it is to u assemble the outcasts of
Israel ; and gather together the dispersed of Judah
from the four corners of the earth.” Mark the dis­
tinction ; the Jews are “ dispersed scattered over
the nations as Jews, as they have long been known to
be ; but Israel are “ o u t c a s t cast out from the na­
tions ; from society ; from the social world ; from the
knowledge of men, as being Hebrew's. This distinc­
tion is repeatedly found in the prophets. The dis­
persed state of the Jews, as Jews, is a most notable
idea in the prophetic scriptures. But of Israel, the
following language is iised ; as- Isai. Ivi. 8 ; u The
Lord God who gathereth the outcasts of Israel, saith.”
&c. Accordingly, when Israel are recovered, and
united with the Jews at last, the Jews express their
astonishment, and inquire where they had been ? They
, had utterly lost them, as is the fact. See Isai. xlix.
18—22. The Jews here, w'hile u removing to and
fro ” through the nations, in their dispersed slate, had
been 4
4left a lo n e i. e. of the ten tribes. The latter
being now restored to the bosom of the mother church,
the Jews inquire, “ Who hath brought up these ? Be~
\ Digitized by Google
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 71
hold, I was left alone ; these, where had they been?”
Here we learn that the ten tribes had, during the long
dispersion of the Jews, been utterly out of theirsight
and knowledge, as their brethren. This implies the
long outcast state of the ten tribes.' ^ We find the same
idea in Isai. lxiii. The chapter Î&
. introduced with
the battle of the great day of God, which introduces
the Millennium ; See verse 1—6. The events of the
chapter then, are intimately connected with that peri­
od. They involve the restoration of God’s ancient
people. And we find a special branch of that ancient
people pleading with God in language clearly indica­
tive of their antecedent outcast stale—having been
lost from the knowledge of the known descendants of
Abraham, the Jews. Allusion is made to their an­
cient redemption ; and to their subsequent and fatal
rebellion, till God “ was turned to be their enemy, and
he fought against them ;”—or cast them out of his
sight. At last (at a period nearly connected with the
great battle) they are waking up, and pleading; “Look
down from heaven, and behold from the habitation of
thy holiness and of thy glory ; where is thy zeal and
thy strength, the sounding of thy bowels and of thy
mercies toward me? Are they restrained?” Here
after a long period they awake from the dead, and
piead God’s ancient love to their nation. What fol­
lows is atFectingly descriptive of the outcast bftnished
stale. “ Doubtless thou art our father, though Abra­
ham be ignorant of us, and Israel acknow ledge us not;
thou, O Lord, art our Father, our Redeemer, thy
name is from everlasting.” Here then is a branch
of that ancient people, unknown to Abraham ; i. e.
unacknowledged by the Israel that have always been
known as such, or the Jew's ; clearly meaning, that
they have long been unknown as being the descend­
ants of Abraham ; and yet such they are, according
to the whole context, When the present outcast ten
tribes shall he convinced, from their own internal tra­
ditions, and by the aid of ttu^e commissioned <0 bring
them in. that the\ are the ancient Israel of God, the
abuve language exactly fits their case ; as does the
Digitized by Google
72 THE PRESENT STATE
following connected with i t ; “O Lord, why hast thou
made us to err from thy ways, and hardened our
hearts from thy fear ? Return for thy servant’s sake,
the tribes of thine inheritance. The people of thy
holiness have possessed it but a little while.” Or, our
ancestors in the promised land enjoyed what thou didst
engage to them for an everlasting inheritance, but a
limited period. “Our adversaries have trodden down
thy sanctuary. We are thine. Thou never bearest
rule over them. They were not called by thy name.”
Here is a branch of the tribes, till^ now, and for a
long time, unknown. But themselves finding who they
are, they plead with God the entail of the covenant,
and their covenant right to Palestine ; and that the
Turkish possessors of it were never called by God’s
name ; nor were they under his laws. This must be
fulfilled at a time not far from the present period.
Several additional passages will be noted, to show
that both the branches of that ancient people are to
be restored. 1 1 Isai. xi. after the promise that the
dispersed Jews, and outcast Israel shall be restored ;
the prophet adds, verse 13; “ The envy also of
Ephraim shall depart; Ephraim shall not envy Judah,
and Judah shall not vex Ephraim.” Here the mutual
jealousies between the two branches of the house of
Israel, which before the expulsion of the ten tribes
kept them in almost perpetual war, shall never again
*be revived ; which passage assures us of the restora­
tion of Israel as Israel.
In Jer. iii. those two branches are distinguished by
£t backsliding Israel, and her treacherous sister Judah.’*
Israel was already put away for her spiritual adulte­
ries, (having then been rejected for nearly one hun­
dred years.) But the same backsliding Israel is there
again recovered in the last days. God calls after
them; Return, thou backsliding Israel ; for I am mar­
ried unto you, saith the Lord. And I will take you, one
of a city and two of a family ; (or, one of a village,
and two of a tribe ;) and will bring yon to Zion.” *
* In
those days the house of Judah shall walk with the
house of Israel; and they shall come together out of
Dig * / Google
©F JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 7S
the land of the north, to the land that I have given to
your fathers.’’ This has never yet had even a partial
accomplishment. Its event is manifestly future.
The entail of the covenant must as surely recover
the ten tribes as the Jews. Paul shows in Romans
xi. the consistency of the rejection of the Jews, with
the entail of the covenant with Abraham. And lie
makes their final restoration in the last days essential
to this consistency. But this inspired argument as
forcibly attaches itself to the ten tribes, to ensure their
recovery, as to the Jews. He accordingly there says,
u and so all Israel shall he saved or both branches
of the Hebrews shall be recovered. This same point
is most positively decided in Jeremiah, 30th and dlst
chapters, as has appeared in the preceding chapter.
2. It inevitably follows, that the ten tribes of Israel
must now have, somewhere on earth, a distinct exist­
ence in an.outcast state*. And we justly infer, that
God would in his holy providence provide some suit­
able place for their safe keeping, as his outcast tribes,
though long unknown to men as such. There is no
avoiding this conclusion. If God will restore them at
-last as his Israel, and as having been u outcast” from
the nations of the civilized world for 2500 years ; he
surely must have provided a place for their safe keep­
ing, as a distinct people, in some part of the world,
during that long period. They must during that peri­
od, have been unknown to the Jews as Israelites ; and
consequently unknown to the world as such ; or the
Jews would not at last (on their being united to them)
inquire, “ These, whe re had they been ?” lsai. xlix.
21. Nor would they themselves plead at that time,
“ though Abraham be ignorant of us, and Israel (the
Jews) acknowledge us not.’’
There is a passage in Hosea tv. 16, which confirm»
®nd illustrates this idea. There,' after the ten tribes
were utterly separated to spiritual whoredo’m, or idol­
atry, and were given up to total backsliding, God
says; “ Ephraim is joined to idols, let him alone.” God
was going to let him alone for a long period till the
timeof his restoration in the last days, la thepreceding
7
Digitized by Google
74 THE PRESENT STATE
verse, God hints his care of this people in this long
intermediate space. The hint is given in this com­
prehensive sentence ; u Now the Lord will feed them
as a lamb in a large place,v Now being long rejected,
and let alone, God wouldJeed them as a lamb in a large
place. He would provide a large capacious part of
the world for them, to keep them distinct by them­
selves ; and yet would have his special providential
eye upon them as his lamb. Scott upon the passage
says ; (after noting their obstinate rebellion ;) “ The
Lord therefore intended to disperse them throughout
the Assyrian empire, where they would be as much
exposed to injury and violence, as la single deserted
lamb in a large wilderness to the wild beasts.” Not
knowing where they are, Scott supposed they must
.be somewhere in Assyria. The fact is they ;\re not
found there. But according to him, the text gives the
fact that God was going to place them, as his “ desert­
ed lamb in a large wilderness of wild beasts.” How
perfectly do we here find described the long outcast
state of Israel in the vast wilderness of a sequestered
part of the world, where yet God would keep them in
existence, (and make provision for them eventually
to come to light.) as his long rejected lamb ! kiIs Eph­
raim a dear child? For since I spake against him, I
do earnestly remember him still.”
3. We have an account of the ten tribes, after their
captivity, which accords with the ideas just stated.
We receive not the books of the Apocrypha as given
by Inspiration ; but much credit has been given to
historical facts recorded in it ; as in the #
wars of the
Maccabees, and other places. In f
c
2 Esdras xiii. 40,
and on, we read; «Those are the ten tribes which
were carried away prisoners out of their own land, in
t h e time of ~Osea, the king, whom Salmanezer, the
king of Assyria, led away captive; and he carried
them over ihe waters, and so came they into another
land.” Here is the planting of them over the Eu­
phrates, in Media. The writer adds ; u But they'
t o o k this counsel among themselves, that they would
leave theinuititude of the heathen, and go forth into a
yGoogle
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 75
further country, where never man dwelt ; that they
might there keep their statutes which they never kept
(i. e. uniformly as they ought,) in their own land.—
There was a great way to go, namely, ofa year and a
half.” The writer proceeds to speak of the name of
the regiou being called Arsareth, or Ararat. He
must allude here to the region to which they directed
their course to go this year and a half’s journey. This,
place where no man dvvelt, must of course have been
unknown by any name. But Ararat, or Armenia, lay
north of the place tvhere the ten tribes were planted
when carried from Palestine. Their journey then,
was to the uorth, or north-east. This writer says,
“ They entered into the Euphrates by the narrow
passages of the river.” He must mean, they repassed
this river in its upper regions, or small streams, away
toward Georgia ; and hence must have taken their
course between, the Black and Caspian seas. This set
them off north-east of the Ararat, which he mentions.
Though this chapter in Esdras be a kind of prophecy,
in which we place not confidence ; yet the allusion to
facts learned by the author, no doubt may be correct.
And this seems just such an event as might be expec­
ted, had God indeed determined to separate them from
the rest of the idolatrous world, ana banish them by
themselves, in a laiuLwhere no man dwelt since the
flood. But if these tribes took counsel to go to a land
where no man dwelt, as they naturally would (do, they
certainly, could not have taken counsel to go into
Hindostán, or any of the old and long crowded na­
tions of Asia. Such a place they would naturally
have avoided. And to such a place the God of Is­
rael would not have led them, to keep them in an out­
cast sthte, distinct from all other nations, as his lamb
in a large wilderness.
4. Let several suppositions now be made. Sup­
pose an extensive continent had lately been discover­
ed, away north-east from Media, and at the distance
of “ a year and a half’s journey a place probably
destitute of inhabitants, since the flood, till the time
of tha u caTiag out” of Israel. Suppose a people to
Digitized by Google
76 tfHÈ PRESENT STATfí
have been lately discovered in that sequestered region*
appearing as we should rationally expect the nation of
Israel to appear at this period, had the account given
by the writer in Esdras been a fact. Suppose them
to be found in tribes, with heads of tribes ; but desti­
tute of letters, and in a savage state. Suppose among
their different tribes the following traditionary frag­
ments are by credible witnesses picked up ; some
particulars among one region of them, and some
among another ; while all appear evidently to be of
the same family. Suppose them to have escaped the.
polytheism of the pagan world; and to acknowledge
one, and only one God, the Great Spirit* who created
all things seen and unseen. Suppose the ñame re­
tained by many of them for this Great Spirit, to be
Ale, the old Hebrew name of God ; and Yohewah,
whereas the Hebrew name for Lord was Jehovah ;
also they call the Great First Cause, Yah; the He­
brew name being Jah. Suppose you find most of
thrift professing great reverence for this great Yohe­
wah ; calling him u the great beneficent supreme holy
spirit,’’ and the only object of worship. Suppose the
most intelligent of them to be elated with the idea
that this God has ever been the head of their commu­
nity ; that their fathers were once in covenant with
him; and the rest of the world were “ the accursed
people,’’ as out of covenant with God. Suppose you
find them, on certain occasions, singing in religious
dance, u Hallelujah,” or praise to Jah ; also singing
Yohewah, Sbilu Yohewah, and making use of many
names and phrases evidently Hebrew. You find them-
counting their time as did ancient Israel, and in a man­
ner different from all other nations. They keep a
variety of religious feasts, which much resemble those
kepi in ancient Israel.. You find an evening feast
among them, in which a bone of the animal must not
be broken ; if the provision be nrore than one family
can eat, a neighbour must be called in to help cat it,
and if any of it be still left, it must he burned before
the next rising sun. You find them eating hitter veg­
etables, to cleanse themselves from sin. You find
Digitized by Google
e r JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 77
they never eat the hollow of the thigh of any animal.
Taey inform iiiat their fathers practised circumcis­
ion. Some of them have been in the habit of keep­
ing a jubilee. They have their places answering to
the cities of refuge, in ancient Israel. In these no
blood is ever shed by any avenger. You find them
with their temples, (such as they be,) their holy of ho­
lies in their temple, into which it is utterly prohibited
for a common person to enter. They have their high
priests, who officiate in their temples, and make their
yearly atonement there in a singular pontifical dress,
which they fancy to be in the likeness of one worn by
their predecessors in ancient times; with their breast­
plate, and various holy ornaments. The high priest,
when addressing to his people what they call * the old
divine sp e e c h calls them u the beloved and holy peo-
•pie,’’ and urges them to imitate their virtuous ances­
tors ; and tells them of their 4
6beloved land flowing
with milk and honey.r They tell you that Yohewah
once chose their nation from all the rest of mankind,
to be his peculiar people. That a book which God
gave, was once theirs; and then things went well
with them. But other people got it from them, and
then they fell under the displeasure of the Great Spi­
rit ; but that they shall at some time regain it. They
inform you, some of their fathers once had a spirit to
foretel future events, and to work miracles. Suppose
they have their imitation of the ark of the covenant,
where were deposited their most sacred things ; into
which it is the greatest crime for any common people
to look. All their males must appear at the temple
at three noted feasts in a year. They inform you of
the ancient flood ; of the preservation of one family
in a vessel; of this man in the ark sending out first a
great bird, and then a little one, to see if the waters
were gone. That the great one returned no more ;
but the little one returned with a branch. They tell
you of the confusion of languages once when people
were building a great high place ; and of the longevi­
ty of the ancients; that they “ lived till their feet
7*
yGoc le
THE PRESENT STAT®
48
were worn out with walking, and their throats with
eating.”
You find them with their traditional history that
their ancient fathers once lived where people were
dreadfully wicked, and that nine tenths of their fa­
thers took counsel and left that wicked place, being
led by the Great -Spirit into this country ; that they
came through a region where it was always winter,,
snow and frozen. That they came to a great water?
and their way hither was thus obstructed, till God dri­
ed up that water ; (probably it froze between the isl­
ands in Beering’s Straits.) You 'find them keeping
an annual feast, at die time their ears of corn become
fit for use ; and none of their corn is eaten, till a part
o fjt is brought to this feast, and certain religious cer­
emonies performed. You find them keeping an annu­
al feast, in which twelve men must cut twelve saplin
poles, to make a booth. Here (on an altar made of
' ^yelve stones, on which no tool may pass) they must
\ sfbtfike. You find them with the custom of wash­
ing and anointing their dead. And when in deep af­
fliction, laying their hand on their mouth, and their
mouth in the dust. You find them most scrupulously
, practising a religious rite of separating their women,
which almost precisely answers to the ancient law of
Moses upon this subject. And many other things you
find among this newly discovered people, which seem
exclusively to have been derived from the ceremonial
code of ancient Israel.
Suppose you should find things like these among
such a people, without books or letters, but wholly in
a savage state, in a region of the world lately discov­
ered, away in the direction staled by the aforenoted
writer in the Apocrypha; and having been ever se­
cluded from the knowledge of the civilized world ;
would you In# late to say you had found the ten tribes,
of Israel ? and that God sent them to that sequestered
region of the earth to keep them there a distinct peo­
ple, during an “outcast” state of at least 2500 years ?
Would you not say, we have just such kind of evi­
dence, as must at last bring that people to light among
* "
■ -
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 79
the nations ? And would you not say, here is much
more evidence of this kind, of their being the people
of Israel, than could rationally have been expected,
after the lapse bf 2500 years in a savage state ? Me-
thinks l hear every person whisper his full assent, that
upon the suppositions made, we have found the most
essential pile of the prophet Ezekiel’s valley of dry
bone% ! Ezek. xxxvii.; 1— 14.
5. These things are more than mere supposition.
It is believed they are capable of being ascertained as
facts, with substantial evidence. Good authorities
from men, who have been eye and ear witnesses, as­
sure us that these things are (acts. But you enquire,
where or who are the people thus described ? They
are the aborigines of our own continent ! Their place,
their language, their traditions, amount to all that has
been hinted. These evidences are not all found
among any one tribe of Indians. Nor may all the I n ­
dians in any tribe, where various of these evidences
are found, be able to exhibit them. At is enough, if
what they call their beloved aged men, in one tribe,
have clearly exhibited some of them ;vand others ex­
hibited others of them ; and if among their various
tribes, the whole have been, by various of their belo­
ved or wise men, exhibited. This, it is stated, has been
thefact. Men have been gradually perceiving this ev­
idence for more than half a century ; and new light
has been, from time to tihte, shed on the subject, as
will appear.
The North American Reviewers, in reviewing a
sermon of Doct. Jarvis, on this subject, delivered be­
fore the New-York Historical Society, (in which he
attempts to adduce much evidence to show that the
natives of this continent are the tribes of Israel.) re­
mark thus ; “ The history and character of the Indian
tribes of North America, which have for some time
been a subject of no inconsiderable curiosity and in­
terest with the learned in Europe, have not till lately
attracted much notice among ourselves. But as the
Indian nations are now fast vanishing, and the individ­
uals of them come less frequently under our observa­
Digitized by Google
80 THE PRESENT STATE
tion, we also, as well as our European brethren, are
beginning to take a more lively interest than ever, in
the stud) of their character and history.”
In the course of their remarks they Sdd ; “ To the
testimonies here adduced by Doctor Jarvis. (i. e. that
the Indians are the ten tribes of Israel.) might have
been added several of our New England historians,
from the first settlement of the country.” Some they
proceed to mention ; and then add, that the Rev.
Messrs. Samuel Sewall, fellow of Harvard College,
and Samuel Willard, vice president of the same, were
of opinion, that “ the Indians are the descendants of
Israel.” Doct. Jarvis notes this as an hypothesis,
which has been a favourite topic with'Europ&an wri­
ters ; and as a subject, to which it is hoped the Amer­
icans may be said to be waking up at last.
Manasses Ben Israel, in a work entitled “The Hope
of Israel,” n ^ written to show that the American In­
dians are the ten tribes of Israel. But as we have
access to his authors, we may consult them for our­
selves. The main pillar of his evidence is James
Adair, Esq. M
i*. Adair was a man of established
character, as appears from good authority. He lived
a trader among the Indians, in the south of North
America, for forty years. He left them and returned
to England in 1774, and there published his “ Histo­
ry of the American Indians ;” and his reasons for be­
ing persuaded that they are the ten tribes of Israel.
Remarking on their descent and origin, he concludes
thus ; “ From the most accurate observations I could
make, in the long time I traded among the Indian
Americans, 1was forced to believe them lineally de­
scended from the Israelites. Had the nine tribes and
a half of Israel, that were carried off by Shalmane-
zer, and settled in Media,„continued there long, it is*
very probable by intermarrying with the natives, and
from their natural fickleness and proneness to idola-
x try, and also from the force of example, that they
would have adopted and bowed before the gods of
Media and Assyria ; and would have carried them
along with them. But there is not a trace of this idol*
- v _ • xwle
o r JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 81
atry among the Indians.” Mr. Adair gives his opin­
ion, that the ten tribes, soon after their banishment
from the land of Israel, left Media, and reached thi«
continent from the .north-west, probably before the
carrying away of the Jews to Babylon.
But before I proceed to adduce the documents and
evidences upon this subject, I shall make one more
preliminary remark, and note another prediction rela­
tive to the outcast state of Israel.
6. There is a prophecy in Amos viii. 1 1 , 12, rel-.
ative to the ten tribes of Israel while in their state of
banishment from the promised land, which •appears,
exactly to accord with the account given by Esdras ;
and to the Indian tradition, which meets this, as will
appear ; and appears well to accord with the state of
fact with the American natives, as will be seen. Amos
was a prophet to the ten tribes of Israel. He prophe­
sied not long before their banishment. The chap­
ter containing the prophecy to be adduced, commeu-
*ces with a basket of summer fruit, which must soon
be eaten, or it becomes unfit for use. The symbol *
16
thus explained ; “ Then said the Lord unto me, The
end is come upon my people of Israel ; I will not
pass by them any more.” The prophet in the chap­
ter announces that “they that swear by the sins of
Samaria, and say, Thy God, O Dan, liveth ; and, The
manner of Beersheba liveth ; even they shall fall.” .
Here is a description of the idolatry of the ten tribes,
and their utter banishment then just about to take
place ; from which they have never been recovered to
this day.
As an event to be accomplished in their outcast
.state, the prophet gives this striking descriptive predic­
tion. Verse 11 , 12 ; “ Behold, the days come, saith
the Lord God, that I will send a famine in the land,
(or upon the tribes of Israel,) not a famine of bread,
nor a thirst for water; but of hearing the words of
the Lord. And .they shall wander from sea to sea,
and from' the north even to the east ; they shall run
to aid fro to seek the word of the Lord, and shall not
find it.” Here is an event, which, when the reader
/Google
8â THE PRESENT STATE
shall have perused the traditions and sketches of the
history of the Indians, he will perceive accurately
describes their case. The prediction implies that Is­
rael in their fexilement sh'ould’know that they had
been blessed with the word of Gpd, but had wickedly
lost it ; as a man in a famine knows he has had bread,
but now has it not* They shall feel something what
they have lost, and shall Wander. They shall rove
“ from sea to sea ; and from the north even unto the
east.” They shall set off a north course, and thence
east; or shall wander in a northeast direction as far
as they can w'andet, from sea to sea ; from the Medi­
terranean whence they set out, to the extremest sea
in the north-east direction. Should they cross the
straits found there, into another continent, they
may wander still from sea to sea ; from the northern
frozen ocean, to the southern ocean at Cape Horn 5
and from the Pacific to the Atlantic. They shall run
to and fro through all the vast deserts between these
extreme seas; retaining some correct ideas of God,
and of his ancient word ; they shall seek his word and
will from their priests, and from their religious tradi­
tions ; but shall not find it ; but shall remain in their
roving wretched state, till the distant period of their
recovery from their exilement shall arrive.
Their blessed restoration is given in the following
chapter. Verse 13—15; “ Behold the days come,
sailh the Lord, that the ploughman shall overtake the
reaper ; and the treader of grapes him that soweth
seed ; and the mountains shall drop sweet wine; and
all the* hills shall melt. And 1 will bring again the
captivity of my people Israel ; and they shall build
the waste cities and inhabit them;, and they shall plant
vineyards and drink the wine thereof; the) shall also
make gardens and eat the fruit of them. And I will
plant them upon their land; and they shall no more
be pulled up out of their land, which I have given
them, sailh the Lord God.” Here we have predicted
the rapid preparatory scenes; the melting mlSsionary
events of our day. The mountains and hills of na­
tions and communities shall How together in tliis evun-
Digitized by Google
OF JUDAII AND ISRAËL. 83
gelical object. Blended with these missionary events,
is the recovery of the long lost tin tribes. Here is
the planting of them in their own land ; and their per­
manent residence there to the end of the world. Ne­
ver has this restoration had even a primary accom­
plishment ; as was the return of the Jews from Ba­
bylon relative to their iinal restoration. The ten
tribes have had no even typical restoration. They
have been lo-t to the world to the present day. But
the above passage implies, that in the midst of the
sudden successful missionary events of the last days,
which shall issue in the recovery and restoration of
the ancient people of God, the ten tribes shall come
to light, and shall be recovered.
Never has any satisfactory account been given of
the fulfilment of this predicted famine of the word.
It was to he inflicted on the ten tribes; not in the
promised land, but during an awful exilement; “wan­
dering from sea to sea, and from the north even to tiie
east; running to and fro,” from one extremity of a
continent to another. The Spirit of Inspiration has
here kindly given a clew by which to investigate the
interesting and dark subject,—the place of the exile­
ment of the tribes of Israel, q. rf. Pursue them from
Media, their place last known, north, then cast; to
the extreme sea. Find them roving to and fro in vast
deserts between extreme seas ; find a people of this
description having retained some view of the one
God; having their traditionary views of having lost
the word of God; and seeking divine communication*
from Heaven ; but seeking in vain ; and you have
the people sought. Listen to their traditions, bor­
rowed from ancient revelation, which they have long
lost; and you find the people perishing under the
predicted famine of the word.
Having made these preliminary remarks. I shall
attempt to embody the evideuce obtained, to show
that the natives of America are the descendants of
the tea tribes of Israel.
A summary will be given of the arguments of Mr.
Adair, and of a number of other writers on this Sub-
Digitized by Google
84 THE PRESENT STATE
jeet. As flic evidence given by Mr. Adair appears
in some respects the most momentous and conclusive,
1 shall adduce a testimonial in his behalf. In the
“ Star in the West,” published by the Hon. Elias
Boudinot, LL. D. upon this subject, that venerable
man says ; The writer of these sheets has made a
free use of Mr. Adair’s history of the Indians ; which
renders it necessary that something further shpuld be
said of him. Some time about the year 1774, Mr.
Adair came to Elizabethtown, (where the writer liv­
ed,) with his manuscript, and applied to Mr. Living­
ston, (afterward governor of New-Jersey—a correct
scholar.) requesting him to correct his manuscript.
He brought ample recommendations, and gave a good
account of himself. Our political troubles with Great
Britain then increasing, (it being the year before the
commencement of the revolutionary war.) Mr. Adair,
who was on his way to Great Britain, was advised not
to risk being detained from his voyage, till the work,
could be critically examined ; but to set off as soon
as possible. He accordingly took his passage in the
first vessel bound to England. As soon as the war was
over, (Mr. Boudinot adds of himself.) the writer sent
to London to obtain a copy of this work. After read­
ing it with care, he strictly examined a gentleman, then
a member with him in congress, and of excellent
character, who had acted as our agent among the In­
dians to the southward, during the war, relative to the
points of fact stated by Mr. Adair, without letting him
know the design, and from him found all the leading
facts mentioned in Mr. Adair’s history, fully confir­
med from his own personal knowledge.”
Here are the evidences of two great and good men
most artlessly uniting in the leading facts stated by
Mr. Adair. The character of Mr. Boudinot (who was
for some time President of the American Bible Soci­
ety.) is well known. He was satisfied with the truth
of Mr. Adair’s history, and that the natives of our
land are the Hebrews, the ten tribes. And lie hence
published his a Star in the West” on this subject;
which is most worthy of the perusal of ail men.
Digitized by Google
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 86
From various authors and travellers among the In­
dians, the fact that the American Indians are the ten
tribes of Israel, will be attempted to be proved by
the following arguments :
1. The American natives have one origin.
2. Their language appears to have been Hebrew.
3. They have had their imitation of the ark of
the covenant in ancient Israel.
4. They have been in the practice of circumcis­
ion. *
5. They have acknowledged one and only one
God.
6. The celebrated William Penn gives accounts of
the natives of Pennsylvania, which go to corroborate
the same point.
7. The Indians having one tribe, answering in va­
rious respects to the tribe of Levi, sheds farther light
on this subject.
8. Several prophetic traits of character given to
the Hebrews, do accurately apply to the aborigines of
America.
9. The Indians being in tribes, with their heads
and names of tribes, affords further light.
10. Their having something answering to the an­
cient cities of refuge, seems to evince their Israelitish
extraction.
11. Their variety of traditions, historical and re­
ligious, do wonderfully accord with the idea, that
they descended from the ancient ten tribes.
The reader will pardon, if the tax on his patience
under this last argument, exceeds that of all the rest.
1. The American natives have one origin.—Their
language has a Variety of dialects ; but all are believed
by some goodjudges to be the same radical language.
Various noted authors agree in this. Charlevoix, a
noted French writer, who came over to Canada very
early, and who travelled from Canada to the Missis­
sippi, iu his history of Canada, says; u The Algonquin
and the Huron languages, (which he says are as really
the same, as the French and old Norman are the same,)
have between them the language of all the savage na-
8
Digitized by Google
;86 THE PRESENT STATE
tions we are acquainted with. Whoever should well
understand both of these, might travel without an in­
terpreter more than fifteen hundred leagues of coun­
try, and make himself understood by an hundred dif­
ferent nations, who have each their peculiar tongue
meaning dialect. The Algonquin was .the dialect of
the Wolf tribe, or the Mohegan ; and most of the na­
tive tribes of New-England and of Virginia.
Doctor Jonathan Edwards, son of president Ed­
wards, lived in his youth among the Indians; as his
father was a missionary among them, before he was
called to Princeton College; and he became as famil­
iar with the Mohegan dialect, as with his mother
tongue. He had also a good knowledge of the Mo­
hawk dialect. He pronounced the Mohegan the most
extensive of all the Indian dialects of North America.
Dr. Boudinot asserts of him as follows. “ Dr. Ed­
wards assures us, that the language of the Delawares,
in Penns) Ivania, of the Penobscots, bordering pn No­
va Scotia, of the Indians of St. Francis, in Canada, of
the Shawanese, on the Ohio, of the Chippewas, to the
eastward of Lake Huron, of the Ottawas, Nanticokes,
Munsees. Minonioncs, Messinaquos, Spasskies, Ollaga-
inies, Keliestinoes, Mipegoes, Algonquins, Winmba-
goes, and of the several tribes in New-England, are
radically the same. And the variations between
them are to be accounted for from their want of let­
ters and of communications.” He adds (what all in
the eastern states well know) “ Much stress maybe
laid on Dr. Edwards** opinion. He was a man of
strict integrity and great piety. He had a liberal edu­
cation.—He was greatly improved in the Indian lan­
guages ; to which he habituated himself from early
life, having lived long among the Indians.”
Herein the doctor agrees with the testimony of Char­
levoix just noted. 1lore we find a cogent argument in
favour of the Indians of North America, at least as
being of one origin. And arguments will be furnish* d
that the Indians of South America are probably of ;he
same origin«
Digitized by Google
Doctor Boudinot (who for more than forty years
was of opinion that the Indians are the ten tribes, and
who sought and obtained much evidence on this sub­
ject,) assures us, that the syllables which compose the
word Yohewah, (Jehovah) and Yah, (Jah) are the
roots of a great number of Indian words, through dif­
ferent tribes. . They make great use of these words,
and of the syllables which compose the names of God ;
also which form the word Hallelujah, through their na­
tions for thousands of miles; especially in their reli­
gious songs and dances. With beating and an exact
keeping of time, they begin a religious thus ;
Hal, hal, hal; then le, le, le ; next lu^lu, b ; apd then
close yah, yah, yah. This is theirtr^itronal song of
praise to the great Spirit. This, it {¿ asserted, is sung
in South, as well as North America. And this author
says; “ Two Indians, who belong to far distant na­
tions, may without the knowledge of each other’s lan­
guage, except from the general idiom of all their tribes,
converse with each other, and make contracts without
an interpreter.” This shews them to have been of
one origin.
Again, he says; “ Every nation of Indians have
certain customs, which they observe in their public
transactions with other nations, and in their private
affairs among themselves, which it is scandalous for
any one among them not to observe. - And these al­
ways draw after them either public or private resent­
ment, whenever they are broken. Although these
customs may in their detail differ in one nation when
compared with another; yet it is easy to discern that
they have all had one origin.”
Du Pratz says, in his history of Louisiania, “ The
nations of North America derived their origin from
the same country, since at bottom they all have the
same manners and usages, and the same manner of
speaking and thinking.” It is ascertained that nogpb-
jection arises against this, from the amerent shades of
complexion found among ‘different tribes of Inmans.
“ The colour of the Indians generally, (says Doct.
Boudinot,) is red, brown, or copper, according to the
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 87
Digitized by Google
THE PRESENT STATE'
climate, and the high or low ground.” Mr. Adair ex­
presses the same opinion ; and the Indians have their
tradition, that in the nation from which they originally
came, all were ofone colour. Accordingto all accounts
given of the Indians, there are certain things in which
ail agree. This appears in the journals of Mr. Gid-
dings, of his exploring tour. The mo^t distant and
barbarous Indians agree in a variety of things with all
other tribes. They have their Great Spirit; their
high priests ; their sacrificing, when going to or re­
turning from war ; their religious dance ; and their sa­
cred little enclosure, containing thenr most sacred
things, though it be but a sack, instead of an ark.—
Messrs. Lack and Escarbotus both assert that they
have often heard the Indians of South America sing
“ Hallelujah.” For thousands of miles the North
American Indians have been abundant m this.
Doctor Williams, in his history of Vermont, says;-
u In whatever manner this part of the earth was peo­
pled, the Indians appear to have been the most an­
cient, or thè original men of America. They had
spread over the whole continent, from the fiftieth de­
gree of north latitude, to the southern extremity of
Cape Horn. And these men every where appeared
to be the same race or kind of people. In every
part of the continent, the Indians are marked with a
similarity of colour, features, and every circumstance
of external appearance. Pedro de Cicca de Leon,
one of the conquerors of Peru, and who had travelled
through many provinces of America, says of the In­
dians; “ The people, men and women, although there
are such a multitude of tribes or nations, in such di­
versities of climates, appear nevertheless like the
children of one father and mother.”
Ulloa (quoted by Doct. Williams,) had a great ac­
quaintance with the Indians of South America, and
some parts of North America. Speaking of the In-
diims of Cape Breton in the latter, he declared them
to the same people with the Indians in Peru.”
4
i if we have seen one American, (said he) we may be
sa:U to have seen them all.” These .remarci do not
68
Digitized by Google
apply to all the people in the northern extremities of
America, The Esquimaux natives appear to be a dif­
ferent race of men. This race are found in Labra­
dor, in Greenland, and round Hudson’s Bay. All
these appear evidently the same with the Laplanders,
Zemblans, Samoyeds and Tartars in the east. They
probably migrated to this western hemisphere at peri-»,
ods subsequent to the migration of the Indians. They,
or some of them, might have come from the north of
Europe; from Norway to Iceland, then to Greenland,
and thence to the coasts of Labrador, and farther
west. But the consideration of those different people,
does not affect our subject.
2. Their language appears clearly to have been He-
brew. In this, Doctor Edwards, Mr. Adair, and others
were agreed. Doctor Edwards, after having a good
acquaintance with their language, gave his reasons
for believing it to have been originally Hebrew. Both,
he remarks, are found without prepositions, and are
formed with prefixes and suffixes; a thing probably
known to no otherlanguage. And he showsthat not on­
ly the words, but the construction of phrases, in both,
have been the same. Their pronouns, as well as their
nouns, Doctor Edwards remarks, are manifestly from
the Hebrew. Mr. Adair is confident of the fact, that
their language is Hebrew. And their laconic, bold
and commanding figures of speech, he notes as exact­
ly agreeing with the genius of the Hebrew language.
He says, that after living forty years among them, he
obtained such knowledge of the Hebrew idiom of their
language, that he viewed the event of their having
for more than two millenaries, and without the aid of
literature, preserved their Hebrew language so pure, to
be but little short of a miracle.
Relative to the Hebraism of their figures, Mr. Adair
gives the following instance, from an address of a cap­
tain to his warriors, going to battle. “ I know that
your guns are burning in your hands; your tomahawks
are thirsting to drink the bloodof your enemies ; your
trusty arrows ajre impatient to be upon the wing; and
lest delay should burn your hearts any longer, 1 give
8*
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 8$
Digitized by Google
90 THE PRESENT STATE
you the cool refreshing word ; join the holy ark ; an&
away to cut off the devoted enemy P9
A table of words and phrases is furnished by Doet.
Boudinot, Adair, and others, with several added from
good authority, to show how clearly the Indian language
is from the Hebrew, Some of these Indian words are
taken from one tribe, and seme from another. In a
long savage state, destitute of all aid from letters, a
language must roll and change. It is strange that af­
ter a lapse of 2500 years, a single word should, among
such a people, be preserved the same. But £he hand
of Providence is strikingly seen in this, perhaps to
bring that people to light.
The following may alford a specimen of the evidence
on this part of the subject.
English. Indian. Hebrew, or Chaldatyy
Jehovah Yohewah J ehovah
God Ale Ale, Aleim
Jah Yah or Wah Jah
Shiloh Shilu Shiloh
HeaveiiS C h em ix n Sheniim
Father Abba Abba
Man Ish, Ishte Ish
Woman Ishto Ishto
Wife Awah Eweh, Eve
Thou Keah Ka
H is W ife Liani Lihene
This man Uwoh Huah
Nose Nicbiri Neheri
Roof of a house Taubana-ora DebonacRt
Winter Kora Korah
Caniian Cannai Cnnunn
To pray Phale Phaloc
Now Na Na
H n d part Kesh Kish
Do Jeûnais Jnnnnn
To blow Phaubae Phauhe
Rushing wind Row ah Ruach
Ararat, or high mount Ararat Ararat
Assembly ; Knrbet Grabit
My skin Nora Ourui
Man of God Ishto alio Islid a u llo a tt
Wadh' hf the high priest Sagan Sagan
PARTS OF SENTENCES*
English. Indian. Hebrew.
Very hot Hern hara or hala H a r u l.a r a
P raise to the Frist Cause Halleluwah la Ilei uj a h
Gwe me food Natoai boma* Nfttoui |aii»en
^ Digitized by Google
!
OF JUDAH ASP ISRAEL. 9 i
English.
Go Iky way
Good be to you
M y necklace
I am sick
Indian. •
Bayou boorkaa
Halea tibou
Yene kali
Nane guaete
Hebrew.
Boua bouak
Ye hali ettoubcm
Vongali
Nauce heti
Can a rational doubt be entertained whether the
above Indian words, and parts of sentences, were de­
rived from their corresponding words and parts of sen­
tences in Hebrew ? If so, their adoption by savages
at this distant time and place, would appear miracu­
lous. Some one or two words might happen to be the
same, among distant different nations. But that so
many words, and parts of sentences too, in a language
with a construction peculiar to itself, should .so nearly,
and some of them exactly correspond, is never to be
admitted as resulting from accident.
And if these words and parts of sentences are from
their corresponding Hebrew, the Indians must have
descended from the ten tribes of Israel.
Some of the Creek Indians called a murderer Abe;
probably from Abel, the first man murdered, whose
name in Hebrew imports, mourning. And they called
one who kills a rambling enemy, *Noabe; probably
from Noah, importing rest, and Abe.—‘He thus puts
his rambling enemy to rest. The Caribbee Indians
and the Creeks had more than their du6 propor­
tion of the words and parts of sentences in the above
table.
Rev. Dr. Morse, in his late tour among the western
Indians, says.of the'language ; “ It is highly metapho­
rical ; and in this and other respects, they resemble
the Hebrew. This resemblance in their language,
(he adds) and the similarity of many of their religious
customs to those of the Hebrews, certainly give plau­
sibility to the ingenious theory of Dr. Boudinot, ex­
hibited in his interesting work, the Star in the fVest.’f
Dr. Boudinot informs that a gentleman, then living
in the city of New-York, who had long been mu^ch con­
versant with the Indians, assured him, that being once
with the Indians at the place called Cohocks, they
shewed him a ypry high mountain at the west, the In­
dian name of which, th6j informed him, was Ararat.
/
Digitized by o g l e
92 THE PRESENT STATE
And the Penobscot Indians, the Dr. informs, call a
high mountain by the same name.
Doctor Boudinot assures us that he himself attend­
ed an Indian religious dance. He says; “'They dan­
ced one round; and then a second, singing haJ-hal-
hal, till they finished the round. They then gave us
a third round, striking up the words, le-le-le. On the
next round, it was the words, lu-lu-lu, dancing with all
their might. During the fifth round was sung, yah-
yuh-yah.—Then all joined in a lively and joyful cho­
rus, and sung halkluyah; dwelling on each syllable
with a very long breath, in a most pleasing manner.”
The Doctor adds; “ There could be no deception in
all this. The writer was near them—paid great atten­
tion—and every thing was obvious to the senses.
Their pronunciation was very guttural and sonorous ;
but distinct and clear.” How could it be possible
that the wild native Americans, in different parts of
the continent, should be found singing this phrase of
praise to the Great First Cause, or to Jah,—exclusive*
ly Hebrew, without having brought it down by tradi­
tion from ancient-Israel ? The positive testimonies of
such men as Boudinot anti Adair, are not to be dispen­
sed with, nor doubted. They testify what they have
seen and heard. And I can conceive of no rational
way to account for this Indian .song, but that they
brought it down from ancient Israel, their ancestors.
Mr. Faber remarks; They (the Indians) call the
lightning and thunder, Eloha ; and its rumbling, Ro-
wah, which may not improperly be deduced from the
Hebrew word Ruach, a name of the third person of
the Holy Trinity, originally signifying, the air in mo­
tion, or a rushing wind.” Who can doubt but their
name of thunder, Eioha, is derived from a Hebrew
name of God, Elohim ? Souard, (quoted in Boudi­
not,) in his Literary Miscellanies, says of the Indian*
in Surinam, on the authority of Isaac Nasci, a learned
Jew residing there, that the dialect of those Indians,
common to all the tribes of Guiana, is Soft, agreeable,
and regular. And this learned Jew asserts, that their
substantives are Hebrew. The word expressive of
yGoogle
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 93
the soul ( he says) is the same in each-language, and is
the same with breath. “ God breathed into man the
breath of life, and man became a living soul.” This
testimony from Nasci, a learned Jew, dwelling with
the. Indians, must be of signal weight.
Dr. Boudinot from many good authorities says of
the Indians.; “ Their language in their roots, idiom,
and particular construction, appears to have the
whole genius of the Hebrew; and what is very remar­
kable, it has most of the peculiarities of that language;
especially those in which it differs from most other
languages.’’
Governor Hutchinson observed, that “many people
(at the time of the first settlement of New- England,)
pleased themselves with the conjecture, that the In­
dians in America are the descendants of the ten tribes
.of Israel.” Something was discovered so early, which
excited this pleasing sentiment. This has been noted
as having been the sentiment of Rev. Samuel Sewall,
of vice president Willard, and others. Governor Hut­
chinson expresses his doubt upon the subject, on ac­
count of the dissimilarity of the language of the natives
of Massachusetts, to the Hebrew. Any language in a
savage state, must, in the course of 2500 years, have
rolled and varied exceedingly. This is shown to be
the case in the different dialects, and many new words
introduced among those tribes, which are ackncwed -
ged to have their language radically the same.
The following facts are enough to answer every ob­
jection on this ground. The Indians had no written
language. Hence the English scholar *could not see
the spelling or the root of any Indian word. And the
guttural pronunciation of the natives was such as to
make even the Hebrew word, that might still be retain­
ed, appear a different word ; especially to those who
were looking for no Hebrew language among them.
A id the following noted idiom of the Indian language
wis calculate! to hide the fact in perfect obscurity,
even had it been originally Hebrew, viz.; the Indian
language consists of a multitude of monosyllables ad-
de 1 together.—Every property or circumstance of a
iy
Google
94 THE PRESENT STATE
thing to be mentioned by an Indian,must be noted by a
new monosyllable added to its name. Hence it was
that the simple word our loves, must be expressed by
the following long Indian word, Noowomantammoonka-
nunonnash. Mr. Golden, in his history of the five na­
tions, observes, “ They have lew radical words. But
they compound their words without end. - The words
expressive of things lately come to their knowledge
(he sa)s) are all compounds. And sometimes one
word among them includes an*entire definition of the
thing.”* These things, considered ofa language among
savage», 2500 years after their expulsion from Canaan,
must answer every objection arising from the fact, that
the Indian language appears in some things very differ­
ent from the Hebrew. And they must render it little
less than miraculous (as Mr. Adair says it is) that after
a lapse of so long a period among savages, without a-
book or letters, a word or phrase properly Hebrew
should still be found among them. Yet such zvords and
phrases arefound. And many more may yet be found
in the compounds of Indian words. I have just now
observed, in dropping my eye on a Connecticut Maga­
zine for 1803, a
i writer on the Indians in Massachu­
setts, in its earliest days, informs, that the name of a
being they worshipped was Abamocko. Here, with­
out any perception of the fact, he furnishes a Hebrew
word in compound. Abba-mocko; father-mocho.
As a tribe of Indians in the south call God, Abba-min-
go ishto ; Father chief man. In the latter, we have
two Hebrew words; Abba, father, and Ish, man.
Could we make proper allowance for Pagan pronun­
ciation, and find how the syllables in their words ought
to be spelled, we might probably find many more of the
Hebrew roots in their language.
It is ascertained that the Indians make great use of
the syllables of the names of God, as roots of com­
pound words. Dr. Boudinot says; u Y*Ohe*wah-
yah and Ale, are roots of a prodigious number of
words throi^h their various dialects.” Wah being a
noted name of God with the Indians, it seems often to
* Seethe Couneitiewt Magazine,Vol. ill. p.367.
Digitized by Google
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 9d
occur in their proper names. Major Long informs us, in
his expedition to the Rock)'Mountains, that the name of
God with the Onnwhaw tribe is Wahconda. The In­
dia is have#their Wabash river, their Wa-sasheh tribe,
(of which the word Osage is but a French corruption)
their Wa bingie, Wa ping, Warnasqueak, Wa shpe-
loag, and Wa shpeaute tribes ; also their Wa-bunk, a
name, of the sun. A friend of mine informs me, that
while surveying, in his younger life,in the state of Ohio,
he obtained considerable acquaintance with the In­
dians there. That they appeared to have a great ven­
eration for the sun, which they called Wahbunk. If
bunk is an Indian name for a bed, as some sup­
pose, it would seern that with those Indians, the sun
was Jehovah’s bed, or place of residence. The In­
dians have had much of an idea of embodying the
Great Spirit in fire. It is an idea which resulted from
the scene on the fiery top of Sinai, and from ancient
Hebrew figures, (as Paul informed in his epistle to the
Hebrews) that.“ Our God is a consuming fire.” JNo
wonder then those Indians in Ohio, as did the «ancient
Peruvians, embodied their Great Spirit in the sun.
And no wonder their veneration for that visible sup­
posed residence of the Great Spirit should be mistak­
en by strangers for worship paid to the sun.
3. The Indians have had their imitation oj the ark of
the covenant in ancknt Israel. Different travellers, and
from different regions unite in this. Mr. Adair is full
in his account of it. It is a small.square box, made
convenient to carry on the back/ They never set it
on the ground, but on logs in low ground where stones
are not to be had; and on stones where they are to
be found. This author gives the following account of
it. “ It is worthy of notice, (he says,) that they nev­
er place the ark on the ground, nor sit it on the bare
earth when they are carrying it against an enemy.
On hilly ground, where stones are plenty, they place
it on them. But in level land, upon sndrt logs, al­
ways resting themselves (i. e. the carriers of the ark)
on the same materials. They have also as strong a
faith et‘ the power and holiness of their ark, as ever
Digitized by Google
96 THE PRESENT STATE
the Israelites retained of theirs. The Indian ark is
deemed so sacred and dangerous to touch, either by
their own sanctified warriors, or the spoiling enemy,
that neither of them dare meddle with it on any ac­
count. It is not to be handled by any except the chief-
tian and his waiter, under penalty of incurring great
evil ; nor would the most inveterate enemy dare to
touch it. The leader virtually acts the part of a priest
of war, pro tempore, in imitation of the Israelites figh­
ting under the divine militafy banner.”
Doct. Boudinot says of this ark, “ It may be called
the ark of the covenant imitated.” In time of peace
it is the charge of their high priests. In their wars,
they make great account of it. The leader, (acting as
high priest on that occasion,) and his darling waiter,
carry it in turns. They deposit in the ark some of
their most consecrated articles. The two carriers of
this sacred symbol, before setting off with it for the
war, purify themselves longer than do the rest of the
wrarriors. The waiter bears their ark during a battle.
It is strictly forbidden for any one, but the proper of­
ficer, to look into it. An enemy, if they capture it,
treat it with the same reverence.
Doctor Boudinot says, that a gentleman, who was
at Ohio, in 1756, informed him that while he was
there, he saw amctfig the Indians a stranger who ap-
?
eared very desirous to look into the ark of that tribe#
'he ark was then standing on a block of wood, cov­
ered with a dressed deer skin. A centinel was guar­
ding it, armed with a .bow and arrow. The centinel
fiuding the intruder pressing on, to look into the ark,
drew his arrow at his head, and would have dropped
him on the spot; hut the stranger perceiving his dan­
ger. fled. Who can doubt the origin of this Indian
custom ? And who can resist the evidence it furnish­
es, that here are the tribes of Israel ? See Num. x.
35, •>
£
>
. and xiv. 44.
4. The American Indians have practised circumcis­
ion. Doct. Beajv, in his journal of a visit to the In­
dians in Ohio, between fifty and sixty years ago, says
that an old Indian (in answer to his questions fela-
Digitized by Google
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 97
five to their ancient customs* the Indian being one of
the old beloved wise men.) informed him, that an old
uncle of his, who died about the year 1728, related to
him several customs of former times among the In­
dians, and amougthe rest, that circumcision was long
ago practised among them, but that their )oung men
made a mock of it and it fell into disrepute and was
discontinued.5
*
’ Mr. M’Kenzie infoims. that in his
travels among the Indians, he was led to believe the
same fact, of a tribe far to the north west; as staled -
in the u Star in the West.” His words (when speak­
ing of the nations of the Slave and Dog rib Indians,)
are these; Whether circumcision be practiced among
them^ I cannot pretend to say ; but the appearance of
it was general among those I saw.” The Indians cau*
tiousiy conceal their special religions rites from strang­
ers travelling among them. Mr. M’Kenzie then would
not be likely to learn this fact from them, by any state­
ment of the fact, or by seeing it performed. But he
says, u The appearance of it was general.” Doctor
Boudinot assures that the eastern Indians inform of its
having been practised among them in times past ; but
that latterly. not being able to give an) account of so
strange a rite, their young men had opposed it, and it
was discontinued. Immanuel de Moraez. in his histo-
r> of Brazil. sa)s it was practised among the native
Brazilians. These native.inhabitants of South Amer­
ica were of the same origin with the Indians of North
America.
The Rev. Mr. Bingham of Boston informed the wri­
ter of these sheets, that Thomas flopco, the pious na­
tive of a Sandwich Island, informed him while in this
country, before he returned with our missionaries to
his native region, that he himself had been circumcis­
ed ; that he perfect!) remembered his brother’s hold­
ing him, while his father performed upon him this rite.
Mr. Bingham also informed that the pious Obooki-
ah. o! the same race, pleased himse If that he was a
natural descendant of Abraham, and ihoifeh.t their own
hr ,M
a,e radkaov Hebrew. It ;s believed h\ men of
the O
LbI iulounaUeu that die Sandwich islanders and
9
Digitized by Google
93 *H E PRESENT STATE
■the native Americans are of the same race. What
savage nation could ever have conceived of such a
rite, had they not defended from Israel ?
5. The native Americans have acknowledged one9
and only one God / and they have generally views con­
cerning the one Great Spirit, of which no account can
begiven, but that they derived, themfrom ancient reve­
lation in Israel. Other nations destitute of revela­
tion, have had their many gods. But little short of
three hundred thousand gods have existed ih the be^
wildered imaginations of the pagan world. Every
thing, almost, has been deified by the heathen. Not
liking to retain God in their knowledge, and profes­
sing themselves to be wise, they became fools ;*and
they changed the glory of the one living God, into
images, and beasts, birds, reptiles, and creeping things.
There has been the most astonishing inclination in
the world of mankind to do thus. But here is a new
world of savages, chiefly, if not wholly free from such
wild idolatry. Doctor Boudiiiot (being assured by
many good witnesses,) says of the Indians who have
been known in his day ; “ They were, never known
(whatever mercenary Spanish writers may have writ­
ten to the contrary) to pay the least adoration to ima­
ges or dead persons, to celestial luminaries, to evil
spirits, or to any created beings whatever.” Mr.
Adair says the same, and assures that “ none of the
numerous tribes and nations, from Hudson’s Bay to
the Mississippi, have ever been known to attempt the
formation of any image of God/’ Du Prattf was ve­
ry intimate with the chief of those Indians called “the
Guardians of the Temple,” near the Mississippi. He
inquired of them the nature of their worship.—
The cluef informed him that they worshipped the
great and most perfect Spirit ; and said, He is so
great and powerful, that in comparison with him ail
others are as nothing. He made all things that we
see, and ail things that we cannot see.” The chief
went on to speak of God as having made little spirits,
called free servants, who always stand before the
Great Spirit ready to do his will. That u the air is
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL.
filled with spirits ; some good, some bad ; and that the
bad have a chief who is more wicked than the rest.”
Here it seems is their traditional notion of good and
bad angels ; and of Beelzebub, the chief of the lat-
teç. This chief being asked how God made man,
replied, that “ God kneaded some clay, made it into a
little man, and finding it.was well formed, he blew on
his work, and the man had life and grew up !” Be­
ing asked of the creation of the woman, he said,
“ their ancient speech made no mention of any differ­
ence, only that the man was made first.” Moses5ac­
count of the formation of the woman, it seems, bad
been lost.
Mr. Adair is very full in this, that the Indians have
but one God, the Great Yohewah, whom they call the
great, beneficent, supreme, and holy Spirit, who dwells
above the clouds, and who dwells with good people,
and is the only object of worship.’5 So different aie
they from all the idolatrous heathen fipon earth. He
assures that they hold this great divine Spirit as the
immediate head of their community ; which opinion
he conceives they must have derived from the ancient
theocracy in Israel. He assures that the Indians are
intoxicated with religious pride, and call all other
people the accursed people ; and have time out of
mind been accustomed to hold them in great con­
tempt. Their ancestors they boast to have been un­
der the immediate government of Yohewah, who was
with them, and directed them by his prophets, while
the rest of the world were outlaws, and strangers to
the covenant of Yohewah. The Indians thus please
themselves (Mr. Adair assures us) with the idea that
God has chosen them from the rest of mankind as his
peculiar people. This, he says, has been the occa­
sion of their hating other people ; and of viewing
themselves hated by all men. These things show that
they acknowledge but one God.
The Peruvians have been spoken of as paying ado­
ration to the sun ; and as receiving their race of Incas,
as children of,the sun, in their succession of twelve
monarchies. The Indians have had much pf an ap­
Ô9
Digitized by Google
THE PRESENT STATE
prehension that their one Great Spirit had a great
affinity to fire. And the Peruvians, it seems, went
§o fir as to embody him in the sun. Here seems a
shred of mixture of the Persian idolatry, with the
theocracy of Israel. As the more ancient Israelites
caught a degree of the idolatrous distempepof Egypt,
as appears in their golden calf; so the ten tribes, the
time they resided in Media, and before they set off for
America, may have blended some idea offire with
their one God. But the veneration the Peruvians had
for their Incas, as children of the Most High, seems
but a shred of ancient tradition from Israel, that their
kings were divinely anointed ; and is so far from be­
ing an argument against their being of Israel, that,
it operates rather in favour of the fact.
Doctor Boudinot informs of the southern Indians of
North America, that they had a name for God, which
signifies, “ the great, the beloved, holy'cause.” And
one of their names of God, is M'uigo-khto-Abba ;—
Great Chief Father. He speaks of a preacher’s being
among the Indians at the south, before the American
revolution, and beginning to inform them that th^re is
a God who created all things. Upon which they in-.,
dignantly replied, “ Go about your business, you fool 1
do not we know there is a God, as well as you ?”
In their sacred dances, these authors assure us the
Indians sing u Halleluyah Yohewah ;”~praise to Jah
Jehovah. When they return victorious from their
wars, they sing, Yo-he-wah.; having been by tradition
taught to ascribe the praise to God. „
The same authors assure us, the Indians make great
use of the initials of the mysterious name of God, like
the tetragrammaton of the ancient Hebrews; or the
four radical letters which form the name of Jehovah;
as the Indians pronounce thus, Y-O-He-wah. That
like the ancient Hebrews, they are cautious of men*
tioning these together, or atone©* They sing and re­
peat the syllables of this name in*their sacred dances
thus ; Yo-yo, or ho-ho-he-he-wah-wah. Mr. Adair
upon the same, says; After this they begin again ;
Hai-hal-le-le-lu-lu-yah-yah. And frequently the
400
101
whole train strike tip, hallelu-hallelu-halleluyah-hal-
leluyah.” They frequently sing the name of Shilu
(Shilo, Christ) with the syllables of the name of God
added ; thus,. uShiiu-yoh-Shilu-yoh-Shilu-he-Shilu
-he-Shilu*wah-Shilu-wah.” Thus adding to the name
of Shilu, the name of Jehovah by its sacred syllables.
Things like these have been found among Indians of
different regions of America. Syllables and letters
of the name of God have been so transposed in dif­
ferent ways; and so strange and gutteral has been the
Indian pronunciation, that it seems it took a long time
to perceive that these savages were by tradition pro­
nouncing the names of the God of Israel. Often have
people been informed, and smiled at the fact, that an
Indian, hurt or frightened, usually cries out wah ! This
is a pari of his traditional religion; O Jah ! or O
Lord!
Poctor Williams upon the Indians’ belief of the
being of God, observes; “ They denominate the deity
the Great Spirit; the Great Man above; and seem to
have some general ideas of his government and provi­
dence, universal power and dominion. The immor­
tality of the soul was every where admitted among the
•Indian tribes.”
The Rev. Ithamar Hebard, formerly minister of
this place, related the following: That about fifty
years ago, a number of men were sent from New-En­
gland by the government of Britain into the region of
the Mississippi, to form some treaty with the Indians.
That while these commissioners were there, having
tarried for some time, an Indian chief came from the
distance of what he calls several moons to the west­
ward. Having heard that white men were there, he
came to enquire of them where the Great Being
dwelt, who made all things. And being informed,
through an interpreter, of the divine omnipresence ;
he raised his eyes and hands to heaven with great awe
and ecstacy, and looking round, and leaping, he seemed
to express the greatest reverence and delight. The
head man of these commissioners had been a profane
man ; but this incident cured him, so that lie was not.
OP JUDAH AND ISRAEL.
^ Digitized by Google
IOt THE PRESENT STATE
heard to utter another profane word on his tour. This
was related to Mr. Hebard by one Elijah Wood, who
was an eye witness of the scene, and who was after­
ward a preacher of the gospel, The sou of Mr. He­
bard, a settled minister, gives this relation.
Let this fact of the Indians generally adhering to
one, and only one God, be contrasted with the poly­
theism of the world of pagans, and heathen besides ;
with the idle and ridiculous notions of heathen gods
and goddesses; and who can doubt of the true -origin
of the natives of our continent ? They are fatally
destitute of proper views of God and religion. But
they have brought down by tradition from their re­
mote ancestors, the notion of there being but one
great and true God ; which affords a most substantial
argument iu favour of their being the ancient .Israel.
It is agreed that within about eighty years, a great
change has been produced among the Indians. They
have in this period much degenerated as to their tra­
ditional religion. Their connexions with the most
degenerate part of the white people, trading among
them ; and their knowledge* and use of ardent spirit^,
have produced the most deleterious effects. They
have felt less zeal to maintain their own religion, such
as it was ; and to transmit their own traditions. Re^
markable indeed it is, that they did so diligently prop­
agate and transmit them, till so competent a number
of good testimonies should be furnished to the civil­
ized and religious world, relative to their origin. This
must have been the great object of divine Providence
in causing them so remarkably to. transmit their tra­
ditions through such numbers of ages. And when the
end is answered, the cause leading to it may be expec­
ted to cease.
This may account for the degeneracy of some In­
dians far to the west, reported in the journals of Mr.
Giddings, in his exploring tour. He informs, u They
differ greatly in their ideas of the Great Spirit; one
supposes that he dwells in a buffalo, another in a
wolf, another in a bear, another in a bird, another in
a rattlesnake. On great occasions, such as when they
h --- Digitized by Google
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 10S
go to war* and when they return, (he adds) they sar ri­
nce a dog, and have a dance. On these occasions
they formerly sacrificed a prisoner taken in the war ;
but through the benevolent exertions of a trader
among them, they have abandoned the practice of hu­
man sacrifice. There is always one who officiates as
high priest. He practises the most rigid abstinence.
He pretends to a kind of inspiration, or witchcraft 5
and his directions are obeyed.
“ They all believe (he adds) in future rewards and
imnishments ; but their heaven is sensual. They dif­
fer much in their ideas of goodness. One of their
chiefs told him, he did not know what constituted a
good man; that their wise men in this, did not agree.
“ Their chiefs, and most of their warriors, have a
war sack, which contains generally, the skin of a bird,
which has a green plumage ; or some other object*
which they imagine to have some secret virtue.”
Here we learn that those far distant savages have (as
have all the other tribes) their Great Spirit, “ who
made every thing,” though in their bewildered opinion
he dwells in certain animals. On going to war, or re­
turning, they must sacrifice ; and for victory obtained,
must have their religious dance. They must have their
high priest, who must practice great abstinence, and
pretend to inspiration ; and hence must be obeyed.—>
They have brought down their traditional notions of
these things ; and of future rewards and punishments.
The ark of their warlike chieftains, it seems, has de­
generated into s
l sack! but this (like the ark of the oth­
er tribes) must contain their most sacred things; “green
plumage, or some other objects which thé) imagine to
have some secret virtue.” fjere these Indians furnish
their quota of evidence, in these more broken tradi­
tions, of their descent from Israel.
These tribes in the west are more savage, and know
less of the old Indian traditions. Mr. Giddings says,
“ As you ascend the Missouri and proceed to the west,
the nearer to the state of nature the savages approach,
and the more savage they appear.” This may ac-
Digitized by Google
THE PRESENT STATE
Ì04
count for their ark's degenerating into &sack ; and for i
their verging nearer to idolatry in their views of the
Great Spirit, viewing him as embodied in certain ani­
mals.
A chief of the Delaware Indians far in the west,
visited by Messrs. Dodge and Blight, Jan. 1824, from ' *
the Union Mission, gave the following information to
these missionaries. The chief was said by these
missionaries “ to be a grave and venerable char­
acter, possessing a mind which (if cultivated) would
render him probably not inferior to some of the first
statesman of our country.” %On being inquired of by
them whether he believed in the existence of a Su­
preme Being? he replied; “ Long ago, before ever a ‘
a white man stepped his foot in America, the Dela­
wares knew there was one God ; and believed there ' ^
was a hell, where bad folks would go when they die;
and a heaven, where good folks would go.” He went
on to state (these missionaries inform) that “ he be­
lieved there was a devil, and he was afraid of him.
These things (he said) he knew were handed down by
his ancestors loc.g before William Penn arrived in
Pennsylvania. He said, he also knew it to be wrong
if a poor man came to his door hungry and naked, to
turn him away empty. For he believed God loved the
poorest of men better than he did proud rich men.
9 Long time ago, (he added) it was a good custom among
his people to take but one wife, and that for life. But
now they had become so foolish, and so wicked, that
they would take a number of wives at a time ; and turn
them away at pleasure !’ He was asked to state what
he knew of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. He replied
that “ he knew but little about him. For his part, be
knew there was one God. He did not. know about
two Gods.” This evidence need? no comment to
show that it appears to be Israelitish tradition, in rela­
tion to the one God, to heaven, hell, the devil, and to
marriage, as taught in the Old Testament, as welt a3 p *
God’s estimation of the proud rich, and the i oojr.
These things he assures us came down from their an- •
^ .. . m J
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 105
eestors, before ever any white man appeared in Ameri­
ca. But the great peculiarity which white men would
• naturally teach them (if they taught any thing,) that
Jesus Christ the Son of God is the Saviour of the
world, he honestly confesses he knew not this part of
the subject.
The following isan extract of a letter from Mr. Cal­
vin Cushman, missionary among the Choctaws, to a
friend in Plainfield, Mass, in 1824.
“ By information received of father Hoyt respecting
the former’traditions, rites and Geremonies of the In­
dians of this region, 1 think tlfere is much reason to
believe they are the descendants of Abraham.—They
have had cities of refuge, feasts of first fruits, sacrifi­
ces of the firstlings of the flocks, which had to be per­
fect without blemish or deformity, a bone of which
must n<?t be broken. They were never known to
worship images, nor to offer sacrifice to any god made
with bands. They all have some idea and belief of the
Great Spirit. Their fasts, holy days, &c. were regu­
lated by sevens, as to time, i. e. seven sleeps, seven
moons, seven years, &c. They had a kind of box con­
taining some kind of substance which was considered
sacred, and kept an entire secret from the common
people. Said box was borne by a number of men who
were considered pure or holy, (if 1 mistake not such a
box was kept by fhe Cherokees.) And whenever
they went to war with another tribe they carried this
box ; and such was its purity in their view, that noth­
ing would justify its being rested on the ground. A
clean rock or scaffold of timber only, was considered
sufficiently pure for a resting place for this sacred cof­
fer. And such w
ras the veneration of all the tribes fop
it, that whenever the party retaining it, was defeated,
and obliged to leave it on the field of battle, the con­
querors would by no means touch it.” This account
Well accords with accounts of various others from dif­
ferent regions of the Indians. But it is unaccountable
upon every principle except that the Indians are the
descendants of Israel.
Digitized by Google
106 THE PRESENT STATE
It is probable that while most of the natives of ouf
land had their one Great Spirit, some of this wretched
people talked oftheir different gods* Among the na­
tives on Martha’s Vineyard, in the beginning of May-
hew's mission among them, we tind Mioxo, in his con­
versation with the converted native, Hiaccomes, spea­
king of his thirty-seven gods ; and finally concluding to
throw them all away, to serve the one true God. We
know not what this insulated native could mean by his
thirty-seven gods. But it seems evident from all quar­
ters, that such were not the sentiments of the body of
the natives of America.
The ancient natives on Long Island talked of their
different subordinate gods. Sampson Occum, the no­
ted Indian preacher, says ; 4
4the Indians on Long Isl­
and imagined a great number of gods.” But he says,
“ they had (at the same time) a notion of one great
and good God, who-was over all the rest.” Here,
doubtless, was their tradition of the holy angels which
they had become accustomed to call gods under the one
great God» The North American Reviewers speak
of the fact, that the natives of our land acknowledg­
ed one supreme God. They inquire, “ If the In­
dians in general have not some settled opinion of a
Supreme Being ; how has it happened that in all the
conferences or talks of the white people with them,
they have constantly spoken of the Great Spirit; as
they denominate the Ruler of the universe f”
Lewis and Clark inform us of the Mandans, (a
tribe far toward the Pacific) thus 5 4
4The whole reli­
gion of the Mandans consists in a belief of one Great
Spirit presiding over their destinies. To propitiate
whom, every attention is lavished, and every personal
consideration is sacrificed.” One Mandan informed,
that lately he had eight horses ; but that he h<*d offer­
ed them, all up to the Great Spirit. His mode of do­
ing it was this; he took them .'into the plains, and tur­
ned them ail loose; committing them to the Great Spi­
rit, he abandoned them forever. The horses, less de­
vout than their master^ no doubt took Care of then*-
ceives.
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 10*7
Heckewelder (a venerable .missionary among the
Indians 40 years, noted in Doct. Jarvis’ discourse, be­
fore the New-York Historical Society, and who had a
great acquaintance with the wide spread dialect of the
Delaware language.) says ; Habitual devotion to the
great First Cause, and a strong feeling of gratitude for
the benefits he confers, is one of the prominent traits
which characterize the mind of the untutored Indian.
He believes it to be his duty to adore and worship his
Creator and Benefactor.”
Gookin, a writer in New England in 1674, says of
the natives ; u generally they acknowledge one great
Supreme doer of good.” Roger Williams, one of the
first settlers of New-England, says; “ He that ques ­
tions whether God made the world, the Indians will
teach him. I must acknowledge (he adds) I have, in
my concourse with them, received many confirmations
of these two great points ;— 1. that God is ; 2. that
He is a rewarder of all that diligently seek him. If
they receive any good in hunting, fishing or harvest­
ing, they acknowledge God in it.”
Surely then, the natives of the deserts of America
must have been a people who #nce knew the God of
Israel! They maintained for more than two millena­
ries, the tradition of Him in many respects correct.
JVhat possible account can be given of this, but that
they' w'ere descendants of Israel, and that the God of
Israel has had his merciful eye upon them, with a view
in his own time to bring them to light, and effect their
restoration?
6. The celebrated William Penn gives accounts of
the natives of Pennsylvania, which go to corroborate
the same point. Mr. Penn saw the Indians of Penn­
sylvania, before they had been atlected with the rude
treatment of the white people. And in a letter to a
friend in England he thus writes of those n a tiv e s;I
foui.d them with like countenances with the H< blew
race ; and their chudren of so lively a resemblance
to them, iliat a man would think himself in Duke’s
i
lace. or Parry->fiect. ii. Loudon, whin he secs them.”
Iere5 without the least previous idea of those natives
Digitized by Google
108 THE PRESENT STATE
perfect resemblance of them ; and with other things
which will he noted. He speaks of their dress and
trinkets, as notable, like those of ancient Israel; their
earrings, nose jewels, bracelets On their arms arid
legs, rings (such as they were) on their fingers, neck­
laces, made of pqlished shells found in their rivers,
and eo their coasts ; bands, shells and feathers orna­
menting the heads of females, and various strings of
beads adorning several parts of the body.
Mr. Penn adds to his friend, u that he considered
this people as under a dark night ; yet they believed
in God and immortality, without the Help of meta­
physics. For he says they informed him that there
was a great king, who made them—that the souls of
the good shall go to him.” He adds ; "Their worship
consists in two parts, sacrifice and cantieo, (songs.)
The first is with their first fruits ; and the first buck
they kill goes to the fire.” Mr. Penn proceeds to
describe their splendid feast of first fruits, one of
which he had attended. He informs ; “ all that go­
to this feast must take a piece of money, which if
made of the bone of a fish.” “ Mone shall appear be­
fore me empty.” He speaks of the agreement of
their rites with those of the Hebrews. He adds ;—-
“■They reckon by moons; they otter their first ripe
fruits ; they have a kind of feast of tabernacles ; they
are said to lay their altars with twelve stones ; they*
mourn a year; they have their separations of women ;
with many other things that do not now occur.” Here
is a most artless testimony, gien by that notable man,
drawn from his own observations, and accounts given
by him; while the thought of this people’s being actu­
ally Hebrew, probably was most distant from hif
mind.
7. Their having a tribe, answering in various re­
spects to the tribe cf Levu sheds further light on this
subject,* The thought naturally occurs, that it these
are the ten tribes, and they have preserved so many of
their religious traditions ; should we not be likely to
find among them some tradition of a tribe answering
%’
fcuuiQ of this tribe probably remained with the ten tribes«
Digitized by*- _____ ■ '
OF JUDAH AND lSRABt. 1 0 9
the tribe of Levi ? If we should find something of this,
the evidence of their being the tribes of Israel would
iivdeed be more striking. Possibly this is furnished.
The Mohawk tribe were held by the other trib< s in great
reverence ; and the other tribes round about them had
been accustomed to pay them an annual tribute. Mr.
Boudinot gives the following account of them. “ Mr.
Golden says, he had been told by old men (Indians) in
New England, that when their Indians were at war
formerly with the Mohawks, as soon as one (a Mohawk)
appeared, the Indians would raise a cry. from hill to hill,
a Mohawk !' a Mohawk ! upon vhich all would flee a«
Sheep before a wolf, without attempting to make the
least resistance. And that all the nations around them
have for many ) ears entirely submitted to their ad­
vice, and paid them a yearly tribute. And the tribu­
tary nations dared not to make war or peace, without
the consent of the Mohawks.V Mr. Colden goes on
to state an instance of their speech to the governor of
Virginia,in which it appears the Mohawks were the
correctors'of the misdoings of the other tribes.
Now, could any thing be found in their name, which
might have an allusion to the superiority oi the tribe
of Levi, we should think the evidence very considera­
ble, that here are indeed the descendants of the part
of that tribe which ¿lave to*the house of Israel. And
here too evidence seems not wholly wanting. The
Hebrew word Mhhokek, signifies an interpreter of
the law, superior. We have, then, a new view of the
possible origin of the Mohawks !
8. Several prophetic traits of character given of the
Hebrews, do accurately apply to the aborigines of Amer­
ica. Intemperance may be first noted. Isaiah, wri-
ting about the time of the expulsion of Israel from
Canaan, and about to predict their restoration, says ;
Isai. xxviii. 1—“ Wo to the crown of pride, the diun-
kaids of Ephraim ; (Ephraim was a noted name of
the ten tribes of Israel.) The crow n of pride, the
drunkards of Ephraim, shall be trodden under feet.
F*>r all tables shall be full of vomit and filthiness ; so
tlidllhereis no place clean.”
10
, Digitized by Google
THE PRESENT STATE
In the course of the descriptions of their drunken­
ness, that of their rejection and restoration is blended;
that the Lord by a mighty one would cast them down
to the earth ; and their glorious beauty should be like
that of a rich flower in a fertile valley, which droops,
withers and dies. But in time God would revive it.
ct In that day shall the Lord of hosts be for a crown of
glory, and for a diadem of beauty unto the residue of
this people.” None who know the character of the
Indians in relation to intemperance, need to be infor­
med that this picture does most singularly apply to
them.
Doctor Williams in his history of, Vermont, on this
trait of Indian character, says ; u no sooner had the
Indians tasted of the spirituous liquors brought by the
Europeans, than they contracted a new appetite,
which they were-wholly unable to govern. The old
and the young, the sachem, the warrior, and the wo­
men, whenever they can obtain liquors, indulge them­
selves withdut moderation and without decency, till
universal drunkenness takes place. All the tribes ap­
pear to be under the dominion of this appetite, and
unable to govern it.”
A writer in the Connecticut Magazine assures us
of the Indians in Massachusetts, when our fathers
first arrived there ; “ As soon as they had a taste of
ardent spirits, they discovered a strong appetite for
them ; and their thirst soon became insatiable.” \
Another trait of Hebrew character which singular­
ly applies to the Indians, is found in Isai. iii. 4
1The
braveiy of their tinkling ornaments about their feet;
their cauls, and round tires like the moon ; their
chains, bracelets, mufflers, bonnets, ornaments of the
le^s ; head bands, tablets, ear-rings, rings, and nose-
jewels ; the mantles, the wimples; and the crisping
puis.” One would imagine the prophet was here in­
deed describing the natives of Amerka in their full
dress ! No other people on earth ^probably bear a
resemblance to such a degree.
This description was given just before thè expuhioa
of Israel. Aud nothing would.be more. likely thaii
m
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. I l l
that their taste for these flashy ornaments should de*
scend tç posterity. For these, make the earliest and
deepest impressions on the rising generation. And
many of the Indians exhibit the horrid contrast which
there follows.
Mr. Pixley of the Union Mission, being out among
the Indians over Sabbath, thus wrote in his journal.—
“ I have endeavoured to pay a little attention to the
day, (the Sabbath) by building a fire in the woods, and
there reading my bible. In reading the third chapter
of the prophet Isaiah, I found in the latter part of the
chapter a striking analogy between the situation of this
people, and the condition ofthe people about whom the
prophet wasspeaking, which I never before discovered.
They are represented by the prophet as sitting on the
ground ; having their secret parts discovered ; having
given to them instead of a sweet smell, a stench; in­
stead of a girdle, a rent ; instead of well set hair,
baldness ; instead of a stomacher, a girding- of sack­
cloth ; and burning, instead of beauty. In all these
particulars, except that of baldness,'thé prediction of
the prophet is amply fulfilled in this people. And
even this exception would be removed, if we might
suppose that their shaving their heads with a razor,
leaving one small lock on the crown, could constitute
the baldness hinted. And certainly if any women in
•the world labour to secure their own bread and water,
and yet a number of them be attached to one man to
take away their reproach, you will find it among this
people, whether the prediction may or may not be
applied to them.”
9. The Indians beingin tribes, with their heads and
names of tribes, affordsfurther light upon this subject.
The Hebrews not only had their tribes, and heads of
tribes, as have the Indians ; but they had their animal
emblems of their tribes. Dan’s emblem was a ser­
pent ; Issachar’s an ass ; Benjamin’s a wolf ; and Ju­
dah’s a lion. And this trait of character is not want­
ing among the natives of this land. They have their
,wolf tribe; their tiger tribe ; panther tribe; buflalo
tribe ; bear tribe ; deer tribe ; raccoon tribe ; eaglè
Digitized by Google
l i t THE PRESENT STATE
tribe; and many others. What other nation on earth
bears any resemblance to this! Here, no doubt, is
Hebrew tradition.
Various of the emblems given in Jacob’s last bles­
sing, have been striking!) fultilled in the. American In­
dians. “ Dan shall be a serpent by the way ; an ad­
der in the path, that bitetjb the horse heels, so that the
rider shall fall backwards. Benjamin shall ravin as a
wolf; in the morning he shall devour the prey ; and at,
night he shall divide the spoil.” Had the prophetic
eye rested on the American aborigines, it seems as
though no picture could have been more accurate.
10. Tiif ir having an imitation of the ancient city of
refuge, evinces the truth of our subject. Their city of
refuge has been hinted from .Mr. Acfoir. But as this
is so convincing an argument,'(no nation on earth hav­
ing any thing of the kind, but the ancient Hebrews
and the Indians,) the reader shall be*rnore particular­
ly instructed on this article. Of one of these places
of refuge, Mr. Boudinot says ; “ The town of refuge
called Choate is on a large stream of the Mississippi,
five miles above where Fort Loudon formerly stood.
Here, some years ago, a brave Englishman was pro­
tected, after killing an Indian warrior in defence of
his property. lie told Mr. Adair that after some
months stay in this place of refuge, he intended to re­
turn to-his house in the neighbourhood ; but the chiefs
told him it would prove fatal to him. So that he was
obliged to continue there, till he pacified the friends
of the deceased by presents to their satisfaction. “ In
tl*e upperxountry of Muskagee, (says Doctor Bondi-
not) was an old beloved town, called Koosah—which is
apiace*of safety for those who kill undesignedly.”
“ In almost every Indian nation (fie adds) there are
several peaceable towms, which are called old beloved,
holy, or white towns. It is not within the memory of
the oldest people that blood was ever shed in them;
although they often force persons from them, and put
them elsewhere to death.” Who can read this, and
not be satisfied of the origin of this Indian tradition.
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 113
Bartram informs; “ We arrived at the Apalachnela
town, in the Creek nation. This is esteemed the
mother town sacred to peace. No captives are put
to death, nor human blood spilt here.0
Adair assures us, that the Cherokees, though thea
exceedingly corrupt, yet so inviolably observed the
law of refuge, at that time, that even the wilful mur­
derer was secure while in it. But if he left it, he had
no protection, but must expect death.
In a communication from Rev. Mr. Pixley, mission­
ary in the Great Osage mission, to the Foreign Secre­
tary, dated June 25, 1824—among other things he
says ; “ There is a class among the Indians called the
Cheshoes, whose lodges are sacred as respects the
stranger and the enemy who can find their way into
them,—not very dissimilar to the ancient city of re-
fuge.
The well known trait of Indian character, that they
will pursue one who has killed any ef their friends,
ey(er so for, and ever so long, as an avenger of the blood
shed, thus lies clearly open to view. It originated in
the*permission given to the avenger of blood in the
commonwealth of Israel; and is found in such a de­
gree probably in no other nation.
11. Their variety of traditions, historical and reli-
{ions, go to evince that they are the ten tribes of Israel.
¡eing destitute of books and letters, the Indians have
transmitted their traditions in the following manner.
Their most sedate and promising young men are some
of them selected by what they call their beloved men,
or wise men, who in their turn had been thus selected.
To these they deliver their traditions, which are care­
fully retained. These are instead of historic pages
and religious books.
Some of these Indian traditions, as furnished from
good authorities, shall be given. Different writers
agree that the natives have their historic traditions of
the reason and manner of their fathers coming into
this country, which agree with the account givei^in
Esdras3of their leaving the land of Media, and going
to the distance of a year
Digitized by Google
I H THE PRESENT STATE
and a halfV journey. ATKenzie gives the following
account of the Chepewyan Indians, far to the north­
west. He says, 4
4They have also a tradition among
them, that they originally came from another country,
inhabited by very wicked people, and had traversed a
great lake, which was in one place narrow, shallow,
and full of islands, where they had suffered great mis­
ery it being always winter, with ice, and deep snows.
At the Copper Mine River, where they made the first
land, the ground was covered with copper, over which
a body of earth has since been collected to the depth
of a man’s height/’ Doctor Boudinot speaks of this
tradition among the Indians. Some of them call that
obstructing water a river, and some a lake. And he
assures us the Indian tradition is, “ that nine parts of
their nation, out often, passed over the river; hut the
remainder refused and staid behind.” Some give ac­
count of their getting over it; others not. What a
striking description is here found of the passing of the
natives of this continent, over from the north-east of
Asia, to the north west of America,- at Beering’»
Straits. .These Straits, all agree, are less than forty
miles wide, at this period ; and no doubt they have
been continually widening. Doctor Williams, in his
history of Vermont, says they are but eighteen mile»
wide. . Probably they were not half that width 2500
years ago. And they were full of islands, the Indian
tradition assures us. Many of those islands mayhave
been washed away; as the Indian tradition says, 4
4the
gea is eating thfcm up ;” as in Dr. Boudinot.
Other tribes assure us that their remote fathers, on
their way to this country, 4
4came to a great river which
they could not pass; when God dried up the river that
they might pass over.” Here is a traditionary notion
among the Indians of God’s anciently drying up rivers
before their ancestors. Their fathers in some way got
over Beering’s Straits. And having a tradition of riy-
ers beitag dried up before the fathers, they applied it to
this event. Those straits, after Israel had been detain­
ed for a*time there, might have been frozen over, in
narrow« between the islands; or they might have
zed by ^
OP JUDAH AND ISRAEL. IIS
been passed by canoes, or other craft. The native*
of tnis land, be they who they may, didin fact arrive
in this continent; and they probably must have come
over those straits. And this might have been done by
Israel, as well as by any other people.
Relative to their tradition of coming where wa*
abundance ofcopper; it is afact^ that at, or near Bee­
ring’s Straits, there is a place called Copper Island,
from the vast quantities of this metal there found. In
Grieve’s history we are informed that copper there
covers^ the shore in abundance; so that ships i&ighi
easily b%loaded with it. The Gazetteer speaks of this,
and that an attempt was made in 1770 to obtain this
copper, but that the ice even in duly, was so abundant,
and other difficulties such, that the object was relin­
quished. Here, then, those natives made their way
to this land ; and brought down the knowledge of thi6
event in their tradition.
Doctor Boudinot gives it as from good authority,
that the Indians have a tradition “ that the book which
the white people have was once theirs. That while
theyhad this book, things went well with them; they
prospered exceedingly; but that other people got it
from them; that the Indians lost their credit; effend-
ed the Great Spirit, and suffered exceedingly from the
neighboring nations; and that the Great Spirit then
took pity on them,and directed them to this country.”
There can be no doubt but God did, by his special
providence, direct them to some sequestered region of
the world, for the reasons which have been already
given. . *
McKenzie adds the following accounts of the Che-
pewyan nation; “ They believe also that in ancient
times, their ancestors lived till their feet were worn
out with walking, and their throats with eating. They
describe a deluge, when the waters spread over the
whole earth, except the highest mountains; on the
tops of which they preserved themselves.” This tra­
dition of the longevity of the ancients, and of the flood,
m*i*t have' been from the word of God in ancient Is­
rael.
Digitized by Google
116 THE PRESENT STATE
Abbe Clavigero assures us, that the natives of Mex*
ico had (he tradition, that “ there once was a great del­
uge ; and Tepzi, in order to save himself from being
drowned, embarked in a ship, with his .wife and chil­
dren, and many animals.—That as the waters abated,
he sent out a bird, which remained eating dead bodies.
He then sent out a little bird, which returned with a
•mall branch.”
Doctor Beatty says that an Indian in Ohio informed,
that one of their traditions was; “ Once the waters
had overflowed all the land, and drowned all people
then living, except a few, who made-a great canoe and
were saved.”
This Indian added, to Dr. Beatty, that “ a long time
ago the people went to build a high place; that while
they were building, they lost their language, andcould
hot understand each other.”
Doctor Boudinot assures us that two ministers of
his acquaintance informed him, that they being among
the Indians away toward the Mississippi, the Indians
there (who never before saw a white man,) informed
him that one of their traditions was,—a great while
ago they had a common father, who had the other
people under him; that he had twelve sons by whom
he administered his government; but the sons behav­
ing illy, lost this government over the other people.
This the two ministers conceived to be a pretty evi­
dent traditionary notion concerning Jacob and his
twelve sons.
Mr. AdSr informs that the southern Indians have a
tradition that their ancestors once had a k
tsanctified
rod, which budded in one night’s time;” which seems
a tradition .of Aaron’s rod. \
Various traditions of the Indians strikingly denote
their Hebrew extraction* D r.‘Beatty informs of (heir
feast, called fhe hunter’s fiiast 5 answering, he thinks,
to the £pntecost in ancient Israel. He describes it
as follows;—
Thev choose twelve men, who provide twelve deer.
Each of the twelve men cuts a saplin; with these
they form a tent, covered with blankets. They then
Digitized by Google
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 1 1 7
choose twefve stones for an altar of sacrifice. Some
tribes, be observes, choose but ten men, ten poles,
and ten stones. Here seems an evident allusion to the
twelve tribes; and also to some idea of the ten sepa­
rate tribes of Israel. Upon thé stones of their altar
they suffered no tool to pass. No tool might pass
upon a certain altar in Israel.
Themiddle joint of the thigh of their game, Dr. Bc-
attv informs, the Indians refuse to eat. Thus did an­
cient Israel, after the angel had touched the hollow of
Jacob’s thigh in the sinew that shrank : Gen. xxxii.
25. 31, 32. “’In short, (says Dr. Beatty,) l was aston­
ished to find so many of the Jewish customs prevailing
among them; and begaft to conclude there was some
affinity between them and the Jews.’’
Col. Smith, in his history of New-Jersey, says ofan­
other region of Indians, “They nevfcr eat of the hollow
of the thigh of any thing they kill.’’ Charlevoix, speak­
ing of the Indians still further to the north, says, he met
with people who could not help thinking that the In ­
dians were descended from the Hebrews, and found ia
every thing some affinity between them. Some thing*
hesitates; as on certain meals, neglecting the use of
knives; not breaking a bone of the animal they eat;
never eating the part under the lowerjoint of the thigh ;
but throwing it away. Such are their traditions from
their ancient fathers. Other travellers among them
speak of their peculiar evening feast, in which no bone
of their sacrifice may be broken. No bone might be
broken of the ancient paschal lamb in Israel, which
was eaten in the evening.
Different men who had been eye witnesses, speak
of this, and other feasts, resembling the feasts in Israel;
and tell us relative to this peculiar evening feast, that
if one family cannot eat all they have prepared, a
neighbouring family is invited to partake with them ;
and ifany of it be still left, it piust be burned before the
next rising sun. None who read the law of the pass-
over can doubt the origin of this.
A Christian friend of mine informs me, that he
some time since read in a book which he now cannot
Digitized by Google
11« THE PRESENT STATE
name, the account of a man taken at Quebec, i*
Montgomery’s defeat; of his being carried far to the
north west by Indians ; and of a feast which they kept,
in which each had his portion in a bowl; that he wag
charged to be very careful not to injure a bone of it;
that each must eat all his bowl full, or must burn what
was left on a tire, burning in the midst for this purpose*
Tiie object of the feast he knew not.
The Secretary of the American B >ard of Commis­
sioners for Foreign Missions, in a letter to the writer
pf this View, says; “ An officer of the British army,
sta&jned at Halifax, has been at Boston this season;
(l§5r3;) and I am informed he has expressed a strong
opinion that the Indians are oflsraelitish descent. He
derives this opinion from what he has seen and known
of the Indians themselves.’’
The Rev. Mr. Frey, the celebrated Jewish preach­
er, and Agent for the American Meliorating Society,
upon reading the View of the Hebrews, and warmly
approving of this sentiment in it, with the others, that
the American Indians are the ten tribes, informed the
writer of these sheets, that he owned a pamphlet, writ­
ten by the earl of Crawford and Linsey, (England,)
entitled “ The Ten Tribes.” In this the author gives
a variety of reasons why he is convinced that the
American Indians are'the descendants of the ten tribes.
The earl was a British officer in America during the
Revolutionary war; and was much conversant with
the Indians. And his arguments in favor of their be­
ing the very Israel, are from what he himself observ­
ed and learned while among them. The pamphlet
was where Mr. Frey could not at present obtain it.
The writer regrets that he could not have access to
this document before this edition went to the press.
The Indians have their feasts of first ripe fruits,
of of green corn; and »will eat none of their corn till
a part is thus given to God. The celebrated Penn,
Mr. Adair, and Col. Smith, with others, unite in the*e
te*itmn*iies. In tbe-e Indian feasts they have their
sacred songs and dances ; singing Haile! lvaii, Y>>he-
wau, m the syllables which compose the wortls.
Digitized by Google
0F JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 11»
What other nation, besides the Hebrews and Indians
e'er in this manner attempted, the worship of Jeho-
vaii l The author of the Star in the West” says;
“ May we not suppose that these Indians formerly un­
derstood the psalms and divine hymns ? Otherwise,
hoW came it to pass that some of all the inhabitants
of the extensive regions of iNorth arid South Ameri­
ca ha\e, and retain, these very expressive Hebrew
words, and repeat them so distinctly; using them
after the manner of the Hebrews, in their reiigioua
acclamations?”
The Indian feast of harvest, and annual expigjioh
of sin, is described by these writers; and iif a ifraj
winch enforces-the conviction that they derived them
from ancient Israel. Details are given in the Star
in the West. My limits will permit only to hint at
them. The detailed accounts are worth perusing.
An Indian daily sacrifice is described. They throw
a small piece of the fattest of their meat into the
fire, before they eat. They draw their newly killed
venison through the fire. The blood they often burn.
It is with them a horrid abomination to eat the
blood of their game. This was a Hebrew law.
A particular or two of their feasts shall be noted.
Doctor Beatty gives an account of what he saw among
the Indians north west of the Ohio. He says ; “ Be-
fo e they make use of any of the first fruits of the
ground, twelve of their old men meet; when a deer
and some of the first fruits are provided. The deer
is divided into twelve parts; and the corn beaten
in a mortar, and prepared for use by boiling or
balfeipg under the ashes, and of course unleavened.
This also is divided into twelve parts. Then these,
(twelve) men hold up the venison and fruits, and
pniy, with their face« to the east, acknowledging
(as is supposed) the bounty of God to them. It is
then^eaten. After this they freely enjoy the fruits
of the earth. On the evening of the same day, (the
Doctor adds) they have another public feast which
looks like the pa^over. A great quantity of venison
is provided, with other things dressed in their usual
Digitized by Google
120 THE PRESENT STATE
way. and distributed to all the guests ; of which they
eat freely that evening. But that which is left is
thrown into the fire and burned ; as nor e of it must
remain till sun rise the next day ; nor must a bone of
the venison be broken.”
Mr. Boudinot says, “ It is fresh in the memory of
the old traders, (among the Indians) as w'e are as-^
sured by those who have long Jived among them, that
formerly none of the numerous natious, of Indians
would eat. or even handle any part of the new har­
vest, till some of it had been offered up at the yearly
festwral by the beloved man (high priest) or those of
his appointment at the ‘plantation; even though the
light harvest of the past year should almost have for­
ced them to give their women and children of the
ripening fruits to sustain life.” Who that reads the
laws of Moses, can doubt the origin of these Indian,
traditions ?
The Hebrews were commanded to eat their pass-
over with bitter herbs; Exod. xii. 8. The Indian«
have a notable custom of purifying themselves with
bitter herbs and roots. Describing one of their feasts,
the writer says, u At the end of the notable dance,
the old beloved women return home to hasten the
feast. In the mean time every ome at the temple
drinks plentifully of the Cussena, and other bitter li­
quids, to cleanse their sinful bodies, as they suppose.”
The Indians have their traditionary notion clearly
alluding to the death of Abel, by the murderous hand
of Cain ; as well as one alluding to the longev ity of
the ancients.
More full accounts are given by some of these au­
thors, of the Jirchi-magHs of the Indians—their high
priest. As the high priest in Israel was inducted into
office by various ceretno»ies. and by anointing; so is
the Indian hi^li priest by purification, and by anoint­
ing. When the holy gairnents are pul upon h m,
bear’s oil is pouted on his head. And it is stated that
the high prvest» have their resemblances of the vari­
ous on aments worn b' the tfnc;cnt high prie* is; ted
even a resemblance,oiihe breast plate. TLe&c me*
>og!e
€>F JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 121
have been called by the white people, ignorant of In­
dian customs, jugglers. But they are now ascertained
by good witnesses, as a manifest though corrupt suc­
cession of the high priesthood in ancient Israel. Bar-
tram says, those, with inferior priests and prophets,
have been maintained in most if not all the tribes.
The Indian high priest makes his yearly atonement
for sin. He appears at their temple, (such as it is) ar­
rayed in his white deer skin garments, seeming to an­
swer to the ancient ephod. Entering on his duty, the
waiter spreads a white seat with a white dressed buck­
skin, close by the holiest apartment of their temple ;
and puts on his white bead&offered by the people. A
variety of curious things are described in this dress,
by Mr. Adair, as pretty evidently designed imitations
of the parts of ancient pontifical dress. This dress is
left in the holy place of their temple, till the high
priest comes to officiate again. His breast-plate is
made of a white conch shell, through which two straps
of otter skin pass in two perforations; while white
buttons of buck’s horn are superadded, as though in
imitation of the precious stones on the ancient breast­
plate. A swan skin wreath adorns his head, instead of
the ancient plate of gold, and for the ancient tiara,
the Archi-magus has his tuft of white feathers. His
holy fire he obtains by rubbing two sticks together;
and his golden bells and pomegranates are formed of
the dried spurs of wild turkies, strung so as to rattle
on his fine mocasins.
Mr. Adair assures us, when the Indian Archi-magus
(high priest) is addressing his people, and enforcing
the divfhe speech, ” that he calls them “ the beloved
and holy people,’’ according to the language concern­
ing ancient Israel. He urges them to imitate their
virtuous ancestors,” and “ flourishes upon their belov­
ed land, flowing with milk and honey.”
Mr. Adair describes the Indian feasts, and speaks of
them as bearing a very near resemblance of the stated
feasts in ancient Israel. He gives accounts that when
the Indians are about to engage in war, they have their
preparatory sacrifices, purifications, and fastings. H>
11
Digitized by Google
122 THE PRESENT STATE
speaks of their daily sacrifice, their ablutions, mar­
riages, divorces, burials, mournings for the dead, sepa­
rations of women, and punishment of various crimes,
as being in his opinion manifestly of Hebrew origin.
The purifications, fastings, abstinences, and prayers,
to prepare for war, appear to be Hebrew. Adair says ;
u Before the Indians go to war. they have many pre­
paratory ceremonies, of purification and fasting, like
what is recorded of the Israelites* When the leader
begins to beat up for volunteers, he goes three times
round his dark winter house, contrary to the course
of the sun, sounding the war-whoop, singing the war
song, and beating a drum.* He addresses the crowd,
who come about him, and after much ceremony, he
proceeds to whoop again for the warriors to come and
join him, and sanctify themselves for success against
the common enemy, according to their ancient reli­
gious law. A number soon join him in his winter
house, where they live separate from all others, and
purify themselves for the space of three days and
three nights, exclusive of the first broken day. On
each day they observe a strict fast till sunset, watching
the.young men very narrowly (who have not been ini­
tiated in war titles) lest unusual hunger should tempt
them to violate it, to the supposed danger of all their
lives in the war, by destroying the power of their pu­
rifying, beloved physic, which they drink plentifully
during that timQ. They are such strict observers of
their law of purification, and think it so essential in
obtaining health and success in war: as not to allow
the best beloved trader that ever lived among them,
knowingly, to enter the beloved ground appropriated
to the duty of being sanctified lor war, much less to
associate with the camp in the woods, at such a time,
though he is united with them in the same war design.
They oblige him to walk and encamp separately by
himself, as an impure, dangerous animal, till the lea­
der hath purified him, according to the usual timesMid
method, with the consecrated things of the ark.”
* Tho Indians have something; in ircr ati n of a drum, made of a
vrntdeuyskmdrawn over ^ourd or irazue of wood.
„ r T
n'imi.ii'in i Di Google
OF JUDAH AND ISRABL.
Rev. Mr. Chapman, missionary in the west, inform*
us that when the Osages (with whom he was going in
company to Fort Smith) had just before they arrived
puritied themselves, to be able to form their treaty
, with the Cherokees aright, and had moved on, he was
about to proceed with them ; but the chief forbid him
on pain of death. He must for a season be separate
from them, as impure. How exactly like the treat­
ment of the stranger in the economy.of Israel!
Boudinot assures us that the Indians abstain from all
matrimonial intercourse three days before going to
war, while purifying themselves ;-^also during their
being out at war ; and for three days after they re­
turn. The Israelites were commanded before they
marched against arf enemy to wash their clothes, to
avoid all impurities? and to abstain from matrimoni­
al intercourse. These Indian customs fully appear to
have originated in those ancient divine orders ; as do
many of their rites and customs.
Their reckonings of time, Mr. Adair viewed as evi­
dently Hebrew. They begiu their year, as did Israel,
at the first appearance of new moon after*the vernal
equinox. They reckon by the four seasons, and by the
suh-divisions of the moons.
Bartram says, the Indians believe their high priests
have intimate communion with the world of spirits; and
that no great design is formed by. the Indians without
his counsel.
The Assimpoils, far to the west, we learn in Capt.
Carver’s travels among the western Indians, have their
high priest, who pretends to great intimacy with the
Great Spirit, and to be able to foretel future events ;
as is the case with the Killistinoes, at the Grand Por­
tage. Certain things he thus found among different
Indians, which show them to have been of the same ori-
6iu
Within about eighty years, men inform, that these
rites of the high priests have been more neglected.
The Indians inform, that in 1747, the high priest in the
Natchez was struck dead by lightning, while using his
invocation forraiiu They suppose the Great Spirit to
Digitized by Google
'124 TH E PRESEN T STA TE
have been angry with him for some impurity; and
. with the “ darting fire and threatening voice,” took
him away; and forbid them ’to renew the like at­
tempt. #
fLrtram gives a description of a southern Indian,
temple. It is a square of small buildings in the centre
of theirlndian town.* The small buildings of one sto­
ry cove^perhaps half an acre, more or less, according
to the strength of the tribe. In one of these huildings
they hold their councils. A part of this building is
shut up as a holy of holies ; and it is inadmissible for
any tu t the high priest to enter it. Here they deposit
their most sacred things ; as the physio-pot, rattles,
chaplets, eagle’s tail, and pipe of peaqe.
To this temple u the*males (as in*ancient Israel) are
obliged to assemble three times^i year: viz. at the
feast of the first ripe fruits; at the feast for the success
of hunting, about the time of the ancient pentecost;
and the great feastior the expiation of sins, about 4he
time of ripe corn/’1 No account could be given of
these things, without a complicated miracle, unless the
Indians have descended from the tribes of Israel.
Mr. Boudinot informs, that “ when any of their be­
loved people die, they soften the thought of death by
laying, “ he is gone to sleep with his beloved fathers.’*N
The ancient pious Hebrew dying*, “ fell asleep, and was
gathered to his people.”
The Indians, when one dies, wash and anoint the
body. The Hebrews did the same.
Some of the*southern Indians hire mourners to be­
wail and magnify the merits of the dead. Thus did
the Hebrews: Jer. ix. 17. And the Indians, as had
the Hebrews, have their* solemn songs on such occa­
sions. A religious procession moves round the corpse,
singing, Yah, (Jah.) Ho, is then sung by the proces­
sion. The leader then says, He;—all follow. Then.
Wah is sung by all. Thus they sing the syllables which
compose Jah, Jehovah. The corpse is then buried
with the lace to the east.
Lewis and Clark, in their tour to the Pacific, inform
that they found among the natives, in those rerace re-
by Google
OF ju m t i AXt> ISRAEL. 125
gions, receptacles for the dead, always lying east and
w e s t t h e door of the tomb to the east, and the bodies
in the tombs lyingwith the face to the east.
The Indians often bury with the corpse a variety of
furniture ; and their best things, if the dead be a fiist
character. * The Hebrews did the same. Josephus
informs that Hyrcanus. a MaccaBee, when Jerusalem
was besieged by the Syrain tyrant, and money was •
wanted, to*okfrom king David’s sepulchre 3000 talents^
which had 1300 years before been buried with him.
Another noted Hebrew custom the Indians have.
Doctor Boudinot informs, that a w.erthy minister infor­
med him, that as he was preaching with some Indians,
betw een the exercises, tidings were brought to ad In­
dian woman present, that her son was suddenly drown­
ed. In deep distress she retired to a'little distance,
and sat on the ground. Female friends followed, and
sat around her. After sitting a season in solemn si­
lence, the mourning mother put her hand upon her
mouth, and then fell forward with her face in the dust.
The rest all followed the example. The men went
by themselves, and did the same. It is well known
that laying the hand on the mouth, and the mouth in
the dust, is a distinguished Hebraism. See Micahvii.
16 ; Lam. iii. 29 ; Prov. xxx. 32.
In the Mosaic law it Was provided .’that the surviv­
ing brother of one deceased and childless, should mar­
ry his widow, to raise up seed to his brother. Mr.
Adair informs that the Indians have a custom which
appears to have originated in this law. A widow a-
mong them is bound‘by a strict Indian custom, to
mouru the death of her husband for three years or
more, unless the brother of her deceased husband
wishes to take her. In that case, she is released from
this law, as soon as it is known that the brother makes
love to her. She may then throw off her mourning
habits, and dress and paint like others. Certainly this
appears to have originated in that Mosaic law.
The ceremonial law for the separation of women?
the Indians appear to keep with great care. Dr,
Boudinot says ; “ The southern Indians oblige tbeir
II* f
Digitized by Go *e
«8* ÏH H PRESENT STATE
women in their lunar retreats to build small huts at a
considerable distance from their dwelling houses—
where they are obliged to stay at the risk of their
lives. Should they be known to violate this ancient
l$w, they must answer for every misfortune that the
people should meet with.”
u Among the Indians on the northwest of the Ohio,
% the conduct of the women (continues the Doctor)
•seems perfectly agreeable (as far as circumstances will
permit) to the law of Moses. A young woman, a t
the first change in her circumstances, immediately
separates herself from the rest in a hut made at some
distance from the dwelling houses, and remains there
■even days. The female that brings her food, is care­
ful not to touch her ; and so cautious is she herself of
touching her own food, that she makes use of a shar­
pened stick to take up her meat, and of a spoon for
her other food. When the seven days are ended, she
bathes herself i§ water, washes all her clothes, and
changes the vessels she has made use of. She then
returns to her father’s house.”
Dr. Boudinot further says ; u A Muskagee woman
delivered of a child is separated in like manner for
three moons, or eighty four days.” In the ceremoni­
al law the mother of a female child was to be separa*
ted eighty days ; of a male forty days. Some of the •
Indian nations, Dr. Boudinot assures us, maintain a
similar distinction between male .and female children*
Can a serious doubt remain of the origin of these In­
dian customs ? What nation on earth beside the
Jews and Israel ever maintained customs of separa­
tions and purifications like‘
these ?
Rev. Dr. Morse and Captain Carver, speak of thir
Custom among Indian women, among distant tribes
where they travelled, as will appear. And many oth*
er testimonies have been borne to the same Indian
rite. '
Col. Smith informs that u the .young women,
when our people first came among them, were very
modest and shame-faced ; and. both young and old
women would be highly oifended at indecent osprey
■ions.”
yGoogle
OP JUDAH AND I3RAEC. 12*
Major Vose, at Fort Armstrong, in a letter to the
secretary of the A. B. C. F. M. says ; “ 1 have
been informed that in places where the Indians have-
had the least intercourse with the whites, there the
men are the most temperate, and the women most
chaste.”
The traditional religion, the kind and degree of pi­
ety maintained among the Indians, are unaccountable
on any other principle than that they came down by
tradition from ancient Israel. Some things shall be
stated from good authority, which illustrate this par­
ticular.
Rev. Dr. Mather and Rev. E. Mayhewboth testify
to the following fact. Japhet Hannet was an Indian
preacher on Martha’s Vineyard. He was born A. D.
1638. His parents had lost, before he was born, five
infant children. Japhet was the sixth. The writer
says ; u The mother of this child being greatly dis­
tressed with fear lest she should lose it, as she had the
former, and utterly despairing of any help from such
means as had been formerly tried without any suc­
cess ; as sooA as she was able, she took him up with
a sorrowful heart, and went into a retired place, that
she might there give full vent to her grief. While she
was there reflecting on the insufficiency of huniaa
help, she found it powerfully suggested to- her mind,
that there is one Almighty God, who is to be prayed
to ; that this God has created all things; and that the
God who had created all things, who had given being
to herself and all other people, and had given her
child to her, was able to preserve and continue his
life. On this, she resolvea that she would seek to God
for that mercy ; and did accordingly. The issue was,
that her child lived. And her faith in him, who had
thus answered her prayer, was wonderfully strength­
ened. And the consideration of the divine goodness
herein manifested to her, caused her to dedicate this
•on to the service of that God who had thus preserved
his life.
She early informed her son of this her religious act;
kfkd did as far as she could educate him accordingly.*
Digitized by Google
128 TH E PRESENT STATE
Both Dr. Mather and Mr. Mayhew inform that thig
took place before ever the parents of Japhet were
taught to know any thing of the Christian religion ;—
and that this mother was thus prepared to embrace
the Christian religion, as soon as she heard of it from
the missionary that went to the island. And when she
joined the church, she gave this relation. This youth
became converted ; joined the church of converted
Indians on the island ; became a very pious and use­
ful man ; was a captain of the island, and a great
friend to the English in the war with Philip ; finally
became a pastor of the Indian church there; and died
ii^old age in the triumphs of faith.
How different was the religion of this native of
Martha’s Vineyard from that of the eastern heathen
world ! The knowledge she had, it seems, must have
been from Hebrew tradition, and the entail of the co­
venant with Abraham.
In the third report of the United Foreign Missiona­
ry Society, in a letter detailing the happy things which
the writer uaw at Brainerd mission, he states the
effects which the ^knowledge and conversation of the
Indian children in that school had on their heathen
parents, when the children visited the parents at home.
The aged Indians, on hearing the children repeat the
instructions given them, were pleased, and said; “M
ow*
this is good talk. It resembles the taljc which
the old people used to make to us when we
were small children. But alas, the wicked white
people (meaning the unprincipled traders among the
Indians) who have come among us have rooted it out
of our nation. We are glad the GreatlSpirit has sent
these good missionaries to bring it back to us again.”
It is stated on all hands that within about eighty
years, the connexion of the Indians near the English
with the white people has much corrupted the Indians,
and extinguished much of their traditional religion.
Here we find a new testimony to the fact, from the
confession of those aged Cherokees. And they dis­
cover what seems to them a resemblance between our
religious instructions, and the traditional instruction«
Digitized by Google
- OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 12»
given by their old people, meaning probably their old
beloved wise men (the keepers of their ancient tradi­
tions) or their high priests, or both, before they knew
any thing of the white people. This agrees with the
other information we receive relative to the religion of
the best informed natives.
In the same report of the United Foreign Mission­
ary Society from their missionaries among the Indian*
at the west, they inform as folloVs ; “ It was very in­
teresting (o hear thenr(the natives) at the garrison
joining in a kind of sacrèd singing. Every morning
on the first appearance of light, we heard them on all
sides around us, for a great distance from the camp^
engaged in very earnest paayer to God, their Creator.
This they did likewise on all extraordinary occasions,
as when they received any distinguishing favour.”
This was before any mission was established among
them ; but while the missionaries were exploring the
country to select a suitable place fora mission. They
were Indians untaught by any thing but their own tra­
ditions. The missionaries add ; “ They are very sin­
cere, temperate, and considerate ; and appear to Ye-
gard the particular providence of God with as much
attention and reverence as any Christian people.”
Such evidence as this hardly needs a comment;—
What possible account can be given for such tradi­
tional religion among a people destitute of the word
of God, and of letters, who for thousands of year*
have been secluded from the knowledge of the civil­
ized world ;—only, that they derived it from ancient
Hebrew revelation ; and that they are of the tribe*
of Israel ?
In other accounts the missionaries at the west in­
form as follows ; “ The men are generally of a lofty
itatqre, a tine form, and a frank and open countenance.
In council they are dignified; andin their speeches
eloquent. Their children are numerous, and remark­
ably submissive to parental authority. As a people
they are punctual, and apparently fervent in their
morning and evening devotions. But like the ancient
Athenians they address their worship to the unknown
God.”
Digitized by Google
THE PRESENT STATE
Rev, Mr, Pixley, at the great Osage mission, in a
•tour among the wild natives says ; “ I asked White
Hair (a chief) why he blacked his face this morning ?
He informed that it was that he might call upon God
as we do when we sit down to eat. AndJ must con­
fess (adds Mr, Pixley) their early rising, and their con­
stancy in attending to their devotions, made më
sometimes inquire, What is the power of my religion ?
and whether it ought not to make me, and all Chris­
tians, rise to pray, at least as early as these Indians ?”
Mr. Pixley in a subsequent journal says ; “ The In­
dians, although extremely singular in their way of
worship, might certainly in some respects be imitated
with profit by Christians. I allude particularly to
their early and persevering attention to it before day,
or as soon as the day daw ns. Under the force of this,
habit, if their hearts were ever led to feel and pray
aright, they will undoubtedly make most eminent
Christians ; especially as the heaping up of treasures,
and in this sense, the love of the world, seems ^>ot to
have taken possession of their minds. Let objectors
inform, where these Indians learned from the heathen
world such religion as they possess ?
It has been stated that the Indians have a tradition
that as they once, away in another country, had thé
old divine speech, the book of God ; they shall at
some time have it again, and shall then be happy. Did
not the Indian deputation (noted in the sixth report
of the United Foreign Missionary Society, as having
come from a wild region beyond the Council Blujis of
the west) in their talk with the Board of Managers in
New-York, probably allude to such tradition? One
of them says ; “ Brothers, we have long since been
told, that the red men would, one day, live like white
men, and have houses and food like them. These
things are long coming to pass. I wish it was so. I
have now grown old, and have not seen it.’’
In the journals of ¿lev. Mr. Bulrick among the
Chcrokees, making an excursion among the Indians,
he says of a certain chief ; tfcFew men in any nation
understand the art of pleasing, and of rendering their
!30
Digitized by Google
OF JUDAH AND ISRAftL. 131
^gbrfcrsation agreeable, better than he. We made
kit^wn to him the object of ourjourney. He appear­
ed verf thankful, and told us he would lay the subject
before tile other chiefs, and let us know the result of
their ^&
0T
i5nltation. After some conversation, his
'wife, an old woman, told us, that when she was a
small child, the old people used to say that good peo­
ple would come to instruct the Cherokees at some fu­
ture period ; and that perhaps she and others of her
age would live to see the day. And now she thought
that, perhaps, we and the other missionaries had come
to give them that instruction.”
_ This traditionary opinion, among the different tribes,
(noted also by Mr. Adair, Dr. Boudinot, and others,)
it seems, must have been handed down from ancient
prophecy of their restoration. They had indeed been
seeking the word of God, ^according to a prophecy in
Amos, of their famine of the word,) but had not found
it. God in mercy graut they may now speedily find
it.
Dr. Boudinot gives an account of a speech of
Cornplant, a chief in the six nations of Indians, ex­
postulating with the head of department of our states,
ou account of lands taken from his people.
This chief bad told his people we should not treat
them thus ; and they were now ready to tear him in
pieces, because we had done it. After various affec­
ting remarks, he proceeds ; “Father, we will not con­
ceal from you that the Great Spirit, and not man, ha*
preserved Cornplant (his own name) from the hand*
of his own nation. For they asked continually, where
is the land on which our children are to lie down ?—
Yon told us (say they) that a line drawn from Penn­
sylvania to Lake Ontario, would mark forever our
bo'iuds on the east ; and a line from Beaver Creek to
Pennsylvania, would mark it on the west. But we see
that ii is not so. For first one, and then another comes,
and takes it away by order of that people, who yon
toid us promised to secure it to us forever. Cornplant
is sdent ; for he has nothing to answer. When the
sun goes down, Cornplant opens his heart before the
Digitized by Google
1J2 THE FRESENT STATE
Great Spirit. And earlier than the sun appears again
upon the hills, he gives thanks for his protection dur­
ing the night. For he feels that among men become
desperate by the injuries they sustain, it is God only
that can preserve him. Cornplant loves peace. All
that he had in store, he has given to those who have
been robbed by your people, lest they should plunder
the innocent to repay themselves.”
The original peaceable and hospitable character of
the Indians testifies much relative to their traditional
religion as having come down from adivine origin. I
might here multiply quotations; but shall content my­
self with two. These 1 shall preface with a remark,
that the Indian cruelties to our people have been man­
ifestly occasioned by the injuries tliej have received
from various of our people, and by their own tradi­
tionary notions, which they think accord with these
injuries, that the whit£ people are out of the covenant
of the Great Spirit once made with their fathers, are
the accursed people, and may well be exterminated.
But let us hear the testimony of Christopher Co­
lumbus, as given in Edwards’ West Indies, relative to
the peaceable and hospitable temper of the natives
of our land, when he first discovered this continent.
Writing to hie ro)al Master and Mistress in Spain, he
says ; “ J swear to )onr majesties, that there is not a
better people in the world than these (natives of
America;) more affectionate, affable, or mild. They
love their neighbours as themselves. Their language
is the sweetest, the softest, and most cheerful ; for
they alwkys speak smiling.” An old native approach­
ing him with a basket ot surrrrer fruit, said, (as he
seemed to have seme fear of the designs of these
strangers,) u If you are men subject to mortality like
ourselves, you cannot be unapprized that after this
life, there is another, in which a very different por­
tion is allotted to good and bad men. If therefore
you expect to die, and believe with us that every one
is to be rewarded in a future state according to his
conduct in the present, you will do no hurt to those
who do none to you.”’
Digitized by Google
OF JÜDAFI AND ISRAEL. 133
My other quotation is from Dr. Boudinot. He as­
sures us he was present when Gen. Knox gave a dinner,
in the city of New-York, tp a deputation of Indians,
sachems and a chief, from Indian nations at the west,
who came with a message to our President. He says;
u A little before dinner, two or three of the sachems,
with their chief, went into thehalcony at the front of
thetiouse ; the drawing room being up stairs. From
this they had a view of the city, the harbour, Long (si-
arid, &c. ¿ic. After remaining there a short time,
they returned into the room, apparently dejected ;—
the chief more than the rest. Gen* Knox took no­
tice of it, and said to him ; Brother ; what has hap­
pened to you ? You look sorry ! Is there any thing
to distress you ? He answered ; Pll tell you brother.
I have been looking at your beautiful city—the great
water—your fine country1
—and see how happy you
all are. But then I could not help thinking That this
fine country, and this great water were once ours.—
Our ancestors lived here. They enjoyed it as their
own in peace. It was the gift of the Great Spirit to
them and their children. At last the white people
came here in a great canoe. They asked only to let
them tie it to a tree, lest the water should carry it a-
way. We consented. They then said somq of their
people were sick ; and they asked permission to land
them and put them under tne shade of the trees. The
ice then came, and they could* not go away. They
then begged a piece of land to Guild wigwams for the
winter. We granted it to them. They then asked
for some corn to keep them from starving. We kind­
ly furnished it to them. They promised to go away
when the ice was gone. When this happened, we
told them they must now go away with their big ca­
noe. But they pointed to their big guns, round their
wigwams, and said they would stay there, and we could
not make them go away. Afterwards more came.—
They brought spirituous and intoxicating liquors with
them, of which the Indians became very fond. They
persuaded us to sell them some land. Finally, they
drove us back, from time to time, into the wilderness,
12
y
Google
134 THE PRESENT STATE
far from the water, the fish and the oysters. They
have destroyed our game. Our people are wasted
away. And we live miserable and wretched; while
you are enjoying our tine and beautiful country. This
makes me sorry, brother ; and 1 cannot help it.’’
Dr. Boudinot informs of the Indians at Yazousand
Washtulu, at the south ;—of their destructions by the
governor of New Orleans, early the last century. The
unprovoked cruelties against them are enough to break
a heart of stone. They were pursued, burned, and
destroyed, and their men sold at St. Domingo for
■laves. Of these natives he says; “ Of all the In-*
dians they were the most polished and civilized. They
had an established religion among them in many par­
ticulars rational and consistent; as likewise regular or­
ders of priesthood. They had a temple dedicated to
the Great Spirit, in which they preserved the eternal
fire. Their civil polity partook of the refinement of
a people apparently in some degree learned and sci­
entific. They had kings, or chiefs.—a kind of sub­
ordinate nobility,—and the usual distinctions created
by rank were well understood and preserved among
them. They were just, generous, humane, and never
failed to extend relief to the ob ects of distress and
misery. They were remarkable for not deeming it
-glorious to de>troy the human species*; and therefore
seldom waged any other than ofiertsive war.”
Col. Smith, in his history of New Jersey, gives in­
formation of the original inhabitants, which have a
striking bearing on our subfeet. He gives an extract
from the noted Indian interpreter, Conrad Wiser.—
He says ; “ I write this to give an account of what I
have observed among the Indians, in relation to their
belief and confidence in a divine Being, according to
the observations 1 made from the year 1714, the t.me
of my youth, to this day. If by religion we mean an
attraction of the soul to God. whence pro< eed a con­
fident e in, and a hunger after the knowledge of b in ;
then this people must he allowed to have some it li-
gion among them. We find among them some traits
of a.cm fidence in God alone—notwithstanding their
deportment»’’
Google
OP JUDAH AND ISRAEL ÏS5
This interpreter gives an account of his being sent,
in 1737, by the governor of Virginia on a message to
Indians five hundred miles distant, through a pathless
dreary desert. Three Indians and a Dutchman ac­
companied him. Climbing a steep and high mountain
on the crust, one of the Indians slipped, and slid off
with rapid flight down the mountain. He came to
within several paces of a perpendicular precipice over
the rocks of a hundred feet; and the strings of his
sack caught upon something that held him. He
Mawled away, and saved his life. Upon this, the
^Tter says ; that u with outstretched arms, and great
earnestness, he said ; I thank the Great Lord and Go­
vernor of this world, that he has had mercy upon me,
and has been willing that I should live a little lon­
ger.”
Mr. Wiser gives an account that he himself was so
fatigued and discouraged, before he got through this
tour, that he sat down, unobserved by the Indians,
under a tree, with a determination to die. They soon
missed him, and returned. He told them his deter­
mination. After remaining silent a while, an old In­
dian said ; u My dear companion * thou hast hitherto
encouraged us. Wilt thou now quite give up ? Re­
member that evil days are better than good days. For
when we suffer much, we do not sin ; and sin will be
driven out of us by suffering. But good days cause
men to sin ; and God cannot extend bis mercy to
such. But when it goes evil with us, God has com­
passion on qs.” These words, Mr. Wiser assures us,
made him ashamed ; and he got up and went as weij
as he could.
The Indians murdered a Mr. Armstrong. This
Mr. Wiser was sent’ by Gov. Shamoken to make
peace by the punishment of the murderer. Af­
ter the peace was established, he informs that the
chief addressed his people, and “ exhorted them to
’thankfulness to God.” Again he said; “ Thanks,
thanks be to thee, thou Great Lord of the world, in
that thou hast again caused the sun to shine, and hast
dispersed the dark cloud. The Indians are thine.”
y
Google
Col. Smith gi£<*s account of an old --Indian king,
Ockanickon, who died 1681. To a proprietor of New
Jersey, then with him, he said, as he was abouHo die;
“ There are two ways ; a broad, and a straight wayv
The worst and the greatest number go in the broad
way ; the best and the fewest in4he straight way.”
It is fully evident from many sources of information
that the Indians’ views of the Great Spirit, and theif
religion, were from th^ir own ancient tradition ; and
not from any thing they ever learned from the wbitg
people after the latter came to this continent. R,e$. •
Mr. Brainerd, the noted missionary to the Indians,
informs of his meeting an Indian one hundred and
thirty miles from our settlements, who had a house
consecrated to religious purposes. Mr. Brainerd la­
boured to teach him Christianity but some of it he
utterly rejected, saying, “ God had taught him his
religion, and he would never turn from it.” He la­
mented that the Indians had grown so corrupt. He
related that about five years before he (having before
liVed at ease as the Indians did) became greatly
distressed, and thought he could not live among the
Indians; and for some months he lived retired from
them in the woods. At length, he said, the Greaf
•Spirit had comforted him. That since that time ha
bad known the Great Spirit, and tried to serve him.
That he loved all men, be they who they may, as
he never did before. He treated Mr. Brainerd with
great courtesy, and seemed hearty and affectionate
in his religion; but so tenacious of his own tradition­
al views, that he would not receive the peculiarities
of Christianity. ^
Col. Smith, on a hunting tour among the Indians,
informs of an aged Indian who seemed very devout*
who praying to the Great Spirit would preface every
petition with. Oh, oh, oh—” He would prepare him­
self for prayer by entering a sweat-house, and for
fifteen minutes putting himself into a violent perspi­
ration. He would then burn tobacco, and pray to
the Great Spirit. Col. Smith undertook to teach him
something ©f the way of access to God revealed in
13ft t h e p r e s e n t s t a t e
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 137
the gospel. He said “ he thought he was now..too old
to begin to learn a new religion. He should there­
fore continue to worship God in the way he had been
taught;” evidently meaning taught from Indian tra­
dition. This old Indian had been informed something
of the religion of the Roman Catholics ; but he said,
he did not believe tlie great and good Spirit ever
•taught them any such nonsense. He therefore con­
cluded that the Indians’ old way of worshipping God
was better.
The exploring commissioners of the United For­
eign Missiomfry Society reported in favour of a mis­
sion being founded among the Pawnees, high up the
Missouri. They gave the following account of this
tribe. “ The Pawnees feel and acknowledge tbeir
dependance on God; A man who has often witness­
ed it informed us that in their public feasts, before
they eat, a man venerable for age asks a blessing,
and thanks God for success in hunting, for the meat
they are about to eat, for the drink, and for the wood
which make« a fire to cook their provisions.” These
Pawnees had never learned their religion from the
whites. They were effectually out of their reach.
And no straffing white traders among the western
Indians were disposed to teach the Indians religion ;
nor would the Indians receive any instruction from
them, as appears from the following. These explor­
ing commissioners state, as one reason why a mission
should be soon established among them, thus ; “ They
are much better prepared to receive a mission than
those nations who have more intercourse with the
white people. Their circumstances call on you to
send the gospel among them, before the wretched
hordes who are ever flying from the abodes of ci­
vilization reach their vicinity, and prejudice them
against our holy religion.” Their worshipping the
one Great Spirit then was never .learned from us.
Thp past contiguities cf the Indians to our frontiers
have ever tended to subvert the religion of these
natives, such as it was, and to give them a deadly,
prejudice against ours. ±\o! Their religious notions
Ifc*
^.. M - - * * ■ Digitized by Google
'Ï3S THE PRESENT STATES-
(in so many respects different from all the religions
' of the eastern heathen world, and apparently nearly
allied to the old Hebrew system) must have descen­
ded, as we have reason to apprehend, from Israel.
Listen to the religious views of the chiefs, ,whe
came to New-York from beyond the-Couivcil Bluffs,
in their reply to a talk with the .secretary of the so­
ciety, as given in the same report of the United For­
eign Missionary Society which contained the report*
just given. “ We thank you for praying that the
Great Spirit may preserve us in our long journèy
home:” They repeàt it. “ Brothers ; we thank y6a
once more for praying to the .Great Spirit that we may
be preserved and carried home in safety to our wivet
and children.” Such numerous instances of Indian
traditions form a whoje, which most powerfully evince*
thatthe religion of our American natives isaltogether of
a brighter and different cast from the religion of the
rest of the heathen world. What account can be giv­
en of this ?
Those commissioners to the Pawnees further in­
form, that they invited the Pawnees to* a Sabbath
meeting. The commissioners prayed'for those Paw­
nees (about to take a tour, either hunting, or for some
other object) that they might go and return in safety.
Two of their men were now at home sick. After
the Pawnees retired, “ they expressed their appre*
hensions (say the commissioners) that the sick men
would never return (from their proposed tour,*) be­
cause they were not present to have these minister*
pray for them.”
Dr. Boudinot informs that a chief of the Creek
nation was some time since at Philadelphia on hit
way to New-York, with his retinue, and in company
with Col. Butler, on a commission of peace with the
United States. He was a chief of great note and
dignity in his nation, and u of much better demean­
our in his whole conduct (the Doctor remarks) than
any Indian he had ever seen.” A female limner had,
unobserved by thé chief, taken his likeness, which she
presented to him. He was astonished, and much
m Digitized by
OF JUDAH AND ISRAFt,. Í39
pleased; and assured tier, by his interpreter, “ that he
often spake to the Great Spirit; and the next time he
did so, he would remember her.” Th s child’ and
Col. Butier passing on, they were overset in the stage,
and both wounded. After the surgeons had dressed
their wounds, the chief addressed the colonel, through
his interprételas fallows. u Never mind this, bro­
ther. It will soon be well. This is the work of the
evil spirit. He knows we are going to effect a work
•of peace. He hates peace and loves war. Never
mitid it. Let us go on, and accomplish our business j
we will disappoint him.” He had some reason to say
it was the work of the evil spirit; for the stupid
stage-driver just popped at a tavern to run in and get
a glass of rum, leaving his horses loose at the door $
upon which they started, ran, and upset the stage.
In the younger days of Dr. Boudinot, the following
incident occurred. Two fine young .missionaries
were sent by the Society of Scotland (some members
of which society were in our land, and the Doctor
was one of them) to the natives west of Ohio. The
chiefs were called to consult whether they would re­
ceive them. After some days in council, they dis­
missed, them, most courteously, with the following an­
swer ;—that u they exceedingly rejoiced at the hap­
piness of the whites, in being thus favoured by the
Great Spirit; and felt very grateful that they had
condescended to remember their red brethren in the
wilderness. But they could not help recollecting that
the whites here had a people among them, who be­
cause they differed in colour, the whites had made
them slaves, made them suffer great hardships, and
lead miserable lives ; (alluding to the black slaves then
in our colonies.) Now we cannot see any reason,
(said they) if a people being black will entitle the
whites to deal thus with them, why a red colour
would not equally justify the same treatment. We
therefore determine to wait to see whether all the
black people among you are made thus joyful ar.d
happy, (as you tell us your religion will make us.)
'before we can put confidence in your promises. We
Digitized by Google
140 THE PRESENT STATE
think a people who have suffered so much, and so
long, by your means, would he entitled to your first
attention. We therefore send hack the two mission­
aries, with many thanks; promising that when we
see the black people among you restored to freedom
and happiness, we will gladly receive your missiona­
ries.” Here was reasoning well worthy of the de­
scendants of Abraham, and even of Solomon !
Mr. Herman, in his residence in the western re­
gions of our continent, gtving an account of the Chip-'
peways, informs that in point of numbers, strength,
and also attention to religious rites, they have greatly
degenerated since their acquaintance with the white
people. He speaks of them as haying many tutela­
ry gods. But they at the same time believe in one
supreme God who governs all others, allowing the in­
ferior gods considerable power and .influence ever
mortals.
From various authors the following facts appear,
that the better informed Indians hold to one God ;
and to spirits that he has made, good and bad. The
bad have a leader over them worse than all the test.
Some of the tribes, it appears, have come to call
Ahese subordinate spirits (which seem but a tradition­
a l notion of angels) gods; while yet the Great Spi­
rit is the Creator, and is overall. This degeneracy
is a most natural event among savages. Even among
the ancient Hebrews; both angels and civil rulers were
caiied gods.
Mr. Herman relates several customs, which appear
like having a Hebrew origin. Among the Chippeways,
each lad at the age of twelve or fifteen years, must
keep a penitential fast alone in the woods for thirty
or forty days; his friends carrying him, from time to
time, a kind of unpalatable food,just enough to sustain
life. We recollect no such rite as this in heathen my­
thology ; but the scriptures of Israel inform of Elijah's
fast of forty days.
These Indians, Mr. Herman informs, observe their
solemn fasts when going to war. And each warrior
has his religious symbol, which in some respects an-
Digitized by Google
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 141
swers well to Israel's ancient ark of the covenant; arid
essentially the same use is made of it, as of the ark in
the other tribes of Indians described. It is a sack, con­
taining a few aromatic plants, or roo'8, and the feathers
or skins of some rare bird, or-small animal. These
contents the owner imagines possess some kind of hid­
den virtue, which renders the owner invulnerable.
Major Long, speaking of the Omawhaws, far up the
Missouri, says, they believe in one God, “ the Creator
and preserver ofall things, the fountain oi mystic medi­
cine —meaning, the healer of their evils. This tribe
of Chippeways, (Mr* Herman informs.) call their sa­
cred sack, their u medicine, bag.” The contents ap­
pear to be essentially the same, and for the same end^
with-the contents of the sacred ark in other tribes;—-
the symbol of the presence of the Great Spirit. Hence
Mr. Herman informs that the chief captain, when go­
ing to war, harrangues his warriors, and exhorts them
to reflect on the long fast performed in their youth;
and adds ; “ Moreover, young men, it behoves you all
*to take special care of your medicine bags ; for their
contents ought of all things to be most preciouslo you*
especially during such an expedition as the one on
which you now embark. Should the medicine bgig of
any one he placed on the ground, and any one inad­
vertently seat himself upon it, the first person who
perceives him in that situation, ought instantly to spring
up, and push the other flat on his back. This violent
act will prevent any ill consequences from the unin­
tended offence.’5 Here it is evident their medicine bag9
so called, is a religious symbol, as is the holy ark of the
other tribes. And essentially the same care must be
taken not to oflend the Great Spirit by any improper
use of it. The lapse of ages among illiterate savages
scattered in unknown disiant tribes, would naturally
produce as great a variation among different tribes, in
relation to this ancient venerable symbol—the ark of
the covenant—as is this difference between these wes­
tern more savage tribes, and tribes less savace farther
to the south. But they unite in the essential points.
Both are sacred symbols borne to their wars.
Digitized by Google
142 THE PRESENT STATE
• contain their most consecrated things; and each
must he treated with the most sacred caution. No
other account can be so rationally given of the origin
of these Indian symbols,' as the law of the holy ark in
Israel. • • -
The Rev. Dr. Morse, in his report 6f his tour among
the Indians at the west, made, under commission from
oui'government, in 1820, to ascertain the actual state
of the Indians in our country, says It is matter of
surprise, that the Indian?, situated as they have been
for so many successive ages and generations, without
books or kno.vrledge of letters, or of the art of reading
or writing, should have preserved their various lan­
guages in the manner they have done. Many of them
are copious, capable of regular grammatical analysis,
possess great strength, gracefulness, ayd. beauty of ex­
pression* They are highly metaphorical in their char­
acter; and in this and other respects resemble the
Hebrew. This resemblance in the language, and the
similarity of many of their religious customs, &c. to
those of the Jews., certainly give plausibility to the in- *
genious theory of Dr. Boudinot, exhibited in his in­
teresting work; entitled “ Star in the West.” A faith­
ful and thorough examination of the various languages
of the Indian tribes, would probably show that the re
are very few of them that are throughout radically dif­
ferent.—The differences of these languages are most­
ly differences of dialect.”
The various Indian tribes, visited by Dr. Morse, had
tbeir Great Spirit. Speaking of the manners and cus­
toms of the Sauks, Fox tribe, Paltowattamies, and oth­
ers,' he says; “ Other feasts to the Great Spirit are
frequently made by these Indians.” Of one of these
feasts, he says; u They seat themselves in a circle on
the ground; when one of the guests places before each
person a wooden bowl with his portion of the feast,
and they commence eating* When each man's por- *
tion is eaten, the bones are collected, and put into a
wooden bowl, and thrown into the river, or burnt.
The whole of the feast must be eaten. If anv one can­
not eat his part of it, he passes his dish, with a piece of
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 143
tobacco to his neighbor, and he eats it; and the guests
then retire. Those who make the feast never eat any
part of it themselves. They say they give their part of it
to the Great Spirit.” Here seems manifestly the same
feast noted by other authors among other and different
tribes in the different parts of the continent, and prob­
ably answering to the passover in ancient Israel. The
different and distant tribes have their circumstantial
differences; while yet certain things indicate that the
feast is a broken tradition of the passover. In Exodus
xii. 8, speaking of the passover, it is commanded ;—
4
4With bitter herbs shall ye eat itV Why does the In­
dian, (in this account of Dr. Morse,) accompany his
portion of this singular Indian feast to his neighbor with
a piece of tobacco? Is it not, probably, for the same
reason that other distant tribes partake of their similar
feast answering to this with bitter vegetables, as has
been stated? And what heathen religion could ever
have originated such a practice? This seems neces­
sarily to have originated in the ancienHaw of the pass-
over.
Amother tradition from a Hebrew rite the Doctor
states. He says; u The women of these.nations are
very,parlicular to remove from their lodges to one erec­
ted for that particular purpose, at such seasons as ,were
customarily observed by Jewish women, according to
the Jaw of Moses. No article of furniture ever used
in this lodge, is ever used in any other ; not even the
steel and flint with which they strike fire. No mail ap­
proaches this lodge, while a woman occupies it.” The
existence of this extensive Indian rite is fully ascertain­
ed. And of its origin there appears but very little
room to doubt.
This writer says; “ The belief of these Indians rel­
ative to their creation is not vet} unlike our own. Mas­
co. one of the duets of the S.uiks. informed me that
they believed that the Great Spirit in (lie first place
created from the dust of the earth ¿wo men; hut find­
ing that these alone would not answer his purpose, be­
took from each man a rib. and made two women.”
Of the descendants of’iue»e two pair, they say, that
Digitized by Google
144 TH E PRESENT STATE
they were all one nation, until they behaved so badly,
that the Great Spirit came among them, and talked dif­
ferent languages to them ; which caused them to sepa­
rate and form different nations.” Here*are manifest
broKen fragments of Moses' history of creation, and of
the confusion of language at Babel. “ I asked (say«
Dr. M.) how they supposed, white men were made ?
He replied that Indians supposed the Great Spirit
made them of the fine dust of the earth, as they know
more than Indians.” Dr. M. gives an account of
their holding to a future state ; and to some kinds of
reward for the good, aud of punishments for the wick­
ed•
He informs from a Major Cummings, that the In­
dians are very suspicious of some evil intent, when
questioned by the Americans; and that there is no
way to obtain a full knowledge of their traditions and
ways, but by a long residence in their country. This
may account for the fact that their traditions (which
•eem manifestly Hebrew ) were kept so long and to so
great a degree, from the knowledge of our people.
Relative to their manner of transacting public busi-^
ness, they informed Dr. M .; k
*Wc open our council
by smoking a pipe selected for the occasion ; and we
address the audience through^ speaker chosen for the"
purpose; first invoking the Great Spirit to inspire us
with wisdom. We open our council in the name of
the Great Spirit, and close with the. same.”
He informs that the Indians “ before attending on
treaties, great councils, or any other important nation­
al business, always sacrifice in order to obtain the good
will of the Great Spirit. And'adds.; “ There are no
^ people inoie frequent or fervent in their arki.owlcdg-*
meuts of gratitude to God. Their belief in him is
universal; and their confidence astonishingly strong.
Speaking of their feasts, he sa\s; “The principal fes­
tival is celebrated in.the month of August; sooner or
later, as the forwardness of the corn will admit. It is
called the Green Corn Dance*; or more properly
speaking, the ceremony of t/uinktgivihg for thefirst
fruits of the earth• *
®lF JUDAH AND ISRAB&.
The question continually recurs, whence came things
like these among the natives of our continent, or the
American savages, unless these savages are the very
tribes of Israel ? No evidence is furnished that such a
variety of Hebrew rites is found among any other peo­
ple on earth, except the Jews. And it seems morally
impossible they should have derived them from any
other source than the ancient Hebrew religion.
Mr. Schoolcraft, a member of the New-York His­
torical Society, (in his Journals of travels among the
western Indians, round and beyond the western lakes,
and to the mouth of the Mississippi, in 1820.) gives
some accounts, which confirm some of the Indian tra­
ditions alread) exhibited. He speaks of attending a
feast among the Sioux Indians; a feast of the first
green corm He says ; “ Our attention was now drawn
oil by the sound of Indian music which proceeded
from another large cabin at no great distance ; but we
found the doors closed, and were informed that they
were celebrating an annual feast, at which onl) certain
persons in the village were allowed to be present; and
that it was not customary to admit strangers. Our cu­
riosity being excited, we applied to the governor, Cass,
to intercede for us ; and w^ere by that means admitted.
The first striking ob.ewt presented was, twro large ket­
tles full of green corn, cut from the cob and boiled.
They hung over a moderate fire in the m.idst of the
cabin; and the Indians, both men and women, were
seated'in a large circle around them. The\ were
singing a doleful song in a savage manner. I'he ut­
most solemnity was depicted upon every countenance.
When the music ceased, as it frequently did for a tew
seconds, there was a full and mysterious pause, during!
which certain pantomimic signs were made; and it
appeared as if they pretended to hold communion
with invisible spirits. Suddenly the music sii uck up—
but as we did not understand their language, il is im­
possible to say what they uttered, or to whom 'tlieir
supplications or responses were addressed. When the
ceremony ceased, one of the older Indians divided out
all the boiled torn into separate dishes for as many
13
145*
yGoogle
146 THE PRESENT STATE
heads of families as there were present, putiing arv
oqual number of ladles full into each dish. Then while
the music continued, they one by one took up their
dishes, and retiring from the cabin by a backward step,
so that they still faced the kettles, they separated to
their respective lodges; and thus the ceremony cea­
sed.”
This writer says, “ The Indians believed in the ex­
istence of a great invisible Spirit, who resides in the
regions of the clouds, and by means of inferior spirits
throughout every part of the earth.”
s Their word for spirit, he says, is manito, which be
observes,“ signifies the same thing among all the tribes
extending from the Arkansaw to the sources of the
Mississippi ; and according to M’Kenzie, throughout
the arctic regions.” This word, Mr. S. remarks, with
many others, strengthens the opinion“ of which (he
•ays) there appears ample grounds, that the erratic
tribes of the north-western region, and of the valiies
©f the Mississippi, are all descended from one stocky
which is presumed to have progressed from the north
toward the sopth, scattering into different tribes, and *
falling from the purity of a language, which may ori-"
ginally have been rich and copious.” .Here is good
testimony to some of the points, adduced in this work,
▼
iz. that all the Indians arc from one origin ; all origin­
ally of one language; all from the north west, the
straits of Beering, leading from the north-east of Asia
to the north-west of America ; all have one Godt—the
Great Spirit above; and the feast of the first ripe fruit»
is among them extensively kept.
These Indians, Mr. S. informs, “ have their good
and had manitoes.” or spirits* The Old Testament in-
%rms of holy and of fallen angels.
1 Mr. S. speaks of the best of authors allowing that
great corruptions have crept into the Indian language;
and that the remarks of some upon the supposed pov­
erty of the language of these Americans, are very in­
correct.
He speaks of some of the Indians as looking to the
peoples of our »tates for aid, and says, a council which
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL.
he attended with the Sandy Lake Indians, thus closed ;
“ The Americans (meaning the United States) are a
great people. Can it be possible they will allow us to
suffer
The Rev. Lemuel Haynes informs, that about 60
years ago, he was living in Granville, Mass. A minis­
ter by the name of Ashley, called on an old deacon,
with whom he was living, being on his way from a mis­
sion among the Indians in the west, where he had been
a considerable time. Mr. Ashley stated his confident
belief that the Indians were the Israelites ; for he said
there were many things in their manners and customs,
which were like those of ancient Israel. Various of
these he stated. Mr. Haynes being then a boy, does
not now recollect them. But the people he mentions
as being impressed with the accounts ; and the good
old deacon long spake of them with much interest.
A brother minister informs me that his father was a
lieutenant in the revolutionary war, and was long a-
, mong the Indians; and that he became a firm believer
that the Indians were the ten tribes of Israel from their
traditions and rites; various of which he used to
state; but which the minister does not now remem­
ber.
Various quotations have been-given from Mr. Adair.
It was thought when they were selected and inserted,
they were amply sufficient. But it has occurred to the
writer of these sheets that as he is a most material tes­
timony, and his evidence fully substantiated, as has ap­
peared, it must be desirable the reader should see
more fully his arguments, and more of the facts by hqp
stated under them.
His arguments that the natives of this continent are
of the ten tribes are as follows. 1. Their division into
•tribes. 2. Their worship of Jehovah. 3. Their no­
tion of atheocracy. 4. Their belief in the ministration
of angels. 5. Their language and dialects. 6. Their
manner of counting time. 7. Their prophets and high
priests. 8. Their festivals, fasts, and religious rites.
9. Their daily sacrifice. 10. Their ablutions an^I
anointings. 1 1 . Their laws of uncleanness. 12. Their
14$
Digitized by w Ogle
148 THE PRESENT STATE
abstinence from unclean things. 13. Their marriages,
divorces and punishments of adultery. 14.'Their
several punishments. 15. Their cities of refuge. 16.
Their purifications and preparatory cermonies. 17.
Their ornaments. 18. Their manner of curing the
sick. 19. Their burial of their dead. 20. Their
mourning for their dead. 21. Their raising seed to a
dece ased brother. 22. Their change of names adapted
to their circumstances and times. 21. Their own
traditions’; the accounts of English writers; and the
testimonies given by Spanish and other writers of the
primitive inhabitants of Mexico and Peru.
Some of bis illustrations of these arguments will be
here subjoined in his own words. Under the 1st argu­
ment. “ As the nation hath its particular symbol, so
e.-vdi tribe, the badge from which it is denominated.
The sachem of each tribe is a necessary party in con­
veyances, and treaties, to which he affixes the mark of
h;s tribe. > If we go from nation to nation among them,
we shall not find o»ie, who doth not lineally distinguish
himself by his respective family. The genealogical*
names, which they assume, are derived either from
the name of those animals, whereof the chcrubims are
gaid in revelation to be compounded, or from such
creatures as are most familiar to them. The Indians,
hovvever, bear no religious respect to the animals from
whence they derive their names. On the contrary,
they kill them when opportunity serves. When we
consider that these savages have been above twenty
centuries without the use of letters to carry down
their traditions, it cannot reasonably be expected that
•hey should still retain the identical names of their
primogenial tribes. Their main customs correspon­
ding with those of the Israelites, sufficiently clears the
subject. Besides, as hath been hinted, they call some
of their tribes by the names of cherubinical figures
that were carried on the four principal standards of
Israel.
His illustrations of the second argument, blended
with those of oniny others, have been sufficiently giv­
en.
Digitized by Google
OP JUDAFI AND ISRAEL. 143
Under the third argument, he says: “ Agreeably to
the theocracy or divine government of Israel, the In­
dians think the Deity to be the immediate head of their
slaie. All the nations of Indians are exceedingly in­
toxicated with religious pride, and have an inexpres­
sible contempt of the white people.* They used to
cail us in their war orations, the accursed people.—
But they flatter themselves with the name of the belov­
edp e o p le because their supposed ancestors, as they
affirm, were under the immediate government of the
Deity, who was present with them in a very peculiar
manner, and directed them by prophets, while the rest
of the world were aliens and outlaws tp the covenant.
—When the old Archimagus, or any one of their ma­
gi, is persuading the people at any one of their reli­
gious solemnities to a strict observance 6{ the old be­
loved or divine speech, he always calls them the beloved
or holy people, agreeably to the Hebrew epithet, Am-
mi (my people) during the theocracy of Israel.—It is
their opinion of the theocracy, that God chose them
out of all the rest of mankind as his peculiar and be-
loved’people; which alike animates both the white
Jew and the red American with that steady hatred
against all the world except themselves ; and render
them (in their opinion) hated and despised by all.”
His illustrations of the 4th and 5th arguments have
been given with those of other authors.
Under the 6th argument he says: “ They count
time after the manner of the Hebrews. They divide
the year into spring, summer, autumn, and winter.
They .number their year from any of those four peri­
ods, for they have no name for a year, and they subdi­
vide these, and count the year by lunar months, like
the Israelites, who counted by moons. They begin a
year at the first appearance of the first new moon of
the vernal equinox, according to the ecclesiastical year
of Moses. Till the 70 years captivity, the Israelites
had only numeral names for the solar and lunar months,
* Within 20 years this trait of Indian character is much meliora­
ted.
13*
Digitized by Google
1 5 0 THE PRESENT STATE
except Abib and Ethamin; the former signifying a
green ear of corn; and the latter robust or valiant.
And by the first of these, the Indians (as an explicative) •
term their passover, which the trailing people call the
green corn dance.v Mr. Adair then proceeds to show
more fully the similarity between the ancient Israelites
and the Indians in their counting time, as has been
noted.
Under the 7th argument he says : “ In conformity
to, or after the manner of the Jews, the Indian Ameri­
cans have their prophets, high priests, and others of a
religious order. As the Jews had a sanctum sanctorum,
(holy of holies) so have all the Indian nations. There
they deposit their consecrated vessels;—none of the
laity daring to approach that satred place. The In­
dian tradition says, that their fathers were possessed of
an extraordinary divine spirit, by which they foretold
things future, and controlled the common course of
nature: and this they transmitted to their offspring,
f
provided they obeyed the sacred laws annexed to it.
shtoallo, (Mr. Adair says of those Indians) is the
name of all their priestly order: and their pontifical
office descends by inheritance to the eldest. There
are some traces of agreement, though chiefly lost, in
their pontifical dress. Before the Indian Archimagus
officiates in making the supposed holy fire for the year­
ly atonement for sin, the sagan (waiter of the high
priest) clothes him with a white ephod, which is a
waistcoat without sleeves. In resemblance of the
Uritn and Thummim, the American Archimagus wears
abreast plate made of a white conch-shell with two
holes bored in the middle of it, through which he puts
the ends of an otter sl$in strap, and fastens a buck
horn white button to the outside of each, as if in imi­
tation of the precious stones of the Urim.”
In this statement Mr. Adair exhibits evidence of
which himself seems unconscious. He says the gene­
ral name of all their priestly order is Ishtoallo. And
the name of the high priest’s waiter is Sagan. Mr.
Faber (remarkingupon this) thinks the former word is
a corruption of Ish-da-eloah, a man of God; see ori-
Google
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 151,
ginal of 2 Kings, iv. 21, 22, 25, 27, 40, and other pla­
ces. And of the latter word he says, “ Sagan is the
very name by which the Hebrews called the deput) of
the high priest, who supplied his oflice, and who per­
formed the functions of it in the absence of the high
priest. See Calmefs Diet. vox Sagan.”
Here then is evidence to our purpose, that those
Indians should call their order of priests, and the high
priest's waiter, by thq^e ancient Hebrew names of a
man of God, and a deputy of the high priest. How
could these events have occurred, had not those na­
tives been Hebrew, and brought down these names by
Hebrew tradition ?
Under the 8th argument Mr.'Adair says; “ The
ceremonies of the Indians in their religious worship
are more after the Mosaic institutions, than of pagan
imitation ; which could not be, if the majority of the*
old nation were of heathenish descent. They are ut­
ter strangers to all the gestures practised by the pagans
in their religious rites. They have another appella­
tive which with them is the mysterious essential name
of God; the tetragrammaton, or great four lettered
name, which they never.name in common speech. Of
the time and place, when and where they mention it,
they are very particular, and always with a solemn air.
It is well known what sacred regard the Jews had to
the four lettered divine name, so as scarcely ever to
mention it, but once a year,when the high priest went
into the sanctuary at the expiation of sins. Might not
the Indians copy from them this sacred invocation, Fo-
he-wah? Their method of invoking God in a solemn
hymn with that reverend deportment, and spending a
full breath on each of the two first syllables of the aw-
»ful divine name, hath a surprising analogy to the Jew­
ish custom, and such as no other nation or people, even
with the advantage of written records, have retained.
It may Be worthy of notice that they never prostrate
themselves,nor bow their bodies to each other
way of salute or homage, though usual with the eas­
tern nations; except whert they are making or re­
newing peace with strangers, who come in the name of
Yah.”
Digitized by V
j OOQ 10
152 THE PRESENT STATE
Mr. Adair proceeds to speak of the sacred adjura­
tion of the Indians by the great and awful name of God;
the question being ask >d, and the answer given, Yah,
with a profound reverence in a bowing posture of body
immediately before the invocation of Yo-lie—
wah ; this
he considers to be Hebrew, adjuring their witnesses to
give true evidence. He says, “ It seems exactly to co­
incide with the conduct of the Hebrew witnesses even
now on the like occasions.”
Mr. Adair’s other illustrations under this argument,
in various feasts, fastings, their ark, and their ever re­
fusing to eat the hollow of the thigh of their game, have
been sufficiently given, in connexion with the testimo­
nies of others to the same points.
Enough has also been exhibited under the 9th, 10th
and 11th arguments.
Under the 12th he says; “ Eagles of every kind they
esteem unclean food ; likewise ravens, crows, bats,
buzzards, swallows, and every species of owl.’’ This
he considers as precisely Hebrew ; as also their purifi­
cations of their priests ; and purification for having
touched a dead body, or any other unclean thing.
Under most of his subsequent arguments the quota­
tions before given have been sufficient. Under the 16th
he says ; “ Before the Indians go to war. they have
many preparatory ceremonies of purification and last­
ing like what is recorded of the Israelites.’’
Under the last argument he says ; “ The Indian tra­
dition says that their forefathers in very remote ages
came from a far distant country, where all the people
were of one colour; and that in process of time thfey
removed eastward to their present settlements.” He
notes and confutes some idle fabulous stories which he
says sprung from the innovating superstitious igno­
rance of the popish priests to the south-west;” and
speaks of the Indian tradition as being altogether more
to be depended on. He says, “ They, (the rambling
tribes of northern Indians excepted.) aver that they
came over the Mississippi from the westward, before
they arrived at their present settlements. This we
sec verified in the western old towns they have left be­
hind them, and by the situation of their old beloved
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 153
towns or places of refuge lying about a west course
from each different nation.’’ *
‘‘Ancient history (he ^idds) is quite silent concern­
ing America, which indicates thai it has been time im­
memorial rent asunder from the eastern continent.
The north east parts of Asia were also undiscovered
till of late. Many geographers have stretched Asia
and America so far as to join them together; and oth­
ers have divided them into two quarters of the globe.
But the Russians, after several dangerous attempts,
have clearly convinced the world that they arc now di­
vided, and yet have a near communication together by
a narrow strait in which several islands are situated,
and through which there is an easy passage from the
north-east of Asia to the north-west of America. By
this passage, it was very practicable to go to this new
world, and afterward to have proceeded in quest of
suitable climates.
Those who dissent from my opinion of the Indian
American origin, (he adds) ought to inform us how the
natives came here, and by what me'uns they found the
long chain of rites and customs so similar to the usage
of the Hebrew nation, and in general dissimilar to the
modes of the pagan world. Their religious rites, mar­
tial customs, dress, music, dances and domestic forms
of life, seem clearly to evince also, that they came to
America in early times before sects had sprung up
among the Jews; which was soon after their prophets
ceased; also before arts and sciences had arrived at
any perfection. Otherwise it is likely they would have
retained some knowledge of them.”
We learn in Dr. Robertson’s history of Arfierica^
that the Mexicans had their tradition that “ Their an­
cestors came from a remote country situated to the
north-west of Mexico. The Mexicans (he says) point
out their various stations as they advanced from this
into the interior provinces; and it is precisely the same
rout which they must have held, if they had been emi­
grants from Asia.’5*
* B. 4, page 41-2-3.
Digitized by Google
1 5 4 THE PRESENT STATE
Mr. Adair says, that though some have supposed the
Americans to be descendants from the Chinese; yet
neither their religion, laws or customs airee iu the
least with those of the Chinese, which sufficiently
proves that they are not of this line. And he says the
remaining traces of their religions ceremonies, and
civil and martial customs, are different from those of
the old Scythians. He thinks, therefore, that the old
opinion that the Indians are descended from the Tartars
or ancient Scythians, should be exploded as weak and
without foundation. Those who have advocated the
affirmative have not been able to produce much, if any *
evidence, that any of the religious rites found among
the Indians, and resembling those of ancient Israel, have
ever been found among any people in the east of Asia.
Such a thing cannot be expected. Those rites were
arbitrary, established only in Israel; and designed to
distinguish them from all other nations. It is utterly
inadmissible then, to suppose these Indian rites may be
accounted for, from an idea that the Indians may have
learned them from other heathen nations. With very
similar propriety might the ujibeliever in divine reve­
lation say that the Jews and ancient Israel derived
their religion, not from God, as the bible purports, but
from the heathen nations, who at that time, might, for
aught we know', have had just such religious cus­
toms.
If the aborigines derived these rites and customs
from ancient Asiatic heathen ; why have not some of
those heathen themselves retained some of them, and
disseminated them through some other parts of the
world, besides the vast wilds of North and South Ameri­
ca ?
Capt. Carver is able to find that some of the people
north east of Asia once presented to some of the Rus­
sians their pipe of peace. The people of Israel, as
they passed by that people in ancient days, may have •
caught this custom frem them; as none pretend this
was a Hebrew”rite. Or those few people thus noted
in Asia may have caught this custom from the Indians
ever Beering’s Straits. But this is nothing, compared
Digitized by Google
with the many Hebrew rites found among the natives
of America.
Capt. Carver, who travelled five thousand miles
among the Indians of North America, states some cus­
toms observed by some of them in relation to mar­
riage and divorce, which seem much like those of au-
cient Israel. He sa)s; “ When one of their young
men has fixed on a )oung woman he approves of, he
discovers his passion to her parents, who give hmi an
invitation to come and live with them in their tent.
He accepts the offer, and engages to reside in it for a
whole year in the character of a menial servant. This
however is done only while they are young inen, and
‘for their first wife ; and not repeated like Jacob’s ser­
vitude. When this period is expired, the marriage is
solemnized.”
4
4When from any dislike (he adds) a separation
takes place, for they are seldom known toquarrel, they
generally give their friends a few days notice of their
intention, and sometimes offer reasons to justify their
conduct.” Some little ceremonies follow; and lie
says, 4
4The separation is carried on without an) mur-
imirings, or ill will between the couple or their rela­
tions.” Probably no other nation has such a resem*
bSance in this respect to ancient Israel.
Capt. Carver says of the Indians 4
4wholly unadulte­
rated with the super>titionsof the church of Rome;’*
4
4It is certain they acknowledge one Supreme Beings
or giver of life, who presides over all things—me
Great Spirit; and the) look up to him as the source of
good—who is infinitely good. They also believe in a*
bad spirit, to whom they ascribe great power. They
hold also, that there are good spirits of a less degree,
who have their particular departments, in which they
are constantly contributing to the happiness of mor­
tals.” u The priests of the Indians (he adds) who are
at the same time their physicians—while Uiey heal
their wouads, or cure the.ir diseases, they imerpi't
their dreams, and satisfy their desires of searching; to
futurity.” Bui Capt. Carver t. ites with other authors
6u the subject, in ©peaking of th^ dniiculty of su\mgeu
©F JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 1W
Digitized by Google
Ió6 THE PRESENT STATE
among them obtaining much knowledge of their reli­
gious rites. He says ; “ It is very difficult to attain to
a perfect knowledge of the religious principles of the
Indians. They endeavor to conceal them.” It isno
wonder then, that Capt. Carver, passing by them on a
tour of upwards of five thousand* miles, discovered
but few of these many rites resembling the religion of
ancient Israel, stated by Mr. Adair. Hesa)sth<*»e
was “oneparticularfemale custom” bearing resemblance
to the riles in the Mosaic law ; alluding to the well
know n Indian separation of women. Speaking of
their “religious principles,’’ which he says are “ few
and simple,” he adds, “they (the Indians) have not de­
viated, as many other uncivilized nations, and too ma­
ny civilized ones have done, into idolatrous modes of
worship.” “ On the appear» <ce of the new moon
they dance and sin<{; but it is not evident that they
pay that planet any adoration.”
Here then, according to this author, is their one
God, infinitely good, the giver of life, and of all good,
presiding over all, who is the only object of worship ;
though they sometimes beg of*the evil spirit to avert
their calamities, which in their opinion, he brings.—
Here are their good angels, ministering *
to the good;
here their priests ; and a “ particular female custom”
inexplicable unless by the Mosaic law. Here is their
firm adherence to their “ few simple doctrines,”
or rites, less deviating to idolatry than other uncivil­
ized, and even many civilized nations. These facts
are far from being destitute of their favourable bear­
ing on our subject. How should such things be true
of those savages, were they not the descendants of
ancient Israel ?
it was observed in this book, that the Esquimaux na­
tives and people round Hudson’s Bay appear a different
race from the American Indians, and may have come
from the north of Europe. Capt. Carver notes an
as-ertiou from Grotius, that •
‘‘some of the Norwegians
passed into America by way of Greenland.” Here
ma \ he fhe origin of the people of Greenland, Iceland,
and round Hudsou's Buj. t u t it gi\ s no satisfactory
157
account of the origin of the numerous Indian tribes of
America.
Rev. Mr. Chapman, missionary of the United For­
eign Missionary Society, at the Union Mission, in a
Jetter of March 24, 182.3, gives an account of some of
thernanners and customs of the Osage Indians. He
went with a large company of them to Fort Smith,
who went to form a treaty of peace with the Chero-
kees. The evening before they arrived, on a hill, the
chiefs informed that in the morning they must make
their customary peace medicine, (a religiousceremony
previous *to a treaty) for the purpose of cleansing
their hearts, and securing their sincerity of thinking
and acting.—u Ten of the principal warriors, inclu­
ding the priest of the Atmosphere, (a name of one of
their clans) were selected and sent beneath a ledge, to
dream or learn whether any error h^dbeen committed
thus far—or (A
as they expressed it) to watch the back
track.” Mr. Chapman proceeds to state their cere­
monies—prayers, sacred paintings, anointings, &c.—
-*
Among these he says ; about two feet in advance,
and in a line with our path, were three bunches of
grass, which had been cut and piled about three feet
apart, as an emblem of him whom thejfciworshippcd.
Here the priest stood with his attendants, and pray­
ed at great length. Having finished his prater, he ¿lain
ordered the march on foot. The Indians from the
right and left entered the path with great regularity's
and on wheeling forward every individual was compel­
led to step upon each bunch of the grass/’ The com­
pany proceeded about forty rods ; then halted and for­
med as before. The priest now ordered hi^ senior
attendant to form a circle of grass about four feet in
' diameter, and to fix a handsome pile in the centre.”
By this he made another long prater. Then stepping
on the circle, and followed in this b> his attendants,
they passed on. The chief informed Mr. Chapman
that this circle of grass too was a representation of
their God. Mr. Chapman says ; “■It is the univer­
sal practice of these Indians to salute the dawn of eve-
Ty morning with their devotion.” And upon the cere-
14
0F JUDAH AND ISRAEL.
yGoogle
158 THE PRESENT STATE
monies he had described he adds ; “ Perhaps the curi­
ous may imagine that some faint allusion to the lost ten
tribes of Israel may be discovered in the select num­
ber of dreamers (they being ten);—to the T rinity in
unity, in the bunches (and the circle) of grass;— to
the Jewish anointings and purifications, in th eir repea­
ted paintings;—to the sacred rite of the sanctuary, in
their secret consultations;—and to the prophetic office,
in the office of their dreamers.”
Let us look at the natives in an extreme part of
South America, and see if they exhibit any evidence
similar to what has been adduced of the patives of
North America.
Don Alonzo de Ericilla. in his history of Chili, says
of the natives there ; “ The religious system of the
Araucanians is simple. They acknowledge a Supreme
Being, the author of all things, whom they call PijJan,*
a word derived from Pulli, or PiHi, the soul; and signi­
fies the Supreme Essence. They call him also, Guenu-
pillan; the Spirit of Heaven ; Bulagen, the Great Be­
ing ; Thalcove, the Thunderer; Vilvemvoe, the Om­
nipotent; Mollgelu, the Eternal; and Avnolu, the In­
finite.” He adds ; u The universal government of
Pillan, (his Supreme Essence,) is a prototype of the
Araucanian polity. He is the great Toqui of the in­
visible w
rorid.” He goes on to speak of his having
subordinate invisible beings under him, to whom he
commits the administration ofaffairs of less irr\portance.
These, this author sees fit to c a l l subaltern divinities.”
We may believe they are hut a traditional notion of
angels, good and bad; such as is held by the Indians of
North America.
This author says of this people ; u They all agreed
in the belief of the immortality of the soul. 'J Lis
consolatory truth is deeply rooted, and in a manner
innate with them.—They hold that man is composed
of tw#
o substances essentially different; the coriupti-*
ble body and the soul, incorporeal and eternal»”
Of their funerals, he says ; “ Their bier is carried by
the principal relations, and is surrounded by women
who bewail the deceased in the manner of the I cd
mourners among the Romans.**
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 1 5 9
He also says; “ They have among them a tradition
of a great deluge, in which only a few persons were
saved, who took refuge on a high mountain called
Thegtheg, which possessed the property of moving up­
on the water.”
Here then it seems the remote natives of Chili (a
region 1260 miles south of Peru, in South America,)
furnish their quota of evidence that they originated in
the same family with the North American Indians, and
hold some of their essential traditions.
Whence could arise the tradition of those natives,
of one “ Supreme Being, author of all things ?” That
he is the “ Supreme Essence ; the Spirit of Heaven ;
the Thunderer ; the Omnipotent; the Eternal; the In­
finite?” Whence their tradition of the flood, and of
several persons being saved on a^floating mountain,
meaning no doubt the ark? Whence their ideas so cor­
rect of man’s immortal soul ?
This author says of those native Chilians, “ Many
suppose that they are indigenous to the country ; w hie
others suppose they derive their origin from a foreign
stock, and at one time sav, that their ancestors came
.from the north, atid at another time from the west.”
Their better informed or wise men, it seems, retain
some impressions of their original emigration from a
foreign land, and from the north-west, or Beering’s
Straits. ' Is it possible to give a satisfactory account of
such traditions among those native Indians of Chili,
short of their having received them from the Hebrew
sacred Scriptures ? And if from thence, surely they
must be Hebrews.
The Southern Intelligencer, in extracts from the mis­
sionaries among the Chickasaws, informs us that an old
Indian, stating to them some of the traditions of the
Chickasaws, (most of which were sufficiently wild and
pagan) gave the following. “The Great Spirit first made
the ground, and animals ; afterward he made man —
“ A woman was made in like manner.”—“ The Great
Spirit drew lines on the surface of the earth with his
rod; these afterward became rivers.” There is an
old tradition (he adds) concernthg a great flood of wa-
Digitized by Google
THE PRESENT STATE
ter.” He goes on to speak of its rising to the skies.
“ The Chickasaws came from the west,” he says.—
u The worid is to be burned, or turned upside down ;
it is generally thought it will be burned.” (See Isa.
xxiv. 1—6) u A certain description of persons infa­
mously wicked, will be burned with it. They will
roll in fire ; yet cannot die.” “ There are to be oth­
er signs before the end of the worid ; such as great
shaking of the earth, &c.” This old Indian adds ;
u It has been said by old Indians that before that event
should take place, (the burning of the world) the In­
dians and whites wouid mix, so that (he tribes would
be confused and lost, and not know to what naiion they
formerly belonged.”
Ifappears that among abundance of trash, in Indian
traditions, there are running through them some things
which must havaflbeen transmitted f om the Hebrew
Scriptures.
This old Indian has promised the missionaries to vi­
sit them again, and relate to them more of their tra­
ditions.
In Long’s expedition to the Rocky Mountains, we
learn that the Omawhaw tribe of Indians (who inhabit
the west side of t'*?i Missouri River, fifty miles above
Engineer Cantonment,) believe in one God. They call
him Wahconda ; and believe him to be the greatest and
best of beings ; the Creator and Preserver of all things;
the Fountain of mystic medicine.* Omniscience, om­
nipresence, and vast power are attributed to him.—
And he is supposed to afflict them with sickness, pov­
erty, or misfortune, for their evil deeds. In conver­
sation he is frequently appealed to as an evidence of
the truth of their asservations— u Wahconda hears
7ohat I say
These Indians have many wild pagan notions of this
one God. But they have brought down by tradition,
it seems, the above essentially correct view of him, in
opposition to the polytheistical world.
Ther name of God is remarkable—Wahconda. it
has been shown that various of the Indians call God
160
* Sacred ritea.
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 161
Yohewah, Ale, Yah, and Wah, doubtless from the He­
brew names Jehovah, Ale, Jah. And it has been
shown that these syllables which compose the name of
God, are compounded in many Indian words, or form
the roots from which they are formed, Here' we find
the fa c t; while the author from whom the account is
taken, it is presumed, had no perception of any such
thing. Wah-conda ; the last syllable of the Indian
Yohewah, compounded with conda. Or Jah, Wah^
their monosyllable name of God thus compounded,—
Here is evidence among those children of the desert,
both as to the nature and the name of their one God,
corresponding with what has been exhibited of ether
tribes.
A religious custom, related by Mr. Long, goes to
corroborate the opinion that these people are of Isra­
el. He relates that from the age of between five and
ten years, their little sons are obliged to ascend a hill
fasting, once or twice a week during the months of
March and April, to pray aloud to Wahconda. When
this season of the year arrives, the mother informs the
little sort, that the “ ice is breaking up in the river; the
ducks and geese are migrating, and it is time for you
to prepare to go in clay.” The little worshipper then
rubs himself over with whitish clay, and at sun rise
sets off for the top of a hill, instructed by the mother
what to say to the Master of Life. From his elevated
[
>osition he cries aloud to Wahconda, humming a me-
ancholy tune, and calling on him to have pity on him,
and make him a great hunter, warrior, &c.
This has more the appearance of descending from
Hebrew tradition, than from any other nation on earth;
teaching their children to fast in clay, as u in dust and
ashes and to cry to Jah for pity and protection.—
Such are the shreds of evidence furnished, one here
aud another there, through the wilds of America, sug­
gesting what is the most probable, if not evident origin,
of the natives of this continent.
In the Percy Anecdotes, we have an account that the
Shawano Indians in an excursion captured the Indian
* U *
yGoogle
162 T H E PR ESEN T STA TE
warrior called Old Scranny, ofthe Muskhoge tribe, and
condemned him to a fiery torture. He told them the oc­
casion of his falling into their hands was, he had “for­
feited theprotectionof the Divine Power bysome impurity
or other, when carrying the holy ark of war against his
devoted enemy. Here he recognized the one God, his
providence, speaks of his holy ark borne against ene­
mies, alludes to the purity of those who bear it, and if
they become impure, the Divine Being will forsake
them. The bearing which ideas like these have on
our subject, needs no explanation.
Melvenda *md Acasta (authors noted in the Star in
the West) both affirm that some of the natives bad a
tradition of a Jubilee, according to the Jubilee in Is-
.rael. Edwards, in his West Indies, assures us, that the
striking uniformity of the prejudices and customs of
the Caribbean Indians to the practices of the Jews,
had not escaped the notice of historians, as Gomclla,
Du Testre, and others.
In Hunter's narrative of the manners and customs
of the Indians, printed in Philadelphia in 1823, things
are exhibited strikingly to our purpose. This writer
spent the younger part of his life among the Indians
in the Arkansas territories, and up the Missouri. He
was taken by the Indians when a child. He grew up
among them, and lived among them many years. He
seems (if I mistake not) not to be aware ofany question
relative to their origin. And he seems not to have
undertaken to make any comparison between them
and ancient Israel, as though they might J
og of that
people. But he states many facts, which may answer
for themselves. Among the many opinions and tradi­
tions of those wild natives, he gives the following. I
shall give them in his own words, that all may judge for
themselves. “ It is certain that they acknowledge, at
least as far as my acquaintance extends, one Supreme
all powerful, and intelligent Being, viz. the Great
Spirit, or Giver of life, who created, and governs all
things.”—That he (theGreat Spirit) often held coim-
ei’s and smoked with the red meti (i. e. in ancient
times 4) gave them law.-s to be observed—but t*itin
Digitized by G i O O Ç l e . . Li.
OF JUDAFï AND ISRAEt.
consequence of their disobedience, he withdrew from
and abandoned them to the vexations of the bad spirit,
who had since been instrumental of all their degeneracy
and sufferings.”
4
4They believe that notwithstanding the offences of
his red children, he continues to shower down on them
all the blessings they enjoy. Inconsequence of this
his parental regard for them they are truly filial and
sincere in their devotions, and pray to him for such
things as they need; and return thanks for such
good things as they receive.” Mr. Hunter goes on to
speak of these Indians believing the Great Spirit to be
present, and invisible, and being eternally unchangea­
ble. And he adds ; 4
4They believe in a future state
of existence.” As to their devotions, he says : 4
4At
the breaking up of winter, having supplied themselves
with such things as were necessary, we offered up our
orisons (devotions^ to the Great Spirit for having
preserved us, and supplied all our wants. This (he
adds) is the constant practice of the Osages, Kansas,
and many other nations of Indians west of the Missis­
sippi.— You then witness (he says) the silent but
deep, impressive communication the native of the forest
holds with his Creator.”
Mr. H. goes on to assure us that the natives hav<*
their particular times 4
4set apart for devotional purpo­
ses,—such as the declaration of war; the restoration
of peace; and extraordinary visitations.” He adds ;
They have also rejoicings which assume something of
the pious form; such as their harvests; and the return
of the new moon. In general, however, a day seldom
passes with an elderly Indian, or others who are es­
teemed wise and good, in which a blessing is not asked,
or thanks returned, to the Giver of life.”
4
4Shortly after a council have determined on war,
all who are able to walk, and the old men sometimes
borne by others, assemble in a grove, or some place
rendered sacred, and offer up their prayers to the Great
Spirit for success against their enemies. Some ome of
the old men, of prophets, addresses the assembly ;
states the cause of their grievances; and enjoins#oii
16S
Digitized by Google
164 TH E PTtESEXT STA TE
the warriors to merit success In in.iug brave, and pla­
cing their confidence in the great Giver of life.” “ Sim­
ilar meetings (he adds) are generally heid on the con­
clusion of peace ; or the attainment of victory. When
triumphant, the) dance and sing songs of victory, in
which the name ot the Great Spirit is frequently intro­
duced with great reverence.” How exactly do these
accounts accord with those of Messrs. Boudinot, Adair,
and others, of the natives in other regions! Who can
doubt but these Indians have all one origin ? and who
can doubt the origin of their religion?
On the occurrence ©f an epidemic, such meetings are
holden; and some old man, or a prophet (if one be pre­
sent) addresses the Indians, and assures them that the
calamity is a visitation from the Great Spirit, to chas­
tise them for their ill spent lives, and wilful offences
against him. He then commands them to be penitent
for what has passed, and to ,reform. Silent prayers
are then offered, with promises to become more obe­
dient to their Great Father.—All amusements and re­
creations cease; and individual prayers and fastings
are frequently observed for many successive days.—.
All their various devotions are performed in a standing
posture.”
u At the ingathering of corn, (he adds) they observe
general rejoicings; at which all who are able join in
appropriate dances, songs, and feasts, and in thanks to
the Great Spirit for his munificence toward them.”—
He goes on to state that on those occasions, and at new
moons, they keep lamps burning all night before and
after the occasion: but for what purpose neither he
nor they can tell; “ as the Indians themselves conform
to it only in obedience to usage.” Possibly the night­
ly lamps burning in the temple of ancient Israel, may
best explain the origin of this custom. The writer
says ; “ They in general on discovering the new rngon
utter a short prayer to the Great Spirit.” In
tribes 1 have visited, (he adds) a belief of a dHwe
state of existence, and of future rewards atid
ments, is maintained ; though this in many respects is
various, and generally confused and indistinct.*” uThis
belief of their accountability to the Great Spirit, (He
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 165
adds) makes the Indians generally scrupulous and en­
thusiastic observers of all their traditionary dogmas.
—This conduct with most of the Indians is founded
on a perfect conviction that the cultivation and obser­
vance of good and virtuous actions in this life, will in
the next entitle them to the perpetual enjoyment of
ease and happiness—where they will again be restored
to the favour and enjoy the immediate presence,
counsel and protection of the Great Spirit; while de­
reliction from it—will as assuredly entail on them end­
less affl.ctions.” The writer continues—*
4Every In­
dian of any standing his his sacred place, such as a
tree, rock, fountain, &c. to which he resorts for devo­
tional exercise. Sometimes many resort to the same
place. Preceding any public meeting held either
for religious or festive purposes, or the assembling of
a counsel, they uniformly retire to their respective
places of private worship, and solicit the counsel and
protection of the Great Spirit. Those who omit (these
meetings) are thought less of, and their conduct is as­
cribed to an indiiference to holy things, and want of
solicitude for the national welfare.”
“ The religious opinions entertained, and modes of
worship observed by the several Indian tribes, with
which I have any acquaintance, (says Mr. Hunter) va­
ry in their general character but littleJ’ 441 have sev­
eral times heard the chiefof the Great Osages observe,
both in-public and private meetings, that all good ac­
tions would be rewarded, and ail bad actions punished
by the Great Spirit.”
* 4
4At first (says Mr. Hunter) one might be led to
suppose that this belief was a modification of doctrines
taught by some ofthe missionaries ; but such is not the
case.” He goes on to state reasous to show that
4
4these things are from Indian tradition previous to
their^aving any knowledge of white people.”
|ting his attendance at a sacrifice at the Ricka-
ss, where the ceremony was performed on an
altar arief in a holy place, where none might tread but
the priest, Mr. Hunter says ; *
4The only thing further
connected with tnis circumstance, and worthy of re-
yGoogle
166 THE PRESENT STATE
mark, was the dress or habiliment of the priest. His
cap was very high, and made of a beaver’^ skin, the
tail of which was curiously ornamented with stained
porcupine quills, and hung down on his back. His
robe was a buffalo skin singularly decorated with vari­
ous coloured feathers, and dyed porcupine quills. And
he wore on his breast, suspended from his neck, a
dressed beaver skiri stretched on sticks, on which were
painted various hieroglyphic figures, in different col­
ours.”
u The Indians speak of similar characters being
among some other tribes.” Here, as in M r..Adair’s
account, is their high priest’s robe and breast plate.
On ordinary occasions, they retire secretly (Mr. H.
adds) to their sacred places, and invoke the assistance
of the Great Spirit, and make the most solemn vows to
him, which they never fail to perform, should events
correspond to their prayers. But at times more mo­
mentous, such as thè declaration of war, conclusion of
peace, or the prevalence of epidemics, &c. they im­
pose on themselves long fastings, and severe penance,
take narcotics and nauseating drugs.” Mr. Hunter
gives a long description of the Indian green corn feast ;
also of the harvest feast ; and the feast of the new moon.
None of their green corn may be eaten, till permission
is given by well known order and a feast is celebrated ;
after which 4
4they are permitted (he says) to gather
without restraint whatever their wants require. But
the Indians both old and young look upon it, as upon
their game, as the gift of the Great Spirit, and never
wantonly destroy either.”
4
4Murdet (he adds) is punished blood for blood, ac­
cording to the Mosaic law, by the relations of the de­
ceased.”
4
4Their mode of reckoning time (says Mr. Hunter)
is very simple. Their year begins about the vernai
equinox ; and their diurnal reckoning from sunset to
sunset.” (This is perfectly Mosaic.) Upon their de­
termining on war, he says : 4
4Then follow the ceremó-
nials of fasts, ablutions, anointings, and prayers to the
Great Spirit, to crown their undertaking with success.
Digitized by Googl^.
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 167
They take drastic cathartics, bathe repeatedly, and fi­
nally anoint themselves with bear’s grease.” Relative*
to their returning from the war with prisoners, near
their village they meet with their connexions and
friends, who sally forth to congratulate the|n. Mr.
Hunter says ; u Every village has a post planted near
the council lodge. It is the prisoner’s place of refuge.
On arriving within a short distance of it, the wo­
men and children, armed with clubs, switches, and
missiles, and sometimes even with firebrands, place
themselves in two ranks, between which the warriors
one are forced to pass. It is ingen-
of refuge) are afterwards treated kindly, and permitted
to enjoy uninterrupted repose, till a general council
determines their fate.” •
Had Mr. Hunter been an enthusiastic believer in the
Hebrew origin of the Indians, and had he undertaken
toforce accounts to favour the hypothesis; what could
he have said more direct to the purpose ? But iu sta­
ting thesefacts, he seems to have had no idea of such
an hypothesis ; but artlessly states facts from his own
knowledge. And he had been brought up among them
from his childhood. Instead of commenting, on the
accounts he gives of their one God, their views of him,
their worship and devotions, God’s anciently giving
them his law, then, rejecting them.yet continuing to pre­
serve them; their fasts and feasts so similar to those in
Israel; their reckoning of time, years and days ; the
official dress of their high priests, and his resemblance
of the breastplate ; and other things; I would only
ask the reader to reperuse the quotations from this au­
thor ; and compare them with the accounts given by
Boudinot, Adair, and others, of other and distant tribes
of Indians; yea, with the laws of Moses; and then
say whether he can give ;.ny rational account of these
thing* short of the American natives being the descend­
ants of- Israel ?
* May it not with some confidence be asked, among
what other people on ea- th c in such evidence b^. found
of their being the ten tribes of Israel/ Where are
Those who reach it, (the place
Digitized by Google
1 6 8 THE PRESENT STATE
those ancient people of God, who have long been lost
from the knowledge of the world ; but who must soon
come to light, and be recovered ? Whence came the
natives of our continent ? They certainly found their
way hitter, and no doubt over Beering’s Straits from
the north east of Asia. And the tribes of Israel might
have found their wa) hither in that direction, as well as
any other people. Our natives are here, and have
brought down all these Israelitish traditions, and cer­
emonial observances, which it seems as though could
be furnished from no other quarter than from the Mo­
saic law, the commonwealth of Israel.
Let the inquirer then, before he concludes that some
other kind of evidence must be obtained, before the
proposition can be adopted, consider, that the divine
manner of affording evidence is not always such as
human wisdom would dictate. The Jews had their
strong objections against the evidences which God
sawhtto furnish of the Divinity of Christ, of his re­
surrection, and ascension to glory. . These were not
such as they would have chosen. In the midst of such
evidence as God saw fit to afford, the Jews required
something besides. u What sign showest thou ?” —
“ How *>ng dost thou make us to doubt ?” u If he be
Christ, let him descend from the cross, that we may
see and believe.” Naaman had foimed his expecta-'
tion howrhis cure should be effected. u 1 thought he
would come aut, and lay his hand on the sore, and call
upon his God, and heal the leprosy.” For w
fant of
this, he turned and was going very unpleasantly to re­
tire.
Many things may be fancied concerning the kind
and degrees of evidence, which shall bring to light the
ten tribes. But Providence may adopt'» different
method. The methods adopted bv ti e Most High,
relative to the affairs of men, have usuaMv be <n such
as to baffle human wisdom, and to stain the pride of all
glory. . .
We are to expect no new revelation iron* heaven.
And the days of miracles are thought to be pa*i. V e
probably must look for just such evidence, to exhibit
Digitized ^
0F JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 169
to the world that people so long lost, as is in fact ex­
hibited by the natives of America, And can we ex­
pect to find more evidence of this kind among any
other people who have been for more than two mil­
lenaries lost from the world, and without records or
letters ? Could we well have expected to find so
much ? Consider, our aborigines have remained es­
sentially distinguished from all the heathen on earth,
in the uniform belief of most of them at least, of one
God ; and their freedom from false gods and gross
idolatry.
Should it even be ascertained that some customs and
habits are found among the American natives similar
to what is found in the north-east of Asia ; this may
be accounted for, without supposing these Indians to
have descended from those Asiatics. For the Indians
must have passed through their regions, to reach this
country. The} might have caught some of their
manners. Some of those Asiatics might have mingled
with them in their migration to this country; and
though they here amalgamated with Israel, they may
have perpetuated some of their own customs and man­
ners. This is much more naturally and easily ac­
counted for, than to account for those northern Asiat­
ics being possessed of so much of the religious tradi­
tions of the Hebrews. If the Indians be riot Hebrews,
but of the wild Asiatics, their traditions are utterly
unaccountable. The heathen nations, and the cor­
rupt feelings of men, were not so fond of the laws and
knowledge of God, as that the ancient, far distant, and
savage Scythians of the north-east should learn and
retain so much of the religion of the Israel of God,
and transmit it for thousands of ) ears to the distant ra­
mifications of their descendants over the vast continent
of North and South America. These who can be­
lieve the affirmative, (when no^account can be given
how the religion and traditions of the Jews could ever
have been disseminated through the far distant wild«
of Scythia,) ought never to complain that the believ­
ers in the Indians being descendants from Israel, are
15
Digitized by Google
170 T H E PRESEN T STATE
mid and conjectural. Their solution of the difficulty
isfar more wild, and every way improbable!
That various heathen nations bordering on ancient
Israel, should have learned something of their names
of the true God, and of their theology ;—and that va­
rious heathen nations should have brought down some
traditionary notions of the creation, of the deluge, and'
Noah’s ark, and of some general accounts of early
events taught in ancient tradition and revelation, (as
Grotius de Veritate asserts) is nothing strange. And
it furnishes an incontestible argument in favour of the
divinity of our bible. But that the northern loving
savages of ancient Scythia should learn and adopt so
much of the special rites of Israel’s ceremonial law,
as has in fact been found among the American Indians,
and that they should so firmly embrace them as to
transmit them to their posterity for thousands of years,
peopling a continent so distant from their own, and of
the vast dimensions of this new world, is not only m-
credible, but attended with moral impossibility! It is
in no sense to be placed on apar with thefact of some
heathen nations retaining a tradition of the flood, the
ark, &c. These were general facts anciently known
to all ; while the ceremonial laws of Moses were re­
vealed and practised only in one nation, in after days,
when men had become scattered over the eastern
world, and had fallen into a state of gross idolatry and
paganism. It was an economy designed to distinguish
the tribes of Israel from all other nations; and it did
distinguish and insulate them ; and other nations did
not receive Israel’s ceremonial code as their religion.
Hence we are not to expect to find any traditionary
observances of the ancient ceremonial lazo among any
of the nations of the earth, at this day, except among
the descendants of that ancient people of God ; any
more than we are to expect to find the doctrines of
Confucius among the coloured race of Guinea. If
some of the Arabs have practised circumcision ; this
«lakes nothing against us. Circumcision was long an­
tecedent to the ceremonial code. And Ishrnael, the
father of the Arabians, being himself a sou of Abra-
yGoogle
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 171
ham, was circumcised. How naturally would his de­
scendants follow him in this rite; at least for some
time. And the heathen nations being in the practice
of offering sacrifices, furnishes no argument against us.
For sacrifices had been offered by the progenitors of
all the nations from the beginning, and were not at all
peculiar to the ceremonial code. AH heathen nations
then, derived this their practice from their remote an­
cestors.
But when we now find a race of men in the consci­
entious practice of many of the ceremonial laws in Is­
rael; and cautiously maintain those traditions, merely
because they descended from their remote ancestors ;
we certainly have found considerable of that very kind
of evidence, which must eventually (and at a period
not far from the present) bring to light the descend­
ants of ancient Israel. And however many difficult
questions may attach themselves to the subject, they
are all less difficult, than to account for the origin of
these traditions on any other principle, than that they
are of Israel.
Some have felt a difficulty arising against the Indian*
being the ten tribes, from their ignorance of the me­
chanic arts, of writing, and of navigation. Ancient
Israel knew something of these ; and some imagine,
that these arts being once known, could never be lost.
But no objection is hence furnished against our
scheme. The know jedge of mechanic arts possessed
in early times has been lost by many nations. Noah
and his sons must have known considerable of these
arts, as appears in their building of the ark. And hte
early posterity must have known something considera­
ble of them, as appears in their building of Babel.
But how many of the descendants of those ancient-
mechanics lost this knowledge. And Israel in an out­
cast state might as well have lost it. It seems a fact
that Israel have lost it, let them be who or where they
may. Otherwise, they must have been known in the
civilized world.
But that the people who first migrated to this west­
ern world did possess some knowledge of the mechan­
Digitized by Google
172 THE PRESENT STATE
ic arts, (as much doubtless, as was possessed by Israel
when they disappeared in the east) appears from in-
contestible facts, which are furnished in Baron Hum-
bolt, and in the American Archaeology, such as the1
finding of brick, earthen ware, sculptures, some im­
plements of iron, as well as other metals, and other
tokens of considerable improvement; which furnish
an argument in favour of the Indians having descend­
ed from the ten tribes. For the ancient Scythians, and
people of the north-east of Asia, had no such degree
of civilization at the time the Indians musthave reached
this land. Hence they could not have been from them.
The probability then is this ; that the ten tribes, ar­
riving in this continent with some knowledge of the
arts of civilized life ; finding themselves in a vast wil­
derness filled with the best ofgame, inviting them to the
chase ; most of them fell into a wandering idle hunt­
ing life. Different clans parted from each other* lost
each other, and formed separate tribes.' Most of them
formed a habit of this idle mode of living, and were
pleased with it, More sensible parts of this people
associated together, to improve their knowledge of the
arts; and probably continued thus for ages. From
these the noted relics of civilization discovered in
the west and south, were furnished. But the savage
tribes prevailed ; and in process of time their savage
jealousies and rage annihilated their more civilized
brethren. And thus, as a holy vindictive Providence
would have it, and according to ancient denunciations,
all were left in an 4
4outcast’’ savage state. This ac­
counts for their loss of the knowledge of letters, pf
the art of navigation, and of the use of iron. And
such a loss can no more operate against their being of
the ten tribes, than agaipst their being of any other
origin. Yea, we cannot so well account for their evi­
dent degeneracy in any other way, as that it took place
under a vindictive Providence, as has been noted, to
accomplish divine judgments denounced against the
idolatrous ten tribes of Israel.
It*is highly probable that the more civilized part of
the tribes of Israel, after they settled in America, be­
Digitized by Google
©F JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 173
came wholly separated from the hunting and savage
tribes of their brethren ; that the latter lost the knowl­
edge of their having descended from the same family
with themselves ; that the more civilized part contin­
ued for many centuries ; that tremendous wars were
frequent between them and their savage brethren, till
the former became extinct.
This hypothesis accounts for the ancient works,
forts, mounds, and vast enclosures, as well as tokens of
a good degree of civil improvement, which are mani­
festly very ancient, and from centuries before Colum­
bus discovered America. These magnificent works
have been found, one near Newark in Licking county,
Ohio ; one in Perry county, Ohio ; one at Marietta ;
one at Circleville; one on Paint Creek ; one on the
eastern bank of the Little Miami river, Warren coun­
ty ; one on Paint Creek near Chillicothe ; one on the
Scioto river ; and other places.
• These works have evinced great wars, a good
degree of civilization, and great skill in fortification.
And articles dug from old mounds in and near those,
fortified places, clearly evince that their authors pos­
sessed no small degree of refinement in the knowledge
of the mechanic arts.
These partially civilized people became extinct.
What account can be given of this, but that the sav­
ages extirpated them, after long and dismal wars ?
And nothing appears more probable than that they
were the better part of the Israelites who came to this
continent, who for a long time retained their knowl­
edge of the mechanic and civil arts ; while the great­
er part of their brethren became savage and wild.—
No other hypothesis occurs to mind, which appears by
any means so probable. The degrees of improve­
ment, demonstrated to have existed among the au­
thors of those works, and relics, who have ceased/
to exist, far exceed all that could have been furnished
from the north-east of Asia, in those ancient times.
But however vindictive the savages must have been;
—however cruel and horrid in extirpating their more
civilized brethren*; yet it is a fact that there are many
16*
Digitized by Google
174 TH E PRESEN T STA TE
excellent traits in their original character. There is
in the minds of the native Americans a quality far su-
E
erior to what is found in the mind$ of most other
cathen on earth ; and such as might have been expec­
ted from the descendants of the ancient Israel of God;
as appears from numerous testimonies, such as the fol­
lowing.
A Kev. Mr. Cushman, in a sermon-preached at
Plymouth in 1620, says, upon the base slanders utter­
ed against the Indians ; “ The Indians are said to be
the most cruel and treacherous people—like lions ;
but to us they have been like lambs ; so kind, and sub­
missive, and trusty, that a man may truly say, many
Christians are not so kind and sincere. When there
were not six able persons among us, and the In­
dians came daily by hundreds to us, with their sa­
chems or kings, and might in one hour have made dis­
patch of us ; yet they never offered us the least inju­
ry, in word or deed.’5
Governor Hutchinson says of them ; u The natives
showed courtesy to the English at their first arrival;—
were hospitable; and made such as would eat their
food welcome to i t ; and readily instructed them in
planting and cultivating the Indian corn. Some of
the English who lost themselves in the woods, they re­
lieved and conducted home.”
William Penn spake and wrote in the highest terms
•f the kindness and benevolence of this people. Col,
Smith, in his history of New Jersey, says ; “ Forbear
a century, the Indians of thatstatehad all along main­
tained an intercourse of great cordiality and friendship
with the inhabitants, being interspersed among them,
and frequently receiving meat at their houses, and
other marks of good will and esteem.”
Charlevoix, who early travelled from Quebec to
New Orleans, had a great opportunity to learn the
true Indian character; and he speaks highly in their
favour. He says ; “ They rarely deviate from certain
maxims and usages founded on good sense alone, which
holds the place of law. They manifest much star
hility in the engagements they have entered upon, pa*-
QF JUDAH AND ISR A E L . 175
tience in affliction, as well as submission in what they
apprehend to be the appointment of Providence. In
all this, (he adds) they manifest a nobleness of soul,
and constancy of mind, at which we rarely arrive with
all our philosophy and religion.
Du Pratz says; “ I have studied these Indians a
considerable number of years ; and I never could
learn that there ever were any disputings or boxing
matches among either the boys or men. I am convin­
ced (he adds) that it is wrong to denominate them sav­
ages. They have a degree of prudence, faithfulness
and generosity exceeding that of nations who would
be offended at being compared with them. No people
are more hospitable and free.
Bartram, of a part of the Creek nation, says; “Joy,
contentment, love, and friendship without guile or af­
fectation, seem inherent in them, or predominant in
their vital principle ; for it leaves them but with the
last breath of life.”
Bartram missed his way, and got lost among them.
He saw an Indian at the door of his habitation beck­
oning to him to come in. He complied. Of himself
and horse were taken the best care. When he wished
to go, the Indian led him to his right way. This In­
dian proved to be the chief of Whotoga. Would an
Indian receive such treatment among us ? Bartram
was a considerable time among them; and says; “ they
are just, honest, liberal, hospitable to strangers, consid­
erate, loving and affectionate to their wives and rela­
tions, fond of their children, frugal, and persevering ;
charitable, and forbearing.”
Col. Smith speaks of their “ living in love, peace,
and friendship, without disputes ; and in this respect
being an example to many who profess Christianity.”
These things were said of the Indians, who were
not demoralized and corrupted by a connexion with
the unprincipled whites. Too many of the latter de^
scription becorhe sufficiently hateful.
Their doleful cruelties to their prisoners of war,
was a religious custom among them, which they per­
formed with savage firmness ; as was their pursuit and
Digitized by Google
176 ?TA T £
the pjir^r.vT
slaughter of one who i na killed a "ehtive. So the an-»
cient Jaw in Israel directed, *The avenger of blood
himself shall slay the murderer ; when he meeteth
him he shaji slay him.” Numbers, xxxv. 18, 19.—
Aside from these cruelties of principle, the Indians are
faithful and kind.
When the Pequods were destroyed in the early days
of the old colony, the noble wife of a Sachem who had
before herself rescued from the Indians the maidens of
Weathersfield, and returned them home,—made two
requests; that her chastity might not be violated ;—and
that her children might not be torn from her. “ The
amiable sweetness of her countenance (says a writer,)
and the modest dignity of her deportment, were wor­
thy of the character she supported for innocence and
justice.” Whether her requests were granted, the
historian neglects to inform.
De Las Casas, who spent much time in New Spain,
says of the natives ; “ Did they not receive the Span­
iards, who first came among them, with gentleness and
humanity ? Did they not show more joy in proportion,
in lavishing treasures upon them, than the Spaniards
, did greediness in receiving them? But our avarice
iwas not yet satisfied. Though they gave up to us
their lands, and their riches ; we would take from
them also their wives, their children, aud their liber­
ties. To blacken the characters of these people, their
enemies assert that they are scarce human. But it is
we (adds the author) who ought to blush for having been
less men, and more barbarous than they.” The natives
are said to be free from the European vices of blasphe­
my, swearing, treachery in peace, and similar vices.
Columbus, enamoured with what he saw among this
people,, declared in a communication to the king and
queen of Spain, that “there is not a better people in the
world than these ;—more affectionate, affable, or mild.
They love their neighbour as themselves.—They al­
ways speak smiling.”
These are a few of innumerable testimonies to the
same point, relative to the moral character of the
natives of America. Certainly then they have de­
Digitized by Google
I
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 17T
served better treatment then they received from the
whites. AnJ these things furnish a rich quota of evi­
dence that they probably had as good an origin as from
the ancient people of Israel.
Some testimonies furnished by Baron Humbolt, in
his Political Essays on the Kingdom of New Spain, will
‘here be added. Relative to this noted author,—hie
translator, John Black, in Ips preface says ; u It is ob-
servedvby a popular French"writer, that by far the most
valuable and entertaining part of modern literature is
the department filled up by travellers.” He adds;
M. de Humbolt belongs to a higher order of travellers,
to whom the public have of late been very little ac­
customed. We would place- him beside a Nieubuhr,
a Pallas, a Bruce, a Chardin, a Barrow; and his works
will probably be long consulted as authorities, respec­
ting the countries which he describes. He seems to
be a stranger to few departments oflearning, or science;
and his fortune enabled him to provide himself with
every thing which could most advance his pursuits, and
lead him to make that appearance arnong persons of
rank and authority necessary to remove obstacles in
the way of the traveller in every country.”
“ M. de Humbolt (his translator adds) has brought
forward a great mass of information relative to New
Spain ; a country of which we before knew very little
indeed.” He compares his information with that of
Robertson, and"gives him the decided preference.
The Baron de Humbolt was a native of Germany,
and a most celebrated character. His works .were
published in New-York, in 1811. His travels in New
Spain were in the early part of the present century.
He ventures no opinion on the origin of the natives of
America. He probably was a stranger to the senti­
ment of their having descended from Israel. Whatever
evidence may be collected from him relative to this
point, will hence be deemed the more precious, when
he viewed it as having no such bearing.
The object, in exhibiting some things from this au­
thor will be, to show the far greater probability that our
natives descended from Israel, than that they desceud-
Digitized by Google
178 THE PRESENT STATE
ed from the Scythians, or Tartars.—That they all had
oneorigin.-That many of them had made suchimprove­
ments in knowledge and arts, as to indicate that^ they
had had the advantages enjoyed in the commonwealth
of Israel.—And some things may be given more direct­
ly evidential ofthe fact. Relative to our natives hav­
ing one origin, our author says : “ The Indians of New ’
Spain bear a general resemblance to those who inhabit
Canada, Florida, Peru, and Brazil. They have the
same swarthy and copper colour; flat and smooth hair;
small beards ; long eyes, with the corner directed up­
ward ; and prcrnine'nt cheek bones.—The American
race occupies the greatest space on the globe. Over
a million and a half of square leagues, from the Terra
del Fuego islands, to the river St. Lawrence, and Bee­
ring’s Straits, we are struck at the first glance with the
general resemblance in the features of the inhabitants.
We think we perceive that they all descended from the
same stock.” He goes on to note some who are of a
different opinion. But he adds ; “ In the faithful por­
trait which an excellent observer (M. Volney) ha»,
drawn of the Canada Indians, we undoubtedly recog­
nize the tribes scattered in the meadows of the Rio
Apure, and tLo Corona. The same style of features ex­
ists no doubt in both Americas.”
As to the improvements of some of the natives, M.
Humbolt, speaking of the Mexicans before the Span­
ish conquests, says; “ When we consider that they
had an almost exact knowledge of the duration of the
year; that they intercalated at the end of their great
cycle of 104 years, with more accuracy than did the
Greeks, Romans, and Egyptians, we are tempted to be­
lieve that this progress is not the effect of the intellec­
tual development of the Americans themselves; but
that they were indebted for it to their communications
with some very cultivated nations of central Asia.”
But how improbable is it that these nations of Mexico
could have any communication with people in central
Asia, on the other side the globe from them, when vast
oceans, or many thousands of leagues of pathless de­
serts, lay between them! How could they, in periods
y
Digitized by Google
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 1 7 9
-subsequent to their emigration to this continent, have
traversed back and forward round the world, and learn­
ed from central Asia the arts and sciences ? Had this
been the case, this continent and its inhabitants would
have been known in the eastern world* Such an hy­
pothesis is vastly improbable at least. But they retain­
ed and might have made progress in arts and some de­
gree of science brought down from ancient Israel. Our
author says; “The Taultees appeared in New Spain in
the seventh, and the Aztees in the twelfth centuries,
(as he learned from the hieroglyphical tables of the
Aztees) who drew up the geographical map ofthe coun­
try traversed by them ;—constructed cities, highways,
dikes, canals, and immense pyramids very accurately
designed, cf abase of 1416 feet in length.” How stri­
king the view here given of their historical hieroglyph­
ics ancient dates, and emigrations! as well as geograph­
ical and mechanical improvements ! Can such itn-
B provements be imputed to a northern Scythian origin ?
wf Striking evidence follows.
Our author proceeds to describe the pyramids of
tiew Spain,—those signal Indian antiquities. The
pyramid ofCholula is 177 feet in height. Its base is
1416 feet. It has four great stages, or stories. It lies
exactly with the meridian, north and south ; the width
nearly equal to the length; (439 metres; a metre be­
ing nearly 3 1-4 feet.) This stupendouspile is compo­
sed. he tells us, “of alternate strata of brick and clay.”
Various other similar pyramids this author notes and
describes in those reuions. as being of the same con­
struction. And of their constriction he says ; “ They
suffice to prove the great analogy between these brick
monuments—and the temple of Belus at Babylon, and
the pyramids of Menschich Dashour, near Sackbara in
Egypt.” On the pyramid of Cholula is a church sur­
rounded with cypress. This pyramid M. Humbolt in­
forms.is “ ten feet higher than the Mvcerinus, or the
third of the great Egyptian p\ minds of the group of
Gtfize.” The length of the base (he informs) is great­
er by almost half than that ofthe ¿rent pyramid Cheops;
and exceeds that of all the pyramids known on the old
Digitized by Google
180 THE PRESENT STATE
continent. And he adds, “If it be allowed to compare
with the great Egyptian monuments, it appears to
have been constructed on an analogous plan.”
1 ask. can such pyramids be ascribed to ancient bar­
barous Scythians ? Israel knew the pyramids of Egypt,
It is with great probability supposed, that during their
servitude there, they aided in building those stupen­
dous monuments. They thus served a long’
apprenliee-
slup to the art of making brick, and pyramids. Did
. the ancient Scythians ever serve such an apprentice­
ship ? If the advocates for a Scythian descent of the
Indians, could present the fact,that the whole Scythian
nation, had, in former times, served an apprenticeship
of a number of centuries in making just such brick py­
ramids as are found in America ; how much would they
make of this solitary argument to show, that4he authors
of those American pyramids must surely have been of
Scythian descent ? And I confess there would be, in
my opinion, ten times as much argument in it, in favour
of their position, as 1 have ever perceived in any other
arguments adduced. Various authors unite, as will ap­
pear, in stating the great similarity between those Mex­
ican pyramids, and those of Egypt. And our noted
author M. Humbolt exclaims; “ We are astonished to
see, in regions the most remote, men following the
same model in their edifices.” This is here claimed a*a
great argumentin favour of the Israelitish extraction of
those Indians. Other arguments this author uninten­
tionally furnishes. He says; u We have examples of
theocraticforms oj government in South America. For
"*such were those of Zac, of Bogota, and of the Incas of
Peru,—two extensive empires, in which despotism was
concealed under the appearance of a gentle and patri­
archal government.—The empire of the Zac (he adds
in a note) which comprehends the kingdom of New
Grenada, was founded (i. e. in their ti&ditioi») by a*
mysterious personage called Idacanzas, or Bochira ;—
who. according to lb* tradition of the IJfo?eas, lived
the temple of the sun, at Sogamozo, rising of^dPB»
years.” Here tradition had given this people an ati-
de#t mysterious founder. His present votaries were
©F JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 181
the Mozcas. He ljved at Sogamozo, inhabiting a tem­
ple. The government of this people, it seems, is the-
ocratico-patriarchal. Whom does all this most resem­
ble ? Israel; or the ancient barbarous Scythians ? It
would seem the warmest advocates for a Scythian de­
scent, would not be fond of answering this question.
But admitting that this theocratic, patriarchal govern­
ment must well accord with Israelitish tradition ; and
it seems not unnatural to say, their ancient mysterious
lawgiver was Moses, from whom the devoted Mozcas
may have derived their name; and also the name of
his supposed residence, Sogamozo. It is natural to
view this as a tradition (something confused by rolling
millenaries) of the lawgiver Moses ministering at the
tabernacle in the wilderness, 2000 years (more or less)
before some noted era of this tradition. Suppose Soga­
mozo to have beeri from Sagan Moses. Sagan, Adair
assures us^ was a noted Indian name of the waiter or
deputy of the Indian high priest. And it was the very
name of the deputy of the ancient high priest in Israel;
as the noted Calmet informs. Against the word Sagan,
Calmet says ; f
c
f
cThe Jews thus call the deputy of the
r high priest, who supplied his office, and who perfor­
med the function of it in the absence ofthe high priest.”
Calmet adds ; “ The Jews think that the office of Sa­
gan was very ancient. They hold that Moses was Sa­
gan to Aaron. I do not find the word Sagan, he says,
in this sense in the scriptures; but it is frequent in
the Rabbins.” Here then, the old rabbinical traditions
say, that Moses was Sagan to Aaron inUhe wilderness•
How natural then that the same tradition should de­
scend to the American Mozcas, (if they be of Israel)
that Sogamozo (Sagan Moses, mistaking the place of his
residence for his name.) was their ancient legislator !
We shall by and by find in another authority, a similar
tradition with this, and bearing its part of a strange
combination ofjust such evidence as must eventually
present the long lost Israel of the world.
Our author proceeds ; “ But the Mexican small col­
onies, wearied of tyranny, gave themselves republican
constitutions.” Now it is only after long popular strug-
Digitized by Google
m THE PRESENT STATE
gles that these free constitutions can be formed. The
existence of republics does not indicate a very recent
civilization. Here, like a wise politician, he was
showing that the Mexicans from ancient date, were a
civilized people,'at least, in good degree.
He adds ; 4
f
cHôw is it possible to doubt that a part
of the Mexican nation had arrived at a certain de­
gree of cultivation, when we reflect on the care with
which their hieroglyphic«! books were composed, and
kept ; and when we recollect that a citizen of Tlasca-
la in the midst of the tumults of war, took advantage of
the facility offered him by our Roman alphabet, to write
in his own language five large volumes on the history
of a country, of which he deplores the subjection ?”
Our author further says ; uTo give an accurate idea
of the indigenous (native) inhabitants of New Spain ;
it is not enough to paint them in their actual state of
degradation ayd misery after the Spanish conquests.
We must go back to a remote period, when governed
by its own laws, the nation could display its proper
energy. And we must consult the hieroglyphical
paintings, buildings of hewn stone, and works of sculp­
ture still in preservation ; which, though they attest
the infancy of the arts, bear however a striking analo­
gy to several monuments ofthe more civilized people.”
Again he says ; fc
i The cruelty of the Europeans has
entirely extirpated the old inhabitants of the West In­
dies. The continent of America, however, has wit­
nessed no s, ch horrible result. The number of In­
dians in New Spain exceeds two millions and a half, in­
cluding only those who have no mixture of European
or African blood. What is still more comolatory is,
*
at thé indigenous population, far from declining, has
Sen considerably on the increase for the la.-t fifty
years ; as is proved by registers of capitation, or
tribute. In general the Indians appear to form two
fifths of the whole population of Mexico. In Guanax-
uato, Valladolid, Oaxana, and La Puebla, this popula­
tion amounts to three fifths. f ^;
u So great a number of indigenous inhabitants",(he
adds) undoubtedly proves the antiquity, of the cultiva*
le
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 18$
tion of this country. Accordingly we find in Oaxana
remaining monuments of Mexican architecture, which
prove« a singularly advanced state of civilization.—
When the Spaniards conquered Mexico, they found
very few inhabitants in the countries situated beyond
the parallel of 20 degrees. Those provinces (that were
beyond) were the abode of the Chichimecks and Olo-
mites, two pastoral nations, of whom thin hordes were
scattered over a vast territory. Agriculture and civi­
lization were concentrated in the plains south of the
river of Santiago.—From the 7th to the 13th century,
population seerrism general to have continually rawed
towards the south. From the regions situated south
of the Rio Gila, issued forth those warlike nations, who
successively inundated the country of Anahuac.—The
hieroglyphical tables of the Aztees have transmitted to
us the memory of the principal epochs of the great mi­
grations among the Americans.’’ Thi* traveller goes
on to speak of those Indian migrations from the north,
as bearing a resemblance to the inundations of the bar­
barous hordes of Goths and Vandals from the north o f ^
Europe, and overwhelming the Roman empire, in th e ^ S ^
fifth century. He adds ; u The pe'ople, however, who
traversed Mexico, left behind them traces of cultiva­
tion and civilization. Thè Taultees appeared first in
the year 648 ; the Chichimecks in 1170 ; the NahuaU
tees in 1178 ; the Acolhues and Aztees, in 1196. The
Taultees introduced the cultivation of maize and cot­
ton ; they built cities, made roads, and constructed
those great pyramids, which are yet admired, and of
which the faces are very accurately laid out. The«*
knew the use of hieroglyphical paintings; they coula
found metals, and cut the hardest stones. And they
had a solar year more perfect than that of the Greeks
and Romans. The form of their government indica­
ted that they were the descendants of a people who had
experienced great vicissitudes in their social state.
But where (he adds) is the source of that cultivation ?
Where is the country from which the Taultees and
Mexicans issued ?”
Digitized by Google
184 THE PRESENT STATE
No wonder these questions should arise in the high­
ly philosophical mind of this arch investigator. Had
he known the present theory oftheir having descended
from ancient Israel; it seems as though his difficulties
might at once have obtained relief. These accounts
appear most strikingly to favour our hypothesis. Here
we account for all the degrees of-civilization and im­
provements existing in past ages among the natives of
those regions. How perfectly consentaneous are these
facts sjatec^ with the scheme presented in the prece ­
ding pfcges, that Israel brought into this new continent
a considerable degree of civilization; and the better
part ofthem long laboured to maintain it. But others
fell into the hunting and consequent savage state;
whose barbarous hordes invaded their more civilized
brethren, and eventually annihilated most ofthem, and
all in these northern regions! Their hieroglyphical
records, paintings and knowledge of the solar year,
(let it be repeated and remembered) agree to nothing
that could have descended from the barbarous hordes
of the north-east of Europe, and north of Asia ; but
they Well agree with the ancient improvements and
state of Israel.
Our author proceeds; “ Tradition and historical
hieroglyphics name Huehuetlapallan, Tallan, and Azt-
lap, as the first residence of these wandering nations.
There are no remains at this day of any ancient civili­
zation of the human species to the north of Rio Gila,
or in the northern regions travelled through by Hearne,
.Fiedler, and Mackenzie. But on the north west coast,
between Nootkaand Cook river, especially under the
57th degree of nor^h latitude, in Norfolk Bay, and
Cox Canal, the natives display a decided taste for
hieroglyphical paintings.” (See Voyage de Marchand,
6, 258,'261, 375. Dixon, p. 332.) “ A harp (says
umbolt) represented in the hieroglyphical paintings
ofthe inhabitants of the north-west coasts of America,
is an object at least as remarkable, as the famous harp
on the tombs of the kings of Thebes. I am inclined to
believe that on the migrations of the Tan)tees and Az-t
tees to the south (the tribes noted as most improved)
^_____ - _ — -
some tribes remained on the coasts of New Norfolk and
New Cornwall, while the rest continued their course
southward. “ This is not the place to discuss the
great problem of the Asiatic origin of the Taultees, or
Aztees. The general question of the first origin of the
inhabitants of the continent, is beyond the limits pre­
sented to history ; and is not perhaps even a philoso­
phical question.” Thus our author declines giving any
opinion on this subject. But he here gives it as his opin­
ion'that these more improved tribes in New Mexico
came from the north-west coast, and left some of their
half civilized brethren there. Among the hieroglyph-
ical paintings of the latter, it seems, the harp is found.
Was not this a noted israelitish musical instrument ?
How should the American Indians be led to paint the
Jewish harp ? The Jews in Babylon u hung their harps
upon the willows.” And it is as natural an event that
their brethren, in the wilds of America, should place
them in their silent hieroglyphical paintings. Whence
could have been derived the knowledge of the accu­
rate hieroglyphical paintings, which this most learned
author exhibits as found among some of the Indians ;
unless they had learned them from people to whom the
knowledge of hieroglyphics had been transmitted from
Egypt, its original source ? It appears incredible that
such improvements in this art, and the knowledge of
the Jewish harp, should be transmitted from the an­
cient barbarous people of Scythia. If any can believe
it, it is hoped they will be cautious of ever taxing oth­
ers with credulity. Such evidence, it is believed,
weighs many times more in favour of their Israelitish
extraction. M. Humbolt informs us from Mozino (of
whom he speaks with great respect,}relative to Indians
at Nootka, on the north-west cdhsts. Of the writings
of this author, he says ; “ These embrace a great num­
ber of curious subjects ; viz. the union of the civil and
ecclesiastical power in the same persons*of the princes
—the struggle between Quaulz and Matlax, the good
and bad principle by which the World is governed;—
the origin of the human species at the time when stags
were without horns, birds without wings, & c . t h e
16*
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 18 5
Digitized by Google
186 THE PRESENT STATE
Eve of the Nootkians, who lived solitary in a flowery
grove of Yucuatl—” Here is a traditional peculiarity
of Israel;—the origin in the same person of civil and
ecclesiastical government. The struggles of the good
and bad principle seems very congenial to ancient rev­
elation. The mother of all men,—Eve in para­
dise, is most striking in their tradition. This must
have been learned from the history of Moses, and has
a signal weight in favour of the Israelitish extraction of
those Nootkians ; as has their notion of the innocence
and harmlessness of the primitive state of men and
beasts. Our noted author says ; “ The Mexicans have
preserved a particular relish for painting, and for the
art of carving in wood or stone. We are astonished at
what they are able to execute with a bad knife on the
hardest wood. They are peculiarly fond of painting
images, and carving statues of saints. This is derived
from a religious principle ofa very remote origin.” He
adds; u Cortez, in his letters to the Emperor Charles
V. frequently boasts of the industiy which the Mexi­
cans displayed in gardening. Their taste for flowers
undoubtedly indicates a relish for the beautiful. The
European cannot help being struck (our author contin­
ues) with the care and elegance the natives display in
distributing the fruits which they sell in small cages of
very light w
rood. The sapotiliesr tbe mammea, pears,
and raisins, occupy the bottom ; while the top is orna­
mented with odoriferous flowers. This art of entwi­
ning fruits and flowers had its origin perhaps in the
happy period when, long before the introduction of in­
human rites, the first inhabitants of Anahuac, like the
Peruvians, offered up to the Great Spirit the first fruits
of their harvest.” Here was the ancient rite, in Peru,
and perhaps in Anahuac, of offering to the Great Spir­
it their first ripe fruits ; as has appeared to have been
the case among the various tribes of the natives of this
continent. And our author conceives that the curious
art of entwining fruits an¿Jlo7oers must have had an
ancient origin. Possibly, indeed, it had an origin as
ancient and as venerable, as the alternate knop (or
fruit) and flower on the brim of Israels brazen sea;—on
Digitized by Google
©F JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 187
the shafts of the golden candlesticks ; and on the hem
of the high priest’s garment;— bells and pomegranates..
These ideas were familiar in Israel; but probably in
no other nation. Our author speaks of the language
of some of the Indians in the south “ of which the me­
chanism proves an ancient civilization.” Dr. Ed­
wards (Mr. Boudinot informs) was of the same opin­
ion of the North American Indians : and Ae‘pronoun-
ced this ancient origin of their language to have been
Hebrew
It seems the Spanish missionaries found such traces
of resemblance between some of the rites of the reli­
gion of the natives of Mexico, and the religion which
they wished to introduce, that our author says, “ They
persuaded them that the gospel had in very remote
times, been already preached in America. And they
investigated its traces in the Aztee ritual, with the
same ardour which the learned who in our days engage
in the study of Sanscrit, display in discussing the ana­
logy.between the Greek mythology and that of the
Ganges and the Burrampooter.” It is a noted fact
that there is a far greater analogy between much of the
religion of the Indians, and Christianity, than between
that of any other heathen nation on earth and Chris­
tianity. The aged Indians, noted in the preceding pa­
ges, testified to this, when the children from the mis­
sionary school came home and informed what instruc­
tions they had received. The old Indian said ;
Now this is good talk. This is such as we used
to hear when we were children from the old people,
till some ofthe white people came among us, and des­
troyed it. We thank the Great Spirit that he has
brought it back again!
Our author again says; “ The migrations of the
American tribes having been constantly carried on
from north to south, at least between the sixth and
twelfth centuries, it is certaio that the Indian popula­
tion of New Spain must be composed of very hetero­
geneous elements. In proportion as the population
flowed toward the south,’ some tribes would stop in
their progress and mingle with other tribes that follow­
ed them.” All seem to agree that the Indians cam
Digitized by Google
188 THE PRESENT STATE
from the north-west, andoverspread the continent to
the south. Our author, speaking of the conjecture of
the Indians descending from a people in the north
parts of Siberia, says ; “ All these conjectures will ac­
quire more probability, when a marked analogy shall
be discovered between the languages of Tartary and
those of the new continent; an analogy which accor­
ding to the latest researches of M. Barton Smith, ex­
tended only to a very small number of words.” 1 for­
bear to oiler any further remarks upon these testimo­
nies incidentally afforded by this most celebrtited au­
thor. Let them be duly weighed by thejudicious rea­
der ; and he surely cannot doubt but the natives of
America came from the north over Beering’s Straits ;
and descended from a people of as great mental culti­
vation, as were the ancient family of Israel. He must
abandon the idea of their being of Scythian descent.
He will find much evidence of their being all from one
origin; and also much evidence in favour of the hy­
pothesis, that some of the original inhabitants labour­
ed to retain their knowledge of civilization ; but that,
an overwhelming majority abandoned it for the idle
hunting life.
In the Archaeologia Americana, containing Transac­
tions and Collections of the American Antiquarian Socie­
ty,” published at Worcester, Mass, in 1820; are
found antiquities of the people who formerly inhabited
the western part?, of the United States.” Of some of
these I shall give a concise view, as additional argu­
ments in favour of my theory, that some of the people
of Israel who came into this western continent main­
tained some degree of civilization for a long time ; but
that the better part of the outcast tribes of Israel herei,
finally became extinct, at least in North America, ua- *
der the rage of their more numerous savage brethren.
I shall present also from this interesting publication,'
some new and striking arguments in favour ofthe Amer­
ican natives as being of Israel.
Relative to the ancient forts and tumuli, the writer
of the Archaeology sajs; “ These military works,—
these walls and ditches cost so much labour in their
Digitized by Google
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 189
structure; those numerous and sometimes tasty mounds,
which owe their origin to a people far more civilized
than our Indians, but far less so than Europeans;—are
interesting on many accounts to the antiquarian, to
the philosopher, and the divine. Especially when
we consider the immense extent of country which they
cover ; the great labour which they cost their authors 5
the acquaintance with the useful arts which that people
had, when compared with our present race of Indians ;
the grandeur of many of the works themselves; and
the total absence of all historical records, or even tra­
ditionary accounts, respecting them. They were once
forts, cemeteries, temples, altars, camps, towns, villa­
ges, race grounds, and other places of amusement,
habitations of chieftains, videttes, watch-towers, and
monuments.” These certainly are precisely such re­
mains as naturally might have been expected to be
furnished by a better part of Israel placed in their
u outcast” state, in a vast wilderness, with the degree
of civilization which they possessed when banished
from Canaan ; and were situated in the midst of sav­
age tribes from their race, who had degenerated to the
hunting life, and were intent on the destruction of this
better part of their brethren. Thus situated, aiid
struggling to maintain their existence, and to maintain
their religious traditions, they would naturally form*
many of the very things above enumerated, walled
towns, forts, temples, altars, habitations of chieftains,
videttes, and watch-towers. These cannot be ascri­
bed to a people of any other origin, with any thing
like an equal degree of probability. The whole pro­
cess of the hypothesis stated in relation to these two
branches of the descendants of Israel, when finding
xthemselves lodged in this vast wild continent, is natu­
ral and easy.
The above publication of the American Antiquarian
Society, decides that these Indian works must have
been very ancient, and long before this continent was
discovered by Columbus. French forts and works in
the west, are also discovered ; and many articles on
or near the site of those old forts, evidently European
Digitized by Google
1 9 0 THE PRESENT STATE
and modern. But these are clear, y distinguished from
those ancient forts and remains. Of the authors of
those many ancient remains, this publication sa)s$
u From what we see of their works,* they must have
had somti acquaintance with the arts and sciences.
They have leftu9perfect specimens of circles, squares,
octagons, and parallel lines, on a grand and noble
scale. And unless it can be proved that they had in­
tercourse with Asia or Europe ; we now see that they
possessed the art of working metals.” If they had
been favoured with intercourse with any civilized parts
of Asia or Europe, this thing must have been ascer­
tained ; and this western continent would not have
been unknown to the literary eastern world. Such
intercourse then is inadmissible. They probably
must have derived their art of working metals, from
the commonwealth of ancient Israel. They professed
something of this knowledge. But none of the barba­
rous hordes in the north east of Asia, in these ancient
days, did possess the knowledge of such arts. Speak­
ing of the wells of those ancient works, the writer ob- '
serves ; “ These wells, with stones at their mouths, re­
semble those described to us in the patriarchal age.”
Surely this is not unfavourable to the idea of the au­
thors of those wells having been the descendants of
Jacob.
To throw light on my hypothesis, I shall add a con­
cise description of several of those ancient works in
the west and south ; and of a few of the articles there
found. These are largely given with their drawings
or plates in the publication of the American Antiquari­
an Society, published at Worcester in 1820 \— a book
worthy of the perusal of all.
Near Newarkjn Licking county, Ohio, between
two branches of the Licking river, at their junction,
is one of thé most notable remains of the ancient works*
There is a fort including forty acres, whosè’walls are
ten feet high.. It has eight gateways, each of the
width of about fifteen feet. Each gateway is guarded
by a fragment of a wall, placed before, and about nine
feet within the gate, of the bigness of the walls of
____dovL QQQIC
©F JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 191
the fort, and about four feet longer than the width of
the gateway. The walls are as nearly perpendicular
as they could be made with earth. Near this fort is
another round (pit containing twenty-two acres, and
connected with the first fort by two parallel walls of
earth about the size of the other walls. At the re-
^ # te s t part of this circular fort, and just without a
gateway, is an observatory so high as to command a
view of the region to some distance. A secret passage
was made under this observatory to an ancient water­
course. At some distance from this fort (but connec­
ted by a chain of internal works, and parallel walls) is
another circular fort of about twenty-six acres, with
walls from twenty-fiveTo thirty feet in height, with a
ditch just under them. Connected with these forts is
another square fort of about twenty acres, whose
walls are similar to those of the fort first described.
These forts were not only connected with each other
(thoughconsiderable distance apart) by communications
made by parallel wails of five or six rods apart;—but
a number of similar communications were made from
them by parallel walls, down to the waters of the river.
All these works stand on a large plain, the top of
which is almost level, but is high land by a regular as­
cent from near the two branches of the river, to a
height of forty or fifty feet above the branches of the
river. At four different places at the ends of these in­
ternal communications between the forts and down to
the river, are watch towers on elevated ground, and
surrounded by circular walls. And the points selected
for these watch towers, were evidently chosen with
great skill, to answer their design. These foils and
chains of communications between them, were so situ­
ated as nearly to enclose a number of large fields, which
it is presumed were cultivated, and which were thus far
secured from hostile invaders. From these works are
two parallel walls leading off*probably to other similar
places of fortifications at a distance. They have been
traced a mile or two, and are yet clearly visible. The
writer says ; 4
4I should not be surprised if these paral­
lel walls (thus leading off*) are found to extend from
Digitized by Google
192 THE PRESENT STATE
one work of defence to another for the space of thirty
miles—such walls have been discovered at different
places, probably belonging to these works, for ten or
twelve miles at least.” He apprehends this was a
road between this settlement, and one on the Hock-
hocking river. And he says ; the planning of these
works of defence “speaks volumes in favour ofthe saga­
city of their authors»”
Some small tumuli, probably for burying the dead,
and other purposes, were found here. And the wri­
ter says of articles there discovered ; “ Rock crystals,
some of them very beautiful, and hornstone, suitable
for arrow and spear heads, and. a little lead, sulphur,
and iron, were all that I could ascertain.”
Four or five miles southerly from this is a stone
fort enclosing forty acres or upwards. This contains
two stone tumuli; “ Such (sa^s the author) as.were
used in ancient times as altars, and as monuments.”—
He adds; 6 1should rather suspect this to have been
a sacred enclosure, or “ high place,” which was resor­
ted to on some great anniversary.” He deemed its de­
sign religious. At the mouth of the Muskingum, in
Marietta, are notable instances of these ancient works»
They stand on an elevated plain, on the east side of the
mouth of the Muskingum, half a mile from its junction
with the Ohio» Here are walls and mounds, in direct
lines, in circular forms, and in squares. A square
fort, called the town, encompasses forty acres by a
wall of earth, from six to ten feet in height; and some
of the wall thirty-six feet in thickness at the base. Each
side has at equal distances three gates. From the
middle and largest gatew ay next the Muskingum, was
a covert way. secured by two parallel walls of earth
about sixteen rods apart. The highest part of these
two walls is about twenty-one ft et ; and of forty-two
feet thickness at the base. This extends about twen­
ty-two rods, to where the river is supposed then to
have run. Within, and at a corner ol this fort, in an
oblong elevated square, upwards of eleven rods* in*
length, and between eight and nine rods in breadth.
Its top forms a level, nine feet in height. The snics
.. _j ( __
©F JUDAFI A N D ISR A EL.
are nearly perpendicular. At another side of the
ort is another elevated square, nearly as large. And
at a third place is a third, still a little smaller. Near
the centre of this fort is a circular mound, thirty feet in
diameter and five feet high. At a corner of the fort is
a semi-circular parapet, guarding the gateway, and
crowned with a mound. South-east of this fort is a
smaller fort of twenty acres, having a gateway in the
centre of each side, and at each corner ; each gateway
being defended by a circular mound. On the outside
of this smaller fort is a kind of circular pyramid, like
a sugar loaf; it is a regular circle, one hundred and fif­
teen feet diameter at the base ; and thirty feet in height*
It is guarded by a ditch four feet deep, and fifteen wide;
also by a parapet four feet in height. These works
are attended with many minor walls, mounds, and ex­
cavations. One of these excavations is sixty feet in
diameter at the surface ; and was when first discov­
ered twenty feet deep. Another within the fort is
twenty five feet in diameter.; and poles have been
pushed down into its waters and rotten substances,
thirty feet. Its sides projfc^ gradualI) toward« its cen­
tre ; and are found to be lined with a layer of very
fine clay, eight or ten inches in thickness. It is sup­
posed to contain hundreds of loads of manure. Old
fragments of potter’s ware have been picked up in this
fort. This ware was ornamented with lines on the
outside, curious and ingenious ; and ha<J a glazing on
the inside. This ware seems to have been burned,
and capable of holding water The fragments when
broken are black, and present shining partic les when
held to the light. Pieces of copper have at \anous
times been found among these ancient works. One
piece was in the form of a cup, with low sides, and the
bottom thick and strong.
Tools of non not being found in these works, is no
sign the authors did not possess them. For had they
been there, they would, no-doubt, long since. have
been dissolved by rust. Sc ivc remains oi iron articles
however are found, as will be seen.
17
193
Digitized by Google
194 THE PRESENT STATE
On the waters of the Scioto, at Circleville, Ohio,
is a notable instance of these military works. Here
are two forts adjoining ; one an exact circle; the other
a square. The former has two walls, with a ditch be­
tween them. These walls were twenty feet in height.
The inner wall was of clay ; the outer of earth taken
from the ditch between the walls. The wails of the
square fort are ten feet in height; with eight gateways,
besides the one leading into tne adjoining circular fort.
Each of these gateways is defended on the inside with
a mound of earth four feet high, and forty feet diameter
at the base. Each mound is tw'o rods withiu the gate­
way, and direct in front of it, no doubt for defence.
The square and the circle of these forts are said to be
most exact; and are thought to indicate much’mathe­
matical skill; as not the least error can be detected in
their device.
In the centre of the round fort was a mound t.en feet
in height, and several rods in diameter at the base. On *
its eastern side, and extending six rods, was a pave­
ment, a half circle composed of pebbles. The top. of
ibis tumulus was about thirty feet in diameter, with a
way like a modern tunqfike leading to it from the
east.
This mound has been removed and its contents ex­
plored. Some things found in it shall he noted. Two
human skeletons. A great quantity of heads, eitherfor
arrows or spears. They were*so large as to induce a«
belief they mdsthave been the latter. The handle of
asmall sword, or large knife, made of an elk’s horn,
wa* here found, and is now in a museum at Philadel­
phia. A silver ferrule encompassed the end contain­
ing the blade ; which silver ferrule, though black, was
not much injured by roiling ages. The blafle ttfas gone
by rust. Cut in the hole of th^ hanciie, there w
ras .eft
the oxyde, or rust of.the iron, ofVmilar shape and
size of the shank formerly inserted, borne brie ks well
burnt were here found. And a large mirror of the
length of* U
i- re feet, half a loot in breadth, and cue
inch and a half thick, ioimeu o(*isinglass, ana on it a
Digitized by Google
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 195
plate of iron “ which (says the writer who was an eye
witness) had become anoxyde;5’ or plate of rust.—
u The mirror (he adds) answered the purpose very
well for which it was intended.5
5
About forty rods from this round fort, was another
tumulus, u more than ninety feet in height,’5 says the
writer in the Archaeology; which was placed on an arti­
ficial hill. It appears to have been a burying place ;
and probably was a high place for worship,. Immense
numbers of human bones, of all sizes, were here found.
Here were found also with those bones, stone axes
and knives, and various ornaments.
Not far from this tumulus was a semi-circular ditch.
The informer remarks it was six feet deep when he
first discovered it. At the bottom lay “ a great quan­
tity of human bones.5
5 These are supposed to be the
remains of men slain in some great battle. They were
all of the size of men, and lay in confusion, as though
buried in a pile, and in haste. Here might have been
about the last of those more civilized people who in­
habited that station ; thus entombed in a ditch by a
small residue of their brethren spared; or by their
savage enemies, if all in the fortress were cut off.
The articles discovered in the great tumulus were
numerous; something seemed to have been buried
with every corps.
On the river Scioto, mounds are frequently found,
usually bn hills with fair prospects to the east. Near
Cliilicothe are some interesting ones. In Chiiicothe,
Rev. Dr. Wilson of that place gives a description of
one. It was fifteen feet high; sixty feet in din/mlcr
at the base ; and contained human bones. Under its
base in the centre lay a skeleton on a platform of
twenty feet, formed of bark; and over it a mat form­
ed of some bark. On the breast lay a piece of cop­
per; also a curious stone five inches in length, two in
breadth, with two perforations through it, containing
a string ofsinews of some animal. On this string were
many beads of ivory, or bone. The whole appeared
to have been designed to wear upon the neck, as .a
kind of breast-plate.
Digitized by Google
19C THE PRESENT STATE
Another curious set of Indian works are found with­
in six miles of Chilicothe, on Paint Creek, the,accurate
description and drawings of which are given in the
Archaeology. Here-the great wall encloses a hundred
and ten acres ; the wall twelve feet.in height, with a
ditch about twenty feet wide. It has an adjacent en­
closure of sixteen acres', the vvalis like the other. In
a u sacred enclosure” are six mounds. The immense
labours of this place, and cemeteries tilled with human
boiiqs, denote that a great people, and of some degree
of civilization in ancient days dwelt here.
A stone mound was discovered in the vicinity of
Licking river, near Newark, Ohio; and several oth­
ers in different places. These contained human bones,
and such articles as the following; u urns, ornaments
of copper, heads of spears, fyc, of the same metal, as will
as of medals ofcopper.” A minister of Virginia, writing
to the Antiquarian Society relative to the ancient In­
dian monuments at Grave Creek, near the mouth of the
Monongahela, says ; “ In one of the tumuli, which was
opened about" twenty years since, sixty copper beads
were found. Of these I procured ten.—They were
made of coarse wire-r—
hammered out—cut at unequal
lengths. They were soldered together in an awkward
manner—They were incrusted with verdigrise ; but
the inside was pure copper. This fact shows that these
ancient American inhabitants were not wholly unac­
quainted with the use of metals.” There are many
indications that their improvements were equal to
those of Israel when expelled from Canaan ; as will be
seen by any who will peruse the Archaeology. Seve­
ral hints of them shall here'be added.
Says the writer; “ Along the Ohio, some of it (their
pottery) .is equal to any thing of the kind now manufac­
tured.”—u It is well glazed or .polished ; and the ves­
sel well shaped.” Many ornaments of silver and cop­
per were found. Many wells were dug through the
hardest rocks.
A crucible was found in a tumulus near Chilicoihe,
which is no v in the hands of S. Williams,-Esq. of that
place. It will bear an equal degree of heat with those
Digitized by Google
e r J U D A H A N D IS R A E L . 197
now used in glass manufactories; and appears made
of the same materials.
A stone pipe is noted as found six feet in the alluvi­
al earth ; the brim of which is curiously wrought in
high relief, and on the front side a handsome female
face.
In removing a large mound in Marietta bones of a,
person were found. “ Lying immediately over, or on
the forehead of the body, were found three large circu­
lar bosses, or ornaments for a sword belt, or a buckler;
they are composed of copper, overlaid with a thick
plate of silver. The fronts of them are slightly con­
vex, with a depression, like a cup, in the centre, and
measure two inches and a quarter across the face of
each. On the back side, opposite the depressed por­
tion, is a copper rivet or nail, around which are two
separate plates,by which they were fastened tothe leath­
er. Two small pieces of the leather were found lying
between the plates of one of the bosses.” “ Near the
side of the body was found a plate of silver, which ap­
pears to have been the upper part of a sword scabbard;
it is six inches in length and two.inches in breadth, and
weighs one ounce ; it has no ornaments or figures, but
has three longitudinal ridges, which probably corres­
pond with the edges or ridges of the sword ; it*seems to
have been fastened to the scabbard by three or four riv­
ets, the holes of which yet remain in the silver.
“ Two or three broken pieces ofa copper tube, were
also found, filled with iron rust. These pieces, from
their appearance, composed the lower end of the scab­
bard, near the point of the sword. No sign of the
sword itself was discovered, except the appearance of
rust above mentioned.
“ Near the feet was found a piece of copper, weighs
ing three ounces. From its shape it appears to have
been used as a plumb, or for an ornament, as near one
of the ends is a circular crease, or groove, for. tying a
thread ; it is round, two inches and a.half in length,
one inch in, diameter at the centre,'and halfan inch at
each end. It is composed of small pieces of native
copper, pounded together; and in the cracks between
Digitized by Google
198 THE PRESENT STATS
the pieces are stuck several pieces of silver ; onefiear-
ly the s fce of a four penny piece’
, or half a dime. / This
copper ornament was covered with a coat of green
rusl> and is considerably corroded. A piece of red
ochre, or paint, and a piece of iron ore, which has the
appearance of having been partially vitrified, or f e l­
ted, were also found. The ore is about the specific
gravity of pure iron.” - • “
Surely these things indicate some good degrep^ofim­
provement in some of the arts of life. Multitudes of*
other things are noted in this most valuable publication,’
in which these things are given.
*The great antiquity of these works of the natives is
proved beyond a doubt. Trees of the third growth
arc found standing on them, whose annular rings show
them to have been more than four hundred years of
age.
And the hugeness of those works indicates a vast
population.
The clergyman writing from Virginia to the- Anti­
quarian Society, of the works'at Grave Creek, says of a
vast tumulus in that neighborhood, called 4
4the Big
Grave;” 4
4It is certainly one of the most august monu­
ments of remote antiquity any where to be found. Its
circumference is three hundred feet at the base—Its
altitude from measurement is ninety feet, and its diam­
eter, at the summit, is forty-five feet.* This lofty and
venerable tumulus has bceu so far opened as to ascer­
tain that it contains many thousands (probably) of hu­
man skeletons, but no farther. Of the numerous In­
dian w.orks of this region the writer says ; A careful
survey of the above mentioned works would probably
Show that they were all connected, and formed but parts
of a whole, laid out with taste.?’
These ancient works continued all the way down the
Ohio river to the Mississippi, where they increased and
were far more magnificent.' They abound at thejunc­
tions of rivers, in most eligible positions, and in most
fertile lands. The number of tumuli on that river ex­
ceeds three thousand ; 4
4the smallest not less than twen­
ty feet in height, and one hundred in diameter at the
base. The largest are of huge magnitude. The in-
Digitized by Google
199
former in the Archaeology says ; 4
4I have been some­
times induced to think that at the period when these
were constructed, there was a population as numerous
as tnat which once animated the borders of tile Nile or
of the Euphrates.or of Mexico. Brackenridge calculates
that there were 5000 cities at*once full of people. I
am perfectly satisfied that cities similar to those of an­
cient Mexico, of several hundred thousand souls, (says
the writer} have existed in this country. Nearly oppo-
5 site St. Louis there are traces of two such cities in the
distance of live miles. One of the mounds is eight
hundred yards in circumference at the base,(about fifty
ro Js in diameter) the exact size of the pyramid of A.sy-
chis; and one hundred feet in height.” (See Archae-
ologia Americana, page 189.) The author sa^s, ia
speaking ofmany of these p>ramids df the west; there is
4
4one near Washington, Mississippi state, of one hund­
red and forty-six feet in height!” 4
4Articles found in
and near these works show the improvement of the arts
among those who erected them.” Though these tu-
, muii were used as places to bury their dead, and pla­
ces for temples, altars and religious worship; they
were no doubt places also for the last resort when like­
ly to be overcome by an enemy. Solis, a writer noted
in the Archaeology, when describing the destruction
of the Mexicans by the Spaniards, speaks of them as
fleeing to their Teocalli. (The Teocalli. were high
places, formed for the site of their temples, for altars,
and places for entombing the dead. The name Teo­
calli. Humbolt informs, was given these sacred places
from the name of the god, to whom the pjace was dedi­
cated.) Solis informs that in the time of the conflicts
of the Mexicans with the Spaniards, their Teocalli ap­
peared like living hills covered with warriors, determi­
ned to defend their sacred places, where were their
temples, altars, and the tombs Qf tLeir fathers. Here
they fought with desperation. The high places and
great tumuli of the natives on the Mississippi, no doubt
were for the same purposes with those of South Amer­
ica. The writer of the Arclueology remarks, that had
temple« been birlt on any of their high places, proba­
bly no vestige of them would uow be visible*
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL.
Digitized by Google
200 THE PRESENT STATE
These ancient works of the native Americans may
well remind us of what was said in the Old Testament
writings of the ancient u high places” of Israel. Psalm
lxxviii. 58; “ For they provoked him to anger With
their high places.”
How abundantly are these noted through their sa­
cred writings. In scores of texts we read of them.
Such a king built their high places. Such a reformer
destroyed them. Such a vile kmg rebuilt them. Such
a good king again destroyed them, and so on. Here
Was a train of the most common events. The hearts
of Israel were long and most perfectly inured to there-
ligious use of their high places, though it was forbidden.
Scott remarks that these high places were u both for
idolatry; and for the irregular worship of Jehovah.”
Solomon had used these high places. 1Kings iii. 3, 4;
u And Solomon loved the Lord, walking in the statutes
of David his father ; only he sacrificed and burned in­
cense in high places. And the king went to Gibeon to
sacrifice there; for that was the great high place. A
thousand burnt offerings did Solomon offer upon that
altar.” Scott upon the passage says ; u Until the tem­
ple was budded, the irregularity of sacrificing to the
God of Israel in high places—was in some degree con­
nived at. But tbs people proceeded further in it than
in the days of David ; and Solomon was censurable for
countenancing them.” It seems they had their great #
highplaces and their smaller highplaces,io which that
ancient people were greatly attached. These high
places in Israel are sometimes alluded to in a very bad
sense, as when they were the seats of idolatry ; and
sometimes in a sense which seems more favourable.
But allusions are abundantly made to them through the
sacred pages; u highplaces” of various altitudes and di­
mensions on every high hill, and under every green
tree.” The children of Jacob on great occasions as­
sembled at Gilgal. The name of this place imports
“ a heap.” Here was a pile of stones taken from the
heart of Jordan, and formed.into a monument at the
Í
lace of Israel’s first encampment in the promised land.
'his circumstance and the numerous monumental
yGoogle
OF JUDAH AND ISRAFJL. 2 0 4
pUes of stone in ancient Israel, bear a near resemblance
to the many piles of stones found in this country, and
particularly on the waters of the Licking near Newark,
and in the counties of Perry, Pickaway, and Ross,
Ohio.
Israel were ever accustomed to hills and high pla­
ces for their resort to transact important concerns, as
well as acts of devotion. • Gibeon was a great high
place, as has been noted. Shiloh, a noted place of'sur h
resort, was on a .high hW
l. This was discontinued as
the place of such resort, when the loftier hill of Zion
was selected in its place. The temple was located, by
diviu^decision, on this lofty mount of Zion. Ideas like
these, together with their other “ high places,” in an­
cient Israel, may account for the numerous and huge
tumuli found in this continent.
Alluding to the high places in ancient Israel, God
denounced, Amos vii. 9; “ The high places of Israel
shall be desolate.” And Jer. xii. 7 ; “ J have forsaken
mine house, l have left.mine heritage ; I have given
the dearly beloved of my soul into the hand of her en­
emies.” It then follows, verse 12 ; “ The spoilers are
come upon all highplaces through the wilderness ; for
the sword of the Lord shall devour from one end of the
-land to the other end of the land ; no flesh thall have
peace.” When this was written the ten tribes had
been gone from Canaan many years. God had indeed
“ given this branch of the beloved of his soul into the
hands of her enemies $
” as verse 7, just recited.
The subsequent verse.given may be far better un­
derstood in future days* should greater light dawn
on the subject, and present our natives as the tribes
of Israel. They and we, in that case, shall bet­
ter understand the passage, u The spoilers are come
upon all high places through the wilderness ; for the
sword of the Lord shall devour from the one end of
the land to the other end of the land.’’ This seems
an event then future—“ The sword shall come—v
though the tribes had before been banished. This, as
it related to Israel, seems to he an £vent to he accom­
plished during their out-cast state. Fo»' in the second
Digitized by Google
2 0 2 T H E P R E S E N T S T A T E
and third verses, after this, is predicted their restora­
tion to their heritage in their own land. No supposi-
ble origin assigned to the American natives could so
well account for what we find of the American high
places, as the supposition of their descent from ancient
Israel. The events upon this supposition are most
natural and characteristic.
These American high places are striking resemblan­
ces of the Egyptian pyramid^. Consult those in the
region of Mexico, as already stated from Mr. Humbolt;
and it seems as though they must have been made byy
the same people with those of Egypt. But the Egyp­
tian pyramids were seen and well known by ancient Is­
rael ; and it has long been conjectured they w
T
ere built
by their labours during their bondage in Egypt. Mow
natural then, that they should carry down to succeed­
ing generations the deep impression of them in their
minds. And what other nation on earth would be so
likely to form such imitations of them, in a remote out­
cast region, as they? and especially after all we read
of Israel's high places, piles, and monuments, their ac­
quaintance with Gibeon, and Gilgal ; their deep im­
pression of the temple on mount Zion ; and especially
their high and sacred places at Bethel and Dan ! No
other account can more naturally be given of the
American high places, than that they originated irt
those ancient impressions. Of the high places near •
Mexico, the writer of the Archaeology says ; “ The
group of pyramids of Teotihuacan is in the valley of
Mexico, eight leagues north-east from the capital, in a
plain named—u the Path of the Dead.” Here are two
large pyramids, surrounded by hundreds of smaller
ones, which form square streets with the cardinal points
of the compass. This writer says, one of these is
higher than the third of the three great pyramids of
Egypt, and the length of its base nearly equal to that *
of Cephron. These things are much in the style of
tlie Egyptian pyramids. “ Around the Cheops and the
Mycerinus are eight smaller pyram ds.placed with s\m-
metry, and parallel to the front of the greater,” says
writer, in noting the resemblance between‘these
Gooilp
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 2 0 3
and the Egyptian pyramids. And after farther noting
the four principal stories” of a great Teocalii, or py­
ramid, near Mexico, and noting us composition, he
adds ; “ This construction recalls to mind that of one
of the Egyptian pyramids of Sackhara, which has
six stories, is a mass of pebbles and yeilow mortar,
covered on the outside with rough stones.” The two
great Mexican pyramids (this auihor informs) iiad on
their*summit huge statue^ of the sun and moon, formed
of stone and covered with plates of gold, which (he
soldiers of Cortez plundered. They did not now lo­
cate upon their high places their golden calves ; but
statues of the sun and moon, those brightest visible
emblems of their Great Spirit. Of one of these pyra­
mids demolished, the writer says ; u We still discover
the remains of a stair case built with large hewn stone,
which formerly led to the platform of the Teocalii.”
The Archaeology informs of a pyramid toward the
Gulf of Mexico discovered by Spanish hunters abm.t
thirty years ago, in a thick forest, as though conceal­
ed. “ For the Indians (says the writer) carefully cou-
ceal from the whites whatever was the object of their
ancient veneration.” Various authors unite in .this
trait of Indian character ; which accounts for the fact,
that so many of their Israelilish rites should remain so
long concealed from us. This newly discovered
pyramid was built wholly of hewn stojie of vast size
and very beautiful. The writer says, this pyramid
“ had six, perhaps seven stones.” u Three stair-ca­
ses lead to the top. The covering of its steps are
decorated with hieroglvphical sculpture, and small
niches, which are arranged with great symmetry.”—
These niches are three hundred and eighteen.
The Teocalii or pyramid of Choluia, near Mexico,
(noted before from M. Hurnbolt) is given on a pi , *n
the Archæology, with its temple on its summit, and
with its stair-cases of one hundred and twenty steps,
leading up its lofty stories. This huge majestic pne
was called, “ The mountain made by hand of man.”
In the interiors of various* of these great pyramids
were found considérable cavities for repositories of thé
Digitized by Google
204 TITE P R E S E N T S T A T E
dead. Asquare stone house was found in one of thern,
containing two skeleton**, some images or likenesses,
and many vessels curiously painted and varnished.—
This room was u covered with bricks and strata of ,
clay.” Large bricks were laid, each upper layer jut- |
ting over the one next below, and strengthened by
beams of cypress. The same manner of laying the i
bricks, instead of an arch, has “ been found (says the
writer) in several Egyptian edifices.” In a similar
cavity, he informs in the tomb of a Peruvian prince,
massy gold was found to the value of “ more than
five millions of francs.”
In the time when the Spaniards invaded the Mexi- |
cans, the Cholula was by the natives deemed a holy
city. Here existed a great number of priests. And
“ no spot displayed greater magnificence in the cele­
bration of public worship, or more austerity in its pe­
nances and fasts.”
It is true that similar huge ancient piles have existed
in some various regions of the east. But the writer
of the Archaeology says; 4*The pagodas of Indostan \
have nothing in common with the Mexican temples.”
Of tlie pyramids of Mexico, of Egypt, and of similar
piles found in some parts of Asiar he says ; u their des­
tination was altogether different.” He means in rela­
tion to those of Mexico having temples, and altars,
and being sacred to worship. This surely affords an J
argument in favour of the idea, that the occupants of j
those high places in Mexmo, originated from Israel, j
where all their high places were for sacred worship. j
On the pyramid of Cholula was an altar dedicated [
te Quetzalcoatl. or the serpent of green feathers ; as j
the name imports. Of their tradition relative to this I
Quetzalcoatl, the writer says; "this is tht most mrjlteri- !
ous being of the whole Mexican mythology.” An ac- \
count is then given of this person, sufficiently indeed L
intermixed with fables ; as i* usual in the pagan my­
thologies ®f events, even founded on revelation. Pas- '
sing over various of the immaterial fictions', 1 will *
sketch the leading points of the picture.
The character u v b >n ti < i most i.otrd altar was
dedicated, whose name imported a’serpent of green
, ^ Digitized by Googl .
OF JUDATI A N D ISR A E L . 2 0 5
feathers, was at the same time (in their own descrip­
tion) fc
i a white and bearded man.” “ He was high
priest of Tufa, legislator, chief of a religious sect
who inflicted'on themselves the most cruel penance.”
“ He introduced the custom of piercing the lips and
ears ; and lacerating the rest of the body with prickles
and thorns.” “ He appeased by his penance divine
wrath.” “ A great famine prevailed in the province of
Culan.”
4
4The saint (this legislator) had chosen his place of
retiremeilt—on the volcano Catcitepetl, or speaking
mountain, where he walked barefoot on agave leaves
armed with prickles.”
4
4The reign of Quetzalcotl was a golden age of the
people of Anahuac. The earth brought forth without
culture,the most fruitful harvests. But this reign was
not of long duration.”
4
4The Great Spirit offered Quetzalcotl beverage,
which in rendering him immortal, inspired him with a
taste for travelling, and with an irresistible desire of
visiting a distant country called Tlapalian.”
In passing u towards the plains of Cholula, and
thence to the eastern coasts of Mexico,” .thus making
his way from the north-west to the south-east, “ he
yielded to the entreaties of the inhabitants, who otter­
ed him the reins of government.” He dwelt twenty
years among them, taught them to cast metals, ordered
fasts, and regulated the intercalations of the Taltic
year.”
4
4He preached peace to men. and would permit no
other offerings to the Divinity than the first fruits of
the harvests.” ,
4
4He disappeared, after he had declared to the Cho-
lulans that he would return and govern them again,
and renew their happiness.”
The writer of the Archaeology says; “ It was the*
posterity of this saint whom the unhappy Montezuma
(the most noted and venerable Mt x.can chiefwhen the
Spaniards first arrived at Mexico) thought he recogni­
zed in the soldiers of Cortez, the Spanish general.
4W
e*know by our books,’ (said Montezuma, in his first
18
Digitized by Google
1206 THE PRESENT STATE
interview with that Spanish general,) ‘that myself and
those who inhabit this country, are not natives, but
strangers, who came from a great distance. We know
also, that the chief who led our ancestors hither, re­
turned for a certain time to his primitive country.
We have always believed that his descendants would
one day come to take possession of this country. Since
you arrive from that region where the sun rises ; and
as you assure me you have long known us; 1 cannot
doubt but that the king who sent you is our natural
mastery (p. 263.) It has generatl) been the fact, that
events in pagan mythology, which are founded on an­
cient reyelation, have yet been confused, and blended
with much fable. Much of the mythology of the hea­
then is thought to be of tins character. Some of the
events can easily be traced to ancient revelation ; wbile
others are so fabulous, that to reduce them* to such an
origin is more difficult. While considerable fable is in­
volved in this historic tradition of .the Cholulans ; it
appears to offer a singular facility to trace it to the in­
spired records of Israel.
Though their ancient “ legislator1* is called by a
name importing the serpent of green feathers ; yet he
was an ancient man,& ■white man and bearded ; called by
Monte&uma, a saint, who led them to this country, and
taught them many things. Who could this be but Mo-
ses, the ancient legislator in Israel ? The Indians in
other regions have brought down a tradition, that ihtir
former ancestors, away in a distant region from which
they came, were white. And the Cholulans, it seems,
teach that they wore their beards *
, which was thefact ;
in opposition to the Indians, who pluck them out with
their tweezers. How exactly does Moses answer to
this their ancient legislator, and chief of their religious
community, as may appear.
As Moses inducted into office Aaron, the high priest;
so this office, in their mythology', is blended in him. I
will remark upon these points in their order. This
religious community, under the r ‘'legislator and chief,’’
indicting on themselves cruel per<an4L,tir<\y be but a
traditional notion of the strictness of tw^Mosaic law's
and religion.
Digitized by Google
OF JUDAFI AND ISRAEL. 2 0 7
The name of the serpent of the green plumage being
given to (his legislator, leads the mind to Moses’ brazen
serpent in the wilderness ; and now in Indian tradition,
adorned with their most noted amulet, and article of
u medicine,” the green plumage. This has ever been
the most precious article known in their holy ark, and
their u medicine bag?' through various tribes. Hence
it is their most natural emblem of the healing power
annexed to the ancient brazen serpent made by Moses;
and thus annexed to the name given to him.
This legislator and chief’s introducing the custom of
“ piercing the ears reminds of the noted law of
Moses, of boring the ear of the servant who was unwil­
ling to leave his master.
This teaching to lacerate the body with prickles and
thorns, is a striking Hebrew figure of the manyself-de-
nying services demanded in the Mosaic rituals.
His appeasing divine wrath, may have a striking al­
lusion to the system of the Mosaic sacrifices, including
also the mediation of Moses as a type of Christ, and
God’s turning away his fierce wrath from Israel at his
intercession, as was repeatedly the case.
The great famine in Culan naturally reminds of the
great famine in Canaan and its adjacent nations ; which
famine brought Israel into Egypt.
This legislator’s retiring to the place of a volcano, and
a speaking mountain, most naturally leads the mind to
Moses retiring, in the land of Midian, to the backside
of the wilderness, to the mount of God, where God
spake to him in the burning bush, and in .after days
made the same mountain appear like a tremendous
volcano indeed, as well as like a speaking mountain;—
when from the midst of the terrible fire, aud sound of
the trumpet, God commanded his people in the giving
of tiie law.
This legislator’s walking barefoot, naturally alludes
to Moses’ putiing his shoes from his feet,” at the di­
vine direction, before the burning bush.
The golden age, with spontaneous harvests, natural­
ly suggests the. seven years of plenty in Egypt; and
may include also (and especially) the happy period
Digitized by Google
208 THE PRESENT STATE
during the theocracy in Israel; and the vast fruitfulness
of the land which flowed with milk and honey, while
the people of Israel walked with God.
His preaching peace to men, and 4
6offering to the
Divinity the first fruits of the harvests,”*alludes to the
preaching of the gospel under the Old Testament ; and
to the signal*institution of the offerings of the first ripe
fruits; a rite which the various tribes of Indians have
most scrupulously maintained ; as has been made to
appear.
His yielding to the entreaties of the people who of­
fered him the reins of government, and his teaching
them useful things, may be a general traditional view of
Moses’ government of Israel, and the benefits resulting
from it. They would naturally ascribe whatever know­
ledge of the useful arts, and of astronomy they had, to
this their noted chieftain.
The close of this golden age strikingly exhibits the
expulsion of Israel from that happy land.
The giving of the beverage, which rendered immor-
* tal, is an impressive representation of the immortality
of the human soul, 51s taught in ancient revelation.
And the producing of an ardent desire for transmi­
gration to a distant region of the world, is a most natu­
ral tradition of the fact, that Israel were disposed tp
emigrate (and did indeed emigrate) from the station in
Media where they were first lodged when carried from
. Canaan, to some remote and unknown part of the
world, where they were outcast and lost from the
knowledge of civilized man ; as has been the fact.
And their coming from the north-west to Mexico, in­
dicates to what region, and in what direction, they
came ; over Beering’s Siraits into America, and south­
ward through the continent. This accords with the
testimonies of Robinson, Humbolt, and all the most in­
telligible writers of Indian tradition. All bring them
from the north-west coasts of America.
The venerable Montezuma (over whom our hearts
have so often bled) was prepared to receive the bloody
plundering Cortez, and his armies, into his bosom ; be­
lieving them to be sent by their ancient legislator (in
. #
yGoogle
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL.
the distant part of the world from which they came) to
reign again over them, and to make them happy ! À-
bundantly are we assured of Indian tradition which
well accords with this.
Israel had read in .Moses, of God’s 4
4scattering them
from one end of the eartn to the other and again
recovering them. Amos, the prophet to Israel, had
assured them of God’s scattering them ina 4
4famine of
the word, from north to east, from sea to sea,” wander*
ing to and fro over a vast continent between those ex­
treme seas ; and had expressly predicted their being
again recovered, as had some others of the prophets
before their expulsion. They would then naturally
carry down these ideas with them in their broken tra­
ditions. They would retain the expectation that the
Being who banished them, would again, at some timer
and in some way, appear and meliorate their condition*
And our native Americans generally, if not all the most
intelligent among them, have (with the venerabie Mon­
tezuma) retained something of this idea. Often have
we had information from Indian chiefs, and others from
different regions, that they have ever understood from
their traditions that the time is coming which shall
make them mòre happy. The same tradition led the
aged wife of the Indian chief (related by our missiona­
ries) to say, after the missionaries had unfolded their
,ob;ect in her hearing, to the following effect. We have
ever understood that at some time good people are to
come and teach us the right way. How do we know
but these are those good people come to teach us ?
What account can be given of this expectation
brought down by the natives, but that they derived it
from the ancient prophets in Israel ; and from thedact
that God had promised them the everlasting possession
òf the land of Canaan; and had repeatedly recovered
them in ages jastfrom their states of bondage and cap­
tivit\.
The piece of Mexican mythology, which has been
explained, and which is pronounced the most mysteri­
o u s ca i receive probably no rational explanation, if
applied to a Tartar origin, or to any other eastern ua-
18*
* 0 $
Digitized by Google
«10 THE PRESENT STATE '
tion beside Israel, Rut if applied to,Israel, iU .'.pph-
catiou is most striking ami it contains such faci* ,ti
might in such a case be expected. If our natives be of
Israel, it is natural to expect the most enlightened of
them would have some tradition of their noted lawgiver
Moses. These Cholulans probably were among the
nru>st enlightened. And here is their ancient lawgiver,
bearing a traditional assemblage of various of the dis­
tinguishing religious insignia of anc.ent Israel.
This reminds of the testimony of Baron Humbolt,
before noted, who speaking of the u theocratic forms of
government” of the Zac, Bogota, and Peru, notes the
tradition of the former; and of their having been foun­
ded by a u mysterious personage” who, according to
the tradition of the Mozcas, (possibly followers of Mo­
les) lived in the temple of the sun at Sogamozo ris-.
ing two thousand years.” Nothing can be more natu­
ral than to view this a traditional notion of Moses’ ad­
ministration in Israel in the wilderness. The pjace of
their mysterious founder was at Sogamozo—perhaps
explained by Sagan Moses: as before noted. '
This their tradition.relative to their ancient lawgiv­
er, and the structure of their pyramids* so similar to
those of Egypt, suggest much relative to the origin of
this people. Could the advocates for their Tartar de­
scent tind so much in favour of their hypothesis ; could
they truly exhibit thefact, that the whole Tartar race
had, in ancient times, served an apprenticeship of a
number of centuries to the art of making such brick
and pyramids as are found in America; (as the children
of Israel are supposed to have done in Egypt ;) how
forcibly would they adduce this argument to show that
the author- of those pyramids of America must have
been of Tartar descent ! And indeed there would be,
in my humble opinion, much more force in it. in favour
of their hypothesis, than .in ^Jl the arguments they
have ever been ablé to adduce.
One more*argument 1 shall adduce from facts fur­
nished in the Archaeology, to show that the American
natives are from the tribes of Israel. The argument is
mtradition qf a trinity in their Great Spirit. Evidence
yGoogle
O f JUDAH AND ISMIAF.L. 211 ..
of different kinds, and fro n different regions, relative
to s toil a sentiment, is exhibited ; not that tile writer
of the Vrclie »logv makes this application of it. An
Indian article, called bv this writer a “ triune vessel,”
a.id noted as a religions article, anc} an emblem of their
gods, was found on the forks of the Cumberland river,
in alluvial earth, four feet below the surface. It may
now be seen ; and its perfect drawing is given in the
Archaeology, h is composed of fine clay of light am­
ber colour, rendered hard by fire; and parts of it pain*
ted with vermilion ; which paint is very brilliant. The
vessel contains about a quart, and is of the following
figure. The top is a hollow stern of three inches di­
ameter, and swelling in size downward like a gourd
shell. Against the bulge, there is the accurate resem­
blance of three human heads, joined each one to the
shell by the back of the head, and each face outward
in a triangular form, and all of the same dimensions.
The workmanship of the faces and features is excel­
lent; so that (says the writer) “ even a modern artist
might be proud of the performance.” The writer in
the Archaeology conceives of it to be an emblem of
three of their principal gods, and seems to think of
deriving an argument from it in favour of the natives
being of East Indian extraction. He says of this tri­
une vessel; “ Does it not represent the three chief
gods of India, Brahma, Vishnoo, and Siva.” This
certaihly s- cms very far fetched ! Why should the\ be
«opposed to be a representative of those three East
Indian gods, any more than three other heathen gods on
earth? Brahma, Vishnoo, and Siva are three distinct
ideal gods. But this triune vessel is one entire thing.
It must rather then have been designed to represent
one God with something like three faces, or characters.
One of the faces demotes an old person; the other two,
younger persons. The vessel stands on the three neck*
of these three heads, each projecting from the bottom
of the middle part of the vessel one inch and a half.
If the wtt er of the Archaeology may imagine he dis­
cerns in this an affinity with the East Indian worship­
pers of Brahma, Vishnoo, and Siva r 1 may certainly
Digitized by Google
f i t THE PRESENT STATE
be allowed in my turn to conjecture, that here may be
discovered a striking affinity with the ancient worship­
ers of the one Jehovah in three persons; as in an­
cient Israel. The thought perfectly accords with the
idea of our natives being the descendants of Israel,
that this triune vessel was a designed emblem of the
triune God of Israel. The doctrine of a mysterious
three in the one God of Israel, runs through the Bi­
ble,—Old Testament as well as New. This plurality
in their one God, Israel had always read from the days
of Moses. They fouud a plurality in God’s name, and
various appellations. They found him speaking in the
plural, we and us. They found who this plural were—
God ; the Seed of the woman ; and the Spirit of God;
always three, and only three. They had read, “ The
Lord said unto my Lord, sit thou on myright hand—.”
In the first three chapters of their Bible, they found
this three in God, as well as in all subsequent parts of
their sacred book.
Long had Israel read, or heard read, abundance of
such sacred language as the following ; which ancient
criiics assure ns relates to a mysterious trinity in the
one God ; “ When God, they caused me to wander,”
i i the Hebrew. “ Remember now thy Creators in the
d .ys of thy youth.” ‘‘For thy Makers is thy husbands.”
<
kThe knowledge of the Holy, (Hebrew plural, Holies,
or Holy Ones) is understanding.” Nouns, adjectives,
and verbs, applied to God, they had abundantly found
to be plural ; and yet absolute divinity ascribed to
each. Their infant to be born, was ki the mighty God,
the everlasting Father.” And their Spirit of the Lord,
they had read of, as the Being who garnishe'd the hea­
vens, who created the world. Of this mysterious three
in one God, Israel had ever read, or heard. When the
intelligent among them thought of God, this triune view,
of him must have been familiar. And when their dis­
tant descendants had lost (or were losing) the know­
ledge of reading, it is natural to- suppose they would
Construct an e nblem. to perpetuate the ifiemory of
their God. The Indians are known to make great
cue of hieroglyphics and figures of speech ; and tney
, Digitized by G gle
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 2 1 3
never form them for no purpose. As circumstances
indicated that this triune vessel was a religious emblem,
as the narrator of it believes ; so this affords au argu­
ment of some weight that the inventors of it were of
Israel.
Another argument going to the same point is this.
The writer in the Archaeology says ; “ One fact I will
here mention ; whenever there is a group of tumuli,
three are uniformly larger than the rest ; and stand in
the most prominent places. Three such arp to be
seen standing in a line on the north side of Detroit.—
Three such are to be seen near Athens ; and at a great
many places along the Ohio river. There are three
such near the town of Piketon. “Were they not altars,
{he inquires) dedicated to theirprincipal gods ?” Per-»
mit me to reply ; They were much more likely to have
been emblems dedicated to the oue triune God of Is­
rael.
The numerous ancient inhabitants on the Mississip­
pi were the same race with those of Mexico and Peru.
And the latter have exhibited similar ideas of the triune
God. The writer of the Archaeology says of those
ancient people of tie Mississippi ; “ Their religiou*
rites were, it is believed, the same with those of Mexi­
co and Peru.’’ And he further notes, tkClavigero, who
was well acquainted with the histories of the Mexican*
and Peruvians, professes to point out the places from
whence they emigrated ; the several places they stop­
ped at; and the times they continued to sojourn there.
According to him they arived at Mexico in 648, and
came across the Pacific not far from Beering’s Straits.’9 '
Thus all these people were of one stock.
And the writer of the Archaeology speaks of the native
South Americansas having threeprincipalgods. Hesays;
“ One of the three principal gods of the South Ameri­
cans was called by a name, which signifies the god of
the shining mirror. He was suppo-ed to be a God who
reflected his own supreme perfections, and was repre­
sented by a riirror, which was made in that country
of polished obsidian, or of mica, like ours. The scar­
city of obsidian, which is a volcanic production, may
Digitized by Google
214 THE PRESENT STATE
well account for its absence in this country. The nu­
merous volcanoes in South America equally account
for the abundance of mirrors of obsidian there. This
deity was represented as enjoying perpetual youth and
beauty. Other gods had images placed on pedestals
in the Mexican temples; this one had a mirror on his.
This divinity was held in awful veneration as the great
unknown God of the universe. Who does not here
discover (continues the writer) a strong trace of a know­
ledge of the true God, derived by tradition from the
first patriarchs?” Truly we may exclaim with this
writer; “ Who does not discover here some knowledge
of the true God of Israel and a manifest traditionary
view of him ?” But who does not discover also, that
what the writer calls the three principal gods of the
South Americans, is truly but one God ?—the great
unknown God of the universe! No evidence is here,-
or elsewhere exhibited, that those people held to
three principal divinities, only that the images of the
other two gods were placed on pedestals; and the
mirror representing the other was not. But it is not
evident from this, that they believed in three distinct
gods; or that the builders of these temples designed
any such thing. The view they had of the God of
the mirror, shows they could not hold to three princi­
pal deities. And it has been universally testified of
the great body of the Indians of America, that they hold
to but one great Supreme Spirit. But yet when they
• represent this one God. there is something in him three­
fold. The South Americans must have three temples,
while yet they had but one temple of the mirror or
Supreme God. The North Americans must have
three (and only three) huge high places, or pyramids in
a place. And the writer info: ms that only in one of
these is found the mirror; as in the three temples of
South America, only one has the mirror. The triune
vessel explains the idea ;—three heads combined in
one ; three faces, and but one vessel ;—one of an old
man ; the other two younger. Here is Indian tradition
relative to their one Great Spoil—God ; the Shiloh ;
and the Spirit. And the sentiment is fuilher eonob-
Digitized by Google
6F JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 2 1 5
•rated by the following fact, given also in the Archaeo-
lo^\. Auother emblem was found in a tumulus nenr
Nashville, Tennessee, and is now inthe museum of Mr.
Clifford of Lexington, Kentucky. It is formed ol clay,
like the triune vessel aibrenoted ; and is made to ex-
h.bii three views.of a man’s head and body to the mid-
d e with the arms cut oh close to the bony. It gives a
s>d • view of one of these heads, with strong and well
folined features.
it gives a front view of another of them. And a
view of the backside of the head and shoulders of the
third. Each head has upon it a tiliet and cake, with
the hair plated. This too was deemed by the wri­
ter a religious emblem. The figures aie given on a
plate, as is the truute vessel. They are considered as
thrte devices for the tame object. As it is well a?ccr-
tained the Indians hold to one Supreme Spirit; they
cannot be said to hold to three principal gods. No
evidence of such a thing exists, hut in these various tri­
une emblems. And these, it is contended, do not
amount to any such thing ; but to their ancient belief
in the triune God of Israel.
Let the reader here recollect the account given by
the Rav. Mr. Chapman, in the Union Mission, of the
Ossage Indians, Slating their religious customs, when
about to form a treaty of peace, he says ; u About iwo
feet in advance, and in a line \wth the path, were three
bunches of greus, which had been cut and piled about
three feet apart. as an tiflblem of him, whom they wor­
shipped.’’ Here was the station for the priest to stand*
and pray. And all the Indians must then step on each
ofthese piles ofgrass. Proceeding on about foriy rods,
they halted, and formed with grass another emblem of
the Great Spirit;—a circle of about four fceVdiameter.
By this wasonered another long prayer. Then each
one stepping on the circ le, they passed on. The chief
informed that both these were representations of their
God. Mr. C. upon the incident remarks “ Perhapsthe
curious may imagine that seme faint allusion to the lost
ten tribes of Israel may be discovered in the select num­
ber ofdreamers ; (which he had before stated, they be-
Digitized by Google
216 THE PRESENT STATE
mg ten) and to the trinity in unity. in the bunches, and
in the circle of grass!” These various Indian tradi­
tions from distant regions of the continent, and ditler-
ent ages, appear to form some striking evidence that
the Indians had indeed brought down traditionary im­
pressions of their one Great Spirit’s consisting of a tri­
nity in unity ! Could so great an argument be found in
favour of the Indians having descended frotn the Tartars,
the advocates for such a descent would not fail of ma­
king much ofthis argument. No rational account can
be given of these various and distinct triune emblem*
of (heir Great Spirit, but that they were derived from
ancient revelation in Israel, which did throughout pre­
sent the one God of Israel as God ; the Lord ; and the
Spirit of the Lord ;—God; the seed of the uoman,
who was likewise the u mighty G o d a n d the Spirit.1
No rational account beside this can be given of these
various Indian emblems of their God.
These emblems of their one God explain the noted
triune emblems of the other ancient Indians further
south, and in different regions ; the triune vessel of
three faces; the three other faces ; the three chief pyra­
mids ;—and the three temples, with one of them con­
taining the mirror. These three piles of grassjn one
of their emblems of God, are not to represent u the
three chief gods of India, Brahma, Vishnoo, and Siva;’’
as has (without any evidence) been conjectured, of
southern triune emblem«.. But the li^ians expressly
inform, they are an emblemfof /mn, wnom they wor­
shipped.” And the same one God of the Indians was
in the same Indian rites denoted by three bunches of
grass; and also b) one grass circle, with a bunch of grass
in it> centre. We thus have from dilierent Indian re­
gions, different ages, and a variety of emblems, a com­
plete union of evidence o{ an Indian tradition of trini­
ty in unity in their God. And this is the God of whom
they boast, as the head of their nation ; the God exclu­
sively in covenant with their ancient fathers. This
has appeared from ample testimony f to which is added
the following. The celebrated Bondinot informs, that
while he was at the seat of government, at a certain
Digitized by Google
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 2 1 7
time, chiefs and leading characters were present from
seven different distant tribes of Indians. He says, on the
Subbath he was much pleased to see their orderly con­
duct. They learned that this was a day in which the
white people worship the Great Spirit.. An old sachem
addressed his red brethren very devoutly. Mr. Bou-
dinot asked the interpreter what he said ? He replied,
“The substance of it is, the great love which the Great
Spirit always has manifested toward the Indians ; that
they were under his immediate direction ; and that
hence they ought gratefully to acknowledge him, obey
his laws, do his will, and avoid every thing displeasing
to him.”
* Some readers have said ; If the Indians are of the
tribes of Israel, some decisive evidence of the fact
will ere long be exhibited. This may be the case.
But what kind of evidence shall we expect? Must
some miracle be wrought? It is generally thought the
days of miracles are past. Probably no evidence ought
to be expected in this case, but such as naturally grows
from the nature of the subject, and the situation of Is­
rael. Would evidence like the following be deemed
as verging toward what would be satisfactory ? Sup­
pose a leading character in Israel—wherever they are
—should be found to have had in possession some bi­
blical fragment of ancient Hebrew writing. This man
dies, and it is buried with him in such a manner as to be
long preserved. Some people afterward removing that
earth, discover this fragment, and ascertain what it is,
—an article of ancient Israel. Would such an incident,
in connexion with the traditional evidence already ex­
hibited' on this subject, be esteemed ofsome weight?
Something like this may possibly have occurred iu fa­
vour of our Indians being of Israel.
The»Rev. Dr. Griffin, President of Williams College,
communicated to the writer, while preparing his first
edition of the View of the Hebrews, the following ac­
count, with liberty to insert it in his book, if he pleased.
The late venerable Dr. Boudinot stated to Dr. Grif­
fin that the Rev. S# Larned (who died in New Orleans)
informed him that while he was living in Pittsfield, Mass.
19
Digitized by Google
2 1 3 THE PRESENT STATE
—his native place—after he left college, there was dug
up in Pittsfield by one of his neighbours, probably from
an Indian grave, some written p archments enclosed in
a cover of skins. These parchments he obtained, took
them to Boston, had them read, and found them to be
the same with the parchments used in Jewish phylacte­
ries, and well written in Hebrew. Mr. Lamed added
that he left them with the Rev. Dr. Elliot of Boston.
Dr. Boudinot obtained leave of Mr. Larned to send and
take them. He sent; but for some reason could not
obtain them. Dr. Elliot soon after died ; and nothing
more was done upon the subject. On receiving this
information from Dr. Griffin, the writer wrote to Rev.
Dr. Humphrey, then minister of Pittsfield, requesting
him to see what further information might be there ob­
tained relative to this matter. He returned an answer.
It wasjust as Mr. Humphrey was about leaving his peo­
ple for the Presidency of the Amherst Collegiate Insti­
tution ; and he could not pay much attention to the
subject. He made considerable inquiry, however;
t*ut without much success. But he informed that lie
had a distinct recollection, that when he came to Pitts-
held, net long after the said parchments were found, lie
heard considerable said upon this subject. And he
found an impression on his mind, that it was then said
that some Jew probably lost these parchments there.
The author wrote also to J. Everts, Esq. of Boston, de­
siring him to see if the parchments coidd be found.
An answer was returned, that they were then in the
hands of the Antiquarian Society. He stated also, the
same account with that of Mr. Humphrey, that they
were supposed to have been left in Pittsfield by some
Jew. The writer afterward speaking of this thing to a
celebrated minister in the centre of the state of JSew-
York, was by him inhumed that he had heard of the
finding of these parchments ; but that a Jew from Ger­
many was known to have resided in Pittsfield, and pro­
bably lost them. Another supposed the Jews had a
custom of burying their phylacteries ; which might ac­
count for this phenomenon. The public mind had
thus been laid to rest relative to the parchments. The
iy
Google
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 219
writer concluded to pay no further attention to the sub­
ject. But being advised by one whom hq^ighly re­
spected, and who apprehended there might be some­
thing about this, not yet investigated, he took ajourney
to Pittsfield. With some pf the first characters of that
town he took pains to ascertain whether any Jew was
ever known to have resided or been in Pittsfield ? In­
quiry was made of different aged people, and who it was
thought would be likely to give the most correct infor­
mation—one or two who had been there from within
several years of the first settlement of the place. One
and all answered in the negative, that no Jew was ever
known in Pittsfield. a9 they believed, till Rev. Mr.
Frey was there a few weeks before. The man was
then found who first discovered the parchments under
consideration. This was Joseph Merrick, Esq. a high­
ly respectable character in the church of Pittsfield, and
in the county, as the minister of the place informed.
Mr. Merrick gave the following account; That in 1815,
he was levelling some ground under and near an old
wood-shed standing on a place of his, situated on /ra-
dian Hill, (a place in Pittsfield so called, and lying, as
the writer was afterward informed, at some distance
from the middle of the town where Mr. Merrick is
now living.) He ploughed and conveyed away old
chips and earth, to some depth, as the surface of the
earth appeared uneven. After the work was done,
walking over the place, he discovered, near where
the earth had been dug the deepest* a kind of black
strap, about six inches in lengtn, and one and a half in
breadth, and something thicker ttyan a draw leather of
a harness. He perceived it had at each end a loop of
some hard substance, probably for the purpose of carry­
ing it. He conveyed it into his house, and threw it
in an old tool box. He afterward found it thrown out
of doors, and again conveyed it to the box. After
some time he thought he would examine it. He at­
tempted to cut it, and found it hard as a bone, lie
succeeded in cutting it open, and found it was formed
of pieces of thick raw hide, sewed and made water
tight with the sinews of some animal; and in the lold
Digitized by Google
2 2 0 T H E . P R E S E N T S T A T E
it contained four folded leaves of old parchment.
These leaves were of a dark yellow, and contained
some kind of writing. Some of the neighbours saw and
examined them. One of these parchments they tore,
in pieces; the other three h$ saved, and delivered them
to Mr. Sylvester Larned, a graduate then in town, who
took them to Cambridge, and had them examined.
They were written in Hebrew with a pen, in plain and
intelligible writing. The following is an extract of a
letter seut to Mr. Merrick by Mr. Larned, upon this
Subject. *
u Sir; I have examined the parchment manuscripts,
which you had the goodness to give me. After
some time and with much difficulty and assistance I
have ascertained their meaning, which is as follows ; (1
have numbered the manuscripts.)
No. 1 is translated by Deut. vi. 4—9 verses inclu­
sive.
No. 2, by Deut. xi. 13—21 verses inclusive.
No. 3, Exod. xiii. 11—16 verses inclusive.
1 am, &c.
SYLVESTER LARNED.
The celebrated Calmet informs that the above are
the very texts of scripture which the Jews used to
write on three out of four of their leaves of phylacte­
ries 4 from which it is presumable that the fourth leaf,
torn in pieces, contained the texts which belong to the
fourth leaf. The leaves of their phylacteries were ev­
er four. Calmet, on the article Phylactery, says; “This
word from the Greek signifies a preservative. These
phylacteries were little boxes, or rolls of parchments^
wherein were written certain words of the law. These
(boxes or rolls, containing their four leaves of parch­
ment on which their texts were written) they wore up­
on their foreheads, and upon th^ir wrist of their left
arm. They founded this custom upon Exodus xiii«-
9, 16.”
Various authors noted by Calmet contend that the
phylacteries were used in Israel from the days of Ma-
Dig _
_ id by
OF JU D A H AND ISRAEL. 2 2 1
Mr. Merrick informed that a Dr. James was living
in Pittsfield when these parchments were found, and
feit much interest in the event. He soon moved into
New-York. He afterward informed Mr. Merrick, that
he had laid this matter before an aged Jew, who also
felt interested in the event; and who, after considering
the subject some time, concluded that he could give
no account of the JeaVes being found in such a condi­
tion in Pittsfield from an) custom of the Jews.
1asked Mr. Merrick if he had ever known of any
Jew as having resided or been in Pittsfield? He said he
had not; nor did he believe one had ever been there. I
further inquired whether he could account for the sto-
r> of some Jew having left them in Pittsfield? He said
it originated as follows. At the time the parchments
were found, there were British prisoners residing in
Pittsfield, taken inr the late war. As much wonder was
excited relative to these leaves, some neighbour expres­
sed his coi^ecture that perhaps someof these British pri*
soners were Jews, and the) had dropped or buried this
thing there. Mr. Merrick viewed it wholly unlikely.
But to ascertain the point, he went to the prisoners and
asked if any of then* were Jews? They said they
were not. He inquired of their officers, and received
the same assurance. He asked if any of them had any
know ledge of this thing ? and was answered in the ne­
gative. Mr. Merrick assured me, he had ever believed
it to have been of Indian origin ; and that Col. Lari ed
(father of the4ate Rev. Mr. Lamed) lived and died in
the same belief. It seems no evidence has appeared to
the contrary ; notwithstanding the above groundless
conjecture, which when itgot abroad was magnified in­
to a satisfactory account.
l ire writer conversed with the Rev. Mr. Frey (the
celebrated Jew ish preacher in this countiy) upon this
subject; who could give no account of the incident
from any Jewish custom. He informed that the Jews
have a custom of burying their leaves of phylacteries
when worn out and illegible ; as the) had also any old
leaf of a Hebrew bible. They would roll it up m so.ue
paper, and put it under ground from respect. J>ut
Digitized by Google
222 THE present state
these leaves were whole and good, and were sewed up
(as has been stated) in thick raw hide, and with the
sinews of some animal; a thing which no Jew in Chris­
tendom would have done*
The writer left Pittsfield for Boston with a view to
obtain these parchments, and to have them examined
by the Hebrew professor at Cambridge, and professor
Stuart of Andover, In Boston the Rev. Mr. Jgnks in­
formed him the parchments were at Worcester, in the
care of the Antiquarian Society. He said he had seen
them ; and spoke of the story of the Jew’s having lost
them at Pittsfield. He added that the Rev. Dr. Holmes
of Cambridge.had seen and examined them. On my
way returning to Worcester. I called on Dr. Holmes. f
He said he had carefully read the three parchments un­
der consideration, and found them to be three out of
four of the leaves which compose the Jewish phylacte­
ries, containing the very passages which have ever
been selected for their phylacteries; that they were
written with a pen, and in fair Hebrew. He was
shown the copy of Rev. Mr. Larned’s lelter to Mr.
Merrick, which he said was correct. Rev. Dr. Holmes
is known to be a correct Hebrew scholar. His won­
der (with that of others) had been laid to rest by the ru­
mour of a Jew having been known to leave them in
Pittsfield. He was asked whether upon supposition of
these leaves having been of Indian origin, any thing oc­
curred to his mind relating to the parchments or wri­
ting, which might militate against the id& of their hav-
i ng been written in ancient Israel ? He replied in the
negative.
The writer returned to Worcester with full expecta­
tion of finding the parchments ; but to his no small dis- ^
appointment they could not be found. Dr. Thomas,
president of the Antiquarian Society, said that sucty #
leaf (he thought there was but one) was some years
lodged in his care; and he presumed it was sa% m
some of the Antiquarian depositories. But j$mong the
many boxes ofarticles he knew not whereto look
it. He too had received with it the rum ourofits
Jewish origin i and heuce had not viewed it ¿Threat
•
225
consequence. We searched several hours, hut in vain.
It is to be hoped the leaves may still be found, and fur­
ther examined.
The Rev.Chauncey Cook of Chili, New-York, at my
house, gave the following information, with liberty of
inserting it with his name. He has lately been credibly
informed by a minister, (he cannot recollect his name,
as several within six months have called on him from
New England) that Rev. Dr. West of Stockbridge gave
the following information. An old Indian informed
him that his fathers in this country had not long since
had a book which they hadfor a long time preserved.
But having lost the knowledge of reading it, they con­
cluded it would be of no further use to them ; and they
buried it with an Indian chief. The minister spoke to
Mr. Cookof this information of Dr. West, as a matter
orfact.
The following remarks are submitted :
1. Mr. Merrick, who found these parchments, was in
the best situation to investigate their probable origin ;
and he was and remains orbpinion they were from the
Indians. He views the conjecture of their having been
brought thither by some Jew, as without foundation.
Rev. Mr. Lamed, who carried them to Boston for exa­
mination, being a man of letters,must have been decent­
ly qualified to investigate and judge of this matter. He
it seems was fully of opinion they were Indian. His
father. Col. Larned, was a man of note, and would not
be likely to m imposed upon in this thing; and he
lived and-died in the belief they were Indian. And
the writer could find no person in Pittsfield who could
state any reason for believing otherwise. The conjec­
ture of their Jewish origin gained importance by trav­
elling abroad ; but appears to have been without foun­
dation at home.
2. Upon supposition of the Indians being descend­
ants of Israel, there is no essential difficulty, but some­
thing very natural in the event. Calmet informs that
Origen, Chrysostom and others, deemed the use of the
phy lacteries in Israel to have been ancient as the day»
of Moses. He says that Lightfoot, Sealeg and Maldori
S K ^JU D A H AND ISRAEL.
Digitized by Google
224 T H E P R E S E N T S T A T E
insisted that the custom of wearing them was general
in the time of our Saviour; and that Christ did not re­
prove the Pharisees for wearing them, but for their af­
fectation in having their phylactery cases wider than
those of others. We conclude then the wearing of
these phylacteriesWas a noted cilstom in Israel at the
time of their final expulsion from Canaan. And it i&
natural to believe thac Israel, being in exilement, would
preserve these fragments of their better days with the
utmost care. Wherever they went then, they would
have these phylacteries with them. If they brought
them to tliis country,'they would keep them with dili­
gence. They would most naturally become some of
tiie most precious contents in their holy ark, as their
nation formerly kept the holy law in the ark. Here
such a phylactery would be safe through ever so many
centuries. This is so far from being itnprqbabje, that
it is almost a moral certainty. After their knowledge
of reading had long been lost, some chief, or high priest,
or old beloved wise man, (keeper of their tradition)
fearing these precious leav* would get lost, or parted,
might naturally sew them in a fold of raw skins w th
the sinews of an animal, (the rn ;st noted Indian thread,)
and keep this roll still in the ark ; or carry it upon his
belt. All this is what might most naturally he expec­
ted in such a case. This thing might have been thus safe­
ty brought down to a period near to the time when the
natives iast occupied Indian Hill, in Pittsfield; perhaps
iu the early part of last century. Its o&ier then rhight
lose it there; or (what is mast probable) it was buried
with some chief, or high priest; and hence was providen­
tially transmitted to us. This i venture to say (on the
supposition the Indians are of Israel) is by uo means so
improbable, as that some modern Jew left it therein
the situation in which it was found. The style ofjlie
preservation of these parchments appears to be Indian;
but not Jewish. No modern Jew would be likely to
hide his precious leaves of phylacteries in a roll of raw
hide, sewed with the sinews of an animal. N<»r would
he leave them, had he done it, on Indian Hill under
ground. Sooner would he sacrifice liis life than thu«
Digitized by
OF JUDAH AND ISRAEL. 225
rudely to profane the most sacred symbols of religion !
It is incredible.
Mr. Merrick observed that the colour of these parch­
ments was dark yellow. Doctor Thomas, of Worces­
ter, showed me, among his Antiquarian curiosities, an
Arabic parchment manuscript, which he informed was
written long before the Christian era. This was dark
yellow ; but the parchment and writing were in good
preservation. And one of these written parchments
might thus long have been preserved as well as the
other.
3. This view of the subject may give an intelligible
view of the account of the old Indian in Stockbridge to
Dr. West, that* his fathers had buried, not long ago, a
book which they could not read. And it may giye a
striking view of the vigilant care of the Watchnrtan of
Israel, who never slumbers, in relation to laying in train
this singular item ofevidence among many others, which
should combine to bring to light that outcast people,
who were to be exhibited to J^ie world in the last days.
The government and vigilance of the God of Jacob
have ever been wonderful. And great things have
been found to depend on a strange combination of mi­
nute events, that the unremitting care of the. Most
High might appear the more conspicuous. In ancient
Israel many such instances might be pointed out. And
when God’s bowels shall yearn for Ephraim, earnestly
remembering him.still, and about finally to restore him,
it will prove that-he has not been unmindful of that
providential train of evideuce, which must eventually
identify a people long outcast and lost from the know­
ledge of the literary and civilized world, with his ancient
beloved children of Abraham. Show a people on
earth who have a greater claim from the most natural
kind of evidence, than our natives, to be received as
the descendants of Israel; and it is hoped that to such
claim no objection will be oiFered.
Digitized by Google
id by G______
C H A P T E R IV
AN ADDRESS OF THE PROPHET ISAIAH, RELA­
TIVE TO THE RESTORATION OF HIS
PEOPLE.
The writer might fill a chapter in illustrating the
wrongs which the Indians have suiFered from people
in our land ; in noting their reduced and deplorable
Situation; in pleading the cause of humanity in their
behalf; and in appealing to the magnanimous feelings
of the people of our nation. He might adduce many
evangelical motives the most commanding, to enforce
the duty ofsaving the remnant ofthe natives of our con­
tinent from extinction, and from wretchedness. The
duty of sending them the gospel, and of being at any
expense to teach them Christianity and the blessings
of civilized life, is great and urgent on every principle
of humanity and general benevolence. And this duty
peculiarly attaches itself to the people, who are now
in possession of the former inheritance of those na­
tives; and from too many of whom that people have
received insufferable injuries. This subject must oc­
cur with force to the mind of every well informed
American. And it is devoutly to be hoped that fer
greater attention will henceforth be paid to it by all
among us who make any pretence to humanity, not to
say piety.
Digitized by Google
But the object of this chapter is to examine and illus­
trate an interesting portion of ancient prophetic wri­
ting, which is thought to embrace this very concern.
An address is found in the eighteenth chapter of the
prophet Isaiah, which is apprehended to be of deep in­
terest to America. It is a passage which has been es­
teemed singularly enigmatical. This circumstance has
usually attended the prophecies, in proportion to the
distance of their events. And they have often been
left in silence, or their true intent misapplied, till near
tke time of their fulfilment. Then some incidents
would throw light upon them, and render their import
plain and satisfactory.
The writer was affected with this passage some years
ago, when writing his Dissertation on the Prophecies.
He found it to be an address to some Christian people of
the last days, just at the time of the final restoration of
God’s ancient people; anaddress to such a people beheld
in vision away over the mouths of the Nile, or in some
region of the west; a call and solemn divine charge to
them to awake and aid that final restoration. Heathen
apprehended it might apply to Britain, though he felt
the difficulty arising from the fact that Britain lies so
far to the north of the direction specified in the address.
It now appears to him far more probable that the Chris­
tian people of the United States of America are the
subjects of the address; or at least are especially inclu­
ded in it. To prepare the way for the consideration
of the address, let several things be premised.
1. Some of the greatest and best of divines have
thought it would be strange, if nothing should be found
in the prophetic scriptures having a special allusion to
our western world, which by propitious Heaven was
destined to act so distinguishing a pari, both in the reli­
gious and political world, in the last days. They have
felt as though it might be presumed that some special
allusions would behkd in some of the prophetic writings
fi^so distinguishing a community of Zion, and of men.
Under this impression Mr. Edward^ apprehended this
passage of Isaiah might allude to America ;
theyfear the name of the Lordfrom the ueslS* AtopsJ
2 2 8 A D D R ESS OF TH E PRO PH ET ISAIAH.
ADDRESS OF TH E TRO PH ET ISAIAH. 8 2 f
all other parts of the world are noted in prophecy. It
certainly then is not incredible that our land should be
manifestly noted.
2. The address in the eighteenth of Isaiah to be con­
templated, is clearly an address to some people of these
last days ; and concerning events intimately connected
with the battle of that great day of God, which is now
future and not far distant, and is to introduce thè Mil­
lennium. This is evident in verses 5 and 6 ; which
will be noted.
3. The address then cannot have been to any ancient
people or nation. This appears with certainty, from
their being cotemporary with the events of that great
b|ttle, and the restoration of thè Jews. The call then
must be to a people of the last days ; a nation now on
earth; and a nation to be peculiarly instrumental in the
restoration of the Hebrews in the last days. For this
is the very object of the address ; to go and collect the
ancient people of God ; because “ in that time shall the
present be brought unto the Lord of hosts of a people
scattered and peeled,(the very people ofthe ancient co­
venant in manifest descriptions repeatedly given) to the
Ì
lace ofthe name ofthe Lord ofhosts, the Mount Zion.”
’his duty of the restoration assigned is in the address
connected with the tremendous scenes of judgment,
which shall subvert anti-christian Europe, and her ad-
jutors hostile to the church ; as may be seen.
4. The address then seems manifestly to a* nation
that may seem to have leisure for the important busi­
ness assigned ; while the old and eastern parts of the
world (engaged in anti-christian hostilities) shall be found
in the effervescence of revolutions, and in those strug­
gles which precede dissolution. This consideration
seems clearly tò fix the address to a people distinct, and
distant from the immediate turmoils of the old anti-
christian lands ; and hence probably to our own nation ;
perhaps including Britain.
5. Should it be proved afact, that the aborigines of
our continent are the descendants of the ten tribes of
Israel; it would heighten the probability to a moral cer­
tainty* that we are the people especially addressed, and
20-
■ Google
5 3 0 A D DRESS OP T H E PRO PH ET ISAIAH.
called upon to restore them; or bring them to the
knowledge of the gospel, and to do with them whatever
the God of Abraham designs shall be done.
The great and generous Christian people, who occu­
py much of the land of those natives, and who are on
the ground of their continent, and hence are the best
prepared to meliorate their condition, and bring them
to the knowledge and order of the God of Israel, must
©fcourse be the people to whom this work is assigned.
This one consideration would do much toward the de-
eision of our question, Who is the nation addressed ?
6. Various things are found in the predictions of the
restoration of God’s ancient people, which strikingly
accord with the idea of a great branch of them beiig
recovered from this land, and by the agency of the peo­
ple of our states. A few ofthese shall be noted.
In the. thirtieth and thirty-first chapters of Jeremiah,
the prophet treats of the united restoration of Judah
and Israel. These chapters were written about one
hundred and twenty years after the expulsion of the
ten tribes. And in relation to the ten tribes, they have
never yet had even a primary accomplishment, or any
degree of fulfilment. The restoration there predicted
is to be in k'the latter days chap. xxx. 24; and at the
time near the battle of the greatday; see verses 6—8,
23, 24. Much of the substance of these chapters is
appropriated to the ten tribes of Israel; though Judah
is expressly to be restored with them. Of the former,
(having then been outcast for an hundred and twenty
years,) God says ; chap. xxxi. 20; “ Is Ephraim my
dear son ? Is he a pleasant child ? For since I spake
against him, (or expelled him from Canaan,) I do ear-,*
nestly remember him still; therefore my bow7
els are
troubled for him; I will surely have mercy upon him,
gnith the Lord.” The next verse invites and predicts
his final restoration. These yearnings, of the divine
compassion for Ephraim (one noted name of the ten
tribes) are the immediate precursor of his restoration.
“ I will surel> have mercy upon him,.saith the Lord.
Set the« up way-marks, make thee high heaps, set thtufe
heart toward the high-way—turn again, O virgin of la-
fDigitiaed'by C i O O ^ l C
I
»
A D DRESS OF T H E PRO PH ET ISAIAH. 231
rael; turn again to these thy cities.” MI will again,
be the God of all the families of Israel; and they shall
be my people.” “ For lo, the days come, saith the
Lord, that 1 will bring again the captivity of my peo­
ple Israel and Judah ; and I will cause them to return
to the land that I gave to their fathers, and they shall
possess it.” “ Fear thou not, O my servant Jacob,
saith the Lord; neither be dismayed, O Israel ; for lo,
I will save thee from afarS' “ Behold, I will bring
them from the north country, and gather them from the
coasts of the earth.” In this country “ afar” off, these
“ coasts of the earth,” they had been in an outcast state.
“ Because they called thee an outcast, saying; “ This
is Zion, whom no man seeketh after.” (For more than
2000 years none sought after the ten tribes.) These
*ideas strikingly accord with their having been outcasts
from the known world, in America. This might with
singular propriety be called the land afar off, and the
coasts of the earth.
In the same connexion, when God promises to gath­
er them “ from the coasts of the earth,” and says, “ they
shcril come with weeping and with supplication ; for I
am a father to Israel, and Ephraim is my first born;”
he adds ; “ Hear the w,ord of the Lord, O ye nations*
and declare it in the isles afar off, and say, He that
scattered Israel will gather him, and keep him as the
shepherd doth his flock.” “ Isles afar off!” , “ Isles
in the Hebrew language, signify any lands, ever so ex­
tensive, away over great waters. Where can these
“ isles afar o fff (these “ coasts off the earth,” here ad­
dressed by God in relation to the restoration of iiis out­
cast yet beloved Ephraim,) where can they be so natu­
rally found as in America ?
In Jer. xvi. 14, 15, 16. God is predicting the resto­
ration of Israel in the last days. “ Therefore behold,
the days come, saith the Lord, that it shall no more be
said, The Lord liveth that brought up the children ot
Israel out of Egypt, but the Lord liveth that brought up
the children of Israel from the land ofthe north, and from
all the lands whitherJ>e had driven them; and 1 will bring
them again into their land that Igave unto their fathers.”
Here is the greatness of their restoration. In the next
Digitized by Google
verse follows the m an n er of it. “ Behold, I will send
for many fishers, saith the Lord, and they shall fish
them ; and after will 1send for many hunters, and they
shall hunt them from every mountain, and from every
hill, and out of the holes of the rocks.” Here is a
most striking description of Israel's being recovered
from a great wilderness like the sea ; and from the hills,
mountains, and rocks of the vast wilds of America.
The description seems well to accord with their being
sought in a savage state among such wilds, mountains
and rocks, as the wilds of our continent present; espe­
cially the Rocky mountains, in the western regions of
North America. The first missionaries fish them
from the plains of the continent. Afterward missiona­
ry hunters are sent to rocky mountains and hills, more
remote and savage. This prediction accords probabl)^
with no other country and its inhabitants so well, as
with the wilds and natives of America. The coincU
dence with these seems perfect.
In other prophets the same things are found. In
Isai. xliii. God promises this same restoration of Is*
rael. “But now, thus saith the Lord, that created thee,
0 Jacob, and he that formed thee, O Israel; Fear not,
for { have redeemed thee, I have called thee by thy
name; thou art mine. When thou passest through the
waters, I will be with thee. I have loved thee with an
everlasting love; therefore will I give men for thee,
and people for thy life. Fear not, for I am with thee.
1 will bring thy seed fromthe east, and gather thee from
the w e s t: I will 3ay to the north, Give up ; and to the
south, Keep not back; bring my sons from far, and my
daughters from the ends o f the eartlu v “ Thus saith
the Lord, who mp&eth a way in the sea, and a path in
the mighty waters; Behold* I will do a new thing; now
it shall spring forth; shall ye not know it ? I will even
make a way in the wilderness and rivers in the desert.”
In lsai. xi. is this wonderful restoration. Ephraim
and Judah are bothrestored, the one fromhis “dispers­
ed,” the other from his “ ou tcast” state; and their mu­
tual envies are forever healed. And the places from
which they are recovered are noted ; among which are
2 3 2 ADDRESS OF TH E PROPHET ISAIAH.
Digitized by Google
“ the isles o f the sea or lands away over the sea, and
u the fo u r corners o f the ea rth .” Certainly then, from
America ! This surely is one of the four corners of the
earth. Of such aland away over sea, it is predicted,
Isai. lx. 9 ; “ Surely the isles shall wait for me, and the
ships of Tarshish first, (or a power expert in naviga­
tion,) to bring my sons from far.”
In Zechariah’s prophecy is the same thing. This
prophet was sent to encourage in the rebuilding of Je­
rusalem and the temple soon after the return from Ba­
bylon. As this return was to exhibit a primary fulfil­
ment of the many prophecies of the restoration of the
Hebrews, which are clearly to have their ultimate ac­
complishment in their restoration just anterior to the
Millennium ; so Zechariah clearly predicted the latter
event, and said various things peculiar to it. Chap,
ii. 6 ; “ Ho, ho. come forth and flee from the land of
the north, saith the Lord ; for Ihave spread you abroad
As thefo u r w in ds of heaven, saith the Lord.” This
must allude to the great dispersion of Judah, and out­
cast state of Israel, which strewed them over the face
of the earth ; and could not have been fulfilled in the
Babylonish captivity, which did not disperse them to
all points of the compass. Verse 8 ; “ For thus saith
the Lord of hosts; After the glory hath he sent me un­
to the nations, which spoiled you.” This must be the
same with the various predictions which speak of the
battle of the great day as a display of God’s glory ; and
which speak of a subsequent going forth of missiona­
ries (probably Jewish) to convert the nations where
the Hebrews had resided. See Isai. lxvi. 18—
21, &c.
Verses 10, 11; “Sing and rejoice, O daughters ofZion ;
for lo, I come, and 1 will dwell in the midst of thee,
saith the Lord. And many nations shall be joined to
the Lord in that day, and shall be my people ; and I
will dwell>in the midst of thee.”—Many nations were
not joined to the Jews upon their return from Babylon.
. Nothing of this prediction then took place. It predic­
ted an event still future, to be accomplished upon the
restoration of the Hebrews to Palestine. The prophet
then says, verse 13; “ Be silent, 0 all flesh, before the
ADDRESS OF TH E PRO PH ET ISAIAH. 2 3 5
Digitized by Google
Lord ; for he is raised up out of his holy habitation.”
This verse perfectly accords with the numerous pre­
dictions ofthe battle of the great day, nearly associated
with the final restoration of the Jews. But it received
not its fulfilment in the days of Zechariah,
In chapter viii. are predictions of the same final res­
toration of that people. After predicting God’s great
jealousy and fury in behalf of his people, he says ;
am returned unto Zion, and will dwell in the midst of
Jerusalem;and Jerusalem shall be called a city of truth,
and the mountain of the Lord of hosts, the holy moun­
tain.” It then follows, verse 7 ; 4
6Thus saith the
Lord of hosts ; Behold, 1 will save my people from the
east country, and frpm the west country.” By the
w est country here, we must suppose it meant America.
Noue were saved from any west country, at the time
of the restoration from Babylon. This shows then,
that the thing predicted was distinct from, and future
of that event. In the original, and in the margin of
the great bible, the phrase is; “ iL *
2 $ 4 AD DRESS OP T H E PRO PH ET ISAIAIf.
sun from Palestine is over America.* And as God had
said in a passage just quoted from this prophet, u For I
have spread you abroad as the four winds of heaven
so America must probably be included in this descrip­
tion of their being spread abroad. To decide more
clearly that the ultimate events here predicted are ¿till
future, the Most High says in this Rth chapter, verse
13 ; “ And it shall come to pass that as ye were a curse
among the heathen, O house of Judah, and house of
Israel; so will I save you, and ye shall be a blessing.”
Here is the express restoration of the house of Isra el,
with that of Ju dah . But the 4
4house of Israel” were
not restored with the 4
4house of Judah” when the lat­
ter returned from Babylon; nor have they at any time
' since been restored. The event then is clearly future,
and was distinct and distant from any ancient resto­
ration. It was to take place after a long and nolel
sca tterin g o f th a t people to the J o u r w in ds J and their
being viewed as a u curse” there by the nations. If
they were to be 4
4spread abroad as the fo u r w in d s ” and
thence recovered, and recovered from the 4
*coasls of th£
the going down of the sun.”
earth,” and u ;sies afar olf,” and u from the west this
sarely is not mfavorable to the idea of Israel’s being
found in the wilds of America.
. In Zech. x. 6—1), is the same event; and Ephraim is
by name saved from “ far countries.’’ And 1 will
strengthen the house of Judah; and will save the house
ofJoseph, and I will bring them again to place them; for
1 have mercy upon them; and they shall be as though I
bad not cast them otf; for 1am the Lord their God, and
will hear them. And they of Ephraim shall be like a
mighty man, and their heart shall rejoice as through
wine; yea, their children shall see it, and be glad;
their heart shall rejoice in the Lord. I will hiss ior
them, and gather them; for^have redeemed them;
and they shall increase as they have increased. And l
will save them among the people; and they shall re­
member me in far countries ; and the) shall live with
their children, and turn again.” “Iwill hissforAhe.»
God is represented as hissing for a people, only in two-
texts beside this; Isai. v. 26, and vii. 18 ; in both of
which passages, the hiss was to call distant heathen*
God’s bissiug, in this passage then, to gather the chil­
dren of Ephraim in the last days, seems to indicate his
providentially calling them from a distant heathen ¿late!
And it is a mode of calling which perfectly symbolizes
with the calls of American natives, a shrill significant
whistling.
Such promises of the restoration of Israel from far
countries, from the west or the going down of the suny
from the coasts ofthe earthy from the ends of the earth,
from isles afar9their being brought in ships from far9
making their way in the sea, their path in the mighty
waters; these expressions certainly well accord with
the ten tribes being brought from America. And such
passages imply an agency by which such a restoration
shall be eifected. Where shall such an agency be so
naturally found, as among a great Christian people,
providentially planted on the very ground occupied by
the outcast tribes of Israel in their long exilement; and
who are so happily remote from the bloody scenes of
Europe in the last days, as to have leisure for the impof-
tant business assigned !
ADDRESS OF THE PROPHET ISAIAH. *235
Digitized by Google
Surely then this business would be assigned, either
tacitly or expressly, to our nation. At this conclusion
we safely arrive, reasoning a priori. The circumstan­
ces of the case enforce it. And we might expect so in­
teresting a duty, relative to an event on which the
prophecies so abundantly rest, would not be left to un­
certain deductions, but would be expressly enjoined.
/ We may then open the prophetic scriptures with
some good degree of confidence, that the assignment of
such a task is somewhere to be found. And where so
natural to be found as in the prophecy of Isaiah ? He
is the most evangelical prophet ; and treats largely up­
on the restoration of his brethren.
The expulsion of Israel is supposed to have taken
place 725 years before Christ. Isaiah is supposed to
have begun his ministry about the year 760 before
Christ; and 35 years before the expulsion. He lived
then, it appears, to see the expulsion of the ten tribes.
And his pious heart must have been deeply affected*
with the event. His prophecy was 4
4in the days Uzzi-
ah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah.”
Butin 2 Kings, jxvii. I ; we learn that “ in the twelfth
year of Ahaz.Hoshea began to reign overSamaria.” And
in verse 9 we are assured ; “ In the ninth year of Ho-
shea, the king of Assyria took Samaria, and carried Is­
rael away into Assyria, and placed them in Halah, and
iu Hafbor by the' river of Cozen, and in the cities (or
territories) of the Medes.” This event then, must
have been in the days of Isaiah. In Isai. xxxvi. 19, where
Rabshakah is insulting the officers of Hezekiah, he
says, “‘Where are the gods of Hamah, and Arpad?
Where are the gods of Sepharvaim ? Have they de­
livered Samaria out of my hand ?” Here it seems Sa­
maria, or Israel, had already fallen. Accordingly Isaiah
laments, chap. v. 1 3 ;“ Therefore jr.y people are gone
into captivity, because they have no knowledge.”
There is one passage which seenas to place the cap­
tivity of Israel just subsequent to the prophecy of this
prophet, Isai. vii. 8 , where J^usalem was invaded by
a coalition of the king of Syria and the king of Israel ;
2 3 6 AD D R ESS OF TH È PRO PH ET ISAIAH.
Digitized by Google
should not prevail, predicted “ within threescore and
five years shall £phraim be broken that it be not a peo­
ple.” But it seems from the passagesjust quoted, that
the main body of Israel were gone before this period,
or the end of sixty-five years. This prediction
then, must allude to a finishing scene, which should
sweep away even the gleanings- of the nation of
Israel. Hence Scott says upon the passagej “ It is
computed to have been sixty five years from this
prediction to the time that Esarhaddon carried away
the remains of the Israelites.” The main body then,
it seems, had been gone before, and were swept away
in the days of Isaiah. This must have most deeply
affected his pious heart. And it is natural to view him
revolving in his anxious mind tiff place of their long
exilement; and delighted with a view of their final res­
toration.
Behold this man ofGod, then, wrapt in the visions of
the Almighty, casting an eye of faith down the lapse of
time to the days of the final restoration of his long re­
jected brethren. He finds presented in vision, away
ovjer the Mediterranean, and the Atlantic, far in the
west, or going down of the sun, the continent of their
long banishment. He also beholds in vision a great na­
tion arising there uTtHe last days“; a land of freedom
and religion. He hears the whisper of the Spirit of >
inspiration, directing him to address that far sequester­
ed and happy land, and call their attention to the final
restoration of his people.
Isaiah xviii. verse 1 ; “ Ha, land shadowing with
wings, which is beyond the rivers of Ethiopia.” Our
—
translators render this address, “ Wo to the land.”—
But this is manifestly incorrect, as the best expositors
agree. The Hebrew particle here translated Wo to, is
a particle of friendly calling, as well as of denouncing.
And the connexion in any given place must decide
which rendering shall be given. In this place, the
wbole^onhexion and sense decide, that the Wordis here
ft friendly call, or. address; as in this passage; “ Ho
evferv one that thirsteth, come ye to the waters.”
• The land addressed, lies“ beyond the rivers of Ethi­
opia.^ It is agreed that these rivers mean the mouths
ADDRESS OF TH E PRO PH ET ISAIAH. 2 3 7
Digitized by Google
5 3 8 ADDRESS OF TH E PRO PH ET ISAIAH.
of the Nile, which enter from Egypt into the south side
of the Mediterranean. This probably was the farthest
boundary in that direction then known to the Jews.
And no douh$ it was the most noted of any in that
point 'of compass. When a landscape of a western
continent then, was presented in vision to the prophet
precisely in that course, he would naturally fix upon
the place most notable and farthest distant, by which to
describe the direction of this region of the world. It
is then as though the prophet had said ; Thou land be­
held in vision azoay over the mouths of the Nile. Where
would such aline strike? It would glance over the
northern edge of the States of Barbary. But could
the friendly address to a people of the last days, light
on those barbarous%lohammedan shores ? Surely pot.
Noland “ shadowingicith wings or that would aid the
restoration of the Hebrews, is found in those horrid re­
gions. N o; the point of compass and the address
must have been designed for a new world, sqen in that
direction. This address of Heaven must be to our
western continent; or to a hospitable people found
here. The prophetic eye glanced beyond all lands then
known ; and hence no land is named. It must have
been a land over the Mediterranean and the Atlantic.
Thou iana snaaowing with wings.'1 The above di­
rection lands the prophetic vision at the point of the
western continent, where the two great wings of North
and South America meet, as at the body of a great ea­
gle. This at first might furnish the prophetic imagery
of a land “ shadowing with wings.” As though the in­
spiring Spirit had whispered; The continent of those
two great wings shall be found at last most interesting in
relation to your Hebrew brethren. I
And those two great wings shall prove but an em­
blem of a great nation then on that continent; far se­
questered from the seat of anti-cbrist, and of tyranny
and blood; and whose asylum for equal rights, liberty,
:gad religion, shall be well represented by such a nation­
al coat of arms,—the protecting wings of a great ea­
gle; which nation in yondbr setting of the sun, (whmx
in the last days, judgments shall be thundering tliro^ p
the nations of the eastern continent,) shall be found a
realm of peaceful protection to all who fly from the
abodes of despotism to its peaceful retreat; even as an
eagle protects her nest fromall harm. Yea, a land that,
when all other lands shall be found to have trampled
on the Jews, shall be found to have protecting wings
for them, •free from such cruelty, and ready to aid
them.
Verse 2; “ Who sendeth ambassadors by the sea, even
in vessels of bulrushes upon the face of the waters.”
It is to be supposed that a great difficulty would at once
present itself to the prophet’s view, when beholding in
vision this western continent, over the mighty waters
of the Mediterranean, and the Atlantic, and about to be
called to restore his people. What could be done
across such mighty waters ? The difficulty at once
vanishes, by the prophet’s being ascertained of this
characteristic of the people addressed. They would
be most expert in navigation. They could traverse
the Atlantic and Mediterranean, and be able to send
missionaries to Jerusalem, or to the ends of the earth,
in those last days, or convey the Hebrews from one
continent to another, with an expedition similar to that
with which the Nile (beyond which this new world is
beheld) used to be navigated with the skiffs made of the
bulrush, or the rind of the papyrus.*
Verse 2. concluded. u Saying, go ye swift messen±
gers, to a nation scattered andpeeled, to apeople terrible
from the beginning hitherto ; a nation meted out and trod-
den down, whose land the rivers have spoiled.” ‘Saying
before the command Go, is interpolated in our transla­
tion, and destroys the sense; as though the nation said
this to her swift messengers; whereas it is what God
*Our states may claim the characteristic of expert navigation«
equal at least to any people on earth. Consider our steam boat navi­
gation, anil such accounts as the following; found in Niles* Re­
gister, of March 22, 1823. u Baltimore vessels.—The brig Thessali­
an arrived at Baltimore on Saturday evening last, in 79 days from
Lima, and 24 from the sight of the city of Pernambuco, in Brazil; a
distance of 12.000 miles; averaging six and a quarter miles every
hout of her passage. This vessel was, less than eight months ago,on
the stocks in this city«P
ADDRESS OF THE PROPHET ISAIAH. 2 3 9
Digitized by Google
2 4 0 ADDRESS OF TH E PR O PH ET ISAIAH.
says to the nation addressed* q. d. Come, thou pro­
tecting nation ; I have a great business for you* Col­
lect and restore my ancient people ; that nation whose
ancient history has been so remarkable and terrible ;*
that nation so long dispersed, robbed, and insulted, in
the people of the Jews ; and so long outcast in the ten
tribes; that people of line lin e, (as in the Hebrew,
and in the margin of the great bible ;) or, whose only
hope to find their ancient inheritance must be in the
line of divine promise, or the entail of the covenant*
As the land addressed is described as away over the
mouths of the Nile; so various characteristics in the
address are suggested from thoughts associated with
that river, and the people on its banks; as the bulrush
vessel just noted ; and here the m easu rin g lin e. The
river Nile periodically overflowed its banks, and swept
away the boundaries of every man’s inheritance on its
interval. Every man, then, had to depend on a n oted
lin e, to measure anew and find his land» So the He­
brews, having by their sins, and expulsion from Canaan,
and from the covenant of Abraham, lost all the visible
boundaries of their inheritance, have no ground of
hope of regaining their standing either in Palestine, or
in the covenant of grace, but the line of the mere and
sovereign promise of God, for their restoration. The
word is doubled, line, lin e ; a mere Hebraism, to fprm a
superlative. As peace, p eace, meansp erfect p ea ce ,—
Isai. xxvi. 3; and as go o d , good, means the b e st; so
line, line, means su p erla tively o f line, or altogeth er de­
pendent on the mere promise of God. That the allu­
sion is to the event noted is evident from what follows :
* If this characteristic allude to this people in their dispersed state,
as do the other characteristics here connected with it, il must be con­
etrued, as the Hebrew well admits,as their being subjested to great
terror. This has been the fact. And this well accords with ancient
predictions relative to thetn. Lev. xxvi. 16. “I will even appoint over
you terror, consumption, and the burning ague, that shall consume the
eyes, and cause sorrow of heart.1
’ Deut. xxviii. 37 ; wAnd thou shall
become an astonishment, a proverb, and a by-word among all nations
whither the Lord shall lead thee.” The Jews during their disper­
sion, have been a people worn down with perpetual terrors. But
they were terrible to inimical nations from ancient date. Thotext
then.may allude to either, or both of these characteristic«.
Digitized by Google, *
ADÌ) RESS OF THE PROPHET ISAIAH. 241
—“ Whose land the rivers have spoiled.” Whose in­
heritance (in the Holy Land) has been torn from them,
and overrun by neighbouring hostile nations, often sym­
bolized by rivers, even as the lands by the sides of the
Nile often had their boundaries swept away by the
overflowings of that river. Thus the Romans first,
then the Persians, the Saracens, the Egyptians, and the
Turks, have overflowed and possessed the Holy Land,
But the line of divine promise will restore it to the He­
brews.^
Go thou protecting people; shadow with thy wings
my ancient family, as though the Most High should say.
For thus it is written; “ Surely the isles shall wait for
me, (or lands away over sea from Palestine,) and the
ships of Tarshish first, (a people expert in navigation,)
to bring my sons from far.” A far distant land over sea
shall be engaged in this work.
Verse 3. u A ll y e in h abitan ts o f the woilcL, a n d dwet*
ie rs on the earthy see y e w hen he lifteth up the en sign on
th e m ou n tain s, a n d when he biow eth a tru m p et, h ear y e . ’1
After the land shadowing with wings is under way in
fulfilment of the divine requirement; an apostrophe is
made by the Most High to all nations, to stand and be­
hold the banner of salvation now erected for his ancient
people ; and to hear the great gospel trumpet, the bles­
sed Jubilee, now to be blown for their collection and
their freedom. The ancient silver trumpets in Israel
collected their solemn assemblies. And the same trum­
pets, with joyful and peculiar blasts, ushered in the Ju­
bilee morn, and loosed every bond slave of the He­
brews. And the antitype of the event shall now be
accomplished.
* Much perplexity had rested on the passage,« nation ofline, /in s­
till the above solution occurred to mind. With this I am fully sat­
isfied. It is natural, as is the bulrush navigation. It agrees with
fucts, and is confirmed by the clause following; “ whose land the riv­
ers have spoiled.” Here the long occupancy of their beloved Ca­
naan by hostile invading nations, is noted by a figure, alluding to the
overflowing of the Nile which confirms thp idea that the phrase,
wa nation of line, lin t? alludes t«
>the same overflowing of the Nile*
sweeping away boundaries, and rendering the Useof the tine necessaV
ry to ascertain every man’s bounds.
21
^ Digitized^by v j O O ^ L C
242 A D D R ESS O F T H E P R O P H E T ISAIAH.
This standard of salvation at that period, is a notable
event in the prophets. See Isai. xi. 12, where God
sets his hand a second time to gather his Hebrew family
from all nations and regions beyond sea; doubtless
from America, as well as other nations; and it is promis­
ed, “ He shall set up an ensign for the nations, and shall
assemble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the
dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth.5*
If from the four corners of the earth, then surely from
America! In this passage are the descriptive situations
from which the two great branches of the Hebrews are
recovered ; Judah from being dispersed among the nar
lions ; and Israel from being outcast from the nations ;
thrown out of sight of the social world; precisely as
they have been in the wilds of America for more than
two thousand years^ provided our natives are of Is­
rael.
Verse 4. “ For so the Lord said unto me, I will take
my rest, and I will consider my dwelling place like a
elear heat upon herbs, and like a cloud of dezu in the heat
of harvest.” The event and the figures in this passage
are best explained by those found in synchronical pas­
sages, or prophecies alluding to the same event. And
according to them, it is as though the Most High should
say; I am now about to renew my ancient dwelling
place. I will again have a'fixed habitation in Canaau ;
as Zech. i. 16 : a Thus sailh the Lord, 1am again re­
turned to Jerusalem with' mercies ; my house shall be
built in it and viii. 3; ■
“ Thus saith the Lord, I am re­
turned unto Zion, and will dwell in the midst of Jeru­
salem.” And the event shall be as £t life from the
dead” to the nations; Rom. xi. 15. Therefore, ye
Gentile lands, now behold. I will now be to my ancient
heritage like the genial heat of the sun to promote ve­
getation after the death of winter; as isai. xxvi. 19,
“ Thy dew is as the dew of herbs,” which in the spring
shall vegetate. “ And I will be like the fertile cooling
cloud in the sultry heat of harvest.” The Hebrews
shall now become “as the tender grass springing out of
the earth, by the clear shining after rain;” 2 Sam. xxiii.
4* Yes, UI will be as the dew unto Israel; he shall «
i
A D D R ESS O F T H E P R O P H E T ISAIAEL 243
grow as the lily, and cast forth his roots as Lebanon«
His branches shall spread, and his beauty shall be as
the olive tree, and his smell as Lebanon; Hos. xiv. 5,
6. The nations shall behold this fulfilment of divine
grace to Israel, and shall find instruments raised up ade­
quate to the work.
But a tremendous scene to the anti-christian world
shall be found intimately connected.
Verse 5. “ For afore the harvest, when the bud is
perjett, and the sour grape is ripening in the flower, he
shall both cut off the sprigs withpruning hooks, and take
azvay and cut down the branches.” Or near the fulfil­
ment of this event of the last days, a vast scene is to
be accomplished. Prophetic notice is ever given rela­
tive to that period, that the salvation of the friends of
Zion shall be ushered in with a proportionable destruc­
tion to her enemies. The harvest and vintage of di­
vine wrath, called “ the battle of that great day of God
Almighty,” must be accomplished ; and at the time of
the restoration of the Hebrews, that tremendous event
shall be at the doors. As in the natural vineyard,
when the blossom is succeeded by the swelled pulp,
whiclrsoon reaches the size of the full grape, indicating
that the vintage is near ; so at the time of the service
here divinely demanded, wickedness shall have blos­
somed; pride shall have budded in anti-christian realms.
The sour grapes of their tyranny, violence, and licen­
tiousness, will be found to be arriving at their growth ;
indicating that the time for the casting of the vine of
the earth into the wine press of the wrath of God, is
just at hand. ‘
Verse 6. “ They shall be left together unto thefowls of
the mountains, and the beasts of the earth; and thefowls
shall summer upon them, and the beasts of the earth shall
winter upon them.” Soon the most prominent branch­
es of the anti-christian vine of the earth, shall be collec­
ted and trodden upon the mountains of Israel, in the
noted scene of Armageddon ; Rev. xvi. lfe 'fjie pas­
sage noted in Kzek. xxxix. 17—20, (at th^W^eof; the
slaughter of Gog and his bands, and whichlfe^
an illustration of the text,) shall then be accoiti{i]jsh
Digitized by Google
wAnd thou son ofman, thus saith the Lord God, speak
unto every feathered fowl, and to every beast of the
field, Assemble yourselves, and come; gather your­
selves on every side to my sacrifice that 1 do sacrifice
for you, even a great sacrifice upon the mountains of
Israel, that ye may eat flesh*and drink blood. Ye shall
eat the flesh of the mighty, and drink the blood of the
princes of the earth ; of rams, of lambs, and ofgoats, of
bullocks, all of them failings of Bashan. And ye shall
eat fat till ye be full, and drink blood till ye be drunk­
en, of my sacrifice which 1 have sacrificed for you.
Thus ye shall be filled at my table with horses and
chariots, with mighty men, and with all men of war,
saith the Lord God.’’ Also the further illustration of
the same, Rev. xix. IT, 18 ; “ And 1saw an angel stan­
ding in the sun ; and he cried with a loud voice, saying
to all the fowls that fly in the midst of heaven, Come
and gather yourselves together unto the supper of the
great God; That ye may eat the flesh of kings and the
flesh of captains, and the flesh of mighty men, and the
flesh of horses, and of them that sit on them, and the
flesh of ail men, both free and bond, both small and
g*Feat.n
Verse 7. “ At that time shall the present he brought
unto the Lord of hosts of a people scattered and pteledy
andfrom a people terriblefrom the beginning hitherto ;
a nation meted out and trodden under foot, whose land
the rivers have spoiled, to the place ( f the name of the
Lord of hosts, the Mount ZionS’ Just at that period of
the world, the present which I claim of you shall be
brought to the Lord of hosts, of that scattered and out­
cast people ; of that people so terrible in ancient times
to their enemies by the presence and power of their
God with them ; that people of “ line, line,n or depen­
ding solely on the measuring line of promise, or the en­
tail of the covenant, found in the sacred oracles, for
their restoration to their ancient inheritance in the r
church of God, and in the promised land ; inasmuch as *
the boundaries of their inheritance in both these res­
pects have long since been swept away. A present of
this people must be brought by you, sequestered land
244 A D D R ESS O F T H E P R O P H E T ISAIAH.
A D D R ESS OF T H E P R O P H E T ISAIAH. 24$
shadowing with wings, unto the place of the name of the
Lord of hosts, the Mount Zion.
Ye friends of God in the land addressed; can you
read this prophetic direction "of the ancient prophet
Isaiah, without having your hearts burn within you ?
Surely you cannot, if ycu can view it as an address of
the Most High to you. God here exalts you, in the
last days, the age of terror and blood, as high as the
standard to be raised for the collection of the seed of
Abraham ; ki on the mountains.” Nor is this the only
passage, in which this your exaltation is recognized.
See the same honour alluded to, in Zeph. iii. »O.-There,
nearly connected with the battle of the great day of
God, in which he there asserts he “ will gather the na­
tions, and assemble the kingdoms, to pour upon them
his indignation, even ail his fierce anger, and all the
earth shall be devoured with the fire of his jealousy
and that he will then “ turn to the people a pure lan­
guage, that they may all call upon the name of the*
Lord, and serve him with one consent he informs,
as in the address in Isaiah; u From beyond the rivers-
of Ethiopia, my suppliants (or a people who are my
worshippers,) shall bring mine offering, even the daugh-
* ter of my dispersed,” (as the verse should be read)-
Here is the same people, away in the same direction*
over the mouths of the Nile, who are called God’s sup­
pliants, aud who, in those days of vengeance, are to*
bring their offering to God, consisting of the descend­
ants ofhis ancient people*
If these views be correct Christians in our land may
well bless God that it is their happy lot to live in this
land shadowing with wings; this protecting reàfm. an»
asylum of liberty and religion; aland so distÜit. fgpmi
the seat of anti christ and of the judgments to be thTm-'
dered down on old corrupt establishments, in the last
days. And their devout gratitude to- Heaven ought to
rise, for the blessing of having theirexistei.ee so near
the period alluded to in this sublime prediction, whea
this land of liberty is beginning to feel her distinguishing,
immunities compared with the establishments oft)ranr
ny and corruption in the old continent- We may re»
. 2 1 *
Digitized by G o o g l e
joice to have our earthly lot with a people of whont
such honourable mention is made by the prophetic spir­
it of oid ; and to wnom so nonie a work is assigned-
Our children coming upon tne sia^e may live to see
the meaning and fulfilment of this prophetic chapter,
which is most rich in sentiment, and which will not fail
ofaccomplishment.
The great argument found in this sacred address, to*
induce to a compliance with the duty demanded, is the
terrors of the days of vengeance on eastern corrupt na­
tions ; which sefems to imply some good degree of ex- ,
emption in our own case, and our happy leisure foi the
business assigned. Heaven will show viespotic nations,
and old corrupt empires, the difference between them,
and a land“ shadowing with wings a happy asylum of
liberty and religion in the west.
Can a motive bt wanting to induce us to maintain,
the character implied in this address, and to obey the
injunction of Heaven here urged upon us? Should
any say, what can be done ? Let this be the reply
be devoutly disposed and prepared to obey; and Hea­
ven will, in due time, make the i:a v plain. By prayer,
contributions* and your influence, be prepared to aid
every attempt for the conversion of the Jews and is- *
rael; and God will' be his own interpreter, and will
make the duty plain.
A leading step has already been taken in a Jerusalem^
mission. This may prove, in relation to a fulfilment
ofour text, a cloud like a man’s hand, which shall af-
£>*da sound of great rain ; and shall water the hills of
ancient Zion. How great.effects spring from little cau*
se? ! A^purling stream, from the threshold of the sane-
tttoryy soon, rises to the ankles, to the knees, to the
loins, and to an unfordable river, which heals the Dead
sea; Ezek. xlvii. Already has the bulrush vessel slip­
ped from the “ land shadowing with wings,” across the
mighty waters> over which the prophetic eye glanced
over the Atlantic and the Mediterranean, by the mouths,
of the “ rivers of*Ethiopia,” aud has landed her u am-
hassqdors ” for a Jerusalem mission ! Bless the Lord,
ti children of Abraham) f6r this ray of light from the
$4t5’ A D D R ESS O P T H E P R O P H E T ISAFAtT,
Digitized by Google
A D D R ESS OF T H E P R O P H E T ISAIAH. 3*7
land of the going down of the sun. This may shed an
incipient lustre on the noted passa-e in oui evangeli­
cal prophet. It may prove to the children oi Abraham,
in these days of signal phenomena, a morning rising in
tue west to ortak iheii long and dreadful night! Let
us, dear countrymen, second this attempt with our in-
tercesMons, our contributions, and our influence. May
all societies formed iu behalf of the Jews, and all solici­
tations in their favour, meet our most fervent patronage.
And God will not fail of luifiiing by us his gracious de­
signs. The blessed business will be brought within
our reach, and will be accomplished.
The ten tribes, as well as the Jews, belong to the
“ nation scattered aud peeled, and terribie from the be­
ginning.1’ Yes, the stick ol Ephraim is to become one
in the hand ol the prophet, with the stick of the Jews ;
Ezek. xxxvii. 15.—Ifit is afact, that the aborigines of
this u land shadowing with wings,” are the tribes of Is­
rael ; we perceive at once what can be done to fultiL
the noted demand of God, as it relates to them.—And
all who fear God will leap for joy, that as the Jerusa­
lem mission is already under way; so missions to these
tribes of Israel are already under way !
Should we find ample conv iction that our natives are
of the lost trilies of the house of Israel, and that the ad­
dress noted is directed to us; we may in the light of
this address,and of evangelical considerations connected
with it, imagine ourselv es as though sealed in tile audi­
ence of the prophet Isaiah;—may imagine him sighing
at the long and dreadful exilement of his brethren of
Israel;—and uttering the following sentiments of the
holy prophetic spirit;
Ho thou nation of |||e last days* shadowing with
thy wing9 of liberty awl peace; pity, instruct, and.
save my ancient people aiidtobrethren ; especially that
outcast branch of them, who were the natives of your
soil. Pity t at degraded i^innant of a nation so terribie
in ancient tinier, but who have been now so longwretch­
ed. Bring a present of them, ye worshippers of Jeho­
vah, to the God of Abraham. Give not sleep to your
eyes, till a house be buildedto ybur God, from those
A D D R ESS OF T H E P R O P H E T ISAIAH.
S4&
ancient and venerable materials.—Were not your fa­
thers sent into that far distant world, not only to be (in
their posterity) built up a great protecting nation; but
also to be the instruments of gathering, or recove­
ring the miserable remnant of my outcasts there, in the
last «lays '!* Rejoice, then, ye distinguished people in
your birth-right, and engage in the work by Heaven as­
signed. Let not those tribes of my ancient people,
whom I have borne as on eagles’wings forso many ages;
let them not become extinct before your eyes ; let them
no longer roam in savage barbarisih and death ! My
bowels yearn for Ephraim, my first-born. 4
4Far since
I spake against him, I do earnestly remember him
still.” 4
41 have seen his ways, and will heal him. I
will restore peace to him, and to his mourners ; peace
in the renewal of my covenant. I will again bear him
on eagles’ wings, and bring him to myself. Foryour
(my suppliants in the west,) this honour is reserved
Zeph* liu 10. Tlie wings of your continent have long
* This duty ofchristianizing the natives of our land, even be they
from whatever origin, is enforced from every evangelical considera­
tion. Rev. Dr. Ylayhewaccordingly remarks; “ As the conversion
of the heathen (in this land) was from the first one professed aim of
our forefathers in settling Mew England ; so almost all the royal
charters, grants, letters patent, and ac s of government in England
relative to tins country, have made mention of, and encouraged, yea
enjoined upon settlers, the prosecution of this pious design.'” The
same author notes in the new charier granted by William and Mary
to Massachusetts, an express recognition of this object, viz. “to win.
the Indians to the knowledge and obedience ofthe only true God and'
Saviour of men.” The same object is expressly recognized.in (he*
charter granted byking Charles II. to William Penn of Pennsylva­
nia. How sadlv has the object been neglected and forgotten ! If
our natives be indeed from the tribes of Israel, American Christians
may well feel, that <
»n
egreat object of their inheritance here, is, that
they may have a primary agen v in restoring those “lost sheep of
the house ofl-rael.” Those Hebrews first occupied the blessings of
fh ' covenant underthe old and dark dispensation. Then the Christina
Ge itiles came into possession of fhtyblessings of this covenant, under
its last, th^Christian dispensation. Noah,more than lour thousand-
years ago, inprophetio rhaosody, uttered the following prediction.
G*n.ix. 2? ; “ God shall enlarge Japheth ; (i. e. the Gentiles) and he
shall dwell in the tents of Shem,” (or of the Hebrews.) But this*
event isonly till the fulness ofihe G-mtiles be come in ; Rom. xi. 25.
Then shall the Hebrews aga*n take their place, as God’s first born,
tier xxxi. 20, 21; Zvh f. 16 Isai. lx.) Let us then be active itt^
restoring their iuu^ u)sl blessing.. r„
ADDRESS OF THE PROPHET ISAIAH. 24$
borne him in his banishment. Let now the wings of
your liberty, compassion, and blessed retreat, bear him
from his dreary wilds to the temple of God.
Look: at the origin of those degraded natives of your
continent, and fly to their relief.—Send them the her­
alds of salvation. Send them the word, the bread of
life. You received that book from the seed of Abra­
ham. All your volume ofsalvation was written by the
sons of Jacob. And by them it was transferred from
Jerusalem to the lost heathen world, and to you; other­
wise you had now been heathen, and eternally undone.
Remember then your debt ofgratitude to God’s ancient
people for the word of life. Restore it to them, and
thus double your own rich inheritance in its blessings.
Learn them to read the book of grace. Learn them
its history and their own. Teach them the story of
their ancestors ; the economy of Abraham, Isaac and
Jacob. Sublimate their views above the savage pur­
suits of the forests. Elevate them above the wilds of
barbarism and death, by showing them what has been
done for their nation ; and what is yet to be done by
the God of their fathers, in the line of his promise*
Teach them their ancient history; their former bles­
sings ; their being cast away; the occasion of it, and
the promises oftheir return. Tell them the time draws
near, and they must now return to the God of their
salvation. Tell them their return is to be as life from
the dead to the Gentile nations. Tell them what their
ancient fathers the prophets were inspired to predict
in their behalf; and the charge here given for their res­
toration. Assure them this talk of an ancient prophet,
is for them, and they must listen to it and obey it. That
the Great Spirit above the clouds now calls them by
you to come and receive his grace by Christ th.e true
star from Jacob, the Shiloh who has come, and to whom
the people must be gathered. Inform them that by
embracing this true seed of Abraham, you and multi­
tudes of other Gentiles, have become the children of
that ancient patriarch ; and now they must come back
yGoogle
250 ADDRESS OF THE PROPHET ISAIAH.
touching this election, they are beloved for the fathers7
s a k e s t h a t they were for their sins excluded for this
long period, until the fulness of the Gentiles be come in,
and so all Israel shall be saved.
Go, thou nation highly distinguished in the last days;
save the remnant of my people.—Bring me a present
of them “ to the place of the name of the Lord of hosts,
the Mount Zion.”
No te.— S in c e p u b lish in g ; th e firs t e d itio n o f th is V ie w o f th e H e ­
b r e w s , th e w r ite r h a s fo r th e firs t tim e o b ta in e d s ig h t of a n e x p o s itio n
u p o n th is c h a p t e r o f Is a ia h b y D r . M c D o n a ld , a n d fe e ls h im s e lf
i l r c n g l h e n '’d in a p e r s u a s io n o f th e c o rre c tn e s s o f a p p ly in g th is a d ­
d re s s o f t h e p r o p h e t to A m e r ic a . A s th e tw o e x p o s itio n s a r e b e fo re
th e p u b lic , th e w r i t e r f o r b e a r s to m a k e a n y r e m a r k s , e x c e p t u p o n o n e
id e a . D r . M c D o n a ld , u p o n th e b u lr u s h n a v ig a tio n o f th e n a tio n a d ­
d re s s e d , c o n c e iv e s t h a t it m a y h a v e , p e r h a p s , c o n s id e r a b le r e f e r e n c e
to th e boat and canoe navigation o f in t e r n a l s tr e a m s . A n d o b s e r v in g
th a t u th e c e n tr a l a n d e a s te r n re g io n s o f A sia a r e g e n e r a lly s u p p o s e d to
b e th e p r e s e n t s e a ts o f I s r a e l’s d is p e rs io n ; w h a t n a tio n th e n o f C h r is ­
te n d o m c a n c o n v e y w ith so m u c h e a s e a n d e x p e d itio n , as th e A m e r i­
c a n s , th e i r m e s s e n g e rs to th e s h o re s o f t h a t v a s t a n d u n e x p lo r e d c o u n ­
t r y ? W h a t n a tio n is b e t t e r q u a lif ie d to s e a r c h a n d to d is c o v e r th e m
in th e i r u n k n o w n r e t r e a ts ? S h e lt e r e d in t h e c a p a c io u s b o so m o f
m o u n ta in s , th a t r e a c h th e c lo u d s , o c c u p y in g th e e x te n s iv e s id e s o f
r i v e rs r a p id a n d b r o a d , w h o s e w a v e s n e v e r fe lt th e k e e l, a n d o n w h o se
b a n k s a h ig h w a y h a s n e v e r b e e n s tr e tc h e d ; to E u r o p e a n m is s io n a ­
r ie s th e i r r e t r e a t w o u ld b e in a c c e s s ib le , w ith o u t g r e a t e x p e n s e o f
ti m e a n d la b o u r . B u t th e s e o b s ta c le s o p p o s e d iffic u ltie s e a s ily s u r ­
m o u n te d b y th e n a tio n o f th e c a n o e . B re d w ith th e p a d d le in t h e i r
h a n d , a n d t a u g h t to c o n s tr u c t v e sse ls li g h te r th a n t h e b u lr u s h ,, th e y
c a n a s c e n d e v e r y s tr e a m , w in d r o u n d th e fo o t o f e v e r y m o u n ta in , a n d
a s c ir c u m s ta n c e s r e q u i r e , th e y c a n c a r r y t h e i r c a n o e , o r b e c a r r i e d b y
i t . ” H a d th is a u t h o r b e e n le d to b e lie v e t h a t th e n a tiv e s in t h e v a s t
w ild s o f A m e ric a a r e th e te n tr ib e s o f I s r a e l ; a n d t h a t i t c o m e s w i t h ­
in th e p r e s c r ib e d d u ty e rfth e p e o p le a d d r e s s e d b y th e p r o p h e t , to r e ­
c o v e r th e s e outcast tribes; h e w o u ld h a v e p e r c e iv e d th e a p p l i­
c a tio n h e m a k e s , to c o m e w ith s till g r e a t e r fo rc e to t h e s o n s o f
A m e r ic a , in r e la tio n to t h e i r s e a r c h in g o u t th e w ild te n a n ts o f th e
fo re s ts in th e w e s t, a n d th r o u g h th e w ild 9 o f A m e r ic a . I t is a fa c t,
t h e b u lr .u s h n a v ig a tio n , o r li g h t b o a ts a n d b ir c h c a n o e s , h a v e b e e u a
p o w e r f u l a u x i lia r y to tr a v e ll e r s a m o n g th e I n d ia n s , in a s c e n d in g a n d
d e s c e n d in g t h e i r s tr e a m s , in c o m in g a t t h e i r v illa g e s , a n d w in d in g
r o u n d th e fe e t o f m o u n ta in s , c a r r y i n g th e i r c a n o e s , o r b e in g c a r r i e d
b y th e m in t u r n , to le a r n th e e x is te n c e a n d th e c u s to m s o f th e n a tiv e s .
A n d th e s a m e m e a n s m u s t b e p u r s u e d , ( a n d h a v e a lr e a d y in a m e a s ­
u r e b e e n p u r s u e d .) in c a r r y i n g to th e m th e wT
o r d o f life , a n d b le ss in g s
o f c iv iliz a tio n . W h i le th e w r i t e r o f th e s e s h e e ts s till b e lie v e s th e
le a d in g o b je c t in th e a llu s io n to t h e a n c ie n t b u lr u s h navigation o f th e
N ile * w h e u a d d r e s s in g o u r la n d , is to fix o u r c h a r a e te r is tic o f e x p e r t -
yGOOg '
n e s s in t h e n a v ig a tio n o f s e a s a n d * o c e a n s— “ w h o s e n d e th m e s s e n g e rs
by the sea e v e n in v e s s e ls o f b u lr u s h e s ”— y e t h e fe e ls n o d - llic u lty in
a d m itt in g t h a t i t a ls o c o m p r e h e n d s o u r g r e a t f a c ilitie s in in la n d n a v ­
ig a tio n ; e s p e c ia lly c o n s id e rin g o u r a s to n is h in g re c e n t im p r o v e m e n ts
in canal navigation. T h e e y e o f th e p r o p h e tic s p ir it m ig h t p a r t i a l ­
l y r e s t o n th is c ir c u m s ta n c e , in fix in g th is c h a r a c te r is tic o f th e n a tio n
in th e w e s t, w h o w a s th e s u b je c t o f th e m e s s a g e .
I n r e la tio n !o th e A m e ric a n p e o p le h a v in g a f a v o u r a b le a g e n c y in
m e lio r a tin g th e c o n d itio n o f th e J e w s , a s w e ll a s th e tr ib e s o f Isra e l*
i t a p p e a ls th e th o u g h t h a s s tr u c k t h e m in d s o f s o m e o n t h e e a s te r n
c o n t in e n t , a s w e ll a s th e w e s te r n . C o n s u lt th e f o ll o w i n g :
E x t r a c t o f a l e t t e r fro m E r a s m u s H e r m a n u s S im o n of S to c k h o lm ,
to t h e S e c r e t a r y o f th e A m e r ic a n M e lio r a tin g S o c ie ty , d a t e d A p r il
26, 1823. '
“ [ a m c o n s tr a in e d to c o n g r a t u la t e y o u , Wf s te r n C h r is tia n s , o n t h e
g lo r io u s p r o s p e c ts w h ic h a r e b e f o r e y o u . I t h a s b e c o m e e v i d e n t to
m e , t h a t th e L o r d r e s e r v e s fo r th e C h r is tia n s o f A m e r ic a t h e s c r ip t u ­
r a l m e a n s o f e f f e c tu a lly b e n e f ittin g th e lo s t s to c k o f I s r a e l. N o th in g
c a n b e c o n c e iv e d w o r s e th a n th e p r e s e n t s ta t e o f r e lig io n o v e r th e
c o n t in e n t ( o f E u r o p e ) in g e n e r a l. A n d n o th in g so s u b v e r s iv e o f t h a t
l i t t l e s e rio u s im p re s s io n , w h ic h a m o n th o r tw o o f s u p e r f ic ia l t e a c h ­
i n g m a y h a v e m a d e , th a n t h e i r b e in g le f t to th e d a n g e r w h ic h a b o u n d s
o n e v e ry h a n d in w h a t a r e d e n o m in a te d p la c e s o f C h r is ti a n w o r s h ip .
T h e r e c e p tio n w h ic h p r o s e ly te s w ith th e b e s t d e s ire s a n d c h a r a c te r s
m e e t w ith , is t r u l y d e p lo r a b le . T h e S o c ie ty o f F r a n k f o r t, t a d i t
n o t b e e n fo r th e A m e r ic a n M e lio r a tin g S o c ie ty , w o u ld h a v e d e g e n e ­
r a t e d in to a m e r e t r a c t s o c ie ty , h a v in g c o n s ta n tly h e a r d o f t h e m ise ­
r ie s w h ic h b e s e t th o s e p r o s e ly te s w h o m t h e y s e n t s e e k in g f o r e m p lo y ­
m e n t a m o n g C h r is ti a n s .”
In a n o t h e r l e t t e r fro m th e s a m e p la c e , t h e w r i t e r s a y s ; “ I u n it e
m y v o ic e o f th a n k s g iv in g a n d p r a is e to th e S u p r e m e D is p o s e r o f
h e a r t s , w h o h a s iu th is tim e o f I s r a e l’s e x t r e m i t y , tu r n e d so m a n y in
A m e r ic a to u n d e r t a k e t h e i r n e g le c te d c a u s e . O u r s o u ls u r e refresh -?
e d b y th e p r o s p e c t w h ic h is h e ld o u t, o f * a lo d g e in th e w ild e r n e s s
f o r th e w a y f a r in g m e n o f Is r a e l, w h e r e th e y m a y h a s te n to e s c a p e
fro m th e s to r m a n d te m p e s t. H a p p y c o u n t r y , w h ic h a ffo rd s a r e f u g e
f o r A b r a h a m ’s b e lie v in g so n s !”
T h e fo llo w in g is a s c e r ta in e d fro?»? a m p le a u t h o r i t y ; t h a t in m a n y
o f th e e ld e s ta b lis h m e n ts o f E u r o p e , th e c o n v ic te d a n x io u s J e w c a n
o b ta in li ttl e o r n o e v a n g e lic a l in s tr u c tio n . S u c h a n o n e a p p ly in g to ,
a p ro fe s s e d m in is te r o f th e r e f o r m e d c h u r c h , w a s in fo rm e d , “ t h a t i t
w a 9 n o t n e c e s s a ry to h is s a lv a tio n to b e lie v e in th e D iv in i ty o l C h r is t,
I t w o u ld b e s u ffic ie n t s h o u ld h e p e r s e v e r e in t h e d u ty o f b e in g a g o o d
m e m b e r o f s o c ie ty .”
“ T o a m in is te r in W u r t e m b u r g , ( o n e o f t h e m o s t re lig io u s p a r t i
o f G e r m a n y ) a y o u n g I s r a e lite c a m e fo r in s tr u c tio n . R p s a id h e
f o u n d n o c o n s o la tio n in th e p r e s e n t s ta t e o f J u d a is m , a s a n im m o r ta l
b e in g , g u il ty b e f o r e G o d . A u d t h a t h e w is h e d c a n d id ly to i n q u i r e
i n to C h r is ti a n it y . T h e in s tr u c to r s a id to h im , ( c la p p in g h im o n th e
ih o u M e r ,) a r e y o u a n h o n e s t noau ? a n d d o y o u d is tu r b n o b o d y ? I f
s o ; y o u n e e d n o t g iv e y o u r s e lf a n y tr o u b l e a b o u t b e in g s a v e d ; y o u
a r e s u r e e n o u g h o f t h a t !” M u s t n o t th e s e th in g s o p e r a te a s a tlio u -
ADDRESS O f THE PROPHET ISAIAH. 251 •
^ Digitized by Google
I
» ADDRESS OF THE PROPHET ISAIAH.
252
s a n d a r g u m e n ts o n t h e p e o p le o f o u r C h r is ti a n la n d , a n d o f o u r s u «
p e r i o r a d v a n ta g e s , to a id th e c h ild r e n o f A b r a h a m , fro m w h o m yre
h a v e r e c e iv e d th e b le ss in g s o f s a lv a tio n , a n d w h o in th e i r t u r n a r e
in a p e r is h in g s ta te , a n d a r e s tr e tc h in g o u t t h e i r h a n d s , a n d d i r e c t ­
in g t h e i r w is h fu l e y e s a c ro s s th e A tla n tic to u s , fo r a r e t u r n o f t h a t
s a m e w o rd o f e t e r n a l life ? M a y th e y h e r e fin d a p r e s e n t a s y l u m ;
a n d h e r e b e le d to t h e “ B a lm o f G ile a d , th e P h y s ic ia n t h e r e , ”
Digitized by *
CONCLUSION.
1 . It becomes us to be deeply affected with the ex-
communication of the ancient people of God. In the
temporary rejection of those two branches of the He­
brew nation, the truth is solemnly enforced, that the
God of Zion is a God of government; and that he will
be known by the judgments that he executeth. The
casting out ofthe ten tribes for their impious idolatries,
is full of instruction. The wonders God had done for
them, and all their privileges in the land of promise,
could not save, when they rejected the stated place of
"his worship, and united in the abominations of the open
enemies of God. They should be excommunicated
from the covenant, hurled from the promised*land, and
abandoned to a state of savage wretchedness, for two
and a halfmillenaries. Their sin in those dark ages of
the old dispensation was no trifle. Its consequence is
held up as an awful warning to the world. It impres­
ses the following language ; “ Know thou and see that
it is an evil thing and bitter that thou hast forsaken the
Lord.” To that event people under evangelical pri­
vileges ought to turn their eyes, and take the solemn
warning. The God of Abraham is a God ofjudgment;
while blessed are all they that put their trust in him.
The judgments of Heaven on the Jews were still
more dreadful. The Lord of that vineyard did indeed
come in a day when they looked not for him, and in
22
Digitized by Google
2S4 CONCLUSION.
hour wiien they were not aware; and did cut them
asunder, fie came and miserably destroyed those hus­
bandmen, and burned up their cities, as he foretold.
Upon their turning him off with hypocrisy and will-wor­
ship, and rejecting the Saviour, the denunciation,
*‘Cut it down; why cumbereth it the ground?” was
fulfilled with unprecedented decision. Let all rejec­
tors of Christ, behold and tremble. The Jews were
confident in a fancied security, to the last. But an im-
f
ious confidence can never save. It is but a dead calm
efore a fatal catastrophe. Such presumptuous lean­
ing upon the Lord, and saying, “ lsnot the Lord among
us? no evil shall come upon us ;” was so far from sa­
ving, that it was a sure precursor of perdition, and of
the coming of wrath upon them to the uttermost. Let
gospel rejectors beware. “ Behold, ye despisers, and
wonder, and perish.” 4
iLet him that thinketh he stand-
eth, take heed lest he fall.”
2 . How evident and rich is the entail of the covenant
which will recover the two branches of the house of Is­
rael ! Trudy they are “ a nation of /i«e, line ;” (Isai.
xviii. 2, in the Hebrew, and margin of the great Bible.)
Though they be infidels, and rejected, and as touching
the gospel are enemies for our sakes; yet as touching
the election, (the entail of the covenant.) they are be­
loved for the fathers’ sakes ; Rom. xi. 28.—rl his en­
tail insures their ingrafting again into their own olive
tree, which shall be as life from the dead to the nations.
This is the infallible hold upon them, which shall finally
recover them again to Palestine, and to the covenant of
their Cod. It is upon this covenant-hold upon them,
that the God pf Abraham promises to take away their
stony heart out oftheir flesh, and give them a heart c f
flesh; to sprinkle them with clean water, and to make
them clean ; to put his spirit within them and cause
them to walk in his statutes, and make them keep His
judgments and do them ; Ezek. xxxvi. 24—27. It is
upon this entail, that God thus engages to bring them
in under his new covenant, or the Christian dispensa­
tion; that their children shall he as £foretimes, and
their congregations established before him ; and “ that
Digitized by Google ■
coffCLusiœ* 255
alt wlio see them shall acknowledge they are the seed
which the Lord hath blessed 4
4that they are the seed
of the blessed of the Lord, and their offspring with
them.” It will then be understood, that though blind­
ness in part had happened to Israel, it was that the
gentiles might take their place, and only till the fulness
ofthe gentiles be come in ; and then all Israel shall be
saved» The Jewish church will thence be a kind of
capital and model of the Christian world *
, see Isai. lx»
and many other promises of the same tenor»
The entail of the covenant may be expected thence­
forth to have its proper and perfect effect in the fulfil­
ment of such promises as the following, which relate to
that period; 441 will pour my Spirit upon thy seed, and
my blessing upon thine offspring; and they shall spring
up as among, the grass,as willows by the water courses;’7
Isai. xliv. 3, 4» 4
4As for me, this is my covenant with
them, saith the Lord. My spirit that i9 upon thee, and
my words which 1have put in thy mouth, shall not
depart out of thy mouth, nor out of the mouth of thy
seed, nor out of the mouth of thy seed’s seed, saith the
Lord, from henceforth and foreverIsai. iix. 21. This
will indeed bring a season of salvation to man.
3. On reading the prophetic scriptures relative to
the restoration of the Hebrews, and the calls of Heaven
to aid in the event; the question becomes interesting»
What is first to be done relative to this restoration /
The first object, no doubt, must be. to christianize them,
and wait the leadings of Providence relative to any fur­
ther event. God will in due time, be (to all who are
willing to wait on him) his own interpreter; and to
such he will make the path ofduty plain. In his own
time and way, after his ancient people shaft be duly in*
structed, and taught the Christian religion, God will
open the door for the fulfilment of his designs relative
to any local restoration; and will bring that part of
them, whom he designs, to-their ancient home. All
the Jews did not return to Palestine from their seventy
years captivity. Many chose to continue where they
were planted in the east. Something of the same may
be realized in the final restoration of Judah and Israel.
Digitized by Google
266 CONCLUSION.
A remnant only of the ten tribes is to return. This is
clearly taught. Isai. x. 20—22: “ And it shall come
to pass in that day that the remnant of Israel, and such
as are escaped of the house of Jacob, shall no more
again stay upon him that smote them; but shall stay
upon the Lond, the Holy One of Israel, in truth. The
remnant shall return, even the remnant of Jacob, unto
the Mighty God. For though the people of Israel be as
the sand ofthe sea ; yet a remnant ofthem shall return.”
Here the number restored is comparatively small; as
Jer. iii. 14, upon the same event; u Turn, O backsli­
ding children, saith the Lord ; for 1 am married unta
you ; and I will take you one ofa city (village) and ttoo
ofafamily, (tribe) and will bring, you to Zion.” One
from an Indian village, and two from a tribe, would in­
deed be a small remnant. This proportion may here
be proverbial; but certainly indicates that but a small
number compared with the whole will return. A pro­
portion ofthat nation will in due time be offered, to re­
turn to the land of their fathers, where they may form
a kind of centre or capital to the cause of Christ on
earth. Relative to many particulars of the event, the
holy oracles are not express. They have strongly mar­
ked the outlines or leading facts ofthe restoration ; and
the unrevealed particulars, the events of Providence
must unfold. That great numbers will return, there
seems not room to doubt. But the actual proposition
to return, will doubtless be afree-will offering of those
whose hearts God shall incline. The first duty must
be to recover them to the visible kingdom of Christ.
To this our prayers, alms, and all due exertions must
devoutly tend.
4. Viewing the aborigines ofAmerica as the outcast
tribes of Israel; an interesting view is given of some
prophetic passages, which appear nearly connected with
their restoration.
In Isai. xl. 3, relative to this restoration of the ancient
people of God, we read ; The voice of him that cri-
eth in the wilderness ; Prepare ye the way of the Lord ;
make straight in the desert a highway for our God.”
his received a primary and typical fulfilment in the
Digitized by G°
CO N CLU SIO N . 257
ministry of John the Baptist, in the wilderness of Ju­
dea, to introduce Christ. Hence the passage was ap­
plied to him. But it was to receive its ultimate and most
interesting fulfilment at a period connected with the
go n neneemeat of the Millennium, when k
*the glory of
the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it to­
gether ;” as the subsequent*text- decides. It is inti­
mately connected with the restoration of the Hebrews ;
as appears in its contexts “ Comfort ye, comfort ye,
my people, saith your God. Speak- ye comfortably to-
Jerusalem* (a name here put for all the Hebrew larni-
ly. as it was their capital in the days of David and Sol­
omon,) and cry unto her that her warfare is accomplish­
ed that her iniquity is pardoned ; for she hath recei­
ved of the Lord’s hand double for all her sins.’y Herd
is the final Hebrew restoration, after the time of their
doubly long corrective rejection for their sins shall
have expired. The voice in the wilderness then fol­
lows, as the great means of this restoration.
A wilderness has justly been considered as a* symbol
of a region of moral darkness and spiritual death. It
has been considered as a symbol of the heathen world ;
and it is a striking emblem of it. And the emblem re­
ceives strengt i from the consideration, that it is in a
sense literally true. The voice, which restores Israel,
is heard in the vast wilderness of America^ a literal wil­
derness ofthousands of miles, where the dry bones of
the outcasts of Israel have foF thousands of years been
scattered- The voice crying in the wilderness has a
special appropriation to these Hebrews- As it had a
ki nd of literal fulfilment in the preaching of the forerun­
ner J^hn, fora short time in the wilderness of Judea;
so it is to have a kind of literal fulfilment, upon a much:
gn ater scale, in the missions-, which shall recover the*
ten tribes from the vast wilderness of America-
Of the same period and event, the same evangelical
prophet says-, Isai. xxxv. 1. “ The wilderness and the
solitary place shall be glad for them ; and the desert
shall rejoice and blossom-as the rose ; it shah blossom*
abundantly and rejoice even with joy and singing- Tbe^
glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it, and the excels
yGoogle
2 5 8 CONCLUSION.
lency of Carmel and Sharon ; they shall see the glory
of the Lord and the excellency of our God.” In such
passages, while the perdiction is to have its mystical
and full accomplishment in the conversion ofthe heathen
world to God, the prophetic eye evidently rested with
signal pleasure, on a literal restoration of his long lost
brethren, as involved in the event, aud as furnishing
the ground of the figure. They will be literally, and the
fulness of the Gentiles mystically, restored and brought
to Zion. Is it not an uncommon thing for prophetic
passages to receive a kind of literal fulfilment; while
yet the passage most clearly looks in its ultimate and
most important sense to mystical fulfilment. Take the
following instances for illustration, fn lsai. xxxv. 5—
predicting the blessed effects of the mission of Christ
on earth—the prophet says ; “ Then the eyes of the
blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf shall be
unstopped, then shall the lame man leap as an hart, and
the tongue ofthe dumb shall sing.” This had a literal
fulfilment in the miracles wrought by our Lord on
earth. And yet its mystical import upon the souls of
men is infinitely more interesting, and will be exten­
sively fulfilled in the introduction of the Millennium.
This stands connected with the wilderness and the so­
litary place being glad; and the desert rejoicing and
blossoming as the rose ; and is followed by the clause ;
For in the wilderness shall waters break out, and
streams in the desert.” Aud as the one was prefaced
by a literal fulfilment; the other may be accompanied
with a kind of literal fulfilment.
Again ; Zech. ix. 9 ; “ Rejoice greatly, O daughter
of Zion ; shout, O daughter of Jerusalem ; behold thy
king cometh unto thee; he is just, and having salvation ;
lowly, and riding upon an ass, and upon a colt the foal
ot an ass*” This stands connected with the time,
when (verse 1) the eyes of men, as all the tribes of Is­
rael, shall be toward the Lord and when (verse !0)L
the battle bow shall be cut off; and he shall speak
peace unto the heathen; and his dominion shall he
from sea even to sea, and from the river even to the*
ands of the earth.” It stands connected with, the bai-
' — . Digitized by v j O U ;
CONCLUSION. f59
tie ofthe great day, and the introduction of the Millen­
nia.n; and is a striking emblem of the means used by
Christ, (in the estimation ofl;he scoding infidel world,)
to introduce his kingdom— by the fooiisnness of
preaching”— not by might, nor by power; but by my
spirit, saith the Lord of nosts.” Yet even this must
be preluded by a literal fulfilment, in the riding of Christ
into Jerusalem. See Matt. xxi. 1—^Zech. xi. 1. u Open
thy doors, O Lebanon, that the tire may devour thy ce­
dars»'’ This is to have its ultimate accomplishment in
the battle of the great day of God Almighty,’’ of which
the destruction of the temple and ol Jerusalem was but
a type. Bui this too must be prefaced with a literal
accomplishment* Josephus, assuring us of the miracu­
lous portents of the destruction of Jerusalem, says ;
About the sixth hour of the night, the eastern gate of
the temple was foundtoopen without human assistance.”
u It was secured (he adds) by iron bolts and bars that
were let down into a large threshold consisting of oue
entire stone.” The Jews considered this as a manifes­
tation that their divine protection was fled. M. Jo-
ha nan, directing his speech to the temple, said; I know
thy destruction is at hand according to the prophecy of
Zechariah, “ Open thy doors, O Lebanon, $-c.” (Scott.)
Thus mystical texts often have a kind of literal fullil-
ment. And accordingly the prediction of the restora­
tion of Israel, in the last days, while they deliver them
from a mystical wilderness of spiritual wretchedness, of
ignorance and moral death ;—may at the same time re-
deenrythem from a vast literal wilderness ! And the pre­
diction of the former may be phrased fromthis very cir­
cumstance.
As tiie wilderness of Judea in a small degree rejoiced
and blossomed as the rose, when John the Baptist per­
formed his ministry in it; so the wilderness and solita­
ry place of our vast continent, containing the lost tribe»
of the house of Israel, will* on a most enlarged"scale,
rejoice and blossom as the rose, when the long lost
In lies shall be found there, and shall be gathered to Zi­
on. The event in relation to these ancient heirs of the
eoveuant, stated in the last verse of tins chapter* will.
Digitized by Google
4$G CONCLUSION.
then receive a signal fulfilment; “ And the redeemed o f
the L.»rJ shall return and co ne to Zion with so,:4s and
everlasting joy «
1 ¡on their he •is ; tney shall obtain *oy
a \ 1 4I:*•I less. and sorrow and sighin; shall fle;e awa).’*
Uo n this final restoration of bis brethren, this prophet
ex iIts in lofty strains. Several of the many of these
strains shall he here inserted. Isai. xlix. “ Listen, O
isles, onto ne ; (or)e lands away over the sea) harkea
ye neople frotri /far. I will m ke all my mon.ita ns a
way ; and my huhwa.v shall be exal.ed. Behold, these*
shall co ne trom /rtr; and In. these from the north, and
from the wesi ; and the se from the land of Sinim.—
Sin.;, O heavens; and he jovl’
ul* O earth; ami break
forth into sinking, O mountains; for the Lord hath
comf >rtml his people, and will have mercy upon lus af-
fl *ted.” Such texts have a special allusion to the lost
tr es of the house of Israel. And their being called
ov- r mountains’
, and over seas, from the west, ami from
afar, receives an emphasis from the consideration of
their being gathered from the vast wilds of America.
With the prophet Hosea, the rejection and recovery
of the ten tribes are a great object, hi chapter hi,
their re ection, and the cause of it. are stated, and also
a promise of their return. God threatens to strip them
naked, and “ ma^e them as a z c ild e rn e ssu And [
will visit upon her the da)s of Baalim, wherein she
burned incense to them*;” i. e- to Baalim, In r false
gods. This visitingupon her her idolatries,was to be done
in her subsequent outcast state, in which God there,
says ; 4
4she is not my wife, neither am I her husband.”
But he says, v. 14—“ Therefore, behold, l will allure
her, and bring her into the wilderness, and speak com­
fortably unto her.—And 1 will giye her her vineyards
from thence, and the valley of Achor for a door of
hope ; and she shall sing there as in the days of her
youth, and as in the da) when she came up out of the
land of Egypt.” * Here is Israel’s restoration; and it
is from the wilderness, where long they had been plan­
ted during the period of their outcast state. In thig
wilderness God eventually speaks comfortably to them,,
anil restores them,, as he restored from Egypt. Here-
Digitized by Google
CONCLUSION. 261
God gives them “the valley ofAchor fora door ofhope.”
The first encampment of the Hebrews in the valley of
Achor, was to them a pledge in their eventual posses­
sion of the promised land, after the Lord had there tur­
ned from the fierceuess of his wrath ; Josh. vii. 26.
Upon the same event God says; Isai. xlii. 19, 2 0 ;
“ Behold, I will do a new thing; now it shall spring
forth ; shall ye not know it ? I will even make a way
in the wilderness and rivers in the desert. The beasts
ofthe field shall honour me; the dragons and the owls;
because I give wafer in the wilderness, and rivers in
the desert, to give drink to my people, to my chosen.”
if such texts have a glorious, general, mystical fulfil­
ment in the conversion of pagan lands ; yet this does
not preclude, but rathei*implies the fact, that the people
whose restoration is in them particularly foretold, shall
be recovered from a vast wilderness ; and their conver­
sion shall be almost like the conversion of dragons and
owls of the desert. Rivers of knowledge and grace
shall in such wiids be open for God’s chosen. It will
then truly be fulfilled that God in comforting Zion,
will “ make her wilderness like Eden, and her desert
like the garden of the Lord ;” Isai. li. S. Such passa­
ges will have a degree of both literal and mystical ful­
filment.
A signal beauty will then be discovered in such pas­
sages as the foiiowing; Lab xii. 14. “ Fear not, thou
worm Jacob, and ye men of Israel; I will Lelp thee,
saith the Lord God, thy Redeemer, the Holy One of
Israel. I will open rivers in the high places, and foun­
tains in the midst of vallies: I will make the wilder­
ness a pool ofwater, and the dry land springs of water.
I will plant in the wilderness the cedar, the shittah tree,
and the myrtle, and the oil tree; and 1will set in the
desert the fir tree, the pine, and the box tree together,
that they may see and know and understand together,
that the hand of the Lord hath done this, and the Holy
One of Israel hath created it.” The view given ofthe
place of the long banishment of the ten tribes, gives a
lustre to such predictions of their restoration.—These
wilj have a striking fulfilment in the vast wilds of our
Digitized by Google
2 6 2 C O N C L U Srotf.
continent,when the glad tidings of salvation shall be car­
ried to the natives of these extensive dreary forests
and those regions of wretchedness and death shall be­
come vocal with the high praises of God, sung by his
ancient Israel.
In Micah vii. is a prediction relative to Israel’s res­
toration. JVlicah, as well as Isaiah, lived in the days
of Israers dispersion. He began his ministry about
eighteen yeais before this event; and continued it
about twenty-five years after the event. Though he
was of Judah, Scott says, u He addressed his messa­
ges both to Judah and Israel.’"
’ Of the passage, verse
11— 13, Bp. Lowth says, 4
4The general restoration of
the Jews shall not be brought to pass till after
their land hath lain desolate for many ages.” Bp.
Newcomb says, of verses 14— 17; 4
4They may
likewise have a reference to the times of the future res­
titution.’’ Scott says of the verses following* 4
6They
evidently related to Ch.!st, and the success of the gos­
pel to the end of time ; and thefuture restoration of Is­
raeli inverse 12 the application for this restoration
is made to them 4
4
from sea to sea ; andfrom mountain
tomountain.” The prophet then prays for them, verse
14 ; that God would feed his people, “ the flock of his
heritage, which dwell solitarily in the wood;” that he
would feed them in the midst of Carmel, Bashan and
Gilead, as in the days of old. Where are this people
to be found “from sea to sea ; from mountain to moun­
tain ; and in the wood?” This answers to nothing of
ancient date. But to the situation of Israel of modem
date, (if they be in the wilds of America) it well ac­
cords. Here they must indeed be sought 4
4from sea
to sea; from mountain to mountain;’’and “in the wood.”
And this event is to beyverse 13, u after that their land
hath been desolateas Scott renders it from the original.-
And this is to be in fulfilment of 44the truth to Jacob,
and the mercy to Abraham, which God had sworn from
thé days of old verse 20. God then, as in verses 18,
19,pardons the transgression of the remnant of his heri­
tage, retains not his anger forever, but turns -again and
has compassion on them, and casts all their sins into the
depth of the sea. All these expressions seecn to.
V n o d e
CONCLUSION. 2<53
apply perfectly to the final restoration of Israel; but
not to any thing antecedent to that event. This
branch of Israel are to be found then, “ dwelling solita­
rily in the wood and are to be sought?from sea to
sea] andfrom mountain to mountain
5. If it be a fact that the native Americans are the
tribes of Israel, new evidence is hence furnished of the
divinity of our holy scriptures. A new held of evi­
dence is here opened from a race of men, “ outcast’*
from all civil society for a long course ofcenturies. Im­
pressed on these wild tenants of the forest, (these chil­
dren of nature, without books or letters, or any thing
but savage tradition,) striking characters are found of
the truth of ancient revelation.
The intelligent vindicator of the word of God has
never feared to meet the infidel on fair ground. His
triumph has not been less certain than that of David
against Goliah. But in the view taken of the natives
of our continent, the believer will tind additional argu­
ments, in which to triumph. He will find more than
“ five smooth stones taken out of the brook,” (1 Sam.
xvi. 40,) each one of which is sufficient to sink into the
head of an impious Goliah, challenging the God of Is­
rael.
Let the unbeliever in revelations undertake to an­
swer the following questions.
Whence have the greater part of the American na­
tives been taught the being of one and only one God ;
when all other heathen nations have lost all such know­
ledge, and believe in manyfalse gods ?
Whence have the Indians, or most of them, been
kept from gross idolatry, which has covered the rest of
the heathen world ? and to which ail men have been
so prone ?
Whence have many of them been taught that the
name of the one God, the Great Spirit above, is Yoke-
zvahj Ale, Yaft, (Hebrew names of God.) who made all
things, and to whom alone worship is due ?
Who taught any of them that God, at first, made one
man from earth ; formed him well; and breathed him
into life ? and that God made good and bad spirits; the
latter of whom h^ve a prince over them ?
Digitized by Google
2 6 4 CONCLUSION.
Whence came the idea among the untutored savages,
that Yohewah was once the covenant God of their na­
tion ; and the rest of the world were out of covenant
with him,—the accursed people? God was the God
of Israel, and of no other nation during their common­
wealth. “ I entered into covenant with thee, and thou
hecameot mi^le.’,
Whence their ideas that their ancestors once had the
book of God ; and then were happy ; but that they lost
i t ; and then became miserable; but that they will have
this book again at some time ?
Whence their notion that their fathers ©nee had the
spirit of God to work miracles, and to foreiel future
eveuts ? Whence the general Indian tradition of offer­
ing their first ripe fruits. Sc? Exod. xxii. 29; and
xxiii. 19. Lev. ii. 14; and xxiii. 10, 1 1 .
Who taught the untutored savages to have a temple
of Yohewah; a holy of holies in it, into which no com­
mon people may enter, or look ?
W
rho taught him a succession of high priests ? that
this priest must be inducted into office by purifications,
and anointing ? that he must appear in an appropriate
habiliment, the form of which descended from their fa­
thers of remote antiquity ?
Whence their custom of this priest’s making a yearly
atonement, in or near the holy apartment of their tem­
ple ? Lev. xxiii. 27, and vi. 30*
Whence their three annual feasts, which well accord
to the three great feasts, in Israel? Exod. xxiii. 14
and on. ,
Whence came their peculiar feast, in which a bone
ofthe sacrifice may not be broken; and all that is pre­
pared must be eaten; or burned before the next mor­
ning sun ? and eaten with biller vegetables. Exod.
xii. 8,10, 46.
Whence a custom of their males appearing three
times annually before God at the temple ? Exod. xxiii.
17, Deut. xvt. 16.
Who taught wild savages of the desert to maintain
places of refuge from the avenger of blood; uold9belov­
ed, white t o w n s Joshua chap. jlx.
■
- A
Digitizec
CONCLUSION. 2G5
Who taught them to keep and venerate a sacred ark,
containing their most sacred things ; to be borne against
their enemies by one purified by strict rites l—That
no one but the sanctified keeper might look into this
ark ; and the enemy feeling the same reverence for it,
as the friends ? Exod. xxv. 10, and on. 1 Sam. vi.
19. 2 Sam. xi. 1 1 .
Whence came the deep and extensive impression
among these savage tnbes, that the hollow of the thigh
of no animal may be eaten ? Gen. xxxii. 32.
Let the infidel inform how these savages (so long ex­
cluded from all intercourse with the religious or civili­
zed world) came by the right of circumcision ? and
some of them an idea of a Jubilee ?
Whence their idea of an old divine speech ; that they
must imitate their virtuous ancestors, enforced by
u flourishing upon a landflowing with milk and honey Vr
Whence their notion of the ancient flood ? and of the
longevity of the ancients ? also of the confusion of the
language of man at building a high place ? evidently
meaning the scene at Babel.
How came these wild human herds of the desert by
various Hebrew words andphrases; and such phrases
as accord with no other language on earth l See the ta­
blefurnished, page 90.
Who taught them to sing. Halleluyah, Yohewah, Yah,
Shilu Yohewah ; and to make the sacred use they do
of the syllables, which compose the names of God ?
singing them in.their religious dances, and in their cus­
toms ; thus ascribing all the praise to Yohewah ? 1ask
not, who taught them the spirit or holiness ofsuch reli­
gious forms ? For probably they have little or no in­
telligent meaning. But whence have they brought dovm
these traditional forms ?
How came their reckoning of time so well to accord
with that ofancient Israel ?
Whence their tradition of twelve men, in preparing
for a feast similar to the ancient feast of tabernacles;
taking twelve poles, forming their booths; and their
altar of twelve stones, on which no tool may pass; and
here oflering their twelve sacrifices ? and some tribe«
2 3
Digitized by Google
2 6 6 CONCLUSION.
proceeding by the number ten instead of twelve? indi­
cating their tradition of the twelve tribes; and their
subsequent ten, after the revolt.
Whence came their tradition of purifying themselves
with bitter vegetables ? also fasting, and purifying
themselves when going to war, as did" Israel.
Who taught them that at death their beloved people
sleep, and go to their fathers ?
YVhence their custom of washing and anointing tbeir
dead; and some of them of hiring mourners to bewail
them ; and of singing round the corpse (before they bu­
ry it) the syllables of Yah, Yohewah ?
How came they by their tradition answering to the
ancient Jewish separations of women ? Lev. xii. 1—6,
also a tradition of taking their shoes from their feet, on
solemn occasions ? Exod. iii 6. Deut. xxv. 9.
Whence were some of them taught in deep mour­
ning to lay their hand on their mouth, and their mouth
in the dust ?
And whence came their tradition of their ancient fa ­
ther with his twelve sons, ruling over others ? and the
mal-conduct of these twelve sons, till they lost their
pre-eminence ?
Let it be remembered, it is not pretended that all
the savages are in the practice of ail these traditions.
They are not. But it is contended that the whole of
these things have been found among their different tribes
iii our continent, within a hundred years* A fragment
of these Hebrew traditions has been found among one
tribe ; and another fragment among another ; and some
of the most striking of these traditions have been found
among various and very distant tribes; as has ap­
peared in the recital from various authors, traders and
travellers.
Lei the unbeliever in revelation set himself to ac­
count for these events. No account can be given of
thjgm, but that they were derived from ancient revela­
tion in Jsrael. And hence in the outcast state of the
ten tr»bes of Israel, (in their huge valley of dry bones,
in ibis vasi new world.) we find pjesented a volume of
new e\hienye of the divinity of the Old Testament;
Digitized by G * gle
CONCLUSION. 207
and hence of the New; for the latter rests on the for­
mer, as a building rests on its foundation. If the one
is divine, the other is divine ; for both form a perfect
whole. v
We are assured by the chief apostle to the Gentiles,
that the restoration of the ancient people of God in the
last days, when 4
4all Israel shall be saved” shall be to
the nations 4
4as lifefrom the dead Rom. xi. 15. Its
new and demonstrative evidence of the glorious trutTi
of revelation, will confound infidelity itself; and fill the
world with light and glory. These Indian traditions
may be viewed as beginning to exhibit to the world
their quota of this new evidence.
In our subject, we find a powerful evidence of the
truth of revelation, extending through a wild continent,
in savage traditions ; which traditions must have been
brought down from .725 years, before the Christian era.
The preservation of the Jews, as a distinct people,
for eighteen centuries, has been justly viewed as a kind
of standing miracle in support of the truth of revela­
tion. But the arguments furnished from the preserva­
tion and traditions of the ten tribes, in the wilds of
America from a much longerperiod, must be viewed as
furnishing, if possible, a more commanding testimony.
And it is precisely such evidence as must have been ex­
pected in the long outcast tribes of Israel, wheuever
they should come to light; and just such evidence as
must rationally be expected to bring them to the know­
ledge of the civilized world.
6. The people addressed by the prophet Isaiah, (be
they America, or Britain, or who they may.) are highly
honoured of God. They are a 4
4land shadowing lolifi
wings.” God is abundantly represented as shadowing
his people with his wings. 4
4 Hide me under ihe shad­
ow of thy wings.” 4
i The children of men put {heir
trust under the shadow of thy win^s.” To Israel as
brought from Egypt, God said ; 441h ue you on eagk-s’
wings, and brought you unto myself.” Wings and es­
pecially eagles’ wings, are much used in tho^olv ora­
cles, to denote special aid. and that of the most dignifi­
ed kind. Of the children of God it is said ; ki They that
yGoogle
26$ CONCLUSION.
wait on the Lord shall renew their strength ; they shall
rfiount up with wings as eagles ; they shall run and not
be weary ; they shall walk and not faint.”
And if the ancient tribes of the Lord are to be recov­
ered at last by an agency well denoted by a “land shad­
owing with wings this rich prophetic imagery is cer­
tainly very honourable to the nation addressed ; as the
business assigned them is also very honourable. And
probably no other nation on earth can, from its nation­
al character, the excellency of its government, and its
local situation, lay so good a claim to this inspired
characteristic. The American Eagle is a term well
known in the civilized world. Aud no other nation
has so good a right to this honour.
7. May the people addressed by the prophet Isaiah,
awake to a diligent performance of the duty assigned
them. Here is a rich opportunity of being workers to­
gether with God in a business, which will excite the at­
tention of heaven and earth. “ All the inhabitants of
the earth, see ye when he lifteth up the ensign, on the
mountains; and when he bioweth the trumpet, hear
ye,” The ancient restorations of Israel were remarka­
ble. Nations that stood in their way sank, as under a
deluge ;—as Egypt, Babylon, Amalek, and many oth­
ers could testify. The Ammonites and Moabites were
branded with infamy,.“ because they met not Israel
with bread and water when they came forth out of
Egypt.”
And the final restoration of Israel is to exceed all
antecedent restorations. “ It shall no more be said,
The Lord liveth who brought up Istael from Egypt;
but, The Lord liveth who brought them from all the
countries whither I have driven them.” Divine judg­
ments then, may be proportionably greater against all
who withstand the final restoration. “ 1*will undo all
that afflict thee.” Wo will be to them, who shall have
the unbelief or temerity to place themselves before the
wheels of divine providence when Christ shall ride
forth i« h e chariot of salvation to bring the dispersed
Jews, and outcast Israel to himself. God will arise,
aud his enemies will be scattered* As smoke is driven
Digitized by Google
CONCLUSION. 260
away; and as the wax melteth before the fire ; so God
will drive away and melt the enemies of his ancient
people. He will ride in the heavens by the name Jah.
And while his friends rejoice, his enemies shall tremble
at his presence, God will go before his people", and •
march through the wilderness. The earth, it is si.id,
shall shake ; and the heavens shall drop at his presence.
Though his long banished people have lain among the
pots ; yet now shall they be as the wings of a dove cov­
ered with silver, and her feathers with yellow gold.
The mountains and hills shall leap at the presence of
the Lord, at the presence of the God of Jacob. And
God will wound the head of his enemies, and the hairy
scalp of them that oppose his march, when he shall
again bring from Bashau, and recover his banished again
from the depth of the sea. Their foot shall be dipped
in the blood of their enemies; and men shall again see
the stately march of the God of Zion ; and shall bless
the Lord, even the Lord from the fountains of Israel.
Little Benjamin, and his ruler (or chiet) shall be there,
with the princes ofJudah and their ^ounsel. God will
command his strength. He will rebuke the armies of
the^spearmen, with the bulls and calves of their mighty
coalition. He will scatter those who delight m war,
till every one shall submit himself with pieces ofsilver.
May the suppliants of God in the west, in the land
shadowing with wings, be hid in that day of the Lord^s
May they befound in the chambers of his pro­
jection, until the indignation be overpast; faithfully
obeying the direction to bring his present of the people
scattered and peclej^Jo the place of the name of the
Lord of hosts, the ^w m t Zion•*
23*
*
Digitized by Google
I
i
I >
m - Digitized by Google
A P P E N D IX .
S o m e o b je c tio n s to th e s c h e m e in th e p r e c e d in g p a g e s h a v e b e e n
n o te d . T h e w r i t e r is d e s ir o u s t h a t d u e a t te n t io n s h o u ld b e p a id to
e v e r y o b je c tio n ; h e n c e th e fo llo w in g th in g s a r e a p p e u d e d .
T h e A fg h a u s in P e rs ia h a v e b y s o m e b e e n c o n je c tu r e d to b e o: th e
te n tr ib e s o f I s r a e l. M r . V a n s itta r t o f E n g la n d h a s g iv e n n o tic e o f
th e m . W h ile h e w a s in th e e a s t, h e m e t w ith a P e r s ia n a b r id g e m e n t
o f a b o o k s ty le d , A r a r u l A fg .-.ain ah ; o r s e c re ts o f th e A fg h a n s . T h is
h e tr a n s la te d , a n d s e n t to b ir W . J o n e s , w h o th e n p r e s id e d o v e r th e
A s ia tic S o c ie ty . H e o b s e rv e s t h a t it o p e u s w ith a v e ry w ild d e s c rip «
tio n o f th e o r ig in o f t h a t t r i b e o f p e o p le , a n d c o n v e y s a n a r r a t iv e ,
w h ic h is b y n o m e a u s to b e o ffe re d u p o n th e w h o le a s a s e rio u s a u d
p r o b a b l e h is to r y . T h is b o o k u u fo ld s s o m e n o tio n s o f t h e i r h a v in g
d e s c e n d e d fro m M o lic T a l u t , s u p p o s e d to b e k in g S a u l. A n d a n u m ­
b e r o f th in g s th e y m e n tio n , w h ic h s e e m to h a v e a r is e u fro m t h e a n ­
c i e n t h is to r y o f I s r a e l. B u t n o t a r it e o r c e re m o n y is n- te d o f th e m ,
w h ic h se e m s to b e a r a n y te s e in b la n c e to th e c e re m o n ia l s y s te m c l u u -
c ie a fc Is ra e l. A fg h a n , a n o te d a n c ie n t le a d e r , ( th e y in fo rm ) “ m a d e
f r e q u e n t e x c u rs io n s to th e m o u n ta in s , w h e r e h is p o s t e r i t y a f t e r h is
d e a th e s ta b lis h e d th e m s e lv e s , liv e d in a s ta te o f in d e p e n d e n c e , b u il t
fo r ts , a u d e x t e r m i n a te d t h e in fid e ls .” W h e n M o h a m m e d ism w a s
p ro jfl% a te d in th e c a ^ t h e A fg h a n s e m b r a c e d i t w ith a v id ity , a n d
h a v e r e m a in e d u n d e ^ f c a t d e lu s io n to th is d a y . S u r e ly th is fa ­
v o u r s n o t t h e i r b e iu g o f I s r a e l. T h i s p e o p le h a v e la tte r ly d iv id e d
th e m s e lv e s in to fo u r c la s se s. T h e firs t c la s s c o n sists o f th o s e w h o a r e
p u r e l y A fg h a n . T h e s e c o n d , o f th o s e w h o s e f a th e r s w e r e .A fg h an ,
a id t h e i r m o th e r s o f a n o t h e r n a tio n . T h e th i r d o f th o s e , w h o s e
m o th e r s w e r e A fg h a n , a u d t h e i r f a th e r s o f a n o t h e r p e o p le . T n e
f o u r th o f th o s e w h o s e c o n n e x io n w a s s til l m o r e r e m o te .
A q u e s tio n a ris e s , w h e t h e r th is h is to r y o f t h e i r a p p a r e n t d e s c e n t
fro m I s r a e l m ig h t n o t h a v e b e e n f u r n is h e d to th is c la s s o f p e o p le tro m
th e g r a n d im p o s to r , M o h a m m e d ? T h e y w e r e a b r a v e w a r lik e r a c e .
T h e y a t o n c e e m b r a c e d h is s y s te m ; u p o n w h ic h th e y b o a s t* th u i lie
• a id to th e m , “ C o m e , O m o lu c , o r k i n g s ; ” — t h a t M o h a m m e d g a v e
th e m h is e n s i g n : a n d s a id u t h a t th e f a ith w o u ld b e s tr e n g th e n e d b r
Digitized by Google
279 APPENDIX*
th e m .” H e k n o w in g t h a t I s r a e l w e r e o n c e p la n te d in t h a t r e g i o n ,
m ig h t th in k t i m b e r to p le a s e th e m b y f u r n is h in g th e m v lth a le ­
g e n d o f t h e i r h a v in g d e s c e n d e d fro m t h a t p e o p le . T h i s k e m i g h t h a v e
d o n e b y itie J e w is h ap t ¡s ta te w h o a s s is te d h im m lo rm in g h is s y s te m
o f d e lu s io n . B u t it is s a id t h a t t h e i r a c c o u n t o f th e tim e o l t h e i r d e ­
p a r t u r e fro m P a le s tin e d o e s n o t a t a ll a g r e e w ith th e O ld T e s ta n e u t a c ­
c o u n t o f th e s a m e . M r F a b e r u p o n th e c ir c u m s ta n c e s a y s ; “ It m u s t b e
c o n fe s s e d , t h a t th is A tg h a u tr a d itio n b e a rs a s tro n g r e s e m b la n c e to
m a n y o f th o s e M o h a m m e d a n le g e n d s , w h ic h a r e fo u n d e d u p o n s c r ip ­
t u r e a c c o u n ts , ( i. e . a llu d e to th e m , to s tr e n g th e n th e im p o s itio n )
w -ie n c e it is c e r ta in ly n o t im p o s s ib le t h a t a tr i b e o l M u s s u lm a n s
m ig h t b e in p o s s e s s ifn o f it, w ith o u t b e in g d e s c e n d e d fro m th e h o u s e
o f Is r a e l.”
B u t s h o u ld th e A fg h a n s p r o v e to b e o f I s r a e l, th e y m a y b e fro m a
tr i b e , o r s c a tte r in g p e o p le o f a n c ie n t I s r a e l, w h o ta r r ie d b e h in d w h e n
m o s t o f t h a t p e o p le se t o ff fo r th is c o n tin e n t. T h e In d ia n t r a d iti o n
s a y s , '■
‘th a t th e y o n c e liv e d in a n o t h e r c o u n tr y , w h e r e th e p e o p le w e r e
v e r y w ic k e d ; a n d nine tenths o f th e i r p e o p le to o k c o u n s e l, a n d le f t
t h a t w ic k e d p e o p le , a n d w e r e le d in to th is la n d . T h e ) o s te ritj. o f
t h a t o n e r e m a in tu g tr i b e m a y p o s s ib ly n o w b e fo u n d s o m e w h e r e in
th e e a s t. B u t th e A fg h a n s , a c c o r d in g to th e i r o w n a c c o u n t, h a v e
m u c h m ix e d w ith o th e r p e o p le . W e a r e le d to b e lie v e im m p r o p h ­
ec y th a t G o d w o u ld k e e p th e tr ib e s o f b r a e ] (a s h e d e s ig n s th e y s h a l l
f in a lly b e k n o w n a n d r e c o v e r e d as s u c h ) fre e fro m a n y c o n s id e r a b le
d e g r e e o f m i x t u r e .— A u d i t w o u ld a p p e a r th a t Is r a e l, a s s u c h , m u s t b e
a s c e r ta in e d b y e v id e n c e le ss lia b le to im p o s itio n th a n th e a f o r e n o te d
b o o k o f th e secrets of the Afghan*.
D o c to r B u c h a n a u g iv e s a n a c c o u n t o f w h ite a n d b la c k J e w s a t
C o c h in , E a s t In d ie s . T h e M o s t H ig h s p e a k s o f g a t h e r in g his a n c ie n t
p e o p le from th e east, a n d fro m th e west. I f n in e te n th s o f I s ra e l m i­
grated to this continent; the residue of them might m ig r a te to th e
East Indies. Doctor B u c h a n a n informs that he w h ile J e w s th e r e
emigrated from Europe in later times. The b la c k - J e w s h a v e a
tradition that they arrived in the Indies not long a f t e r th e B a b y lo ­
nish captivity. And Doctor Buchanan adds; “ W h a t s e e m s to
countenance this tradition is, that they have c o p ie s o f th o s e l ^ o k s
o f the Old Testament, which were written before th e c a p tiv ity ; h u t
none o f those whose dates are subsequent to that e v e n t.” I t s e e m s
mo-t p r o b a b le then, that these black Jews are d e s c e n d a n ts o i th o s e
J<-ws, who turned their course totl at regioi^l th e e a s t, w l err*they
wore liberated from Babylon, instead off|Riirning to J e r u s a le m .
S. me oi the Jews manifestly did thus port from t h e i r b r e t h r e n , a n d
migrate to the east These were the Jews who a b o u n d e d in e a s t e r n
as well as western provinces of Ahasuerus, in th e d a y s o f D a m a n ,
Esther and Mordecaj; when the impious decree w a s o b ta in e d a g a in s t
them by Haman. Ahasuerus then u reigned o v e r o n e h u n d r e d a n d
twenty-seven provii pcs, even IromIndia to E th io p ia .” E s t h e r i. 1 .
And Jews appear, at that time, to have scattered in a ll th e s e p r o v in ­
ces. Thence these black Jews became planted in I n d i a ; a n d they
h a d their bible as lar as was written before the c a p tiv i ty . T h e i r b e -
in^ blacker than modern Jew's in Europe, may bea c c o u n te d fo r u p o n
the same principles, ofdifferent climates and h a b its o f liv in g , w h ic h
h a v e given to the American natives a darker s h in t h a u to th e
o f E u r o p e ; o r th a n their a n c e s to r s p o s s e s s e d , '
APPENDIX. 273
B u t tw o a r g u m e n ts te s t if y a g a i n s t th o s e b la c k J e w s o f A s ia h a v ­
in g d e s c e n d e d fro m t h e te n t r i b e s .
1. T h e y c a ll th e m s e lv e s J e w 's . T h e J e w s h a v e e v e r b e e n s t r ic t
to r e ta in th e k n o w e d g e o f t h e i r d e s c e a t . A n d t h e d e e p r o o te d p r e j u ­
d ic e} m u tu a lly m a in ta in e d b e t w e e n th e J e w s a n d I s r a e l, fo rb id t h a t
th e l a t t e r s h o u ld e v e r r e lin q u is h t h e i r n a m e f o r t h a t o l t h e f o r m e r.
2 . T h e tr ib e s o f I s r a e l w e r e t h r e a t e n e d w i t h t h e f a m in e o f th e
w o r d , w h ic h h a s b e e n a l r e a d y n o te d ; A m o s v iii. 1 1 , 12. H e r e th e
te n tr ib e s in t h e i r lo n g b a n i s h m e n t, s h o u ld w a n d e r fro m “ n o r th to
e a s t, a n d fro m s e a to s e a r u n n in g to a u d fro , to fin d c o m m u n ic a tio n
fr o m H e u v e u ; b u t s h o u ld r e m a i n d e s t i t u t e o f th e w o r d o f life , ti ll
a b o u t th e tim e o f th e ir r e s to r a t io n . B u t t h e b la c k J e w s in A sia , a s
w e ll a s th e w h ite J e w s th e r e , h a v e h a d t h e i r w o rd o f t h e L o r d to
th is d a y , a ll th e s a c r e d w ritin g « , w h ic h w e r e g iv e n b e f o r e t h e B a b y ­
lo n is h c a p tiv i ty . T h e s e re a s o n s r e n d e r i t p r o b a b l e i f n o t c e rta in !
t h a t th e s e b la c k J e w s a r e n o t o f t h e te n tr ib e s o f I s r a e l.
S in c e p r e p a r i n g th e a b o v e t h e w r ite r h a s s e e n in c o m m u n ic a tio n s
f r o m t h e L o n d o n J e w s S o c ie ty , f o r M a y 1 8 2 4 , a n e x t r a c t o f a l e t t e r
f r o m T h o m a s J a r r a t t , E s q . a t M a d r a s . E a s t In d ie s , g iv in g a c c o u n t o f
.M r . L a r g o n ’s m issio n in th e e a s t in s e a r c h o f th e te n tr ib e s . I t is h a p ­
p y t h a t s u c h a m iss io n h a s b e e n u n d e r t a k e n , to a s c e r t a in w h e t h e r
a n y tr a c e s c a n b e f o u n d o f I s r a e l in th e e a s t. M r. L a r g o n g iv e s th e
f o ll o w i n g a c c o u n t o f s o m e p e o p le d is c o v e r e d b y h im in H in d o s ta n .
1 . T h e s e p e o p le in d re s s a n d m a n n e r s r e s e m b le t h e n a tiv e s , so a s
n o t t o b e d is tin g u is h e d fro m th e m , b u t b y a t t e n t i v e o b s e r v a tio n a n d
i n q u i r y .
2 . T h e y h a v e s o m e H e b r e w n a m e s w ith lo c a l te r m in a tio n s .
3 . S o m e o f th e m t e a d H e b r e w . A n d th e y h a v e a f a i n t tr a d iti o n o f
t h e cw a3& c f t h e i r o r ig in a l e x o d u s f r o m E g y p t .
4 . T h e i r c o m m o n la n g u a g e is H iu d o o . ' ------------------------ --
5 . T h e y k e e p id o ls, a n d w o r s h ip th e m ; a n d u s e id o la tr o u s c e r e ­
m o n i e s in t e r m i x e d w i t h H e b r e w .
6 . T h e y c ir c u m c is e t h e i r c h ild r e n .
7 . T h e y o b s e r v e th e K ip p o o r , o r g r e a t e x p i a ti o n d a y o f th e H e ­
b r e w s .
8 . T h e y c a ll th e m s e lv e s G o r a h J e h u d i , o r w h ite J e w s ; a n d th e y
term th e b la c k J e w s , C a l la h J e h u d i.
9 . T h $ y s p e a k of th e A r a b ic J e w s a s t h e i r b r e t h r e n ; b u t d o n o t
a c k n o w l e d g e E u r o p e a n J e w s a s s u c h , b e c a u s e th e y a r e o f f a i r e r
c o m p l e x i o n th a n th e m s e lv e s .
1 0 . T h e y u s e a J e w is h p r a y e r ; H e a r , O I s r a e l ; t h e L o r d t h y
G o d is o n e L o r d ; D e u L v i. 4 .
1 1 . T h e y h a v e n o p r ie s t, L e v ite , o r n a s i a m o n g th e m ; th o u g h th e y
h a v e e ld e r s a n d a c h i e f in e a c h c o m m u n ity .
1 2 . T h e y e x p e c t th e M e s s ia h ; an d , t h a t w h e n h e c o m e s , h e w ill
go t o J e r u s a le m , w h ith e r th e y s h a ll r e t u r n , to b e d is p e r s e d n o m o r e .”
F o r th e s e re a s o n s M r. J a r r a t t s e e m s in c lin e d to v ie w th is p e o p le a s
o f t h e te n tr ib e s . S h o u ld th e y p r o v e to b e t h u s , th e y m a y b e d e ­
s c e n d a n t s o f th e s m a ll p a r t o f I s r a e l w h o s ta y e d b e h i n d , a c c o r d in g to
t h e I n d ia n tr a d itio n , w h e n n in e te n t h s o f t h e i r n a t io n jo u r n e y e d to
t h i s c o u n tr y . B u t r e l a ti v e to t h e i r o r ig in , l e t t h e f o llo w in g th in g s
b e c o n s id e re d .
1 . T h e y a r e fo u n d in t h e c o u n t r y o f b o th t h e w h i t e a n d t h e b la c k
J e w s ; a n d s e e m to h a v e n o e s s e n tia l d is ti n c ti o n f r o m th e m . T h e y
Digitized by Google
274 APPENDIX.
I
m n y th e n b e o f th e tr i b e o f J u d a h . A n y c ir c u m s ta n tia l d iffe re n c e
b e tw e e n th e m a u d th e o th e r J e w s m a y b e a c c o u n te d fo r a t le a s t a s
e a s ily , as w e c a n a c c o u n t fo r th e d iffe re n t c o m p le x io n s o f t h e w h ite
a n d b la c k J e w s ; o r fo r th e d iffe re n t c o m p le x io n s a m o n g t h e d iffe r­
e n t tr ib e s o f o u r n a tiv e s , o r a m o n g a n y o th e r d iffe re n t tr ib e s o f m e n ,
W h e n a ll s p r a n g fro m N o a h . T h e y a p p e a r fro m th e ir n a m e to b e
n o t so b la c k as th e b la c k J e w s . A n d th e y a p p e a r n o t to b e s o w h ite *
a s th e E u r o p e a n J e w s fr m t h e i r a v e rs io n to th e m o n a c c o u n t o f
t h e i r w h i t e r c o m p le x io n . F r o m so m e c ir c u m s ta n c e th e y h a v e a
s h a d e h a l f w a y b e tw e e n th e w h ite a n d b la c k J e w s . B u t th is fo rm s
n o g r e a t e r o b je c tio n a g a in s t th e ir b e in g o f th e J e w s , th a n a g a in s t
t h e i r b e in g o f th e te n tr ib e s .
2 . T h e y c a ll th e m s e lv e s J e w s . W h y th e n s h a ll w e n o t c re d it
th e m , a n d b e lie v e th e y a r e J e w s ? T h e te n tr ib e s a l t e r t h e s e p a r a ­
tio n , w e r e n e v e r c a lle d J e w s . A n d s u c h w a s t h e i r i n v e t e r a t e e n ­
m ity a g a in s t th e J e w s , t h a t th e y w o u ld n e v e r b e lik e ly to a s s o m s
th e i r n a m e in a r e je c tio n o f th e ir o w n , a s h a s b e e n n o te d . I t is p r e ­
d i c t e d , ^ Is a i. x i. IS , as o n e p e c u lia r i ty o f th e s e tw o b r a n c h e s o f Is­
r a e l, a f t e r th e i r filia l r e s to r a tio n , t h a t th e y s h a ll e n v y e a c h o t h e r no
m o r e . N e it h e r th is p r e d ic tio n , n o r th e n a t u r e o f th e c a s e , a d m its
t h a t Is r a e l,— lo n g a g e s b e fo re th e r e s to r a tio n ,— s h o u ld b e so in lo v e
w i t h J u d a h , as to a d o p t b is n a m e in s te a d o f th e ir o w n . T h i s n e w
c la n o f J e w s , h a l f w a y b e tw e e n th e w h ite a n d b la c k J e w s , s a y th e
A r a b ia n J e w s a r e t h e ir b r e t h r e n . G r a n t th is to b e a fa c t, a n d th e y
n o d o u b t a r e o f th e d e s c e n d a n ts o f J u d a h .
3 . T h e tw o a n c ie n t b r a n c h e s o f th e h o u s e o f Is r a e l w e r e t o b e
lo n g lo s t fro m e a c h o t h e r ; a s h a s a p p e a r e d . T h i s s e e m s to w a r r a u t
th e b e l ie f t h a t th e y w e r e to b e p la n te d in d if f e re n t r e g io n s o f to e
e a r t h . B u t th is d o e s n o l w itn th e i<Jea o f t h e i r having
f o u n d in a m e a s u r e in t e r m i x e d , o r in th e s a m e v ic in ity . T h e te n
tr i b e s w e r e to w a n d e r n o r th e a s t, a u d fro m s e a to s e a ; fro m o n e e x ­
tr e m e o c e a n to a n o t h e r , in a fa m in e o f th e w o rd ; A m o s v iii. 1 1 , 1 2 .
W h i le th e A m e r ic a n n a tiv e s a p p e a r f u lly to a n s w e r to th i s d e s c r i p ­
tio n ; th e s a m e c a n n o t b e s a id o f t h a t p e o p le in H in d o s tá n .
4 . * W e a r e le d to b e lie v e (a s h a s b e e n n o te d ,) t h a t G o d w o u l d
f u r n is h a p la c e o f r e t r e a t a n d s a f e - k e e p in g f o r h is o u tc a s t t r i b e s o f
I s r a e l fo r 2 5 0 0 y e a r s ; t h a t th e y m ig h t b e k e p t , a n d n o t b e lo s t
a m o n g th e n a t i o n s .. W o u ld I s r a e l th e n b e le d in to th e h e a r t o f th e
p o p u lo u s H in d o s tá n ? — o r in to a n y o f t h e c r o w d e d e m p ir e s o f t h e
e a s t? I t is in a d m is s ib le . T h e J e w s w e r e to b e d is p e r s e d t h r o u g h
th e c itie s a n d n a tio n s , a n d w e r e to b e k e p t a n d k n o w n a s J e w s . B u t
th is c a n n o t b e s a id o f th e te n tr ib e s . F a c t fo rb id s i t ; a n d f a c t s a r e
s tu b b o r n th in g s . T h e J e w s h a v e b e e n k n o w n a s s u c h , o v e r t h e n a ­
tio n s , in a ll a g e s s in c e th e i r d is p e rs io n . T h e te n tr ib e s h a v e n e v e r
b e e n k n o w n ; b u t h a v e b e e n d o s t fro m th e w o r ld . S o m e h a v e o b ­
j e c t e d to th e d is tin c tio n r e c o g n iz e d in th is b o o k b e t w e e n dispersed
a n d outcast. 1 w is h e v e r y p a r t o f th is s u b je c t to b e t h o r o u g h l y e x ­
a m in e d ; b u t l w is h i t to b e e x a m in e d w i t h c a n d o u r , a n d w i t h a n
a c k n o w le d g m e n t o f p la in fa c ts . T h i s d is tin c tio n is p la in ly m a d e
in th e w o rd o f G o d . O f th e fin a l r e s to r a tio n i t is p r e d i c te d l s a i . x i .
1 2 ; “ A n d h e s h a ll s e t u p a n e n s ig n fo r th e n a tio n s , a n d a s s e m b l e t h e
outcasts o f Is r a e l, a n d g a t h e r to g e th e r th e dispersed o f J u d a h f r o m t h e
f o u r c o r n e r s o f th e e a r t h .” T h i s is o n e o f a n u m b e r o f t e x ts r e c o g ­
n iz in g th is d is tin c tio n . H a d n o t p r o v id e n c e il lu s tr a t e d a n d f u l f i l l e d
Digitized by ogle v
t h i s d is tin c tio n , w e m ig h t w ith b e t t e r g r a c e s a y , it is a m e r e a c c id e n ­
t a l e x p re s s io n , o r a m e r e e x p l e ti v e . B u t w h e n w e fin d th e th in g
exactly fulfilled lo r so m a n y c e n t u r i e s ; t h a t th e J e w s a r e d is p e rs e d ,
a n d k n o w n a s J e w s fo r 1C 00 y ea r* ; a n d th e te n tr ib e s h a v e b e e n
o u t c a s t a n d u n k n o w n b o th to th e J e w s a n d th e c iv il w o r ld io r b e ­
t w e e n tw o a n d th r e e th o u s a n d s o f y e a rs ; w e a r e w a r r a n te d to
s a y — ( a ll g ro u n d le s s d o u b ts o f it n o tw ith s ta n d in g ) t h a t th e r e is a
m a n if e s t m e a n in g in th is in s p ire d a n d r e p e a te d d is tin c tio n . A s w e ll
m i g h t a n y o th e r manifest fuels b e d e n ie d as th is ! B u t th is f a c t d o e s
h i g h l y f a v o u r th e b e lie f, th a t th e te n tr ib e s w o u ld h a v e t e e n , a n d
d o u b tle s s w e r e , p la n te d in re g io n s v e ry d iffe re n t fro m th e p o p u lo u s
r e g io n s o f th e E a s t In d ie s .
5 . C o m p a r e th e e v id e n c e s w h ic h h a v e b e e n a d d u c e d in f a v o u r o f
t h e h y p o th e s is , th a t th e n a tiv e s o f o u r c o n tin e n t a r e th e tr ib e s o f l s r a -
e l , w ith th e a b o v e e v id e n c e in f a v o u r o f th e H in d o o J e w s b e in g th e
t e n t r i b e s ; a n d w h a t w ill b e th e r e s u lt ? T h e q u e s tio n is c h e e r f u lly
s u b m it te d to e v e r y im p a r tia l r e a d e r . A n d it is c h e e r f u lly s u b m it­
t e d w h e th e r m o re th a n ten times a s m u c h e v id e n c e h a s n o t a p p e a r e d
in f a v o u r o f th e f o r m e r, a s h a s e v e r y e t a p p e a r e d in f a v o u r o f a n y
o t h e r p e o p le on e a r t h .
S o m e h a v e o b je c te d to th e fo llo w in g e ffe c t a g a in s t th e th e o r y in
t h e p r e c e d in g p a g e s : W h o k n o w s b u t s u c h tr a d itio n s a n d r e lig io u s
c u s to m s , as ;tre s a id to h e fo u n d a m o rlg th e n a tiv e s o f A m e r ic a , m a y
n o t b e fo u n d a m o n g a ll o r m o s t o f h e a th e n n a tio n s ? L e t s u c h h e a s k ­
e d in th e i r tu r n ; W h o k n o w s b u t m u c h o f th e r ite s o f th e C h ris tia n
re lig io n m a y n o t b e fo u n d a m o n g g ll o r m o s t o f t h e h e a th e n n a tio n s ?
W h o k n o w s th a t th e s e rite s a r e fro m h e a v e u , arid a r e n o t o f h e a th e n
o r ig in ? T h is is a m o re g la r in g c a se ; b u t is p e r h a p s u p o n th e s a m e
s c a le o f r e a s o n in g . T h e o b je c tio n m u s t b e to o lo o e a n d g e n e r a l , it
n o t u n o a u d id . I f s u c h rite s a n d re lig io u s tr a d itio n s as a r e fo u n d
a m o n g th e In d ia n s o f A m e ric a , p a n b e fo u n d a m o n g a n y o t h e r h e a ­
t h e n n a tio n s ; le t th e fa c t b e a d d u c e d , a n d s o m e th in g is a c c o m p lis h ­
e d . B u t id ly to s a y , w h o f n o w s — is a n e a s y w a y o f a n s w e r i n g n o t
o n ly h u m a n w r itin g s , b u t th e w o r d o f G o d its e lf. A n d i t is a u o b ­
je c ti o n u n w o r th y o f a s e rio u s a n s w e r .
T h a t so m e tr a d itio n a r y n o tio n s o f th e flo o d , o f th e a r k , o f t h e c o n ­
fu s io n o f to n g u e s , a n d o f sa c rific e s , h a v e b e e n h a n d e d .d o w n in h e a ­
th e n m y th o lo g ie s , is so fa r fro m b e in g d e n ie d , th a t C h r is tia n s g l o r y
in th e fa c t, a s a d d in g a n in c o n te s tib le a r g u m e n t to th e d iv in ity o f*
r e v e la tio n . A n d t h a t s o m e n a tio n s liv in g in t h e 't w i lig h t o f a n c ie n t
r e v e la tio n , c a u g h t s o m e ra y s o f th e lig h t s h illin g fro m h e a v e n , a n d
b le n d e d v a rio u s s h re d s o f h ib le s e n tim e n t a n d b ib le m o r a lity writ h
th o s e o f th e h e a th e n , is a d m itte d as a m a n ife s t fa c t. S a y s a firs t
c h a r a c te r o f o u r n a tio u ; u N e it h e r P la to n o r A ris to tle w o u ld h a v £
t a u g h t e v e n t h e i r p u r b lin d e th ic s , h a d n o t th e lig h t o f d iv in e r e v e l a ­
tio n s h o n e . T h e y m o v e d in th e tw ilig h t m a d e b y th e r a d ia tio n s fro m
th e c h u r c h . P h ilo s o p h y wra s n o t b o rn in G r e e c e , till a f t e r th e J e w s
w e r e d is p e rs e d a m o n g th e h e a th e n b y N e b u c h a d n e z z a r . P y th a g o ­
r a s , th e e a r lie s t o f t h e G r e c ia n p h lo s o p h e rs , a n d th e c o te m p o r a r y o f
T h a le s , th e f o u n d e r o f th e firs t s c h o o l, b e g a n to flo u ris h h a ll a c e n tu ­
r y a f t e r t h a t e v e n t. H e s p e n t tw e n t y y e a rs iu E g y p t, w h e r e m u c h
o f Ih e J e w is h r e lig io n h a d lo n g b e f o r e b e e n k n o w n . H e v is itp d P h o e­
n ic ia a n d C h a ld e a . H e c o n v e rg e d w ith th e P e rs ia n Z o r o a s te r , a n d
a lso w ith th e J e w n h p r o p h e ts . 'J h a le s tr a v e ile d in p u r s u it o f k n o w -
APPENDIX. 275
Digitized by G o o g l e
276 APPENDIX.
le d g e to E g y p t , w h e r e th e H e b r e w s h a d liv e d h u n d r e d s o f y e a r s ,
a n d in th e n e ig h b o u r h o o d o f w h ic h th e y h a d liv e d n in e c e n tu r ie s .”
T h e s e c o r r e c t r e m a r k s o f D o c to r G riffin s u g g e s t th e a id d e r iv e d b y
a n c ie n t h e a th e n p h ilo s o p h e rs fro m t h e i r c o n tig u ity to a p e o p le b le s s e d
w ith th e t r u e lig h t fro m h e a v e n . T h i s p r in c ip le m a y a c c o u n t f o r a l l
th e e x c e lle n c ie s fo u n d in th e m o ra ls o f S e n e c a , a n d o th e r h e a th e n m o ­
ra lis ts . T h e y c a u g h t s o m e o f th e r a y s w h ic h s h o t o ff fro m t h e t r u e
L i g h t o f I s r a e l. T h e g o ld e n a g e o f V ir g il w a s n o d o u b t b o r r o w e d f r o m
t h e K in g d o m o f th e M e s sia h in t h e p r o p h e t I s a ia h . B u t w h ile w e a d ­
m i r e v a r io u s o f t h e s a y io g s o f S e n e c a , C ic e r o , a n d s o m e o th e r h e a ­
th e n w r ite r s ; w e a r e n o t in th e le a s t s ta g g e r e d a t th e d iv in e a s s e r tio n
t h a t u th e w o r ld b y w is d o m k n e w n o t G o d .” B u t w e a r e le d t o a d ­
m ir e t h e w o r d o f p r o p h e c y s h in in g in a n c ie n t I s r a e l; th e d is ta n t tw i­
li g h t o f w h o s e r a y s c o u ld lig h t u p in u u s a n c tifie d h e a th e n m in d s id e a s
so c o r r e c t a n d so s u b lim e . T h e s e th in g s a r e c h e e r f u lly a d m itt e d .
A n d it is a ls o a d m itte d th a t, v a r io u s h e a th e n n a tio n s in th e c o n t i g u ­
it y o f th e lig h t o f I s r a e l, h a v in g t h e i r s u p e r io r a n d s u b o r d in a te d iv i n ­
itie s o f h e a th e n is m , m ig h t b o r r o w th e n a m e o f th e G o d o f I s r a e l, a n d
a t ta c h i t to t h e ir s u p e r io r fa ls e d iv in ity . Y e s , th e tto m a n s h a d t h e i r
J o v e , th e M o o rs t h e i r J u b a , a n d th e G r e e k s t h e i r lo u . A n d o t h e r
c o n tig u o u s h e a th e n c a tio n s m ig h t s y m b o liz e w ith th e m in s o m e s im i­
l a r fa c ts .
B u t I a s k t h e o b j e c t o r ; c a n th e s e a n c ie n t fa c ts a ffo rd ’h im a s a tis ­
f a c to ry a c c o u n t h< w th e A m e ric a n n a tiv e s ( g r a n tin g th e m to b e o f
T a r t a r e x t r a c ti o n ) c a m : to p o s se ss so m a n y tr a d itio n s o f th e Mosaic
ceremonial law ? B e h o ld th e s e n a tiv e s , fillin g th is w e s te r n w o r ld ,
f a r s e p a r a te d fro m th e o ld c o n tin e n t, liv in g a t a p e rio d o f b e tw e e n t w o
a n d th r e e th o u s a n d y e a rs l a t e r th a n th e a n c ie n t h e a th e n r o u n d a b o u t
I s r a e l, d e s ti tu te o f le tte r s , c h ild r e n o f n a t u r e , ro a m in g f o r m o r e t h a n
tw o m ille n a r ie s in w ild f o r e s ts ; a n d y e t p o sse ssin g m a n y m a n if e s t t r a ­
c e s ( w h a t a n c ie n t h e a th e n e v e n in th e v ic in ity o f I s r a e l n e v e r p o s ­
s e s s e d ) o f th e c e re m o n ia l la w s o f M o se s ! T o o o f te n d id t h e s o n s o f
J a c o b -, d o p t th e id o la tr o u s c u s to m s o f t h e i r h e a th e n n e ig h b o u r s . B u t
w h e n d id t h e i r h e a th e n n e ig h b o u r s r e t u r n th e c o m p lim e n t? W h o
o f t h e m e v e r a d o p te d th e c e re m o n ia l r e lig io n o f th e G o d o f I s r a e l ?
T h e M o s a ic c e re m o n ie s w e r e t h e d is tin g u is h in g p e c u lia r itie s o f t h e
c h o s e n tr i b e s . B y th e s e t h e y w e r e iu s u la te d fro m a ll o th e r p e o p le
o f th e e a r t h , w h o w e r e in g ro s s id o l a tr y . “ Y o u o n ly h a v e 1 k n o w n •
o f a ll th e fa m ilie s o f th e e a r t h .” “ H e s u ffe re d a ll o th e r n a t io n s to
w a lk in th e ir o w n w a y .” W h i le s o m e tr a d iti o n a r y n o tio n s o f t h e
flo o d , th e a r k , o f B a b e l, a n d o f s a c rific e s , taught long bejore^ w e r e
flo a tin g iti h e a th e n m y th o lo g ie s ; th e p e c u lia r itie s o f th e M o s a ic c e r ­
e m o n ia l c o d e w e r e n e v e r a d o p te d b y h e a th e n n a tio n s .
L e t th e o b je c to r th e n , ( w h o c a n n o t b u t b e h a u n t e d w i t h t h e
th o u g h t , Who knows but a lively imagination canJind just such things
as these among all heathen nations ?) b e so k in d a s to in fo rm u s ; h o w
th e a n c ie n t S c y th ia n s o f t h e n o r th , ( b a r b a r o u s , a n d f a r r e m o te f r o m
a ll in te r c o u r s e w ith th e p e o p le o f I s r a e l,) s h o u ld b e s u p p o s e d to b e
so in tim a te ly a c q u a in te d a n d d e lig h te d w ith th e d is tin g u is h e d c e r e ­
m o n ia l r e lig io n o f I s ra e l, a s n o t o n ly to h a v e a d o p te d i t th e m s e lv e s ;
b u t to h a v e so d e e p ly im p r in te d it in t h e m in d s o f th e i r p c s te r ity a s
t h a t th e y s h o u ld tr a n s m it it to t h e i r f a r d is ta n t so n s th r o u g h t h e v y jd s
o f A m e ric a , fo r th o u s a n d s o f y e a r s ? M e n , s e rio u s ly to a d o p t th is a l ­
t e r n a ti v e . m u s t b e fa r m o re w ild , a n d fo n d o f m ira c le s , th a n o u g h t t o
b e a d m itte d a t th is d a y o f lig h t a n d i m p r o v e m e n t !
f Digitized by *
APPENDIX. 277
A a d i t m u s t b e e x t r a o r d i n a r y , to h e a r m e n o f l e t t e r s , a n d o f C h r is ­
t i a n im p r o v e m e n ts , w h e n so m a n y d is tin c t I n d ia n tr a d itio n s , m a n i­
f e s tly fro m th e c e re m o n ia l la w o f I s r a e l, h a v e b e e n a s c e r ta in e d ir o m
a g r e a t v a r i e ty o f u n im p e a c h e d w itn e s s e s ,— in d u lg in g in th e v a g u e
o b je c tio n , Who knows but such things exist among all heathen nations ?
L e t it b e a s k e d a l s o ; W h o k n o w s t h a t t h e M o s a ic r it u a ls d e s c e n d e d
fro m H e a v e n ? W h o k n o w s b u t th e y w e r e d e r i v e d fro m h e a t h e n
m y th o lo g ie s ?
L e t th e fa c t b e a s c e r ta in e d , t h a t t h e I n d ia n s o f o u r w ild s h a v e
b r o u g h t d o w n fro m t h e i r a n c e s to rs a v a r i e ty o f th e c e r e m o n ia l la w s
o f a n c ie n t I s r a e l ; a n d le t w h o w ill o b je c t, o r d is b e lie v e ,— I s h a ll r e s t
s a tis fie d t h a t a v e r y c o n s id e r a b le i f n o t a su ffic ie n c y o i t h a t v e r y k in d
o f e v id e n c e is h e r e fo u n d , w h ic h a b o u t th is p e r io d o f th e W o rld is to
b r in g to li g h t th e lo n g lo s t tr ib e s o f th e h o u s e o f I s r a e l.
T h e w r i t e r h a s s e e n a r e v i e w o f h is firs t e d itio n in th e United
States Literary Gazette^ in w h i< jh o b je c tio n s a r e m a d e w h ic h m e r i t
s o m e r e p ly .
T h e R e v i e w e r i t s e e m s d o e s n o t b e l ie v e in a l i te r a l r e s to r a tio n o f
t h e J e w s a n d Is r a e l to P a le s tin e . H e a r g u e s , t h a t a s “ th e p r o p h ­
e c ie s r e l a ti v e to th e a d v e n t o f th e L o r d w e r e m is u n d e r s to o d b y t h e
J e w is h c h u r c h ,1’ e x is tin g w h e n C h r is t a p p e a r e d ;— a s th e y w e r e u n ­
d e r s to o d to s p e a k o f th e r e s to r a tio n o f I s r a e l ; b u t th e d is p e rs io n o f
t h e tw o r e m a in in g tr ib e s f o l l o w e d S o “ th e e x is tin g C h r is ti a n
c h u r c h b e lie v e s t h a t w h e n th e M ille n n iu m a r r i v e s th e c h ild r e n o f
I s r a e l w ill b e r e s to r e d to t h e i r p r o m is e d la n d .” B u t th e y m a y b p
u n d e r a n e q u a l m is ta k e . T h e R e v ie w e r s e e m s c a u tio u s in b e in g u n ­
d e r s to o d a s a d o p tin g th is a s h is o w n s e n tim e n t. B u t it a p p e a r s m a n ­
if e s t t h a t i t is h is s e n tim e n t, a n d a g r o u n d o f h is re a s o n in g . A s l a r a s
t h e R e v i e w e r m a k e s r e lih n e e o n th is a r g u m e n t, 1 w o u ld b rie fly s a y ,
i t d o e s n o t fo llo w , t h a t b e c a u s e th e J e w s , w h e n C h r i s t a p p e a r e d , h a d
b e c o m e e x tr e m e ly c o r r u p t , p e r v e r t e d th e i r o w n s c r ip tu r e s , w e r e p r e ­
p a r e d to r e j e c t a n d c r u c if y th e L o r d o f G lo r y , a n d w e r e j u s t r e a d y
f o r d e s tr u c tio n ; t h a t a c c o r d in g ly “ th e e x is tin g C h r is ti a n c h u r c h ”
m a y n o w b e as g ro s s ly ig n o r a n t r e l a ti v e to th e t r u e s e n s e o f I s r a e l's
p r o m is e d r e s to r a tio n . I t is to b e h o p e d th e p r e s e n t c h u r c h o f C h r is t
h a s m o r e c o r r e c t e v a n g e lic a l s e n tim e n t, a n d m o r e g r a c e , t h a n h a d .
th o s e J e w s . T h e y c e r t a in l y h a v e h a d m o re o p p o r tu n ity to in v e s ti­
g a t e t h e tr u e s e n s e o f th e p r o p h e c ie s th a n h a d th o s e J e w s . A n d i t
is to b e h o p e d m a n y o f th e m a r e fa r le ss c o r r u p t .
T h e R e v i e w e r in fo rm s u s, t h a t th e w o r d s “ J u d a h , I s r a e l, J e r u s a ­
le m , & c . u s e d in th e p r o p h e c ie s , w h ic h r e l a te to th is s u b je c t, a r t
n e a r l y s y u o n im o u s w ith th e w o r d c h u r c h .” A n d h e p r o c e e d s to in ­
fo rm t h a t “ th o s e p r o p h e c ie s w h ic h h a d a p r im a r y r e f e r e n c e to th e
c o n s u m m a tio n a n d d e v a s ta tio n o f th e J e w is h d is p e n s a tio n e x is tin g
a t th e tim e t h e y w e r e r e v e a le d , w e r e n e c e s s a rily fu lfille d in r e l a ti o n
to th o s e w h o w e r e li t e r a l l y d e n o m in a te d Is r a e l a n d J u d a h . B u t
th o s e w h ic h , s p e a k in g o f Is ra e l a n d J u d a h , r e l a te in fa c t to th e e s ta b ­
lis h m e n t, th e c o n d itio n a n d p ro g re s s o f a n o t h e r c h u r c h , c a n n o t b e
e x p e c te d to h a v e t h e i r fu lf ilm e n t w ith a n y p e c u lia r r e f e r e n c e to t h a t
n a tio n , b e c a u s e i t h a s c e a s e d to b e I s r a e l, in th e p r o p h e t ic s e n s e o f
th e te r m .” W i th w h a t e v e r e x t r e m e c a u tio n th is s e n te u c e is p h r a s e d ,
its s e n tim e n t a p p e a r s fro m a ll th e u s e m a d e o f it, to h e th is ; th e O ld
T e s t a m e n t p r o p h e c ie s r e la tiv e to th e n a m e s o f J u d a h a n d I s r a e l, b u t
w h ic h r e l a t e to p e r io d s s u b s e q u e n t to th e d e s tr u c tio n o f J e r u s i h
24
Digitized by ( ^ . o o Q L e
2 7 8 APPENDIX.
h a v e n o f a r t h e r a llu s io n to th o s e p a r t i c u l a r p e o p le ; b u t t o a n o t h e r
c o m m u n ity u n d e r t h e s a m e n a m e ,— the Christian church. I f th is i t
n o t th e s e n s e o f th e R e v ie w e r ,! a m u n a b l e to c o m p r e h e n d h is m e a n in g ,
o r a r g u m e n ts . I u n d e r s t a n d s a s b e in g o n th is g r o u n d t h a t h e n o w
b e lie v e s t h a t th e m a n y p r o p h e c ie s w h ic h s e e m t o p r e d i c t th e l i t e r a l
r e s to r a t io n o f I s r a e l a n d J u d a h to P a le s tin e , y e t m e a n n o s u c h e v e n t .
T h e R e v i e w e r fin d s in R o m . x i . t h a t th e l i t e r a l J e w s a r e t o b e c o n ­
v e r t e d to C h r i s t ; b u t n o t to b e r e s to r e d to P a le s tin e , a s h e c o n c e iv e s .
B u t th e g r o u n d h e h a s a s s u m e d a s m u c h fo rb id s t h e i r b e in g b r o u g h t
t o C h r is t as J e w s , a s t h e i r b e in g as s u c h r e s to r e d t o P a le s tin e . I f h ia
p r e m is e s c o n ta in h is c o n s e q u e n c e s ; i t c a n b e o n ly o n th e g r o u n d t h a t
n o D id T e s t a m e n t p r o p h e c y r e l a ti v e to th e li te r a l J e w s a n d I s r a e l u n ­
d e r th e C h r is ti a n d is p e n s a tio n , h a s a n y d is tin c t a p p r o p r i a tio n t o
li t e r a l J e w s a n d I s r a e l ; b u t to a C h r is tia n c h u r c h u n d e r t h e i r n a m e .
A n d a c c o r d in g to th e s a m e a r g u m e n t, t h e i r b e in g b r o u g h t to t h e
la n d o f t h e i r f a th e r s c a n m e a n o n ly t h e i r b e in g b r o u g h t in to t h e
k in g d o m o f C h r is t.
B u t i f th is b e c o r r e c t, h o w s tr a n g e ly h a v e “ th e e x is tin g c h u r c h ,w
a n d th e m o s t p r o f o u n d a n d p io u s c o m m e n ta to r s , b e e n d e c e iv e d in
s u p p o s in g t h a t th e y h a v e s e e n h e ld u p b e f o r e th e w o r ld , a t r e m e n ­
d o u s fu lf ilm e n t o f O ld T e s t a m e n t d e n u n c ia tio n s o f s ig n a l ju d g m e n ts
o n th e li t e r a l J e w s n o w f o r a b o u t 1 8 0 0 y e a rs ! T h o s e p r e d ic tio n s
f o r e to ld th e y s h o u ld b e r e m o v e d in to a ll k in g d o m s , fo r t h e i r h u r t ,
t h e i r r e p r o a c h ; a n d t h e y s h o u ld b e a p r o v e r b , a n d a t a u n t , a n d
a c u r s e in a l1 p la c e s ; J e r . x x iv , 9 . E z e k . v . 1 5 . A r e w e n o w t o
le a r n t h a t s u c h th in g s w e r e n e v e r to b e f a ll th e J e w s , a s s u c h , u n d e r
th e C h r is ti a n s y s te m ? S h o u ld th e p r e s e n t c h u r c h d e c lin e th is s e n ­
tim e n t, a n d s till a d h e r e to t h e i r b e lie f , t h a t O ld T e s t a m e n t p r e d i c ­
tio n s o f e v il a r e n o w f u lf illin g o n th e J e w s a s s u c h ; th e y m a y b e
li k e ly s till to in f e r t h a t th e c o n n e c te d p r e d ic tio n s o f th e r e c o v e r y o f
th e s a m e J e w s , a n d th e ir r e s to r a tio n to t h e i r o w n la n d , m a y lik e w is e
b e e x p e c te d to h a v e a l i t e r a l a c c o m p lis h m e n t. A n d i f so , th e y m a y
in l i k e m a n n e r d e e m i t a t r u t h t h a t th e c o lla te r a l p r e d ic tio n s o f t h e
r e s to r a tio n o f I s r a e l w ith th e J e w s , w ill h a v e a l i t e r a l f u lf ilm e n t.
D o e s th e R e v i e w e r m e a n to h a v e it u n d e r s to o d t h a t th e te n tr i b e s ,
w h e n e x p e lle d fro m C a n a a n , 7 2 5 y e a r s b e f o r e C h r is t, a m a lg a m a te d
w i t h t h e h e a th e n w o r ld , a n d w e r e lo s t ? T h e w r i t e r w a s in f o r m e d ,
b e f o r e h e s a w th e r e v ie w , t h a t th is w a s t h e s e n tim e n t o f t h e '
R e v i e w e r . A n d I s e e n o t b u t th e r e v ie w c a r r ie s th is s e n tim e n t. B u t
t h e e x is tin g ^ C h r is tia n c h u r c h w ill w a n t m o r e e v id e n c e th a n h a s y e t
lc ^ e t» B is c o v e re d , to a d o p t th is b e lie f . T h e n a m e s o f I s r a e l a n d t h e
J e w s , i t is a c k n o w le d g e d , a r e in s o m e s a c r e d p a s s a g e s u s e d in a mysti­
cal sense. B u t to t a k e a n o c c a sio n fro m th is to a n n i h ila te a ll f u r t h e r
u s e o f th e s e te r m s in t h e p r o p h e c ie s , a s r e l a ti n g to t h a t p a t t i c u l a r
p e o p le , w o u ld in d e e d b e extraordinary /
T h e r e a s o n in g o f P a u l, R o m .p c i. to s h o w t h a t t h e te m p o r a l c a s ­
ti n g a w a y o f th e J e w s w a s c o n s is te n t w ith th e e n t a il o f th e c o v e n a n t
o f g r a c e w i t h A b r a h a m , in v o lv e d (a m o n g o th e r th in g s ) th e fact, t h a t
th e y as J e w s s h o u ld b e r e c o v e r e d . A n d th e s a m e a r g u m e n t m u s t
h o ld e q u a lly t r u e w ith th e te u tr i b e s ?
H a d th e J e w s d is a p p e a r e d fro m th e w o r ld w h e n e x p e H e d f r o m
C a n a a n , a n d n e v e r m o r e b e e n h e a r d o f a s J e w s ; w h a t e v e r d if f ic u lty
ro isch t h a v e a tte n d e d th e re c o n c ilin g o f th is w ith th e d iv in e p ro m is e « '
a n d p r e d i c t i o n s ; th e R e v i e w e r w o u ld h a v e h a d g r e a t e r p la u s i b ili ty -
Digitized by Google
APPENDIX. 279
o f re a s o n in g o n h is s id e . B a t a s th e J e w s d o s til l a s J e w s e x i s t ; a n d
a r e r e c e iv in g th e m a n if e s t f u lf ilm e n t o f a n c ie n t d e n u n c ia tio n s
u p o n th e m a s J e w s ; i t m u s t b e a t a s k in d e e d to s h o w t h a t t h e
p r e d ic tio n s o f t h e i r r e s to r a tio n to t h e la n d o f C a n a a n ( w h e r e th e y
s h a ll in n u m b e r s , a n d in p r o s p e r it y , f a r e x c e e d a ll t h e i r a n c ie n t f a ­
th e r s ,) a r e to r e c e iv e n o l i t e r a l f u lf ilm e n t. B u t i f t h e y a r e to b e l i t ­
e r a l l y fu lfille d , t h e n t h e p r e d ic tio n s w h ic h a r e b le n d e d w i t h th o s e o f
t h e e v e n t, t h a t Is r a e l s h a ll in li k e m a n n e r b e r e c o v e r e d to t h e s a m e
la n d , t h a t t h e tw o s tic k s in t h e p r o p h e t 's h a n d s h a ll b e c o m e o n e ,
E z e k . x x x v i i . a n d a l l th is o v e r a n d a b o v e G o d 's g iv in g th e m a n e w
h e a r t a n d a n e w s p i r i t ; m u s t lik e w is e b e l i t e r a l l y f u lf ille d . H a d
t h e g e n e r a l t h e o r y o f t h e R e v i e w e r b e e n c o r r e c t, p r o b a b l y n o th i n g
m o r e w o u ld h a v e b e e n h e a r d o f t h e J e w s , a l t e r t h e d e s tr u c tio n o f
J e r u s a le m , t h a n h a s lo n g b e e n b e a r d o f I s r a e l. B u t th e J e w s h a v e b e e n
W o n d e rf u lly k e p t a d is tin c t n a tio n , f o r m a n y c e n tu r ie s . A n d o n e o f
t h e b r ig h t e s t o r n a m e n ts o f t h e r e p u b l ic o f s c ie n c e , ( a n d o n e to o w h o
d id n o t d e e m i t b e n e a th h is d ig n i ty to s tu d y t h e p r o p h e c ie s ) c o u ld s a y ;
u W h e n e v e r 1 s e e a J e w , 1 s e e m to s e e a s ta n d in g m ir a c le in f a v o u r o f
t h e t r u t h o f d iv in e R e v e la t io n !”
R e l a ti v e to t h e p ro o fs a d d u c e d in t h e V ie w o f th e H e b r e w s in f a ­
v o u r o f o u r I n d ia n s h a v in g d e s c e n d e d fro m I s r a e l; th e R e v i e w e r s a y s ;
“ V a r io u s d e g r e e s o f c r e d il a r e d u e to th e a u t h o r iti e s o n w h ic h M r .
S . r e l ie s ." R e p l y . I n e v e r h e a r d th e s e a u t h o r iti e s im p e a c h e d , u n ­
le s s th is in s in u a tio n is d e s ig n e d to im p e a c h th e m . I t w a s d e s ig n e d
t h a t n o th in g d u b io u s s h o u ld b e a d m itt e d . H f t N i m t e s t i m o n i e s c f
a u t h o r s a r b g iv e n in t h e i r o w n w o r d s , t h a t n o t h i n g 'W o u l d a p p e a r
c o lo u r e d . *
T h e R e v i e w e r e x p r e s s e s h is d iffic u lty w ith t h e s c h e m e , f r o m a
d is s im ila r ity o f th * I n d ia n f e a tu r e s a n d c o u n te n a n c e w ith th o s e o f th e
J e w s . T h i s o b j JW ion h a s in t h e p r e c e d in g p a g e s r e c e iv e d a n a n ­
s w e r , w h ic h w ill n o t h e r e b e r e p e a te d .
B u t g r a n t in g a l l th e fa c ts s ta t e d in t h e V ie w o f th e H e b r e w s , t h e
R e v i e w e r d is c o v e rs nothing conclusive in all this. F o r h e s a y s ;
** W e h a v e n o e v id e n c e t h a t t h e c u s to m s a n d in s titu tio n s o f th e H e ­
b r e w s , w h ic h were s a n c tio n e d b y d iv in e a u t h o r i t y , w e r e a l l p e c u lia r
t o t h a t p e o p le , n o r t h a t t h e y o r ig in a te d w i t h th e m ." . I t is a d m itt e d
t h a t v a r io u s s a c rific e s W e re o ffe re d a m o n g o th e r n a tio n s . A n d c i r ­
c u m c is io n w a s p r a c tis e d a m o n g t h e d e s c e n d a n ts o f A b r a h a m in A r a -
b k i. B u t t h e c h i e f r e lia n c e o f th e w r i t e r w a s o n th o s e r ite s , w h ic h
he ever deemedpeculiar to Israel. H a v e w e t h e n “ n o e v id e n c e " t h u t
t h e p a s s o v e r , t h e a r k o f t h e c o v e n a n t, th e s p e c ia l fe a s ts in I s r a e l, th e
s e p a r a t io n o f f e m a le s , t h e a n n u a l a to n e m e n t, c itie s o f r e f u g e , a u d th e
o t h e r c e r e m o n ia l o b s e r v a n c e s a d d u c e d ;— h a v e w e n o e v id e n c e t h a t
th e s e o r ig in a te d in I s r a e l ? H a v e w e n o w to le a r n t h a t th e c e r e m o n ia l
la w s i n I s r a e l w e r e o n ly **s a n c tio n e d b y d iv in e a u t h o r ity th e r e
b u t t h a t th e y w e r e n o t “ p e c u lia r to t h a t p e o p l e ;" n o r d id t h e y o r i­
g in a te w i t h th e m ? " L e t e v id e n c e o f th is b e e x h i b ite d , a n d i t s h a ll
h a v e its w e ig h t . B u t ti l l th is is d o n e , I s h a ll s ta n d firm in t h e o ld b e ­
lie f , th a t G o d d id o r ig i n a te th e c e re m o u ia l la w in I s r a e l. A s so* n
s h o u ld 1 b e lie v e t h a t t h e r ite s o f th e C h r is ti a n re lig io n d id n o t o r ig in ­
a t e fro m G o d in h is c h u r c h , b u t o r ig in a te d a m o n g th e h e a th c u ; a n d
w e r e o n ly u sanctioned by God" in h is c h u r c h ; a s to b e lie v e t h e s a m e
r e l a t i v e to t h e r it e s o f t h e c e r e m o n ia l l a w , w h ic h h a v e b e e n n o te d .
Digitized by Google
280 APPENDIX.
T h e R e v i e w e r a d d s ; “ N e it h e r d o e s i t a p p e a r t h a t th e J e w i s h
s c r ip tu r e s w e re th e firs t t h a t G o d g a v e to m a n . O n th e c o n t r a r y ;
th e r e is s tr o n g p r o o f t h a t p a r ts o f th e firs t b o o k s w e r e c o m p ile d
fro n e a r l i e r s c r ip tu r e s . A n d th e a n c é s to r s o f t h e I n d ia n s m i g h t
h a v e h a d a book, w i t h o u t b e in g H e b r e w .” T h a t c o m m u n ic a ­
tio n s w e r e m a d e fro m G o d to m a n , b e f o r e th e d a y s o f M o se s, p e r h a p s
th e r e is n o ro o m to d o u b t. A n d p o s s ib ly th e k n o w le d g e o f s o m e
th i n g s w h ic h M o se s w a s in s p ir e d to in c o r p o r a te i n t o h is h is to r y , m i g h t
h a v e b e e n c o r r e c tly h a n d e d d o w n b y tr a d iti o n . B u t i f t h e r e is
“ s tr o n g p r o o f ” t h a t e a s te r n n a tio n s h a d p o s s e s s e d s a c r e d w r itin g s b e ­
fo r e th e w r itin g s o f M o se s, fro m w h ic h a n te c e d e n t w r itin g s o u r n a ­
tiv e s m a y h a v e b r o u g h t d o w n th e tr a d iti o n t h a t t h e i r a n c e s to r s h a d
a b o o k o f G o d , w ith n o a llu s io n to th e w r itin g s o f M o se s ; so t h a t s u c h
a tr a d iti o n is n o e v id e n c e t h a t th e s e In d ia n s d e s c e n d e d f r o m I s r a e l ;
( which, is the argument ofthe Reviewer ;) h o w s tr a n g e it m u s t b e t h a t
n o n e b e s id e t h e I n d ia n s o f A m e ric a , a n d th e R e v ie w e r , h a v e a n y
k n o w le d g e o f s u c h a b o o k o f G o d ? W h y h a v e n o t t h e l i t e r a r y
w o r ld b e e n b le s s e d w ith th e k n o w le d g e o f i t ? W h y c o u ld n o t o u r
literary Reviewer h im s e lf h a v e la id h is h a n d u p o n it, a n d p r e s e n t e d i t
to u s ; o r a t l e a s t s o m e o f th e “ s tr o n g e v id e n c e ” in its f a v o u r ? T h e
h u m a n f a m ily in th e d a y s o f A b r a h a m w e r e g o in g o ff to g ro s s i d o l a t r y .
G o d s e le c te d a n d c o v e n a n te d w ith A b r a h a m , in o r d e r 'c h a t t h e t r u e
k n o w le d g e o f h im s e lf m ig h t b e m a in ta in e d o n e a r t h . “ H e s u f f e r e d
a ll o th e r n a tio n s to w a lk in t h e ir o w n w a y .” A n d h e s a id to I s r a e l ,
“ Y o u o n ly h a v e I k n o w n o f a ll th e fa m ilie s o f t h e e a r t h . ” M o s e s , in
th is fa m ily , w a s in s p ir e d to w r ite t h è b o o k o f G o d . A n d i t is n o te d
a s th e s p e c ia l p r iv i le g e o f t h e c ir c u m c is e d I s r a e l, t h a t “ to th e m w e r e
c o m m itte d t h e o r a c le s o f G o d .” N o w w a s t h e r e d u r in g a ll th is t i m e ,
in t h e o th e r n a tio n s o f th e e a s t, t h e k n o w le d g e o f another book of Qod,
so w e ll k n o w n a m o n g th è n a tio n s , a n d t h e s a c r e « ip re s s io n s o f i t s o
d e e p a n d u h i v e r s a i, t h a t t h e d e s c e n d a n ts o f th e n o r th e r n b a r b a r o u s
n a tio n s m ig h t b r in g d o w n m a n y d e e p a n d c o r r e c t im p re s s io n s o f i t f o r
t h r e e o r f o u r th o u s a n d y e a r s , in so d is ta n t a n d e x te n s iv e a r e g io n o f
t h e w o r ld a s th is c o n t in e n t ? S o t h a t a l l th e r ite s o f o u r n a tiv e s , a n d
t h e i r n o tio n s o f a n a n c ie n t b o o k o f G o d ,a ffo rd n o e v id e n c e o f t h e i r b e ­
in g o f Is r a e l ? W h y h a s n o th in g o f th is k in d e v e r b e e n k n o w n in t h e
le a r n e d w o r ld , ti ll o u r l i t e r a r y R e v i e w e r h a s b r o u g h t i t lo l i g h t ?
C a n h e m a k e i t a p p e a r in d e e d , t h a t a l th o u g h th e n a tiv e s o f o u r
c o n t in e n t c la im t h e o n e G r e a t S p ir it a s t h e G o d o f t h e i r f a ­
th e r s , w h o ' th e y s a y w e r e e x c lu s iv e ly in c o v e n a n t w i t h h im ;
w h o h a d h is p r o p h e ts t o w o r k m ir a c le s , a n d f o r e te ll f u t u r e e v e n ts ;
w h o h a d th e a r k o f th e c o v e n a n t ; p la c e s o f r e f u g e ; h ig h p r ie s ts ;
y e a r l y a to n e m e n ts ; a n d m a n y o th e r e x c lu s iv e M o sa ic r i t e s ; y e t a l l
th is a m o u n ts to n o d is tin c tiv e e v id e n c e t h a t th e y d e s c e n d e d f r o m Is ­
r a ë l ?— b e c a u s e th e y m a y h a v e d e r i v e d a l l th e s e th in g s fro m a n c ie n t
h e a th e n n a tio n s . One oftwo things, fro m t h e R e v i e w e r ’s v ie w o f t h e
s u b je c t, a p p e a r s t r u e ; e i t h e r th e c h u r c h o f G o d h a v e b e e n u n d e r
a g r e a t m is ta k e r e l a ti v e to th e o rig in o f t h e M o s a ic r e lig io n ; o r , deep
literature does not always constitute a man a sound divine !
T h e R e v i e w e r s e e m s to b e d is tu r b e d , t h a t th e w r i t e r s h o u ld m a k e
th e a tte n a n t h e h a s d o n e in th is l i t t l e b o o k , to g iv e a n e x p la n a tio n to
siim e p r o p h e c ie s r e l a ti v e to I s r a e l. H e in fo rm s t h a t “ the true mode
of interpreting the prophecies ts certainly little understood at this d a y”
H e p ro c e e d s to a l lu d e to a d is s e r ta tio n o n t h e p r o p h e c ie s o f th e w r i ­
Digitized by Google
APPENDIX. 281
t e r p u b li s h e d s o m e ti m e s i n c e ; w h ic h h e sa y s received a quietus in
the death of Buonaparte” The Remewer certainly expresses these things
with a sufficient degree of disrespect! O n e w o u ld im a g in e h e w a s i n ­
d e e d much disturbed a t a n y a t t e m p t to e x p l a in p r o p h e c y . B u t h is
a s s e r tio n r e l a ti v e to th e g e n e r a l ig n o r a n c e * of the true mode of in-
terpreting the prophecies,” s u r e ly m u s t b e u n d e r s to o d as in d ic a tin g
t h a i h e h im s e lf h a s b e e n so h a p p y a s to a r r i v e a t a s u p e r io r k n o w ­
le d g e u p o n th is s u b je c t. N o w , w h e th e r h e h a s r e a c h e d th is h ig h a t ­
ta in m e n t b y c lo s e a p p lic a tio n , o r instinctively, h e s u r e ly s h o u ld
n o t o b je c t to o th e r s ta k in g w h a t th e y m a y ju d g e th e m o s t p r o p e r
m e th o d s to o b ta in a s m a ll d e g r e e o f t h a t k n o w le d g e , o f w h ic h h e is so
h a p p y a s to h a v e much ! T h e in f o r m a tio n g iv e n b y th e R e v i e w e r ,
r e l a ti v e to w h a t th e s c r ip t u r e s do o r do not m e a n c o n c e r n in g th e r e s ­
to r a tio n o f th e J e w ? , c e r t a in l y w o u ld s e e m to in d i c a t e , t h a t h e h im ­
s e l f h a s m a d e g r e a t p r o f ic ie n c y in th is k n o w le d g e . F o r o n e m u s t
p o s se ss considerable knowledge o n th is d e e p s u b je c t, b e f o r e h e c a n
w i t h modesty a n d propriety p u b lis h w h a t s h a ll s w e e p a w a y a t a s tr o k e
t h e lo n g r e c e iv e d r u le s a u d w r itin g s o f s u c h m e n a s Mede, Lawman,
Bishop Newton, Sir Isaac Newton, a n d o th e r m o s t p r o f o u n d a n d c e le ­
b r a t e d e x p o u n d e r s o f th e p r o p h e t ic s c r ip tu r e s ! T h e R e v i e w e r th e n
s h o u ld b e w illin g , ( i f h e h a s b e e n so s u c c e s s fu l) t h a t o th e r s s h o u ld
m a k e t h e i r h u m b l e r a t te m p ts ; e v e n th o u g h th e y s h o u ld a r r i v e a t
8<»me d if f e re n t c o n c lu s io n s fro m h im s e lf. I f th is s e e m s f o r e ig n
fro m th e firs t p ro fe s s e d o b je c t o f th e R e v i e w e r ; th e b la m e w ill n o t
b e a t ta c h e d to th e r e v ie w e d , w h e n i t is c o n s id e r e d h e is fo llo w in g o n ­
l y w h e r e h e is le d , in s e lf-d e fe n c e .
R e l a ti v e to th e d u ty o f s tu d y in g t h e p r o p h e t ic s c r ip t u r e s , le t t h e
fo llo w in g d iv in e te s tim o n ie s b e c o n s id e r e d . T o th e J e w s C h r is t s a id ,
w h e n lig h t w a s f a r in te r io r to w h a t it n o w is, u H o w is i t t h a t y e d o
n o t u n d e r s ta n d th e sig n s o f th e tim e s ?” T h e -signs o f th e tim e s
w e r e th e fu lfilm e n ts o f p r o p h e c ie s th e n ta k in g p la c e . u W h o s o
r e a d e th , le t h im u n d e r s ta n d .” B le s s e d is h e t h a t r e a d e th , a n d t h e y
t h a t h e a r th e w o rd s o f th is p r o p h e c y , a n d k e e p th o s e th in g s t h a t a r e
w r i t t e n t h e r e i n ; lo r t h e tim e is a t h a n d .” N u m e r o u s w e r e s u c h
te s tim o n ie s m a n y c e n tu r ie s a g o . L ig h t h a 9 b e e n ris in g o n th e s u b ­
j e c t A n d n o w i t m u s t b e v ie w e d a s in v o lv e d in inexplicable darkness !
W h e n th e n c a n so g r e a t a p a r t o i o n r h o ly r e v e la tio n e v e r b e u n d e r ­
s to o d ? O r w a s it g iv e n in v a in ? W h y h a s G o d c o m m a n d e d m e n to
s e a r c h a n d u n d e r s ta n d th is p a r t o f h is b le s s e d w o r d ?
E v e r y e v e n t f o r tim e a n d e t e r n it y , n o w f u tu r e , i< k n o w n o n ly b y
p r o p h e c y . A n d y e t “ th e t r u e m o d e o f i n t e r p r e ti n g p r o p h e c ie s is
c e r t a in l y l i t t l e k n o w n a t th is d a y .” D o e s th i s h o ld t r u e in r e la tio n
to th e judgment, a n d eternity ? to th e resurrection, to heaven, a n d to
hell? W h e r * s h a ll w e d r a w th e lin es? A r e n o o p in io n s to b e fo r*
m e d o f th e Millennium ? — o f th e b a t t l e o f t h a t g r e a t d a y o f G o d ?
W h y th e n a r e m in is te rs c o m m a n d e d to w b lo w th e t r u m p e t in Z io n ,
to s o u n d a n a la r m in G o d ’s h o ly m o u n t a in , t h a t a ll m a y t r e m b le fo r
t h e d a y o f th e L o r d , w h ic h is n ig h a t h a n d ?” A n d i f t h e s e v a s t
e v e n ts m u s t b e s tu d ie d a n d k n o w n , w h y n o t o t h e r g r e a t e v e n ts c o n ­
n e c te d w ith th e m , a n d r e v e a le d w ith e q u a l c le a r n e s s ?
B u t if t h e R e v ie w e r m a y h a v e m is ta k e n as m u c h in r e l a ti o n to t h e
p r o p h e c ie s , as h e h a9 in s ta t in g t h a t t h e w r i t e r 's f o r m e r D is s e r ta t io n
r e c e iv e d a quietus in th e d e a th o f B u o n a p a r te ; p o s s ib ly h i* k n o w le d g e
24*
Digitized by Google
282 ATPENDIX.
o f th is s u b je c t w ill n o t p r o v e to b e o f g r e a t practical importance; a n d
p o s s ib ly h»s r e m a r k s m a y re c e iv e a u quietus" in a statement offacts.
T h e w r i t e r d r l a b o u t f o u r te e n y e a rs a g o p u b lis h a D is s e r ta t io n o n
t h e P r o p h e c ie s . H e d id i t a t th e r e q u e s t o f m a n y , a n d w i t h t h e
s p e c ia l re e o m m e n d u tio u o f m o re th a n h a l f a d o z e n o f th e firs t l i t e r a ­
r y c h a r t e r s in N e w E n g la n d .
In th is w o r k B u o n a p a r te w a s n o te d o n ly as one signal leader o f t h e
la s t h e a d o f t h 's e c u l a r H o n a n b e a s t r is in g fro m th e b o tto m le s s p i t .
B u t h e w a s n e v e r id e n tifie d with this beast; b u t w a s e v e r d is ti n g u is h ­
e d fro m it. H e n c e l e t h is d e a th h a v e t a k e n p la c e e v e r so s o o n , a f t e r
t h e b e a « t w a s e x h i b ite d in h is c h a r a c te r is tic m a r k s , i t w o u ld m n o
s e n s e h a v e g iv e n a quietus to Mr. S's. scheme. Eor a s th e f ir s t p a r t
o f t h e a n c ie n t im p e r ia l h e a d o f t u s b e a s t d e p e n d e d o n n o o n e e m p e r o r ;
b u t w a s a c c o m m o d a te d w ith many in succession ; s o n o tic e w a s g i v ­
e n t h a t i t m ig h t b e w ith th e la s t im p e r ia l r e ig n o f th e s a m e h e a d , r e ­
c o v e r e d to lif e in the«*e la s t d a y s . S e e th e fo llo w in g q u o ta tio n s f r o m
th e f iis t e d itio n o f th e D is s e r ta tio n . “ A n d t h e k in g s h a ll d o a c c o r ­
d in g to h is w ill, a n d h e s »all e x a l t h im s e lf k n d m a g n ify h im s e lf a b o v e
e v e r y g o d , a n d s h a ll s p e a k m a r v e ll o u s th in g s a g a in s t t h e G o d o f g o d s .”
“ B y a k in g in th e la n g u a g e o f p r o p h e c y , is g e n e r a lly to b e u n d e r ­
s to o d a k in g d o m , o r c iv il p o w e r , a n d n o t a n in d iv id u a l p e r s o n . I n
th is s e n s e w e a r e to u n d e r s ta n d th e k in g in th is te x t. In th e p a s s a g e
w e a r e p r e s e n te d w ith a g r e a t atheistical power* w h o in h is c o m m e n c e ­
m e n t is to b e a n a r c h ic a l.— H is lic e n tio u s n e s s is firs t n o t e d ; h e “ s h a ll
d o a c c o r d in g to h is w i l l b r e a k i n g e v e r y r e s tr a i n t. H is a n a r c h y
f o llo w s ; “ a n d h e s h a ll e x a lt h im s e lf a b o v e e v e r y G o d ,” i. e . a b o v e
e v e r y k in g o r le g iti m a t e r u l e r . War wilh kings* w a s to b e a m o n g
h is f ir s t c h a r a c te r is tic s . H is a th e is m fo llo w s : “ a n d s h a ll s p e a k m a r ­
v e llo u s th in g s a g a in s t t h e G o d o f g o d s .” H e s h a ll b la s p h e m e a n d
d e n y t h e G o d o f h e a v e n . “ B u t in h is e s ta te s h a ll h e h o n o u r t h e
g o d o f f o r c e s .” A f te r th is p o w e r s h a ll g a in n a tio n a l im p o r ta n c e , h e
s h a ll* h o n o u r m i lit a r y m u n itio n s , o r p a y h is f ir s t a tte n t io n to th e a r t s
o f w a r . . * ’
“ A n d a g o d w h o m h is f a th e r s k n e w n o t, s h a ll h e h o n o u r w i t h
g o ld a n d s ilv e r , a n d p r e c io u s s to n e s , a n d p le a s a n t th in g s .” A lth o u g h
h is f a t h e r V g o d , a n d a ll g o d s ( k in g s ) h a v e b e e n r e je c te d ; y e t a g o d ,
o r r u le r o f fo re ig n d e s c e n t,s h a ll b y a n d b y c o m e to b e a c k n o w le d g e d b y
th is p o w e r , a n d h o n o u r e d w ith th e g r e a t e s t m a g n ific e n c e . “ T h u s
s h a ll h e d o in th e m o s t s tr o n g h o ld w ith a s tr a n g e G o d w h o m h e
s h a ll a c k n o w le d g e a n d in c r e a s e w ith g l o r y ; a n d h e s h a ll c a u s e th e m
to r u le o v e r m a n y , a n d s h a ll d iv id e th e la n d fo r g a in .” T h i s in f id e l
p o w e r s h a ll o v e r r u n s tr o n g h o ld s , a n d p o w e r f u l n a tio n s , w i t h th i s
f o r e ig n e r a t t h e i r h e a d , w h o s h a ll b e r e c e iv e d a s t h e i r s u p r e m e r u l e r , a
a n d h o n o u r e d w t h th e h ig h e s t d ig u ity . A n d h e s h a ll le a d th e m to
s u b d u e s ta te s a n d n a tio n s ; a n d s h a ll d is tr i b u te t h e i r g o v e r n m e n ts
a m o n g h is fa v o u r ite s .
“ A n d a t th e tim e o f th e e n d th e k in g o f th e s o u th s h a ll p u s h a t h im ;
a n d th e k in g d f th e n o r th s h a ll c o m e a g a in s t h im li k e a w h ir lw in d .”
T h e O tto m a n e m p ir e m a y p r o v o k e th e in fid e l p o w e r to its o w n r u in .
“ W h e th e r th is w ill h e ~ t h e $ a s e ; o r w h e th e r s o m e o th e r two pow­
ers* o n e o n th e so u th ,* a n t i t h e o th e r o n th e n o r th o f th e in f id e l
p o w e r , w ill b e fo u n d fo u n ite , w ith a v ie w to c h e e k th e ir c o m m o n
e n e m y ; time will decide**
* S e e s e c t. 2 , c h a p . I. 1 s t e d i t.
Digitized by . . . e . ...
APPENDIX. 283
T h i s p o w e r is e v e r t r e a te d o f in th is D is s e r ta tio n a s a n empire, a n d
n o t a s a n y emperor, o r s u c c e s s io n o f e m p e r o r s .
T h is b e a s t m h is la s t h e a d , ( in th e s c h e m e o f th e seven rials g iv e n in
t h e D is s e r ta tio n , w h ic h s c h e m e h a s n e v e r b e e n d is p r o v e d , b u t h a s m e t
w i t h g e n e r a l, if n t u n iv e r s a l a p p r o b a tio n ) w a s to c o n tin u e t h r o u g h
t h e th r e e la s t a n d g r e a t e s t v ia ls , th e fifth , s ix th a n d s e v e n th . T h e
p e r io d s of th e s e v ia ls w a s to b e d is tin g u is h e d fro m e a c h o th e r b y v a ­
r io u s r e v e r s e s e x p e r ie n c e d b y th is p o w e r . S a y s ..he w r ite r in hi§
firs t e d itio n , “ F lo o d s o f d e lu s io n , o f w ic k e d a g e n ts , o f fa ls e h o o d s a n d
a b u s e , i f n o t o n a tio n a l r a g e , a r m ie s a n d b lo o d y v io le n c e , w ill b e e x ­
c i t e d , a s th o u g h b e lc h e d o u t o l h e m o u th oi th e o ld s e r p e n t, lik e a n
o v e r w h e lm in g t o r r e n t ; in so m u c h , t h a t n o th in g c a n s a v e th e c a u s e
o f C h r i s t fro m d e s tr u c tio n , b u t s ig n a l in te r p o s itio n s o f P r o v id e n c e in
c o u n t e r a c t in g th o s e v io le n t m e a s u r e s , a n d c o n f o u n d in g th e e n e m y ,,
l i k e th e e a r t h o p e n in g h e r m o u th a n d s w a llo w in g u p flo o d s o f w a t e r . ” *
G r e a t r e v e r s e s in th e s ta t e o f th is p o w e r o f th e la s t d a y s w e r e th u s
im p lie d in th e firs t e d itio n o f th is w o r k .
A n d i t o c c u r r e d to th e w r i t e r , w h ile p r e p a r i n g h is s e c o n d e d i tio n ,
(so o n a f e r ) t h a t th e s e reverses w e r e c l e a r ly h e ld u p in v a r io u s c o l l a t ­
e r a l p r o p h e c ie s , a s b e in g fa r greater t h a n h e h a d e x p r e s s ly s t a t e d ;
w h ile y e t t h e power ( n o t a n y in d i v id u a l le a d e r s o f it ) w o u ld c o n t in u e
its m y s tic a l e x is te n c e , ti ll i t s h o u ld s in k in p e r d itio n a t t h e c lo s e o i th e
s e v e n th v ia l, s u b s e q u e n tly to th e r e s to r a t io n o f th e J e w s I t w a s to
b e “part of iron, and part of clay; partly strong and partly broken
O f th is th e w r i t e r g a v e a m p le n o tic e in h is s e c o n d e d itio n in t h e fo l­
lo w in g s e n te n c e s , a n d m a n y s im ila r o n e s ; “ T o h o w g r e a t a d e g r e e
th e s e r e v e r s e s m a y p r o c e e d , G o d o n ly k n o w s . S h o u ld th e b r o k e n ­
n e s s o f th is la s t p a r t o f th e R o m a n p o w e r b e n o w m a d e in s o m e d e g r e e
a s c o n s p ic u o u s a s h is a n t e o e d e n t s tr e n g t h , ( a s t h e t e x t “ th e k in g d o m
s h a ll b e p a r t l y s tr o n g , a n d p a r t l y br> k e n ,” se e m 9 t o w a r r a n t u s to
e x p e c t) t h a t w ic k e d p o w e r w o u ld in d e e d b e prostrated. B u t s h o u ld
th i s b e th e c a s e , s h o u ld a ll th e h o r n s o f th e a n ti C h ris tia n b e a s t b e to r n
off, a n d th e w r e tc h li e b le e d in g a n d f a i n tin g ; y e t it a p p e a r s e v i d e n t
t h a t a ll h is w o r k is n o t y e t d o n e . H e d o e s n o t g o in to fin a l p e r d i tio n ,
t il th e b a t tle o f t h a t g r e a t d a y o f G o d , w h ic h is s u b s e q u e n t t o th e
r e s to r a tio n o f th e J e w s .” t
“ T h e e n o r m o u s p o w e r o r in flu e n c e , s y m b o liz e d b y th e b e a s t fro m
t h e b o tto m le s s p it, (s a y s th e w r i t e r ) d e p e n d s o n n o o n e m a n ; t h o u g h
i t h a s b e e n a c c o m m o d a te d h i t h e r t o w ith a le a d e r t r u l y p r e p a r e d to r
t h e w o r k o f ju d g m e n t. In th e firs t r e ig n o f t h e im p e r ia l h e a d o f th e
R o m a n b e a s t, e m p e r o r s w e r e s e t u p a n d d e p o s e d , a n d n u m b e r s s la in ,
. in th ic k s u c c e s s io n . A n d it r e p e a te d l y s e e m e d as th o u g h 'd t s t r u c t i o n
h a d fa lle n u p o n th e e m p ir e ; s till t h a t im p e r ia l h e a d c o n tin u e d , (i.
till th e d a y s o f C o n s ta n tin e .) T h a t g e n iu s o f th e p e o p le c o n tin u e d ,
w h ic h w o u ld n o t b e g o v e r n e d b y a n y th in g s h o r t o f a m i lit a r y d e s ­
p o tis m . A n d th is ( i t m a y b e e x p e c te d ) w ill b e th e c a s e o n th e R o ­
m a n e a r t h h e n c e f o r th , ti ll th e b a t t l e o f th e g r e a t v . fe h o u ld r e v o ­
lu t io n s u c c e e d r e v o lu tio n , i t w o u ld n o t a l t e r th e c a s e . T h e n a t u r e
o f t h e b e a s t fro m th e b o tto m le s s p i t is n o t c h a n g e d . I t r e s ts o u th e
b r o a d b a s is o f a g e n e r a l s y s te m a tic c o r r u p t io n , w h ic h w ill n e v e r b e
* P a g e 4 5 , 1st e d it.
t P a g e 8 , 2 d e d i t.
yGoogle
284 APPF.NDTX.
p u r g e d , b a t b y th e e x t e r m i n a tin g fire o f th e g r e a t a n d n e t a b l e d a y o f
t h e L o r d .’'
M u c h o f th is k in d o f n o tic e w a s g iv e n in th is p u b li c a t io n , w h ic h
f b ll y a c c o r d s w tth tb e s u b s e q u e n t d e a th o f B u o n a p a r te , a n d t h e p ro s ­
tr a t i o n o f h is p a r t i c u l a r s c h e m e s o f a m b itjo u , w h ic h w a s 50 t e r r i b l e
u u d e r th e f ifth v ia l. I t w a s a n tic ip a te d in th e fo llo w in g w o rd s o n th e
k in g o f t h e n o r th c o m in g a g a in s t h im l i k e a w h ir lw in d , & c . “ T h e
p h r a s e o lo g y s e e m s to in t im a t e g r e a t s u c c e s s a g a in s t t b e in fid e l p o w e r .
F -r a m ig h ty w h ir l w in d , u s u a lly p r o s tr a te s e v e r y t h i n g in its w a y . ”
“ B e tw e e n th e p r e s e n t tim e a n d t h e b a t tle o f th e g r e a t d a y , ( th e
W r i e r a d d - ) as g r e a t in te r v a ls o f li g h t m a y b e e x p e r i e n c e d a s m ig h t
b e e x p e c te d to fo rm a tr a n s i tio n f r o m t h e e v e n ts o f o n e g r e a t v ia l o f
w r a t h to a n o t h e r .”
T h e s c h e m e o f th e v ia ls , in th is D is s e r ta tio n , m a k e s t h e e v e n ts o f
th '* F r e n c h r e v o lu tio n t h q f ilf iu n e n t o f th e fifth v ia l, p o u r e d o n
t h e th r o n e o f th e . P a p a l b e a s t, a n d fillin g h is k in g d o m w i t h d a r k ­
n e s s . T h e s ix th is to b e fu lfille d in th e s u b v e r s io n o f t h e T u r k s .
A n d th e s e v e u th in th e u t t e r d s tr u c tio n o f t h e g r e a t s e c u l a r R o m a n
b p a s t, w h ic h a r o s e in h is la s t h e a d . H e is c l e a r ly to c o n t in u e in
s o m e K in d o f e x is te n c e , till th e b a t t l e o f th e g r e a t d a y ; th o u g h
w ith th e r e v e r s e s w h ic h h a v e b e e n h in te d .
In r e l a ti o n to th e g e n e r a l s c h e m e o f th is D is s e r ta tio n , t h e w r ite r
o f it h a s n e v e r fo u n d o c c a sio n to a l t e r h is m in d . H e a s m u c h b e ­
lie v e s , a s w h e n h e w r o te , th a t h is s c h e m e o f th e la s t h e a d o f t h e R o ­
m a n b e a s t , a n d o*' t h e s e v e n v ia ls , is e s s e n tia lly c o r r e c t ; a n d h a s to
t h e p r e s e n t d a y b e e n m o r e a n d m d r e c o n firm e d in th e o p in io n , b y th e
events of the times. H e a n tic ip a te d a n d p u b lis h e d h is o p in io n , t h a t
b e t w e e n o n e v ia l a .id its s u c c e s s o r, t h e r e m ig h t b e i n t e r v a l s o f p e a c e .
H e b e lie v e s th e fifth y la l c lo se d a t t h e b a t t l e o f W a te r lo o . H e o f­
te n fro m t h a t tim e s ta te d to h is fr ie n d s h is a p p r e h e n s io n t h a t t h e s i x t h
.v>al, to s u b v e r t tn e T u r k i s h g o v e r n m e n t, m ig h t n e x t b e e x p e c te d .
T h : s w a s t h e s c h e m e o f bife D is s e r ta tio n . A n d e v e n ts th u s f a r a p ­
p e a r f u lly to acc«»rd w ith th e h y p o th e s is .
T h e R e v ie w e r th e n , o n r e - e x a m in in g t h e s u b je c t, m a j^ p o s s ib ly b e
c o n v in c e d t h a t h is a t ta c k o n th e D is s e r ta tio n w a s n o t o n ly unprow
ked a n d gratis, b u t wholy incorrect.
H is fo llo w in g a s s e rtio n is n o le ss in c o r r e c t. H e s a y s ; “ B u t h e
( M r S .) m a in ta in s b o ld ly t h a t t h e ■r o p h e c ie s r e s p e c tin g th e r e s to r a ­
ti o n o f t h e J e w s , a n d th e v lille ttn iu m . m u s t b e f u lf ille d a b o u t th is
tim e ” T h e w r ite r ’* tim e fo r th e c o m m e n c e m e n t o f th e M ille n n iu m ,
( >nd h is re a s o n s fo r i t ) h e g a v e to th e p u b lic in h is s e c o n d e d itio n ,
p u b li s h e d te n y e a r s a g o ; w h ic h is s a t e d to h e a b o u t th e y e a r 2 0 0 0 .
An«1 n e v e r s in c e t h a t ti m e h a s a w o r d b e e n b y h im u tt e r e d o r w r i t t e n
in o p p o s itio n to th i$ o p in io n .
In th e firs t e d itio n o f h is D is s e r ta tio n , h e s ta t e d t h e s c h e m e o f a
n o te d a u t h o r , a n d s e v e r a l th in g s t h a t m ig h t r e n d e r it p r o b a b l e ;
w h ic h .s c h e m e in t d u c e s th e M ille n n iu m b e f o r e th e c lo se o f t h e p r e ­
s e n t c e n tu r y . B u t a tte n d in g f u r t h e r to th e s u b je c t, in h is s e c o n d e d i ­
tio n , t h e w r i t e r b e c a m e o f o p in io n th a t, th e M ille n n iu m w ill n o t
c o m m e n c c ^ b e fo re t h e y e a r A . D . 2 0 0 0 .*
S u c h r e p r e s e n ta tio n s th e u c a n n o t b e fo r t h e b e n e fit o f th e p u b l i c ,
d r o f th e a u t h o r r e v ie w e d ; a n d h e n c e c a n n o t b p fo r th e honour ofthe
f a g e 1 3 1 ,2 d e d it.
d by Google
APPENDIX. 2 8 5
Reviewer ! S o m e o t h e r th in g s in th e R e v i e w m i g h t b e n o tic e d , b u t
s h a ll p as9 . I f th e R e v i e w e r ’s c o n s c ie n c e is s a tis fie d w i t h th e m , t h e y
m a y r e s t in s ile n c e .
T h e w r ite r o f t h e p r e c e d in g p a g e s is n o t i n s e n s i b l e t h a t s u c h a n a t ­
t e m p t a s h e h a s m a d e , is n o t o n ly a task; b u t o n e t h a t w ill e x c ite ob­
loquy fro m a certain class of men. H e s o lic its in f o r m a tio n o n th e
s u b je c t of h is b o o k f r o m a l l w h o m a y fin d it c o n v e n ie n t to c o m m u n i­
c a te it . A n d e v e r y o b je c tio n to h is s c h e m e , staled with candor, s h a ll
b e g r a t e f u lly r e c e iv e d . B u t h e s h a ll n e v e r f e e l g r a t e f u l f o r a n y
c o m m u n ic a tio n s to t h e p u b l i c c a lc u la te d to b r in g a tte n tio n to t h e
p r o p h e t ic s c r ip tu r e s in to disrepute ; o r to p r e v e n t a c a n d id a t te n t io n
o f t h e p u b lic to a n y e v id e n c e s a d d u c e d r e l a ti v e to th e s ta t e a n d re»-
c o v e r y o f th e lo n g lo s t tr i b e s o f I s r a e l.
ERRA TA .
P a g e 2 8 , li n e 1 8 fro m to p , a f t e r one in s e r t of,
5 8 , lin e 6 fro m b o tto m , a f t e r Jewish in s e r t church.
5 9 , lin e 14 fro m to p , a f t e r from in s e r t beyond.
1 3 4 , lin e 16 fro m b o tto m , fo r offensive r e a d defensive.
1 5 8 , lin e 2 fro m b o tto m , la s t w o r d r e a d hired.
1 6 7 , lin e 1 9 fro m to p , fo rforce r e a d forge
1 9 0 , lin e 17 fro m to p , fo r professed r e a d possessed*
Digitized by Google
