{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1826__lavater___physiognomy.pdf","mytitle":"Physiognomy","mylang":"de"}
PHYSIOGNOMY;
OB,
THE CORRESPONDING ANALOGY
BETWEEN THE
CONFORMATION OF THE FEATURES
* '
# AND TH E
RULING PASSIONS OF THE MIND.
TRANSLATED FROM THE ORIGINAL WORK
OP
J. C. LAVATER.
A NEW AND IMPROVED EDITION,
BMBBLLUHKD WITH
EIGHT ILLUSTRATIVE COPPERPLATE ENGRAVINGS.
LONDON:
PUBLISHED BY COWIE, LOW, AND CO. IN THE POULTRY.
MDCCCXXVI.
'• ' ' by Zo- ;Ie
Digitized by Google
%
P R E F ACE .
T he&
e -is undoubtedly no subject in the
science o f Natural History more curious,
entertaining, and instructive to the human
race in gene'ral, th&n that which respects the
variety of complexion and figure among
mankind.’«;Though much has been written
to point out the sources from whence these
varieties arise» and to investigate the causes
which certainly produce them» yet hitherto
but little accurate information has b6en de­
rived- from the most arduous and laborious
researches of the first abstract philosophers
of the age. ■ «
The same thing has happened to Physi­
ognomy as to Astronomy. They hate both
been degraded and disgraced by the in­
trigues and artifices of interested knavery.
The first has been connected to Palmistry,
by a notorious set of dusky impostors, who, ,
roving up and down in the world, have
made a prey of every credulous person they
A
Digitized by Google
vi PREFACE.
could meet with; and the other has been
travestied in the art of divining future events.
Hence have arisen conjurors; the most noto­
rious of which, combining the whole toge­
ther, have not only found admirers in the
less informed ages of the world, but are even
daring enough yet, at the latter end of the
eighteenth century, to hold up their argu­
ments in defiance of experimental philosophy.
Confused and sophisticated with false­
hoods, termed occult reasonings, the noble
science of Physiognomy has been neglected
for near a century, and deemed by the ju­
dicious a mere farcical contrivance to fleece
the pockets, and disturb, the brains of the
unwary. Thus even those, who have sus­
pected there might be some rational grounds
to build hypothesis upon, have been fearful
of venturing to appear even in the slender
form of an essay.
From an accurate survey of all that has,
hitherto been written upon this subject by
the soberest authors of the preceding age,
it will appear, that very little knowledge of
man has been derived; and the falsehoods
and errors with which their writings abound,
Digitized by Google
PREFACE. v ii
are dally becoming more evident. Those
systems which were established on authori­
ties so extremely weak, are now falling into
that contempt and neglect, which must ne­
cessarily await every mode of reasoning,
whose axioms are not founded on obvious
and derivative facts, and supported by phy­
sical causes.
The noble ardour for discovering and in­
vestigating the connexion between the in­
ward and outward operations of nature in
man, gave rise, in a neighbouring nation,
to a splendid and expensive work, an epi­
tome of which is here offered to the public,
arranged (the editor hopes he may say with­
out presumption) with more order and me­
thod, and divested of the numerous repeti­
tions, which the worthy and amiable, but
too often rhapsodical L a v a t e r , in the warmth
of a disinterested love of mankind, intro­
duces at every turn.
In the present state of our knowledge, a
systematical view of the physiognomonical
science can hardly be expected : a collection
of observations arranged but with little at­
tention to method, is all the industrious
Digitized by
PREFACE.
* • •
TUI
Lavater promises, and all we can reasonably
expect. HoWeVer,■
he furnishes us with an
instance, how much may be accomplished,
even by an individual, in a-subject replete
with difficulties, when genius and judgment
are aided by labour, and when the object is
pursued with a steady regard to truth and
veracity. However, it is not the editor’s in­
tention to enter into any panegyric upon the
labours of M. Lavater: the public will ever
judge-for themselves, and pay the tribute of
applause where it is due. .
To preserve the spiritof Lavater’s reason­
ing, inspire the enthusiasm of his feelings,
and the sublimity of his conceptions, has
been the endeavour of the editor of the pre­
sent volume, within the small compass of
which, he flatters himself, he has concen­
trated, as in a focus, all the discoveries and
truths contained in the original work.
Digitized by Google
CONTENTS.
CHAP. I.—Introduction.—Physiognomy a Science.
—The Truth of Physiognomy.—The Advantages of
Physiognomy.—Its Disadvantages.—The Ease and
Difficulty of studying Physiognomy.—A word con*
ceming the Author . ...........Page 1
CHAP.TI.—On the Nature of Man, which is the Fotm-
dation of the Science of Physiognomy.—Difference
between Physiognomy and Pathognomy . . . . . . . . 25
CHAP. III.—Signs of bodily Strength and Weakness.
Of Health and Sickness . . . . . . .................... . 32
CHAP. IV.—The Congeniality of the Human Form 39 .
CHAP. V.—Description of Plates I. and II............ 47
CHAP. VI.—The universal Excellence of the Form of
Man .........................................................................51
CHAP. VII.—Of the Forehead............................... 55
CHAP. VIII.—Of the Eyes and Eyebrows...............61
CHAP. IX.—Of the Nose ....................................... 68
CHAP. X.—Of the Mouth and Lips .. ........ 71
CHAP. XI.—Of the 'Teeth and Chin.......................75
CHAP. XII.—Of Stull* ............................. .77
Digitized by Google
X CONTENTS.
CHAP. XIII.—Suggestions to the Physiognomist con­
cerning the Scull . . • • • • • • ................................... 82
CHAP. XIV.—Of the Difference of Sculls as they re­
late to Sex, and particularly to Nations.—Of the
Sculls of Children .................................. . . . ......... 88
CHAP. XV.—Description of Plate III..................... 94
CHAP. XVI.—The Physiognomist...................••••96
CHAP. XVII.—-Lavater’s own Remarks on National
Physiognomy ................... 106
CHAP. XVIII.—Extracts from Buffon on National
Physiognomy......................................... •••• 109
CHAP. XIX.—Some of the most remarkable Passages
from an excellent Essay on National Physiognomy,
by Professor Kant of Königsberg .................... 117
CHAP. XX.—Extracts from other Writers on National
Physiognomy.—From Winkelmann’s History of Art.
—From the Recherches Philosophiques sur les Amé­
ricains, by M. de Pauw.—Observations by Lintz.—
From a Letter written by M. Fuessli.—From a Letter
written by Professor Camper . . . . ..................... 121
CHAP. XXI.T—
Extracts from the Manuscript of a Man
of Literature at Darmstadt, on National Physiog­
nomy . . . . • • • . ! « • • ............................... 129
CHAP. XXII.—Description of Plate IV................137
CHAP. XXIII.—Resemblance between Parents and
Children . . . . : ......................................•••••• 139
CHAP. XXIV.—Remarks on the Opinions of Buffon,
Haller, and Bonnet, concerning the Resemblance
between Parents and Children.............................. 146
Digitized by Google
CONTENTS. x i
CHAP. XXV.—Observations on the New-born, the
Dying, and the Dead ................ . ....................... 152
CHAP. XXVI,—Of the influence of Countenance on
Countenance .................................................. 154
CHAP. XXVII.—On the Influence of the Imagination
on the Countenance................................................158
CHAP. XXVIII.—The Effects of the Imagination on
the Human Form........................ ...161
CHAP. XXIX.—Essay by a late learned Man of
Oldenburg, M. Sturtz, on Physiognomy, interspersed
with short Remarks by the Author......... • ••. •166
CHAP. XXX.—Quotations from Huart, with Remarks
thereon.............................................. 179
CHAP. XXXI.—Remarks on an Essay on Physiog­
nomy, by Professor Lichtenberg................ •••• 185
CHAP. XXXII.—Description of Plate V. ...........211
CHAP. XXXIII.—General Remarks on Women. .212
CHAP. XXXIV.—General Remarks on Male and Fe­
male.—A word on the physiognomonical Relation of
the Sexes .................... 217
CHAP. XXXV.—On the Physiognomy of Youth 222
CHAP.—XXXVI.—Physiognomonical Extracts from
an Essay inserted in the Deutschen Museum, a Ger­
man Journal or Review...................................... 225
CHAP. XXXVII.—Extracts from Maximus Tyrius 237
CHAP. XXXVin.—Extracts from a Manuscript by
Th— ....................................................................239
CHAP. XXXIX.—Extracts from N icolai and W in­
KELMANN ............................................ 249
Digitized by
CONTENTS.
CHAP. XL.—Extracts from Aristotle and other Au­
thors concerning Beasts f , * . . . . . .254
CHAP. XU.—Of Birds, Fishes, Serpents, and In-
xii
seels . ............................. 269
CHAP. XLU— Of Shades 274
CHAP. XLIIL—Description of Plate VI...............277
CHAP. XLIV.—A Word to Travellers ...............279
CHAP. XLV.— A Word to Princes and Judges.. 286
CHAP, XLYI.—A Word to the Clergy ..............288
CHAP. XLVII.—Physiognomonical Elucidations of
Countenances ................................................ .290
CHAP. XLVIII.—Physiognomonical Anecdotes . .293
CHAP. XLIX.—Miscellaneous Extracts from Ksempfs
Essay on the Temperaments, with Remarks ... .295
CHAP. L.—Upon Portrait Painting....................... 298
CHAP. LI.—Description of Plate VII. ..308
CHAP. LIL—Miscellaneous Quotations............... 310
CHAP.TJII.—
r-Miscellaneous Thoughts - ............. 314
CHAP. LIV.—Of the Union between the Knowledge
of the Heart and Philanthropy.—Miscellaneous Phy-
siognoiponieal Thoughts fropa Holy Writ . . . . . ,$J9
CHAP. LV.—Of die apparently falise decisions of Phy­
siognomy.-r-fOf the general Objections made to Phy­
siognomy.—Particular Objections answered . •• •3^5
Digitized by Google
Digitized by D o g le
Digitized by L j O O Q L e
Fh to in .
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
p u ts zr
Digitized by Google
Digitized by L j O O Q L e
Platt TT
Digitized by Google
O
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
litized by Google
rudem
.
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
CHAP. I.
I N T R O D U C T I O N .
Physiognomy a Science. — The Truth of Physi­
ognomy.— The Advantages of Physiognomy.— Its
Disadvantages. — The Ease and Difficulty of
studying Physiognomy.—A Word concerning the
Author.
It has been asserted by thousands, th a t€€though
there may be some truth in physiognomy, still
it never can be a science.” These assertions
will be repeated, how clearly soever their ob­
jections may be answered, and however little
they may have to reply. Physiognomy is as ca­
pable of becoming a science as any one of the
sciences, mathematics excepted. It is a branch
of the physical art, and includes theology and
the belles lettres. Like these, it may, to a
certain extent, be reduced to rule, and acquire
an appropriate character, by which it may be
taught.
W henever truth or knowledge is explained by
fixed principles, it becomes scientific, so far as it
can be imparted bywords, lines, rules, and defini-
B
Digitized by
2 PHYSIOGNOMY.
tions. The question will stand simply thus: whe­
ther it be possible to explain the undeniable strik­
ing differences which exist between human faces
and forms, not by obscure and confused concep­
tions,but by certain characters, signs, and expres­
sions ? Whether these signs can communicate
the strength and weakness, health and sickness of
the body; the folly and wisdom, the magnanimity
and meanness, the virtue and vice of the mind ?
This is the only thing to be decided; and be
who, instead of investigating the question, should
continue to declaim against it, must either be
deficient in the love of truth, or in logical
reasoning.
The experimental philosopher can only pro­
ceed with his discoveries to a certain extent;
only can communicate them by words; can only
say, “ Such and such are my experiments, such
my remarks, such is the number of them, and
such are the inferences I draw: pursue the track
that I have explored.” Yet, will he not be un­
able, sometimes, to say thus much ? Will not
his active mind make a thousand remarks, which
he will want the power to communicate ? Will
not his eye penetrate recesses, which he shall be
unable to discover to that feebler vision that
cannot discover for itself? Is any science brought
to perfection at the moment of its birth? Does
not genius continually, with eagle eye and flight,
anticipate centuries ? How long did the world
wait for Wolf ? Who, among the moderns, is
more scientific than Bonnet ? Who more accu-
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY. 3
rately distinguishes falsehood from truth ? Yet
to whom would he be able to communicate his
sudden perception of the truth; the result or
resources of those numerous, small* indescrib­
able* rapid; profound remarks ? To whom could
he impart these by signs, tones, images, and
rules ? Is it not the same with physic, theology,
and all the arts and sciences ? Is it not the same
with painting, at once the mother and daughter
of physiognomy ? •
How infinitely does he, who is painter or poet
botn, sow beyond all written rule ! But must
he, who possesses feelings and power which are
not to be reduced to rule, be pronounced un­
scientific ? So, physiognomical truth may, to a
certain degree, be defined, communicated by
signs and words, as a science.. This is the look
of contempt, this of innocence. Where such
signs are, such and such properties reside.
There can be no doubt of the truth of physi­
ognomy. All countenances, all forms, all created
beings, are not only different from each other
in their classes, races, and kinds, but are also
individually distinct. Each being differs from
every other being of its species. However gene­
rally known, it is a truth the most important
to our purpose, and necessary to repeat, that
“ there is no rose perfectly similar to another
rose, no egg to an egg, no eel to an eel, no lion
to a lion, no eagle to an eagle, no man to a
m an/’
Confining this proposition to man only, iris
Digitized by
4 PHYSIOGNOMY.
the first, the most profound, most secure and
unshaken foundation stone of physiognomy, that,
however intimate the analogy and similarity of
the innumerable forms of men, no two men can
be found, who, brought together, and accurately
compared, will not appear to be very remarkably
different. Nor is it less incontrovertible, that it
is equally impossible to find two minds, as two
countenances, which perfectly resemble each
other.
Considerations like these will be sufficient to
make it received as a truth, not requiring farther
demonstration, that there must be a certain na­
tive analogy between the external varieties of the
countenance and form, and the internal varieties
of the mind. Anger renders the muscles pro­
tuberant ; and shall not therefore an angry mind
and protuberant muscles be considered as cause
and effect ?
After repeated observation, that an active and
vivid eye, and an active and acute wit, are fre­
quently found in the same person, shall it be sup­
posed that there is no relation between the active
eye and the active mind ? Is this the effect of ac­
cident ) Ought it not rather to be considered as
sympathy, an interchangeable and instantaneous
effect, when we perceive that, at the very mo­
ment the understanding is most acute and pene­
trating, and the wit the most lively, the motion
and fire of the eye undergo, at that moment, the
most visible alteration ? '
But all this is denied by those who oppose the
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY. 5
tru th of the science ofphysiognomy. Truth, ac­
cording to them, is ever at variance with her­
self ; Eternal order is degraded to a juggler,
whose purpose it is to deceive.
Calm reason revolts when it is asserted, that
the strong man may appear perfectly like the
»weak, the man in full health like another in the
last stage of a consumption, or that the rash and
irascible resemble the cold and phlegmatic. It
revolts to hear it affirmed, that joy and grief,
pleasure and pain, love and hatred, all exhibit
themselves under the same traits, that is to say,
under no traits whatever, on the exterior of man.
Yet such are the assertions of those who main­
tain that physiognomy is a chimerical science.
They overturn all that order and combination by
which Eternal wisdom so highly astonishes and
delights the understanding. It cannot be too
emphatically repeated, that blind chance and
arbitrary disorder constitute the philosophy of
fools, and that they are the bane of natural know­
ledge, philosophy, and religion. Entirely to
banish such a system, is the duty of the true in­
quirer, the sage, and the divine.
It is indisputable, that all men, absolutely all
men, estimate all things whatever by their phy­
siognomy, their exterior temporary superficies.
By viewing these on every occasion, they draw
their conclusions concerning their internal pro­
perties. What merchant, if he be unacquainted
with the person of whom he purchases, does not
estimate his wares by the physiognomy or ap-
Digitized by
6 PHYSIOGNOMY.
pearance of those wares ? If he purchase of a
distant correspondent, what other means does he
use in judging whether they are or are not equal
to his expectation ? Is not his judgment deter­
mined by the colour, the fineness, the superficies,
the exterior, the physiognomy? Does he not
judge money by its physiognomy? Why does he
take one guinea, and reject another ? Why weigh
a third in his hand ? Does he not determine ac­
cording to its colour, or impression, its outside,
its physiognomy ? If a stranger enter his shop,
as a buyer or seller, will he not observe him ?
Will he not draw conclusions from his counte­
nance ? Will he not, almost before he is out of
hearing, pronounce some opinion of him ? and
say, “ This man has an honest look—this man
has a pleasing or forbidding countenance/’ What
is it to the purpose whether his judgment be
right or wrong ? He judges; and though not
wholly, he depends, in part, upon the exterior
form,and thence draws inferences concerning the
mind.
The farmer, walking through his grounds, re­
gulates his future expectations by the colour, the
size, the growth, the exterior; that is to say, by
the physiognomy of the bloom, the stalk, or the
ear of his corn, the stem and shoots of his vine-
tree. “ This ear of corn is blighted—that wood
is full of sap—this will grow, that not,” affirms
he, at the first or second glance.— “ Though
these vine-shoots look well, they will bear but
few grapes.” And wherefore ? He remarks in
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
their appearance, as the physiognomist in the
countenances of shallow men, the want of native
energy. Does he not judge by the exterior ?
Doesnot the physician paymore attention to the
physiognomy of the sick, than to all the accounts
that are brought him concerning his patient?
Zimmerman, among the living, may be brought
as a proof of the great perfection at which this
kind of judgment is arrived ; and, among the
dead, Kempf, whose son has written a treatise
on temperament.
1 will say nothing of the painter, as his art too
evidently reproves the childish and arrogant pre­
judices of those who pretend to disbelieve phy­
siognomy. The traveller, the philanthropist, the
misanthropist, the lover (and who not ?), all act
according to their feelings and decisions, true or
false, confused or clear, concerning physiognomy.
These feelings, these decisions, excitecompassion,
disgust, joy, love, hatred, suspicion, confidence,
reserve, or benevolence.
By what rule do we judge of the sky, but by
its physiognomy ? No food, not a glass of wine
or beer, nor a cup of coffee or tea, comes to
table, which is not judged by its physiognomy,
its exterior, and of which we do not then deduce
some conclusion respecting its interior good 6r
bad properties. Is not all nature physiognomy,
superficies and contents, body and spirit, exterior
effect and internal power, invisible beginning
and visible ending ?
Physiognomy, whether understood in its most.
7
Digitized by
8 PHYSIOGNOMY.
extensive or confined signification, is the origin
of all human decisions, efforts, actions, expecta­
tions, fears, and hopes 5 of all pleasing and un­
pleasing sensations, which are occasioned by
external objects. From the cradle to the grave,
in all conditions and ages, throughout all na­
tions, from Adam, to the last existing man, from
the worm we tread on to the most sublime of
philosophers, physiognomy is the origin of all
we do and suffer.
Every insect is acquainted with its friend and
its foe; each child loves and fears, although it
knows not why. Physiognomy is the cause:
nor is there a man to be found on earth who is
not daily influenced by physiognomy; not a man
who cannot figure to himself a countenance,
which shall to him appear exceedingly lovely, or
exceedingly hateful; not a man who does not
more or less, the first time he is in company with
a stranger, observe/ estimate, compare, andjudge
of him according to appearances, although he
might never have heard of the word or thing
called physiognomy; not a man who does not
judge of all things that pass through his hands
bytheir physiognomy,that is, their internalworth
by their external appearance.
The act of dissimulation itself, which is ad­
duced as so insuperable an objection to the truth
of physiognomy, is founded upon physiognomy.
Why does the hypocrite assume the appearance
of an honest man, but because that he is con­
vinced, though not perhaps from any systematic
Digitized by Google
reflection, that all eyes are acquainted with the
characteristic mark of honesty ?
What judge, wise or unwise, whether the cri­
minal confess or deny the fact, does not some­
times in' this sense decide from appearances ?
Who can, is; or ought to be absolutely indifferent
to the exterior of persons brought before him to
be judged? What king would choose a minister *
without examining his exterior, secretly at least,
and to a certain extent ? An officer will not
enlist a soldier without thus examining his ap­
pearance, putting his height out of the question.
What master or mistress of a family will choose
a servant without considering the exterior ? No
matter that their judgment may or may not be
just, or that it may be exercised unconsciously.
1am weary of citing such numerous instances,
which are so continually before our eyes, to
prove that men, tacitly and unanimously, confess
the influence which physiognomy has over their
sensations and actions. I feel disgust at being
obliged to write thus, in order to convince the
learned of truths which lie within the reach of
every child. * ’
Let him see who has eyes to see; but should
the light, by being brought too close to his eyes;-
produce phrensy, he may burn himself by en­
deavouring to extinguish the torch of truth. I
am not fond of using such expressions; but I .
dare to do my duty, and my duty is boldly to de­
clare, that 1believe myself certain of what 1now
< and hereafter shall affirm; and that 1 think.my-
PHYSIOGNOMY. 9
Digitized by Google
10 PHYSIOGNOMY.
self capable of convincing all lovers of truth, by
principleswhich are in themselves incontroverti­
ble. It is also necessary to confute the preten­
sions of certain literary despots, and to compel
them to be more cautious in their decisions. It
is therefore proved, it being an eternal.and
manifest truth, that, whether they are or are
not sensible of it, all men are daily influencd by
physiognomy ; nay, there is not a living being,
which does not, at least after its manner, draw
some inferences from the external to the inter­
nal; which does not judge concerning that
which is not, by that which is apparent to the
senses.
This universal, though tacit confession, that
the exterior, the visible, the superficies of ob­
jects, indicate their nature, their properties, and
that every outward sign is the symbol of some
inherent quality, I hold to be equally certain and
important to the science of physiognomy.
When each apple, each apricot, has a phy­
siognomy peculiar to itself; shall man, the lord
of the earth, have none ? The most simple
and inafiimate object has its characteristic ex­
terior, by which it is not only distinguished as a
species, but individually; and shall the first,
noblest, best harmonised, and most beautiful
being, be denied all characteristic ?
Whatever may be objected against the truth
and certainty of the science of physiognomy, by
the most illiterate or the most learned; how
much soever he, who openly professes faith in
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY. 11
this science, may be subject to ridicule, to philo­
sophic pity and contempt; it still cannot be
contested, that there is no subject, thus con­
sidered, more important, more worthy of obser­
vation, more interesting than man, nor any oc­
cupation superior to that of disclosing the beau­
ties and perfections of human nature.
I shall now proceed to inquire into the Ad­
vantages of physiognomy. Whether a more
certain, more accurate, more extensive, and
thereby a more perfect knowledge of man, be,
or be not profitable; whether it be, or be not,
advantageous to gain a knowledge of internal
qualities from external form and feature ? is a
question most deserving of inquiry. This may
be classed first as a general question, Whether
knowledge, its extension, and increase, be of
consequence to man ?
Certain it is, that if a man has the power,
faculties, and will to obtain wisdom, that vhe
should exercise those faculties for the attainment
of wisdom. How paradoxical are those proofs,
that science and knowledge are detrimental to
man, and that a rude state of ignorance is to be
preferred to all that wisdom can teach ! I here
dare assert, that physiognomy has at least as
many claims of essential advantage, as are
granted by men, in general, to other sciences.
With how much justice may we not grant
precedency to that science which teaches the
knowledge of men ? What object is so impor­
tant to man, as man himself ? What knowledge
Digitized by
12 PHYSIOGNOMY.
can more influence his happiness, than the know­
ledge of himself ? This advantageous knowledge
is the peculiar province of physiognomy.
Whoever would wish perfect conviction of the
advantages of physiognomy, let him imagine but
for a moment, that all physiognomonical know­
ledge and sensation were lost to the world.
What confusion, what uncertainty and absurdity
must take place in millions of instances, among
the actions of men! How perpetual must be the
vexation of the eternal uncertainty in all which
we should have to transact with each other!
and how infinitely would probability, which de­
pends upon a. multitude of circumstances, more
or less distinctly perceived, be weakened by this
privation ! From how vast a number of actions,
by which men are honoured and benefited, must
they then desist !
Mutual intercourse is the thing of most con­
sequence to mankind, who are destined to live
in society. The knowledge of man is the soul of
this intercourse, that which imparts animation
to it, pleasure and profit. Let the physiognomist
observe varieties, make minute distinctions,
establish signs, and invent words, to express
these his remarks$ form general abstract pro­
positions ; extend and improve physiognomical
knowledge, language, and sensation; and thus
will the uses and advantages of physiognomy
progressively increase.
Physiognomyis a source of the purest, the most
exalted sensations; an additional eye, wherewith
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY. 13
to view the manifold proofs of Divine wisdom
and goodness in the creation, and, while thus
viewing unspeakable harmony and truth, to ex­
cite more ecstatic love for their adorable Author.
Where the dark, inattentive sight of the unex­
perienced perceives nothing, there the practical
view of the physiognomist discovers inexhaust­
ible fountains of delight, endearing, moral, and
spiritual. With secret delight, the philanthropic
physiognomist discerns those internal motives
which would otherwise be first revealed in the
world to come. He distinguishes what is per­
manent in the character from what is habitual,
and what is habitual from what is accidental.
He, therefore, who reads man in this language,
reads him most accurately.
To enumerate all the advantages of physi­
ognomy would.require a large treatise. The most
indisputable, though the most important of these
its advantages, are those the painter acquires,
who, if he be not a physiognomist, is nothing.
The greatest is that of forming, conducting, and
improving the human heart.
I shall now say something with respect to the
Disadvantages of physiognomy.
Methinks I hear some worthy man exclaim :
" O thou, who hast ever hitherto lived the friend
of religion and virtue ! what is thy present pur­
pose ? What mischief shall not be wrought by
this thy physiognomy ? Wilt thou teach man the
unblessed art ofjudging his brother by the am­
biguous expressions of his countenance ? Are
Digitized by
14 PHYSIOGNOMY.
there not already sufficient of censoriousnesa,
scandal, and inspection into the failings of
others ? Wilt thou teach man to read the secrets
of the heart, the latent feelings, and the various
errors of thought ?
“ Thou dwellest upon the advantages of the
science; sayest thou shalt teach men to con­
template the beauty of virtue, the hatefulness
of vice, and, by these means, make them vir­
tuous ; and that thou inspirest us with an ab­
horrence of vice, by obliging us to feel its ex­
ternal deformity. And what shall be the conse­
quence ? Shall it not be, that for the appearance,
and not the reality of goodness, man shall wish
to be good ? that, vain as he already is, acting
from the desire of praise, and wishing %
only to
appear what he ought determinately to be, he
will yet become more vain, and will court the
praise of men, not by words and deeds alone,
but by assumed looks and counterfeited forms ?
Oughtest thou not rather to weaken this already
too powerful motive for human actions, and to
strengthen a better ; to turn the eyes inward, to
teach actual improvement and silent innocence,
instead of inducing him to reason on the out­
ward fair expressions of goodness, or the hateful
ones of wickedness ?”
This is a heavy accusation, and with great ap­
pearance of truth. Yet how easy is defence to
me, and how pleasant, when my opponent ac­
cuses me from motives of philanthropy, and not
of splenetic dispute 1 The charge is twofold,
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY. 15
Censoriousness and Vanity. I will answer these
charges separately; and now proceed to reply
to the first objection.
I teach no black a rt; no nostrum, the secret
of which I might have concealed, which is a
thousand times injurious for once that it is pro­
fitable, the discovery of which is therefore so
difficult. I do but teach a science, the most
general, the most palpable, with which all men
are acquainted; and state my feelings, observa­
tions, and their consequences.
It ought never to be forgotten, that the very
purport of outward expression is to teach what
passes in the mind, and that to deprive man of
this source of knowledge were to reduce him to
utter ignorance; that every man is born with
a certain portion of physiognomonical sensation,
as certainly as that every man, who is not de­
formed, is born with two eyes; that all men, in
their intercourse with each other, form physi-
ognomonical decisions, according as their judg­
ment is more or less clear ; that it is well known,
though physiognomy were never to be reduced
to a science, most men, in proportion as they
have mingled with the world, derive some pro­
fit from their knowledge of mankind, even at
the first glance, and that the same effects were
produced long before this question was in agita­
tion. Whether, therefore, to teach men to de*-
cide with more perspicuity and certainty, instead
of confusedly; to judge clearly with refined sen­
sations, instead of rudely and erroneously with
Digitized by
16 PHYSIOGNOMY.
sensations more gross; and, instead of suffering
them to wander in the dark, and venture abor­
tive and injurious judgments, to learn them by
physiognomonicai experiments, by the rules of
prudence and caution, and the sublime voice of
philanthropy, to mistrust, to be diffident and
slow to pronounce, where they imagine they
discover evil: whether this, I say, can be injuri­
ous, 1 leave the world to determine.
I think I may venture to affirm, that very few
persons will, in consequence of this work, begin
to judge ill of others, who had not before been
guilty of the practice. .
The second objection to physiognomy is, that
“ it renders men vain, and teaches them to
assume a plausible appearance.” The men thou
wouldst reform are not children, who are good,
and know that they are so; but men who must,
from experience, learn to distinguish between
good and evil; men who, to become perfect,
must necessarily be taught their own various,
and consequently their own beneficent qualities.
Let, therefore, the desire of obtaining approba­
tion from the good, act in concert with the im­
pulse to goodness. Let this be the ladder, or,
if you please, the crutch to support tottering
virtue. Suffer men to feel that God has ever
branded vice with deformity, and adorned virtue
with inimitable beauty. Allow man to rejoice
when he perceives that his countenance im­
proves in proportion as his heart is ennobled.
Inform him only, that to be good from vain mo-
%
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
tives, is not actual good, but vanity; that the
ornaments of vanity will ever be inferior and
ignoble; and that the dignified mien of virtue
never can be truly attained, but by the actual
possession of virtue, unsullied by the leaven of
vanity.
Let me now say a word or two as to the Ease
and Difficulties attending the study of physi­
ognomy. To learn the lowest, the least difficult
of sciences, at first appears an arduous under­
taking, when taught by words or books, and not
reduced to actual practice; What numerous
dangers and difficulties might be started against
all the daily enterprises of men, were it not un­
deniable that they are performed with facility !
How might not the possibility of making a
watch, and still more a. watch worn in a ring,
or of sailing over the vast ocean, and of number­
less other arts and inventions, be disputed, did
we not behold them constantly practised! How
many arguments might be urged against tbe
practice of physic 1 and though some of them
be unanswerable, how many are the reverse 1
It is not just, too hastily to decide on the
possible ease or difficulty of any subject which
we have not yet examined. The simplest may
abound with difficulties to him who has not
made frequent experiments, and, by frequent
experiments, the most difficult may become
easy.
Whoever possesses the slightest capacity for,
and has once acquired the habit of, observation
c
17
Digitized by Google
18
and comparison, should be see himself daily and
incessantly surrounded by hosts of difficulties,
yet be will certainly be able to make a progress.
There is no study, however difficult, which may
not be attained by perseverance and resolution.
We have men constantly before us. In the
very smallest towns there is a continual influx
and reflux of persons, of various and opposite
characters : among these, many are known to
us without consulting physiognomy ; and that
they are patient or choleric, credulous or sus­
picious, wise or foolish, of moderate or weak
capacity, we are convinced past contradiction.
Their countenances are as widely various as their
characters, and these variety of countenances
may each be as accurately drawn as their varie­
ties of character may be described.
There are men, with whom we have daily in­
tercourse, and whose interest and ours are con­
nected. Be their dissimulation what it may,
passion will frequently, for a moment, snatch off
the mask, and give us a glance, at least a side-
view, of their true form.
Has Nature bestowed on man the eye and ear,
and yet made her language so difficult, or so en­
tirely unintelligible ? and not the eye and ear
alone, but feeling, nerves, internal sensations,
and yet has rendered the language of the super­
ficies so confused, so obscure? She who has
adapted sound to the ear, and the ear to sound $
she who has created light for the eye, and the
eye for light ; she who has taught man so soon
PHYSIOGNOMY.
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY. 19
to speak, and to understand speech ; shall she
have imparted innumerable traits and marks of
secret inclinations, powers, and passions, accom­
panied by perception, sensation, and an impulse
to interpret them to his advantage ; and, after
bestowing such strong incitements, shall she have
denied him the possibility of quenching this his
thirst of knowledge ? She who has given him
penetration to discover sciences still more pro­
found, though of much inferior utility ; who has
taught him to trace out the paths, and measure
the curves of comets ; who has put a telescope
into his hand, that he may view the satellites of
the planets, and has endowed him with the ca­
pability of calculating their eclipses through re­
volving ages ; shall so kind a mother have denied
her children (her truth-seeking pupils, her noble
philanthropic offspring, who are so willing to
admire and rejoice in the majesty of the Most
High, viewing man his master-piece) the power
of reading the ever-present, ever-open book of
the human countenance; of reading man, the
most beautiful of all her works, the compendium
of all things, the mirror of thé Deity?
Awake ! view man in all his infinite forms !
Look, for thou mayest eternally learn ; shake off
thy sloth, and behold. Meditate on its import­
ance ; take resolution to thyself, and the most
difficult shall become easy.
Let me now mention the Difficulties attending
this study. There is a peculiar circumstance
attending the starting of difficulties. There are
Digitized by
20 PHYSIOGNOMY.
some who possess the particular gift of discover­
ing and inventing difficulties, without number.
or limits,on the most common and easy subjects.
I shall be brief on the innumerable difficulties
of physiognomy; because, it not being my in­
tention to cite them all in this place, the most
important will occasionally be noticed and an­
swered in the course of the work. I have an
additional motive to be brief, which is, that most
of these difficulties are included in the indescrib­
able minuteness of innumerable traits of: cha­
racter, or the impossibility of seizing, express­
ing, and analysing certain sensations and obser­
vations«. ;
- Nothing can be more certain than that the
smallest shades, which are scarcely discernible
to an unexperienced eye, frequently denote total
opposition of character. How wonderfully may
the expression of countenance and character be
altered by a small inflexion or diminishing,
lengthening or sharpening, even though but of
a hair’s breadth!
How difficult, how impossible, must this va­
riety of the same countenance, even in the most
accurate of the arts of imitation, render pre­
cision ! How often does it happen, that the seat
of character is so hidden, so enveloped, so
masked, thatit can onlybe caught in certain, and
perhaps uncommon positions of the countenance;
which will again be changed, and die signs all
disappear, before they have made any durable
impression! or, supposing the impression made,
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY. 21
these distinguishing traits may be so difficult to
seize, that it shall be impossible to paint, much
less to engrave, or describe them by language.
It is with< physiognomy as with all other ob- *
jects of tafrte, literal or figurative, 'of.sense or of
spirit. How many thousand accidents, great and
small, physical and moral; how many secret in­
cidents, alterations, passions; how often will
dress, position, light and shade, and innumer­
able discordant circumstances, shew the coun­
tenance so disadvantageous^, or, to speak more
properly, betray the physiognomist into a false
judgment on the true qualities of the counte­
nance and character ! How easily may these
occasion him to overlook the essential traits of
character,and formhisjudgmenton what iswholly
accidental ! How surprisingly may the small­
pox, during life,disfigure the countenance ! How
may it destroy, confuse, or render the most de­
cisive traits imperceptible!
We will therefore grant the opposer of physi­
ognomy all he ¡can ask, although we do not live
without hope, that many of the difficulties shall
be resolved, which at first appeared to the reader
and to the author inexplicable *.
It is highly incumbent upon me, that I should
not lead my readers to expect more from me
than I am able to perform. Whoever publishes
a considerable work on physiognomy, gives his
* The following lines, to the end of the Introduction, contain
M. Lavater’s own remarks on himself.
Digitized by Google
22 PHYSIOGNOMY.
readers apparently to understand, that be is
much better acquainted with the subject than
any of his cotemporaries. Should an error escape
him, he exposes himself to the severest ridicule;
he is contemned, at least by those who do not
read him, for pretensions which probably they
suppose him to make, but which in reality he
does not make.
The God of truth, and all who know me, will,
bear testimony, that from my whole soul I des­
pise deceit, as I do all silly claims to superior
wisdom and infallibility, which so many writers,
by a thousand artifices, endeavour to make their
readers imagine they possess.
First, therefore, I declare, what I have uni­
formly declared on all occasions, although the
persons who speak of me and my works endea­
vour to conceal it from themselves and others,
that I understand but little of physiognomy;
that I have been, and continue daily to be, mis­
taken in my judgment: but these errors are the
most natural and most certain means of correct­
ing, confirming, and extending my knowledge.
It will probably not be disagreeable to many
of my readers, to be informed, in part, of the
progress of my mind in this study.
Before I reached the twenty-fifth year of my
age, there was nothing I should have supposed
more improbable, than that I should make the
smallest inquiries concerning, much less that I
should write a book on, physiognomy. I was
neither inclined to read nor make the slightest
Digitized by D ogle
PHYSIOGNOMY. 23
observations on the subject. The extreme sen­
sibility of my nerves occasioned me, however,
to feel certain emotions at beholding certain
countenances. I sometimes instinctively formed
a judgment according to these first impressions,
and was laughed at, ashamed, and became cau­
tious. Years passed away before I again dared,
impelled by similar impressions, to venture
similar opinions. In the meantime, I occasion­
ally sketched the countenance of a friend, whom
by chance I had lately been observing. I had,
from my earliest youth, a propensity to drawing,
and especially to drawing of portraits, although
I had but little genius or perseverance. By this
practice my latent feelings began partly to un­
fold themselves. The various ~proportions, si­
militudes, and varieties of the human counte­
nance became more apparent. It has happened
that, on two successive days, I have drawn two
faces, the features of which had a remarkable
resemblance. This awakened my attention ;
and my astonishment increased when I received
certain proofs that these persons were as similar
in character as in feature.
I was afterwards induced, by M. Zimmerman,
physician to the court of Hanover, to write my
thoughts on this subject. I met with many op­
ponents; and this opposition obliged me to make
deeper and more laborious researches, till at
length the present work on physiognomy was
produced.
Here I must repeat tile full conviction I feel,
Digitized by Google
24 PHYSIOGNOMY*
that my whole life would be insufficient to form
any approach towards a perfect and consistent
whole. It is a field too vast for me singly to till.
I shall find various opportunities of confessing
my deficiency in various branches of science,
without which it is impossible to study physio­
gnomy with that firmness and certainty which
are requisite. I shall conclude by declaring,
with unreserved candour, and wholly commit­
ting myself to the reader who is the friend of
truth,
That I have heard, from the weakest men, re­
marks on the human countenance more acute
than those I had made ; remarks which made
mine appear trifling.
That I believe, were various other people to
sketch countenances, and write their observa­
tions, those I have hitherto made would soon
become of little importance.
That I daily meet an hundred faces concern­
ing which I am unable to pronounce any certain
opinion.
That no man has any thing to fear from my
inspection, as it is my endeavour to find good in
man, nor are there any men in whom good is
not to be found.
That since I have begun thus to observe man­
kind, my philanthropy is not diminished, but, I
will venture to say, increased.
And that now (January 1783), after ten years*
daily study, I am not more convinced of the
certainty of my own existence, than of the truth
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
of the science of physiognomy, or than that this
truth may be demonstrated: and that I hold him
to be a weak and simple person, who shall
affirm, that the effects of the impressions made
upon him by all possible human countenances,
are equal.
25
CHAP. II.
On the Nature o f Man, which is the Foundation o f
. the Science of Physiognomy.— Difference between
Physiognomy and Pathognomy.
Man is the most perfect of all earthly creatures,
the most imbued with the principles of life.
Each particle of matter is an immensity, each
leaf a world, each insect an inexplicable com­
pendium. Who, then, shall enumerate the gra­
dations between insect and man ? In him all the
powers of nature are united. He is the essence
of creation. The son of earth, he is the earth’s
lord: the summary and central point of all
existence, of all powers, and of all life, on that
earth which he inhabits.
There are no organized beings with which we
are acquainted, man alone excepted, in which
are so wonderfully united these different kinds
of life, the animal, the intellectual, and the
moral. Each of these lives is the compendium
of various faculties, most wonderfully com­
pounded and harmonised.
To know, to desire, to act, or accurately to
Digitized by
PHYSIOGNOMY«
observe and meditate, to perceive and to wish,
to possess the power of motion and resistance—
these combined, constitute man an animal, in­
tellectual, and moral being.
Endowed with these faculties, and with this
triple life, man is in himself the most worthy
subject of observation, as he likewise is.himself
the most worthy observer. In him each species
of life is conspicuous; yet never can his proper­
ties be wholly known, except by the aid of his
external form, his body, his superficies. How
spiritual, how incorporeal soever his internal
essence may be, still is he only visible and con­
ceivable from the harmony of his constituent
parts. From these he is inseparable. He exists
and moves in the body he inhabits, as in his ele­
ment. This threefold life, which man cannot be
denied to possess, necessarily first becomes the
subject of disquisition and research, as it pre­
sents itself in the form of body, and in such of
his faculties as are apparent to sense.
By such external appearances as affect the
senses, all things are characterised; they are
the foundations of all human knowledge. Mau
must wander in the darkest ignorance, equally
with respect to himself and the objects that sur­
round him, did he not become acquainted with
their properties and powers, by the aid of their
externals; and had not each object a character •
*peculiar to its nature and essence, which ac­
quaints us with what it is, and enables us to dis­
tinguish it from what it is not.
2 6
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
We survey all bodies that appear to sight
under a certain form and superficies 5 we behold
those outlines traced which are the result of
their organization. I hope I shall be pardoned
the repetition of common-place truths, since on
these is built the science of physiognomy, or the
proper study of man*
The organization of man peculiarly distin­
guishes him from all other earthly beings5 and
his physiognomy, that is to say, his superficies,
and outlines of this organization, shew him to be
infinitely superior to all those visible beings by
which he is surrounded. We are unacquainted
with any form equally noble, equally majestic
with that of man; and in which so many kinds
of life, so many powers, so many virtues of ac­
tion and motion, unite as in a central point* With
firm step he advances over the earth’s surface,
and with erect body raises his head to heaven.
He looks forward to infinitude; he acts with
facility and swiftness inconceivable, and his mo­
tions are the most immediate and the most varied.
By whom may their varieties be enumerated ?
He can at once both suffer and perform infinitely
more than any other creature. He unites flexi­
bility and fortitude, strength and dexterity, ac­
tivity and rest. Of all creatures he can the
soonest yield, and the longest resist. None re­
semble him in the variety and harmony of his
powers. His faculties, like bis form, are peculiar
to himself.
The make and proportion of man, his superior
27
Digitized by C Dgle
28 PHYSIOGNOMY.
height, capable of so many changes, and such
variety of motion, prove to the unprejudiced ob­
server his superior eminent strength, and asto­
nishing facility of action. The high excellence
and physiological unity of human nature, are
visible at the first glance. The head, especially
the face, and the formation of the firm parts
compared to the firm parts of other animals,
convince the accurate observer, who is capable
of investigating truth, of the greatness and su­
periority of his intellectual qualities. The eye,
the look, the cheeks, the mouth, the forehead,
whether considered in a state of entire rest, or
during their innumerable varieties of motion,—
in fine, whatever is understood by physiognomy
—are the most expressive, the most convincing
picture of interior sensation, desires, passions,
will, and of all those properties which so much
exalt moral above animal life.
Although the physiological, intellectual, and
moral life of man, with all their subordinate
powers, and their constituent parts, so eminently
unite in one being; although these three kinds
of life do not, like three distinct families, reside
in separate parts or stories of the body, but co­
exist in one point, and by their combination form
one whole 5 yet it is plain, tjiat each of these
powers of life has its peculiar station, where it
more especially unfolds itself and acts.
It is beyond contradiction evident, that, though
physiological or animal lifedisplays itself through
all the body, and especially through all the ani-
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY«
mal parts, yet it acts more conspicuously in the
arm, from the shoulder to the ends of the fingers.
It is not less evident that intellectual life, or
the power of the understanding and the mind,
make themselves most apparent in the circum­
ference and form of the solid parts of the head,
especially the forehead ; though they will dis­
cover themselves, to an attentive and accurate
eye, in every part and point of the human body,
by the congeniality and harmony of the various
parts. Is there any occasion to prove, that the
power of thinking resides neither in the foot, in
the hand, nor in the back, but in the head, and
iu its internal parts?
The moral life of man particularly reveals it­
self in the lines, marks, and transitions of the
countenance. His moral powers aud desires;
his irritability, sympathy, and antipathy; his fa­
cility of attracting or repelliug the objects that
surround him : these are all summed up in, and
painted upon his countenance when at rest.
When any passion is called into action, such
passion is depicted by the motion of the muscles,
and these motions are accompanied by a strong
palpitation of the heart. If the countenance be
tranquil, it always denotes tranquillity in the
region of the heart and breast.
This threefold life of man, so intimately inter­
woven through his frame, is still capable of be­
ing studied in its different appropriate parts;
and, did we live iii a less depraved world, we
29
Digitized by Google
so PHYSIOGNOMY.
should find sufficient data for the science of phy­
siognomy.
The animal life, the lowest and most earthly,
would discover itself from the rim of the belly to
the organs of generation, which would become
its central or focal point. The middle or moral
life would be seated in the breast, and the heart
would be its central point. The intellectual life,
which of the three is supreme, would reside in
the head, and have the eye for its centre. If we
take the countenance as the representative and
epitome of the three divisions,then will the fore­
head to the eyebrows be the mirror or image of
the understanding; the nose and cheeks, the
image of the moral and sensitive life ; and the
mouth and chin, the image of the animal life;
while the eye will be to the whole as its sum­
mary and centre.
All that has been hitherto advanced is so
clear, so well known, so universal, that we
should blush to insist upon such common-place
truths, were they not first the foundation on
which we must build all we have to propose 5
and, again, had not these truths (can it be be­
lieved by futurity ?) in this our age been so many
thousand times mistaken and contested with the
most inconceivable- affectation.
The science of physiognomy, whether under­
stood in the most enlarged or most confined
sense, indubitably depends on these general and
incontrovertible principles 5 yet, incontroverti-
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY. SI
ble as they are, they have not been without their
opponents. Men pretend to doubt of the most
striking, the most convincing, the most self­
evident truths ; although, were these destroyed,
neither truth nor knowledge would remain.
They do not profess to doubt concerning the
physiognomy of other natural objects; yet do
they doubt the physiognomy of human nature—
the first object, the most worthy of contempla­
tion, and the most animated the realms of nature
contain.
We have already hinted to our readers, that
they are to expect only fragments on physi­
ognomyfrom us, and not a perfect system. How­
ever, what has been said may serve as a sketch
for such a system. We shall conclude this
chapter with shewing the difference between
Physiognomy and Pathognomy. '
Physiognomy is the science or knowledge of
die correspondence between the external and
internal man, the visible superficies and the in­
visible contents. Physiognomy, opposed to pa­
thognomy, is the knowledge of the signs of the
powers and inclinations of men—Pathognomy
is the knowledge of the signs of the passions.
Physiognomy therefore teaches the knowledge
of character at rest, and pathognomy of charac­
ter in motion. Character at rest, is taught by
the form of the solid and the appearance of the
moveable parts while at rest. Character impas­
sioned; is manifested by the moveable parts in
motion.
Digitized by
32 PHYSIOGNOMY.
Physiognomy may be compared to the sum-
total of the mind; pathoguomy, to the interest
which is the product of this sum-total. The
former shews what man is in general, the latter
what he becomes at particular moments; or,
the one what he might be, the other what he is.
The first is the root and stem of the second,
the soil in which it is planted. Whoever be­
lieves the latter and not the former, believes iu
fruit without a tree, in corn without land.
CHAP. III.
Signs q fBodily Strength and Weakness— O f Health
and Sickness.
Wb call that human body strong, which can
easily alter other bodies, without being easily
altered itself. The more immediate it can act,
and the less immediately it can be acted upon,
the greater is its strength; and the weaker, the
less it can act, or withstand the action of others.
There is a tranquil strength, the essence of which
is immobility; and there is an active strength,
the essence of which is motion. The one has
motion, the other stability, in an extraordinary
degree. There is the strength of the rock, and
the elasticity of the spring.
There is the Herculean strength of bones and
sinews; thick, firm, compact, and immoveable
as a pillar.
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY. 38
There are heroes less Herculean, less firm,
sinewy, large; ' less set, less rocky; who yet,
when roused, when opposed in their activity,
will meet oppression with so much strength,
will resist weight with such elastic force, as
scarcely to be equalled by the most muscular
strength.
The elephant has native, bonystrength. Irri­
tated or not, he bears prodigious burdens, and
crushes all on which he treads. An irritated
wasp has strength of a totally different kind:
but both have compactness for their foundation,
and especially the firmness of construction, All
porosity destroys strength. ,
The strength, like the understanding ofa man,
is discovered by its being more or less compact.
The elasticity of a body has signs so remarkable,
that they will not permit us to confound such
body with one that is not elastic. How mani­
fest are the varieties of strength between the
foot of an elephant and a stag, a wasp and a
fly!
Tranquil, firm strength, is shewn in the pro­
portions of the form, which ought rather to be
short than long. In the thick neck, the broad
shoulders, and the countenance, which, in a state
of health, is rather bony than fleshy. In the
short, compact, and knotty forehead; and espe­
cially when the sinusfrontales are visible, but not
too far projecting; flat in the middle, or sud­
denly indented, but not in smooth cavities. In
horizontal eyebrows, situated near the eye.
D
Digitized by
34 PHYSIOGNOMY.
Deep eyes, and stedfast look. In the broad, firm
nose,' bony near the forehead, especially in its
straight, angular outlines. In short, thick, curly
bair of the head and beard ; broad teeth, stand­
ing close to each other; In compact lips, of
which the under rather projects than retreats.
In the strong, prominent, broad chin. In the
strong, projecting os occipitis. In the bass voice,
the firm step, and in sitting still.
. Elastic strength, the livingpower of irritability,
must be discovered in the moment of action;
and the firm signs must afterwards be abstracted,
tvhen. the irritated power is once more at rest.
“ This body, therefore, which at rest was capable
of so little, acted and resisted so weakly, can,
thus irritated, and with this degree of tension,
become thus powerful.” We shall find on in­
quiry, that this strength, awakened by irritation,
generally resides in thin, tall, but not very tall,
and bony,rather than muscular bodies; in bodies
qf dark or pale complexions ; of rapid motion,
joined with a certain kind of stiffness ; of hasty
and firm walk ; of fixed penetrating look; and
with open lips, but easily and accurately to be
Closed.
. Signs of weakness are, disproportionate length
of body; much .flesh; little bone; extension;
a tottering frame ; a loose skin; round, obtuse,
and particularly hollow outlines of the forehead
and nose; smallness of nose and qhin; little
nostrils; the retreating chin; long, cylindrical
peck; the walk very hasty or languid, without
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY. 35
firmness of step ; thé timid aspect ; closing eye­
lids ; open mouth ; long teeth ; the jaw-bone
long, but bent towards the ear ; whiteness of *
complexion; teeth inclined to be yellow or
green ; fair, long, and tender hair; shrill voice.
I shall now proceed to consider Medicinal
Semeiotics, or the Signs of Health and Sickness.
—Not I, but an experienced physician ought to
write on the pliysiognomonicat and pathogno-
monical semeiotica of health and sickness, and
describe the physiological character of the body,
and its propensities to this or that disorder. I
am beyond description ignorant with respect to
the nature of disorders and their signs ; still may
I, in consequence of the few observations I have
made, declare,with some certainty, byrepeatedly
examining the firm parts and outlines of the
bodies and countenances of the sick, •that it is
not difficult to predict what are the diseases to
which the man in health is most liable. ;
Of what infinite importance would such phy-
siognomonical semeiotics, or prognostics of pos­
sible or probable disorders, be, founded on the
nature and form of the body! How essential
were it, could the physician say to the healthy,
i€ You naturally have, some time in your life, to
expect this or that disorder. Take the necessary
precautions against such or such a disease. The
vims of the small-pox slumbers in your body,
and may thus or thus be put in motion : thus the
hectic, thus the intermittent, and thus the pu*
trid fever.” Oh, how worthy, Zimmerman,
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
would a treatise on physiognoraonical Duetetice
(or regimen) be of thee !
Whoever shall read this author’s work on
Experience, will see how characteristically he de­
scribes various diseases which originate in the
passions. Some quotations from this work,which
will justify my wish, and contain the most valu­
able semeiotical remarks, cannot be unaccept­
able to the reader.
“ The observing mind examines the physiog­
nomy of the sick, the signs of which extend over
the whole body; but the progress and change
of the disease is principally to be found in the
countenance and its parts. Sometimes the pa­
tient canies the marks of his disease: in burn­
ing, bilious, and hectic fevers; in the chlorosis;
the common and black jaundice; in worm
cases.”—I, who know so little of physic, have
several times discovered the disease of the tape­
worm in the countenance.
“ In the furor uterinus, the least observant can
read the disease. The more the countenance is
changed, in burning fevers, the greater is the
danger. A man whose natural aspect is mild
and calm, but who stares at me, with a florid
complexion, and wildness in his eyes, prognos­
ticates an approaching delirium. I have like­
wise seen a look indescribably wild, accom­
panied by paleness, when nature, in a0 inflam­
mation of the lungs, was coming to a crisis, and
the patient was becoming excessively cold and
frantic. The countenance relaxed, the lips pale
56
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
and hanging, in burning fevers, are bad symp­
toms, as they denote great debility ; and if the
change and decay of the countenance be sud­
den, the danger is great. When the nosë is
pointed, the face of a lead colour, and the lips
livid, inflammation has produced gangrene.
“ There is frequently something dangerous to
be observed in the countenance, which cannot
be known from other symptoms, and which yet
is very significant. Much is to be observed in
the eyes. Boerhaave examined the eyes of the
patient with a magnifying glass, that he might
see if the blood entered the smaller vessels.
Hippocrates held, that the avoiding of light,
involuntary tears, squinting, one eye less than
the other, the white of the eye inflamed, the
small veins inclined to be black, too much
swelled, or too much sunken, were each and all
bad symptoms.
“ The motion of the patient, and his position
in bed, ought likewise to be enumerated among
the particular symptoms of disease. The hand
carried to the forehead, waved, or groping in
the air, scratching on the wall, and pulling up
the bed-clothes, are of this kind. The position
in bed is a very significant sign of thé internal
situation of the patient, and therefore deserves
every attention. The more unusual the position
is, in any inflammatory disease, thé more cer­
tainly may we conclude that the anguish is great,
and consequently the danger. Hippocrates has
described the position of the sick, in such cases,
37
Digitized by
38 . PHYSIOGNOMY.
with an«accuracy that leaves nothing to be de­
sired. The best position in sickness is the usual
position m health.” 1
1 shall add some other remarks from this phy­
sician and physiognomist, whose abilities are
superior toetovy, ignorance and quackery.
u Swift was lean while he was tbe;prey of am­
bition, chagrin, and ill-temper; but, after the
loss of his understanding, he became fat.” His
description of Envy, and its effects on the body,
is incomparable. “ The effects of Envy'are
visible,even in children. They become thin, and
easily fall into consumptions. Envy takes away
the appetite and sleep, and causes feverish mo­
tion ; it produces gloom, shortness of breath,
impatience, restlessness, and a narrow chest.
The good name of others, on which it seeks to
avenge itself by slander, and feigned but not real
contempt, hangs like the sword suspended by a
hair over the head of Envy, that continually
wishes to torture others, and is itself continually
on the rack. The laughing simpleton becomes
disturbed as. soon as Envy, that worst of fiends,
takes possession of him, and he perceives that he
vainly labours to debase that merit which he
cannot rival. His eyes roll, he knits his fore­
head, he becomes morose, peevish, and hangs
his lips. There is, it is true, a kind of envy that
arrives at old age. Envy in her dark cave, pos­
sessed by toothless furies, there hoards her pot-
son, which, with infernal wickedness, she endea­
vours to eject over each worthy person and ho-
Digitized by Google
39
nourable act. She defends the cause pf vice,
endeavours to confound right apd wrong, and
vitally wounds the purest innocence«”
CHAP. IV.
O f the Congeniality o f the Human Form.
T ub same vital powers that make the heartbeat,
give motion to the finger ; that which roofs the
scull, arches the finger-nail, Art is at variance
with herself: not so Nature. Her creation is
progressive. From the head to the back, from
the. shoulder to the arm, from the arm to the
hand, and from the hand to the finger; from the
root to the stem, the stem to the branch, the
branch to the twig, the twig to the blossom and
fruit, each depends on the other, and all on the
root: each is similar in nature and form. There
is a determinate effect of a determinate power.
Through all nature each determinate power .is
productive only of such and such determinate
effects. The finger of on$ body is not adapted
to.the hand of another body. Each part of an
organized body is an image of the whole. The
blood in the extremity of ttye finger, has the
character of the blood in the heart. The same
congeniality is found in the nerves, in the bones.
One spirit lives in all. Each, member of the
body is in proportion to that whole of which it
is a part. As from the length of the smallest
PHYSIOGNOMY.
Digitized by
40 PHYSIOGNOMY.
member, the smallest joint of the finger, the
proportion of the whole, the length and breadth
of the body may be found ; so also may the form
of the whole from the form of each single part.
When the head is long, all is long, or round
when the bead is round, or square when it is
square. One form, one mind, one root apper­
tain to all: therefore is each organized body so
much a whole, that, without discord, destruc­
tion, or deformity, nothing can be added or di­
minished.
Every thing in man is progressive; every
thing congenial; form, stature, complexion,
hair, skin, veins, nerves, bones, voice, walk,
manner, style, passion, love, hatred. One aiid
the same spirit is manifest in all. He has a de­
terminate sphere, in which his powers and sen­
sations are allowed, within which, they may be
freely exercised, but beyond which he cannot
pass. Each countenance is, indeed, subject to
momentary change, though not perceptible, even
in its solid parts; but these changes are all pro­
portionate : each is measured, each proper and
peculiar to the countenance in which it takes
place. The capability of change is limited.
Even that which is affected, assumed, imitated,
heterogeneous, still has the properties of the in­
dividual originating in the nature of the whole,
and is so definite, that it is only possible in this,
but in no other being.
I almost blush to repeat this in the present
age. What, Posterity! wilt thou suppose, thus
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY. 41
to see me so often obliged to demonstrate to
pretended sages, that nature makes no emenda­
tion ? She labours from one to all. Her’s is not
disjointed organization, not mosaic work. The
more there is of the mosaic in the works of
artists, orators, or poets, the less are they natu­
ral; the less do they resemble the copious streams
of the fountain ; the stem extending itself to the
remotest branch.
The mòre there is of progression, the more
there is of truth, power, and nature ; the more
extensive, general, durable, and noble is the
effect. The designs of nature are the designs of
a moment ; one form, one spirit, appear through
the whole. Thus nature forms her least plant,
and thus her most exalted man. I shall have
effected nothing bymy physiognomonical labours,
if I am not able to destroy that opinion, so taste­
less, so unworthy of the age, so opposite to all
sound philosophy, that nature patches up the
features of various countenances, in order to
make one perfect countenance; and 1shall think
them well rewarded, if the congeniality, uni­
formity, and agreement of human organization
be so demonstrated, that he who shall deny it,
will be declared to deny the light of the sun at
noon-day.
The human body is a plant, each part of which
has the character of the stem. Suffer me to re­
peat this continually, since this most evident of
all things is continually controverted, among all
ranks of men, in words, deeds, books, and works
Digitized by Google
1
of art. I therefore find the greatest incongrui­
ties in the heads of the greatest masters. I know
no painter, of whom I can say he has thoroughly
studied the harmony of the human outline, not
even Poussin, no, not even Raphael himself. Let
qpy one class the forms of their countenances,
and compare them with the forms of nature.
Let him, for instance, draw the outlines of their
foreheads, and endeavour to find similar out-*
lines in nature, and he will find incongruities,
which could not have been expected in such
great masters.
Chodowiecki, excepting the too great length
and extent, particularly of his human figures,
perhaps had the most exact feeling of congeni­
ality in caricature, that is to say, of the relative
propriety of the deformed, the humorous, or
other characteristical members and features.
For as there is conformity and congeniality in
the beautiful, so is there also in the deformed.
Every cripple has the distortion peculiar to him­
self, the effects of which are extended to his
whole body. In like manner, the evil actions of
the evil, and the good actions of the good, have
a conformity of character; at least, they are all
tinged with this conformity of character.
Little as this seems to be remarked by poets
and painters, still is it the foundation of their
art; for wherever emendation is visible, there
admiration is at an end. .Why has no painter
yet been pleased to place the blue eye beside the
brown one ? Yet, absurd as this would be, no
4 2 PHYSIOGNOMY*
Digitized by Google
less absurd are the incongruities continually en­
countered by the physiognopnonical eye—the
nose of V^nus on the head of Madona.—I have
been assured by a man of fashion, that, at a mas­
querade, with only the aid of an artificial nose,
he entirely concealed himself from the know­
ledge of all his acquaintance. So much does
nature reject what does not appertain to herself.
I have never yet met with one Roman nose
among hundred circular foreheads in profile.
In an hundred other square foreheads, I have
scarcely found one in which there were not cavi­
ties and prominences. I never yet saw a per­
pendicular forehead with strongly arched fea­
tures in the lower part of the countenance, the
double chin excepted.
I meet no strong-bowed eye-brows combined
with bony perpendicular countenances.
Wherever the forehead is projecting, so in
general are the under lips, children excepted.
1 have never seen gently arched, yet much re­
treating foreheads, combined with a short snub
nose, which in profile, is sharp and sunken.
A visible nearness of the nose to the eye, is
always attended by a visible wideness between
the nose and mouth.
Al long covering of the teeth, or, in other
words, a long space between the nose and mouth,
always indicates small upper lips. Length of
form and face is generally attended by well-
drawn fleshy lips.
I shall at present produce but one more ex-
PHYSIOGNOMY. 4 3
Digitized by Google
44 PHYSIOGNOMY.
ample, which will convince all who possess acute
physiognomonical sensation, how great is the
harmony of all nature’s forms, and how much
she hates the incongruous.
Take two, three, or four shades of men re­
markable for understanding; join the features
so artificially that no defect shall appear, as far
as relates to the act ofjoining; that is, take the
forehead of one, add the nose of a second, the
mouth of a third, the chin of a fourth, and the
result of this combination of the signs of wisdom
shall be folly. Folly is perhaps nothing more
than the emendation of some heterogeneous ad­
dition. “ But let these four wise countenances
be supposed congruous.” Let them so be sup­
posed, or as nearly so as possible, still their com­
bination will produce the signs of folly.
Those therefore who maintain that conclusion
cannot be drawn from a part, from a single sec­
tion of the profile, to the whole, would be per­
fectly right, if unarbitrary Nature patched up
countenances like arbitrary A rt; but so she does
not. Indeed, when a man, being born with un­
derstanding, becomes a fool, there expression
of heterogeneousness is the consequence. Either
the lower part of the countenance extends itself,
or the eyes acquire a direction not conformable
to the forehead, the mouth cannot remain closed,
or the features of the countenance, in some other
manner, lose their consistency: all becomes dis­
cord ; and folly, in such a countenance, is very
manifest. Let him who would study physiognomy,
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY. 46
study the relation of the constituent parts of the
countenance : not having studied these, he has
studied nothing.
He only is an accurate physiognomist, and has
the true spirit of physiognomy, who possesses
sense, feeling, and sympathetic proportion of the
congeniality and harmony of nature ; and who
hath a similar sense and feeling for all emenda­
tions and additions of art and constraint. He is
no physiognomist who doubts of the propriety,
simplicity, and harmony of nature, or who has
not this physiognoinonical essential ; who sup­
poses nature selects members to form a whole,
as a compositor in a printing-office does letters
to make up a word; who can suppose the works
of nature are the patch-work of a harlequin
jacket. Not the most insignificant of insects is
so compounded, much less man, the most per­
fect of organized beings. He respires not the
breath of wisdom, who doubts of this progres­
sion, continuity, and simplicity of the structure
of nature. He wants a general feeling for the
works of nature ; consequently of art, the imi­
tator of nature. I shall be pardoned this warmth.
It is necessary. The consequences are infinite,
and extend to all things. He has the master­
key of truth, who has this sensation of the con­
geniality of nature, and, by necessary induction,
of the human form.
All imperfection in works of art, productions
of the mind, moral actions, errors in judgment ;
all scepticism, infidelity>and ridicule of religion,
Digitized by
4 6 PHYSIOGNOMY.
naturally originate in the want of this knowledge
and sensation. He soars above' all doubt of the
Divinity and Christ, who hath them, and who is
conscious of this congeniality. He also, wbb at
first sight, thoroughly understands and feels the
congeniality of the human form, apd that from
the want of this congeniality arises the difference
. observed between the works of nature and of
art, is superior to all doubt concerning the truth
and divinity of the human countenance.
Those who have this sense, this feeling, call it
which you please, will attribute that only, and
nothing more, to each countenance, which it is
capable of receiving. They will consider each %
according to its kind, and will as little seek to
add a heterogeneous character as a heterogene­
ous nose to the face. Such will only unfold what
nature is desirous of unfolding, give what nature
is capable of receiving, and take away that with
which nature would not he incumbered. They
will perceive in the child, pupil, friend, or wife,
when any discordant trait of character makes its
appearance; and will endeavour to restore the
original congeniality, the equilibrium of charac­
ter and impulse, by acting upon the still remain­
ing harmony, by co-operating with the yet un­
impaired essential powers. They will consider
each sin, each vice, as destructive of this harr
mony; will feel how much each departure from
truth, in the human form, at least to eyes more
penetrating than human eyes are, must be mani­
fest, must distort, and must become displeasing
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
to the Creator, by rendering it unlike his image.
Who, therefore, can judge better of the works
and actions of man, who less offend or be offend­
ed, who more clearly develop cause and effect,
than the physiognomist, possessed of a full por­
tion of this knowledge and sensation ?
47
CHAP. V.
Description o f Plates I and II.
W s shall occasionally introduce some figures,
in order to support and elucidate those opinions
and propositions which may be advanced. These
plates refer to objects* that have been already al­
luded to in the preceding pages.
Description o f Plate I. Number 1. See the
Frontispiece.
This is a boldly sketched portrait of Albert
D urer. Whoever examines this countenance,
cannot but perceive in it the traits of fortitude,
deep penetration, determined perseverance, and
inventive genius. At least, every one will ac­
knowledge the truth of these observations, when
made.
Number 2. Moncrirf.
There ¿re few men capable of observation,
who will class this visage with the stupid. In
the aspect, the eye, the nose especially, and the
Digitized by Google
48 PHYSIOGNOMY.
mouth, are proofs, not to be mistaken, of the ac­
complished gentleman, and the man of taste.
Number 3. Johnson.
The most unpractised eye will easily discover,
in this sketch of Johnson, the acute, the compre­
hensive, the capacious mind, not easily de­
ceived, and rather inclined to suspicion than
credulity.
Number 4. Shakspearb.
How deficient must all outlines be ! Among
ten thousand can one be found that is exact ?
Where is the outline that can pourtray genius ?
Yet who does not read, in this outline, imperfect
as it is, from pure physiognomonical sensation,
the clear, the capacious, the rapid mind, all con­
ceiving, all embracing, that, with equal swift­
ness and facility, imagines, creates, produces ?
Number 5. Sterns.
The most unpractised reader in physiognomy
will not deny to this countenance all the keen,
the searching penetration of wit, the most ori­
ginal fancy, full of fire, and the powers of in­
vention. Who is so dull as not to view, in this
countenance, somewhat of the spirit of poor
Yorick ?
Number 6. S. Clarks.
Perspicuity,benevolence,dignity, serenity, dis­
passionate meditation, the powers of conception
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY. 4 9
and perseverance, are the most apparent charac­
teristics of this countenance. He who can hate
such a face, must laboriously counteract all those
pliysiognomonical sensations with which he was
born.
Description of Plate II.
Hitherto we have beheld nature in the most
perfect of her productions; we must now view
the reyerse; we must proceed to contemplate
her in her deformity. In this also, how intelligi­
bly does she speak to the eyes of all, at the first
glance !
Number 1.
Who does not here read reason debased, and
stupidity almost sunken to brutality? This eye,
these wrinkles of a lowering forehead, this pro­
jecting mouth, the whole position of the head,
» do they not all denote manifest dulness and de­
bility?
. Number 2. A Fool.
From the small eyes in this figure, the open
mouth, particularly from the under part of the
countenance, no man whatever will expect
penetration, reasoning, or wisdom.
Number 3.
True or false, nature or caricature, this coun­
tenance will, to the common sensations of all
men, depict an inhuman and brutal character.
It is impossible that brutality should be over-
K
Digitized by Go< e
PHYSIOGNOMY.
looked in the nose and mouth, or in the eye,
though still it deserves to be called a human
eye.
50
Number 4.
Let us proceed to the characters of passion,
which are intelligible to every child; so that
concerning these there can be no dispute, if we
arein any degree acquainted with their language.
The more violent the passion is, the more ap­
parent are its signs. The effect of the staler
passions is to contract, and of the violent to dis­
tend the muscles. Every one will perceive, in
this countenance, fear mingled with abhorrence.
Number 5.
No man will expect cheerfulness, tranquillity,
content, strength of mind, and magnanimity,
from this countenance. Fear and terror are
here strongly marked.
Number 6 .
Terror, heightened by native indocility of
character, is here strongly marked.
Such examples might be produced without
end; hut to adduce some of the most decisive
of the various classes, is sufficient. We shall
give some farther specimens hereafter.
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY. 51
CHAR VL
The universal Excellence o f the Form o f Man«
E ach creature is indispensable in the immensity
of God's creation; but each creature does not
know it is thus indispensable. Of all earth's
creatures, man alone rejoices in his indispensa*
bility. No man can render any other man dis­
pensable. The place of no man can be supplied
by another.
This beliefofthe indispensability andindividu­
ality of all men, and in our own metaphysical
indispçnsability and individuality, isoneofthe un­
acknowledged, the noble fruits,of physiognomy;
a fruit pregnant with most precious seed, whence
shall spring lenity and love. Oh, may posterity
behold them flourish ! may future ages repose
Under their shade! The most déformed, the
most corrupt of men, is still indispensable in this
world, of Qod, and is more or less capable of
knowing; his, own individuality and unsuppliable
indispensability. The-wickedest, the most de­
formed,of men, is still more noble than the most
beauteous and perfect animal. Contemplate, O
man! what thy nature is, not what it might
he, not what is wanting. Humanity, amid
all its distortions, will ever remain wondçrous
humanity!.. . .
. Incessantly might I repeat doctrines like thj§:
Digitized by Google
52 PHYSIOGNOMY.
Art thou better, more beauteous, nobler, than
many others of thy fellow-creatures? If so, re­
joice, and ascribe it not to thyself, but to Him
who, from the same clay, formed one vessel for
honour, another for dishonour; to Him who,
without thy advice, without thy prayer, without
any desert of thine, caused thee to be what thou
art. *
Yea, to Him! “ for what hast thou, O man!
that thou didst not receive? Now, if thou didst
receive, why dost thou glory as if thou hadst not
received?” —“ Can the eye say to the hand, I
have no need of thee?”—u He that oppresseth
the poor, reproacheth his Maker.”— “ God hath .
made of one blood all nations of men.”—Who
more deeply, more internally, feels all these
divine truths than the physiognomist? the true
physiognomist, who is not merely a man of
literature, a reader, a reviewer, an author, but
—a man! . •
I am ready to acknowledge, that the most hu­
mane physiognomist, he who so eagerly searches
whatever is good, beautiful, and noble in nature;
who delights in the ideal; who duly exercises,
nourishes, refines his taste, with humanity more
improved, more perfect, more holy; even he is
in frequent danger, at least is frequentlytempted,
to turn from the common herd of depraved men;
from the deformed, the foolish, the apes, the
hypocrites, the vulgar of mankind; in danger
of forgetting that these misshapen forms, these
apes, these hypocrites, also are men; and that
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY«
notwithstanding all his imagined or his real ex­
cellence, all his noble feelings, the purity of his
Views (and who has cause to boast of these?)
all the firmness, the soundness of his reason,
the feelings of his heart, the powers with which
he is endowed, still he is, very probably, from
his own moral defects, in the eyes of his superior
beings, in the eyes of his much more righteous
brother, as distorted as the most ridiculous, most
depraved moral or physical monster appears to
be in his eyes.
Liable as we are to forget this, reminding is
necessary both to the writer and reader of this
work. Forget not, that even the wisest of men
are men. Forget not how much positive good
may be found even in the worst, and that they
are as necessary, as good in their place, as thou
art. Are they not equally indispensable, equally
unsuppliable? They possess not, either in mind
or body, the smallest thing exactly as thou dost.
Each is wholly, and in every part, as individual
as thou art. Consider each as if he were single
in the universe; then wilt thou discover powers
and excellencies in him, which, abstractedly of
comparison, deserveall attention and admiration.
Compare him afterwards with others, his simi­
larity, his dissimilarity to so many of his fellow-
creatures. How must this incite thy amaze*-
ment! How wilt thou value the individuality,
th e indispensability of his being! How wilt
thou wonder at the harmony of his parts, each
contributing to form one whole; at their rela-
Digitized by Google
PHVSfOOtfOMY.
tkm, the relation of his millionfold individuality,
to such multitudes of other individuals! Yes, we
wonder at and adore the so simple, yet so in­
finitely varied expression of Almighty power in­
conceivable, so especially and so gloriously re*
vealed in the nature of man.
No man ceases to be a man, how low soever
he may sink beneath the dignity of human na­
ture. Not being beast, he is still capable of
amendment, of approaching perfection. The
worst of faces still is a human face. Humanity
ever continues the honour and ornament of
man.
It is as impossible for a brute animal to be­
come man, although he may in many actions
approach, or almost surpass him, as for man to
become a brute, although many men indulge
themselves in actions which we cannot view in
brutes without abhorrence.
But the very capacity of voluntarily debasing
himself in appearance even below brutality, is
the honour and privilege of man. This very
capacity of imitating all things by an act of his
will, and the powers of his understanding, this
very capacity man only has, beasts have not.
The countenances of beasts are not susceptible
of any remarkable deterioration, nor are they
capable of any remarkable amelioration or beauT
tifymg. The worst of the countenances of men
may be still more debased; but they may also,
to a certain degree, be improved and ennobled.
The degree of perfection, or degradation, of
54
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY. 55
' which man is capable, cannot be described. Fot
this reason, the worst countenance has a well
founded claim to the notice, esteem, and hope
of all good men. Again, in every human coun­
tenance, however debased, humanity is still
visible, that is, the image of the Deity.
I have seen the worst of men, in their worst
of moments, yet could not all their vice, blas­
phemy, and oppression of guilt, extinguish the
light of good that shone in their countenances,
the spirit of humanity, the ineffaceable traits of
internal, external perfectibility. The sinner we
would exterminate, the man we must embrace.
O physiognomy, what a pledge art thou of the
everlasting clemency of God towards man! O
man, rejoice with whatever rejoices in its exist
ence, and contemn no being whom God. doth
not contemn!
CHAP. VII.
O f the Forehead.
I s h a l l appropriate this and some of the follow-,
ing chapters to remarks on certain individual
parts of the human body. The following are my
own remarks on foreheads.
The form, height, arching, proportion, obli­
quity, and position of the scull, or bone of the
forehead, shew the propensity, degree of power,
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
thought, and sensibility of man. The covering
or skin of the forehead, it9 position, colour,
wrinkles, and tension, denote the passions and
present state of the mind. The bones give the
internal quantity, and their covering the appli­
cation of power.
Though the skin be wrinked, the forehead
bones remain unaltered; but this wrinkling
varies according to the various forms of the
bones. A certain degree of flatness produces
certain wrinkles; a certain arching is attended
by certain other wrinkles; so that the wrinkles,
separately considered, will give the arching;
and this, vice versa, will give the wrinkles. Cer­
tain foreheads can only have perpendicular,
others horizontal, others curved, and others
mixed and coniused wrinkles. Cup-formed
(smooth) cornerless foreheads, when they are in
motion, commonly have the simplest and least
perplexed wrinkles.
I consider the peculiar delineation of the out­
line and position of the forehead, which has been
left unattempted by ancient and modern physi­
ognomists, to be the most important of all the
things presented to physiognomonical observa­
tion. We may divide foreheads, considered in
profile, into three principal classes, the retreat­
ing, the perpendicular, and the projecting. Each
of these classes has a multitude of variations,
which may easily again be classed, and the chief
of which are rectilinear; half round, half recti-
56
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
linear, flowing into each other; half round, half
rectilinear, interrupted; curve lined, simple;
the curve lined, double and triple.
I shall add some more particular remarks,
.which I apprehend will not be unacceptable to
my readers:
1. The longer the forehead, the more com­
prehension, and less activity.
2. The more compressed, short, and firm the
forehead, the more compression, firmness, and
less volatility in the man.
3. .The more curved and cornerless the out­
line, the more tender and flexible the character;
the more rectilinear, the more pertinacity and
severity.
4. Perfect perpendicularity, from the hair o
the eyebrows, want of understanding.
5. Perfect perpendicularity, gently arched at
the top, denotes excellent propensities of cold,
tranquil, profound thinking.
6 . Projecting—imbecility, immaturity, weak­
ness, stupidity.
7. Retreating, in general, denotes superiority
of imagination, wit, and acuteness.
8 . The round and prominent forehead above,
straight lined below, and on the whole perpen­
dicular, shews much understanding, life, sensi­
bility, ardour, and icy coldness.
9. The oblique, rectilinear forehead, is also
very ardent and vigorous.
10. Arched foreheads appear properly to be
feminine.
5 7
Digitized by
11. A happy union of straight and curved
lines, with a happy position of the forehead, ex­
press the most perfect character of wisdom. By
happy union, I mean, when the lines insensibly
flow mto each other; and by happy position,
when the forehead is neither too perpendicular,
nor too retreating.
1 2 . I might almost establish it as an axiom,
that right lines, considered as such, and curves,
considered as such, are related as power and
weakness, obstinacy and flexibility, understand*
ing and sensation. %
13. I have hitherto seen no man with sharp
projecting eye-bones, who had not great pro­
pensity to an acute exercise' of the understand­
ing, and to wise plans.
14. Yet there are many excellent heads which
have not this sharpness, and which have the
more solidity, if the forehead, like a perpendi­
cular wall, sink upon the horizontal eye-brows,
and be greatly rounded on each side towards the
temples.
15. Perpendicular foreheads, projecting so as
not immediately to rest upon the nose, which are
small, wrinkly, short, and shining, are certain
signs of weakness, little understanding, little
imagination, little sensation.
16. Foreheads with many angular, knotty
protuberances, ever denote much vigorous, firm,
harsh, oppressive, ardent activity, and perse­
verance.
17. It is a sure sign of a clear, sound under-
5 8 PHYSIOGNOMY.
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY#
standing, and a good temperament, when the
profile of the forehead has two proportionate
arches, the lower of which projects.
18. Eyebones with defined, marking, easily
delineated, firm arches, I never saw but in noble
and in great men. All the ideal antiques have
these arches.
19. Square foreheads, that is to say, with ex­
tensive temples and firm eyebones, shews cir­
cumspection and certainty of character.
20. Perpendicular wrinkles, if natural to the
forehead, denote application and power; hori­
zontal wrinkles, and those broken in the middle,
or at the extremities, in general negligence, otf
want of power. *
21. Perpendicular, deep indentings, in the
bones of the forehead, between the eyebrows, I
never met with but in men of sound understands
ing, and free and noble minds, unless there were
some positively contradictory feature.
22. A blue vena frontalis, in the form of a Y,
When in an open, smooth, well arched forehead,
1 have only found in men ofextraordinary talents,
and of an ardent and generous character. -
23. The following are the most indubitable
signs of an excellent, a perfectly beautiful and
significant, intelligent, and noble forehead.
An exact proportion to the other parts of the
countenance. It must equal the nose or the
under part of the face in length, that is, one-
third.
In breadth, it must either be oval at the top
M
Digitized by
(like the foreheads of mosttof the great men of
England) or nearly square.
A freedom from unevenness and wrinkles, yet
with the power of wrinkling, when deep in
thought, afflicted by pain, or from just indigna­
tion. .
Above it must retreat, project beneath.
The eyebones must be simple, horizontal, and,
if seen from above, must present a pure curve.
There should be a small cavity in the centre,
from above to below, and traversing the fore­
head so as to separate into four divisions, which
can only be perceptible by a clear descending
light.
The skin must be more clear in the forehead
than in the other parts of the countenance.
The forehead must every where be coinposed
of such outlines as, if the section of one-third
only be viewed, it can scarcely be determined
whether the lines are straight or circular. ,
24. Short, wrinkled, knotty, regular, pressed
in one side, and sawcut foreheads, with interest­
ing wrinkles, are incapable of durable friend­
ship.
* 25. Be not discouraged so long as a friend, an
enemy, a child, or a brother, though a trans­
gressor, has a good, well proportioned, open
forehead; there is still much certainty of im­
provement, much cause of hope.
60 PHYSIOGNOMY•
Digitized by Go< e
PHYSIOGNOMY. 61
CHAP. VIII.
O f the Eyes and Eyebrows.
B lub eyes are generally more significant of
weakness, effeminacy, and yielding, than brown
and black. True it is, there are many power­
ful men with blue eyes; but I find more strength,
manhood, and thought, combined with brown
than with blue. Wherefore does it happen that
the Chinese, or the people of the Philippine
Islands, are very seldom blue-eyed; and that
Europeansonly,orthe descendants ofEuropeans,
have blue eyes in those countries ? This is the
moreworthy inquiry,because there are no people
more effeminate, luxurious, peaceable or indo­
lent, than the Chinese.
Choleric men have eyes of every colour, but
more brown, and inclined to green, than blue.
This propensity to green is almost a decisive
token of ardour, fire, and courage.
I have never met with clear blue eyes in the
melancholic, seldom in the choleric; but most
in the phlegmatic temperament,which,however,
had much activity. .
When the under arch described by the upper
eyelid is perfectly circular, it always denotes
goodness and tenderness, but also fear, timidity,
and weakness. . , .
The open eye, not compressed,forming a long,
Digitized by
PHYSIOGNOMY.
acute angle with the nose, I have but seldom
seen, except inacute and understanding persons.
Hitherto I have seen no eye, where the eyelid
formed a horizontal line over the pupil, that did
nbt appertain to a very acute, able, subtle man;
but be it understood, that I have met with this
eye in very worthy men, but men of great pene­
tration and simulation.
Wide, open eyes, with the white seen under
the apple, I have often observed in the timid and
phlegmatic, and also in the courageous and
rash. When compared, however, the fiery, and
the feeble, the determined and theundetermined,
will easily be distinguished. The former are
more firm, more strongly delineated, have less
obliquity, have thicker, better cut, but less
skinny eyelids.
ADDITION.
From the Gotha Court Calendar, 1771, or rather
from Buffon.
“ The colours most common to the eyes are,
the orange, yellow, green, blue, grey, and grey
mixed with white. The blue and orange are
most predominant, and are often found in the
same eye. Eyes supposed to be black are only
yellow, brown, or a deep orange; to convince
ourselves of which, we need but look at them
closely; for when seen at a distance, or tinned
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
towards the light, they appear to be black; be­
cause the yellow-brown colour is so contrasted
to the white of the eye, that the opposition
makes it supposed black. Eyes also of a less
dark colour pass for black eyes, but are not
esteemed so fine as the other, because the con­
trast is not so great. There are also yellow and
light yellow eyes, which do not appear black,
because the colours are not deep enough to be
overpowered by the shade.
“ It is not uncommon to perceive shades of
orange, yellow, grey, and blue, in the same eye;
and whenever blue appears, however small the
tincture, it becomes the predominant colour,
and appears in streaks, over the whole iris. The
orange is in flakes, round, and at some little
distance from the pupil; but is so strongly
effaced by the blue, that the eye appears wholly
blue, and the mixture oforange is only perceived
when closely inspected.
“ The finest eyes are those which we imagine
to be black or blue. Vivacity and fire, which
are the principal characteristics of the eyes, are
the more emitted when the colours are deep and
contrasted, rather than when slightly shaded.
Black eyes have most strength of expression,and
most vivacity; but the blue have most mildness,
and perhaps are more arch. In the former there
is an ardour uninterruptedly bright, because the
colour, whieh appears to us uniform, every way
emits similar reflections. But modifications are
distinguished in the light which animates blue
63
Digitized by Google
64 PHYSIOGNOMY.
eyes, because there are various tints of colour,
which produce various reflections.
“ There are eyes which are remarkable for
having what may be said to be no colour. They
appear to be differently constituted from others.
The iris has only some shades of blue, or grey,
so feeble, that they are, in some parts, almost
white; and the shades of orange which inter­
vene are so small that they scarcely can be
distinguished from grey or white, notwithstand­
ing the contrast of these colours. The black of
the pupil is then too marking, because the
colour of the iris is not deep enough, and, as I
may say, we see only the pupil in the centre of
the eye. These eyes are unmeaning, and appear
to be fixed and aghast. % •
“ There are also eyes, the colour of the iris
of which is almost green; but these are more
.uncommon than the blue, the grey, the yellow,
and the yellow-brown. There are also people
whose eyes are not both of the same colour.
“ The images of our secret agitations are
particularly painted in the eyes. The eye ap­
pertains more to the soul than any other organ;
seems affected by, and to participate in, all its
motions; expresses sensations the most lively,
passions the most tumultuous, feelings the most
delightful, and sentiments the most delicate.
It explains them in all their force, in all their
purity, as they take birth; and transmits them
by traits so rapid, as to infuse into other minds
the fire, the activity, the very image with which
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
themselves are inspired. The eye at once re­
ceives and reflects the intelligence of thought,
and the warmth of sensibility. It is the sense
of the mind, the tongue of the understanding.”
, Again, “ as in nature, so in art, the eyes are
differently formed m the statues of the gods, and
in heads of ideal beauty, so that the eye itself is
the distinguishing token. Jupiter, Juno, and
Apollo, have large, round, well-arched eyes,
shortened in length, in order that the arch may
be the higher. Pallas, in like manner, has large
eyes; but the upper eyelid, which is drawn up,
is expressive of attraction and langilishment;
Such an eye distinguishes the heavenly Venus
Urania from Juno; yet the statue of this Venus
bearing a diadem, has for that reason often been
mistaken, by those who have not made this ob­
servation for the statue of Juno. Many of the
modern artists appear to have been desirous of
excelling the ancients, and to give what Homer
ealls the ox-eye, by making the pupil project*
and seem to start from the socket. Such an eye
has the modern head of the erroneously sup­
posed Cleopatra, in the Medicean villa, and
tvhich presents the idea of a person strangled*
The same kind of eye a young artist has given
to die Statue of the Holy Virgin* in die church
St. Carlo al Torso.” ’
I shall quote one more passage from Para­
celsus, who, though an astrological enthusiast,
was a man of prodigious genius:
*<To come to the practical part, and give
F
65
Digitized by Google
proper signs, with some of their significations,
it is to be remarked, that blackness in the eyes
generally denotes health, a firm mind, not wa­
vering, but courageous, true, and honourable.
Grey eyes generally denote deceit, instability,
and indecision. Short sight denotes an able
projector, crafty and intriguing in action. The
squinting, or false-sighted, who see on both
sides, or over and under, certainly denotes a
deceitful, crafty person, not easily deceived,
mistrustful, and not always to be trusted; one
who willingly avoids labour when he can, in­
dulging in idleness, play, usury, and pilfering.
Small and deep sunken eyes are bold in opposi­
tion; not discouraged, intriguing, and active in
wickedness; capable of suffering much. Large
eyes denote a covetous greedy man, and espe­
cially when they are prominent. Eyes in con­
tinual motion signify short or weak sight, fear
and care. The winking eye denotes an amorous
disposition, foresight, and quickness in pro­
jecting. The down-cast eye shews shame and
modesty. Red eyes signify courage and strength.
Bright eyes, slow of motion, bespeak the hero,
great acts, audacious, cheerful, one feared by
his enemies.”
It will not be expected I should subscribe to
all these opinions, they being most of them ill
founded, at least ill defined.
The Eyebrows.
Eyebrows regularly arched are characteristic
PHYSIOGNOMY.
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
of feminine youth; rectilinear and horizontal,
are masculine; arched and the horizontal com­
bined, denote masculine understanding, and fe­
minine kindness
Wild and perplexed, denote a corresponding
mind, unless the hair be soft, and they then sig-^
itify gentle ardour.
Compressed, firm, with the hairs running pa­
rallel, as if cut, are one of the most decisive
signs of a firm, manly, mature understanding,
profound wisdom, and a true unerring per­
ception.
Meeting eyebrows, held so beautiful by the
Arabs, and by the old physiognomists supposed
to be the mark of craft, I can neither believe to
be beautiful, nor characteristic of such a qua­
lity. They are found in the most open, honest,
and worthy countenances. It is true, they give
the face a gloomy appearance, and perhaps de­
note trouble of mind and heart.
Sunken eyebrows, says Winkelmann, impart
something of the severe and melancholy to the
head of Antinous.
I never yet saw a profound thinker, or even a
man of fortitude and prudence, with weak, high
eyebrows, which in some measure equally divide
the forehead.
Weak eyebrows denote phlegm and debility,
though there are choleric and powerful men
who have them; blit this weakness of eyebrows
is always a deduction from power and ardour;
67
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
Angular, strong, interrupted eyebrows, ever
denote fire and productive activity.
The nearer the eyebrows are to the eyes, the
more earnest, deep, and firm the character.
The more remote from the eyes, the more vo­
latile, easily moved, and less enterprising.
Remote from each other, warm, open, quick
sensation.
White eyebrows signify weakness; and dark
brown, firmness. '
The motion of the eyebrows contains nu­
merous expressions, especially of ignoble pas1
sions, pride, anger, and contempt.
6 6
CHAP. IX. '
O f theNose.
I h a v e generally considered the Nose as the
foundation or abutment of the brain; Whoever
is acquainted with the Gothic arch will perfectly
understand what I mean by this abutment;
for upon this the whole power of the arch
of the forehead rests, and without it the mouth
and' cheeks would be oppressed by miserable
ruins.
. A beautiful nose will never be found accom­
panying an ugly countenance. An ugly person
may have fine eyes, but not a handsome nose;
I meet with thousands of beautiful eyes before
one such nose; and wherever I find the latter,
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY•
it denotes an extraordinary character. The fol­
lowing is requisite to the perfectly beautiful
nose:—
. Its length should equal the length of the
forehead. At the top should be a gentle in­
denting. Viewed in front, the back should be
broad, and nearly parallel, yet above the centre
something broader. The button, or end of the
nose, must be neither hard nor fleshy, and its
Under outline must be remarkably definite, well
delineated, neither pointed nor very broad. The
sides seen in front must be well defined, and the
descending nostrils gently shortened. Viewed
in profile, the bottom of the nose should not
have more than one-third of its length. - The
nostrils above must be pointed; below, round,
and have in general a gentle curve, and be di­
vided into two equal parts, by the profile of the
upper lip. The sides, or arch of the nose, must
be a kind of wall. Above, it must close well
with the arch of the eyebone, and near the eye
.must be at least half an inch in breadth. Such
a nose is of more worth than a kingdom. There
are, indeed, innumerable excellent men with
defective noses, but their excellence is of a very
different kind. I have seen the purest, most
capable, and noblest persons, with small noses,
and hollow in profile; but their worth most
consisted in suffering, listening, learning, and
enjoying the beautiful influences of imaginar
tion; provided the other parts of the form were
well organized. Noses, on the contrary, which
m
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
are arched hear the forehead, are capable of
command, can rule, act, overcome, destroy.
Rectilinear noses may be called the key-stone
between the two extremes. They equally act
and suffer with power and tranquillity.
Boerhaave, Socrates, Lairesse, had, more or
less, ugly noses, and yet were great men; but
their character was that of gentleness and pa­
tience.
I have never yet seen a nose with a broad
back, whether arched or rectilinear, that did
not appertain to an extraordinary man. We
may examine thousands of countenances, and
numbers of portraits, of superior men, before
we find such a one.
These noses were possessed, more or less, by
Raynal, Faustus Socinus, Swift, Caesar Borgia,
Clepzecker, Anthony Pagi, John Charles von
Enkenberg (a man of Herculean strength), Paul
Sarpi, Peter de Medicis, Francis Caracci, Cas­
sini, Lucas van Leyden, Titian.
There are also noses that are not broad
backed, but small near the forehead, of extra­
ordinary power; but their power is rather
elastic and momentary than productive.
The Tartars generally have fiatindentednoses;
the negroes broad, and the Jews hawk noses.
The noses of Englishmen are seldom pointed,
but generally round. The Dutch, if we may
judge from their portraits, seldom have band-
some or significant noses. The nose of the Ita­
lian is large and energetic. The great men of
7
0
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
France, in my opinion, have the characteristic
of their greatness generally in the'nose: to
prove which, examine the collection of portraits
by Perrault and Morin.
Small nostrils are usually an indubitable sign
of unenterprising timidity. The open, breathing
nostril, is as certain a token of sensibility, which
may easily degenerate into sensuality.
CHAP. X.
O f the Mouth and Lips.
The contents of the mind are communicated
to the mouth. How full of character is the
mouth, whether at rest or speaking, by its infi­
nite powers!
Whoever internally feels the worth of this
member, so different from every other member,
so inseparable, so not to be defined, so simple,
yet so various; whoever, I say, knows and feels
this worth, will speak and act with divine
wisdom. Oh! wherefore can I only imper­
fectly mid tremblingly declare all the honours
of the mouth—the chief seat of wisdom and
folly, power and debility, virtue and vice,beauty
and deformity, of the human mind—the seat of
all love, all hatred, all sincerity, all falsehood,
all humility, all pride, all dissimulation, and all
truth ?
Oh] with what adoration would I speak, and
71
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOONOHY.
be silent, were l a . more perfect man! Oh!
discordant, degrade humanity! Oh! mournful
secret of my misinformed youth.! Whien, Om­
niscience, shalt thou stand revealed! Unworthy
as I am, yet do I adore. . Yet worthy I shall
be; worthy as the nature of man will permit:
for he who created me, gave me a mouth to
glorify him!
Painters and designers, what shall I say that
may induce you to study this sacred organ^ in
all its beauteous expressions, all its harmony
and proportion?
Take plaster impressions of characteristic
mouths, of the living and the dead; draw after,
pore over them; learn, observe, continue .day
, after day to study one only; and, having.per­
fectly studied that, you will have studied many;
Oh! pardon me; my heart is oppressed. Among
ten or twenty draughtsmen, to whom for. three
years I have preached, whom I have instructed,
have drawn examples for, not one have I found
who felt as he ought to feel, saw what was to be
seen, or could represent that which was evident.
What can I hope? ■
Every thing may be expected from a collection
of characteristic plasterimpressions,whichmight
so easily be made, were such a collection only
once formed. But who can say whether such
observations might not declare too much ? The
human machine may be. incapable of suffering
to be thus analysed. Man, perhaps, might not
endure such close inspection; and, therefore,
n
Die ' by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
having eyes, he sees not.—I speak it with tears;
and why I weep,-thou knowest, who with me
inquirest into the worth of man. And you
.weaker, yet candid, though on this occasion un­
feeling readers, pardon m e!
Observe the following rules: Distinguish in
each mouth the upper lip singly; the under lip
the same; the line formed by the union of both
when tranquilly closed, if they can be closed
without constraint; the middle of the upper lip,
in particular, and of the under lip; the bottom
of the middle line at each end; and, lastly, the
extending of the middle line on both sides. For,
unless you thus distinguish, you will not be able
to delineate the mouth accurately.
As are the lips, so is the character. Firm
lips, firm character; weak lips, and quick in
motion, weak and wavering character.
Well defined, large, and proportionate lips,
the middle line of which is equally serpentine on
both sides, and easy to be drawn, though they
may denote an inclination to pleasure, are never
seen in a bad, mean, common, false, crouching,
vicious countenance*
A lipless mouth, resembling a single line, de­
notes coldness, industry, a love of order, preci­
sion, housewifery; and if it be drawn upwards
at the two ends, affectation, pretension, vanity,
and, which may ever be the production of cool.
vanity, malice.
Very fleshy lips must ever have to contend
73
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
with sensuality and indolence: the cut-through,
sharp-drawn lip, with anxiety and avarice.
Calm lips, well closed, without constraint, and
well delineated, certainly betoken consideration,
discretion, and firmness.
A mild overhanging upper lip generally sig­
nifies goodness. There are innumerable good
persons also with projecting under lips; but the
goodness of the latter is rather cold fidelity, and
well-meaning, than warm active friendsliip.
The under lip hollowed in the middle, denotes
a fanciful character. Let the moment be re­
marked, when the conceit of the jocular man
descends to the lip, and it will be seen to be a
little hollow in the middle.
A closed mouth, not sharpened, not affected,
always denotes courage and fortitude; and the
open mouth always closes where courage is in-
dispensible. Openness of mouth speaks com­
plaint ; and closeness, endurance.
Though physiognomists have as yet but little
noticed, yet much might be said concerning the
lip improper, or the fleshy covering of the up­
per teeth, on which anatomists have not, to my
knowledge, yet bestowed any name, and which
may be called the curtain, or pallium, extending
from the beginning of the nose to the red upper
lip proper. *
If the upper lip improper be long, the proper
is always short; if it be short and hollow, the
proper will be large and curved—another cer­
tain demonstration of the conformity of the
74
Digitized by G o o g le
human countenance. Hollow upper lips are
much less common than flat and perpendicular:
the character they denote is equally uncommon.
PHYSIOGNOMY. 7&
CHAP. XI.
• O f the Teeth and Chin.
N othing is more striking, or continually visi­
ble, than the characteristics of the teeth, and
the manner in which they display themselves.
The following are the observations I have made
thereon:
Small, short teeth, which have generally been
held by the old physiognomists to denote weak­
ness, I have remarked in adults of extraor­
dinary strength; but they seldom were of a
. pure white.
Long teeth are certain signs of weakness and
pusillanimity. White, clean, well-arranged
teeth, visible as soon as the mouth opens, but
not projecting, nor always entirely seen, I have
never met with in adults, except in good, acute,
honest, candid, faithful men.
I have also met foul, uneven, and ugly teeth,
in persons of the above good character; but it
was always either sickness, or some mental im­
perfection, which gave this deformity.
Whoever leaves his teeth foul, and does not
attempt to clean them, certainly betrays much
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
of the negligence of his character, which does
him no honour.
. As are the teeth of man, that is to say, their
form, position, and cleanliness (so far as the
latter depends on himself,) so is his taste.
Wherever the upper gum is very visible at the
first opening of the lips, there is generally much
cold and phlegm.
Much, indeed, might be written upon the
teeth, though they are generally neglected in
all historical paintings. To be convinced of this,
we need but observe the teeth of an individual
during the course of a single day, or contem­
plate an apartment crowded with fools. We
should not then, for a moment, deny that the
teeth, in conjunction with the lips, are very
characteristic; or that physiognomy has gajned
another token, which triumphs over all the arts
of dissimulation.
TheChin. -
I am, from numerous experiments, convinced
that the projecting chin ever denotes something
positive, and the retreating something negative.
The presence or absence of strength in man is
often signified by the chin.
I have never seen sharp indentings in the
middle of the chin but in men of cool under­
standing, unless when something evidently con­
tradictory. appeared in the countenance.
The pointed chin is generally held to be a sign
of acuteness and craft, though I know very
7«
Digitized by G o o g le
physiognomy;
worthy persons with such chins. Their craft te
the craft of the best dramatic poetry.
The soft, fat, double chin, generally points out
the epicure; and the angular chin is seldom
found but in discreet, well-disposed, firm men.
Flatness of chin speaks the cold and dry;
smallness, fear; and roundness, with a dimple,
benevolence.
CHAP. XII.
O f Sculls.
How much may the anatomist see in the mere
scull of man! How much more the physiogno­
mist ! And how much the most the anatomist
who is a physiognomist! I blush when I think
how muoh I ought to know, and of how much
I am ignorant, while writing on a part of the
body of man which is so superior to all that
science has yet discovered—to all belief, to all
conception! *
I consider the system of the bones as the great
outline of man, and the scull as the principal
part of that system. I pay more attention to the
form and arching of the scull, as far as I am ac­
quainted with it, than all my predecessors; and
I have considered this most firm, least change­
able, and far best defined part of the human
body, as the foundation of the science of physi­
ognomy* I shall therefore be permitted to be
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY*
particular in my observations on this member of
the human body.
I confess, that I scarcely know where to begin,
where to end, what to say, or what to omit. I
think >it adviseable to premise a few words con­
cerning the generation and formation of human
bones.
The whole of the human foetus is at first sup­
posed to be only a soft mucilaginous substance,
homogenous in all its parts; and that the bones
themselves are but a kind of coagulated fluid,
which afterwards becomes membraneous, then
cartilaginous, and at last hard bone.
As this viscous congelation, originally so
tranparent and tender, increases, it becomes
thicker and more opaque, and a dark point
makes its appearance different from the carti­
lage, and of the nature of bone, but not yet per­
fectly hard. This point may be called the kernel
of the future bone, the centre round which the
ossification extended.
We must, however, consider the coagulation
attached to the cartilage as a mass without
shape, and only with a proper propensity for as­
suming its future form. In its earliest, tenderest
state, the traces of it are expressed upon the car­
tilage, though very imperfectly.
With respect to the bony kernels, we find dif­
ferences which seem to determine the form of
the future bones. The simple and smaller bones
have each only one kernel; but, in the more
gross, thick, and angular, there are several, in
78
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
different parts of the original cartilage; and it
must be remarked, that the number of the join­
ing bones is equivalent to the number of the
kernels.
In the bones of the scull, the round kernel
first is apparent, in the centre of each piece;
and the ossification extends itself, like radii from
the centre, in filaments, which increase in
length, thickness, and solidity, and are inter­
woven with each other like net-work. Hence
these delicate, indented features of the scull,
when its various parts are at length joined.
We have hitherto only spoken of the first
stage ofossification. The second begins about the
fourth or fifth month, when the bones, together
with the rest of the parts, are more perfectly
formed, and, in the progress of ossification,
include the whole cartilage, according.to the
more or less life of the creature, and the original
different impulse and power of motion in the
being.
Agreeable to their original formation through
each succeeding period of age, they will continue
to increase in thickness and hardness. But on
this subject anatomists disagree—so let them.
Future physiognomists may consider this more at
large. I retreat from contest, and will travel in
the high road of certainty, and confine myself to
what is visible.
Thus much is certain, that the activity of the
muscles, vessels, and other parts which surround
7
9
Digitized by G o o g le
90 PHYSIOGNOMY.
the bones, contribute much to their formation;,
and gradual increase in hardness.
The remains of the cartilaginous in the young
bones, will, in the sixth and seventh month, de­
crease in quantity, harden, and whiten, as the
bony parts approach perfection. Some bones
obtain a certain degree of firmness in much less,
time than others; as, for example, the scull
bones, and the small bones within the ear. Not
only whole bones, but parts of a single bone, are
. of various degrees of hardness. They will be»
hardest at the place where the kernel of ossifi­
cation began, and the parts adjacent; and the
rigidity increases more slowlyandinsensibly, the
harder the bones are, and the older the man is.
What was cartilage will become bone; parts
that were separate will grow together, and the
whole bones be deprived of moisture.
Anatomists divide the form into the natural or-
the essential, which is generally the same in all
bones in the human body, how different soever
it may be to other bodies; and into the acciden­
tal,which is subjecttovariouschangesin the same
individual, according to the influence of external
objects, or, especially, of the gradations of age..
The first is founded in the universality of the
nature of parents, and the circumstances which
naturally and invariably attend propagation.*
Anatomists consider only the designation of the
bones individually; on this, at least, is grounded
the agreement of what they call the essential
Digitized by G o o g le
PRVSIOGNOMV.
form, in distinct subjects. This, therefore, only
speaks to the agreement of human countenances,
so far as they have each two eyes, one nose, one
month, and other features tints or. thus .disposed.
. This natural formation is certainly as different
as. human couhtenafices afterwards are; which
difference is the Work of Nature, the original
destination of the Lord and Creator of all things.
The physiognomistdistinguishesbetweenoriginal
form and deviations. ..
Each bone hath its original form, its individual
capacity of form. It may, it does continually
alter; but it never* acquires the peculiar form of
another bone, which was originally different.
The accidental Changes of bones, however great,
or different from the original form, are yet ever
governedbythe nature of this original individual
form) nor cad any power/of.pretfiureever sd
ehange the original form, but thfct, if compared
to another; syfctem of bodes that has suffered an
equal pressure, it will be perfectly distinct. As
little as/the..Ethiopian ban change his akin, or
the jeofiard bis.spots, Whatever be the changes
to which they may beduigect, as littie can tile
original form ofanyhohe be changed into the
orlgidai fo!rm of any other bone. .. ..
- Vessels every where penetrate the bones, sup­
plying them with juices and marrow. . The
younger the bone is, the more are there of these
vessels—consequently the more porous and flefe*
ible are the bones, and the reverse. The period
when such or such changes take place in the
G
8(
Digitized by G o o g le
82 PHYSIOGNOMY.
bones, cannot easily be defined; it differs ac­
cording to the nature of men in accidental cir­
cumstances.
Large and long and multiform bones, in order
to facilitate their ossification and growth, at first
consist of several pieces, the smaller ofwhichare
called supplemental. The bone remains im­
perfect till these become incorporated. Hence
their possible distortion in children, by the
rickets, and other diseases.
CHAP. XIII.
Suggestions to the physiognomist concerning the
Scull.
The scientific physiognomist ought to direct his
attention to the distortion of the bones, espe­
cially those of the head. He ought to learn ac­
curately to remark, compare, and define, the first
form of children, and the numerous relative de­
viations. He ought to have attained that pre­
cision that should enable him to say, at behold­
ing the head of a new-born infant, ofhalfa year,
a year, or two years old, “ Such and such will
be the form of the system of the bones, under
such and such limitations;” and on viewing the
scull at ten, twelve, twenty, or twenty-four years
of age, “ Such or such was the form, eight, ten,
or twenty years ago; and such or such will be
the form, eight, ten, or twenty years hence, vio-
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
lence excepted.” He ought to be able to see
the youth in the boy, and the man in the youth;
and, on the reverse, the youth in the man, the
boy in the youth, the infant in the boy, and,
lastly, the embryo in its proper individual form.
Let us, O ye who adore that Wisdom which
has framed all things! contemplate, a moment
longer, the human scull. There are, in the bare
scull of man, the same varieties as are to be
found in the whole external form of the living
man.
As the infinite varieties of the external form
of man is one of the indestructible pillars of
physiognomy, no less so, in my opinion, must
the infinite varieties of the scull itself be. What
I have hereafter to remark will, in part, shew
that we ought particularly to begin by that, if
instead of a subject,of curiosity and amusement,
we would wish to make the science of physiog­
nomy universally useful. '
I shall shewthat from the structure, form, out­
line, and properties of the bones, not all, indeed,
but much may be discovered, and probably more
than from all the other parts.
Objection and Answer.
What answer shall I make to that objection,
with which a certain anti-physiognomist has
made himself so merry? 7
“ In the catacombs near Rome (says he) a
number of skeletons were found, which were
supposed to be the relics of saints, and, as
83
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
such, were honoured. After some time, several
learned men began to doubt whether these had
really been the sepulchres of the first Christians
and martyrs,and even to suspect that malefactor^
and banditti might have been buried there. The
piety of the faithful was thus much puzzled; but
if the science of physiognomy be so certain, they
might have removed all their doubts by sending
for Lavater, who with very little trouble, by
merely examining and touching them, might
have distinguished the bones of the saints from
the bones of the banditti, and thus have restored
the true relics to their just and original pre-r
eminence.”
“ The conceit is whimsical enough (answers
a cold and phlegmatic friend of physiognomy;)
but, having tired ourselves with laughing, let us
examine what would have been the consequence
had this story been fret. According to our
opinion, the physiognomist would have remarked
great differences in a number of bones, particu­
larly in the sculls, which, to the ignorant, would
have appeared perfectly similar; and, having
classed his heads, and shewn their immediate
gradations, and the contrast ofthe two extremes,
we may presume, the attentive spectator would
have been inclined to pay some respect to his
conjectures on the qualities and activity of brain
which each formerly contained.
“ Besides, when we reflect how certain it is
that many malefactors have been possessed of
extraordinary abilities and energy, and how un-
84
Digitized by C 3gle
PHYSIOGNOMY. 8 5
certain it is whether many of the saints who are
honoured with red-letter days in the calendar,
ever possessed such qualities, we find the ques­
tion so intricate that we should be inclined to
pardon the poor physiognomist were he to refuse
an answer, and leave the decision to the great
infallible Judge.”
Further R eply.
Let us endeavour farther to investigate the
question ; for, though this answer is good, it is
insufficient. Who ever yet pretended absolutely
to distinguish saints from banditti, by inspecting
only the scull ?
To me it appears, that justice requires we
should, in all our decisions concerning books,
men, and opinions, judge each according to their
pretensions, and not ascribe pretensions which
have not.been made to any man.
I have heard of no physiognomist who has
had, and I am certain that I myself never havè
had, any such presumption. Notwithstanding
which, I maintain as a truth most demonstrable,
that, by the mere form, proportion, hardness, or
weakness of the scull, the strength or weakness
of the general character may be known with the
greatest certainty. But, as hath been often re­
peated, strength and weakness are neither vlrtué
nor vice, saint nor malefactor. '
Power, like riches, may be employed' tô tlië
advantage or detriment of society, the same as
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
wealth may be h* the possession of a saint or a
demon; and as it is with wealth, or arbitrary
positive power, so is it with natural innate
power. As in an hundred rich men there are
ninety-nine who are not saints, so will there
scarcely be one saint among an hundred men
born with this power.
When, therefore, we remark in a scull great
original and percussive power, we cannot indeed
say this man was a malefactor; but we may af­
firm there was this excess of power, which, if it
were not qualified and tempered during life,
there is the highest probability it would have
been agitated by the spirit of conquest, would
have become a general, a conqueror, a Caesar,
a Cartouch. Under certain circumstances he
would probably have acted in a certain manner,
and his actions would have varied according to
the variation of circumstances; but he would
always have acted with ardour, tempestuously,
always as a ruler and a conqueror.
Thus, also, we may affirm of certain other
sculls, which in their whole structure and form,
discover tenderness, and resemblance to parch­
ment, that they denote weakness; a mere capa­
bility of perceptive, without percussive, without
creative power. Therefore, under certain cir­
cumstances, such persons would have acted
weakly. They would not have had the native
power of withstanding this or that temptation,
of engaging in this or that enterprise. In the
Digitized by G o o g le
PHY8IOGNOMY•
fashionable world, they would have acted the
fop, the libertine in a more confined circle, and
the enthusiastic saint in a convent.
Oh ! how differently may the same power, the
same sensibility, the same capacity, act, feel,
and conceive, under different circumstances!
And hence we may, in part, comprehend the
possibility of predestination and liberty in one
and the same subject.
Take a man of the commonest understanding
to a charnel-house, and make him attentive to
the differences of sculls; in a short time he will
either perceive of himself, or understand when
told, here is strength, there weakness; here oh»
stinacy, and there indecision.
If shewn the bald head of Caesar, as painted
by Rubens or Titian, or that of Michael Angelo,
what man would be dull enough not to discover
that impulsive power, that rocky comprehen­
sion, by which they were peculiarly charac­
terised; and that more ardour, more action
must be expected, than from a smooth, round,
flat head ? '
How characteristic is the scull of Charles X II!
How different from the scull of his biographer
Voltaire! Compare the scull of Judas with the
scull of Christ,* after Holbein, discarding the
muscular parts, and I doubt, if asked which was
the wicked betrayer, which the innocent be­
trayed, whether aay one would hesitate.
I will acknowledge, that when two determi­
nate heads are presented to us, with such strik-
87
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
ing differences, and the one of which is known
to be that of a malefactor, the other that of a
saint, it is infinitely more easy to decide; but he
whp can distinguish between them, should not
therefore affirm he can distinguish the sculls of
saints from the sculls of malefactors.
To conclude this chapter. Who Is unacquaint­
ed with the anecdote in Herodotus, that it was
possible, many years afterwards, on the field of
battle, to distinguish the sculls of the effeminate
Medes from those of the manly Persians ? I think
I have heard the same remark made of the Swiss
and the Burgundians. This at least proves it is
granted that we may perceive, m the'scull only,
a difference of strength and manners, as well as
of nations.
8 6
CHAP. XIV.
O f the Difference of Sculls, as they relate to Sex,
and particularly to Nations.-r-JOf the Sculls o f
Children.
An Essay on the difference of hones, as tliey re­
late to sex,*and particularly to nations, has been
published by M. Fischer, which is well deserving
of attention. The following are some thoughts
on the subject, concerning which nothing will
be expected from me, but yery much from M.
Hamper. '
Consideration and comparison of the external
Digitized by Goo<
PHYSIOGNOMY.
and internal make of the body, in male and fe­
male, teaches us, that the one is destined for la­
bour and strength, and the other for beauty and
propagation. The bones particularly denote
masculine strength in the former; and, so far as
the stronger and the prominent are more easy to
describe than the less prominent and the weaker,
so far is the male skeleton and the scull the
easiest to define.
The general structure of the bones in the
male, and of the scull in particular, is evidently
of stronger formation than in the female. The
body of the male increases, from the hip to the
shoulder, in breadth and thickness; hence the
broad shoulders and square form of the strong s
whereas the female skeleton gradually grows
thinner and weaker from the hip upwards, and
by degrees appears as if it were rounded.
Even single bones in the female are more ten­
der, smooth, and round; have fewer sharp edges,
cutting and prominent corners.
We may here properly cite the remark of San-
torinus, concerning the difference of sculls, as
they relate to sex. “ The aperture'of the mouth,
the palate, and in general the parts which form
the voice, are less in the female; mid the more
small and round chin, consequently the under
part of the mouth, correspond.”
The round or angular form of the scull may be
very powerfully and essentially turned to the
advantage of the physiognomist, and becomes a
source of innumerable individual judgments.
8 9
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
Of this the whole work abounds with proofs
and examples.
No man is perfectly like another, either m ex­
ternal construction or internal parts, whether
great or small, or in the system of the bones.
I find this difference, not only between nations,
but between persons of the nearest kindred;
but not so great between these, and* between
persons of the same nation, as between nations
remote from each other, whose manners and
food are very different. The more confidently
men converse with, the more they resemble
each other, as well in the formation of the parts
of the body, as in language, manners, and
food; that is, so far as the formation of the
body can be influenced by external accidents.
Those nations, in a certain degree, will resemblé
each other, that have commercial intercourse,
they being acted upon by the effect of climate,
imitation, and habit, which have so great an in­
fluence in forming the body and mind; that is to
say, the visible and invisible powers of man;
although national character still remains, and
which character, in reality, is much easier to
remark than to describe.
We shall leave more extensive inquiries and
"observations concerning this subject to some
such person as Hamper, and refrain, as becomes
us ; not having obtained sufficient knowledge of
the subject to make remarks of our own, of
sufficient importance.
Differences with respect to strength, firm-
90
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
ness, structure, and proportion of the parts,
are certainly visible in all the bones of the skeT
letons of the different nations; but most in the
formation of the countenance, which every
where contains the peculiar expression of na­
ture, of the mind.
The scull of a Dutchman, for example, is in
general rounder, with broader bones, curved,
and arched in all its parts, and with the sides
less flat and compressed.
A Calmuc scull will be more rude and gross;
flat on the top, prominent at the sides; the
parts firm and compressed, the face broad and
flat.
The scull of the Ethiopian is steep, suddenly
elevated; as suddenly small, sharp, above the
eyes; beneath strongly projecting; circular, and
high behind.
In proportion as the forehead of the Calmuc
is flat and low, that of the Ethiopian is high
and narrow; while the back part of an Euro­
pean head has a much more protuberant arch,
and spherical form behind, than that of a negro.
O f the Sculls o f Children.
The scull, or head, of a child, drawn upon
paper, without additional circumstance, will be
generally known, and seldom confounded with
the head .of an adult. But, to keep them dis­
tinct, it is necessary the painter should not be
too hasty and incorrect in his observations of
what is peculiar, or so frequently generalize the
91
Digitized by G o o g le A
PHYSIOGNOMY.
particular, which is the eternal error of paints
ers, and of so many pretended physiognomists.
Notwithstanding individual variety, there are
certain constant ¡signs proper to the head of a
child, which as much consist in the combina­
tion and form of the whole, as in the single
parts.
It is well known that the head is larger h}
proportion to the rest of the body, the younger
the person is; and it seems to me, from com­
paring the scull of the embryo, the child, and
the man, that the part of the scull which con­
tains the brain is proportionably larger than the
parts that compose the jaw and the countenance.
Hence it happens that the forehead lit children,
especially the upper part, is generally so pro­
minent.
The bones of the upper and under jaw,
with the teeth they contain, are later in their
growth, and more slowly attain perfect forma­
tion. The under part of the head generally in­
creases more than the upper, till it has attained
full growth. Several processes of the bones, as
the processus mamillares, which lie behind and
under the ears, form themselves after the birth;
as do also, in a great measure, various hidden .
sinusses, or cavities, in these bones. The quill-
form of these bones, with their various points,
ends, and protuberances, and the numerous
muscles which are annexed to them, and con­
tinually in action, make the greater increase
and change more possible and Casy than can
92
Digitized by G o o g le
happen in the spherical bony covering of the
brain, when once the sutures are entirely be­
come-solid. .
This unequal growth of the two principal
parts of the scull must necessarily produce an
essential difference in the whole, without enu­
merating the obtuse extremities, the edges,
sharp corners, and single protuberances, which
are chiefly occasioned by the action of the
muscles.
As the man grows, the countenance below
the forehead becomes more protuberant; and as
file sides of the face, that is to say, the temple-'
bones, which are also slow in coming, to per­
fection, continually .remove farther from each
other, the scull, gradually loses that pear form
which it appears to me to have had in embryo.
The sinusfrontales first form themselves after
birth. The prominence at the bottom of the
forehead, between the eyebrows, is likewise
wanting in childreh. The forehead joins the
nose without any remarkable curve. This latter
circumstance may also be observed in some
grown persons, when the smu$ frontales are
either wanting or very small; for these cavities
are found very different in different subjects* >
The nose, during growth, alters exceedingly;
but I am unable to explain in what manner the
bones contribute to this ^Iteration, it being
chiefly cartilaginous. Accurately tp determine
this, many experiments on the heads and sculls
of children, and grown persons, would be ne-
PHYSIOGNOMY. 9 8
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
cessary; or, rather, if we could compare the
same head with itself, at different ages, which
might be done by the means of shades, such
gradation of the head or heads would be of
great utility to the physiognomist.
94
CHAP. XV.
Description o f P late III.
Number 1. ‘
This outline, from a bust of Cicero, appears to
me an almost perfect model of congeniality.
The whole has the character of penetrating
acuteness, an extraordinary, though not a great
profile. All is acute; all is sharp: discerning,
searching, less benevolent than satirical, ele­
gant, conspicuous, subtle.
Number 2.
Another congenial countenance. Too evi­
dently nature for it to be mistaken for ideal, or
the invention and emendation of art. Such a
forehead does not betoken the rectilinear, but
the nose thus bent. Such an upper lip, such an
open, eloquent mouth. The forehead does not
lead us to expect high poetical genius; but
acute punctuality, and the stability of retentive
memory. It is impossible to suppose this a
common countenance.
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY. 9 5
Number 3.
The forehead and nose not congenial. The
nose shews the very acute thinker. The lower
part of the forehead, on the contrary, especially
the distance between the eyebrow and eye,
do not betoken this high degree of mental
power. The stiff position of the whole is much
at variance with the eye and mouth, but par­
ticularly with the nose. The whole, the eye­
brow excepted, speaks a calm, peaceable, mild
character.
Number 4.
The harmony of the mouth and nose is self­
evident. The forehead is too good, too compre­
hensive, for this very limited under part of the
countenance. The whole bespeaks a harmless
character; nothing delicate, nor severe.
. Number 5.
We have here a high bold forehead, with a
short-seeming blunt nose, and a fat double chin.
How do these harmonise? It is almost a general
law of nature, that, where the eyes are strong
drawn, and the eyebrows near, the eyebrows
must also be strong. This countenance, merely
by its harmony, its prominent congenial traits, is
expressive of sound, clear understanding; the
countenance of reason.
Digitized by G o o g le
96 PHYSIOGNOMY-
Number 6 .
The perfect countenance of a politician. Faces
which are thus pointed from the eyes to the
chin always, have lengthened noses, and never
possess large, open, powerful, - and piercing
eyes. Their firmness partakes of obstinacy, and
they rather follow intricate plans than the dic­
tates of common sense.
CHAP. XVI.
The Phyiiognomist.
All men have talents for all things ; yet we may
venture to assert, that very few have the deter­
minate and essential talents. All men have
talents for drawing: they can all learn to write,
well or ill; yet not an excellent draftsman will
be produced in ten,thousand. The same may
be affirmed of eloquence, poetry^ and physi­
ognomy. All men who have eyes and ears, have
talents to become physiognomists; yet not one
in ten thousand can become an excellent phy­
siognomist.
It may, therefore, be of use to sketch the cha­
racter of the true physiognomist, that those who
are deficient of the requisite talents may be de­
terred from the study of physiognomy. The
pretended physiognomist, with a foolish head
and a wicked heart, is certainly one of the most
9
Digitized by G o o g le
contemptible and mischievous creatures that
crawls on the face of the earth. .
- No one, whose person is not well formed, can
become a good physiognomist. Those painters
were the best, whose persons were the hand­
somest. Reubens, Vandyke, and Raphael, pos­
sessing three gradations of beauty, possessed
three gradations of the genius of painting. The
physiognomists of the greatest symmetry are
the best. As the most virtuous can best deter­
mine on virtue, and the just on justice, so can
the most handsome countenances on the.good­
ness, beauty, and noble traits of the human
countenance, and consequently on its defects and
Ignoble properties. The scarcity of human
beauty is the reason why physiognomy is so
• much decried, and finds so many opponents. *
No person, therefore, ought to enter the sanc­
tuary of physiognomy who has a debased mind,
an ill-formed forehead, a blinking eye, or a dis­
torted mouth. “ The light of the body is the
eye; if, therefore, thine eye be single, thy whole
body shall be full of light; but if thine eye be
evil, thy whole body shall be full ofdarkness: if,
therefore, the light that is in thee be darkness,
how great is that darkness!” -
Any one who would become a physiognomist
cannot meditate too much on this text. O single
eye! that beholdest all things as they are, seest
nothing falsely, with glance oblique, nothing
overlookest! • O most perfect image of reason
and wisdom!—Why do I say image? Thou art
h -
PHYSIOGNOMY. , 9J
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
reason and wisdom themselves! Without thy
resplendent light would all that appertains to
physiognomy become dark!
He who does not, at the first aspect of any
man, feel a certain emotion of affection or dis­
like, attraction or repulsion, never can become
a physiognomist.
He who studies art more than nature, and
prefers what the painters call maimer to the
truth of drawing; he who does not feel himself
moved almost to tears, at beholding the ancient
ideal beauty, and the present depravity of men
.and imitative art; he who views antique gems,
and does not discover enlarged intelligence in
Cicero, enterprising resolution in Caesar, pro­
found thought in Solon, invincible fortitude in
Brutus, in Plato god-like wisdom; or, in mo­
dern medals, the height of human sagacity in
Montesquieu, in Haller the energetic contem­
plative look, and most refined taste; the deep
reasoner in1Locke, and the witty satirist in Vol­
taire, even at the first glance, never can become
a physiognomist. .
He who does not dwell with fixed rapture on
the aspect of benevolence in action, supposing
itself unobserved; he who remains unmoved by
the voice of innocence, the guiltless look of un­
violated chastity, the mother contemplating her
beauteous sleeping infant; the warm pressure
of the hand of a friend, or his eye swimming in
tears; he who can lightly tear himself from
scenes like these, and turn them to ridicule,
96
Digitized
d by C j O O g l C
might much easier commit the crime of parri­
cide than become a physiognomist.
If such be the case, what then is required of
the physiognomist? What should bis inclina­
tion, talents, qualities, and capabilities be?
In the first place, as hath been in part al­
ready remarked, his first of requisites should be
a body well proportioned; -and finely organized ;
accuracy of sensation, capable of receiving the
most minute outward impressions, and easily
transmitting them faithfully to memory; or, as
I Ought rather to say, impressing them upon the
imagination, -and the fibres of the brain. His
eye, in particular, must be excellent, clear,
acute, rapid, and firm. '
The very soul of physiognomy is precision in
observation. The physiognomist must possess a
mostdelicate, swift, certain, most extensive spirit
of observation. To observe is to be attentive,
so as7to fix the mind on a particular object,
which it selects, or may select, for considera­
tion, from a number of surrounding objects.
To be attentive is to consider some one particu­
lar object, exclusively of all others, and to ana­
lyze, consequently to distinguish what is simi­
lar, what dissimilar, to discover proportion, and
disproportion, is the office of the understanding.
If the physiognomist has not an accurate, su­
perior, and extended understanding, he will nei­
ther be able rightly to observe, nor to compare
and class his observations, much less to draw the
necessary conclusions. Physiognomy is the
PHYSIOGNOMY. 9 9
Digitized by G o o g le
100 PHYSIOGNOMY.
highest exercise of the understanding, the logic
of corporeal varieties.
To the clearest and profoundest understand­
ing, the true physiognomist unites the most
lively, strong, comprehensive imagination, and
a fine and rapid wit. Imagination is necessary
to impress the traits with exactness, so that they
may be renewed at pleasure; and to range the
pictures in the mind as perfectly as if they still
were visible, and with all possible order.
A keen penetration is indispensable to the
physiognomist, that he may easily perceive the
resemblance that exists between objects. Thus,
for example, he sees a head or forehead pos­
sessed of certain characteristic marks: these
marks present themselves to his imagination,
and a keen penetration discovers to what they
are similar. Hence greater precision, certainty,
and expression, are imparted to his images.
He must have the capacity of uniting the ap­
proximation of each trait that he remarks, and
be able to define the degree of this approxima­
tion. No one, who is not inexhaustibly copious
in language, can become a physiognomist; and
the highest possible copiousness is poor, compa­
ratively with the wants of physiognomy. All
that language can express, the physiognomist
must be able to express. He must be the
creator of a new language, which must be
equally precise and alluring, natural and intelli­
gible.
Every production of art, taste, and mind; all
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY. 101
vocabularies of all nations, all the kingdoms of
nature, must obey his command, must supply
his necessities.
The art of drawing is indispensable, if he
would be precise in his definitions, and accurate
in his decisions. Drawing is the first, most na­
tural, and unequivocal language of physiog­
nomy; the best aid of the imagination, the only
means of preserving and communicating num­
berless peculiarities, shades, and expressions,
which are not by words, or any other mode, to
be described. The physiognomist, who cannot
draw hastily, accurately, and characteristically,
will be unable to make, much less to retain, or
communicate, innumerable observations.
The knowledge of anatomy is indispensable to
him; as also is physiology, or the science of the
human body in health; not only that he may be
able to remark any disproportion, as well in the
solids as in the muscular parts, but that he may
likewise be capable of naming these parts in his
physiognomonical language. He must also be
acquainted with the temperament of the human
body. Not only its different colours and ap­
pearances, occasioned by the mixture of the
blood, but also the constituent parts of the blood
itself, and their different proportions. Still
more especially must be understood the external
symptoms of the constitution, relative to the
nervous system; for on this depends more than
even on the knowledge of the blood. '
What an extensive knowledge ought he to
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY*
have of the human heart, and the manners of
the world! How thoroughly ought he to in­
spect, to feel himself! That most essential, yet
most difficult of all knowledge, to the physiog­
nomist, ought to be possessed by him in all pos­
sible perfection. In proportion only as he
knows himself will he be *enabled to know
others.
Not only is this self-knowledge, this studying
of man, by the study of his own heart, with the
genealogy and consanguinity of inclinations and
passions, their various symptoms and changes,
necessary to the physiognomist, for the foregoing
causes, but also for an additional reason. . .
“ The peculiar shades (I here cite the words
of one of the critics on my first essay) the pecu­
liar shades of feeling, which most affect the ob­
server of any object, frequently hare relation to
his own mind, and will be soonest remarked by
him in proportion as they sympathize with his
own powers. They will affect him most, accord­
ing- to the manner in which he is accustomed to
survey the physical and moral world. Many,
therefore; of his observations are applicable only
to the observer himself; and, however strongly
they may be conceived,by him, he cannot easily
impart them to others. Yet these minute ob­
servations influence his judgment.' For this
reason, the physiognomist must, if he knows
himself, which he injustice ought to do before he
attempts to know others, once more compare his
remarks with his own peculiar mode of thinking,
103
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY. 103
and separate those which are general from those
which are individual, and appertain to himself.”
I shall make no commentary on this important
precept. I shall here only repeat, that an accu­
rate and profound knowledge of his own heart
is one of the most essential qualities in the cha­
racter of the physiognomist.
Reader, if thou hast not often blushed at thy­
self, even though thou shouldest be the best of
men, for the best of men is but man; if thou
hast not often stood with downcast eyes, in pre­
sence of thyself and others; if thou hast not
dared to confess to thyself, and to confide to thy
friend, that thou art conscious the seeds of every
vice are latent in thy heart; if, in the gloomy
cahn of solitude, having no witness but God and
thy own conscience, thou hast not a thousand
times sighed and sorrowed for thyself; if thou
wantest the power to observe the progress of the
passions, from their very commencement; to
examine what the impulse was which determined
thee to good or ill, and to avow the motive to
God and thy friend, to whom thou mayest thus
confess thyself, and who also may disclose the
recesses of his soul to thee; a friend, who shall
stand before thee the representative of man and
God, and in whose estimation thou also shalt be
invested with the same sacred character; a
friend, in whom thou mayest see thy very soul,
and who shall reciprocally behold himself in
thee; if, in a word, thou art not a man of worth,
thou never canst learn to observe, or know men
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
well5 thou never canst be, never wilt be, worthy
of being a good physiognomist. If thou wishest
not, that the talent of observation should be a
torment to thyself, and an evil to thy brother,
how good, how pure, how affectionate, how ex­
panded ought thy heart to be! How mayest
thou ever discover the marks of benevolence and
mild forgiveness, if thou thyself art destitute of
such gifts? How, if philanthropy does not
make thine eye active, how mayest thou discern
the impressions of virtue, and the marks of the
sublimest sensations? How often wilt thou
overlook them in a countenance disfigured by
accident! Surrounded thyself by mean pas­
sions, how often will such false observers bring
false intelligence! Put far from thee self-inte­
rest, pride, and envy, otherwise u thine eye will
be evil, and thy whole body full of darkness.”
Thou wilt read vices on the forehead whereon
virtue is written, and wilt accuse others of those
errors and failings of which thy own heart ac­
cuses thee. Whoever bears any resemblance to
thine enemy, will by thee be accused of all those
failings and vices with which thy enemy is loaded
by thy own partiality and self-love. Thine eye
will overlook the beauteous traits, and magnify
the discordant. Thou wilt behold nothing but
caricature and disproportion.
But, to draw to a conclusion, the physiogno­
mist should know the world, he should have in­
tercourse with all manner of men, in all various
ranks and conditions; he should have travelled,
104
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY. 105
should possess extensive knowledge, a thorough
acquaintance with artists, mankind, vice, and
virtue, the wise and the foolish, and particularly
with children; together with a love of literature,
and a taste for painting, and the other imitative
arts. I say, can it need demonstration, that all
those and much more are to him indispensable ?
To sum up the whole: to a well-formed, well
organized body, the perfect physiognomist must
unite an acute spirit of observation, a lively
fancy, an excellent judgment, and, with nume­
rous propensities to the arts and sciences, a
strong, benevolent, enthusiastic, innocent heart;
a heart confident in itself, and free from the
passions inimical to man. No one, certainly,
can read the traits of magnanimity, and the high
qualities of the mind, who is not himself capable
of magnanimity, honourable thoughts, and su­
blime actions.
Thus have I pronounced judgment against
myself in writing these characteristics of the
physiognomist. Not false modesty, but con­
scious feeling, impels me to say,.that I am as
distant from the true physiognomist as heaven is
from earth. I am but the fragment of a physi­
ognomist, as this work is but the fragment of a
system of physiognomy.
Digitized by V j O O Q I C
106 PHYSIOGNOMY.
CHAP. XVII.
L avaters own R em arls on N ational Physiog­
nomy.
It.is undeniable, that there is national physiog­
nomy, as well as national character. Whoever
doubts of this can never have observed men of
different nations, nor have compared the inha­
bitants of the extreme coniines of any two.
Compare a Negro and an Englishman, a native
of Lapland and an Italian, a Frenchman and an
inhabitant of Terra del Fuego. Examine their
forms, countenances, characters, and minds.
Their difference will be easily seen, though it
will, sometimes, be very difficult to describe it
scientifically.
It seems to me probable, that we shall dis­
cover what is national in the countenance better
from the sight of an individual at first, than of a
whole people; at least, so it appears to me from
my own experience. Individual countenances
discover more the characteristic of a whole na­
tion, than a whole nation does that which is na­
tional 4
in individuals. The following infinitely
little is what I have hitherto observed from the
foreigners with whom I have conversed, and
whom I have noticed, concerning national cha­
racter.
I am least able to characterise the French.
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
They have no trait so bold as the English, nor
so minute as the Germans. I know them chiefly
by their teeth and their laugh. The Italians I
discover by the nose, small eyes, and projecting
chin. The English by their foreheads and eye­
brows. The Dutch by the rotundity of the
head, and the weakness of the hair. The Ger­
mans by the angles and wrinkles round the eyes
and in the cheeks. The Russians by the snub
nose, and their light-coloured or black hair.
I shall now say a word concerning English­
men in particular. Englishmen have the short­
est and best arched foreheads; that is to say,
they are arched only upwards, and, towards the
eyebrows, either gently recline or are rectili­
near. They very seldom have pointed, but
often round, full, medullary noses5 the Quakers
and Moravians excepted, who, wherever they
are found, are generally thin lipped. English­
men have large, well defined, beautifully curved
lips. They have also a round full chin; but
they are peculiarly distinguished by the eye­
brows and eyes, which are strong, open, liberal,
and steadfast. The outline of their countenance
is, in general, great, and they never have those
numerous, infinitely minute traits, angles, and
wrinkles, by which the Germans are so espe­
cially distinguished. Their complexion is fairer
than that of the Germans.
All English women, whom I -have known per­
sonally or by portrait, appear to be composed of
marrow and nerve. They aré inclined to bg
107
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
tall, slender, soft, and as distant from all that is
harsh, rigorous, or stubborn, as heaven is from
earth.
The Swiss have generally no common phy­
siognomy, or national character, the aspect of
fidelity excepted. They are as different from
each other as nations the most remote. The
French Swiss peasant is as distinct as possible
from the peasant of Appenzel. It may be, that
the eye of a foreigner would better discover the
general character of the nation, and in what it
differs from the French or German, than that of
the native.
I find characteristic varieties in each canton of
Switzerland. The inhabitants of Zurich, for in­
stance, are middle sized, more frequently meagre
than corpulent, but usually one or the other.
They seldom have ardent eyes, and the outline
is not often grand or minute. The men are
seldom handsome, though the youth are incom­
parably so; but they soon alter. The people of
Bern are tall, straight, fair, pliable, and firm,
and are most distinguished by their upper teeth,
which are white, regular, and easily to be seen.
The inhabitants of Basle, or Basil, are more ro­
tund, full, and tense of countenance, the com­
plexion tinged with yellow, and the lips open
mid flaccid. Those of Schafhausen are hard
boned. Their eyes are seldom sunken, but are
generally prominent. The sides of the forehead
diverge over the temples, the cheeks fleshy, and
the mouth wide and open. They are commonly
108
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY. 109
stronger built than the people of Zurich, though,
in the canton of Zurich, there is scarcely a vil­
lage, in which the inhabitants do not differ from
those of the neighbouring village, without at­
tending to dress, which, notwithstanding, is also
physiognomonical.
I have seen many handsome, broad-shouldered,
strong, burden-bearing men, round Wadensch-
weil and Oberreid. At Weiningen, two leagues
from Zurich, I met a company of well-formed
men, who were distinguished for their cleanli­
ness, circumspection, and gravity of deportment.
An extremely interesting and instructing
book might be written on the physiognomonical
character of the peasants of Switzerland. There
are considerable districts, where the counte­
nances, the nose not excepted, are most of them
broad, as if pressed flat with a board. This dis­
agreeable form, wherever found, is consistent
with the character of the people. What could
be more instructive than a physiognomonical
and characteristic description of such villages,
their mode of living, food, and occupation?
CHAP. XVIII.
E xtracts from Buffon on National Physiognomy.
Traversing the surface of the earth, and be­
ginning in the north, we find, in Lapland, and
on the northern coast of Tartary, a race of men,
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
small of stature, singular of form, and with coun­
tenances as savage as.their manners.
These people have large flat faces, the nose
broad, the pupil of the eye of a yellow brown,
inclining to a black, the eyelids retiring towards
the temples, the cheeks extremely high, the
mouth very large, the lower part of the face
narrow, the lips full and high, the voice shrill,
the head large, the hair black and sleek, and the
complexion brown or tanned. They are very
small, and squat, though meagre. Most of them
are not above four feet, and hardly any exceed
four feet and a half. The Borandians are still
smaller than the Laplanders. The Samoides
more squat, with large.heads and noses, and
darker complexions. Their legs are shorter,
their knees more turned outwards, their hair is
longer, tod they have less beard. The com­
plexion of the Greenlanders is darker still, and
of a deep olive colour.
The women, among all these nations, are as
ugly as the men; and not only do these people
resemble each other in ugliness, size, and the
colour of theireyes and hair, but they have similar
inclinations and manners, and are all equally
gross, superstitious, and stupid. Most of them
are idolaters; they are more rude than savage,
wanting courage, self-respect, and modesty.
If we examine the neighbouring people of the
long slip of land which the Laplanders inhabit,
we shall find they have no relation whatever
with that race, excepting only the Ostiachs and
110
Digitized by G o o g le
Tongusians. The Samoiedes and the Boran-
dians have no resemblance with the Russians,
nor have the Laplanders -with the Finlanders,
the Goths, Danes, or Norwegians. The Green*
landers are alike different from the savages of
Canada. The latter are tall and well made;
and, though they differ very much from each
other, yet they are still more infinitely different
from the Laplanders. The Ostiachs seem to be
Samoiedes something less ugly, and dwarfish,
for they are small and ill formed.
All the Tartars have the upper part of the
countenance very large and wrinkled, even in
youth, the nose short and gross, the eyes small
and sunken, the cheeks very high, the lower
part of the face narrow, the chin long and pro­
minent, the upper jaw sunken, the teeth long
and separated, the eyebrows large, covering the
eyes, the eyelids thick, the face flat, their skin of
an olive colour, and their hair black. They are
*of a middle stature, but vety strong and robust;
have little beard, which grows in small tufts,
like that of the Chinese, thick thighs, and short
legs.
The Little or Nogais Tartars have losf a part
of their ugliness by having intermingled with
the Circassians. As we proceed eastward, into
free or independent Tartary, the features of the
Tartars become something less hard, but the es­
sential characteristics oftheir race ever remain.
The Mogul Tartars, who conquered China, and
who were the most polished of these nations,
PHYSIOGNOMY• 1
*
1
1
Digitized by G o o g le
1 12 PHYSIOGNOMY.
are, at present, the least ugly and ill made; yet
have they, like the others, small eyes, the face
large and flat, little beard, but always black or
red, and the nose short and compressed.
Among the Kergisi and Teheremisi Tartars
there is a whole nation, or tribe, among whom
are very singularly beautiful men and women.
The manners of the Chinese and Tartars are
wholly opposite, more so than are their counte­
nances and forms. The limbs of the Chinese
are well proportioned, large, and fat. Their
faces are round and capacious, their eyes small,
their eyebrows large, their eyelids raised, and
their noses little and compressed. They only
have seven or eight tufts of black hair on each
lip, and very little on the chin.
The natives of the coast of New Holland,
which lies in sixteen degrees fifteen minutes of
south latitude, and to the south of the isle of Ti­
mor, are perhaps the most miserable people on
earth, and of all the human race most approach
the brute animal. They are tall, upright, and
slender. Their limbs are long and supple,
their heads great, their forehead round, their
eyebrows thick, and their eyelids half shut.
This they acquire by habit in their infancy, to
preserve their eyes from the gnats, by which
they are greatly incommoded; and, as they
never much open their eyes, they cannot see at
a distance, at least, not unless they raise the
head as if they wished to look at something
above them. They have large noses, thick lips,
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY. 113
and wide mouths. It should seem that they
draw the two upper fore teeth, for neither man
nor woman, young nor old, have these teeth.
They have no beard; their faces are long, and
very disagreeable, without a single pleasing fea­
ture; their hair not long, and sleek, like that of
most of the Indians, but short, black, and curly,
like the hair of the Negroes. Their skin is
black, and resembles that of the Indians of the
coast of Guinea.
Let us now examine the natives inhabiting a
more temperate climate, and we shall find, that
the people of the northern provinces of the Mo­
gul empire, Persia, the Armenians, Turks,
Georgians, Mingrelians, Circassians, Greeks,
and all the inhabitants of Europe, are the hand­
somest, wisest, and the best-formed of any on
earth; and that, though the distance between
Cachemire and Spain, or Circassia and France,
is very great, there is still a very singular re­
semblance between people so far from each
other, but situated In nearly the same latitude.
The people of Cachemire are renowned for
beauty, are as well formed as the Europeans,
and have nothing of the Tartar countenance, the
flat nose, and the small pig's eyes, which are so
universal among their neighbours.
The complexion of the Georgians is still more
beautifiil than that of Cachemire; no ugly face
is found in the country, and nature has endowed
most of the women with graces, which are no
where else to be discovered. The men also áre
i
Digitized by G o o g le
114 PHYSIOGNOMY.
very handsome, have natural understanding, and
would be capable of arts and sciences, did. not
their bad education render them exceedingly ig­
norant and vicious; yet, with all their vices, the
Georgians are civil, humane, grave, and mode­
rate; they seldom are under the influence of
anger, though they become irreconcileable ene­
mies, having once entertained hatred.
The Circassians and Mingrelians are equally
beautiful and well-formed. The lame and the
crooked are seldom seen among the Turks. The
Spaniards are meagre, and rather small; they
are well shaped, have fine heads, regular fea­
tures, good eyes, and well arranged teeth; but
their complexions are dark, and inclined to yel­
low. It has been remarked, that in some pro­
vinces of Spain, as near the banks of the river
Bidassoa, the people have exceedingly large
ears.
M. Lavater here makes this digression: Can
large ears hear better than small? I know one
person with large, rude ears, whose sense of
hearing is acute, and who has a good under­
standing; but, him excepted, I have particularly
remarked large ears to betoken folly; and that,
on the contrary, ears inordinately small apper­
tain to very weak, effeminate characters, or per­
sons of too great sensibility.—Thus far Lavater,
let us now return to Buffon.
Men with black or dark-brown hair begin to
be rather uncommon in England, Flanders, Hol­
land, and the northern provinces of Germany;
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY. 115
and.few such are to be found in Denmark, Swe­
den, and Poland. According to Linnaeus,, the
Goths are very tall, have sleek light-coloured,
silver hair, and blue eyes. The Finlanders are
muscular and fleshy, with long and light yellow
hair, the iris of the eye a deep yellow. *
If we collect the accounts of travellers, it will
appear, that there are as many varieties among
the race ofNegroes as thewhites. They alsohave
theirTartars and their Circassians. The Blacks on
the coast of Guinea are extremely ugly, and emit
an insufferable scent. Those of Sofala and Mo­
zambique are handsome, and have no ill smell.
These two species of Negroes resemble each
other rather in colour than features. Their
hair, skin, the odour of their bodies^ their man«
ners and propensities, are exceedingly different.
Those of Cape Verd have by no means so disa-*
greeable a smell as the natives of Angola.
Their skin also is more smooth and black, their
body better made, their features less hard, their
tempers more mild, and their shape better.
TheNegroes of Senegal are the best formed,
and best receive instruction. The Nagos are the
most humane, the Mondongos the most cruel,
the Mimes the most resolute, capricious, and
subject to despair. *
The Guinea Negroes are extremely limited in
their capacities. Many of them appear to be
wholly stupid; or, never capable of counting
more than three, remain in a thoughtless state
if not acted upon, and have no memory; yet,
Digitized by G o o g le
116 PHYSIOGNOMY.
bounded as is their understanding, they have
much feeling, have good hearts, and the seeds of
all virtue.
The Hottentots have all very flat and broad
noses; but these they would not have, did not
their mothers suppose it their duty to flatten the
nose shortly after birth. They have also very
thick lips, especially the upper; the teeth white,
the eyebrows thick, the head heavy, the body
meagre, and the limbs slender.
The inhabitants of Canada, and all these con­
fines, are rather tall, robust, strong, and tole­
rably well made, have black hair and eyes, very
white teeth, tawny complexions, little beard, and
no hair, or almost none, on any other part of the
body. They are hardy and indefatigable in
marching, swift of foot, alike support the ex­
tremes of hunger, or excess in feeding; are
daring, courageous, haughty, grave, and mode­
rate. So strongly do they resemble the eastern
Tartars in complexion, hair, eyes, the almost
want of beard, and hair, as well as in their in­
clinations and manners, that we should suppose
them the descendants of that nation, did we not
see the two people separated from each other by
a vast ocean. They also are under the same la­
titude, which is an additional ,proof of the in­
fluence of climate on the colour, and even on the
form of man.
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY. * ü7
CHAP. XIX.
Some o f the most remarkable Passages from an
excellent Essay on National Physiognomy, by
Prcfessor K a n t o f Königsberg.
Thb supposition of Maupertius, that a race of
men might be established in any province, in
whom understanding, probity, and strength,
should be hereditary, could only be realized by
the possibility of separating the degenerate from*
the conformable births; a project which, in my
opinion, might be practicable, but which, in the
present order of things, is prevented by the
wiser dispositions of nature, according to which
the wicked and the good are intermingled, that
by the irregularities and vices of the former, the
latent powers of the latter may be put in motion,
¿nd impelled to approach perfection. If nature,
without transplantation or foreign mixture, be
left undisturbed, she will, after many generations,
produce a' lasting race, that shall ever remain
distinct.
If we divide the human race into four princi-?
pal classes, it is probable that the intermediate
ones, however perpetuating and conspicuous,
may be immediately reduced to one of these. 1.
The race of Whites. 2. The Negroes. 3. The
Huns. (Monguls, or Calmucs.) 4. The Hindoos,
or people of Hindostán.
Digitized by
PHYSIOGNOMY.
External things may well be the accidental,
but not the primary causes of what is inherited
or assimilated. As little as chance, or physico-
mechanical causes can produce an organized
body, as little can they add any thing to its
power of propagation; that is to say, produce a
thing, which shall propagate itself by having a
peculiar form, or proportion of parts. •
Man was undoubtedly intended to be the in­
habitant of all climates, and all soils. Hence
the seeds of many internal propensities must be
latent in him, which shall remain inactive, or be
put in motion, according to his situation on the
earth. So that, in progressive generations, he
shall appear as if born for that particular soil in
which he seems planted.
The air and the sun appear to be these causes,
which' most influence the powers of propagation,
and effect a durable development of germ and
propensities; that is to say, the air and the sun
maybethe’origin of adistinctrace. The variations
which food may produce must soon disappear on
transplantation. That which affects the propa­
gating powers must not act upon the support of
life, but upon its original source, its first prin­
ciple, animal conformation, and motion.
A man transplanted to the frigid zone must
decrease in stature, since, if the power or mo­
mentum of the heart continues the same, the
circulation must be performed in a shorter time,
the pulse become more rapid, and the heat of
the blood increased. Thus Crantz found the
118
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
Greenlanders not only inferior in stature to the
Europeans, but also that they had a remarkably
greater heat of body. The very disproportion
between' the length of the body and the short­
ness of the legs, in the northern people, is suit­
able to their climate; since the extremes of the
body, by their distance from the heart, are more
* subject to the attacks of cold.
The prominent parts of the countenance,
which can less be guarded from cold, by the care
of nature for their preservation, have a propen­
sity to become more flat. The ilsing cheek­
bone, the half-closed, blinking eyes, appear to
be intended for the preservation of sight against
the dry, cold air, and the effusions of light from
the snow, (to guard against which the Esqui­
maux use snow spectacles) though they may be
thé natural effect of the climate, since they are
found only in a smaller degree in milder lati­
tudes. Thus gradually are produced the beard­
less chin, the flatted nose, thin lips, blinking
. eyes, flat countenances, red-brown complexion,
black hair, and, in a word, the face of the Cal-
muc. Such properties, by continued propaga­
tion, at length, form a distinct race, which conti­
nues to remain distinct, even when transplanted
into warmer climates.
The copper colour, or red-brown, appears to
be as natural an effect of the acidity of the air,
in cold climates, as the olive brown of the alca­
line and bilious juices in warm; without taking
the native disposition of the American into the
119
Digitized by G o o g le
1 2 0 PHYSIOGNOMY.
estimate, who appears to have lost half the
powers of life, which may be regarded as the ef­
fect of cold.
The growth of the porous parts of the body
must increase in the hot and moist climates.
Hence the thick short nose and projecting lips.
The skin must be oiled, not only to prevent ex­
cessive perspiration, but also imbibing the pu­
trescent particles of the moist air. The surplus
of the ferrugineous, or iron particles, which
have lately been discovered to exist in the blood
of man, and which, by the evaporation of the„
phosphoric acidities, of which all Negroes smell
so strong, being cast upon the retiform mem-,
brane, occasions the blackness which appears
through the cuticle; and this strong retention
of the ferrugineous particles seems to be neces­
sary, in order to prevent the general relaxation
of the parts. Moist warmth is peculiarly fa­
vourable to the growth of animals, and produces
the Negro, who, by the providence of nature,
perfectly adapted to his climate, is strong, mus­
cular, agile; but dirty, indolent, and trifling. .
The trunk, or,stem of the root, may degene­
rate; but this having once taken root, and stifled
other germs, resists any future change of form,
the character of the race having once gained a
preponderance in the propagating powers.
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY. 121
CHAP. XX.
E xtracts from other W riters on National P h y­
siognomy.—From Winkelmann’s H istory of.
A r t.— From the Recherches Philosophiques
sur les Américains, by M. de Pauw .—Observa­
tions by L in tz.— From a L etter written by M*
Fuessli.— From a L etter written by Professor
Camper.
. From Winkelmanns H istory o f A rt.
W ith respect to the form of man, our eyes con­
vince us, that the character of nation, as well as
of mind, is visible in the countenance. As na­
ture has separated large districts by mountains
and seas, so likewise has she distinguished the
inhabitants by peculiarity of features. In coun­
tries far remote from each other, the difference
is likewise visible in other parts of the body, and
in stature. Animals are not more varied, ac­
cording to the properties of the countries they
inhabit, than men are; and some have pretended
to remark, that animals even partake of the pro­
pensities of the men.
, The formation of the countenance is as various
as language, nay, indeed, as dialects, which are
thus or thus various in consequence of the or­
gans of speech. In cold countries, the fibres of
the tongue must be less flexible and rapid than
in warm. The natives of Greenland, and cer-
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
tain tribes of America, are observed to want
some letters of the alphabet, which must origi­
nate in the same cause. Hence it happens, that
the northern languages have more monosyllables,
and are more clogged with consonants, the con­
necting and pronouncing of which isdifficult, and
sometimes impossible, to other nations.
A celebrated writer has endeavoured to ac­
count for the varieties of the Italian dialects,
from the formation of the organs of speech.
€€ For this reason (says he) the people of Lom­
bardy, inhabiting a cold country, have a more
rough and concise pronunciation. The inha­
bitants of Florence and Rome speak in a more
measured tone ; and the Neapolitans, under a
still warmer sky, pronounce the vowels more
open, and speak with more fulness.”
Persons well acquainted with various, nations,
can distinguish them as justly from the form of
their countenance, as from their speech. There­
fore,. since man has ever been the object of art
and artists, the latter have constantly given the
forms of face of their respective nations; and
that art, among the ancients, gave the form and
countenance of. man, is proved by the same
effect having taken place among the moderns.
German, Dutch, or French, when the artists
neither travel nor study foreign forms, can be
known by their pictures as perfectly as Chinesë
or Tartars. After residing many years in Italy,
Rubens continued to draw his figures as. if he
bad never left his native land.
1 2 2
Digitized by Go< e
PHYSIOGNOMY. 123
Another Passage from Winkelmann.
The projecting mouths of the Negroes, which
they have in common with their moiikies, is an
excess of growth, &swelling, occasioned by thé
heat of the climate ; like as our lips are swelled
by heat or sharp saline moisture, and àlso, in
some men, by violent passion. The small eyes
of the distant northern and eastern nations are
in consequence of the imperfection of their
growth. They are short and slender. Nature
produces such forms the more she approaches
extremes, where shë has to encounter heat or
cold. In the ohé she is prompter and ex­
hausted, and in the other crudé, nevër arriving
at maturity. Thé flower withers in excessive
heat, and, deprived of sun, is deprived of co­
lour. All plants degenerate in dark and con­
fined places.
Nature forms with greater regularity the more
she approaches her centre, and in more mo­
derate climates. Hence the Grecian, and our
own idea of beauty, being derived from more
perfect symmetry, must be more accurate than
the idea of those, in whom, to use the ex­
pression of a modern poet, the image of the
Creator is half defaced.
From the Recherches Philosophiques sur les Ame-
ricains, by M. de Pauw.
The Americans are most remarkablé, because
that many of them have no eyebrows, and none
Digitized by G o o g le
have beards; yet we must not infer that they
are enfeebled in the organs of generation, since
the Tartars and Chinese have almost* the same
characteristics. Thejr are far, however, from
being very fruitful, or much addicted to love.
True it is, the Chinese and Tartars are not abso­
lutely beardless. When they are about thirty,/
a small penciled kind of whisker grows on the
upper lip, and some scattered hairs at the end of
the chin.
Exclusive of the Esquimaux, who differ in
gait, form, features, and manners, from other
savages of North America, we may likewise
call the Akansans a variety, whom the French
have generally named the haqdsome men. They
are all tall and straight, have good features, with-,
out the least appearance of beards, have regular
eyelids, blue eyes, and fine fair hair; while the
neighbouring people are low of stature, have
abject countenances, black eyes, the hair of the
head black as ebony, and of the body thick and
rough.
Though the Peruvians are not very tall, and
generally thick set, yet they are tolerably well
made. There are many, it is true, who, by
being diminutive, are monstrous. Some are
deaf, dumb, blind, and idiots; and others want
a limb when born. In all probability, the ex­
cessive labour to which they have been sub­
jected by the barbarity of the Spaniards, has
produced such numbers of defective men. Ty­
ranny has an influence on the very physical tem-
124 PHYSIOGNOMY.
Digitized by G o o g le
perament of slaves. Their nose is aquiline,
their forehead narrow, their hair black, strong1
,
smooth, and plentiful; their complexion an
olive red, the apple of the eye black, and the
white not very clear. They never have any
beard, for we cannot bestow that name on
some short straggling hairs which sprout in
old age; nor have eithejr men or women the
downy hair which generally appears after the
age of puberty. In this they are distinguished
from all people on earth, even from the Tartars
and Chinese. As in eunuchs, it is the character
of their degeneracy. ”
Judging by the rage which the Americans
have to mutilate and disfigure themselves, we
should suppose they were all discontented with
the proportions of their limbs and bodies. Not
a single nation, has been discovered in this
fourth quarter of the globe, which has not
adopted the custom of artificially changing, ei­
ther the form of the lips, the hollow of the ear,
or the shape of the head, by forcing it to assume
an extraordinary and ridiculous figure.
There are savages whose heads are pyramidal,
or conical, with the top terminating in a point.
Others have flat heads, with large foreheads,
atod the back part flattened. This caprice seems
to have been the most fashionable, at least it
was the most common. Some Canadians had
their heads perfectly spherical. Though the
natural form of the head really approaches the
circular, these savages, who, by being thus
PHYSIOGNOMY. l%5
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
distorted, acquired the appellation of bowl or
bullet-head, do not appear less disgusting, for
having made the head too round, and perverted
the original purpose of nature, to which nothing
can be added, from which nothing can be taken
away, without some essential error being the
result, which is destructive to the animal.
In short, we have seen, on the banks of the
Maragnon, Americans with square or cubical
heads ; that is to say, flattened on the face, the
top, the temples, and the occiput, which ap­
pears to be the last stage of human extrava­
gance. . '
It is not easy to conceive how it was possible
to compress and mould the bones of the scull
into so many various forms, without most essen­
tially injuring the seat of sense, and the organs
of reason, or occasioning either madness or
idiotism, since we so often have examples, that
violent contusions in the region Of the temples
have occasioned lunacy, and deprived the suf­
ferers of intellectual capacity. For it is not
true, as ancient narratives have affirmed, that
all Indians with flat or sugar-loaf heads were
really idiots. Had this been the case, there
must have been whole nations in America either
foolish or frantic, which is impossible even in
supposition.
126
Observation by Lintx. - -
To me it appeal's very remarkable, that thè
Jews should have taken with them the marks of
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
their country and race to all parts of the world;
I mean their short, black, curly hair, and brown
complexion. Their quickness of speech, haste
and abruptness in all their actions, appear to
proceed from the same causes. I imagine the
Jews have more gall than other men. '
Extractfrom a Letter written by M . dated
at Presburg.
My observations have been directed (says this
great designer and physiognomist) not to the
countenance of nations only; being convinced,
from numberless experiments, that the general
form of the human body, its attitude and man­
ner, the sunken or raised position of the head
between or above the shoulders, the firm, the
tottering, the hasty, or slow walk, may fre­
quently he less deceitful signs of this or that
character, than the countenance separately con­
sidered. I believe it possible so accurately to
characterize man, from the calmest state ofrest,
to the highest gradation of rage, terror, and
pain, that, from, the carriage of the body, the
turn, of the head, and gestures in general, we
shall he able to distinguish the Hungarian, the
Sdavonian, the Illyrian, the Wallachianj and to
obtain a full and clear conception Of the actual,
and, in general, the prominent characteristics of
this or that nation.
Extract o f a Letter from Professor Camper.
It would be very difficult, if not impossible,
127
Digitized by G oogI
128 PHYSIOGNOMY.
to give you my particular rules for delineating
various nations and ages with mathematical cer­
tainty, especially if I would add all that I have
had occasion to remark concerning the beauty
of the antiques. These rules I have obtained
by constant observations on the sculls of dif­
ferent nations, of which I have a large collec­
tion, and by a long study of the antiques.
To draw any head accurately in profile, takes
me much time. I have dissected the sculls of
people lately dead, that 1 might be able to de­
fine the lines of the countenance, and the angle
of these lines with the horizon. I was thus led
' to the discovery of the maximum and minimum
of this angle. I began with the monkey, pro­
ceeded to the Negro and the European, till I
ascended to the countenances of antiquity, and
examined a Medusa, an Apollo, or a Venus de
Medicis. This concerns only the profile. There
is another difference, in the breadth of the
cheeks, which I have found to be the largest
among the Calmucs^ and much smaller among
; the Asiatic Negroes. The Chinese, and inha­
bitants of the Molucca and other Asiatic islands,
appear to me to have broad cheeks, with pro­
jecting jaw-bones; the under jaw-bone, in par­
ticular, very high, and almost forming a right
angle, which, among Europeans, is very ob­
tuse, and still more so among the African Ne­
groes.
1 have not hitherto been able to procure areal
Digitized by G o o g le
scull of an American, and therefore cannot say
any thing on that subject.
1 am almost ashamed to confess, that I have
not yet been able accurately to draw the coun­
tenance of a Jew, although they are so very re­
markable in their features; nor have I yet ob­
tained precision in delineating the Italian face.
It is generally true, that the upper and under
jaw of the European is less broad than the
breadth of the scull; and that among the Asia­
tics they are much broader; but I have not been
able to determine the specific differences between
European nations.
By physiognomonical sensations, I have very
frequently been able to distinguish the soldiers
of different nations—the Scotchman, the Irish­
man, and the native of England; yet I have never
been able to delineate the distinguishing traits.
The people of our provinces are a mixture of all
nations; but, in the remote and separated can­
tons, I find the countenance to be more flat, and
extraordinarily high from the eyes upward.
PHYSIOGNOMY. 129
CHAP. XXI.
E xtracts from the M anuscript o f a Man o f Litera­
ture a t Darm stadt, on National Physiognomy.
All tribes of people, who live in uncultivated
countries, and consequently are pastoral, not as­
similated in towns, would never be capable of an
K
Digitized by G o o g le
130 PHYSIOGNOMY.
equal degree of cultivation with Europeans,
thoughthey didnotlive thusscattered. Were the
shackles of slavery taken off, still their minds
would eternally,slumber; therefore whatever re­
marks we can make upon them mustbepathogno-
monical (or physiognomonical), andwe mustcon­
fine ourselves to their receptive powers of mind,
not being able to say much of their expression.
. Such people as do not bear our badges of ser­
vitude are not so miserable as we suspect.
Their species of slavery is more supportable in
iheir mode of existence. They are incompara­
bly better fed than German peasants, and have
neither to contend with the cares of providing,
nor the excesses of labour. As their race of
horses exceeds ours in strength and size, so do
their people those among us who have, or sup­
pose they haye, property. Their wants are few,
and their understanding sufficient to supply the
wants they have.. The Russian or Polish pea­
sant is, of necessity, carpenter, tailor, shoemaker,
mason, thatcher, &c. and, when we examine
their performances, we may easily judge of their
capacities. Hence their aptitude at mecha­
nical and handicraft professions, as soon as
they are taught their principles. Invention of
what is great they have no pretensions to; their
mind, like a machine, is at rest when the neces­
sity that sets it in motion no longer impels.
- Of the numerous nations subject to the Rus­
sian sceptre, I shall omit those of the extensive
Siberian districts, and confine myselfto the Rus-
Digitized by G o o g le
sians properly so called* whose countries, are
bounded by Finland* Eastland, Livonia, and the,
borders of Asia, .These are distinguishable by
prodigious strength, firm sinews, broad breast,
and colossal ineck, .which, in a whole ship’s
crew, will be the same, resembling the Fame-
sian Hercules; by their black, broad,, thick,
rough, strong hair, head andbeard; their sunken
eyes, black as pitch $ their short forehead,.com­
pressed to the nose, with an arch. We often
find thin lipsy though in general they are pout­
ing, wide, and thick. The women have high
cheek bones, hollow temples, snub noses, and re­
treating arched foreheads, with very few traits of
ideal beauty. Their power of propagation ex­
ceeds belief, and at a certain period of life, both
sexes’become frequently corpulent.
The Ukranians, of whom most of the regi­
ments of CosSacks are formed, dwell in the cen­
tre. -They are distinguished among the Rus­
sians almost as the Jews are among Europeans«
They-generally have aquiline noses, and are no­
bly formed; amorous, yielding, crafty, and
without strong passions; probably because, for
some thousands of years, they have followed
agriculture, have lived in society, had a form of
government, and inhabit a fruitful country,.in a
moderate climate, resembling that of France.
Among all these people, the greatest activity
and strength of body are united. They are as
different from the German boor, as quicksilver
PHYSIOGNOMY. 131
Digitized by G o o g le
132 PHYSIOGNOMY.
is from lead; and how our ancestors could sup­
pose them to be stupid, is inconceivable.
Thus too the Turks resemble the Russians.
They are a mixture of the noblest blood of Asia
Minor with the more material and gross Tartar.
The Natolian, of a spiritual nature, feeds on me­
ditation : he will for days contemplate a single ob­
ject, seat himself at the chess-board, or wrap
himself up in the mantle of taciturnity. The
eye void of passion or great enterprise, abounds
in all the penetration of benevolent cunning; the
mouth eloquent; the hair of the head and beard,
and the small neck, declare the flexibility of the
man.
The Englishman is erect in his gait, and ge­
nerally stands as if a stake were driven through
his body. His nerves are strong, and he is the
best runner. He is distinguished from all other
men by the roundness and smoothness of his
face. If he neither speak nor move, he seldom
declares the capability and mind he possesses in
so superior a degree. His silent eye seeks not
to please. His hair, coat, and character, are
alike smooth. Not cunning, but on his guard;
and, perhaps, but little colouring is necessary to
deceive him on any occasion. Like the bull­
dog, he does not bark ; but, if irritated, rages.
As he wishes not for more esteem than he nierits,
so he detests the false pretensions of his neigh­
bours, who would arrogate excellence they do
not possess. Desirous of private happiness, he
Digitized by G o o g le
PH FS1
QGNQMYi 133
disregards public opinion, and obtains a charac­
ter of singularity. His imagination, like a sea-,
coal fire, is not the splendour that enlightens a,
region, but expands genial warmth. Persever­
ance in study, and pertinacity, for centuries, in
fixed principles, have raised and maintained the
British spirit, as well as the British government,
trade, manufactures, and marine. He has.
punctuality and probity, not trifling away his
time to establish false principles, or making a
parade with a vicious hypothesis.
In the temperament of nations, the French
class is that of the sanguine. Frivolous, bene-,
volent, and ostentatious, the Frenchman forgets
not his inoffensive parade till old age has made
him wise. At all times disposed to enjoy life,
he is the best of companions. He pardons him­
self much; and therefore pardons others, if they
will but grant that they are foreigners, and he is
a Frenchman. His gait is dancing, his speech
without accent, and his ear incurable. His
imagination pursues the consequences of small
things with the rapidity of the second-hand of
a stop-watch, but seldom gives those loud, strong,
reverberating strokes which proclaim new dis­
coveries to the world. Wit is his inheritance.
His countenance is open, and, at first sight,
speaks a thousand pleasant, amiable things.
Silent he cannot be, either with eye, tongue, or
feature. His eloquence is often deafening; but
his good humour casts a veil over all his failings.
His form is equally distinct from that of other
Digitized by G o o g le
134 PH m O G N O lt V.:
nations, and difficult to describe in words. No
other man has so little of the firm or deep traits,
or so much motion. He is all appearance, all
gesture; therefore the first impression seldom’
deceives, but declares who and what he is. His
imagination is incapable of high flights, andthe
sublime in all arts is to him offence. Hence hfa
dislike in whatever is antique in art or littra*
ture, his deafness to true music, his; blindness to
the higher beauties of paintings - His last, most
marking trait is, that he is astonished, at ¿very
thing, and cannot comprehend how it is-possible
men should be other than they are atrParis.
The countenance of the Italian’is jsouI, his
Speech exclamation, his motion gesticulation^
His form is‘the noblest, and hiscOuntrythe true
seat ofbeauty. His short forehead, -his strong
marked eyeboties, the fine contour of his mouthy
give- a kindred claim to the antiquities of Greece.
Hie ardour Of his eyes denotes,’ that the benefit .
cedt sun' brings forth fruit more perfect m.Italy
¿ban beyond the Alps. His imagination is ever
in liiotion, ever sympathising with surrounding
directs, andj as in the poem of Ariosto the whole
works of creation are reflected, so are-they ge>
ndtally in the national spirit. That power which
cftiild bring forth such a work, appears to « e
the general representative of g e n iu s.It ¿tugs
ah, and from it all things are sung." The sub­
lime ift aits is the birth-right ofthe Italian. Mo- '
dern religion' and politics may have degraded
and falsified his character, may have rendered
Digitized by G o o g I .
PHYSIOGNOMY.
the vulgar faithless add crafty, but the superior
part of;the nation abounds in the noblest add
bestofm ’
en. •; «
. ■ *. \ : . n .»
The Dutchman is tranquil, patient, confined,
and appears to will nothing. His walk and eye
are long silent, iand an hour of his company will
scarcely produce athought. He is little troubled
fay the tide of passions, and he will contemplate
unmoved the parading streamers of all nations
sailing before his eyes. Quiet and competence
are his gods; therefore those arts alone which
can procure these blessings, employ bis faculties.
His laws, political and commercial, have origi­
nated in that spirit of security which maintains
him in the possession of what he has gained;
He is tolerant in all that relates to opinion, if he
be but left peaceably to enjoy his property, and
to assemble at the meeting-house of his sect;
The character of the ant is so applicable to the
Dutch* that to this literature itself conforms in
Holland. All poetical powers, exerted in great
works or small, are foreign to this nation. They
endure pleasure from the perusal of poetry, but
produce none. I speak of the United Provinces*
and not of the Flemings, whose jovial character
is in the midway between the Italian and French;
A high forehead, half-open eyes, full nose, hang­
ing cheeks* wide open mouth, fleshy lips, broad
chin and large ears, I believe to hfe'characterise
tic of the Dutchman.
A German thinks it disgraceful not to know
every thing, and dreads nothing so much as to
135
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
be thought a fool«, Probity often makes him
appear a blockhead. Of nothing is he so proud:
as of honest moral understanding. According
to modern tactics, he is certainly the best soldier,
and the teacher of all Europe. He is allowed
to be the greatest inventor, and often with so
little ostentation, that foreigners have, for cen­
turies, unknown to him, robbed him of his glory.
From the age of Tacitus, a willing dependant,
he has exerted faculties for the service of his
masters, which others only exert for freedom
and property. His countenance does not, like a
painting in fresco, speak at a distance; but he
must be sought and studied. His good nature
and benevolence are often concealed under ap­
parent moroseness, and a third person is always
necessary to draw off the veil, and shew him as
he is. He is difficult to move, and, without the
aid of old wine, is silent. He does not suspect
his own worth, and wonders when it is dis­
covered by others. Fidelity, industry, and se­
crecy, are his principal characteristics. Not
having wit, he indulges his sensibility. Moral
good is the colouring which he requires in all
acts. His epic and lyric spirit walk in unfre­
quented paths. Hence his great, and frequently
gigantic sense, which seldom permits him th€
clear aspect of enthusiasm, or the glow of splen­
dour. Moderate in the use of this world’s de­
lights, he has little propensity to sensuality and
extravagance; but he is therefore formal, and
less social than his neighbour.
136
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY. 137
CHAP. XXII.
Description o f Plate IV.
Number 1 .
We may certainly call noses arched and pointed
like this, witty; but the wit is restrained and
moderated by the acute understanding of the
forehead, the sincere religion of the eye, and the
phlegm of the chin.
Number 2 .
The descent from the nose to the lips in the
phlegmatic countenance is unphlegmatic, and
heterogeneous: nor does the curvature of the
upper eyelid sufficiently agree with the tempera­
ment. The outlines of the phlegmatic are re­
laxed, obtuse, and hanging ; the outline of the
eye, oblique. Be it understood, there are other
tokens, and that all phlegmatic persons have not
these signs, although whoever has them is cer­
tainly phlegmatic. If the projecting under lip,
which is itself a sign of phlegm, since it is evi­
dently a superabundance and not a want of mat­
ter, be angular, and sharply delineated, then it
is a sign of choleric phlegm ; that is to say, of
the ebulition of humidity. If it be flexible, ob­
tuse, powerless, and drooping, it is then pure
phlegm. The forehead, nose, chin, and hair,
are here very phlegmatic.
Digitized by G o o g le
1 3 8 PHYSIOGNOMY.
Number 3.
The choleric ought to have a more angularly
pointed nose, and lips more sharply delineated.
The character of choler is much contained in
the drawing of the eyes, either when the pupil
projects, and much of the under part of the
white is visible, or when the upper eyelid re­
treats, so that it scarcely can be perceived;
when the eyes open, or when the eye is sunken,
and the outlines are very definite and firm,
without much curvature. In this example, the
forehead, eyebrows, nose, chin, and hair, are
very choleric; but the upper part of the counte­
nance more so than the under.
Number 4.
The sanguine needs but little correction, ex­
cept that the nose ought to be a little farther
from the mouth, and the eye not so choleric.
The levity of the sanguine temperament waves,
flutters upon the lip, which, however, at the
bottom, is too phlegmatic.
Number 5.
There ought to be a deeper cavity above the
nose, and also of the jaw-bone, beside the ear,
in this melancholic countenance. I have ob­
served, in many melancholic persons, that the
nose declines towards the lips, nor have I seen
this in any who were not sometimes inclined to
the melancholic, who likewise have projecting
Digitized by G o o g le
under lips, and small, but not very round, nor
very fleshy chins. * • ;
There are melancholy persons with very san­
guine temperaments 5 men of fine irritability,
and moral feelings, who are hurried into vices
which they deeply abhor, and which they have
not the power to withstand« The gloomy add:
dispirited character of such is perceptible in the
eye that shuns examination, and the wrinkles of
the forehead standing opposite to each^other.’
Persons of a real melancholic temperament ge-.
nerally have theii* mouths shut, but the lips are *
always sdmewhat open in the middle. Many
melancholy persons have small nostrils, and sel­
dom well arranged, clean, white teeth.
Number 6.
Strength and ardour, enterprise, .courage,
contempt of danger, fortitude of the irritated
and irritable. This strength is rather oppressive
than patient and enduring ; it proclaims its own
qualities, respectable in a state of rest, terrible
when roused.
PHYSIOGNOMY. 139
CHAP. XXIII.
Resemblance between Parents and Children.
The resemblance between parents and children
is very commonly remarkable. Ifcmily physi­
ognomy is as undeniable as national. To doubt
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
this, is to doubt what is self-evident; to wish to
interpret it, is to wish to explore the inexplicable
secret of existence. Striking and frequent as
the resemblance between parents and children
is, yet have the relations between the characters
and countenances of families never been inquired
into. No one has, to my knowledge, made qny
regular observations on this subject. 1 must
also confess, that l myself have made but few
with that circumstantial attention which is ne­
cessary. All I have to remark i3 as follows:
When the father is considerably stupid, and
the mother exceedingly the reverse, then will
most of the children be endued with extraordi­
nary understanding.
When the father is good, truly good, the chil­
dren will in general be well-disposed ; at least
most of them will be benevolent.
The son generally appears to inherit moral
goodness from the good father, and intelligence
from the intelligent mother ; the daughter par­
takes of the character of the mother.
If we wish to find the most certain marks of
resemblance between parents and children, they
should be observed within an hour or two after
birth. We may then perceive whom the child
most resembles in its formation. The most es­
sential resemblance is usually afterwards lost,
and does not perhaps appear again for many
years; or not till after death.
When children, as they increase in years,
visibly increase in the resemblance of form aud
140
Digiti; • G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
features to their parents, we cannot doubt but
there is an increasing resemblance of character.
How much soever the characters of children
may appear unlike that of the parents they re­
semble, yet will this dissimilarity be found to
originate in external circumstances; and the va­
riety of these must be great indeed, if the differ­
ence of character is not at length overpowered
by the resemblance of form.
I believe, that from the strongly delineated
father, the firmness and the kind (l do not say
the form, but the kind) of bones and muscles are
derived ; and from the strongly delineated mo­
ther, the kind of nerves and form of the coun­
tenance ; if the imagination and love of the mo­
ther have not fixed themselves too deeply in the
countenance of the man.
Certain forms of countenance, in children,
appear for a time undecided whether they shall
take the resemblance of the father or the mother;
in which case I will grant, that external circum­
stances, preponderating love for the father or
mother, or a greater degree of intercourse with
either, may influence the form.
We sometimes see children who long retain a
remarkable resemblance to the father, but at
length change, and become more like the mo­
ther. I undertake not to expound the least of
the difficulties that occur on this subject; but
the most modest philosophy may be permitted to
compare uncommon cases with those which are
known, even though they were inexplicable;
141
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
and this, I believe* is all that philosophy can, and
ought to do* - i
We know that a)l longings, or mother’s marks,
and whatever may be considered as of the same
nature, do not proceed from the father, but
from the imagination of the mother. We also
know, that, children most resemble the father
only when the mother has a very lively ima­
gination, and love for, or fear of the husband«
Therefore, as has before been observed^ it ap­
pears that the matter and quantum of the power,
and of the life, proceed, from.the father; and
from the imagination of the mother, sepsibrlity,
theJundof nerves, the form, and the .appear­
ance. . t
There are certain forms and features of coun-
. tenance which are long propagated, and others
which as suddenly disappear. The beautiful and
the deformed (I do not sayforms ofcountenances,
but what is generally supposed to be beauty and
deformity) are not the most easily propagated;
neither are the middling and insignificant; but
the great and the minute are easily inherited,
and of long duration. .
.Parents with small noses may have children
with the largest and strongest defined.; but the
father or mother seldom, op the contrary, have
a very: strong, that is.to say, large boned nose,
which is' not communicated at least to one of
their children, and which does not remain in the
family, especially when it is in the female line,
ft may.seem to have been lost for many years,
14^
Digitized by G o o g le
physiognomy. 143
but soon or late will again make its appearance,
and its. resemblance to the original will be par­
ticularly visible a day or two after death«
Where any extraordinary vivacity appears in
the eyes of the mother, there is almost a certainty
that these eyes will become hereditary.; for the
imagination of the mother is delighted with no­
thing so much as with the beauty of her own
eyes. Physiognomonical sensation has been hi­
therto much more generally directed to the eye,
than to the nose and form of the face; but if
women should once be induced to examine the
nose, and form of the face, as assiduously as they
have done their eyes, it is. to be expected that
the former will be no less strikingly hereditary
than the latter.
Well-arched and short foreheads are easy of
inheritance, but not of long duration; and here
the proverb is applicable, Quod citofit, cito petit*
(Soon got, soon gone.)
It is equally certain and inexplicable, that some
remarkable physiognomies, of. the most fruitful
persons, have been Wholly lost to their posterity;
and it is as certain and inexplicable; that others
are never lost. Nor is it less remarkable, that
certain strong countenances, of the father or
mother, disappear in the children, and perfectly
revive in the grand-children.
As a proof of the powers of the imagination of
the mother, we sometimes see, that a woman
shall have children by the second husband^
which shall resemble the first, at least in the
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
general appearance. The Italians, however, are
manifestly too extravagant, when they suppose
children, who strongly resemble their father,
are base born. They say that the mother, dur­
ing the commissionofa crime so shameful, wholly
employs her imagination concerning the possi­
bility of surprise by, and the image of, her hus­
band. But, were this fear so to act, the form of
the children must not only have the very image
of the husband, but also his appearance of rage
and revenge, without which the adulterous wife
could not imagine the being surprised by, or
image of, her husband. It is this appearance,
this rage, that she fears, and not the man.
Natural children generally resemble one of
their parents more than the legitimate.
The more there is of individual love, of pure,
faithful, mild affection, the more is this love re­
ciprocal and unconstrained between the father
and mother, which reciprocal love and affection
imply a certain degree of imagination, and the
capacity of receiving impressions, the more will
the countenances of the children appear to be
composed of the features of the parents.
The sanguine of all the temperaments is the
most easily inherited, and with it volatility 5
and, being once introduced, much industry and
suffering will be necessary to exterminate this
volatility.
The natural timidity of the mother may easily
communicate the melancholy temperament of
the father. Be it understood that this is easy, if,
144
Digitized by G o o g le
P H Y S I O G N O M Y . 145
in the decisive moment, the mother be suddenly
seized by some predominant fear; and that it is
less communicable when the fear is less hasty
and more reflective. Thus we find those mothers,
who, during the whole time of their pregnancy,
are most in dread of producing monstrous or
marked children, because they remember to
have seen objects that excited abhorrence, gene­
rally have the best formed and freest from marks;
for the fear, though real, was the fear of reason,
and not the sudden effect of an object exciting
abhorrence rising instantaneously to sight.
When both parents have given a deep root to
the choleric temperament in a family, it may
probably be some Centuries before it be again
moderated. Phlegm is not so easily inherited,
even though both father and mother should be
phlegmatic; for there are certain moments of
life when the phlegmatic acts with its whole
power, though it acts thus but rarely, and these
moments may and must have their effects; but
nothing appears more easy of inheritance than
activity and ipdustry, when these have their
origin in organization, and the necessity of pro­
ducing alteration. It will be long before an in­
dustrious couple, to whom not only a livelihood,
but business, is in itself necessary, shall not have
a single descendant with the like qualities, as
such mothers are generally prolific.
Digitized by
146 PHYSIOGNOMY.
GHAP. XXIV.
Remarks on the Opinions of Buffon, Haller, and
Bonnet, concerning the Resemblance between*
Parents and Children.
The theory or hypothesis of Buffon, concerning
the cause of the human form, is well known,
which Haller has abridged and more clearly ex­
plained in the following manner:
“ Both sexes have their semen, in which are
active particles of a certain form. From the
union of these the fruit of the womb arises.
These particles contain the resemblance of all the
parts of the father or mother. They are by nature
separated from the rude and unformed particles of
the human juices, and are impressed with theform
of all the parts of the body of the father or mo­
ther. Hence arises the resemblance of children
to their parents. This will account for the mix­
ture of the features of father and mother in the
children; for the spots of animals, when the
male and female are of different colours; for the
Mulatto produced by a Negro and a White, and
for many other phenomena, difficult to be re­
solved*
“ Should it be asked, how these particles can
assume the internal structure of the body of the
father, since they can properly be only the
images of the hollow vessels, it may be an­
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
swered that we know not all the powers of na­
ture, and that she may have preserved to her­
self, though she has concealed it from her scho­
lar, man, the art of making internally models
and impressions which shall express the whole
solidity of the model.”
Haller, in his preface to Buffon’s Natural His­
tory, has, in my opinion, indisputably confuted
this system. But he has not only forborne to
elucidate the resemblance between fathers and
children, but, while opposing Buffon, he has
spoken so much on the natural, physiological
dissimilarity of the human body, that he appears
to have denied this resemblance. Buffon’s hy­
pothesis offended all philosophy; and though we
cannot entirely approve the theory of Bonnet,
yet he has very effectually opposed the incon­
gruities of Buffon, to which Buffon himself
could scarcely give any serious faith. But he,
as we shall soon see, has either avoided the
question of resemblance between parents and
children, or, in order to strengthen his own sys­
tem, has rather sought to palliate than to answer
difficulties.
Bonnet, concerning organized Bodies.
“ Are the germs of one and the same species
of organized bodies perfectly like each other, or
individually distinct? Are they only distinct in
the organs which characterise sex, or have they
a resembling difference to each other, such as
1 4 7
Digitized by G o o g le
we observe in individual substances of the same
species of plants or animals?”
Answer.—u If we consider the infinite variety
, to be observed in all the products of nature, the
latter will appear most probable. The differ­
ences which are to be observed in the indivi­
duals of the same species probably depend more
on the primitive form of the germs, than in the
connexion of the sexes.”
On the Resemblance between Children and their
P arents.
“ I must own, that, by the foregoing hypo­
thesis, I have not been successful in explaining
the resemblance of features found between pa­
rents and children* But are not these features
very ambiguous ? Do we not suppose that to
be the cause, which probably is not so? The
father is deformed, the son is deformed after the
same manner, and it is therefore concluded that
deformity is inherited. This may be true, but it
may be false. The deformity of each may arise
from very different causes, and these causes may
be infinitely varied.
“ It is not so difficult to explain hereditary
diseases. We can easily conceive, that defec­
tive juices may produce defective germs; and,
when the same parts of the body are affected by
disease in father or mother, and in child, this
arises from the similar conformation of the
parts, by which they are subject to like incon­
1 4 8 PHYSIOGNOMY'.
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY. 1 4 9
veniences. Besides, the mis-shapen body often
originates in diseases being hereditary, which
much diminishes the first difficulty. For, since
the juices conducted to those parts are of a bad
quality, the parts must be more or less ill formed,
according as they are more or less capable of
being affected by these juices.”
REFLECTION.
Bonnet cannot find the origin of family like­
ness in his system. Let us, however, take this
his system in the part where he finds the origin
of hereditary disease. Shall the defective juices
of father or mother very much alter the germ,
and produce, in the very parts where the father
or mother is injured, important changes of bad
formation, more or less, according to the capa­
bility of the germ, and its power of resistance ?
And shall the healthy juices of the parent in no
manner affect the germ? Why should not the
healthy juices be as active as the unhealthy?
Why should they not introduce the same quali­
ties, in miniature, which the father and mother
have in the gross, since the father and mother
assimilate the nutriment they receive to their
own nature, and since the seminal juices are
the spiritual extract of all their juices and
powers, as we have just reason to conclude from
the most continued and accurate observations?
Why should they not as naturally, and as power­
fully, act upon the germ, to produce all possible
Digitized by G o o g le
150 PH YSIO G NO M Y .
$
resemblance? But which resemblance is infi­
nitely varied, by differently changeable and
changed circumstances; so that the germ con­
tinually preserves sufficient of its own original
nature and properties, yet is always very dis­
tinct from the parents, and sometimes even
seems to have derived very little from them,
which may happen from a thousand accidental
causes or changes.
Hence family resemblance and dissimilarity
being summarily considered, we shall find
that nature, wholly employed to propagate, ap­
pears to be entirely directed to produce an
equilibrium between the individual power of
the germ, in its first formation, and the resem­
bling power of the parents; but the originality
of the first form of the germ may not wholly
disappear before the too great power of resem­
blance to the parents, but that they may mu­
tually concur, and both be subject to number­
less circumstances, which may increase or dimi­
nish their respective powers, in order that the
riches of variety, and the utility of the creature,
and its depeiidance on the whole, and the general
Creator, may be the greater and more predomi­
nant.
Every observation on the resemblance be­
tween parents and children, which I have been
enabled to make, convinces me, that neither the
theories of Bonnet and Buffon give any syste­
matic explanation of phenomena, the existence of
which cannot be denied by the sophistry of hy­
Dic. :ed by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY. 151
pothesis. Diminish the difficulties as much as
we will, facts will still stare us in the face. If
the germ exist preformed in the mother, can
this germ, at that time, have physiognomy?
Can it, at that time, resemble the future, pro­
miscuous, first, or second father? Is it not per­
fectly indifferent to either ? or, if the physiogno-
monical germ exist in the father, how can it
sometimes resemble the mother, sometimes the
father, often both, and often neither?
I am of opinion, that something germ-like, or
a whole capable of receiving the human form,
must previously exist in the mother; but which
is nothing more than the foundation of the fu­
ture fatherly or motherly I know not what, and
is the efficient cause of the future living fruit.
This germ-like something, which, most espe­
cially constituted agreeable to the human form,
is analogous to the nature and temperature of
the mother, receives a peculiar individual per­
sonal physiognomy, according to the propensities
of the. father or mother, the disposition of the
moment of conception, and probably of many
other future decisive moments.
Still much remains to the freedom and pre­
disposition of man. He may deprave or im­
prove his state of the juices, he may calm or
agitate his mind, may awaken every sensation
of love, and by various modes increase or relax
them. Yet I think, that neither the nature of
the bones, nor the muscles and nerves, conse­
quently the character, depends on the physiog-
Digitized by G o o g le
152 PHYSIOGNOMY.
nomonical preformation, preceding generation;
at least, they are far from depending on these
alone, though I allow the organizable, the pri­
mitive form, always has a peculiar individuality,
which is only capable of receiving certain sub- .
tile influences, and which must reject others.
CHAP. XXV.
Observations on the New-born, the Dying, and
the D ead. ,
I h a v e had opportunities of remarking, in some
children, about an hour after a birth attended
with no difficulties, a striking, though infantine
resemblance, in the profile, to the profile of the
father; and that, in a few days, this resemblance
had nearly disappeared. The impression of the
open air, nutriment, and, perhaps, of position,
had so far altered the outlines, that the child
seemed entirely different.
Of these children I saw two dead, the one
about six weeks, and the other about four years
old; and nearly twelve hours after death, I ob­
served the same profile, which I had before re­
marked an hour after birth, with this difference,
that the profile of the dead child, as is natural,
was something more tense and fixed than the
living. A part of this resemblance, however, on
the third day was remarkably gone.
One man of fifty, and another of seventy years
' :ed by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
of age, who fell under my observation while
they were living and after death, appeared,
while living, not to have the least resemblance
to their sons, and whose countenances seemed
to be of a quite different class; yet, the second
day after death, the profile of the one had a
striking resemblance to that of his eldest, and,
of the other, to the profile of his third son, as
much so as the profile of the dead children be­
fore mentioned resembled the living profile an
hour after birth, stronger, indeed, and, as a
painter would say, harder. On the third day,
here also, a part of the resemblance vanished.
I have uniformly observed, among the many
dead persons I have seen, that sixteen, eighteen,
or twenty-foUr hours after death, according to
the disease, they have had a more beautiftd
form, better defined, more proportionate, har­
monized, homogeneous, more noble, more ex­
alted, than they ever had during life.
It occurred to me, that there might be, in all
men, an original physiognomy, subject to be dis­
turbed by the ebb and flow of accident and pas­
sion, and is not this restored by the calm of
death, like as troubled waters, being again left
at rest, become clear?
I have observed some among the dying, who
had been the reverse of noble or great during
life, and who, some hours before their death,
or perhaps some moments, (one was in a deli­
rium) h^ve had an inexpressible ennobling of
the countenance. Every body saw a new man;
1 6 3
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
colouring, drawing, and grace, all was new, all
bright as the morning; beyond expression, no­
ble and exalted; the most inattentive must see,
the most insensible feel, the image of God. I
saw it break forth and shine through the ruins
of corruption, was obliged to turn aside, and
adore in silence. Yes, glorious God! still art
thou there, in the weakest, most fallible men!
154
CHAP. XXVI.
O f the Influence o f Countenance on Countenance.
As die gestures of our friends and intimates be­
come our own, so, in like manner, does their
appearance. Whatever we love, we would assi-.
milate to ourselves; and whatever, in the circle of
affection, does not change us into itself, that we
change, as far as may be, into ourselves.
All things act upon us, and we act upon all
things; but nothing has so much influence a4
what we love ; and among all objects of affec­
tion, nothing acts so forcibly as the countenance
of man. Its conformity to our countenance
makes it most worthy our affection. How might
it act upon, how attract our attention, had it
not some marks, discoverable or undiscoverable,
similar to, at least of the same kind with, the
form and feature of our own countenance!
Without, however, wishing further, to pene­
trate into what is impenetrable, or to define
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY*
what is inscrutable, the fact is indubitable, that
countenances attract countenances, and also
that countenances repel countenances; that si­
milarity of features between two sympathetic
and affectionate men, increase with the de-
velopement and mutual communication of their
peculiar, individual sensations. The reflection,
if I may so say, of the person beloved remains
upon the countenance of the affectionate.
The resemblance frequently exists only in a
single point—in the character of mind and
countenance. A resemblance in the system of
the bones, pre-supposes a resemblance of the
nerves and muscles.
Dissimilar education may affect the latter so
much, that the point of attraction may be in­
visible to the unphysiognomonical eyes. Suffer
the two resembling forms to approach, and
they will reciprocally attract and repel each
other; remove every intervening obstacle, and
nature will soon prevail. They will recognize
each other, and rejoice in the flesh of their flesh,
and the bone of their bone: with hasty steps will
proceed to assimilate. Such countenances also,
which are very different from each other, may
communicate, attract, and acquire resemblance;
nay, their likeness may become more striking
than that ,of the former, if they happen to be
more flexible, more capable, and to have greater
sensibility.
This resemblance of features, in consequence
of mutual affection, is ever the result of internal
155
Digitized by G o o g le
156 PHYSIOGNOMY.
nature and organization, and, therefore, of the
character of the persons. It ever has its foun­
dation in a preceding, perhaps, imperceptible
resemblance, which might never have been ani­
mated, or suspected, had it not been set in mo­
tion by the presence of the sympathetic being*
To give the character of those countenances,
which most easily receive and communicate re­
semblance, would be of infinite importance. It
cannot but be known, that there are counte­
nances that attract all, others that repel all, and
a third kind which are indifferent. The all-re­
pelling render the ignoble countenances, over
which they have continued influence, more ig­
noble. The indifferent allows no change. The
all-attracting either receive, give, or recipro­
cally give and receive. The first change a
little, the second more, the third most. “ These
are the souls (says Hemsterhuys the younger)
which happily, or unhappily, adcf the most ex­
quisite discernment to that excessive internal
elasticity, which occasions them to wish and feel
immoderately; that is to say, the souls, which
are so modified, or situated, that their attrac­
tive force meets the fewest obstacles in its pro­
gress/'
To study the influence of countenance, this
intercourse of mind would be of the utmost im­
portance. I have found the progress of resem­
blance most remarkable, when two persons, the
one richly communicative, the other apt to re­
ceive, have lived a considerable time together,
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
without foreign intervention; when he who gave
had given all, or he who received could receive
no more, physiognomonical resemblance had at­
tained its grand point. .
Youth, irritable, and easy to be won, let me
here say a word to thee. Oh! pause, consider,
throw not thyself too hastily into the arms of an
untried friend. A gleam of sympathy and .re­
semblance may easily deceive thee. If the man,
who is thy second self, have not yet appeared,
he not rash, thou shalt find him at the appointed
hour. Being found, he will attract thee to him-
sel£ will give and receive whatever is commu­
nicable. The ardour of his eyes will nurture
thine, and the gentleness of his voice temper
thy too-piercing tones. His love will shine in
thy countenance, and his image will appear in
thee. Thou wilt become what he is, and yet
remain what thou art. Affection will make
qualities' in him visible to thee, which never
could be seen by an uninterested eye. This ca-
bability of remarking, of feeling what there is of
divine in him, is a power which will make thy
countenance assume his resemblance.
157
Digitized by G o o g le
158 PHYSIOGNOMY.
CHAP. XXVII.
On the Influence o f the Imagination on the Coun­
tenance.
I m u s t not leave this subject wholly in silence;
but must content myself with saying only a few
words, on which volumes might be written. The
little, the nothing I have to say upon it, can only
act as an inducement to deeper meditations on a
theme so profoimd.
Our own countenance is actuated by imagina­
tion, rendering it in some measure resembling
the beloved or hated image, which is living, pre­
sent, and fleeting before us, and is within the
circle of our immediate activity. If a man
deeply in love, and supposing himself alone,
were ruminating on his beloved mistress, to
whom his imagination might lend charms,
which, if present, he would be unable to dis­
cover; were such a person observed by a man
of penetration, it is probable, that traits of the
mistress might be seen in the countenance of
this meditating lover. So might, in the cruel
features of revenge, the features of the enemy be
read, whom imagination represents as present.
And thus is the countenance a picture of the cha­
racteristic features of all persons exceedingly
loved or hated.
It is possible, that an eye less penetrating
Digitized by G o o g le
than that of an angel, may read the image of
the Creator in the countenance of a truly pious
person. He who languishes after Christ, the
more lively, the more distinctly, the more
sublimely, he represents to himself the very
presence and image of Christ, the greater re­
semblance will his own countenance take of
this image. The image of imagination often
acts more effectually than the real presence $
and whoever has seen him of whom we speak,
the great H IM , though it were hut an instan­
taneous glimpse, oh 1 how incessantly will the
imagination reproduce his image in the coun­
tenance 1
Our imagination also acts upon other counte­
nances. The imagination of the mother acts
upon the child; and hence men long have at­
tempted to influence the imagination for the
production of beautiful children. In my opinion,
however, it is not so much the beauty of sur­
rounding forms as the interest taken concerning
forms in certain moments: and here again, it
is not so much the imagination that acts, as
the spirit, that being only the organ of the
spirit. Thus it is true, that it is the spirit
that quickeneth the flesh, and the image of the
flesh (merely considered as such) profiteth no-
¿A
tog.
A look of love, from the sanctuary of the
soul, has certainly greater forming power than
hours of deliberate contemplation of the most
beautiful images* This forming look, if so I
may call it, can as little be premeditatedly
PHYSIOGNOMY« 159
Digitized by G o o g le
160 PH VSIO G NO M V.
givei); as any other naturally beautiful form cart
be imparted by a studious contemplation in the
looking-glass. All that creates, and is pro-
foundedly active, in the inner man, must be in­
ternal, and be communicated from above; as I
believe it suffers itself not to be occasioned, at
least not by forethought, circumspection, or
wisdom in the agent, to produce such effects.
Beautiful forms, or abortions, are neither of
them the work of art or study, but of intervening
causes, of the quick-guiding providence, the
predetermining God.
Endeavour to act upon affection instead of the
senses. If thou canst but incite love, it will of
itself seek and find the powers of creation; but
this very love must itself be innate before it can.
be awakened. Perhaps, however, the moment
of this awakening is not m our power; and
therefore, to those who would, by plan and me­
thod, effect that which is in itself so extraordi­
nary, and imagine they have had I know not
what wise and physiological circumspection
when they first awaken love, I might exclaim,
in the words of the enraptured songster: “ I
charge you, O ye daughters of Jerusalem, by
the roes and the hinds of the field, that ye stir
not up nor awake my love till he please/' Here
behold the forming genius—“ Behold he cometh,
leaping upon the mountains, skipping upon the
hills, like a young hart.’^
Unforeseen moments, rapid as the lightning,
iii nly opinion form and deform. Creation of
every kind is momentaneous; the developmenty
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
nutriment, change, improving, injuring, is the
work of time, art, industry, and education. Cre­
ative power suffers itself not to be studied; crea­
tion cannot be premeditated. Marks may be
moulded, but living essence, within and without
resembling itself, the image of God, must be
created, born, “ not of the will of the flesh, nor
of the will of man, but of God.”
1 6 1
CHAP. XXVIII.
The Effects o f the Imagination on the Human
Form.
That, by the strength of imagination, there are
marks communicated by mothers to children
during pregnancy, is equally true and compre­
hensible; that there are images, animals, fruit,
or other substances, on the body of the child;
marks of the hand, on the very parts where the
pregnant person has been suddenly touched;
aversion to things which have occasioned dis­
gust in the mother, and a continued scurvy com­
municated to the child by the unexpected sight
of a putrid animal. So many marks on the bo­
dies of children, arising not from imaginary but
real accidents, must oblige us to own, that there
is truth in that which is inconceivable. There­
fore the imagination of the mother acts upon the
child*
M
Digitized by G o o g le
Of the innumerable examples that might be
produced, I shall cite the two following:
A woman, during the time of her pregnancy*
was engaged in a card party, and only wanted
the ace of spades to win all that was staked. It
so happened, in the change of cards, that the so
much wished-for ace was given her. Her joy
at this success had such an effect upon her ima­
gination, that the child of which she was preg­
nant, when born, had the ace of spades depicted
in the apple of the eye, and without injury to
the organ of sight.
.. The following anecdote is certainly true, and
still more astonishing:
A lady of Reinthal had, during her pregnancy,
desire to see the execution of a man, who was
sentenced to have his right hand cut off before
he was beheaded. She saw the hand severed
from the body, and instantly turned away and
went home, without waiting to see the death
that was to follow. This lady bore a daughter,
who was living at the time this fragment was
written, and who had only one hand. The right
hand came away with the after-birth.
Moral marks as well as physical are perhaps
possible. I have heard of a physician, who ne­
ver failed to steal something from all the cham­
bers through which he passed, which he would
afterwards forget, and, in the evening, his wife,
who searched his pockets, would find keys,
snuff-boxes, etuis-cases, scissars, thimbles, spec-
lfiSt PHYSIOGNOMY.
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
tacles, buckles, spoons, and other trinkets,
whiefa she restored to the owners. I have been
likewise told of a child, who, at two years of
age, was adopted, when begging at the door of
a noble family, received an excellent education,
and became a most worthy man, except that he
could not forbear to steal. The mothers of
these two extraordinary thieves must, during
pregnancy, have had an extraordinary desire to
pilfer. It will be self-evident that, however in­
sufferable such men are in a state of society, they
are rather unfortunate than wicked. Their ac­
tions may be as involuntary, as mechanical, and,
in the sight of God, probably as innocent, as the
customary motions of our fingers when we tear
bits of paper, or do any other indifferent, thought­
less action.
The moral worth of an action must be esti­
mated by its intention, as the political worth
must by its consequences. As little injury as
the ace of spades, if the story be true, did to the
countenance of the child, as little probably (fid
this thievish propensity to the heart. Such a
person certainly had no roguish look, no avari­
cious, downcast, sly, pilfering aspect, like one
who is both soul and body a thief. I have not
yet seen any man of such an extraordinary cha­
racter, and therefore cannot judge of his physi­
ognomy by experience; yet we have reason pre­
viously to conclude, that men so uncommon
must bear some marks in their countenance of
such deviation of character.
169
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
Those extraordinary large or small persons,
by us called giants and dwarfs, should perhaps
be elassed among these active and passive ef­
fects of the imagination. Though giants and
dwarfs are not properly born such, yet it is pos­
sible, however incomprehensible, that nature
may first, at a certain age, suddenly enlarge or
contract herself.
We have a variety of examples, that the ima­
gination appears not only to act upon the pre­
sent, but on absence, distance, and futurity.
Perhaps apparitions of the dying and the dead
may be attributed to this kind of effect. Be it
granted that these facts, which are so numerous,
are true, and including not only the apparitions
of the dead but of the living, who have appeared
to distant friends, after collecting such anecdotes,
and adding others on the subject of presage and
prediction, many philosophical conjectures will,
thence arise, which may probably confirm my
following proposition.
The imagination, incited by the desire and
languishing of love, or inflamed by passion, may
act in distant places and times. The sick or
dying person, for example, sighs after an absent
friend, who knows not of his sickness, or thinks,
of him at the time. The pining of the imagina­
tion penetrates, as I may say, walls, and appears
in the form of the dying person, or gives signs
of his presence similar to those which bis actual
presence gives. Is there any real corporeal ap­
pearances! No. The sick or dying person is
164
Digitized by G o o g le
languishing in his bed, and has never been a
moment absent; therefore, there is no actual
appearance of him whose form has appeared.
What then has produced this appearance? What
is .it that has acted thus a ta distance on ano­
ther’s senses or imagination?—Imagination; but
the imagination through the focus of passion.—
How?—It is inexplicable. But who can doubt
such facts, who does not mean to laugh at all
historical facts?
Is there any improbability, that there may be
similar moments of mind, when the imagination
shall act alike inexplicably on the unborn child?
That the inexplicable disgusts, I will grant; I
feel it perfectly. But is it not the same in the
foregoing examples, and in every example of
the kind? Like as cripples first become so
many years after birth, which daily experience
proves; may not, after the same inconceivable
manner, the seeds of what is gigantic or dwarfish
be the effects of the imagination on the fruit,
which does not make its appearance till years
after the child is bom?
Were it possible to persuade a woman to keep
an accurate register of what happened, in all
the powerful moments of imagination, during
her state of pregnancy, she then might probably
be able to foretel the chief incidents, philosophi­
cal, moral, intellectual, and physiognomonical,
which should happen to her child. Imagination
actuated by desire, love, or hatred, may, with
more than lightning swiftness, kill or enliven,
PHYSIOGNOMY. • 165
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
enlarge, diminish, or impregnate, the organized
foetus with the germ of enlarging or diminish­
ing wisdom or folly, death or life, which shall
first be unfolded at a certain time, and under
certain circumstances. This hitherto unex­
plored, but sometimes decisive mid revealed
creative and changing power of the soul, may
be, in its essence, Identically the same with what
is called faith-working miracles, which latter
may be developed and increased by external
pauses, wherever it exists, but cannot be com­
municated where it is not. A closer examina­
tion of the foregoing conjectures, which I Wish
not to be held for any thing more than conjec­
tures, may perhaps lead to the profoundest se­
crets of physiognomy.
160
CHAP. XXIX.
Essay bya late learned Matt Oldttnburip, M.
Stutrtx, onPhysioynomy, interspersed with short
Remarks by the Author.
“ Lukb Lavater, I am perfectly convinced of the
truth of physiognomy, and of the aU-sigaifieance
of each limb and feature. Certain it is, that the
mind may be read in the lineaments of the body,
andits motion in its features, and their shades.
“ Cause and effect, Connexion and harmony,
edist through aH nature} therefore, betw een the
external and internal of man. QuT form is influ-
Digitized by G o o g le
PH Y SIO G N O M V . 167
enced by our parents, by thé earth on which we
walk, the sun that warms us with his rays, the
food that assimilates itself with our substance,
the incidents that determine the fortune of our
lives. These all modify, repair, and chissel forth
the body, and the marks of the tool are apparerit
both in body and in mind. Each arching, each
sinuosity ofthe externals adapts itself to the indi­
viduality of the internal. It is adherent and pli­
able, like wet drapery. Were the nose but a little
altered, Cæsar would not be the Caesar with'
whom we are acquainted.
“ The soul being iu motion, it shines through
the body, as the moon through the ghosts of Os­
sian, each passion throughout the human race
has ever the same language/’
From * éas^and to west, envy no where looks
with the satisfied air of magnanimity, nor will
discontent appear like patience. Wherever pa­
tience is, there is it expressed by the same signs;
as likewise are anger, envy, and every other pas­
sion.
“ Philoctetes certainly expresses not the sen­
sation of pain like a scourged slave. The angels'
of Raphael must smile more nobly than the an­
gels of Rembrandt ; but joy and pain still have
each their peculiar expression. They act accord­
ing to peculiar laws upon peculiar muscles ahd;
nerves, however various may be the shades of*
* Those passages, which are notmarkedwith inverted commas, ‘
are the observations of M. LavOteron the different parta of Air*
Sturtz’s Essay.
Digitized by G o o g le
their expression; and the oftener the passion is
repeated, or set in motion, the more it becomes
a propensity, a favourite habit, the deeper will be
the furrows it ploughs. .
*
*But inclination, capacity, modes and grada­
tions of capacity, talents, and an ability for busi­
ness, lie much more concealed. A good observer
will discover the wrathful, the voluptuous, the
proud, the discontented, the malignant, the bene­
volent, and the compassionate, with little diffi­
culty. But the philosopher, the poet, the artist,
and their various partitions of genius, he will be
unable to determine with equal accuracy. And
it will be still more difficult to assign the feature
or trait in which the token of each quality is.
seated, whether understanding be in the eye-
hone, wit in the chin, and poetical genius in the
mouth,”
Yet I hope, I believe, nay, I know, that the
present century will render this possible. The
penetrating author of this essay would not only
have found it possible, but would have performed
it himself, had he only set apart a single day to
compare and examine a well-arranged collection
of characters, either in nature, or well-painted
portraits.
“ Whenever we meet with a remarkable man,
our attention is always excited, and we are more
or less empirical physiognomists. We perceive
in the aspect, the mien, the smile, the meohanism
of Ihe forehead, sometimes wit, at others pene-
(ration. We expect and presage, from the im-
168 PHYSIOGNOMY.
Digitized by G o o g le
pulse of latent sensation, very determined qua­
lities, from the form of each new acquaintance;
and, when this faculty ofjudging is improved by
an intercourse with the world, we often succeed
to admiration in our judgment on strangers.
“ Can we call this feeling, internal unacquired
sensation, which is inexplicable, or is it compa­
rison, indication, conclusion from a character we
have examined to another which we have not,
and occasioned by some external resemblance ?
Feeling is the aegis of enthusiasts and fools, and,
though it may often be conformable to truth, is
still neither demonstration nor confirmation of
truth j but induction isjudgment founded on ex­
perience, and this way only will I study phy­
siognomy.
u With an air of friendship I meet many stran­
gers, with cool politeness I recede from others,
though there is no expression of passion to at­
tract, or to disgust. On farther examination, I
always found, that I have seen in them some trait
either of a worthy or a worthless person, with
whom I was before acquainted.
“ A child, in my opinion, acts from like mo­
tives, when he evades, or is pleased with, the ca­
resses of strangers, except that he is actuated by
more trifling signs, perhaps by the colour of the
clothes, the tone of the voice, or often by some
motion, which he has observed in the parent, the
nurse, or the acquaintance.”
This cannot be denied to be often the case, and
indeed much more often than is commonly sup-
PHYSIOGNOMY. 109
Digitized by. Gc ^
Ie
t t i ¥ * 9 m m n tr.
posed; yet I make no doubt of being able to
prove, that there are, in nature mid art, a multi-*
tude of traits, especially of the extremes of pas­
sionate as well as dispassionate faculties,which, of
themselves, and without comparison with former
experiments, are, with certainty, intelligible to
the most unpractised observer. 1 believe it to be
incorporated in the nature of man, in the orga­
nization of our eyes and ears, that he should be
actuated or repulsed by certain countenances, as
well as by certain tones. Let a child, who has
seen but a few men, view but the open jaws of a
lion, or a tiger, and the smile of a benevolent
person, and his nature will infallibly shrink from
the one, and meet the smile of benevolence with
a smile; not from reason and comparison, but
from the the original feelings of nature. For
the same reason, we listen with pleasure to a de­
lightful melody, and shudder at discordant
shrieks.. As little as there is of comparison or
consideration on such an occasion, so is there
equally little on the first ofan extremely pleasing,
or an extremely disgusting countenance.
“ Mere sensation, therefore, is not the cause,
since I have good reason, when I meet a person
who resembles Turenne, to expect sagacity, cool
resolution, and ardent enterprize. If, in three*
men, I find one possessed of the eyes of Turenne,
and the same marks of prudence; another with
his nose, and high courage; the third with his
mouth and activity; I then have ascertained the
seat where each quality expresses itself, and am
170
Digitized by G o o g le
justified in expecting similar qualities wherever
I meet similar features.
“ Had we, for centuries past, examined the
human form, arranged characteristic features,,
compared traits, and exemplified inflexions,
lines, and proportions, and had we added ex­
planations to each, then would our Chinese al­
phabet of the race of man be complete, and we
need but open it to find the interpretation of any
countenance. Whenever I indulge the supposi­
tion, that such an elementary work is not abso­
lutely impossible, I expect more from it than,
even Lavater. I imagine we may obtain a
language so rich, and so determinate, that it shall
be possible, from description only, to restore the
living figure; and that an accurate description
of the mind shall give the outline of the body, so
that the physiognomist, studying some future
Plutarch, shall regenerate great men, and ideal
form shall with facility, take birth from the given
definition.”' .
This is excellent 5 and, be the author in jest or
earnest, this is what I entirely, without dreaming,
and most absolutely, expect from the following
Century, for which purpose, with God’s good
pleasure, I will hereafter hazard some essays.
“ With these ideal forms shall the chambers of
future princes be hung, and he who comes to so­
licit employment shall retire without murmuring*
when it is proved to him that he is excluded by
his nose.”
PHYMtW lfOMT. 171
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
Laugh or laugh not, friends or enemies of truth,
this will, this must happen.
“ By degrees, I imagine to myself a new, and
another world, where error and deceit shall be
banished.’*
Banished they would be were physiognomy the
universal religion, were all men accurate obser­
vers, and were not dissimulation obliged to recur
to new arts, by which physiognomy, at least for
a time, may be rendered erroneous.
“ We have to inquire, whether we should
therefore be happier ?”
We should certainly be happier, though the
present contest between virtue and vice, sincerity
and dissimulation, which so contributes to the de-
velopement of the grand faculties of man, ren­
ders, as I may say, human virtue divine, exalting
it to heaven.
“ Truth is ever found in the medium : we will
not hope too little from physiognomy, nor will we
expect too much. Here torrents of objections
break in upon me, some of which I am unable to
answer. Do so many men in reality resemble
each other? Is not the resemblance general;
and, when particularly examined, does it not
vanish, especially if the resembling persons be
compared feature f>y feature ? Does it not hap­
pen, that one feature is in direct contradiction to
another ; that a fearful nose is placed between
eyes which betoken courage ?”
In the firm parts, or those capable of sharp
172
Digitized by G o o g le
f
outlines, accidents excepted, I have never yet
found contradictory features, but often have be­
tween the firih and the flexible, or the ground-
formofthe flexibleandtheir apparentsituation. By
ground-form I meanto saythatwhich is preserved
after death, unless distorted by violent disease.
“ It is by no means proved, that resemblance
of form universally denotes resemblance of mind*
In families where there is most resemblance,
there are often the greatest varieties of mind. I
have known twins, not to be distinguished from
each other, between whose minds there was not
the least similarity.,,
If this be literally true, I will renounce physi­
ognomy, and whoever shall convince me of it, I
will give him my copy of these fragments, and an
hundred physiognomonical drawings. Nor will I
be my ownjudge: I leave it to the worthy author
ofthis remark to choose three arbiters. Let them
examine the fact accurately, and, if they confirm
it, I will own my error. Shades, however, of
these twin brothers, will first be necessary. In all
the experiments I have made, I declare upon my
honour, I have never made any such remark.
“ In what manner shall we be able to explain
the innumerable exceptions which almost over­
whelm rule ? I will only produce some from my
own observation. Dr. Johnson had theappearance
of a porter; not the glance of the eye, not any
trait of the mouth, speak the man of penetration
or of science/*
When a person ofour author’s penetration and
PHYSIOGNOMY» 17$
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
judgment thus affirms, I must hedtate, and say,
he has observed this, I ha?e not But how does
it happen, that, in more than ten years’ observa­
tion, I have never met any such example ? I have
seen many men, especially in the beginning of
my physiognomonical studies, whom I supposed
to be men of sense, and who were not so; but
never, to the best of my knowledge, did I meet a
wise man whom I supposed a fool. In the fron­
tispiece is an engraving of Johnson. Can a coun­
tenance more tranquilly fine be imagined, one
that more possesses the sensibility of under­
standing, planning, scrutinizing? In the eye­
brows only, and their horizontal position, how
great is the expression of profound, exquisite,
penetrating understanding ?
u The countenance ofHume was that ofa com­
mon man.”
So says common report. I have no answer
but that I suspect the aspect, or flexible features,
on which most observers found their physiogno-
cal judgment, have, as I may say, effacedthe phy­
siognomy of the bones; as, for example, the out­
line and arching of the forehead, to which scarce­
ly one in a hundred direct their attention^
“ Churchill had the look of a drover j Gold­
smith of a simpleton; and the cold eyes of
Strange do not betray the artist.”
The greatest artists have often thecoldest eyes.
The man of genius and the artist are two persons.
Phlegm is the inheritance of the mere artist.
“ Who would say, that the apparent ardour of
m
Digitized by G o o g le
puysioonquy. IJS
Wille «peaks the man who passed his life in
drawing parallel lines ?”
Ardour and phlegm are not incompatible; the
most ardent men are the coolest. Scarcely any
observation has been so much verified as this:
it appears contradictory^ but it is net. Ardent,
quickly determining, resolute, laborious, and
boldly enterprizing men, the moment of ardour
excepted, have the coolest of minds. The style
and countenance of Wille, if the profile portrait
of him in my possession be a likeness, have this
character in perfection.
“ It appears to me, that Boucher, the painter
of the graces, has the aspect of an executioner.”
Truly so. Such was the portrait I received.
But then, my good M. Sturtz, let us understand
what is meant by these painters of the graces. I
find as little in his works, as in his countenance.
None of the paintings of Boucher were at all to
my taste. I could not contemplate one of them
with pleasure, and his countenance had the same
effect. I can now comprehend, said I, on the
first sight of his portrait, why I have never been
pleased with the works of Boucher.
“ I once happened to see a criminal condemn­
ed to the wheel, who, with satanic wickedness,
had murdered his benefactor, and who yet had
the benevolent and open countenance of an angel *
of Guido. It is not impossible to discover die
head of a Regulus among guilty criminals, or of
a vestal in the house of correction.”
I can confirm this from experience. Far be
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
contradiction from me on this subject. But such
vicious persons, however hateful with respect to
the appearance and effect, of their actions, or
even to their internal motives, were not origi­
nally wicked. Where is the pure, the noble,
finely formed, easily irritated man, with angelic
sensibility, who has not his devilish moments, in
which, were not opportunity happily wanting,
he might, in one hour, be guilty of some two or
three vices, which would exhibit him, apparent­
ly at least, as the most detestable of men; yet
may he be a thousand times better and nobler
than numerous men of subaltern minds, held to
be good, who never were capable of committing
acts so wicked, for the commission of which they
so loudly condemn him, and, for the good of so­
ciety, are bound to condemn ?
(C Lavater will answer, shew me these men,
and I will comment upon them, as I have done
upon Socrates. Some small, often unremarked
trait, will probably explain what appears to you
so enigmatical. But will not something creep
into the commentary, which never was in the
text?”
Though this may be, yet it ought not to be the
case. I will also grant, that a man with a good
countenance may act like a rogue; but, inthe first
place, at such a moment, his countenance will
not appear good; and, in the next, he will in­
finitely oftener act like a man ofworth.
(( Have we any right, from a known cha­
racter, to draw conclusions concerning one un-
m
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
known? or, is it easy to discover what that be­
ing is, who wanders in darkness, and dwells in
the house of contradiction 5 who is one creature
to-day, and to-morrow the reverse?”
How true, how important is this ! How neces­
sary a beacon to warn and terrify the physiogno­
mist!
“ What judgment could we form of Augustus,
if we were only acquainted with his conduct to
Cinna? or of Cicero, if we knew him only from
his consulate? How gigantic rises Elizabeth
among queens, yet how little, how mean, was the
superannuated coquette, James II. aboldgeneral,
and a cowardly king ! Monk, the revenger of mo-
narchs, the slave of his wife ! Algernon Sydney
and Russel, patriots worthy of Roqie, sold to
France ! Bacon, the father of wisdom, a bribed
judge! Such discoveries make us shudder at the
aspect ofman, and shake offfriends andintimates
like coals of fire from the hand. When such ca­
méléon minds can be one moment great, at an­
other contemptible, and alter their form, what
can that form say ?”
Their form shews what they may, what they
ought to be,'and their aspect, in the moment of
action, what they are. Their countenance shews
their power, and their aspect the application of
their power. The expression of their littleness
may probably be like the spots of the sun, in­
visible to the naked eye.
“ Does not that medium, through which we
are accustomed to look, tinge our judgment?
N .
177
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
Smellfungus views all objects through a black­
ened glass; another through a prism. Many
contemplate virtue through a diminishing, and
vice through a magnifying medium.
How excellently expressed!
“ A book written by Swift on physiognomy
would certainly have been very different from
that of Lavater. National physiognomy is still
a large uncultivated field. The families of the
fair classes of the race of Adam, from the Esqui­
maux to the Greeks, in Europe, and in Germany
alone, what varieties are there which can escape
no observer! Heads bearing the stamp of the
form of government, which ever will influence
education; republican haughtiness, proud of its
laws; the pride of the slave, who feels pride be­
cause he has the power of inflicting the scourges
he has received; Greeks under Pericles, and un­
der Hassan Pacha; Romans, in a state of free­
dom, governed by emperors, and governed by
popes; Englishmen under Henry the Eighth,
and Cromwell. How have I been struck by the
portraits of Hampden, Pym, and Vane! AH
produce varieties of beauty, according to the
different nations.”
It is impossible for me to express how much 1
think myself indebted to the author of this spirit­
ed and energetic essay. How worthy an. act
was it in him, whom I had unintentionally of­
fended, concerning whom I had published a
judgment far from sufficiently noble,vto send me
this essay, with liberty to make what use of it
178
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
I pleased! In such a manner, in such a spirit,
may informations, corrections, or doubts be ever
conveyed to m e! Shall I need to apologize for
having inserted it? or rather, will not most of
my readers say, give us more such ?
179
CHAP. XXX.
Quotations from H u art, with Remarks thereon.
1 .
“ Many, who are really wise, often appear not
to be so; and others who appear to be wise, are
the reverse. Some, again, neither are, nor ap­
pear to be wise, while others have the possession
and appearance of wisdom.”
A touchstone for many countenances.
2
“ The son is often brought in debtor to the
great understanding of the father.”
3.
“ Wisdom ininfancydenotesfollyin manhood.”
4.
“ No aid can make those bring forth who are
not pregnant.” •
We must not expect fruit where seed has not
been sown. How advantageous, how important,
would physiognomy become, were it, by being
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
acquainted with every sign of intellectual and
moral pregnancy, enabled to render aid to all the
pregnant!
180
“ The external form of the head is what it
ought to be, when it resembles a hollow globe
slightly compressed at the sides, with a small
protuberance at the forehead and back of the
head. A very flat forehead, or a sudden descent
at the back of the head, are no good tokens of
understanding/*
The profile of such a head, notwithstanding
the compressure, would be more circular than
oval. The profile of a ghod head ought to form
H circle combined only when with the nose;
therefore, without the nose it approaches much
more to the oval than the circular. “ A very flat
forehead, (says our author) is no good sign of un­
derstanding.” True, if the flatness resembles
that of the ox; but 1 have seen perfectly flat
foreheads, let me be rightly understood, I mean
flat only between and above the eyebrows, in men
of great wisdom. Much, indeed, depends upon
the position and curves of the outlines of the
forehead.
6 .
“ Man has more brain than any animal. Were
the quantity of the brain in two of the largest
. oxen compared to the quantity found in the
smallest man, it would prove to be less.”
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY. 181
7­
" Large oranges have thick skins and little
juice. Heads of much bone and flesh have little
brain. Large bones, with abundance of flesh
and fat, are impediments to the mind.”
8.
“ The heads of wise persons are very weak,
and susceptible of the most minute impressions.”
Often, not always. And how wise ? Wise to
plan, but not to execute. Active wisdom must
have harder bones. One of the greatest of this
earth’s wonders is a man in whom the two quali-i
ties are united, who has sensibility even to pain­
ful excess, and colossal courage to resist the im­
petuous torrent, the whirlpool, by which he shall
be assailed. Such characters possess sensibility
from the tenderness of bodily feeling; and
strength, not so much in the bones as in the
nerves.
9:
“ A thick belly, (says Galen,) a thick under­
standing.” - .
With equal truth or falsehood, I may add, a
thin belly, a thin understanding. Remarks so
general, which would prove so many able and
wise men to be fools, I value but little. A thick
belly certainly isno positive token ofunderstand­
ing, it is rather positive for sensuality, which is
detrimental to the understanding; but ab­
stractedly, and unconnected with other indubita-
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
ble marks, I cannot receive this as a general
proposition.
182
10.
“ Aristotle holds the smallest heads to be the
wisest/’
But this, with all reverence for so great a man,
I think was spoken without reflection. Let a
small head be imagined on a great body, or a
great head on a small body, each of which may
be found in consequence of accidents that excite
or retard growth; and it will be perceived that,
without some more definite distinction, neither
the large nor the small head is, in itself, wise or
foolish. It is true, that large heads, with short
triangular foreheads, are foolish; as are those
large heads which are fat, and incumbered with
flesh; but small, particularly round heads, with
the like incumbrance, are intolerably foolish, and
generally possess that, which renders their in­
tolerable folly more intolerable, a pretension to
wisdom.
11.
“ It is a good sign, when a small person has a
head somewhat large, and a large person has the
head somewhat small.”
Providedthis extends no farther thansontswAal,
it may be supportable; but it is certainly for the
best, when the head is in such proportion to the
body, that it is not remarkable either for its large­
ness or smallness.
Digitized by G o o g le
. PHYSIOGNOMY. 183
12.
“ Memory and imagination resemble the un­
derstanding as a monkey does a man.”
13.
“ Whether the flesh be hard or tender, it is of
no consequence to the genius, if the brain do not
partake of the same quality; for experience tells
us, that the latter is very often of a different tem­
perament to the other parts of the body. But
when both the brain and the flesh are tender,
they betoken ill to the understanding, and equally
ill to the imagination.”
14.
“ Phlegm and blood are the fluids which ren­
der the flesh tender; and those being moist, ac­
cording to Galen, render men simple and stupid.
The fluids, on the contrary, which harden the
flesh, arecholer and melancholy, (or bile) and
these generate wisdom and understanding. It is
therefore a much worse sign to have tender flesh
than rough; and tender signifies a bad memory,
with weaknes of understanding and imagina­
tion.”
It occurs to me, that there is an intelligent
tenderness of flesh, which announces much more
understanding than do the opposite qualities of
rough and hard. I can no more class coriaceous
flesh as the characteristic of understanding, than
I,can tenderness of flesh, without being more
accurately defined, as the characteristic of folly.
Digitized by G o o g le
184 rHVSiOfcXÖMt.
It will be proper to distinguish between tender
and porous, or spongy, and between rough and
firm without hardness.
15.
“ We must examine the hair, if we wish to dis­
cover whether the quality of the brain corre­
sponds With the flesh. If the hair be black,
strong, rctagh, and thiek, it betokens strength
of imagination and understanding.”
I am of a different Opinion. Let not this be ex­
pressed in sueh general terms. At this moment,
I recollect a very weak man, by nature weak,
with exactly such hair. This roughness {spr'6-
digheit) is a fatal word, which, taken in what
sense it will, never signifies any thing good#
“ But if the hair be tender and weak, it de-»
notes nothing more than goodness of memory.”
Once more too little $ it denotes a fine organi­
zation, which receives the impression of images
at least as strangely as the signs of images.
16.
“ When the hair is of the first quality, and we
would farther distinguish, whether it betokens
goodness of understanding or imagination, we
must pay attention to the laugh. Laughter be­
trays the quality of the imagination.”
I may venture to add, of the understanding of
the heart, of power, love, hatred, pride, humility,
truth, and falsehood. Would I had artists, who
would watch for and design the outlines oflaugh-
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
ter ! The physiognomy of laughter would be the
best of elementary books for the knowledge of
man. If the laugh be good, so is the person. It
is said of Christ that he never laughed. I believe
it ; but, had he never smiled, he Would not have
been human. The smile of Christ must have
contained the precise outline of brotherly love.
17.
“ Heraclitus says, a dry eye, a wise mind.”
18.
“ We shall discover few men of great under­
standing who Write a fine hand.”
It might have been said, with more accuracy,
a schoolmaster's hand.
CHAP. XXXI.
Remarks on an Essay on Physiognomy, by P ro­
fessor Lichtenberg.
Much intelligence, much ornament, and a mild
diffusive eloquence, are blended in this essay.
It is the work of a learned, penetrating, and, in
many respects, highly meritorious person, who
appears to possess much knowledge of men, and
a large portion of the prompt spirit of observa­
tion. This essay merits the utmost attention and
investigation. It is so interesting, so compre­
hensive, affords so much opportunity of remark
for the physiognomist, and of remarks which I
have yet \o make, that I cannot avoid Citing the
ÌSÒ
Digitized by Dogle
186 PHYSIOGNOMY.
most important passages, and submitting them to
an unprejudiced and accurate examination.
It is far from my intention or wish, to compare
myself with the excellent author, to make any
pretensions to his fanciful and brilliant wit, and
still less to his learning and penetration. It is
perhaps my wish, though I dare not hope, to
meet and answer him with the same elegance as
his polished mind and fine taste seem to demand.
I am sensible of those wants which are peculiar
to myself, and which must remain mine, even
when I have truth on my side. Yet, worthy Sir,
be assured that I shall never be unjust, and that,
even where I cannot assent to your observations,
I shall never forget the esteem I owe your talents,
learning, and merits.
We will now, in supposition, sit down in
friendship with your essay before us, and, with
that benevolence which is most becoming men, •
philosophers in particular, explain our mutual
sentiments concerning nature and truth.
ON PH Y SIO G N O M Y .
“ Certainly (says our author) the freedom of
thought, and the very recesses of the heart, were
never more severely scrutinized than in the pre­
sent age.”
I cannot help thinking, that, at the very be­
ginning, an improper point of view is taken,
which may probably lead the author and reader
astray through the whole essay. For my own
Digitized by G oogI
PHYSIOGNOMY.
part, at least, I know of no attacks on the free­
dom of thought, or the secret recesses of the
heart. It is universally known, that my labours
have been less directed to this than to the know­
ledge of predominant character, capacities,
talents, powers, inclinations, activity, genius,
’ religion, sensibility, irritability, and elasticity, of
men in general, and not to the discovery of ac­
tual and present thought. As far as I am con­
cerned, the soul may, and can, in our witty au­
thor’s own words, “ brood as secretly over its
treasures as it might have done centuries ago;
may as tranquilly smile at the progress of all
Babylonian works, at all proud assailants of hea­
ven, convinced that, long before the completion
of their work, there shall be a confusion of
tongues, and the master and the labourers shall
be scattered.”
I should enjoy the laugh as much as any one at
the arrogance of that physiognomist, who should
pretend to read in the countenance the most secret
thoughts and motions of the soul, at any given
moment, although there are moments, in which
they are legible to the most unpractised physiog­
nomist.
I am also of opinion, that the secrets ofthe
heart belong to pathognomy, to which I direct
my attention much less than to physiognomy; of
which the author says, more wittily than truly,
“ it is as unnecessary to write as on the art of
love.”
The author is very right in reminding us, “ that
187
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
we ought to seek physiognomonical instruction
from known characters \fith great caution, and
even diffidence.”
Our author then says, “ Whether physiogno­
my, in its utmost perfection, would promote phi­
lanthropy, is at least questionable.”
1 confidently answer unquestionable, and I
hope immediately to induce the reasonable and
philanthropic author to say the same. Physiog­
nomy, in its utmost perfection, must mean the
knowledge of men in its Utmost perfection. And
shall not this promote the loye of man ? or, in
other words,shall it notdiscoverinnumerableper­
fections, Which the half physiognomist, or the
unphysiognomist, are unable to discover? Noble
and penetrating friend of man, While writing
this, you had forgotten what you had so truly, so
beautifully said, “ that the most hateful deformity
might, by the aid of virtue, acquire irresistible
charms$” and to whom more irresistible,
more legible, than to the perfect physiognomist ?
Irresistible charms certainly promote not hatred,
but love. From my own experience, I can sin­
cerely declare, that the improvement of my phy­
siognomonical knowledge has extended and in ­
creased the powertof love in my heart.
Though this knowledge may sometimes be the
author of affliction, still it is ever true, that the
affliction occasioned by certain countenances, en­
dears, sanctifies, and renders enchanting what­
ever is noble and lovely, which often glows in
the human countenance, like embers among
1 8 8
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
ashes. My attention to the discovery ofthis secret
goodness is increased, and the object of my la­
bours is its increase and improvement; and how
do esteem and love extend themselves, wherever
I perceive a preponderance of goodness! On a
more accurateobservation, the very countenances
that afflict me, and which, for some moments, in­
cense me against humanity, do but increase a
tolerant and benevolent spirit; for I then dis­
cern the load and the nature of that sensuality,
againstwhich they have to combat.
All truth, all knowledge of what is, of what
acts upon, and on which we act, promotes gene­
ral and individual happiness. Whoever denies
this is incapable of investigation. The more per­
fect this knowledge is, the greater are its advan­
tages. Whatever profits, whatever promotes
happiness, promotes philanthropy. Where are
happy men to be found without philanthropy ? •
Are such beings possible ? Were happiness and
philanthropy to be destroyed or lessened, by any
perfect science, truth would war with truth, and
eternal wisdom with itself.
He who can seriously maintain, “ that a perfect
science may be detrimental to human society,
or may notpromote philanthropy, (withoutwhich
happiness among men cannot be supposed) is
certainly not a man, in whose company our au­
thor would wish to philosophize, as he certainly
will, with me, assume it as an axiom, that “ the
nearer truth the nearer happiness/' The more
our knowledge and judgment resemble the
189
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
knowledge andjudgment of the Deity, the more
will our philanthropy resemble the philanthropy
of the Deity. He who knows how man is formed,
who remembers that he is but dust, is the most
tolerant friend of man.
I believe angels to be better physiognomists,
and more philanthropic, than men, though they
may perceive in us a thousand failings and im­
perfections, which may escape the most penetra­
ting eye of man. God, having the most know­
ledge of spirit, is the most tolerant of spirits. And
who was more tolerant, more affectionate, more
lenient, more merciful than thou, who neediest
not that any should testify o f man, fo r thou
knewest what was in man?
“ It is certain, that the industrious, the insinu­
ating, and active blockheads in physiognomy
may do much injury to society.,,
Be assured, my worthy Sir, it is my earnest de­
sire, my known endeavour, to deter such block­
heads from studying physiognomy. This evil
can be prevented only by accurate observation.
True it is, that every science may become dan­
gerous, when studied by the superficial and the
foolish, and the very reverse, when studied by
the accurate and the wise. According to your
own principles, therefore, we must agree irk
this, that none but the superficial, the blockhead,
the fanatical enemy of knowledge and learning
in general, can wish to prevent “ all investiga­
tion of physiognomonical principles;” none but
such a person “ can oppose physiognomonical
190
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY. 191
labours; none but a blockhead will suppose it
unworthy and impracticable, in these degenerate
days, to awaken sensibility, and the spirit of ob­
servation, or to improve the arts, and the know­
ledge of men. To grant all this, as you, Sir, do,
and yet to speak with bitterness against physio­
gnomy and physiognomists, I call sowing tares
among the good seed.
Our author next proceeds to distinguish be­
tween physiognomy and pathognomy. “ Physiog­
nomy (he defines to be) a capability of dis­
covering the qualities of the mind and heart
from the form and qualities of the external parts
of the body, especially the countenance, exclusive
of all transitory signs of the motion of the mind;
and pathognomy, the whole semeiotica of the
passions, or the knowledge of the natural signs
of the motions of the mind, according to all
their gradations and combinations.”
I entirely agree with this distinction, and like­
wise subscribe to these given definitions.
It is in the next place asked, is there physiog­
nomy? is there pathognomy? To the latter the
author justly replies, “ This no man ever yet de­
nied, for what would all theatrical representa­
tions be without it? The language of all ages
and nations abounds with pathognomonical re­
marks, and with which they are inseparably in­
terwoven.”
However, after reading the work several
times, I cannot discover whether the author does
or does not grant the reality of physiognomy. In
Digitized by Google
192 PHYSIOGNOMY.
one passage, the author very excellently says,
“ No one will deny, that, in a world where all
things are cause and effect, and where miracles
are not to be found, each part is a mirror of the
whole. We are often able to conclude, from
what is near to what is distant, from what is
visible to what is invisible, from the present to
the past and the future. Thus the history of
the earth is written, in nature’s characters, in the
form of each tract ofcountry, of its sands, hills,and
rocks. Thus each shellofthe sea-shoreproclaims
the once included mind, connected, like the mind
of man, with this shell. Thus also might the in­
ternal of man be expressed, by the external, on
the countenance, concerning which w e particu­
larly mean to speak. Signs and traces ofthought,
inclination, and capacity, must be perceptible.
How visible are the tokens impressed upon the
body bytrade and climate! yet what are trade and
climate compared to the ever-active soul,creative
in every fibre, of whose absolute legibility
from all and to all no one doubts?”
The writer of the above excellent passage is
the last person from whom 1 should have ex­
pected the following: “ What! the physiogno­
mist will exclaim, can the soul of Newton re­
side in the head of a Negro, or an angelic mind
in a fiendlike form?”
As little could I have expected this passage:—
cc Talents, and the endowments of the mind, in
general, are not expressed by any signs in the
firm parts of the head.”
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY. 193
I have never in my life met with any thing
more contradictory to nature, and to each other,
than the foregoing and the following paragraphs:
“ If a pea were thrown into the Mediterranean,
an eye more piercing than ours, though infinitely
less penetrating than the eye of him who sees all
things, might perceive the effects produced on
the coast of China.” These are our author’s very
words.
And shall the whole living powers of the soul,
“ creative in eveiy fibre,” have no determinate
influence on the firm parts, those boundaries of
its activity, which first were yielding, and acted
upon, impressed, by every muscle; which resem­
ble each other in no human body, which are so
various as characters and talents, and are as cer­
tainly different as the most flexible parts of man ?
Shall the whole powers of the soul, I say, have
no determinate influence on these, or not by these
be defined ? ;
In order to avoid the future imputation of in­
dulging the shallow stream of youthful declama­
tion, instead of producing facts, and principles
deducedfrom experience, let us opposeexperience
to declamation, and facts to subtleties. But Urst
a word, that we may perfectly removea degree of
ambiguity, which I should not have expected from
the accuracy of a mathematician.
u Why not, (says our author) why not the soul
of Newton in the head of a Negro ? Why not an
angel mind in a fiendlike form ? Who, reptile \
empowered thee to judge of the works of God ?” J
' . o
. Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
Let us represent things in tbeir proper light.
We do not speak here of what God can do, but of
what is to be expected, from the knowledge we
haye of his works. We ask what the Author of
order actually does, and not whether the soul of
Newton can exist in the body of a Negro, or an
angelic soul in a fiendlike form. The physiogno-
monical question is, can an angel’s soul act the
same in a fiendlike body as in the angelic body ?
or, in other words, could the mind of Newton
have invented the theory of light, residing in the
head of a Negro, thus and thus defined? Such
is the question.
Will you, Sir, who are the friend of truth, will
you answer, it might ? You who have previously
said of the world, “ all things in it are cause and
effect, and miracles are not to be found ?”
1 should indeed be a reptile, judging the works
of God, did 1 maintain its impossibility by mira­
cle ; but the question, at present, is not concern­
ing miracles; it is concerning natural cause and
effect.
After having thus stated the argument, permit
mo, Sjr, to decide it, by quoting your own words:
“ Judas scarcely could be that dirty, deformed
mendicant painted by Holbein. No hypocrite,
who associates with the good, betrayswith a kiss,
and afterwards hangs himself, has the look of
Holbein’s Judas, ftiy experience leads me to
suppose Judas must haye been distinguished by
an insinuating countenance, and an eyer-yeady
smile.”
1 9 4
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
How true! bow excellent! Yet whatif I were
to exclaim, “ Who empowered thee, reptile! to
judge of the works of God ?” What if I were to
retort the following just remark, “ Tell me first,
why a virtuous mind is so often doomed to exist
in an infirm body ? Might not also, were it God’s
good pleasure, a virtuous man have a counte­
nance like the beggarly Jew of Holbein, or any
other that can be imagined?”
Can this, however, be called wise or manly
reasoning ? How wide is the difference between
suffering and disgusting virtue ? or, is it logical to
deduce that, because virtue may suffer, virtue
may be disgustful ? Is not suffering essential to
virtue ?To ask why virtue must suffer, is equiva­
lent to asking why God has decreed that virtue
should exist, Is it alike incongruous to admit
that virtue suffers, and that virtue looks like vice ?
Virtue void of conflict, of suffering, or of self-de­
nial, is not virtue accurately consideredj there­
fore it is folly to ask, why must the virtuous
suffer? It is in the nature of things j but it is not
in the nature of things, not in the relation ofcause
and effect that virtues should look like vice, or
wisdom like foolishness. How, good Sir, could
you forget what you have so expressively said,
“ There is no durable beauty without virtue, and
the most hateful deformity may, by the aid ofvir­
tue, acquire the most irresistible charms ? The
author is acquainted with several women, whose
example might inspire the most ugly with hope,”
What may be the infirmities of the virtuoiis we
195
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
do not inquire, nor whether a man of genius may
become a fool; weask whethervirtue,whileexist­
ing, can look like present vice, or actual follylike
actualwisdom. You, Sir, who are so profound an
inquirer intothenature ofman,willcertainlynever
grant, (who, indeed,will ?) that the soul ofthe be­
loved disciple of Christ could, without a miracle,
reside in the dirty, deformed mendicant, the beg­
garly Jew of Holbein, and act as freely in that as
in any other body. Will you, Sir, continue torank
yourself, in your philosophical researches, with
those who, having maintained such senseless
propositions, rid themselves of all difficulties by
asking, “ Who empowered thee, reptile!tojudge
of the works of God ?”
Let us proceed to examine a few more passages.
“ Our senses acquaint us only with the super­
ficies, from which all deductions are made. This
is not very favourable to physiognomy, for which
something more definite is requisite, since this
reading of the superficies is the source of all our
errors, and frequently of our ignorance.”
So it is with us in nature; we absolutely can
read nothing more than the superficies. In a
world devoid of miracles, the external ever must
have a relation to the internal; and, could we
prove all reading of the superficies to be false,
what should we effectbutthe destructionof allhu­
manknowledge ? All our inquiries produce only
new superficies. All our truth must be the truth of
the superficies. It is not the reading of the super
ficies that is the source of all our error; for, if so,
196
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
we should have no truth; but the not reading,
or which is the same in effect, the not rightly
reading.
If “ a pea thrown into the Mediterranean sea
would effect a change in the superficies, which
should extend to the coast of China,” any error
that we might commit, in our conclusions con­
cerning the actions of this pea, would not be be­
cause we read only the superficies, but because
we cannot read the superficies;
“ That we can only read the superficies is not
very favourable to physiognomy, for which some­
thing more definite is requisite.” Something more
definite we have endeavoured to give, and wish
to hear the objections of acute inquirers. But Let
facts be opposed to facts. Does not our author,
by the expression, “ since the internal is impres­
sed upon the external,” seem to grant the possi­
bility of this impression ? And if so, does not the
superficies become the index of the internal?
Does he not thereby grant the physiognomy ofthe
firm parts ?
He proceeds to ask, “ If the internal be im­
pressed upon the external, is the impression to
be discovered by the eyes of men ?” Dare I trust
my eyes, that I have read such a passage in the
writings of a philosopher ?
We certainly see what we see. Be the object
'there, or be it not, the question ever must be, do
we or do we not see ? That we do see, and that
the author* whenever he pleases, sees also, his
essay is a proof, as are his other works. Be this
197
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
as it may, 1 know not what would become of all
our philosophers and philosophy, were we, at
every new discovery of things, or the relations of
things, to ask, was this thing placed there to be
discovered ? With what degree of ridicule would
our witty author treat the man who should en­
deavour to render astronomy contemptible by
asking, “ Though the wisdom of God is manifest
in the stars, were the stars placed there to be dis­
covered ?
“ Must not signs and effects, which we do not
seek, conceal and render those erroneous ofwhich
we are in search ?”
The signs we seek are manifest, and may be
known: they are the terminations ofcauses,there­
fore effects, therefore physiognomonical expres­
sions. The philosopher is an observer, an observer
of that which is sought or not sought. He sees,
and must see, that which presents itself to his
eyes; and that which presents itself is the symbol
of something that does not present itself. What
he sees can only mislead him when he does not
see rightly. Ifthe conclusion be true, **that signs
and effects which we do not seek must conceal,
and render erroneous those of which we are in­
search,” then ought we to seek do signs and ef­
fects, and thus all sciences vanish.
I have reason to hope, that a person of so much
learning as is our author, would not sacrifice alt
human sciences for the sole purpose of heaping
physiognomy on die pile. I grant the possibility
andfacilityoferror is there; and this should teaeh
138
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY. 199
as circumspection, should teach us to see the
thing that is, without the addition of any thing
that is not. But to wish, by any pretence, to di­
vert us from seeing and observing, and to render
inquiry contemptible, whether with rude or re­
fined wit, would be the most ridiculous of all
fanaticism. Such ridicule, in the mouth of a pro­
fessed enemy of false philosophers, would be as
vapid as false. I am indeed persuaded, that my*
antagonist is not serious and in earnest.
“ Were the growth of the body (says the au­
thor) in the most pure of atmospheres, and modi­
fied only by the emotions ofthe mind, undisturbed
by any external power, the ruling passion, and
the prevailing talent, I allow, might produce,
according to their different gradations, different
forms of countenance, like as different salts crys­
tallize in different forms, when obstructed by no
impediment. But is the body influenced by the
mind alone, or is it not rather exposed to all the
impulses of vailous contradictory powers, the
laws of which it is obliged to obey ? Thus each
mineral, in its purest state, has its peculiar form;
but the anomalies which its combination with
others occasions, and the accidents to which it is
subjected, often cause the most experienced to
err, when they would distinguish it by its form.”
How strange is this simile ! Salts and minerals
compared to an organized body, internally ani­
mate ! A grain of salt, which the least particle of
water will instantaneously melt, to the human
scull, which has defied misfortune, and millions
* :ed by Go< e
2 0 0 PHYSIOGNOMY.
of external impressions for centuries! Dost thou
not blush, Philosophy ? Not to confine ourselves
to the organization, or the sculls ofmen and other
animals, do we find that even plants, which have
not the internal resistance, the elasticity of man,
and which are exposed to millions of counteract­
ing impressions from light, air, and other bodies,
ever change their form, in consequence of such
causes? Which of them is ever mistaken for
another by the botanist ? The most violent acci­
dents scarcely could effect such a change, so long
as they should preserve their organization.
“ Thus is the body mutually acted upon by the
mind and external causes, and manifests not only
our inclinations and capacities, but also the effects
of misfortune, climate, diseases, food, and thou­
sands of inconveniences to which we are sub­
jected, not always in consequence of our vice, but
often by accidents, and sometimes by our vir­
tues.’’
Nobody can, nor will attempt to deny this. But
is the foregoing question hereby answered ? We
are to attend to that. Does not our essayist him­
self say, “ the body is acted upon by the mind
and external causes ?” Therefore not by external
causes alone. May it not equally be affected by
the internal energy, or inactivity of the mind ?
What are we contending for ? Has it not (if in­
deed the author be in earnest) the appearance of
sophistry to oppose external to internal effects,
and yet own the body is acted upon by both ?
And will you, Sir, acute and wise as you are,
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY. ' 201
maintain that misfortune can change a wise, a
round, and an arched, into a cylindrical fore­
head; one that is lengthened into one that is
square; or the projecting into the short retreat­
ing chin ? Who can seriously believe and affirm,
that Charles XIV. Henry IV. and Charles V. men
who were undoubtedly subject to misfortunes,
if ever men were, thereby acquired another form*
of countenance, (we speak of the firm parts, not
of scars,) and which forms denoted a different
character to what each possessed previous to
such misfortunes ? Who will maintain, that the
noses of Charles XII. or Henry IV. denoting
power of mind, previous to their reverse of for­
tune, thb one at Pultowa, the other by the hand
of Ravaillac, suffered any change, and were de­
based to the insignificant pointed nose of a girl ?
Nature acts from within upon the bones; acci­
dent and suffering act on the nerves, muscles, and
skin. If any accident attack the bones, who is
so blind as not to remark such physical violence ?
the signs of misfortune are either strong or
feeble: when they are feeble they are effaced by
the superior strength and power ofnature; when
strong, they are too visible to deceive, and by
their strength and visibility warn the physiogno­
mist not to suppose them the features of nature.
By the physiognomist I mean the unprejudiced
observer, who alone is the real physiognomist,
and has the right to decide; not the man of sub­
tlety, who is wilfully blind to experience.
u Are the defects, which I remark in an image
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
of wax, always the defects of the artist, or are
they not the consequences of unskilful handling,
die sun’s heat, or the warmth of the room ?”
Nothing, dear friend of truth, is more easy to
observe, in an image of wax, than the original
hand of the master, although it should, by impro­
per handling, accidental pressure, or melting,
be injured. This example, Sir, militates against
yourself. If the hand of the master be visible in
an image of wax, where it is so easily defaced,
how much more perceptible must accident be in
an organized body, so individually permanent ?
Instead of an image of wax, the simile, in my
opinion, would be improved were we to substi­
tute a statue; and in this every connoisseur can ,
distinguish what has been broken, chopped, or
filed off, aswell as what has been added by a later
hand« And why should not this be known in
man ? Why should not the original form of man
be more distinguishable, in despite of accident,
than the beauty and workmanship ofan excellent
statue which has been defaced ?
“ Does the mind, like an elastic fluid, always
assume the form of the body ? And if a flat nose
were the sign of envy, must a man, whose nose
by accident should be flattened, consequently be­
come envious ?”
The inquirer will gain but little, be this ques­
tion answered in the negative or affirmative.
What is gained were we to answer, " Yes; the
soul is an elastic fluid, which always takes the
form of the body ?” Would it thence follow, that
2 0 2
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
the flattened nose has lost so much ofits elasticity,
as would be necessary to propel the nose? or
where would be the advantage, should we reply,
“ No; all such comparisons are insignificant,
except to elucidate certain caseg: we must appeal
only to facts.”
But what would be answered to a less subtle
and moré simple question, Is there no'example
of the mind being injured by the maiming of the
body ? Has not a fractured scull, by compressing
the brain, injured the understanding ? Does not*
castration render the male half female ?—But to
answer Wit(with reason* says a witty writeiy is
like endeavouring to hold an eel by the tail.
We wholly subscribe to the affirmation, fhdtf
a it is absurd to suppose the most beautiful mind
is to be found in the most beautiful body, and the
most deformed mind in the most deformed body.”
We have already explained ourselves so amply
On this subject, that being supposed to hold a
contrary opinion appears incomprehensible. We
only say, there is a proportion and beauty ofbody*
which is more capable of superior virtue* sensibi­
lity, and action, than the disproportionate* W e
¿ay with the author* “ Virtue beautifies* vice de­
forms.” We most cordially grant, that honesty
may be found in the most ugly, and vide in mew '
of the most beautiful forms.
We cannot hoWevér help differing from him,
concerning the following assertion: " Our lan*
guages are exceedingly barren of physiognomoni-
eal terms. Were it a true science, the language
m
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
of the vulgar would have been proverbially rich
in its terms. The nose occurs in a hundred pro­
verbs and phrases, but always pathognomonically,
denoting past action, but never physiognomoni-
cally, betokening character or disposition/’
Instead of a hundred, I am acquainted with
only one such phrase, nasen rumfe, to turn up the
nose. Homo ohesce, obtusce naris, said the ancients;
and had they not said it, what could thence have
been adduced, since we can prove, d posteriori,
that the nose is a physiognomonical sign of cha­
racter.
I have not learning sufficient, nor have I the
inclination to cite sufficient proofs of the contrary
from Homer, Suetonius, Martial, and an hundred
others. That which is is, whether perceived by
the ancients or not. Such dust might blind a
school-boy, but not the eyes of a sage, who sees
for himself, and who knows that each age has
its measure of discovery, and that there are those
who fail not to exclaim against all discoveries
which were made by the ancients.
“ I should be glad to know, (says our author)
not what man may become, but what he is.”
I must confess that I wish to know both. Many
vicious men resemble valuable paintings, which
have been destroyed by varnish. Would you pay
no attention to such a painting ? Is it wholly
unworthy of you, though a connoisseur should
assure you, the picture is damaged; but there
is a possibility of clearing away the varnish, as
this master’s colours are so strongly laid on, and
204
Digitized by G o o g le
so essentially good, that no varnish can penetrate
deep enough, if we are but careful in bringing it
away not to injure the picture ? Is this of no im­
portance? You observe the smallest change of
position in the polar star. Days are dedicated to
examine how many ages shall elapse before it will
arrive at the nearest point of approach. I do
not despise your labours. But is it of no import­
ance to you, to fathers, mothers, guardians, teach­
ers,friends, and statesmen, to inquire what a man
may become, or what must be expected from this
or that youth, thus and thus formed and edu­
cated? Many foolish people are like excellent
watches, which would go well, were the regula­
tor but rectified. .
Is the goodness of the mechanism of no conse­
quence to you, although a skilful watchmaker
should tell you, this was, and is, an excellent
piece of workmanship, infinitely better than that
which you see set with brilliants, which, I grant,
will go well for a quarter of a year, but will then
stop ? Clean this, repair it, and straighten the
teeth of this small wheel. Is this advice of no
importance ? Will you not be informed what it
might have been, what it may yet probably be ?
Will you not hear of a treasure that lies buried,
and, while buried, I own useless; but will you
content yourselfwith the trifling interest arising
from this or that small sum ?
Is your attention paid only to the fruit of the
present year, and which is perhaps forced ? And
do you neglect the goodness ofa tree, which, with
PHYSIOGNOMY. 2 0 5
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY,
attention, may bring forth a thousandfold,though
under certain circumstances it may have brought
forth none? Have the hot blasts of the south
parched up its black leaves, or has the storm
blown down its half-ripened fruit, and will you
therefore not inquire whether the root does not
still flourish ?
I find I grow weary, and perhaps weary
others, especially as 1 am more and more con­
vinced, that our pleasant author, at least hi­
therto, meant only to amuse himself. 1 shall
therefore only produce two more contradictions,
winch ought not to have escaped the author,
and scarcely can escape any thinking reader.
He very properly says, in one place, f*Pa-
thognomonical signs, often repeated, are not al­
ways entirely effaced, but leave physiognomoni-
cal impressions. Hence originate the lines of
folly, ever gaping, ever admiring, nothing un­
derstanding; hence the traits ofhypocrisy; hence
the hollowed cheek, the wrinkles of obstinacy,
and heaven knows how many other wrinkles.
Pathognomonical distortion, which accompanies
the practice of vice, will likewise,in consequence
of the disease it produces, become more dis­
torted and hateful. Thus may the pathogno-
monieal expression of friendship, compassion,
Sincerity, piety, and other moral beauties,
become bodily beauty to such as can per­
ceive and admire these qualities. On this is
founded the physiognomy,of Gallert, which is the
only true part ofphysiognomy. This is of infinite
9 0 6
Digitized by G o o g le
advantage to virtue, end is comprehended ina
few words, virtue beautifies, vice deforms.”
Tbe branch therefore hath effect, the root
aouej the fruit has physiognomy, the treepone}
tbe feugb of sett-sufficient vanity may, therefore,
arise from the most bumble of hearts, and the
appearance offolly from theperfectionofwisdom.
The wrinkles of hypocrisy, therefore, are not the
result ofany internal power or weakness. The
author will always fix our attention on the dud-
plate, and will never speak of the power of the
watch itself. But take away the dial-plate, end
still the hand will go. Take away those pathog-
nomonical trails, which dissimulation some­
times can effect, and the internal power of im­
pulse will remain. How contradictory there­
fore is it to say, the traits offolly are there, but
not the character of folly; the drop ofwater is
visible, but the fountain, the ocean, is not!
Again. It is certainly incongruous to say,
“ There is patbognomy, butthis is as unnecessary
(to be written) as so set of love, it chiefly con­
sists in the motion of the muscles of the ,counte­
nance and the eyes, and is learned by all mas,
To teach this would be like an attempt to number
the sands of the sea !”
yet the author, in the very next page, with
great acuteness, begins to teach patbognomy, by
explaining twelve ofthe countenances ofCbndn-
wieeki, in which how much is there included o<
the science of physiognomy •
(Jive me now leave, my worthyantagonist, yet
PHYSIOGNOMY. 3 0 7
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
no tonger antagonist, but friend, convinced by
truth, and the love of truth, I say, give me leave
to transcribe* in one continuedquotation, some of
your excellent thoughts and remarks, from your
essay, and elucidations on the countenances of
Chodowiecki, part of which have been already
cited in this fragment, and part not. I am con­
vinced they will be agreeable to my readers.
“ Ourjudgment concerning countenances fre­
quently acquires certainty, not from physiogno-
monical nor pathognomonical signs, butfrom the
traces of recent actions, which men cannot shake
off. Debauchery, avarice, beggary, have each
their livery, by which they are as well known as
the soldierbyhis uniform, orthe chimney-sweeper
by his sooty-jacket. The addition of a trifling
expletive in discourse will betray the badness of
education; and the manner of putting on the
hat what is the company we keep, and what the
degree ofour folly.”
Suffer me here to add, shall not then the whole
form of man discover any thing of his talents and
dispositions? Can the most milky candour here
forget the straining at a gnat and swallowing a
camel ? *
“ Maniacs will often not be known to be dis­
ordered in their senses, if not in action. More
will often be discovered, concerning what a man
really is, by his dress, behaviour, and mode of
paying his compliments, at his first visit and in­
troduction, in a single quarter ofan hour, than
in all the time he shall remain. Cleanliness
906
Digitized by G( 3gle
and simplicity of manner will often conceal
passions.
K No satisfactory conclusions can often be
drawn from the countenances of the most dange­
rous men. Their thoughts are all concealed un­
der an appearance of melancholy. Whoever has
not remarked this, is unacquainted with man­
*kind. The heart of the vicious man is always
less easy to be read the better his education has
been, the more ambition he has, and the better
the company he has been accustomed to keep.
“ Cowardice and vanity, governed by an incli­
nation to pleasure and indolence, are not marked
with strength equivalent to the mischiefthey oc­
casion; while, on the contrary, fortitude in de­
fence of justice, against all opponents whatever,
be their rank and influence what it may, and the
conscious feeling of real self-worth, often look
very dangerous, especially when unaccompanied
by a smiling mouth. -
“ Specious as the objections brought bythe so­
phistry of the sensual may be, it is notwith­
standing certain, that there is no possible durable
beauty without virtue, and the most hateful de­
formity may, by the aid of virtue, acquire irre­
sistible charms. Examples of such perfection,
among persons of both sexes, I own are un­
common, but not more so than heavenly since­
rity, modest compliance, without self-degrada­
tion, universal philanthropy, without busy in­
trusion, a lover of order, without being minute,
p
'* PHYSIOGNOMY. 209
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
or neatness without foppery, which are the
virtues that produce such irresistible charms. .
“ Vice, in like manner, in persons yielding to
its influence, may highly, deform; especially
when, in consequence of bad education, and
want of knowledge of the traits of moral beauty,
or of will to assume them, the vieious may find
no day, no hour, in which to repair the depreda­
tions of vice. .
“ Where is the person who will not listen to
the mouth, in which no trait, no shade of false­
hood is discoverable ? Let itpreach the experience
of what wisdom, what science it may, comfort
will ever be the harbinger of such a physician,
and confidence hasten to welcome his approach.
“ One of the most hateful objects in the crea­
tion, says a certain writer, i6 a vicious and de­
formed old woman. We may also say, that the
virtuous matron, in whose countenance goodness
and the ardour, of benevolence are conspicuous,
is an object most worthy our reverence. Age
never deforms the countenance, when the mind
dares appear unmasked; it only wears off the
fresh varnish, under which coquetry, vanity, and
vice were concealed. Wherever age is exceed­
ingly deformed, the same deformity would have
been visible in youth, to the attentive observer,
“ This is no difficult matter, and were men to
act from conviction, instead of flattering them­
selves with the hope of fortunate accidents, happy
marriages would he more frequent; and, as
2 1 0
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
Shakspeare says, the bonds which should unite
hearts would not so often strangle temporal
happiness.”
This certainly is the language of the heart.
Oh! that I could have written my fragments in
company with such an observer! Who could
have rendered greater services to physiognomy
than the man who, with the genius of a mathe­
matician, possesses 60 accurate a spirit of ob­
servation ? .
211
CHAP. XXXII.
Description o f Plate V.
Number 1.
W iljlia m H q n d iu s , a Dutch engraver, after
Vand^ck. We here see mild, languid, slow in­
dustry, with enterprizing, daring, conscious he­
roism. This forehead is rounded, not indeed
common nor ignoble. The eyebrows are curved,
the eyes languid and sinking, and the whole
countenance oval, ductile, and maidenly.
• Number 2.
This head, if not stupid, is at least common; if
not rude, clumsy. I grant it as a caricature, yet,
however, there is something sharp and fine in
the eye and mouth, which a connoisseur will
discover.
Number 3.
This is manifestly a Turk, by the arching and
Digitized by G o o g le
position of the forehead, the hind part of the
head, the eyebrows, and particularly the nose.
The aspect is that of observation, with a degree
of curiosity. The open mouth denotes re­
marking, with some reflection.
Number 4.
It must be a depraved taste which can call this
graceful, and therefore it must be far from ma­
jestic. I should neither wish a wife, mother,
sister, friend, relation, or goddess, to possess a
countenance so cold, insipid, affected, stony,
unimpassioned, or so perfectly a statue.
Number 5.
The strong grimace of an impotent madman,
who distorts himself without meaning. In the
eye is neither attention, fury, littleness, nor
greatness.
Number 6 . *
The eyes in this head are benevolently stupid.
Wherever so much white is seen as in the left
eye, if in company with such a mouth, there is
seldom much wisdom.
212 PHYSIOGNOMY.
CHAP. XXXIU.
General Remarks on Women.
It may be necessary for me to say, that I am but
little acquainted with the female part of the hu-
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY»
man race. Any man of the world must know
more of them than I can pretend to know. My
opportunities of seeing them at the theatre, at
balls, or at the card-table, where they best may
. be studied, have been exceedingly few. In my
youth, I almost avoided women, and was never
in love.
Perhaps I ought, for this very reason, to have
left this very important part of physiognomy to
one much better informed,having myself so little
knowledge of the fair sex. Yet might not such
neglect have been dangerous? Might another
have treated the subject in the manner which I
could wish? or, would he have said the little I
have to say, and which, though little, I esteem
to be necessary and important?
I cannot help shuddering when I think how
excessively, how contrary to my intention, the
study of physiognomy may be abused, when ap­
plied to women. Physiognomy will perhaps
fare no better than philosophy, poetry, physie,
or whatever may be termed art or science. A
little philosophy leads to atheism, and much to
Christianity. Thus must it be with physiognomy;
but I.will not be discouraged; the half precedes
the whole. We learn to walk by falling, and
shall we forbear to walk lest we should fall ?
I can with certainty say, that true pure physi-
ognomonical sensation, in respect to the female
sex, best can season and improve life, and is the
most effectual preservative against the depreda­
tion of ourselves and others.
213
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
B ut eonseason and improve human life.—
What better can temper manly rudeness, or
strengthen and support the weakness of man,
What so soon can assuage the rapid Maze of
wrath, what more charm masculine power, what
so quickly dissipate peevishness and iH temper,
what so well can wile away the insipid tedious
hours of life, as the near and affectionate look of
a noble, beautiftil woman? What is so strong as
her soft delicate hand? What so persuasive as
her tears, restrained ? Who but beholding her
must cease to sin? How can the spirit of God
act more omnipotently upon the heart, than by
thé extending and increasing pbysrognomohical
sensation for such an eloquent countenance?
What so well can season daily insipidity? 1
scarcely ran conceive a gift of more paternal
and divine benevolence?
This has sweetened every bitter of my life, this
alone has' supported meunder the most corroding
cares, when the sorrows of a bursting heart
wanted vent. My eyes swam in tears, Mid toy
spirit groaned with anguish. Then when men
have daily asked, “ where is now thy God?”
when they rejected the sympathy, the affection
of my soul, with rude contemptuous scorn? when
acts 6f honest simplicity were calumniated, and
the saered impulse of conscious truth was
ridiculed, hissed at, and despised ? in those burn­
ing moments, when the world afforded no com*
fort, evett theft did the Almighty open mine-
eyes, even then did hé give me an unfailing
914
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
lource of joy, contained in a gentle, tender, but
internally firm, female mind; an aspect like that
of unpractised, cloistered virginity, which felt,
and was able to eflace each emotion, each passion
in the most concealed feature of her husband’s
countenance, and who, by those means, without
any thing of what the world calls beauty, shone
forth beauteous as an angel. Can there be a
more noble or important practice than that of
physiognomonical sensation fi>r beauties so
captivating, so excellent as these ?
This physiognomonical sensation is the most
effectual preservative against the degradation o f
ourselves and others. What can more readily
. discover the boundary between appetite and af­
fection, or cunning under the mask of sensibility?
What sooner candistinguish desire from love, or
love from friendship? What can more reverently,
internally, and profoundly feel the sanctity of
innocence, the divinity of maiden purity, or
sooner detect coquetry Unblessed, with wiles,
affecting every look of modesty? How often will
such a physiognomist turn contemptuous from
the beauties most adored, from thewretched pride
of their silence, their measured affectation of
speech, the insipidity of their eyes, arrogantly
overlooking misery and poverty, their authorita­
tive nose, their languid, unmeaning lips, relaxed
by contempt, blue with envy, and half bitten
through by artifice and malice! The obviousness
of these and many others will preserve him, who
can see from die dangerous charms of their
215
Digitized by Dogle
PHYSIOGNOMY.
shameless bosoms! How fully convinced is the
man of pure physiognomonical sensation, that he
cannot be more degraded than by suffering him­
self to be ensnared by such a countenance!
Be this one proof among a thousand.
But if a noble, spotless maiden but appear; all
innocence, and all soul; all love, and of love all
worthy, which must as suddenly be felt as she
manifestly feels; if in her large arched forehead
all the capacity of immeasurable intelligence
which wisdom can communicate be visible; if
her compressed but not frowningeyebrows speak
an unexplored mine of understanding, or her
gentle outlined or sharpened nose, refined taste,
with sympathetic goodness of heart, which flows
through the clear teeth, over her pure and
efficient lips; if she breathe humility and com­
placency ; if condescension and mildness be in
each motion of her mouth, dignified wisdom iu
each tone of her voice; if her eyes, neither too
Open nor too close, but looking straight forward,
or gently turned, speak the soul that seeks a
sisterly embrace; if she be superior to all the
powers of description; if all the glories of her
angelic form be imbibed like the mild and golden,
rays of an autumnal evening sun; may not then
this so highly-prized physiognomonical sensar
tion be a destructive snare of sin, or both ?
“ If thine eye be single, thy whole body shall
be full of light, as when the bright shining of a
candle doth give thee light.” And what is physi-
bgnomonical sensation but this singleness of eye?
2 1 6
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
The soul is not to be seen without the body, but
in the body; and the more it is thus seen, the
more sacred to thee will the body be. W hat!
man, having this sensation, which God has be­
stowed, wouldst thou violate the sanctuary of
God? Wouldst thou degrade, defame, debilitate,
and deprive it of sensibility ? Shall he, whom a
good or great countenance does not inspire with
reverence and love, incapable of offence, speak
of physiognomonical sensation; of that which
is the revelation of the spirit? Nothing main-«
tains chastity so entire, nothing so truly pre­
serves the thoughts from brutal passion, nothing
so reciprocally exalts souls, as when they are
mutually held in sacred purity. The contempla­
tion of power awakens reverence, and the pic­
ture of love inspires love; not selfish gratifica­
tion, but that pure passion with which spirits of
heaven embrace.
217
CHAP. XXXIV.
General Remarks on Male and Female.—A W ord
on the physiognomonical Relation o f the Sexes.
G en er a lly speaking; how much more pure,
tender, delicate, irritable, affectionate, flexi­
ble, and patient, is woman than man 1 The pri­
mary matter of which they are constituted ap­
pears to be more flexible, irritable, and elastic,
than that of man. They are formed to maternal
Digitized by Google
ph ysio g n o m y.
mildness and affection. All their organs are
tender, yielding, easily wounded, sensible, and
receptible.
Among a thousand females there is scarcely
one without the generic feminine signs, the
flexible, the circular, and the irritable. They
are the counterpart of man, taken out of man,
to be subject to man; to comfort him like an­
gels,. and to lighten his cares.- “ She shall be
saved in child-bearing, if they continue in faith,
and charity, and holiness, with sobriety.” ( 1
Tim. ii. 15.)
This tenderness and sensibility, this light
texture of their fibres and organs,' this volatility
of. feeling, render them so easy to conduct and
to tempt; so ready of submission to the
enterprize and power of the man; but more
powerful through the aid of their charms than
man, with all his strength. The man was not
first tempted, but the woman, afterwards the
man by the woman. And hot only easily to be
tempted, she is capable of being formed to the
purest, noblest, most seraphic virtue; to every
thing which can deserve praise or affection.
Truly sensible of purity, beauty, and sym­
metry, she does not always take time to reflect
on internal life, internal death, internal cor­
ruption. “ The woman saw that the tree was
good for food, and that it was pleasant to the
eyes, mid a tree to be desired to make one wise,
pnd she took of the fruit thereof.”
The female thinks not profoundly; profound
2 1 »
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
thought is the power of the mao. Women feel ,
more: sensibility is the power of women. They
often rule more effectually, more sovereignly
than man. They rule with tender looks, tears*
and sighs, but not with passion and threats; for*
if they so rule, they are no longer Women, but
abortions.
They are capable of the sweetest sensibility,
the most profound emotion, the utmost humility,
and the excess of enthusiasm. In the coun­
tenance are the signs of sanctity and^inviola­
bility, which every feeling man honours, and the
effects of which are often miraculous. There­
fore by the irritability of their nerves, their in­
capacity for deep inquiry and firm decision, they
may easily, from their extreme sensibility, be­
come the most irreclaimable, the most rapturous
enthusiasts*
The love of Woman, strong and rooted as it is,
is very changeable; their hatred almost incura­
ble, and only to be efTaced by continued and
artful flattery. Men are most profound, women
are more sublime. Metí most embrace the
whole; women remark individually, and take
mofe delight in selecting the minutim which
form the whole. Man hears the bursting thun­
ders, views the destructive bolt with serene as­
pect, and stands erect amidst the fearful majesty
of the streaming clouds. Woman trembles at the
lightning and the voice of distant thunder, and
shrinks into herself, or sinks into the arms of
man.
<819
Digitized by Goógle
.PHYSIOGNOMY.
A ray of light is singly received by man,
woman delights to view it through a prism, in all
its dazzling colours. She contemplates the rain­
bow as the promise ofpeace; he extends his in­
quiring eye over the whole horizon*
Woman laughs, man smiles; woman weeps,
man remains silent. Woman is in anguish when
man weeps, and in despair when man is in an­
guish ; yet has she often more faith than man.
Without religion, man is a diseased creature,
who would persuade himself he is well, and
needs not a physician : but woman, without re­
ligion,, is raging and monstrous. A woman with
a beard is not so disgusting as a woman who
acts the free-thinker; her sex is formed to pity
and religion* To them Christ first appeared;
but he was obliged to prevent them from too
ardently and too hastily embracing him—Touch
me nol. They* are prompt to receive and seize
novelty, and become its enthusiasts. .
In the presence and proximityof him they love,
the whole world is forgotten. They sink into the
most incurable melancholy, as they rise to the
most enraptured heights.
There is more imagination in male sensation,
in the female more heart* When communica­
tive, they are more communicative than man;
when secret, more secret. In general they are
more patient, long-suffering, credulous, benevo­
lent, and modest.
Woman is not a foundation on which to build*
She is the gold, silver, precious stones, wood,
2 2 0
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
hay, stubble; (1 Cor* iii. 12.) the materials for
building on the male foundation. She is the
leaven, or, more expressively, the oil to the vine­
gar of man; the second part to the book
of man. Man singly, is but half a man, at
least but halfhuman; a king without a kingdom*
Woman, who feels properly what she is, whether
still or in motion, rests upon the man; nor is
man what he may and ought to be but in conjunc­
tion with woman. Therefore “ it is not good
that man should be alone, but that he should
leave father and mother, and cleave to his wife,
and that they two shall be one flesh.”
A W ord on the physiognomonical Relation o f the
Sexes.
■ Man is the most firm, woman the most flexible»
Man isthe straightest, woman the most bending.
Man stands stedfast, woman gently retreats*
Man surveys and observes, woman glances
and feels.
Man is serious, woman is gay.
Man is the tallest and broadest, woman the
smallest and weakest.
Man is rough and hard, woman is smooth
and soft. ,
Man is brown, woman is fair.
Man is wrinkly, woman is not.
The hair of man.is strong and short, of woman
more long and pliant.
The eyebrows of man are compressed, of I o ­
nian less frowning.'
221
Digitized by Google
HtySfOGNOMY.
Man hit» most convex lines, Woman most con­
cave. •
Man has most straight lines, woman most
curved.
The countenance of man, taken in profile, is
not so often perpendicular as that of the woman;
Man is the most angular, woman most round.
CHAP. XXXV.
On the Physiognomy Youth.
E xtracts from Zimmerman's 'Life o f H aller.
“ Thb first years of the youth include the his­
tory of the man. They develop the qualities
of die soul, the materials'«^ fiiture conduct, and
the true features of temperament. In riper years
dissimulation prevails, or, at least, that modifica­
tion of our thoughts, which is the consequence
of experience and knowledge.
“ The characteristics of the passions, which
are undeniably discovered to us by the peculiar
art denominated physiognomy, are effaced in the
countenance by age; while, on the contrary,
.their true signs are visible in youth. The original
materials of man are unchangeable; he is drawn
in colours that have no deceit. The boy is the
work of nature, the man of art.”
’My worthy Zimmerman, how much -of the
true, how much of the false, at least of the inde-
Digitized by Google
fftiVaKKIWQMY.
finite» is there in this passage! According to my
conception, I see the«day, the¡mass, in the youth­
ful countenance ) but not the form of the future
man. There are passions and powers of youth,
and passions And powers of age. These often
are contradictory in the same man, yet are they
contained one within the other! Time produces
the expression of latent traits. A man is but a
boy seen through a magnifying glass; I always,
therefore, perceive more in the countenance of
a man than of a boy. Dissimulation may in­
deed conceal the moral materials, but not alter
their form. The growth of powers and passions
imparts, to the first undefined sketch of what is
called a boy’s countenance, the firm traits,
shading) and colouring of manhood.
These are youthful countenances, which de­
clare whether they ever shall, or shall not, ripen
info man. This they declare, but they only de­
clare it to the great physiognomist. I will ac­
knowledge, when, which seldom happens, the
form of the head is beautiful, conspicuous, pro­
portionate, greatly featured, well defined, and
opt too feebly coloured, it will be difficult that
the result should be common or vulgar. I like­
wise know, that where the form is distorted, es­
pecially when it is transverse, extended, un­
defined, or too harshly defined, much can rarely-
be expected. But how much do ;the forms of
youthful countenances ohange, even in the
system of the bones!
A great deal has been,said of.the openness, un-
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
degeneracy, simplicity, and ingenuousness of a
childish and youthful countenance. It may be
so; but, for my own part, I must own, I am not
so fortunate as to be able to read a youthful
countenance with the same degree of quickness
and precision, however small that degree, as one
that is manly. The more I converse with and
consider children, the more difficult do I find
it to pronounce, with certainty, concerning their
character. Not that I do not meet countenances,
among children and boys, most strikingly and
positively significant; yet seldom is the great
outline of the youth so definite as for us to be
able to read in it the man. The most remarkably
advantageous young countenances may easily,
through accident, terror, hurt, or severity in pa­
rents or tutors, be internally injured, without any
apparent injury to the whole. The beautiful,.
the eloquent form, the firm forehead, the deep,
sharp eye, the cheerful, open, free, quick-
moving mouth remain; there will only be a drop
of troubled water in what else appears so clear;
only an uncommon, scarcely remarkable, per­
haps convulsive motion of the mouth. Thus is
hope overthrown, and beauty rendered in­
distinct.
. As simplicity is the soil of variety, so is inno­
cence for the products of vice. Simplicity, not
bf a youth, but of a child, in thee the Omniscient
only views the progress of sleeping passion; the
gentle wrinkles of youth, the deep of manhood,
and the manifold and relaxed of age. Oh! how
224
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY. 225
different was my infantine countenance to the
present, in form and speech! But, as trans­
gression follows innocence, so doth virtue trans­
gression.
Doth the vessel say to the potter, wwherefore
hast thou mademe thus ?
*
—I am lit lie, but I am /.”
He who created me, did not create me to be a
child, but a man. Wherefore should I ruminate
on the pleasures of childhood, unburthened with
cares ? I am what I am. I will forget the past,
nor weep that I am no longer a child, when I
contemplate children in all their loveliness. To
join the powers of man with the simplicity of the
child, is the height of all my hopes. God grant
they may be accomplished!
CHAP. XXXVI.
Physiognomonical Extractsfrom an Essay inserted
• in the Deutschen Museum, a German Journal
or Review.
F rom this essay I shall extract only select
thoughts, and none but such as I suppose im ­
portantly true, false, or ill defined.
1 .
“ Men with arched and pointed noses are said
to be witty, and that the blunt noses are not so.”
A more accurate definition is necessary, which,
without drawing, is almost impossible. Is it
a
Digitized by Gc 3gle
PHYSIOGNOMY,
meant by arched noses arched in length or in
breadth? How arphed f This is almost as in'
determinate as when we speak of arched for*r
heads. All foreheads are arched. Innumerable
noses are arched, the most witty and the most
stupid. Where is the highest point of arching ?
Where does it begin? What is its extent? What
is its strength ?
It must be allowed, that people with tender,
thin, sharply defined, angular noses, pointed be'
low, and something inclined towards the lip, are
witty, when no other features contradict these
tokens; but that people with blunt noses are
pot so, is not entirely true. It can only be said
of certain blunt noses, for there are others of
this kind extremely witty, though their wit is
certainly ofa different kind to that of the pointed
nose.
2.
“ It is asked, (supposing for a moment, that
the arched and the blunt nose denote the presence
or absence of wit) is the arched nose the mere
sign that a man is witty, which supposes his
wit to originate in some occult cause, or is the
nose itself the cause of wit ?”
I answer, sign, cause, and effect combined.-
Sign; for it betokens the wit, and is an involun­
tary expression of wit. Cause; at least cause
that the wit is not greater, less, or of a different
quality, boundary cause. Effect; produced by
the quantity, measure, or activity of the mind,
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
which suffers not the nose to alter its form, to be
greater or less. We are not only to consider
the form as form, but the matter of which it is
moulded, the conformability of which is de­
termined by the nature mid ingredients of this
matter, which is probably the origin of the form.
True indeed it is, that there are blunt noses,
which are incapable of receiving a certain quan­
tity of wit; therefore it may be said, with more
subtlety than philosophy, they form an insupera­
ble barrier.
2 2 7
3.
cs The correspondence of external figures with
internal qualities is not the consequence of ex­
ternal circumstances, but rather of physical
combination. They are related like cause and
effect, or, in other words, physiognomy is not
the mere image of internal man, but the efficient
cause. The form mid arrangement ofthe muscles
determine the mode of thought, and sensibility
of the man.”
I add, these are also determined by the mind
of man.
4.
A broad conspicuous forehead is said to de­
note penetration. This is natural. The muscle
of the forehead is necessary to deqp *thought.
If it be narrow and contracted, it cannot render
the same service as if spread out like a sail.’*
I shall here, without contradicting the .general
Digitized by
D
O
i
PHYSIOGNOMY.
proposition of the author, more definitely add,
it is, if you please, generally true, that the more
brain the more mind and capacity. The most
stupid -animals are those with least brain, and
those with most the wisest. Man, generally
wiser, has more brain than other animals; and
it appears just to conclude from analogy, that
wise men have more brain than the foolish. But
, accurate observation teaches, that this proposi­
tion, to be true, requires much definition and
limitation.
Where the matter and form of the brain are
similar, there the greater space for the residence
of the brain is, certainly the sign, cause, and
effect of more and deeper impression; therefore,
cateris paribus, a larger quantity of brain, and
consequently a spacious forehead, v
is more in­
telligent than the reverse. But as we frequently
live more conveniently in a small well-contrived
chamber than in more magnificient apartments,
so do we find, that in many small, short fore­
heads, with less, or apparently less brain than
others, the wise mind resides at its ease.
I have known many short, oblique, straight-
lined (when compared with others apparently
arched, or really well-arched) foreheads, which
were much wiser, more intelligent, and pene-
4 trating, than the most broad and conspicuous;
many of which latter I have seen in extremely
weak men. It seems to me,1 indeed, a much
more general proposition, that short compressed
foreheads are wise and understanding; though
228
Digitized by G o o g le
this, likewise, without being more accurately
defined, is far from being generally true.
But it is true, that large spacious foreheads,
which, if I do not mistake, Galen, and after him
Huart, have supposed the most propitious to
deep thinking, which form a half sphere, are
usually the most stupid. The more any fore­
head (I do not speak of the whole scull) ap­
proaches a semispherical form, the more is it
weak, effeminate, and incapable of reflection,
mid this I speak from repeated experience.
The more straight lines a forehead has, the
less capacious it must be; for the more it is
arched, the more must it be roomy, and the more
straight lines it has, the more must it be con­
tracted. This greater quantity of straight lines,
when the forehead is hot flat like a board, for
such flatness takes away all understanding^ de­
notes an increase of judgment, but a diminution
of sensibility. There undoubtedly are, however,
broad, capacious foreheads, without straight
lines, particularly adapted to profound thinking;
but these are conspicuous by their oblique out­
lines.
PHYSIOGNOMY. 229
5.
What the author has said concerning enthu­
siasts requires much greater precision, before it
ought to be adopted as true.
“ Enthusiasts are said commonly to have flat,
perpendicular foreheads.”
Oval, cylindrical, or pointed at top, should
Digitized by G o o g le
I
230 p h y s io g n o m y .
have been said, of those enthusiasts who are
calm, cold-blooded, and always continue the
same. Other enthusiasts, that is to say, such as
are subject to a variety of sensation, illusion,
and sensual experience, seldom have cylindrical
or sugar-loaf heads. The latter, when enthu­
siasts, heat their imagination concerning words
and types, the signification of which they do not
understand, and arc philosophical, unpoetical en­
thusiasts. Enthusiasts of imagination, or of
sensibility, seldom have flat forms of the coun
tenance.
6.
“ Obstinate, like enthusiastic, persons, have
perpendicular foreheads.”
The perpendicular always denotes coldness,
inactivity, narrowness; hence firmness, forti­
tude, pertinacity, obstinacy, and enthusiasm may
be there. Absolute perpendicularity, and abso­
lute folly, are the same.
7­
« Such disposition of mind is accompanied by
a certain appearance, or motion of the muscles ;
consequently the appearance of man, which is
natural to, and ever present with him, will be
accompanied by, and denote, his natural disposi­
tion of mind. Countenances are so formed
originally, that to one this, and to another that
appearance is the easiest. It is absolutely im­
possible for folly to assume the appearance of
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
wisdom, otherwise it would no longer be folly.
The worthy man cannot assume the appearance
of dishonesty, or he would be dishonest/’
This is all excellent, the last excepted. No
man is so good as not, under certain circum­
stances, to be liable to become dishonest. He is
so organized, that he may be so overtaken by the
pleasure of stealing, when accompanied by the
temptation. The possibility of the appearance
must be there as well as the possibility of the
act. He must also be able to assume the ap­
pearance of dishonesty, when he observes it in a
thief, without necessarily becoming a thief. Thé
possibility of assuming the appearance of good­
ness is, in my opinion, very different. The ap­
pearance of vice is always more easily assumed
by the virtuous, than the appearance of virtue
by the vicious; as it is evidently much easier to
. become bad when we are good, than good
when we are bad. Understanding, sensibility,
talents, genius, virtue, or religion, may with
much greater facility be lost than acquired.
The best may descend as low as they please,
but the worst cannot ascend to the height they
might wish. The wise man may physically,
without a miracle, become a fool, and the most
virtuous vicious; but the idiot-bom cannot
without a miracle, become a philosopher, nor
the distorted villain noble and pure of heart.
The most beautiful complexion may become
jaundiced, may be lost; but the negro cannot be
washed white. I shall not become a negro be-
231
Digitized by G o o g le
232 PHYSIOGNOMY.
causey to imitate him, I blacken my face, nor a
thief, because I assume the appearance ofone. -
a
- “ It is the business of a physiognomist to in­
quire, what is the appearance the countenance
can most easily assume, and he will thence learn
what is the disposition ofmind; not that physiog­
nomy is therefore an easy science. On the con­
trary, this rather shews how much ability, imagi­
nation, and genius, are necessary to the physiog­
nomist. Attention must not only be paid to what
is visible, but what would be visible under va­
rious other circumstances.” .
This is excellent! and I add, that as a physi­
cian can presage what alteration of colour, ap­
pearance, or form, shall be the consequence of
a known disease, of the existence of which he
is certain, so can the accurate physiognomist
what appearances or expressions are easy or
difficult to each kind of muscle, and form of
forehead, what action is or is not permitted, and
what wrinkles may or may not take place, under
any given circumstances.
9 -
wWhen a learner draws a countenance, we
shall commonly find it is foolish, and never ma­
licious, satirical, and the like. May not the es­
sence of a foolish countenance hence be ab­
stracted? Certainly; for what is the cause of
this appearance? The learner is incapable of
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
preserving proportion, and the strokes are
unconnected. What is the stupid countenance ?
It is one, the parts of which are defectively con­
nected, and the muscles improperly formed
and arranged. Thought and sensation, there­
fore, of which these are the inseparable instru­
ments, must be alike feeble and dormant.
233
10­
“ There is another substance in the body, ex­
clusive of the muscles; that is to say, the scull,
or bones in general, to which the physiognomist
attends. The position of the muscles depends
on these. How might the muscle of the fore­
head have the position proper for thought, if the
forehead bones, over which it is extended, had
not the necessary arch and superfices? The
figure of the scull, therefore, defines the figure
and position ofthe muscles, which define thought
and sensation.”
11.
“ The hair affords us the same observation, as
from the parts and position of the hair con­
clusions may be drawn. Why has the negro
woolly hair? The thickness of the skin prevents
the escape of certain of the particles of perspira­
tion, and these render the skin opaque and black.
Hence the hair shoots with difficulty, and
scarcely has it penetrated before it curls, and its
growth, ceases. The hair, spreads according to
the form of the scull and the position of the
Digitized by G o o g le
FHYSITOHOKT.
muscle*, and gives occasion to tbe physiognomist
to draw conclusions from die hair to the pom*
tion of the muscles, and' to deduce other con­
sequences.”
It is clearly my opinion, that our author is in
the right road. He is the first who, to my know­
ledge, has perceived and felt the totality, the
combination, the uniformity, of the various
parts of the human body. What he has affirmed
especially concerning the hair, that we may
from that make deductions concerning the
nature of the body, and still father of the
mind, die least accurate observer may convince
himself is truth, by daily experience. White,
tender, clear, weak hair, always denotes weak,
delicate, irritable, or rather a timid and easily
oppressed organization. The black and curly-
wili never be found on the delicate, tender,
medullary head.
As is the hair, so the muscles, as the muscles,
so the nerves, as the nerves, so the bones; their
powers are mutual, and the powers of the mind
to act, suffer,, receive, and give, proportionate.
Least irritability always accompanies short,
hard, curly, Mack hair, and the most the flaxen
and the tender; that is to say, irritability with­
. out elasticity. The one is oppressive without)
elasticity, and the other oppressed without re­
sistance.
“ Much hair, much fat, therefore no part of
the human body is more conspicuously covered
with hair than the head and armpits. Fran the
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY•
plasticity of thé hair, deductions may with cer­
tainty be made to the elasticity of the character«
The hair naturally betokens moisture, and may
properly determine the quantity of moisture. The
inhabitants of cold countries hove hair more
white, and, on the contrary,those ofhot countries,
black. Lionel Wafer observes, that thé in­
habitants of the isthmus of Darien have milk-
white hair. Few, if any, have green hair, ex­
cept those who work in copper mines. We
seldom find white hair betokening dishonesty,
but often dark brown or black, with light-
coloured eyebrows. Women have longer hair
than men. Men with long hair are always ra­
ther effeminate than manly. Dark hair is
harsher than light, as is the hair of a man than
that of a boy. . ,
as&
12.
“ As all depends on the quality of the mus­
cles, it is evident, that in these muscles, which
are employed for Certain modes of thought and
sensation, ought to be sought the expression of
similar thoughts and sensations.”
The search should not be neglected, though
perhaps it will be difficult to find them; and they
certainly Will there be defined With greater
difficulty than in the forehead.
13.
“ The most important instrument to the ab­
stract thinker is the muscle of the forehead; for
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
which reason we always seek for abstract
thought in the forehead.”
Rather near and between the eyebrows. It is
of consequence to remark the particular moment
when the thinker is listening, or when he is
preparing some acute answer. Seize the mo­
ment^ and another of the important tokens of
physiognomy is obtained.
14.
“ Among people who do not abstract, and
whose powers of mind are all in action, men of
wit, exquisite taste, and genius, all the muscles
must be advantageously formed and arranged.
Expression, therefore, in such, must be sought
in the whole countenance.”
Yet may it be found in the forehead alone,
which is less sharp, straight-lined, perpendicular,
and forked. The skin is less rigid, more easily
moved, more flexible.
15.
“ How laborious has been the trouble to con­
vince people, that physiognomy is only generally
useful!”
It is at this very moment disputed by men of
the strongest minds. How long shall it continue
so to be? Yet I should suppose, that he who
curses the sun, while exposed to its scorching
rays, would, when in the shade, acknowledge its
universal utility.
“ How afflicting is it to hear, from persons of
the greatest learning, and who might be ex-
236
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
pected to enlarge theboundaries^of human un­
derstanding, the most superficial judgments!
How much is that great aera fo be wished, when
the knowledge of man shall become a part of
natural history; when psychology, physiology,
and physiognomy, shall go hand in hand, and
lead us towards the coniines of more general,
more sublime illumination!”
237
CHAP. XXXVII.
E xtracts from Maximus Tyrius.
“ As the soul of man is the nearest approach
to the Deity, it was not proper that God should
clothe that which most resembled himself, in
dishonourable garments; but with a body be­
fitting a mortal mind, and endowed with a pro­
per capability of motion. This is the only body
on earth that stands erect. It is magnificent,
superb, and formed according to the best pro­
portion of its most delicate parts. Its stature
is not terrific, nor is its strength formidable.
The coldness of its juices occasions it not to
creep, nor their heat to fly. Man eats not raw
flesh, from the savageness of his nature, nor
does he graze like the ox; but he is framed
and adapted for the executions of his functions.
To the wicked he is formidable, mild and
friendly to the good. By nature he*walks the
earth, swims by art, and flies by imagination.
He tills the earth, and enjoys its fruits. His
Digitized by G o o g le
2 8 8 r a V H O e N Q A t Y .
completion is besutifiil, ins Jimbs firm, his
countenance is comely, and beard ornamental.
By imitating bis body, the Greeks hare thought
proper to honour their deities/’
Why am I not able to speak with sufficient
force? Oh ! that I could find faith enough with
my readers, to convince them how frequently
my soul seems exalted above itself, while I con*
template the unspeakably miraculous nature of
the human body! Oh! that all the languages
of the earth would lend me words, that I might
turn the thoughts of men, not only to the con­
templation of others, but, by the aid of these,
to the contemplation of themselves! No anti­
physiognomist can more despise my work than
I myself shall, if I am unable to accomplish this
purpose. How might I conscientiously write
such a work were not such my views ? If this
be not impulse, no writer has impulse. I can­
not behold the smallest trait, nor the inflexion
of any outline, without reading wisdom and be­
nevolence, or without waking as if from a sweet
dream into rapturous and actual existence, and
congratulating myself that I also am a man.
In each the smallest outline of the human
body, and how much more in all together, in
e$ch member separately, and how much more
in the whole body, however old and ruinous the
building may appear, how much is there con­
tained of the study of God, the genius of God,
the poetry of God ? My trenibling and agitated
breast frequently pants after leisure to look into
the revelations of God.
Digitized by Dogle
PO fglO O K Q Ill1
. 230
a.
* Imagine to thyself the most translucent
water flowing ever a surfaee, on Which grow
beauteousflowers, whose bloom, though beneath,
is seen through the pellucid waves; even so it
is with the fair flower ofthe soul, planted in a
beauteous body, through which its beauteous
bloom is seen. The good formation of a youth­
ful body Is no other than the bloom of ripening
virtue, and, as 1 may say, the presage of far
higher perfection; for, as before the rising of
the sun, the mountain tops are gilded by his
rays, enlivening the pleasing prospects, and
promising the full approach ofday, so also the
future maturity of an illustrious soul shines
through the body, and is to the philosopher, the
plearing sign of approaching happiness.”
CHAP. XXXVIII.
E xtracts from « M m m cript by Tfa----- .
“ The relation between the male and female
countenance is similar to that between youth
and manhood. Our experience, that the deep,
or scarcely visible outline is in proportion to
the depth or shallowness of thought, is one of
the many proofs that nature*has impressed such
forms upon her creatures as shall testify their
qualities. That these forms or signs are legible
to the highly perceptive soul is visible in
* gitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
children, who cannot endure the deceitful, the
tell-tale, or the revengeful ; but run with open
arms to the benevolent stranger.
“ We may properly divide our remarks on
this subject into complexion, lines, and panto­
mime. That white, generally speaking, is
cheerful, and black gloomy and terrific, is the
consequence of our love of light, which acts so
degenerately, as it were, upon some animals,
that they will throw themselves into the fire;
and of our abhorrence of darkness. The reason
of this our love of light is, that it makes us ac­
quainted with things, provides for the soul
hungry after knowledge, and enables us to find
what is necessary, and avoid what is dangerous.
I only mention this to intimate, that in this our
love of light originates in our inclination for
every thing that is perspicuous. Certain colours
are, to certain animals, particularly agreeable
or disagreeable.”
What is the reason of this ? Because they are
the expression of something which has a rela­
tion to their character, that harmonizes with it,
or is discordant. Colours are the effect of cer­
tain qualities of object and subject; they are
therefore characteristic, in each, and become
more so by the manner in which they are mu­
tually received and repelled. This would be
another immense field of inquiry, another ray
of the sun of truth. All is physiognomy !
“ Our dislike is no less for every thing which
is clothed in dark colours ; and nature has
240
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY. 241
warned animals, not only against feeding on
earth, but also on dark-green plants; for the one
is as detrimental as the other. Thus the man
of a dark complexion terrifies an infant that is
incapable ofjudging of his character.
“ So strikingly significant are the members of
the body,' that the aspect of the whole attacks
our feelings, and induces judgments as sudden
as they are just. Thus, to mention two ex­
tremes, all will acknowledge, at the first aspect,
the elephant to be the wisest, and the fish the
most stupid of creatures.
“ The upper part of the countenance, to the
root of the nose, is the seat of internal labour,
thought, and resolution; the under, of these in
action. Animals, with very retreating fore­
heads, have little brain, and the reverse. .
“ Projecting nose and mouth betoken persua­
sion, self-confidence, rashness, shamelessness,
want ofthought, dishonesty, and all such feelings
as are assembled in hasty expression/’
This is a decision after the manner of the
old physiognomists, condemning, and indefinite
“ The nose is the seat of derision, its wrinkles
contemn. The upper lip, when projecting,
speaks arrogance, threats, and want of shame;
the parting under lip, ostentation and folly.
These signs are confirmed by the manner and
attitude of the head, when drawn back, tossed,
or turned round. The first expresses contempt,
during which the nose is active; the latter is a
R
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
proof of extreme arrogance, during which the
projection of the under lip is the strongest.
“ The in-drawn lower parts of the coun­
tenance, on the contrary, denotes discretion,
modesty, seriousness, diffidence, and its failings
are those of malice and obstinacy.”
Not so positive. The projecting chin is much
oftener the sign of craft than the retreating.
The latter is seldom scheming and enterprizing.
“ The straight formation of the nose betokens
gravity; inbent and crooked, noble thoughts.
The flat, pouting upper lip, when it does not
close well with the under, signifies timidity; the
tips resembling each other, circumspection of
speech.
“ We may divide the face into two principal
kinds. The first is that in which the cheeks
present a flat surface, the nose projecting like a
hill, and the mouth has the appearance of a
sabre wound, prolonged on an even surface,
while the line of the jaw-bone has but little in­
flection. Such a form makes the countenance
more broad than long, and exceedingly rude, in­
expressive, stupid, and in every sense confined.
The principal characteristics are obstinacy and
inflexibility.
“ The second kind is, when the nose has a
sharp ridge, and the parts on both sides make
acute angles with each other. The cheek bones
are not seen, consequently the muscular parts
between them and thè nose sure full and promi-:
242
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY«
nent. The lips retreat on each side of the
mouth, assume or open into an oval, and the
jaw bones come to a point at the chin.”
This face denotes a mind more subtle, active,
and intelligent.
“ The better to explain myself, I must here
employ the simile of two ships. The first a mer­
chant vessel, built for deep loading, has a broad
bottom, and her ribs long and flat. This reseta-
bles the broad, flat countenance. The frigate,
built for swift sailing, has a sharp keel or bottom,
her ribs forming acute angles. Such is the
second countenance. Of these two extremes,
the first presents to me the image ofthe meanest,
most contracted, self-love; the second of the
most zealous, the noblest philanthropy.
“ I am sensible, that nature does not delight
in extremes. Still the understanding must take
its departure from these, as from a light-house,
especially when sailing in unknown seas. The
defects and excesses which are in all works of
nature will then be discovered, and one or both
the boundaries ascertained.
“ If we proceed to a farther examination and
application of the above hypothesis, it will per­
haps extend through all nature. A broad coun­
tenance is accompanied by a short neck, broad
shoulders and back, and their known character
is selfishness and obtuse sensation. The long*
small countenance, has a long neck, small, or
low shoulders, and small back, from such I
243
Digitized by G o o g le
P h y s io g n o m y .
should expect more justice, disinterestedness,
and a general superiority of social feelings.
The features and character of men are essen­
tially altered by education, situation, intercourse,
and incidents; therefore we are justified in main­
taining, that physiognomy cannot look back to
the origin of the features, nor presage the
changes of futurity; but from the countenance
only, abstracted from all external accidents by
which it may be affected, it may read what any
given man may be, with the following addition
atmost: such shall be the empire of reason,
or such the power of sensuality. This man is
too stubborn to be instructed; that so flexible,
he may be led to good or ill.
“ From this formation we may in part explain
why so many men appear to be bom for certain
situations, although they may have rather been
placed in them by accident than by choice.
Why the prince, the nobleman, the overseer of
the poor, have a lordly, a stern, or a pedantic
manner; why the subject, the servant, the slave,
are pusillanimous and spiritless; or the courte­
zan affected, constrained, or insipid. The con­
stant influence of circumstances on the mind
far exceeds the influence of nature.” Far the
contrary.
“ Although it is certain, that innate servility
. is very distinct from the servility of one, whom
misfortune has rendered a servant; like as he
whom chance has made a ruler over-his brother
244
Digitized by Dogle
is very different from one who is by nature
superior to vulgar souls.”
There is no such thing as innate servility. It
is true that, under certain circumstances, some
are much more disposed than others to become
servile.
“ The unfeeling mind of the slave has vacuity
more complete, or, if a master, more self-com­
placency and arrogance, in the.open mputh, the
projecting lip, and the turned-up nose. The no­
ble mind rules by the comprehensive aspect,
while, in the closed lips, moderation is expressed.
He will serve with sullenness, with downcast
eye, and his shut mouth will disdain to com­
plain. *
“ These causes will undoubtedly make durable
impressions, so will the adventitious occasion
transitory ones, while their power remains. The
latter are more apparent than the signs of the
countenance at rest, but may be well defined by
the principal characteristics of the agitated
features; and, by comparison with countenances
subject to similar agitations, the nature of the
mind may be fully displayed. Anger in the un­
reasonable, ridiculously struggles; in the self­
conceited, it is fearful rage; in the noble minded,
it yields and brings opponents to shame; in the
benevolent, it has a mixture ofcompassion for
the offender, moving him to repentance.
“ The affliction of the ignorant is outrageous,
and of the vain ridiculous; of the compassionate,
abundance in tears and communicative; of the
P H Y S I O G N O M Y . ' 2 4 5
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
resolute serions, internal, the muscles of the
cheeks scarcely drawn upwards, the forehead
little wrinkled.
" Violent and eager is the love of the ignorant;
of the vain, disgusting, which is seen in the
sparkling eyes, and the forced smile of the forked
cheeks, and the indrawn mouth ; of the tender,
languishing, with die mouth contracted to en­
treat; of the man of sense, serious, steadfastly
surveying the object, the forehead open, and the
mouth prepared to plead.
“ On the whole, the sensations of a man of
fortitude are restrained, while those of the igno­
rant degenerate into grimace. The latter,
therefore, are not the proper study of the artist,
though they are of the physiognomist, and the
moral teacher, that youth may he warned against
too strong an expression of the emotions of the
mind, and of their ridiculous effects.
“ In this manner do the communicative and
movingsensations of the benevolent inspire reve*
rence; but those of the vicious, fear, hatred, of
contempt.
“ The repetition of passions engrave their
signs so deeply, that they resemble the original
stamp of nature. Hence certainly may be de­
duced, that the mind is addicted to such passions.
Thus are poetry and the dramatic art highly
beneficial, and thus may be seen the advantage
of conducting youth to scenes of misery and of
death. .
“ Such a similarity is formed by frequent in-
2 4 6
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY«;
tercourse between men, that they not only as­
sume a mental likeness, but frequently contract
some resemblance ofvoice and features. Of this
I know several examples. .
“ Each man has his favourite gesture, which
might decypher his whole character, might he
be observed with sufficient accuracy to be drawn
in that precise posture. The collection of such
portraits would be excellent for the first studies
of the physiognomist, and increase the ^utility of
the fragments of Lavater tenfold. ,
“ A series of drawings of the motions peculiar
to individuals,, would be of equal utility. The
number of them in lively men is great, and they
are transitory. In the more sedate, they are less
numerous, and more grave.
u As a collection of idealized individuals
would promote an extensive knowledge of va­
rious kinds of men, so would a collection of the
motions of a single countenance promote a
history of the human heart, and demonstrate
what an arrogant, yet pusillanimous thing the
unformed heart is, and the perfectkm.it is.capa­
ble of, from the efforts of reason and experience.
“ It would be an excellent school for youth to
see Christ teaching in the Temple, asking,
Whom seek you? agonizing in the Garden, ex­
piring on the cross. Ever the same Godmani
Ever displaying, in these various situations, the
same miraculous mind, the same steadfast rea*
son, the same gentle benevolence. Caesarjesting
with the pirates when then* prisoner, keeping
2 4 7
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY*
over the head of Pompey, sinking beneath his
assassins, and casting an expiring look of
affliction and reproach, while he exclaims,
E t tu B rute? Belshazzar feasting with his nobles,
turning pale at tbe hand-writing on the wall.
The tyrant enraged, butchering his slaves, and
surrounded by condemned wretches entreating
mercy from the uplifted sword.
“ Sensation having a relative influence on the
voice, must not there be one principal tone or
key, by which all the others are governed, and
will not this be the key, in which he speaks
when unimpassioned, like as the countenance at
rest contains the propensities to all such traits
as it is capable of receiving? These keys of
voice a good musician, with a fine ear, should
collect, class, and learn to define, so that he
might place the key of the voice beside any given
countenance, making proper allowances for
changes, occasioned by the form of the lungs,
exclusive of disease. Tall people, with a #flat­
ness of breast, have weak voices.
“ This idea, which is more difficult to execute
than conceive, was inspired by the various tones
in which I have heard yes and no pronounced.
The various emotions under which these words
are uttered, whether of assurance, decision, joy,
grief, ridicule, or laughter, will give birth to
tones as various. Yet each man has his peculiar
manner, respondent to his character, of saying
yes, no, or any other word. It will be open,
hesitating, grave, trifling, sympathizing, cold,
2 4 8
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
peevish, mild, fearless, or timid. What a guide
for the man of the world, and how do such
tones display or betray the mind!
“ Since we are taught by experience, that, at
certain times, the man of understanding appears
foolish, the courageous cowardly, the benevolent
perverse, and the cheerful discontented, we
might, by the assistance of these accidental
traits, draw an idea of each motion; and this
would be a most valuable addition, and an im­
portant step in the progress of physiognomy.
2 4 9
CHAP. XXXIX.
E xtracts from N icolai and W in k elm a n n .
«if E xtracts from Nicolai.
1.
“ The distorted or disfigured form may origi­
nate as well from external as from internal
causes; but the consistency of the whole i? the
consequence of conformity between internal and
external causes; for which reason moral good­
ness is much more visible in the countenance
than moral evil.”
This is true, those moments excepted when
moral evil is in act.
2.
“ The end of physiognomy ought to be, not
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
conjectures on individual, but the discovery of
general character.”
The meaning ofwhich is, the discovery of ge­
neral signs of powers and sensations, which cer­
tainly are useless, unless they can be individually
applied,since our intercourse is with individuals.
3.
“ It would be of great utility to physiognomy
were numerous portraits of the same man an­
nually drawn, and the original, by that means,
well known.”
It is possible, and perhaps only possible, to
procure accurate shades, or plaster casts. Mi­
nute changes are seldom accurately enough at­
tended to by the painter, for the purpose of
physiognomy.
2 5 0
4.
The most important pursuit of the physiog­
nomist in his researches will ever be, in what
manner is a man considered capable of the im­
pressions of sense. Through what kind of per­
spective does he view the world ? What can he
give? What receive?
5.
“ That very vivacity of imagination, that
quickness of conception, without which no man
can be a physiognomist, is probably almost in­
separable from other qualities which render the
Digitized by Google
highest caution necessary, if the result of his ob­
servations is to be applied to living persons.”
This I readily grant; but the danger will be
much less if he endeavours to employ his quick
sensations in determinate signs; if he be able to
pourtray the general tokens of certain powers,
sensations, and passions, and if his rapid imagi-
tion be only busied to discover and draw re­
semblances.
E xtracts from Winkelmann.
1.
“ T he characteristic of truth is internal sensa­
tion, and the designer who would present such
natural sensation to his academy, would not
obtain a shade of the true, without a peculiar ad­
dition of something, which an ordinary and
unimpassioned mind cannot read in any model,
being ignorant of the action peculiar to each
sensation and passion.
The physiognomist is formed by internal sensa­
tion, which if the designer be not, he will give
but the shadow, and only an indefinite and con­
fused shadow, of the true character of nature.
PHYSIOGNOMY. 2 5 1
2.
u The forehead and nose of the Greek gods
and goddesses form almost a straight line. The
heads of famous women, on Greek coins, have
similar profiles, where the fancy might not be
Digitized by Google
. PHYSIOGNOMY.
indulged in ideal beauties. Hence we may con­
jecture, that this form was as common to the an­
cient Greeks as the flat nose to the Calmuc, or
the small eye to the Chinese. The large eyes of
Grecian heads, in gems and coins, support this
conjecture.”
This ought not to be absolutely general, and
probably was not, since numerous medals shew
the contrary, though in certain ages and coun­
tries such might have been the most common
form. Had only one such countenance, how­
ever, presented itself to the genius of art, it
would have been sufficient for its propagation
and continuance. This is less our concern than
the signification of such a form. The nearer
the approach to the perpendicular, the less is
there characteristic of the wise and graceful;
and the higher the character of worth and great­
ness, the more obliquely the lines retreat. The
more straight and perpendicular the profile of
the forehead and nose is, the more does the pro­
file of the upper part of the head approach a*
right angle, from which wisdom and beauty will
fly with equally rapid steps. In the usual copies
of these famous ancient lines of beauty, I
generally find the expression of meanness, and,
if I dare to say, of vague insipidity. I repeat, in
the copies; in the Sophonisba of Angelica
Kauffman, for instance, where probably the
shading under the hair has been neglected, and
where the gentle arching of the lines, apparently
were scarcely attainable.
2 5 2
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY. 2 5 3
3.
“ The line which separates the repletion from
the excess of nature, is very small/*
Not to be measured by industry or instrument,
yet all powerful, as every thing unattainable is.
4.
“ A mind as beautiful as was that of Raphael,
in an equally beautiful body, is necessary, first
to feel, and afterwards to display, in these mo­
dern times, the true character of the ancients.
5.
“ Constraint is unnatural, and violence dis­
order/*'
Where constraint is remarked, there let se­
cret, profound, slowly, destructive passion be
feared; where violence, there open and quick
destroying. ^ ^
6.
“ Greatness will be expressed by the straight
and replete, and tenderness by the gently
curving/’
All greatness has something of straight and
replete; but all the straight and replete is not
greatness. The straight and replete must be in
a certain position, and must have a determinate
relation to the horizontal, on which the ob­
server stands to view it.
“ It may be proved, that no principle of beauty
exists in this profile; forthe stronger the arching
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
of the nose is, the less does it contain of the
beautiful; and if any countenance seen in pro­
file is bad, any search after beauty will there
be to no purpose.’*
The noblest, purest, wisest, most spiritual and
benevolent countenance, may be beautiful to the
physiognomist, who, in the extended sense of the
word beauty, understands all moral expressions
of good as beautiful; yet the form may not,
therefore, accurately speaking, deserve the ap­
pellation of beautiful. .
7.
“ Nothingis more difficult than to demonstrate
a self-evident truth.” '
CHAP. XL.
E xtracts from Aristotle and other Authors con­
cerning Beasts.
T hb writings of the great Aristotle on physiog­
nomy appear to me very superficial, useless, and
often self-contradictory, especially his general
reasoning. Still, however, we sometimes meet
an occasional thought which deserves to be se­
lected.* The following are some of these :
“ A monster has never been seen which had
the form of another creature, and, at the same
time, totally different powers of thinking and
acting. Thus, for example, the groom judges
from the mere appearance of the horse; the
huntsman, from the appearance of the hound.
2 5 4
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
We find no man entirely like a beast, although
there are some features in man which remind
us of beasts.
“ Those who would endeavour to discover the
signs of bravery in man, would act wisely to col­
lect all the signs of bravery in animated nature,
by which courageous animals are distinguished
from others. The physiognomist should then
examine all such animated beings, which are
the reverse of the former, with respect to in­
ternal character, and, from the comparison of
these opposites, the expressions or signs of
courage would be manifest.
“ As weak hair is a mark of fear, so is strong
hair ofcourage. This observation is applicable
not only to men but to beasts. The most fearful
of beasts are the deer, the hare, and the sheep,
and the hair of these is weaker than that ofother
beasts. The lion and wild boar, on the con­
trary, are the most courageous, which property
is conspicuous in their extremely strong hair.
The same also may be remarked of birds; for,
in general, those among them which have coarse
feathers are courageous, and those that have soft
and weak feathers are fearful.
This may easily be applied to men. The people
of the north are generally courageous, and have
strong hair; while those of the west are more
fearful, and have more flexible hair.
“ Such beasts as are remarkable for their
courage simply give their» voices vent,
without any great constraint, while fearful
2 5 5
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
beasts utter vehement sounds. Compare the
lion, ox, the barking dog, and cock, which are
courageous, to the deer and the hare. The lion
appears to have a more masculine character than
any other beast. He has a large mouth, a four-
cornered not too bony visage. The upper jaw
does not project, but exactly fits the under; the
nose is rather hard than soft, the eyes are neither
sunken nor prominent, the forehead is square,
and sometimes flattened in the middle.
“ Those who have thick and firm lips, with
the upper hung over the under, are simple
persons, according to the analogy of the ape and
monkey.”
This is most indeterminately spoken. He
would have been much mote true and accurate
had he said, those whose under lips are weak,
extended, and projecting, beyond the upper, are
simple people.
“ Those who have the tip of the nose hard and
firm, love to employ themselves on subjects that
give them little trouble, similar to the cow and
the ox.”
Insupportable! The few men, who have the
tip of the nose firm, are the most unwearied in
their researches. I shall transcribe no farther.
His physiognomonical remarks, and his simi-
‘ larities to beasts, ar* generally unfounded in ex­
perience.
Porta, next to Aristotle, has most observed the
resemblance between the countenances of men
and beasts, and has extended this inquiry the
3 5 6
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
farthest. He, as far as I know, was the first to
render this similarity apparent, by placing the
countenances of men and beasts beside each
other« Nothing can be more true than this fact;*
and, while we continue to follow nature, and do .
not endeavour to make such similarities greater
than they are, it is a subject that cannot be too
accurately examined. But, in this respect, the
fanciful Porta appears to me to have been often
misled, and to have found resemblances which
the eye of truth never could discover- I could
find no resemblance between the hound and
Plato, at least from which cool reason could
draw any conclusions. It is singular enough,
that he has also compared the heads of men and
birds. He might more effectually haveexamined
the excessive dissimilarity than the very small
and almost imperceptible resemblance which
can exist. He speaks little concerning the
horse, elephant, and monkey, though it is
certain that these animals have most resemblance
to man.
A generic difference between man and beast
is particularly conspicuous in the structure of
the bones. The head of man is placed erect on
the spinal bone. His whole form is as the
foundation pillar for that arch in. which heaven
should be reflected, supporting that scull by
which, like the firmament, it is encircled. This
cavity for the brain constitutes the greater part
of the head. All our sensations, as I may say,
ascend and descend above the jaw-bone, and
s
257
Digit ' d by C 3gle
PHYSIOGNOMY.
collect themselves upon the lips. How does the
eye, that most eloquent of organs, stand in need,
if not of words, at least of the angry constraint
of the cheeks, and all the intervening shades, to
express the strong internal sensation of man!
The formation of beasts is directly the reverse
of this. The head is only attached to the spine.
The brain, the extremity of the spinal marrow,
has no greater extent than is necessary for
animal life, and the conducting of a creature
wholly sensual, and formed but for temporary
existence. For although we cannot deny, that .
beasts have the faculty of memory, and act from
reflection, yet the former, as I may say, is the
effect of primary sensation, and the latter origi­
nates in the constraint of the moment, and die
preponderance of this or that object.
We may perceive, in the most convincing
manner, in the difference of the scull, which de­
fines the character of animals, how the bones
determine the form, and denote the properties
of the creature.
As the characters of animals are distinct, so
are their forms, bones, and outlines. From the
smallest winged insect to the eagle that soars
and gazes at the sun; from the weakest worm,
impotently crawling beneath our feet, to the
elephant, or the majestic lion, the gradations of
physiognomonical expression cannot be mis­
taken. It would be more than ridiculous to ex­
pect from the worm, the butterfly, and the lamb,
the power of the rattlesnake, the eagle, and the
256
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
lion. Were the lion and lamb, for the first
time, placed before us, had we never known
such animals, never heard their names, still we
could not resist the impression of the courage
andjstrength of the one, or of the,weakness and
sufferance of the other.
Let me ask the question, which are, in general,
the weakest animals, and the most remote from
humanity, the most incapable of human ideas
and sensations ? Beyond all doubt, those which
in their form least resemble man. To prove
this, let us, in imagination, consider the various
degrees of animal life, from the smallest animal-
cula to the ape, lion, and elephant; and the more
to simplify, and give facility to such comparison,
let us only compare head to head; as, for ex­
ample, the lobster to the elephant, the elephant
to the man. ’
Permit me here just to observe, how worthy
would such a work be of the united abilities of
a Buffon, a Kamper, and a Euler, could they be
found united, that the forms of heads might be
enumerated and described, philosophically and
mathematically; that it might be demonstrated,
that universal brutality, in all its various kinds,
is circumscribed by a determinate line; and
that, among the innumerable lines of brutality,
there is not one which is not internally and es­
sentially different from the line of humanity,
which is peculiar and unique.
259
Digitized by G o o g le
2 6 0 PHYSIOGNOMY.
Thoughts of a Friend on brutal and human
Physiognomy.-
“ Every brute animal is distinguished from all
others by some principal quality. As the make
of each is distinct from all others, so also is the
character. This principal character is denoted
by a peculiar and Yisible form. Each species of
beast has certainly a peculiar character, as it has
a peculiar form. May we not hence, by ana­
logy, infer, that predominant qualities of the
mind are certainly expressed by predominant
forms of the body, as that the peculiar qualities
of a species are expressed in the general form of
that species ?
** The principal character of the species in
animals remain such as it was given by nature;
it neither can be obscured by accessory qualities,
nor concealed by art. The essential of the cha­
racter can as little be changed as the peculiarity
of the form.. May we not therefore, with the
greatest degree of certainty, affirm such a form
is only expressive of such a character?
“ Let us now inquire whether this be applica­
ble to man, and whether the form, which de­
notes individual character in a beast is signifi­
cant of similar character in man, granting that,
in man, it may continually be more delicate,
hidden, and complicated. If, on examination,
this question be definitely answered in the
«affirmative^ how much is thereby gained! But it
Digitized by C 3gle
PHYSIOGNOMY.
is conspicuously evident that, in man, the mind is
not one character or quality, but a world of
qualities interwoven with and obscuring each
other. If each quality be expressed by its
peculiar form, then must variety of qualities be
attended with variety of forms; and these forms,
combining and harmonizing together, must be­
come more difficult to select and decypher.
“ May not souls differ from each other merely
according to their relative connexionwithbodies ?
May not souls also have a determinate capacity,
proportionate to the form and organization of
the body? Hence each object may make a
different impression on each individual; hence
one may bear greater burthens and more mis­
fortunes than another. May not the body be
considered as a vessel with various compart­
ments, cavities, pipes, into which the soul is
poured, and in consequence of which, motion
and sensation begin to act? And thus may not
the form of the body define the capacity of the
mind?,, %
My unknown friend, thus far have I followed
you. Figurative language is dangerous when
discoursing on the soul; yet how can we dis­
course on it otherwise? I pronounce no judg­
ment, but rely on sensation and experience, not
on words and metaphors. What is is, be your
language what it will. Whether effects all act
from the external to the internal, or the reverse*
I know not, cannot, need not know. Experience
convinces us that, both in man and beast, power
261
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY1
.
and form are unchangeable, harmonized pro­
portion; but whether the form be determined by
the power, or the power by the form, is a
question wholly insignificant to the physiog­
nomist. .
Observations on some Animals, and particularly
of the Horse.
The dog has more forehead above the eyes
than most other beasts; but as much as he ap­
pears to gain in the forehead he loses in the ex­
cess of brutal nose, which has every token of
acute scent. Man too, in' the act of smelling,
elevates the nostrils. The dog is also defective
in the distance of the mouth from the nose, and
in the meanness, or rather nullity of chin.
Whether the hanging ears of a dog are
characteristicofslavish subjection, as BufFon has
affirmed,who has written much more reasonably
on brute than on human physiognomy, 1 cannot
determine to my own satisfaction.
The camel and the dromedary are a mixture
of the horse, sheep, and ass, without what is
noble in the first. They also appear to have
something of the monkey, at least in the nose.
Not made to suffer the bit in the mouth, the
power of jaw is wanting. The determining
marks concerning the bit are found between the
eyes and the nose. No traces of courage or
daring are found in these parts. The threatening
snort of the ox and horse is not perceptible in
2 6 2
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
these ape-like nostrils; none of the powers of
plunder and prey, in the feeble upper and un­
der jaw. Nothing but burden-bearing patience
in the eyes.
Wild cruelty, the menacing power ofrending,
appear in the bear, abhorring man, the friend of
ancient savage nature.
The most indolent, helpless, wretched creature,
and of the most imperfect formation, is the unau
ai9or sloth. How extraordinary is the feeble*
ness of the outline of the head, body, and feet!
No sole of die feet, no toes small or great, which
move independently, having but two or three
long, inbentclaws, which canonly move together.
Its sluggishness, stupidity, and self-neglect, are
indescribable.
In the wild boar every one may read ferocity,
a want of all that is noble, greediness, stupidity,
blunt feeling, gross appetite; and in the badger,
ignoble, faithless, malignant, savage gluttony.
Remarkable is the profile of the lion, especially
the outline of the forehead and nose. A man>
whose profile of forehead and nose should re­
semble that of the lion, would certainly be no
common m an; but such I have never seen.
I own, the nose of the lion is much less promi­
nent than tliat of man, but much more than that
of any other quadruped. Royal, brutal strength,
and arrogant usurpation, are evident, partly in
the arching of the nose, partly in its breadth and
paral lines, and especially in the almost right
angle, which the outline of the eyelid forms with
the side of the nose.
263
Digitized by G o o g le
264 PHYSIOGNOMY.
In the eye and snout of the tiger, what b!oo<t~
thirsty cruelty, what insidious craft! Can the
laugh of Satan himself, at a fallen saint, be more
fiend-like than the head of the triumphant tiger ?
Cats are tigers in miniature, with the advantage
of domestic education. Little better in character,
inferior in power. Unmerciful to birds and
mice, as the tiger to the lamb. They delight in
prolonging torture before they devour, and in
this they exceed the tiger.
The more violent qualities of the elephant are
discoverable in the number and size of his bones;
his intelligence in the roundness of his form, and
his docility in the massiness of his muscles; his
art and discretion in the flexibility of his trunk;
his retentive memory in the size and arching of
his forehead, which approaches nearer to the
outline of the human forehead than that of any
other beast. Yet how essentially different is it
from the human forehead, in the position of the
eye and mouth, since the latter generally makes
nearly a right angle with the axis of the eye and
the middle line ofthe mouth.
The crocodile proves how very physiognomo-
nical teeth are. This, like other creatures, but
more visibly and infallibly than others, in all its
parts, outlines, and points, has physiognomy that
cannot be mistaken. Thus debased, thus despi­
cable, thus knotty, obstinate, and wicked, thus
sunken below the noble horse, terrific, and void
of all love and affection, is this fiend incarnate.
Little acquainted as I am with horses, yet it
seems to me indubitable, that there is as great a
Digitized by Go< e
PHYSIOGNOMY.
difference in the physiognomy of horses as in
that of men. The horse deserves to be par­
ticularly considered by the physiognomist, be­
cause it is one of those animals whose physiogno­
my, at least in profile, is so much more promi­
nent, sharp, and characteristic, than that of
most other beasts. < .
Of all animals the horse is that, which ,to
largeness of size unites most proportion and
elegance in the parts ofhis body; for, comparing
him to those which are immediately above or
below him, we shall perceive that the ass is ill
made, the head of the lion is too large, the legs
of the ox too small, the camel is deformed, and
the rhinoceros and elephant too unwieldy.
There is scarcely any beast has so various, so
generally marking, so speaking a countenance, ‘
as a beautiful horse.
“ The upper part of the neck, from which the
mane flows, in a well-made horse, oUght to rise
at first in a right line; and, as it approaches the
head, to form a curve somewhat similar to the
neck of the swan. The lower part of the neck
ought to be rectilinear, in its direction from the
chest to the nether jaw, but a little inclined
forward; for, were it perpendicular, the shape
of the neck would be defective. The upper
part of the heck should be thin and not fleshy;
nor the mane, which ought to be tolerably full,
and the hair long and straight. A fine neck
ought to be long and elevated, yet proportionate
to the size of the horse. If too long and smalt,
265
Digitized by G o o g le Ä
266 PHYSIOGNOMY. „
the horse would strike the rider with his head;
if too short and heavy, he would bear heavy on
the hand. The head is advantageously placed
when the forehead is perpendicular to the hori­
zon. The head ought to be bony and small, not
too long ; the ears near each other, small, erect,
firm, straight, free, and situated on the top of
the head. The forehead should be narrow and
somewhat convex, the hollows filled up; the
eyelids thin; the eyes clear, penetrating, full of
ardour, tolerably large, as I may say, and pro­
jecting from the head, the pupil large, the under
jaw bony, and rather thick ; the nose somewhat
arched, the nostrils open, and well slit, the par­
tition thin; the lips fine, the mouth tolerably
large, the withers high and sharp.” I must beg
pardon for this quotation from the Encyclopédie,
and for inserting thus much of the description
of a beautiful horse, in a physiognomonical essay
intended to promote the knowledge and the
love of man.
“ The more accurately we observe horses, the
more shall we be convinced, that a separate
treatise of physiognomy might be written on
them* 1 have somewhere heard a general re­
mark, that horses are divided into three classes,
the swan-necked, the stag-necked, and the hog­
necked. Each of these classes has its peculiar
countenance and character, and from the
blending of which various others originate.
The heads ofthe swan-necked horses are com­
monly even, the forehead small, and almost flat;
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
the nose extends, arching, from the eyes to the
mouth; the nostrils are wide and open; the
mouth small; the ears little, pointed, and pro­
jecting; the eyes large and round; the jaw be­
low, small; above, something broader; the
whole body well proportioned, and the horse
beautiful. This kind is cheerful, tractable, and
high spirited. They are very sensible of pain,
which, when dressing, they sometimes express
by the voice. Flattery greatly excites their joy,
and they will express their pride of heart by
parading and prancing. I will venture to assert,
that a man with a swan-neck, or what is much
more determinate, with a smooth, projecting
profile, and flaxen hair, would have similar
sensibility and pride. .
The stag-necked has something, in the make
of his body, much resembling the stag itself.
The neck is small, large, and scarcely bowed in
the middle. He carries his head high. I have
seen none of these. They are racers and
hunters, being particularly adapted for swift­
ness by the make of the body.
The hog-necked. The neck above anti below
is alike broad; the head hanging downwards;
the middle of the nose is concave, in profile;
the ears are long, thick, and hanging; the eyes
small and ugly; the nostrils small, the mouth
large, the whole body round, and the coat long
and rough. These horses are intractable, slow
and vicious, and will run the rider against a
wall, stone, or tree. When held in, they rear,
2 6 7
Digitized by
PHYSIOGNOMY.
and endeavour to throw the rider. Blows or
coaxing are frequently alike ineffectual; they
continue obstinate and restif.
If we examine the different heads of horses,
we shall find, that all cheerful, high-spirited,
capricious, courageous horses, have the nose-
bone of the profile convex; and that most of
the vicious, restif, and idle, have the same bone
flat or concave. In the eyes, mouth, and es­
pecially in the nostrils and jawbones, are re­
markable varieties, concerning which I shall say
nothing. I shall here add some remarks on the
horse, communicated by a friend.
The grey is the tenderest of horses, and we
may here add, that people with light hair, if not
effeminate, are yet, it is well known, of tender
formation and constitution. The chesnut and
iron grey, the black, and bay, are hardy; the
sorrel are the most hardy, and yet the most'sub-
ject to disease. The sorrel, whether well or ill
formed, is treacherous. All treacherous horses
lay their ears in the neck. They stare and stop,
and lay down their ears alternately.
The following passage, on the same subject,
is cited from another writer : “ When a horse
has broad, long, widely separated, hanging ears,
we are well assured he is bad and sluggish. If
he lays down his ears alternately, he is fearful,
and apt to start. Thin, pointed, and projecting
ears, on the contrary, denote a horse of good
disposition/* '
We never find that the thick, hog necked
2 6 8
*
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
horse is sufficiently tractable for the riding
house, or that he is of a strong nature when the
tail shakes, like the tail of a dog. We may be
certain, that a horse with large cheerful eyes,
and a fine shining coat, if we have no other
tokens, is of a good constitution and under­
standing.
These remarks are equally applicable to oxen
and sheep, and probably to all other animals.
The white ox is not so long serviceable, for
draught or labour, as the black or red: he is
more weak and silly than these. A sheep with
short legs, strong neck, broad back, and cheer*
ful eyes, is a good breeder, and remains peace­
ably with the flock. I am clearly of opinion,
that if we may judge of the internal by the ex­
ternal of beasts, men may be judged of in the
same manner.
CHAP. XLI.
O f Birds, Fishes, Serpents, and Insects.
% BIRDS.
B ir d s , whether compared to each other, or to
other creatures, have their distinct characters.
The structure of birds throughout, is lighter than
that of qtiadrupeds. Nature, ever steadfast to
truth, thus manifests herself in the form of birds.
Their necks are more pliant, their heads smaller,
their mouths more pointed, and their garb more
light and strong than those of quadrupeds.
Digitized by G o o g le
A
PHYSIOGNOMY.
Their distinction of character, or gradation of
passive and active power, is expressed by the
following physiognomonica! varieties:
1 . By the form of the scull. The more flat the
scull, the more weak, flexible, tender, and sensi­
ble is the character of the animal. This flatness
contains less, and resists less.
2. By the length, breadth, and arching, or
obliquity of their beaks. And here again we
find, when there is arching, there is a greater
extent of docility and capacity.
3 . By the eyes, which appear to have an exact
correspondence with the arching of the beak.
4. Particularly by the middle line, I cannot
say of the mouth, but what is analogous to the
mouth, the beak; the obliquity of which is ever
in a remarkable proportion with the outline of
the profile of the head.
Who can behold the eagle hovering in the air,
the powerful lord of so many creatures, without
perceiving the seal, the native star of royalty, in
his piercing round eye, the form of his head,
his strong wings, his talons of brass, and, in his
whole form, his victorious strength, his con­
temptuous arrogance, his fearful cruelty, and his
ravenous propensity ?
Consider the eyes of all living creatures, from
the eagle to the mole; where else can be found
that lightning glance, which defies the rays of
the sun? Where that capacity for the reception
of light? How truly, how emphatically, to all
who will hear and understand, is the majesty of
his kingly character visible, not alone in his
270
Digitized by G oogI
PHYSIOGNOMY.
burning eye, but in the outline of what is analo­
gous to the eyebone, and in the skin of the head,
where anger and courage are seated! But,
throughout his whole form, where are they not?
Compare the vulture with the eagle, and who
does not observe, in his lengthened neck and
beak, and in his more extended form, less power
and nobility than in the eagle? In the head of
the owl, the ignoble greedy prey; in the dove,
mild, humble timidity; and in the swan, more
nobility than in the goose, with less power than
in the eagle, and tenderness than in the dove;
more pliability than in the ostrich; and, in the
wild duck, a more savage animal than in the
swan, without the force of the eagle?
Fish.
How different is the profile of a fish from that
of a man! How much the reverse of human per­
pendicularity ! How little is there ofcountenance
when compared to the lion! How visible is the
want of mind, reflection, and cunning! What
little or no analogy to forehead! What an im­
possibility of covering or entirely closing the
eyes! The eye itself is merely circular and pro­
minent, has nothing of the lengthened form of
the eye of the fox or elephant.
Serpents.
I will allow physiognomy, when applied to
man, to be a false science, if any being through­
out nature can be discovered void of physiogno-
2 7 1
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
my, or a countenance which does not express its
character. What has less, yet more physiogno­
my, than the serpent? May we not perceive in it
tokens of cunning and treachery? Certainly not
a trace of understanding or deliberate plan. No
memory, no comprehension, but the most un­
bounded craft and falsehood. How are these re­
probate qualities distinguished in their forms?
The very play of their colours, and wonderful
meandering of their spots, appear to announce
and to warn us of their deceit.
All men possessed of real power are upright
and honest; craft is but the substitute of power.
I do not here speak of the power contained in
the folds ofthe serpent; they all want the power
to act immediately, without the aid of cun­
ning. They are formed to “ bruise the heel,
and to have the head bruised/’ The judgment
which God has pronounced against them is
written on their flat, impotent forehead, mouth,
and eyes.
272
Insects.
How inexpressibly various are the character­
istics impressed by the eternal Creator on all
living beings! How has he stamped on each its
legible and peculiar properties! How especially
visible,is this in the lowest classes of animal life!
The world of insects is a world of itself. The
distance between this and the world of men I
own is great; yet, were it sufficiently known,
how useful would it be to human physiognomy!
Digitized by G o o g le
What certain proofs of the physiognomy of .men
must be obtained from insect physiognomy !
How visible are their powers of destruction,
of suffering and resisting, of sensibility and in­
sensibility, through all their forms and grada­
tions! Are not all the compact, hard-winged
insects, physiognomonically and characteristi­
cally more capable and retentive than various
light and tender species of the butterfly? Is not
the softest flesh the weakest, the most suffering,
the easiest to destroy? Are not the insects of
least brain the beings most removed from man,
who has the most brain ? Is it not perceptible in
each species whether it be warlike, defensive,
enduring, weak, enjoying, destructive, easy to
be crushed, or crushing? How distinct in the
external character are their degrees of strength,
of defence, of stinging, or of appetite !
The great dragon fly shews its agility and
swiftness in the structure of its wings; per­
petually on flight in search of small flies. How
sluggish, on the contrary, is the crawling cater­
pillar ! how carefully does he set his feet as he
ascends a leaf! How yielding his substance, in­
capable of resistance ! How peaceable, harmless,
and indolent is the moth ! How full of motion,
bravery, and hardiness, is the industrious ant !
How loath to remove, on the contrary, is the
harnessed lady-bird !
PHYSIOGNOMY. 27 3
T
Digitized by
2 7 4 PHYSIOGNOMY.
CHAP. XLII.
On Shades.
T hough shades are the weakest and most va­
pid, yet they are at the same time, when the
light is at a proper distance, and falls properly
on thecountenance to take the profile accurately,
the truest representation that can be given of
man. The weakest, for it is not positive, it is
only something negative,«only the boundary line
of half the countenance. The truest, because
it is thé immediate expression of nature, such
as not the ablest painter is capable of drawing
by hand after nature. What can be less the
image of a living man than a shade? Yet how
full of speech ! Little gold, but the purest.
The shade contains but one line; no motion,
light, colour, height, or depth; no eye, ear,
nostril, or cheek; but a very small part of the
lip ; yet how decisively it is significant! Drawing
and painting, it is probable, originated in shades.
They express, as I have said, but little; but the
little they do express is exact. No art can attain
to the truth of the shade taken with precision.
Let a shade be taken after nature with the
greatest accuracy, and with equal accuracy be
afterwards reduced upon fine transparent oil
paper. Let a profile,of the same size, be taken,
by the greatest master, in his happiest moment;
then let the two be laid upon each other, and
the difference will be immediately evident.
Digitized by G o o g le
u
PHYSIOGNOMY.
I never found, after repeated experiments,
that the best efforts of art could equal nature,
either in freedom or in precision, but that there
was always something more or less than nature.
Nature is sharp and* free: whoever studies
sharpness more than freedom, will be hard, and
whoever studies freedom more than sharpness,
will become diffuse and indeterminate. I can
admire him only, whp, equally studious of her
sharpness and freedom, acquires equal certainty
and impartiality. -
To attain this, artist, imitator of hupianity!
first exercise., yourself in drawing shades; after­
wards copy them by hand, and next compare
and correct. Without this you will with diffi­
culty discover the grand secret of uniting preclu­
sion and freedom. r ’ ' '
I have collected more physiognomical know­
ledge from shades alone than from every other
kind of portrait; have improved physiognomow
nical sensation more by the sight of them than
'b y the contemplation of ever mutable nature.
Shades collect the distracted attention, confine
it to an outline, and thus render the observation
more simple, easy, and precise. Physiognomy
has no greater, more incontrovertible certainty
of the truth of its object, than that imparted by
shade. If the shade, according to the general
sense and decision of all men, can decide so
much concerning character, how muéh tno&
must the living body, the whole appearance,v
and action of the man! If the shade be ora^n-
• 275
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
lar, the voice of truth, the word of God, what
must the living original be, illuminated by the
spirit of God!
. Hundreds have asked, and hundreds will con­
tinue to ask, “ What can be expected from
mere shades?’ 1 Yet no shade can be viewed
by any one of these hundred, who will not form
some judgment on it, often accurately, more ac­
curately than I could have judged.
In order to make the astonishing significance
of shades conspicuous, we ought either to com­
pare opposite characters of men taken in shade,
or, which may be more convincing, to cut out
of black paper, or draw, imaginary counte­
nances widely dissimilar. Or, again, when we
have acquired some proficiency in observation,
to double black paper, and cut two counte­
nances; and, afterwards, by cutting with the
scissars, to make slight alterations, appealing to
our eye, or physiognomonical feeling, at each
alteration; or, lastly, only to take various shades
of the same countenance, and compare them to­
gether. Such experiments would astonish us,
to perceive what great effects are produced by
slight alterations.
The common method of taking shades is ac­
companied with many inconveniences. It is
hardly possible the person drawn should sit
sufficiently still; the designer is obliged to
ehange his place; he must approach so near to
the person that motion is almost inevitable, and
the designer is in the most inconvenient posi-
2 7 6 -
^ zed by . Dogle
A.
PHYSIOGNOMY.
tion; neither are the preparatory steps every
where possible, nor simple enough. A seat
purposely contrived would be more convenient.
The shade should be taken on post paper, or
rather on thin oiled paper, well dried. Let the
head and back be supported by a chair, and the
shade fall on the oil paper behind a clear, flat,
polished glass. Let the drawer sit behind the
glass, holding the frame with his left hand,
and, having a sharp black lead pencil, draw
with the right. The glass, in a detached sliding
frame, may be raised or lowered, according to
the height of the person. The bottom of the
glass frame, being thin, will be best of iron, and
should be raised so as to rest steadily upon the
shoulder. In the centre, upon the glass, should
be a small piece of wood or iron, to which fasten
a small round cushion, supported by a short
ipin, scarcely half an inch long, which also may
be raised or lowered, and against which the per­
son drawn may lean.
2 7 7
CHAP. XLIII.
Description of P late VI. *
Number I. M en d elso h n .
In the forehead and nose penetration and sound
understanding are evident. The mouth is much
more delicate than the mouth of 2 .
Digitized by G o o g le
2 7 8 PHYSIOGNOMY.
Number II. Spa ld in g .
Clear ideas, love of elegance, purity, accuracy
of thought and action; does not easily admit the
unnatural. The forehead not sufficiently cha­
racteristic, hut fine taste in the nose.
Number III. Rochow.
Has more good sense; prompt, accurate per­
ception of truth, and delicacy, than 4 : but I
suspect less acuteness. '
Number IV. N ico la i.
Whoever hesitates concerning the character .
of this head, never can have observed the fore­
head. This areh, abstractedly considered, es­
pecially in the upper part, has more capacity
than Nos. 2 and 3. In the uppet ttatime, also,
of the under part, understanding and exquisite
penetration cannot be overlooked.
Number V.
One of those masculine profiles which gene­
rally please. Conceal the under chin, and an
approach to greatness is perceptible; except
that greater variation in the outline is wanting,
especially in the nose and forehead. The cho­
leric phlegmatic man is visible in the whole;
especially in the eyebrows, nose, and bottom
part of the chin; as likewise are integrity, fide­
lity, goodness, and complaisance.
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY. 27»
Number VI. Lavatbr.
This shade, though imperfect, may easily be
known It must pass without comment, or ra­
ther the commentary is before the world, is in
this book. Let that speak ; I am silent.
CHAP. XLIV.
A W ord to Travellers.
There appear to me to be three things indis­
pensable to travellers, health, money, and phy­
siognomy. Therefore a physiognomonical word
to travellers. I could wish indeed, that, in­
stead of a word, a (traveller's physiognomonical
companion were written; but this must be done
by mi experienced traveller. Ip the mean .time
I shall bid him farewell, with the following short
advice;
What do yoiu seek, travellers? what is your
wish? What would you see more remarkable,
more singular, more rare, more worthy to be
£&auu#ed> than the varieties of humanity? This
indeed is fashionable. You inquire after men;
you seek the wisest, best, and greatest men,
especially the most famous. Why is your cu­
riosity limited to seeing only? Would it not be
better you should illuminate your own minds by
the light of others, and animate yourselves by
their ardour?
Digitized by G o o g le
p h y s io g n o m y .
His curiosity is childish, which is merely con­
fined to seeing, whose ambition desires only to
say, I have beheld that man. He who would
disregard views so confined must study such
men physiognomonically; if he would learn
wisdom, he must be able to compare and judge
of the relation between their works, their fame,
and their form. By thisonly may muchbe learned.
Bythis maythe streambecomparedto thefountain,
the quality of the waters examined, their course,
their gentle murmurs, or more boisterous war.
The inquirer may ask, what is the degree oforigi­
nality ofthose men, what is borrowed, what is in­
ternal, what external ? This forehead, and these
eyebrows, will thus versify, thus translate, thus
criticise; therefore, on this eye depends the fate of
the writer, the blockhead, or the man of genius.
This nose thus estimates the mortal and the irii-
mortal, in human performances. As are the
features, so will be the mind.
Yes, scholars of nature, you have much to
learn from the countenances of famous men.
In them you will read, that the wasp will dare
to alight on the nose of the hero. To me it will
be pleasure when you have acquired this phy-
siognomonical sensation; for, without this, you
will but travel in the dark; you will but be led
through a picture-gallery blindfold, only that
you might say, I too have been'in that gallery.
Could I travel unknown, I would also visit
artists, men of learning, and philosophers, men
famous in their respective countries; but it
2 8 0
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
should either be my adieu, as the thing least
important, or as a recreation on my arrival. •
Pardon me, men of renown ; I have been credu­
lous in your favour, but I daily become more
circumspect. Far be it from me to depreciate
your worth. I know many, whose presence does
not diminish but increase fame; yet will I be
careful, that remorse shall neither dazzle nor
cloud my reason.
It would be much more agreeable to me to
mix unknown with the multitude, visit churches,
public walks, hospitals, orphan -houses, and as­
semblies of ecclesiastics and men of the law. I
would first consider the general form of the
inhabitants, their height, proportion, strength,
weakness, motion, complexion, attitude, ges­
ture, and gait. I would observe them indivi­
dually, see, compare, close my eyes, trace in
imagination all I had seen, open them again,
correct my memory, and close and open them
alternately. I would study for words, write,
and draw with a few determinate traits, the ge­
neral form, so easy to be discovered. I would
compare my drawings with the known general
form of the people. How easily might a sum­
mary, an index of the people, be obtained!
Having made these familiar to me, I would
descend to the particular, would search for the
general form of the head, would ask, Is it most
confined to the cylindrical, the spherical, the
square, the convex, or the concave? Is the
countenance open, is it writhed, is it free, or
281
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
forked.? I would next examine thé forehead,
then the eyebrows, the outline and colour of the
eyes, the nose, and especially the mouth when
it is open; and the teeth, with their appearances,
to discover the national characteristic.
Could I but define the line of the opening of
the lips, in seven promiscuous countenances, I
imagine I should have found the general physi-
ognomonical character of the nation or place. I
almost dare to establish it as an axiom, that what
is common to six or seven persons of any place,
taken promiscuously, is moreor less common to
the whole. Exceptions there*may be, but they
will be rare. ;
ht the next place, I would plant myself in a
public walk, or at the crossing ofstreets. There
I would wait patiently for the unknown noble
countenance, uncorrupted by fame and adula­
tion, which certainly, most cèrtainly, I should
find: for in all countries on. earth, wherever a
hundred common men are assembled, one not
common may be found; and out of a thousand,
tea. .
I must have; indeed, little oye, little sensibi­
lity for niable humanity, litdè faith in Provi­
dence,' which seeks its adorers,if I .did not find
this one in a hundred^ or at least in: the ten
among a~thousand. Hé ¿hat seeketh shall find«
I waited not in vain. H e came, 1 ibund him,
he passed by me. And what were <the tokens
by which Ï discovered him, in every town, every
nation, under every cope of heaven, and among
2 8 2
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
all people, kindred, and tongues?—By the ge­
neral combination of the countenance, by the
upper outline of the forehead, the eyebrows, the
basis of the nose, and the mouth, so conform­
able to each other, so parallel and horizontal, at
the first glance. By the wrinkless, compressed,
yet open forehead, the powerful eyebrows; the
easily discerned, easily delineated space between
the eyebrows, which extends itself to the back of
the nose, like the great street from the market­
place to the chief gate of a city. By the shut
but freely breathing mouth; the chin, neither
haggard nor fleshy; the deep and shining at­
traction'of the eye; which fell, uncautiously and
Unintentionally, betrayed themselves to my re­
search ; o r I discovered him even in his foreign
and distorted1 form, from which the arrogant,
self-supposed handsome, would turn with con­
tempt. 1' see through his disguise, as I should
the hand of a great master through the smear of
varnish.
I approach the fevourite of heaven. I ques­
tion him concerning What 1 do, and what Id o
not wish to know, that I may hear the voice of
the soul proceeding from the mouth ; and, view­
ing him nearer,*"I1see all the obliquities of dis­
tortion vanish. I ask him concerning his occu­
pation, hiS family, his place of residence. I in­
quire the road thither. ’ I cOthe unexpectedly
upon him into his house, into his workshop; he
rises, I oblige him to be seated, to continue his
labour. I see his children, his wife, and am de -
283
Digiti; . Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
lighted. He knows not what I want, nor do I
know myself, yet am I pleased with him, and he
with me. I purchase something or nothing, as
it happens. I inquire particularly after his
friend^ “ You have but few, but those few are
faithful.” He stands astonished, smiles or
weeps, in the innocence and goodness of his
heart, which he wishes to conceal, but which is
open as day. He gains my affection; our emo­
tions are reciprocally expanded and strength­
ened; we separate reluctantly, and I know I
have entered a house which is entered by the
angels of God.
Oh! how gratefully, how highly is he rewarded
for his labours who travels, interested in behalf
of humanity, and with the eyes of a man, to col­
lect, in the spirit, the children of God, who are
scattered over the world! This appears to me
to be the supreme bliss of man, as it must be of
angels. •
If I do not meet him, I have no resource but
in society. Here I hear him most who speaks
least, mildest, and most unaffectedly. Wherever
I meet the smile of self-sufficiency, or the ob­
lique look of envy, I turn away, and seek him
who remains oppressed by the loud voice of con­
fidence. I set myself rather beside the answerer
than the man of clamorous loquacity; and still
rather beside the humble inquirer than the vo­
luble solver of all difficulties.
, He who hastens too fast, or lags behind, is no
companion of mine. I rather seek him who
284
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY. 285
walks with a free, firm, and even step; who
looks but little about him; who neither carries
his head aloft, nor contemplates his legs and
feet. If the hand of affliction be heavy on him,
I set myself by his side* take his hand, and, with
a glance, infuse conviction to his soul, that God
is love. ~
In my memory I retain the simple outlines of
the loud and the violent, the laughter and the
smiler, of him who gives the key, and him who
takes. I then commit them to paper; my col­
lection increases. I compare, arrange, judge,
and am astonished. I every where find simila­
rity of traits, similarity of character; the same
humanity every where, and every where the
£ame tokens.
CHAP. XLV.
A W ord to Princes and Judges.
Fob your use, most important of men, how wil­
lingly would I write a treatise. Who so much
as you need a perfect knowledge of man, free
from cabal, or the intervention of self-interest i
Suffer me to approach your throne, and present
my address.
In your most secret common-place book, keep
an index to each class of character among men,
taken from at least ten of the most accurate
Digitized by
PHYSIOGNOMY.
proofs; not at a distance, not among foreigners,
but seek at home for the wisest and best of your
own subjects. Wherever a wise and good
prince governs, there are excellent subjects.
Such a prince believes that he has such subjects,
although at the moment he should be unac­
quainted with them; or at least, that he has
subjects capable of wisdom and goodness.
Wherever one good person is, there certainly
are two, as certainly as where the female is,
there will the male be.
Suffer me, princes, consecrated as you are
among men, to entreat you, for the honour of
humanity, principally to study, to seek for, and
to seize on excellence. Judge not too suddenly,
nor by mere appearances. That which a prince
once approves, it may afterwards be difficult or
dangerous to reject. Depend not on the testi­
mony of others, which, to princes especially, is
ever exaggerated either m praise or blame; but
examine the countenance, which, though it may
dissemble to a prince, or rather to the dignity of
a prince, cannot deceive him as a man. Having
once discovered wisdom and goodness in a sub­
ject, honour such a subject as the best blessing
which heaven can, in this world, bestow upon
its favourites. Seek features that are strong,
but not forbidding; gentle, yet not effeminate;
positive, without turbulence; natural, notanrcN
gant; with open eyes, dear aspects, stroognotees
near the forehead, and with such let your thrones
be surrounded- .; -.
2 8 6
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
Entrust your secrets to proportionate and pa­
rallel drawn countenances : to horizontal, firm,
compressed eyebrows; channelled, not too ri­
gorously closed, red, active, but not relaxed or
withered lips. Yet I will forbear to delineate,
and again only entreat, that the countenance
may be sacred to you for the sake of goodness
and wisdom.
As to you, judges, judge not indeed by ap­
pearances, but examine according to appear-,
ances. Justice blindfold without physiognomy,
is as unnatural as blindfold love. There are
countenances Which cannot have committed a
multitude of vices. Study the traits of each
vice, and the forms in which vice naturally or
unwillingly resides. There are capabilities and
incapabilities in the countenance, things which
it can will, others which it cannot. Each pas­
sion, open or concealed, has its peculiar lan­
guage. The appearance of innocence is as de­
terminate to the experienced eye as the appear­
ance of health.
Bring guilt and innocence face to face, and
examine them; in your presence, and when
they suppose you do not observe them; in the
presence and in the absence of witnesses; with
justice see, with justice hear and obey, the de­
termined voice of unprejudiced conviction. Re­
mark their walk when they enter, and when they
leave the judgment-hall. Let the light fall
upon their countenances; be yourself in the
287
Digitized by Google
1
shade. Physiognomy will render the torture *
unnecessary, will deliver innocence, will make
the most obdurate vice turn pale, will teach us
how we may act upon the most hardened.
Every thing human must be imperfect, yet will
it be evident that the torture, more disgraceful
to man than the halter, the axe, and the wheeji,
is infinitely more uncertain and dangerous than
physiognomy. The pain of torture is more hor­
rible even than the succeeding death, yet it is
only to prove, to discover truth. Physiognomy
shall not execute, and yet itshall prove; and by its
proof, vice alone, and not innocence, shall suffer.
O ye judges of men, be men, and humanity shall
teach you, with more open eyes, to see and abhor
all that is inhuman !
288 PHYSIOGNOMY#
CHAP. XLVI.
A W ord to the Clergy. '
You also, my brethren, need a certain degree of
physiognomy, and perhaps, princes excepted, no
• A few yeare since one philosopher wrote to another« The
torture will soon be abolished in Austria. It was asked« What
shall be Its substitute? The penetrating look of the judge, re­
plied Sonnenfels. Physiognomy will, in twenty-five years, be­
come a part of jurisprudence, instead of torture, and lectures
will be read in the universities on the Physiognomiceforense, instead
of the M edicina forensv'.
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
men more. You ought to know whom you
have before you, that you may discern spirits,
and portion out the word of truth to each, ac­
cording to his need and capacity. To whom can
a knowledge of the degree of actual and possible
virtue, in all who appear before you, be more
advantageous than to you?
To me physiognomy is more indispensable
than the liturgy. It is to me alike profitable for
doctrine, exhortation, comfort, correction, exa­
mination; with the. healthy, with the sick, the
dying, the malefactor; in judicial examinations,
and the education of youth. Without it, I should
be as the blind leading the blind.
I might be robbed of my ardour, of inspired
with enthusiasm, by a single countenance.
Whenever I preach, I generally seek the most
noble countenance, on which I endeavour to
act, and the weakest when teaching children.
It is generally our own fault if our hearers are
inattentive; if they do not themselves give the
key, in which it is necessary they should be ad­
dressed.
Every teacher possessed of physiognomonical
sensation will easily discern and arrange the
principal classes among bis hearers, and what
each class can and cannot receive. Let six or
seven classes, of various capacities, be selected;
let a chief, a representative, a characteristic
countenance, of each class be chosen: let these
countenances be fixed in the memory, and let
the preacher accommodate himself to each;
u • '
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
speaking thus to one, and thus to another, and
in such a manner to a third.
There cannot be a more natural, effective, or
definite incitement to eloquence than supposing
some characteristic countenance present, of the
capacity of.which almost mathematical certainty
may be obtained. Having six or seven, I have
nearly my whole audience before me. I do not
then speak to the winds. God teaches us by
physiognomy to act upon the best of men ac­
cording to the best of means.
9 9 0
CHAP. XLVII.
Pkynognomonical Elucidations o f Countenances.
A r e g u l a r well-formed countenance is where
all the parts are remarkable for their symmetry.
The principal features, as the eyes, nose, and
mouth, neither small nor bloated. In which
the position of the parts, taken together, and
viewed at a distance, appears nearly horizontal
and parallel.
A beautiful countenance is that in which, be­
sides the proportion and position of the parts,
harmony, uniformity, and mind are visible; in
which nothing is superfluous, nothing deficient,
nothing disproportionate, nothing superadded,
but all is conformity and concord.
A pleasant countenance does not necessarily
require perfect symmetry and harmony, yet no-
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY. 291
thing must be wanting, nothing burdensome.
Its pleasantry will principally exist in the eye
and lips, which must have nothing command- '
ing, arrogant, contemptuous, but must gene­
rally speak complacency, affability, and bene­
volence. „
A gracious countenance arises out of the plea­
sant, >yhen, far firom any thing assuming, to
the mildest benevolence are added affability and
purity.
A charming countenance must not simply con­
sist either of the beautiful, the pleasant, or the
gracious; but when to thqpe is added a rapid
propriety of motion, which renders it charming.
An insinuating countenance leaves no power
to active or passive suspicion. It has some­
thing more than the pleasant, by infusing that
into the heart, which the pleasant only mani­
fests.
Other species . of these delightful counte­
nances are, the attracting, the winning, the ir­
resistible.
Very distinct from all these are the amusing,
the divertingly loquacious, the merely mild, and
also the tender and delicate.
Superior, and more lovely still, is the purely
innocent, where no distorted, oblique muscle,
whether in motion, or at rest, is ever seen*
This is still more exalted, when it is fuli of
soul, of natural sympathy, and power to excite
sympathy.
When in a pure countenance good power is
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
accompanied by a spirit of order, I may call it
an Attic countenance.
Spiritually beautiful may be said of a counte­
nance where nothing thoughtless, inconsiderate,
rude, or severe, is to be expected; and the as­
pect of which immediately and mildly incites
emotion in the principal powers of the mind.
Noble is when we have not the least indiscre­
tion to fear, and when the countenance is ex­
alted above us, without a possibility of envy,
while it is less sensible of its own superiority
than of the pleasure we receive in its presence.
A great countenance will have few small se­
condary traits; will be in grand divisions, with­
out wrinkles; must exalt, must affect us, in
sleep, in plaster of Paris, in every kind of cari­
catures; as, for example, that of Philip de Co­
mines. '
A sublime countenance can neither be painted
nor described; that by which it is distinguished
from all others can only be felt. It must not
only move, it must exalt the spectator. We
must at once feel ourselves greater and less in
its presence than in the presence of all others. '
Whoever is conscious of its excellence, and can
despise or offend it, may, as hath been before
said, blaspheme against the great Author of his
existence.
292
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY. 293
CHAP. XLVIII
Physiognomonical Anecdotes.
1.
I h a v e nothing to require of you, said a father
to his innocent son, when bidding him farewell,
but that you bring me back your present coun­
tenance.
2.
A noble, amiable, and innocent young lady,
who had been educated principally in the coun­
try, saw her face in the glass as she passed it
with a candle in her hand, retiring from evening
prayers, and having just laid down her Bible.
Her eyes were cast to the ground with inex­
pressible modesty, at the sight of her own
image. She. passed the winter in town, sur­
rounded by adorers, hurried away by dissipation,
and plunged in trifling amusements. She for­
got her Bible and her devotion. In the begin­
ning of spring she returned to her country-seat,
her chamber, and the table on which the Bible
lay. Again she had the candle in her hand, and
again saw herself in the glass. She turned
pale, put down the candle, retreated to a sofa,
and fell on her knees: “ O God! I no longer
know my own face. How am I degraded! My
Digitized by Google
294 PHYSIOGNOMY.
follies and vanities are all written in my counte­
nance. Wherefore have they been neglected,
illegible, to this instant? O come and expel,
come and utterly efface them, mild tranquillity,
sweet devotion, and ye gentle cares of benevo­
lent love!” •
3. .
“ I will forfeit my life, (said Titus of the
priest Tacitus) if this man be not an arch
knave. I have three times observed him sigh
and weep without cause; and ten times turn
aside to conceal ^ laugh he could not restrain,
when vice or misfortune were mentioned.”
4-
A stranger said to a physiognomist, “ How
many dollars is my face worth?”— " It is hard
to determine,” replied the latter. “ It is worth
fifteen hundred, (continued the questioner) for
so many has a person lent me upon it, to whom
I was a total stranger.”
5.
A poor man asked alms. “ How much do
you want?” said the person of whom he asked,
astonished at the peculiar honesty of his coun
tenance. “ How shall I dare to fix a sum?”
answered the needy person. u Give me what
you please, Sir, I shall be contented and thank-
fid.”—“ Not so,” replied the physiognomist,
“ as God lives I will give you what you want,
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY. 805
be it little or much.”— " Then, Sir, be pleased
' to give me eight shillings.”—
*
“ Here they are;
had you asked a hundred guineas you should
have had them.”
Miscellaneous Extracts from Essay on
the Temperaments, with Remarks.
“ W il l not physiognomy be to man what the
looking-glass is to an ugly woman?”
Let me also add, to the handsome woman.
The wise looks in the glass, and washes away
spots; the fool look«, turns back, and remains
as he was. -
“ Each temperament, each character, has its
•good and bad. The one has inclinations of
which -the other is incapable. The one has
more than the other. The ingot is of more
worth than the guineas individually, into Which
it is coined; yet the latter are most useful.
The tulip delights by its beauty, the carnation
by its smell. The unseemly wormwood dis­
pleases both taste and smell, yet, in medical vir-
CHAP. XLIX.
1 .
2.
Digitized by
296 PHYSIOGNOMY.
tue, is superior to both. There it is that each
contributes to the perfection of the whole.”
The carnation should not wish to be a tulip,
the finger an eye, nor the weak desire to act
within the circle of the strong. Each has its
peculiar circle, as it has its peculiar form. To
wish to depart from this circle is like wishing to
be transported into another body.
3.
“ Within the course of a year, we are assured,
that the activity of nature changes the body, yet
we are sensible of no change of mind, although
our body has been subjected to the greatest
changes, in consequence of meat, drink, air,
and other accidents; the difference of air and
manner of life does not change the tempera­
ment.”
The foundation of character lies deeper, and
is, in a certain degree, independent of all acci­
dents. It is probably the spiritual and immor­
tal texture, into which all that is visible, cor­
ruptible, and transitory, is interwoven.
4.
“ A block of wood may be carved by the sta­
tuary into what form he shall please; he may
make it an jEsop or an Antinous, but he will
never Change the inherent nature of the wood.”
To know and distinguish the materials and
form of men, so far as knowledge contributes *
Digitized by G o o g le L
P H Y S I O G N O M Y .
to their proper application, is the highest and
most effectual wisdom of which human nature is
capable.
. 5.
“ In the eyes of certain persons there is
something sublime, which beams and exacts re­
verence. This sublimity is the concealed power
of raising themselves above others, which is not
the wretched effect of constraint, but primitive
essence. £ach finds himself obliged to submit
• to this secret power, without knowing why, as
soon as he perceives that look, implanted by
nature to inspire reverence, shining in the eyes.
Those who possess this natural, sovereign es­
sence, rule as lords, or lions, among men, by
native privilege, with heart and tongue conquer­
ing all. .
2 9 7
* 6.
“ There are only four principal aspects, all
different from each other, the ardent, the dull,
the fixed, and the fluctuating.”
The application is the proof of all general
propositions. Let physiognomonical axioms be
applied to known individuals, friends, or ene­
mies, and their truth or falsehood, precision or
inaccuracy, will easily be determined. Let us
make the experiment with the above, and we shall
certainly find there are numerous aspects which
are not included within these four; such as the
luminous aspect, very different from the ardent,
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
and neither fixed like the melancholic, nor fluc­
tuating like the sanguine.
There is the look or aspect, which is at once
rapid and fixed, and, as I may say, penetrates
and attaches at the same moment. Inhere is the
tranquilly active look, neither choleric nor
phlegmatic. I think it would be better to ar­
range them into the giving, the receiving, and
the giving and receiving combined; or into in-
tentive and extensive; or into the attracting,
repelling, and unparticipating; into the con­
tracted, the relaxed, the strained, the attaining,
the unattaining, the tranquil, the steady, the
slow, the open, the closed, the cold, the amo­
rous, &c. '
298
CHAP. L.
Upon P o rtra it P ainting.
Portrait painting, the most natural, manly,
useful, noble, and, however apparently easy, is
. the most difficult of the arts. Love first disco­
vered this heavenly art. Without love, what
could it perform? ^
As on this art depends a great part of this
present work, and the science on which it treats,
it is proper that something should be said on
the subject. Something; for how new, how
important, and great a work might be written
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
on this a rt! For the honour of man, and of the
art, I hope such a work will be written. I do
not think it ought to be the work of a painter,
however great in his profession, but of the un- _
derstanding friend of physiognomy, the man of
taste, the daily confidential observer of the
great Portrait painter. .
Sultzer, that philosopher of taste and discern­
ment, has an excellent article, in his dictionary,
on this subject, under the word P o rtra it. But
what can be said in a work so confined, on a
subject so extensive ? Again, whoever will em­
ploy his thoughts on this art, will find that it is
sufficient to exercise all the searching, all the
active powers of man; that it never can be en­
tirely learned, nor ever can arrive at ideal per­
fection.
I shall now attempt to recapitulate some of
the avoidable and unavoidable difficulties at­
i
tendant on this art; the knowledge of which, in
my opinion, is as necessary to the painter as to
the physiognomist.
Let us first inquire, What is portrait paint­
ing? It is the communication, the preservation
of the image of some individual; the art of sud­
denly depicting all that can be depicted of that
half of man, which is rendered apparent, and
which never can be conveyed in words. If
what Gothe has somewhere said, be true, and in
my opinion nothing can be more true, that the
best text for a commentary on man is his pre-
299
Digitized by G o o g le
sence, his countenance, bis form; how impor­
tant then is the art of portrait painting!
To this observation of Gothe’s, I will add a
passage on the subject from Sultzer’s excellent
dictionary: “ Since no object of knowledge
whatever can be more important to us than a
thinking and feeling soul, it cannot be denied
but that man, considered according to bis form,
even though we should neglect what is wonder­
ful in him, is the most important of visible ob­
jects.”
The portrait painter should know, feel, and
be penetrated with this: penetrated with reve­
rence for the greatest works of the greatest
masters. Were such the subject of his medita­
tion, not from constraint, but native sensation>
Were it as natural to him as the love of life, how
important, how sacred to him, would this art
become! Sacred to him should be the living
countenance as the text of holy Scripture to the
translator. As careful should the one be not to
falsify the work, as should be the other not to
falsify the word of God. . .
- Great is the contempt which an excellent
translator of an excellent work deserves, whose
mind is wholly inferior to the mind of his ori­
ginal. And is it not the same with the portrait
painter? The countenance is the theatre on
which the soul exhibits itself: here must its
emanations be studied and caught. Whoever
cannot seize these emanations, cannot paint,
300 PHYSIOGNOMY.
Digitized by G o o g le LJ
and whoever cannot paint these, is no portrait
painter.
Each perfect portrait is an important paint­
ing, since it displays the human mind with the
peculiarities of personal character. In such we
contemplate a. being where understanding, in­
clinations, sensations, passions, good and bad
qualities of mind and heart are mingled in a
manner peculiar to itself. We here frequently
see them better than in nature herself, since in
nature nothing is fixed, all is swift, all is tran­
sient. In nature also we seldom behold the
features under that propitious aspect in' which
they will be transmitted by the able painter.
, If we could indeed seize the fleeting transi­
tions of nature, or had she her moments of sta­
bility, it would then be much more advanta­
geous to contemplate nature than her likeness;
but this being impossible, and since likewise
few people will suffer themselves to be ob­
served, sufficiently to deserve the name of obr
servation, it is to me indisputable, that a better
knowledge of man may be obtained from por­
traits than from nature, she being thus uncer­
tain, thus fugitive. (
The rank of the portrait painter may hence
be easily determined; he stands next to the his­
torical painter. Nay history painting itself de­
rives a part of its value from its portraits; for
expression, one of the most important requisites
in historical painting, will be the more esti-
, PHYSIOGNOMY. 3 0 1
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
mable, natural, and strong, the more of actual
physiognomy is expressed in the countenances,
and copied after nature.' A collection of excel­
lent portraits is highly advantageous to the his­
torical painter for the study of expression.
Where shall we find the historical painter,
who can represent real beings with all the de­
corations of fiction? Do we not see them all
copying copies? True it is, they frequently
copy from imagination; but this imagination is
only stored with the fashionable figures of their
own or former times.
Having presumed thus far, let us now enu­
merate some of the surmountable difficulties of
portrait painting. I am conscious the freedom
with which I shall speak my thoughts will of­
fend, yet to give offence is far from my"mten-
tion. I wish to aid, to teach that art, which is
the imitation of the works of God: 1 wish im­
provement. And how is improvement possible
without a frank and undisguised discovery of
defects? -
In all the works of portrait painters whiqh I
have seen, I have remarked the want of a more
philosophical, that is to say, a more just, intelli­
gible, and universal knowledge of men. The
insect painter, who has no accurate knowledge
of insects, the form, the general, the particular,
which is appropriated to each insect, however
good a copyist he may be, will certainly be a
bad painter, of insects. The portrait painter,
302
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY. 303
however excellent a copyist, (a thing much less
general than is imagined by connoisseurs) will
paint portraits ill, if he have not the most accu­
rate knowledge of the form, proportion, con­
nexion, and dependance of the great and minute
parts of the human body, as far as they liave a
remarkable influence on the superficies; if he
has not most accurately investigated each indi­
vidual member and feature. For my Own part,
be my knowledge what it may, it is far from ac­
curate in what relates to the minute specific
traits of each sensation, each member, each fea­
ture; yet I daily remark that this acute, this in­
dispensable knowledge, is at present every where
uncultivated, unknown, and difficult to convey
to the most intelligent painters.
Those who will be at the trouble of consider­
ing a number of men promiscuously taken, fea­
ture by feature, will find that each ear, each
mouth, notwithstanding then* infinite diversity,
have yet their small curves, corners, characters,
which are common to all, and which are found
stronger or weaker, more or less marking, in
all men who are not monsters born, at'least in
these parts.
Of what advantage is all our knowledge of
the great proportions of the body and counte­
nance? (Yet even that part of knowledge is,
by far, not sufficiently studied, not sufficiently
accurate. Somefuture physiognomonical painter
will justify this assertion, till when be it consi­
dered as nothing more than cavil.) Of what
Die ‘ by
3 0 4 PHYSIOGNOMY.
advantage, I say, is all our knowledge of the
great proportions, when the knowledge of the
finer traits, which are equally true, general, de­
terminate, and no less significant, is wanting?
And this want is so great, that I appeal to those
who are best informed, whether many of the
ablest painters, who have painted numerous
portraits, have any tolerably accurate or general
theory of the mouth only. I do not mean the
anatomical mouth, but the mouth of the painter,
which he ought to see, and may see, without any
anatomical knowledge.
I have examined volume after volume of en -
gravings of portraits, after the greatest masters,
and am therefore entitled to speak. But let us
confine observations to the mouth. Having
previously studied infauts, boys, youth, man­
hood, old age, maidens, wives, matrons, with
respect to the general properties of the mouth;
and, having discovered these, let us compare,
and we shall find that almost all painters have
failed in the general theory of the mouth; that
it seldom happens, and seems only to happen
by accident, that any master has understood
these general properties. Yet how indescribably
much depends on them ! What is the particu­
lar, what the characteristic, but shades of the
general ! As it is with the mouth, so it is with
the eyes, eyebrows, nose, and each part of the
oountenance.
The same proportion exists between the great
features of the face; and as there is this general
D ’ ized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
proportion in all countenances, however va­
rious, so is there a similar proportion between
the small traits of these parts. Infinitely varied
are the great features, in their general combi­
nation and proportion. As infinitely varied are
the shades of the small traits, in these features,
however great their general resemblance. With­
out an accurate knowledge of the proportion of
the principal features, as for example, of the
eyes and mouth, to each other, it must ever be
mere accident, an accident that indeed rarely
happens, when such proportion exists in the
works of the painter. Without an accurate
knowledge of the particular constituent parts,
and traits of each principal feature, I once again
repeat, it must be accident, miraculous acci­
dent, should any one of them be justly deli­
neated.
The reflecting artist may be induced from this
remark to study nature intimately by principle,
and to shew him, if he be in search of perma­
nent fame, that, though he ought to behold and
study the works of the greatest masters with
esteem and reverence, he: yet ought to examine
and judge for himself. Let him not make the
virtue modesty his plea, for under this does om­
nipresent mediocrity shelter itself. Modesty,
indeed, is not so properly virtue as the garb and
ornament of virtue, and of existing positive
power. Let him, I say, examine for himself,
and study nature in whole and in part, as if no
man ever had observed, or ever should observe*
x
3 0 5
Digitized by
PHYSIOGNOMY.
but himself. Deprived of this, young artist, thy
glory will but resemble a meteor’s blaze; it will
only be founded on the ignorance of your con­
temporaries.
By for the greater part of the best portrait
painters, when most successful, like the majority
of physiognomists, content themselves with ex­
pressing die character of the passions in the
moveable, the muscular features of die face.
They do not understand, they laugh at, rules
Which prescribe the grand outline of the coun­
tenance as indispensable to portrait painting, in­
dependent of the effects produced by the action
oftbe muscles.
Till institutions shall be formed for the im­
provement of portrait painting, perhaps till a
physiognOiponical society or academy shall pro­
duce physiognomonical portrait painters, we
shall at best but creep in the regions of physiog­
nomy, where we might otherwise soar. One
of the greatest obstacles to physiognomy is the
actual, incredible imperfection of this art.
There is generally a defect of eye, or hand of
the painter, or the object is defective which is
to be delineated, or, perhaps, all three. The
artist cannot disoover what is, or cannot draw it
when he discovers it. The object continually
alters its position, which ought to be so exact;
so continually the same; or should it not, and
should the painter be endowed with an all-ob­
serving eye, an all-imitative hand, still there is
the last insuperable difficulty, that of the post-
8 0 6
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
tion of the body, which can but be momentary,
which is constrained, false, and unnatural, when
more than momentary.
Trifling, indeed, is what I have said to what
might be said. According to the knowledge I
have of it, this is yet uncultivated ground. How
little has Sultzer himself said on the subject 1
But what could he say in a dictionary? A work
wholly dedicated to this is necessary to examine
and decide on the works of the best portrait
painters, and to insert all the cautions and rules
necessary for the young artist, in consequence oi
the infinite variety, yet incredible uniformity, of
the human countenance.
The artist who wishes to paint portraits per­
fectly, must so paint, that each spectator may
with truth exclaim, “ This is indeed to paint!
this is true, living likeness; perfect nature; it
is not painting! Outline, form, proportion, po­
sition, attitude, complexion, light and shade,
freedoih, ease, nature! Nature in every cha­
racteristic disposition! Nature in the complex­
ion, in each trait, in her most beauteous, hap­
piest moments, her mdst select, most propitious
state of mind; near at a distance, on every side
Truth and Nature! Evident to all men, all
ages, the ignorant and the connoisseur; most
conspicuous to him who has most knowledge;
no suspicion of art; a countenance in a mirror,
to which we would speak, that speaks to us;
that contemplates more than it is contemplated;
307
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
we rush to it, we embrace it, we are en­
chanted !”
Young artist, emulate such excellence, and
the least of your attainments in this age will be
riches and honour, and fame in futurity. With
tears you will receive the thanks of father,
friend, and husband, and your work will honour
that Being, whose creatious it is the noblest gift
of man to imitate!
306
CHAP. LI.
Description o f P la te VII.
Number 1. The late King o f Prussia.
How much yet how little is there erf the royal
countenance in this copy ! The covered fore­
head, may be suspected from this nose, this sove­
reign feature. The forked descending wrinkles
of the nose are expressive of killing contempt.
The great eyes, with a nose so bony, denotes a
firmness and fire not easily to be withstood. Wit
and satirical fancy are apparent in the mouth
though defectively drawn. There is something
minute seen in the chin, which cannot well be*n
nature.
Number 2. The E mpress of Russia.
Except the smallness of the nostril, and the
distance of the eyebrow from the outline of the
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
forehead, no one can mistake the princely, the
superior, the masculine firmness of this, never­
theless feminine, but fortunate and kind coun­
tenance.
309
Number 3. Voltaire.
Precision is wanting to the outline of the eye,
power to the eyebrows, the sting, the scourge of
satire to the forehead. The under part of the
profile, on the contrary, speaks a flow of wit,
acute, exuberant, exalted, ironical, never defi­
cient in reply.
Number 4. Malherbe.
Here is a high, comprehensive, powerful, firm,
retentive, French forehead, that appears to want
the open, free, noble essence of the former; has
something rude and productive; is more cho­
leric; and its firmness appears to border on
harshness.
Number 5. Voisin.
The delicate construction of the forehead, the
aspect of the man of the world, the beauty of
the nose, in particular, the somewhat rash, sati­
rical mouth,' the pleasure-loving chin, all shew
the Frenchman of a superior class.—The excel­
lent companion, the fanciful wit, the supple
courtier, are every where apparent.
Number 6. L a vatbr.
A bad likeness of the author of these frag-
Digitized by
byG o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
merits, yet not to be absolutely mistaken. The
whole aspect, especially the mouth, speaks in­
offensive tranquillity, and benevolence bordering
on weakness;—more understanding and less sen­
sibility in the nose than the author supposes him­
self to possess—some talent for observation in
the eye and eyebrows.
3 1 0
CHAP. XII.
Miscellaneous Quotations.
1.
“ Cam panella has not only made very accu­
rate observations on human faces, but was very
expert in mimicking such as were any way re­
markable. Whenever he thought proper to pe­
netrate into the inclinations of those he had to
deal with, he composed his face, his gestures,
and his whole body, as nearly as he could into
the exact similitude of the person he intended
to examine, and then carefully observed what
turn of mind he seemed to acquire by this
change. So that, says my author, he was
able to enter into the disposition and thoughts of
people, as effectually as if he had been changed
into the very man. I have often observed that,
on mimicking the gestures and looks of angry,
or placid, or frightened, or daring men, I have
involuntarily found my mind turned to that pas-
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
¿ion, whose appearance I endeavoured to imi­
tate. Nay, I am convinced, it is hard to avoid
it, though one strove to separate the passion
from its correspondent gestures. Our minds
and bodies are so closely and intimately con­
nected, that one is incapable of pain or pleasure
without the other. Campanella, of whom we
have been speaking, could so abstract his at­
tention from any sufferings of his body, that he
was able to endure the rack itself without much
pain; and, in lesser pains, every body must
have observed, that, when we can employ our
attention on any thing else, the pain has been
for a time suspended. On the other hand, if by
any means the body is indisposed to perform
such gestures, or to be stimulated into such
emotions as any passion usually produces in it,
that passion itself never can arise, though its
cause should be never so strongly in action,
though it should be merely mental, and imme­
diately affecting none of the senses. As an
opiate or spirituous liquor shall suspend the ope­
ration of grief, fear, or anger, in spite of all our
efforts to the contrary; and this by inducing in
.the body a disposition contrary to that which it
receives from these passions.” This passage is
extracted from Burke.on the Sublime and Beau­
tiful.
311
2.
“ Who can explain wherein consists the dif-
Digitized by V j O O Q I C
312 PHYSIOGNOMY.
ference of organization between an ideot and
another man?”
The naturalist, whether Buffon or any other,
who is become famous, and who can ask this
question, will never be satisfied with any given
answer, even though it were the most formal
demonstration.
3.
“ Diet and exercise would be of no use when
recommended to the dying.’*
No human wisdom or power can rectify; but
that which is impossible to man, is not so to
God. ,
4.
“ The appearance without must be deforgrity
and shame, when the worm gnaws within.”
Let the hypocrite, devoured by conscience,
assume whatever artful appearance he will, of
severity, tranquillity, or vague solemnity, his
distortion will ever be apparent to the physiog­
nomist.
5.
“ Take a tree from its native soil, its free air,
and mountainous situation, and plant it in the
confined circulation of a hot-house: there it
may vegetate, but in a weak and sickly condi­
tion. Feed this foreign animal in a den; you
will find it in vain. It starves in the midst of
plenty, or grows fat and feeble.”
Digitized by G o o g le
This, I am sorry to say, is the mournful his­
tory of many a man.
6.
“ A portrait is the ideal of an individual, not
of men in general.”
A perfect portrait is neither more nor less
than the circular form of a man reduced to a flat
surface, and which shall have the exact appear­
ance of the person for whom it was painted,
seen in a camera obscura.
• . 7-
I once asked a friend, ■
“ How does it happen
that artful and subtle people always have one or
both eyes rather closed?”— “ Because they are
feeble,” answered he. “ Who ever saw strength
and subtlety united? The mistrust of others is
meanness towards ourselves.”
PHYSIOGNOMY. 313
8.
This same friend, who to me is a man of ten
thousand for whatever relates to mind, wrote
two valuable letters on physiognomy to me,
from which I am allowed to make the following
extracts:
“ It appears to me to be an eternal law, that
the first is the only true impression. .Of this I
offer no proof, except by asserting such is my
belief, and by appealing to the sensations of
others. The stranger affects me by his appear­
ance, and is, to my sensitive being, what the
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
sun would be to a man born blind restored to
sight. ’
3 1 4
9.
“ Rousseau was right when he said of D. that
man does not please me, though he has never
done me any injury; but I must break with him
before it comes to that. .
10.
“ Physiognomy is as necessary to man as lan­
guage.” 1 may add, as natural.
CHAP. LUI.
Miscellaneous Thoughts. -
1.
Eybey thing is good. Every thing may, and
must be misused. Pbysiognomonical sensation
is in itselfas truly good, as godlike, as expressive
of the exalted worth of human nature as moral
sensation; perhaps they are both the same. The
suppressing, the destroying a sensation so de­
serving of honour, where it begins to act, is sin­
ning against ourselves, and in reality equal to
resisting the good spirit. Indeed, good im­
pulses and actions must have their limits, in or­
der that they may not impede other good im­
pulses and actions.
Digitized by Google
2.
Each man is a man of genius in his large or
small sphere. He has a certain circle in which
he can act with inconceivable force. The less
his kingdom, the more concentrated is his
power, consequently the more irresistible is his
form of government. Thus the bee is the
greatest of mathematicians, as far as its wants
extend. Having discovered the genius of a man,
how inconsiderable soever the circle of his ac­
tivity may be, having caught him in the moment
when his genius is in its highest exertion, the
characteristic token of that genius will also be
easily discovered.
PHYSIOGNOMY. 3 l 5
3.
The approach ofthe Gbdhead cannot be nearer,
in the visible world, and in what we denominate
nature, than in the countenance of a great and
noble man. Christ coiild not but truly say,
“ He who seeth Me seeth Him that sent m e/'
God cannot, without a miracle, be seen anywhere
so fully as in the countenance of a good man.
Thus the essence of any man is more present,
more certain to me, by having obtained his
shade.
4.
Great countenances awaken and stimulate
each other, excite all that can be excited. Any
nation, having once produced a Spenser, a
Shakspeare, and a Milton, may be certain that
Digitized by Google
316 PHYSIOGNOMY.
a Steele, a Pope, and an Addison will follow.
A great countenance has the credentials of its
high original in itself. With calm reverence
and simplicity nourish the mind with the pre­
sence of a great countenance; its emanations
shall attract and exalt thee. A great counr
tenance, in a state of rest, acts more powerfully
than a common countenance impassioned; its
effects, though unresembling, are general. The
fortunate disciples, though they knew him not,
yet did their hearts burn within them, while he
talked with them by the way, and opened to
them the scriptures. The buyers and sellers,
whom he drove but of the Temple, durst not
oppose him.
It may from hence be conceived how certain
persons, by their mere persons, have brought a
seditious multitude back to their duty, although
the latter had acquired the full power. That
natural, unborrowed, indwelling power, which
is consequently superior to any which can be
assumed, is as evident to all eyes as the thunder
of heaven is to all ears.
5.
Great physiognomonical wisdom not only con­
sists in discovering the general character of,
and being highly affected by the present coun­
tenance, or this or that particular propensity,
but in discriminating the individual character of
each kind of mind, and its capacity, and being
able to define the circle beyond which it cannot
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
pass; tosay what sensations, actions, and judg- ,
ments, are, or are not, to be expected from
the man under consideration, that we may not
idly waste power, but dispense just sufficient to
actuate, and put him in motion.
No man is more liable to the error of thought­
less haste than I was. Four or five years of
physiognomonical observation were requisite to
cure me of this too hasty waste of power. It is
a part of benevolence to give, entrust, and par­
ticipate; but physiognomy teaches when, how,
and to whom, to give. It therefore teaches
true benevolence, to assist where assistance is
wanted, and will be accepted. Oh! that I
could call at the proper moment, and with
proper effect, to the feeling and benevolent
heart. Waste not, cast not thy seed upon the
waters, or upon a rock. Speak only to the
hearer; unbosom thyself but to those who can
understand thee; philosophize with none but
philosophers; spiritualize only with the spiritual.
It requires greater power to bridle strength
than to give it the rein. To withhold is often
better than to give. What is not enjoyed will %
be cast back with acrimony, or trodden to waste,
and thus will become useless to all.
3 1 7
* 6.
To the good be good; resist not the irresistible
countenance. Give the eye that asks, that comes
recommended to thee by Providence, or by God
himself, and which to reject is to reject God,
Digitized by Google
who cannot ask thee more powerfully than when
entreating in a cheerful, open, innocent, coun­
tenance. Thou canst not more immediately
glorify God than by wishing and acting well to a
countenance replete with the spirit of God, nor
more certainly, and abhorrently, offend and
wound the majesty of God, than by despising,
ridiculing, and turning from such a countenance.
God cannot more effectually move man than by
man. Whoever rejects the man of God, rejects
God. To discover the radiance of the Creator
hi the visage of man is the pre-eminent quality
of man; it is the summit of wisdom and be­
nevolence to feel how mueh of this radiance is
there, to discern this ray of Divinity through
the clouds of the most debased countenances,
and dig out this small gem of heaven from amid
the ruins and rubbish by which it isencumbered.
• . 7.
Shouldest thou, friend of man, esteem physiog­
nomy as highly as I do, to whom it daily be­
comes of greater worth the more I discover its
truth; if thou bast an eye to select the few
noble, or that which is noble in the ignoble, that
which is divine in all men, the immortal in
what is mortal, then speak little, but observe
much; dispute not, but exercise thy sensation,
for thou wilt convince no one to whom this
sensation is wanting.
When noble poverty presents to you a face
in which, humility, patience, faith, and love,
3 1 8 PHYSIOGNOMY•
Digitized by Google
shine conspicuously, how superior will thy joy
be in bis words who has told thee, “ inasmuch
as thou hast done it unto one of the least of
these my brethren, thou bast done it unto me!”
With a sigh of hope you will exclaim, wheo
youth and dissipation present themselves, this
forehead was delineated by God for the search
and the discovery of truth. In this eye rests un­
ripened wisdom.
PHYSIOGNOMY. 3 1 9
CHAP. LIV.
' O f the Union between the Knowledge o f the H eart
and Philanthropy.— Miscellaneous physiog-
nomonical Thoughtsfrom H oly W rit.
May the union between the knowledge of the
heart and philanthropy be obtained by the same
means ? Does not a knowledge of the heart de­
stroy or weaken philanthropy? Does not our
good opinion of any man diminish when he is
perfectly known? And if so, how may philan­
thropy be increased by this knowledge?
What is here alleged is truth; but it is par­
tial truth. And how fruitful a source of error
is partial truth!’ It is a certain truth, that the
majority of men are losers by being accurately
known; but it is no less true, that the minority
ofmen gain as much on one side as they lose on
the other by being thus accurately known.
Who is so wise as never to act foolishly ? Where
Digitized by Google
3 2 0 PHYSIOGNOMY.
is the virtue wholly unpolluted by vice; with
thoughts, at all moments, simple, direct, and
pure? I dare undertake to maintain, that all
men, with some' very rare exceptions, lose by
being known. But it may also be proved, by
the most irrefragable arguments, that all men *
gain by being known; consequently a know­
ledge of the heart is not detrimental to the love
of mankind, but promotes it.
Physiognomy discovers actual and possible
perfections,which,without its aid, must ever have
remained hidden. The more man is studied, the
more power and positive goodness will he be
discovered to possess. As the experienced eye
of the painter perceives a thousand small shades
and colours, which are unremarked by common
spectators, so the physiognomist views a multi­
tude of actual or possible perfections, which es­
cape the general eye of the despiser, the slan­
derer, or even the more benevolent judge of
mankind.
The good which I, as a physiognomist, have .
observed in people round me, has more* than
compensated that mass of evil, which, though
I appeared blind, I could not avoid seeing.
The more I have studied man, the more have I
been convinced of the general influence of his
faculties; the more have 1 remarked, that the
origin of all evil is good, that those very powers
which made him evil, those abilities, forces, irri-
tahility, elasticity, were all in themselves actual,
positive good. The absence of these, indeed,
Digitized
ed by Google
P H Y S I O G N O M Y .
would have occasioned the absence of an infi­
nity of evil, but so would they likewise of an infi­
nity of good. The essence of good has given
birth to much evil5 but it contained in itself the
possibility of a still infinite increase of good.
The least failing of an individual incites a
general outcry, and his character is at once
darkened, trampled on, and destroyed* The
physiognomist views and praises the man whom
the whole world condemns. What, does he
praise vice?—Does he excuse the vicious!—
N o; he whispers, or loudly affirms, “ Treat
this man after such a manner, and you will be
astonished at what he is able, what he may be
made willing to perform. He is not so wicked
as he appears; his countenance is better than
his actions. His actions, it is true, are legi­
ble in his countenance, but not more legible
than his great powers, his sensibility, the plia­
bility of that heart which has had an improper
bent. Give but these powers, which have
rendered him vicious, another direction, and
other objects, and he wilt perform miracles of
virtue.”
The physiognomist will pardon where the
most benevolent philanthropist must condemn.
For myself, since I have become a physiog­
nomist, I have gained knowledge, so much more
accurate, of so many excellent men, and have
had such frequent occasions to rejoice my
heart in the discoveries I made concerning such
men, that this, as I may say, has reconciled me
Y
3 2 1
Digitized by Google
PHYSIOGNOMY.
to the whole human race. What I here mention
as having happened to myself, each physiog­
nomist, being himself a man, must have un­
doubtedly felt.
Miscellaneous Physiognomonical Thoughts from
H oly W rit.
“ Thou hast set our iniquities before thee, our
secret sins in the light of our countenance.”
Psalm xc. 8 .—No man believes in the omnisci­
ence, or has so strong a conviction of the pre­
sence of God and bis angels, or reads the hand
of heaven so visible in the human countenance,
as the physiognomist.
“ Which of you by taking thought can add
one cubit unto bis stature ?—And why take ye
thought for raiment ?—Seek yefirst the kingdom
of God, and his righteousness, and all these
things shall be added unto you.” Matt. vi. 27,
28. 33.—No man, therefore, can alter his form.
The improvement of the internal will also be the
improvement of the external. Let men take
care of the internal, and a sufficient care of the
external will be the result.
“ When ye fast, be not as the hypocrites, of a
sad countenance; for they disfigure their faces,
that they may appear unto men to fast. Verily
I say unto you, they have their reward. But
thou, when thou fastest, anoint thine head and
wash thy face, that thou appear not unto men
to fast, but unto thy Father which is in secret,
and thy Father, which seeth in secret, shall re-
322
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
ward thee openly.” Matt. vi. 16, 17, 18.—
Vir­
tue, like vice, may be concealed from men, but
not from the Father in secret, nor from him
in whom his spirit is, who fathoms not only the
depths of humanity but of divinity. He is re­
warded, who means that the good be has should
be seen in his countenance.
“ Some seeds fell by the way-side, and the
fowls came and devoured them up ; some fell
upon stony places, where they had not much
earth, and forthwith they sprung up, because
they had no deepness of earth ; and when the
sun was up they were scorched, and because
they had not earth they withered away; end
some fell among thorns, and the thorns sprung
up and choaked them; but others fell into good
ground, and brought forth fruit, some an
hundred fold, some sixty fold, some thirty fold.”
Matt. xiii. 4, 5, 6 , 7, 8 .—There are many men,
many countenances, in whom nothing can be
planted, each fowl devours the seed; or they are
hard like stone, with little earth, (or flesh) have
habits which stifle all that is good. There are
others that have good bones, good flesh, with
a happy proportion of each, and no stifling
habits.
“ For whosoever hath to him shall be given,
and he shall have more abundance; but who­
soever hath not, from him shall be taken away
even that he hath.” Matt. xiii. 12.—True again
of the good and bad countenance. He who is
faithful to the propensities of nature, he hath.
3
S
2
3
Digitized by G o o g le
3 2 4 PHYSIOGNOMY.
he enjoys, he will manifestly be ennobled.
The bad will lose even the good tnuts he hath
received.
“ Take heed that you despise not one of these
little ones; for I say unto you, that in heaven
their angels do always behold the face of my
Father which is in heaven.” Matt, xviii. 10.—
Probably the angels see the countenance of the
father in the countenance of the children.
. “ If any man have ears to hear let him hear.
Do ye not perceive, that whatever thing from
without entereth into the man it cannot defile
him, because it entereth not into his heart, but
ipto the belly, and goeth out into the draught,
purging all meats? And he said, that which
cometh out of the man that defileth the
m an/’ Mark vii. 16, 18, 19, 20.—This is phy-
siognomonically true. Not external accidents,
not spots which may be washed away, not
wounds which may be healed, not even scars
which remain, will defile the countenance in
the eye of the physiognomist, neither can paint
beautify it to him.
“A little leaven leaveneth the whole lump.”
Galat. v. 9.—A little vice often deforms the
whole countenance. One single false trait
makes the whole a caricature.
“ Ye are our epistle, written in our hearts,
known and read of all men. Forasmuch as ye
are manifestly declared to be the epistle of
Christ ministered by us, written not with ink,
but with the spirit of the living God.” 2 Cor.
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
iii. 2 , 3.—What need have the good of letters
of recommendation to the good? The open
countenance recommends itself to the open
countenance. No letters of recommendation
can recommend the perfidious countenance, nor
can any slanderer deprive the countenance,
beaming with the divine spirit, of its letters of
recommendation. A good countenance is the
best letter of recommendation.
I shall conclude with the important passage
from the ninth of the Romans:
“ God hath concluded them all in unbelief,
that he might have mercy upon all. O h! the
depth of the riches,' both of the wisdom and
knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his
judgments, andJbis ways past finding out! For
who hath known the mind of the Lord? or who
hath been his counsellor? or who hath first
given to him, and it shall be recompensed unto
him again ? For of him, and through him, and
to him, are all things. To whom be glory
for ever. Amen.”
325
CHAP. LV.
O f the apparentlyfalse decisions o f Physiognomy
— O f the general Objections made to Physiog­
nomy— Particular objections answered.
O ne of the strongest objections to the certainty
of physiognomy is, that the best physiognomists
often judge very erroneously.
PHYSIOGNOMY.
It maybe proper to make some remarks on this
objection.
Be it granted the physiognomist often errs;
that is to say, his discernment errs, not the coun­
tenance. But to conclude, there is no such
science as physiognomy, because physiognomists
err, is the same thing as to conclude there is no
reason, because there is much false reasoning.
To suppose that, because the physiognomist
has made some false decisions, he has no physi­
ognomical discernment, b equal to supposing
that a man, who has committed some mistakes
of memory, has no memory; or, at best, that
bis memory b very weak.—We must be less
hasty. We must first inquire in what proportion
his memory b faithful, how often it has failed,
how often been accurate. The miser may per­
form ten acts of charity: must we therefore affirm
he b charitable ? Should we not rather enquire
bow much he might have given, and how often
it has been his duty to give ? The virtuous man
may have ten times been guilty, but before he b
condemned, it ought to be asked, in how many
hundred instances he has acted uprightly. He
who games must oftener lose than he who re­
frains from gaming. He who slides or skaits
upon the ice b in danger of many a fall, and of
being laughed at by the less adventurous spec­
tator. Whoever frequently gives alms, is liable,
occasionally, to distribute his bounties to the un­
worthy. He, indeed, who never gives, cannot
commit the same mistake, and may truly vaunt
3 3 6
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
of his prudence, since he never furnishes op­
portunities for deceit. In like manner, he who
never judges« can never judge safely. The phy­
siognomist judges oftener than the man who
Hdicules physiognomy,consequently must oftener
err than he who never risks a physiognomonical
decision.
Which of the favourable judgments of the
benevolent physiognomist may not be decried as
false ? Is he not himself a mere man, however
circumspect, upright, honourable, and exalted
he may be 5 a man who has in himself the root
of all evil, the germ of every vice $ or, in other
words, a man whose most worthy propensities,
qualities, and inclinations, may occasionally be
overstrained, wrested, and warped ?
You behold a meek man, who, after repeated
and continued provocations to wrath, persists in
* silence 5 who, probably, never is overtaken by
anger, when he himself alone is injured. The
physiognomist can read his heart, fortified to
bear and forbear, and immediately exclaims, be­
hold the most amiable, the most unconquerable,
gentleness.—You are silent—You laugh—You
leave the place, and say, “ Fye on such a phy­
siognomist 1 How full of Wrath have I seen this
man!”—When was it that you saw him in
wrath?—Was it not when some one had mis­
treated his friend ?-v" Yes, and he behaved like
a frantic man in defence of this friend, which is
proof sufficient that the science of physiognomy
is a dream, and the physiognomist a dreamer.”
3 2 7
Digitized by G o o g le
3 2 8 PHYSIOGNOMY.
—But who is m an error, the physiognomist or his
censurer ?—The wisest man may sometimes utter
folly—This the physiognomist knows, but, re­
garding it not, reveres and pronounces him a
wise man.—You ridicule the decision, for you
have heard this wise man say a foolish thing*—
Once more, who is in an error?—The physiog­
nomist does not judge from a single incident,
and often not from several combining incidents.
—Nor does he, as a physiognomist, judge only
by actions. He observes the propensities, the
character, the essential qualities and powers,
which often are apparently contradicted by in­
dividual actions.
Again,—He who seems stupid or vicious may
yet probably possess indications ofa good under­
standing, and propensities to every virtue.
Should the beneficient eye of the physiognomist,
who is in search of good, perceive these quali- •
ties, and announce them; should he not pro«
nounce a decided judgment against the man, he
immediately becomes a subject of laughter. Yet
howoften may dispositions to the most heroic vir­
tue be there buried ! How often may the fire of
genius lay deeply smothered beneath the embers!
■
—Wherefore do you.so anxiously, so attentively,
rake among these ashes?— Because here is
warmth — Notwithstanding that at the first,
second, third, fourth raking, dust only will fly in
the eyes of the physiognomist and spectator.
The latter retires laughing, relates the attempt,
and makes others laugh also. The former may
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
perhaps patiently wait and warm himself by
the flame he. has excited. Innumerable are
the instances where the most excellent qualities
are overgrown and stifled by the weeds of error.
Futurity shall discover why, and the discovery
shall not be in vain. The common unpractised
eye beholds only a desolate wilderness. Educa­
tion, circumstances, necessities, stifle every
effort toward perfection. The physiognomist
inspects, becomes attentive, and waits. He sees
and observes a thousand contending contradic­
tory qualities; he hears a multitude of voices
exclaiming, What a m an! But he hears too
the voice of the Deity exclaim, What a m an! He
prays, while those revile who cannot compre­
hend, or, if they can, will not, that in the coun­
tenance, under the form they view, lie concealed
beauty, power, wisdom, and a divine nature. >
Still further, the physiognomist, or observer
of man, who is a man, a Christian, that is to say
a wise and good man, will a thousand times act
contrary to his own physiognomonical sensation;
I do not express myself accurately—He appears
to act contrary to his internal judgment of the
man. He speaks not all he thinks.—This is an
additional reason why the physiognomist so often
appears to e rr; and why the true observer, ob­
servation and truth are in him, is so often mis­
taken and ridiculed. He reads the villain in the
countenance of the beggar at his door, yet does
not turn away, but speaks friendly to him,
searches his heart, and discovers;—
*
Oh God,
3 2 9
Digitized by G o o g le
3 3 0 PHYSIOGNOMY,
what does he discover!—An immeasurable abyss,
a chaos of vice!—But does he discover nothing
more, nothing good ?—Be it granted he finds
nothing good, yet he there contemplates clay
which must not say to the potter, why hast thou
made me thus ?” He sees, prays, turns away
his face, and hides a tear whieh speaks with elo­
quence inexpressible, not to man, but to God
alone. He stretches out his friendly hand, not
only in pity to a hapless wife, whom he has
rendered unfortunate, not only for the sake of
his helpless innocent children, but in compassion
to himself, for the sake of God who has made all
things, even the wicked themselves, for his own
glory. He gives, perhaps, to kindle a spark which
he yet perceives, and this is what is called (in
scripture) giving his heart.—Whether the un­
worthy man misuses the gift, or misuses it not,
the judgment of the donor will alike be arraign­
ed. Whoever hears of the gift will say, How
has this good man again suffered himself to be
deceived. .
Man is not to be the judge of man, and who
feels this truth more coercively than the physiog­
nomist ? The mightiest of men, the Ruler of
man, came not to judge the world, but to save.
Not that he did not see the vices of the vicious,
nor that' he concealed them from himself or
others, when philanthropy required they should
be remarked and detected.—Yet he judged not,
punished not.—He forgave— “ Go thy way and
sin no more.”—Judas he received as one of his
Digitized by G o o g le
disciples, protected him, embraced him—Him in
whom he beheld his future betrayer.
Good men are most apt to discover good.-r—
Thine eye cannot be Christian if thou givest me
not thine heart. W isdom without goodness is
folly : I w ill judge justly and act benevolently.
Once more—A profligate man, an abandoned
woman, who have ten times been to blame when
they affirmed they were not,'on the eleventh
are condemned when they are not to blame.
They apply to the physiognomist. He inquires,
and finds that this time they are innocent. Dis­
cretion loudly tells him he will be censured
should he suffer it to be known that he believes
them innocent; but his heart more loudly com*
mands him to speak, to bear witness for the pre­
sent innocence of such rejected persons. A
word escapes him, and a multitude of reviling
voices at once are heard— " Such a judgment
ought not to have been made by a physiogno­
mist !”—Yet who has decided erroneously ?
The above are a few hints and reasons to the
discerning to induce them to judge as cautiously
concerning the physiognomist as they would
wish him to judge concerning themselves, or
others.
O f the general objections made to Physiognomy.
Innumerable are the objections which may be
raised against the certainty of judgments drawn
from the lines and features of the human coun­
PHYSIOGNOMY. 331
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
tenance. Many of these appear to me 'to be
easy, many difficult, and some impossible to be
answered.
Before I select any of them, I will first state
some general remarks, the accurate considera­
tion and proof of which will remove many diffi­
culties. *
It appears to me that, in all researches, we
ought first to inquire what can be said in defence
of any proposition. One irrefragable proof of
the actual existence and certainty of a thing will
overbalance ten thousand objections. One posi­
tive witness, who has all possible certainty that
knowledge and reason can give, will prepon­
derate against innumerable others who are only
negative. All objections against a certain truth
are in reality only negative evidence. “ We .
neverobserved this: we never experienced that.”
—Though ten thousand should make this asser­
tion, what would it prove against one man of
understanding and sound reason, who should
answer, “ But I have observed, and you also may
observe, if you please.” No well founded ob­
jection can be made against the existence of a
thing visible to sense. Argument cannot dis­
prove fact. No two opposing positive facts can
be adduced; all objections to a fact, therefore,
must be negative.
Let this be applied to physiognomy. Positive
proofs of the true and acknowledged signification
of the face and its features, against the clearness
and certainty of which nothing can be alleged,
332 .
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
lender innumerable objections, although they
cannot probably be answered, perfectly insigni-
cant. Let us therefore endeavour to inform our­
selves of those positive arguments which physi­
ognomy affords. Let us first make ourselves
steadfast in what is certainly true, and we shall
soon be enabled to answer many objections, or to
reject them as unworthy any answer. .
It appears to me that in the same proportion
as a man remarks and adheres to the positive
will be the strength and perseverance of his
mind. He whose talents do not surpass medio­
crity, is accustomed to overlook the positive,
and to maintain the negative with invincible ob­
stinacy.
Thou, shouldest first consider what thou art,
what is thy knowledge, and what are thy quali­
ties and powers ; before thou inquirest what thou
art not, knowest not, and what the qualities and
powers are that thou hast not. This is a rule
which every man who wishes to be wise, vir­
tuous, and happy, ought not only to prescribe
to himself, but, if I may use so bold a figure, to
incorporate with, and make a part of, his very
soul. The truly wise always first directs his
inquiries concerning what is; the man of weak
intellect, the pedant, first searches for that which
is wanting. The true philosopher looks first for
the positive proofs of the proposition. I say first
—I am very desirous that my meaning should
not be misunderstood, and therefore repeat,first,
The superficial mind first examines the negative
333
Digitized by Go< e
PHYSIOGNOMY.
objections.—This has been the method pursued*
by infidels, the opponents of Christianity. Were
it granted that Christianity were false, still this
method would neither be logical, true, nor con­
clusive. Therefore such modes of reasoning
must be set aside, as neither logical nor conclu­
sive, before we can proceed to answer objections.
To return once more to physiognomy, the
question will be reduced to this.— “ Whether
v there are any proofs sufficiently positive and de­
cisive, in favour of physiognomy, to induce us to
disregard the most plausible objections.—Of this
I am as much convinced as I am of my own ex­
istence ; and every unprejudiced reader will be
the same, who shall read this work through, if
he only possess so much discernment and know­
ledge as not to deny that eyes are given us to
see ! although there are innumerable eyes in the
World that look and do not see.
It may happen that learned men, of a certain
description, will endeavour to perplex me by ar­
gument. They, for example, may cite the fe­
male butterfly of Reaumur, and the large winged
ant, in order to prove how much we may be
mistaken, with respect to final causes, in the
products of nature—They may assert, “ wings;
undoubtedly, appear to be given for the purpose
of flight, yet these insects never fly ; therefore
wings are not given for that purpose.—And by a
parity of reasoning, since there are wise men,
who, probably, do not see, eyes are not given for
the purposes of sight.”—To such objections I
su
Digitized by G o o g le
shall make no reply, for never, In my whole life,
have I been able to answer a sophism. I appeal
only to common sense. I view a certain number
of men, who all have the gift of sight, when they
open their eyes, and there is light, and who do
not see when their eyes are shut. As this cer­
tain number are not select, but taken promis­
cuously, among millions of existing men, it is the
highest possible degree of probability that all
men, whose formation is similar, that have
lived, do live; or shall live, being alike provided*
with those organs we call eyes, must see. This,
at least, has been the mode of arguing and con- *
eluding among all nations, and in all ages. In
the same degree as this mode of reasoning is*
convincing, when applied to other subjects, so if
is when applied to physiognomy, and is equally
applicable; and if untrue in physiognomy, it is
equally untrue in every other instance.
I am therefore of opinion that the defender of
physiognomy may rest the truth of the science
on this proposition, “ That it is universally con­
fessed that among ten, twenty, or thirty men, in­
discriminately selected, there as certainly exists
a physiognomical expression, or demonstrable
correspondence of internal power and sensation,
with external form and figure, as that, among
the like number of men, in the like manner se-*
lected, they have eyes and can see.” Having
proved this, he has as sufficiently proved the
universality and truth of physiognomy as the
universality of sight by the aid of eyes, having
PHYSIOGNOMY. 336*
Digitized by G o o g le
PPYSIOGNOMV. *
shewn that ten, twenty, or thirty men, by the
aid of eyes, are all capable of seeing. From a
part I draw a conclusion to the whole; whether
those ! have seen or those I have not.
But it will be answered, though this may be
proved of certain features, does it, therefore, fol­
low that it may be proved of all ?—I am per-
•suaded it may: if I am wrong, shew me my
error.
Having remarked that men who have eyes
and ears, see and hear, and being convinced that
eyes were given him for the purpose of sight,
and ears for that of hearing; being unable longer
to doubt that eyes and ears have their destined
office, I think I draw no improper conclusion,
when I suppose that every other sense, and
member, of this same human body, which so
wonderfully form a whole, has each a particular
purpose; although it should happen that I am
unable to discover what the particular purposes
of so many senses, members, and integuments may
be. Thus do I reason also, concerning the sig­
nification of the countenance of man, the for­
mation of his body, and the disposition of his
members.
If it can be proved that any two or three fea­
tures have a certain determinate signification,
as determinate as that the eye is the expression
of the countenance, is it not accurate to con­
clude, according fio the mode of reasoning above
cited, universally acknowledged to be just, that
those features are also significant, with the slg-
336
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
nification of which I am unacquainted.—I think
myself able to prove, to every person of the com­
monest understanding, that all men without ex­
ception, at least under certain circumstances,
and in some particular feature, may, indeed,
have more than one feature, of a certain deter­
minate signification ; as surely as I can render
it comprehensible, to the simplest person, that
certain determinate members of the human body
are to answer certain determinate purposes.
Twenty or thirty men, taken promiscuously,
when they laugh, or weep, will, in the expression
of their joy or grief, possess something in com­
mon with, or similar to each other. Certain fea­
tures will bear a greater resemblance to each
other among them than they otherwise do, when
not in the like sympathetic state of mind.
To me it appears evident, that since excessive
joy and grief are universally acknowledged to
have their peculiar expressions, and that the ex­
pression of each is as different as the different
passions ofjoy and grief, it must, therefore, be
allowed that the state of rest, the medium be­
tween joy and grief, shall likewise have its
peculiar expression ; or, in other words, that
the muscles which surround the eyes and lips,
will indubitably be found to be in a different
state.
If this be granted concerning the state of the
mind in joy, grief, or tranquillity ; why should
not the same be true concerning pride, humility^
patience, magnanimity, and other affections l
z
3 3 7
Digitized by
PHYSIOGNOMY.
According to certain laws the stone flies up­
ward, when thrown with sufficient force; by
other laws, equally certain, it afterwards falls to
the earth; and will it not remain unmoved
according to laws equally fixed, if suffered
to be at rest ? Joy, according to certain
laws, is expressed in one manner, grief in ano­
ther, and tranquillity in a third. Wherefore
then shall not anger, gentleness, pride, humility,
and other passions, be subject to certain laws;
that is, to certain fixed laws ?
All things in nature are or are not subjected
to certain laws. There is a cause for ail things,
or there is not. All things are cause and effect,
or are not. Ought we not hence to derive one
of the first axioms of philosophy ? And, if this
be granted, how immediately is physiognomy
relieved from all objections, even from those
which we know not how to answer; that is, as
soon as it shall be granted there are certain
characteristic features, in all men, as charac­
teristic as the eyes are to the countenance!
But, it will be said, how different are the ex­
pressions of joy and grief, of the thoughtful and
the thoughtless! And how may these expres­
sions be reduced to rule ?
How different from each other are the eyes of
men, and of all creatures ; the eye of an eagle
from the eye of a mole, an elephant, and a fly!
and yet we believe of all who have no evident
signs of infirmity, or death, that they see.
The feet and ears are as various as are the
338
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
eyes ; yet we universally conclude of them all
they were given us for the purposes of hearing
and walking.
These varieties by no means prevent our be­
lieving that the eyes, ears, and feet, are the ex­
pressions, the organs of seeing, hearing, and
walking ; and why should we not draw the same
conclusions concerning all features and linea­
ments of the human body ? The expressions of
similar dispositions of mind cannot have greater
variety than have the eyes, ears, and feet, of all
beings that see, hear, and walk ; yet may we as
easily observe and determine what they have in
common as we can observe and determine what
the eyes, ears, and feet, which are so various,
among all beings that see, hear, and walk, have
also in common. This well considered, how
many objections will be answered, or become
insignificant !
3 3 9
Various Objections to Physiognomy Answered.
Objection 1.
" It is said we find persons who, from youth
to old age, without sickness, without debauchery,
have continually a pale, death-like aspect; who,
nevertheless, enjoy an uninterrupted and con­
firmed state of health ”
Answer.
These are uncommon cases. A thousand men
will shew their state of health by the complexion
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
3 4 0
and roundness of the countenance, to one in
whom these appearances will differ from the
truth.—I suspect that these uncommon cases are
the effect of impressions made on the mother,
during her state of pregnancy.—Such cases may
be considered as exceptions, the accidental
causes of which may, perhaps, not be difficult to
discover.
To me it seems we have as little just cause
hence to draw conclusions against the science of
physiognomy, as we have against the proportion
of the human body because there are dwarfs,
giants, and monstrous births.
A friend writes me word, “ He is acquainted
with a man of prodigious strength, who, the
hands excepted, has every appearance of weak­
ness, and would be supposed weak by all to
whom he should be unknown.”
I could wish to see this man. I much doubt
whether his strength be only expressed in his
hands, or, if it were, still it is expressed, in the
hands; and, were no exterior signs of strength
to be found, still he must be considered as an
exception, an example unexampled. But, as I
have said, I much doubt the fact. I have never
yet seen a strong man whose strength was not
discoverable in various parts.
O bjection 2.
A n s w e r .
PHYSIOGNOMY. 341
Objection 3.
“ W e perceive the signs of bravery and hero­
ism in the countenances of men, who are, not­
withstanding, the first to run away.”
Answer.
The less the man is, the greater he wishes to
appear.
But what were these signs of heroism ? Did
they resemble those found in the Famesian Her­
cules ?—Of this I doubt : let them be drawn, let
them be produced ; the physiognomist will pro­
bably say, at the second, if not at the first, glance,
quanta species ! Sickness, accident, melancholy,
likewise, deprive the bravest men of courage.
This contradiction, however, ought to be appa-
- rent to the physiognomist.
Objection 4.
“ W e find persons whose exterior appearance
denotes extreme pride, and who, in their actions,
never betray the least symptom of pride.”
Answer.
A man may be proud and affect humility.
Education and habit may give an appearance
of pride, although the heart be humble ; but this
humility of heart will shine through an appear­
ance of pride, as sunbeams through transparent
clouds. It is true, that this apparently proud
man would have more humility had he less of
the appearance of pride.
Digitized by G o o g le
343 PHYSIOGNOMY.
Objection 5.
“ We see mechanics, who, with incredible in
genuity, produce the most curious works of art,
and bring them to the greatest perfection ; yet
who, in their hands and bodies, resemble the
rudest peasants and wood-cutters; while the
hands of fine ladies are totally incapable of such
minute and curious performances/*
Answer.
I should desire these rude and delicate frames
to be brought together and compared.—Most
naturalists describe the elephant as gross and
stupid in appearance; and according to this ap­
parent stupidity, or rather according to that
stupidity which they ascribe to him, wonier at
his address. Let the elephant and the tender
lamb be placed side by side, and the superiority
of address will be visible from the formation
and flexibility of the body, without farther trial.
Ingenuity and address do not so much depend
upon the mass as upon the nature, mobility, in­
ternal sensation, nerves, construction, and sup­
pleness of the body and its parts.
Delicacy is not power, power is not minute­
ness. Apelles would have drawn better with
charcoal than many miniature painters with the
finest pencil. The tools of a mechanic may be
rude, and his mind the very reverse. Genius
will work better with a clumsy hand than stupi­
dity with a hand the most pliable.—I will indeed
«allow your objection to be well founded if
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY. 343
nothing of the character of an artist is discover­
able in his countenance ; but, before you come
to a decision, it is necessary you should be ac­
quainted with the various marks that denote me­
chanical genius in the face. Have you consider­
ed the lustre, the acuteness, the penetration of
his eyes; his rapid, his decisive, his firm aspect;
the projecting bones of his brow, his arched
forehead, the suppleness, the delicacy, or the
massiness of his limbs? Have you well con­
sidered these particulars ? “ I could not see it
in him,” is easily said. More consideration is
requisite to discover the character of the man.
Objection 6.
“ There are persons of peculiar penetration
who have very unmeaning countenances.”
Answer.
The assertion requires proof.
For my own part, after many hundred mis­
takes, I have continually found the fault was in
my want of proper observation.—At first, for ex­
ample, I looked for the tokens of any particular
quality too much in one place; I sought and
found it not, although I knew the person pos­
sessed extraordinary powers. I have been long
before I could discover the seat of character. I
was deceived, sometimes by seeking too partially,
at otters, too generally. To this I was particu­
larly liable in examining those who had only
distinguished themselves in some particular pur­
Digitized by G o o g le
344 PHYSIOGNOMY.
suit; and, in other respects, appeared to be per­
sons of very common abilities, men whose powers
were all concentrated to a point, to the exami­
nation of one subject; or men whose powers
were very indeterminate : I express myself im­
properly, powers which had never been excited,
brought into action. Many years ago, I was
acquainted with a great mathematician, the as­
tonishment of Europe; who, at the first sight,
and even long after, appeared to have a very
common countenance. I drew a good likeness
of him, which obliged me to pay a more minute
attention, and found a particular trait which was
very marking and decisive. A similar trait to
this I many years afterward discovered in ano­
ther person, who, though widely different, was
also a man of great talents; and who, this trait
excepted, had an unmeaning countenance, which
seemed to prove the science of physiognomy all
erroneous. Never since this time have I dis­
covered that particular trait in any man who did
not possess some peculiar merit, however simple
his appearance might be.
This proves how true and false, at once,
the objection may be which states, “ Such a per­
son appears to be a weak man, yet has great
powers of mind.”
I have been written to concerning D’Alembert,
whose countenance, contrary to all physiogno-
monical science, was one of the most common.
To this I can make no answer, unless I had
seen D’Alembert. This much is certain, that
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
his profile, by Cochin, which yet must be very
inferior to the original, not to mention other less
obvious traits, has a forehead, and in part a
nose, which were never seen in the countenance
of any person of moderate, not to say mean,
abilities.
345
# Objection 7-
"W e find very silly peoplewith very expressive
countenances.”
Who does not daily make this remark ? My
only answer, which I have repeatedly given, and
which I think perfectly satisfactory, is, that the
endowments of nature may be excellent; and
yet, by want of use, or abuse, may be destroyed.
Power is there, but it is power misapplied : the
fire wasted in the pursuit of pleasure can no
longer be applied to the discovery and display
of truth—it is fire without light, fire that inef­
fectually burns.
I have the happiness to be acquainted with
some of the greatest men in Germany and Swit­
zerland ; and I can, upon my honour, assert, that
of all the men of genius with whom I am ac­
quainted, there is not one who does not express
the degree of invention and powers of mind he
possesses in the features of his countenance, and
particularly in the form of his head.
I shall only select the following names from
an innumerable multitude. Charles XII. Louis
XIV. Turenne, Sully, Polignac, Montesquieu,
Voltaire, Diderot.—Newton, Clarke, Maupertuis,
Digitized by G o o g le
PHYSIOGNOMY.
Pope, Locke, Swift, Lessing, Bodmer, Sultzer,
Haller. I believe the character of greatness in
these heads is visible in every well-drawn out­
line. I could produce numerous specimens,
among which an experienced eye would scarcely
ever be mistaken.
346
THB END. '
W. WILSON, PRINTER, 57, SKINNER-STREET, LONDON.
Digitized by G o o g le
