{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1826__one_of_the_craft___masonry_revealed_and_illustrated.pdf","mytitle":"Masonry Revealed and Illustrated","mylang":"de"}
,ED AND EXPOSED.
'Tfha&o,™ 'u'.jr.u.*. /
£- t*r * CttYce7Jntt
HEYEALEO&ILLUSTilTEO
BY ELEVEN SECEDING MEMBERS;
THE ORIGIN, HISTORY, AND NATURE OF MASONRY,
UB EFFECTS ON THE GOAERNMENT, AND THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION, AS
PUBLISHED IN THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE UNITED STATES
ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION, HELD IN THE
CITY OP PHILADELPHIA:
WITH A SKETCH OF THE
LIFE, ABDUCTION, AND MURDER
OF
WILLIAM MORGAN,
AND
TO ALL THE DEGREES OF FREEMASONRY,
OIVWO A CLEAR AND CORRECT VIEW OF THE MANNER OF CONFERRING TOE DIF-
FERENT DEGREES, AS PRACTICED IN ALL LODGES THROUGHOUT THE GLOBE;
TOGETHER WITH THE MEANS TO BE USED BY SUCH AS ABU
MOT MASONS TO GAIN ADMISSION THEREIN.
BY ONE OF THE CRAFT.
'•^^^^^^Ar^^Tl!
AA^^^
I
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
Books Publisher uy w
K e n t u c k y T r a g e d y ! A history of
the Bloody Renconters, Street Fights, Battles,
etc., extending through a number of years, i
n
which many persons were killed, and other9
seriously wounded, known as the "Hill and
Evans's Feud," in Garrard county, Ky. By
LIEUT. J. J. THOMPSON. 8VQ, paper cover.
Price 25 cents.
Knowlson's Farrier. The Complete
Farrier, or Horse-Doctor. A Treatise on the
Diseases of Horses; written in plain language,
which those who can read may easily under-
' stand. The whole being the result of seventy
years' extensive practice of the author, JOHN
C. KNOWLSON. Many of the recipes in this
book are worth one hundred dollars each, and
the whole are new to the world. 8vo, paper
cover. Price 25 cents.
Life or Rinaldo Rinaldlnl, the
celebrated Captain of Banditti. 8vo, paper
cover. Price 25 cents.
L.ife of Murel. A History of the De-
tection, Conviction, Life, and Designs of John
A. Murel, the Great Western Land Pirate; to-
gether with his system of villainy, and plan
of exciting a Negro Rebellion. Also, a Cata-
logue of the names of 455 of his Mystic Clan
Fellows and Followers, and a statement of their
e
f
f
o
r
t
s for the destruction of Virgil A. Stowart,
the young man who detected Murel. To which
i
s added a Biographical Sketch of V. A. Stew-
art. Illustrated. 8vo, paper cover. Price
25 cents.
Life of Dr. Ricliard Jennings,
the Great Victimizer—giving a History of his
Robberies, Poisonings, etc., etc.; accounting for
many strange and inexplicable disappearances,
robberies, etc., which have taken place in vari-
ous sections of the country. 8vo, paper cover.
Price 35 cents.
Morgan's Masonry. Masonry Revealed
and I
l
l
u
s
t
r
a
t
e
d by E L E V E N SECEDINQ M E M -
BERS, showing the Origin, History, and Nature
of Freemasonry; i
t
s Effects on Government
and the Christian Religion. With a Sketch
of the Life, Abduction, and Murder of Wil-
liam Morgan. And a Key to a
l
l the Degrees
of Freemasonry. By O N E OF T H E CRAFT.
8vo, paper cover. Price 35 cents.
Melodeon, The: A choice selection of
Songs, Duets, Quartettes, Rounds, and Marches,
with a History of Music and Musical Instru-
ments. Imperial 8vo, paper cover. Price
25 cents.
The historical part of this work i
s illustrated
by many engravings, mostly of ancient musical
instruments, showing the manner of using
them, etc. And i
t contains 4 6 pieces of pop-
ular music, which would cost over Jive dollars
at the sheet music stores.
Mock Marriage, The; or, The Lib-
e
r
t
i
n
e
'
s Victim; being a Faithful Delineation
of the Mysteries and Miseries of the Queen
City. By CHARLES P. BICKLBY. 8vo, paper
cover. Price 25 cents.
Miller, T h e , a n d his M e n ; or, Tl
Secret Robbers of Bohemia, 8vo,paper cove'1
Price 25 cents.
Mystic Vial, T h e ; or, The Last Demoi-
s
e
l
l
e of Charrebourg, and Other Tales. By t
h
«
author of " The Heirs of Randolph Abbey"
etc. 8vo, paper cover. Price 25 cents.
O a k s h a w ; or, The Victims of Avarice:
a Tale of Intrigue. By W M . T. CoaoESHAix.
Paper cover. Price 25 cents.
O s w y n D u d l e y ; or, The Bandits of I
t
a
-
ly. By M R S . M A R Y E. H E R N D O N . 8TO, papei
cover. Price 5 0 cents.
Rebel Scout, T h e , a Romance of t
h
i
Revolution. By ARIA ASHLAND. 8vo, papei
cover. Price 25 cents.
Sketches of Incidents a n d Ad-
ventures In the West. With numeroui
fine engravings. Imperial Svo, paper cover
Price 25 cents.
Smuggler's D a u g h t e r . T h e , a
n
d
Other Interesting Tales. By T. S. ARTHUR,
CAPT. MARRYAT, MRS. S. C. HALL, MAXWELL,
CHAS. LAMB, MISS MITFORD, and o
t
h
e
r popu
lar writers. 8vo, paper cover. Price 28
cents.
S w e d e s In P r a g u e ; or, The Signa
Rocket, a Romance of the Thirty Years' War
Translated from the German of Caroline P
i
l
cher, the celebrated authoress and traveler. Bj
JAMES H. HAAS. 8vo, paper cover. Pric«
25 cents.
T h e Trapper's B r i d e ; or, Spirit o
f
Adventure. By the author of "The P
r
a
i
r
i
i
Bird." 8vo, paper cover. Price 5 0 cents
T h e T o r Hill. By H O R A C E SMITH
author of " Brambletye House," etc., etc. 8vc
paper cover. Price 5 0 cents.
•Will Crittenden; or, The Lone Sta
of Cuba. A Romance. By E D W A R D J
HANDIBOE. 8VO, paper cover. Price 2,
cents.
Zingra, the Gipsy. By A N N E T T
M A R I E MAILLARD. 8VO, paper cover. Pric«
50 cents.
One of the most entertaining works of ficti
The interest excited in events narrated i
s neve
allowed to flag, being sustained by constan
action.
DIME BOOKS.
Complete Fortune-Teller a m
D r e a m - B o o k ; or, an Infallible Guide t
the Hidden Decrees of Fate; by M A D A M E C O N
NOISSEUR,firstof the Seven Wise Mistresses o
Rome. Being a new and regular system of f
o
r
e
telling Fi'ture Events by Dreams, Moles, etc
Price 10 cents.
T h e B r a v o of Perth; or, Voorn, th
Robber; containing the surprising Adventure!
Depredations, and Miraculous Escapes of
bold and resolute Scotch Outlaw of the sixteentl
century. Price 10 cents.
Sent by mait, postage paid, on receipt of p~ict,
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
ILLUSTRATIONS
M A S O N R Y ,
BY ONE OF THE FRATERNITY,
€110 HAS DEVOTED THIRTY YEARS TO THE SUBJECT:
WITII AN APPENDIX,
CONTAINING
A K E Y
TO TUE HIGHER DEGREES OP
FREEMASONRY;
BY A MEMBER OP THE CHATT.
ni 7 '
CINCINNATI:
PUBLISHED BY MATTHEW GARDINEB
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
T
I
T
yORTEERXDISTRICT OF NEW YORK, TO WIT:
• AiAM&A* B E I T
R E M E M B E R E D , That on the fourteenth d af An.
;* g- gust, in thefifty-firstyear of the independence of tr ; United
^AA\(^AA. K<- States of America, A. D. 1826, W I L L I A M M O R G A N , of the said dis-
4H jf trict, hath deposited in this office the title of a book, the right
•!c¥WW5T? -
;
;
- whereof, he claims as author, in the words following, to wit:
" Illustrations of Masonry, by one of the fraternity, who has devoted thirty years
to the subject. ' God said, let there be light, and there was light.' "
In conformity to the act of Congress of the United States, entitled "An act foT
the encouragement of learning, by securing the copies of maps, charts, and books,
to the authors and proprietors of such copies, during the times therein mentioned;"
and also tr the act entitled " an act supplementary to the act entitled ' an act for
the encouragement of learning, by securing the copies of maps, charts and books,
to the authors and proprietors of such copies, during the times therein mentioned,'
and extending the benefits thereof to the arts of designing, engraving, Lnd etching
historical and other prints."
R. R. LANSING,
Clerk ofthe Northern District of New York '
(6)
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
Y3 LL.i
/
V
f 2+fA.
INTRODUCTION
Is the abssnce of the author, or rather compiler of the following work,
who was kidnapped and carried away from the village of Batavia, on the
11th day of September, 1S2G, by a number of Freemasons, it devolves upon
the publisher to attempt to set forth some of the leading views that governed
those who embarked in the undertaking.
To contend with prejudice, and to struggle against customs and opinions,
which superstition, time, and ignorance have hallowed, requires time,
patience, and magnanimity. W h e n we begin to pull down the strong-holda
of error, the batteries we level against them, though strong and powerful
and victorious at last, are atfirstroeeived with violence; and when in our
conquering career we meet with scuffs and reviiings from the besieging par-
tisans of untenable positions, it the more forcibly impresses us, wo are but
men; and that in every work of reformation and renovation we must
encounter various difficulties. For a full confirmation of our statement
we might refer to the history of the world. It is not our intention however,
to give a full detail of the whims and caprices of m a n — t o bring forth the
historic records of other years as proofs of the windings and shiftings of
the various characters who have " Strutted their brief hour on life's stage,"
in order tc convince, that customs, associations, and institutions are like tho
lives of the authors and abettors, fleeting and fragile. M a n y of them rise
up as bubbles on the ocean, and die away. Circumstances give them exis-
tence, and when these causes e,ease to exist, they go into the same gulf of
oblivion as countless exploded opinions and tenets have gone before them.
The mind that formed and planned them goes on in its dazzling flight,
bounding over barrier after barrier, until it has avrived at the ultimate goal
of consummation.
The daily occurrences before, us bring forth the full conviction, that tho
emanation from the G o d of light is gradually ascending to regions of greater
intellectual brilliancy. I
W h e n we view man, in the infancy of society, as in the chfldhood of his
existence, he is weak, powerless, and defenseless; but in his manhood and
riper years, be has grown to his full stature, and stands forth in com-
manding attitude, the favored and acknowledged lord of the world. For
1-717858
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
»«: INTRODUCTION.
his comfort and vell-'H.ing, as a memher of society, rules and regulations
are necessary.. In the various stages of his progress, these systematic im-
provficfcjits U'jdcigo various changes, according to circumstances and situa-
tions.—W.hat is proptr and necessary in one grade of s: iiety, is wholly
useless, and may be alarming in another. Opinions and usages, that go
down in tradition, and interfere not with our improvements in social concerns,
adhere to us more closely, and become entwined in all our feelings. It is to
this we owe our bigoted attachment to antiquity—it is this that demands
from us a superstitious reverence for the opinions and practices of men of
former times, and closes the ear against truth, and blinds the eyes to the,
glare of new light and new accessions of knowledge; through which medium
only can they break in upon the mind.
' W e have within ourselves the knowledge, and everywhere around us the
proofs that we are beings destined not to stand still. In our present state
of advancement, we look with pity on the small progress of our Fathers
in aits and sciences, and social institutions; and when compared with
our elevated rank, we have just cause of pride and of grateful feelings.
— T h e y did well for tho times in which they lived, but to the ultimatum of
perfectibility we are nearer—and in the monuments we have before us of
the skill and genius of our tiroes and age, we have only fulfilled those destinies
for which we were created; and we object to every obstacle that opposes or
attempts to oppose the will of Heaven.
In the present enlightened state, to which society has advanced we contend
that the opinions and tenets, and pretended secrecies of "olden times,*'
handed down to us, should be fully, fairly and freely canvassed; that from
the mist and darkness which have hung over them, they should come out
before the open light of day, and be subjected to the rigid test of candid
investigation. These preliminary remarks lead us to theriiainobject of our
introduction.
W e come to lay before the world the claims of an institution which haa
been sanctioned by ages, venerated for wisdom, and exalted for ' ligh't'1
' but,
an institution whose benefits have always been overrated, and whose con-
tinuance is not, in the slightest degree, necessary. W e meet it with its, hiirh
requirements, its "time-honored customs," its swcl'ing titles, and shall show
!t in its nakedness and simplicity. Strip it of its "borrowed trappings"
and it is a mere nothing—a toy not now worthy the notice of a child to sport.
with. W c look back to it as, at one period, a "cement of society, and bond
of union."—We view it as, at one time, a venerable fort,—but now in ruins
—which contained witln'n its walls many things that dignified and adorned
human nature. W e give it due credit for the services it has done; but at
present, when light has gone abroad into tho uttermost'recesses and corners
of the world—when information is scattered wide around us, and knowledge
is not closeted in cloisters and cells but " stalks abroad -tfith her beams of
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
INTKODUCTIUN. t«
Bght, and her honors and rewards," we may now, Vihcn our minority has
expired, act up to our character, and look no longer to Masonry as our guide
and conductor: it has nothing in it now valuable that is not known to every
inquiring mind: it contains, wrapped up in its supposed mysteries, no useful
truth, no nccessaiy knowledge, that has not gone forth to the world through
other channels and by other means. If we would have a knowledge of sacred
history—of the religion and practices of the Jews, and the terms and techni-
calities of the Mosaic institution, we can have recourse to the Bible. If wo
wish further communications from Heaven, we have open to our view the pages
of the N e w Testament. If we would "climb the high ascent of human science,
and trace the mighty progress of human genius in every gigantic effort
of mind, in logic, geometry, mathematics, chemistry, and every other branch
r>f knowledge," we ridicule the idea that Masonry, in her retirements, contains
the arts and sciences. The sturdiest Mason in the whole fraternity is noi
bold enough to uphold or maintain tho opinion, for one moment, in sober
Teality. The origin of tho institution is easily traced to the rude ages of
the world,—to a body of mechanics, or a corporation of operative workmen
who formed signs and regulations, the more easily to carry on their work,
and to protect their order. (The very obligations solemnly rendered tc
every member, carry the strongest internal evidence of the semi-barbarity
that prevailed at the time of the institution of the order.) In the course
of time, as society increased, and knowledge became more general, it spread,
and embracing in its grasp other objects than atfirst,it enrolled in its ranks
men of thefirstrespectability in wealth, talents, and worth. But that there
is anything intiinsically valuable in the signs, symbols, or words of Masonry
no man of sense will contend. That there is any hidden secret which
operates as a talismanic charm on its possessors, every man of intelligence,
'Mason or no Mason, must candidly acknowledge. It is worse than idlenesj
for the defenders of the order, at the present day, to intrench themselves
behind their outward show:—the semblance before the world—and to say
they are in possession of svperior knowledge.
W e pretend not to act under a cover. W e shall ' tell the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth.' Masonry, it is true, has long been eulo-
gized in songs—it has formed the burden of the poet's theme, and been the
subject of the orator's best performances. Fancy has beon almost exhausted
in bringing out ' new flowers to deck the fairy queen;' but when we come
behind the SGencs, what is the picture we behold! Are we to rest satisfied
•with the ipse dixit of others, or to examine the truth for ourselves? Tho
touchstone is before our readers in the present publication.
Ilasonry is, of itself, naked and worthless. It consists of gleanings from
the Holy Scriptures, and from the arts and sciences, which have shone in tho
world. Linking kself with philosophy, and science, and roligion, on this it
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
r INTRODUCTION.
rests all its claims to venoration and respect. Take away this borrowed
aid, and it falls into ruins.
Much weight is still attached to the argument, that as a tie uniting men
—that, as a significant speech, symbolically speaking every language, and
at the same time embodying in its constitution everything that is valuable,
it should command respect. W e meet this argument with facts that cannot
be controverted. W e put it on a basis that will fling into the back-groun I
every quibble and artifice on the subject; and, in the language of a polcmio
writer, we challenge opposition to our position :—
'The religion inculcated by the Son of M a n does all this; and in no
possible situation can man be placed, that the benign influence of Christianity
does not completely supersede the use of a mere human institution
Place a brother in a desert, unfriended and unknown,—leave him in a
wilderness where human footsteps never printed the ground, the Divine
Benefactor is at his side, and watches over him with parental guidance.
Let him be driven on a barbarous coast in the midst of savage men, and
there it is that tho breathings of the divine influence spreads around him
its shield; bring him into civilized society—in the busy walks of men, and
are wc to be told that as members of community, sojourners on earth, and
candidates for heaven, we must be taught our duty at a Mason's Lodge?
Wherever Masonry exercises its influence with success, there Christianity
can have, or should have, a more powerful effect. Whenever Masonry claims
' kindred with the skies,' and exalts herself above ever}' living sublunary
thing, then, with an unhallowed step, it obtrudes on the sacred borders of
religion, and ' decks itself in borrowed garments.'
• Intrenched within these strong walls—decked with all the glitter of high-
sounding professions, claiming what does not belong to it,—it dazzles ' but
to bewilder and destroy.' In its train, in these United States, are enrolled
many periodical works devoted to Masonry; and, under the guise of patro-
nizing mechanics—the arts and sciences lend their aid to carry on tin
imposing delusion. They take up the specious title of throwing a little
illumination on this benighted country, from their secret depositories.
Arrogating to itself what should dock others' brows—assuming to be the
patron, the life and soul of all that is great and • aluable—it deceives many
of its votaries, and from its gaudy premises the most untenable and errone-
ous conclusions are drawn.
Arc we astonished at the wild and heedless manner in which many of the
Totaries of Masonry rush into every excess—putting at defiance the laws
0. our civil institutions, which suffer no one to be put in jeopardy but by due
forms, and disregarding the command of the Mos<t High, which says, thou
Shalt not kill!—wc can readily trace the cause to the impressions and practices
obtained from its false tenets and deceptive arrogance. Masonry is to the
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
INTRODUCTION d
modern world what the whore of Babylon was to tho ancient; and is the
beast with seven heads and ten norns, ready to tear out our bowels, and
Katier them to the four winds of heaven.
Masonry gives rogues and evil-minded characters an opportunity of visiting
upon their devoted victim, all the i
l
l
s attending combined power, when exerted
to accomplish destruction. It works unseen, at all silent hours, and secret
times and places; and like death, when summoning his diseases, pounces upon
its devoted subject, and lays him prostrate in the ilust. Like the great enemy
of man, i
t has shown its cloven foot, and put the public upon its guard against
its secret machinations.
This part of the subject requires no further discussion either by way of
ridicule or downright sincerity, but the remark, which cannot be too often
reiterated, that the world, in its present advanced state, requires no such
order for our social intercourse; and when the masonic mania prevails as i
t
now does in this country, we are exalting a mere human ordinance, with i
t
s
useless trumpery and laughable accompaniments for the sublime and una-
dorned lessons of Heaven.
To some men i
t i
s galling and mortifying in the extreme to give up their
darling systems. With tho increase of years their fondness becomes so great
that they cling to them with wild and bewildered attachment.—But we would
ask them where now are the Knights of Malta and Jerusalem, and tho objects
that called forth their peril and journeyings? Where are the crusads
and excursions on which our grand Commanders, Generalissimos and Sil
Knights are to be engaged In no otlnv excursions than Cervantes
describes of his redoubtable Hero, Don Quixotte. Thetlays and occasions
that called forth these deeds of chivalry and valor have passed like those
before the flood; and the mock dignitaries and Puppet-show actions of Mascng
in their imitation call forth pity and indignation. When we now see the
gaudy show in a Lodge-room, and a train of nominal officers with their dis-
tinctions and badges, i
t may give us some faint idea of scenes that are past,
and may gratify an idle curiosity, but produce no substantial good under
heaven. When monasteries and cloisters, and Inquisitor's cells and prisons
have boon broken up before the sweeping march of the moral mind, why this
unnecessary mummery should be so much countenanced in this country, above
all other countries in the world, is a matter of astonishment.
The day, we trust, will never arrive here, when ranks in Masonry will bo
Stepping-stones to places of dignity and power—when this institution will
be a machine to press down the free-born spirit of men. W c have now no
tyrant to rule over us—no kingly potentate to move over our heads the rod
of authority; but high in our elevation, and invincible in our strongholds,
we put at defiance sepret cabals and associations. The public opinion i
s like
a mighty river, and gigantic in i
t
s course, i
t will sweep every interposing
obstaelo before it.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
rf INTRODUCTION
In the work which we submit to the public wc have given false coloring to
Itothing: nor in these remarks have we set down aught in malice. In tho
urm discharge of our undertaking we have been stern and unbending as tho,
rugged mountain oak: and persecutions, pains, and perils have not deterred
ns from our purpose. W e have triumphed over tumult, and clamor, and evil-
speaking, i
W h e n our book goes out to the world, it will meet with attacks of a vio*
lent nature from one source, and men of mock titles and order will endeavor
to heap upon it every calumny. Men more tenacious of absolute forms and
practice than they are attentive to truth and honor, will deny our expositions,
and call us Liars and Impostors.
Such is the treatment, however ungenerous and unjust, which we expect
to meet, and for which we are prepared. Truth, wc know, is majestic and
willfinallyprevail. The little petty effusions of malice that will be thrown
out will die with their authors, whom this work will survive.
W e now aver, in defiance of whatever maybe said to the contrary—no mat-
ter by whom, however exalted his rank—that this Book is what it pretends
to be—that it is a Master Key to the secrets cf Masonry; that in tho pages
before him, tho man of candor and inquiry can judge for himself, and then a
proper judgment will be formed of our intenti in.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M
ILLUSTRATIONS OF MASONRY, ETC.
A. ^ESCBiniON of the ceremonies used in opening a Lodge of Entered Ap-
prentice Masons; which is the same in all the upper degrees, with the ex-
ception of the difference in the signs, due-guards, grips, pass-grips, words
and their several names; all of which will be given and explained in their'
proper places as the work progresses
I
One. rap calls the Lodge to order—one calls up the Junior and Senior
Ilcacons—two raps call up all the subordinate officers, and three all the
members of the Lodge.
The Master having called the Lodge to order, and the officers all seated,
<he Master says to the Junior Warden, 'Brother Junior, are they all En-
tered Apprentice Masons in the South?' Arm. ' They are, Worshipful.
Master to the Senior Warden, 'Brother Senior, are they all Entered Apprcn-
licc Masons in the West?' Ans. 'They are, Worshipful.' The Master
then says, ' They are, in the East,' at the same time he gives a rap with the
eommon gavel or mallet, which calls up both Deacons. Master to Junior
Deacon, 'Brother Junior, thefirstcare of a Mason?' Ans. 'To sec the1
Lodge Tyled, Worshipful.' Master to Junior Deacon. ' Attend to that part
of your duty, and inform the Tyler that we are about to open a lodge of
Entered Apprentice Masons, and direct him to tyle accordingly.' The Ty-
ler then steps to the door and gives three raps, which are answered by thrco
from without; The Junior Deacon then gives one, which is also answered by
the Tyler with,one; the door is then partly opened, and the Junior Deacon
delivers his message, and resumes his situation, and says,' the door is tyled,
Worshipful,' (at the same time giving the due-guard, which is never omit
ted when the master is addressed). The Master to the Junior Deacon, 'By
whom?' Ans. 'By a Master Mason without the door, armed with th*
• proper implement of his office.' Master to Junior Deacon,'His duty there?"
Ant. 'To keep off all cowans and eaves-droppers, see that none pass or repass
without permission from the Master.' [ Some say, without permission from tho
chair.] Master to Junior Deacon,' Brother Junior your place in the lodge f
Ant. 'At the right-hand of tho Senior Warden in the West.' Mas! or to
lunior Deacon, ' Your business there, Brother Junior?' Arts. 'To wait on
(13) i
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
e
14 . M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
the Worshipful Master and Wardens, act as their proxy in tho active duties
of tho Lodge, and take charge of the door.' Master to Junior Deacon, 'Tbo
Senior Deacon's place in the Lodge?' Ans. 'At the right hand of the Wor-
shipful Master in the East.' (The Master while asking the last question,
gives two raps, which call up all the subordinate officers.) Master to Se-
nior' Deacon, 'Your duty there, Brother Senior?' Ans. 'To wait on the
Worshipful Master and Wardens, act as their proxy in the active duties of
the Lodge, attend to the preparation and introduction of candidates, and
weLome and clothe all visiting brethren, (i e. furnish them with an apron).
Master to Senior i eacon, ' The Secretary's place in the Lodge, Brother
Senior?' Atm. ' At the left-hand of the Worshipful Master in the East.' Blaster
to Secretary,' Your duty there, Brother Secretary';' Ans. 'The better to observo
theWorshipful Master's will and pleasure, record the proceedings of the Lodge;
transmit a copy of the same to the Grand Lodge, if required; receive all moneys
and money bills from the hands of the Brethren, pay them over to the Treasurer,
and take his receipt for the same.' The Master to the Secretary/The Treasurer')
place in the Lodge?' Ans. A t the right-hand of theWorshipful Master.' Master
to the Treasurer, 'Your duty there, Brother Treasurer?' Ans. 'Duly to ob-
serve the AVorshipful master's will and pleasure; receive all moneys and mo-
ney bills from the hands of the Secretary; keep a just and true account of
the same; pay them out by order of the Worshipful Master, and consent of
the Brethren.' The Master to the Treasurer, ' The Junior Warden's placo
in the Lodge, Brother treasurer?' Ans. 'In the South, Worshipful.' Master
to Junior Warden, 'Your business there, Brother Junior?' Ans. 'As tho
Sun in the South at high meridian is the beauty and glory of the day, so
stands the Junior Warden in the South, the better to observe the time, call
the crafts from labor to refreshment, superintend them during the time there-
of, see that none convert the hours of refreshment into that of intemperance
or excess; and call them on again in due season, that tho Worshipful Mas
ter may have honor, and they pleasure and profit thereby.' Master to i
l
l
s
Junior Warden, ' The Senior Warden's place in the Lodge ?' Ans. ' In the
West, Worshipful?' Master to Senior Warden, 'Your duty there, Brother
Senior?' Ans. ' As the sun sets in the West to close the day, so stands the
Senior Warden in-the West to assist the Worshipful Master in opening his
Lodge, take earc of the jewels and implements, see that none be lost, pay tho
crafts their wages, if any be duo, and see that none go away dissatisfied.'
Master to the Senior Warden,' The Master's place in the Lodge ?' Ans. ' In
.the East, Worshipful.' Master to the Senior Warden, 'His duty there ?'
Ans. ' As the sun rises in the East to open and adorn the day, so presides
the Worshipful Master in the East to open and adorn his lodge, set his
erafts to work with good and wholesome laws, or cause the same to be done'.
The Master now gives throe raps, when all the brethren rise, ana the Mas-
ter taking off his hat proceeds as follows: ' In like manner, so do I, strictly
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
MASONRY ILLUSTRATED. 15
forbidding all profane language, private committees, or any other disorderly
conduct, whereby the peace and harmony of this Lodge ma}- be interrupted
while engaged in its lawful pursuits, under no less penalty than the bye-laws
or such penalty as a majority of the brethren present may see fit to inflict.
Brethren, attend to giving the signs.' (Here lodges differ very much. In
some, they declare the lodge opened as follows, before they give the signs'):'
The Master (all the Brethren imitating him) extends his left arm from hi'
body so as to form an angle of about forty-five degrees, and holds his right
hand transversely across his left, the palms thereof about one inch apart.
This is called thefirstsign of a Mason—is the sign of distress in this degree,
and alludes to the position a candidate's hands are placed in when he takes
the obligation of an Entered Apprentice Mason. The Master then draws
his right-hand across his throat, the hand open, with the thumb next to the
throat, and drops it down by his side. This is called the due-guard of an
Entered Apprentice Mason (many call it the sign), and alludes to the penalty
of the obligation. (See Obligation.) The Master then declares the Lodge,
opened, in the following manner: ' I now declare this lodge of Entered Ap-,
prentice Masons duly opened for the dispatch of business.' The Senior
Warden declares it to the Junior Warden, and he to the Brethren. Come,
Brethren, let us pray. One of the following prayers is used :
Most holy and glorious God! the great Architect of the Universe; the
giver of all good gifts and graces: Thou hast promised that "Where twe
or three are gathered together in thy name, thou wilt be in the midst of
them, and bless them." In thy name we assemble, most humbly beseeching
thee to bless us in all our undertakings; that we may know and serve theo
aright, and that all our actions may tend to thy glory and our advance-;
ment in knowledge and virtue. A n d we beseech thee, 0 Lord God, to bless
our present assembling; and to illuminate our minds through the influence
of the Son of Righteousness, that we may walk in the light of thy counte-
nance; and when the trials of our probationary state are over, be admitted
into the Temple not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. Amen. So
mote it be.
Another prayer, as often used at opening as closing. .,
Behold how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together
in unity: it is like the precious ointment upon the head, that ran down upon
the beard, even Aaron's beard, that went down to the skirts of his garment:
as the dew of Hcrmon, and as the dew that descended upon the mountains-
of Zion, for there the Lord commanded the blessing, even life for evermore.
Amen. So mote it be.
The lodge being now open and ready to proceed to business, the Master
directs the Secretary to read the minutes of the last meeting which na-
turally brit^s to view the business of the present.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
1$ M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATE!*.
If there are any candidates to be brought forward, that will be tfio first
business attended to. I will therefore proceed with a description of the
ceremonies used in the admission and initiation of a candidate into the first
degree of masonry.
A persoh wishing to become a Mason must get some one who is a M a -
son to present his petition to a lodge, when, if there are no serious objec-
tions, it will be entered on the minutes, and a committee of two or three
appointed to inquire into his character, and report to the next regular com-
munication. The following is the form of a petition used by a candidate; but
• worthy candidate will not be rejected for the want of formality in his petition.
To the WT
orshipful Master Wardens and Brethren of Lodge No. —, of
Free and Accepted Masons.
Tho subscriber, residing in , of lawful age, and by occupation a
, begs leave to state that, unbiased by friends, and uninfluenced by
mercenary motives, he freely and voluntarily offers himself a candidate for
the mysteries of Masonry, and that he is prompted to solicit this privilege by
a favorable opinion conceived of the institution, a desire of knowledge and
einnere wish of being serviceable to his fellow-creatures. Should his peti-
tion be granted, he will cheerfully conform to all the ancient established
usages and customs of the fraternity.
(Signed) A. B.
At the next regular communication (if no serious objection appears
against the candidate), the ballot-boxes will bo passed; one* black ball will
reject a candidate. The boxes may bo passed tlr-ee times. The Deacons
are the proper persons to pass them; one of the boxes has black and white
beans, or balls in it, tho other empty; the one with the balls in it goes
before, and furnishes each member with a black and white ball; the empty
box follows and receives them. There are two holes in the top of this box
with a small tube (generally), in each, one of which is black, and the other
White, with a partition in the box. Tho members put both their balls
into this box as their feelings dictate; when the balls are received, the box
is presented to the. Master, Senior and Junior Wardens, who pronounce
clear or not clear, as the case may be. The ballot proving clear, the
Candidate (if present) is conducted into a small preparation room adjoining
the Lodge, when he is asked the following questions, and gives the follow-
ing answers. Senior Deacon to Candidate, ' D o you sincerely declare, upon
year honor before these gentlemen, that unbiased by friends, uninfluenced
by unworthy motives, you freely and voluntarily offer yourself a Candidate
for the mysteries of masonry?' Ans. 'I do.' Senior Deacon to Candidate,
'Be you sincerely declare upon your honor before these gentlemen, that yott
are prompted to solicit the privileges of masonry, by a favorable opinio*
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED. 17
eonceivcd of the institution, a desire of knowledge, aid a sincere wish ef
being serviceable to your fellow creatures?' Ans. 'I do.' Senior Deacon to
Cand:
date, ' D o you sincerely declare upon your honor before these gentlemen,
that you will cheerfully conform to all the ancient established usages and
customs of the Fraternity?' Ans. 'I do.' After the above questions are
proposed and answered, and the result reported to the Master, he says,
'Brethren, at the request of Mr. A. B., he has been proposed and accepted
in regular form. I therefore recommend him as a proper Candidate for the
mysteries of Masonry, and worthy to partake of the privileges of the
Fraternity: and in consequence of a declaration of his intentions, volunta-
rily made, I believe he will cheerfully conform to the rules of the Order.'
The Candidate, during the time, is dives'ted of all his apparel (shirt ex-
cepted), and furnished with a pair of drawers kept in the Lodge for the use
of Candidates; the Candidate is then blindfolded, his left foot bare, his
right in a slipper, his left breast and arm naked, and a rope, called a Cable-
Tow, placed round his neck and left arm (the rope is not put round the arm in
all Lodges), in which posture the Candidate is conducted to the door, where
' he is caused to give, or the Conductor gives, three distinct knocks, which
are answered by three from within, the conductor gives one more, which
is also answered by one from within. The door is then partly opened
and the Junior Deacon generally asks, 'Who comes there? who comes there?
who comes there?' Then the conductor, alias the Senior Deacon, answers,
'A poor blind Candidate who has long been desirous of having and receiv-
ing a part of the rights and benefits of this worshipful Lodge dedicated
(some say erected) to God and held forth to the holy Order of St. John, as
all true fellows and brothers have done, who have gone this way before him.'
The Junior Deacon then asks, 'Is it of his own free will and accord he
makes this request? is he duly and truly prepared? worthy and well quali-
fied ? and properly avouched for?' All of which being answered in the
affirmative, the Junior Deacon to Senior Deacon; 'By what further rights
does he expect to obtain this benefit?' Ans. 'By being a man, free born, of
lawful age, and under the tongue of good report.' The Junior Deacon
then says, 'Since this is the case you will wait till the Worshipful Master in
the East is made acquainted with his request, and the answer returned.'
The Junior Deacon repairs to the Master, when the same questions are asked,
and answers are returned as at the door; after which, the Master says, 'Since
he comes endowed with all these necessary qualifications, let him enter this
Worshipful Lodge in the name of the Lord, and take heed on what he enters.'
The Candidate then enters, the Junior Deacon at the same time pressing his
naked left breast with the point of the compass, and asks the Candidate, 'Did
you feel anything?' Ans. 'I Did.' Junior Deacon to Candidato, 'What was
It?' Ant. 'A torture.' The Junior Deacon then says, A s this is a torture to
yourflesh,so may it over be to your mind and conscience if ever you should
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
18 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
attempt to reveal the secrets of Masonry unlawfully.' The Candidate is
then conducted to the center of the Lodge, where he and the Senior Deacon
kneel, and the Deacon says the following prayer:
'Vouchsafe thine aid, Almighty Father of the universe, to this our present
convention; and grant that this Candidate for Masonry may dedicate and
devote his life to thy service, and become a true and faithful brother among
ns! Indue him with a competency of thy divine wisdom, that by the se-
crets ofour art, he may be the better enabled to display the beauties of holiness
to the honor of thy holy name. So mote it be Amen!'
Tho Master then asks the Candidate, 'In whom do you put your trust?'
Ans. 'In God.' The Master then takes him by the right-hand, and says,
'• Since in God you put your trust, arise, follow your leader and fear no dan-
ger?' The Senior Deacon then conducts the Candidate three times regular-
ly round the Lodge, and halts at the Junior Warden in the South, where the
same questions are asked and answers returned as at the door.
As the Candidate and conductor are passing round the room the Master
reads the following passage of Scripture, and takes the same time to read it
that they do to go round the Lodge three times.
'Behold how good and how pleasant it is for Brethern to dwell together in
onity! It is like the precious ointment upon the head, that ran down upon
the beard, even Aaron's beard, that wont down to the skirts of his garment:
as the dew of Hermon, and as the dew that descended upon the mountains
of Zion; for there the Lord commanded the blessing, even life forever more.'
The Candidate is then conducted to the Senior Warden in the West,
where the same questions are asked and answers returned as before; from
thence he is conducted to tho Worshipful Master in the east, where the samo
questions are asked and answers returned as before. The Master likewise
demands of him, from whence he came and whither he is traveling. Tho
Candidate answers, 'From the West and traveling to the East.' Master in •
quires; 'Why do you leavo the West and travel to the East?' Ant. 'In
search of light.' Master then says, 'Siuce the Candidate is traveling in search
of light, you will please conduct him back to the West, from whence he came,
and put him in the care of the Senior Warden, who will teach him how to
approach the East, the place of light, by advancing upon one upright regu-
lar step, to thefirststep, his feet forming the right angle of an oblong square,
his body erect at the altar before tho Master, and place him in a proper posi-
tion to take upon him the solemn oath of obligation of an Entered Appren-
tice Mason.' The Senior Warden receives the Candidate, and instructs him
as directed. H efirststeps off with tho left foot and brings up the heel of
the right into the hollow thereof, the heel of tho right foot against- the ankle
of tho left,, will of course form the right angle of an oblong square ; the Can»
didate then kneels on his left knee, and places his right foot so as to form a
square with the left, he turns his foot round until the ankle bone is as much
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED lb
«c front of him as the toes on the left foot; the Candidate's left hand is then
put under the Holy Bible, square and compass, and the right on them. This
is the position in which a Candidate is placed when he takes upon him tho
oath or obligation of an Entered Apprentice Mason. A s soon as the Candi-
date is placed in this position, the Worshipful Master approaches him, and
says, 'Mr. A. B., you are now placed in a proper position to take upon you
the solenin oath or obligation of an Entered Apprentice Mason, which I as
sure you is neither to affect your religion nor politics, if you are willing to
take it, repeat your name and say after me;' [and although many have re-
fused to take any kind of an obligation; and begged for the privilege of re-
tiring, yet none have made their escape; they have been cither coerced, or
persuaded to submit. There are thousands who never return to the Lodge
after they arc initiated] the following obligation is then administered:
'I, A. B., of m y own free will and accord, in presence of Almighty God
and this worshipful Lodge of free and accepted Masons, dedicated to God
and held forth to the holy order of St. John, do hereby and herein most
solemnly and sincerely promise and swear that I will always hail, ever con-
ceal, and never reveal any part, or parts, art, or arts, point, or points of the
secret arts and mysteries of ancient Freemasonry, which I have received, am
about to receive, or may hereafter be instructed in, to any person, or persons
in the known world, except it be to a true and lawful Brother Mason, or
within the body of a just and lawfully constituted Lodge, of such ; and not
un ;o him, nor unto them whom I shall hear so to be, but unto him and thera
only whom I shall find so to be after strict trial and due examination or
lawful information. Furthermore, do I promise and swear that I will not
write, print, stamp, stain, hew, cut, carve, indent, paint, or engrave it on
anything movable or immovable, under tho whole canopy of Heaven,
whereby, or whereon the least letter, figure, character, mark, stain, shadow,
or resemblance of the same may become legible or intelligible to myself or
any other person in the known world, whereby the secrets of Masonry may
be unlawfully obtained through m y unworthiness. To all which I do most
solemnly and sincerely promise and swear, without the least equivocation,
mental reservation, or self evasion of mind in m o whatever; binding myself
under no less penalty, than to have m y throat cut across, m y tongue torn
out by the roots and m y body buried in the rough sands of the sea at low
water-mark, where the tide ebbs and flows twice in twenty-four hours;
so help me G od, and keep m e steadfast in the due performance of the same.'
After the obligation the Master addresses the candidate in the following
manner: 'Brother, to you the secrets of Masonry aro about to be unvailed,
and a brighter sun never shone luster on your eyes: while prostrate before
this sacred altar, do you not shudder at every crime? have you not confi-
dence in every virtue? M a y these thoughts ever inspire you with the most
ooble sentiments; may you ever feel that elevation of soul, that shall scorn
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
CO M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
a dishonest act. Brother, what do you most desire?' Ant. 'Light.' Master
to Brethren, 'Brethren, stretch forth your hands and assist in bringing this
new made Brother from darkness to light.' The members having formed a
circle round the Candidate, the Master says, 'And God said, let there be
light, and there was light.' At the same time, all the Brethren clap their
hands, and stamp on thefloorwith their right foot as heavy as possible, the
bandage dropping from the Candidate's eyes at the same instant, which,
after having been so long blind, and full of fearful apprehension all tho
time, this great and sudden transition from perfect darkness to a light
brighter (if possible) than the meridian sun in a midsummer day, some-
times produces an-alarming effect. I once knew a man to faint on being
brought to light; and his recovery was quite doubtful for some time: how-
ever, he did come to, but he never returned to tho Lodge again. I havo,
often conversed with him on the subject; he is yet living, and will give a
certificate in support of the above statement at any time, if requested.
After the Candidate is brought to light, the Master addresses him as
follows; 'Brother, on being brought to light, youfirstdiscover throe great
lights, in Masonry, by the assistance of three lesser; they are thus explained;
the three great lights in Masonry are the Holy Bible.Square , and Compass.
The Holy Bible is given to us as a rule and guide for our faith and prac-
tice; the Square, to square our actions; and the Compass, to keep us in duo
bounds with all mankind, but more especially with the Brethren. The three
lesser lights are three burning tapers, or candles placed on candlesticks
(some say or candles on pedestals), they represent tho Sun, Moon and Mas-
ter of the Lodge, and are thus explained. A s the sun rules the day and the
moon governs the night, so ought the Worshipful Master with equal regu-
larity to rule and govern his Lodge, or cause tho same to be done; you
next discover me as Master of this Lodge, approaching you from the East
upon thefirststep of Masonry, under the sign and due-guard of an Entered
Apprentice Mason. (The sign and due-guard has been explained.) This
is the manner of giving them; imitate me as near as you can, keeping your
position. First, step off with your left foot and bring the heel of the rii'ht
into the hollow thereof, so as to form a square.' (This is the first step in
Masonry.) The following is the sign of an Entered Apprentice Mason, and
is tho sign of distress in this degree; you are not to give it unless in dis-
tress. (It is given by holding your two hands transversely across each
Other, the right-hand upward and one inch from the left.) The following
is the due-guard of an Entered Apprentice Mason. (This is given by
drawing your right-hand across your throat, the thumb next to your throat,
your arm as high as the elbow in a horizontal position.) 'Brother, I new
present you m y right-hand in token of brotherly love and esteem, and witL
it the grip and name of the grip of an Entered Apprentice Mason.' Tho
right-hands are joined together as in shaking hands, and each sticks his
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED. 21
thunib nail nto the third joint or upper end of the fore-finger; the name
of th;s grip is Boaz, and is to be given in the following manner and no other;
the Master f
i
r
s
t gives the grip and word, and divides i
t for the instruction of
the Candidate; the questions are as follows: The Master and Candidate hold-
ing each other by the grip, as before described, the Master says, 'What is this.'
Ant. 'A grip.' Q. 'The grip of what.' A. 'The grip of an Entered Apprentico
Mason.' Q. 'Has i
t a name?' A. '
I
t has.' Q. 'Will you give i
t to me?' A. '
I
did not so receive it, neither can I so impart i
t
.
' Q. /What will you do with
it?' A. 'Letter i
t or halve it.' Q. 'Halve i
t and begin.' A. 'You begin.' Q.
'Begin you.' A. 'B 0.' Q. 'A Z-' A. 'BOAZ.' Master says, 'Eight, Brother
Boaz, I greet you. It i
s the name of the left-hand pillar of the porch of king
Solomon's Temple—arise, Brother Boaz, and salute the Junior and Senior
Wardens as such, and convince them that you have been regularly initiated
as an Entered Apprentice Mason, and have got the sign, grip, and word.'
The Master returns to his seat while the wardens are examining the Candidate,
and gets a lamb-skin or white apron, presents i
t to the Candidate, and ob-
serves, 'Brother, I now present you with a lamb-skin or white apron; i
t is an
emblem of innocence, and the badge of a Miison: i
t has been worn by kings,
princes, and potentates of the earth, who have never been ashamed to wear it;
i
t is more honorable than the diadems of kings, or pearls of princesses, when
worthily worn; i
t i
s more ancient than the Golden Fleece or Roman Eagle;
more honorable than the Star and Garter, or any other order that can be con-
ferred upon you at this, or any other time, except i
t be in the body of a just
and lawfully constituted Lodge; you will carry i
t to the Senior Warden in the
West, who will teach you how to wear i
t as an Entered Apprentice Mason.'
The Senior Warden ties the apron on and turns up tho flap instead of let-
ting i
t fall down in front of the top of the apron. This is the way Entered
Apprentice Masons wear, or ought to wear their aprons until they are ad-
vanced. The Candidate is now conducted to the Master in the East, who
says, 'Brother, as you are dressed, i
t is necessary you should have tools to
work with ; I will now present you with the working tools of an Entered Ap-
prentice Mason, which are the twenty-four inch gauge and common gavel:
they are thus explained:—The twenty-four inch gauge is an instrument
made use of by operative Masons to measure and lay out their work, but
we, as Free and Accepted Masons, make use of i
t for the more noble and
glorious purpose of dividing our time. The twenty-four inches on the
gauge, arc emblematical of the twenty-four hours in^hc day, which we are
taught to divide into three equal parts, whereby wefindeight hours for the
service of God, and a worthy distressed brother; eight hours for our usual
vocations, and eight for refreshment and sleep; the common gavel is an in-
strument made use of by operative Masons to break off the corners of
rough stones; the better tofitthem for the builders' use, but we, as Freo
and Accepted Masons use i
t for the more noble and glorious purposo of
B
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
*2 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
divesting our hearts and consciences of all the vices and superfluities of life
then oyfittingour minds as living and lively stones, for that spiritual build-
ing, that house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens; I also present
you with a now name; it is C A U T I O N , it teaches you that as you arc
barely instructed in the rudiments of Masonry, that you should be cautious
over all your words and actions, particularly when before the enemies of
Masonry. I shall next present you with three precious jewels, which are; a
listening ear, a silent tongue, and a faithful heart. A listening ear teaches
you to listen to the instructions of the Worshipful Master; but more espe-
cially that you should listen to the calls and cries of a worthy distressed
brother. A silent tongue teaches you to be silent while in the Lodge, that
the peace and harmony thereof may not be disturbed, but more especially,
that you should be silent before the enemies of Masonry, that the craft may
not be brought into disrepute by your imprudence. A faithful heart
teaches you to be faithful to the instructions of the Worshipful Master at
all times, but more especially, that you should be faithful, and keep and
conceal the secrets of Masonry, and those of a Brother when given to you
in charge as such, that they may remain as secure and inviolable in your
breast as in his own, before communicated to you. I further present you
with cheek-words two; their names are truth and union, and are thus ox-
plained. Truth is a divine attribute, and the foundation of every virtue;
to be good and true, is thefirstlesson we are taught in Masonry; on this
theme wc contemplate, and by its dictates endeavor to regulate our conduct
hence, while influenced by this principle hypocrisy and deceit are unknown
among us; sincerity and plain dealing distinguish us, and the heart and
tongue join in promoting each other's welfare and rejoicing in each other's
prosperity.
Union; is that kind of friendship, which ought to appear conspicuous m
every Mason's conduct. It is so closely allied to the Divine attribute, truth,
that he who enjoys the one, is seldom destitute of the other. Should inter-
est, honor, prejudice, or human depravity, ever induce you to violate any
part of the sacred trust we now repose in you, let these two important words
at the earliest insinuation, teach you to put on the check-line of truth, which
will infallibly direct you to pursue that straight and narrow path which ends
in the full enjoyment of the Grand Lodge above; where wo shall all meet as
Masons and members of the same family, in peace, harmony and love- whcio
all discord on account of politics, religion, or private opinion shall be unknown
and banished from within our walls.
Brother, it has boon the custom from time immemorial to demand or ask
from a newly made Brother something of a metallic kind, not so much on ac-
count of its intrinsic value, but that it may be deposited in the archives o"
th*o Lodge, as a memorial, that you was herein mado a Mason ; a small
trifle wil bo sufficient;—anything of a metallic kind will do; if you hare ne
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED 23
mono, anything of a metallic nature will bo sufficient; even a button will do.'
(The tandidatc says he has nothing about him; it is known he has nothing.)
•Search yourself,' the Master replies. H e is assisted in searching, nothing
is found; 'perhaps you can borrow a trifle,' says the Master. (He tries to
borrow, none will lend h i m — h e proposes to go into tho other room whcro
his clothes are ; he is not permitted.—If a stranger, he is very much embar-
rassed. Master to candidate,' Brother, let this ever be a striking lesson to
you, i»nd teach you, if you should ever see a friend, but more especially a
brother in a like pennyless situation, to contribute as liberally to his relief aa
his*situation may require, and your abilities will admit, without material in-
jury to .youi self or family.' Master to Senior Deacon, 'You will conduct tho
candidate back from whence he came, and invest him of what he has been di-
vested, and let him return for further instruction.' The candidate is then
conducted to the preparation room, and invested of what he had been divest-
ed, and returns to the North-East corner of the Lodge, and is taught how
to stand upright like a man; when and whore the following charge is, or
ought to be delivered to him; though it is omitted nine times out of ten, as
are near one-half of the ceremonies.
Master to the Candidate, 'Brother, as you arc now initiated into the first
principles of Masonry, I congratulate you upon having been accepted into
this ancient and honorable order; ancient, as having subsisted from time
immemorial; and honorable, as tending in every particular so to render all
men who will be conformable to its principles. N o institution was ever
raised on abetter principle, or more solid foundation, nor were ever more
excellent rules and useful maxims laid down than are inculcated in the seve-
ral masonic lectures. The greatest and best of men in all ages have been
encouragers and promoters of the art, and have never deemed it derogatory
to their dignity, to level themselves with the fraternity—extend their
privileges, and patronize their assemblies.'
' There are three great duties, which, as a Mason, you are charged to in-
culcate. To God, your neighbor, and yourself To God, in never mention-
ing his name, but with that reverential awe that is due from a creature to
bis Creator; to implore his aid in all your laudable undertakings, and to es-
teem him as the chief G o o d — T o your neighbor, in acting upon the square,
and doing unto him as you wish he should do unto you ; and to yourself in
avoiding all irregularity or intemperance, which may impair your faculties,
or debase the dignity of your profession. A zealous attachment to these
principles will ensure public and private esteem. In the state, you are to
be a quiet and peaceable subject, true to your government and just to your
eountry; you are not to countenance disloyalty, but faithfully to submit to
legal authority, and <K>»Ann with cheerfulness to the government of the
country in which yoi livo. In your outward demeanor be particularly care-
ful to avoid censure K reproach. Although your frequent appearance at
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
24 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED
our regular meetings is earnestly solicited, yet it is not meant that Masonry
should interfere with your necessary vocations; for these are on no account
to be neglected: neither are you to suffer your zeal for the institution to lead
you into argument with those, who, through ignorance, may ridicule it. A t
your leisure hours, that you may improve in masonic knowledge, you are to
converse with well-informed Brethren, who will be always as ready to give,
as you will be to receive information. Finally, keep sacred and inviolable
the mysteries of the order, as these are to distinguish you from the rest of the
community, and mark your consequence among Masons. If, in the circle
of your acquaintance, you find a person, desirous of being initiated into M a -
sonry, be particularly attentive not to recommend him, unless you are con-
vinced he will conform to our rules; that the .honor, glory, and reputation
of the institution may be firmly established, and tho world at large convince
ed of its good effects.
The work of the evening being over, I will proceed to give a description
of the manner of closing the Lodge. It is a very common practice, in
Lodges, to close a Lodge of Entered Apprentices, and open a Lodge of
Fellow Crafts, and close that, and open a Master Masons' Lodge, all in the
same evening.
Some Brother generally makes a motion that the Lodge be closed; it
being seconded and carried:—
The Master to the Junior Deacon—'Brother Junior,' (giving one rap
which calls up both Deacons), 'The first as well as the last care of a Mason?'
Ant. 'To see the Lodge tyled, Worshipful.' Master to Junior Deacon,
' Attend to that part of your duty, and inform tho Tyler, that we are about
to close this Lodge of Entered Apprentice Masons, and direct him to tylo
accordingly.' The Junior Deacon steps to the door, and gives three raps,
which are answered by the Tyler with three more; the Junior Deacon then
gives one, which is also answered by tho Tyler by one. The Junior Dea-
con then opens tho door, delivers his message, and resumes his place in tho
Lodge, and says, 'The door is tyled, Worshipful.' Master to Junior Deacon,
'By whom?' Am. 'By a Master Mason without the door, armed with the
proper implement of his office.' Master to Junior Deacon, ' His business
there?' Ans. ' To keep of all cowans and eaves-droppers, and see that
none pass or repass without permission from the chair.' Master to Junior
Deacon, 'Your place in the Lodge, Brother Junior?' Ans. 'At the rfrrtrts
hand of the Senior Warden in the West.' Master to Junior Deacon, 'Your
duty there?' Ans. ' To wait on the Worshipful Master and Wardens, act
as their proxy in the active duties of the Lodge, and take charge of' the
door.' Master to the Junior Deacon, ' Tho Senior Deacon's place in the
Lodgei' Ans. A t the right-hand of tho Worshipful Master in the East.*
Master to Senior Deacon, ' Your duty there, Brother Senior?' Ans. 'To
wait on tho Worshipful Master and Wardens, act as their p o x y in the
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R V ILLUSTRATED. 25
\ctivc duties of the Lodge; attend to the preparation and introduction of
"Candidates, receive and clothe1
all visiting Brethren.' Master to the Senior
Deacon, ' The Secre.tary'3 place in the Lodge?' Ans. ' At your left-hand,
Worshipful.' Master to Secretary, ' Your duty there, Brother Secretary?'
Ans. ' Duly to observe the Master's will and pleasure; record the proceed-
ings of the Lodge; transmit a copy of the same to the Grand Lodge, if
required; receive all moneys and money bills from the hands of the Breth-
ren; pay them over to the Treasurer, and take his receipt for the same.' Mas-
ter to the Secretary, 'The Treasurer's place in the >Lodge?' Ans. 'At tho
right-hand of the Worshipful Master.' Master to Treasurer, ' Your busi-
ness there, Brother Treasurer?' Ans. ' Duly to observe the Worshipful
Master's will and pleasure; receive all moneys and money bills from the
hands of the Secretary; keep a just and accurate account of the same; pay
them out by order of the Worshipful Master and consent of the Brethren.'
Master to the Treasurer, 'The Junior Varden's place in the Lodge?'
Ans. 'In the South, Worshipful.' Master to the Junior Warden, 'Your
business there, Brother Junior?' Ans. 'As the sun in the South, at high
meridian, is the beauty and glorj- of the day; so stands the Junior Warden
in the South, at high twelve, the hotter to observe the time; call the Crafts
from labor to refreshment; superintend them during the hours thereof; see
that none convert the purposes 0? refreshment into that of excess or intem-
perance; call them on again in due season, that the Worshipful Master
may have honor, and they pleasure and profit thereby.' The Master, to the
Junior Warden [I wish the reader to take particular notice, that in closing
the Lodge, the Master asks the Junior Warden as follows: 'The Master's
place in the Lodge?' and in opening he asks the Senior Warden the same
question] 'The Master's place in the Lodge?' Ans. 'In the East, Worship-
ful.' Master to Junior Warden, ' His duty there?' Ans. ' As the sun rises
in the East, to open and adorn the day, so presides the Worshipful Master
in the East, to open and adorn his Lodge; set his crafts to work with good
and wholesome laws, or cause the same to be done.' Master to the Junior
.Warden, 'The Senior Warden's place in the Lodge?' Ans. 'In the West,
Worshipful.' Master to Senior Warden, 'Your business there, Brother
Senior?' Ans. 'As the sun sets in the West to close the day, so stands
the Senior Warden in tho West, to assist the Worshipful Master in opening
and closing the Lodge; take care of the jewels and implements; see that
none be lost; pay tho crafts their wages, if any be due, and see that none
go away dissatisfied.' The Master now gives three raps, when all the
Brethrenrise,and the Master asks, ' Are you all satisfied?' They answer
in the affirmative, by giving the due-guard. Should tho Master discover
that any declined giving it, inquiry is immediately made, why it is so; and
if any member is dissatisfied with any part of the proceedings, or with any
Brother, the subject is immediately investigated. Master to the Brethren,
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
26 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED
'Attend fo giving the signs; as 1 do, so do you; give them downward,
(which is by giving the last in opening,firstin closing. In closing, on this
degree, youfirstdraw your right-hand across your throat, as hereinbefore
described, and then hold your two hands over each other, as before described
This is the method pursued through all the degrees; and when opening on
any of the upper degrees, all the signs of all the preceding degrees, are
given before you give the signs of the degree, on which you are opening.)
This being done, the Master proceeds, 'I now declare this Lodge of Entered
Apprentice Masons, regularly closed in due and ancient form. Brother
Junior Warden, please inform Brothei Senior Warden, and request him to
inform the Brethren, that it is m y will and pleasure, that this Lodge of
Entered Apprentice Masons be now closed, and stand closed until our next
regular communication, unless a case or cases of emergency, shall require
earlier convention, of which every member shall be notified; during which
time, it is seriously hoped, and expected, that every Brother will demean
himself as becomes a Free and Accepted Mason.' Junior Warden to
Senior AVarden, 'Brother Senior, it is tho Worshipful Master's will and
pleasure, that this Lodge of Entered Apprentice Masons be closed, and stand
closed until our next regular communication, unless a case or cases of
emergency shall require earlier convention, of which every Brother shall bo
notified; during which time it is seriously hoped, and expected, that every
Brother will demean himself as becomes a Free and Accepted Mason.'
Senior Warden to the Brethren, ' Brethren, you have heard the Worshipful
Master's will and pleasure, as communicated to m e by Brother Junior; so
let it be done.' Master to the Junior Warden, 'Brother Junior, how do
Masons meet ?' Ans. 'On the level.' Master to Senior Warden, ' H o w do.
Masons part?' Ans. 'On tho square.' Master to the Junior and Senior
Wardens, ' Since we meet on tho level, Brother Junior, and part on tho
square, Brother Senior, so let us ever meet and part, in the name of the
Lord.' Here follows a prayer, sometimes used. Master to the Brethren,
' Brethren, let us pray.'
'Supreme Architect of the Universe! accept our humble praises for the
many mercies and blessings which thy bounty has conferred upon us, and
especially for this friendly and social intercourse. Pardon, we beseech thee
whatever thou hast seen amiss in us since we have been together; and con-
tinue to us thy presence, protection, and blessing Make us sensible of the
renewed obligations we are under to love thee supremely, and to be friendly
to each other. M a y all our irregular passions be subdued, and may we daily
increase in faith, hope and charity, but more especially in that charity, which
is tho bond of peace, and perfection of every virtue. M a y we so practice
thy precepts, that through the merits of the Redeemer we mayfinallyob-
tain thy promises, and find an acceptance through the gates, and into the
Temple and City of our God. So moto i
t bo. Amen.'
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
MASONRY ILLUSTRATED 27
A BENEDICTION OFTENER USED AT CLOSING THAN
THE PRECEDING PRAYEB,
MAY the blessing of Heaven rest upon UP and all regular Masons; may
brotherly love prevail, and every moral and social virtue cement us. So
mote it be. Amen.
After the prayer the following chargo ought to be delivered; but it is
seldom attended to; in a majority of Lodges it is never attended to
Master to Brethren, 'Brethren, we are now about to quit this sacred retreat
of friendship and virtue, to mix again with the world. Amidst its concerns
and employments forget not the duties Which you have heard so frequently
_ inculcated, and so forcibly recommended in this Lodge. Remember tl at
around this altar, you have promised to befriend and relieve every Brother
who shall need your assistance. Y o u have promised in the most friendly
manner to remind him of his errors, and aid in reformation. These gene-
rous principles are to extend further: every human being has a claim upon
your kind offices. D o good unto all. Recommend it more ' especially to
the household of the faithful.' Finally, Brethren, be ye all of one mind,
live in peace, and may the God of love and peace, delight to dwell with and
bless you.
In some Lodges, after the charge is delivered, the Master says, ' Brethren,
form on the square.' W h e n all the Brethren form a circle, and the Mas-
ter followed \>y every Brother (except in using the words) says, 'And God
said, let tLei e be light, and there was light.' At the same moment that the
last of there words drop from the Master's lips, every member stamps with
his right foot on thefloor,and at the same instant, bring their hands to-
gether with equal force, and in such perfect unison with each other, that
persons situated so as to hear it, would suppose it the precursor of some
dreadful catastrophe. This is called 'the shock.'
Having described all the ceremonies and forms appertaining to the open-
ing of a Ledge of Entered Apprentice Masons; setting them to work;
initiating a Candidate, and closing the Lodge, I will now proceed to give tho
Lecture on this degree. It is divided into three sections. The lecture ig
nothing mor<j or less than a recapitulation of the preceding ceremonies and
forms by wav of question and answer, and fully explains the same. In fact,
tho ceremonies and forms (generally Masonically called the work), arid lec-
tures are so much the same, that he who possesses a knowledge of the
lectures, cannot bo destitute of a knowledge of what the ceremonies and
forms are. A s the ceremonies used in opening and closing are tho same in
til the degrees, it is thought best to give the whole one insertion; it be-
ing the anicere wish of the writer, that every reader should perfectly under-
stood »ll the formulas of the whole Masonic fabric, as he then will thereby
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
28 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED
be able to form correct opinions of the propriety or impropriety, advantagei
or disadvantages of the same.
FIRST SECTION OF THE LECTURE ON THE FIRST D E G R E E
OF MASONRY.
Q. FKOM whence come you as an Entered Apprentice Mason?
A. From the holy Lodge of St. John, at Jerusalem.
Q. What recommendations do you bring ?
A. Recommendations from the Worshipful Master, Wardens and Brethren
Of that Right Worshipful Lodge, whom greet you.
Q. What comest thou hither to do ?
A. To learn to subdue my passions, and improve myself in tho secret arts
and mysteries of ancient Free Masonry.
Q. You are a Mason then, I presume?
A. I am.
Q. How shall I know you to be a Mason?
A. By certain signs and a token.
Q. What are signs ?
A. All right angles, horizontals, and perpendiculars.
Q. What i
s a token ?
A. A certain, friendly and brotherly grip, whereby one Mason may know
another in the dark as well as in the light.
Q. Where was youfirstproposed to be made a Mason ?
A. In my heart.
Q. Where secondly ?
A. In a room adjacent to the body of a just and lawfully constituted
Lodge of such.
Q. How was you prepared ?
A. By being divested of a
l
l metals, neither naked nor clothed, barefoot
nor tihod, hoodwinked, with a Cable-Tow* about my neck, in which situa-
tion 1 was conducted to the door of the Lodge.
Q. STou being hoodwinked, how did you know i
t to be a door?
A. I5yfirstmeeting with resistance and afterward gaining admission.
Q. How did yo,u gain admission?
A. By throe distinct knocks from without, answered by the same from
Withii.
Q. What was said to you from within?
A. W h o comes there, who comes there, who comes there.
• Thro* milai long.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
MASONRY ILLUSTRATED. 29
Q. Your answer?
A. A poor blind Candidate who has long been desirous of having and re-
ceiving a part of the rights and benefits of this Worshipful Lodge, dedicated
to God, and held forth to the holy order of St. John, as all true fellows and
brothers have done, who have gone this way before me.
Q. What further was said to you from within?
A. I was asked i
f i
t was of my own free will and accord I made this
request, i
f I was duly and truly proposed, worthy and well qualified; all of
which being answered in the affirmative, I was asked by what further rights
I expected to obtain so great a favor or benefit.
Q. Your answer?
A. By being a man, free born, of lawful ago and well recommended.
Q. What was then said to you?
A. I was bid to wait until the Worshipful Master in the East was made
acquainted with my request and his answer returned.
Q. After his answer returned what followed?
A. I was caused to enter the Lodge.
Q. How?
A. On the point of some sharp instrument pressing*my naked left breast
li the name of the Lord.
Q. H o w was you then disposed of?
A. I was conducted to the center of the Lodge and thcro caused to kneel
Gir the benefit of a prayer. [See page 18.]
Q. After prayer what was said to you?
A. I was asked in whom I put my trust.
Q. Your answer'
A. In God.
Q. What followed?
A. The Worshipful Master took mo by tho right-hand and said, sinco in
God you trust, arise, follow 3'our leader and fear no danger.
Q. H o w was you then disposed of?
A. I was conducted three times regularly round the Lodge and halted at
the Junior Warden in the South, where the same questions were asked and
answers returned as at the door.
Q. H o w did the Junior Warden dispose of you?
A. He ordered me to be conducted to tho Senior Warden in tho West,
where the same questions were asked and answers returned as before.
Q. H o w did the Senior Warden dispose of you?
A. He ordered me to be conducted to the Worshipful Master in tho East,
where the same questions were asked and answers returned as before, who
likewise demanded of me from whence I came and whither I was traveding.
Q. Your answer?
A. From the West and traveling to the East.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
tO M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
Q. W h y do you leave the West and travel to the East?
A. In search of light.
Q. How did the Worshipful Master then dispose of you?
A. He ordered me to be conducted back to the West, from whence I camo,
and put in care of the Senior Wr
arden, who taught me how to approach the
East, the place of light, by advancing upon one upright regular step to the
first step, my feet forming the right angle of an oblong square, my body
erect at the altar before the Worshipful Master.
Q. What did the Worshipful Master do with you?
A. He made an Entered Apprentice Mason of me.
Q. How?
A. In due form.
Q. What was that due form?
A My left knee bare bent, my right forming a square; my left hand sup-
porting the Holy Bible, Square, and Compass, and my right covering the
same; in which position I took upon me the solemn oath or obligation of an
Entered Apprentice Mason. (See page 19.)
Q. After you had taken your obligation what was said to you?
A. I was asked what I most desired.
Q. Your answer?
A. Light.
Q. Was you immediately brought to light?
A. I was.
Q. How?
A. By the direction of the Master and assistance of the Brethren.
Q What did youfirstdiscover after being brought to light?
A. Three great Lights, in Masonry, by tho assistance of three lesser.
Q. What wore those throe great Lights in Masonry?
A. The Holy Bible, Square, and Compass.
Q How are they explained?
A. The Holy Bible i
s given to us as a guide for our faith and practice,
the Square, to square our actions; and the Compass, to keep us in due bounds
with all mankind, but more especially with the Brethren.
Q. What were those three lesser lights?
A. Three burning tapers, or candles on candlesticks.
Q. What do they represent?
A. The Sun, Moon, and Master of the Lodge.
Q. How are they explained?
A. As the Sun rules the day and the Moon governs the night, so ought
the Worshipful Master to use his endeavors to rule and govern his Lodge
with equal regularity, or cause the same to be done.
Q. What did you next discover?
A. Tho Worshipful Master approaching mc from the Eact, under the sign
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
east, under the sign and due-guard of an Entered Apprentice
Mason, who presented m e with his right hand in token of
brotherly love and esteem, and proceeded to give me the
grip and word of an Entered Apprentice Mason, and bid m e
arise and salute the Junior and Senior Wardens and con-
vince them that I had been regularly initiated as an Entered
Apprentice Mason, and was in possession of the sign, grip
and word."
"What did you next discover?"
Ans. "The Worshipful Master a second time approach-
ing me from the east, who presented me with a lambskin or
white apron, which he said was an emblem of innocence, and
the badge of a Mason; that it had been worn by kings,
princes and potentates of the earth who had never been
ashamed to wear it; that it was more honorable than the dia-
dems of kings or pearls of princesses, when worthily worn,
and more ancient than the Golden Fleece, or Roman Eagle,
more honorable than the Star or Garter, or any other order
that could be conferred upon me at that time or any time
thereafter, except it be in the body of a just and lawfully
constituted lodge of Masons; and bid me carry it to the
Senior Warden in the west, who taught me how to wear it
as an Entered Apprentice Mason."
"What were you next presented with?"
Ans. "The working tools of an Entered Apprentice Ma-
son."
"What were they?"
Ans. "A twenty-four inch gauge and common gavels"
" H o w were they exolained?"
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
Ans. "The twenty-four inch gauge is an instrument made
use of by operative masons to measure and lay out their
work, but we as Free and Accepted Masons are taught to
make use of it for the more noble and glorious purpose of
dividing our time; the twenty-four inches on the gauge are
emblematical of the twenty-four hours in the day, which we
are taught to divide into three equal parts, whereby we find
eight hours for the service of God and a worthy distressed
brother, eight hours for our usual vocation, and eight hours
for refreshment and sleep. The common gavel is an in-
strument made use of by operative masons to break off the
corners of rough stones, the better to fit them for the build-
er's use, but we, as Free and Accepted Masons, are taught
to make use of i
t for the more noble and glorious purpose of
divesting our hearts and consciences of all the vices and su-
perfluities of life, therebyfittingour minds as lively and liv-
ing stones for that spiritual building, that House not made
with hands, eternal in the heavens."
"What were yon next presented with?"
Ans. "A new name."
"What was that?"
Ans. "Caution."
"What does it teach?"
Ans. "It teaches m e as I was barely instructed in the ru-
diments of Masonry, that I should be cautious over all m y
words and actions, especially when before its enemies."
"What were you next presented with?"
Ans. "Three precious jewels."
"What are they?"
Ans. " A listening ear, a silent tongue, and a faithful
heart."
"What do they teach?"
Ans. "A listening ear teaches m e to listen to the in-
structions of the Worshipful Master, but more especially
that I should listen to the calls and cries of a worthy dis-
tressed brother. A silent tongue teaches m e to be silent in
the lodge, that the peace and harmony thereof may not be
disturbed; but more especially that I should be silent when
before the enemies of Masonry. A faithful heart, that I
should be faithful to the instructions of the Worshipful Mas-
ter at all times, but more especially that I should be faith-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
fat and keep and conceal the secrets of Masonry, and those:
of a brother, when given to me in charge as such, that they
remain as secure and inviolable in m y breast, as in his own
before communicated to me."
"What were you next presented with?"
Ans. "Check-words two."
"What were they?"
Ans. "Truth and Union."
" H o w explained?"
"Truth is a divine attribute, and the foundation of every
virtue. T o be good and true are the first lessons we are
taught in Masonry. O n this theme we contemplate, and by
its dictates endeavor to regulate our conduct; hence, while
influenced by this principle, hypocrisy and deceit are un-
known amongst us; sincerity and plain dealing distinguishes
us; and heart and tongue join in promoting each other's
welfare, and rejoicing in each other's prosperity. Union is
that kind of friendship that ought to appear conspicuous in
the conduct of every Mason. It is so closely allied to the
divine attribute, truth, that he who enjoys the one is seldom
destitute of the other. Should interest, honor, prejudice,
or human depravity ever influence you to violate any part of
the sacred trust we now repose in you, let these two im-
portant words, at the earliest insinuation, teach you to put on
the check-line of truth, which will infallibly direct vou to
pursue that strait and narrow path, which ends in the full
enjoyment of the Grand Lodge above, where we shall all
meet as Masons and members of one family; where all dis-
cord on account of religion, politics or private opinion shall
be unknown and banished from within our walls."
"What followed?"
Ans. "The Worshipful Master in the east made a de-
mand of m e something of a metalic kind, which he said was
not so much on account of Jts intrinsic value, as that it
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED. 33
intrinsic value, as that i
t might be deposited in the archives of the Lod«e, as
a memorial that I had therein been made a Mason.
Q. How did the Worshipful Master then dispose of you ?
A. He ordered me to be conducted out of the Lodge,#and invested of
what I had been divested, ami returned for further instructions.
Q. After you returned, how was you disposed of?
A. I was conducted to the North-East corner of the Lodge, and there
caused to stand upright like a man, my feet forming a square, and received
a solemn injunction, ever to walk and act uprightly before God and man
and in addition thereto received the following charge. (For this charge see
page 27.)
S E C O N D SECTION.
Q. Why was you divested of all metals when you was made a Mason?
A. Because Masonry regards no man on account of his worldly wealth or
honors; i
t is therefore the internal, and not the external qualifications that
recommend a man to Masons.
Q. A second reason ?
A. There was neither the sound of an ax, hammer, or any other metal
jool, heard at the building of King Solomon's Temple.
Q. H o w could so stupendous a fabric be erected without the sound of an
ax, hammer, or any other metal tool?
A. All the stones were hewed, squared, and numbered in the quarries,
where they were raised; all the timbers felled, and prepared in the forests
of Lebanon, and carried down to Joppa onfloats,and taken from thence up
to Jerusalem, and set up with wooden malls, prepared for that purpose;
which, when completed, every part thereof,fittedwith that exact nicety, that
i
t had more the resemblance of the handy workmanship of the Supreme
Architect of the Universe, than that of human hands.
Q. W h y was you neither naked nor clothed ?
A. As I was an object of distress at that time, i
t was to remind me, if
ever I saw a friend, more especially a Brother in a like distressed situation,
that I should contribute as liberally to his relief, as his situation required,
and my abilities would admit, without material injurv to myself or
family.
Q. W h y was you neither barefoot nor shod?
A. It was an ancient Israelitish custom, adopted among Masons; and we
read in the book of Ruth concerning their mode and manner of changing
and redeeming, "and to confirm all things, a brother plucked off his shoe and
gave i
t to his neighbor, and that was testimony in Israel." This, then, therefore
we do in confirmation of a token, and as a pledge of ourfidelity;thereby
signifying that we will renounce our own wills in all things, and becomo obe-
dient to the laws of our ancient institutions.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
84 MASONRY ILLUS'I RATED.
I Q. W h y was you hoodwinked?
A. That my heart might conceive, before my eyes beheld the beauties of
Masonry.
Q. A second reason?
A. As I was in darkness at that time, i
t was to remind me that I should
keep the whole world so respecting Masonry.
Q. W h y had you a Cable-Tow about your neck?
A. In case I had not submitted to the manner and mode of my initiation
that I. might have been led out of the Lodge without seeing the form and
beauties thereof.
Q. W h y did you give three distinct knocks at the door?
A. To alarm the Lodge, and let the Worshipful Master, Wardens and
Brethren know that a poor blind Candidate prayed admission.
Q. What do those three distinct knocks allude to?
A. A certain passage in Scripture, wherein i
t says, 'Ask and i
t shall
be given, seek and ye shall find, knock and i
t shall be opened unto
you.'
Q. How did you apply this to your then case in Masonry!
A. I asked the recommendations of a friend to become a Mason, I sought
admission through his recommendations, and knocked and the door of Mason-
ry opened unto me.
Q. W h y was you caused to enter on the point of some sharp instrument
pressing your naked left breast in the name of the Lord?
A. As this was a torture to my flesh, so might the recollection of i
t ever
be to my heart and conscience, i
f ever I attempted to reveal the secrets of
Masonry unlawfully.
Q. W h y was you conducted to the center of the Lodge, and there caused
to kneel for the benefit of a prayer?
A. Before entering on this, or any other great and important undertaking
i
t i
s highly necessary to implore a blessing from Deity.
Q. W h y was you asked in whom you put your trust?
A. Agreeably to the laws of our ancient institution.no Atheist could be
made a Mason; i
t was therefore necessary that I should believe in Deity;
otherwise, no oath or obligation could bind me.
Q. W h y did the Worshipful Master take you by the right hand, and bid
you rise, follow your leader and fear no danger?
A. As I was in darkness at that time and could neither foresee nor avoid
danger, i
t was to remind me that I was in the hands of an affectionate friend
in whosefidelityI might with safety confide.
Q. W h y was you conducted three times regularly round the Lodge?
A. That tho Worshipful Master, Wardens, and Brethren might bee that
I was duly and truly prepared.
Q. W h y did you meet with thoso several obstructions on the way?
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED. 35
A. This and every other Lodge is, or ought to be, a true representation
of King Solomon's Temple, which, when completed, had guards stationed at
the East, West, and South gates.
Q. W h y had they guards stationed at those several gates?
A. To prevent, any one from passing or repassing that was not duly qual-
ified.
Q. W h y did you kneel on your left knee, and not on your right, or
both?
A. The left side has ever been considered the weakest part of the body
it was therefore to remind m e that the part I was then taking upon m e was
the weakest part of Masonry, it being that only of an Entered Appren-
tice.
Q. W h y was your right-hand placed on the Holy Bible, Square and Com-
pass, and not your left, or both?
A. The right-hand has ever been considered the seat of fidelity, and our
ancient Brethren, worshiped Deity under the name of FIDES; which has
sometimes been represented by two right-hands joined together; at othors,
by two human figures holding each other by the right-hand; the right-hand,
therefore, wc use in this great and important undertaking, to signify in the
strongest manner possible, the sincerity of our intentions in the business we
are engaged.
Q. W h y did the Worshipful Master present you with a lamb-skin, or
white apron?
A. The lamb-skin has, in all ages, been deemed an emblem of innocence;
he, therefore, who wears the lamb-skin, as a badge of a Mason, is thereby
continually reminded of that purity of life, and rectitude of condnct, which
is so essentially necessary to our gaining admission into the Celestial Lodge
above, where the Supreme Architect of the Universe presides.
Q. AVhy did the Master make a demand of you of something of a metallio
natmc ?
A. A s I was in a poor and penniless situation at that time, it was to
remind me if ever I saw a friend, but more especially, a Brother, in tho like
poor and penniless situation, that I should contribute as liberally to his
relief as m y abilities would admit and his situation required, without injur-
ing myself or family.
Q. W h y was you conducted to the north-east corner of the Lodge, and
there caused to stand upright like a man, your feet forming a square, re-
ceiving at the same time a solemn charge, ever to walk and act uprightly
before God and man ?
A. Thefirststone in every Masonic edifice is, or ought to be, placed at
the ncrth-east corner, that being tho place where an Entered Apprentice
Mason receives his first instructions to build his future Masonic edifice
upon.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
MASONRY ILLUSTRATED
THIRD SECTION.
Q. W e have been saying a good deal about a Lodge, I want to know
what constitutes a Lodge ?
A. A certain number of Free and Accepted Masons duly assembled in a
mom, or place, with the Holy Bible, Square and Compas3, and other Ma-
sonic implements, with a Charter from the Grand Lodge empowering them
to work.
Q. Where did our ancient Brethren meet before Lodges were erected?
A. On the highest hills, and in the lowest vales.
Q. W h y on the highest hills, and in the lowest vales?
A. The better to guard against cowans and enemies either ascending or
descending, that the Brethren might have timely notice of their approach
to prevent being surprised.
Q. What-
is the form of your Lodge?
A. A n oblong square.
Q. H o w long? A. From East to West.
Q. H o w wide? A. Between North and South.
Q. How high? A. From the surface of the earth to the highest heaven*,
Q. H o w defcp? A. From the surface to the center.
Q. What supports your Lodge?
A. Three large Columns or Pillars.
Q. What are their names?
A. Wisdom, Strength, and Beauty.
Q. W h y so? A. It i
s necessary there should be Wisdom to contrive
Strength to support, and Beauty to adorn all great and important under-
takings ; but more especially this of ours.
Q. Has your Lodge any covering?
A. It has a clouded canopy, or starry-decked heaven, where a
l
l good
Mason's hope to arrive.
Q. How do they hope to arrive there?
A. By the. assistance of Jacob's ladder.
Q. H o w many principal rounds has i
t got ?
A. Three. Q. What are their names?
A. Faith, Hope, and Charity.
Q. What do they teach ?
A. Faith in God, Hope in immortality, and Charity to all mankind.
Q. Has your Lodge any furniture?
A. It has, the Holy Bible, Square, and Compass.
Q. To whom do they belong ?
A. The Bible to God, the Square to the Master, and the Compass to the
Craft. r
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED. flf
Q. H o w explained?
A. The Bible to God, in being the inestimable gift of God to man, fof
his instruction to guide him through the rugged paths of life; the Square
to the Master, it being the proper emblem of his office; the Compass to the
Craft—by due attention to which, we are taught to limit our desires, curb
our ambition, subdue our irregular appetites, and keep our passions and
prejudices in due bounds with all mankind, but more especially with th
Brethren.
Q. Has your Lodge any ornaments?
A. It has ; the Mosaic, or chequered pavement; the indented Tessel, that
beautiful tesselated border which surrounds it, with the blazing star in tho
eenter.
<j. What do they represent?
A. The Mosaic, or chequered pavement, represents this world, which,
though chequered over with good and evil, yet Brethren may walk together
thereon and not stumble—the indented Tessel, with the blazing star in the
center, the manifold blessings and comforts with which we are surrounded in
this life, but more especially those which we hope to enjoy hereafter — the
Blazing star, the prudence which ought to appear conspicuous in the con-
duct of every Mason ; but more especially commemorative of the Star which
ppeared in the East, to guide the wise men to Bethlehem, to proclaim the
irth and the presence of the Son of God,
Q. Has your Lodge any lights?
A. It has three.
Q. H o w are they situated?
A. East, West and South.
Q. Has it none in the North?
A. It has not.
Q. Why so?
A. Because this and every other Lodge is, or ought to be, a true represen-
tation of King Solomon's Temple, which was situated north of the ecliptio;
the sun and moon therofore during their rays from the south.no light was to
be expected from the north; we, therefore, Masonically, term the north a
place of darkness.
Q. Has your Lodge any Jewels?
A. It has six; three movable and three immovablo.
Q. What are the three movable Jewels?
A. The Square, Level and Pluml-
Q. What do they teach?
A. The Square, morality; the Level, equality, and tho Plumb, rectitude
«f life and conduct.
Q. What are the three movable Jewels?
A. The rough Ashlar, the perfect Ashlar, and tho Trestle-Board.
C
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
88 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
Q. Wr
hat are they ?
A. The rough Ashlar, is a stone in its rough and natural state; the per-
fect Ashlar is also a stone made ready by the working tools of the Fellow-
Craft to be adjusted in the building; and the Trestle-board is for the Mantel
workman to draw his plans and designs upon.
Q. What, do they represent ?
A. The rough Ashlar represents man in his rude and imperfect state by
nature; the perfect Ashlar also represents man in that state of perfection to
which we all hope to arrive by means of a virtuous life and education, our
own eudeavors, and the blessing of God. In erecting our temporal building
we pursue the plans and designs laid down by tho master workman on his
Trestle-board; but in erecting our spiritual building we pursue the plans and
designs laid down by the Supreme Geometrician of the Universe in the Book
of life which we, Masonically, term our spiritual trestle-board.
Q. W h o m did you serve?
A. M y Master
Q. H o w long?
A. Six days.
Q. What did you serve him with.
A. Freedom, fervency and zeal.
Q. What do they represent?
A. Chalk, Charcoal, and Earth.
Q. W h y so?
A. There is nothing freer than Chalk, the slightest touch of which leaves
a trace behind; nothing more fervent than heated Charcoal; it will iriclt tho
most obdurate metals; nothing more zealous than the Earth tj bring
forth.
Q. H o w is your Lodge situated?
A. Due east and west.
Q. W h y so?
A. Because the sun rises in the east and sets in the west.
Q. A second reason?
A. The Gospel was first preached in the cast, and is spreading to the
pest.
Q. A third reason?
A. The liberal arts and sciences began in tho east, and are extending to
lab west.
Q. A fourth reason?
A. Because all Churches and Chapels are, or ought to bo, sc situated.
Q. W h y are all Churches and Chapels so situated?
A. Because King Solomon's Temple was so situated.
Q. W h y was King Solomon's Temple s- situated?
A. Because Moses, after conducting the Children of Israel througu ta»
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED 39
Red Sea, by Divine command, erected a tabernacle to God, and placed it
due east and west; which was to comemmoratc, to the latest posterity, that
miraculous East wind that wrought their mighty deliverance; and this was
an exact model of King Solomon's Temple. Since which time, every well-
regulated and governed Lodge is, or ought to be, so situated.
Q. To whom did our ancient Brethren dedicate their Lodges?
A. To King Solomon.
Q. Wr
hy so ? A. Because King Solomon was our most ancient Grand
Blaster.
Q. To whom do modern Masons dedicate their Lodges ?
A . To St. John the Baptist, and St. John the Evangelist.
Q. W h y so? A. Because they were the two most ancient Christian
patrons of Masonry: and since their time, in every well-regulated and
governed Lodge, there has been a certain point within a circle, which circle
is bounded on the East and the West by two perpendicular parallel lines,
representing the anniversary of St. John the Baptist, and St. John the
Evangelist, who were two perfect parallels as well in Masonry as Christi-
anity; on the vortex of which rests the book of tho Holy Scriptures, sup-
porting Jacob's Ladder, which is said to reach to the watery clouds; and in
passing round this circle wc naturally touch on both these perpendicular
parallel lines, as well as the Book of the Holy Scriptures, and while a
Mason keeps himself thus circumscribed, he cannot materially err. [Thus
ends the first degree of Masonry, and the reader, who has read and paid
attention to it, knows more of Masonry, than any Entered Apprentice in
Christendom, and more of this degree than one hundrcth part of tho Mas-
ter Masons, or even Royal Arch Masons; for very few even attempt to
learn the Lectures, or even the Obligations: They merely receive tho
degrees, and there stop, with the exception of a few who are fascinated with
the idea of holding an office: they sometimes endeavor to qualify themselves
to discharge the duties which devolve on them in their respective offices.
The offices of Secretary and Treasurer, are by some considered the most
important in the Lodge, particularly where there is much business
done.]
I will now introduce the reader to the second degree of Masonry. It is
generally called passing, as will be seen >n. th<» lecture. T shall omit the
ceremonies of opening and closing, as they are precisely the same as in tho
first degree, except two knocks are used in this degree, and the door is
entered by the benefit of a pass-word; it is ShMvleth. It will be explain-
ed in the lecture.
The Candidate, as before, is taken into the preparation room and prepared
In tho manner following; all his clothing taken off except his shirt; furn-
ished with a pair of drawers; his right breast bare; his left foot in a slipper,
the ryht bare; a Cable-Tow twice round his neck; semi-hoodwinked; in which
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
40 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
situation he i
s conducted to the door of the Lodge, where he gives two knocks,
when the Senior Warden rises and says, ' Worshipful, while we are peaceably
at Work on the second degree of Masonry, under the influence of faith, hope,
and charity, the door of our Lodge is alarmed.' Master to Junior Deacon,
'Brother Junior, inquire the cause of that alarm.' [In many Lodges they come
to the door, knock, are answered by the Junior Deacon, and come in without
their being noticed by the Senior Warden or Master.] The Junior Deacon
gives two raps on the inside of the door. The Candidate gives one without;
i
t i
s answered by the Junior Deacon with one, when the door is partly ojjened
by the Junior Deacon, who inquires, 'Who comes here? who comes here?'
The Senior Deacon, who is or ought to be, the conductor, answers, 'A worthy
Brother who has been regularly initiated as an Entered Apprentice Mason,
served a proper time as such, and now wishes for further light in Masonry
by being passed to the degree of Fellow-Craft.' Junior Deacon to Senior
Deacon, 'Is i
t of his own free will and accord he makes this request?' Ant.
'It is.' Junior Deacon to Senior Deacon, 'Is he duly and truly pro-
pared ?
' Ans. ' He is.' Junior Deacon to Senior Deacon, ' Is he worthy
and well qualified?' Ana. 'He is.' Junior Deacon to Senior Deacon,
'Has he made suitable proficiency in the preceding degree?' Ans. 'He has.'
[Very few know anymore than they did the night they were initiated;
have not heard their obligation repeated, nor one section of the Lecture,
and in fact a very small proportion of Masons ever learn cither.] Junior
Deacon to Senior Deacon, '^By what further rights does he expect to obtain
this benefit? Ans. 'By the benefit of a pass-word.' Junior Deacon to
Senior Deacon, 'Das he a pass-word?' Ans. 'He has not, but I have i
t
for him.' Junior Deacon to Senior Deacon, ' Give i
t to mo.' The Senior
Deacon whispers in the Junior Deacon's car, Shibboleth. The Junior Dea-
con says, 'The pass i
s right; since this is the case, you will wait until the
Worshipful Mister in the East is made acquainted with bio request, and
Lis answer returned.' The Junior Deacon then repairs to the Master and
gives two knocks, as at the door, which are answered by two, by the Master
when the same questions are asked and answers returned as at the door
after which tho Master says, ' Since he comes indued with all these neces-
sary qualifications, let him enter this Worshipful Lodge in the name of the
Lord, and take heed on what he enters.' As he enters, the an<rie of the
square is pressed hard against his naked right breast, at which time the
Junior Deacon says,' Brother, when you entered this Lodge thefirsttime
you entered on tho point of tne compass pressing your naked left breast
which was then explained to you. You now enter i
t on tho ano-re „f the
square, pressing your naked right breast, which is to teach you to act upon
the Bquare with all mankind, but more especially with the Brethren.' The
Candidate is then conducted twice regularly round the Lodge, and halted at
the Junior Warden in tho South, where he gives two raps, and is answered
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED. 41
03 two, when the same questions are asked and answers returned as at the
do r; from thence he is conducted to the Senior Warden, where the same
questions are asked and answers returned as before; he is then conducted
to the Master.111 the East, where the same questions are asked and answers
returned as before; the Master likewise demands of him, from whence he
came, and whither he was traveling; he answers, 'From the West and
traveling to the East.' The Master asks, 'Why do you leave tho West and
travel to the East ?' Ans. ' In search of more light.' The Master then
says to the Candidate, ' Since this is the case, you will please conduct the
Candidate back to the West, from whence he came, and put him in care of
the Senior Wr
arden, who will teach him how to approach the East, ' The
place of light,' by advancing upon two upright regular steps to the second
step [ his heel is in the hollow of the right foot on this degree], his feet
forming the right angle of an oblong square, and his body erect at the altar
before the Worshipful Master, and place him in a proper position to take
the solemn oath, or obligation of a Fellow-Craft Mason. The Master then
leaves his, seat and approaches the kneeling Candidate [the Candidate
kneels on the right knee, the left forming a square, his left arm as far as the
elbow in a horizontal position, and the rest of the arm in a vertical position,
so as to form a square, his arm supported by the square held under his
elbow], and says, ' Brother, you are now placed in a proper position to take
on you the solemn oath, or obligation of Fellow-Craft Mason, which, I assure
fou, as before, is neither to affect your religion nor politics: if you are
willing to take it, repeat your name and say after m e , —
' I, A. B., of m y own free will and accord, in the presence of Almighty
God, and this Worshipful Lodge of Fellow-Craft Masons, dedicated to God,
and held forth to the holy order* of St. John, do hereby and hereon most
solemnly and sincerely promise, and swear, in addition to my former obliga-
tion, that I will not give the degree of a Fellow-Craft Mason to any one of
an inferior degree, nor to any other being in the known world, except it be
to a true and lawful Brother, or Brethren Fellow-Craft Masons, or within
the bodv of a just and lawfully constituted Lodge of such; and not unto
him nor unto them whom I shall hoar so to be, but unto him and them
only whom I shall find so to be, after strict trial and due examination, or
lawful information. Furthermore do I promise and swear, that I will not
Wrong this Lodge, nor a Brother of this degree, to the value of two cents
knowingly, myself, nor suffer it to be done by others if in my power to pre-
vent it. Furthermore do I promise and swear, that I will support the
Constitution of the Grand Lodge of the United States, and of the Grand
Lr-d^e of this State, under which this Lodge is held, and conform to all tho
bylaws, rules, and regulations of this or any other Lodge, of which I may
at ar.y time hereafter become a member, as far as in my power. Further-
more do I promise, and swear, that I will obey all regular signs and sum-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
42 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED
mons' given, handed, sent, or thrown to m e by the hand of a Brother
Fellow-Craft Mason, or from the body of a just and lawfully constituted
Lodge, of such, provided that it be within the length of m y Cable-Tow. or
square and angle of my work. Furthermore do I promise, and swear, that
I will he aiding and assisting all poor and penniless Brethren Fellow-
Crafts, their widows and orphans wheresoever disposed round the globe,
they applying to me as such, as far as in m y power without injuring myself
or family. To all which I do most solemnly and sincerely promise, and
swear, without the least hesitation, mental reservation, or self-evasion of
mind in me whatever, binding myself under no less penalty flian to have
•«<y left breast torn open, and my heart and vitals taken from thence and
thrown over my left shoulder and carried into the valley of Jehosaphat,
there to become a prey to the- wild boasts of thefieldand vultures of the
air, if ever I should prove willfully guilty of violating any part of this m y
solemn oath, or obligation of a Fellow-Craft Mason; so keep m e God, and
keep me steadfast in the due performance of the same.' ' Detach your hand3
and kiss the book, which is the Holy Bible, twice.' The bandage is now (by '
one of the Brethren ) dropped over the other eye, and the Master says,
'Brother [at the same time laying his hand on the top of the Candidate's
head], what do you most desire'(' the Candidate answers after his prompter,
'More light.' The Master says, 'Brethren, form on the square and assist in
bringing our new made Brother from darkness to light: 'And God said, let
there be light, and there was light.' At this instant all the Brethren clap
their hands and stamp on thoflooras in the preceding degree. The Master
says to the Candidate, 'Brother, what do you discover different from
before?' The Master says, after a short pause, 'You now discover one
point of the compass elevated above tho square, which' denotes li<*ht in this
degree; but as one is yet in obscurity, it is to remind you that you are yet
one material point in the dark, respecting Masonry.' Tho Master steps off
from the Candidate three or four steps, and says, ' Brother, you now dis-
cover m e as Master of the Lodge, approaching you from the East, under tho
sign and due-guard of a Fellow-Craft Mason, do as I do, as near as you can
and keep your position.' The sign is given by drawing your ri2;ht-hand
flat, with the palm of it next to your breast, across your breast from the
left to the right side with some quickness, and dropping i
t
r down by your
side; the due-guard is given by raising the left arm until that part of it be-
tween the elbow and shoulder is perfectly horizontal, and raising the rest of
the arm in a vertiial position, so that that part of the arm below the elbow
and that part above it, form a square. This is called the due-o-uard of a
Fellow-Craft Mason. The two given together, are called the sign and due-cuard
of a Fellow-Craft Mason, and they are never given separately; they would
not, be recognized by a Mason if given separately. Tho Master, by the time
ho gives his stops, sign, and due-guard, arrives at the Candidate, and says.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED 43
'Brother, I now present you with m y right-hand in token of Brotherly iovo
and confidence, and with it the pass-grip and word of a Fellow-Craft Mason.'
The pass, or more properly the pass-grip, is given by taking each other by
the right-hand as though going to shake hands, and each putting his thumb
between the fore and secondfingerswhere they join the hand, and pressing
the thumb between the joints. This is the pass-grip of a Fellow-Craft
Mason, the name of it is Shibboleth. Its origin will be explained in the
lecture—the pass-grip some give without lettering or syllabling, and otheru
give it in the same way they do the real grip ; the real grip of a Fellow-
Craft Mason is given by putting the thumb on the joint of the second
finger where it joins the hand, and crooking your thumb so that each can
stick the nail of his thumb into the joint of the other; this is the real grip
of a Fellow-Craft Mason;- the name of it is Jachin; it is given in the fol-
lowing manner: If you wish to examine a person, after having taken each
other by the grip, ask him, 'What is this?' Ans. 'A grip,' Q. 'A grip of
what? Ans. 'The grip of a Fellow-Craft Mason.' Q. 'Has it a name?'
Ans. ' It has.' Q. 'Will you give it to me? Ans. 'I did not so receive it,
neither can I so impart it.' Q. 'What will you do with it?' Ans. 'I'll
letter it or halve it.' Q. 'Halve it and you begin ?' Ans. 'No, begin you.'
Q. 'You begin;' Ans. 'J-A.' Q. 'C-H-I-N.' Ans. 'JACHIN.' Q.
' Right, Brother Jachin, I greet you.' !
A s the signs, due-guards, grips, pass-grips, words, pass-words, and their
several names comprise pretty much all the secrets of Masonry, and all the
information necessary to pass us as Masons, I intend to appropriate a few
passages in the latter part of this work, to tho exclusive purpose of explain-
ing them; I shall not, therefore, spend much time in examining them as I
progress.—After the Master gives tho Candidate the pass-grip and grip,
and their names, he says, 'Brother, you will rise and salute the Junior and
Senior Wardens as such, and convince them that you have been regularly
passed to the degree of a Fellow-Craft Mason, and have got the sign and
pass-grip, real grip, and their names.' [I do not here express it as ex-
pressed in Lodges generally: the Master generally says, 'You will arise and
salute tho Wardens, &c. and convince them, &c. that you have got the sign,
pass-grip and word.' It is obviously wrong, because thefirstthing he gives
is the sign, then due-guard, then the pass-grip, real grip, and their names ]
Wnilcthe Wardens are examining the Candidate, the Master gets an apron
and returns to the Candidate and says, ' Brother, I now have the honor of
presenting you with a lamb-skin or white apron as before, which I hope you
will continue to wear with honor to yourself and satisfaction to tho Brethren;
you will please carry it to the Senior Warden in the West, who will teach
you how to wear it as a Fellow-Craft Mason.'—Tho Senior Warden ties on
his apron and turns up one corner of tho lower end of the apron and tucks
it under the airon strir>". The Senior Deacon then conducts his pupil to
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
44 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
the Master, who has by this time resumed his seat in the East, whero he hai»
or ought to have, thefloorcarpeted to assist him in his explanations. Mas-
ter to tho Candidate, 'Brother, as you are dressed, it is necessary you should
have tools to work with, I will therefore present you with the tools of a Fellow-
Craft Mason. They are the plumb, square and level. The plumb is an
instrument made use of by operative Masons to raise perpendiculars; the
square to square their work; and the level to lay horizontals; but we, as
Free and Accepted Masons, are taught to use them for more noble and glo-
rious purposes ; the plumb teaches us to walk uprightly in our several sta-
tions before God and man, squaring our actions by the square of virtue, and
remembering that we are traveling on the level of time to that undiscovered
country from whose bourn no traveler has returned. I further present you
with those precious jewels; their names are Faith, Hope, and Charity; they
teach us to have faith in God, hope in immortality, and charity to all man-
kind.' The Master to the Senior Deacon, 'You will now conduct the Can-
didate out of the Lodge, and invest him with what he has been divested.' Af-
ter he is clothed, and the necessary arrangements made for his reception,
such as placing the columns and floor-carpet, if they have any, the Can-
didate is re-conducted back to the Lodge; as he enters the door the Senior
Deacon observes, 'We are now about to return to the middle chamber of
King Solomon's Temple.' W h e n within tho door the Senior Deacon pro-
ceeds, 'Brother, we have worked in speculative and operative Masonry
they worked at the building of King Solomon's Temple, and many other
Masonic edifices, they wrought six days, they did not work on the seventh,
because in six days God created the heavens and earth and rested on the
seventh day—the seventh therefore our ancient Brethren consecrated as a day
of rest, thereby enjoying more frequent opportunities to contemplate the
glorious works of creation, and to adore their great Creator.' Movinn- a step
or two the Senior Deacon proceeds, 'Brother, the first thing that attracts
our attention, are two large columns, or pillars, one on the left-hand and the
other on the right; the name of the one on tho left-hand is Boaz, and de-
notes strength, the name of the one on the right-hand is Jachin, and denotes
establishment; they collectively allude to a passage in Scripture, wherein God
hath declared in his word, 'In strength shall this House be established.'
These columns arc eighteen cubits high, twelve in circumference and four
in diameter; they aro adorned with two large Chapiters, one on each and
these Chapiters, are ornamented with not-work, lily-work, and pomenranates
they denote unity, peace, and plenty. The net-work, from its connection
denotes union; the lily-work, from its whitness, purity and peace ; and tho
pomegranate, from the exuberance of its seed, denotes plenty. They also
have two large globes or balls, one on each; these globes or balls contain on
their convex surfaces all the maps and charts of the celestial and terrestrial
bodies; 'hey aro said to bo thus extensive, to denote tho universality of
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y J) -USTRATED. 45
Masonry, and that a Mason's charity « aght to be equally extensive. Their
composition is molten, or cast b. ?
.
-
'
,
, 'jey were cast on the banks of the river
Jordan, in the clay-ground ><;' re'.r. Succoth, and Zaradatha, where King
Solomon oidered these and /
-
.
U ctl.or holy vessels to be cast; they wore cast
hollow; and were four /oehfa or a hind's breadth thick; they were cast hollow
the better to withstand, inundations and conflagrations—were the archives
of Masonry; and contained the constitution, rolls, and records. The Senior
Deacon having explained the columns, he passes between them, advancing a
step or two, observing as he advances, 'Brother, we will pursue our travels;
the next thing that we come to, is a long winding staircase, with three, five,
seven steps or more. The three first allude to the three principal supports
in Masonry, viz : wisdom, strength, and beauty; the five steps allude to the
five orders in architecture, and the five human senses; the five orders in ar-
chitecture, are, the Tuscan, Doric, Ionic, Corinthian, and Composite ; the five
human senses, are, hearing, seeing, feeling, smelling and tasting; the three
first of which, have ever been highly essential among Masons; hearing, to
hear the word, seeing to see the sign, and feeling to feel tho grip, whereby
one Mason may know another in the dark as well as in the light. The seven
steps allude to the seven sabbatical years, seven years of famine, seven years
in building the Temple, seven golden candlesticks, seven wonders of the
world ; seven planets, but more especially the several liberal arts and sciences,
which are grammar, rhetoric, logic, arithmetic, geometry, music, and astron-
omy : for this and many other reasons, the number seven has ever been held
in high estimation among Masons.' Advancing a few steps, the Senior Dea-
con proceeds; 'Brother, the next thing we come to is the outer door of the
middle chamber of King Solomon's Temple, which is partly open, but closely
Tyled by the Junior Warden.' [It is the Junior Warden in the South who
represents the Tyler at the outer door of the middle chamber of King
Solomon's Temple], who, on the approach of the Senior Deacon and candidate,
inquires, ' W h o comes here, who comes here?' The Senior Deacon answers,
'A Fellow-draft Mason.' Junior Warden'to Senior Deacon, 'How do you
expect to gain admission?' A. 'By a pass and token of a pass.' Junior
Warden to Senior Deacon, 'Will you give them to me?' The Senior Deacon
(or the Candidate, prompted by him) gives them; this and many other tokens
or grips, are frequently given by strangers, when first introduced to each
other ; if given to a Mason he will immediately return it; they can be given
in any company unobserved, even by Masons, when shaking hands. A past
and tohn- of a pass: the pass is the word Shibboleth; the token, alias tho
pass-grip, is given as before described, by taking each ot-ner by the right-
band as if in shaking hands, and placing the thumb between tho fore finger
and second finger at the third joint, or where they join the hand, and press-
ing it hard enough to attract attention. In the lecture it is called a token,
but generally called the pass-grip; it is an undeniable fact that Masons
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
46 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
express themselves so differently, when they mean the same thing, that they
frequently wholly misunderstand each other.]
After the Junior Warden has received the pass Shibboleth, he inquires,
What does it denote?' Arts-. 'Plenty.'—Junior Warden to Senior Deacon,
' W h y so?' Ans. 'From an ear of corn being placed at the water-ford.'
Junior Warden to Senior Deacon, ' W h y was this pass instituted?' Ans.
' In consequence of a quarrel which had long existed between Jeptha, judge
of Israel, and the Ephraimitcs, the latter of whom had long "been a stubborn,
rebellious people, whom Jeptha had endeavored to subdue by lenient mea-
sures, but to no effect. The Ephraimites being highly incensed against
Jeptha for not being called tofight,and share in the rich spoils of the A m m o -
nitish war, assembled a mighty army, and passed over the river Jordan to
give Jeptha battle; but he being apprised of their approach, called together
the men of Israel, and gave them battle, and put them toflight;and, to make
his victory more cum; lete, he ordered guards to be placed at the different
passes on the banks of the river Jordan, and commanded, if the Ephraimites
.passed that way, that they should pronounce the word Shibboleth; but they,
being of a different tribe, pronounced it Seboletb, which trifling defect proved
them spies, and cost them their lives: and there fell that day, at the different
passes on the banks of tho river Jordan, forty and two thousand. This word
was also used by our ancient brethren to distinguish a friend from a foe, and
has since been adopted as a propn
r pass-word, to be given before entering
any well-regulated and governed Lodge of Fellow-Craft Masons.' ' Since
this is the case, you will pass on to the Senior Warden in the West, for
further examination.' As they approach the Senior Warden in the West.
the Senior' Deacon says to tho Candidate, 'Brother, the next thing we como
to is he inner door of the middle chamber of King Solomon's Temple, which
we find partly open, but more closely tyled by the Senior Warden, when tho
Senior Warden inquires, 'Who comes here? who comes here?' The Senior
Deacon answers, 'A Fellow-Craft Mason.' Senior Warden to Senior Deacon,
' H o w do you expect to gain admission?' Ans. 'By the grip and word.' Tho
Senior Warden to the Junior Deacon, 'Will you give them to me?' They
are then given as hereinbefore described. The word is Jachin. After they
are given, the Senior Warden says, ' They are right; you can pass on to the
Worshipful Master in the East. As they approach the Worshipful Master
he inquires, ' W h o comes here? who comes here?' Junior Deacon ausweis
'AFellow-Craft Mason.' The Master then says to the Candidate, 'Brother
you have been admitted into the middle chamber of King Solomon's Temple
for the sake of tho letter G. It denotes Deity, before whom wo all ought
to bow with reverence, worship and adore. It also denotes Geometry, tho
fifth science, it being that on which this degree was principally founded. B y
Geometry wo may curiously trace nature through her various windings to her
most concealed recesses: by it, wc may discover the power, the wisdom and
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED. 47
the goodness of the grand Artificer of the Universe, and view with delight
tho proportions which connect this vast Machine: by it, we mav discover
how the planets move in their different orbits, and demonstrate their various
revolutions: by it, we account for the return of seasons, and the varietv of
scenes which each season displays to the discerning eye. Numberless worlds
surround us, all formed by the same divine Architect, which roll through this
vast expanse, and all conducted by the same unerring law of nature. A
survey of nature, and the observations of her beautiful proportions, first
determined man to imitate the divine plan, and study symmetry and order.
Tho Architect began to design; and the plans which he laid down, being
improved by experience and time, have produced works which are the admi-
ration of every age. The lapse of time, the ruthless hand of ignorance, and
the devastations of war have laid waste and destroyed many valuable monu-
ments of antiquity, on which the utmost exertion of human genius has been
employed. Even the Temple of Solomon, so spacious and magnificent, and
constructed by so many celebrated artists, escaped not the unsparing ravages
of barbarous force. The attentive ear receives the sound from the instructive
tongue, and the mysteries of Free Masonry are safely lodged in the repository
of faithful breasts. Tools and implements of architecture," and symbolic
emblems, most expressive, are selected by tho fraternity, to imprint on
the mind wise and serious truths; and thus, through a succession of ages,
....
are transmitted, unimpaired, the most excellent tenets of our institution.'
Here ends the work part of the Fellow-Craft's degree. It will bo observed
that the Candidate has received, in this place, the second section of the lec-
ture on this degree. This course is not generally pursued, but it is much
the most instructive method, and when it is omitted, I generally conclude
that it is for want of a knowledge of the lecture. Monitorial writers (who
are by no means coeval with Masonry), all write or copy very much after
each other, and they have all inserted in their books all those clauses of tho
6cvcral lectures which are not considered by. the wise ones as tending to de-
velop the secrets of Masonry. In some instances, they change tho phra-
seology a little; in others, they are literal extracts from the lectures. This,
it is said, is done to facilitate the progress of learners, or young Masons,
when in fact, it has the contrary effect. All lecture teachers (and there are
many traveling about the country, with recommendations from some of theii
distinguished brethren), when they come to any of those clauses, will say to
their pupils, 'I have not committed that, it is in the Monitor, you can learn
it at your leisure.' This course of procedure subjects the learner to the
necessity of making his own questions, and, of course, answering monitorially,
whether the extracts from the lectures are literal or not. Again, there is
not a perfect sameness in all the Monitors, or they could not all got copy-
rights; hence the great diversity in tho lectures as well as the work. The
following charge is, or ought to be, delivered to the Candidate after ho has
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
48 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
got through the ceremonies; but he is generally told, 'It is in the Monitor.
and you can read i
t at your leisure :
'
'Brother, being advanced to the second degree of Masonry, we congratu
late you on your preferment. The internal, and not the external, qualifica-
tions of a man, are what Masonry regards. As you increase in knowledge,
you will improve in social intercourse.
'It'is unnecessary to recapitulate "the duties which, as a Mason, you are
bound to discharge; or enlarge on the necessity of a strict adherence to
them, as your own experience must have established their value.
' Our laws and regulations you arc strenuously to support; and be always
ready to assist in seeing them duly executed. Yor are not to palliate
or aggravate the offenses of your brethren; but in the decision of every
trespass against our rules, you aro to judge with candor, admonish with
friendship, and reprehend with justice.
'The study of the liberal arts, that valuable branch of education, which
tends so effectually to polish and adorn the mind, is earnestly recommended
to your consideration; especially the science of Geometry, which is estab-
lished a3 the basis of our art. Geometry, or Masonry, originally .synony-
mous terms, being of a divine moral nature, is enriched with the most useful
knowledge; while i
t proves the wonderful properties of nature, i
t demon-
strates the more important truths of morality.
'Your past behavior and regular deportment have merited the honor
which we have now conferred; and in your new character i
t is expected
that you will conform to the principles of the Order, by steadily persevering
in the practice of every commendable virtue.
'Such is the nature of your engagements as a Fellow-Craft, and to these
duties you are bound by the most sacred tics.'
I will now proceed with the Lectures on this degree. It is divided in
two sections.
S E C T I O N FIRST.
Q. Are you a Fellow-Craft Mason?
A. I am—try me.
Q. By what will you be tried?
A, By the square.
Q. W h y by the square?
A. Because i
t i
s an emblem of virtuo.
Q. What i
s a square?
A. An angle extending to ninety degrees, or the fourth part of a circle
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
MASONRY ILLUSTRATED. 49
Q. Where was you prepared to be made a Fellow-Craft Mason?
A. In a room adjacent to the body of a just and lawfully constituted
Lodge of such, duly assembled in a room or place, representing the middle
chamber of-king Solomon's Temple.
Q. How was you prepared?
A. By being divested of all metals; neither naked nor clothed; barefoot
nor shod; hoodwinked; with a cable-tow twice round my neck; in which
situation I was conducted to the door of the Lodge, where I gave two
distinct knocks.
Q. What did those two distinct knocks allude to?
A. The second degree in Masonry, i
t being that on which I was about
to enter.
Q. What was said to you from within?
A. W h o comes here? who comes here?
Q. Your answer?
A. A worthy Brother who has been regularly initiated as an Entered
Apprentice Mason ; served a proper time as such, and now wishes for further
light in Masonry by being passed to the degree of a Fellow-Craft.
Q. What was then said to you from within?
A. I was asked i
f i
t was of my own free will and accord I made this re-
quest ; if I was duly and truly prepared; worthy and well qualified, and had
made suitable proficiency in the preceding degree; all of which being an
swercd in the affirmative, I was asked, by what furtherrightsI expected to
ibtain so great a benefit.
Q. Your answer?
A. By the benefit of a pass-word.
Q. What i
s that pass-word? A. Shibboleth.
Q. What further was said to you from within?
A. I was bid to wait until the Worshipful Master in the East was made
acquainted with my request, and his answer returned.
Q. After his answer was returned, what followed?
A. I was caused to enter the Lodge.
Q. H o w did you enter?
A. On the angle of the square presented to my naked right breast in the
Dame of the Lord.
Q. H o w was you then disposed of?
A. I was conducted twice regularly round tho Lodge, and. halted at the
Junior Warden in the South, where the same questions were asked and an-
swers returned as at tho door.
Q. How did the Junior Warden dispose of you?
A. He ordered me to be conducted to the Senior Warden in the Wea\
where the same questions were asked, and answers returned as before.
Q. H o w did the Senior Warden dispose of you?
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
60 MASONRY ILLUSTRATED.
A. He ordered me to be conducted to the Worshipful Master in the East^
where the same questions were asked, and answers returned as before, who
likewise demanded of me from whence I came, and whither I was traveling
Q. Your answer?
A. From the West, and traveling to the East.
Q. W h y do you leave the West and travel to the East?
A. In search of more light.
Q. How did the Worshipful Master then dispose of you?
A. He ordered me to be conducted back to the West, from whence I came,
and put in care of the Senior Warden, who taught me how to approach the
East, by advancing upon two upright, regular steps to the second step, my
feet forming the right angle of an oblong square, and my body erect at the
altar before the Worshipful Master.
Q. What did the Worshipful Master do with you?
A. He made a Fellow-Craft Mason of me.
Q. How? A. In due form.
Q. What was that due form?
A. M y right knee bare, bent, my left knee forming a square, my right hand
on the Holy Bible, square and compass, my left arm forming an angle sup-
ported by the square, and my hand in a vertical position, in which posture 1
took upon mo the solemn oath or obligation of a Fellow-Craft Mason. [See
page 83 for obligation.]
Q. After your oath or obligation, what was said to you?
A. I was asked what I most desired.
Q. Your answer? A. More light.
Q. On being brought to light, what did you discover different from before'
A. One point of the compass elevated above the square, which denoted
light in this degree, but as one point was yet in obscurity, i
t was to remind me
that I was yet one material point in the dark respecting Masonry.
Q. What did you next discover?
A. The Worshipful Master approaching me from the East, under the
sign and duo-guard of a Fellow-Craft Mason, who presented me with his
right-hand in token of brotherly love and confidence, and proceeded to give
me the pass-grip and word of a Fellow-Craft Mason, and bid me rise and
salute the Junior and Senior Wardens, and convince them that I had been
regularly passed to the degree of a Fellow-Craft, and had the si<m, grip
and word of a Fellow-Craft Mason.
Q. What did you next discover?
A. The Worshipful Master approaching me a second time from the East
who presented ine with a lamb-skin, or white apron, which he said he hoped
I would continue to wear with honor to myself, and satisfaction and advan-
tage to the brethren.
O What was you next presented with?
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
MASONRY ILLUSTRATED. 61
A The working-tools of a Fellow-Craft Mason.
Q. What are they?
A. The Plumb, Square, and Level.
Q. What do they teach? (I think this question ought to be,'How
explained?')
A. The Plumb is an instrument made use of by operative Masons to raise
perpendiculars; the Square, to square their work: and the Level to lay
horizontals; but we, as Free and Accepted Masons, are taught to make use
of them for more noble and glorious purposes: the Plumb admonishes us
to walk uprightly in our several stations before God and man, squaring our
actions by the square of virtue, and remembering that we are a
l
l traveling
upon the level of time to that undiscovered country from whose bourn no
traveler returns.
Q. What was you next presented with?
A. Three precious jewels.
Q. What were they? A. Faith, Hope, and Charity.
Q. What do they teach?
A. Faith in God, hope in immortality, and charity to all mankind.
Q. H o w was you then disposed of?
A. I was conducted out of the Lodge, and invested of what I had been
divested.
SECOND SECTION.
Q. Have you ever worked as a Fellow-Craft Mason?
A. I have, in speculative; but our forefathers wrought both in speculative
and operative Masonry.
Q. Where did they work?
A. At the building of King Solomon's Temple, and many other Masonio
edifices.
Q. How long did they work? A. Six days.
Q. Did they not work on the seventh?
A. They did not.
Q. W h y so?
A. Because in six days God created the Heavens and tho Earth, and
rested on the seventh day; the seventh clay, therefore, our ancient brethren
consecrated as a day of rest from their labors; thereby enjoying more fre-
quent opportunities to contemplate the glorious works of creation, and adore
their great Creator!
Q. Did you ever return to the sanctum sanctorum, or holy of holiei of
King Solomon's Temple?
A. I did. Q. By what way?
A. Through a long porch or alley.
Q Did anything particular strike your attention on your return?
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
52 MASONR\ ILLUSTRATED.
A. There did, viz. two large columns, or pillars, one on the left-hand and
the other on the right.
Q. What was the name of the one on your left-hand?
A. Boaz, to denote strength.
Q. What was the name of the one on your right-hand?
A. Jachin, denoting establishment.
Q. What do they collectively allude to ?
A. A passage in Scripture wherein God has declared in his word, 'In
strength shall this House be established.'
Q. What were their dimensions?
• A. Eighteen cubits in bight, twelve in circumference, and four in diameter,
Q. Were they adorned with anything?
A. They were, with two large Chapiters, one on each.
Q. Were they ornamented with anything?
A. They were with wreaths of net-work, lily-work and pomegranates.
Q. What dn they denote?
A. Unity, peace and plenty. Q. W h y so ?
A. Net-work, from its connection, denotes union; lily-work, from its white-
ness and*purity, denotes peace; and the pomegranate, from the exuberance
of its seed, denotes plenty.
Q. Were those columns adorned with anything further?
A. They were, viz: two large globes or balls, one on each.
Q. Did they contain any thing?
A. They did, viz: All the maps and charts of the c
e
l
e
s
-
t
i
a
l and terrestrial
bodies.
Q. W h y are they said to be so extensive ?
A. To denote the universality of Masonry, and that a Mason's charity
ought to bo equally extensive.
Q. What was their composition?
A. Molten, or cast brass. Q. W h o cast them?
A. Our Grand Master, Hiram Abiff.
Q. Where were they cast?
A. On the banks of the river Jordan, in the clay-ground between Suoooth
and Zaradatha, where King Solomon ordered theso and a
l
l other Holy ves-
sels to be cast.
Q. Were they cast sound, or hollow? A. Hollow.
Q. What was their thickness?
A. Four inches, or a hand's-breadth.
Q. W h y were they cast hollow?
A. The better to withstand inundations and conflagrations; were tho ar-
chives of Masonry, and contained the constitution, rolls and records.
Q. What did you noxt come to?
A. A ioug winding staircase, with three,five,seven steps or moro.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
••MASONRY ILLUSTRATED. 53
Q. What do the three steps allude to?
A. The three principal supports in Masonry, viz: wisdom, strength, and
beauty.
Q. What do the five steps allude to ?
A. The five orders in architecture, and thefivehuman senses.
Q. Wha^are thefiveorders in architecture ?
A. The Tuscan, Doric, Ionic, Corinthian, and Composite.
Q. What are thefivehuman senses ?
A. Hearing, seeing, feeling, smelling, and tasting; thefirstthree of which"
nave ever been deemed highly essential among Masons; hearing, to hear the
word; seeing, to see the sign; and feeling, to feel the grip, whereby one Mason
•nay know another in the dark, as well as in the light.
Q. What do the seven steps allude to?
A. The seven sabbatical years, seven years of famine, seven years in
building the Temple, seven golden candlesticks, seven wonders of the world,
seven planets; but more especially the seven liberal arts and sciences, which
are grammar, rhetoric, logic, arithmetic, geometry, music, and astronomy.
For these, and many other reasons, the number seven has ever been held in
high estimation among Masons.
Q. Wr
hat did you next come to ?
A. The outer door of the middle chamber of King Solomon's Temple,
which I found partly open, but closely tyled by the Junior Warden.
Q. H o w did you gain admission ?
A. B y a pass, and token of a pass.
Q. W h a t was the name of the pass? A. Shilboleth.
Q. What does it denote? A. Plenty. Q. W h y so?
A. From an ear of corn being placed at the water-ford.
Q. W h y was this pass instituted ?
A. In consequence of a quarrel which had long existed between Jeptha,
judge of Israel, and the Ephraimites; the latter of whom had long been a
stubborn, rebellious people, whom Jeptha had endeavored to subdue by lenient
measures ; but to no effect. The Ephraimites being highly incensed against
Jeptha, for not being called tofightand share in the rich spoils of the A m -
monitish war, assembled a mighty army, and passed over the river Jordan to
give Jeptha battle; but he, being apprised of their approach, called together
the men of Israel, and gave them battle, and put them toflight;and to make
his victory more complete, he ordered guards to be placed at the different passes
on the banks of theriverJordan, and commanded, if the Ephraimites passed
that way, that they should pronounce the word Shibboleth; but they, being of a
different tribe, pronounced it Seboleth; which trifling defect proved them spies,
and cost them their lives'; and there fell that day at the different pa3se3 on the
banks of the river Jordan, forty and two thousand. This word was also used
by our ancient brethren to distinguish a friend from a foe, and has since been
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
64 MASONRY ILLUSTRATED
adopted as a proper pass-word to be given before entering any well-regula-
ted and governed Lodge of Fellow-Craft Masons.
Q. What did you next come to ?
A. The inner door of tho middle, chamber of King Solomon's Temple,
which I found partly open, but closely tyled by the Senior Warden.
Q. H o w did you gain admittance ?
A. B y the grip and word.
Q. H o w did the Senior Warden dispose of you ?
A. H e ordered m e to be conducted to the Worshipful Master in the East,
who informed me that I had been admitted into the middle chamber of King
Solomon's Temple for the sake of the letter G.
Q. Does it denote anything ?
A. It does: DEITY, before whom we should all bow with reverence,
worship and adore. It also denotes Geometry, the fifth science; it being
that on which this degree was principally founded.
Thus ends the second degree of Masonry.
THE THIRD, OR MASTER-MASON'S DEGREE.
• TIIE traditional account of the death, several burials, and resurrection of
Hiram Abiff, the widow's son [as hereafter narrated], admitted as facts,
this degree is certainly yery interesting. The Bible informs us, that there
was a person of that name employed at the building of King Solomon's
Temple; but neither the Bible, the writings of Josephns, nor any other
writings, however ancient, of which I have any knowledge, furnish any in-
formation respecting his death. It certainly is very singular, that a man
so celebrated as Hiram Abiff, who was an arbiter between Solomon, king of
Israel, and Hiram, king of Tyre, universally acknowledged as the third most
distinguished man then living, and in" many respects the greatest man in
the world, should pass off the stage of action in the presence of king Solo-
mon, three thousand three hundred grand overseers, and one hundred and
fifty thousand workmen, with whom he had spent a number of years, and
neither king Solomon, his bosom friend, nor any other among his numerous
friends ever recorded his death or anything about him. I make these
remarks now, hoping that they may induce some person who has time and
capacity to investigate the subject, and promulgate the result of their inves-
tigations. I shall let the subject rest where it is at present; it is not
intended that it should form any part of this littlo volume. Tho principal
object of this work is to lay before the world a true history of Free Masonry,
without saying anything for or against it.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED. 55
A person who has received the two preceding degrees, and wishes to be
raised to the sublime degree of a Master-Mason, is then [the Lodge being
opened as in the preceding degrees] conducted from the preparation room to
the door [the manne; of preparing him is particularly explained in the
lecture], where he gives three distinct knocks, when the Senior Warden rises
and says, 'Worshipful, while we are peaceably at work on the third degree of
Masonry, under the influence of humanity, Brotherly love, and affection, the
^door of our Lodge appears to be alarmed.' The Master to the Junior Dea-
con,' Brother Junior, inquire the cause of that alarm. The Senior Deacon
then steps to the door, and answers the three knocks that had been given, by
three more [these knocks are much louder than those given on any occa-
sion, other than that of the admission of Candidates in the several degrees] ;.
one knock is then given without, and answered by one from within, when the
door is partly opeired, and the Junior asks, 'Who comes there ? who comes
there? who comes there?' The Senior Deacon answers, ' A worthy Bro •
ther, who has been regularly initiated as an Entered Apprentice Mason,
passed to the degree of a Fellow-Craft, and now wishes for further light in
Masonry, by being raised to the sublime degree of a Master-Mason.' Ju-
nior Deacon to Senior Deacon, ' Is it of his own free will and accord, he
makes this request? Ans. 'It is.' Junior Deacon to Senior Deacon,
' Is he duly and truly prepared ¥ Arts. ' H e is.' Junior Deacou to Senior
Deacon, 'Is he worthy and well qualified'.'' Ans. ' lie is.' Junior Dea-
con to Senior Deacon, ' Has he made suitable proficiency in the preceding
degrees?' Ans. 'He has.' Junior Deacon to Senior Deacon, 'By what
further rights does he expect to obtain this benefit?' Ans. 'By the benefit
of a pass-word-' Junior Deacon to Senior Deacon, 'Has he a pass-word f
Ans. 'He has not, but I have got it for him.' The Junior Deacon to Se-
nior Deacon, 'Will you give it to me V The Senior Deacon then whispers
in the ear of the Junior Deacon, 'Tubed Cain.' Junior Deacon says, ' The
pass is right. Since this is the case you will wait until the Worshipful
Master be made acquainted with his request and his answer returned.' The
Junior Deacon then repairs to the Master and gives three knocks at the
door ; after answering which, the same questions are asked and answers
returned, as at the door, when the Master says, 'Since he comes indued with
all these necessary qualifications, let him enter this Worshipful Lodge in
the name of the Lord, and take heed on what he enters.' Tho Junior
Deacon returns to the door and says, 'Let him enter this Worshipful Lodge,
in the name of the Lord, and take heed on what he enters.' In entering,
both points of the compass are pressed against his naked right and left
breasts, when tha Junior Deacon stops tho Candidate and says, 'Brother,
when you first entered this Lodge, you was received on the point of the
compasa pressing your naked left breast, which was then explained to you;
Then you entered it the second time you was received on the angle of the
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
56 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
square, which was also explained to you; on entering it now you a m receded
on the two extreme points of the compass pressing your naked right and
left breasts, which are thus explained: A s the most vital parts of man are
contained between the two breasts, so are the most valuable tenets of M a -
sunry contained between the two extreme points of the compass, which are
Virtue, Morality, and Brotherly love.' The Senior Deacon then conducts
the Candidate three times regularly round the Lodge. [I wish the reader
to observe, that on this, as well as every other degree, that the Junior
Warden is thefirstof the three principal officers that the Candidate passes,
traveling with the sun when he starts round the Lodge, and that as he passes
the Junior Warden, Senior AYarden, and Master, thefirsttime going round,
they each give one rap; the second time, two raps; and the third time, three
raps each. The number of raps given on these occasions are the same as
the number of the degree, except thefirstdegree, on which three are given,
I always thought improperly.] During the time the Candidate is traveling
round the room, the Master reads the following passage of Scripture, the
conductor and Candidate traveling, and the Master reading, so that the
traveling and reading terminates at the same time: ' Remember now thy
Creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not, nor tho
years draw nigh, when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them ; while the
sun, or the light, or the moon, or the stars, bo not darkened, nor the clouds
return after the rain: in the day when the keepers of the house shall trem-
ble, and the strong men shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease
because they are few, and those that look out of the windows be darkened,
and the doors shall be shut in the streets, when the sound of the grinding is
low, and he shall rise up at the voice of the bird, and all the daughters of
music shall be brought low. Also, when they .shall bo afraid of that which
is high, and fears .shall be in the way, and tho almond tree shall flourish,
and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire shall fail: because man
goeth to his long homo, and the mourners go about the streets; or even the
silver cord be loosed, or the golden bowl be broken, or tho pitcher be broken
at the fountain, or the wheel at tho cistern. Then shall the dust return to
the earth as it was; and the spirit return unto God who gave it.' Tho
conductor and Candidate halt at tho Junior Warden in the South, where
the same questions aro asked and answers returned as at the door; he is
then con-ducted to the Senior Warden in the West, where the same ques-
tions ar3 asked and answers returned as before; from thence ho is con-
ducted to the W . Master in the East, who asks the same questions and
receives the same answers as before, and who likewise asks the Candidate
from whence he came, and whither he is traveling. Ans. ' From the West
and traveling to the East.' Q. ' W h y do you leavo the West, and travel to
the East?' Ans. 'In search of more liglt.' The Blaster then says to the
Senior Deacon, ' You will please conduct tho Candidato back to the West
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
MASONRY ILL. STRATED. 57
from whence he came, and put him ir care of the Senior Warden, and re-
quest him to teach the Candidate how to approach the East by advancing
upon thro* upright regular steps to the third step, his feet forming a square,
his body erect at the altar, before the Worshipful Master, and place him in
a proper position to take upon him the solemn oath or obligation of a Mas-
ter-Mason.' The Master then comes to the Candidate and says, ' Brother,
you are now placed in a proper position [the lecture explains it] to take upon
you the solemn oath or obligation of a Master-Mason, which, I assure you,
as before, is neither to affect your religion nor politics. If you are willing
to take it, repeat your name, and say after me:'
'I, A. B., of m y own free will and accord, in presence of Almighty God,
and this worshipful Lodge of Master-Masons, erected to God, and dedicated
to the holy order of St. John, do hereby and hereon, most solemnly and
sincerely promise and swear, in addition to m y former obligations, that I will
not give the degree of a Master-Mason, to any one of an inferior degree, nor to
any. other being in the known world, except it be to a true and lawful Brother
or Brethren Master-Masons, or within the body of a just and lawfully constitu-
ted Lodge of such; and not unto him, nor unto them, whom I shall hear so to
be, but unto him and them only whom I shall find so to be after strict triahand due
examination, or lawful information received. Furthermore, do I promise and
swear, that, I will not give the Master's word, which I shall hereafter receive,
neither in the Lodge nor out of it; except it be on thefivepoints of Fellowship
and then not above m y breath. Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that, 1
will not give the grand hailing sign of distress, except I am in real distress, or
for the benefit of the Craft when at work ; and should I ever sec that sign given
cr the word accompanying it, and the person who gave it, appearing to be in dis-
tress, I willflyto his relief at the risk of m y life, should there be a greater
probability of saving his life, than losing m y own. Furthermore, do I prom-
ise and swear, that, I will not wrong this Lodge, nor a Brother of this degree,
to the value of one cent, knowingly, myself, nor suffer it to be done by others
if in m y power to. prevent it. Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that,
I will not be at the initiating, passing, and raising a Candidate at one com-
munication, without a regular dispensation from the Grand Lodge for tho
Bame. Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that, I will not be at the ini-
tiating, passing, or raising a Candidate in a clandestine Lodge, I knowing
it to be such. Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that, I will not be at
tho initiating of an old man in dotage, a young man in non-age, an Atheist.
irreligious libertine, idiot, madman, hermaphrodite, nor woman. Further-
more, do I promise and swear, that, I will not speak evil of a Brother Mas-
ter-Mason, neither behind his back nor before his face, but will apprize him
of all approaching danger, if in my power. Furthermore, do I promise and
gwear, that, I will not violate the chastity of a Master-Mason's wife, mother,
sister, or daughter, I knowing them to be such, nor suffer it to be done by
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
58 MASONRY ILLUSTRATED.
others, if in my power to prevent it. Furthermore, do I promise and swear.
that, I will support the Constitution of the Grand Lodge of the state of
under which this Lodge i
s held, and conform to all the by-laws,erules and
regulations of this, or any other Lodge of which I may at any time hereafter
become a member. Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that, I will obey
all regular signs, summons or tokens, given, handed, sent, or thrown to me
from the hand pf a Brother Master-Mason or from the body of a just and
lawfully constituted Lodge of such, provided i
t be within the length of
my Cable-Tow. Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that, a Master-Ma-
son's secrets, given to me in charge as such, and I knowing him to be such,
shall remain as secure and inviolable in my breast, as in his own, when com-
municated to me, murder and treason excepted; and they left to my own
election. Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that, I will go on a Master-
Mason's errand whenever required, even should I have to go barefoot, and
barohead, if within the length of my Cable-Tow. Furthermore, do I prom-
ise and swear, that, I will always remember a Brother Master-Mason, when
on my knees offering up devotions to Almighty God. Furthermore, do I
promise and swear, that, I will be aiding and assisting all poor, indigent Mas-
ter-Masons, their wives and orphans, wheresoever disposed round the globe;
as far as in my power, without injuring myself or family materially. Fur-
thermore, do I promise and swear, that, if any part of this my solemn oath
or obligation, be omitted at this time, that I will hold myself amenable thereto
whenever informed. To a
l
l which I do most solemnly and sincerely promise
and swear, with afixedand steady purpose of mind in me to keep, and per-
form tho same, binding myself under no less penalty, than to have my body
severed in two in the midst, and divided to the North and South, my bowels
burnt to ashes in the center, and the ashes scattered before the four winds of
heaven, that there might not the least tract, or trace of remembrance remain
among men or Masons of so vile and perjured a wretch as I should be, wero
I ever to prove willfully guilty of violating any part of this my solemn oath
or obligation of a Master-Mason. So help me God, and keep me steadfast
in the due performance of the same.' The Master then asks the Candidate'
'What do you most desire?" The Candidate answers after his prompter)
'More Light.' The bandage, which was tied round his head in the prepara-
tion room, is, by one of the Brethren who stands behind him for that pur-
pose, loosened and put over both eyes, ana he i
s immediately brouoht to
light in the same manner as in the preceding degree, except three stamps on
thefloor,and three claps of the hands aro given in this degree. On being
brought to light, the Master says to the Candidate, ' You first discover as
before, three great lights in Masonry by the assistance of three lesser, with
this difference; both points oi the compass, are elevated above the square
which denotes to you, that you are about to receive all the light that can b I
conferred on you in a Master's Lodgo.' Tho Master steps back from the
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED. 59
Candidate and says, ' Brother, you now discover me, as Master of this
Lodge, approaching you from the East, under the sign and due-guard of a
Master-Mason.' The sign is given by raising both hands and arms to the
elbows perpendicularly, one on either side of the head, the elbows forming a
square. The words accompanying the sign in case of distress, are ' 0 Lord,
m y God, is there no help for the widow's son.' As the last words drop
from your lips, you let your hands fall in that manner best calculated to in
dicate solemnity. King Solomon is said to have made this exclamation o„
the receipt of the information of the death of Hiram Abbiff. Masons are all
charged never to give the words, except in the dark, when the sign cannot
be seen. Here Masons differ very much; some contend that Solomon gave
this sign, and made this exclamation when informed of Hiram's death, and
work accordingly in their Lodges. Others say the 'sign was given and the
exclamation made at the grave, when Solomon went there to raise Hiram,
and of course they work accordingly; that is to say, the Master who governs
a Lodge holding the latter opinion, gives the sign, &c. at the grave, when
he goes to raise the body, and vice versa. The due-guard is given by put-
ting the right-hand to the left side of the bowels, the hand open with the
thumb next to the belly, and drawing it across the belly, and letting it fall; this
is done tolerably quick. After the Master has given the sign and due-guard,
' which do not take more than a minute, he says, 'Brother, I now present
you with m y right-hand in token of Brotherly love and affection, and with
it the pass-grip and word.' The pass-grip is given by pressing the thumb
between the joints of the second and thirdfingerswhere they join the hand;
the word or name is Tubal Cain. It is the pass-word to the Master's de-
gree. The Master, after giving the Candidate the pass-grip and word, bids
him rise and salute the Junior and Senior Wardens, and convince them that
he is an obligated Master-Mason, and is in possession of the pass-grip and
word. While the Wardens are examining the Candidate, the Master returns
to the East and gets an apron, and as he returns to the Candidate, one of
the Wardens, sometimes both, says to the Master, 'We are satisfi ed that Br.
, is an obligated Master-Mason.' The Master then says to the Candi-
date, ' Brother, I now have the honor to present you with a lamb-skin or
white apron, as before, which I hope you will continue to wear with credit to
yourself, and satisfaction and advantage to the Brethren; you will please
carry it to the Senior Warden jn the West, who will teach you how to wear
it as a Master-Mason.
The Senior Warden tics on the apron, and lets theflapfall down before in
its natural and common situation.
The Master returns to his seat and the Candidato is conducted to him.
Master to Candidate, 'Brother, I perceive you aro dressed, it is of course
necessary you should have tools to work with. I will now present you witk
•he working tools of a Master-Mason, and explain their uses to you. The
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
60 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED
trowel is an instrument made use of by operative masons t; spread the ce-
ment which unites a building into one common mass; but wc, as free and
accepted Masons, are taught to make use of it for the more noble and glo-
rious purpose of spreading the cement of Brotherly love and affection; that
cement which unites us into one sacred band or society of friends and bro-
thers among whom no contention should ever exist, but that noble contention or
rather emulation of who can best work or best agree. I also present you
with three precious jewels ; their names are humanity, friendship, and brother-
ly love.
'Brother, you are not yet invested with all the secrets of this degree, nor
do I know whether you ever will until I know how you withstand the amaz-
ing trials and dangers that await you.
'You are now about to travel to give us a specimen of your fortitude, per-
severance, andfidelityin the preservation of what you have already received.
— F a r e you well, and may the Lord be with you, and support you through
all your trials and difficulties.' [In some Lodges they make him pray be-
fore he starts.] The Candidate is then conducted out of the Lodge, clothed,
find returns ; as he enters the door, his conductor says to him, ' Brother, wo
are now in a place representing the sanctum sanctorum, or holy of holies of
King Solomon's Temple. It was the custom of our Grand Master, Hiram
Abbiff, every day at high twelve, when the Crafts were from labor to refresh-
ment, to enter into the sanctum sanctorum, and offer up his devotions to the
ever living God. Let us, in imitation of him, kneel and pray.' They then
kneel, and the conductor says the following prayer: ' Thou, 0 God, knew-
est out downsitting and uprising, and understar.dcst our thoughts afar off,
shield and defend us, from the evil intentions of our enemies, and support us
under the trials and afflictions wc are destined to endure while traveling
through this vale of tears. M a n that is born of a woman, is of few days and
full of trouble. H e cometh forth as a flower, and is cut down; he fleeth
also as a shadow, and continuoth not. Seeing his clays are determined the
number of his months are with thee, thou hast appointed his bounds that
he cannot pass; turn from him, that he may rest, until he shall accomplish
his day. For there is hope of a tree, if it be cut down, that it will sprout
again, and that the tender branch thereof will not cease. But man dieth
and wasteth away ; yea, man giveth up the ghost, and where is he? A s the
waters fail from'the sea, and the flood decayeth and drieth up, so man lieth
down, and riseth not up until the heavens shall be no more. Yet, 0 Lord !
have compassion on the children of thy creation ; administer unto them com-
fort in time of trouble, and save them with an everlasting salvation. Amen.
Bo mote it be.' They, thenrise,and the conductor says to the Candidate
'Brother, in further imitation of our Grand Master, Hiram Abbiff, let us retire
at the South Gate.' They then advance to the Junior Warden [who rep-
iesents Julela, one of the ruffians] who exclaims, ' W h o comes here?' TThe
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED. 61
room is dark or the Candidate hoodwinked], the conductor answers, ' Our
Grand Master, Hiram Abbiff.' ' Our Grand Master, Hiram Abbiff!' exclaims
the ruffian, 'he is tho very man I wanted to see.' Seizing the Candidate
by the throat at the same time, and jerking him about with violence,' Give m e
the Master-Mason's word, or I'll take your life.' The conductor replies, ' I
cannot give it now, but if you will wait until the Grand Lodge assembles at
Jerusalem, if you are found worthy, you shall then receive it, otherwise you
cannot.' The ruffian then gives the Candidate a blow with the twenty-foui
inch gauge across the throat, on which he fled to the West gate ; where he
Was accosted by the second ruffian, Jubelo, with more violence, and on his
refusal to comply with his request, he gave him a severe blow with the square
across his breast; on which he attempted to make his escape at the East
gate, where he was accosted by the third ruffian, Jubelum, with still more
violence, and on refusing to comply with his request, the ruffian gave him
a violent blow with the common gavel, on the forehead, which brought him
to the floor; on which one of them exclaimed, 'What shall we do; we have
killed our Grand Master, Hiram Abbiff? another answers,' Let's carry him out
at the E. gate and bury him in the rubbish until low twelve, and then meet
and carry him a Westerly course and bury him.' The Candidate is then
taken up in a blanket, on which he fell, and carried to the W . end of tho
Lodge, and covered up and left; 'by this time the Master has resumed his
roat (King Solomon is supposed to arrive at the Temple at this juncture),
t nd calls to order, and asks the Senior Warden the cause of all that, confu-
tion; tho Senior Warden answers, 'Our Grand Master, Hiram Abbiff, is missing,
and there are no plans or designs laid down1
on the Trestle-board, for the crafts
lo pursue their labors.' Tho Master, alias King Solomon, replies, 'Our Grand
Master missing? Our Grand Master has always been very punctual in his
attendance ; I fear he is indisposed; assemble the Crafts and search in and
about the Temple, and see if he can be found.' They all shuffle about the
floor awhile, when the master calls them to order, and asks the Senior War-
den 'what success,' he answers, 'Wc cannotfindour Grand Master, m y lord.'
The Master then orders the secretary to call the roll of workmen, and see
whether any of them are missing. The secretary calls the roll, and says, 'I
have called the roll, m y lord, and find that there are three missing, viz: Jubela,
Jubelo and Jubelum.' His lordship then observed; 'This brings to m y mind
a circumstance that took place this morning ; twelve Fellow-Crafts, clothed in
white gloves and aprons, in token of their innocence, came to mo and con-,
fessed that they twelve, with three others, had conspired to extort tho Mas-
ter-Mason's word from their Grand Master, Hiram Abbiff; and in case of re
fusal, to take his life—they twelve had recanted, but feared tho other threi
had. been base enough to carry their atrocious designs into execution.
Solomon then ordered twelve Fellow-Crafts to be drawn from the bands of the
workmen, clothed in white gloves and aprons, in token of their innocence, and
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
G2 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
sent three east, three west, three north and three south, in search 'A the
ruffians, and if found, to bring them forward. Here the members all shuffle
about the floor awhile, and fall in with a reputed traveler, and inquire of him
if he had seen any traveling men that way; he tells them that he had seen
three that morning near the coast of Joppa, who from their dress and ap-
pearance were Jews, and were workmen from the temple, inquiring for a pass
age to Ethiopia, but were unable to obtain one in consequence of an embar-
go which had recently been laid on all the shipping, and had turned back
into the country.
The Master now calls them to order again, and asks the Senior Warden.
'what success;' he answers by relating what had taken place; Solomon ob-
serves, ' I had this embargo laid to prevent the ruffians from mak'.ng their
escape,' and adds, ' you will go and search again, and search until you find
them, if possible, and if they are not found, the twelve who confessed, shall
be considered as the reputed murderers, and suffer accordingly.' The mem-
bers all start again and shuffle about awhile, until one of them, as if by ac-
cident,findsthe body of Hiram Abbiff; alias the Candidate, and hails his
traveling companions, who join him, and while they are humming out some-
thing over the Candidate, the three rt J \ted ruffians, who are seated in a
private corner near the Candidate, are • lard to exclaim in the following
manner;first,Jubela, ' O that m y throa had been cut across, m y tongue
tor" -?»' and m y body buried in the rougn sands of the sea at low water-
marK, where the tide ebbs and flows twice in twenty-four hours, ere I had
been accessory to the death of so good a man as our Grand Blaster, Hiram
Abbiff'
The second, Jubelo, ' 0 that m y left breast had been torn open, and m y
heart and vitals taken from thence and thrown over m y left shoulder, carried
into the valley of Jehosaphat, and there to become a prey to the wild beasts
of'thefieldand vultures of the air, ere I had conspired the death of so good
a man as our Grand Master, Hiram Abbiff.'
Tho third, Jubelum, ' Q that m y body had been severed in two in the
midst, and divided to the North and the South, m y bowels burnt to ashes in
the center, and the ashes scattered by the four winds of heaven, that there
might not the least track or trace of remembrance remain among men, or
Masons of so vile and perjured a wretch as I aiu—Ah, Jubela and Jubelo,
it was I that struck him harder than you both; it was I that gave him tho
fatal blow; it was I that killed him outright.' The three Fellow-Crafts,
who had stood by the Candidate all this time listening to the ruffians, whose
voices they recognized, say one to the other, 'What shall we do, there1
are
three of them, and only three of us;' 'it is,' said one, in reply, 'our cause is
good, let us seize them ;
' on which they rush forward, seize and carry
them to the Master, to whom they relate what had passed; the Master then
addresses them in the following [they in many Lodges kneel, or lie down in
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED. 63
token of their guilt and penitence.] 'Well Jubela, what have you got to
say for yourself, guilty or not guilty ?' Ans. ' Guilty m y Lord.' 'Jubelo,
guilty or not guilty ?' Ans. ' Guilty m y Lord.' 'Jubelum, guilty or not
guilty ? Ans. ' Guilty m y Lord.' The Master to the three Fellow-Crafts who
took them: 'Take them without the west gate of the Temple and have
them executed according to the several imprecations -of their own mouths.'
They are then hurried off to the west end of the room. Here thi? part of
the farce ends. The master then ordersfifteenFellow-Crafts to be selected
from the bands of the workmen, and s$nt three East, three West, three North,
three South, and three in and about the temple in search of their grand
Master, Hiram Abbiff (in some Lodges they only send twelve, when their own
lectures say fifteen, were sent) and charges them if they find the body to
examine carefully on and about it for the master's word, or a key to it.
The three that traveled a westerly course, come to the Candidate and finger
about him a little and are called to order by the Master, when they report
that they had found the grave of their grand Master, Hiram Abbiff, and on
moving the earth until they come to the body, they involuntarily found their
hands raised in this positon (showing it at the same time; it is the due-guard
of this degree) to guard their nostrils against the offensive effluvia which
arose from the grave, and that they had searched carefully on and about tho
body for the Blaster's word, but had not discovered anything but a faint
resemblance of the letter G on the left breast. The Blaster, on the receipt
of this information (raising himself), raises his hands three several times
above his head, [as hereinbefore described], and exclaims, ' Nothing but a
faint resemblance of the letter G ! that is not the Master's word, nor a key
to it. I fear the Blaster's word is forever lost! Nothing but a faint resem-
blance of the letter G ! that is not the Master's word, nor a key to it. I
fear the Blaster's word is forever lost!' [The third exclamation is different
from the other two—at'tend to it, it has been described in page 59], ' Nothing
but a faint resemblance of the letter G ! that is not the Blaster's word, nor
a key to it. 0 Lord, m y God, is there no help for the widow's son!' The
Blaster then orders the Junior Warden to summon a Lodge of Entered
Apprentice Masons, aou idpair to the grave and try to raise the body of their
Grand Blaster, by the Entered Apprentice's grip. They go to the Candi-
date and take hold of his fore-finger and pull it, return and tell the Master
that they could not raise him by the Entered Apprentice's grip, that the
akin cleaved from the bone. A Lodge of Fellow-Crafts aro then sent,
who act as before, except they pull the Candidate's second finger. Tho
Master then directs the Senior Warden [generally] to summon a Lodge of
Master-Blasons and says, 'I will go with them myself in person, and try to
raise the body by the Blaster's grip, or lion's paw.' [Some say by the strong
grip OT lion's paw]. They then all assemble round the Candidate, the
Mastor having declared that thefirstword spoken after the body was raised,
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
64 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
should be adopted as a substitute for the Master's word, for the government
of Blaster-Mason's Lodges in all future generations; he proceeds to raise
the Candidate, alias the representative of the dead body of Hiram Abbiff
H e [the Candidate], is raised on what is called the five points of fellowship.
which are foot to foot, knee to knee, breast to breast, hand to back, and
mouth to ear. This is done by putting the inside of your right foot to
the inside of the right foot of the person to w h o m you are going to give tho
word, the inside of your knee to his, laying your right breast against his,
your left hands on the back of each o^her, and your mouths to each other's
right ear [in which position alone you are permitted to give the word], am]
whisper the word Mah-hah-bone. The Blaster's grip is given by taking
hold of each other's right hand as though you were going to shake hands.
and sticking the nails of each of your fingers into the joint of the other's
wrist where it unites with the hand. In this position the Candidate is
raised, he keeping his whole body stiff, as though dead. The Blaster in
raising him is assisted by some of the brethren, who take hold of the Can-
didate by the arms and shoulders; as soon as he is raised to his feet, they step
back, and the Blaster whispers the word Mah-hah-bone in his ear and causes
the.Candidate to repeat it, telling him at the same time that he must never
give it in any manner other than that which he receives it.—He is also told
that Mah-hah-bone signifies marrow in the bone.—They then separate, and
the Blaster makes the following explanation respecting the five points of fel-
lowship.—Blaster to Candidate, 'Brother, foot to foot, teaches you that you
should whenever asked, go on a brother's errand if within the length of your
Cable-Tow, even if you should have to go barefoot and barehead. Knee
to knee, that you should always remember a Mastcr-Blason in your devo-
tion to Almighty God. Breast to breast, that you should keep the Blaster-
Mason's secrets, when given to you in charge as such, as secure and invio-
lable in your breast, as they were in his own before communicated to you.
Hand to back, that you should support a Blaster-BIason behind his back as
well as before his face. Blouth to ear, that you should support his good
name as well behind his back as before his face.' After the Candidate is
through what is called the work part, the Blaster addresses him in tho foi-
fowing manner; Brother, you may suppose from the manner you have been
dealt with to-night, that we have been fooling with you, or that we have
treated you differently from others, but I assure you that is not the ease.
You have this night represented one of the greatest men that ever lived, in
the tragical catastrophe of his death, burial and resurrection ; I mean Hiram
Abbiff, the widow's son, who was slain by three ruffians at the building of
King Solomon's Temple, and who in his inflexibility, integrity and fortitude,
never was surpassed by man. The history of that momentous event is thus
related. Masonic tradition informs us that at tho building of King Solo-
mons Temple,fifteenFellow-Crafts discovered that the Temple was almost
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED 65
finished, and not having the Blaster-Mason's word, became very impatient,
and entered into a horrid conspiracy to extort the Blaster-BIason's word from
their Grand Blaster, Hiram Abbiff, thefirsttime they met him alone, or take
his life, that they might pass as Blasters in other countries and receive
wages as such; but before they could accomplish their designs, twelve of
them recanted, but the other three were base enough to carry their atrocious
designs into execution. Their names were Jubela, Jubelo and Jubelum.
' It was the custom of our Grand Blaster, Hiram Abbiff, every clay at high
twelve, when the Crafts were from labor to refreshment, to enter into the
sanctum sanctorum and offer up his devotions to the ever living God, and
draw out his plans and designs on his Trestle-board for the Crafts to pursue
their labor. O n a certain day (not named in any of the traditional ac-
counts), Jubela, Jubelo, and Jubelum, placed themselves at the south, west,
and east gates of the Temple.. And Hiram having finished his devotions
and labor, attempted (as was his usual custom) to retire at the south gate,
where he was met by Jubela, who demanded of him the Blaster-Mason's
word (some say the secrets of a Master-Mason), and on his refusal to give
it, Jubela gives him a violent blow with the twenty-four inch gauge across
the throat, on which Hiram fled to the west gate, where he was accosted in
the same manner by Jubelo, but with more violence.—Hiram told him that
he could not give the word then, because Solomon, King of Israel, Hiram,
King of Tyre, and himself, had entered into a solemn league, that the word
never should be given unless they three were present, but if he would wait
with patience, until the Grand Lodge assembled at Jerusalem, if he was
then found worthy he should receiveit, otherwise he could not; Jubelo re-
plied in a very peremptory manner ; ' If you do not give me the Blaster's
word, I'll take your life;' and on Hiram's refusing to give it, Jubelo gave
him a severe blow with the square across the left breast, on which he fled
to the east gate, where he was accosted by Jubelum in the same manner, but
with "still more violence. Here Hiram reasoned as before; Jubelum told
him that he had heard his caviling with Jubela and Jubelo long enough, and
that the Blaster's word had been promised to him from time to time, for a long
time, that he was still put off and the temple was almost finished, and he was
determined to have the word or take his life; ' I want it so that I. may bo able
to get wages as a Blaster-BIason in any country to which I may go for em-
ployment, after the Temple isfinished,and that I may be able to support m y
wife and children.' niram, persisting in his refusal; Jubelum gave him a vio-
lent blow with the gavel on the forehead, which felled him to the floor and
killed him:—they took the body and carried it out of the west gate and buried
it in the rubbish until low twelve at night (which is twelve o'clock), when
they three met agreeably to appointment, and carried the body a westerly
eo-rrse and buried it at the brow of a hill in a grave dug due east and west, six
feet perpendicular, and made their escape. King Solomon coming up to
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
66 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
the Temple at low six in the morning (as was his ususal custom), found the
Crafts all in confusion; and on inquiring the cause, was informed that theil
Grand Blasted Hiram Abbiff was missing, and there were no plans and de-
signs laid down on the Trestle-board for the Crafts to pursue their labor.
Solomon ordered immediate search to be made in and about the Temple for
bim; no discovery being made, he then ordered the Secretary to call tho
, roll of workmen to see if any were missing; it appearing that there were
three, viz: Jubela, Jubelo, and Jubelum; Solomon observed, 'This brings to
m y mind a circumstance that took place this morning. Twelve Fellow-
Crafts came to me dressed in white gloves and aprons in token of their iu-
nocence, and confessed that they twelve, with three'others, had conspired t«
extort the Blaster-Mason's word from, their Grand Blaster, Hiram Abbiff,
and in case of his refusal to take his life; they twelve had recanted, but
feared the other three had been base enough'to carry their atrocious design
into execution.' Solomon immediately ordered twelve Fellow-Crafts to be
selected from the bands of the workmen, clothed in white gloves and aprons
in token of their innocence, and sent three East, three West, three North,
and three South, in search of the ruffians, and if found to bring them up
before him.—The three that traveled a westerly course, coming near the
coast of Joppa, fell in with a wayfaring man, who informed them that he
had seen three men pass that way that morning, who, from their appearance
and dress, were workmen from the Temple, inquiring for a passage to
Ethiopia, but were unable to obtain one in consequence of an embargo which
had recently been laid on all the shipping, and had turned back into tho
country. After making still further and more diligent search, and making
no further discovery, they returned to the Temple and reported to Solomon
the result of their pursuit and inquiries. O n which Solomon directed them
to go and search again, and search until they found their Grand Blaster,
Hiram Abbiff, if possible, and if he was not found, the twelve who had
confessed, should bo considered as the murderers and suffer accord-
ingly.
They returned again in pursuit of the ruffians, and one of the three that
traveled a westerly course, being more weary than the rest, sat down at the
brow of a hill to rest and refresh himself; and, in attempting to rise,
caught hold of a sprig of cassia, which easily gave way, and excited his
curiosity, and made, him suspicious of a deception, on which he hailed his
companions, who immediately assembled, and, on examination, fouud that
the earth had been recently moved; and on moving the rubbish, discovered
tho appearance of a grave; and while they were confabulating about what
measures to take, they heard voices issuing from a cavern in the clefts of
the rocks, on which, they immediately repaired to the place, where they
heard the voice of Jubela exclaim, ' O ! that m y throat had been cut across
and m y tongue torn out, and m y body buried in the rough sands of the sea
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED. 67
at low water-mark, where the tide ebbs and flows twice in twenty-four
hours, ere I had been accessory to the death of so good a man as our Grand
Blaster, Hiram Abbiff'—on which, they distinctly heard the voice of Jubelo
exclaim, ' 0 ! that m y breast had been torn open, and m y heart and vitals
taken from thence and thrown over m y left shoulder, to the valley of Je-
hosaphat, there to become a prey to the wild beasts of thefieldand vultures
of the air, ere I had conspired to take the life of so good a man as our
Grand Blaster, Hiram Abbiff'—when they more distinctly heard the voice
of Jubelum exclaim, '0! that m y body had been severed in two in the midst,
and divided to the north and tho south, m y bowels burnt to ashes in the
center, and the ashes scattered by the four winds of heaven, that there
might not remain the least track or trace of remembrance among men or
Blasons of so vile and perjured a wretch ac I am, who willfully took tho
life of so good a man as our Grand Blaster, Hiram Abbiff. A h ! Jubela and
Jubelo, it was I that struck him harder than you botn! it was I that gave
him the fatal blow! it was I that killed him outright!' On which, they
rushed forward, seized, bound, and carried them up before King Solomon,
who, after hearing the testimony of the three Fellow-Crafts, and the three
ruffians having plead guilty, ordered the'm to be taken out at the west gate
of the Temple and executed agreeable to the several imprecations of their
own mouths. King Solomon then ordered fifteen Fellow-Crafts to be
selected from the bands of the workmen, clothed with white gloves and
aprons, in token of their innocence, and sent three East, three West, three
North, three South, and three in and about tho Temple, in search of the
their Grand Master, Hiram Abbiff; and the three that traveled a .westerly
course found it under that sprig of Cassia where a worthy Brother sat
down to rest and refresh himself; and on removing the earth until they
came to the coffin, they involuntarily found their hands raised, as herein-
before described, to guard their nostrils against the offensive effluvia that
arose from the grave. It is also said that tho body had laid there fourteen
days, some say fifteen. The body was raised in the manner hereinbefore
described, carried up to the Temple, and buried as explained in the closing
clauses of the lecture. Not one-third part of the preceding history of this
degree is ever given to a Candidate. A few general desultory, unconnected
remarks are made to him, and he is generally referred to tho manner of
raising, and the lecture, for information as to the particulars. Hero follows
a charge which ought to be, and sometimes is, delivered to the Candidate
aftei hearing the history of the degree
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
68 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
A N ADDRESS TO BE DELIVERED TO T H E CANDIDATE AFTER T H E
HISTORY HAS BEEN GIVEN.
' Brother, your zeal for the institution of Masonry, the progress you
made in the mystery, and your conformity to our regulations, have pointed
you out as a proper object of our favor and esteem.
'You are bound by duty, honor, and gratitude, to be faithful to your
trust; to support the dignity of your character on every occasion: and
to enforce, by precept and example, obedience to the tenet3 of the Order.
'In the character of a Master-Mason, j'ou are authorized to correct the
errors and irregularities of your uninformed Brethren, and to guard them
against a breach of fidelity.
' To preserve the reputation of the Fraternity unsullied, must be your
constant care; and for this purpose i
t is your province to recommend to
your inferiors, obedience and submission; to your equals, courtesy, and
affability; to your superiors, kindness and condescension. Universal be-
nevolence you are always to inculcate; and, by the regularity of your own
behavior, afford the best example for the conduct of others less informed.
The ancient landmarks of the Order, intrusted to your care, you are care-
fully to preserve; and never suffer them to be infringed, or countenance a
deviation from the established usages and customs of the fraternity.
'Your virtue, honor, and reputation are concerned in supporting with
dignity the character you now bear. Let no motive, therefore, make you
swerve from your duty, violate your vows, or betray your trust; but be true
and faithful, and imitate the example of that celebrated artist whom you
this evening represent; thus you will render yourself deserving the honot
which we have conferred, and merit the confidence that we have reposed.'
_ Here follows the lecture on this degree, which is divided into three sec-
tions.
SECTION FIRST.
Q. Are you a Biastcr-BIason ?
A. I am—try me, prove me—disprove me, if you can. '
Q. Where was you prepared to be made a Master-Blason ?
A. In a room adjacent to the body of a just and lawfully constituted
Lodge of such, duly assembled in a room, representing the sanctum sancto-
rum, or holy of holies, of King Solomon's Temple.
Q. How was r ou prepared ?
A. By being livested of all metals; neither naked nor clothed; bare-
foot nor shod; J
v
i
t
h a Cable-Tow three times about my naked body; in
which posture 1 was conducted to the door-of the Lodge, where I gave three
distinct knocks
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATE!: 69
Q. What did tlose three distinct knocks allude to ?
A. To the third degree of Blasonry; i
t being that on which I was about
to enter.
Q. What was said to you from within ?
A. W h o comes there ? who comes there ? who comes there ?
Q. Your answer ?
A. A worthy Brother, who has been regularly initiated as an Entere
Apprentice Mason, passed to the degrees of a Fellow-Craft, and now wishes
for further light in Blasonry by being raised to the sublime degree of a
Mastcr-BIason.
Q. AVhat further was said to you from within'
A. I was asked i
f i
t was of my own free will and accord I made that
request; i
f I was duly and truly prepared; worthy and well qualified, and
had made suitable proficiency in the preceding degrees; all of which being
answered in the affirmative, I was asked by what further rights I expceted
to obtain that benefit.
Q. Your answer ?
A. By the benefit of a pass-word.
Q. What is the pass-word ?
A. Tubed Cain.
Q. What next was said to you ?
A. I was bid to wait until the Worshipful Blaster in the East was made
acquainted with my request, and bis answer returned.
Q. What followed after his answer was returned ?
A. I was caused to enter the Lodge on the two extreme points of the
compass, pressing my naked right and left breasts, in the name of the
Lord.
Q. H o w was you then disposed of ?
A. I was conducted three times regularly round the Lodge, and halted at
the Junior Warden in the South, where the same questions were asked and
answers returned as at the door.
Q. H o w did the Junior Warden dispose of you ?
A. H e ordered me to be conducted to the Senior AVarden in the West
where the same questions were asked and answers returned as before.
Q. How did the Senior Warden dispose of you ?
A. He ordered me to be conducted to the Worshipful Master in the East,
where, by him, the same questions were asked and answers returned as
before, who likewise demanded of me, from whence I came, and whither I
was traveling
Q. Your answer?
A. Fr.m the East and traveling to the West
Q. W h y do you leave the East and travel to the Weft
A. In search of light.
E
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
70 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
Q. H o w did the Worshipful Blaster then disj/ose of you ?
A. He ordered me to be conducted back to the West, from whence I
eame, and put in care of the Senior Warden, who taught mc how to ap-
proach theEast, by advancing upon three upright regular steps to the third
step, my feet forming a square, and my body erect at the altar before the
Worshipful Blaster.
Q. What did the Worshipful Blaster do with you ?
A. H e made an obligated Blaster-Blason of me.
Q. How ? A. In due form.
Q. What was that due form ?
A. Both my knees bare bent, they forming a square; both hands on the
Holy Bible, square, and compass; in which posture I took upon me the
solemn oath or obligation of a Master-Blason.
Q. After your obligation, what was said to you ?
A. What do you most desire ?
Q. Your answer ?
A. Blore light. [The bandage round the head is now dropped over the
eyes.]
Q. Did you receive light? A. I did.
Q. On being brought to light on this degree, what did youfirstdis-
cover ?
A. Three great lights in Masonry, by the assistance of three less, and
both points of the compass elevated above the square, which denoted to me
that I had received, or was about to receive all the light that could be con-
ferred on mc in a Blaster's Lodge.
Q. What did you next discover?
A. The Worshipful Blaster approaching me from the east under the sign
and due-guard of a Blaster-Blason, who presented me with his right-hand
in token of Brotherly love, and confidence, and proceeded to give me the
pass-grip and word of a Blaster-Blason [the word i
s the name of the pass-
grip], and bid me rise and salute the Junior and Senior W'ardens, and con-
vince them that I was an obligated Blaster-Blason, and had tho. sign, pass-
grip and word. [Tubal-Cain.]
Q, What did you next discover ?
A. The Worshipful Blaster approaching mc a second time from the east,
who presented me with a lamb-skin or white apron, which ho said he hoped
J would continue to wear with honor to myself, and satisfaction and advant-
age to the Brethren.
Q. What was you next presented with ?
A. The working tjols of a Master-Blason.
Q. What are they ?
A. All the implements of Blasonry indiscriminately, but more especially
the trowel
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
MAbUiNKX ILLUSTRATE! 71
Q. H o w explained ?
A. The trowel is an instrument made use of by operative Masons to
spread the cement which unites a building into one common mass, but we, ai
Uee and accepted Blasons, are taught to make use of i
t for the more noble
awa glorious purpose, of spreading the cement of Brotherly love and affeo
tiori; that cement which unites us into one sacred band or society of Bro-
theiu, among whom no contention should ever exist, but that noble emula-
tion, vl who can best work or best agree.
Q. What was you next presented with?
A. Three precious jewels.
Q. Whar; are they ?
A. Humanity, Friendship, and Brotherly love.
Q. H o w was you then disposed of ?
A. I was conducted out of the Lodge and invested with what I had been
divested, ana returned again in due season.
SECTION SECOND.
Q. Did you ever return to the sanctum sanctorum or holy of holies of
King Solomon's Temple?
A. I did.
Q. Was there anything particular took place on your return?
A. There was, viz: I was accosted by three ruffians, who demanded of me
the Blaster-Blason's word.
Q. Did you give i
t to them?
A. I did not, but bid them wait with time and patience until the Grand
Lodge assembled at Jerusalem ; and then, if they were found worthy, they
should receive it; otherwise they could not.
Q. In what manner was you accosted?
A. In attempting to retire at the South gate, I was accosted by one of,
them, who demanded of me the Blaster-Blason's word, and on my refusing
to comply with bis request, he gave me a blow with the twenty-four inch
gauge across my breast, on which Ifledto the West-gate, where I was ac-
eosted by the second with more violence, and on my refusing to comply with
I
»
i
s request, he gave me a severe blow with the square across my breast, on
which I attempted to make my escape at the east gate, where I was accost-
ed by the third with s
t
i
l
l more violence, and on my refusing to comply with
his request, he gave me a violent blow with the common gavel, on the fore-
head, and brought me to the floor.
Q. W h o m did you represent at that time?
A. Our Grand Blaster, Hiram Abbiff, who was slain at the bull ling ofKing
iMomon's Temple.
Q. Was his death premeditated?
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
72 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
A. It was, byfifteenFellow-Crafts , who conspired to extort the Master
Mason's word; twelve of whom recanted, but the other three weie base
enough to carry their atrocious designs into execution.
Q. What did they do with the body?
A. They carried it out at the West gate of the Temple and buried it until
IJT twelve at night, when they three met agreeably to appointment, and ear-
ned it a westerly course from the Temple, and buried it under the brow
of a hill in a grave six feet due east and west, six feet perpendicular, an4
made their escape.
Q. What time was he slain?
A. At high twelve at noon, when the Crafts were from labor to refresh-
ment.
Q. H o w came he to be alone at that time?
A. Because it was the usual custom of our Grand Blaster, Hiram Abbiff,
every day at high twelve, when the Crafts were from labor to refreshment, to
enter into the sanctum sanctorum or holy of holies, and offer up his adora-
tions to the ever living God, and draw out his plans and designs on his
Trestle-board for the Crafts to pursue their labor.
Q. At what time was he missing?
A. At low six in the morning, when King Solomon came up to the Tem-
ple as usual to view the work, and found the Crafts all in confusion, and on
inquiring the cause, he was informed that their Grand Blaster, Hiram Abbiff
was missing, and no plans or designs were laid down on the Trestle-board for
the Crafts to pursue their labor.
Q. W h a t observations did King Solomon make at that time?
A. H e observed that our Grand Blaster, Hiram Abbiff had always heeu
very punctual in attending, and feared that he wa3 indisposed, and ordered
search to be made in and about the Temple, to see if he could be found.
Q. Search being made, and he not found, what further remarks did King
Solomon make?
A. H e observed, he feared some fatal accident had befallen our Grand
Master, Hiram Abbiff; that morning, twelve Fellow-Crafts, clothed in white
gloves and aprons in token of their innocence, had confessed that they twelve,
with three others, had conspired to extort the Blaster-Blason's word from
their Grand Blaster, Hiram Abbiff, or take his Life: that they twelve had re-
canted, but feared the other three had been base enough to carry their atro-
cious designs into execution.
Q. What followed?
A. King Solomon ordered the roll of workmen to be called to see if then
were any missing.
Q. The roll being called, wsre there any missing?
A There were three, tiz: Jubela, Jubelo, and Jubelum.
Q. Were the ruffians ever found?
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
MASONRY ILLUSTRATED. 73
A. They were.
Q. How?
A. B y the wisdom of King Solomon who ordered twelve Fellow-Ciafts to
be selected from the bands of the workmen, clothed in white gloves and
aprons, in token of their innoeenoe, and sent three east, three west, three
north, and three south in search of the ruffians, and if found to bring them
forward.
Q. What success ?
A. The three that traveled a westerly course from the Temple, coming
near the coast of Joppa, were informed by a wayfaring man, that three men
had been seen that way that morning, who from their appearance and dress
were workmen from the Temple, inquiring for a passage to Ethiopia, but
were unable to obtain one iu consequence of an embargo which had recently
been laid on all the shipping, and had turned back into the country.
Q. W h a t followed ?
A. King Solomon ordered them to go and search again, and search until
they were found, if possible, and if they were not found, that the twelve
who had confessed should be considered as the reputed murderers, and suffer
accordingly.
Q. W h a t success ?'
A. One of the three that traveled a westerly course from the Temple,
being more weary than the rest, sat down under the brow of a hill to rest
and refresh himself, and in attempting to rise, caught hold of a sprig of
cassia, which easily gave way, and excited his curiosity and made him sus-
picious of a deception, on which he hailed his companions, who immediately
assembled, and on examination, found that the earth had recently been
moved, and on moving the rubbish discovered the appearance of a grave;
and while they were confabulating about what measures to take, they heard
voices issuing from a cavern in the clefts of the rocks; on which they im-
mediately repaired to the place, where they heard the voice of Jubela exclaim,
'0, that m y throat had been cut across, m y tongue torn out, and m y body
buried in the rough sands of the sea at low wter-mark, where the tide
ebbs and flows twice in twenty-four hours, erp
\a,d been accessory to tho
death of so good a man as our Grand BIa,<-.„r. Hiram Abbiff!' O n which
they distinctly heard the voice of Jubelo exclaim, '0, that m y left breast
had been torn open, and m y heart and vitals taken from thence, thrown over
m y left shoulder, carried to the valley of Jehosaphat, there to become a
prey to the wild beasts of the field and vultures of the air, ere I had con-
spired to take the life of so good a man as our Grand Blaster, Hiram A b -
biff!' when they more distinctly heard the voice of Jubelum exclaim, '0,
that m y body had beeii severed in two in the midst, and divided to tho
North and the South, and m y bowels burnt to ashes in the center, and the
ashes scattered before (or by) the four winds of heaver that there might
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
74 M A S O N R Y ILLU&TRATED
not remain the least track or trace of remembrance among men or Blasonj
of so vile and perjured a wretch as I am, who willfully took the l
i
f
e of so
good a man as our Grand Blaster, Hiram Abbiff! Ah, Jubela and Jubelo, i
t
was I that struck him harder lhan you both, i
t was I that gave him the
fatal blow, i
t was I that killed him outright.' On which they rushed
forward, seized, bound and caAied them up to the Temple to King Solo-
mon.
Q. What did King Solomon do with them ?
A. He ordered them to be executed agreeably to the several imprecationi
of their own mouths.
Q. Was the body of our Grand Blaster, Hiram Abbiff, ever found ?
A. It was. Q. H o w ?
A. By the wisdom of King Solomon, who orderedfifteen(in some Lodges
they say twelve) Fellow-Crafts to be selected from tho bands of the work-
men, and sent three East, three West, three North, three South, and three
in and about the Temple to search for the body.
Q. Where was i
t found ?
A. Under that sprig of cassia where a worthy Brother sat down to reet
and refresh himself.
Q. W a s there anything particular took place on the discovery of the
body ?
A. There was, viz: on moving the earth until we came to the coffin, we
involuntarily found our hands in this position, to guard our nostrils against
the offensive effluvia which arose from the grave.
Q. How long had the body lain there ?
•
A. Fourteen days.
Q. What did they do with the body ?
A. Raised i
t in a Blasonic form and carried i
t up to the Temple for more
decent interment.
Q. Where was i
t buried ?
A. Under the sanctum sanctorum, or holy of holies of King Solomon's
Temple, over which they erected a marble monument with this inscription
delineated thereon. A virgin weeping over a broken column, with a book
open before her, in her right-hand a sprig of Cassia, in her left an urn,
Time standing behind her with his hands infolded in the ringlets of her
hair.
Q. What do they denote?
A. The weeping virgin denotes the unfinished state of the Temple • tho
broken column, that one of the principal supports of Blasonry had fallen the
book open before her, that his memory, was on perpetual record ; the sprig of
cassia, tho timely discovery of his grave; the urn in her left-hand, that his
ashc» are safely deposited under the sanctum sanctorum or holy of holiei
gf King Solomon's Temple, and Time, standing behind her with his hands
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED. 75
infolded in theringletsof her hair, that time, patience, and perseverance,
will accomplish all things.
SECTION THIRD.
Q. What docs a Blaster's Lodge represent7
A. The sanctum sanctorum or holy of holies of King Solomon's Tem
pie.
Q. H o w long was the Temple building?
A. Seven years, during which i
t rained not in the day-time that the work-
men might not be obstructed in their labor.
Q. What supported the Temple?
A. Fourteen hundred andfifty-threecolumns, and two thousand nine
hundred and six pilasters; all hewn from thefinestParian marble.
Q. What farther.supported it?
A. Three grand columns, or pillars
Q. What are they called?
A. Wisdom, Strength, and Beauty,
Q. What did they represent?
A. The pillar of Wisdom represented Solomon, King of Israel, whose wis-
dom contrived the mighty fabric ; the pillar ofStrength, Hiram, King of
Tyre, who strengthened Solomon in his glorious undertaking; the pillar of
Deauty, Hiram Abbiff, the widow's son, whose cunning craft, and curious
workmanship beautified and adorned the Temple.
Q. H o w many were there employed in the building of King Solomon's
Temple?
A. Three Grand Masters, three thousand three hundred Masters, or over-
seers of the work, eighty thousand Fellow-Crafts, and seventy thousand
Entered Apprentices ; all these were classed and arranged in such a manner
by the wisdom of Solomon, that neither envy, discord, nor confusion, wore
suffered to interrupt that universal peace and tranquillity that pervadod the
work at that important period.
Q. H o w many constitute an Entered Apprentice Lodge?
A. Seven; one Blaster, and six Entered Apprentices.
Q. Where did they usually meet?
A. On the ground-floor of King Solomon's Temple.
Q. H o w many constitute a Fellow-Craft's Lodge?
A. Five; two Blasters, and three Fellow-Crafts.
Q. Where did they usually meet?
A. In the middle-chamber of King Solomon's Temple.
Q. H o w many constitute a Blaster's Lodge!
A. Three Master-Blasons.
Q. Where did they usually moot?
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
76 MASONRY ILLUSTRATED.
A. In the sanctum sanctorum or holy of holies of King Solomon's Tem-
ple.
Q. Have you any emblems on this degree?
Q. What are thefirstclass?
A. Tho pot of incense; the bee-hive; the book of constitutions, guarded
by the Tyler's sword ; the sword pointing to a naked heart; the all-seeing
eye; the anchor and ark; the forty-seventh problem of Euclid; the bour-glasn;
the scythe; and the three steps usually delineated on the Blaster's Carpet,
which are thus explained:—The pot of incense is an emblem of a pure heart
which is always an acceptable sacrifice to the deity; and as this glows with
fervent heat, so should our hearts continually glow with gratitude to the
great and beneficent Author of our existence, for the manifold blessings and
comforts we enjoy.—The bee-hive, is an emblem of industry, and recommends
the practice of that virtue to all created beings, from the highest seraph in
heaven to the lowest reptile of the dust. It teaches us that, as we came into
tho world rational intelligent beings, so we should ever Be industrious ones;
never sitting down contented while our fellow creatures around us are in
want; when it is in our power to relieve them, without inconvenience to
ourselves. W h e n we take a survey of nature, we behold man, in his in-
fancy, more helpless and indigent than the brute creation: he lies
languishing for days, weeks, months, and years, totally incapable of provid-
ing sustenance for himself; of guarding against the attacks of the wild beasts
of thefield,or sheltering himself from the inclemencies of the weather. It
might have pleased the great Creator of heaven and earth to have made man
independent of all other beings; but, as dependence is one of the strongest
bonds of society, mankind were made dependent on each other for protection
and security, as they thereby enjoy bettor opportunities of fulfilling the du-
ties of reciprocal love and friendship. Thus was man formed for social and
active life, tho noblest part of the work of G o d ; and he that will so demean
himself as not to be endeavoring to add to the common stock of knowledge
and understanding, may be deemed a drone in the hive of nature a useless
member of society, and unworthy of our protection as Masons:—The Book of
Constitutions, guarded by the Tyler's sword, reminds us that we should be ever
watchful and guarded, in our thoughts, words and actions, particularly when
before the enemies of Blasonry ; ever bearing in remembrance those truly
Masonio virtues, silence and circumspection.—The sword pointing to a naked
heart, demonstrates that justice will sooner or later overtake us; and although
our thoughts, words, and actions may be hidden from the eyes of m n n • vet
that all-seeing eye, whom the sun, moon, and stars obey, and under whose
watchful care even comets perform their stupendous revolutions, pcr/ade>
the inmost recesses of the human heart, and will reward us according to car
merits.—The anclvor and ark, are emblems of a well-grounded hope and a
well-spent life Thoy are emblematical of that divine ark which safely wafw
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED 77
us over this tempestuous sea of troubles, and that anchor which shall safely
moor us in a peaceful harbor, where the wicked cease from troubling, and
the weary shall find rest. The forty-seventh problem of Euclid. This was
an indention of our ancient friend and Brother, the great Pythagoras, who
iu bin travels through Asia, Africa, and Europe, was initiated into several
orders of priesthood, and raised to the sublime degree of a Blaster-Blason.
This wise philosopher enriched his mind abundantly in a general know-
ledge of things, and more especially in geometry, or masonry: on this sub-
ject he drew out many problems and theorems; and among the most dis-
tinguished he erected this, which, in the joy of his heart, he called Eureka,
in the Grecian language signifying, I havefound it; and upon the discovery
of which he is said to have discovered a hecatomb. It teaches Blasons to
be general lovers of the arts and sciences. T|ie hour-glass is an emblem of
human life. Behold! how swiftly the sands run, and how rapidly our lives
are drawing to a close. W e cannot without astonishment behold the little
particles which are contained in this machine; how they pass away almost
imperceptibly, and yet, to our surprise, in the short space of an hour they
are all exhausted. Thus wastes man! to day he puts forth the tender
.saves of hope; to-morrow, blossoms, and bears his blushing honors thick
upon him; the next day comes a frost which nips the shoot, and when he
thinks his greatness is still ripening, he falls, like autumn leaves, to enrich
our mother earth.—The scythe is an emblem of time, which cuts the brittle
thread of life, and launches us into eternity. Behold! what havoc the scythe
of time makes among the human race ; if by chance we should escape the
numerous evils incident to childhood and youth, and with health and vigor
arrive to the years of manhood, yet with all we must soon be cut down by
the all-devouring scythe of time, and be gathered into the land where our
fathers have gone before us.—The three steps usually delineated upon the
Blaster's carpet, are emblematical of the three principal stages of human life,
viz: youth, manhood, and age. In yputh, as Entered Apprentices, we ought
industriously to occupy our minds in the attainment of useful know-
ledge :
' in manhood, as Fellow-Crafts, we should apply our knowledge
to the discharge of our respective duties to God, our neighbors, and
ourselves; that so in age, as Blaster-BIasons we may enjoy the happy reflec-
tions consequent on a well-spent life, and die in the hope of a glorious im-
mortality.
Q. W h a t are the second class of emblems ?
A. The spade, coffin, death-head, marrow bones, and sprig of cassia,
which are thus explained: The spade opens the vault to receive our bodies,
where our active limbs will soon molder to dust.—Tho coffin, death-head,
and marrow-bonet, are emblematical of the death and burial of our Grand
Blaster, Hiram Abbiff, and are worthy of our serious attention. The sprig
of cassia is emblematical of that immortal part of man which never dies—
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
78 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED
and when the cold winter of death shall have passed, and the bright sum-
mer's morn of the resurrection appears, the Sun of Righteousness shall
descend, and send forth his angels to collect our ransomed dust; then, if we
are found worthy, by his pass-word, we shall enter into the celestial Lodge
above, where the Supreme Architect of the Universe presides, where we
shall see the King in the beauty of holiness, and with him enter into an
endless eternity
Here end the threefirstdegrees of Blasonry, which constitute a Blaster-
Blason's Lodge. A Blaster-Blason's Lodge and a Chapter of Royal Arch
Blasons, are two distinct bodies, wholly independent of each other. The
members of a Chapter are privileged to visit all Blaster-Blasons' Lodges
when they please, and may be, and often are, members of both at the samo
time; and all the members .ttf a Blaster-Blason's Lodge who are Royal
Arch Masons, though not members of any Chapter, may visit any Chapter.
I wish the reader to understand that neither all Royal Arch Blasons nor
Blaster-Blasons are members of either Lodge or Chapter: there are ten3 of
thousands who are not members, and scarcely ever attend although privileged
to do so.
A very small proportion of Blasons, comparatively speaking, ever advance
any further than the third degree, and consequently never get the great
word which was lost by Hiram's untimely death. Solomon, king of Israel,
Hiram, king of Tyre, and Hiram Abbiff, the widow's son, having sworn
that they, nor neither of them would ever give the word except they three
were present [and it is generally believed that there was not another person
in the world at that time that had it]; consequently, the word was lost, and
supposed to be forever; but the sequel will show it was found, after a
lapse of four hundred and seventy years, notwithstanding the word Mah-
hah-lon, which was substituted by Solomon, still continues to be used by
Blaster-Blasons, and no doubt will as long as Blasonry attracts the attention
/ of men; and the word which was lost is used in the Royal Arch degree.
W h a t was the word of the Royal Arch degree before they found the Blas-
ter's word, which was lost at the death of Hiram Abbiff, and was not found
for four hundred and seventy years ? Were there any Royal Arch Blasons
before the Blaster's word was found ?—I wish some Blasonic gentleman
would solve these two questions.
The ceremonies, history, and tho lecture, in the preceding degree, are so
similar, that, perhaps, some one of the three might have been dispensed with,
and the subject well understood by most readers; notwithstanding, there is
a small difference between the work and history, and between the history
and the lecture.
I shall now proceed with the Mark-Blaster's degree, which is thefirstde-
cree in tho Chapter. The Mark-Master's1
degree, the Past-Blaster's, and
die Blost Excellen* Blasters' are called Lodges of Mark-Blaster Masons,
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
MASONRY ILLUSTRATED 79
Past-Masters, and Most Excellent Masters; yet, although called Lodges,
they are a component part of the Chapter. Ask a Mark-Master Blason if
he belongs to the Chapter, he will tell you he does, but that he has only
been marked. It is not an uncommon thing, by any means, for a Chapter
to confer all four of the degrees in one night, viz: the Blark-Blaster, Past-
Master, Blost Excellent Blaster, and Royal Arch Degrees
T H E FOLLOWING A R E T H E SIGNS, DUE-CARDS, GRIPS, PASS-GRIPS, WORDS, AND
PASS-WORDS OF T H E T H R E E PRECEDING DEGREES.
ENTERED APPRENTICE'S DEGREE.
Sign.—Hold the two hands transversely across each other, the right-h
upward and one inch from the left.
Due-Guard.—Draw the right-hand across the throat, the thumb next to
the throat, the arm as high as the elbow in the horizontal position, and let
the hand fall down by the side.
Grip.—The right-hands are joined together, as in shaking hands, and each
sticks his thumb-nail into the third joint or upper end of the fore-finger.
Word.—BO-AZ, which is given by lettering or halving.
FELLOW-CRAFT'S DEGREE.
Sign.—Draw your right hand flat, with the palm of it next to your br
across the breast, from left to right, with some quickness, as if you were
going to tear open tho l
e
f
t breast, and let i
t drop down by your side.
Due-Guard.—Raise the left arm until that part of i
t between the elbow
and the shoulder i
s perfectly horizontal, and raising the rest of the arm in a
vertical position, so that that part of the arm below the elbow, and that
part above it, form a square. The sign and due-guard are given at tho
same time in this degree.
Pass-grip.—Take each other by therighthand, as i
f to shake hands, and
each put his thumb between tho fore and secondfingers,where they join the
hand, and pressing the thumb between the joints. The name of the pass-
grip is Shibboleth, and is the pass-word.
Real-grip.—Take each other by the right hand, as if to shake hands, and
put the thumb on the joint of the secondfingerwhere i
t joins tho hand, and
erooking the thumb so that each can stick the nail of his thumb into the
joint of the other.
Word.—JA-CHIN—given in the samo manner as in thofirstdegroo.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
MASONRY ILLUSTRATED
MASTER-MASON'S DEGREE. \
Sign.—Raise both hands and arms perpendicularly, one on either side of
the head, the elbow forming a square. The words accompanying this sign,
in case of distress, are, " O Lord my God, is there no help for the widow's
ton?" A s the last words are pronounced let the hands fall with an air of
solemnity.—These words cannot be given except in the dark, when the sign
cannot be seen, and is the sign of distress in this degree.
Due-guard.—Put the right-hand to the left side of the bowels, the hand open,
with the thumb next to the belly, and let it fall: this is done tolerably quick.
Pass-grip.—Press the thumb between the joints of the second and third
fingers where they join the hand. The name of it is Tubal- Cain, and is tho
pass-word.
Real-grip.—Take hold of each other's right hand, as if to shake hands,
and stick the nails of each of your fingers into the joint of the other's
wrist, where it unites with the hand.
Word.—B1AH-HAH-BON. The word must be given in the following
manner:—Place the inside of the right foot to the inside of the right foot
of the person to whom you are going to give the word; the inside of your
knee to his; laying your right breast against his; your left hands on each
other's back, and your mouths to each other's right ear, when the word
must be given not above a whisper. This word is sometimes vulgarly pro-
nounced Mah-mah-bo.
A more full explanation of the signs, grips, words, &e., will be given at
the conclusion of the second part of this work, which will comprise the
following degrees, viz: Mark-Blaster, Present or Past-Blaster, Blost Excel-
lent Blaster, and the Royal Arch—to which will also be added, several of
the degrees in the Order of Knighthood.
N O T E . — T h e publisher thinks proper to state, that as there has been
much excitement on the appearance of this book, and various opinions as to
the truth of the same, that the author of it was kidnapped and carried away
from Batavia, by members of the Fraternity, to parts unknown, since which
time he has not been heard from—and that at the late session of the Court
of Oyer and Terminer, held at Canandaigua, Ontario Co., N. Y. on the 1st
January, 1827, Loton Lawson, Nicholas G. Cheesbro, Edward Sawyer and
John Sheldon, were arraigned for conspiring to do the same—the three first
plead G U I L T Y to the charge, and Sheldon was tried and found G U I L T Y
They are now enduring their punishment, which was imprisonment, in the
common Jail of the county, for the following terms:—
Loton Lawson, 2 years, Nicholas G. Cheesbro, 1 year, John Shaiden 3
months, Edward Sawyer, I month.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
THE
SECOND PART:
OE
A KEY
TO THE HIGHER DEGREES
OF
FREEMASONRY:
6IVIBG A CLEAR AND CORRECT VIEW OF THE WAT AND MANNER OF CONFERRING TKI
DEGREES OF MARK-MASTER FAST-MASTER, MOST EXCELLENT MASTER AND ROYAL
ARCH MASON, ON A CANDIDATE; AS PRACTICED IN ALL WELL-GOVERNED
LODGES AND CHAPTERS THROUGHOUT THE GLOBE: TOGETHER
WITH THE MEANS TO BE USED BY SUCH AS ARE NOT MA-
SONS TO GAIN ADMISSION THEREIN THE
WHOLE INTENDED AS A GUrDE TO
THE CRAFT AND A LIGHT TO
THE UNENLIGHTENED
BY A MEMBER OF THE CRAFT.
" Put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is ho.?
ground."—EXODUS iii.
CINCINNATI.
PUBLISHED BY BIATTHE W GARDFNLR.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
I
DISTRICT OF OHIO, TO WIT:
XMMMAX -BE IT
R E M E M B E R E D , that on the ninth day cf July, in the
-* *- vear of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-seven,
*&J^ff,Qy, is- and in the fifty-second year of American Independence, LEVI
^jj if SMITH, of the said district, hath deposited in this office, the tit.e
X T W ? W f X of a book, the right whereof he claims as proprietor, in the words
following, to wit:
"The Second Part; or, A Key to the Higher Degrees of Freemasonry: Giving
a ciear and correct view of the way and manner of conferring the Degrees of Mark-
Master, Past-Master, Most Excellent Master, and Royal Arch Blason, on a Candi-
date ; as practiced in all well-governed Lodges and'Chapters,throughout the Globe;
together with the moans to be used by such as are not Masons, to gain Admission
therein:—-the whole intended as a guide to the Craft, and a light *o the unenlight-
ened. B Y A M E M B E R O F T H E C R A F T . ' Put off thy shoes from off thy feet
for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground.' " E X O D U S iii.
In conformity to the Act of Congress of the United States, entitled" An Act for
the encouragement of learning, by securing the copies of maps, charts, and books,
to the authors and proprietors of such copies, during the time therein mentioned:"
and also, of the act, entitled "An Act supplementary to an act entitled an act for
the encouragement of learning, by securing the copies of maps, charts, and books
to the authors and proprietors of such copies, during the time therein mentioned,
and extending the benefits thereof to the arts of designing, engraving, and etching
historical and other prints/'
W. KEY BOND,
, Clerk of the District of Ohio
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
PREFACE.
T U B unfortunate and lamented BIOROAN, having published and had ope»
<o the world, his ' I L L U S T R A T I O N S ' of thefirstpart, or three first De-
grees of Blasonry, the writer of this work conceived the necessity of pro-
ducing the remaining and Higher BIysteries of the Craft, in order to pre-
vent this Glorious Institution from falling into disrepute among its enemies.
The idea held forth by m y predecessor, in this rathd unpleasant business, I
must acknowledge, is illy calculated to wrest the Older from that stigma and
reproach, which its enemies are ever ready tc heap upon it, which is m y
present intention; and I here avow that m y only object in offering this work
to the public, is to remove the prejudicial impressions very liable to exist in
the minds of the uninitiated, from a perusal of Blorgan's work. B y pre-
senting the brighter side of the picture, if I effect nothing more, m y con-
science will be relieved of a duty I conceive I owe the Institution of which
I have been, and yet remain, a BIcmbcr.*
From the painful events attendant on tbe publication of Blorgan, tht
public will not censure me for withholding m y name and place of residence;
from these they can also judge of the danger to which /should be exposed,
in case the Higher Order of Masons should discover m e : consequently I
shall be pardoned and justified by every candid man, for using every pre-
caution to counteract such an event. If Blorgan has been barbarously
murdered for revealing the three lower Degrees, what fate would be awarded
to one who should withdraw the vail, and lay open the four HIGHER !!
In truth, I tremble while I write; but having formed my design, and 1 trust
from no sinister motive, nothing but the King of Terrors shall prevent me
from portraying it on the TRESTLE-BOARD of public opinion; leaving for the
public to aeicrminc whether the Institution deserves tho bitter reproach and
contumely ii has received, since the Affairs at Batavia,' and the 'Abduc-
tion of Blorgan.'
I have not dared to hint my intentions to a living soul, well knowing that
• Although I hare been a Mtmher of the Craft for many years, the reader will discover,
from certain exjdanaiions annexed to this work, that in all probability I a m the only nidi-
ridual on the Globe w h o ;oala pussioly reveal these higher mysteries of the Order, with-
out committiig the vilest perjurj, by violating oatlis the most sacred.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
84 PREFACE.
no one of the Order could be persuaded to look upon the matter in the light
I do, and join m e in an undertaking so hazardous; and to repose confidence
in any one not of the Craft, would be yet more dangerous. It is not m y
intention to enter into any discussion whatever, upon the merits or demerits
of the Institution which has withstood 'the wreck of matter, and the crush
of worlds,' but merely to relate m y history in a plain, matter-of-fact style ;
leaving for the public, having the whole matter before them, to be their own
judges.
In the following pages, I have deemed it unimportant to annex the LECTURES
of the several Degrees (although very instructive), as every one can readily
become familiar with them, by visiting Lodges and Chapters, after the
knowledge he shall gain from this work. I would here advise the unenlight-
ened reader to perfectly familiarize himself with one Degree, before entering
upon another; else he might make some blunder on entering a Lodge, by
substituting the matter of one Degree for that of another, which would at
once prove him an impostor, and might lead to disagreeable consequences.
With a consciousness that the whole artillery of ROYAL ARCH BIASONBY
will be leveled against me, and held in requisition to find m e out, I now
proceed to m y task, withfirstinforming the world at large, and R O Y A L A R C H
BIASONS in particular, that if any individual who has resided two months in
this city should be accused of the authorship of this work, great injustioe
would be done to such individual; and further, the person who now addres-
ses you, the only person in the whole world who writes this work, or who
knows of its being written, was never in his whole life, until within six
weeks past, nearer to this City than Batavia, in N e w York State.
May the Lord grant Peace and Brotherly Love throughout the world. Se
note it be!! T H E A U T H O R .
C I N C I N N A T I ( O H I O ) , J U L Y , 1827.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
A KEY
TO
THE HIGHER DEGREES
OF
F R E E M A S O N R Y .
T H E M A N N E R O F O P E N I N G A L O D G E O F MARK-MASTER. M A 3 0 N &
A BIASTER-BIASON progressing from the third degree to the fourth, enters
Bn entire newfieldof operations. The Mark Degree to the Blaster-Mason,
is what the Entered Apprentice's is to the uninitiated. From a regular rou-
tine of operations and proceedings, with only some slight difference i
.
i grips,
words, signs, & c , he enters afieldalmost totally dissimilar, in every respect
Bu' to our subject.
The Brethren being assembled, and the officers having repaired to their
several stations, the Blaster addresses the Junior Overseer as follows:
Master. Brother Jabal,* are all things in preparation for the work?
Junior Overse-r. All things are in readiness. Worshipful.
Master. Then let every Brother present mark well the entering in of the
house : observe your Master!
The Blaster now descends from his station, and approaches a small Temple,
which has been previously erected on the middle of the floor, with blocks of
wood in the shape of bricks, but not half so large. Every mark Lodge is
provided with these blacks, and everything fits with such an exact nicety,
that the whole can be put together in the space of fifteen minutes, so as to
form a perfect miniature of King Solomon's Temple, with all its porticoes
knd other ornaments. The master approaches the front of this little Temple,
which faces the east, and opens a small golden door, when a transparent,
view is had within, of the Sanctum Sanctorum or Holy of Holies. Immediate-
ly above (yet within the Temple), are two golden Cherubims.f supporting
• Jabal was the name of a certain Junior Overseer at the building of King Solomon'*
Temple, whom this officer, in every Mark-Lodge, represents.—See Note, page 38.
t Over the aik (which contained the manna), was the mercy-seat and i
t was the cov-
ering of it. It was all made of solid gold, and of the thickness of an band's breadlh. At
the two ends of i
t were two cherubim*;, looking inward toward each other, with wings
expanded, which, embracing the whole circumference of the mercy-seat, did meet on each
t%Aa in the middle : all of which was made of the same mass, without joining any of tho
F (tr. >
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
b6 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
between them » K E Y STONE, with a circle of eight letters on it, which will bs
explained hereafter. The Blaster then kneels, and while viewii g this interior
illumination, repeats the following:
" Great Architect of the universe, we approach thy Holy Tabernacle with
\ sincere desire that our works may tend to magnify Thy Holy Name, and
^o disseminate the cement of Brotherly Love, throughout the secret reccisei
of the human heart. Grant that our work may be approved in thy sight,
andfinallythat each of us may be fitted and prepared for ' that spiritual
building, that house not made with hands, eternal in the Heavens !' "
Response by the Brethren. "So mote it be ! "
The preceding prayer is not universally used on this occasion;—the fol-
lowing is often substituted:
"Wherefore, Brethren, lay aside all malice, and guile, and hypocrisies, and
envies, and all evil speakings. If so be, ye have tasted that the Lord is
gracious, to whom coming as unto a living stone, disallowed indeed of men
but chosen of God, and precious; ye also, as living stones, be ye built up a
spiritual house, an holy priesthood, to offer up sacrifices acceptable to God.
Wherefore, also, it is contained in the Scriptures,. Behold, I lay in Zion, for
a foundation, a tried stone, a precious corner stone, a sure foundation ; he
that believeth shall not rarke haste to pass it over. Unto you, therefore,
which believe, it is an honor; and even to them which be disobedient, the
stone which the builders dkd'iwed, the same is made the head of the corner.
Brethren, this is the will of Gcd, that with well doing you put to silence the
ignorance of foolish men. A s fver and not using your liberty for a cloak of
maliciousness, but as the servants <
»
1 God. Honor all men, love the brother-
hood, fear God."
During tho rehearsal of one of try preceding prayers, tho Brethren all
kneel around the Temple, and at the ncn.-uusion, they all arise, and each in
his turn kneels in front of the golden dio:*, as they pass around; and whilo
viewing the golden cherubims and other boa-rtics within, he axolaims, " H.
T. W. S. S. T. K. S."
Having gone through with these ceremonies, the Brethren all standing in
a circle around the Temple, tho Blaster proceed? tc Lis station, and holds
up to the view of the Brethren, a K E Y STONE, with tho above initials on it,
which he reftda aloud thus : 'He That W a s Slain, Soars Tr- Kindred Spirits;'
— a n d repeats, 'He That W a s Slain Soars To Kindred Splits. This has
allusion to the ancient Grand Blaster, Hiram, whose fatal catfst'oph.'* is ex-
plained in the Third Degree. The origin of this Key Stone w n h these
parts by solder. Here it was, where '.' t Sliechinah, or a'ivine presence, rested both iir «
ernacle and temple, and was vis> „y seen in the appearance of a cloud over it. And bm.im
it is, that God is so often said in Scripture to dwell between the Chejimims j that la. b»-
tween the Cherubims on tile marcy-seat, because there was the seat or throne of the ri0
ble Rppennace li bis glory among them. — I I PJVOEAUX, vol. 1, p. 23!>
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED. 87
initials on it, h very curious, and will be explained in its proper place. The
Master now proclaims the Lodge e^en as follows:
Master. Brethren, we are again assembled around this Altar of Peace.
M a y the extended wings of the golden Cherubims wntinually remind us of
the unbounded latitude of Blasonic Charity. Jlay the Lord prosper our
OIK, to the honor of His Holy Name.
Response by the Brethren. ' So mote it beP
Master. ' Observe your Blaster.'
The Brethren all join in giving the due-guard, sign, and clap.
Master. I now proclaim this Lodge duly and truly prepared for labor.
The Junior Overseer will give notice hereof to the Tyler, and the Brethren
will retire to their several stations.
The golden door is now closed, the Brethren take their stations, and
thus ends the ceremony of opening a Lodge of Mark-Blaster Blasons.
F O U R T H D E G R E E OF BIASONRY.
THE MODE AND MANNER OF CONFERRING THE DEGREE OF MARK-MASTER MASON
ON A CANDIDATE IT BEING THE FOURTH DEGREE OF MASONRY; TOGETHER
U'LTLI THE MEA.NS TO RE USED BY SUCU AS ARE NOT MASONS, TO GAIN AD-
MISSION INTO ANY LODGE OF MARK-MASTERS ON THE FACE OF THE GLOBE.
A BLASTER-BIASON who has petitioned the Chapter to have confer
uim the Degree of a Blark-BIaster, is ballotted for, as in the preceding De-
grees ; and if accepted, will be conducted into a piirate room, and asked
the following questions, by the Blaster Overseer:
Master Overseer. Brother A. B., having progressed in safety to the third
and last round of Jacob's ladder, do you wish to proc.ed further?
Candidate. I do, with your permission.
Master Overseer. D o you solemnly promise, upon your honor as a Blaster-
Mason, to conform to the rules and customs observed ry the Ancient Pa-
triarchs who have traveled this road before you ?
Candidate. I do most cheerfully, with your permission.
The Overseer then informs the Candidate that he is about entering a new
apartment of the Temple, and recommends him to betray no fears during
the numerous trials and difficulties he is about to encounter; that all who
have traveled this way before him, have bravely submitted to the same, &c.
If the Candidate makes no objection, he is deprived of all his clothing, ex-
cept his shirt and drawers (the latter are famished >ten the Candidate is
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
$8 M A b O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
without them), and his hands aro tied closely behind him, by placing their
backs together, and winding a strong cord four limes around his arms about
midway between the elbow and wrist.* (It is necessary to pay strict atten-
tion to this ceremony, as it is the basis of a, Mark-Master's Sign : remember
his hands are placed behind him, back to back.) The Candidate is then en-
shrouded in a Purple Robe, after which he is closely blindfolded, by a band-
age wrapped four times over his eyes, in which situation he is conducted
into the Lodge by the Overseer.
The Blaster now informs the Candidate that an Oath must be taken, be-
fore he can progress farther, whereupon he is caused to mount a platform erec-
ted for the purpose, by a flight of four steps. There is also an altar placed
on this platform, on which lies the Holy Bible, opened at the fourth chapter
of St. Blark. The candidate is caused to kneel on both knees, with his face
(i. e. one cheek.t) resting on the Holy Bible, when the following oath is ad-
ministered by the Blaster:
"In the name of God, and the Holy Prophets, I solemnly swear and affirm,
that I will keep inviolate the mysteries pertaining to the Degree of a Blark-
Blaster Blason, within m y own breast, except when only in company with
Blark-Blasters. That in m y intercourse with the world, I will use m y utmost
endeavors to prevent m y Brother Blark-Blasters from deviating from that
line of rectitude taught them in this Holy Sanctuary. Lastly, that I will
aever give the Blark-Blaster's G R A N D HAILING-SIGN OF DISTRESS, except in
actual distress.\ In the name of God, and the Holy Prophets."
This constitutes the Oath of a Mark-Blaster Blason. The cord is now
taken from the arms of the Candidate, but his hands are held in the same
situation behind him, back to back, by some of the Brethren, while the Blas-
ter instructs him in the Due-Guard Sign of a Mark-Blaster, which is
by bringing his hands around before him, and letting them meet (crossing
each other so as to make a loud clap, four times in succession. N o w is the
proper time for the reader to perfect himself in this Due Guard Sign: place
youi hands behind you with their backs together ; then bring them round toge-
ther mossing, making thepalms hollow, so as to make a loud clap by the concussion '
and this repeat four times: this is called the Mark-Master's Due-Guard and
Clap, and will always be exacted before any one not known as a Blark-BIas-
ter cs n enter a Mark-Lodge, as the G R A N D HAILING-SIGN cannot be o-iven ex-
cept ia "actual distress." as specified in the Oath.)
The Candidate is'now informed that this Due-Guard Sign has reference
to the situation of his hands when he took upon himself the Oath- and the
• Of binding and loosing—Bind not tutn sins together, Ec. vn 8.
t Jabal or Mel (Hebrew),—falling a w a y — o r bringing—or building—or a cheek. La-
coech's son by Adah jatherof such as dwell intents, and such as have cattle. SceGiCN iv 20
t This sign is not even allc wed to be given in the Lodge, notwithstanding i
t is almost
tapossiblo that any one should notice it, as the readur wil discover
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED. 89
flapping them together four times, has strict allusion to the fourth Degree of
Masonry. This Due-Guard Sign is allowed in mixed companies, as no one
could suspect any meaning to it, except a Blark-BIaster Blason. The author
of this work recollects of seeing this often given before he ever sat in aBIark-
Lodge, and very likely the reader does the same; It should be done in a
careless manner, in order that the unenlightened may not notice it. A Blark-
Mason may know another by merely clapping with the hands four times, the
same as applauding an actor on tho Stage in a theater, without placing his
handsfirstbehind him at all;' but this will not answer for one who would go
in a Blark-Lodge, as there they scrutinize very closely, and if one be defi-
cient in recollecting the way in which his hands were tied behind him, back
to back, when he took the Oath, this deficiency would be certain evidence
that he was an impostor, and unworthy tho privilege he claimed.
The Candidate is then told that his present situation represents the time
previous to the creation of the world, and the Blaster takes him by the hand,
and says:
Master. Brother A . B., I now present you with the right-hand of a Broth-
er, and also with the grip of this degree.
Here the Blaster takes the Candidate by the right-hand, and presses the
aail of his right thumb into the last joint of the thirdfingerof the Candidate
(i. e. the joint farthest from the nail), and requests the Candidate to do tho
game—which done, the Blaster says:
Master. This, Brother, is the Grip of a BTark-Master Blason, and its name
is emblematical of your present state. It is C H A O S ; and as yet, Brother
CHAOS, you are in the Dark. Should you, in your travels, hear the word
C H A O S pronounced, whether in darkness or daylight, you may rest assured
a brother Blark-Master utters it, and is in deep distress; and this word
you are entitled to use when in like situation, and then only, accompanied by the
G R A N D HAILING-SIGN O F DISTRESS, which you will hereafter be instructed
in.*
Tho Candidate is now divested of his bandages, and conducted down the four
steps directly in front of the Temple, when the Blaster presents him with a
Chisel and Blallet, which are tho working tools of this Degree ; and placing the
edge of the Chisel on the right temple of the Candidate, orders him to "strike
and receive the mark ! " The Candidate of course declines, and this part of
the ceremony is thus explained to him by the Blaster at the time :
Master. Brother, it was not m y intention that you should strike the blow,
but this is intended to teach you through life, to withhold your arm, when rais-
ed to injure a fellow-being, especially a Brother, the same as if raised against
yourself. We are all of the same family, and are all the children of the
» It is certainly a singular coincidence, that this word of distress, and its accom
tug Grand Hailing-Sign, should have so nearly the same sound; as the reader will discorec
U«y have when he learns the Sign—Chaos—K. S.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
80 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
came G rcat Parent; and all should strive to " do unto others, as we would
that others should do unto us."
The Candidate is then caused to kneel on both knees, when the golden
door is opened, which presents to his view the illuminations within tho Tem-
•ple, w"hen the Master addresses him as follows :
Master. Brother A. B., you now discover the LIGHT by which Mark-Blaster
Masons work. You are now about to be invested with SECRETS, intrusted
only i
n the faithful breasts of Blark-Blasters throughout the Globe; and
which will entitle you to, and insure their respect and esteem, wheresoever
dispersed around the known world. The illuminated Temple before you, is a
perfect miniature of King Solomon's at Jerusalem, the Holy City; the K E F
STONE, supported by the Cherubims with expanded wings, is the main sup-
port in all arches, built by operative Blasons: with us, as Mark-Blasters, i
t
i
t is emblematical of the BINDING LINK OF BROTHERLY LOVE, which unites, t i
D
one strong CHAIN, all who have attained to this Honorary Degree. This
STONE, my Brother, is also typical of the Stone which was rejected by the
builders of old, and in modern days, which stone is TRUTH. Truth is the
Stone which unworthy builders reject, and which is to become the " head of
the Corner." " He that hath an ear to hear let him hear." " To him that over-
cometh will I give to eat of the HIDDEN MANNA, and will give him a WIIITB
STONE, and in the Stone a new name written, which no man knoweth save him
that receiveth it." "Tho Stone which the builders refused, i
s become the
head Stone of the corner. " "Did ye never read in the Scriptures, Tho
Stone which the builders rejected, is become the fiead of the corner? " " And
havo ye not read this Scripture, The Stone which the builders rejected, ia
become the head of tho corner?" " What is this, then, that is written, The
Stone which the builders rejected, i
s become the head of the corner?" (The
Go» OF TRUTH, my Brother.) "This is the Stone which was set at naught
of you, builders, which has become the head of the corner."
" Then he brought me back the way of the gate of the outward Sanctuary,
which looketh toward the EAST ; and i
t was shut." [Here the Blaster shuts
the golden gate, or door.] " Then said the Lord unto me, This gate shall
be shut, i
t shall not be opened, and no man shall enter in by it; because
the Lord, the God of Israel, hath entered in by it, thereforo it shall bo shut.
It is for the Prince, the Prince he shall s
i
t in i
t to eat bread before the Lord-
he shall enter by the way of tho porch of that gate, and shall go out by the
way of tho same. And the Lord said unto mo, Son of Blan, mark well and
behold with thine eyes, and hear with thine cars, all that I say unto thee con-
cerning all the ordinances of the house of tho Lord, and all the laws thereof- and
msrk well the enteringin of the house, with every going forth of the Sanctuary. \
The Blaster now reopens the golden gate, and addresses tie Candidate
A follows:
• Or should unito, i
s frequently adds! by the Master, and very properly too.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
MASONRY ILLUSTRATED. ^1
Master. Brother A. B , I now have the pleasure to present you with the
"New Aame," which "no man knoweth, saving him that receiveth it;" and
which is contained in the "white stone" which " the builders rejected " The
initials you discover, are H . T. W . S. S. T. K. S.—These, as Blark-Blaster
Masons, we read thus: H e That W a s Slain, Soars To Kindred Spirits—He
That W a s Slain, Soars To Kindred Spirits.
'These initials were placed on the Key Stone of the Ninth Arch, by King
Solomon, to commemorate the melancholy 'death of Hiram, an account
of which you have received in the preceding Degree. This Key Stone had
its origin as follows : A skillful workman, at the building of King Solomon's
Temple, named Kerim, after the death of his Grand Blaster, Hiram, held a
consultation with King Solomon, on the subject of the most appropriate man-
ner in which the worth and excellence of this truly great and good man,
might be handed down to posterity. After considerable discussion, it was
agreed that these initials should be engraved on the Key Stone of the Ninth
Arch; and their signification communicated to those only of this Degree,
forever; you are therefore cautioned/my Brother, to divulge this mystery
to no one, either within or without the Lodge, except in the following manner:
Should you wish to know if a stranger be a Blark-Blaster, you will say audi-
bly, " He." N o matter if the room be full of strangers, at the time, no one
except a Blark-Blaster'will notice you. If there be one present, he will say_
"That." Y o u will then approach him, if there be others present, and in
alow tone saji, " Was." H e will then (if he be a Murk-Master,) say,"Slain f
— when you will reply, "Soars;" and he, "To;"—you, "Kindred;" — he,
" Spirits." This much will satisfy each of you that the other is a Mark-Blas-
ter Blason; but it is necessary to speak in a voice that cannot be overheard
by the bystanders. This, Brother, is the only way in which you are ever to
gi\3 the signification of these initials, except you preside as Blaster over a
Lodge, in which case vou are allowed to repeat them twice at the opening
of a Lodge, and twice to a Candidate, as I have done to you this evening.'
At this stage of the proceedings, the Candidate is presented with a chair,
and requested by the Blaster to take his seat, which he is very willing to do,
after kneeling for so long a time. The Blaster then proceeds :
Master. Having progressed thus far,-we now proceed to the Sanctum Sanc-
torum or Holy of Holies. You here discover the extended wings of the two
Chorubims, which guard and protect the heavenly Manna, sent down from
God out of Heaven. This Manna, Brother, has been handed down by Blark-
Master Ma3.>ns, since the Children of Israel sojourned in the wilderness; and
without a portion of this, no Mark-Lodge could be established.*
Hare the Blaster reaches his arm through the golden gate, opens the tab-
• A .hu- al the ancient Manna, was actually preserved, r.nd used in Mark-Lodges, a*
fcr dowu as w.\ ,-ears after the Christian era; but no one It, bis sober senses, will doubt
that the M m iv. ..jed in modern Mark-Lodges, i
s of modern production.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
92 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
ernacle, and takes tlnrefrom a pot of manna, and presenting a morse] of it
to the Candidate, in a silver spoon, proceeds as follows:
Master. "To him that ovcrcometh will I give to eat of the hidden Manna,"
gaith the Lord: take, eat, and praise His Holy N a m e .
Response by the Brethren. "And jn'uise His Holy N'ime!"
The pot of Blanna and the silver spoon are then replaced in the Taberna-
cle, and the golden door is closed; when the Blaster addresses the Candidate
as follows:
Master. You will now arise, m y Brother, and receive the Blark-BIaster's
G R A N D HAILING-SIGN OF DISTRESS.
It will be discovered, that the Blaster cannot give the Sign, without for-
feiting his Oath, not being in "actual distress;" he consequently teaches the
Candidate as follows:
Muster. This sign is made, Brother, by raising your right arm in a position
horizontal with the earth, and moving your right fore-finger (the rest being
closed) so as to form the letter K in the air, and then a period, or a dot after
it, and then lot your arm drop down by your side; you will then raise it, as
before, and with your finger form the letter S in the air, with a period or dot
after it, and then drop your arm as before; and this is the Grand Huiling-
Sign of Distress of a Blark-Blaster Blason. Now, Brother, please give this
Sign, that the Brethren present may see that you understand it.
Of nineteen cases in twenty, the Candidate raises his arm to do as
required, when a Brother seizes it, and tho Blaster says as follows:
Master. Let this be a striking lesson to you, Brother. You have sworn
never to gi7o this Sign, except in "actual distress,1
' audi have done the same ;
which accounts for m y giving it to you verbally; you was about to perjure
yourself, when a Brother stayed your arm and prevented you. Let this
teach you to step forth, and stay the arm of a Brother, when about to
commit any rash act; and to use your utmost endeavors to keep him from
falling into evil. Remember your Oath, Brother!—(A Candidate generally
feels tho full force of these remarks.]
It is unnecessary to inform the reader of common discernment, that theso
letters, K. S., are the initials of the Key Stone.—The Candidate is now
placed on the opposite side of the Temple, with his face fronting tho Blaster,
who thus addresses him :
Master. Brother A. B., you have now arrived at a station attained but
by few of your Brethren,* and it is your embounden duty to g-.tard against
all immoralities in your life and conduct, which might prejudice the world
against our excellent Institution, or servo as an apology to your Brethren
of a lower Degree, for following your example. You will alleviate* tho suf-
• This charge has been bunded down from very remote times, when, no do jut it~wa»
Iru^. Very mai.y are admitted to this Degree in m o d e m days—very m a n y more thap
profit liv tho excellent lessons they receive.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATE©:- 95
ferings of the iistresscd, by contributing to their rcrfcf!ffwM&Lyo'tr'jS'ewer,
and if not, by sympathizing with their distresses. I nov btv.'e the pleasure
to present you with the working tools of your proftssionv • T-he wt-rkng tools
of a Blark-Blaster Mason, are the Chisel ami B>a'ikt, • shier.; are *>hua
moralized:
The Chisel morally demonstrates the advantages of discipline and educa-
tion. The mind, in its original state, like the diamond, is rude and unpolished;
but as the effect of the Chisel on the external coat soon presents to view the
latent beauties of the diamond, so education discovers the latent virtues of
the mind, and draws them forth to range the large field of matter and
space,—to display the summit of human knowledge—our duty to God
and to man.
The Mallei morally teaches to correct irregularities, and to reduce man to
a proper level; so that by quiet deportment, he may, in the school of disci-
pline, learn to be content. W h a t the Mallet is to the workman, enlightened
reason is to the passions : it curbs ambition, depresses envy, it moderates
anger, and it encourages good dispositions; whence arises, among good M a -
ions, that comely order,
"Which nothing earthly gives, or can destroy—
The soul's calm sunshine, and the heart-felt joy."
The Blaster now resumes his station in the East, and says:
Master. Brother Blaster Overseer, you will take charge of the Candidate,
aud return with him to the Lodge in due season.
The Candidate is then reconducted to the private room; his Robe is
taken off, and he puts on his own clothes—when he is again taken into the
Lodge, and the Master, through the hands of the Blaster Overseer, presents
him with a lamb-skin, or white leather apron, and the Overseer teaches him
how to wear it, which is simply by tying it on, and so placing tho strings by
its several corners as imperfectly to form the letters K . S., crossing each
other. The Candidate is again placed on the platform, with his face toward
the Blaster, who gives him the following
C HAR GE.
' B R O T H E R : 1 congratulate you on having been thought worthy of beiog
promoted to this honorable degree of Blasonry. Permit m c to impress it
on your mind, that your assiduity should ever be commensurate with
your duties, which become more and more extensive as you advance in Bla-
sonry.
'The situation to which you are now promoted will draw upon you not
only the scrutinizing eyes of the world at large, but those also of your Bre-
thren, on whom this Degree of Blasonry has not been conferred : all will be
1-717858
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
£ 4 .,, M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED
justified,in expt;c,.in,g..y0ur conduct and behavior to be such as may with
safety be, imitated.,
En t.he htuiorabk character of Blark-Master Blason, it is more particularly
your duty Sc nnaeayor so let your conduct in the world, as well as in the
Lodge, and among your brethren, be such as may stand the test of the
Grand Overseer's Square ; that you may not, like the unfinished and im-
perfect work of the negligent and unfaithful of former times, be rejected
and thrown aside, as unfit for 'that spiritual building, that house not made
with hands, eternal in the Heavens.'
' While such is your conduct, should misfortune assail you, should friends
forsake you, should envy traduce your good name, and malice persecute you;
yet may you have confidence, that among Blark-Master Masons, you will
find friends who will administer relief to your distresses, and comfort .your
afflictions; ever bearing in mind, as a consolation under all the frowns of
fortune, and as an encouragement to hope better prospects, that the stone
which the builders rejected (possessing merits to them unknown) became the
chief stone of the corner.'
This concludes the Charge, and the Candidate is conducted down from
the platform, and takes his seat; and this is the concluding ceremony at tho
conferring of this Degree. If there is no further business before the Lodge,
it is closed in the following manner:
Master. Brother Jabal, aro all things in preparation for the conclusion of
erur work ?
Junior Overseer. All things are in preparation, Worshipful.
Master. Then let every Brother present mark well the entering in of the
gate, with every going forth of the sanctuary. Observe your Blaster!
• The Blaster here descends from his station, and proceeds to the Temple,
as in opening; and having opened the golden door, while the Brethren all
kneel around in a circle, ho recites the lengthy parable beginning with, ' For
the Kingdom of Heaven is like unto a man that is an householder, which
went out early in the morning,' & c , which it is needless here to insert, as
it can be found in Webb's ' BIASONIC BIONITOR,' page 91. The Blaster then
holds up the Key Stone and says, ' He;'—his next Brother says, 'Was;' •
the next, ' Slain';—and so on until the last word is said of which the letters
on the Key Stone are the initials; and if thcro be more than eight Brethren
present, the one next to the seventh Brother from the Blaster ben-ins over
again, and this method is continued, if there arefiftyin the room, until each
Brother has pronounced a word. This is in accordance with the idea held
forth in the parable just referred to, concerning those who came in ' at the
eleventh hour,' receiving as much wages as those who 'have borne tho bui-
den and heat of tho day.' Sec BIonitor, pages 91 and 92.
The Brethren now all arise, and march around tho Temple, until the?
have finished singing the Blark-BIaster's Song, which may also bo found
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
MASCNRY ILLUSTRATED. 95
a the BIonitor, pages 93 and 94. Having concluded the song, the Master
says:
Master. Brethren, wc are about to separate from this Altar of Peace.
Blay tho extended wings of the Cherubims continually remind us of the
unbounded latitude of Blasonic Charity. Blay the Lord prosper our work,
to the honor of his Holy Name.
Response by the Brethren : ' So mote it be £
Master. I now proclaim this Lodge duly and truly closed. Blay we all
m y Brothers, conduct ourselves as men and Blasons, until we again assem-
ble around this Altar of Peace
Response : ' So mote it be!'
Here the ceremony closes, and the Brethren disperse, except the Tyler,
whose duty it is to take due care of the materials in and about the Temple,
and to take the Temple itself to pieces, and place them in a box under
lock and key, lest Blaster-Blasons meeting in the same room on other nights,
might see them, and make some improper discoveries.
I might swell out the pages, by giving the LECTURES of the several De-
grees, but as they are merely explanatory of the ceremonies here related,
and of certain circumstances connected with the building of King Solomon's
Temple, I shall only make this work what it purports to be, a 'KEY,' & C .
wherewith may be unlocked the door of the Blasonic Temple, through which
any one may enter who will follow the rules here laid down.
THE MKA1TB TO BE USED BY SUCH AS ARE NOT MASONS, TO GAIN ADMISSION INTO
. ANY LODGE OF MARK-MASTERS ON THE FACE OF THE GLOBE.
Nothing is more apt to make one's heart feel timorous, than to attempt
to pass on his fellow-being a falsehood for a truth—or a base counterfeit
coin for a genuine one; more especially when connected with tho subject of
this work, which has performed its midnight rites in secret conclave for cen-
turies past, defying, as it were, tho searching and scrutinizing eyes of the
whole world! This timorousness must be overcome before any one attempts
to go into a Blark-Lodge. H e must take unto himself a resolution which
cannot be shaken off at the door, otherwise he will quake and tremble, and
have only his labor for his pains: but if he will follow exactly the rules
here laid down, with boldness and resolution, no Blark-Lodge on the Globe
» A * K icfuse him admission.
O n proceeding to the door of a Blark-Lodge, the Tyler will be found
outside, with a naked sword, as in the lower Degrees. After bidding the
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
JJ6 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
Tyler good evening, you can ask him on what Degree the Lodge is open
If the Blark-Blaster's, you can tell him you are a stranger,* and would
like to be examined. If you see an apron lying near, put it on with as much
freedom as possible, and betray no fears or uneasiness—as this would excito
suspicion. The Tyler will then give four knocks at the door, which will bo
answered by four from within, when it will open, and the Tyler will whisper
in the ear of the Junior Overseer that 'a Brother wishes to be examined.'
The door will again close, and presently the three Overseers (sometimes but
two) will come to you from another door, and conduct you into the private
room where Candidates arefirsttaken—when the following will be your
course to pursue: Address yourself to either of the Overseers, and say,
'I am a Blark-Blaster, and a stranger; therefore I wish to be examined.'
W h e n the Overseer to whom you address yourself, will ask, ' Where was
you made a Blark-Blaster ?'
Applicant. In front of the Temple.
Overseer. What was between you and the Temple, at tho time?
Applicant. The golden door.
Overseer. Give me the grand hailing-sign of a Blark-Blaster.
Applicant. That is beyond m y power, at this time, Brother.
Overseer. Have you any other sign to dispose of ?
Applicant. I have, with your assistance, Brother.
Overseer. H o w will you dispose of it ?
Applicant. B y dividing the circle.
Overseer. Proceed.
[Here give the due-guard sign and clap once, when the Overseer will do
the same; you will repeat, when he will also repeat, which will complete the
four times.]
Overseer. What do you call this sign, Brother ?
Applicant. The due-guard sign and clap of a Blark-BIastcr.
Overseer. What further have you to convince me, you aro a Blark-
Master ?
Applicant. A grip, Brother.
Overseer. Give me it.
Applicant:—[Taking him by the right-hand, and pressing your thumb-
nail into the upper joint of his thirdfinger,i, e. the joint farthest from the
nail]: This is the grip of a Blark-Blaster.
Overseer. By what name is this grip designated, Brother ?
Ipplicant. B y a name similar in sound to tho letters made in the air by a
Mark-Blaster in distress, accompanied by the grand hailin.<»-sign.
• If /on are known by many, or any of the members, it would be better not to appl»
for ad.nission except just after you return from a journoy ; and then sometime nreviou*
to tho meeting of the Lodge, t
e
l
l them you have taken the degree during vooi u>-
•enco.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
MASONRY ILLUSTRATED 07
Overseer. Give m e it, Brother.
Applicant. I will, by dividing the square.
Overseer. Proceed, Brother.
Applicant. OS.—Overseer. CHA.—Applicant. C H A . - - Overseer. O S . —
applicant. CHAOS.--Overseer. Right, Brother Chaos, I greet you in the
ui»me of the Holy St. Blark, and all Blark-Masters throughout the Globe.*
Y o u will then be reported to the Lodge by the Overseers, as a regular
Blark-Master Blason, and introduced accordingly. O n entering, you will
proceed to the center of the floor, and give the due-gard, sign and clap in
full, t'uat the brethren may be also satisfied you are entitled to the privilege
you have gained, and then take a seat. The examination by tho Overseers
seldom extends beyond what is here laid down—though in some in-stances
it proceeds to tho new name on the K e y Stone, which by this time the
reader can repeat as well as the brightest Blark-Blaster; but ho must
always take especial care, should the Overseer touch on this subject, to utter
but one of the words at a time, and insist on the next one being spoken by
the Overseer, should he refuse, which is sometimes done, the more fully to
test the qualifications of a visiting Brother. B y adhering strictly to the rules
here laid down, the reader, if sex or age does not oppose, can visit any
Blark Lodge on the Globe, of whatever country or nation. O n learning the
Lecture of this Degree, it will be found very interesting and instructive.
It is divided into two sections. Thefirstsection explains the manner of con
vocating and opening a Mark-BIaster'3 Lodge. It teaches the stations and
duties of the respective officers, and recapitulates the mystic ceremony of
introducing a Candidate. In tho second section, the Blark-Blaster is particularly
instructed in tho origin and history of this Degree, and the indispensable
obligation he is under to stretch forth his assisting hand to tho relief of an
indigent and worthy Brother, to a certain and specified extent. Tho pro-
gress made in architecture, particularly in the reign of Solomon, is remarked ;
the number of artists employed in building the Temple of Jerusalem, and
the privileges they enjoyed, are specified; the mode of rewarding merit, and
of punishing the guilty, are pointed out;. and the marks of distinction,
which were conferred on our ancient Brethren, as the rewards of excellence,
are particularly n a m e d . — E n d of Fourth Degree.
» This is properly the last grip in Masonry; but since the publication of ' Jach
Boaz,' some Past-Masters press their thumb between this thirdfingerand the littie finper,
and call i
t the pass-grip of a Past-Master, without a name, however; and then passing
the thumb along to the third or last joint from the end of the littlefinger,press in tho
nail and call i
t Ckibbilum. This is only practiced among a few modern Masons, and doca
rot belong to ancient Masonry
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
MASONRY ILLUSTRATED
FIFTH D E G R E E OF BIASONRY.
THE MCDE AN-D MANNER OF CONFERRING THE DEGREE OF PAST-MASTER MASON ON
A CANDIBATE—IT BEING THE FIFTH DEGREE OF MASONRY; TOGETHER WITD
TJIE MEANS TO BE USED BY SUCH AS ARE NOT MASONS, TO GAIN ADMISSION
INTO ANY LODGE OF PAST-MASTERS ON THE FACE OF THE GLOBE.
Tins Degree will be found very uninteresting to the general reader, as it
merely relates to the regulation of Lodges, the mode * f laying corner stones,*"-
installing officers, constituting new Lodges, ceremonies observed at funerals,
eonsecrations, &c. & C ; the principal part of which may be found in Webb's
Monitor, from page 94 to 1-15.
A s it would be folly to present to the public what is already before them,
I shall merely give the manner in which this Degree is conferred, which will
enable any one to visit a Lodge of Past-Blasters, and seek such further elu-
cidation of the subject as his curiosity may prompt. This Degree is confer-
red on every Blaster of a Lodge previous to his installation.
A Candidate about to take this Degree, is conducted into the Lodge with-
out ceremony, and caused to kneel before the tabernacle, with his hands
resting on the Holy Bible, in the following manner : he lays his left-hand on
the left page, and his right-hand on tho right page, letting the end of tho
fore-finger of each hand touch each other, with the thumbs pointing in a
straight line across the page, toward each other (i.e. the way the lines run
in the book), and their ends also touching each other; which forms a perfect
TRIANGLE (with tho exception of a slight curve in the middle of the base
where the thumbs, meet) as any one may readily discover, by placing his hands
in that situation. In order to form as perfect a triangle as possible, the fin-
gers adjuining the foremost ones, i. e. the second fingers, and the two long-
est on the hands, are kept close to the fore ones, from the roots to the ends,
ttnd the ends of these longest (which reach somewhat further than the fore
ones), must be suffered to barely graze each other, taking care also to press
the ends of the thumbs together until the end of each nail meets. Li this
situation, the Blaster administers the following
OATH.
" In the name of God, and the Holy Prophets, I solemnly swear, that T
will recognize no Brother, as Past-Blaster, except hefirstprove himself such
by the TRIANGLE OF T R U T H ; and that I will keep inviolate the sign and words
of a Past-Blaster, except when in the presence of those only who are legally
in possession of the same, and then only, except by the Triangle of Truth. In
thff name of God, and the Holy Prophets!"
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED 9g
This oath being taken, the Candidate is told to arise, when tho Blaster ad-
dresses him thus:
•Brother—Previous to your investiture, it is necessary that you should
signify your assent to those ancient charges and regulations which point out
the duty of a Blaster of a Lodge."
The Blaster then reads a summary of the ancient charges, to the Candi-
date, as follows:
" I. 1 ou agree to be a good man and true, and strictly to obey the mora.
law.
"II. You agree to be a peaceable subject, and cheerfully to conform to
the laws of the country in which you reside.
"III. Y o u promise not to be concerned in plots and conspiracies against
government, but patiently to submit to the decisions of the supreme legisla
ture.
" IT. Y o u agree to pay a proper respect to the civil magistrate, to work
diligently, live creditably, and act honorably by all men.
" V . Y o u agree to hold in veneration the original rulers'and patrons of
the order of Blasonry, and their regular successors, supreme and subordinate
according to their stations; and to submit to the awards and resolutions of
your brethren when convened, in every case consistent with the constitutions
of the order.
" VI. You agree to avoid private piques and quarrels, and to guard against
intemperance and excess.
"VII. Y o u agree to be cautious in carriage and behavior, courteous to
your Brethren, and faithful to your Lodge.
"VIII. You promise to respect genuine Brethren, and to discountenance
impostors, and all dissenters from the original plan of Blasonry.
"IX. Y o u agree to promote the general good of society, to cultivate tho
social virtues, and to propagate the knowledge of the art.
"X. You promise to pay homage to the Grand Blaster for the time being,
and to his officers, when duly installed; and strictly to conform to every edict
of the Grand Lodge, or general assembly of Blasons, that is not subversive
ef the principles and ground-work of Blasonry.
" X L You admit that it is not in the power of any man, or body of men,
to make innovations in the body of Blasonry.
"XII. You promise a regular attendance on the committees and commu-
nications of the Grand Lodge, on receiving proper notice ; and to pay a m o -
tion to all the duties of masonry, on convenient occasions.
"XIII. You admit that no new Lodge shall bo formed without pcrmissiou
uf the Grand Lodge ; and that no countenance be given to any irregular
Lodge, or to any person elandestinely initiated therein, being contrary to
the ancient charges of tho order.
" X I V . Y o u admit that no person can bo regularly made a Blason in, 01
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
100 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
admitted a member of, any regular Lodge, without previous notice, and due
inquiry into his character.
" X V . You agree that no visitors shall be received into your Lodge with-
out due examination, and producing proper vouchers of their having been in-
itiated into a regular Lodge."
After giving the foregoing charges, the Master addresses the Candidate as
follows:
•'Brother A. B.,—Do you submit to these charges, and promise to
support these regulations, as Past-Blasters have done in all ages before
you?"
Having signified his cordial submission, the Blaster continues:
" Brother—in consequence of your cheerful conformity to the charges and
regulations of the order, you are now intrusted with the sign and words of
this Degree, which were established by our three ancient Grand Blasters at
Jerusalem a short time previous to the completion of the Temple, with the
fullest confidence that you will keep and preserve the same inviolate."*
The Master here gives the sign, which is done by placing his hands in tho
position in which they were when the oath was taken, and raising them so
as to let the ends of tho thumbs, where they meet, rest about on tho middle
of the nose, and the two ends of the fore-fingers that meet, on the head direct-
ly over the forehead; at the same time looking through the triangle thus
formed, at the lower angles, at the Candidate; and pronouncing tho words,
" T R I A N G L E OF TRUTH.''
The Candidate being taught this, the Blaster says:
"This, Brother, is the Sign, and these the words, of a Past-Blaster, which
you have sworn never to give or receive, except by the Triangle of Truth,
which is the manner in which you receive them; nor then, except when only
in the Presence of Past-Masters."
The Blaster now forms the triangle again, and raising his hands as de-
scribed above (the Candidate being taught the same), looks through at tho
Candidate, and says:
'Brother—I now behold you within the Triangle of Truth—and may the
All-Seeing Eye over thusfindyou.'
The Master then takes his station, and delivers a charge almost tho same
as the one addressed to the Blaster at his installation, which may be found
in the BIonitor, pages 121 and 122, and which it is needless here to tran-
scribe. The Candidate is then presented with a Triangle, which is his pe-
culiar insignia, and takes his seat. There being no other business the
Lodge is then closed.
This Degree is conferred upon many who have not taken the Blark D o
• By a reference to the Monitor, page 114, it will be seen that this language is
the samo as that used at tho installation of a Master of a Lodge.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
MASONlftr ILLUSTRATED. 101
gree, as nil Blasters of Lodges (I now mean Blaster's Lodges), must receive
this prior to their installation; but no one can progress farther than this
Degree withoutfirsttaking the Blark: and in fact this Degree seems more
properly to belong to the lower Degrees than to the higher ones—and I am
inclined to think, that, anciently, this was counted the Fourth Degree,
although I have no Blasonic authority for so believing, or a single second to
such a belief, that I am aware of. The Lecture of this Degree is dividd-
intofivesections, the leading features of which may be seen in the Monitor
from page 96 to 115.
T O E MEANS TO BE USED BY SUCH AS A R E NOT MASONS, TO GAIN ADMISSION INTO
A N Y LODGE OF PAST-MASTERS ON THE FACE OF T H E GLOBE.
It is a very easy matter to enter a Lodge of Past-Blasters, if you hav
the sign correctly, as that is generally all that i
s required. Sometimes the
words are resorted to, and lest the reader might not fairly understand the
ceremony to be performed, I shall here lay i
t down so plainly that he cannot
f
a
i
l to understand it.*
You will proceed to the door of the Lodge, which you will find guarded
by the Tyler with a drawn sword, as in the Blark Degree, and on requesting
to be admitted, he will givefiveknocks at the door, which will be answered
by the same number from within; when the door will be opened, and the
Tyler will whisper your request to the Brother who opens it, when tho door
will again be closed. During the interval, you can ask tho Tyler on what
Degree the Lodge i
s open, and if he says tho Fifth, or Past-Blaster's, you
will'proceed as follows, when the person sent out to examine you, has con-
ducted you into the private room, as stated in the last Degree:
Applicant. I am the Past-Blaster, and wish to enter this Lodge of Past-
BJasters.
Past-Master. H o w am I to know you are such?
Applicant. B y this. [Here place your hands before you, as when the
oath is taken.]
Past-Master. Have you anything more, Brother ?
Applicant. I have. [Here raise your hands, as before stated, and looking
through the triangle, the Blason will say],
Past-Master. What is that, Brother ?
Appliccrd. The Triangle of Truth. [Here bring your hands down with
e flap < n each thigh.]
* I purpose, in the second edition of this work, to provide plates, as I find i
t a vory
•Mcult matter to describe all the niceties accompanying the Signs, in writing I nhoi Id
aa?e r .-ovided them for this edition, but for the fear that tho engraving of them mijbi
lobd tc m y detection, which wou'd bo a destructive event
G
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
102 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
The Blason will then be fully satisfied, and introduce you into the Lodge
when you will proceed to tho middle of the floor and give the sign aboye-
namcd, that the Brethren may be convinced of your claim; but by all means
avoid pronouncing the words at the time. You will barely raise your hands
to your eyes, preserving the triangle, and then letting them drop on your
thighs with aflap,take a seat.
SIXTH D E G R E E OF B1ASONRY.
TffE MODE AND MANNER OF CONFERRING THE DEGREE OF MOST EXCELLENT
MASTER-MASON ON A CANDIDATE IT BEING THE SIXTH DEGREE OF MASONRY;
TOGETHER WITH THE MEANS TO BE USED BY SUCH AS ARE NOT MASONS, TO GAIN
ADMISSION INTO ANY LODGE OF MOST EXCELLENT MASTERS ON THE FACE OF THB
GLOBE.
ANCIENTLY, none but the meritorious and praiseworthy; none but those
who through diligence and industry had progressed far toward perfection;
none but those who had been seated in the Oriental Chair* by the unani-
mous suffrages of their Brethren—were admitted to this Degree of Blasonry.
In its original establishment, when the Temple of Jerusalem was finished,
and the fraternity celebrated tho cap-stone with great joy, i
t is demonstra-
ble that none but those who had proved themselves complete masters of
their profession were admitted to this honor; and indeed the duties incum-
bent on every Blason who i
s accepted and acknowledged as a Blost Excellent
Master, are such as render i
t indispensable that he should have a perfect
knowledge of all the preceding Degrees.
A Lodge of Blost Excellent Blasters i
s opened as follows: Tho Brethren
form themselves into an oblong square around the temple (on which i
s
placed a golden tabernacle, with staves by which i
t can be carried), as in
tho Blark Degree, a
l
l standing and uncovered: when the Blost Excellent
Master presiding says: ' The earth i
s the Lord's and tho fullness thereof;
tho world, and they that dwell therein.'
The Brother next him says: ' For he has founded i
t upon tho sua3, and,
established i
t upon the floods.'
The next Brother proceeds: ' W h o shall ascend intc the hill of tho Lord!
and who shall stand in his holy place?'
« The Orienta'. Chair was the ono used by King Solomon whon he presided t-s Grand
Master, which was lost at the destruction of Jerusalem. W e learn by a Masonic traditioa
contained in the lecture of this degree, that " this chair was of massive gold, with cuiiU-
bua fringe 1 with silver; and was large enough to contain tliree persons."
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED. 103
The next Brother replies: 'He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart;
Who hath not kited up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully.'
Next Brother: ' H e shall receive the blessing from the Lord, and right-
eousness from the God of his salvation.'
Next Brother: ' This is the generation of them that seek him, that seek
thy face, 0 Jacob.'
Next Brother: ' Selah.
Next brother: 'Lift up your heads, 0 ye gates,'—(here the golden door
is opened),—' and be ye lifted up,'—[here two of the Brethren raise the
golden tabernacle by its staves,* about as high as their heads],—'ye ever-
lasting doors, and the King of Glory shall come in.' [Here the Brethren
lower the tabernacle.]
Next Brother: ' W h o is tnia EKng of Glory ?'
Next: ' The Lord, strong and mighty, the Lord, mighty in battle.'
Next Brother: 'Lift up your heads, 0 ye gates, even lift them up,'-—
(here they again raise the tabernacle),—'ye everlasting doors, and the King
"f Glory shall come in.'
Next: ' W h o is this King of Glory ?'
Next Brother: 'The Lord of Hosto, he is the King of Glory.''
The Brethren all together: 'Selah !
'
The tabernacle is now replaced on the temple, and the Most Excellent
Master proclaims the Lodge open, when the golden door is closed, and the
Brethren take their seats. There is solemnity in the ceremony of opening
this Lodge, which it is impossible to convey on paper. A reverential awe
pervades the breast of every one present, no matter how often he may have
assisted in the ceremony.
If a Candidate has been balloted for, and i
f
i in waiting, he is conducted
into a private room by two Brethren, when a Brother says the following:
'I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go into the house of the
Lord.'—(During the time the Brother is repeating these passages, the other
Brother is taking the clothing from off the Candidate.)—' Our feet shall'
stand within thy gates, 0 Jerusalem. Jerusalem is builded as a city that
is compact together; whither the tribes go up, tho tribes of the Lord, unto
the testimony of Israel, to give thanks unto the name of the Lord. Pray
for the Peace of Jerusalem; they shall prosper that love thee. Peace be
within thy walls, and prosperity within thy palaces. For m y Brethren and
companions' sake, I will now say, Peace be within thee because of the house
of the Lord our God, I will seek thy good.'
B y this time (as the Brother speaks very slow, making sufficient pauses, bo
• The ark, wh le it was ambulatory with the Tabernacle, was carried by staves on th
saoulders of the Levites. These staves were overlaid with gold, and put through goldou
rings made fai them. PBID., V. I, p. 302.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
104 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
tweeu each sentence to give the other Brother time), the Candidate u
deprived of all his clothing except his shirt, and in this situation he is con-
ducted into the Lodge, when the Blost Excellent Master addresses him as
follows:
" Brother A. B.,—You are for the sixth time within the walls of our sacred
tabernacle, and it becomes necessary for you to take upon you an Oath, be-
fore you can proceed further. 'Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord?
and who shall stand in his holy place? H e that hath clean hands, and a
pure heart; who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceit-
fully.' "
The Candidate is then conducted to the altar, caused to kneel on a cush-
ion with both knees, resting his hands on the Bible, the same as in the last
degree, except, instead, of permitting the ends of his fore-fingers and thumbs
to barely touch each other, they must now be crossed : i. e., the fore-finger
of the right-hand, at the first joint, must cross the fore-finger of the loft-hand
at thofirstjoint—(the joint nearest the nail); and the thumb of the right-
hand, at thefirstjoint, must cross the thumb of the left-hand at the first
joint; keeping the hands asfiaton the book as possible, as in the past de-
gree ; and'keeping the other threefingersof each hand as close together as
ho can, and as far as they can be stretched from the two fore-fingers, which
are crossed. This forms a figure which is represented on all escutcheons of
Royal Arch Masonry. In this situation the BI. E. Blaster administers the
following
O A T H .
In the name of God, and the Holy Prophets, I solemnly swear, that the
seorets connected with the Degree of Most Excellent Blaster Blason, which I
have received, am about to, or shall hereafter receive, I will keep inviolate
within m y own breast, except I impart them to such as are lawfully entithd
to the same. Further, that I will use all amicable means within m y power to
save a worthy brother of this degree from injury, either from himself or any
othor person. I also swear that I will not give the Grand Hailing-sign of die-
tress, or word's of a Blost Excellent Blaster, to any being in any known world
withoutfirstsatisfying myself that such a person is as lawfully entitled to the
same as I myself am, except in case of great distress. I furthermore awear,
in the name of God, and the Holy Prophets, that I will never suffer to be
wronged or injured, if within m y power to prevent, tho wife, sister, mother
or daughter of a Brother of this degree. In the name of God, and tho Holy
Prophets."
The Oath being finished, the Candidate is ordered to arise, when he is pla-
ced in front of the Temple, and the BI. E. Blaster addresses him thus:
" Brother—you again behold the outward sanctuary of King Solomon's Tem-
ple. May tho Lord prepare your heart to feel the beauties within."
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED. 105
The Candidate is here caused to kneel, when the Blaster opens the golden
door, when the inside of the Temple seems as dark as Egypt, the lights have
ing been previously extinguished by a Brother—when the BI. E. Blaster
kneels, and proceeds as follows :
"Then said Solomon, The Lord hath said that he would dwell in thick
darkness. But I have built an house of habitation for thee, and a place for
thy dwelling forever." " And he stood before the altar of the Lord, in the
presence of all the congregation of Israel, and spread forth his hands.—(For
Solomon had made a brazen scaffold offivecubits long, and five cubits broadi
and three cubits high, and had set it in the midst of the court.)—Now then*
0 Lord God of Israel, let thy word be verified, which thou hast spoken unto
thy servant David.—(But will God in very deed dwell with men on earth!
Behold, heaven and the heaven of heavens, cannot contain thee; how much
less this house which I have builded!)—Then Solomon again spread forth
his hands, and said, Let thine eyes, 0 Lord, be open upon this house day
and night, and hearken unto the prayer which thy servant piayeth toward
this place."
The Blost Excellent Blaster continues reciting several lengthy passages,
which may be found in the Blasonic BIonitor, from page 148, to 152, which
it is useless hero to insert, except such particular parts as serve to illustrate
this part of the ceremony. lie at length arrives at the following pas-
sage : y
" N o w when Solomon had made an end of praying, T H E F I R E C A B I E
D O W N F R O B I H E A V E N , " — h e r e a Brother applies a light to a train pre-
pared for the purpose, unperceived by the Candidate, which instantly begins
to illuminate the Temple—and the Blaster proceeds:)—"and consumed the
burnt-offering and the sacrifices; and T H E G L O R Y O F T H B L O R D
F I L L E D T H E H O U S E ! " — B y this time the Temple isfilledwith a pure
blaze of flaming light, it having been prepared during the day with combus-
tible materials for the purpose. The Blost Excellent Blaster continues: "And
the Priests could not enter into the house of the Lord, because the glory of
the Lord hadfilledthe Lord's house."
Here the Blost Excellent Blaster and Candidate arise, and walk around
to the north side of the temple, when such illuminatedfiguresare presented
to their sight as it is impossible here to describe or enumerate.—(The Bre-
thren maintain a profound silence during all this time).—On tho south side
of the temple are seen brilliant representations of the implements pertaining
to the lower degrees of Blasonry, together with all the adornments of that
side of the original temple at Jerusalem, as described in the Scriptures,
with thousands of other brilliancies too numerous even to name, and which
seem more of another world than this. O n the west side, the setting sun
is descending behind the hills, in all the splendor of a meridian noonday, and
ither curiosities indescribable. Getting round to the north, scarcely a gleam
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
106 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
of light penetrates through this side of the temple! This is of Blasonie
ingenuity, and is well understood by all who have studied well tho three first
degrees.
In front of the temple, where the golden door opens, which faces the east,
is seen the reservoir containing the materials which give this brilliant light;
and by the time the Candidate arrives in front [the Blaster explains many
of the illuminations as they pass around], this source or fountain head ap-
pears partially exhausted,* and the light becomes partially dim, when the
Blost Excellent Blaster addresses the Candidate as follows:
'Brother—You discover that the light of Divine love is fading: let the
Divinefireof heaven expand your heart, and revive it.'
After a momentary pause, as if waiting for the operation to take effect
on-the Candidate (who cannot refrain from certain feelings of his inward
divinity during this time), the light resumes its former luster—which is
done by the hand of a Brother, who governs a secret spring, wholly unob-
served by the Candidate.
During these ceremonies, which cannot be well described, much less made
to appear solemn on paper (but which are in their proper places as solemn
and imposing as human ceremonies «an be made), the Brethren maintain
almost a breathless silence
The Brethren, being all assembled around the temple, and while the illu-
mination is in its greatest splendor, sing the Blost Excellent Blaster's Song,
accompanied withflutesand other instruments of music; at the same timo
marching round, and yet preserving the oblong square in which they first
formed. A s thi*) song is in the Blason's BIonitor, I shall only insert such
parts of it as serve to illustrate this part of the ceremony. Having sung
the threefirstverses, while marching round the temple, the Candidate and
Most Excellent Master being now in front of the golden door, they all kneel
with their faces toward the temple (which is in their center), and sing the
\.s\. verse, as follows:
" Almi^hiy Jehovah,
Descenu now, and fill
This Lorlgp xvith thy glory,
Our Hearts wilrl good-will!
Preside at ou meetings,
Assist us to find
True pleasure in teaching
Good-will to manktno. "
• The lows had a sacredfirewhich came down JYbTi Vaven upon their altar of burnt-
offerings, which they did there ever after, until the aesrtnetion of Jerusalem by th»
Chaldeans, inexti.igmshaoly maintain: and with thisfireonly were nil their sacrifice!
and oblations made; anJ i^aaJib and Abihu were punished with dea'b.for oSeriug inceut
to God with other fi« v't»v L'ghtfoot's Temple-service.)
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
MASONRY ILLUSTRATED. 107
CHORUS.
" Thy v, SDOM inspired the great institution,
Thy STRENGTH shall support it, t
i
l
l nature expiio;
And when the creation shall f
a
l
l into ruin,
Its BEAUTY shall rise, T H R O U G H T H E MIDST OF T H E FIRE.
At this instant the materials are again replenished* by means of the pri-
rate spring, when a blaze bursts forth, if possible, ten times more brilliant
than any preceding it, and by means of a pulley held ready by a Brother, a
part of the roof of the temple is raised up, when the blaze flames out with such
a vivid brightness, that the Brethren involuntarily cover their eyes with their
hands. The blaze-sometimes reaches nearly to the ceiling,f and perfumes of
the most heavenly fragrance imaginable are emitted, consisting of all the dif-
ferent incenses, and odoriferous drugs that can be procured. In truth, one
might easily imagine himself in Elysium.
B y degrees the light diminishes in brightness, and the Brethren uncover
their faces and rise, when the Most Excellent Blaster addresses the Candi-
date :
" Brother—you have seen a faint imitation of ' thefirewhich comelh down
from G o d out of heaven,' and I beseech you to permit thefireof divine love
to burn with equal fervor continually in your own heart. Let your affections
and thoughts continually ascend unto the Lord as a sweet-smelling savor,
thereby preparing for yours-elf a crown of glory, eternal in the heavens !"
The Brethren now repeat thefirstverse of the Most Excellent Blaster's
Song, as follows:
All hail to the morning
That bids us rejoice;
The Temple's completed,
Exalt high each voice;
The CaprStone is finish'd,
Our labor is o'er;
The sound of the gavel
Shall hail us no more."
Here the K e y Stone is brought forward by a Brother, and replaced in
the Temple between the golden cherubiins (it having been removed previously
to opening the Lodge), the golden door is closed, and thus closes this part of
* The holy fire first descended upon the altar in the tabernacle at the consecratin
Aaron and his sons to the priesthood, and afterward i
t descended anew upon the altar in the
Temple of Solomon, at the consecrating of that Temple. And then i
t was constantly fed and
maintained by the priests, day and night, without even suffering i
t to go out.
+ It is well known that a few years since the Exchange Coffee House was burnt down
in Boston, and none but Masons of this degree know to this day the manner in which i
t
caught. I
t was given out that a party who had been playing cards, had l
e
f
t a candlo
burning in one of the rooms, by which it was communicated, but the truth is, a chapter
was held in «n upper room, and had arrived at this very crises in the ceremony of con-
ferring this degree, when thefirefirsttook; so the manner in which it originated no lon-
ger remain* a mystery.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
108 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
the ceremony. (1 might have previously stated that the insides of the blocks
of which the Temple is built, are thoroughly lined with brass or copper
plates, to prevent their taking fire.) The M . E. Blaster now says:
"I shall now present you with the words and signs of this degree. The
lue-guard sign is given by holding your handsflatbefore you, thus—letting
four right thumb cross your left at thefirstjoint, and your right fore-finger
crossing your left at the same; keeping your other throefingersof each hand
ts far from them as possible. You will then raise them perpendicularly be-
fore your face (with their backs almost touching your face), then let them
separate and drop by your side with a flap. Thi3 is the due-guard sign, and
alludes to the situation of your hands when you took the Oath.
"The grand hailing-sign of this degree or sign of distress, is this—(here the
Master covers his eyes with his left-hand,with his thumb in a perpendicular po-
sition over his left temple) — and has allusion to the way and mannerin which
you protected your eyes from the bright effulgence, when 'the glory ofthe Lord
filled the house.'—Accompanying this sign, while your eyes are yet covered, in
case of great distress you are allowed to pronounce the words, ' A N D T H E Gtoitr
OP T H E LORD FILLED T H E IIOUSE !' These were the expressions made use of in
ancient times, in the Hebrew language; but since Christianity has become
established upon the earth, in many Lodges they teach the Candidate tho fol-
lowing in lieu thereof: ' E L O I ' E L O I ! L A BIA SABACTUINAI!' or which is the
same thing, in English,—' B I Y G O D , M Y G O D , W H Y H A S T T H O U F O R S A K E N ME!'
Either of these expressions will immediately bo recognized if there be a Bro-
ther of this degree within hearing, who will instantlyflyto your relief. This
last sign, and these words, Brother, you will remember you have solemnly
sworn to give only to such as are lawfully entitled to the same, except when
you are in great distress."
The Candidate is then conducted into the private room, and reclothod. The
Most Excellent Blaster takes his station, and the Brethren arc seated. In
due time the Candidate is re-introduced, and conducted before tho Blost
Excellent Blaster in the East, who delivers the following
CHARGE.
'BROTHER: Your admittance to this degree of Blasonry, is a proof of
the good opinion tho Brethren of this Lodge entertain of your Blasonk:
abilities. Let this consideration induce you to be careful of forfeiting, bi-
misconduct and inattention to our rules, that esteem which has raised you t
j
-
>
the rank you now possess.
'It is one of your great duties, as a Blost Excellent Blaster, to dispense
light and truth to the uninformed Blason; and I need not remind you of tho
impossibility of complying with this obligation without possessing an accu-
rate acquaintance with the lectures of each degree.
*.[f you are not alrealy completely conversant in all the degrees heret*-
50
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED. 109
fire conferred on you, remember, that an indulgence, prompted by a belief
that you will apply yourself with double diligence to make yourself so, has in-
duced the Brethren to accept you.
'Let it therefore be your unremitting study to acquire such a degree of
knowledge and information as shall enable you to discharge with propriety
the various duties incumber t on you, and to preserve unsullied the title now
conferred upon you of a Blest Excellent Blaster.'
The Candidate then takes a scat, and the Lodge is closed with nearly the
sama ceremonies as those performed at opening; which, however unimpor-
tant or trifling they may appear on paper, of that sublime and imposing
nature which cannot fail to soften, at least for the time, the stoutest
heart.
The lecture of this degree will be found very interesting, by such as see
proper to visit a Lodge and hear it. The different sections bring to light
many matters connected with the completion of the temple at Jerusalem,
which have only been preserved from oblivion in the faithful breasts of
Most Excellent Masters. A m o n g other things not related in the Scriptures,
we learn that at the time 'when Solomon had make an end of praying,' and
when 'thefirecame down from heaven,
' one of the head workmen of the tem-
ple who was present, was so struck with the sublimity of the scene, and his
mini being influenced with such a reverential awe, that he was translated, the
same as Elijah! It may seem strange that his disappearance was not
noticed by the surrounding thousands, and the circumstance handed down
in tho Scriptures; but the probability is that the spectators were so awed
by the grandeur of tho scene, that they took no note of aught else that
transpired. The workmen of the temple all stood in one group, and this
Brother was seen to ascend until fairly out of sight.
T H E M E A N S TO B E U S E D B Y S U C H AS A R E N O T MASONS, TO GIAIN ADMISSION INTO
A N Y L O D G E O F M O S T E X C E L L E N T MASTER'S O N T H E F A C E OF T H E GLOBE.
The examination at the door of a Most Excellent Blaster's Lodge is very
short, and will soon test the qualifications of a visiting Brother. On mak-
ing your request known to the Tyler, as in the last degree, two Brothers
will be sent out to examine you; and being conducted into tho private room,
you will say—(addressing yourself to one of t h e m — )
' All hail, Blost Excellent Blasters.'
M. E. Master. All hail.*
• Those acquainted with the writings of Shakspeare.wilkat once discover th&t he
was a Mason. Not only does he show i
t .n Macbeth, but his Hamlet is full of it. GkatL
"Mark me1
" "Safe-bind, Safe-find ne,';
&.C.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
110 MASONRY ILLUSTRATED.
Applicant. I a m a Blost Excellent Blaster Blason, and claim admission
into this Lodge.
M. E. Master. Prove yourself such, and yo will be received and ac-
knowledged.
Applicant. What would you have, Brother ?
M. E. Master. A sign.
Applicant.—(Here give the due-guard sign, by placing your hands flat
before 3'ou, with their backs up, as when you took the oath ; with tho right
thumb crossing the left at the joint nearest the nail, and the right fore-fi:igcr
crossing the same joint of the left fore-finger, as explained before: then
bring your hands up before your face in this situation, so that your fingers
—ex.* opt the two fore ones—point directly upward; then let them separate
and drop by your side, with a flap.)
M. E. Master. What sign is that, Brother?
Applicant. The due-guard sign of a Most Excellent Blaster.
M. E. Master. W h e n did that sign originate, Brother?
Applicant. W h e n thefirstMost Excellent Blaster took his bath.
M. E. Master. To what does it allude. Brother?
Applicant. To the manner in which m y hands wore placed, when I was
qualifying myself to take upon m e this degree.
M. E Master. Have you any other sign, Brother?
Applicant. I have, Blost Excellent.
M. E. Master. Give me it, Brother.
Applicant. I cannot, at this time, Blost Excellent.
M. E. Master. I am satisfied, Blost Excellent Brother, that you are entitled
to admission.
You will then be introduced, when you will pi oceed to the middle of the
floor, and give tho due-guard s'gn and take a seat,—End of the sixth De-
gree.
SEVENTH D E G R E E OF BIASONRY..
THE MODE AND MANNER OF CONFERRING THE DEGREE OF ROYAL AKOII MASON
ON A CANDIDATE IT BEING THE SEVENTH, AND LAST DEGREE OF ANCIENT
MASONRY; TOGETHER WITH THE MEANS TO BE USED BY SUCH AS ARE NOT
MASONS, TO GAIN ADMISSION INTO ANY CHAPTER CF ROYAL ARCH MASONS OW
THE FACE OF THE GLOBE.
" Tins degree is indescribably more august, sublime, and important
than all which precedent; and is the summit and perfection of ancient Bla
•onry. It impresses on our minds a conviction of the being and existence »f
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
MASONRrT ILLUSTRATED. H I
a Supreme Deity, without beginning of days, or end of years; and reminds
us o. the reverei.ee due to his holy name.
" This degree'brings to light many essentials of the Craft, which were for
the space of four hundred and seventy years buried in darkness; and with-
out a knowledge of which the Masonic character cannot be complete."
I feel myself more than ever as standing upon " holy ground," now I approach
this degree—this Ne Plus Ultra of Blasonry; and almost incompetent to per-
form the task before me : yet, if I do not rehearse all the ceremonies introd ueed
in this degree (as I necessarily must not, as they of themselves would f
i
l
l thi»
work), I shall present the main particulars ; and such arcana as will enable
any one who chooses to visit any Chapter on the globe, when he can see with
hits own eyes, and hear with his own cars, the things here related, together
with various other matters which are omitted.
The Chapter being assembled, the three head officers take their stations,
which are the same as the Blaster and Wardens in a Lodge. These three
officers are, Tho High Priest, King, and Scribe. The High Priest is clad
in a blue robe, and is seated in the East under a canopy, with a scepter in
his hand ; the King is stationed in the west, and wears a *purple robe ; and
the Scribe in the South, wearing a robe of the deepest scarlet. The Captain
of the Host, Principal Sojourner, and other officers, all have clothing peculiar
to their stations, and are promiscuously disposed around tho Chapter room,
when the High Priest recites the following passage :
" N o w we command you, Brethren, that ye withdraw yourselves from
every Brother that walketh disorderly, and not after the tradition which ye
received of us. For yourselves know how ye ought to follow us, for wo
behaved ourselves not disorderly among you. Neither did we eat any man's
broad for naught, but wrought with labor and travel day and night, that wa
might not be chargeable to any of you. Not because wo have not power,
but to make ourselves an example unto you to follow us. For even when
we were with you, this we commanded you, that if any would not work,
neither should he eat; for we hear there are some who walk among you
disorderly, working not at all, but aro busy-bodies. Now, them that are
sucn we command and exhort, that with quietness they work, and cat their
own bread. But ye, Brethren, be ye not weary in well-doing. And if any
man obey not our word, note that man, and have no company with him, that
he may be ashamed. Yet count him not as an enemy, but admonish him as
a brother. Now, the Lord of peace himself give you peace always.
The salutation of Paul, with mine own hand, which is the token ; so I write."
Having concluded, the Companions all kneel, when the II. P. proceeds:
"Great Architect of the Universe, we again appear in thy holy presence,
with a sincere desire that our hearts may be free from guile. Purify, 0
Lord, our inward tabernacle, and grant that our works may redound to the
glory cf thy Holy Name." Response: 'So mote it beP
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
112 MASONRY ILLUSTRATED.
The H . P., King and Scribe now descend from their several stations, and
approach a New Temple which is placed on the middle of thefloor,and
about four times the size of the one used in the Mark, and BI. E. Blaster's
degrees; when the H. P. repeats the following:
" For thus saith the Lord of Hosts, Yet onee, it is a little while, and 1
will shake the heavens, and the earth, and the sea, asd the dry land: and [
will shake all nations, and the desire of all'nations shall come, and I will
fill this house with glory. The silver is mine, and the gold is mine.—Tho
glory of this latter house shall be greater than of tho former, and in this
place will I give peace. Moreover, the word of the Lord came unto me,7
saying, The hands of Zerubbabel have laid the foundation of this house,
his hands shall also finish it; and thou sbalt know that the Lord of Hosts
hath sent me unto you. For who hath despised the day of small things? fer
they shall rejoice, and shall see the plummet in the hands of Zorubbubel with
those seven. " (This is an ancient prophesy, and has allusion to the
rebuilding of tho second temple, after the destruction of the former one,
which is represented to have take place in this degree.)
The Companions now move in solemn procession around tho temple, until
the H. P. has delivered a lengthy passage from the Scriptmv.fl, at the end
of which, ho proclaims the Chapter open, when the officers take their sta-
tions and the Companions their seats.
The.Chapter being opened, and a Candidate in waiting, he is conducted
into the private apartment by three of tho Companions, and tlivested of all
his clothing, save his shirt, when one of them says, "Naked* you came into
tho world, and naked you must return." H e then desires him to take off
his shirt, and put on 'The apron cf fig-haves.'^ Tho apron is lying before
the Candidate, and the three Companions having turned their backs, ho
strips off his shirt and girds on the apron as requested. A pair of Oriental
Slippers are then put on his feet, which completes his preparation for this
Bublime degree.
These slippers are somewhat curious, and as many will l^cad this work who
will never visit a Chapter to see them, particularly females, I shall attempt
a partial description of them. They are woven together without a seam, in
» Man, before the transgression, was naked, and yet not ashamed. GEM. ii. 25. But
l
i
f
t
e
r
, l
i
e knew he was naked. G E N . iii. 7-11. Saul being naked, prophesied with the
1'rophets. 1 S A M XIX. 24. '
f This apron is composed of real leaves, and is intended to represent the one worn by
Adam in the garden of Eden, after he had partaken of tho forbidden fruit. It reaches
entirely around him, and descends nearly to the knees, so that no very material breach of
modesty is made: and yet, what modest lady (who i
s often heard railing against tho Ma-
sons for their not admitting her sex), would willingly be present at this ceremony; much
loss, havo i
t performed on herself! In m y travels among the Indians, I havo seen whol*,
nations duly prepared, in their ordinary dress, to be make Royal Arch Masons, excepting
the substitution of cloth or leather, for the leaves of trees.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED. 113
pBodern Chapters,' from the bark of the elm tree, split to about the size of
common stocking yarn. It is presumable that anciently they were manufac-
tured from the bark of the same tree that. afforded the wrappers in which
Egyptian Blummies were enshrouded and embalmed: but this is more conjec-
ture, although there is no good reason to disbelieve it. Tho fact that
anciently the same tree produced clothing for a Blummy, and slippers for
Royal Arch Blasons, is further established by the following extract from an
ancient-work on the "Bluseum of Antiquities" at R o m e :
| "On one shelfe in thee corner of this roome layed a show or slippur madde
of some veriefinnebarkk of tree, which was verie and extreemlie finne, and
madde entyrclie wholle without seame or binning, and was wraughte verie
curiouslie and witth mutch ingenuousnesse. They sayed ytt had belonnged
ancientlie to somme King who had been slayne in battel, and was of suteh
texture as formerlie they wraughte to enshroudo sutch menneof grcate valyor
that ytt was deemed meete to imbainme in theire tommbes," &o.
These slippers are much longer than the feet, and are peaked at the toes.
The heel of each forms two right angles of a square, and is not circular, as
other shoes. They are ornamented all over so as partially to resemble the
Indian Bloccasins, which are decorated with quills of tho porcupine, but with
this difference : the slippers used in a chapter are ornamented with gold and
silver tinsel, forming the ancient hieroglyphics of the Egyptians, which some
pretend to understand and explain; whereas the Indian moccasin is merel
ornamented in the ordinary drapery style. But to our subject.
During the time the Candidate is in preparation, the companions within
the Chapter prepare the room for his reception in a manner which will be seen
after his introduction. All things being in readiness, he is taken in by the
three ompanions, when thefirstthing that meets his eye is a large Arch
situated directly over the temple,* and reaching nearly to the ceiling. (This
arch is composed of several pieces, which are kept in a large chest under
lock and key, that they may not bo seen by Brethren of a lower degree; and
when used in the Chapter, are fastened together with screws.)
In the center of this arch, i. e. where the key stone is usually placed, it is
discovered that the key stone is gone, and consequently the arch meets toge-
ther in such a manner as to make it irregular. The Candidate is then, by
means of a ladder of seven rounds, conducted up to the center of the arch,
which is opened, and ho is placed in the opening instead of the key stone,
with his face fronting the East.f and his arms extended along over the arch
» This temple is about four times as large as the one used in other degrees, and iscapa.
ble of containing five or six persons.
t Sneaking of the mode of worship taught by Zoroaster and bis diuciples, II. Prideaux,
p 3fctf, says, " B u t this was not a new institution of his: W e find in Ezekiel, v. 16,
where'it is related, that the prophet being carried in a vision to Jerusalem, saw, among
•flier things, -about five and twenty m e n standini between the oorch and tb»
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
114 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
In opposite directions. (The two ends of the arch, at t
i
r
e opening, corns
close under his arms, which gives the appearance that the arch i
s whole, and
passes directly through his holy.) His feet are permitted to rest on tho
roof of the temple beneath, although I have known very short men compelled
to support themselves, during the whole ceremony, by their arms resting on
the arch. This was the intention and custom, originally, but for several
centuries past it has been found so very severe on the Candidate, that the
other mode has been adopted. Its intention was to teach those who should
be exalted to this degree, "patience and long suffering" in the cause of
truth. When a very short man takes this degree, blocks are furnished for
his feet to rest upon, but this practice was unknown in ancient times; and
many enlightened Blasons question the propriety of i
t in our days.
In this situation, the High Priest addresses the Candidate as follows:
" BIOST EXCELLENT B R O T H E R — Y o u are now placed in the situation in which
all Royal Arch Blasons have been placed, previous to receiving this sublime de-
gree."
The H. Priest then administers the following
AFFIRB1ATION*
"In the name of the EVERLASTING GOD, the Holy Prophets and
Evangelists, I do most solemnly affirm, that the degree of Royal Arch BlasoD
or any part thereof, shall never be communicated by me to any person or
persons in any known world, except to such as have taken upon themselves
the degress of Entered Apprentice, Fellow-Craft, Blaster, Mark-Blaster, Past-
Master, Blost Excellent Master, and Royal Arch Blason (except I am presi-
ding as High Priest over a Chapter, in which case the last named degree
is excepted) ; and not to those even until I am fully satisfied within my own
mind that they have legally and lawfully received the same. I also solemn-
ly affirm, that I will use my utmost endeavors to preserve peace and harmony
among my companions of this degree, when in the Chapter, as well as when
associated with tho world : that I will not injure, or suffer to be injured in
any manner, a companion of this degree, if within my knowledge and power
to prevent: that the widows and orphans of companions of this degree, shall
receive my protection and support, as far as in my power lies, the same as
those of my own blood. "Furthermore do I most solemnly affirm, that I will
altar, with their faces toioard the east.'—For the Holy of holies [in which was
the Sliechinah of the diviue presence .testing over the mercy-seat and cherublms],
being on the western end of the Temple at Jerusalem, all that entered thither to worship:
God, did it with their faces turned that way, i. e. toward the east; for that was their Kihla
or the point toward which they always directed their worship."
* N o Royal Arch-Mason is allowed to swear, either in the Chanter or a Court of
Justice
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
MASONRY ILLUSTRATED 115
not give the Grand Hailing-Sign and Words of a Royal Arch Mason, or any
t>r either of them, except when in danger of m y life, nor then, except I have
substantial reasons to believe a Royal Arch Blason is within hail, who can
save it. Furthermore, that in m y intercourse with m y Fellow-men, I will be
upright and just, and never be guilty of any act which shall sully the dignity
of m y profession, or forfeit the respect and veneration due to this sublime
Institution. In the name of the Everlasting God, the Holy Prophets and
Evangelists."
This constitutes the affirmation of a Royal Arch Blason. The High Priest
now recites the following:
" Supreme Architect of Universal Nature, who, by thine almighty word,
didst speak into being the stupendous Arch of Heaven, and, for the instruc-
tion and pleasure of thy rational creatures, didst adorn'us with greater and
lesser lights; thereby magnifying thy power, and endearing thy goodness
unto the sons of men: we humbly adore and worship thine unspeakable per-
fection. W e bless thee that when man had fallen from his innocence and
his happiness, thou didst still leave unto him the power of reasoning, and
capacity of improvement and pleasure. W e thank thee that amidst the
pains and calamities of our present state, so many means of refreshment
and satisfaction are reserved unto us, while traveling the rugged path of life.
Especially would we at this time render thee our thanksgiving and praise for
the institution, as members of which we are at this time assembled, and for all
the pleasures we have derived from it. W e thank thee that the few here
assembled before thee, have been favored with new inducements, and laid
under new and stronger obligations, to virtue and holiness. Blay these
obligations, O h blessed Father, have their full effect upon us. Teach us,
we pray thee, the true reverence of thy great, mighty, and terrible name
Inspire us with a firm and unshaken resolution in our virtuous pursuits.
Give us grace diligently to search thy word in the Book of Nature, wherein
the duties of our high vocation are inculcated with divine authority. Blay
the solemnity of the ceremonies of our institution be duly impressed on our
minds, and have a lasting and happy effect upon our lives. Blay all thy
miracles and mighty worksfillus with the dread, and thy goodness impress
us with the love, of thy holy name. Blay holiness to the Lord be engraved
on all our thoughts, words, and actions. M a y the increase of piety ascend
continually unto thee from tho altar of our hearts, and burn, day and night,
as a sacrifice of a sweet-smelling savor, well pleasing unto thee. A n d
since sin has destroyed within us thefirsttemple of purity and innocence,
may thy heavenly grace guide and assist us in rebuilding a second temple of
reformation, and may the glory of this latter hour be greater than the glory
of the former. Amen."
Response : "So mole it be ! "
The center pieces of tho a* sh en which the arms of the Candidate are
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
116 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED
resting, are now removed, and the Candidate is told to suffer his arms tt
make their own motion; and as the center pieces are both removed at thb
same time, his arms, of course, drop by his sides with a flap; and this is the
due-guard sign of a Royal Arch Blason. Perhaps this is the most proper
time to instruct the reader in this due-guard sign: Y o u will extend your
arms in about the same direction from your body as though you had a barrel
under each, though not suffer yourfingersto point quite so much toward your
body as you would in that case;—then bring them down with a flap to your
sides. This is the due-guard sign of this degreej and alludes to the situa-
tion of your hands and arms, when you took upon yourself the affirmation
of a Royal Arch Blason; which was, with your arms extended from the center
of the arch, toward its base, in a circular direction. It will be seen that if the
arms were not attached to the shoulders, but passed directly through theik
and joined in the middle, a perfect arch would be formed. Care must be
taken to prevent any sudden bend in the elbows, but let them form a gentle
curve, so as to resemble, as much as possible, an arch.
The Candidate is now standing on the top of the temple, and the Royal
Arch is removed a foot or two back to give him ample room, when tho High
Priest recites the following passage:
" I will bring the blind by a way that they know not; I will lead them in
paths that they have not known; I will make the darkness light before
them, and crooked things straight: These things will I do unto them, and
will not forsake them,"
Here the High Priest descends from his station, and approaches the tem-
ole, when by means of tho ladder of seven rounds, be ascends and stands by
the side of the Candidate ;* when he opens a trap door which the Candidate
has not before discovered, and descends, desiring him to follow. Being now
within the temple, and the trap door closed over their heads, the High Priest
proceeds as follows :
" And when the Lord saw that he turned aside to see, God calhd unto him,
out of the midst of the bush, and said,—here a companion without the tcmplo
says, ' Blosos, Moses !'—when the High Priest answers, ' Here a m I.' Tho
High Priest continues: 'And he said,'—here the companion without says,
'draw not nigh hither: Put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place where-
on thou slandest is holy ground.' Here tho High Priest takes off bis shoes,!
*nd teaches the Candidate to do the same. The High Priest continues :
Bloreover he said,'—hero the companion without (who is the captain of the
host), says, 'I a m the God of thy father, the God ot Abrabr.ra, the God of
Isaac, and the God of Jacob,' The High Priest now says,—'and Blosei
hid his face, for he was afraid to look upon '7ou!k
— (Uova they hide thci*
• Three generally take this degree on tho same uyonimj '
,
"
/
.
' '1*> j
.
f
c
,
t of the cercmo*.
\ I
n never performed on more than one at a time
i Snili, or Shiloh,—(Hebrew), putting off out « *•- v
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
MASONRY ILLUSTRATED. 117
&ces with their hands, and thei withdraw them again.) They now seat
themselves on stools with cushions fringed with gold, when the High Priest
addresses the Candidate as follows:
" M O S T EXCELLENT B R O T H E R — Y o u have now arrived within the temple
of the living God. Let us bow down our faces to the ground and worship
the Lord, who i
s strong and mighty." (Here they bow their faces to the
ground.) "0 thou who didst aforetime appear unto thy servant Bloses in
flame offireout of the midst of a bush, enkindle, we beseech thee, in each Oi
eur hearts, aflameof devotion to thee, of love to each other, and of charitj
to all mankind."
(I should have previously stated, that after the trap door is closed over
their heads, the only light admitted within the temple is through a trans-
parency on the east side, resembling the rising sun; but as this is only
admitted through oiled paper, i
t affords but a dim light, and gives every-
thing around them a gloomy and confused appearance: yet, i
f there is so-
.emnity in any human ceremony, there i
s in this.)
They now l
i
f
t their faces from the ground, and aro again seated. The
High Priest continues: "I now, Blost Excellent Brother, withdraw the first
vail!" (Hereupon he pulls a cord, and the outward porch of King Solomon's
Temple is presented to their view, most brilliantly illuminated, with the
Tarious Blasonic implements used in thefirstdegree; rough and perfect
ashlers, squares and compasses, twenty-four inch gauges, common gavels.
Entered Apprentices at their labor, ice.fcc,when the Blaster of the first
rail speaks from without, yet through a tube, which makes his voice sound
within thefirstvail:—" Son of man, mark well the entering in of the gate !"
Hereupon the High Priest pulls another cord, which raises the second vail,
when a
l
l the paraphernalia pertaining to the second and third degrees, ap-
pear in the most brilliant colors. The various orders of architecture, as
explained in the Fellow Craft's degree; all the emblems which adorn a
Master's carpet; Blaster-Blasons at their labors, &c, with thousands of
other illuminations of the most brilliant colors, and variegated hues. Hero
will be one which vies in i
t
s vivid blue with the freshest violet; and per-
haps adjoining to it, another which might dispute superiority with the lily,
in its bright scarlet. But i
t is impossible to do justice to this part of the
subject. One part, however, must not be omitted.
In the center, through a long perspective view of the middle chamber
beyond i
t
, however), is scon the Sanctum Sanctorum, or Holy of L'oliet.
King Hiram is seen lying prostrate on thefloor,surrounded by several of
his Brethren, weeping. A coffin lies by his side, with the circle of letters
on it, as explained in the Blark degree. On the right, a large pedestal, or rather
monument, with the words 'VIRTUE A N D I N T E G R I T Y ' on its front; and
on the left, death't skull and cross-bones, with a bright'flowcrflourishingdirectl
oyer it. But I find these things cannot be intelligibly conveyed on paper.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
118 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
After they have viewed these transparencies a few moments, the Master.
of the second vail speaks through a tube, " Imitate the virtues of d jparted
Innocence !"—The Hi"-h Priest here withdraws the third and last vail; and
here I feel myself wholly incompetent to convey even a faint idea of the beau-
ties presented to view : I shall attempt, however, the mqre important.
In the center of the panorama, is a magnificent Royal Arch, illuminated
with all the variegated hues which human ingenuity can invent. Thousands
of small glass lamps, of all colors imaginable, are suspended on either side from
the center. The blaze is so dazzling, that the eyes have often been injured
to that degree, as to render it necessary to wear goggles after viewing it. In
the center of this arch is seen a human being, in the same situation the Can-
didate was placed a short time before; and the surrounding brilliancies give
a lustre to the whole scene, too vivid for the mortal eye to behold. B y ma-
chinery prepared by ingenious Blasons, the man in the center of i.he arch
is seen gradually to ascend, and a proper Key Stone takes his pfuec, and ap-
pears firmly fixed. O n the stone are the circular letters, and as the man as-
cends to give it room, he is distinctly heard to say, " H e Thit W a s Slain
Soars To Kindred Spirits;" but in fact, these expressions are made by the
Master of the third vail, through the tube; but the illusion is S'o complete,
that one can imagine he sees the lips move.
Satisfied as I am that I have presented but a w y kr-porfect picture of
this part of the ceremony, I shall willingly withdraw from obis "holy gound.*'
The High Priest now drops the scene, and tho same glimmering sun enter-
ing on the east side, is the only light they receive. The High Priest now
ascends the ladder of the seven rounds (which wa-3 taken fi-jri the outside and
placed down through the trap door, before they descon<!eJ), desiring the COJ* •
didate to follow; and in a few minutes, having put on their shoes and t.f'p-
pers, they are again standing on the top of the temple, surrounded by f
.
l
l the
companions present. This seems to the Candidate like emerging from a. viorld
of spirits into a world of mortals; and in truth mi sudden transition Li such
as to make an impression on the mind which can nyver he removed.
The Candidate is again exalted to his station in the Arch,* with his face
toward the east, when tho High Friest withdraw!) '.ho Ladder, and placin<* it
on tho outside of the temple, descends, and proceeds to his station in tho
east, when he addresses the Candidate as follows:
"Blost Excellent Brother—You arc now entitled, to a full explanation of
all the arcana upon which this degree is founded. W e learn by a Blasonie
tradition that at the time A d a m was created,fror.) the dust, on the very dav
of his creation, a3 he was seated on a little cr.riuence under tho shade of a
• A very beautiful representation of the Candidate, hi his present situation in the arch,
•xecuted by l skillful engraver, has been placed as n frontispiece in the " Masonic Min-
strel," and m a y tbero be seen. T h e engraver Las, tor obvious reasons, omitted to pine*
his arms in th'.lr proper situation
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED. 119
Ig-lrce an angel appeared before him with a scroll in his right-hand, and
addressed Adam as fallows, in the Hebrew language: 'Lo, Blan, beware of
t
h
r
i temptation which will be offered unto thee. I am sent by thy Blaker to
warn thee from the death to which thou wilt be exposed shouldst thou listen
to other counsel than that which the Lord thy God hath implanted within
thine own bosom: beware, therefore, of temptation. Lo, Blan ! Look upon
this !' Here the angel unrolled the scroll, which contained Hebrew characters
answering to these in our language."
Here} the High Priest unrolls a scroll (which he takes from a box which
has the appearance of gold, with some Hebrew characters on it), when the
Candidate discovers, in large letters—" L O R D E V E R L A S T I N G , E V E R -
L A S T I N G LORD,!"*—The High Priest continues: " These, companion,
are the words of a Royal Arch Blason, which you have solemnly affirmed
never to utter, save when your l
i
f
e i
s in imminent danger, nor then, unless
you have substantial reasons to believe a companion is within hail, who can
save it. The sign accompanying these expressions, you will receive in due-
time."
The High Priest now wraps up the scroll, replaces i
t in the box, and con-
tinues :
" Having, said this, the angel presented the scroll to Adam, and disap-
peared from his sight. After the creation of Eve, Adam related unto her
the circumstance of the angel, and showed her the scroll; but Eve would no(
hearken unto his counsel. She partook of the forbidden fruit, and did eat,
and through her entreaties, Adam also. After this they were ashamed,
and clothed themselves in aprons offig-leaves,gathered from the very treo
Hnder which Adam sat when the angel appeared unto him. You are thus
clad this evening, companion, the better to impress upon your mind the
warning given by the angel unto Adam ; and now, in the language of the
Angel, I caution thee to bneare of all temptations which will be presented unto
thee, in all thy travels through the rugged paths of life." ,
Here the High Priest descends, and proceeds to the temple, which he
ascends by the ladder of seven rounds, and continues:
" A n d by obedience to this warning voice, may you prepare for yourself a
C R O W N O F G L O R Y in the heavens, transcending in brilliant diadems the one
which I now present you, as spiritual things transcend material."
Here a companion presents to the High Priest a splendid crown, encir-
cled around with ' H O L I N E S S T O T H E L O R D , ' which he places on the
bead of the newly-exalted companion, when all present exclaim, ' Holiiust
to the Lord!' The High Priest then continues the tradition:
• lu Jewish Chapters these words are given in the Hebrew language: " A D O N A 1
OUI.EAI, O U L E M ADONAI." It will be discovered that these words read tlie same
backward and forward, in accordance with many passages in the Scriptures wnicu
dectue the Lord is, ' without beginning or ending,' ' thefirstand the last,' ' the Alpha
•nd Ouiega,' ' without turning, or the shadow of a change,' & c
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
120 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
"This scroll, which the angel gave unto Adam, was handed down (IPIM
father to son, until the building of the Temple by Solomon, and was by him
used when this degree was conferred, to teach Candidates the words of this
degree, which werefirst,given by the Lord to Adam, through the angel. A s
these words could not be uttered except when life was endangered, and as
no part of them could be written or engraved, upon anything movable or
immovable,* this was the only instrument by which they could be taught.
This scroll was always intrusted to the care of Hiram Abbiff, who so well.
knew the importance of his charge, that, unknown to Solomon, or any
other person, he caused a deep vault to be made under the southernmost part
of the temple, and so completely arched over and covered, that the most
penetrating eye could not discover it. To effect this, he procured laborers
from a foreign country, and bound them by a Solemn Oath never to divulge
it. The entrance to this vault was through the wall of the room wherein
King Hiram formed his designs, previous to laying them down on the Tres-
tle-board ; and the door of the entrance was so nicely contrived, that nc
human eye could notice any difference in the wall; and it never was dis-
covered unto this day.t
" In this vault King Hiram deposited this scroll, and never removed it
except on occasions like the present. After tho death of this worthy Bro-
ther, in the melancholy manner related in the third degree, these words
were lost and were nowhere to be found. Strict search was made in the
most secret recesses of the sanctum sanctorum, all to no purpose. Tho
sudden death of Hiram was a sad blow to Masonry. This scroll lay buried
in darkness in this vault for the space of four hundred and seventy years
during which period Royal Arch Blasonry may be said to have slept.
" Sometime after the rebuilding of the second temple by Zerubbabel and
his Companions, this vault and this scroll were discovered in the following
singular manner :
" A Lodge of Blaster-Masons was sitting in a lower room of the temple
directly over this vault,! the floor of which, near the south-west corner,
was somewhat decayed ; and by some accident a Brother stepped on a
plank which partially gave way; and in saving himself, his trowel dropped
• See Entered Apprentice's Obligation in " Jachin and Boaz."
t H U M P H R E Y PRIDEAUX, in his researches, certainly gained some knowledge of this ark,
though not the true, as he imputes to Solomon and King Josiah that which belongs to
Hiram Abbiff. Witness the following: "But most of them will have it, that King
Josiah, being foretold by Hulduh the prophetess, that the temple would speedily after bis
death be destroyed, caused the ark to be put in a vault under ground, which Solomon
foreseeing this destruction, had caused of purpose to be built, for the preserving of it, in
which vault, they say, i
t hath lain hid ever since, even to this day."—Vol. 1, pp. 3(1.1-4.
} But Oils is not to bo understood of its bigness : for the second temple was of ths
Bine dimensions with the first; it being built upon the very same foundations. Con. U
J
*
. SL N. Test., II. Prideaux, v. 1, p. 294.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED. 121
through the opening on the ground underneath the floor. The High Priest
now recites the following passages:
" For there was a tabernacle made; thefirst,wherein was the candle-
stick, and the table, and the shew-bread; which is called the sanctuary.
A n d after the vails, the tabernacle, which is called, The Holiest of all;
which had the golden censer, and the ark of the covenant overlaid round-
about with gold, wherein was the golden pot that had manna, and Aaron's
rod that budded, and the tables of the covenant; and over it the cherubiras
of glory, shadowing the mercy-seat; of which we cannot now speak par-
ticularly."
"In that day will I raise up the tabernacle of David that is fallen and
close up the breaches thereof, and I will raise up his ruins, and I will build it
as in the days of old.'
"'In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the
Word was God.' " After reciting these passages from scripturo, the High
Priest proceeds with the tradition :
" This accident eausing a slight interruption in their labors, a part of the
flooring was removed, when the Brother stepped down on the ground to
reach his trowel, when it gave way beneath his feet, and he was precipitated
to the bottom of the vault, a distance of full fifteen feet! A ladder was
now provided, and eight other Brethren descended with lights, when it was
found that the Brother who had fallen through the decayed arch, had
received a serious fracture in the fall, on the top of his head; and having
his hands clasped together by thefingers,was pressing them on the fracture
to prevent the effusion of blood. H e pressed them on so hard that it was
with difficulty the Brethren could remove them. On examining the apart-
ment, a box was found of pure gold,firmlylocked, with the key-hole in the
exact form of the letter G, and on the top was engraved 'HIKAM A B B I K F —
SACRED.' The Brethren immediately recollected that a key in form of the
letter G had been preserved in the archives of the Lodge from time imme-
morial, and none of them had known the use of it; and on calling to their
Brethren above, it was thrown down to them, when they easily unlocked
their treasure, and to their great joy found the long lost scroll, containing
the sacred words: and before ascending they agreed that the Grand hailing-
sign of this degree, should thereafter be the one made by the Brother who
had received the injury; and should only be given when life was in danger;
nor then unless there was a prospect that it might thereby be preserved.
" This si^n is given by shoving all the fingers of each hand between each
Other lengthwise, keeping the handsflatwith the backs up, and each thumb
pointing directly toward your body; and then raise them in this situation
•cry slowly, considerably above your head (directly over it), so as to form
an arch; then bring them down on the top of your head, pressing down
heavy O H it, at the same time pulling slowly, so as in a short time to let tha
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
122 , M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
fingers slip from between each other, and your arms and hands drop down
by your side with a flap. This sign, Companion, is the Grand hailing-sign
of this degree, and can only be given as agreed on by the nine Brethren in
tho vault, when it may be accompanied by the words on the scroll.
" After forming this agreement, the nine Brethren ascended the ladder,
and, acquainting the rest of the Brethren of their discoveries, they all entered
into a solemn contract to conform to it. The name of the Brother who
received the injury (of which he shortly recovered), was Nebat, who was
«vor after complimented by his Brethren for having dropped his trowel
through the crevice in thefloor,as it had been the means of restoring to
the Blasonic fraternity that which might otherwise have remained in dark-
ness forever.
" I have further to inform you, Companion, that the key of this golden
tabernacle, which was in the form of the letter G, our Grand Blaster, Hiram
Abbiff, ever carried in a pocket near his left breast—and near his heart.
Thus he carried it, when he was slain by the ruffians, and falling on his left
side, it made the faint impression which was discovered on that part of his
body after it was found. After the ruffians had slain him, they searched his
body, anl took from his pocket this key; but not knowing the use of i
t
i
they threw it among the clefts of the rocks at the time they were detected
and taken, where it was,founu a
, short time after by some Blaster-Blasons
who were examining the spot—who also not knowing the use of it, it was
laid up in the archives of the Lodge by order of King Solomon, where it
had remained useless until the period when the discovery was accidentally
made which I have just related to you. You are now made acquainted with
the principal ground-work of this degree; but in tho L E C T U R E you will dis-
cover innumerable beauties which cannot be made to appear at this time.
" You .are now, Companion, exalted to the sublime degree of Royal Arch
Mason."
The Candidate is now taken down from the arch, and conducted to the
private room and reclothed, and then conveyed before the High Priest in
the East, who gives him the following
CHARGE.
"WORTHY COMPANION: By the consent and nssistance of the mem
bcrs of this Chapter, you are now exalted to tho sublime and honorable de-
gree of a Royal Arch Blason.
*
' Having attained this degree, you have arrived at the summit and per-
fection of ancient Blasonry ; and, are consequently entitled to a full expla-
nation of the mysteries of tho order.
" The rites and mysteries developed in this degree have been handed down
through a chosen few, unchanged by time, and uncontrolled by prejudice,
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
M A ^ U N R Y ILLUSTRATED. 12a
and wc expect and trust, they will be regarded by you witn the sami vene-
ration, and transmitted with the same scrupulous purity to your succes-
sors.
" N o one can reflect on the ceremonies of gaining admission into this
place, without being forcibly struck with the important lessons which they
teach.
" Here we are necessarily led to contemplate with gratitude and admira
tion the sacred source from whence all earthly comforts flow; here we fin*
additional inducements to continue steadfast and immovable in the dis
charge of our respective duties; and here wc are bound, by the most solemn
tics, to promote each other's wellfare, and correct each other's failings, by
advice, admonition and reproof.
" A s it is our most earnest desire, and a duty wo owe to our Companions of
this order, that the admission of every Candidate into this Chapter shallbo
attended by the approbation of the most scrutinizing eye, we hope always
to possess the satisfaction of finding none amongst us, but such as will
promote to the utmostr-bf their power the great end of our institution. B y
paying due attention to this determination, we expect you will never recom-
mend any Candidate to this Chapter, whose abilities and knowledge of the
foregoing degrees, you cannot freely vouch for, and whom you do not firmly
and confidently believe, will fully conform to the principles of our order, and
fulfill the obligations of a Royal Arch Blason. While such are our m e m
bers, we may expect to be united in one object, without lukewarmness,
inattention or neglect; but zeal,fidelity,and affection, will be the distin-
guishing characteristics of our society, and that satisfaction, harmony and
peace may be enjoyed at our meetings, which no other society can afford.
The Chapter is then closed with similar ceremonies to those used at
opening, which it is useless here to recapitulate. Were I to insert all the
ceremonies and passages practiced and read during the conferring of this
degree, they of themselves wouldfilla book considerably larger than tho
N e w Testament—as any one may discover who will visit a Chapter, and
remain present during tho conferring of this degree.
The Chapter being closed with solemn ceremonies, the following prayer is
rehearsed by the Blost Excellent High Priest:
" B y the Wisdom of the Supreme High Priest may we be directed, by his
Strength m a y we be enabled, and by the Beauty of virtue may we be incited,
to perform the obligations here enjoined on us: to keep inviolably the mys-
teries here unfolded to us, and invariably to practice all those duties out of
the Chapter, which are inculcated in it."
Response : ' So mote it be!' ' Amen'
The Companions then disperse, and the Captain of the Host sees that th»
Temple, Royal Arch, &c. are properly disposed of; and thus concludes thr
ocrcmony of conferring this degree
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
124 MASONRY ILLUSTRATED.
.
T H E M E A N S TO BE USED B Y SUCH AS ARE NOT MASONS, TO GAIN ADMISSION INTO
ANY CUAI'TER OF ROYAL ARCK MASONS ON THE FACE OF T H E OLOBE.
In this degree it is seldom that more is required of a visitor, than
the due-guard sign, as i
t is so utterly impossible that any one not having
taken this degree should t
i
e in the possession of it; but sometimes a stranger
who claims admission is taken into the private room, and undergoes the
following examination.:
Applicant. I claim admission into this Chapter of Royal Arch Ma-
trons.
R. A. Mason. By what rights do you claim admission ?
Applicant. By the rights of the Royal Arch. [Here give the due-guard
sign as directed in page 116.]
R. A. Mason. To what does that allude?
Applicant. To my situation in the Royal Arch, when I was exalted to
this degree.
R. A. Mason. I am satisfied, Blost Excellent Companion, that your claims
to admission into our Holy Sanctuary are well founded.
You will then be introduced, when, as in the preceding degrees, you will pro-
ceed to the center of thefloor,give the due-guard sign, and then take •
•eat. —End of the Seventh, and last Degree of Ancient Masonry.
•
i
lo teo i •
%dl »
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
.G3',
lo »1
,to " : :
RECAPITULATION
.
I SHALL now recapitulate the Due-Guard Signs, Granl Hailing-Signs of
Distress, Words, Words of Distress, &e. of the several degrees; which will
give the reader a more condensed \iew of the necessary prerequisites to his
gaining admission into Chapters and Lodges.
A BIARK-BIASTER places his hands behind him, with the backs together,
and brings them round together in front, crossing each other (the right one
uppermost), with a loud clap, four times in succession. This is called the
Mark Master's Due-Guard Sign and Clap. The Grand Hailing-Sign of
this Degree, or Sign of Distress is made by raising the right arm in a hori-
zontal position, pointing forward with the fore-finger (the rest being closed),
and forming in tho air the letter K, with a period, or dot after it, and then
letting the arm drop by the side with a flap; again raise the arm, and form
in the air the letter S, with a period, or dot after it, and then suffer the arm
to drop by the side with aflap,as before. The G R I P of a Blark-Blastt-r i»
given by pressing the thumb-nail into the upper joint, or last joint from the
nail, of the third finger of the right hand. Its name is C H A O S .
A PAST-BIASTER places his hands flat before him, with the back*, up,
suffering the ends of his two fore-fingers and thumbs to meet so as to form
a triangle ; then raises them to his face so as to look through tho two lower
angles, and in a few seconds lets them part, and drop by each hip with a flap.
The words accompanying this sign (on proper occasions), arc T R I A N G L E or
T R U T H . There was no Grip to this degree, anciently, but some modern Past-
Masters press the thumb between the third and littlefingerof the right
hand, and call it the pass or past-Grip of this degree; and then passing
the thumb along to the upper joint of tho littlefinger,press in the nail, and
call it the Grip of a Past-Blaster, and give it the name of Chibbilum, which
name, they say, signifies Triangle.
A BIOST E X C E L L E N T BIASTER places his hands flat before him, with the
backs up, with the right thumb crossing the left thumb at the joint, and
tho right fore-finger crossing the left fore-finger at thefirstjoint, the other
fingers of each hand stretched as far as possible from each fore-finger; he
then raises them in this situation in front of his face, and then lets them
separate and drop by his side with a flap. This is the Due- Guard Sign of
a Blost Excellent Blaster. The Grand Hailing-Sign of this degree, or
Sign of Distress, is given by covering the eyes with the left-hand, the thumfc
pointing in a perpendicular direction, and reaching along over the left tern-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
126 MASONRY ILLUSTRATED.
plo. Tho words accompanying this sign (on proper occasions), or words of
distress, are the?'.- " A N D T H E G L O R Y O P T H E L O R D F I L L E D
THE HOUSE;" or,'"ELOI! ELOI! LA M A SABACTHANAI! " or,
- M Y GOD! M Y GOD! W H Y HAST T H O U FORSAKEN M E !"
A ROYAL Ar.CH BIASON raises his arms as if he held a barrel under each
arm, and brings them down on each side, with a flap. This is called the
Due-Guard Sign of a Royal Arch Blason. The Grand Hailing-Sign of this
degree, or Sign of Distress, is given as follows: hold your hands before yon
with their backa up, with thefingerspointing toward each other, and each
thumb pointing toward your body; then shove thefingersof each hand
between each other, so Its to make themfirmlyinterwoven together; in
this situation raise them slowly over your head, so that the arms thus joif.ed
together by the hands, resemble an arch; then bring the hands (yet joined)
down on the top of the head, pressing down hard on the same, and at tho
same time pulling with each hand, and in a few seconds permit the fingers
to slip from between each other, and let your hands drop down by your side
with a flap. This i
s the Grand Hailing-Sign of a Royal Arch Blason, or
Sign of Distress; and the words of distress accompanying it (only spoken
when l
i
f
e is in danger), are " L O R D E V E R L A S T I N G , E V E R L A S T I N G
LORD!" o
r
, i
n the Hebrew language, "ADONAI OULEM, OULEM
ADONAI1"
-
I
•
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
APPENDIX.
T H E outer wall of King Solomon's Temple, was a square of five hundred
tnbits on every side, i. e. two thousand in the whole circuit. It was twenty-
five cubits high, measuring on the inside, which was the size of all the other,
walls of the temple, as well in the inner part as tho outer, excepting only
that of the Chct; every cubit wa» x foot and a half. The cast gate of the
temple wall was called Shusham, on either side of which, within,-was a shop,
or repository, for the wine, oil, salt, meal, and other things used in the
sacrifices; with chambers over on either side. Between this gate and
the western corner, upon a jutting out of the mountain, stood the castle
Antonia, formerly called Baris, where the Romans kept garrison to overawe
the temple; from hence the captain of it was called the captain of the tem-
ple. (See Luke, ch. xxii, v. 52, and Acts, ch. iv, v. 1.) It was a squaro
pile two furlongs in compass, standing at a little distance from the temple
wall, and from which there was a passage by stairs down into.the cloisters
at the north-west corner, through which the soldiers ran down to appease
the tumult risen about Paul. (See Acts, ch. xxi, v. 32, and Paul's speech
to the people, same ch., v. 40.) There were two gates on the south side of
the wall, called the gates of Huldah, with the porters' lodge or chamber over
each. O n the west side were the gates Challecheth, or Coponius, and Parbor,
with the porters' lodge or chamber over the same, two gates on either side.
Also on the west side, the two gates of Asuvpim, over each of which a room
on cither side where a treasury of the temple was kept; tho pile of caeh
gate was fifteen cubits broad and thirty high, and the entrance ten cubits
broad and twenty cubits high : and all the gates, as well in the inner parts
of the temple as the outer, were every one of them of the same size. The
portico on the south side of the temple Wassailed the Royal portico, be-
cause of its largeness, for it contained three aisles; the middle forty-two
cubits and a half broad, and fifty cubits high; the other two, each fifty
enbits broad, and twenty-five cubits high, which was the size of all the other
porticos of this court. That on the cast side was called Solomon's porch,"
because it stood upon that vast terrace which Solomon built up from tho
valley beneath, of four hundred cubits bight, which was the only work of
Solomon's temple that remained in our Saviour's time, and therefore it was
called Solomon's porch, or cloister. (See John, ch. x, v. 23; also Acts, ch.
Ki, v. 11.) The outer court of the temple was the court of tho Gentiles,
the outer enclosure of the inner court, being a wall curiously wrought
(12V)
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
128 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED.
of three cubits Light, within which no Gentile was to enter, or any polluted
with the dead. The space between the walls of the outer and inner covts
of the temple, was ten cubits broad, and this was called the Chel. The
stairs on the east end leading from the court of the Gentiles into the Chd,
consisted of fourteen steps, each nine inches high. The stairs from tho
Chel into the court of the women, consisted of five steps, each nine inches
high. The gate entering into the court of the women on the cast, was
called the Beautiful Gate of the temple, because of its sumptuousness and
adornments. (See Acts, ch. iii, v. 2.) The outer gates led to the court
of the women—one on the south, the other on the north. The court of the
women was so called, because thus far the women might enter to worship,
but no further. This court was one hundred and thirty-five cubits square.
There were also porticos around the court of the women, over which were gal-
leries for the women. Under thefloorof the court of Israel, were two rooms
where tho musicians did lay up their instruments. One room called Gazeth,
was where the Sanhedrim sat, part of which was within the sanctuarv, and
part without. There was also a well room, where there was a well from
whence water was drawn for the use of tho temple. Three gates leading
into the sanctuary oh the south side; thofirstnext the draw-well room was
from thence called the well-gate, over which was the room of Aslints,
where the incense was made; the second was tho gate of Firstlings, and the
third, tho gate of Kindlings. There was also a common fire-room and chief
guard-room for the priests, with a Stone in the middle of said room, under
which tho Keys of the temple were laid every night. There was a room
where the lambs were kept for the daily sacrifices, and their skins were
dressed to make aprons for tho Blasons. The stairs up into, the porch were
twelve in number. The entrance into the porch, twenty cubits broad and
forty high. Tho two pillars, Jachin and Boaz, stood in the entrance on
either side. The holy place was twenty cubits broad, and forty loin*. The
Holy of Holies, twenty cubits square, containing the ark of the covenant,
with tho two Cherubims, cacti ten cubits high, with their faces inwards, and
their wings extended to each other over tho ark, and to the walls on each
side; the vail of the temple parting between the holy, and the Holy of
Holies, which was rent in pieces at our Saviour's death. The length of the
temple from out to out, was one hundred cubits. Tho highest wing of the
temple was one hundred and twenty cubits, at the top of which it was thai
the devil did set our Saviour. (Blatt. eh. iv, v. 5.) TJiese particulars are re-
lated according lo the Scriptures, Josephus, and the Talmud, by H . P R I D E A U X ,
D. D., Dean of Norwich.
•
M P " I lo ctmobi
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
I
EXPLANATION.
HAVING thus completed this KEY, Sic, I may now be allowed to say a few
words in extenuation of conduct which must appear of the BASESI anil BLACK
EST character, to every m a n of any sensibility, and to R O Y A L A R C H BIASONS
in particular. The latter, I a m aware, will NEVER forgive m e ; but all who
do not belong to the institution, be they ever so scrupulous of their word
and yet a hundred times more scrupulous of their OATH, will frankly and
cordially acknowledge that I have done no wrong, when they shall know aU.
I have no doubt but the reader has pronounced m e a PERJURED- W R E T C H
more than once, while perusing these pages; but not quite so fast—hear the
sequel.
I have said, " In this degree, it is seldom that more is required of a visitor
than the due-guard sign, as it is so utterly impossible that any one not
having taken this degree, should be in the possession of it."
This is all very true; and it is to this fact that the reader is indebted for
the pages now before him: for were Royal Arch Blasons as scrutinizing i
i
their examination of strangers, as they are in the threefi/vstdegrees, these
illustrations could N E V E R have been presented to the puLl'ic; as it cannot be
supposed, any being could be found sufficiently base ty violate OATHS of tho
most SACRED nature,—much less could such a being oe found within the vail
of the Masonic sanctuary.
Several years since, a person in Boston, not a Mason, chanced to see one,
w h o m he knew to be a Royal Arch Blason, give viie due-guard sign, explained
in this degree, to another person. This Blasor,, having given the sign, turned
round and discovered that he had been seen >jy one not a Blason, and seeming
much eonfv.'ed and embarrassed, fell to making all manner of unmeaning
signs, which this person, who was not a Ivlason of any degree, rightly enough
conjec'/ired were intended to blind him, and cause him to forget the real and
true ^-ign, which he had plainly Been with his own eyes. But not so:
he harbored it up in his mind, an,), rolled it as a sweet morsel under his
tongue, not that he intended any:
dl to the Craft, for he had always revered
the Institution, but that he bad got a glimpse into that mystic science which
set human scrutiny at defiance: I need no longer conceal the fact, that I
MYSELF, the wtitor of the'ie pages, was that person, "not a Mason."
Bly friend of the A.rc'ii degree I saw frequently, but never hinted to
him anything of the s;
^nt nor, of course, he to me. I had heard before, that
Masons gave signs v/hen they met the Tyler at tho door, which gained them
/ I'M •
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
130 M A S O N R Y ILLUSTRATED
admittance; but m y chief difficulty was to ascertain to what particular degree
this sign belonged. This puzzled me considerably. Things passed on for sev-
eral mouths in this way, without putting my sign to the test; as I dare as well
cut m y throat as attempt to visit a Lodge or Chapter in Boston, where this
man of tho due-guard sign would be liable to detect me. So having some
business in N o w York City, I thought that an excellent opportunity to try
m y sign, and learn if it would pass current. Accordingly, on thefirstnight
• of m y arrival I inquired of my landlord, if a Lodge met in the city that
evening, and he told me one did, and that, too, in an upper story of tho
house I i7as in!
This 1 wilier startled me, to think I was so near the threshold, which would
*ithe>- gratify m y eager curiosity, or perhaps, cause m y disgrace; and more
especially, when the landlord told m e that he was then going up, and :
'would
be happy 1J see mo there after supper." I determined, however, to ventura
at all haza.-ds, and accordingly, after supper, I groped m y way up into the
fourth stor;, as directed by the landlord, where I found the Tyler in his
shirt sleeve.., with a drawn sword. Never shall I forget m y feelings at that
instant: I vould have given worlds had I remained down stairs, and held
m y tongue, instead of babbling to the landlord about Lodges and Blasonry;
but there was no backing out—the stair-way was a very narrow and strait
one, and I conld make no reasonable excuse, as that of having missed m y
way, &c. I accordingly sneaked up to the Tyler, and bidding him a good
evening, which he very civilly returned, I told him I would like to visit his
Lodge.
H e then asked me if any Brother could vouch for me. I told him I did not
know, as I was an entire stranger in the place; but I presumed that would
satisfy him. Here I g-ave the due-guard sign spoken of above, and he,
nearly at the same time, .gave three knocks at the door, which immediately
opened, a.id he whispered to the person who opened it, that a stranger wished
to be cxa.nined, without noticing m y sign in the least; and the door imme-
diately ch.sed.
N o w the truth was, as the ret-'der may well suppose, I did not wish to be
examined, especially after the reception m y sign had met with in the eyes
of the Tyler; and I had just begun to say I believed I would call n»ain,
and had half turned round, when tin.' door opened, and out popped three
Masons with apronsNon, one of whom, to m y utter confusion, I instantly
recognized as m y landlord! "This is the gentleman," said the Tyler, "who
wishes to bo examined," " I believe,"—said 1, — " I will call another—" 0 , " —
said the landlord,—"it will take but a minute;"—and by this time, rather
than be suspected of being an impostor for one .moment, I had suffered my-
self to be led into tho private room by m y kind .landlord, for the purpose
of proving myself one, the next.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
MASONRY ILLUSTRATED. 131
" H o w many degrees have you taken?"—asked the landlord.* I here
gave the due-guard sign, as well an m y trembling frame would permit. Here
the landlord requested one of the Brethren to leave us for a few minutes!
and he had no sooner gone out, than the landlord told me that "that Brother
was only a Master Mason, and that I was very indiscreet in giving that sign,
withoutfirstbeing satisfied that all present were Royal Arch Masons." H e
then said that all was now safe, and perhaps it would be as well to examine
on the Royal Arch degree at once, as it would save time. I stood motionless-
At length the landlord asked, " B y what rights do you claim admission ?"
Here I again gave the due-guard sign ; and had I known enough to have first
said ; "By the rights of the Royal Arch," all had been well; but I said nothing,
and stood like an aspen leaf. The two stared at each other, and at length
the landlord said, " To what does that allude ?" I here again, like a fool,
gave the due-guard sign—and they stared At each other more than ever
and whispered to each other. * * * * * * * * * * * . A i length I was permitted
to slink down stairs, pay m y bill at the bar, and depart in peace to seek new
lodgings.
• I havo since become convinced that they all, the landlord in particular, took ma tat
a Maaon; and my exposure was not their fault, butrayown.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
ons, Cincinnati. 7
flic G e m ; A Handsome and Useful
sent, for all seasons; containing Selections
Prose and Poetry of a Moral, Instructive,
I useful character, including a number of
ries and Tales, among which are : The
lerous Seaman—The Honest Soldier—The
umph of Constancy—The Strange Passenger
tosalie and Lcander—The Unknown Painter
Itie Maid of Soleure—Matilda's Choice—The
ters—The Poor Student—The Chieftain's
lighter—Death of the First Discoverer of the
ssissippi Valley—The Daughter in Exile—
e Last of the Line—The T w o Maidens—
e Vacant Chair, &c, &c.
The work contains 324 octavo pages,
Price $1 50.
The contents of this excellent work are of
ch a character that, while they amuse, they
rve for instruction in the Moral and Social
irtues. Where there is a taste for light read-
ig, especially in young persons, i
t is better
*at such reading should be imbued with those
talkies that tend to make the reader " a wiser
id a.better man." Such a work we have now
le pleasure of offering to the publio, and to
le heads of families in particular, whose care
i to assist their children and friends in their
uoice of reading.
OaliShaw, or the Victims of Avarice.
L Tale of Intrigue. By W I L L I A M T. COGGES-
ALL, Ohio State Librarian, author of " Easy
Van-en andhisCotemporaries," &c. 12mo. cloth
inding, P r i c e 5 0 c e n t s ; in paper cover,
15 cents.
Barns1
Works, Complete. The Works
f Robert Burns, in Verse and Prose. With
.ife and Criticism on his writings and Obser-
ations on the Scottish Peasantry. By J A M E S
'ORRIE, M . D. Also, additional poems cx-
racted from the late edition edited by Allan
Cunningham ; Burns' General Correspondence
letters); a very full and complete Glossary,
kc, & c , full tables of contents. Octavo, Li-
jrary binding. Price $2.60.
This edition of Burns is printed on clear fine
paper, and new type—the greatest possible
pains was taken in proof-reading to have all
correct, especially the punctuation, and it
possesses one great advantage—it contains all
his Poems.
Burns' Poems. The complete Poetical
Works of Robert Burns, with a Glossary and
Life of the author. By J A M E S C U R B I E , M. D.
Including additional Poems, extracted from t
l
i
e
late edition edited by Allan Cunningham.
With full tables of contents. 001 pages, 32mo.,
cloth binding. Price cents.
This contains all the matter of the octavo
edition except the Correspondence.
H a n n a h ITIore's Devotions. The
Book of Private Devotion. A series of Prayers
and Meditations; with an Introductory Essay
on Prayer; chiefly from tbe writings of Han-
nah More. Revised and enlarged, 32mo., cloth
binding. Price 3 5 cents.
Veddcr's Hymns. A choice selection
of Psalms and Hymns, and Spiritual Songs,
designed for the Christian's Companion through
Life. By N I C H O L A S I. V E D D E R . 32mo., sheep
binding. Price 3 5 cents.
The Language of Flowers, and
Alphabet of Floral Emblems. To which is
added, Fabl s of Flora and the Poetical Flower
Basket. 82 no., cloth, gilt. Price 3 5 cents.
Salathiel. A Story of the Past, the
Present, and the Future. By the Rev. G E O R G E
C R O L T , author of the " Life and Times of George
the Fourth." Two vols in one, 12mo., 464 pp.,
cloth. i*rice Kl.r.O.
" The traditional account of tbe cmuae of the production of
tb/s novel, refers it to a controversy between its author and
Scott; Crotf averring that it was easier to write a good novel
than a good sermon, and Scott denying it. To end the con-
trol ersv it was proposed to change works. Scott to writo a
sermon", and Croly a novel. Salathiel is the novel, but the
sermon is nowhere. Salathiel is a story of the time of Nero
and Titus, and gives the history of the priest whofirstshouted
before the judgment seat of i*ilate. " Uis blood be upon us
and our children." and to w h o m Christ said, " Tarry thou till
I come." It gives an account of the crucifixion, of the subse-
quent persecution of the Christians, of the wars of the Jews.
of Lite great tire at Rome, of the death of Paul, of the siege
of Jerusalem, by Titus, and of the destruction of that devoted
city.
•
• The account of allthese is from the mouth of the Wanderer
himself, aad the book is full of tho aoleiun grandeur which
attaches to our conception of such a character. W o have
never read a book of such sustained splendor of diction. The
sentences are like continuous squadrons of a great army, and
his descriptions have nit the magnificence which attache* to the
oriental scenery of which he writes, 'the story is but a thread
upon which to string the scenes of that stormy time.
" There are passages of description in it which, for pomp of
diction, and splendor of imagery, have never been surpassed.
Such an one is the burning of Rome, in the time of Noro.
of the capture of Slasada. of the conflicts of the arena at
•• We are glad to see its republication, for it Is a book upon
•an bestow our heartiest commendation, andean
cheerfully recommend to our renders, not alone for the inter-
est of its story, but for the excellence of iul composition, and
the wealth ..i' imagination displayed in ita pages."—Cincinnati
Daily Mtrald.
Marriage a n d the Duties of the
Marriage Relations, i
n a Series of
Six Lectures, addressed to Youth, and the
Young in Married Life. B y Rev. G E O R Q B
W . Q U I N B Y . 16mo. cloth. P r i c e 7 5 cts.
•• This volume Is well calculated to lessen the trials and
difficulties common to the lot of humanity, whether in mar-
ried or single state. There are rough roads and stormy days
In the path of most young married people; yet. with such
knowledge of correct rubs and principles as this Volume pre-
sents these rough road' will be made smooth—the storms be
calmed and a U the little difficulties attendant upon this
divine institution alleviated. It is a delightful and instruc-
tive volume, from the pen of a good paabtr. It is hanesomelj
fiublished and abounds in simple truths, well calculated to
ead the mind to profitable reflection."—Indiana Daily
Statu Journal.
Vestiges of the Natural History
of Creation ; with a sequel. By WILLIAM
CHAMBERS, 12mo cloth. Price 1.25. .
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
10 Books Published by U. Jf. James, vincinnan.
T h e Course of T i m e . A Poem. By
R O B E R T P O L L O K , A . M . With a Memoir of
th Author, by W m . Livingston Prall, Esq.
A copious Index and an Analysis prefixed to
each book. 32mo, cloth binding. P r i c e ,
3 5 cents.
Few modern poems exist, which at once at-
tained such acceptance and celebrity as Pollok's
Course of Time. Originally issued without a
name, preface, or any other appendage, its lofty
themes, exciting spirit, melodious verse, and all-
powerful effects upon the reader, completely-
silenced criticism, and secured general and last-
ing popularity.
Lady of the Lake. A Poem in six
cantos. B y S I R W A L T E R SCOTT. Lost revised
edition, with an Introduction, Glossary, and
copious Notes, by the Author. 32mo, cloth
binding. Price so cents.
" There is a richness and spirit in this poem
— a profusion of incident, and shifting brilliancy
of coloring that reminds us of the witchery of
Ariosto—and a constant elasticity and occa-
sional energy, which seem to belong more par-
ticularly to the author n o w before us."—Jef-
frey.
P a u l a n d Virginia. Prom the French.
By J. B. H. I>E SAINT PIERRE. 32mo, cloth,
g
i
l
t
. Price 25 cents.
The Enchanted Plants. Being
Fables in Verse, by M A D A M E M O N T O L I E U , on
the various Sentiments personified in the Flow-
ers and Plants. 32ruo, cloth binding. P r i c e
2 5 cents.
The Songs of the Affections. By
M R S . H E M A N S . A selection of beautiful pieces
from tbe works of this gifted writer. 32mo,
cloth, g
i
l
t
. Price 25 cents.
Pope's Essay on Man. To which i3
added his celebrated Universal Prayer. 32mo,
cloth binding. P r i c e 1 5 cents.
Also, an edition of the same with Miscella-
neous Poems, Epitaphs, etc. 32mo, cloth, gilt.
Price 25 cents.
LETTER-WRITERS.
The PocUet or Popular Lettcr-
W r i t e r , containing a groat variety of original
and selected Letters on the subjects of Love,
Courtship, Marriage, Friendship, Relationship,
Cards of Invitation, Business, etc., etc., with a
selection of Correspondence from standard au-
thors. Also, a Dictionary of Poetical Quota-
tions from the standard poets, alphabetically
arranged, for the use of ladies and gentlemen.
32mo, Price 3 5 cents;
In making up this volume, the aim has been
to present all the ordinary forms of correspond-
ence, clothed Tn good language, and worded in
accordance with the rules of jSnglish Grammar.
The selected letters have been chosen with a
view to illustrate the ease and fluency so neces-
sary to render any correspondence pleasant;
while the Dictionary of Quotations, a new f
o
i
ure in works of this class, will afford mai
opportunities «f poetical illustrations of
writer's ideas. * ,»
The Insiruetiic»».^iletter-Wrtter
designed for the improvement of ladies an
gentlemen, containing a variety of Letters o
i
Business, Love, Courtship, Marriage, FrieruJ
ship, and miscellaneous subjects j adapted toil
ages and circumstances. 32mo,
Price 3 5 cents.
American Fashionable Letter'
W r i t e r , original and selected, containing!
variety of Letters'on Business, Love, Court]
ship, Marriage, Relationship, Friendship, ami
V A L E N T I N E S , with forms of CompUmentar
Cards. T o which are prefixed directions f
t
.
Letter-Writing, and Rules for Compoeitioi
32mo, Price 3 5 cents.
Ready Reckoner; OR, FEPERAL CAT
C U L A T O R ; giving the amount in dollars a
t
)
cents of any number of articles from one to oa
thousand, at any price from a fourth of a cei
to ten dollars, ana equally applicable to man
other species of calculation, as is shown in t
i
l
explanation. T o which are added many u
s
e
f
t
i
tables and forms. Half bound. P r i c e 31
cents.
SONG BOOKS.
T h e Eolian Songster. A c
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
of the best Sentimental, Patriotic, Naval, and
Comic Songs, accompanied with Music. lCmo,
P r i c e paper cover, 255
cents.
United States Songster. A c
h
o
i
c
e
collection of the most Popular Songs, as sung'
by celebrated performers. 32 mo,
P r i c e 2 0 c e n t s ; paper covers,
T h e national A m e r i c a n "Song-
ster, containing a great variety of Popular,
Patriotic, National, and Sentimental Songs.
32mo, L . Price 2 5 cents.
T h e * % e g r o Melodist, containing s
great variety of the most Popular Airs, Songs,
and Melodies, Comic, Humorous, Sentimental,
and Patriotic 3'2mo, P r i c e 2 5
cents.
The New Popular Forget-Mc-
W o t S o n g s t e r , containing a choice collec-
tion of Ballad Songs. 32mo, Price
25 cents.
The New Negro Forget-Me-Not
S o n g s t e r , containing a choice collection A
Negro Songs, Ballads, etc., as sung in concerts.
32mo, Price 2 5 cents.
[For other Song Books see "DIME BOOKS."]
.SEsop's F a b l e s , with upward of ons
hundred and fifty engravings. 82mo, cloth.
Price so cents.
Sent by mail, postage paid on receipt of price.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County ·
Historic Monographs Collection
