{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1826__one_of_the_fraternity___illustrations_of_masonry.pdf","mytitle":"Illustrations Of Masonry","mylang":"de"}
ILLUSTRATIONS
OF
A § © WMH9
BY
OWE Or THIS FHAXSHHrXXY,
WHO HAS DEVOTED THIRTY YEARS TO THE SUBJECT.
" God said, lei there be ,Light,
And there icas light"
BATAVIA:
PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR.
1826.
Northern District of New-York, io xvit
^^^—-^ BE IT REMEMBERED, That on the fourteenth
/^^T
-
^^^. day of August, in the fifty-fipt year of the inde«
ten I| ^Is^a-ly pcvidence of the United States of America, A. D„
vls^gllwfc^ry 1820, William Morgan, of the said district, hath
^^tw^&V^ deposited in this office the title of a book, the right
whereof he claims as author, in the words following, to wit
" Illustrations of Masonry, by one of the fraternity, who has
devoted thirty years to the subject. '
God said, let there be light,
and there was light.'
: '
In conformity to the act of Congress of the United States, enti-
tled "an act for the encouragement of learning, by securing the
copies of maps, charts, and books, to the authors and proprietors
of such copies, during the times therein mentioned ;" and also to
the act entitled " an act supplementary to the act entitled '
an act
for the encouragement of learning, by securing the copies of maps,
charts, and books, to the authors and proprietors of such copies
during the times therein mentioned,' and extending the benefits
thereof to the arts of designing, engraving, and etching historical
and other prints."
R. R. LANSING,
Ckrk of the Northern Did. of N. York.
nraitoiDvcvxoH',
In the absence of the author, or rather compiler of the
following work, who was kidnapped and carried away
from the village of Catavia, on the 1 Lth day of Septem-
ber, 1826*, by a number of Freemasons, it devolves upon
the publisher to attempt to set forth some of the leading
views that governed those who embarked in the under-
taking.
To contend with prejudice, and to struggle against
customs and opinions, which superstition, time, and igno-
rance -have hallowed, requires time, patience, and mag-
nanimity. When we begin to pull down the strong
holds of error, the batteries we level against them,
though strong and powerful and victorious at last, are at
first received with violence; and when in our conquer-
ing career we meet with scoffs and revilings from the
beseiged partisans of untenable positions, it the more
forcibly impresses us we are but men ; and that in every
work m reformation and renovation we must encounter
various difficulties. For a full conformation of our state*
mem we might refer to the history of the world. It h
not our intention however, to give a full detail of the
whims and caprices of man —to bring forth the historic
records of other years as proofs of the windings and shirt-
ings of the various characters who have " Strutted their
brief hour on life's stage/' in order to convince, that cus«
tonH?
associations, and intsitutions are like the.lives of
A 2
( vi )
ibe authors and abettors, fleeting and fragile. Many of
them rise up as bubbles on the ocean, and die away.
Circumstances give them existence, and when these cau-
ses cease to exist, they go into the same gulph of ob-
livion as countless exploded opinions and tenets have
gone before them. The mind that formed and planned
them goes on in its dazzling flight, bounding over bar-
rier after barrier, till it has arrived at the ultimate goal
of consummation.
The daily occurrences before us bring forth the full
conviction, that the emanation from the God of light is
gradually ascending to regions of greater intellectual
brilliancy.
When we view man, in the infancy of society, as in
the childhood of his existence, he is weak, powerless,
iind defenceless ; but in his manhood and riper years, he
has grown to his full stature, and stands forth in com-
manding altitude, the favored and acknowledged lord of
the world. For his comfort and well being, as a mem-
ber &f society, rules and regulations are necessary. In
the various stages of his progress, these systematic im-
provements undergo various changes, according to cir-
cumstances and situations. —What is proper and neces-
sary in one grade of society, is wholly useless, and may
be alarming in another. Opinions and usages, that go
down in tradition, and interfere not with our improve-
ments in social concerns, adhere to us more closely, and
become entwined in all our feelings. It is to this we owe
our bigotted attachment to antiquity —it is this that de-
mands from us a superstitious reverence Cor the opinions
and practices of men of former times, and closes the ear
against truth, and blinds the eyes to the glare of new
light and new accessions of knowledge; through which
medium only can they break in upon the mind.
We have within ourselves the knowledge, and every
where around us the proofs that we are beings destined
not to stand still. In our present state of advancement,
we look with pity on the small progress of our Fatheis
in arts and sciences, and social institutions; and when
compared with our elevated rank, we have just cause c.f
pride and of grateful feelings. —They did well for the
times in which they lived, hut to the ultimatum of per-
fectability we are nearer—and in the monuments we
iiave before us of the skill and genius of our times and
( vii )
age, we have only fulfilled those destinies for which we
were created ; and we objact to every obstacle that oppo-
ses or attempts to oppose the will of Heaven.
In the present enlightened state, to which society has
advanced we contend that the opinions and tenets, and
pretended secrecies of ie
olden times," handed down to
us, should be fully, fairly and freely canvassed ; that,
from the mist and darkness which have hung over them,
they should come out before the open light of day, and
be subjected to the rigid test of candid investigation.
Those preliminary remarks lead us to the main object of
our introduction.
We come to lay before the world the claims of an in-
stitution which has been sanctioned by ages, venerated
for wisdom, and exalted for " light ;" but, an institution
whose benefits have always been overrated, and whose
continuance is not, in the slightest degree, necessary.
We meet it with its high requirements, its " time-
honoured customs," its swelling titles, and shall show it
in its nakedness and simplicity. Strip it of its " borrowed
trappings" and it is a mere nothing—a toy not now-
worthy the notice of a child to sport with. We look
back to it as, at one period, a "cement of society, and
bond of union"—We view it as, at one time, a venera-
ble fort,—but now in ruins—which contained within its
vails many things that dignified and adorned human
uature. We give it due credit for the services it has
done ; but at present, when light has gone abroad into
the uttermost recesses and corners of the world —when
information is scattered wide around us, and knowledge
is not closeted in cloisters and cells, but " stalks abroad
with her beams of light, and her honors and rewards,"
we may now, when our minority has expired, act up to
our character, and look no longer to Masonry as our
guide and conductor : it has nothing in it now valuable
that is not known to every enquiring tnind : it contains,
wrapped up in its supposed mysteries, no useful truth,
no necessary knowledge, that has not gone forth to the
world through other channels and by other means. If
we would have a knowledge of sacred history —of the
religion and practices of the Jews, and the terms and
technicalities of the JVJb.xsa.ie institution^ we cap have
recourse to the Bible. If we wish further communica-
tions from [leaven, we have open to our view the pages
C viii
J
of the New Testament. If we would " climb the high
ascent of human science, and trace the mighty pro-
gress of human genius in every gigantic effort of mind
in logic, geometry, mathematics, chemistry, and every
other branch of knowledge," we ridicule the idea that
Masonry, in her retirements, contains the arts and
sciences. The sturdiest Mason in the whole fraternity-
is not bold enough to uphold or maintain the opinion,
for one moment, in sober reality. The origin of the
institution is easily traced to the rude ages of the world,
—to a body of mechanics, or a corporation of operative
workmen, who formed signs and regulations, the more
easily to carry on their work, and to protect their order.
[The very obligations solemnly tendered to every mem-
ber, carry the strongest internal evidence of the semi-
barbarity that prevailed at the time of the institution of
the order.] In the course of time, as society increased,
and knowledge became more general, it spread, and
embracing in its grasp other objects than at first, it
enrolled iti its ranks men of the first respectability in
wealth, talents, and worth. But that there is any thing
intrinsically valuable in the signs, symbols, or words of
Masonry, no man of sense will contend. That there
is any hidden secret which operates as a talisman h charm
on its possessors, every man of intelligence, Mason or
no Mason, must candidly acknowledge. It is worse
than idleness for the defenders of the order, at the present
day, to entrench themselves behind their outward show
the semblance before the world —and to say they are
hi possession of superior knowledge*
We pretend not to act under a cover. We shall
" tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
truth." Masonry, it is true, has long been eulogised in
songs—it has formed the burthen of the poet's theme,
and been the subject of the orator's best performances.
Fancy has been almost exhausted in bringing out "
flowers to deck the fairy queen ;" but when wc come
behind the scones, what is the picture we behold ! Are
we to rest satisfied with the ipse dixit of others, or to
examine the truth for ourselves ? The touchstone is
before our readers in the present publication.
Masonry is. of itself, miked .and worthless. It consists
of gleanings from the Holy Scriptures, and from the arts
and sciences, whicji have shone in the world. I ; '
( tt )
itself with philosophy and science and religion, on this
it rests all its claims to veneration and respect. Take
away this borrowed aid, and it falls into ruins.
Much weight is still attached to the argument, that
as a tie uniting men—that, as a significant speech, sym-
bolically speaking every language, and at the same time
embodying in its constitution every thing that is valua-
ble, it should command respect. We meet this argu-
ment with facts that cannot he controverted.- We put
it on a basis that will fling into the back-ground every
quibble and artifice on the subject; and, in the language
of a polemic writer, we challenge opposition to our
position :
" The religion inculcated by the Son of Man does all
this; and in no possible situation can man be placed,
that .the benign influence of Christianity does not coin*
1)!etely supersede the use of a mere human institution.
?lace a brother in a desert, unfriended and unknown,—
leave him in a wilderness where humaa footsteps never
printed the ground, the Divine Benefactor is at his side,
and watches over him with parental guidance. Let
him be driven on a barbarous coast in the midst of
savage men, and there it is that the breathings of the
divine influence spreads around him its shield ; bring
him into civilized society—in the busy walks of men, and
are we to be told that as members of community^ so-
journers on earth, and candidates for heaven, we must
be taught our duty at a Mason's Lodge ? Wherever
Masonry exercises its influence with success, there
Christianity can have, or should have a more powerful
effect. Whenever Masonry claims "kindred with the
skies," and exalts herself above every living sublunary
tiling, then, with an unhallowed step, it obtrudes on the
sabred borders of religion, and decks itself in borrowed
garments."
Entrenched within these srtong walls—decked with
all the glitter of high sounding professions, claiming
what does not belong to it, —it dazzles " but to bewilder
and destroy." In its train, in these United States, is
enrolled many periodical works devoted to Masonry ;
and under the guise of patronizing mechanics—the arts
and sciences —lend their aid to carry on the imposir.g
delusion. They take up the specious title of throwing
a little illumination on this benighted country, from their
C * )
secret depositories. Arrogating to itself what should deck
others' brows—assuming- to be the patron, the life and
soul of all that is great and valuable—it deceives man}''
of its votaries, and from its gaudy premises the most un-
tenable and onerous conclusions are drawn.
Are we astonished at t he wild and heedless manner in
winch many of the votaries of Masonry rush into every
excess—putting at defiance the laws of our civil institu-
tions, which suffer no one to be put in jeopardy but by
due forms, and disregarding the command of the Most
High, which says, "Thou shalt not kill?"—we can
readily trace the cause to the impressions and practices
obtained from its false tenets and deceptive arrogance.
Masonry is to the modern world what the whore of
Babylon was to the ancient ; and is the beast with seven
heads and ten horns, ready to tear out our bowels, and
scatter them to the four winds of heaven.
Masonry gives rogues and evil minded characters an
opportunity of visiting upon, their devoted victim, all
the ills attending combined power, when exerted to
accomplish destruction. It works unseen, at all silent
hours, and secret times and places ; and like deaths
when summoning his diseases, pounces upon its devoted
subject, and lays him prostrate in the dust. Like the
great enemy of' man, it has shown its cloven foot, and
put the public upon its guard against its secret ma-
chinations.
This part of the subject requires no further discussion
either by way of ridicule or downright sincerity, but the
remark, which cannot be too often reiterated, that the
world, in its present advanced state, requires no such or-
der for our social intercourse ; and when the masonic
mania prevails as it now does in t hi* Country, we are ex-
alting a mere human ordinance, with its useless trumpe-
ry and laughable accompaniments for the sublime and
unadorned lessons of Heaven.
To some men it is galling and mortifying in the ex-
treme to give up their dariiug systems. With the in-
crease of years their fondness becomes so great that they
cling to them with wild and bewildered attachment.
But we would ask them where now are the Knights of
Malta and Jerusalem, and the objects that called for'li
their perils and journeyings? Where are the crusades
md excursions on which our Grand Commanders, (4ene«
ralissimos and Sir Knights are to bo engaged .....In
no other excursions than Cervantes describes of his re-
doubtable Hero, Don Quixotte. The days and occa-
sions that called forth these deeds of chivalry and valor,
have passed like those before the flood ; and the mock
dignitaries and Puppet-show actions of Masons in their
imitation cali forth pity and indignation. When we
now see the gaudy show in a lodge room, and a train of
nominal officers with their distinctions and badges, it
may give us some faint idea of scenes that are past, and
may gratify an idle curiosity but produce no substantial
good under heaven. When monasteries and cloisters,
and Inquisitor's eel's and prisons have been broke up be-
fore the sweeping march of the moral mind, why this
unnecessary mummery should be so much countenanced
in this country, above all other countries in the world, is
a matter of astonishment.
The day we trust will never arrive here, when ranks
in Masonry will be stepping stones to places of dignity
and power—when this institution will be a machine t©
press down the free born spirit of men. We have now
no tyrant to 'rule over us—no kingly potentate to move
over our heads the rod of authority ; but high in our
elevation, and invincible in our strong holds, we put *\t
defiance secret cabals and associations. The publio
opinion is like a mighty river, and gigantic in its course
it will sweep every interposing obstacle before it.
In the work which we submit to the public we have
given false coloring to nothing: nor in these remarks
have we set down aught in malice. In the firm discharge
of our undertaking we have been stern and unbending
as the rugged mountain oak : and persecutions, pains,
and perils have not deterred us from our purpose. We
have triumphed over tumult, and clamor, and evil speak-
ing.
When our book goes out to the world, it will meet
with attacks of a violent nature from one source, and
men of mock titles and order will endeavor to heap upon
it every calumny. Men more tenacious of absolute
forms and practice than they are attentive to truth and
honor, will deny our expositions, and call us Liars and
impostors.
Such is the treatment, however ungenerous and unjust,
which we expect to meets and for which we are prepa-
( *» )
red. Truth we know is majestic and will finally prevail.
The little petty effusions of malice that will be thrown
out will die with their authors, whom this work will
survive.
We now aver in defiance of whatever may be said to
the contrary—no matter by whom, how exalted his rank
.
—that this Book is what it pretends to be—that it is a
JVlaster Key to the secrets of Masonry ; that in the pages
before him, the man of candor and inquiry can judge for
himself, and then a proper judgment will be formed of
our intention.
ILLUSTRATIONS
OF
MASONRY, &c,
A description of the ceremonies used in opening ft
Lodge of Entered Apprentice Masons ; which is the
same in all the upper degrees, with the exception of
the difference in the signs, due-guards, grips, pass-
grips, words and their several names; all of which will
be given and explained in their proper places as the
work progresses.
One rap calls the Lodge to order—one calls up the Junior
and Sertior Deacons—iwo raps call up all the subordi-
nate officers-, and three, all the members of the lodge.
The Master having called the Lodge to order, and the
officers all seated, the Master says to the Junior Warden,
' Brother Junior, are they all Entered Apprentice Ma-
sons in the South ?' Ans. c
They are, Worshipful.'
Master to the Senior Warden, ' Brother Senior, are they
all Entered Apprentice Masons in the West? Ans.
4 They are, Worshipful-" The Master then says, l
They
are, in the East,' at the same time he gives a rap with the
common gavel or mallet, which calls up both Deacons.
Master to Junior Deacon, < Brother Junior, the first care
of a Mason ?' Ans. ' To see the Lodge* tyled, Worship-
ful.' Master to Junior Deacon, < Attend to that part of
your duty, and inform the Tyler that we are about to
open a lodge of Entered Apprentice Masons, and direct
him to tyle accordingly.' The Tyler then steps to the
door and gives three raps, which are answered by three
from without ; the Junior Deacon then gives one, which
is also answered by the Tyler with one \ the door is then
partly opened, and the Junior Deacon delivers his mes-
sage, and resumes his situation, and says, * the door is
\y led, Worshipful,' (at the -same time giving the due-
guard, which is never omitted when the Master is ad-
R
( 14 )
-dressed.) The Master to the Junior Deacon, 'T>y whom ?
7
Ans. By a Master Mason without the door, armed with
The proper implement of his olaee.' Master to Junior.
Deacon, ' His fluty there ?' Avs. ' To keep off all cow-
ans and eaves-droppers, see that none pass or repass
without permission from the Master.' [Some say. without
permission from the chair.] Master to Junior Deacon,
' Brother Junior, your place in the lodger' Ans. At the
right hand of the Senior Warden in the west.' Master
to Junior Deacon, ' Your business there, Brother Junior ?'
Ans. 'To wait on the Worshipful Master and Wardens,
act as their proxy in the active duties of the Lodge,
and take charge of the door.' Master to Junior Deacon,
' The Senior Deacon's place in the Lodge?' /Ins. 'At
the right hand of the Worshipful Master in the' Last.'
[The Master, while asking the last question, gives two
raps, which cal!s up all the subordinate officers.] Mas-
fer to Senior Deacon, ' Your duty there, Brother Senior ?'
Ans. 'To wait on the Worshipful Master and Wardens,
act as their proxy in the active duties of the Lodge, at-
tend to the preparation and introduction of candidates,
and welcome and clothe all visiting Brethren, [i. e. fur-
nish them with an apron.] Master to Senior Deacon/ The
Secretary's place in the Lodge, Brother Senior V Ans.
* At the left hand of the Worshipful Master in the East.'
Master to Secretary, ' Your duty there, Brother Secreta-
ry?' Am. ' The better to observe the Worshipful Mas-
ter's will and pleasure, record the proceedings of tiic
Lodge.; transmit a copy of the same to the Grand
Lodge, if required; receive all monies and money bills
from the hands of the Brethren, pay them over to the
Treasurer, and take his receipt for the same.' The Mas-
ter to the Secretary, 'The Treasurer's place in the
Lodger' Am. 'At rue right. hand of the WVrshipful
Master.' Master to Treasurer, ' Your duty there, Bro-
ther-Treasurer?' Ans. ' Duly to observe the Worship-
ful Master's will and pleasure; receive all monies and
motiey bills from ihe hands of the Secretary ; keep a just
and true account of the same ;
pay them out by order
of the Worshipful .Master and consent of the Brethren.'
The Master to the Treasurer, ' The Junior Warden's
place in the lodge, Brother Treasurer ?' Aus. ' In 'he
South, Worshipful.' Master to Junior Warden, '
Your
business there, Brother Junior?' Ans. 'As the sun in
( M )
(he South at high meridian is the beauty and glory of
the day, so stands the Junior Warden in the South, -he
better to observe the time, call the crafts from labour to
refreshment, superintend them daring the hours thereof,
see that none convert tire hours of refreshment into that
of intemperance or excess ; and call them on again m
due season, that the Worshipful Master may have honour,
and they pleasure and profit thereby/ Master to the
Junior Warden, 'The Senior Warden's place in" the
Lodge ?' An?. 'In the West, Worshipful ?' Master to
Senior Warden, 'Your duly there, Brother Senior r
Ans. 'As the sun sets in the West to close the day, so
stands the Senior Warden in the West to assist the Wor-
shipful Master in opening his Lodge, take care of the
jjewels and implements, see that none be lost, pay the
craft their wages, if any be due, and see that none go
away dissatisfied.' Master to the Senior Warden, ' The
Master's place in the Lodge ?' Ans. * In the Last, Wor-
shipful." .Master to the Senior Warden, ' liis duty
there ?' Ann. ' As the sun rises in the East to open and
adorn the clay, so presides the Worshipful Master in the
Last to open and adorn his lodge, set his crafts to work
with good and wholesome laws, or cause the same to be
done.' The iM ester now gives three raps, when all the
brethren rise, and the Master, taking off his hat, proceeds
as. follows: 'In like manner so do I, strictry forbidding
all profane language, private committees, or any other
disorderly conduct whereby the peace and harmony of
this Lodge may h° interrupted while engaged in i^s law-
ful pursuits, under r»o less penalty than the bye-laws, or
such penalty as a majority of th*: brethren present may
see fit to inflict. Brethren, attend to giving the signs.'
[Here lodges differ very much. In some, they declare
the Lodge opened as follows, before tb° y give the signs :]
The Master (all the Brethren Lr. hating him) extends his
left arm from his body so as to form aa angle of about
forty-five degrees, and holds his right hand transversely
across his left, the palms thereof about one inch apart.
This is called the first sign of a Mason —is the sign of
distress in this degree, and alludes to the position a can-
didate's hands are placed in when lie takes the obligation
ol an Entered Apprentice Mason. The Master then draws
his right hand across his throat, the hand open, with the
thumb next to the throat, and drops it down by his side*
{ 16 )
This is called the due-guard of an Entered Apprentice
Mason, (many call it the sign*) and alludes to the penally
of* the obligation. (See obligation.) The Master then
declares the Lodge opened, in the following manner :
l
I
now declare this Lodge of Entered Apprentice Masons
duly opened for the despatch of business.' The Senior
Warden declines it to the Junior Warden, and lie to the
Brethren. 'Come, Brethren, lei us. pray.' One of the
following prayers is used :
Most holy and glorious God ! the great Architect cf
the Universe ; the giver of all good gifts and graces ;
Thou hast promised that "Where two or three are
gathered together in thy name, thou wilt be in the midst
of them, and bless them." In thy name we assemble,
most humbly beseeching thee to bless us in all our un-
dertakings ; that we may know and serve thee aright,
and that all our actions may tend to thy glory and our
advancement in knowledge and virtue. And we beseech
thee, O Lord God, to bless our present assembling j and
to illuminate our minds through the influence of the Son
of Righteousness, that we may walk in the light of thy
countenance; and when the trials of our probationary
state are over, be admitted into the Temple not made
with hands;
eternal in the heavens. Amen. So mote
it be.
Another Praijer, as often used at opening as closing.
Behold how good and how pleasant it is for brethren
to dwell together in unity : it is like the precious ointment
upon the head, that ran down upon the beard, even
Aaron's beard, that went down to the skirts of his gar-
ment: as the dew of Hermon, and as the dew that de-
scended upon the mountains of Zion, for there the Lord
commanded the blessing, even life for evermore. Amen.
So mote it be.
The lodge being now open and ready to proceed to
business, the Master directs the Secretary to read the
minutes of the last meeting which naturally brings to
view the business of the present.
If there are any candidates to be brought forward,
that will he the first business attended to. 1 will there-
fore proceed with a description of the ceremonies used
in the admission and initiation of a candidate into the
first degree of Masonry.
( v )
A' person wishing to become a Mason must get some
one who is a Mason to present his petition to a lodge*
when, if there are no serious objections, it will he entered
on the minutes, and a committee of two or three ap-
pointed to enquire into his character, and report to the
next regular communication. The following is the form
of a petition used by a candidate ; but a worthy candidate
will not be rejected for the want of formality in his pe-
tition.
To the Worshipful Master Wardens and Brethren of
Lodge No. —, of Free anil Accepted Masons.
The subscriber, residing in —, of lawful age, and
by occupation a , begs leave to state that, unbias-
sed by friends,. and uninfluenced by mercenary motives,
he freely and voluntarily offers himself a* candidate for
the mysteries of Masonry, and that he is prompt to soli-
cit this privilege by a favourable opinion conceived of
the institution, a desire of knowledge and a sincere wish
of being serviceable to his fellow-creatures. Should his
petition be granted, he will cheerfully conform to all the
ancient established usages aud customs of the fraternity..
(Signed) A. B/
At the next. regular- communication, (if no very seri-
ous objection appears against the candidate) the ballot-
boxes will be passed ; one black ball will reject a candid-
ate. The boxes may be passed three times. The Dea-
cons are the proper persons to.passthem ; one of the box-
es has black and white beans, or bails in it, the other emp-
ty ; the one with tiie balls in it goes before, and furnishes
each-member with ablackand white ball;. the empty box.
follows and receives them.. There are two holes in the
top of this box with a .small tube, (generally) in each, one
of which is, black, and the other white, with a partition
in the box.. The members put both their ba'ls into this
box as their feelings dictate; when the balls are receiv-
ed, the box is presented to the Master, Senior and;
Junior wardens, who pronounce clear or not clear, as-,
the case may be. The ballot proving clear, the Can-
didate (if present) is conducted into a small preparation
room adjoining the Lodge, when he is asked the follow*,
ing questions, and gives the following answers. Senior,
Deacon to Candidate, 'Do you sincerely declare, upon
B2
( 18 )
your honor before these gentlemen, that unbiased by
friends, uninfluenced by unworthy motives, you freely
and voluntarily offer yourself a Candidate for the mys-
teries of masonry ?' Ans. i
I do.' Senior Deacon to
Candidate, i
Do you sincerely declare upon your honour
before these gentlemen, that you are prompt to solicit
the privileges of masonry, by a favorable opinion con-
ceived of the institution, a desire of knowledge, and a
sincere wish of being serviceable to your fellow crea-
tures?' Ans. 'I do.' Senior Deacon to Candidate, ' Do
you sincerely declare upon your honour before these gen-
tlemen, that you will cheerfully conform to all the ancient
established usages and customs of the fraternity ?' Ans.
*I do.' After the above questions are proposed and an-
swered, and the result reported to the Master, he says
'Brethren at the request of Mr. A. B. he has been pro-
posed and accepted in regular form. I therefore recom-
mend him as a proper Candidate for the mysteries of
masonry, and worthy to partake of the privileges of the
fraternity; and in consequence of a declaration of his
intentions, voluntarily made, I believe he will cheerfully
conform to the rules of the order.' The candidate du-
ring the time is divested of all his apparel (shirt except-
ed) and furnished with a pair of drawers kept in the lodue
for the use ofCandidates, the Candidate is then blindfol-
ded, his left foot bare, his right in a slipper, his left breast
and arm naked, and a rope called a Cable-Tow round his
peck and left arm, (the rope is not put round the arm in all
lodges) in which posture the Candidate is conducted to
the door where he is caused to give, or the conductor gives
three distinct knocks, which are answered by three from
•within, the conductor gives one more, which is also an-
swered by one from within. The door is then partly open-
ed and the Junior Deacon generally asks, ' who comes
there ? who comes there ? who comes there ?' The con-
ductor, alias the Senior Deacon answers, ? A poor blind
Candidate who has long been desirons of having and re-
ceiving a part of the rights and benefits of this worshipful
lodge dedicated (some say erected) to God and held forth
to the holy order of St. John, as all true fellows and bro-
thers have done, who have gone this way before him.'
The Junior Deacon then asks, ' Is it of his own free will
and accord he makes this request ? is he duly and truly
prepared? worthy and well qualified? and properly
( 19 )
avouched for?' All of which being answered in the affir-
mative, the Junior Deacon to Senior Deacon : * By what
further rights does he expect to obtain this benefit ?' Ans.
' By being a man, frae born, of lawful age, .aid under
the tongue of good report.' The Junior Deacon then
says, * since this is the case you will wait 'nil the worship-
ful Master in the East is made acquainted with his re-
quest, and his answer returned;' the Junior Deacon re-
pairs to the Master, when the same questions are a»ked
and answers returned as at the door j after which, the
Master says, 'since lie comes endowed with all these ne-
cessary qualifications, let him enter this worshipful lodge
in the name of the Lord and take heed on what he enters.'
The Candidate then enters, the Junior Deacon at the
.same time pressing his naked left breast with the point of
the compass, and asks the Candidate, ' Did you feel any
thing?' Ans. H Did.' Junior Deacon to Candidate,
4
what was it?' Ans. 'A torture.' The Junior Deacon
then says, ' as this is a torture to your flesh, so may it ev-
er be to your mind- and conscience if ever you should at-
tempt to reveal the secrets of masonry unlawfully. The
Candidate is then conducted to the centre of the lodge,,
where he and the Senior Deacon kneels, and the Deacon
says the following prayer.
" Vouchsafe thine aid, Almighty Father of the uni-
verse, to this our present convention ^ and grant that this
candidate for masonry may dedicate and devote his life to
thy service, and become a true and faithful brother among
us! Endue him. with a competency of thy divine wisdom,
that by the secrets of our art, he may be the better en-
a! «it d to display the beauties of holiness, to the honour of
thy holy name." So mote it be——Amen !
The Master then asks the candidate, ' In whom do you
pur your trust ?' Ans fc
In God." The Master then takes
him by the right hand and says, 'Since in God you put
yaw trust, arise, follow your leader and fear no danger.'
The Senior Deacon then conducts the candidate three
times regularly round the lodge, and halts at the Junior
Warden in the South, where the same questions are ask-
ed and answers returned as at the door.
As the candidate and conductor are passing round the
room the Master reads the following passage of Scripture,
ar»d takes the same time to read it that they do to go
round the lodge three times,
( 20 )
"Behold how good and how pleasant it is for brethren
to dwell together in unity! It is like the i recious oint-
ment upon the head, that ran down upon the beard, even
Aaron's beard, that went down to the skirts of his gar-
ment: as the dew of Hermon, and as the dew that de-
scended upon the mountains of Zion ; for there the Lord
commanded the blessing, even life for ever more."
. The candidate is then conducted 10 the Senior War-
den in the West, where the same questions are asked and
answers returned as before, from thence he is conducted
to the worshipful Master in the East, where the same
questions are asked and answers returned as before.
The Master likewise demands of him, from whence he
came and whither he is travelling. The candidate an-
swers, l
from ibe West and travelling to the East.' Mas-
ter inquires; ' Why do you leave the West and travel to:
the East?' Ans. ' In search of light.' Master then says,
1
Since the candidate is travelling in search of light, you
will please conduct him hack to the West from whence-
he came, and put him in the care of the Senior Warden,
who will teach him how to approach the East, the place of
light, by advancing upon one upright regular step, to xthe
first step, his feet forming the right anj^le of an oblong'
square, his body erect at the altar before the Master, and;
place him in a proper position to take upon him the sol--
emn oath or obligation of an entered Apprentice Mason.'
The Senior Warden receives the candidate, and instructs,
him as directed. He first steps oft* with the left foot and.
brings up the heel <>f the right into the hollow thereof,,
the heel of the right foot against the ancle of the left,,
will of course form the right angle of an oblong square;.
the candidate then kneels on his left knee,.and places his
right foot so as to form a square with the left, he turns
his foot round until the ancle bone is as much in front of
him as the toes on the left foot; the candidate's left hand
is ihen put under the Holy Bible, square and compass,
and the right on them. This is the position in which a
candidate is placed when he takes upon him the oath or
obligation of an entered Apprentice Mason. As soon
as the candidate is placed in this position, the worshipful
Master approaches him, and says, ' Mr. A. B. you are now
placed in a proper position to take upon you the solemn
oath or obligation of an entered Apprentice Mason, which
J assure you is neither to effect your religiuii nor uolitics,
( 21 )
ijf you are willing- to take it, repeat your name and say
after me; 7
[and although many have refused to take any
kind of an obligation, and begged for the privilege of re-
tiring, yet none have ever made their escape; they have
been either coerced, or persuaded .to submit. There are
thousands who never return to the lodge after they are
initiated] t he following obligation is then administered.
' ;
J, A. 13. of my own free will ami accord, tii presence of
Almighty God and this worshipful lodge of free and ac-
cepted masons, dedicated to God and held forth to the
holy order of St. John, do hereby and hereon most sol-
emnly and sincerely promise and swear that I will always
hail, ever conceal and never reveal any part, or parts,
art, or arts, point, or points of the secret arts and myste-
ries of ancient freemasonry, which I have received, am
aboutto receive, or may hereafter be instructed in, to any
person, or persons in the known world, except it be to a
uue and lawful brother mason, or within the body of a
just and lawfully constituted lodge, of such; and not un-
to him, nor unto them who I shall hear so to be, but
unto him and them only whom 1 shall find so to be after
strict trial and due examination, or lawful information.
Furthermore, do I promise and swear that. I will not
write, print, stamp, stain, hugh, cut, carve, indent, paint,
or engrave it on any thing moveable or immoveable, un-
der the w hole canopy of Heaven, whereby, or whereon
the least letter, figure, character, mark, stain, shadow, or
resemblance of the same may become legible or intelli-
gible to myself or any other person in the known world,
whereby the secrets of masonry may be unlawfully ob-
tained through my unworthiness. To all which 1 do most
solemnly and sincerely promise and swear, without the
least equivocation, mental reservation, or self evasion of
mind in me whatever; binding myself under no less pen-
alty, than to have my throat cut across, my tongue torn
out by the roots, and my body buried in the rough sands
of the sea at low water mark, where the tide ebbs and
flows twice in twemy-four hour?; so help me God, and
keep me steadfast in the due performance of the same."
Aftet
-
the obligation the master addresses the candidate
in the following manner :
'
Brother to you the secrets of
masonry are about to be unveiled, and a brighter sun
never shone lustre on your eyes; while prostrate before
this sacred altar, do you not shudder at every crime ?
( £ )
have you not confidence in every virtue? May these
thoughts ever inspire you with the most noble sentiments ;
may you ever feel that elevation of sou], that shall scorn a
dishonest act. Brother, what do you most desire ?' Aus.
1
light.* Master to brethren, ' Brethren, stretch forth
your hands and assist in bringing this new made brother
from darkness to light.' The membars having firmed a
circle round the candidate, the Master says, 'And God
said, let there be light, and there was light.? At the same
time, all the brethren clap their hands, and stamp on tiie
floor with their right foot as heavy as possible, the ban-
dage dropping from the candidate's eyes at the same in-
stant, which, after having been so long blind, and full of
fearful apprehensions all the time, this great and sudden
transition from perfect darkness to a light brighter (if pos-
sible) than the meridian sun in a mid summer day, some-
limes produces an alarming effect. I mice knew a man
to faint on being brought to light; and his recovery was
quite doubtful for some lime : however, he did come too,
hut he never returned to the lodge again. I have often
conversed with him on the subject, he is yet living, and
will give a certificate in support of the above statement
at any time if requested.
After the candidate is brought to light, the Master
addresses him as follows: '
Brother, on being brought to
light, you first discover three great lights; in masonry by
the assistance of three lesser, they are thus explained ;
the three great lights in masonry are the Holy. Bible-,
Square and Compass. The Holy Bible is given to us us
a rule and guide for our faith v.nO. practice; the Square, to
square our actions, and the Compass to keep us in due
bounds with all .mankind, but more especially with the
brethren. The three lesser lights are three burning ta-
pers, or candles placed on candlesticks, (some say or can-
dles on pedestals.) they represent the Sun, Moon and
Master of the lodge, and are thus explained. As the sun
rules the day and the moon governs the night, so ought
Hie worshipful Master with equal regularity to rule and
govern his lodge, or cause ihe same to be done; you
next discover me as Master of this lodge, approaching
you from the East upon the first step of masonry, under
the sign and due-guard of an entered Apprentice ma!
(The sign and due-guard has been explained.) This is the
manner of giving them, imitate me as near as you can,
( a -)
keeping your position. First, step ofT with your left
foot and bi'ing the heal of the right into the hollow there-
of, so as to form a square.' (This is the first step in mason-
ry.) The following is the sign of an Kntered Apprentice
mason, a:;u is the sign of distress in this degree ;
yon are
not to give it unless in distress. (It is'given by holding
your two hands transversely across each other, the right
hand upwards and one inch from the left.) The following
is the due-guard of an entered Apprentice Mason. (This
is given by drawing your right hand across your throat,
the thumb next to your throat, your arm as high as the
elbow in a horieon*al position.) < Brother, I now present
you my right haw! in token of brotherly love and es-
teem, and with it the grip and name of the grip of an
entered Apprentice mason.' The right hands are joined
together as in shaking hands, and each sticks his thumb
nail into the third joint or upper end of the fore linger;
the name of the grip is Boaz, and is to be given in the
follow-big manner and no other; the Master first gives the
grip and word, and divides it Cor the instruction of the
candidate ; the questions are as follows : The Master and
candidate holding each other by the grip as before des-
cribed, the Master says, f what is this.' Ans. <
A grip.' Q.
1
a grip of what.' A. The grip of an entered Apprentice
mason. Q. Has it a name? A. It has. Q. Will you give
it to me ? A. I did not so receive it, neither can I so im-
part it. Q. What will you do with it? A. Letter it or
halve it. Q. Halve it and begin. A. You begin; Q, -Be-
gin yon. A. < B-O.' Q. < A-Z.' A. < BOAZ.' Master
says, ' Right, brother Baaz, I greet you. It is the name
of the left hand pillar of the porch of king Solomon's
Temple—arise, brother Boaz, and salute the Junior and
Senior Wardens as such, and convince ihem that you
have been regularly initiated «s an Entered Apprentice
Mason, and have got the sign, grip^and word.' The
Master returns to his seat while the Wardens are examin-
ing the candidate, and gets a lamb-skin or white apron,
presents it to the candidate, and observes, * Brother, I
now present you with a lamb-skin or white apron : it is
an emblem of innocence, and the badge of a Mason : it
has been worn by kings, princes, and potentates of the
earth who have never been ashamed to wear it : it is
more honourable than the diadems of kings, or pearls of
princesses, when worthily worn : it is more ancient than
( 24 )
iiie Golden Fleece or Roman Eagle : more honourable
than the Star and Garter, or any other order that can be
conferred upon you at this, or any other time, except it
be in the body of a just and lawfully constituted lodge :
you will cany it to the Senior Warden in the West, who
will teach yen how to wear it as an Entered Apprentice
Mason.' The Senior Warden ties the apron on and turns
up the. flap instead of letting it fall down in front of the
top of the apron. This is the way Entered Apprentice
Masons wear, or ought to wear their aprons until they
are advanced- The candidate is now conducted to the
Master in the East, who says, '
Brother, as you are dress-
ed, it is necessary you should have tools to work with;
1 will now present you with the working tools of an En-
tared Apprentice Mason, which are (he twenty-four inch
guage and common gavel ; they are thus explained :
The twenty-four inch guage is an instrument made use
of by operative Masons to measure and lay out their
work, but we as Free and Accepted Masons, make use of
it for the more noble and glorious .purpose of dividing
our time. The twenty-four inches uii the guage, are em-
blematical. of the twenty four hours in the day, which
we are taught to divide into three equal parts, whereby
we find eight hours for ihe service of God, and a worthy
distressed brother; eight hours for our usual vocaiions, and
eight for refreshment and sleep; the common gavel is
an instrument made use of by operative Masons to break
off the corners of rough stone:; : the better to lit litem
for the builders use, but we as Free and Accepted Ma-
sons use it for the more noble and glorious purpose of di-
vesting our hearts and consciences of all the vices and su-
perfluities of life, thereby fitting our minds as living and
lively stones, for that, spiritual building, that house not
made with hands, eternal in the heavens; I also present
you with a new name; it is CAUTIOX, it leaches you
that as you are barely instructed in the rudiments of.Ma-
sonry, that you should be cautious over "all your words
and actions, particularly whan before tiie enemies of Ma-
sonrv. 1 shall next present you with three precious jewels
which are, a listening ear, a silent tongue, and a faithful
heart. A listening ear teaches you to listen to the in-
structions of the Worshipful Mastet; but more especial-
ly that you should listen to the calls and cries of a worthy
distressed brother. A silent tongue teaches you to be si-
t 23 }
lent white in the lodge, that the piece and harmony
thereof may not be disturbed, but more especially, that
you should be silent before the enemies of xMasonry, that:
the craft may not be brought into disrepute by your im-
prudence. A faithful heart teaches you to be faithful to
the instructions o& the Worshipful Master at all times*
but more especially, that you should be faithful, and keep
and conceal the secrets of Masonry, and those of a broth-
er when given to you in charge as such, that they may
remain as secure and inviolable your breast as in his own,
before communicated to you. I further present you
with check-words two; their names are truth and union.
and are thus explained. Truth is a divine attribute, and
the foundation of every virtue ; to be good and true, is
the first lesson we are taught in Masonry ; on this theme
we contemplate, and by its dictates endeavour to regulate
our conduct; hence, while influenced by this principle
hypocricy and deceit are unknown among us; sincerity
and plain dealing distinguish us, and the heart and
tongue join in promoting each others welfare and rejoi-
cing in each others prosperity.
Union, is that kind of friendship, which ought to ap-
pear conspicuous in every Mason's conduct. It is so
closely allied to the divine attribute, truth, that he who
enjoys the one, is seldom destitute of the other. Should
interest, honour, prejudice, or human depravity, ever in-
duce you to violate any part of the sacred trust we
now repose in you, let these two important words, at the
earliest insinuation, teach you to put on the check-line of
truth, which will infallibly direct \ou to pursue that
straight and narrow path which ends in the full enjoy-
ment of the Grand Lodge above; where -we shall all
meet as Masons and members of the same family, i«
peace, harmony and love; where all dis'cord on account
of politicks, religion or private opinion shall be unknown,
and banished from within our walls.
Brother it has been a custom fromrtime immemorial to
demand, or ask from a newly made brother something of
a metalic kind, not so much on account of its intrinsic val-
ue, but that it may be deposited in the archives of the
Lodge, as a memorial, that you was herein made a Mason ;
—a small trifle will be sufficient ;—any thing of a metalic
kind will do; if you have no money, any thing of a me-
talic nature will be sufficient 3, even a button will do.5
C
( 20 )
(The candidate says he has nothing about him ; it is
known lie lias nothing.) * Search yourself,' the Master
replies, fie is assisted in searching, nothing is found ;
* perhaps you can borrow a trifle,' says the Master. (He
tries to borrow, none will lend him—he proposes to go in-
to the other room where his clothes are ; lie is not per-
mitted.—If a stranger, he is very much embarrassed ;
Master to candidate, ' Brother let this ever be a striking
lesson to yon, and teach you, if you should ever see a
friend, -but more especially a brother in a like pennylesa
situation, to contribute as liberally to his relief as his sit-
uation may require, and your abilities will admit without
material injury to yourself or family .' Master to Sen-
ior Deacon, 'You will conduct the candidate back from
whence he came, and invest him of what he has been di-
vested, and let him return for further instruction.' The
candidate is then conducted tothe preparation room, and
invested of what he had been divested, and returns to the
North East corner of the Lodge, and is taught how to
stand upright like a man ; when and where the following
charge is, or ought to be delivered to him ; though it rs
omitted nine times out often, a3 are near one half of the
ceremonies.
,
Master to the candidate, l
brother as you are now ini-
tiated into the first principles of Masonry, I congratulate
you on having been accepted into this ancient and honor-
able order; ancient, as having subsisted from time imme
morial ; and honourable, as tending in every particular, so
to render all men w ho will become conformable to its prin-
ciples. No institution was ever raised on a better princi-
ple, or more solid foundation, nor were ever more excel-
lent rules and useful maxims laid down than are inculca-
ted in the several Masonic lectures. The greatest and best
best of men in all ages have been eneouragers and promo-
ters of the art, and have never deemed it derogatory to
their dignity, to leve) themselves with the fraternity
extend their privileges, and patronize their assemblies.'
'There are three great duties, which, as a Mason, you
are charged to inculcate. To God, your neighbour, and
yourself. To God, in never mentioning his name, but
With that reverential awe that is due from a creature to
})is Creator; to implore his aid in all your laudable un-
dertakings, and to esteem him as the chief Good.—To
your neighbour, in acting upon the square, and doing un-
( 27 )
la litn as you wish lie should do unto you ; and to your-
self iu avoiding all irregularity, or intemperance which
may impair your faculties, or debase the dignity of your
profession. A zealous attachment to these principles
wi ilensure public and private esteem. In the state, you
are to be a quiet and peaceable subject, true to your gov-
ernment and just to your country ;
you are riot to coun-
tenance disloyalty, but faithfully submit to legal author-
ity, and coo form with cheerfulness to the government of
the country in which you live. In your outward de-
meanor be particularly careful to avoid censure or re-
proach Although your frequent appearance at our reg-
ular meetings is earnestly solicited, yet it is not meant
that Masonry should interfere with your necessary voca-
tions : t'ov these are on no account to be neglected ; nei-
ther are you to suffer your zeal for the institution to lead
you into argument with those, who, through ignorance-,
may ridicule it. At your leisure hours, that you may
improve iu Masonic knowledge, you are to converse with
well informed Brethren, who will be always as ready to
give, as \ ou will be to receive information. Finally,
keep sacred and inviolable ihe mysteries of the order, as
these are to distinguish you from the rest of the commu-
nity, and mark your consequence among Masons. If, in
the circle of your acquaintance, you find a person desi-
rous of being initiated into Masonry, be particularly at-
tentive not to recommend him, unless you are convinced
he will conform to our rules ; that the honour, glory, and
reputation of the institution may be firmly established,
and the world at large convinced of its good effects.'
The work of the evening being over, I will proceed to
give a description of the manner of closing the Lodge.
It is a very common practice in Lodges to close a Lodge
of Entered Apprentices, and open a Lodge of Fello.v
Crafts, and close that, and open a Master Masons' Lodge,
all in the same evening.
Some Brother generally makes a motion that the
Lodge be closed ; it being seconded and carried :
The Master to the Junior Deacon —< Brother Junior/
gi\ ing one rap which calls up both Deacons,) i
the first
us well as the last care of a Mason ?' Ans. ' To-«ee the
Lodge tyied, Worshipful.7
Master to Junior Deacon,
* \ttend to that part of your duty, and inform the Tyle*
;hat we are about to close ihis Lodge of Entered Appren*
( 28 J
lice Masons, and direct him to tylc accordingly.* The
Junior Deacon steps to the door and gives three raps,
which are answered by the Tyler with three more ; tbfl
Junior Deacon then gives one, which is also answered by
the Tyler by one. The Junior Deacon then opens the
door, delivers his message, and resumes his place in the
Lodge, and says, ' the door is tyied, Worshipful ' Mas-
ter to Junior Deacon, < By whom ?' Ans. i
By a Master
Mason without the door, armed with the proper implement
of his office.
5
Master to Junior Deacon, 'His business
there ?'• Ans. i
To keep off all cowans and eaves-drop-
pers, and see that none pass or repass without permission
from the chair.' Master to Junior Deacon, ' Your place
in the Lodge, brother Junior?' Ans. c
At the right
hand of the Senior Warden in the West.' Master to
Junior Deacon, ' Your duty there ?' Ans. * To wait on
the Worshipful Master and Wardens, act as their proxy
in the active duties of the Lodge, and take charge of the
door.' Master to the Junior Deacon, * The Senior Dea-
con's place in the Lodge?' Ans. < At the right hand of
the Worshipful Master in the Last.' Master to Senior
Deacon, < Your duty there, brother Senior ?' Ans. * To
wait on the Worshipful Master and Wardens, act as their
proxy in the active duties of the Lodge ; attend to the
preparation and introduction of candidates, receive and
clothe all visiting brethren/ Master to the Senior Deacon,
* The Secretary's place in the Lodge?' AnsS At your
left hand, Worshipful.' Master to Secretary, ' Your duty
there, brother Secretary?' Ans. 'Duly to observe the
Master's wiH and pleasure; record the proceedings of
the Lodge ; transmit a copy of the same to the (J rand
Lodge, if required ; receive all monies and money bills
from the hands of the brethren ;
pay them over to the
Treasurer, and take his receipt for the same.' Master
to the Secretary, ' The Treasurer's place in the Lodge ?'
Ans. i
At the right hand of the Worshipful Master.'
Master to Treasurer, ' Your business there, brother Trea-
surer?' Ans. i
Duly to observe the Worshipful Master's
will and pleasure ; receive all monies and money bills
from the hands of the Secretary ; keep a just and accu-
rate account of the same ; pay them out by order of the
Worshipful Master and consent of the Brethren.' Mas-
ter to tlie Treasurer.' * The Junior Warden's place in
the Lodge?' Ans. < In the South, Worshipful.' Master
( 29 )
to the Junior Warden, 'Your business there, brothel-
Junior ?' Ans. <
As the sun in the South, at high meri-
dian, is the beauty and glory of the day; so stands the
Junior Warden in the South, at high twelve, the better
to observe the time ; eall the crafts from labour to re-
freshment; superintend them during the hours thereof;
see that none convert the purposes of refreshment into
that of excess or intemperance ; call them on again in
due season, that the Worshipful Master may have honor,
and they pleasure and profit thereby .' The Master to
the Junior Warden, [I wish the reader to take particular
notice, that in closing tjie Lodge, the Master asks the
Junior Warden as follows: 'The Master's place in the
Iyodge?' and in opening he asks the Senior Warden the
same question] *
The Master's place in the Lodge V Ans.
•In the East, Worshipful.' Master to Junior Warden,
s
His duty there?' Ans. '-As the sunrises in the Last,
to open and adorn the day, so presides the Worshipful
Master in the East to open ana adorn his Lodge ; set his
crafts to work with good arid wholesome laws, or cause
the same to be done*' Master to the Junior Warden,
i
The Senior Warden's place in the Lodge r' Ans. ' In
the West, Worshipful.' Master to Senior Warden, ' Your
business there, brother Senior ?' Ans. ' As the sun sets
in the West to close the day, so stands the Senior Warden
in the West to assist the Worshipful Master in opening
and closing the Lodge; take care of the jewels and im-
plements ; see that none be lost ;
pay the crafts their
wages, if any be due, and see that none go away dissatis-
fied.' The Master now gives three raps, when all the
brethren ri>e, and the Master asks, < Are you all satisfied ?
?
They answer in the affirmative, by giving the due-guard.
Should the Master discover that any declined giving it,
enquiry is immediately made, why it is so; and if any
member is dissatisfied with any part of the proceedings,
or with any brother, the subject is immediately investi-
gated. Master to the Brethren,. < Attend to giving the
signs ; as I do, so do you ;
give them downwards,' (which
is by giving the last in opening, first in closing. In clos-
ing, on this degree, you first dran your right band across
your throat, as herein before described, and then hold
your two hands ofer each other a» before described.
This is the method pnrsued through all tha degrees'; arid
when opening on any of the upper degree*, &U the signs,
C2
( 30 )
©f all the preceding degrees, are given before you give
the signs of the degree on which you are opening.) This
being done, the Master proceeds, * I now declare this
Lodge of Entered Apprentice Masons regularly closed
in due and ancient form. Brother Junior Warden, please
inform brother Senior Warden, and request him to inform
the brethren that it is my will and pleasure that ibis
Lodge of Entered Apprentice Masons be now closed, and
stand closed until our next regular communication, unless
• case or cases of emergency shall require earlier con-
vention, of which every member shall be notified ; du-
ring which time it is seriously hoped and expected that
every Brother will demean himself as becomes a Free and
Accepted Mason.' Junior Warden to Senior Warden,
'Brother Senior, it is the Worshipful Master's will and
pleasure that this Lodge of Entered Apprentice Masons
be closed, and stand closed until our next regular com-
munication, unless a case or cases of emergency shall re-
quite earlier convention, of which every Brother shall be
notified ; during which time it is seriously hoped and
expected that every Brother will demean himself as be-
comes a Free and Accepted Mason.' Senior Warden to
the Brethren, ' Brethren, you have heard the Worshipful
JVIaster's will and pleasure, as communicated to me by
Brother Junior; so let it be done.' Master to the Junior
Warden, (
Brother Junior, how do Masons meet?' Ants.
'On the level.' Master to Senior Warden, 'How do
Mason's part ?' Ans. On the square.' Master to the
Junior and Senior Wardens, i
Since we meet on the level,
Brother Junior, and part on the square, Brother Senior,
so let us ever meet and part, in the name of the Lord.'
Here follows a prayer sometimes used. Master to the
Brethren, ' Brethren, let us pray.
' Supreme Architect of the Universe ! accept our hum-
ble praises for the many mercies and blessings which thy
bounty has conferred upon us, and especially for this
friendly and social intercourse. Pardon, we beseech
thee, whatever thou hast seen amiss in us since we have
been together; and continue to us thy presence, protec-
tion, and blessing. Make us sensible of tl.e renewed
obligations we are under to love thee supremely, and to
be friendly to each other. May all our irregular passions
be subdued, and may we daily increase in faith, hope and
charity ; but more especially in that charity which is tho
( 31 }
t)ond of peace, and perfection of every virtue. May w©
so practice thy precepts, that through the merits of the
Redeemer, we may finally obtain thy promises, and find
an acceptance through the Gates, artd into the Temple
and City of our God. So mote it be. Amen.'
A Benedictiony oftener used at closing 4hari the preceding
Prayer.
May the blessing of Heaven rest upon us and all regu-
lar Masons ! may brotherly love prevail, and every
moral and social virtue cement us. So mote it be.
Amen.
After the prayer the following charge ought to be de-
livered ; but it is seldom attended to 5 in a majority of
Lodges it is never attended to.
Master to Brethren, 'Brethren, we are now about to
quit this sacred retreat of friendship and virtue, to mix
again with the world. Amidst its concerns and employ-
ments forget not the duties which you have heard so fre-
quently inculcated, arid so forcibly recommended in this
Lodge. Remember that around this altar, you. have
promised to befriend and relieve every Brother who shall
need your assistance. You have promised in the most
friendly manner to remind him pf Ins errors and aid a
reformation. These generous principles are to extend
further: Every human being lias a claim upon your
kind offices. Do good unto all. Recommend it more
"especially to the household of the faithful." Finally,
Brethren, be ye all of one mind, live in peace, and may
the God of love and peace, delight to dwell with and
bless you.'
In some Lodges, after the charge is delivered, the
Master says, ' Brethren, form on the square.' When all
the Brethren form a circle, and the Master, followed by
every Brother (except in using the words) says, « And
God said, let there be light, and there was light." At
the same moment that the last of these words drops from
the Master's lips, every member stamps with his right
foot on the floor, and at the same instant bring their
hands together with equal force, and in such perfect
unison with each other, that persons situated so as to hear
it, would suppose it the precursor of some dreadful ca-
tastrophe. This is called i
the shock?
i 32 )
tlaving described all the ceremonies and forms appeti
taining to the opening of a Lodge of Entered Apprentice
Masons; setting them to work; initiating a candidate, and
closing the Lodge, I will now proceed to give the Lecture
on this degree. It is divided into three sections. The
lecture is nothing more or less than a recapitulation of
the preceding ceremonies and forms by way of question
and answer, and fully explains the same. In fact, the
ceremonies and forms (generally masonically called the
work) and lectures are so much the same that he who
possesses a knowledge of the lectures cannot be destitute
of a knowledge of what the ceremonies and forms are.
As the ceremonies used in opening and closing are the
same in all the degrees, it is thought best to give the
whole one insertion ; it being the sincere wish of the
writer, that every reader should perfectly understand all
the formulas of die whole masonic fabric, as he then wilt
thereby be able to form correct opinions of the propriety
or impropriety, advantages or disadvantages of the same.
First Section of the Lecture oti the First Degree of Ma-
sonry^
Q. From whence come you as an Entered Apprentice
Mason ?
A. From the holy Lodge of St. John, at Jerusalem.
Q. What recommendations do you bring ?
A. Recommendations from the Worshipful A/aster,
Wardens and Brethren of that Right Worshipful Lodge,
whom greet you.
Q. What comest thou hither to do ?
A. To learn to subdue my passions, and improve my.
self in the secret arts and mysteries of ancient Free Ma-
sonry.
Q. You are a Mason, then, I presume ?
A. I am.
Q. How shall I know you to be a Mason ?
A. B) certain signs and a token. Q. What are signs ?
A. All righ angles, horizontals, and perpendiculars.
Q. Wiiat is a token ?
A. A certain friendly and brotherly grip, whereby one
Mason may know another in the dark as well as in the
tight.
Q Where wrts you first proposed to be made a Mason ;
A. In my heart. Q. Where secondly ?
( S3 )
A. In a room adjacent to the body of a just and law-
fully constituted Lodge of such.
Q. How was you prepared ?
A. By being divested of all metals, neither naked nor
clothed, barefoot nor shod, hood-winked with a Cable-
Tow* about my neck, m which situation I was conduct-
ed to the door of the Lodge.
Q. You being hood-winked how did you know it to be
a door ?
A. By first meeting with resistance and afterwards
gaining admission.
Q How did you gain admission ?
A. By three distinct knocks from without, answered
by the same from within.
(
Q. What was said to you from within ?
A. Who comes there, who comes there, who comeB
there.
Q. Your answer.
A. A Poor blind candidate who has long been desirous
of having and receiving a part of the rights and benefits
of this worshipful Lodge, dedicated to God, and htld
forth to the holy order of St. John, as all true fellows
and brothers have done, who have gone this way before
me.
Q. What further was said to you from within ?
A. ( was asked if it was of my own free will and ac-
cord I made this request, if I was duly and truly propo-
sed, worthy and well qualified, all of which being an-
swered in the affirmative, I was asked by what further
rights I expected to obtain so great a favour or benefit.
Q. Your answer ?
A. By being a man, free born, of*la*ful age and well
recommended.
Q. What was then said to you ?
A. I was bid to wait 'till the Worshipful Master in the
East was made acquainted with my request and his an-
swer returned.
Q. After his answer returned what followed ?
A. I was caused to enter the Lodge.
Q. How?
A. On the point of some sharp instrument pressing
my miked left breast in the name of the Lord.
* Three miles long.
( S4 J
Q. How was you then disposed of?
i\. I was conducted to the center of the Lodge and
there caused to kneel for the benefit of a prayer. (See
page 19.)
Q. Alter prayer wkat was Said to you ?
A, I wasasked in whom I pur my trust.
Q. Your answer? A. In God.
Q. What followed k
A. The Worshipful Master took me by the right hand
and said,, since in God you put your trust, arise follow
your leader and fear no danger.
Q. How was you then disposed of ?
A... I. was conducted three times regularly round-the
Lodge and halted at the Junior Warden in the Sou;!:;.
where the same questions were asked and answers retur-
ned as at the door..
Q. How did the Junior Warden dispose of you ?
A. He ordered me to he conducted to the Senior War-
den in the West, where the same questions were asked
and answers returned as In-fore.
Q. How did the Senior Warden dispose of you ?
A. He ordered me to be conducted to the Worshipful
Master in the Last, where the same questions were ask-
ed and answers returned as before, who likewise deman-
ded of me from whence I came and whither I was trav-
elling.
(). Your answer ?
A. From the West and travelling to the Fast.
Q. Why do you leave the West and travel to the East ?
A. In search of light.
Q. How did the Worshipful Master then dispose of
you ?-
# *
A. He ordered me to he conducted back to the West
from whence I came, and put in care of the Senior War-
den, who taught me how to approach the East, the place
of light, by advancing upon one upright regular step to
the first step, my feet forming the right angle of an ob-
long square, my body erect at the altar before the Wor-
shipful Master.
Q. What did the worshipful master do with you ?
A. He made an Entered Apprentice Mason of me»
Q. How? A In due form.
Q. What was that i\\w form ?
^. My left knee bare beut, my right forming a square^
r
'(
«3 )
my left hnnd supporting the Holy Bible, Sqnare and
Compass, and mv right* covering the same; in whirl) po-
sition I took upon me the solemn oath or obligation of
an Entered Apprentice Mason. [Sec page 2] ]
Q Alter you had taken your obligation what was said
to von ?
A. I was asked what I most desired.
Q. Vour answer? A. Light.
Q. Was you immediately brought to light ?
A. I was. Q. How? A. By the direction of the
Master and assistance of the brethren.
Q. \V uat did you first discover after being brought to
light?
A. Three great Lights, in Masonry, by the assistance-
of three lesseis
Q. What were those three great Lights in Masonry ?
A. The Holy Bible, Square, and Compass.
Q How are they explained ?
A. The Holy Bible is given to us as a guide for our faith
and practice; the Square to square our actions ; and the
Compass to keep us in due bounds with all mankind, but
more especially with the brethren.
Q What were those three lesser lights ?
A. Three burning tapers, or candles on candle-sticks.
Q: What do they represent ?
A. The Sun, Moon, and Master of the Lodge.
Q. How are they explained ?
A. As the Sun rules the day and the Moon governs the
night, so ought the Worshipful Master to use his endeav-
ors to rule and govern hi? Lodge with equal regularity, or
cause the same to be done.
Q. What did you next discover ?
A. The Worshipful Master approaching me from the
East, -wider the sign and due-guard of an Entered Ap-
prentice Mason, who presented me with his right hand
in token of brotherly love and esteem, and proceded to
give me the grip and word of an Entered Apprentice
Mason, and bid me arise and salute the Junior and Sen-
ior Wardens and convince them that I had been regular-
ly initiated as an Lntered Apprentice Mason, and was in
possession of the sign, grip and word.
Q. What did you next discover?
A. The Worshipful Master a second time approach*
mg me from the East, who presented me with a lamb-
( 3C J
skin or white apron, which he said was an emblem oY in-
nocence, and the badge of a Mason ; that it had been
worn by. kings, princes and potentates of the earth
who had never been ashamed to wear it; that it was
more honourable than the'diadems of kings, or pearls of
princesses when worthily worn, and more ancient than
the Golden Fleece or Roman Eagle, more honorable
than the star or garter, or any other order that could be
conferred upon me at that time, or any time there after,
except it be in the body of a just and lawfully constitu-
ted Lodge of Masons; and bid me carry it to the Senior
Warden in the West, who taught me how to wear it as
an Entered Apprentice Mason.
Q. What was you next presented with ?
A. The working tools of an Entered Apprentice Ma-
son.
Q. What were they r
A. The twenty-four inch guage and common gavci.
Q. How were they explained?
A. The twenty-four inch gauge is an instrument
made use of by operative Masons to measure and lay
out their work, but we as Free and Accepted Masons are
taught to make use of it for the more noble and glorious
purpose of dividing our time ; the twenty-four inch-
es on the guage are emblematical of the twenty- four
hours in the day, which we are taught to divide into
three equal parts, whereby we find eight hours for the
service of God and a worthy distressed brother, eight
hours lor our usual vocation, and eight hoars for refresh-
ment and sleep. The common gave) is an instrument
made use of by operative Masons to break oft' the cor-
ners of rough stones, the better to fit them lor the build-
ers use, but we as Free and Accepted Masons are taught
to make use of it for the more noble and glorjous pur-
pose of divesting our hearts and consciences of all the
vices and superfluities of life, thereby fitting our minds
os lively and living stones for that spiritual building,
that House not made with hands, eternal in the heavens.
Q. What was you next presented with ?
A. A PVew name. Q* What was that? A. Caution.
Q. What does it teach •?
A. It teaches me as I was barely instructed in the ru-
diments of Masonry, that I should be cautious over alt
my words and actions, especially when before its eneqpie*.
1 37 )
Q. What was you next presented with r*
A. Three precious jewels.
Q. What were they ?
A. A listening ear, a silent tongue and a faithful hearts
Q. What do they teach ?
A. A listening ear, teaches me to listen to the instruc-
tions of the Worshipful Master, but more especially that
I should listen to the calls and cries of a worthy distress-
ed brother. A silent tongue teaches me to be silent in
the Lodge, that the peace and harmony thereof may
not be disturbed ; but more especially that I should be si-
lent when before the enemies of Masonry. A faithful
heart, that I should be faithful to the instructions of the
Worshipful Master at all times, but more especially that
J should be faithful and keep and conceal the secrets of
Masonry, and those of a brother, when delivered to me
in charge as such, that they may remain as secure and
inviolable in my breast, as in his own before communica-
ted to me.
Q. What was you next presented with ?
A. Check-words two. Q. What were they ?
A. Truth and Union. Q. How explained ?
A. Truth is a divine attribute, and the foundation of
every virtue. To be good and true are the first lessons
we are taught in Masonry. On this theme we contem-
plate, and by its dictates endeavour to regulate our con-
duct: hence, while influenced by this principle, hypoc-
risy and deceit are unknown amongst us ; sincerity and
plain dealing distinguishes us ; and the heart and tongue
join in promoting each others welfare, and rejoicing in
each others prosperity.
Union is that kind of friendship that ought to appear
conspicuous in the conduct of every Mason. It is so
closely allied to the divine attribute truth, that be
who enjoys the one, is seldom destitute of the other.
Should interest, honor, prejudice, or human depravity
ever influence you to violate any part of the sacred trust
we now repose in you, let these two important words at
the earliest insinuation, teach you to put on the check-
line of truth, which will infallibly direct you to pursue
that straight and narrow path, which ends in the full en-
joyment of the Grand Lodge above, where we shall all
meet as Masons and members of one family ; where all
diacoid on account of religion, politicks, or private opiiv
( 38 )
ion shall be unknown and banished from within our walls
Q. What followed ?
A. The Worshipful Master in the East made a de-
mand of me of something of a metalie kind, which he
said was not so much on account of its intrinsic value,
as that it might be deposited in the archives of the Lodge,
as a memorial that i had therein been made a Mason.
Q. How did the Worshipful Master then dispose oT
you ?
A. He ordered me to be conducted out of the Lodge
and invested of what I had been divested, and returned
for further insi ructions,
Q. After you returned how was you disposed of?
A. I was conducted to the North East corner of the
Lodge, and there caused to stand upright like a man.
my feet forming a square, and received a solemn injunc-
tion, ever to walk and act uprightly before Cod and man,
and in addition thereto received the following charge.
(For tins charge see page 31.)
SECOND SECTION.
Q. Why was you divested of all metals when you was
made a Mason ?
A. Because Masonry regards no man on account of
his worldly wealth or honours ; it is therefore the internal,
and not the external qualifications that recommends a
man to Masons.
Q. A second reason ?
A. There was neither the sound of an axe, hammer, or
any other metal tool heard at the building of King Sol-
omon's Temple.
Q. How could so stupendous a fahriok be erected
without the sound of axe, hammer, or any other metal
tool ?
A. All the stones were hewed, squared and number-
ed in the quarries where they were raised, all the timbers
felled and prepared in the forests of Lebanon, and carried
down to Joppa on floats, and taken from thence up to
Jerusalem.ynd set up with wooden malls, prepared for
that purpose; which, when completed, every part thereof
- fitted with that exact nicety, that it had more the resem-
blance of the handy workmanship of the Supreme Ar-
chitect of the Universe, than that of human hands.
Q. Why was you neither oaked nor clothed ?
( S9 )
A. As I was nn object of distress at that time, it was to-
remind me, if ever I saw a friend, more especially a
brother in a like distressed situation, that I should contri-
bute as liberally to his relief as his situation required, and
my abilities would admit, without material injury to my-
self or family.
Q. Why was you neither barefoot nor shod ?
A. It was ar» ancient Israel itish custom, adopted
among Masons ; and we read in the book of Ruth concer-
ning their mode and manner of changing and redeem-
ing, " and to confirm all things, a brother plucked off
his shoe and gave it to his neighbour, and that was
testimony in Israel." This then, therefore we do in con-
firmation of a token, and as a pledge of our fidelity ;
thereby signifying that we will renounce our own. wills
in all things, and become obedient to the laws of out
ancient institutions.
Q. Why was you hood-winked ?
A. That my heart might conceive, before my eyes be« -
held the beauties of Masonry.
Q. A second reason ?
A. As I was in darkness at that time, it was to remind
me that I: should keep the whole world so respecting Ma-
sonry.
Q. Why had you a Cable-Tow about your neck?
A. In case I had not submitted to the manner and
mode of my initiation that I might have been led out of
the Lodge without seeing the form and beauties thereof.
Q. Why did you give three distinct knocks at the door?
A. To alarm the Lodge, and let the W'orshipful Mas-
ter, Wardens and brethren know that a poor blind can-
didate prayed admission.
Q. What does those three distinct knocks allude to ?
A. A certain passage in Scripture wherein it says*
< ask and it shall be given, seek and ye shall find, knock
and it shall be opened unto you.'
Q. Mow did you apply this to your then case in Ma*
sonry ?
A. I asked the recommendations of a friend to be-
come a Mason, I sought admission through his recom-
mendations, and knocked and the door of IVla9onry open-
ed unto me.
Q. Why was you caused to enter on the point of some
sharp instrument pressing your naked left breast in the
name of the Lord ?
( 40 )
A. As this was a torture to my flesh ,so might the re-
Collection of it ever be to my heart and conscience if ev^
ei I attempted to reveal the secrets of Masonry unlaw-
fully.
Q. Why was you conducted to the centre of the
Lodge, and there caused to kneel for the benefit of a
prayer ?
A. Before entering on this, or any other great and
important undertaking, it is highly necessary to implore
a blessing from Deity.
Q. Why was you asked in whom you put your trust ?
A. Agreeable to the laws of our ancient institution, no
Atheist could be made a Mason ; it was therefore neces-
sary that I should believe in Deity j otherwise, no oath or
obligation could bind me.
Q. Why did the Worshipful Master take you by the
right hand, and bid you rise, follow your leader and
fear no danger ?
A. As I was in darkness at that time and could neither
foresee nor avoid danger, it was to remind me that I was
in the hands of an affectionate friend, in whose fidelity I
might witli safety confide.
Q. Why was you conducted three times, regularly
round the Lodge
A. That thv5 Worshipful Master, Wardens, and breth-
ren might see that I was duly and truly prepared.
Q. Why did you meet with those several obstructions
en the way ?
A. This and every other Lodge is, or ought to be a
true representation of King Solomon's Temple, which,
when completed, had guards stationed at the East, West
and South gates.
Q. Why had they guards stationed at those several
gates?
A. To prevent any one from passsing or repassing that
was not duly qualified.
Q. Why did you kneel on your left knee and not on
your right, or both ?
A. The left side has ever been considered the weakest
part of the body, it was therefore to remind me that the
part I was then taking upon me was the weakest part of
Masonry, it being that only of an Entered Apprentice.
Q. Why was your right hand placed on the Holy Bi-
ble, Square and Compass, and not your left, or both ?
( 41)
A. The right hand has ever been considered the seat
'of fideliiy, and our ancient brethren worshipped Deity
under the name of Fides; which has sometimes been
represented by two right hands joined together ; at oth-
ers, by two human figures holding each other by the right
hand ; the right hand, therefore, we use. in this great and
important undertaking, to signify in the strongest man-
ner possible the sincerity of our intentions in the business
we are engaged.
Q. Why did the Worshipful Master present you with
a lamb-skin, or white apron ?
A. The lambskin has, in all ages, been deemed an
emblem of innocence; he, therefore, who wears the lamb-
skin, as a badge of a Mason, is thereby continually re-
minded of that purity of life and rectitude of conduct
which is so essentially necessary to our gaining admis-
sion into the Celestial Lodge above, where the Supreme
Architect of the Universe presides,
Q. Why did the Maker make a demand of you of
something of a metalic nature ?
A. As I was in a poor and pennyless situation at that
time, it was to remind me if ever I saw a friend, but more
especially a brother in the like poor and pennyless situa-
tion, that I should contribute as liberally to his relief as
my abilities would admit and his situation required, -with-
out injuring myself or family.
Q. Why was you conducted to the north-east corner
of the Lodge, and there caused to stand upright like a
raan, your feet forming a square, receiving at the same
time a solemn charge ever to walk and act uprightly be-
fore God and man ?
A. The first stone in every masonic edifice is, or ought
to be placed at the north-east corner, that bemgthe place
where an Entered Apprentice Mason receives ins firat in-
structions to build his future masonic edillce upon.
THIRD SECTION.
Q. We have been saying a good deal about a Lodge>
I want to know what constitutes a Lodge ?
A. A certain number of Free and Accepted Masons
duly assembled in. a room, or place, with the Holy Bible,
Square and Compass, and other masonic implements^
with, a Charter from the Grand Lodge empowering them
to work,
D2
C 42 )
Q. Where did our ancient brethren meet before lodges
fvere erected ?
A. On the highest hills, and in the lowest vales.
Q. Why on the highest hills and in the lowest vales ?
A. The better to guard against cowans and enemies
either ascending or descending, that the brethren might
have timely notice of their approach to prevent being
flurprised.
Q. What is the form of your Lodge?
A. An oblong square.
Q. How, long? A. From East to West.
Q. How, wide? A. Between North and South.
Q. How, high? A. From the. surface of the earth to
the highest heavens.
Q. How, deep ? A. From the surface to the centre>
Q. What supports your Lodge ?
A. Three large Columns or Pillars.
Q. What are their names ?
A. Wisdom, Strength, and Beauty.
Q. Why so? A. It is necessary there should be Wis-
dom to contrive. Strength to support, and Beauty to a-
dorn all great and important undertakings j but more es*
|>ecially this of ours.
Q. Has youi lodge any covering ?
A. It has ; a clouded canopy, or starry decked heav*
en, where all good mason's hope to arrive.
Q. How do they hope to arrive there ?
A. By the assistance of Jacob's ladder.
Q. How many principal rounds has it got ?
A. Three. Q. What are their names? A. Faithj
Hope, and Charity.
Q. What do they teach ? A. Faith in God, Hope ia
immortality, and Charity to all mankind.
Q. Has your lodge any furniture ?
A. It has; the Holy Bible, Square, and Compass.
Q. To whom do they belong?
A. The Bible to God, the Square to the Master, and
the Compass to the Craft.
Q. How explained? A. The Bible to God ; it being
the inestimable gift of God to man, for his instruction
to guide him through the rugged paths of lite ; the Square
to the Master, it being the proper emblem of his office 5
the Compass to the Craft—by a due attention to which,
we aje taught to limit our desires, curb our ambition, sub-
C 4S )
due our irregular appetites, and keep our passions and
prejudices in due bounds with all mankind, ttut more es-
pecially with the brethren.
Q. Has your Lodge any ornaments?
A. It has; the mosaic, or chequered pavement ; the
indented tessel, that beautiful tesselated border which
surrounds it, with the blazing star in the centre.
Q. What do they represent ?
A. The Mosaic, or chequered pavement, represents
this world, which, though chequered over with good and
e\ iJ, yet brethren may walk together thereon and not
stumble—the indented Tessel, with the blazing star in the
centre, the manifold blessings and comforts with which
we are surrounded in this life, buunore especially those
which we hope to enjoy hereafter—the Blazing Star, that
prudence which ought to appear conspicuous in the con-
duct of every Mason ; but more especially commemora-
tive of'the Star which appeared in the East, to guide the
wise men to Bethlehem, to proclaim, the birth and the
presence of th« Son of God.
Q. Has your Lodge any. lights ?
A. It bus three. Q. How are they situated >
A. Last, West, and South.
Q. Has it none in the North ? A. It has, not.
Q. Why so ? A, Because this and every other lodge
is, or ought to be a true representation of King Solomoik's
Temple, winch was situated north of the ecliptic ; the
sun and moon therefore darting their rays from the souib,
no light was jo be expected from, the north ; we, there-
fore, masonically, term the north a place of darkness.
Q. Has your Lodge any Jewels ?
A. It has six ; three movable and three immovable*
Q. What are the three movable Jewels ?
A. The Square, Level, and Plumb.
Q. What do they teach ?
A The Square, morality ; the Level, equality j and
the Plumb, rectitude of life and conduct.
Q. What are the three immovable Jewels ?
A. The rough Ashlar, the perfect Ashlar, and the-
Trestle-Board. Q. What are they ?
A. The rough Ashlar is a stone in its rough and natu-
ral state; the perfect Ashlar is also a stone made ready
by the working tools of the Fellow-Craft to be adjusted
in the building ; and the Trestle-board is for the master
workman tc draw his plans and designs upm.
i 44 >
Q. What do they represent ?
A. The rough Ashlar represents man in his rude
and imperfect state by nature ; the perfect Ashlar al-
so represents man in that state of perfection to which we
all hope to arrive by means of a virtuous life and educa-
tion, our own endeavors and the blessing of God. In e-
recting our temporal building we pursue the plans and
designs laid down by the master workman on his Trestle-
board ; but in erecting our spiritual building we pursue
the plaus and designs laid down by the Supreme Geome-
trician of the Universe in the Book of Life, which we>
masonically, term our spiritual trestle-board.
Q. Who did you sepve ? A. My Master.
Q. How long ? A. Six days. •
Q. What did you serve him with ?
A. Freedom, fervency, and zeal.
Q. What do they represent ?
A. Chalk, Charcoal, and Earth. Q. Why so.
A. There is nothing freer tlmu Chalk, the slightes;
touch of which leaves a trace behind ; nothing more fer-
vent than beared Charcoal, it will melt the most obdurate
metals j nothing more zealous than the Earth to bring
forth.
Q. How is your lodge situated ? A. Due east & west.
Q. Why so ? A. Because the sun rises in the east and
sets in the west.
Q. A second reason ? A. The gospel was first prea-
ched in the east, and is spreading to the west.
Q. A third -reason ? A. The liberal arts and scien-
ces began in the east and are extending to the west.
Q. A fourth reason ? A. Because all Churches and
Chapels are, or ought to be so situated.
Q. Why are all Churches and Chapels so situated ?
A. Because King Solomon's Temple was so situated.
Q. Why was King Solomon's Temple so situated ?
A. Berause Moses, after conducting the children of Is-
rael through the Red Sea, by Divine commend, erected
a tabernacle to God, and placed it due east an J west
which was to commemorate, to the latest posterity, that
miraculous East wind that wrought their mighty delive-
rance; and this was an exact model of King Solon:
Temple. Since which time, every well regulated and
governed Lodge is, or ought to be so situated.
Q. To whom did our ancient brethren, dedicate tbeix
Lodges ? A. To King Solomon.
C 43 )
Q. Why so f A. Because King Solomon was our
most ancient Grand Master.
Q. To whom do modern masons dedicate their lodges?
A. To St. John the Baptist, & St. John the Evangelist,
Q. Why so ? A. Because they were the two most
ancient Christian patrons of Masonry; and since their
time, in every well regulated and governed Lodge, there
has been a certain point within a circle, which circle is
bounded on the East and the West by two perpendicular
parallel lines, representing the anniversary of St. John,
the Baptist, and St. John, the Evangelist, who were two
perfect parallels as well in Masonry as Christianity ; on
the vortex of which rests the hook of the Holy Scriptures,
supporting Jacob's Ladder which is said to reach to the
watery clouds 5 and in passing round this circle we na-
turally touch on both these perpendicular parallel lines,
as well as the Book of th^ Holy Scriptures, and while a
Mason keeps himself thus circumscribed, he cannot ma-
terially err.' [Thus ends the first degree of Masonry, and
the reader, who has read and paid attention to it knows
more of Masonry than any Entered Apprentice in chris*
tendoin, and more of this degree than one-hundredth
part of the Master Masons, or even Royal Arch Masons
for very few ever attempt to learn the Lectures, or even
the Obligatiens : They merely receive the degrees, and
there stop, with the exception of a few who are fascinated
with the idea of holding an office : they sometimes en-
deavour to qualify themselves to discharge the duties
which devolve on them In their respective offices. The
offices of Secretary and Treasurer, are by some consider-
ed the most important in the Lodge, particularly where
there is much business done.]
1 will now introduce the reader to the second degree
of Masonry. It is generally called passing, as will be
seen in the lecture. I shall omit the ceremonies of
opening and closing, as they are precisely the same as in
the first degree, except two knocks are used in this de-
gree, and the door is entered by the benefit of a pass-
word : it is Shiboletk. It will be explained in the lecture.
The candidate, a* before, is taken into the preparation
room and prepared in the manner following : All his
clothing taken off, except his shirt; furnished with a pair
of drawers; his right breast bare ; his left foot in a slipper,
the right bare ; a cable-tow twice round his neck : sem>
( 46 )
hoodwinked ; in which situation he is conducted to tt\e
door of the Lodge, where he gives two knocks, when the
Senior Warden rises and says, i
Worshipful, while we are
peaceably at work on the second degree of Masonry, un-
der the influence of faith, hope, and charity, the door of
oar Lodge is alarmed*' Master to Junior Deacon, ' Bro-
ther Junior, enquire the cause of that alarm.' [In many
Lodges they come to the door, knock, are answered by
the Junior Deacon, and come in without their being no-
ticed by the Senior Warden or Master.] The Junior
Deacon gives two raps on the inside of the door. The
candidate gives one without ; it is answered by the Junior
Deacon with one, when the door is partly opened by the
Junior Deacon, who enquires, ' who comes here ? who
comes here?' The Senior Deacon, who is or. ought to he
the conductor, answers, * A worthy Brother who has been
regularly initiated as an Entered Apprentice Mason,
served a proper time as such, and now wishes for further
light in Masonry by being passed to the degree of Fel-
low-Craft.' Junior Deacon to Senior Deacon, i
Is it of
his own free will and accord he makes this request?'
Ans. \ It is.' Junior Deacon to Senior Deacon, ' Is he
duly and truly and prepared ?' Ans. l
He is.' Junior
Deacon to Senior Deacon, l
Is he worthy and well quali-
fied ?' Ans. 'He is.' Junior Deacon to Senior Deacon,
'Has he made suitable proficiency in the preceding de-
gree ?' Ans. * He has.' [Very few know any more than
they did the night they were initiated ; have not heard
their obligation repeated, nor one section of the lecture,
and in fact a very small proportion of Masons ever learn
either.] Junior Deacon to Senior Deacon, ' By what
further rights does he expect to obtain this benefit ?'
Ans. ' By the benefit of a pass-word." Junior Deacon
to Senior Deacon, ' Has he a password V Ans. 'He
has not, but I have it for him.' Junior Deacon to Senior
Deacon, ' Give it to me?' The Senior Deacon whispers
in the Junior Deacon's ear,Shiboletk. The Junior Dea-
con says, * The pass is right ; since this is the case, you
will wait 'till the Worshipful Master in the East is made
acquainted with his request, and his answer returned.'
The Junior Deacon then repairs to the Master and gives
two knocks, as at the door, which are answered by two by
the Master. When the same questions are asked and
answers returned as at the door;
after which the Master
* *r )
•says, (
Since he comes endued with Jill these necessary
qualifications, let him enter this Worshipful Lodge in
the name of the Lord, and take heed on what he enters.'
As he enters, the angle of the square is pressed hard
Against his naked right breast, at which time the Junior
Deacon says, ' Brother, when you entered this Lodge the
first time, you entered on the point of the compass press-
ing your naked left breast, which was then explained !o
you. You now enter it on the angle' of the square,
pressing your naked right breast, which is to teach you
to act upon the square with all mankind, but more espe-
cially with the brethren. ' The candidate is then con-
ducted twice regularly round the Lodge and halted at the
Junior Warden in the South, where he gives two raps,
an,d is answered by two, when the same questions are
asked and answers returned as at the door; from
thence lie is conducted to i he Senior Warden, where the
same questions are asked and answers returned as before °
7
he is then conducted to the Master in the Eart, where
the same questions are asked and answers returned as be-
fore : 'he Master likewise demands of him, from whence
lie came, and whither he was travelling ; he answers,
{
From the West and travelling to the East.' The
Master asks, ' why do you leave the West and travel to
the East ?' Ans. ' In search of more light.' The Master
then says to the candidate, 'Since this is the case, you
will please conduct the candidate back to the West from
whence he came, and put him in care of -the Senior War-
den, who will teach him how to approach the East * the
place of light,' by advancing upon two upright regular
steps to the second step, [his heel is in the hollow of the
right foot on this degree,] his feet forming the right angle
of an obiong square, and his body erect at the altar be-
fore the Worshiped Master, and place him in a proper
position to take the solemn oath, or obligation of a Fellow-
Craft Mason.' The Master then leaves his seat and ap-
proaches the kneeling candidate, [the candidate kneels
on the right knee, the left forming a square, his left arm
as far as the elbow in a horizontal position, and the rest
of the arm in a vertical position, so as to form a square,
his arm supported by the square "held under his elbow]
and says, ' Brother you are now placed in a proper position
to take on you the solemn oath, or obligation oi a Fellow-
Craft Mason, which I assure you as before, is neither to
1 4»
-affect your religion nor politics ; if you are wilting to
take it, repeat your name and say after me'
* I A B. of my own free will and accord, in the presence
of Almighty God, and this Worshipful Lodge of Fellow-
Craft Masons, dedicated to God, and held forth to the holy
©rdcr of St. John, do hereby and hereon most solemnly and
sincerely promise and swear, in addition to my former obli-
gation, that I will not give the degree of a Fellow-Craft
Mason to any one of an inferior degree, nor to any other
being in the known world, except it be to a true and lawful
brother, or brethren Fellow-Craft Masons, or within the
body of a just and lawfully constituted lodge of such; and
not unto him nor unto them whom I shall hear so to be, but
unto him and them only whom I shall find so to be after
strict trial and due examination, or lawful information. Fur-
thermore do I promise and swear, that I will Hot w rong this
Lodge, nor a brother ojf this degree to the value of two
cents knowingly, myself, nor suffer it to be done by others
if in my power to prevent it. Furthermore do I promise
and swear, that I will support the Constitution of the Grand
Lodge of the United States, and of the Grand Lodge of
this State, under which this Lodge is held, and conform
to all the bye-laws rules and regulations of this or any other
Lodge of which I may at any time, hereafter become a
member, as fur as in my power. Furthermore do I prom-
is« and swear, that I will obey all regular signs ai.d sum-
mons' given, handed, sent, or thrown to me by the hand of
a brother Fellow-Craft Mason, or from the body of a just
and lawfully constituted Lodge of such, provided that it
be within the length of my Cable-Tow, or square and angle
of my work. Furthermore do I promise and swear, that I
will be aiding and assisting all poor and pennylcss brethren
Fellow-Crafts, their widows and orphans wheresoever dis-
posed round the globe, they applying to me as such, as far
as in my power without injuring myself or family. To ail
which I do most solemnly and sincerely promise and swear,
without the least hesitation, mental reservation, or self
evasion of mind in me whatever, binding myself under no
less penalty than to have my left breast torn open, and my
heart and vitals taken from thence and thrown over my
left shoulder and carried into the valley of Jehotaphut,
there to become a prey to the wild beasts of the fold and
vultures of the air, if ever I should prove wilfully guilty of
violating any part of this my solemn oath or obligation of
a Fellow-Craft Mason ; so keep me God, and keep me sted-
fast in the due performance of the same. * Detach you;
hands and kiss the book which i* the Holy Bible twice.
The bundle is now (by one of ihe brethren^ dropt ovet
( 45 )
the otbereye, and the Master says, 'Brother, [at the same
lime laying his hand on the top of the candidate's head]
what do you most desire?' the candidate answers after his
prompter, '
more light.' The Master says, '
Brethren form,
on the square and assist in bringing our new made brother
from darkness to light, '
and God said, let there be, light, and
there was light.' At this instant all the brethren clap their
hands and stamp on the floor as in the pieceeding degree.
The Master says to the candidate, ' Br. what do you disco-
ver different from before?' The Master says, after a short
pause, > You now discover one point of the compass elevated
above the square, which denotes light in this degree ; but as
one is yet in obscurity, it is to remind you that you are yet
one material point in the dark, respecting Masonry.' The
Master steps off from the candidate three or four steps, and
says, ' Brother, you now discover me as Master of this Lodge
approaching you from the East, under the sign and due-
guard of a FellOw-Craft Mason, do as I do as near as you
can and keep your position/ The sign is given by drawing
your right hand flat with the palm of it next to your breast,
across your breast from the left to the right side with
some quickness, and dropping it down by your side ; the
due-guard is given by raising the left arm until that part of
it between the elbow and shoulder is perfectly horizontal, &,
raising the rest of the arm in a vertical position, so that
that part of the arm below the elbow, and that part above it,
forms a square. This is called the due-guard of a Fellow-
Craft Mason. The two given together, are called the sign
and due-guard of a Fellow-Craft Mason, and they are nev-
er given separately 5 they would not be recognized by a
Mason if given separately. The Master by the time he
gives his steps, sign, and due-guard, arrives at the candidate
and says, * Brother, I now present you with my right baud
in token of brotherly love and confidence, and with it the
pass-grip and word of a Fellow-Craft Mason.' The pass,
or mure properly the pass-grip, is given by taking each oth-
er by the right hand as though going to shake hands, and
each putting his thumb between the fore and second fin-
gers where they join the hand, and pressing the thumb be-
tween the joints. This is the pass-grip of a Fellow-Craft
Mason, the name of it is Shiboltth. Its origin will be ex-
plained iu the lecture —the pass-grip some give without
lettering or syllabling, and others give it in the same
way they do the real grip; the real grip of a Fellow-Craft
Mason is given by putting the thumb on the joint of the
second finger where it joins the hand, and crooking your
thumb so that each can stick the nail of his thumb into the
^oint of u.j other; this is the real grip of a Fellow-Craft
E
^^.\ t 50 )
Vinson *,
the name of it is Jaclrin ; it is given In the following
manner: If you wish to examine a person, alter having ta-
ken each other by the grip, ask him '
what is this ? Ans.
*A grip.' Q. ' A grip of what?' Ans. 'The grip of a Fel-
low-Craft .Mason.' Q. 'Has it a name?' Ans. 'It has.'
Q 'Will you give to me?' Ans. 'I did not so receive it,
mi.« ir can I so impart it.' Q. ' What will you do with
it?' Ans. 'Til letter it or halve it.' Q. <
Halxe it and you
begin?' Ans. ' No, begin you.' Q, '
You begin ?' Ans. 'J-A.r
<i. 'C-II-I-N.' A. 'JACI1IN.' Q. * Right, brotherVa-
chin, I greet you.'
As the signs, due-guards, grips.. pass-grips, words, pass-
words, and their several names, comprise pretty much all
the secrets of Masonry, and all the information necessary
to pass us as Masons, I intend to appropriate a few passa-
ges in the latter part of this work, to the exclusive purpose
of explaining them ; I shall not therefore, spend much time
in examining them as I progress.—After the Master gives
the candidate the pass-grip and grip, and their names, he
says, 'Brother, you will rise and salute the Junior and
Senior Wardens as such, and convince them that you have
been regularly passed to the degree oi a Fellow-Craft Ma-
son, and have got the sign and pass-grip, real grip, and
their names.' [I do not here express it as expressed in
Lodges generally ; the Master generally says, ' you will arise
and salute the Wardens £,-c. and convince litem See. that
you have got the sign, pass-grip, and word.' It is obvious-
ly wrong, because the first thing he gives is the sign, then
due-guard, then the pass-grip, real grip and their names. ]
While the Wardens are examining the candidate, the Mas-
ter gets an apron and returns to the candidate and says,
* Brother, I now have the honour of presenting you with a
lamb-skin or white apron as before, which 1 hope you will
continue to wear with honour to yourself and satisfaction
to the brethren ' you will. please carry it to the. Senior War-
den in the West, who w ill teach you how to wear it as a
Fellow-Craft M;ison.' The Senior Warden ties on his
apron and turns up one corner of the lower end of the apron
and tucks it under the apron string. The Senior Deacon
then conducts his pupil to the Master, \\ ho has by this time,
resumed his seat in the East, where he has or ought to
have the floor carpet to assist him in his explanations. Mas-
ter to the candidate, '
Brother, as you are dressed, it is ne-
^sary you should have tools to work with, I will there-
uesent you with the tools of a Fellow-Craft Mason.
e the plumb, square, and level The plumb is an
made use of by operative Masons to raise per-
»he square to square their work ; and the level
'« ; but we, as Free and Accepted Masons*
( 51 >
are taught to use them for more noble- and glorious pur*
poses; the plumb teaches us to walk uprightly in our seve-
ral stations before God and man, squaring our actions by
the square of virtue, and remembering that we are trav-
elling on the level of time to that undiscovered country,,
from whose bourn no traveller has returned. I further
present you with three precious jewels ; their names are
faith, hope, and charity ; they teach us to have faith in
God, hope in immortality, and charity to all mankind.*
The Master to the Senior Deacon; 'You will now con-
duct the candidate out of the Lodge, and invest him with
what he he has been divested.' After he is clothed and
the necessarary arrangements made for his reception,
such as placing the columns and" flosrcarpet if they have
any, and the candidate is re-conducted hack to the Lodge,
as he enters the door the Senior Deacon observes, * we
are now about to return to the middle chamber of King
Solomon's Temple.' When within the door the Senior
Deacon proceeds, ' Brother, we have worked in specula-
tive Masonry, but our forefathers wrought both in specula-
live and operative Masonry, they worked at the building
of King Solomons Temple, and many other masonic ed-
ifices, they wrought six days, they did n«ti work on the
seventh, because in six days God created the heavens and.
earth and rested on the seventh day—the seventh there-
fore our ancient brethren consecrated as a day of rest,
thereby enjoying more frequent opportunities to con-
template the glorious works of creation, and to adore
their great creator.' Moving a step or two the Senior
Deacon, proceeds, 'Brother, the first thing that attract*
our attention, are two large columns, or pillars, one
on the left hand and the other on the right; the name
of the one on the left hand is Boaz, and denotes strength,
the name of the one on the right hand is Jachin, and de-
notes establishment ; they collectively allude to a passage
in scripture, wherein God has declared in his word, ' In
strength shall this House be established.' These coN
umns are eighteeen cubits high, twelve in circumference,,
and four in diameter; they are adorned with two large
Chapiters, one on each, and these Chapiters are ornamen-
ted with net work, lilly work, and pomegranates; they
denote unity, peace and plenty. The net work, from
its connection denotes union, the lilly work from its.
whiteness, purity and peace, and the pomegranates from
C 52 )
ihe exuberance of its seed denotes plenty. They also
have two large globes or balls, one on each ; these globes
or halls contain on their convex surfaces all the maps
and charts of the celestial and terrestrial bodies, they are
said to be thus extensive, to denote the universality of ma-
sonry, and that a Mason's charity ought to be equally
extensive. Their composition is molten, or cast brass ;
they were cast on the banks of the river Jordan, in the
clay-grour.d between Saccoth and Zaradatba, where
King Solomon ordered these and all other holy vessels
to be cast ; they were cast hollow ; and were four inches
or a hands breadth thick; they were cast hollow, the
better to withstand inundations and conflagrations—were
the archives of masonry; and contained the constitution,
rolls, and records.' The Senior Deacon having explain-
ed the columns, he passes between them, advancing a
step or two, observing as he advances, i
Brother, we will
pursue our travels ; the next thing that we come
to, is a long winding stair case, with three, five, seven
steps or more.' The three first allude to the three, prin
cipal supports in masonry, viz: wisdom, strength, and
beauty ; the five steps allude to the five orders in archi-
tecture, and the five human senses ; the five orders in
architecture, are the Tuscan, Doric, Ionic, Corinthian, &
Composite; the five human senses, are hearing, seeing,
feeling, smelling and tasting; the three first of which,
have ever been highly essential among^Masons, hearing,
to hear the word, seeing, to see the sign, and feeling, to
feel the grip, whereby one Mason may knew? another in
the dark as well as in the light. The seven steps allude
to the seven sabbatical years, seven years of famine, sev-
en years in building the Temple, seven golden candle-
sticks, seven wonders of the world ; seven planets, but
more especially the several liberal arts and sciences,
which are grammar, rhetoric, logic, arithmetic, geome-
try, music, and astronomy ; for this and many other rea-
sons, the number seven has ever been held in high es-
timation among Masons,' Advancing a few steps, the
Senior Deacon proceeds; i
Brother, the next thing we
come to is the outer door of the middle chamber of
King Solomon's Temple, which is partly open, but close-
ly Tyled by the Junior Warden.' [It is the Junior War-
den in the South who represents the Tyler at the outer
door of the middle chamber of King Solomon's Teny
{ J3 )
pie,} who on the approach of the Senior Deacon and
candidate enquires, i
who comes here, who comes hereV
The Senion Deacon answers, i
A Fellow-Craft Mason.5
Junior Warden to Senior Deacon, ' How do you expect
to gain admission ?' Ans. * By a pass and token of a
pass.' Junior Warden to Senior Deacon, * Will yon give
them to me r' [The Senior Deacon or the candidate
(prompted hy him) gives them ; this and many other to-
kens or grips are frequently given hy strangers, when first
introduced to each other: l£ given to a Mason lie will
immediately return it; they can be given in any company
unobserved, even by Masons, when shaking hands. A
pass and token of a pass ; the pass is the word Shebo-
leth ; the token, alias, the pass-grip is given as before de-
scribed, by taking each other by the.j-ight,hand as if sha-
king hands, and placing the thumb between the fore fin-
ger and second iingev at the third joint, or where they
join the hand, and pressing it hard enough to attract at-
tention. In the lecture it is called a token but generally
called the pass-grip; it is an undeniable fact that Masons
express themselves so differently, when they mean the
same thing, that they frequently wholly misunderstand
each other.]
After tiie Junior Warden has received the pass Shiboleth,
he enquires, 'What does it denote?' Ans. i
Plenty?
Junior Warden to Senior Deacon, (
Why so?' Ans,
1
From an ear of corn being placed at the water-ford.
Junior Warden to Senior Deacon, i
Why was this pass
instituted?' Ans. 'In consequence of a quarrel which
had long existed between Jeptha, judge, of Israel, and
the Ephraimites, the latter of whom had long been a
stubborn, rebellious people, whom Jeptha had endea-
voured to subdue by lenient measures, but to no effect.
The Ephraimites being highly incensed against Jeptha
for not being called to fight and share iu ; the rich spoils
of the Amouitish war, assembled a mighty army and
passed over the river Jordan-to give Jeptha battle ; but
he being apprised of their approach, called together the
men of Israel, and gave them battle, and put them to
flight ; and, to make his victor/ more complete, he or-
dered guards to be placed at the different passes on the
banks of the river Jordan, and commanded, if the
Ephraimites passed tiiat v. ~y, that they should pronounce
<H« word Skiboleth ; but they, being of a different tnbe3
£2
C 54 )
pronounced it Seboleth, which trifling defect proved them
spies, and cost them their lives : and there fell that day,
at the different passes on the b.anks of the river Jordan.,
forty and two thousand. This word was also used by our
ancient brethren to distinguish a friend from a foe, and
has since been adopted as a proper pass word to be given
before entering any well regulated and governed Lodge
of Fellow-Craft Masons.' ' Since this is the case, you
will pass on to the Senior Warden in the West, for fur-
ther examination.' As they approach the Senior War-
den in the West, the Senior Deacon says to the can-
didate, * Brother, the next thing we come to is the inner
door of the middle chamber of king Solomon's Temple,
which we find partly open, bat more closely t\ led by the
Senior Warden,' when the Senior Warden enquires,
'Who comes here? who comes here?' The Senior
Deacon answers, ' A Fellow-Craft Mason.' Senior War-
den to Senior Deacon, * How do you expect to gain ad-
mission ?' Ans. (
By the grip and word.' The Senior
Warden to the Junior Deacon, ' Will you give them to
me ?' They are then given as herein before described.
The word is Jachin. After they are given, the Senior
"Warden says, ' They are rignt ;
you can pass on to the
Worshipful Master in the East. As they approach the
.Master, he enquires, * Who comes here? who comes
here ?' Junior Deacon answers, l
A Fellow-Craft Ma-
son.' The Master then says to the candidate, * Brother,
you have been admitted into the middle chamber of king
Solomon's Temple, for the sake of the letter G. It de-
notes Deity, before whom we all ought to bow with reve-
rence, worship and adore. It also denotes Geometry,
the fifth science, it being that on which this degree was
principally founded. By Geometry we may curiously
trace nature through her various windings to her most
concealed recesses : By it, we may discover the power,
the wisdom, and the goodness of the grand Artificer of
the Universe, and view with delight «the proportions
-which counect this vast Machine : By it, we may discover
how the planets move in their different orbits, and de-
monstrate their various revolutions : By it, we account
for the return of seasons, and the variety of scenes which
each season displays to the discerning eye. Numberless
worlds surround us, all formed hy the same divine Archi-
tect, which roll through thii vast expanse, and all cou-
f 53 )
dieted by the same unerring: law of nature. A surve^
o/' nature, and ibe observations of her beautiful propor-
tions, first determined man to imitate the divine plan,
and study symetry and order. The Architect began to.
design ; and the plans which he laid down, being im-
proved by experience and time, have produced works
which are the admiration of every age. The lapse of
time, the ruthless hand of ignorance, and the devastations
of war have laid waste and destroyed many- valuable
monuments of antiquity, on which the utmost exertions
of human genius have been employed. Even the Tem-
ple of Solomon, so spacious and magnificent, and con-
structed by so many celebrated artists, escaped nor the
unsparing ravages of barbarous force. The attentive
tnr receives the sound from the instructive tongue ; and
the mysteries of Freemasonry are safely lodged in the
repository offaithful breasts, Tools and implements of
architecture, and symbolic emblems, most expressive,
are selected by the fraternity, to imprint on the mind
wise and serious truths ; and thus", through a succession
of ages, are transmitted, unimpaired, the most excellent
tenets of our institution.' Here ends the work part of
the Fellow-Craft's degree. It will be observed that the
candidate has received, in this place, the second section
of the lecture on this degree. This course is not general-
ly pursued, but it is much the most instructive method,
and when«it is omitted, I generally conclude that it is for
want of a knowledge of the lecture. Monitorial writers
[who are by no means, coeval with Masonry] all write or
copy very much after each other, and they have all in-
serted in their books all those clauses of the several lee*
tures which are not considered by the wise ones as tend-
ing to develope the secrets of Masonry. In some in-
stances they change the phraseology a little ; in others,
they are literal extracts- from the lectures. This, it is
said, is done to facilitate I he progress of learners, or
young Masons, when in fact it has the contrary effect.
All lecture teachers, [and there are many travelling about
the country with recommendations from some of their*
distinguished brethren] when they come to any of those
clauses, will say to their pupils, < I have not committed
that, it is in the Monitor, you can learn it at your leisure.'
This course of procedure subjects the learner to the ne-
cessity of making his own questions, and, of course, an^
( 56 )
swerfug mouilorially, whether the extracts from the lec-
tures me literal or not. Again, there is not a perfect
sameness in all the Monitors, or they could not all get
copy-riglns; hence the great diversity in the lectures as
well as the work. The following charge is, or ought to
be, delivered to the candidate after he has erot through
the ceremonies ; but he is generally told, t
It i» in the
Monitor, and you can read it at your leisure.
7
Brother, < being advanced to the second degree of Ma-
sonry, we congratulate you on your preferment. The
internal, and not the external, qualifications of a man,
are what Masonry regards. As you increase in know-
ledge, you will improve in social intercourse.
' It js unnecessary to recapitulate the duties which, a« a
Mason, you are bound to discharge ; or enlarge on the
necessity of a strict adherence to then), a? your own ex-
perience must have established their value.
'
Our laws and regulations you are strenuously to sup-
port ; and be always ready to assist in seeing them duly
executed. You are not to palliate or aggravate the of-
fences of your brethren ; but in the decision of every
trespass against our rules, you are to judge with candour,
admonish with .friendship, and reprehend with justice.
* The study of the liberal arts, that valuable branch of
education,,which tends so effectually to polish and adorn
the mind, is earnestly recommended to your considera-
tion ; especially the science of geometry, which is esta-
blished as the basis of our art. Geometry, or Masonry,
originally synonimous terms, being of a divine moral na-
ture, is enriched with the most uselul knowledge : while
it proves the Wonderful properties of nature, it demon-
strates the more important truths of morality.
* Your past behaviour and regular deportment have-
merited the honour which we have now conferred ; and
in your new character it is expected that you will con-
form to the principles of the order, by steadily persever-
ing in the practice of every commendable virtue.
* Such is the nature of your engagements. a9 a Fellow-
Craft, and to these duties you are bound by the most
sacred ties.'
I will now proceed with the Lecture on this degree .-
ft is divided into two sections.
C 57 )
SECTION FIRST.
Q. Are you a Fellow-Craft Mason ?
A. lam—try me.
Q. By what will you be tried ?
A. By the Square.
Q. Why by the Square ?
A. Because it is an emblem of virtue.
Q. What is ,v Square ?
A. An angle extending to ninety degrees, or the fourtfa
part of a circle.
Q. Where was you prepared to be made a Fellow-
Craft Mason ?
A. In a room adjacent to the body of a just and law-
fully constituted Lodge of such, duly assembled in a
room or place, representing the middle chamber of king
Solomon's Temple.
Q. How was you prepared ?
A. By being divested of all metals : neither naked nor-
clothed j barefoot nor shod ; hood-winked ; with a cable-
tow twice round my neck ; in which situation I was con-
ducted to the door of the Lodge, where I gave two dis-
tinct knocks.
Q. What did those two distinct knocks allude to ?
A. The second degree in Masonry, it being that or.
which I was about to enter.
Q. What was said to you from within ?
A. Who comes there ? who comes, there ?
Q. Your answer ?
A. A worthy Brother who has-been regularly initiated
as an Entered Apprentice Mason ; served a proper time
as such, and now wishes for further light in Masonry by
being passed to the degree of a Fellow-Craft.
Q. What was then said to you from within ?
A. 1 was asked if it was of my own free will and ac-..
eord I made this request ; if 1 was duly and truly pre-
pared ; worthy and well qualified, and had made suitable
proficiency in the preceding degree ; all of which being
answered in the affirmative, I was asked, by what fur the?
lights I expected to obtain so great a benefit.
Q. Your answer ?
A. By the benefit «f a pass word.
Q. What is that pass word ? A. Skehbfeth.
Q, What further was said to you from within.^
( 5S )
A. I was bid to wait till tlie Worshipful Master in the
East was made acquainted with my request and his an
swer returned.
Q. After his answer was returned w hat followed?
A. I was caused to enter the Lodge.
Q. How did you enter ?
A. On the angle of the square presented to my na-
ked right breast in the name of the Lord.
Q. How. was you then disposed of?-
A. I was conducted twice regularly round"the Lodge
and halted at the Junior Warden in the South, where the
same questions were asked and answers returned as at the
door.
Q. How did the Junior Warden dispose of you ?
A. He ordered me to be conducted to the Senior War-
den in the West, where the same questions were asked and
answers returned as before.
Q. How did the Senior Warden dispose of you ?
A. He ordered me to be conducted to the Worshipful
Master in the East, where the same questions were a>k-
ed and answers returned os before, who likewise demnn*
ded of me from whence I came and whether I was trav-
elling.
Q. Your answer ?
A. From the West and travelling to the East.
Q. Why do you leave the West and travel to the East?
A. In search of moro light.
Q. How did the Worshipful Master then dispose of
you ?
A. He ordered me to be conducted back to the West
from whence 1 came, and put in cate of th^ Senior
Warden, who taught me how to approach the East, by
advancing upon two upright regular steps to the second
step, my feet forming the right angle oP an oblong
square, and my body erect at the altar before the Wor-
shipful Master.
Q. What did the Worshipful Master do with you ?
A. He made a Fellow-Craft Mason of me.
"Q. How ? A. In due form.
Q. What was that due form?
A. My right knee bare bent, my left knee forming a
square, my right hand on the Holy Bible, square and
compass, my^eft arm forming an angle supported by the
square, ami my hand in a verticals position, in which pos-
X 59 )
Hire I took upon me the solemn oath or obligation oT n
Fellow-Craft Mason. [See page 48 for obligation.]
Q. After your oath or obligation what was said to your
A. I was asked what I most desired.
Q. Your answer ? A. More light.
Q. On being brought to light, wnat did you discover
different from before ?
A. One point of the compass elevated above »he
square which denoted light in this degree, but as one-
point was yet in obscurity, it was to remind me that I was
yet one material point in the dark respecting Masonry.
Q. What did you next discover ?
A. The Worshipful Master approaching me from the
-East, under the sign and due guard of a Fellow Craft
Mason, who presented me with his right hand in token,
of brotherly love and confidence, and proceeded to give
me the pass-grip and word of a Fellow-Craft Mason,
and bid me rise and salute the Junior and Senior War-
dens, and convince them that I had been regularly pass-
ed to the degree of a Fellow-Craft, anti had the sign ?
grip and word of a Fellow^Craft Mason.
Q Wlmt did you next discover ?
A. The Worshipful Master approaching me a second
time from the East, who presented me with a lambskin
or white apron, which he said he hoped I would continue
to wear witli honour to myself, and satisfaction and ad
vantage to the brethren*
Q. What was you next presented with ?
A. The working tools of a Fellow-Craft Mason.
Q. What are they ?
A. The Plumb, Square, and Level.
Q. What do theV teach ? [I think this question ought
to be, * How explained ?']
A. The Plumb is an instrument made use of by opera-
tive Masons to raise perpendiculars ; the Square, to
square their work; and the Levei to lav horizontals ;
but we, as Free and Accepted Masons, are taught to
make use of them for more noble and glorious purposes :
The Plumb admonishes us to walk uprightly in our se-
veral stations before God and man, squaring our actions
by the square of virtue, and remembering that we are all
tra\eliing upou the level of time to thst undiscovered
country from whose bourn no traveller returns.
Q. What was you next presented with ?
( «0 ) .
"A. Three precious jewels.
Q, What were they ? A. Faith, Hope, and Charity,
Q- Wlrat do they teach ?
A. Faith in God, hope in immortality, and charity to
all m nikind.
Q. I] >\\ was you then disposed of?
A, I was conducted out of the Lodge, and invested of
what 1 had baen divested.
SECTION SECOND.
Q. Have you ever worked as a Fallow-Craft Mason ?
A. I have, in speculative ; but our forefathers wrought
boio in speculative and operative Masonry.
Q. Where did they work ?
A. At the building of king Solomon's Temple, and
many other masonic edifices,
Q. Mow long did they work ? A Six day?
Q. Did they not work on the 'seventh ?
A. They did not.
Q. Why so ?
A. Because, in six days Tim! created the Heavens and
the Earth, and rested on the seventh day ; the seventh
day, therefore, our ancient brethren consecrated as a day
of rest from their labours ; thereby enjoying more fre-
quent opportunities to contemplate the glorious works ot
creation, and adore their great Creator !
Q. Did you ever return to the sanctum sanctorum, of
holy of holies of King Solomon's Temple'1
A. I did. Q. By what way ?
A. Through a long porch or alley.
Q. Did any thing particular strike your attention on
your return ?
A. There did, viz: two large columns, or pillars, one
on the left hand and the other on the right.
Q. What was the name of the one on your left hand ?
A. ttoaz, to denote strength.
Q. What was the name of the one ou your right hand ?
A. Jnchin, denoting establishment.
Q. What do they collectively allude to ?
A. A passage in Scripture wherein God has declar-
ed in his word, '
In strength shall this House be estab-
lished.'
Q. What were their dimensions ?
A. Eighteen cubits in height, twelve in circumferance^
bnd four in diameter.
Y 61 )
^. Were they adorned with any tiling?
A. They were with two large Chapiters, one on each.
Q. Were they ornamented with any thing?
A. They were with wreaths of* net-work, iilly.work
•and pomegranates,
Q. What do they denote ?
A. Unity, peace and plenty. Q. Why so ?
A. Net work from its connection, denotes union, lilly-
work, from its whiteness and purity, denotes peace, and
pomegrauates, from the exuberance of its seed, denotes
plenty.
Q. Were those columns adorned with any thing fur-
ther ?
A. They were, viz: Two large globes or balls, one on
each.
Q. Did they contain any thing ?
A. They did, viz: All the maps and charts of the ce-
lestial and terrestrial bodies.
Q Why are they said to be so extensive ?
. A. To denote the universality of Masonry, and that a
Mason's charity ought to be equally extensive.
Q. What was their composition ?
A. Molten, or cast brass. Q. Who cast them ?
A. Our Grand Master, Hiram Abiff.
Q. Where were they cast ?
A. On the banks of the river Jordan, in the clay
ground between Succoth and Zaradatha, where King
Solomon ordered these and all other Holy vessels to be
cast.
Q. Were they cast sound or hollow ? A. Hollow.
Q. What was their thickness ?
A. Four inches or a hands breadth.
Q. Why were they cast hollow ?
A. The better to withstand inundations and con-
flagrations ; were the archives of masonry, and contained
the constitution, rolls and records.
Q. What did you next come to ?
A. A long winding stair case, with three, five, seven
steps or more.
Q. What does the three steps allude to ?
A. The three principal supports in masonry, viz^:
Wisdom, strength, and beauty.
Q. What does the five steps allude to ?
A. The five orders in architecture, and the five human
senses. ¥
C 52 )
Q. What are the five orders in architecture?
A. The Tuscan, Doric, Ionic, Corinthian, and Com-
posite.
Q. What are the five human senses?
A. Hearing, seeing, feeling, smelling, and tasting,
the first three of which has ever been deemed highly es-
sential among Masons; hearing, to hear the word, see-
ing, to see the sign, and feeling, to feel the?grip, where-
by one Mason may know another in the dark as well as
the light.
Q. What does the seven steps allude to ?
A. The seven sabbatical years, seven years of famine,
seven years in building the Temple, seven golden can-
dlesticks, seven wonders of the world, seven planets ; but
more especially the seven liberal arts and sciences, which
are grammar, rhetoric, logic, arithmetic, geometry, mu-
sic and astronomy. For these and many other reasons
-the number seven has ever beeu held in high estimation
among Masons.
Q. What did you next come to ?
A. The outer door of the middle chamber of King
Solomon's Temple, which I found partly open, but close-
ly tyled by the Junior Warden.
Q- How did you gain admission ?
A. By a pass, and token of a pass.
Q. What was the. name of the pass? A. Shibokth.
Q. What does it denote ? A. Piepty. Q. Why so
A. From an ear of corn being placed at the waier-ford.
Q. Why was this pass instituted ?
A. In consequence of a quarrel which had long exist-
ed between Jeptha, judge of Israel, and the Ephraimites;
the latter of whom had long been a stubborn, rebellious
people, whom Jeptha had endeavoured to subdue by
lenient measures ; but to no effect. The Epbraimites
being highly incensed against Jeptha for not being called
to fight and share in the rich spoils of the Amonitish
war, assembled a mighty army and passed over the river
Jordan to give Jeptha battle ; but he, being apprised of
their approach, called together the men of Israel, and
gave them battle, and put them to llight ; and, to make
bis victory more complete, he ordered guards to be
placed at the different passes on the banks of the river
Jordan, and commanded, if the Ephroimites passed that
way, that they should pronounce the word Sluboi'j!'-:
( 63 )
but they, being of a different tribe, pronounced it Sehd*
leth : which trifling defect proved them spies, and cost
them their lives ; and there fell that day at the different
passes on the banks of the river Jordan, forty and two-
thousand. This word was also used by our ancient-
brethren to distinguish a friend from a foe, and has sipce
been adopted as a proper pass-word to be given before
entering any well regulated and governed Lodge of.
Fellow-Craft Masor.S;
Q. What did you next come to ?
A. The inner door of the middle chamber of king
Solomon's Temple, which I found partly open, but
closely tyled by the Senior Warden.
Q. How did you gain admission ?
A. By the grip and word.
Q. How did (he Senior Warden dispose of you t
A. He ordered me to be conducted to the Worshipfut
Master in the East, who informed me that I had been
admitted into the middle chamber of king Solomon's
Temple for the sake of the letter G.
Q. Does it denote any thing ?'
A. It does : Deity, before whom we should all bow
with reverence, worship and adore. It also denotes
Geometry, the fifth science; it being that on which this
degree was principally founded.
Thus ends the second degree of Masonry,
THE THIRD, OR MASTER MASON'S DEGREE.
The traditional account of the death, several burials,
and resurrection of Hiram Abiff, the widow's son, [as
hereafter narrated] admitted as facts, this degree is cer-
tainly very interesting. The Bible informs us, that there
was a person of that name employed at the building of
king Solomon's Temple ; but neither the Bible, the
writings of Josephus, nor any other writings, however
ancient, of which I have any knowledge, furnish any in-
formation respecting his death. It certainly is very sin-
gular, that a man so celebrated as Hiram Abiff, was an
arbiter between Solomon, king of Israel, and Hiram, king
of Tyre, universally acknowledged as the third most
distinguished man then living, and in many respects tho
greatest man in the world, should pass off the stage of
action in the presence of king Solomon, three thousand
C C4 y
three hundred grand overseers, and one hundred and
fifty thousand workmen, with whom he had spent a num-
ber of years, and neither king Solomon, his hosom friend,
jior any other among his numerous friends even recorded
Ins death or any thing ahout him. I make these remarks
now, hoping that they may induce some person who has
time and capacity to investigate the subject, and promul-
gate the result of their investigations. I shall let the
subject rest where it is at present ; it is not intended that
it should form any part of this little volume. The prin-
cipal object of this work is to lay before the world a true
history of Freemasonry, without saying any thing for or
against it.
A person who has received the two preceding degree?,
and wisb.es to be raised to the sublime degree of a Master
IMason, is [the Lodge being opened as in the preceding
degrees] conducted from the preparation room to the
door, [the manner of preparing him is particularly ex-
plained in the lecture] where he gives three distinct
knocks, when the Senior Warden rises and says, * Wor-
shipful, while we are peaceably at work on the third de-
gree of Masonry, under the influence of humanity, bro-
therly love, and affection, the door of our Lodge appears
to be alarmed.' The Master to the Junior Deacon,
(
Brother Junior, enquire the cause of that alarm. ' The
The Senior Deacon then steps to the door and answers
the three knocks that had been given, by three more;
£These knocks are much louder than those given on any
occasion, other than that of the admission of candidates
in the several degrees] one knock is then given without,
and answered by one from within, when the door is partly
opened, and the Junior Deacon asks, i
Who comes there?
v ho comes there ? who comes there ?' The Sen'r Dea-
con answers, 'A worthy brother who has been regularly
initiated as an Entered Apprentice Mason, passed to the
degree of a Fellow-Craft, and now wishes for further light
in masonry, by being raised to the sublime degree of a
Master Mason.' Junior Deacon to Senior Deacon, ' Is it
of his own free will and accord, he makes this request :'
/ins. 'It is.' Junior Deacon to Senior Deacon, ' Is he du-
ly and truly prepared ?' Ans. i
He is.' Junior Deacon
to Senior Deacon, ' Is he worthy and well qualified :'
Ans. '
He is.' Jun'r Deacon to Senior Deacon, 'Has he
made suitable proficiency in the preceding degree
{ 65 )
Atis. ' He has.' Junior Deacon to Senior Deacon, {
By
what further rights does he expect to obtain this benefit r
Arts. '
Bv the benefit of a pass-word.' Junior Deacon to
Senior D'eacon, < Has he a pass-word?' Am. f He has
not, but I have got it for him.' The Junior Deacon to
Senior Deacon, <
Will, you give it to me ?' The Senior
Deacon then whispers in the ear of the Junior Deacon,
* Tubal Cain.' Junior Deacon says, i
the pass is right.
Since this is the case, you will wait till die Wprshipfyl
Master be made acquainted with his request and his an-
swer returned.' The Junior Deacon then repairs to the
Master and gives three, knocks, as, at the door ;
after
answering which, the same questions are asked and an-
swers returned as at the door, when the Master sayf,
*-Since he comes endued with all these necessary quali-
fications, let him enter this- Worshipful Lodge in the
name of the Lord, and take heed on what he, enters.'
Tne Junior Deacon returns .to the door and says, i
Let
him enter this worshipful Lodge, in the name of the
Lord, and take heed on what he enters.' In entering,
both points of the compass are pressed against his naked
right and left. breasts, when the Junior Deacon stops- the
candidate and says, *
Brother, when you first entered this
Lodge, you-. was received on the point of the compass
pressing your naked left breast, which was then explain*-
ed to you,; ^vhen you entered it the second time you
was received on the angle of the square, which was also-
explained to you ; on entering it now you are received
on the two extreme points of the compass, pressing your
naked right and left breasts, which are thus explained :
As the most vital parts of man are contained between the
two breasts, so are the most valuable tenets of Masonrv
contained between the two extreme points, of the cotfi-
pass, which are virtue, morality, aud brotherly love'. Tiie
Senior Deacon then conducts the candidate three tim?s
regularly round the Lodge, [I wish the reader to ob-
serve, that on this, as well as every other degree, that the
Junior Warden is the first of the three principal officers
that the candidate passes, travelling with the sun when
he starts round tl • Lodge, and that as he passes the
Junior Warden, Senior Warden,, and Master, the first
time going round, they eacU give one rap ; the second
time two laps ; and the third time three raps each. The
number of raps given on those occasions are the same i$*
F2
(
f )
tlie number of the degree, except the first degree, on
which three are given, I always thought improperly.]
During the time the candidate is travelling round the
room, the Master reads the following passage of Scrip-
ture, the conductor and candidate travelling, and the
IVIaster reading, so that the travelling and reading ter-
minates at the same time : 'Remember now thy Creator
in the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not,
nor the years draw nigh, when thou shall say, I have no
pleasure in them; while the sun, or the light, or the
moon, or the stars bo not darkened, nor the clouds return
after the rain : in the day when the keepers of the house
shall tremble, and the strong men shall bow themselves,
and tho grinders cease because -they are few, and those
that look out of the windows he darkened, and the doors
shall be shut in the streets, when the sound of the grind-
ing is low, and lie shall rise up at the voice of the bird,
and all the daughters of music shall be brought low.
Also, when they shall be afraid of that which is high,
find fears shall be in the way, and the almond-tree shall
flourish, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and de-
sire shall fail : because man goeth to his long home, and
the mourners go about the streets: or even the silver
cord be loosed, or the golden bowl be broken, or the
pitcher be broken at the fountain, or the wheel at the
cistern. Then shall the dust return to the earth as it
-was ; and the spirit return unto God who gave it.' The
conductor and candidate halt at the Junior Warden in
the South, where the same questions are asked and an-
swers returned as at the door; he is then conducted to the
Senior Warden in the West, where the same questions
are asked and answers returned as before ; from thence he
is conducted to the W. Master in the East who asks the
same questions and receives the same answers as before,
and who likewise asks the candidate, from whence he
came, and whither he is travelling. A. i
From the West,
and travelling to the East.' Q. ' Why do you leave
•the West, and travel to the East ?' Ans. i
In search of
more light.' The Master then says to the Senior Dea-
con, < You will please conduct the candidate back to the
"West from whence he came, and put him in care of ihe
Senior Warden, and request him to teach the candidate
how to approach the East by advancing upon three up-
light regular steps to the third step, his feet forming a
^uare, his body erect at the altar, before the Worshipful
( 67 )
Master, and place him in a proper position to take upon
him the solemn oath or obligation of a Master Mason.'
The Master then comes to the candidate and says,
' Brother, you are now placed in! a proper position [the
lecture explains it] to take upon you the solemn oath or
obligation of a Master Mason, which, I assure you,
as before, is neither to affect your religion nor politics.
If you arc willing to take it, repeat your name, and say
after me :'
' I, A. B. of my own free will and accord, in presence
of Almighty God, and this worshipful Lodge of Master
Masons, erected to God, and dedicated to the Holy or-
der of St. John, do hereby and hereon, most solemnly
•and sincerely promise and swear, in addition to my for-
mer obligations, that I will not give the degree of a Mas-
ter .Mason to any one of an inferior degree, nor to any
other being in the known world, except it be to a true
and lawful brother or brethren, Masrer Masons, or within
the body of a just and lawfully constituted Lodge of
such ; and not unto him, nor unto them, whom I shall
hear so to be, but unto him, and them only who I shajl
find so to be after strict trial and due examintion, or law-
ful information received. Furthermore, do I promise
and swear, that, I will not give the Master's word which
1 shall hereafter receive, neither in the Lodge nor out of
it, except it be on the five points of Fellowship, and then
not above my breath. Furthermore, do I promise and
swear, that, I will not give the grand hailing sign of dis-
tress, except I am in real distress, or for the benefit of the
Craft when at work ; and should lever see that sign giv*
en, or the word accompanying it, and the person who
gave it, appearing to be in distress, \ will fly to his re-
lief at the risk of my life, should there be a greater prob-
ability of saving his life, than losing my own. Further-
more, do I promise and swear, that, I will not wrong this
Lodge, nor a brother of this degree to the value of one
cent, knowingly, myself, nor suffer it to be done by oth-
ers, if in my power to prevent it. Furthermore, do I
promise and swear, that, I will not be at the initiating,
passing, and raising a candidate at one communication,
without a regular dispensation from the Grand Lodge
for the same. Furthermore, do I promise and swear,
that, I wiil not be at the initiating, passing, or raising a
candidate/ in a, clandestine Lodge, 1 knowing it to be
( 68 )
suchf Furthermore, do I promise and swear, that, I wifi
not be at the initiating of an old man iu dotage, a young
man in non-age, an Atheist, irreligious libertine, idiot,
mad man, hermaphrodite nor woman. Furthermore, do
I promise and swear, that, I will not speak evil of a bro-
ther Master Mason, neither behind bis back nor before
his face, but will apprize hira of all approaching danger,
if in my power. Furthermore, do I promise and swear,
that, I will not violate. the chastity of a Master Mason's
wife, mother, sister, or daughter, I knowing them to be
such, nor suffer it to be done by others, if iu my power
to prevent it. Furthermore, do I promise and swear,
that, I will support the Constitution of the Grand Lodge
of the state of , under which this Lodge is held, and
conform to all the bye-laws, rules and regulations of
this, or any other Lodge of which I may at any time
hereafter become a member. Furthermore, do I prom-
ise and swear, thaty I will obey all regular signs, summons'
or tokens, given, handed, sent, or thrown to me from the
hand of a brother Master Mason, or from the body of a
Itist anu
1
lawfully constituted Lodge of such, provided it
be within the length of my Cable-Tow. Furthermore,
do I promise and swear, that, a Master Mason's secrets
given to me in charge as such, and I knowing him to be
such, shall remain as secure and inviolable in my breast,
as in his own when communicated to me, murder and trea-
son excepted ; and they left to my own election. Fur-
thermore, do I promise and swear, that, I will go on a
Master Mason's, errand whenever required, even should
I have to go barefoot, and barehead, if within the length
of my Cable-Tow. Furthermore, do I promise and
swear, that, I will always remember a brother Master
Mason, when on my knees offering up my devotions to
Almighty God. Furthermore, do I promise and swear,
that 1 will be aiding and assisting all poor, indigent Mas-
ter Mason's, their wives and orphans, wheresoever dispo-
sed round the globe ; as far as in my power, without in-
juring myself or family materially. Furthermore, do I
promise and swear, that, if any part of this my solemn
oath af obligation be omitted at this time, that t will hold
myself amenable thtre .to whenever informed. To all
which I do most solemnly, and sincerely promise and
swear, with a fixed and steady purpose of mind in me to
keep and perform the same, biuding myself under hq
( #0 }
less penalty, than to have my body severed in two firthe
midst, and divided to the North and South, my bowels
burnt to ashes in the centre, and the ashes scattered be-
fore the four winds of heaven, that there might not
the least track or trace of remembrance remain among
men or Masons of so vile and perjured, a wretch as l
should he, were I ever to prove wilfully guilty of viola-
ting any part of this my solemn oath* or. obligation of a
Master Mason. So help me God, and keep me stedfast
in the due performance of the same.'' The Master then
asks the candidate, i
What do you most desire?.' The
candidate answers after bis. prompter, ' More light. 7
The
bandage, which was tied round his head in the prepara-
tion room, is, by one of the brethren who stands.behind
liim for that purpose,, loosened and put over both eyes,
and he is. immediately brought to light in the same- man-
ner as in the preceeding degree,, except three stamps on
the floor, and three claps of the hands are given. in this
degree. On being brought. to light,, the Master says to
the candidate, 'You first discover as before, three great
lights in masonry by the assistance of three lesser, with
this difference ; both points of the compass, are eleva-
ted above the square, which denotes to you, that you are
about to receive all the light that can be conferred on
you in a Master's Lodge.' The Mastet steps back from
the candidate and says, ' Brother, you now discover me
as Master o,f this Lodge approaching you from the Last,
under the sign and due-guard of a Master Mason.' The
sign is given by raising both hands and arms to, the el-
bows perpendicularly, one on either side of the head,
the elbows fotming a square. The words accompanying
this sign iu case of distress, are ' O Lord, my God, is
there no help for the widow's son.' As the lastwords drop,
from your lips, you let your hands, fall in tbat manner,
best calculated to indicate solemnity. King Solomon is
said to have made this exclamation on the receipt of the
information of the death of Hiram AbifT. Masons are
all charged never to give the words* except in the dark
when the sign cannot be seen.. Here Masons differ very
much ; some contend that Solomon gave this sign, and
made this. exclamation when informed of Hiram's death,
and work accordingly in their Lodges. Others say the
sign was given and the exclamation made at the grave
when SoloinoiMYent there to raise Hiram, and or course'
( ro )
they work accordingly ; that is to say, tile Master who
governs a Lodge, holding the la'.ter opinion, gives the
sign &c. at the grave, when he goes to raise the body.
and vice versa. "The due-guard is given by putting the
right hand to the left side of the bowels, the hand open
with the thumb next to the belly, and drawing it across
the belly, and let it fall; this is done tolerably, quick. Af-
ter the Master has given the sign and due-guard * which
does not take more than a minute* he says, ' Brother, I
now present you with my right hand in token of broth-
erly love and affection*, and with it the pass-grip and
word.' The pass-grip is given by pressing the thumb be-
tween the joints of the second and third fingers where
they join the hand, the word or name is Tubal Cain. It
is the pass-word (o the Master's degree. The Master af-
ter giving the candidate the pass-grip and word bids him
rise and salute the Junior and Senior Wardens, and con-
vince them that he is an obligated Master Mason, and is
in possession of the pass-grip and word. While the
Wardens are. examining the candidate, the Master returns
to the East and gets an apron, and as he returns to the
candidate, one of the Wardens [some times both] says
to the Master, « Worshipful, we are satisfied that Br.
is an obligated Muster Mason.* The Master then
says to the caudidute, ' Brother, I now have the honour
to present you with a lamb-skin or white apron as before,
which I hope you will continue to wear with credit to
yourself, and satisfaction and advantage to the brethren ;
you will please carry it to the Senior Warden in the
Wesi, who. will teach you how to wear it as a Master Ma-
son.
The Senior Warden ties on the apron, and lets the flap
fall down before in its natural and common situation.
The Master returns to his seat and the candidate is
conducted to him; Master to candidate, • Brother, I
perceive you are dressed, it is of course necessary you
should have tools to work with. 1 will now piesent you
with the working tools of a Master Mason, and explain
their uses to you. The working tools of a Master Ma-
son are all the impliments of masonry indiscriminately^
but more especially the trowel. The trowel is an instru-
ment made use of by operative Masons, to spread the ce-
ment which unites a.building into one common mass;
but \ve3
as free and accepted Mason*, are taught to makq
( w )
use of it for the more noble add glorioas purpose, of
spreading the cement of brotherly love and affection ;
that cement which iiniies us into one sacred hand or So-
ciety of friends and brother*, among whom no conten-
tion should ever exist, but that noble contention, or rath-
er emulation of who can best work or best agree. 1 also
present you with three precious jewels ; their names are
humanity, friendship, and brotherly love?
'brother, yon are not yet invested with all the secrets
of this degree, nor do 1 know whether you ever will un-
til I know how you withstand the amazing- trials and dan-
gers that await you.*
1
You are now about to travel to give us a specimen of
your fortitude, perseverance and fidelity in the preset v.a-
tiofl of what you have already received.-—Fare you well;,
and may the Lord he with yon, and support you through
nil your trials and difficulties.* [In some Lodges they
make him pray before he starts.] The candidate is
then conducted out of the Lodge, clothed, and returns ;
as he enters the door, his conductor says to him, ' Broth-
er, we are now in a place representing the sanctum sanc-
torum, or holy of holies of King Solomons Temple. It
was tlie custom of our Grand Master Mnam Abiff, eve-
ry day at high twelve, when 'the Crafts were from la-
bour to refreshment, to enter into the sanctum snncto-
-rum, and offer u\) his devotions to the ever living God.
Let us in imitation of him kneel and pray.' They then
kneel and the conductor says the following prayer.
4
Thou, O God, knowest our down setting and upraising,
and understandest our thoughts afar off, shield and de-
fend us from the evil intentions of our enemies, and sup-
port us undtj
r the trials and afflictions we are destined to
endure while travelling Avrough this vale of tears. Man
that is born of a woman, is cf few days and full of trou-
ble. He cometh forth as a flower, and is cut down ; he
fleeth also as a shadow, and continueth not. Seeing his
days are determined, the number of his months are with
thee, thou hast appointed his bounds that he cannot pass $
turn from him that he may rest, till he shall accomplish
his day. For there is hope of a tree, if it be cut down,
that it will sprout again, and that the tender branch
thereof will not cease. But man dieth and wasteth
away ;
yea, man giveth up the ghost, and where is he ?
As the waters fail from the sea, and the flood decayeth
X 72 )
£nd c?rieth up, so man lieth down, and rise'th not up till
the heavens shall be no more. Yet. O Lord ! have com-
passion on the children of thy creation ; administer un-
to them comfort in time of trouble, ami save tin in with,
an everlasting salvation.' Amen—so mote it be. They
then rise, and the conductor says to the candidate, ' Bra-
titer, in further imitation of our Grand Master Hiram
AbiiF, let us retire at the South Gale.' They then ad-
vance to the Junior Warden [who represents Jubcla, one
of the ruffians] who exclaims, '
Who come here ?' [The
room is dark, or the candidate hood-winked,] (ho conduc-
tor answers, '
Our Grand Master Birim Abiff.' '
Our Grand
Master Hiram MiffV exclaims the ruflian, 'he is the very
man I wanted to see. [Seizing the candidate by the throat
at the same time, and jerking him about with violence]
give me the Master .Mason's word, or I'll take your life.'
The conductor replies, '
I cannot give it now, but, if you
will wait till the Grand Lodge assembles at Jerusalem, if
you are found worthy, you shall then rect-ive it, otherwise
you cannot,' The rtrffian then gives the candidate a blo\V
with the twenty-four inch gauge across the throat, on which
he fled to the West gate, where he was accosted by the
second rullian, Jubclo, with more, violence, and on his refu-
sal to comply with his request, he ga^e him a severe blow
with the square across his breast; on which he attempted
to make his escape at the East gale, where he was accos-
ted by the third ruffian Jubc!u?n, with still more violence,
a-nd on refusing to comply with his request, the ruffian gave
him a violent blow with the common paVel on the fore-hc ad,
which brought him to the floor ; on which ofie of them ex-
claimed, 'What shall we do ; we have killed our Grand
Master Hiram Abiff? another answers, less carry him out
at the East gate and bury him in the rubbish t'Hl low twelve,
and then meet and carry him. a Westerly course and bory
him.' The candidate is then taken up in a blanket, on
which he fell, and carried to the West *end of the
Lodge, and covered up and left; by this time the Master
has resumed bis seat, [king Solomon is supposed to arrive at
the Temple at this juncture] and calls to order, and asks
the Senior Warden the cause of all that confusion ; the Sen-
ior Warden answers, '
Our Grand Master Hiram \biff is
missing, and there are no plans, or designs laid down
on the Trestle board, for the Crafts to pursue their la-
bours.' The Master alias, king Solomon replies, ' Our
Grand Master missing? our Grand Master has always been
very punctual in his attendance; 1 fear he is indisposed 5
assemble the Crafts and search ir> and about the temple^
tindsee if he can bn found.' They all shuffle about the
il nor a while, when the Master calls them to order, and
asks the Senior Warden 'what success,' he answers 'we
cannot find our Grand Master, my lord.' The Master then
orders the Secretary to call the roll of workmen, and see
whrther any of them are missing.' The Secretary calls
the roll, and says, '
I have called the roll my lord, and find
that there are three missing, viz: Jubtla, Jubelo, and Jube-
him.'' His lordship then observed ;
' This brings to my
mind a circumstance that took place this morning; twelve
Fellow-Crafts, clothed in white gloves and aprons, in to-
ken of their innocence, came to me and confessed that
they twelve, with three others, had conspired to extort
the Master Mason's word from their Grand Master Hi-
ram A. biff; and in case of refusal t'o take his life—they
twelve had recanted, but feared the other three had been
base enough to carry their atrocious designs into execu-
tion.' Solomon then ordered twelve Fellow-Crafts to be
drawn from the bands of the workmen clothed in white
gloves and aprons, in token of their innocence, and sent
three east, three west, three north and three south, irt
search of the ruffians, and if found to bring them for-
ward. Here the members all shuffle about the floor
awhile and fall in with a reputed traveller, and inquire of
him if lie had seen any travellings men that way;
he tells them that he had seen three that morning
near the coast of Joppa, who from their dress and ap-
pearance were Jews, and were workmen from the tem-
ple, inquiring for a passage to Ethiopia, but were unable
to obtain one in consequence of an embargo which had
recently been laid on all the shipping, and had turned
back into the country.
The Master now calls them to order again, and asks
the Senior Warden, l
what success ;' lie answers by rela-
ting what had taken place ; Solomon observes, « I had
this embargo laid to prevent the ruffians from making
their escape/ and odds, 'you will go and search again,
and search till you find them if possible, and if they are
not found the twelve who confessed, shall be considered
«s the reputed murderers and suffer accordingly.' The
members all start again and shuffle about awhile, until
one them as if by accident, finds the body of Hiram
Abiff, alias the candidate, and hails his travelling com-
panions who join him, and while they are humming out
something over the candidate, the three reputed rujfiam?
G
I t 74 )
*vho are seated in a private corner near the candidate,
are heatd to exclaim in the following manner; first, Ju-
bela, 'O that my throat had been cut across, my tongue
torn out, and my body buried in die rough sands of the
sea at low water mark, where the tide ebbs and flows
twice in twenty-four hours, ere I had been accessary to
tiie deatli of so good a man as our Grand Master Hiram
Abift'.
The second, Jubelo, i
O that my left breast had been
torn open, and my heart and vitals taken from thence
and thrown over my left shoulder, carried into the valley
of Jehosaphat, and there to become a prey to the wild
beasts of the field and vultures of the air, ere I had con-
spired the death of so good a man as our Grand xMaster
Hiram Abift*.
The third, Jubclum, ' O that my body had been sever-
ed in two in the midst, and divided to the North and the
Soutb, my bowels burnt to ashes in the centre, and the ash-
es scattered by the four winds of heaven, that there might
not the least track or trace of remembrance remain
among men, or Masons of so vile and perjured a wretch
as I am—Ah, Jubcla and Jubelo, it was I that struck him
harder than you both ; it was 1 that gave him the fatal
blow; it was I that killed him outright.' The three
Fellow-Crafts who had stood by the candidate all this
time listening to the ruffians, whose voices they recogni-
sed, says one to the other, i
what shall we do, there are
three of them, and only three of us ;' * it is,' said one, in re-
ply, | our cause is good, let us seize them ;' on w Inch they
rush forward, seize and carry them to the Master, to
whom they relate what had passed; the Master then ad-
dresses them in the following manner: [they in many
Lodges kneel, or lie down in token of their guilt and
penitence.] 4
Well Jubela, what have you got to say for
yourself, guilty or not guilty ?' Ans. ' Guilty my Lord.*
' Jubelo, guilty or not guilty V Ans. i
Guilty my Lord.'
« Jubelum, guilty or not guilty ?' Ans. « Guilty my Lord.'
The Master to the three Fellow-Crafts who took them,
Take them without the West gate of the temple and
have them executed •ccGrding to the §everal impreca-
tions of their own months.' They are then hurried off
to the West end of the room. Here this part of the
farce ends. Tue Master then orders fifteen Fellow-
Crafts to be .selected liow the bands of the workmen,
{ {? J
and sent three East, three West, three Noah, three Sputb
and three in and about the temple in search of their
Grand Master Hiram Abifif, [in some Lodges they only
send twelve, when their own lectures say fifteen, were
sent] and charges them if they rind the body to exam-
ine carefully oh and about it for the Master's word or a
key to it. The three that travelled a westerly course,
comes to the candidate and finger about him a little and
arc called to order by the Master, %hen they report that
they had found the^grave of their Grand Master Hiram
A biff, aud on moving the earth till they come to the bo-
dy, they involuntarily found their hands raised in this
position, [shewing it at the same time ; it is the due-
guard of this degree} to guard their nostrils against the
offensive effluvia which arose from the grave, and that
they had searched carefully on and about the body for
the Master's word, but had not discovered any thing but
ft feint resemblance of the letter G on the left breast.
The Master on the receipt of this information, (raising
himself,) raises his hands three several times above his
head [as herein before described] and exclaim?,.' Noth-
ing but a feint resemblance of the letter G J that is not
the Master's word nor a key to it. I fear the Master's
word is forever lost ! Nothing but a feint resemblance of
the letter G ! that is not the Masters word nor a key to
it. I fear the Master's word is forever lost !' [The third
exclamation is different from the other two—attend to it,
it has been described in page 69-] * Nothing but a feint
resemblance of the letter G ! that is not the Master's
word nor a key to it. ' O Lord my God, is there no help
for the widows son ." The Master then orders the Jun-
ior Warden to summon a Lodge of Entered Apprentice
Masons, and repair ta the grave and try to raise the bo-
dy of their Grand Master, by the Entered Apprentice's
grip.' They go to the candidate and take hold of his
fore finger and pull it, return and tell tUe Master that
they could not raise him by the Entered Apprentice's
fCtip, that the skin cleaved from the bone. A Lodge of
Fellow-Crafts are then, sent, who act as before, except
they pull the candidate's second finger. The Master thea
directs the Senior Warden [generally] to summon a
Lodge of Master Masons and says. '
I will go with them
myself in person, and try to raise the body by the Mas-
ter's grip?
or lion's* paw.' [Some say by the strong grip
( W )
or lion's paw.] They then all assemble round the can-
didate, the Master having declared that the fust word
spoken after the body was raised, should be adopted as a
substitute for the Master's, word, for the government of
Master Mason's Lodges in all future generations ; lie pro-
ceeds to raise the candidate, alias the representative of
the dead body of Hiram Abiff. lie [the candidate] is
raised on what is called the five points of fellowship, which
are foot to foot, knee to knee, breast to breast, hand to
back, and mouth to ear. This is done by putting the in-
side of your right foot to <he inside of the right foot of
the person to whom you are going to give the word, the
inside of your knee to his, laying your right breast
against his, your left hands on the back of each other,
and your mouths to each other's right ear, ["in which po-
sition alone you are permitted to give the word] and
whisper the word Mah-kah-bone. The Master's grip is
given by taking hold of eacli other's right hand as though
you were going to shake hands, and sticking the nails of
each of your lingers into the joint of the other's wrist
Where it unites with the hand. In this position the can-
didate is raised, lie keeping his whole body sulfas though
dead. The Master in raising him is assisted by some of
the brethren who take hold of the candidate by the arms
and shoulders ; as soon as he is raised to his feet they step
back, and the Master whispers the word Mah-hah-bonc
in his ear and causes the candidate to repeat it, telling
him at the same time that he must never give it in any
manner other than that which he receives it. —He is also
told that Mah-hah-bone, signifies marrow in the bone. —
They then separate, and the Master makes the following
explanation respecting the five points of fellowship.
Master to candidate, ' Brother, foot to foot, teaches you
that you should, whenever asked, go on a brother's er-
rand if within the length of your Cable-Tow, even if you
should have to go barefoot and barehead. Knee to knee,
that you should always remember a Master Mason in
your devotion to Almighty God. Breast to breast, that
you should keep the Master Mason's secrets, when given
to you in charge as such, as secure and inviolable in your
breast, as they were in his own before communicated to
you. Hand to back, that you should support a waster
Mason behind his back as well as before his face. Mouth
fco ear, that you should support his good name as well be>
( rr )
hind Iiis back as before bis face.' After the candidate is
through with what is called the work part, the Master
addresses him in the following manner: ' Brother, you
may suppose from the manner you have been dealt with
to night, that we have been fooling with you, or that we
have treated you different from others, but I assure you
that is not the case. You have this night represented
one of the greatest men that ever lived, in the tragical
catastrophe of his death, burial and resurrection ; I
mean Hiram 'Abiflf the widow's son, who was slain by
three ruffians at the burlding of king Solomon's Temple,
and who, in his inflexibility, integrity and fortitude, nev-
er was surpassed by man. The history of that momen-
tous event is thus related. Masonic tradition informs us
that at the building of king Solomon's Temple, fifteen
Fellow-Crafts discovering that the Temple was almost
finished, and not having the Master Mason's word, be-
came very impatient, and entered into a horrid conspira-
cy to extort the Master Mason's word frora their Grand;
Master Hiram AbiiT, the first time they c :t him alone, or
take his life, that they, might pass as Meters in other
countries and receiver wage*; as such, byt before they
could accomplish their designs, twelve of them recanted,
but the other three were base eneugb ts carry their atro-
cious dsigns into execmioB. Their names were Jubela,
Jubdo and Jubeium.?.
' It was ..the -custom of our Grand Master Hiram AbuT
every day at high twelve, when the. Crafts were from la-
bour to refreshment, to eater into the Sanctum Sancto-
rum and offer up his devotions to the ever living God,
and draw out his plan* and designs on his trostle board
for the Crafts to pursue their labour. On a certain day,
[not named in any of our tra*iiianaljcCCGunts] Jubela,
Jubdo and Jubeium placed themselves i-x the Soaih, West
and East gates of theTemple. and Hiram having fin-
ished bit devotions and labour, aUempied (as wu his usu-
al custom) to retire at the South gate, where be was met
by Jubela, wha demanded of blm the Master Wlason's
word, (some, say the secrets of a jlf*st«r Mason) and on
his refusal to give ir, Jubela gave him a violent blow with
the twenty-four inch guagc «cross the throat, on which
Hiram fled to the W**t gate, wi.ere he, was accosted in,
the same manner by Jubelo, but with more violence.
Hiram told him that he could not give the word then h<^
( 78 )
cause Solomon, King of Israel, Hiram, King of Tyre>
and himself had entered into a solemn league, that the
word never should be given unless they three were pres-
ent, but if he would wait with patience, till the Grand
Lodge assembled at Jerusalem if he was then found wor-
thy he should receive it, otherwise he could not ; Jubelo
replied in a very peremptory manner; * If you do not
give me the Master's word, I'll take your life;' and on
Hiram's refusing to give it, Jubelo gave him a severe
blow with the square across the left breast, on which he
lied to the East gate, where he was accosted by Jubelum
in the same manner, but with stil! more violence. Here
Hiram reasoned as before ; Jubelum told him that he had
heard his cavilling with Jubela and Jubelo long enough,
nnd that the Master's word had been promised to him
from time to time for a long time, that he was still put
off and the temple was almost finished and he was deter-
mined to have the word or take his life ;
(
I want it so
that I may be able to get wages as a Master Mason in
any country to which I may go for employ, after the
Temple is finished, and that I may be able to support
my wife and children.' Hiram persisting in his refusal
lie gave Hiram a violent blow with the gavel on the fore-
liead which felled him to the floor and killed him—they
took the body and carried it out of the West gate and
buried it in the rubbish till low twelve at night, ("which is
twelve o'clock} when they three met agreeable to ap-
pointment, ana carried the body a westerly course and
buried it at the brow of a hill in a grave, dug due East
and West six feet perpendicular, and made their escape.
King Solomon coming up to the Temple at low six in
the morning, [as was his usual custom] found the Crafts
all in confusion ; and on enquiring the cause, was inform-
ed that their Grand Master Hiram AbifT was missing,
and there were no plans and designs laid down on the
trestle-board for the Crafts to pursue their labpur. Sol-
omon ordered immediate search to be made in and about
the Temple for him ; no discovery being made, he then
ordered the Secretary to call the roll of workmen to see
if any were missing ; it appearing that there were three,
viz: Jubela, Jubelo, and Jubelum ; Solomon observed,
' This brings to my mind a circumstance that took place
this morning. Twelve Fellow-Crafts came to me dress-
ed in white gloves and aprons in token of their inno-
( n )
eence, and confessed that they twelve with three other's
had conspired to extort the Master Mason's word from
their Grand Master Hiram Ahi ft*, and in case of his re-
fusal to take his life ; they twelve had recanted, but fear-
ed the other three had been base enough to carry their
atrocious design into execution.' Solomon immediately
ordered twelve Fellow-Crafts to be selected from the
bands of the workmen, clothed in white gloves and
aprons in token of then; innocence, and sent three East,
three West, three North and three South, in search of
the ruffians, and if found to bring them up before him.
The three that travelled a westerly course, coming near
the coast of Joppa, fell in with a way-faring man who in-
formed them that he had seen three men pass that way
that morning, who, from their appearance and dress, were
workmen from the Temple, inquiring for a passage to
Ethiopia, but weir unable to obtain one in consequence
of an embargo which had recently been laid on all the
shipping, and had turned back into the country. After
making still further and more diligent search; .arid ma-
king no further discovery, they returned to the Temple
and reported to Solomon the result of their pursuit and
inquiries. On which Solomon directed them to go and
search again, and search until they found their Grand
Master Hiram AhifF. if possible, and if he was not found,
the twelve who had confessed, should be considered as
the murderers and suffer accordingly.
They 'returned again in pursuit of the ruffians, and
one of the three that travelled a westerly course, being
more weary than the rest, sat down at the brow of a hill
to rest and refresh himself ; and, in attempting to rise
caught hold of a sprig of cassia, which easily gave way'
and excited his curiosity, and made him suspicious of a
deception, on which he hailed his companions, who im-
mediately assembled, and, on examination, found that
the earth had been recently moved ; and on moving the
rubbish, discovered the appearance of a grave •
and
while they were confabulating about what measures to
take, they heard voices issuing from a cavern in»the
clefts of the rocks, on which, they immediately repaired
to the place, where they heard tiie voice of Jubela ex-
claim, «0! that my throat had been cut across, my
tongue torn out, and my body buried in the rough sands
of the sea at low water mark, where the tide ebbs and
C 80 }
flows twice In twenty-four hours, ere I' had been accessa*.
ry to the death of so good a man as our Grand Master
Hiram AbifF—on which, they distinctly heard the voice
of Jubelo exclaim, * Of that my left breast had been
torn open, and my heart and vitals taken from thence
and thrown over my left shoulder, to the valley of Je-
hoshaphat, there to become a prey to the wild beasts of
the field and vultures of the air, ere I had conspired to
take the life of so good a man as our Grand Master
Hiram AbirT'—when they more distinctly heard the
voice of Jubelum exclaim, ' 0! that my body had been
severed in two in the midst, and divided to the north and
the smith, my bowels burnt to ashes in the centre, and
the ashes scattered by the four winds of heaven, that
there might not remain the least track or trace of re-
membrance among men or Masons of so vile and per-
jured a wretch as lam, who-wilfully took the life of so
good a man as our Grand Master Hiram AbifT. Ah!
Jubcla and Jubelo, it was J that struck him harder than
you both ! it was I that gave him the fatal blow ! it was
I that killed him outright !' On which, they rushed for-
ward, seized, bound, and carried them up before king
Solomon, who, after hearing the testimony of the three
Fellow-Crafts, and the three ruffians having plead guilty,
ordered them to be taken out at the West gate of the
Temple and executed agreeable to the several impreca-
tions of their own mouths. King Solomon then ordered
fifteen Fellow- Crafts to b8selected from the bands of
the workmen, clothed with white gloves and aprons, in
token of their innocence,. and sent three East, three
West, three North, three South, and three in and about
the Temple, in search of the body of their Grand Master
Hiram AbifT; an* the three that travelled a westerly
course found it undm; that sprig of Cassia where a worthy
Brother sat down to rest a»d refresh himself; and on
removing the earth till they ca»*to the coffin, they in-
voluntarily founi their hands raised, as herein before
described, to guard their nostrils agijst the olfrfeive
effluvia that arose from tke grave. It is alse said that
the body had lain there fourteen days, some say fifteen.
The body was raised iu the manner herein before de-
scribed, carried up to the Temple, and buried as explain-
ed in the closing clauses of the lecture. Not one third
jm of the preceding history of this degree is ever givea
C 81 )
to a candidate. A few general desultory unconnected
remarks aro made to him, and he is generally referred to
the manner of raising, and the lecture, for information
as r.) the particulars. Here follows a charge which
ought to be, arid sometimes is delivered to the candidate*
after hearing the history ojjthe degree.
An Address to be delivered to the Candidate after the
history has been given.
c
Brother, your zeal for the institution of'Masonry, the-
progress you have .made in the -mystery, and your con-
formity to our regulations, have pointed you out as a
proper object of our favour and esteem.
(
You are bound by duty, honour, and gratitude, to be
faithful to your trust; to support the dignity of your
character on every occasion ; and to enforce, by precept
am! example, obedience to the tenets of the order.
1
In the character of a Master Mason, you are author-
ized to correct the errors a ml irregularities of )our unin-
formed brethren, and to guard them against a breach of
fidelity.
6
To preserve the reputation of the fraternity unsullied,
must be your constant care ; and for this purpose it is
your province to recommend to your inferiors, obedience
and submission ; to your equals, courtesy and affability 5
to your superiors, kindness and condescension. Univer-
sal benevolence you are always to inculcate ; and, by the
regularity of your own behaviour, afford the best exam-
ple for the conduct of others less iaformed. The ancient
landmarks of the order, entrusted to your care, you are
carefully to preserve ;, and never suffer them to be in-
fringed, or countenance a deviation from the established
usages and customs of the fraternity.
< Your virtue, honour, and reputation are concerned in
supporting with dignity the character you now bear.
Let no motive, therefore, make you swerve from your
duty, violate your vows, or betray your trust ; but be
true and faithful, and imitate the example of that cele-
brated artist whom you this evening represent ; thus you
whM render yourself deserving the honour which we have
conferred, and merit the confidence that we have re-
posed.'
Here follows the lecture on this degree, which is divjt
ded into three sections,
( 82 }
SECTION FIRST.
Q. Are you a Master Mason ?
A. I am —try me, prove me—disprove me, if you cam
Q. Wliere was you prepared to be made a Master
Mason ?
A. In a room adjacent to tlie body of a just and law-
fully constituted Lodge of such, duly assembled in a room,
representing the sanctum sanctorum, or holy of holies,
of king Solomon's Temple.
Q. How was you prepared ?
A. By being divested of all metals • neither naked nor
clothed ; barefoot nor shod.; with a cable-tow three times
about my naked body ;. in which posture I was conduct-
ed to the door of the Lodge, where I gave three distinct
knocks.
Q. What did those three distinct knocks allude to r
A. To the third degree of Masonry j it being that oil
which I was about to enter.
Q. What was said to you from within ?
A. Who comes tbere ? who comes there ? who earner-
there ?
Q. Your answer ?•
A. A worthy Brother wbo has been, regularly initiated
as an Entered Apprentice Mason, passed to, the degree
of a Fellow-Craft, and now wishes for further light in
Masonry by being raised to the sublime degree of a,
Master Mason.
Q. What further was said to you from within ?
A. I was asked if it was of my own free will and ac-
cord I made that request ; if I was duly and truly pre-
pared i worthy and well qualified r and had made suitable
proficiency in the preceding degrees;, all of which being
answered in the affirmative, I was asked by what further
rights I expected to obtain that benefit.
Q. Your answer ? A. By the benefit of a pass- word
Q. What is tha-t pass- wind ? A. Tubal Cain.
Q. What next was said to you ?
A. I was bid to wait till the Worshipful Master in the
East was made acquainted with my request, and his
answer returned.
Q. What fohVwed after his answer was returned ?
A. I was caused to enter the Lodge on the two ex-
treme points of the compass, pressing my naked riglit
and left breasts, in the name of the Lord.
( 83 )
Q. How was you then disposed of >
A. I was conducted three times regularly round the
Lodge, and halted at the Junior Warden in the South,
where the same questions were asked and answers re
turned as at the door.
Q. How did the Junior Warden dispose of yoa ?
A. He ordered me to be conducted to the Senior
Warden in the West, where the same questions were
asked and answers returned as before.
Q. How did the Senior Warden depose of you ?
A. He ordered me to be conducted to the Worshipful
Master in the East, where, by him, the same questions
were a'sked and answers returned as before, who likewise
demanded of me, from whence I came, and whither I
was travelling.
Q. Your answer ?
A. From the East and travelling to the West.
Q. Why do you leave tins East and tiavel to the West ?
A. In search of light.
Q. How did the Worshipful Master then dispose of
you?
A. He ordered me to be conducted back to the West
/rom whence I came, and put in care of the Senior War-
den, who taught me how to approach the East, by ad-
vancing upon three upright regular steps to the third
step, my feet forming a square, and my body erect at
(he altar before the Worshipful Master.
Q. What did the Worshipful Master do with you ?
A. He made an obligated Master Mason of me.
Q. How ? A. I due form.
Q. What was that due form ?
A. Both my knees bare bent, they forming a square;
feoth hands on the holy Bible, square and compass ; in
which posture I took upon me the solemn oath or obliga-
tion of a Master Mason.
Q. After your obligation, what was said to you ?
A. What do you most desire ?
Q. Your answer ?
A. More light. fThe bandage round the head is now
dropped over the eyes.]
Q. Did you receive light ? A. I did.
Q. On being brought to light ou this degree, what did
you Jfirst discover ?
A. Three great lights in Masonry, by the assistance
t S4 )
ef three less, and both points of the compass elevfctec?
above the (square, which denoted to me that I had recei-
ver!, or a;ns about tq receive all ttve light that could be
contoured on me in a Maker's Lodge.
Q What, aid you next aiscttVer?
A The Worshipful Master approaching me from the
Km under the sign and due-£tiard of a Master 'Mason,
who presented me with his right hand in token of broth-
erly l"ve and confidence, and proceeded to give me the
pass-grip and word of a Mafter' Mason, [the word is the
name of the pass-^rip] and hid me rise and salute ihcJun-
ior and Senior Wardens, and convince them that I was an
Obligated Master Mason, and "had the sign, pass-grip and
Word. [Tubal-Cain.J
Q. What did yon next discover?
A, The Worshipful Master approaching me a second
time from the East, who presented me with a lamb-skin
or white apron, which he said he hoped 1 would contin-
ue to wear with honour to myself, and satisfaction and
advantage to the brethren.
Q. What was you next presented with ?
A. The working tools of a Master Mason.
Q. What are they ?
A. All the implements of masonry indiscriminately,
but more especially the trowel.
Q. How explained ?
A. The trowel is an instrument made use of by dpe-
rative Masons to spread the cement which unites a buil-
ding into one common mass, but we as free and Accep-
ted Masons are taught to make use of it for the more
noble and glorious purpose, of spreading the cement of
brotherly love and affection; that cement which unites
us into one sacred band or society, of brothers, among
whom no contention should ever exist, but that noble
emulation, of who can best work or best agree.
Q. What was you next presented with ?
A. Three precious jewels.
Q. What are they ?
A. Humanity, friendship and brotherly love.
Q. How was you then disposed of?
A. I was conducted out of the Lodge and invested
Vith what I had been divested, and returned again in uue
-season.
I 85 )
SECTION SECOND.
Q. Did you ever return to the sanctum sanctorum 6t
holy of holies of King Solomon's Temple ?
A. I did.
Q. Was there any thing particular took place on your
return ?
A. There was, viz: I was accosted by three ruffians,
who demanded of me the Master Mason's word.
Q. Did you give it to them ?
A. I did not, but bid them wait with time and patience
till the Grand Lodge assembled at Jerusalem ; and then
if they were found worthy, they should receive it; oth-
erwise they could not.
Q. In what manner was you accosted ?
A. In attempting to retire to the South gate, I was
accosted by one of them, who demanded of me the Mas-
ter Mason's word, and on my refusing to comply with his
request, he gave me a blow with the twenty-four inch
guage across my breast, on which I fled to the West^gate
where I was accosted by the second with more vio-
lence, and on my refusing to comply with his request,
he gave me a severe blow with the square across my
breast, on which I attempted to make my escape at the
East gate, where I was accosted by the third with still
more violence, and on my refusing to comply with his
request, he gave me a violent blow with the common gav-
el on the forehead, and brought me to the floor.
Q. Whom did you represent at that time ?
A. Our Grand Master Hiram AbifF, who was slain at
the building of King Solomon's Temple.
Q. Was his death premeditated ?
A. It was by fifteen Fellow-Crafts, who conspired to
extort from him the Master Mason's word; twelve of
whom recanted, but the other three were base enough
to carry their atrocious designs into execution.
Q. What did they do with the body ?
A. They carried it out at the West gate of the Temple
and buried it till low twelve at night, when they three
met agreeable to appointment, and carried it a westerly
course from the Temple, and buried it under the brow of
a hill in a grave six feet due- East and West, six feet per'
jiendicular, and made their escape.
Q. What time wa6 he slain ?
H
( 86 )
A. At high twelve at noon, when the Crafts were from
labour to refreshment.
Q. How come he to be alone at that time ?
A. Because it was the usual custom of our Grand
Master Hiram AbiiT every day at high twelve, when the
Crafts were from labour to refreshment, to enter in-
to the sanctum sanctorum or holy of holies, and offer up
liis adorations to the ever living God, and draw out his
plans and designs on his trestle-board for the Crafts to
pursue their labour.
Q. At what time was he missing?
A. At low six in the moining, when King Solomon
came up to the Temple as usual to view the work, and
found the Crafts all in confusion, and on inquiring the
cause, he was informed that their Grand Master Hiram
A-biff was missing, and no plans or designs were laid
down on the trestle-board for the Craits to pursue their
labour.
Q. What observations did King Solomon make at thai
time ?
A. He observed, that our Grand Master Hiram AhiiT
liad always been very punctual in attending, and fear
ed that he was indisposed, and ordered search to be made
in and about the Temple to see if he could be found.
Q. Search being made and he not found, what iurthet
remarks did King Solomon make ?
A. He observed, he feared some fatal accident had
befallen our Grand Master Hiram AbiiT; that morning,
twelve Fellow-Crafts, clothed in white gloves and aprons
in token of their innocence, had confessed that they
twelve, with three others, had conspired to extort the
Master Mason's word from their Grand Master Hiram
AbifTor take his life ; that they twelve had recanted, but
feared the other three had been base enough to carry
their atrocious designs into execution.
Q. What followed?
A. King Solomon ordered the roll of workmen to be
colled to see if there were any missing.
Q. The roll being called, were there any missing?
A. There were three, viz; Jubela, Jubelo and Jube*
Itttn.
Q. Were the ruffians ever found ?
A. They were. Q. How ?
A- By the wisdom of King Solomon, who ordered
C 87 )
twelve Fellow-Crafts to be selected from the band of the
workmen, clothed in white gloves and aprons in token oC
their innocence, and sent three East, three West, three
North, and three South in search of the ruffians, and if
found to bring-them forward.
Q. What success ?
A. The three that travelled a westerly course from
the Temple, coming near the coast of Joppa, were in-
formed by a way-faring man, that three men had been
seen that way that morning, who from their appearance
and dress were workmen from the Temple, inquiring for
a passage to Ethiopia, but were unable to obtain one in
consequence of an embargo which had recently been
laid on all the shipping, and had turned back into the
country.
Q. What followed ?
A. King Solomon ordered them to go and search
again, and search till they were found if possible, and
if they were* not found, that the twelve who had confess-
ed should be considered as the reputed murderers, and
suffer accordingly.
Q. What success ?
A. One of the three that travelled a westerly course
from the Temple, being more weary than the rest, sat
down under the brow of a hill to rest and refresh him-
self, and in attempting to rise, caught hold of a sprig of
casia, which easily gave way, and excited his curiosity
and made him suspicious of a deception, on which he
hailed his companions, who immediately assembled, and
on examination, found that the earth had recently been
moved, and on moving the rubbish discovered the ap-
pearance of a grave; and while they were confabulating
about what measures to take, they heard voices issuing
from a cavern in the clefts of the rocks; on which they
immediately repaired to the place, where they heard the
voice of Jubela exclaim, * O, that my throat had been
cut across, my tongue torn out, and my body buried in
the rough sands of the sea at low water mark, where the
tide ebbs and flows twice in twenty-four hours, ere I had
been accessary to the death of so good a man as our
Grand Master Hiram Abiff ." On which they distinctly
heard the voice of Jubelo exclaim, f O, that my left
breast had been torn open, and my heart and vitals ta~
Ken from thence, thrown over my left shoulder, carried
C 88 >
fo the valley of Jehosaphat, there to become a prey to
the wild beasts of the field and vultures of the air, ere 1
had conspired to take the life of so good a man as oui
Grand Master Hiram Abiff !' When they more distinct-
ly heard the voice of Jubelum exclaim, l
O, that my bo-
dy had been severed in two in the midst, and divided to
the North and the South, and my bowels burnt to ashes
in the centre, and the ashes scattered before (or by) the
four winds of heaven, that there might not remain the
least track or trace of remembrance among men or Ma-
sons of so vile and perjured a wretch as I am, who wil-
fully took the life of so good a man as our Grand Mas-
ter Hiram AbifT! Ah, Ju bela and Jubelo, it was I that
struck him harder than you both, it was 1 that gave him
the fatal blow, it was I that killed him outright. ' On
which they rushed forward, seized, bound and carried
them up to the Temple to King Solomon.
Q. What did King Solomon do with them ?
A. He ordered them to be executed agreeable to the
several imprecations of their own mouths.
Q. Was the body of our Grand Master Hiram Abiff
ever found ?
A. It was. Q. How?
A. By the Wisdom of King Solomon, who ordered
fifteen (in some Lodges they say twelve) FeHow-Crafw
to be selected from the bands of the workmen, and sent
three East, three West, three North, three South nad
three in and about the Temple to search for the body.
Q. Where was it found ?
A. Under that sprig of cassia where a worthy brothei
sat down to rest and refresh himself.
Q. Was there any thing particular took place on the
discovery of the body ?
A. There was, viz: on moving the earth till we came
to the coffin, we involuntarily found our hands in this
position, to guard our nostrils against the offensive efflu-
via which arose from the grave.
Q. How long had the body lain there?
A. Fourteen days.
Q. What did they do with the body ?
A. Raised it in a Masonic form and carried it up to
the Temple for more decent interment.
Q. Where was it buried ?
A. Under the sanctum sanctorum, or holy of holies of
( S9 )
King Solomon's Temple, over which they erected *
marble monument with this inscription delineated there*
on. A virgin weeping over a broken column, with a
book open before her, in her right hand a sprig of cassia,
in her left an urn, Time standing behind her with his
hands infolded in the ringlets of her hair.
Q. What do they denote ?
A. The weeping virgin denotes the unfinished state
of the Temple, the broken column that one of the prin-
cipal supports of Masonry had fallen, the book open be-
fore her, that his memory was on perpetual record, the
sprig of cassia, the timely discovery of his grave, the urn
in-her left hand, that his ashes are safely deposited un-
der the sanctum sanctorum or holy ofe holies of King
Solomon's Temple, and Time standing behind her with
his hands infolded in the ringlets of her hair, that time,
patience, and perseverance will accomplish all things.
SECTION THIRD.
Q. What does a Master's Lodge represent?
A. The sanctum sanctorum or holy of holies of King
Solomon's Temple.
Q. How long was the Temple building ?
A. Seven years, during which, it rained not in the day
time, that the workmen might not be obstructed in their
labour.
Q. What supported the Temple ?
A. Fourteen hundred and fifty-three columns, and
two thousand nine hundred and, six Pilasters $ all hewn
from the finest Parian marble.
Q. What further supported it?
A. Three grand columns, or pillars.
Q. What were they called ?
A. Wisdom, strength and beauty.
<^. What did they represent ?.
A. The pillar of wisdom represented Solomon King1
*f Israel, whose wisdom contrived the mighty fabric;
die pillar of strength, Hiram King of Tyre, who
strengthened Solomon in his glorious undertaking; t!ie
pillar of beauty, Hjraui A biff the widows son, whose
cunning craft and curious wurkmanship beautified and
adorned the Temple.
Q. How many were there employed in the building o£
King Solomon's Temple.
H2
( 90 )
A« Three Grand Masters, three thousand three hun-
dred Masters, or overseers of the work, eighty thousand
Fellow-Crafts, and seventy thousand Entered Apprenti-
ces; all those were classed and arranged in such a man-
ner hy the wisdom of Salomon, that neither envy, dis-
cord, nor confusion were suffered to interrupt that uni-
versal peace and tranquility that pervaded the w#
ork at
that important period.
Q. How many constitutes an Entered Apprentice
Lodge ?
A. Seven ; one Master and six Entered Apprentices.
Q. Where did they usually meet?
A. On the ground floor of King Solomon's Temple.
Q. How many constitutes a Fellow-Craft's Lodge ?
A. Five ; ttfo Masters nnd three Fellow Crafts.
Q. Where did they usually meet ?
A. In the middle chamber of King Solomon's Tem-
ple.
Q. How many constitutes a "Master's Lodge ?
A. Three Masfer Masons.
Q. Where did they usually meet ?
A. In the sanctnm sanctorum or holy of holies of
King Solomon's Temple.
Q. Have you any emblems on this degree ?
A. We have several which are divided into two clas-
ses.
Q. What are the first class ?
A. The pot of incense ; the bee-hive ; the book of
constitutions guarded by the Tyler's sword ; the sword
pointing to a naked heart ; the all-seeing eye ; the an-
chor and ark ; the forty-seventh problem of Euclid ; the
hour-glass ; the scythe ; and the three steps usually de-
lineated on the Master's Carpet, which are thus explain-
ed : —The pot of incense is an emblem of a pure heart,
which is always an acceptable sacrifice to the deity ; and
as this glows with fervent heat, so should our hearts con-
tinually glow with gratitude to the great and beneficent
Author of our existence, for the manifold blessings and
comforts we enjoy.—The bee-hive is an emblem of in-
dustry, and recommends the practice of that virtue to all
created beings, from the highest seraph in heaven to the
lowest reptile of the dust. It teaches us that as we came
jjnto the world rational and intelligent beings, so we
should ever be industrious ones j never sitting down
C 91 )
contented while our fellow creatures around us are hi
want, wlien it is in our power to relieve them, without
inconvenience to ourselves. Wlien we take a survey
of nature, we behold man, in his infancy, more helpless
and indigent than the brute creation : he lies languishing
for days, weeks, months, and years, totally incapable of
providing sustenance for himself;. of guarding against
the attacks of the wild beasts of the field, or sheltering
himself from the inclemencies of the weather. It might
have pleased the <ji> at Creator of heaven and earth to
have made man independent of all other beings ; but, as
dependence is one of the strongest bonds of society,
mankind were made, dependent an each other. for pro-
tection and security, as they thereby enjoy better oppor-
tunities of fulfilling the duties of reciprocal love and
friendship. Thus was man formed for social and active
life, the noblest part of the work of God ;. and he that
will so demean himself, as not to be endeavouring to add
to the common stock of knowledge and understanding,
may be deemed a drone in the hive of- nature, a useless
member of society, and unworthy of our protection as
Masons.—The book of constitutions, guardrd by the Ty-
ler's sword, remind* us that we should be ever watchful
and guarded, in our thoughts, words, and actions, par-
ticularly when before the enemies of Masonry ; ever
bearing in remembrance those truly masonic virtues,
silence and circumspection —The sword, pointing to a
naked heart, demonstrates that justice will sooner or later
overtake us ; and although our thoughts, words, and ac-
tions may be hidden from the eyes of man ;
yet, that all-
seeing eye, whom the sun, moonf and stars obey, and
under whose watchful care even comets perform their
stupendous revolutions, pervades the inmost recesses of
the human heart, and will reward us according to our
merits.—The anchor and ark, are emblems of a wejl
grounded hope and a well spent life. They are emblema-
tical of that divine ark which safely wafts us over this
tempestuous sea of troubles, and that anchor which shall
safely moor us in a peaceful harbour, where the wicked
cease from troubling, and the weary shall find rest. —The
forty-seventh -problem of Euclid : This was an invention
of our ancient friend and brother, the great Pythagorus,
who, in his travels through Asia, Africa, and Europe,
was initiated into several orders of priesthood, and raised
( 92 )
to the sublime degree of a Master Mason. This wise
philosopher enriched his mind abundantly in a general
knowledge of tilings, and mote especially in geometry,
or Masonry ; on this subject he drew out many problems
and theorems ; and among the most distinguished lie
erected this, which, in the joy of his heart, he called
Eurcca, m the Grecian language signifying, khavefound
ii ; and upon the diccovery of which he is said- to have
sacrificed a hecatomb. It teaches Masons to be general
lovers of the arts and sciences.—The hour-glass is an
emblem of human life. Behold ! how swiftly the sands
run, and how rapidly our lives are drawing to a close.
We cannot without astonishment behold the little parti-
cles which are contained in this machine ; how they pass
away almost imperceptibly, and yet to our surprise, in
the short space of an hour they are all exhausted. Thus
wastes man ! to-day, he puts forth the tender leaves of
hope; to-morrow, blossoms, and bears his blushing
honours thick upon him ; the next day comes a frostj
which nips the shoot, and when he thinks his greatness
is still ripening he falls, like autumn leaves, to enrich our
mother earth.—The scythe, is an emblem of time, which
cuts the brittle thread of life, and launches us into eter-
nity. Behold ! what havoc the scythe of time makes
among the human race : if by chance we should escape
the numerous evils incident to childhood and youth, and'
with health aud vigor arrive to the years of manhood,
yet witha! we must soon be cut down by the all-devour-
ing scythe of time, and be gathered into the land where
our fathers have gone before us. —The three steps usually
delineated upon the Master's carpet, are eniblematicur
of the three principal stages of human life, viz : youth,
manhood, ami age. In youth, as Entered Apprentices,
we ought industriously to occupy our minds in the at-
tainment of useful knowledge : in manhood, as Fellow-
Crafts, we should apply our knowledge to the discharge
of our respective duties to God, our neighbours, and our-
selves ; that so in age, as Master Masons, we may enjoy
the happy reflections consequent on a well spent life, and
die in the hope of a glorious immortality.
Q. What are the second class of emblems ?
A. The spade, coffin, death-heud, marrow bones, and
9prig of cassia, which are thus explained : The spade
opens the vault to receive our bodies where our active
( 9S )
limbs will soon moulder' to dust.—The coffin, death hcatf,
and marrow bones, ore emblematical of the death and
burial of our Grand Master Hiram Abiff, and are worthy
of our serious attention.—The sprig of cassia is em-
blematical of that immortal part of man which never
dies—-and when the cold winter of death shall have
passed, and the bright summer's morn of th« resurrection
appears, \ he Son of Righteousness- shall' descend, and
send forth his angels to collect ourransomed dust; then,
if we are found worthy, by his pass-word, we shall enter
into the celestial Lodge above, where the Supreme Ar-
chitect of the Universe presides, where we shall see the
King in the beauty of holiness, and with, bim enter into
an endless eternity.
'
Here ends the three first degrees of Masonry, which
constitute a Master Mason's Lodge. A" Master Mason's
Lodge and a Chapter of Royal Arch Masons, are two
distinct bodies^ wholly independent of each other. The
members of a Chapter are privileged to visit all'Mastei
Masons' Lodges when they please, and maybe, and ofren
are members of both at the same time ; and »H the
members of a Master Mason's Lodge who are Royal
Arch Masons, though not members of any Chapter, may
visit any Chapter. I wish the reader to understand that
neither all Royal Arch Masons nor Master Masons are
members of either Lodge or Chapter :. there are tens of
thousand's who are not members, and. scarcely ever attend,
although privileged to do so.
A very small proportion of Masons, comparatively
speaking, ever advance any further than the third degree*
and consequently never get the great word which was
lost by Hiram's untimely death. Solomon, king of
Israel, Hiram, king of Tyre, and Hiram Abiff, the
widow's son, having sworn that they, nor neither of them
would ever give the word except they three were pre-
sent ;' [and it is generally believed that there was not
another person in the world at that time that had it,]
consequently the word was lost, and supposed to be for-
ever ; but the sequel will shew it was found after a lapse
of four hundred and seventy years, notwithstanding the
word Mah hah bon, v\hich was substituted by Solomon,
still continues to be used by Master Masons, and no
doubt will as long as Masonry attracts the attention of
men ; and the word which was lost is used in the Royal
( 04 )
Arch degree. What was the word of the Royal Arch
degree before they found the Master's word which was
lost at the death of Iliratn AbifT, and was not found for
four hundred and seventy years ? Was there any Royal
Arch Mason's btfore the Master's word was found ? —
w'fili some masonic gentleman would solve- these two
questions.
The ceremonies, history, and' the lecture, in the pre-
ceding degree, are so similar that, perhaps, some one of
the three might have been dispensed with, and the sub-
jecl well understood by most readers, notwithstanding,
there is a small difference between the work and history,
and between the history and the lecture.
I shall now proceed with the Mark Master's degree
which is the first degree in the Chapter. The Mark
Master's degree, the Past Master's* and the Most Excel-
lent Master's, are called Lodges of Mark Master Masons,
Past Masters, and .Most Excellent Masters; yet, alt hough
called Lodges, they are a component part of the Chap-
ter. Ask a Mark Master Mason if he belongs to the
Chapter, he will tell you he does, but that he has only
been marked. It is not an uncommon thing, by any
means, for a Chapter to confer all four of the degrees iti
one night, viz : the Marie Master, Past Master, Most
Excellent Master^ and Royal Arch Degrees.
X «i )
The following are the Signs, Due- Guards-,
Grips, Pass- Grips, Words, and Pass- Words
of the three preceding Degrees.
ENTERED APPRENTICE'S DEGREE.
Sign. —Hold the two hands transversly across each
other, the right Stand upwards and one inch from the left.
Due-Guard.—Drarw the right hand across the t(irbat,
the thumb next to the throat, the arm as high as the el-
how in a horizontal position, and let the hand fall down
by the side.
'
Grip.—The right hands are joined together, as in sha-
king hands, and each sticks Ins thumb narl info the third
joint or upper end of the fore finger.
Word.—BO-AZ, which is given by lettering or halv-
ing.
FELLOW-CRAFT'S DEGREE.
Sign.—Draw your 'right bawd flufj with the palm of it
next to your breast, "across the breast, from left to right,
with some quickness, as if you were going to tear open
the left breast, and let it drop down by your side.
Due-guard.—Raise the left arm until that part of k
between the elbow and shoulder is perfectly horizontal,
and raising the rest of the arm in a vertical position, so
that that part of the arm below the elbow, and that part
above it, forms a square. The sign and due-guard are
given at the same time, in this degree.
Pass-grip.—Take each other by the light hand, as if
to shake hands, and each put his thumb between the fore
and second fingers where they join the hand, and press-
ing the thumb between the joints. The name of the
pass-grip is Shiboleth, and is the pass- word.
Realgrip.—Take each other by the right hand, as if
to shake hands, and put the thumb on the joint of the
second finger where it joins the hand, and crooking the
thumb so that each can stick the nail of his thumb into'
the joint of the orher.
Word—JA-CI11HN—given in the same manner as in
the first degree.
MASTER MASON'S DEGREE.
Sign.— Raise both hands and arms perpendicularly^
one on either side of the hcad ?
the elbow fjrining ?>
( 36 )
ofijunre.—The words accompanying this 3ignviB case of
distress, are, * O Lord my God, »* there no help for the
leidow's son ?' As the last words are pronounced, let the
hands fall with an air of solemnity. —These words must
not he given except in the dark-, when the sign cannot
be seen, and is the sign of distress in this decree.
Due-Guard.—Put the right hand to the leftside of tlie
bowels, the hand open, with the thumb next to the belly,
draw it across the belly, and let it fall : this is done toler-
ably quick.
Pass-Grip.—Press the thumb between the joints of
the second and third fingers where they join the hand.
The name of it is Tubal-Cain, and is the pass-word.
Real-Grip.—Take hold of each otlwr's right hand,
as if to shake hands, and ^tick the nails of each of your
fingers into the joint of the others' wrist, where it unites
with the hand.
If&rd—MAll HA II BON. The word must be given
in the following manner : —Place the inside of the right
foot to the inside of the right foot of the pers.on to whom
you are going to give the word ; the inside of your knee
to his ; laving your right breast against his ;
your left
bauds on each others' buck, and your mouths to each
others' right ear, when the word must be given not above
a whisper. This word is sometimes vulgarly pronounced
Mali nmh bo.
A more full explanation of the signs, grips, words, Sec.
will be given at the conclusion of the second part of this
work, which will comprise the following degrees, viz :
Mark Master, Present or Past Master, i\lost Excellent
Master, and the Royal Arch—to which will also be ad-
ded, several of the degrees in the Order of Knighthood
KND OF PART FIRST.
