{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1947__robinson___the_wanderer.pdf","mytitle":"The Wanderer","mylang":"de"}
THE
W ANDERER
a novel by
Dr. FRAN K B. ROBINSON
Founder of
P S Y C H I A N A
PS YCH IA NA
MOSCOW, Idaho
Copyright 1947 by
Frank B. Robinson
Printed in the United States of America
American Book-Stratford Press, Inc., New York
THE W AN D ERER
I
Contents
CHAPTER PAGE
1. Which Is a Statement by theA u t h o r ........................ 3
2. In Which W e Should Meet “The Wanderer,” but
Don’t .................................. .............................................33
3. In Which W e Really Meet “The Wanderer” . . 63
4. In Which W e Read an Interesting Saga . . . . 104
5. In Which W e See “The Wanderer” in Action . . 136
6. In Which W e Go A b road ........................................ 172
7. In Which W e Meet Mr. P ix le y .............................206
8. In Which “The Wanderer” Reveals Himself . . . 242
9. In Which“The Wanderer” T a l k s ................................... 275
10. In Which W e Read the Manuscript . . . . . . 307
1
>
■
THE W A N D E R E R
/
•\
\
/
. '■
C H A P T E R O N E
Which Is a Statement by the Author
O
N AUGUST TH E SIXTH 1945, A B-29 BOM BER L E F T AN AMERI-
can flying-field somewhere in the Pacific. It was headed
for Japan. Few knew the gruesome cargo it carried. Less knew
its destination. As the Japanese on the ground below turned
their eyes toward the skies, this lone bomber created little more
than passing interest. Bombers of that type were daily visitors as
they flew over Japan carrying their winged flying messages of
death and destruction.
The City of Pliroshima had not been bombed before, so the
watchers there probably paid not much more than passing atten­
tion to the B-29 which was now approaching. The rest of the big
bombers which had flown overhead had other destinations. Some
were hound for Kobe, to unload their deadly missiles there.
Others went to Osaka, while still others made Tokio and Yoko­
hama their targets.
These cities were the suspected targets for such bombers. They
were much larger. They were the natural targets, while Hiro­
shima was far too small for these huge messengers of death to
bother with. This is what the natives of Hiroshima probably
thought on that fateful sixth of August 1945.
They were stoical too. They had attacked the United States,
at least their navy had, and while these Hiroshima mothers and
children were but pawns in the fiendish military and naval ma­
chine the Japanese war-lords had created, they feared death but
little. What had life held for them? They worked, they slaved,
they ate, they slept, they raised their families—and they died.
Of course, there were those in Hiroshima who exploited their
The Wanderer
fellow humans, but by and large the citizens of Hiroshima, that
City of Death knew little of the joys and pleasures of life. Their
overlords saw to that. For were they not citizens of the Empire of
The Rising Sun? Had not the Eternal God of Heaven raised the
Japanese people from ignorance and poverty to one of the mighti­
est naval powers in the world? At least that is what their over-
lords gave them to believe.
And then it came. There was unleashed upon the Japanese
City of Hiroshima a force so fearful and so ghastly awesome that
it wiped one hundred and sixty thousand of these people out of
existence in the twinkling of an eye.
It came with a searing, burning flame. There was a blinding
flash, the like of which human beings have never before wit­
nessed. It destroyed their City as if it were so much matchwood.
It left scores of thousands of these yellow human beings writh­
ing in fearful agony. It blistered their flesh. It consumed their
bones. It scattered pain, torture and horror in its wake. It blot­
ted men and women out as if they had never existed. Those citi­
zens of Hiroshima saw world-history made on August the sixth
1945.
They saw unleashed a power which will never he leashed
again. They saw the atomic bomb.
What those few who remain think about it all, the author has
no way of knowing. He does not particularly care to know. The
horror of the experience sickens him. As the revolting details of
that massacre still come in, he finds himself wondering how
much lower the human race can descend, and will have to de­
scend before it decides that the time is ripe for it to forever throw
away such fiendish instruments and methods of death.
Almost one year later, at Bikini atoll, there was witnessed
again another demonstration of the horrible destruction this
atomic bomb caused, even though it is still but in its infancy.
Three weeks afterwards men are not allowed to enter the lagoon
because of the dangerous, deadly radio-activity which still lingers
over the spot where atomic bomb number four was exploded.
4
The charge which exploded all four of these bombs may have
been no larger than a pea. The reader may try to imagine what
would happen if a ten-ton “block-buster,” containing ten tons of
fissionable Uranium 235 were exploded.
A column of water one mile high and half a mile wide was
shot skyward by this fourth bomb. What would have been the
toll in human lives had some foreign power dropped that bomb
on New York City.
It would take a super-optimist to read the front page of any
metropolitan daily, then go home, sit in his arm-chair, twiddle
his thumbs and say: “Oh well—it looks bad, but God’s in His
heaven so all’s right with the world.”
God is not in His heaven and all is not right with the world.
For it was Christian America which dropped that bomb. Perhaps
Christian America may some day wish that bomb had not been
dropped.
Oh yes—I know, those brutal Japs blasted hundreds of our
young men into eternity by their sneak attack on Pearl Harbor.
But you and I may never know the sordid details which led up
to that attack, if such sordid details exist. And there are many
who believe they did exist. One hears rumors that Great Britain
saw an opportunity to sell Uncle Sam a bill of goods by insisting
that an “incident” be provoked which would lead to war, a war
in which Great Britain would emerge with a much strengthened
empire.
The Author is not interested so much in what led to this last
world conflict. He knows that Rooseveltian policies and theories,
right or wrong, have whirled this fair land of ours into the vortex
of a maelstrom of political intrigue, debauchery, and hate, the
like of which we have never known in the one hundred and
sixty years since we first became a nation.
W e are so hopelessly involved that we cannot extricate our­
selves if we would. The die is forever cast. If the world levels off
for a while and decides it has had enough of war, we shall level
off. If it destroys itself with the atomic bomb, we shall be de­
Which Is a Statement hy the Author 5
stroyed. There are no half-way measures nor is there any turn­
ing back.
No thinking man or woman entertains for a moment the fan­
tastic thought that the nations of this world will get together and
agree that the atomic bomb is a very bad thing, therefore should
be outlawed and never used for destructive purposes. To the
contrary, we see many signs that already another world war is
lining up. W e see the sides. We see the handwriting on the wall.
One would indeed be foolish to even hope that the nations will
bring peace to the earth because they want peace. If some of the
nations in the headlines want peace, they are showing it in
strange ways.
No sooner do a few hopeful words come from the peace con­
ference being conducted in Europe, than a spy story of some
foreign power trying to steal our atomic secrets breaks. Intrigue
and more intrigue. Double talk and more double talk. Secret
diplomacy and more secret diplomacy. Plot and more plot. Hatred
and more hatred. Suspicion and more suspicion. Anarchy and
more anarchy right here at home.
No right thinking man or woman would seek to disparage any
attempt among the nations of this earth to come to some agree­
ment among themselves whereby war would forever be out­
lawed. And if the nations of the earth really wanted to outlaw
war with the atomic bomb, it would not take them long to do
just that.
When the right to veto was given a great power in San Fran­
cisco, the United Nations Organization might just as well have
packed its baggage and gone home. As long as one power has
the right to veto the acts of a majority of other powers, the
foundation upon which a true, permanent and sound peace can
be builded is not there.
There is not visible the slightest sign of any real attempt to
build a permanent peace. The majority of the nations of the
world want that sort of peace. But there are those who do not
want it. As long as such nations exist the only logical thing to do
6 The Wanderer
is prepare for the next war. That is what all nations seem to be
doing.
General MacArthur is in Japan establishing democracy. One
of his jobs is to disarm the Jap. Yet only yesterday the radio an­
nounced that the Government of The United States had agreed
to loan Japan and Korea over sixty millions dollars with which to
purchase surplus war equipment from us. It does not add up.
Nothing the nations are doing adds up.
There are a few nations which, could they be eliminated from
the peace conferences, would leave smooth sailing for the rest of
the member nations. But those nations cannot be eliminated.
Nor does there seem very much which leads one to hope that in
the future they will cooperate so that lasting peace might become
a fact.
This civilization stands at the fork of two roads. Very wide
roads. At the fork stands a large signpost. On the left wing is
this legend -.—“Complete annihilation.” The right wing of the
signpost reads like this:—"The Power of God.”
Civilization must take one of those two roads. There is no mid­
dle path, nor are there any short-cuts. Just two roads. One leads
to the almost complete annihilation of the human race, while the
other leads to a civilization so grand and full of splendor that no
civilization known to history can begin to hold a candle to it.
The road to the left, the one marked "Complete annihilation”
is a short road. It will not take many years to reach the end of it.
The road to the right is much longer, and its destination is much
more glorious.
There is almost no possibility that this civilization will take
the road to the right. It must then, take the road to the left. This
is an almost inhuman prospect, but remember Hiroshima with
its pain, its frightful death, its horrible suffering. In the next
war the bomb dropped on Hiroshima may seem as a child’s fire­
cracker compared with the atomic bombs which will be dropped
if our civilization takes the road to the left.
But, granting for the sake of argument that it may be possible
Which Is a Statement hy the Author 7
8 The Wanderer
for all nations to agree on the outlawing of war, including the
atomic bomb, such a peace could be but short-lived. It could not
endure. The fundamentals of universal permanent peace would
be lacking. And until the nations of the earth, and the human
beings which comprise these nations do get down to fundamen­
tals, history will only repeat itself. One war will follow another.
With the increase in frightfulness of the weapons employed,
and the added knowledge our scientists have made available, it
cannot be long until civilization destroys itself regardless of
whether peace is honestly agreed upon in the present negoti­
ations which, at this writing, have almost broken down.
The road to the right, you will recall, reads on the signpost:—
“The Power of God,” and at this point in my statement before
beginning my story, I suggest that the reader not imply that the
author is trying to promote his, or anyone else’s system of
religion.
The times are too critical for him to do that. He is not in the
slightest degree interested in selling the reader on his own reli­
gion, for while systems of religion have usually been at the very
core of most wars, they have never stopped a war. They never
can.
So when I say "The Power of God,” I mean that there exists
a Power by that name, which not even our major systems of
religion know anything about. They could know if they chose,
and it is the Author’s intense desire that they will know before
too long. For nothing less than the actual Power of God can
bring eternal 'peace to this war-weary world.
This Power to which I allude, is a completely unknown fac­
tor in both the world and the church. If the churches so much
as faintly suspected the existence of such a super-ocean of Power
which is available to them, there would be not only eternal peace
and joy on this earth, there would be eternal life too.
By the same token, if the world which makes no profession of
this thing we call “religion,” knew, or even suspected the ocean
of Power it contains, it too might have if it took the road to the
right, there would be no more wars. Instead, we should all live
in a world in which war could not exist because who would want
to fight when a super-abundance of all good things, including
eternal life was available? Who would think about killing when
the Source of all life was the center of the sphere around which
the nations of this earth revolve?
The Power of God is available to every nation and to every
human soul in every nation. Religion does not enter into it at
all. What one believes is entirely beside the point. One’s beliefs
may be true or they may be false—in any event, they have noth­
ing at all to do with what I am writing about—The Power of God,
which, I repeat, is freely and fully available to men and nations,
and this without any pretense of religion and without even
membership in any religious organization.
As we live in a nominally Christian country, allow me to ad­
vance a few thoughts about The Power of God, and allow me to
use the religion of our land for an example. The Christian
Church has an opportunity now, if she will but avail herself of
it, of bringing to humanity the greatest spiritual revelation this
world has ever known. So world-shaking will be this revelation
when it comes, and it will come—if not through the Christian
Church through someone else—it will so re-create the human
race that it will be able to actually live forever on the earth, eter­
nally free from pain, sorrow, labor, sickness, worry, and even
death itself.
These, and many more things, are available now to all men
and all nations through the Power of God. Our scientists are
coming pretty close to a complete understanding of The Power
of God when they are able to discover the power The Almighty
has wrapped up in every atom, are they not?
To have spoken about atomic energy one hundred years ago
would have brought the retort that it is "wrong to try to find out
how the Creator made the universe.” But it is not wrong at all.
It’s absolutely right. Only through research of this nature can
the true nature of God be discovered. If our scientists can prove
Which Is a Statement by the Author 9
IO The Wanderer
beyond a shadow of a doubt that the Creator has wrapped up in
this universe, even in atoms, enough energy and power to blast
this, or any other civilization out of existence, do you not sup­
pose that investigation into the spiritual realm ought not to pro­
duce evidence of a Power so very much more potent than even
the power of the atom?
When I say that the Christian Church could, if it knew the
slightest thing about the actual Power of God, bring not only
eternal peace but eternal life to this earth through that Power, I
am stating only a fact. I am not wandering round aimlessly in
the hazy realm of metaphysics or spiritism or any other “ism.” I
am stating something which anyone able to think clearly, will
admit is the most logical thing to expect The Almighty to do for
the man He created.
Ministers and priests of the churches will say “bosh” when
they read this. They will desire to know how the Almighty can
operate if He does not operate inside their own traditions. They
will be very shocked to know that about the last place one can
find the Power of God is in their traditions.
What we know as “religion” is one thing—the Power of God is
something else. Certainly the Power of which I speak, and about
which this book is written, has not been known by either the
church or the world outside of the church. Had it been, how
could have such maniacs as Hitler and Mussolini existed and
gotten away with what they did?
Does any .minister or priest know how to find and use the
actual Power of God on this earth? Does any minister or priest
know how to use the Power of God to eliminate all kinds and
sorts of incurable illnesses and to cause men to live forever on
the earth?
But ministers and priests make their living by the implica­
tion that they are agents of God—do they not? If they are agents
of God, why is it that about all they can offer is a system of
theology and a set of “articles of faith,” creeds, dogmas, state­
ments of beliefs, and rites. But have these ever stopped a war?
II
Have any of these things ever manifested the Power of God to
the human race as our scientists have demonstrated the Power
of God in the atom? I think not.
What the Christian church has done is advance a set of its
own beliefs, and tell us that unless we believe what they teach
we are damned. But so far as bringing to the earth any actual
knowledge of the Power of God, no minister or priest, and no
church has ever been able to do that.
Perhaps the time for such a demonstration was not ripe. But it
is ripe now. For mankind has in its hands a secret of God which
it can use to obliterate the human race if it wants to. Never
fear—The Almighty will also raise up some man who will bring
to this civilization a spiritual discovery as great, and even greater
than the discovery of the power God has locked in the atom.
What I have implied here will cause ministers and priests to
loudly decry these statements. Had I lived two hundred years
ago, my head would have been chopped off, if indeed a death far
more horrible was not meted out to me.
Happily however, the human mind is taking quite a few
steps forward in its religious thinking. If it continues to think, it
will inevitably reach the truth. When it finds the truth, it will
have found God for there can be no religion higher than truth.
This is one reason why I say that the discovery of atomic
energy is a discovery of the Power of God. All will agree, I be­
lieve, that there was a Creator of this universe. Not necessarily
an anthropomorphic being, but a Creator nevertheless. Nothing
in this universe could exist without a creative first Cause. W e
shall call that first Cause—God.
I realize of course that if it should be that the actual Pow'er of
God may be found without any religious “beliefs” whatsoever,
our religious organizations will at once raise the cry that their
religion is “threatened.” Not at all. If the Power of God does not
actually manifest itself through what these good systems of reli­
gions teach, then they must have missed the boat somewhere. It
is not too late for them to get aboard.
Which Is a Statement by the Author
12
It would be senseless for any religionist to decry the atom
bomb as an “invention of the devil” as I have already heard them
do. Nothing on this earth—nothing in this universe could pos­
sibly exist without the hand of God. What science reveals may
relegate some of the old religious axioms into the discard, but if
that happens it must be, for we must find out just what the rela­
tionship is which exists between man and God.
If, after an atomic bomb explosion, the radioactive waves are
present in such profusion that it is not safe for human life to go
near the place where the bomb exploded, it is reasonable to sup­
pose that with the ray which can take a life, the Creator has
also prepared a ray which can save a life—is it not?
One thing is sure—it is absolutely essential that someone at
this stage of the world’s history make a spiritual discovery which
can nullify the atom bomb. If that is not done, man has the
weapon in his hands with which he can destroy himself. The
probability is that he will do just that, for I see nothing on the
horizon which leads me to believe that man, of his own free-will,
will agree never to fight any more. Perhaps the individual men
and women on the earth would do this, but the leaders will not
allow them to.
So then, I repeat my former statement that it is absolutely es­
sential that some new and startlingly clear revelation of the
Power of God be brought to this demoralized civilization, and at
once.
The Author is not alone in this view. In the year 1935 Dr.
Jean Milner, Pastor of The Second Presbyterian Church of
Indianapolis, the Church in which the famed Henry Ward
Beecher used to preach, made the following statement in a book
he wrote entitled:-“T H E SK Y IS R ED ” . . .
‘W e are living in one of those rare periods of Time from
which greatness can emerge through the renewal of the human
spirit by a more vital contact with the Great Spirit. Such mo­
ments, so pregnant with tremendous possibilities, are not often
vouchsafed to man. A sweeping movement upward toward the
The Wanderer
J3
building of the world of our dreams,—
or—
a spiral downward to­
ward disaster, seems to lie just beyond the borders of our day.
One cannot view with serenity the possibility of our failing to
take advantage of this supreme moment in Time. Out of such
periods magnificence comes. The Christian Church has an op­
portunity now, which, if she let slip through her hands, she may
never have again. She must prove herself worthy of the leader­
ship demanded of her. She will serve the world with Christian
greatness or he repudiated hy it. TH E SPIRIT OF CHRIST
W ILL NOT LEAVE TH IS EARTH, BUT HIS SPIRIT
W ILL LIVE IN INSTITU TIO NS OTHER THAN OUR
OWN.” *
Here you have a prominent Presbyterian minister not only
warning the Christian Church that she must serve the world or
he repudiated by it, you have the unusual statement that the
Spirit of God (Christ) will live in institutions other than the
Christian Church. That really is a statement which contains a
lot of meat in it. I believe that is exactly what is happening now.
However—it is not the author’s intent to disagree with the
Christian Church. He desires to help it if it will be helped. If it
will not be helped, then he will turn his attentions to other insti­
tutions. If the Power of God does not manifest through the
Christian Church, you may be very sure that Spirit and that
Power will manifest somewhere on this earth. It will never he
left Godless. This civilization is about as close to being Godless
as it has ever been. If the Christian Church is to save this world,
it will have to do some quick-fire moving in the direction of the
actual Power of God. That Power does exist.
If the Christian Church wants to be the agent through which
the actual Power of The Spirit of God will be made known to
the peoples of this earth, it may be necessary for it to forget that
it carries the name “Christian.” It may be necessary that it will
have to put to one side the very precious traditions on which it
has been raised and nurtured for about nineteen hundred years.
But if, by doing these things, the Christian Church can become
* Italics and caps mine.
Which Is a Statement hy the Author
The Wanderer
the medium through which The Almighty can reveal His Power
and His Glory to the human race, would it not be very much
worth while for it to do that?
Many of its traditions may not be anywhere near as true as
the church thinks they are. W e have atomic energy now, and
that would have been thought impossible 1900 years ago. Then
why must every other art and science progress while religion
stands still by the side of the road, powerless, in spite of all its
claims to divine origin, to do one thing on this earth to reveal to
the human race the Power of God. Or does the Christian
Church believe that God may not be known this side of the
Styx? If that is what it believes then the reason for its failure to
stop this trend toward annihilation is easy to understand. It just
simply does not believe that the actual Power of God can mani­
fest on the earth, outside of what it teaches.
That is a very tragic attitude to adopt, especially when the
only foundation for the Church is a set of traditions handed
down to it from long years ago. Too, it must be remembered that
there are other and older major systems of religion on the earth.
What I write here can apply equally to every major system of
religion, to every one of them that is which claims divine emana­
tion. I am not saying that these good organizations did not have a
divine origin—I merely say that this world totters on the verge of
annihilation, with no system of religion on the face of the earth
able or willing to reveal the Power of God in such a manner
that this frightfully un-Godly mess of humanity may be saved
from itself, by the superior knowledge of The Power of God.
Present world conditions may be just a stage in the evolution
of man. No one, religious or otherwise, may be to blame for them.
Perhaps it is not meant for any system of religion to be able to
manifest the Power of the Great Spirit on the earth. That is
what a Methodist Bishop told me recently.
However—I must disagree with that brother, which I did. I
must point out that with the advancements of the arts and sci­
ences, religion too must advance, or be left at the post. World
14
conditions today call for action. They call for dynamic action.
Man has made a mess of things, and unless the actual Power of
God is made known to man, and that in a hurry, he is very apt
to destroy himself from off the face of the earth.
That is the immediate prospect. None of us likes it. All of us
know instinctively that something is wrong somewhere. Where?
Perhaps we may find out just where before we close this book. It
is written for no other purpose than that of suggesting to the
Christian Church, and other major religious bodies, just what it
means to know and be able to demonstrate on the earth—The
Power of God.
It may be that the Author is hoping for too much when he
suggests that if religious traditions interfere with the actual re­
vealing of The Power of God, those traditions be laid to one
side for a much more brilliant experience. But he does not
believe so. True—this book will cause consternation among those
who class themselves as “orthodox,” but at the same time there
are millions of members of the Christian Church who are hun­
gry indeed for any light they can get on the subject of God. It is
to these millions, more than the few “orthodox” that this book is
directed.
Inversely to the remoteness of time has been man’s ascent to­
ward the temple of knowledge. Truth has made its ingress into
the human mind in the ratio by which man has attained the
capacity to receive and appreciate it. Hence, as we tread back
the meandering pathway of human history, every step in the re­
ceding process brings us to a lower plane of intelligence and a
state of mind more thoroughly encrusted with ignorance and
superstition. This is not to infer that the Author considers the
religionists of two thousand years ago ignorant—he merely states
that the concepts of God offered then, do not, and cannot fit
twentieth century thought. They cannot, or at least they have
not been able to reveal the actual Power of God to this human
race at any time in their history.
The Right Reverend Bishop St. George Tucker, then newly
Which Is a Statement by the Author 15
elected primate of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the United
States said, just a few years ago:—
“Unless the Christian Church develops an enthusiasm for its
work, comparable to that of Soviet Russia or warring Japan, the
Christian cause may fail and pass out of existence." *
A student of history, the Bishop from Virginia pointed to the
downfall of religions in the past as part of his warning to the
Christian churches of today. These dead religions, he said, have
died because they lacked the enthusiasm and aggressiveness
which they needed. "They did not meet the emergencies of ages
just such as the 'present."
Within one month of Bishop Tucker’s statement, Bishop
Ralph Magee of the Methodist Church urged adult education to
combat slumps in Sunday school attendance. He said the M. E.
Church (north) lost 2,859 Sunday schools and 732,271 students
during the twelve months ending in 1935.
Now these, and other reports in similar vein, lead the Author
to believe that there is something amiss with the Christian
Church. He believes that it missed the boat during the first cen­
tury after Christ. He believes that it has never caught up with
the boat or got aboard it since that time. What actually hap­
pened, as the Author sees it, is this—the Christian Church after
the advent of Christ, missed in its entirety the staggering mes­
sage Jesus came to this earth to proclaim. He believes it made its
most fatal mistake by attempting to deify the Messenger while
remaining utterly oblivious to the message. That had been done
before by other, and much larger systems of religion. The Author
believes that was done by the founders and promoters of the
Christian religion.
He believes that the message of Jesus was charged and super­
charged with a spiritual Power, the like of which this world has
never known. Having missed that Power, and that message, the
Christian Church has attempted to struggle down through the
* Italics mine.
16 The Wanderer
ages, relying completely on its own organizing ability, and know­
ing nothing whatsoever about the Power of God—certainly being
utterly unable to reveal the Power of God to this earth, in a
degree sufficient to bring to the earth the message of eternal Life
Jesus came to bring.
If the Christian Church does not find that Power, then it will
probably follow the prophecy of Dr. Jean Milner. It will find the
Spirit of God manifesting through institutions other than the
church.
This may happen. The chances are that it will. If the Author
has his way though, it will not happen. There is nothing this
writer-would like better than to see the Christian Church make
the astounding discovery that the Power of God is a Power exist­
ing on this earth now,—a Power so great that all other powers
and forces fade into insignificance beside It.
It will take action though. Immediate action. For the forces in
man which can destroy man will not wait much longer. Unless
the Power of The Spirit of God is manifested on this earth soon,
then we may look for the almost complete destruction of our
civilization, sad as that is to contemplate.
* * *
The Author hesitated a long time before releasing this manu­
script. He was tom between two urges. One was to continue the
book in a factual philosophical manner, and the other was to
fictionalize it. He decided to make the work semi-fictional and
semi-biographical.
The object of this book is to try to awaken the Christian Church
to the existing Power of God—a Power so dynamic and so very
easy of access that it can straighten out this misguided, sorrow­
ing, fearful civilization and light it up with a Light which comes
from The Almighty. If the Author’s attempt to awaken the
Christian Church fails, and it probably will, then he believes
enough Americans who have no religious persuasion at all, will
make independent search for this superlative Power, and, finding
Which Is a Statement by the Author 17
i8 The Wanderer
it, will go into the byways and hedges, seeking those who, be­
nighted by a religion which is actually Godless, will show them
how they too may take advantage of the greatest spiritual Power
this world can ever know.
In times of the greatest danger, there is always the greatest
opportunity. The fact that this civilization stands on the brink of
total destruction, is proof beyond doubt that just around the cor­
ner lies the Power which, once discovered, can complete the cir­
cle which is now so very incomplete—it can join God and man
together. That is what God intended when He created man in
the first place. That is the message Jesus brought to the world.
His was not a message of death—it was a message of Life. Hear
H im :—“I am come that they might have Life, and that they
might have it more abundantly.” Once again:—"He that heliev-
eth on me shall never die—helievest thou this?” He meant there,
of course, “He that believeth on the message I bring,” shall
never die. Again, in the Gospel according to John, the 16th.
chapter and the 24th. verse:—"Hitherto ye have asked nothing in
M y name; ask, and ye shall receive that your joy may he full.”
This world is in its twilight stage. The Light which has not
been permitted to shine, shall now shine. It will not be too long
before the greatest spiritual awakening this world has ever
known will be made manifest on the earth. God created man on
this earth. Man began to doubt the ability of God—on this earth.
It is on this earth man will be re-united with The Almighty.
* * X
Early in the author’s life of some sixty years, there began to
manifest an intense yearning for the things of God. His father
was a Baptist minister. He still is, and is still preaching. As the
complete story has been published in autobiographical form, he
will not take much of the reader’s time indulging in personal
history. That doesn’t matter. Who or what the Author may be is
beside the point. What matters is this— Just what message has
this man, and will that message help this confused muddled
*9
world to find a straight path along which the human race can
walk without the fear of total annihilation from atomic bombs or
even worse forms of cruel warfare?—that is the only thing that
matters.
It will suffice to say, in passing, that after many years of
earnest sincere efforts to find God according to the traditional
methods of various churches and evangelists, the Author one day
found God. That was a day which may leave its mark on Ameri­
can religious history. In a way it has done that already. God
often moves in a mysterious way.
Not that there is anything different in any way about this
writer. For some strange reason, or one not so strange, he felt in
his earliest years, this intense longing for God. He was not so
much interested in theological history, nor did he care too much
what any religious organization “believed.” The one controlling
desire of his life was to establish a vital, living contact with his
Creator. He did not care how that contact came, and he cared
less who brought the contact to him. For he instinctively knew
that it is possible for man to link his life with the great Over-
Life which is God. That was what he wanted.
He followed the traditional formulae for “conversion.” In fact,
he made himself a bit of a nuisance by continually asking those
who should know:—“Just what do I do to find the actual Power
which is God?”
On one occasion two evangelists, Crossley and Hunter had
been holding a series of revival meetings in his father’s Baptist
church. When the altar-call was given, the author, perfectly hon­
est and not seeing anything wrong with it at all, made his way
to the penitent-form, there to pray for the “light,” as he was told.
He well remembers Mr. Hunter, the singing leader, coming
down to the altar which consisted of a long row of chairs strung
across the front of the church in front of the pulpit. Putting his
arm round my neck this good man said:—“Do you believe now?”
“Believe what?” I asked Mr. Hunter.
Which Is a Statement hy the Author
20 The Wanderer
“Why, believe that Jesus has washed your sins away,” he re­
plied.
“What sins?” I then inquired, and was told:—‘W hy, every
man is born in sin and shapen in iniquity—and it takes the blood
of Jesus to wash those sins away.”
“But I had nothing to do with being bom—I didn’t ask to he
born—nor do I know anything about any sins committed before
I was born for which I should be held responsible,” I replied to
this good man.
Finally, losing his temper, Mr. Hunter said to me:—“Your
father is pastor of this church, why don’t you ask him all about
it when you get home?”
I knew better than to do that. In fact, I suspected I was in for
a sound thrashing when I got home, and that is exactly what
happened to me. I saw, the moment my father entered the room,
that he was wild about something, and I suspected that I knew
what that something was.
Then it came. It was just before dinner. M y father invited me
into his study, and no sooner had I closed the door than I received
one of the crudest blows a father ever dealt his son. "What’s that
for?” I asked my minister father. ‘W ell that’s for making a God­
damned fool of yourself before my congregation,” he replied.
The Author does not mean to insinuate that all ministers act
as this minister-father acted. He does not know. He does know
that sometimes he wishes he had been bom outside of the
shadow of the church. He feels that perhaps his search for God
might have been much easier.
I have never been quite able to figure out my father. W e have
not had correspondence for many, many years, and that is as it
should be I believe. One thing my early years as the son of a
minister did—it gave me an insight into the “behind the scenes”
affairs in many ministers’ homes. I had an opportunity to see
“religion” in action. I did not like what I saw. What I saw made
my search for God infinitely more difficult. It made me very
skeptical of the whole structure of religion. But it did something
21
else—it deepened my conviction that God exists, and it made me
more determined than ever to find God, even though it might
mean at the cost of my life.
There came a time many years later when I had lost all confi­
dence in every minister, priest, and church. I had not been able
to find among them all, one man who could show me how and
where I could find the actual Power of God. Nothing less than
that would satisfy me.
I remember once working in a drug-store in Winnemucca,
Nevada. In the store I got acquainted with a Roman Catholic
priest, a “good fellow” if I ever saw one. I mean as far as “good
fellows” go. Never having talked religion to him though, I
had no idea what he would say to me when I asked him the
question I had asked so very many other ministers and priests—
‘W here can I find the Power of God?” One day I asked him.
He invited me to the parish-house after work, and there I saw
the “good-fellow” cloak fall from off his shoulders like rain fall­
ing from a roof.
Gone was the “good fellow” who would sneak into the pre­
scription room and ask for a “little shot in the arm.” In his place
was the man of God. I remember that conversation almost word
for word. Just as I sat down in the offered chair, my friend said
to me:—“Frank—what is it you want to know about God?”
“I want to know if you can tell me how I can find the Power
of God. I know that God exists. I know that God lives. I know
that it must be possible for me to find Him, yet I have never
been able to,” I answered the good priest.
He looked at me rather strangely I thought, and then, placing
his hand on my knee said: “Frank—you are asking for something
you cannot hope to receive unless you join the church.”
‘W hat church?” I asked him.
‘W hy, the Catholic church of course—there is no other true
church—Jesus founded our church, and all others are dead
branches which have fallen from the good old mother-tree,” was
his answer.
Which Is a Statement hy the Author
22 The Wanderer
“Then am I to believe that if I join your church the Power of
the Spirit of God will come into my life, and I shall be able to
live my life moment by moment with the conscious knowledge
that God is in me, and with me?” I asked the priest.
He paused for quite a long time before he answered, and
then, to my utter amazement the priest said:—“W ill you have a
drink?” I replied that I did not indulge, and my faith in my
friend dropped plenty. However, he continued the argument un­
til I saw that I was not going to get any further in my search for
information now than I had in the past. The same old formula
“Believe and be baptized” was about to be offered me. And when
I asked in what I was to believe, I should be told “In the teach­
ings of this church.” It made no difference whether the church
was Holy Roller, Catholic, Methodist or what-not—the answer
always begged the question in that it insinuated that all that is
necessary to find the Power of God, is church membership.
But I had been a church-member for many years, and I did
not know God. Finally it dawned upon me that I was speaking a
different language from the many churches I had contacted.
Their whole philosophy was based upon their organization. The
Catholic church believes and freely teaches that it is the only
“true” church, all others being “fallen limbs” etc. Protestant
churches however, advanced the theory that the Catholic church
is all wrong, they being the ones who are right. And so it goes.
Many years of my life were wasted trying to find God in
churches.
And then it happened. It was in North Hollywood, Calif.
The street address was 500 Laurel Avenue. M y search for God
had continued unabated from childhood until I was forty years
of age. At the time I was employed as a registered pharmacist by
that highly respectable firm of prescription druggists, Horton and
Converse, the leading chain of prescription experts in California.
W e were buying the little home. W e had paid $300 out of
our bank account of $600 as a down payment. Our son Alfred
was less than two years old. Mrs. Robinson has always been
active in Presbyterian Church circles as she was in North Holly­
wood.
It happened one Sunday morning. Mrs. Robinson had gone to
her Sunday school class and little Alfie was asleep on his bed.
The question of finding God was, as always, very much in the
forefront of my thinking. By this time however I had just about
given up all hope of ever finding an experience which would
manifest so clearly that none could gainsay it, the fact that I had
found the Power which is God in my life.
I hated to give up the search. But what’s the use, thought I.
I must be all wrong. Perhaps all there is to this thing called reli­
gion is church-membership. Perhaps I had better do like the
good wife—join the Presbyterian church and then forget all
about God.
So much often hinges on so little. Many many times have I
thanked God that I was able to hold out against the spirit of
despair which seemed to grip me that Sunday morning. So I
made one last desperate effort to find God. Standing there in the
middle of the living-room floor, I lifted my eyes towards the
skies, and, in a voice broken with emotion said aloud:—“Oh
God—I’ve been trying to find You many years—if You live, and
if I can find You, please reveal Yourself to me. I cannot stand this
suspense much longer. But God—I’ve done all I can do. If I can­
not find You, and have to go to hell, I shall go there with a clear
conscience, knowing, God, that for forty years I did everything
in my power to find You.”
Those, in effect, were the words I used. They are quite accu­
rate however. It must be remembered here that during the years
which had passed since my childhood, my search for God had
never abated. By the sea; on some lonesome hillside; alongside a
highway; no matter where I chanced to be, if alone, my thoughts
would always turn to God. Down on my knees I would go, and
there, by the hour, I would agonize with God for a full and
complete revelation of His Power in my life.
I did not ask for anything great. I did not wish to become
Which Is a Statement by the Author 23
The Wanderer
great. That is not possible for me. All I wanted was just the
simple assurance that God and I were united. I wanted the wit­
ness that God and I were together, not only through this life, but
through whatever other life there may be—if any.
Had I known, however, the heart-aches, the scalding tears
which were to fall from my eyes so many times, I sometimes
doubt that I should have been so insistent about finding God.
There have been bitter years since that day. Years in which, had
it not been for my experience on that memorable day, I should
not have been able to stand against the load which I was called
on to carry. But the witness came. I had found God.
When a man or woman comes into vital living contact with
the Spirit of God, that man or woman knows it. It is hard to
write a spiritual experience, for spiritual experiences are not
subject to human expression. Such experiences are born of God
while pen and ink are of men.
Nor shall I dwell upon that experience any more than to say
briefly that there came surging and pulsing into my very soul, a
throbbing peace which I had for so long sought, but which I had
been unable to find through my father’s ministry, Crossley and
Hunter’s ministry, or any other church ministry. Not even in
theological seminary.
The reader must not infer that such an experience is not to
be found in any and all of our major religions. To the contrary,
an experience such as this may be found by all—but very few
do—they are not sufficiently in earnest in their search for God.
There is one thing which was indelibly impressed upon my
mind, and that is that what I “believed” or did not “believe” had
nothing whatsoever to do with this revelation of the Power of
God direct from God into my own soul. It came direct. No
human organization, no human being, no church organization
could have stopped the Spirit of God from revealing Itself to
me, when I was ready for the revelation.
I am not inferring that revelations and demonstrations of this
nature are the experience of all, or are intended to be. I merely
24
submit that when The Almighty has need of someone for some
particular work, you may be sure The Almighty will test in the
fire such an one before He permits him to actively enter the bat-
de to redeem this world by revealing to it, something of the
unknown latent Power which exists in the Realm of God.
* X *
The Author will skip here, and take up later, the details of
the initial steps taken by him in the establishing of his Psychiana
Movement. Suffice it to say that inside of one year from the date
the now famous advertisement:—“I T A LK E D W IT H GO D”
appeared, he was sending his Teaching into 67 different coun­
tries and men and women by the scores of thousands were find­
ing the actual Power of God in their lives, in very much the
same manner in which I had found this dynamic, divine Power.
Almost at once, diseases, both curable and incurable, disap­
peared as the morning mist before the rising sun. So seemingly
miraculous were many of these healings that all who heard about
them scoffed—that is—all religious leaders did. However, I was
not then, and am not now interested in the physical healing of
anyone. If these things happen, well and good. But my work is
far more important than the healing of the physical body. My
work is to reveal the true Power of The Spirit of God to a world
which, if it does not find The Power of God before too long, will
destroy the greater part of civilization with the atomic bomb and
with other weapons now in existence, even more frightful.
Man can be saved from this awful holocaust. There is litde
chance that man will be. You see, man does not yet believe in
the Power of God. The responsibility lies right square upon the
heads of the leaders of our religious organizations. Do they be­
lieve in the Power of God?
Almost at once the guns of the major religious organizations
were levelled at the Author and his utterly new concept of God.
He very frankly denied many of the supposed fundamentals
upon which the major religious groups are founded. He claimed
Which Is a Statement hy the Author 25
26
that he had found the Power of God entirely outside of church
influence, and that brought down the wrath of the entire Amer­
ican religious structure upon his head. Never was there as much
concentrated effort to stop any teaching since the time of Jesus.
And now, as then, the opposition to this “new”(?) Teaching
came from the organized church. It was the organized church of
His day which allowed and even caused the crucifixion of Jesus.
It is the organized church which has tried so desperately to de­
stroy The Psychiana Religion.
Never was the Power of God vindicated in human affairs any
more than It has been in the temporal affairs of this Movement.
The fact that it still exists, and is still much larger than ever
before, is proof, if proof be needed, that the experience that day
at 500 Laurel Avenue in North Hollywood, was an experience
in which a human soul had found its God.
Outside of church attacks, only one notorious American racket
has attempted to interfere with our work. It is to the everlasting
credit of our democracy that, in spite of concentrated attempts to
interfere with, and suppress this Movement, not one government
agency has interfered with it, although much pressure from high
places has been brought to hear.
The charge most frequently heard is that “That Man Robin­
son is an atheist.” I do not believe many of the fundamentals of
organized theology, and plainly say so. Hence, I am an atheist.
But, writ in our country’s reddest blood, are the cruel records of
the struggles and sufferings of patriotism while laboring to give
birth to a new nation.
Hallowed by age and sacred memories are the nightmare tales
of Valley Forge, when despair sat in vain, brooding o’er the
smoldering fires of hope, and the long dark night of disappoint­
ment settled like a pall o’er the sons of liberty. Just when the
night was darkest, the “infidel” Paine brought hope and cheer in
his book "The Crisis,” whose opening words—“These are the
times that try men’s souls” are known to every schoolboy.
Then, from far-off France came Lafayette, an alien and an
The Wanderer
infidel, to fight for freedom and humanity. In that dark hour,
Benjamin Franklin, the American Socrates, an “infidel” and a
deist, prevailed upon the court of France to send the aid that
made our freedom possible.
When the long dark night was over, and the morn of liberty’s
day began to break, our fathers gathered together to formulate a
plan of government. After due deliberation, these great men
adopted our far-famed Constitution as it came from the hand of
Gouverneur Morris, an “infidel.” From this sacred document they
purposely omitted all reference to a God, decreeing that religion
and government should forever be separate, that you and I might
be free indeed.
But one may be sure that if he advocates a new religious con­
cept, his path will not be a bed of roses. His brow will feel the
crown of thorns, and his hands will be pierced—not by govern­
ment but by organized religion, which attempts to tell us that if
one offers a new revelation from God which is not in accord with
its own tenets, that one is attempting to destroy religion. As a
matter of fact, such an one may be trying to lead religion up to
a new height. But if he does not do it the “orthodox” way, he is
to be shunned.
The Author did not find God the “orthodox” way. His revela­
tion was direct from God. Nor does he operate his Movement the
orthodox way. The leading for that comes from God also, and
from God alone.
No matter what the future may bring, this Author will so
govern the affairs of his Movement, and his life, that he will
seek to please only the Great Spirit of God who gave him his
earthly commission, and who will continue to abide with him
until that commission is fulfilled.
There are many good sincere Christians to whom the passing
of the old faiths and the coming of the new will bring much
anguish and forebodings of impending evil. Many of these anx­
ious souls are already crying, with the Solovetski monks, “Woe
Which Is a Statement hy the Author 27
unto you, Frank B. Robinson—Woe, Woe, Woe, for you have
taken away from us the Son of God.”
I have done nothing of the sort. The reader will know before
he closes this book, that instead of taking away the Son of God,
I have brought Him back.
A minister said to me recently:—“You have taken away our
Bible and have given us nothing in return.”
Again, I have done nothing of the sort. I have taken away
from the Bible and religion only that which is a detriment to
both. All that is good and true is still theirs, and much more be­
sides. I have taken nothing away that I have not returned one
hundred fold. I have taken away the cosmogony of Genesis and
have pointed you to astronomy and geology, T R U T H S OF
GOD.
I have taken away the instant creation of man, but I have
given you his evolution. I have taken away the story of Babel
and have given you comparative philology. I have taken away
miracles and given you instead, the Law of God, which, while
seemingly miraculous, may turn out to be so very beautifully
natural, when we know God as we shall.
I have taken away much of superstition and ignorance such as
the “fall” of man, but I have given you his divine and eternal
progress toward God. This generation may not see the fulfill­
ment of that progress, but what are a few thousand years to God?
Man can see the glory of God in this day and age if he so
wishes—but again I say I am afraid total destruction must come
first. I shall work so very hard to prevent it.
I have taken away the false halo of deity from the brow of
Jesus, but I have crowned Him with divine humanity. But the
work is not yet complete. Many of the dogmatic walls of the old
“faiths” must still be torn down, for they clutter up the ground
where the edifice of a greater religion is being built. I have laid
the foundations as I have had the light from The Creator. On
those newer foundations I shall build, and keep building, a bet­
ter and grander spiritual structure than the world has known to
28 The Wanderer
date. It will be a spiritual temple of universal religion, based
upon the universality of the Spirit of God. For knowledge of the
Power of the Spirit of God must cover the earth as the waters
cover the sea before universal peace can ever reign on this earth.
God Himself—that invisible Spirit of all creation, shall dwell
in the midst of man, where He dwells today, if we could but
recognize Him. No narrow creed shall bar the sacred portals of
that temple, but her doors shall ever stand open to all who seek
the Truth, as I sought and found it that day at 500 Laurel Ave­
nue in North Hollywood.
Within the sacred walls of the temple I shall endeavor to
build, devotees of every faith may worship in security. No cup
of hemlock shall still the philosophic tongue as it stilled the
tongue of Jesus, and no crown of thorns shall adorn the brow of
the innocent. No burning fagot shall await the doubting or
“heretical” mind, and no voice shall there command, except the
still small voice of the Spirit of God.
On the sacred altar of this temple shall rest the Christian
Bible, and the Bibles of every other faith that has inspired the
heart of man no matter what his race or creed. There too, will
lie every other book through which men have found God. There,
in that temple I want to build, the lowly Nazarene shall be
revered, and so will every other son of God who has helped to
ease the burdens of the world.
The holy Mother Mary will be adored, as will every woman
who has played the role of motherhood. Guided by the stars of
hope and love, wise men from the east and from the west and
from the north and from the south will lay their treasure at the
feet of every new-born babe, and they will welcome it to a world
of peace and brotherhood, while the whole world shall join the
strain of Peace on earth—Good-will to men, for the Spirit of
God shall dwell in the midst of them—forever. May God con­
tinue to help me make this vision real.
Which Is a Statement hy the Author 2,9
3°
The Wanderer
I have said earlier in this preliminary statement, that this book
is semi-biographical and semi-fictional. The names and places
mentioned in the book are the names of real people and places.
All incidents which are fictional, are based upon actual happen­
ings which have come within the knowledge of the Author. In
some instances, where embarrassment might come if real names
and places were used, I have changed the name and the place so
that they cannot be recognized under any circumstances.
The Author has found it to be impossible to write this book
without injecting much of his personality into it. He regrets that
very much. But as he is the founder and active head of a very
fast growing religious Movement, he has not been able to dis­
cover a method whereby the injection of his personality can be
eliminated, without making the entire book fiction.
The Author is not a fiction writer however. He has far more
important duties than the writing of fiction. If he can but write
the Truth in such a manner that his fellow-Americans can grasp
and understand that Truth, he will be quite amply repaid for his
efforts, stumbling though those efforts are.
One thing is certain—someone has to bring to this faltering
civilization a concept of God which is so flashingly bright and
real, that it will, because of its brilliance, blot out the past mis­
takes of man, submerging them all in a sea of forgetfulness, and
leading us slowly by the hand into a Life which will be real
Life, because the Author of Life is ever-present and forever
known.
The Author feels today something like Dr. Matheson of the
Presbyterian ministry felt one hundred years ago. He was a
prominent Scottish minister who had a good parish. He was well
liked. His congregation was large for that day. Engaged to be
married to a beautiful-looking Scotch girl, the future was rosy. It
looked full of promise. And then, one day, Dr. Matheson was
suddenly stricken blind. Totally blind.
The best eye specialists the country had were called, but the
verdict was hopeless—Dr. Matheson would never see again. Be­
lieving it to be his duty to offer to release his fiancee from her
engagement, but never dreaming for an instant that she would
accept the release on account of his blindness, Dr. Matheson sat
down at his desk, blind though he was, and wrote this girl a
letter offering to release her.
His fiancee accepted the release stating in her letter of ac­
ceptance that she could never stand to live her life with a blind
man.
This nearly broke Dr. Matheson’s already sorely tried heart.
Try as he did, he could not put thoughts of this girl from his
mind. And then, when he felt the strain a bit too much for him,
he did as every sensible American will do in any emergency—he
turned to the God he believed in. And there he found solace.
And there too, he found immortality, for he wrote words that
will live as long as religion is an integral part of life. Here is
what he wrote: —
“O Love that wilt not let me go,
I rest my weary soul in Thee;
I give Thee back the life I owe,
That in Thine ocean depths, its flow
May richer, fuller be.
0 Light that followest all my way,
1 yield my flickering torch to Thee;
My heart restores its borrowed ray,
That in Thy sunshine’s glow, its day
May brighter, fairer he.
0 Joy, that seekest me through pain,
1 cannot close my heart to Thee;
I trace the rainbow through the rain,
And feel the promise is not vain,
That morn shall tearless be.
0 Cross that liftest up my head,
1 dare not ask to fly from Thee;
I lay in dust life’s glory, dead,
And from the ground there blossoms red,
Life that shall endless be.”
Which Is a Statement hy the Author 3X
The Wanderer
32
And so, in this spirit of complete humiliation and faith in
God, the Author sends this book out. May the infinite Peace
which is God, find a resting place in the life of every reader.
F r a n k B. R o b in s o n
Moscow, Idaho, September 1st, 1946
C H A P T E R T W O
In Which W e Should Meet “The
Wanderer,” but Don’t
N
i n e t e e n h u n d r e d y e a r s a g o , a g r e a t p r o p h e t m a d e t h i s
statement:—“He that believeth in Me, shall never die—
believest thou this?”
But He who uttered that statement Himself died. Or did
He . . . ?
* * *
I met The Wanderer on a Northern Pacific train which leaves
Spokane, Wash, every morning at 8.45 a .m . and arrives at
Moscow, Idaho, a distance of 75 miles, at 12 .15 P-M- the same
day.
M y duties as founder and active director of a large organiza­
tion which operates exclusively by mail, and which employs over
100 people, all of whom are necessary to handle the huge vol­
ume of mail which flows in and out of Moscow, require me to
make several trips to the east every year.
W e purchase names by the million, to whom we mail our
religious literature. Then too, we advertise nationally in news­
papers and magazines. Then there are constant speaking engage­
ments which the Author is required to fill, hut which he would
much rather not fill as these speaking engagements take too
much time which he could use in ways which would be more
effective than addressing an audience, no matter how large that
audience may be.
The writing of a hook, for instance, would mean that hun­
dreds of thousands of his own people would read that book.
The Wanderer
Therefore, his message would be carried to many more people
through the book than through a public address.
However, he deems it advisable, in view of the interest which
some universities and theological seminaries are showing in his
Movement, to speak at these institutions of learning when in­
vited. This all takes time.
Then there are the many social engagements which he finds it
advisable to fill whenever in the east. These trips usually take in
the cities of Chicago, New York, and Washington, D.C., and in
each of these cities there are several close friends with whom a
visit and perchance a luncheon engagement are necessary to
make such trips complete.
One of the oldest friends of the Author is Mr. James W .
Brown, Sr., the directing head of the “bible” of the publishing
business, “T H E ED ITO R A N D PU BLISH ER .” Mr. Brown
was one of the first Members the Author had. He enrolled dur­
ing the first year the Psychiana Teaching was released, and he
has been a constant friend and confidant of the founder ever
since.
Usually there is a personal call at Mr. Brown’s suite in the
Times Building, followed by an invitation to lunch at The
Union League Club, of which Mr. Brown is an esteemed mem­
ber. If Mrs. Robinson and daughter Florence, or son Alfred and
his wife accompany the Author on his trip, they are usually in­
vited also: Mr. Brown is one of the most lovable characters the
Author has ever met, and his standing throughout the publish­
ing industry is proof that the esteem the Author holds for Mr.
Brown is shared by publishers in all lines of endeavor.
Then there is Mr. Mortimer Bercowitz, the brilliant publisher
of The American Weekly, the Hearst magazine publication
which has the largest circulation of any magazine in the world.
This luncheon engagement is usually filled at the famous Roose­
velt Grill, to the music of Guy Lombardo and his orchestra.
Mr. Bercowitz is also a close personal friend of mine, the
friendship having originated many years ago when The Ameri­
34
can Weekly first ran the famous “I T A LK ED W IT H GO D”
copy which created such a sensation throughout the publishing
world. That piece of advertising copy incidentally, together with
almost every other piece of advertising copy I have ever written,
has been widely reproduced in sales-magazines and trade jour­
nals throughout the United States and in many foreign countries.
W hy this particular piece of copy causes such a sensation I
do not know. But it is very significant that whenever that copy
appears, ministers and priests are the first ones to say:—“W hy he
did no such thing—it’s blasphemy for a man to say he talked
with God.”
Just why a minister or a priest should say that it is blasphemy
for an ordained minister to say that he talked with God, I have
never been able to understand. But the very idea of talking with
God seems to be so foreign to ministers and priests that it may
be very significant. It may throw considerable light on the aims
of this book. For if ministers of the Gospel, and priests, say that
it is not possible for a man to actually talk with God, then per­
haps we may be able to understand just why the world is in the
condition in which we find it today.
Perhaps if ministers and priests actually believed that it is pos­
sible to talk with God, and perchance, if they themselves could
talk with God once in a while, and then show the man on the
street how that can be done, perhaps, I repeat, we should not be
looking forward with horror and fright towards another world
war, one incidentally which may very easily obliterate the major
portion of the human race.
There will be nothing funny about the next war. It will be
an atomic war. Disease cultures will be spread throughout the
world from airplanes, and death and destruction in the most hor­
rible forms ever devised by the evil mind of man, will be turned
loose to complete their deadly work. And these inventions of
men who have never yet learned to talk with God, will effec­
tively do their heinous work of human destruction.
Regardless of what religionists think, I believe it is about time
We Should Meet “The Wanderer," hut Don’t 35
The Wanderer
the whole human race learned to talk with God. And then, after
having talked with God, it might be a good plan to stop for a
while and listen. God might possibly have something to say in
return. As a matter of fact, The Almighty might just conceivably
be able to tell those who listen, just how the spiritual contact
may be made which can liberate this civilization from the threat
of total destruction which hovers closer and closer to us.
W ell anyway—shall we return to Mr. Bercowitz? I believe we
left him at the Roosevelt Hotel in New York, where we were
having lunch to the music of Guy Lombardo and his orchestra.
Mr. Bercowitz is one of the keenest minds I have ever met. His
success in building the tremendous circulation The American
Weekly enjoys speaks volumes. In his efforts however, he has
been most ably assisted by Coulter McKeever, the manager of
the Pacific Coast branch of The American Weekly.
This book is not a piece of propaganda for The American
Weekly or for any other periodical. I am merely trying to write
so clearly and simply that you will get a true picture of the
author, and the everyday commonplace happenings which might
just as well happen to any reader.
I think it is essential to success as a writer that one: have the
knack or ability to do two things—first, he must make the reader
feel absolutely at home with the author. Second—
he must write
on the same level as his reader. I have neither the ability or the
inclination to try to write over my reader’s head. If I tried that,
the publishers would probably return the manuscript with the
usual “So sorry” slip enclosed. That—I should not like to have
happen.
So throughout this book I shall try to be as human as you are,
and as I try to be. W hy attempt flights o,f rhetoric when what I
have to say to you can be said so very simply? It is these little
everyday happenings which I shall record all through this book
which will convince the reader that there is nothing about me
which is not common to you.
In his book “T H E Y H AVE FO U N D A FA ITH ,” Dr. Mar­
36
cus Bach, of the Dept, of Religion at Iowa State University
records an experience I got quite a laugh out of. The good doc­
tor had made a trip to Moscow to secure material for his Chapter
on “PSYC H IA N A .” On arriving at the Moscow Hotel, he
phoned my home, and advised me of his arrival here. I told him
that I would be down right away and meet him.
In the book above referred to, Dr. Bach says this:—“I had ex­
pected to meet an anaemic sentimentalist, but you may imagine
my surprise when a six-foot, broad-shouldered westerner, wear­
ing a big Stetson walked in, and accosted me with a handshake
which said ‘Put ’er thar pardner.’ ”
Well, I usually wear a big Stetson—yes. But that is only be­
cause I look better in a Stetson Beaver twenty-five than in any
other hat. I do stand six feet tall and I weigh about 200 pounds.
So you will understand that there is nothing of the anaemic
sentimentalist about this writer.
Many people look upon a religious leader very much as Dr.
Bach did. He had read my writings, and he told me later that he
had been profoundly moved by them. I was glad to hear that.
But just why men and women should look upon a religious
leader as some sort of a second-hand specimen of a man, I do
not know.
If I had my way I would make every minister and priest throw
away every piece of black clothing he possesses. I would make
him put on the best looking suit he can find. I’d make him wear
a red tie, or a blue tie, and I’d make every one of them wear a
Stetson Beaver twenty-five. Perhaps some of them would look
good with a brace of six-guns at their hips. Personally I like to
carry a six-gun and usually do, being a special deputy sheriff.
I do not like representatives of Almighty God walking round
the streets looking as if the world was coming to an end tomor­
row. This world will never come to an end in their day or mine.
A cantankerous civilization may destroy most of the human race
from off the face of the earth—in fact I look for that to happen.
But I believe the complexion of the whole world of religion can
We Should Meet "The Wanderer,” hut Don’t 37
The Wanderer
be changed if every preacher and priest will throw away his
priestly or ministerial raiment, and put on the conventional garb
of a cow-puncher or some other human being who under no
circumstances could be accused of being'a representative of
Almighty God.
I do not believe Almighty God wants, or should have any spe­
cial representatives on this earth. I believe Almighty God wants
every man, woman and child to be so familiar with Him, and
His power, that no special representatives will be necessary.
Our present religious set-up is all wrong. W e have about two
hundred and fifty different religions here in America. Each be­
lieves it is closer to the truth than the others. One vies with the
other in proselyting members. One antagonizes the other by
stealing “its stuff” as Pegler said not so long ago.
As I see it, this business of going to a building every Sunday
morning to hear the same man advocate his particular views on
things religious is not as it should be. His circumstances and ex­
periences are very different from yours, the chances are. And
again, whatever religious experience that man has, is only second­
hand by the time he tells it to you.
I am not decrying organized religion. If I am, I shall have
something far better to offer the reader before he lays this book
down.
The day will come, and before too long, when the human race
will be so thrilled with the knowledge and Power of God that
the individual who does not constantly talk about that Power to
his neighbors will be considered very strange. For when a man
realizes the actual Power there is in this unknown Realm of the
Spirit of God, it’s pretty hard to keep that man quiet.
You will recall that when Jesus was on the earth, He had, on
one occasion, been discussing things religious with the apostles.
It had been a strenuous day, yet Jesus would have continued to
talk, going from one village to another, had not some of the
apostles constrained Him, saying:—“Abide with us—for the day
is far spent—it is towards evening.”
38
1
You will recall that Jesus listened to them, went into the
house, and stayed with them, eating the regular fare they had
provided. U p to that point not one of those apostles knew who
He was. It had been a simple discussion of things pertaining to
God. They had probably all discussed what a blessed thing it is
to have the Power of God in the life, and know it.
When He asked a blessing before He gave them the food, one
of the apostles recognized Him, and He vanished out of their
sight.
After He had gone, one apostle said to another:—“Did not our
hearts burn within us while He talked with us by the way, and
while He opened to us the scriptures?”
Certainly they did not know who this stranger was. Yet here
they were, probably a half a dozen apostles, or men who had
found the Spirit of God in their lives, plus one stranger whom
they did not know. Yet their conversation was of things pertain­
ing to God.
That day will come on this earth. It is perhaps a good deal
closer than we have any idea of. I wish it would come tomorrow.
If God could be made so real to the American people that they
would “talk about God by the way,” there would be no need of
peace conferences in Paris or anywhere else. Not that these con­
ferences are not good. They are. They are all that man can do in
his blind searching for permanent peace. Such efforts are good
and right. The pity of it all is that if the actual truths of God, as
those truths exist, had been taught to the American people by
our ministers and priests, instead of church traditions and cus­
toms, there would be no need for these human attempts to
straighten out this world, banishing war forever. The truths of
God would automatically straighten it out.
All such attempts will fail until the day comes when the
whole human race makes the most staggering discovery it can
ever make—the discovery that the Spirit of God is closer to each
one of us, with all Its Power, than we have ever dreamed
We Should Meet "The Wanderer,” hut Don’t 39
4o The Wanderer
I am over sixty years of age. My whole life has been wrapped
round, and intimately intertwined with some phase of religion.
In those sixty-odd years, I have never heard a priest or preacher
discussing the Power of God on the street, in the pulpit, or any­
where else. I have listened to thousands of sermons in thousands
of different churches. One will be about Paul. Another about
Jesus. Another about John. I have never heard one sermon on
what the Power of the Spirit of God can do for humanity here
and now.
Last year I called upon my friend Dr. Charles Braden of the
religious department of Northwestern University, in Evanston,
111. On a Sunday morning he invited me to attend a large
church which boasted a very famous preacher. I went with
Braden and sat there for an hour listening to what may have
been a “wonderful sermon” to a mind more enlightened than
mine.
As we were leaving the church Dr. Braden said to me:—
“Doctor Robinson—wasn’t that a wonderful sermon?”
I never indulge in double-talk, so, as usual, I blurted out
what I thought—“What was so wonderful about that sermon-
why that man never even mentioned the name of God once in
the entire sermon?”
The church was filled, of course, and after the service several
hundred people met the great pastor in the basement of the
church where he was shaking hands at such a rate that it re­
quired the constant use of a bath towel to keep his forehead dry.
Yet the man never once mentioned the name of God in the en­
tire sermon. Not one word about what The Spirit of God can
do for us all, here and now—right on this earth.
I gauge a man’s religion by how much of the Spirit of God
that man can reveal to those who travel along life’s highway with
him. I care nothing for the black uniform he wears. I care less
whether he buttons his collar at the front or at the back—if that
man, minister or priest, cannot reveal the actual Power of God
to humanity, he might just as well get out of the business of
presuming himself to be an agent of God.
This world is too far from God for any set of church theories
or rituals to bring it back. It will take a super-human effort by
someone who has been with God and knows something about the
Power of God. Even that may not be sufficient to head off the
holocaust which lies just ahead of us all.
As a first step though, I suggest that all ministers and priests
discard their ministerial and priestly robes, changing them for
the brightest colored clothes they can secure. White would he
the best I believe. For white is a sign of life. Black denotes
death, and there is nothing even faintly connected with death in
the Realm of The Spirit of God. That is one of the things this
world still has to learn. To actually know God is to he able to
live forever, through the Power of God in the life, not in the sky.
* * *
Another friend we usually meet in New York is Ned Pines.
His business associate Marcus Goldsmith too. We invariably
have several meals together. Ned picks out some night-spot, and
we sit for a few hours, eating and discussing my advertising
program for the coming year.
The first time I met Ned and Marcus was in the New Yorker
Hotel about 19 years ago. At that time they owned but one
magazine, Thrilling Detective. I gave them one of the first ad­
vertisements they ever had. They have both been eminently suc­
cessful. Their chain of pulp magazines now is over fifty, and I am
given to understand that both are millionaires.
The last time I saw Ned was in an elevator at the Roosevelt
Hotel where we had eaten our lunch together. He had lost his
nice white silk scarf and was very perturbed about it. Inquiries
at the lost and found office of the hotel were fruitless, the white
silk scarf had vanished. Feeling sorry for Ned, and desiring to
repay him to some extent for the wonderful basket of fruit we
We Should Meet "The Wanderer,” hut Don’t 4 1
The Wanderer
receive each month from him, I went across the street and
bought Ned the finest white silk scarf I could find.
Taking a taxi to Ned’s office on West 42nd. Street, I pre­
sented him with the scarf for which he thanked me very pro­
fusely. Later in the day my room phone rang. Here was Ned
on the phone. He had found his scarf—it was in his inside coat
pocket all the time. Now what I want to know is—what became
of the scarf I bought?
There are just a couple more friends I shall mention here, on
which I always call while in New York. One is Harold Wise, the
publisher of True Story magazine and the other is George Rit-
tenhouse, vice-president of the huge American Book-Stratford
Press. George is usually printing a book for us, and we usually
go to Kelly’s for an evening meal.
Harold Wise and I were working at the old Hegeman Drug
Stores in New York about 45 years ago, so naturally we are close
personal friends. W e always sneak out for a quiet little dinner
together.
On every visit to New York, Jim Mosely, from whom we buy
millions of names, comes down from Boston, and it is Jim with
whom I spend probably more time than anyone else. The lists of
names we buy have to be very carefully selected, so we usually
spend about one week together, lining up a schedule for the
coming few months.
Jim comes from Boston. Codfish for breakfast. Being a broad-
shouldered Westerner with a grip that says “Put ’er thar pard-
ner,” I have to have something a bit more substantial for break­
fast. I abstain from codfish therefore.
Similar business connections exist in Chicago, and in Wash­
ington, and after they have all been attended to I take The
Olympian back to Spokane, and the 8.45 train from Spokane to
Moscow. It was on a return trip from the east that I met The
Wanderer. The Olympian arrives at Spokane at about ten in the
evening, so I usually have a room awaiting me at the Davenport
Hotel, and make the trip to Moscow the next morning.
42
Spotting me walking across the lobby of the Davenport rather
late the night on which I had arrived on The Olympian from the
east, my friend Harry Lantry of radio station KH Q had invited
me to make a short address on his station on a 6.30 a .m . pro­
gram. I was happy to oblige Harry, and did so.
I had therefore quite a bit of time on my hands on this par­
ticular morning, before the train left for Moscow. This train,
which consists of two chair-cars of the 1900 vintage, a baggage
car and locomotive of the same vintage, backs from the round­
house into the Northern Pacific depot at 8 a .m . When I have
time on my hands, I usually board the train and relax until it
leaves Spokane. This was my procedure on the morning I am
writing about.
Approaching the entrance to the train I was greeted by Ed.
Kehoe, the conductor, with a cheery “Good morning, Doctor
Robinson—you’ve been away quite a spell this time—six weeks
isn’t it?”
“About that Ed.” I replied, “anything new in Moscow since
I left?”
“No—I guess the old town is about as it was when you le ft-
will you be at home long this time?”
I explained to Ed. that my time was never my own. I might be
on my way again before morning. As a matter of fact, a check on
the time I have spent in Moscow over the past twenty years re­
veals the fact that more than half of the time I am out of the
city.
Perhaps I should explain to the reader at this point in my nar­
rative that so many calls come in from the outside asking for aid
in helping someone who is seriously ill or dying, that it is im­
possible to comply with more than a small fraction of these calls.
Most of the time I am already out somewhere in the United
States, trying to demonstrate the Power of God in cases where,
for some reason or other, our friends are unable to help them­
selves.
It has been necessary to install in my home a switch on the
We Should Meet "The Wanderer," hut Don’t 43
telephone which can be thrown to the “off” position whenever
desired. There is seldom a night that many calls do not come in
from somewhere—usually from the east. It has always been a
source of wonder to me why people should think that I can do
something they cannot do.
I explain so very thoroughly that I possess no power not pos­
sessed by anyone else. I explain too, that whenever a seeming
miracle of healing is witnessed, that miracle would doubtless
have happened much more quickly had I not been there at all.
When I am there, the afflicted ones seem to feel that I possess
some sort of inside track with The Almighty. That is not good.
The last thing I want to get around is the idea that the Spirit of
God is available only to a chosen few. That is the very idea I am
trying to destroy.
M y work in this life is to explain and demonstrate the fact that
the Power of God is instantly available to all, at any hour of the
day or night. Once discovered, there is no limit of any sort to
this Power. But it is essential that one recognize the source of the
Power. If that source is attributed to a man or an organization, it
ceases to become a Power and becomes a liability.
Nevertheless, one of the most difficult tasks in my life is to
convince men and women that the actual and literal Power of
God exists, and is freely and fully available to all, anytime, any­
where. When this fact is fully grasped, then, and only then will
this world begin to get into its proper perspective. Then, and
only then can the necessary change in men’s consciousness take
place.
Just so long as God is an “absent” God, incapable of dealing
directly with the human race, then so long will there be organi­
zations, honest and charlatan, who will take advantage of the
credulity of the human race where God is concerned.
The late President Roosevelt and I were discussing world con­
ditions a few years ago in the White House. Pulling a set of my
writings from the middle left-hand drawer of his desk, Mr.
44 The Wanderer
Roosevelt said to me:—“Doctor Robinson—you and I are trying
to do the same thing, are we not?”
Knowing that I am a rabid Republican and he as rabid a New
Dealer, I wondered what we could have, or be doing in com­
mon. So I was prompted to put this question to the President:—
“What am I trying to do that you are trying to do?”
His reply was instant. “We are both trying to make people
think.”
I could not resist the temptation to tell the President that I
was afraid he was trying to make people think along the wrong
lines, and to this he replied:—“Doctor Robinson—is there no pos­
sibility of your ever getting any brains?”
“Not Democratic brains,” I replied, and this caused one of
those hearty laughs for which the late President was famous.
If it were possible to make the American people think out
their religion, instead of allowing others to do their thinking for
them, all poverty, crime, drunkenness, debauchery and immoral­
ity would be banished from this land. Thinking inevitably leads
one to God. Thinking along religious lines, that is.
I do not believe it is possible for any normal man or woman to
sit down and think God through in the light of his or her own
reason, without coming into the grandest experience which can
befall anyone.
The path which leads to God is so simple that only a few find
it. One looks to this church organization. Another looks to that
church organization. One reads this Bible while another reads
another Bible. In spite of all this, the world gropes in darkness so
absolute that if this world destroys itself, it will do so with the
full Light of God shining on it. Blind people, however, cannot
see the Light. It is shining nevertheless.
The utter lack of belief in God, so manifest on the earth to­
day, has been brought about in the name of God, by the very
organizations which claim to represent God. They really believe
they do. But, as Jesus said:—“By their fruits ye shall know
them.” The fruits are not good.
We Should Meet "The Wanderer,” hut Don’t 45
The Wanderer
Then Jesus launched into one of the most scathing rebukes
ever handed out to His followers: “Many will say unto M e in
that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in Thy name, and
have we not cast out devils?—and I will profess unto them—‘de­
part from Me ye workers of iniquity—I never knew you.’ ”
When the immanent picture of the Power of God comes to
this earth, the most surprised people on the face of the earth will
be the church-members who, while knowing nothing whatsoever
about the Power of the Spirit of God, have been the best at­
tendee and givers to their church.
For many years in my home in Moscow, the First Presbyterian
Church—rather the Mary and Martha society of the First Pres­
byterian Church—has held its annual Xmas meeting in my home.
Usually about 60 or 70 attend. W e have a fine pipe-organ in my
home, and after the business meeting is over, the folks gather
round the organ. I play the old Christmas carols while the group
sings lustily for an hour or so. It is not an exaggeration to state
that this Xmas gathering is looked forward to many months
before Xmas comes round.
There is a good old Presbyterian lady in Moscow, a member
of the Mary and Martha society, who has religiously abstained
from attending any meeting of the society held in my home. She
was questioned one day just before Xmas as to why she attended
all the other meetings, yet stayed away from the best meeting of
the year—the Xmas meeting.
It was the pastor, The Rev. Clifford Drury who questioned
her. Dr. Drury is not here any more. The last I heard from him
he was a chaplain in the U. S. Navy. Anyway, this good old
soul, when questioned by Dr. Drury as to the reasons for her
absence, replied: ‘W ell Dr. Drury—I’d like to go, but I’m afraid
I’ll lose my soul if I put foot in that atheist’s home—do you think
I shall?”
To which my friend Drury replied:—“Well if you lose your
soul, I’ll lose mine too, and so will all the rest of the good folks
who gather there year after year.”
46
I relate this incident for the sole purpose of showing how
very far many of our good church-members are, from the King­
dom of God, while actually believing that they have a reserved
seat in Heaven any time the “good Lord” should call them home.
There is nothing wrong with this attitude at all. It is part of a
process of evolution which the peoples of the earth evidently
have to pass through, before they begin to even faintly realize
that the Power of God exists, not “in Heaven” hut right here on
the earth.
When our religious leaders begin to recognize that superla­
tive fact, and plan their activities accordingly, recognizing the
actual Power of God with them, then shall we begin to see
changes take place on the earth; changes which will he brought
about through the Power of the Spirit of God—not through the
atomic bomb.
It is just a matter of thinking God through. Believe me.
#
■ * *
Boarding the “Palouse Special” as the Spokane-Moscow train
is called, I took a seat near the door. The day-coaches used on
this train have an old-fashioned stove at each end, and as this was
winter-time, I took my seat where the heat was.
Having three-quarters of an hour to relax before the train be­
gan its journey through the rich wheat-belt known as the
Palouse Empire, I leaned back in the seat, closed my eyes, and
indulged in my favorite pastime of checking up on myself. It
was just twenty years ago since Mrs. Robinson, and small four-
year-old son Alfred had boarded this same train for Moscow.
Prior to coming to Moscow I had been employed as a pharma­
cist at the Pioneer Drug Store in Yakima, Wash. The city was
then known as North Yakima. The Spirit of God had been
making known to me in no uncertain manner, the path which I
should have to tread, in giving to the world the revelation which
came to me from God, that day not so very long ago, at 500
Laurel Avenue in North Llollywood.
W e Should Meet "The Wanderer,” hut Don’t 47
The Wanderer
In a very unmistakable manner I was led to move from Los
Angeles to the Pacific Northwest, and had secured a fairly good
paying position with Jim Urquhart at the Pioneer. Night after
night, and after a heavy day’s work at the drug-store, I would sit
alone in my room, and would wait until the Spirit of God re­
vealed Itself to me anew, in much the same manner that Spirit
had, the day I found God.
I was smart enough not to try to tell God what I wanted Him
to do for me. I wanted nothing from God. I was only waiting for
the Spirit of God to reveal to me, what God wanted from me.
Before too long, I knew what would be necessary. Of course, my
whole aim in life from the moment the Spirit of God spoke His
peace to me, was to spread the good news that the Power of God
is available to all men and women, without attending any
church, and without believing a single thing any church teaches.
This is not because the churches are not good. It merely dem­
onstrates the fact all men, everywhere, may make a direct contact
with God, and may do this without any "beliefs" of any sort,
and without any religious affiliation of any sort.
“Belief,” in itself, has nothing whatsoever to do with a man
finding the actual Power of God. A “belief” may be true or it
may be false. In any event, “religious tradition, rite, ritual, creed,
or article of faith” has absolutely no bearing on the revelation of
the actual Power of God in anyone’s life. The rottenest drunk,
staggering round in his folly, can find the redeeming Power of
the Spirit of God instantly. He needs neither priest nor preacher
to assist him. All he has to do is to grasp the self-evident fact
that God lives—IN HIM, AND CAN BE FOUND BY HIM.
When it became definitely plain to me that I must write my
experience and draw up a definite set of plans whereby all men
may actually find the Power of God, I began to look for another
position. In Yakima I had been working the “graveyard” shift.
I decided to find a position in a smaller town, preferably where
the drug-stores closed at six p .m .
I wrote a letter to the Spokane Drug Company, the nearest
48
wholesale drug house, asking them if they knew of a position
open in a small city where the drug-stores closed at 6 p .m . In a
few days a wire came in from a Mr. Peyton Hawes, asking me
to report for work at once at the Corner Drug Store in Moscow,
Idaho. The wire also informed me that all drug-stores in Mos­
cow closed at 6 p .m .
I at once gave Sam Mordand, the manager of the Pioneer, a
week’s notice, and began to plan on leaving for Moscow. That
was just twenty years ago. And here I was, twenty years later,
on board the same train which had carried the Robinson family
to Moscow, that fateful day which in reality seemed about fifty
years ago.
Much water has gone over the dam in the past twenty years.
There are many things which I have done, which I would not do
again. But in the main, I should not recall one deed or act. I
have followed the Light which is God as I saw that Light. It has
led me aright.
Then, while relaxing there with my eyes closed, I allowed my
thoughts to wander still farther back. To my childhood. I re­
called the long years during which I had sought in vain for
God, and I wondered if other people had the same trouble find­
ing Him. Or did they not care?
Perhaps I was the only one who had trouble finding God. Per­
haps I was all wrong. Perhaps there is no possible chance of
anyone’s actually finding God and His power on this earth.
Could it be that The Creator, after having created this wonder­
ful universe and man, had turned the whole thing loose, not
caring what happened to it—
was that it?
Of course, having met God face to face, and actually talked
with God, I knew better than that. I remembered back some
twenty-odd years when I had told God that if I had to go to
hell I should go with the consoling knowledge that I was going
to that place of horrible torment with the full consciousness that
I had done everything in my power to find God—
and had failed.
That would place the burden of my damnation right square on
We Should Meet "The Wanderer,” hut Don’t 49
The Wanderer
the shoulders of God. For, you see, I believed implicitly in
what had been told to me in my early years.
I remembered back to one Sunday afternoon in the Sunday
school. M y teacher was a Mr. Dan Calverly. He had been tell­
ing the story of Jesus. As he recited the cruel details of how
Jesus had been compelled to carry His cross, then the lashes,
then the cup of vinegar mixed with gall and hyssop—I broke
down and cried. Putting his arms tenderly around my shoulders
this good man Calverly said to me:—“Frank—wouldn’t you like
to be saved?”
“I should like to find the Power of God in my life, if that’s
what you mean,” I had replied.
“But I don’t mean that—I mean wouldn’t you like to be a
Christian? That’s what I mean,” said the good teacher, looking at
me with a rather puzzled expression on his face.
“But I am a Christian, am I not—I was born in a Christian
land—certainly I am not a Mohammedan or a Buddhist, am I?”
I queried.
“Oh—you do not know what I mean, Frank—I am asking you
if you would not like to accept the Lord Jesus Christ as your per­
sonal Savior?”
“M y Savior from what?” I replied.
“W hy your Savior from sin, of course. Do you not know that
all are born in sin, and without the cleansing blood of Jesus there
can be no salvation—only utter torment in hell?”
I did not reply to that one. Here again was cropping up the
same old theory that the entire human race was born under the
spell of doom. For some unknown “sin,” committed by our fore­
fathers, hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions of years ago, we
are all eternally damned unless we accept the Christian concept
of God—for that is what it amounts to. I could not see it. I still
cannot see it. I never want to see that sort of theological picture.
I remember good old Dan Calverly going to my father, who
was minister of that Baptist church and saying to him:—“Frank
is a curious boy—I don’t believe he is a Christian, but he keeps
5 °
talking about the Power of the Spirit of God in his life—He will
not accept the story of the fall of man—about all he seems to
want is the Power of God to manifest itself to him, here and
now—I have never heard of the Power of God manifesting in
anyone’s life as Frank expects It to.”
“Well,” replied my father, “this boy has funny ideas about
God. He seems to feel that it is possible on this earth to estab­
lish a vital living connection between God and him. Of course,
that is all tommy-rot, but the boy seems to believe it. What’s
more, there doesn’t seem to be much I can do about it. He is
absolutely convinced that there is very much more to the God
proposition than appears in our Christian religion—
maybe I’d
better send him away into the navy or some place where his
funny ideas about God will be knocked into a cocked-hat.”
That was actually what happened. A few days later this “great
man of God” as he was called, my father, marched me down to a
navy recruiting office where I was forced, against my will, to
join the navy. Not that there was anything wrong with that in
itself. But if, by that method, my father thought he could eradi­
cate my “strange ideas about God,” he was very much mistaken.
Those “strange ideas” remained until the day came when I
actually vindicated my confidence by finding the much sought
after Power of God in my life, here on this earth.
Then my mind wandered back to the day on which I was re­
lease from the navy, and my unexpected return home early one
Sunday morning. Instead of the fatherly welcome I expected, I
was met by my father who said:—“What in the hell are you
doing here?”
My father had come down at the ring of the bell and opened
the door. We were both standing in the front hallway. Soon I
heard the voice of my step-mother calling down from her bed­
room:—“Henry—
who is there at this hour of the morning?"
“Oh—
it’s that damned fool Frank—
he’s out of the navy—
has a
medical discharge he says,” my father called back.
‘W ell there’s no place for him in this house—
send him on
W e Should Meet “The Wanderer,” hut Don’t 51
The Wanderer
his way—we don’t want him here,” said the good step-mother.
“Don’t you think I ought to give him a bite to eat first?” my
father asked her.
There was a silence for a few moments and then she replied:—
“Well—
it’s nearly breakfast time and the maids will be down
shortly—so let him sit in your study until breakfast is ready.
Then we’ll take him to church and after that he can get out—
we
don’t want him or his screwy religious ideas in this house.”
Breakfast over, I was marched to the church at which my
father was minister. I was not particularly anxious to go, but
church and Sunday school were the order of the day in that
home. There was little of the Spirit of God in it though.
M y father’s sermon that Sunday morning was taken from
Matthew 8:20. It reads like this:—“And Jesus said unto them,
‘the foxes have holes, and the birds of the air have nests, but the
Son of man hath not where to lay his head.”
I knew the son of a man who too, had no place to lay his
head that Sunday night. And the man who brought this son into
the world was preaching from Matthew 8:20.
M y own mother had died many years before at the age of 33.
She was one of the grandest Christian women I have ever
known. I have not met more than half a dozen Christians who
actually believe what they preach, in my life—I question if I
have met that many. But my mother was one. Not only did she
believe in the Christian religion—she lived it insofar as lay in her
power.
Another I must mention here is one of my old instructors in
the Bible Training School in Toronto, Canada. This man, Dr.
John McNicol, is now Principal of the Toronto Bible College,
which is an outgrowth of the old Bible Training School. I had a
letter from him only yesterday. Of course, Dr. McNicol and I
differ violently on matters of Christology, and while we differ,
and while Christians fight and argue amongst themselves, the
world plunges closer and closer to the brink of catastrophe.
W hat a pity some common denominator cannot be found upon
52
which all religions can agree and fight for the actual truths of
God, instead of making the Power of God of no effect through
their traditions—traditions which for the greater part are abso­
lutely unprovable.
There is a common ground upon which all systems of reli­
gion could meet. But they will not. The ground is the actual
existence of the Spirit of God, and the Power of God, on dais
earth, here and now, IN E V E R Y C R E A T E D SO U L.
Of course, if they all met on that ground, considerable re­
vamping of their doctrines of “original sin” etc. would have to
be done. But if, by revamping those doctrines, this world could
have brought to it a concept of God upon which all can agree,
then I say throw overboard every article of faith, every tradition,
every rite, every ritual, and let us, for the first time in the history
of man, give The Creator an opportunity to show what He can
do when man stops interfering hy his own man-made ideas and
traditions about God.
If every theological tradition, rite, creed, ritual and ecclesias­
tical order could be drowned at the bottom of the sea, man would
automatically find the Power of God through his own reasoning
ability. So long as one church and one system of religion teaches
one thing, and another teaches another, and two hundred and
fifty others teach two hundred and fifty other things, the human
race will drift farther and farther away from God—if that be
possible.
We have drifted so far away from God already that it is very
questionable if this generation can be saved from total destruc­
tion by any means. If such a terrible event occurs, man will have
brought it on himself. Man will have destroyed himself because
he has not known the actual existence of the Spirit of God—
IN
HIM SELF.
God never destroys anything or anyone. He put this human
race on the earth and endowed it with the natural capacity to
live forever. And what happened? Churches began to spring up
with doctrines which, in ages gone by, were completely foreign
W e Should Meet "The Wanderer," hut Don’t 53
to everything God stands for. Whereas God breathed His own
life into the human race, and told it to live forever on the earth,
old politically minded church fathers originated the idea that
man was “born in sin and shapen in iniquity.” Nothing could be
farther from the truth than that. You may be sure that when
The Almighty had finished the creation of man, He had done a
very complete job. Eternal life on this earth followed the crea­
tion of man, just as surely as the night follows the day. That
was the immutable Law of God.
And then man began to doubt. And then man invented the
“death-idea” which was rapidly seized upon by church fathers
who saw in it the means to make themselves powerful world
organizations.
As doubt of the ability of God to give eternal life to every
created human on the earth began to creep in, death also came.
Ages ago, the human race lived to at least a thousand or more
years. Gradually, with the advent of churches, that span de­
creased until now it is about seventy years.
But once again, from several different sources, comes much
evidence that man is again turning his eyes towards the pros­
pect of eternal life on the earth. If eternal life is manifested, it
will be manifested on the earth where the Creator originated
human life. It will not be “in the skies” or anywhere else but
here.
Russian scientists, American scientists, British scientists have
been working for years on a connective-tissue serum which, they
say, will increase the normal span of human life from seventy
years to one hundred and fifty years. I do not care from what
source eternal life comes. It may be through scientists. It may be
through medical men. It may be through religious leadership.
I am convinced that it -will come, and before too long.
Last summer I was spending a few weeks at Meadowlark Farm
on the outskirts of Hemet, Calif. There I met a rather famous
pathologist from one of the large hospitals in Los Angeles. I got
rather well acquainted with Ralph. One day, while discussing
54 The Wanderer
the possibility of eternal life on the earth, I said to my friend:—
“Ralph—I suppose one of these days some one of you medical
pathologists will come up with a discovery which will make eter­
nal life on the earth possible.” His reply nearly knocked me off
my feet.
“Frank,” he said, “What you have just suggested is not at all
impossible—it may happen in our day.”
It is interesting to note that the aim of every system of reli­
gion on the face of the earth is eternal life. Of course, these sys­
tems of religion completely spoil the picture by interpolating the
death-idea first. They tell us that eternal life is the goal and aim
of man, God, and religion. “But,” they say, “All must die first.”
In other words, the Great God of the universe was capable of
creating life ages ago—human life—here on earth, but He is not
capable of continuing that life. He is so inefficient that He al­
lows someone else, or something else to destroy the life Fie cre­
ated. Frankly, I do not believe that. I am of the opinion that
when the human race gets closer and closer to God (and it will,
even if the present civilization be destroyed) it will find that the
closer it gets to the actual truths of God, the closer will it get to
eternal life on the earth.
The theory that The Almighty allowed an interloper to come
between God and man, separating the very life God gave, from
man, is a theory I cannot possibly hold. There is only one who
could have ■ permitted the death-idea to destroy the life God
gave, and that is—M A N . And if by man, death entered the
world, it will he hy man, eternal life shall again he restored.
How will it be restored? Well how did we lose it? Did we not
lose it by unbelief? Then we shall restore it by our own beliefs
in the impregnability of God. Is that too much to ask our
churches to advocate? Or would they prefer to continue to
preach the inevitability of death? Of course, if the death-idea is
removed from church theology, there is nothing left—is there?
It seems to me there is much left. It seems to me that the
present-day church would go very far, if it replaced its rather
W e Should Meet "The Wanderer,” hut Don’t 55
old-fashioned ideas of inevitable death, with the more modem
idea of eternal life. I suggest the churches try that. It could harm
no one. It would not destroy their membership, quite to the
contrary it would increase it. For in the moment the Christian
church changes its ministry from one of eternal death to eternal
life, and gives The Creator credit for having the ability to bring
that to pass here on the earth, our churches will be so jammed
that men and women will be unable to enter them.
This world is sick and tired of death. We have been swimming
in it for centuries. More blood was spilt during the last war than
in all other wars combined. Now, we are preparing for another
war which, if it comes, will decimate the earth. I say that war
can be averted. I say it can be averted by the Christian church.
But I say that it cannot be averted so long as the Christian
church limits the ability of God to avert it. Let the Christian
church throw away forever its impossible man-made theory that
death is inevitable, and let it give the Creator credit for being
able to give us a life which even death cannot destroy, and you
will see the Power and the Glory of God cover the earth in short
order. Life which cannot be destroyed is what God gave us in
the beginning. What a pity man would not accept the gift of
eternal life when it first was given man—at the original creation
of man.
x * x
Modem civilization, with all its errors, shams and debaucher­
ies, will finally think its way through to God—
at least a remnant
will.
x- x x
A Christian minister a t’Rotary Club here in Moscow and I
were discussing this matter of eternal life on earth, last evening.
This good chap said to me:—“But Doctor Robinson—there is
nothing in the Christian Bible upon which to predicate such an
assumption.”
56 The Wanderer
Oh yes there is. There is so much in the Christian Bible upon
which to predicate the theory of eternal life, that one has to
stumble over it from cover to cover. It must be remembered that
the Christian Bible, like the sacred writings of other major reli­
gions, is a man-made book. True, “Holy men” may have written
what God revealed to them—but holy men today are still writing
what God has revealed to them, and what was revealed 1900
years ago, and what is being revealed today, appear to be quite
different things. However—they may be one and the same .thing.
The author will allow every Christian to believe exactly what
he chooses to believe about his Bible. He will allow every other
religionist in every other major system of religion to believe
whatever they choose to believe about their “sacred writings” or
Bible. And the Bibles of the Hindoo are just as sacred and pre­
cious to them as the Christian Bible is to the Christian. None of
them would stand up in a court of law, if what is contained
therein was required to stand or fall according to the rules of
evidence.
I realize of course that this statement will bring a loud cry of
“atheist” once more. But that will have to be as it may. This is
no time to mince words. Civilization hovers between life and
death, and the author believes that a true understanding of the
God who created us can avert a cataclysm which seems inevi­
table. His motive is true and pure. Therefore, he will ask the
indulgence of those who do not believe as he does, while he is
permitted to advance to the world of unbelievers, a philosophy of
God which the world of unbelievers might possibly accept, and
which, through accepting, might bring an end to the awful
muddle in which our many religions have plunged the world.
What you call me doesn’t matter. Nor does it matter how
much you threaten and malign me. Jesus Christ was crucified by
church-members. Remember?
The author has met and talked with God. He has received a
revelation which could not have come from anyone else than
We Should Meet "The Wanderer,” hut Don’t 57
the Creator. It is his duty to pass this revelation on to the world.
The world will write the verdict.
The only thing the author regrets is that he is such a broken
vessel—
and so unworthy of the honor which has been bestowed
upon him by the God who gave him this revelation. It is a pity
that someone more capable and less prone to wandering did not
receive this Light instead of him.
However—the pathway is clear. This civilization needs, not
more theories of God, but the actual Presence, Spirit, and Power
of God if it is to be saved. I have before me at this moment, a
brochure recently released by the Toronto Bible College. It was
written by my old friend and instructor Dr. John McNicol, to
whom I referred a few paragraphs back. The brochure is en­
titled:—“The Bible’s Philosophy of History.” Let me quote a
paragraph from that brochure:—
“. . . Protestantism should set the presence of the Holy Spirit
in the life and worship of the church, and seek to make that a
reality. This is the real problem of the ecumenical movement,
for unless that is done the church will not be able to convince
the world that it is a divine institution. There is little evidence
anywhere that the world gets this impression of the church to­
day.”
When a noted divine like Dr. McNicol dares to make such a
statement, may I not be pardoned for agreeing with that divine?
I might point out to my friend Dr. McNicol that no church
can make the Spirit of God, or the “Holy Spirit” as he calls It, a
reality. It is a reality now. The greatest, living, potent reality
this world will ever know. To recognize the absolute reality of
the Spirit of God is the thing I have been endeavoring to get the
churches to do for more than twenty years.
But for any religious organization to attempt to make the
Spirit of God a reality—
well—the organization which tries that
would do far better if it began at once to recognize the present
existence of the Spirit of God on the earth, and preach and teach
58 The Wanderer
the absolutely limitless Power which is involved anywhere where
God is, and include the entire human race, not just they who
“believe” certain ecclesiastical doctrines.
Most of my friend’s brochure is an attack on Rome. Well
Rome should be attacked perhaps. But I should like to suggest
to my friend that he might be able to do much more towards
bringing the Spirit of God to men, if he forgot Rome, and every­
one else who does not agree with him, and began to first find the
actual Power of God—the Spirit of God—in his own life. For no
man can be equipped to teach others the truths of God unless
that man has been with God. He must have “talked with God.”
When such an experience comes to anyone, church-member
or non church-member, he or she, like the apostles of old will
say:—“Did not our hearts burn within us—by the way.”
* * *
There is not a Bible or “sacred writing” in existence which
does not contain enough in its first chapter or paragraph to more
than justify the possibility of eternal life on the earth. The
Christian Bible for instance. W e are informed that after God
had created man’s physical form, whether from the dust of the
earth or not does not matter, God breathed into man the Breath
of Life. In other words, Almighty God gave to men, the very
same Life He Himself possessed.
God did not merely possess His own Life, He was, and is His
own Life. So then, when, in the beginning, place it where you
will, The Creator gave Life to the human race, that Life was
immortal. It must have been for it was—not alone the Life of
G o d -B U T GOD H IM SELF.
That being a fact, what power is there which has the ability
to take away from man the Life which God gave to him? To
admit the invincibility and fathomless Power of God, is to admit
the invincibility and fathomless Power of the man in whom the
Spirit of God lives. So sure as God is eternal, so the Life in
We Should Meet "The Wanderer,” hut Don’t 59
man’s physical body is eternal. Nothing can come from God
which is not eternal.
W ith that gift of eternal life to man so long ago, T he Almighty
made the only revelation to man He will ever make. The dis­
covery of what lies in the Realm of the Spirit of God is up to
man to discover for himself.
The Spirit of God cannot make any man great. The eternal
truths of God cannot make a man great either. But man can
make the Spirit of God great by finding and using all the Power
which exists in man himself, because the Spirit of God actually
exists in man. Everything man can ever need through life -
eternal life—has already been provided by God. It already exists
in the Realm of the Spirit of God—in man. There remains then
but one thing for man to do, and that is to recognize the fact
that actually living in man, is all the Power there is in the Realm
of God.
Eternal life already exists. It exists for you. It exists because
the Life you now possess is the very same Life as that possessed
by God, or, to put it perhaps a bit clearer—IS GOD.
When America realizes this fact, if it ever does before the
next world war, the birth of a real freedom will have begun.
Twenty years ago the writer made the statement that in Amer­
ica the fire would be lighted which would eventually flare
round the world, and bring to all men and all nations, the stag­
gering fact that the Power of God exists here on earth, and
through that Power, all may live forever in perfect peace and
harmony, because God lives.
W hy allow something called “death” to interfere with the
plan of God? Away with all theories, religious or otherwise,
which deny either the willingness or the ability of God to mani­
fest His presence to the full, right here on the earth, right now.
The Creator has already done everything He can do. The rest
is up to man. God lives. God lives here and now. All the shim­
mering Power there is in God, is available to man now. Never
was that Power more urgently needed than It is now, when man
60 The Wanderer
stands upon the brink of a precipice which if he falls into it, he
will never fully recover.
W hy should the Christian church bemoan its loss of mem­
bers? W hy should it advocate the impossible theory that man
was “bom in sin and shapen in iniquity?” The Creator does not
build that sort of man. The writer admits freely that man is a
long way from God, but that is man’s own doing. The organiza­
tion responsible for the great gulf which exists between God and
man is the church. It has taught nothing but separation from
God. It has taught nothing but death and hell. If any church
down through the ages has ever taught that “The Gift of God is
Eternal Life here and now,” I do not know what church it was.
Of course, the Christian church will insist that the gift of
eternal life from God must come through Jesus Christ and
Jesus Christ alone. But other major systems of religion claim
that eternal life can only come through their “god-man.”
All any human being can do, and all may do it, is point out to
another individual that God has already given eternal life to
“Whosoever will,” and if Jesus did that, and He certainly did,
that was all He could do, because God has already freely given
eternal life to all men at birth. Jesus did not originate eternal life
any more than I did. All Jesus ever professed to do—all He ever
came to this earth to do was reveal the Spirit of God to the rest
of the world. The Spirit of God is the Spirit of eternal Life, for
GOD IS E T E R N A L LIFE.
He most plainly stated that He had come that men might have
life, and that they might have it more abundantly. Many other
Prophets before the time of Jesus came to the earth with direct
messages from the Spirit of God, and most of them met death as
a result of their efforts. Most of the deaths of the prophets of
God can be laid at the doors of the varying church organizations
which have stained with blood the records of the upward climb
of the human race toward a lucid and sensible explanation of the
relationship which must exist between God and man.
When everything unreasonable is eliminated from religion,
We Should Meet “The Wanderer," hut Don’t 6 l
then there must be left sufficient facts to enable man to instantly
grasp the staggering truths of his Maker—God.
* * *
I have digressed here in my narrative. Please excuse it. I real­
ize my utter inability to properly put these truths into print. I
have always known that I am not a writer. But whatever I do
write, bungling though it usually is, most of my readers under­
stand it. That is what matters.
This is the chapter in which we were to meet the most fasci­
nating man ever to come into my life, “The Wanderer.” You will
recall that I had boarded the Palouse Special three-quarters of an
hour before the train left Spokane for Moscow.
While relaxing there in my seat, I had been permitting my
thoughts to travel back over my life, from childhood up to the
present time. I believe I had recalled that twenty years earlier,
Mrs. Robinson, Alfred and I had boarded this same train for
Moscow. I had wanted a position in a small place where the
drug-stores closed at 6 p .m . and had been asked by the Spokane
Drug Co. to report as soon as possible to Mr. Chas. Bolles,
owner of the Comer Drug Store here in Moscow.
(I think I shall divide this book at this point and take up my
meeting with “The Wanderer” in chapter three.)
62 The Wanderer
C H A P T E R T H R E E
In Which W e Really Meet “The Wanderer”
T
h e r a p id f i l l i n g o f t h e t r a i n a r o u s e d m e f r o m t h e
reverie into which I had allowed myself to lapse for the past
forty minutes or so. Opening my eyes, I saw that the coach in
which I was seated was just about full. In fact, the only vacant
seat was the one opposite the seat in which I was sitting. The
reason that seat was vacant was, in all probability, because of the
fact that during my half-snooze, I had stretched my feet across
to the other seat. Evidendy no one wished to disturb me.
There was rather a motley crew aboard the train. A typical
mixture of all of the sorts which one might expect to find on a
train whose destination was through the Palouse Empire. As I
have previously said, this is one of the greatest wheat-raising
areas in the United States. There is no irrigation yet a crop
failure has never been known.
Moscow, Idaho, ships more peas to the nation than any other
city. Wheat, peas, and dairy products make this part of Idaho
and Washington rich, and the fertile lands keep it rich.
There is a good deal of logging in the mountains behind
Moscow, and at Lewiston, Idaho, the end of the line for this
train, the Weyerhauser interests have the largest saw-mill in the
United States. Lewiston is about forty miles from Moscow.
Had I been making the trip in the summer or early fall, I
should have been able to look through the train windows and see
mile after mile of rolling, golden-brown wheat-fields. As it was,
snow was falling, and the snap of the cold Idaho winter was in
the air. Usually I plan to remain in Moscow in the winter time
if at all possible, although it is hard for one leading a religious
The Wanderer
Movement as large as mine to count on being anywhere at any
certain time with any degree of certainty. Nevertheless, we do
try to stay at home during the winter months.
I spotted a couple of professors from Washington State Col­
lege on the train. Also Dr. John Miller, head of the department
of history at the University of Idaho—he was there too. Wash­
ington State College is located at Pullman, Wash., and the Uni­
versity of Idaho is located at Moscow, Idaho. The two cities are
but nine miles apart. The population of each is about the same—
around 6000 people, not including the college enrollment which
is about 2500 for Idaho and perhaps double that number for
Washington State, the home of the famous “Fighting Cougars”
of football fame.
A couple of loggers were aboard also. One had a bottle of
whisky which he was offering to anyone who wanted a drink.
A couple of Chinamen from a Pullman restaurant were evident,
and the usual run of mothers with their small babies were in the
coach.
I had already given my ticket to the conductor when I boarded
the train, so when he passed my seat he stopped just long
enough to place the little red identification tag in the receptacle
provided for it.
The whisde finally blew and we were off on the trip, each to
his or her destination. The first town at which this train stops
(and it stops at all of them) was Spangle. This is a very small
place of about 22 souls. It has quite a history, however, which
goes back to the Indian wars which used to pester Washington,
D. C., not so many years ago, when the American government
was stealing land from the Indians. “Stealing” is the correct word,
for that is just what it was.
After Spangle comes Oaksdale, Garfield, Palouse, Pullman,
and then Moscow, the train then passing through Juliaetta and
and Kendrick before arriving at Lewiston, the end of the line,
where the train changes crews and keeps steam up for the re­
turn trip later in the day.
64
It was at Spangle ‘T h e Wanderer” boarded the train. I saw
him standing on the platform. I saw him get aboard. Entering
the coach in which I was, and looking for a vacant seat, the most
fascinating person I have ever met spotted the vacant seat oppo­
site mine. I had, of course, removed my feet, so, being the only
vacant seat in the coach, the new passenger stood for a moment
at my elbow, looking at the empty space.
Presently I heard a voice, perhaps the saddest and sweetest
voice at the same time, say, while pointing to the seat across the
way:—“Pardon me please sir—that seat—is it occupied?”
I informed the gentleman that it was not occupied.
“Then would you have any objections to my using it?” he
queried.
I assured him that it would be a pleasure to have his com­
pany. Returning my smile with one of his own, he sat down.
During the past twenty years it has been my privilege to meet
many hundreds of thousands of people. They have come from
all walks of life. Rich. Poor. Happy. Unhappy. Fearful. Fearless
—all sorts and kinds cross my path. But never in my sixty years
of life have I met a person who so attracted me by his personal
charm and magnetism, as the new arrival did.
Usually I can place a person within the first few minutes of
meeting him. But this one was different. I said the “magnetism”
of his personality. It was more than just magnetism. What it was,
I did not know at the time. I know now.
The first thing I noticed about him was that he was immacu­
lately dressed. He wore a beautiful camel-hair overcoat, under
which was a spotlessly clean suit of banker’s grey. His shoes
were brown, and were of the high shoe variety, not usually seen
on well-dressed men nowadays.
He wore a white silk shirt, the detachable collar type, and as
he removed his camel-hair overcoat, I saw a beautiful pair of
gold cuff-links, with a strange design on them. In the lapel of
his coat was a small forget-me-not. Rather an unusual flower to
be wearing, I thought.
In Which We Really Meet “The Wanderer" 65
66 The Wanderer
His vest was, like his suit, spotless. It was white, with an em­
broidered pattern woven into it. One does not see that type of
vest any more, especially out here in the west. This man must
have weighed a full two hundred pounds, and that was all bone
and muscle. There was not one pound of fat on him.
Usually able to take care of myself under most circumstances,
the thought subconsciously flashed into my mind that here is a
man with whom I should not like to tangle in a rough and
tumble fight. I have had to do that more than once since com­
ing to Moscow. But here was a man I should hesitate a long
time before deliberately tangling with. Not that he was the
fighting type physically. But I did not need a second look at his
square-cut jaw to know that here was a natural born fighter for
principle.
He was not an American. I saw that at a glance, for his face
was swarthy, somewhat like that of a Mohammedan or a Hindoo.
I knew he came from somewhere in the Far East, possibly the
Arabian Sea, or thereabouts. He was not what we Americans
call a “white man.” But that mattered little to me. Here was a
man I wanted to get acquainted with.
Set low in his handsome face, was a pair of eyes, the like of
which I have never seen before, and do not expect to ever see
again. I cannot fully describe them. Those eyes made this man
master of any group or any circumstance.
They were a light blue. Almost steel-grey, and from their
depths there emanated a limpid flow of power and magnetism
which automatically held one in a sort of a semi-awe. The first
impression I received of this man was of power. Both physical
and spiritual power, for I knew that any man who possessed such
a personality as this new arrival on the train possessed, was a
spiritually minded individual.
Not only power and determination shone from those eyes.
They possessed a great sadness, it seemed to me. I instinctively
knew that somewhere in this man’s life was a burden. A sorrow.
Yet there shone from those eyes an intense love too. A compas­
sion I believe is the word I want.
He was clean-shaven and his hair was raven black, as were his
eyebrows. But those eyes . . .
His hands were not large. They were the hands of an artist.
If this man had ever done physical work, his hands did not
show it now. His age? . . . I should say anywhere between thirty
and thirty-five. Perhaps thirty-three to make a rough guess. Truly
this was an unusual individual.
And yet, as I sat there observing him, and trying at the same
time not to appear too rude or inquisitive, I felt that I had
known this man before. I racked my brain trying to remember
if I had ever met him. I was sure I had not. Yet the impression
took root, and grew, that I knew this man. (It turned out later
that I knew him very well indeed.)
After he had hung his overcoat on the hook provided on
trains of even 1900 vintage, he looked me square in the eyes as
if expecting me to say something to him. Perhaps he was going
to speak to me. In any event I had made up my mind to discover,
if possible, who this unusual individual was. I suspected that he
was a stranger in these parts. A Mohammedan or a Hindoo is
not a common sight in either Washington or Idaho. Yet I was
not so sure that this man was either one. His curved aquiline
Roman nose did not suggest either one, yet the swarthiness of
his skin, the white perfection of his teeth when he smiled told
me that he was a foreigner of some sort.
He kept his hands tightly closed and did not open them until
we parted at Moscow, some three and one half hours later, for,
as usual the Palouse Special was late that day. On the third
finger of his left hand he wore a beautiful ring. A turquoise, set
in platinum. I should say the ring was worth at least, more than
$500.
W e sat there looking at each other, a sort of a half-smile on
both our faces, for perhaps five minutes. Then I decided that I
would open the conversation, and try to be sociable. If the gen­
In Which We Really Meet “The Wanderer” 67
68 The Wanderer
tleman wanted to talk well and good—if he did not, well, that
would be well and good too. But I knew that he wanted to speak
with me. How I knew, I do not know. But I knew. I saw it in
his gleaming, azure-blue eyes perhaps.
M y first remark was about his camel-hair coat. I saw at a
glance that it was a genuine camel-hair coat. That type of coat
is not common here in America. There are woven imitations, but
I knew that this coat was the genuine article.
Putting on one of my most winning smiles I said to him:—
“That is a beautiful overcoat you have there—may I inquire
where you bought it? . . . I should like to have one like it very
much.”
“Oh—I’ll be glad to give you this one,” he replied, adding, “I
can easily get another just like it, and while I am waiting for it
to arrive from my native land, I can buy another coat anywhere.”
Of course, I was not going to let him give me his overcoat, no
matter how much I liked it. But what sort of a man was this who
offered to give his own expensive overcoat to a total stranger.
“Oh no—I appreciate very much your generosity, and I re­
spect it very much, but you cannot give me that coat—it belongs
to you, and the one I am wearing is a new one, and quite satis­
factory. I just happen to know that you did not buy that coat
here in the United States, and wondered where you did really
get it—those camel-hair coats are not common here in America,”
I said to him.
“No, I understand not,” he replied. “I bought that coat in
Alexandria.”
“Oh you have been in Egypt then?” I inquired, adding, “Do
you live in the United States now, or is your home still in the
East?”
“At the present time I am in the United States on a visit. I do
not know just how long I shall be here. I have a very important
mission to perform, and I am not at all sure just how long that
mission will take,” he said in perhaps the most perfect English I
have ever listened to.
I wanted to know his nationality in the worst way, yet did not
choose to come right out and ask him. So this is the way I
secured the information.
“It is, of course, a business mission you are on here in Amer­
ica, is it not?” I inquired.
Fastening those magnetic eyes on me, and smiling from the
very depths of his being it seemed, he replied:—“I am on a mis­
sion for my father.”
“Oh—that’s interesting. Is your father in Alexandria, or is he
over here with you?”
A sad light crept into his eyes, as, waiting for quite a few
moments, he replied:—“M y father is with me.”
Then, quick as a flash, and watching intently to see what re­
action his next statement would have on me, he said:—“I am a
Jew.” He probably knew the un-American sentiment which un­
happily prevails in many comers of our land against the Jew, for
he waited another few moments before adding:—“A Syrian
Jew.”
M y sympathy instinctively goes out to anyone of any race who
is the subject of persecution, and when this gentleman told me
that he was a Syrian Jew, I felt strangely warm towards him.
“I certainly trust that your business in this land is successful,”
I told him, and then, wishing to know his name I said:—“I am
Dr. Frank B. Robinson of Moscow, Idaho—you may have heard
of me.”
“Yes—I have heard of you,” he replied, but he did not tell me
his name. Realizing that etiquette called for him to reveal his
identity to me after I had introduced myself to him, he said—“I
suppose you would like to know my name?”
I admitted to him that I should very much like to know his
name, and his address. I told him quite frankly that there was
something about him which attracted me to him. I am quite
frank about such matters, usually speaking my mind when the
occasion demands it.
Reaching over, he rested his right hand, still tightly clenched,
In Which We Really Meet "The Wanderer” 69
The Wanderer
on my knee saying:—“Some day—before too long, you shall know
my name—suppose you call me ‘The Wanderer’ for the time
being—is that agreeable to you?”
This was a strange request, but one which I could not very
well deny. In any event I saw that it would not have helped me
any had I come right out and asked him his name. That type of
person talks when he wants to, and when he does not want to,
he just does not talk. So, to assure him that his reply had not
hurt my feelings in the slightest, I said:—“That is perfectly all
right my friend—you probably have a very good reason for con­
cealing your identity at this time . . . I’m afraid perhaps I may
have seemed a little too inquisitive.”
“Not at all—but there is a reason which you will understand
later, why it is best that I do not reveal my identity to you at
this time. I assure you that you shall know quite fully who I am
before too long,” was his comment.
This mystified me more than ever. That he was an unusual
personality I knew. Who he was I did not know—and yet—there
kept coming to me a strange presentiment that I had met him
before. There seemed to be something in common between us.
A bond of friendship, or love, or something which I could not
just put my finger on. I was sure, however, that if our paths had
not crossed in the past, they would in the future.
I began to relate to him an incident which happened some
years before when I was travelling through Syria and the Holy
Land. I had rented an English Sunbeam automobile in which I
made the trip throughout the Holy Land and the surrounding
country. Also I rented, or rather I hired a Syrian Jew to accom­
pany me, and act as interpreter.
I had secured permission from the British government to spend
one night in the great pyramid at Gizeh. Such permission was
rarely granted, and one had to have a good reason for such a
request. The British Consul was very cooperative however, and
so I was able to stay in the great pyramid all through the long
watches of a lonely night.
70
When I was released in the morning, the Syrian I had hired
had fled with the car, my motion-picture machine, and all my
clothes.
As I related this incident to “The Wanderer” he smiled, and,
to my utter amazement said:—“Yes Doctor Robinson, I know all
about that incident—the Syrian you hired was my brother.”
After a few moments in which he evidently liked the surprise
I registered, he said:—“Your car was returned to the garage, and
your camera was sent on to you at Bethlehem, was it not?”
I admitted that was the case, but did not know or could not
conceive just how “The Wanderer” knew anything about it,
even though it was his brother who had stolen both car and
kodak.
He took the question out of my mouth though by saying:—
"You see, I have two brothers who live in Bethlehem. You hired
one, and the one you hired is not above stealing whenever he
gets a chance. However, my father always makes him return
what he has stolen, and there is seldom any trouble. He’s a good
boy at heart.”
“But did you live in Bethlehem?” I inquired.
“I was born in Bethlehem in Judea,” he retorted. “Later, we
moved back to Syria, my father and my mother and my two
brothers and I. You see, when I was born we were only in
Bethlehem temporarily.”
“That is where Jesus was born,” I said, waiting for his answer
to that remark with interest.
“Yes—that is where Jesus was born,” he replied. Seemed to me
I detected a note of sorrow and sadness as he made that reply.
His handsome face became somewhat clouded I thought. And
then, turning to me he said:—“Do you know Dr. Robinson, I
often think it might have been better had Jesus never been
bom.”
I sat for several minutes looking at the man after he made
tbat statement. That is the sort of statement no man can make
unless he has a very profound reason for making it. This man
In Which We Really Meet "The Wanderer” 71
The Wanderer
had told me that he was a business man . . . or had he said that?
He sat there, his piercing blue eyes fastened on mine. He had
a way of looking at you which the word “fasten” best describes.
"Who are you?” I shot at him rather unexpectedly.
“I told you that I was here on business for my father. You
probably thought I meant my human father. That is not what I
meant however—I mean my Heavenly Father.”
“But what are you—a minister or priest—you told me you
were a Syrian Jew, so you cannot be either, can you?”
“No,” he replied, “I am neither minister nor priest. I am only
a human being, even as you. I spend most of my time about my
Heavenly Father’s business though,” he answered me.
“But are you a Christian?”
“No Jew can be a Christian,” he replied, and then, “A Chris­
tian is one who believes that Jesus was Almighty God—the sec­
ond Person in a Trinity of Three, and no Jew, Syrian or other­
wise believes that.”
“But you say that you are on your Father’s business—who do
you consider your Heavenly Father, if not Jesus?” I queried,
anxious now, more than ever to cultivate this unusual human
being who had boarded the Palouse Special at Spangle.
“M y Father is Almighty God—
my Creator. W e Jews know the
truth about Jesus, for He was one of us. He was a Syrian Jew—I
am a Syrian Jew. The record of Jesus has been most carefully
preserved by us Jews, who look upon Him as a great prophet,
but most certainly not as Almighty God. It is for this reason I
stated to you that sometimes I think it might have been better
had Jesus not been born at all. You see, Jesus was a prophet of
God. He was born of God just as you and I were born of G o d -
according to the law governing childbirth as prescribed by my
Father—God, in the beginning when He first brought human
life to this earth.”
“Then you mean that Jesus was not miraculously conceived
and bom in the womb of a virgin?” I parried.
“Every baby that is born is conceived miraculously, in that the
72
Spirit of God, my Father, is in every human conception. When­
ever a child is born, you may be sure that the law of my Father
governing childbirth has been fully complied with. Our parents
do that physically when, through the ordinance of holy matri­
mony, they unite their bodies, thereby making it possible for
two germs, the male and female to meet. But that is all they can
do. That is the law of God governing childbirth. That was the
law of my Father, God, when Jesus was born.”
I looked at my friend in absolute amazement. He was express­
ing sentiments and views which I had broadcast to the world
years before, and was still broadcasting and advocating. It was
for such statements as these that so many efforts have been made
to silence me. Yet here on a small country train I met a man,
a Syrian Jew, who, although plainly educated, was expressing
the very sentiments I had been expressing for twenty years. It
was a remarkable coincidence to say the least, for I was of the
opinion I was the only religious leader who even dared to express
such views in “Christian” America.
“But how do you figure that every conception is immaculate?”
I asked him.
“That is quite simple is it not? Christians believe that at the
birth of Jesus, the actual conception was by the Spirit of God.
And it was. And it is, in every conception. It must be. Let us
consider what happens when a child is bom, shall we?”
I was more than anxious to hear the explanation this strange
fellow calling himself “The Wanderer” would have to offer, so
I urged him to continue.
“I have already explained just what happens when a child is
bom. The parents meet. They fall in love. They obey the laws
of the land and the laws of God. As a result of their love, a
child is born. Now just what did the parents have to do with
the birth of that child? All they could possibly do was to unite
their bodies so that the male germ, the sperm, could come in
direct contact with the female germ the ovum—am I correct, so
far?”
In Which We Really Meet "The Wanderer" 73
74 The Wanderer
I admitted that I saw no flaw in his logic, and he continued:—
“But at that particular point in the building operations of the
child, another Power came into the picture. That Power is the
Spirit of God, and from that moment, It enters and takes charge
of the building operations. It performs biological and physio­
logical equations which cannot be duplicated in any chemical
laboratory. It changes sugars into starches, and performs so ef­
fectively Its operations, that nine months later, a child is bom.
Yet the parents of that child had nothing to do with the build­
ing of that tiny body. They merely complied with the law of
my Father governing childbirth, and the Spirit of God gave the
actual life.”
“And you believe Jesus had that sort of a birth?” ^queried.
‘Yes—Jesus had that sort of a birth, my friend. He was born in
exactly the same manner in which you and I were bom. Had He
not been bom as you and I were born, my Father would have
had to break one of His own laws, and that is impossible. If my
Father broke His own laws, even once, He may do it again. That
would leave the entire universe hanging on chance, or the whim
of my Father—and my Father does not work in such a manner.”
“Would you like me to continue?” he asked me, taking a
beautiful silk handkerchief from his pocket and running it gen­
tly across his forehead, for the car had become quite warm in
spite of the cold weather outside.
I assured him that I was more than eager to know all he knew
about God—for I was convinced that this “Wanderer” knew a
lot more than I knew about God, yet I had spent almost twice as
many years as he had in endeavoring to discover just what the
tmth about God is, and just what is the relationship which exists
between God and man.
I have suspected for a long time, that the mystery surround­
ing the Creator is a mystery which man originated himself. I
have never believed that The Almighty, after having performed
such a miracle as the creation of human life, took Himself off to
parts unknown, never to be heard directly from since. I do not
believe that now. I believe the “mystery” of God may be solved
by the life of man.
I was convinced that this meeting on this train running
through the rich Palouse country was not a chance meeting.
How this man came to be on the train, and why he would not
reveal his true identity to me, I did not know, and I cared less,
for here was a man who knew God. He had to know God to
reveal to me the truths he was revealing. I myself had come to
these identical conclusions many years before. I knew they were
true, and by the same token, I knew that “The Wanderer” actu­
ally had been with God. He had probably talked with God as I
first had so many years ago.
Continuing, he said:—“Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea,
where I was bom. His father was Joseph, a carpenter. His
mother was a very wonderful lady whose name was Mary. We
Jews know her last name too. Mary and Joseph, who was about
three years older than Mary, she being twenty-one at the time
Jesus was born, had been keeping company with each other for
about a year. They were both desperately in love with each
other, and they could both be seen taking long walks into the
country surrounding Nazareth, where they both lived and
worked.
“Jesus was bom in Bethlehem where His parents had taken
Him when they went to pay their taxes. In those days there was
no mail. Tax notices were not sent to the tax-payers. They were
required to report in person, and pay their taxes. Those from
Nazareth paid them in Bethlehem.
“It was discovered sometime before tax-time, that Mary was
going to have a baby. Nothing was thought of it, in spite of the
fact that no marriage ceremony had been performed. In those
days, marriage ceremonies were things of luxury, and Joseph, be­
ing only a carpenter, did not feel he could afford such a thing as
a ceremony at that time. However, it made no difference, for
Joseph took Mary to be his wife, a marriage ceremony being
performed at a later date.
In Which We Really Meet “The Wanderer” 75
The Wanderer
“In due time, a bit before the expected time, Jesus was bom
just as any other child of that day was born—just as you and I
were born. There was no room for Jesus in the inn, as that was
only a small affair, and few could afford to stay there. This par­
ticular inn was always crowded when the taxpayers from the
surrounding territory made their way to Bethlehem to be taxed.
“The story that Jesus was born in a manger because there was
no room for Him in the inn, as told by Christians, is substan­
tially correct. Many children were bom in mangers. Many were
born alongside the road. Few were bom in inns, for few people
in that day could afford the privileges of an inn.
“Perhaps I should mention the fact that in those days, many
babies were bom out of wedlock. Whenever that happened, it
was the custom to say that the ‘Holy Ghost’ was the father of
these babies, when as a matter of fact, their real fathers were
known to their mothers. In Greece, however, the ‘Holy Ghost’
legend was being used to such a degree, that many were using it
as an excuse for avoiding the marriage ceremony altogether. So
the King of Greece passed a law, decreeing death to any mother
who claimed the ‘Holy Ghost’ was the father of her baby, if that
baby was bom out of wedlock.”
I looked at “The Wanderer” and marvelled at his knowledge.
The statements he was making were all known to me. I had
spent many years in research along this particular line, trying to
get at the truth of the birth of Jesus. Turning to him I said:—
“Your theories are undoubtedly tme, but what you are saying
knocks the props completely out of the Christian religion, does
it not?”
“It only knocks the useless props out,” he replied. “It places the
birth of Jesus on a very much higher plane than the Christians
have placed it. You see, if there was a special effort made by my
Father to bring Jesus into existence, it puts His great life far
beyond the reach of you and me. But if Jesus was bom of a
woman by the same exact procedure which resulted in your
76
birth, and mine, do you not see that this fact raises us all to the
stature of Jesus?
“If Jesus had the same identical birth you and I had, then do
you not see that Jesus was absolutely correct when He said ‘The
things that I do shall ye do also.’ ”
“You do not need to spend any time trying to tell me that the
birth of Jesus was a perfectly natural birth,” I said to “The W an­
derer.” “I have known that for many years. The thing that I am
more interested in, is bringing these truths you are telling me to
the people. They want God—but they want the true God. Never
was the world as hungry for spiritual truth as it is now, and
whether the Christian church likes it or not, this world w ill not
follow Jesus so long as the Christian church insists on hanging a
miraculous conception and virgin birth onto Him. But give Jesus
the same birth that you and I had, and then go as far as Jesus
went, claiming unity with God, and eternal life, and this world
will follow that sort of a Jesus.”
M y friend “The Wanderer” smiled as he said to me:—“You
have learned the one great truth which will do more towards
uniting men and God than any other truth, although all truth
must, because of what it is, inevitably bring us all closer to the
perfect day which is at hand—the day in which the human race
and God shall be re-united. In that day, which you and I shall
see, there will be no more pain. There will be no more sighing,
or sorrow, or fear, or travail of soul, for my Father and His cre­
ation shall reign on earth forever and ever. Death will be un­
known. It will be the last enemy to be destroyed, an*d the de­
struction of death is very close. When such truths as you and I
are discussing become known to the masses, as they must, and
will, the Kingdom of God truly will be at hand.”
“Is it your opinion that the theory of the immaculate concep­
tion and the virgin birth have done more to alienate man from
God than any other one thing?” I asked him.
“Not exactly,” he replied. “You see, ten thousand years are as
but a day with God. It is true that had not the doctrines of the
In Which We Really Meet “The Wanderer" 77
The Wanderer
Trinity, Immaculate Conception and the other theories of that
type been known, God and man might have been re-united long
ago, but I’m not so sure that man, once he had alienated himself
from God because of his doubt of the ability of God to give him
eternal life here on earth, would have gotten over his disbelief
any faster. Man is not yet ready to return to God. He is on the
threshold of throwing overboard theories of God which, while
good for the churches, cannot ever reveal the Spirit of God to
man. But I am afraid that unless man begins to accept the
actual truths of God before too long, this civilization will perish.”
“What a pity then, that the virgin birth of Jesus was ever
advocated,” I mused aloud.
“Yes—that is a pity,” my friend rejoined. “No one in His day
ever even suspected such a birth. No one ever heard of it. It was
not until hundreds of years later that such a theory was ad­
vanced, and then only by ecclesiastical minds, unable to think
for themselves. Human beings did not originate such theories of
God. These, and others, equally far from God, were the origina­
tions of various church organizations. Well-meaning, of course,
but so soaked in superstition that their poor minds could not
accept God at face value. Jesus saw the truth when but a child.
You will recall that at the tender age of twelve years, he entered
the temple and began to tell the priests that their theology was
all wrong. So sure was He of His ground, and so sure were the
priests that He was right, that it soon became evident that, if He
lived, He would become a menace to organized ecclesiasticism
so His death was plotted years before it happened.”
“Then Jesus actually was crucified?” I interpolated.
“There is no question about that,” he replied, “but He was not
crucified as a God. In fact, no one considered Him to he God
until several hundred years after his crucifixion. He ran around
and played with the other children. He made mud-pies with
them. He had two brothers, and certainly none had the faintest
suspicion that at some future time some church organization
78
would try to make a God out of Him—nothing was farther from
anyone’s mind.”
“W hy did you say a little while back that it might have been
better had Jesus never been born?”
“I believe I explained that to you Dr. Robinson, but there is
one more reason why, at times, when I look at the condition of
the human race, I wonder if it might not have been far better if
Jesus had not bom, and I’ll tell you what that reason is—you
see, millions of people, earnest and honest in their search for the
actual truths of God, have been so terribly misled through this
impossible theory that Jesus was Almighty God, that most people
on earth today have lost all faith in religion. Atheism was never
more rampant than it is today. People look at this world, with
its crime, its debauchery, its immorality, brutal wars with their
utter lack of respect for human life, and then they look at our
churches which have represented themselves as revealing God
to the world—and they wonder. They doubt the very existence of
God. But—had the message Jesus came to bring been accepted
by the church of His day, and had He never been deified by a
later ecclesiastical organization, this world might very easily be
the most beautiful spot in all creation. But that did not happen.
The message of the Power of God, and the Spirit of God was
missed completely, and an unbelieving church, down through
die ages, has made of religion a political weapon for terrifying
the people into believing that only after death can one know
either God, or eternal life. Jesus came to tell this world that eter­
nal life is possible, here and now, because God actually lives.
You will recall that a few moments ago I was speaking to you
about the Life which is God entering into a human body shortly
after conception. I tried to point out God, without human help,
took those two tiny little Life-germs and, in nine months cre­
ated a human body out of them. Now may I ask you this ques­
tion—do you believe that the Spirit of God, after having per­
formed the most amazing of all miracles by creating that tiny
body, took Its departure at birth, handed the child over to its
In Which We Really Meet “The Wanderer” 79
8o The Wanderer
parents with the admonition that it can paddle its own canoe
from that point on—or—does the actual Spirit of Life—the actual
Spirit of God still live in that body? If not, from whence comes
its motivating Power?”
“I have been teaching that for twenty years,” I reminded my
friend “The Wanderer.”
“Yes I know you have,” he replied, “and your work has taken
root to a degree little understood by you—as yet. Soon, you will
know just how great spiritual truths you have been teaching.
But let me ask you—has your pathway been easy? Has not or­
ganized religion tried for twenty years to crush you and your
teaching?”
Recalling the vicious, persistent attacks which have been made
on my Movement and myself and family, I had to agree that my
friend was speaking the truth.*
* * *
“Had Jesus had no message which threatened the very exist­
ence of the priests and the “holy-men” of the temple, He would
never have been crucified. But, seeing the light, He flew in the
face of religious tradition, and His shocking crucifixion re­
sulted,” “The Wanderer” said.
“That crucifixion was a horrible thing,” I ventured, wonder­
ing what “The Wanderer’s” reaction to that statement would be.
* In this book I shall not relate the many attempts which have been made
to crucify the Psychiana Movement. The author has been attacked so viciously
that if the facts were to be made public, a wave of resentment against a certain
racketeering organization would start, and it would result in the complete
annihilation of this particular racket from the American business scene. On
two different occasions the Author has been forced to defend himself and his
Movement in federal courts. It has cost him, and this Movement, over $75,000
defending his religion against these subversive, unAmerican attacks, which are
still continuing. However, the Spirit of God happens to be in the Psychiana
Movement, and not so much as a traffic violation has been found against the
Author, who, while not likening himself to Jesus, is bringing the same truth
to the earth which Jesus brought, and is suffering the same persecution. I may
write another hook following this one, and if I do, I shall go into much detail,
mentioning names of persons and organizations, with places and dates. That
hook will shock America, I promise you.
8i
“It was horrible—yes—but in those days crucifixion was the
legal manner of putting a person to death. Murderers and thieves
usually suffered death in that manner. Many people have the
idea that Jesus was the only Man ever to be crucified. As a mat­
ter of fact, that means of putting a person to death is still fol­
lowed even to this day in some of the Latin countries of South
America. I saw a crucifixion not too long ago, in South Amer-
• »
ica.
“Is crucifixion a speedy death?” I inquired of my friend.
“No—it is a very slow death. The condemned person is first
made to carry the rough cross, usually hewn out of trees with the
cross-piece tied to the upright. It is quite a task for a full-grown
man to even lift a cross. But in those days, that was required.
Should the condemned man falter or stumble, he was beaten
with lashes from a cruel whip. The nails used to fasten the hands
of the one being crucified were not the bright shiny things you
can buy in any hardware store today—they were crude, rough,
jagged pieces of iron, round, and about as big as a railroad spike.
The cross was laid on the ground. Then, the accused would be
seized and usually stripped naked. His body was lashed to the
upright piece of the tree, while his feet rested on two small foot-
pieces. Then, the nailing of the hands was done on the ground,
and when the victim was securely nailed to the cross, the whole
gruesome contraption would be raised and stuck in a hole which
had already been dug in the ground. Death would usually fol­
low in about thirty-six hours. Sometimes sooner.”
“How long do you think it took Jesus to die on the cross?” I
asked him. His reply did not shock or stagger me as might have
been expected. Nevertheless, the manner in which he answered
me will never be forgotten by me. He paused for a few moments,
his glistening eyes lighting up with a strange inner light, it
seemed to me, as he said:—1
"Jesus did not die on that cross.”
“You think He was still alive when Joseph of Arimathea asked
for, and received permission of Pilate to remove the body?” I
asked “The Wanderer.”
In Which W e Really Meet “The Wanderer”
82 The Wanderer
"I know H e was alive,” was his reply.
A silence, deep and profound on my part, followed that an­
nouncement. I had heard this theory expounded before, and
gave quite a little credence to it. Before I could ask the question
that was on my mind, however, “The Wanderer” continued: “Of
course, the injustice of the crucifixion of Jesus lay in the fact
that He was not a criminal. He had murdered no one. He had
stolen nothing. He had never claimed to be God. He had
claimed that the Spirit of God lived in Him, but as for claiming
to be Almighty God in person, Jesus never in His life made any
siich claim. Quite to the contrary, He persistently denied that
He was God. Read John 14:10 and you will find that Jesus ex­
plicitly gave all credit for everything He had been able to do to
His Father, the Spirit of God which lived in Him.”
Being quite familiar with this passage, I repeated it aloud to
“The Wanderer”—“Believest thou not that I am in the Father,
and the Father in Me? The words that I speak unto you, I
speak not of myself, but the Father that dwelleth in M e—He
doeth the works.”
“You have correctly quoted,” he replied, continuing. “In that
passage lies the very crux, the very kernel of the whole life of
Jesus. Those words of His contain the core of His entire mission
on this earth. Early in life, He knew, beyond a shadow of a
doubt, that His Father—the invisible Spirit of God actually lived
in Him—in His physical body, that is. He knew that, to a
greater degree than He knew anything else. He knew it from
childhood, and because He sought to bring that message to the
‘wise men’ in the temple, and to the whole world, they crucified
Him. Those religious racketeers knew full well that if Jesus was
able to convince the world that the Spirit of God actually lives
in every man and woman from birth, their philosophy would
have to be thrown out of the window, and their livelihood
would be gone. Let me ask you a question—if every man and
woman on this earth today, knew, with a living actual conscious­
ness, and from actual experience, that the Spirit of God actu­
ally lives in each of them, how many people do you think could
be found in our churches next Sunday morning?”
“Very few,” I replied, seeing the point he was making.
“You see, the mistaken, misguided church of today still in­
sists on clinging to a theory which never was true in the first
place, and which has utterly failed to reveal the Power of God
to this world, in the second place. Your churches have a thou­
sand and one excuses for their failure to help this world, but they
seem to be utterly unable to see that the fallacy of the God-ship
of Jesus is at the very core of all their failures. Of course Jesus
was God—just as you and I are God. W e are God because the
Spirit of the Living God lives in us. This same Spirit lived in
Jesus, and to that extent He was God, even as you and I, but to
no other extent. If the Christian church would forever cast off
the fantastic claim that Jesus was the second person of a mythical
trinity, and if it would teach that everything Jesus did we can
also do, all the while enjoying to the very full the limitless Pres­
ence and Power of the Spirit of God in us, how long do you
think it would take the church to bring the Spirit of God—the
Spirit of infinite Peace—to this war-tom, suffering, bleeding
civilization?”
“I tell you Doctor Robinson, this world can be saved, and the
Kingdom of God can be established on this earth by the Chris­
tian church, hut that church will have to get rid of the foolish
theories on which it was founded. It will have to change its
present message, if it has one, for the same identical message
Jesus brought to the earth in His day—that message is that the
Spirit of God—the Father—abides, or lives in every created hu­
man being—here and now !’
“Do you think the Christian church will ever do that?” I
queried.
“It may—although the chances are very much against it. How­
ever, there is still some hope.”
Reaching into his side coat pocket he brought out a clipping,
and, handing it to me said:—“Read that.”
In Which We Really Meet "The Wanderer’’ 83
The clipping was the result of a recent poll taken among the­
ological students in twenty of the country’s major theological
seminaries. Although I knew of this poll, I was rather surprised
that “The Wanderer” also knew of it. I still had not figured this
man out. That he was a student of religion I knew full well.
That there was something more than human about him, I began
to suspect.
Many polls of this type have been made over the past twenty
years, and it is very significant that the more recent the poll, the
greater the percentage of “unbelievers” among our theological
students—men who are training to preach the Christian theol­
ogy. These students do not believe the very fundamentals of the
theology they are soon to go out into the world and preach, and
freely and openly say so. What then are they going to preach?
Are they going to manufacture a theology all their own? Me-
thinks that is exactly what is happening. Methinks too, that the
reason for the chaos in the Christian church today is the con­
glomeration of personal ideas which are foisted on the unsus­
pecting public. W hy do not these ministers and priests, if they
do not believe Christian theology, come right out and say so?
The world would have more respect for them if they did.
Here are a few of the sermon-subjects taken from the church
page of a leading metropolitan newspaper, just a few weeks ago
by the Author:—
"Should a stenographer accept gifts of jewelry from her em­
ployer?”
"W ill Russia declare war on the United States?”
'W ill the Republican Party he elected this fall?”
"Was Hitler the Anti-Christ?”
This is mute, but very tangible evidence that neither minister
or priest has any fundamental message of the Power of God to
bring to this world. Only the Power of God can save this civili­
zation—that is very evident. Yet—because Christian ministers and
priests do not believe the very things they preach, this civiliza­
tion will, in all probability catapult down to its impending doom,
84 The Wanderer
with the Christian church standing listlessly by on the side lines,
unable to do one thing, or preach one gospel which has the
Power to save this unbelieving civilization from itself, and from
impending destruction.
(The Author would like to offer a suggestion to the Federal
Council of The Churches of Christ in America. He would like
to make two suggestions in fact. The first suggestion is that it
change its name' to The Federal Council of the Churches of the
Spirit of God in America. The second suggestion is that it lay to
one side the “articles of faith” which have made it so utterly
impotent in the world, and instead of preaching about the deity
of Jesus, instruct all its ministers to first recognize the Power of
the Spirit of God in their own lives, then go into the world and
preach the Power of the Spirit of God to the multitudes. They
will listen, I can promise the Council that. About the easiest
thing I know of, which the Christian church could accomplish,
would be the winning of this world, not to Jesus, because the
world rightly does not accept Jesus as God Almighty, hut to God
—the Father—the Great Spirit of God which comes into every
life at hirth, and which, if allowed to, can and will continue our
present life through eternity. For God means us to inherit eternal
life on this earth, where Fie originated human life in the first
placed)
I looked at the clipping which “The Wanderer” had handed
to me and this is what I read, condensed:—
“Eighty-five percent of all theological students polled denied
the immaculate conception of Jesus. Eighty-six percent denied
the virgin hirth. Seventy-eight percent denied the resurrection,
while sixty-three percent denied the deity of Jesus.”
That is quite a record. Is there any wonder that this world is
on the verge of falling into utter chaos? With the actual Power
of God so near, why will not the Christian church give the
world the answer it is looking for? W hy will it not see the hand­
writing on the wall, and change its doctrine from the deity of
In Which We Really Meet “The Wanderer’’ 85
86
Jesus to the present existence of God—the Spirit of God—in every
human life? W hy does it continually harp on sin, death, destruc­
tion when The Spirit of God stands by, anxiously waiting to find
some honest heart through which that Great Spirit can manifest
Its Power, not only in the Christian church but throughout the
whole world? The mystery of “godliness” is too deep for this
writer.
Turning again to “The Wanderer” I said:—“You just told me
that Jesus was alive when Joseph of Arimathea removed His
body, did you not?”
“I said that Jesus was still alive when Joseph of Arimathea
begged the body of Jesus from Pilate,” he corrected.
“Then when did Jesus die?” I queried, anxiously awaiting his
answer, for I wanted to see whether he had the same answer
I had.I was not at all prepared however, for the answer he gave
me. Turning his sad, rather wan face from the train window out
of which he had been looking, he said to m e:—“Jesus has never
died—He is still alive.”
“Am I to understand you to mean that Jesus—this same Jesus
who came to this earth some nineteen hundred years ago, is still
alive, and on this earth?” I asked him.
“That is exactly what you are to understand my friend,” he
replied. Before I could ask him the next question I had in my
mind, he leaned across the small aisle which separated his seat
from mine and said:—“Please refrain from asking me the ques­
tion you are about to ask—before long, you will know the reason
for this request—you will know where Jesus is, and where He
has been since that day, so long ago now, when Joseph of
Arimathea secured possession of His still living body.”
“I think I understand perfectly why you make that request,
and I shall honor it.” I said to “The Wanderer,” adding:—“But
if Jesus did not die on the cross, and if He was not permanently
buried, what does that do to the story of His resurrection?”
“The story of the resurrection of Jesus,” he began, “is pure
fiction. Let me tell you where it came from.”
The Wanderer
“But just one moment my friend—you say the story of the
resurrection of Jesus is pure fiction, but if that is true, does it not
once more destroy the entire structure of the Christian church?”
I said.
Smilingly he looked at me, and his handsome face seemed to
be lighted with that same halo which I had imagined I had seen
several times when he smiled. Then he said:—“No—the elimina­
tion of the story of the resurrection of Jesus from the Christian
religion, will not destroy it—it will purify it. It will remove one
of its greatest stumbling blocks. W ith that story gone, the
Christian religion may, if it so chooses, change its message to
the same message Jesus taught. That message, as you know, is
the present existence in every life, of the Spirit of God. The
story of the resurrection of Jesus has done more than any other
one thing to bring the Christian, and other religions having a
resurrection story, into disrepute. You see—you cannot hope to
redeem this civilization by offering to it a theory of God which
the reasoning minds of twentieth century men and women can­
not, and will not accept. You will have to present God to the
world on its own level. You must bring to the human race, a
concept of God so simple that all can see it, and accept it. Not in
ten million years would the story of the resurrection of Jesus
unite this world to God. As a matter of fact, that is one of the
doctrines of the Christian church which is rendering it so im­
potent today. It says it represents God. It brings to earth a theory
of God which has been taught for over nineteen hundred years.
There are hundreds of millions of nominal followers of Chris­
tianity. It has built tens of thousands of churches. It has hun­
dreds of thousands of priests and ministers. One would think,
with such an array of power as that, that the actual Power of
God, and the Spirit of God would be pretty well known on the
earth today. But are they? Well you know as well as I, that even
as quickly as tomorrow morning we may read of an attack by
atomic bombs on any part of this earth. You know that the whole
earth is a powder-keg. You also know that not one of the major
In Which We Really Meet “The Wanderer” 87
88 The Wanderer
systems of religion on the earth has ever been able to manifest or
demonstrate the Power of God on the earth. And yet—the Spirit
of God actually lives in, and gives life to, every one on the face
of the earth?—is not that so?”
I was bound to admit that it is so. The question of getting the
facts before the people is what has concerned me most for the
past twenty-odd years, and I told “The Wanderer” that. To which
he replied:—“Don’t worry too much about that—when the
proper time comes, and when the right man presents the facts
of the existence of the Spirit of God to this present civilization,
what men and women there may be left on the earth will run to
these truths. They will wonder why it was that they did not see
them years ago. The Christian church, or what is left of it will
hang its head in shame when it sees, too late, the golden oppor­
tunity it has had for so long, to preach the actual Power of the
Spirit of God on this earth, and in human lives, sacrificing that
precious opportunity for the fable of the resurrection of Jesus,
for that is the keystone of the Christian church structure. It is a
very unsafe foundation. On it has been reared a false faith.”
“You were about to tell me why the story of the resurrection
of Jesus is fiction,” I urged. “I shall be very glad to have you ex­
plain that to me in detail. I have, of course, my own theories
which I teach, but I am more than interested in hearing from
your lips, just what you believe to be the truth about the sup­
posed resurrection of Jesus.”
“Well, in the first place,” he began, “Long before the advent
of Jesus, other systems of religion had claimed that they had a
man who was God, who was crucified, and who arose from the
tomb.”
I interrupted him at that point, with the remark:—“You said
‘long before the advent of Jesus,’ will you go into detail a bit,
if you can?”
“I happen to know quite a little about the gods which ap­
peared and were crucified, and then resurrected before the time
of Jesus,” he said to me, adding, “I do not ever like to allude to
these other gods of other religions, and should not do so now were
it not for the fact that you and I are interested in only one thing,
that is, revealing the actual Power of God to this world. We
have both seen the Light. W e both know how very easy it would
be for the Christian church to redeem this world through the
Power of God. W e also know that while the Christian church
doubtless suspects where its trouble and weakness lie, it seems
loath to do anything about it. In other words, it wishes, and very
honestly, to do what it can to redeem the human race from the
burden under which it struggles today—but it wants to do the
impossible. It wants to redeem this world and, at the same time,
cling close to a set of old traditions which were handed down to
it by well-meaning, but completely ignorant church fathers, so
many centuries ago. The Christian church cannot do that. It will
either keep its traditions at the expense of saving this world, or
it will change its doctrines for the very much more powerful
doctrine of the present existence of the Spirit of God, in each
man’s life. I do not ask the Church even to publicly deny the
doctrines which have brought it to the sorry mess in which it
finds itself—but I do ask it to give God credit for being able to
reveal Himself to the creation He made, which creation stands
at this very moment, on the brink of annihilating itself. This—
is what I am interested in doing, and this is what you are inter­
ested in doing also. Yet we are very much misunderstood. But
Jesus, the greatest spiritual Prophet of all ages, went to the cross
trying to do exacdy what you and I are trying to do, for, believe
it or not Dr. Robinson, I have a following too, as great as yours.”
“I wish you could tell me who you really are,” I said to “The
Wanderer.”
“It is in the interests of the Kingdom of God that you do not
know—yet,” he replied, and with that reply I had to be satisfied
for the time being.
“You probably will write a book, telling of your meeting with
me, and if you do, and if you record the facts I am now going
to reveal to you about the resurrection of Jesus, and other gods,
In Which We Really Meet "The Wanderer’’ 89
The Wanderer
please impress upon your readers that I do not tell you these
things to criticize the Christian church. Tell them I love it. Tell
them I should like to be a part of it, but cannot, so long as they
insist that Jesus was Almighty God. One day—not too far hence,
you and I shall have our part in the great resurrection, not of
Jesus, but of the Christian church. Then it will know how very
kindly I feel in disclosing to you proof positive that the story of
the immaculate conception, the virgin birth, and the resurrection
of Jesus are the very themes which are making the spoken words
of God of none effect. What was it that was written so long ago?
I believe it is in Mark 7 :13 —'Making the Word of God of none
effect through your traditions’—is not that the quotation?”
I assured him that that was one of the two quotations dealing
with the nullifying of the Word of God by church traditions.
He continued:—“Jesus saw all these things which are happening
now. He knew from the beginning what the end would be.
He foresaw the day when the Christian church, the one organiza­
tion through which the Power of God should come to the earth,
or rather should be made known to the inhabitants of the earth.
He knew too, that the church would not rise to the occasion. He
knew that it would make clean the outside of the cup, leaving
the inside full of filth and rottenness. Jesus knew all these things.
He also knew that just before the end of this dispensation, there
should arise a prophet, who, in biting withering terms, would
try to lead the church back to God. He suspected the efforts of
this prophet would fail. He foresaw the almost complete destruc­
tion which man would bring upon himself, because of his own
unbelief in the existing Power of the Spirit of God. He knew
too, that the most ignorant of all, would be the church which
bears His own name, but which will not see—in fact does not
want to see the bright, Shining Light of the Spirit of God, which
Light this world is so earnestly looking for at this moment. Jesus
knew all these things. Do you know why, on the cross, Jesus
sweat great drops of blood? Do you know why that sweet, sad
face of his was torn by an internal agony never suffered before
90
or since by any man? Do you know why, in the throes of His
physical suffering He lifted His eyes toward Heaven, and, with
a heart that was writhing with pain shrieked out ‘M Y GOD—
M Y G O D -W H Y H A ST T H O U FO RSAKEN M E’? Let me
tell you why, for I do not believe you know why it was. You will
recall that at that moment, even Elis closest friends, the members
of the Christian Church, the apostles, had all forsaken Him and
fled. In the hour of the world’s direst need, they were not to be
found at His side. In that moment of writhing, tormenting agony,
He made His famous cry, not to His Father ‘in the sky’ but to
His Father, the Spirit of God within Him. Jesus knew then, as
He knows now, that the church of this day in this hour of direst
need, when this world needs the Power of God as never before,
that the Christian church would be found lacking—even as it
was when He tried in vain to save it. Had Jesus died physically,
which He did not, it would have been of a broken heart—not
because of physical pain. A broken heart—broken because He
knew that the church of His day would choose to worship Him,
the Messenger, and completely ignore the message He came to
bring. Had His message been accepted then, this world would
be living with God now. But the ancient church chose to accept
the traditions which have brought it to its doom, instead of the
Spirit of God, which would have brought eternal life to it. Now,
when the world needs it most, all the Christian church has to
offer are the old traditions of immaculate conception, virgin birth
and resurrection. As these traditions have brought death and de­
struction to humanity before, they will do it again, unless a very
quick change comes over it.”
“How old are you—do you mind telling me that?” I inquired
of “The Wanderer.”
“Not at all—I am only about half as old as you are—you are
61, I am 33.”
“I cannot understand from whence your grasp on things
religious came from at your young age—you haven’t lived long
enough to think these things out—have you?”
In Which We Really Meet “The Wanderer” 91
92 The Wanderer
Again that sad smile came over that handsome face as he re­
plied:—“With God there is no time. No age. Just one eternal
life, coming from God.”
“We were speaking of resurrections of gods prior to the time
of Jesus,” I reminded him.
“To be sure we were. There was a virgin-bom God called
Quetzalcoatl of Mexico, who was crucified long before the time
of Jesus. There was Chris of Chaldea. Then, again, there was
Quirinus of Rome, and Prometheus of Caucasus. Also, Osiris of
Egypt, Atys of Phrygia, and Mithra of Persia. All of these gods
were supposed to be born of virgins. They were all crucified, or
so the traditions concerning them say, and after three days they
all rose from the dead. I am not saying that any of them did. Nor
am I saying that Jesus did. I am saying that He did not. With
so many prior crucified, virgin-bom, resurrected gods, whether
fact or fiction, it is easy to see how the tradition of some former
religion could very easily have been adopted by those who formu­
lated and brought into existence, the Christian religion.
“There will be those Dr. Robinson, as you undoubtedly have
discovered, who will tell you that if you take away the doctrine
of the resurrection of Jesus, you will be destroying religion. I
have once explained to you that this disproving of the resurrec­
tion will take away nothing that is good from religion. It will
purify it by getting rid of the dross which never should have
been there. Undoubtedly, sir, in your work in Moscow, you have
been told by church-members that, ill trying to point the way
to the Power of God, eliminating the deity of Jesus, you have
taken away their only moral guide and left them drifting on an
unknown sea. In pulling up some weeds, that flowers may grow,
you have been accused of destroying the faith of millions. If that
faith however is not of God, it should be destroyed, should
it not?”
“As I see it, Mr. Wanderer, the Christian church should ex­
amine the very foundations of its faith. It should prove its beliefs
and hold fast to only those foundations upon which a noble struc­
ture which can save humanity can be built. To choose other
foundations is to leave humanity drifting hopelessly on an un­
known sea. As I see it, the Christian church should follow the
Heavenly Light, even though that Light lead away from the
flesh-pots of prior and ancient traditions, through the dead sea of
its cherished hopes, and over the arid deserts of disappointment
which the Christian church is hopelessly bogged down in. It is
my further opinion that the church should follow the clear light
of reason, for only thus may it hope to reach the actual truths
of God. The Almighty can never reveal Himself to any human
being through anything beyond the comprehension of that hu­
man being. The plan God gave to man, for his eternal life on the
earth, is so simple that it has been missed entirely on account of
its simplicity.
“True religion, as I see it, is a realization of one’s actual rela­
tions with God, and, through God, with his fellow-men. The
Christian Bible, like other writings both sacred and profane, may
help point the way to true religion, which is the personal rec­
ognition of the Spirit of God in life, but it is no necessary
part of religion or God. All that is good and true in any Bible of
any religion, will still remain long after belief in its superhuman
origin has ceased to exist. Take the Christian Bible, for instance,
viewed as a work of man, not of God, all its cruelties, all its
immoralities, its absurdities and contradictions, Deuteronomy
and Esther, Jonah and the Whale—all these cease to trouble.
They ,are but the chaff amidst the wheat, the dross amidst the
gold.
“I have often said, while preaching on this subject, that there
is no religion higher than the truth. No ancient tradition, no
church council, no Christian creed can decide for anyone what
is true, what is good, what is inspired. Only the indwelling
Spirit of God can do that. God’s ever-inspiring word is written
on every page of nature. The laws of nature are the laws of
nature’s God, not proclaimed alone to a favored few in ages
past, but ever revealed in every age to every man whose mind and
In W hich W e Really Meet "The Wanderer’’ 93
heart is open to receive the truth. Some have said to me that this
leaves us drifting helplessly on a great unknown sea. No it does
not—it leaves us with our reason, which is the safest and surest
guide to the Realm of the Spirit of God. Better to sail alone upon
a shoreless sea, tossed by the waves of doubt, drifting with the
winds of truth, guided only by the stars of hope and reason, than
to be soothed to sleep by a siren’s song, amid the rocks and break­
ers of a false belief. I have been very bitterly criticized for the
sermon in which I use those words. However, the Spirit of God
is revealing Itself to hundreds of thousands through my message,
so I imagine I shall continue it as it is.”
“The Wanderer” looked at me, and I thought I discerned a
feeling of gladness in his face.
“I understand now why the Spirit of God spoke to you, my
friend. I see in your eyes, that which will never brook defeat,
but which will, on the contrary, sail through to brilliant success
in the Realm of my Father.”
I thanked him for those good words, and reminded him that
he still had not given me his reasons for doubting the story of
the resurrection of Jesus.
“W ell here are a very few of the reasons why I know that
Jesus did not rise from the dead. In the first place, Jesus did not
die on the cross. Apart from that though, about 1 200 years before
the time of Christ, Chrishna, the crucified Hindoo savior rose
from the dead and ascended into heaven. Attended by celestial
spirits, amid the wondrous illumination of heaven and earth,
Chrishna, the savior of men, slowly rose from earth to Paradise,
while witnesses exclaimed with joy ‘Lo Chrishna’s soul ascends
its natives skies.’ ”
“Five centuries before Christ, the great Buddha, the founder
of Buddhism, a religion that embraces one-third of the human
race, lay dead in a tomb. From heaven’s supreme God came the
command:—‘Rise—Holy Love.’ Then, the lid of the coffin was
removed by divine power, the shroud that wound Buddha by the
same divine power was unwound, and Buddha, the Enlightened
94 The Wanderer
One, the savior of mankind, released from the grip of death, rose
to heaven’s glory.
“Five thousand years ago, men and women by the hundreds
of thousands in ancient Egypt, worshipped Osiris, and he too,
after being crucified on a cross, rose from the dead. Among the
Greeks, Aesculapius, the son of God, the divine healer, he who
was called ‘The Great Physician,’ after being put to death, rose
in triumph from the grave.
“The resurrection of gods was a fundamental idea in the reli­
gions of all the nations by which we Jews were surrounded. Be­
ing a Jew, I am, of course more familiar with the actual truth
than you, a Gentile, can be. W e ourselves, the Syrian Jews, had
a savior called Adonis, which means ‘Our Lord’ long before the
time of Christ. To this god was built an altar in the middle of
the temple at Jerusalem. Adonis too, rose from the dead, and
his resurrection was annually celebrated in Bethlehem of Judea,
as late as 386 a .d . The Catholic St. Jerome has this to say about
our other god, Adonis:—‘Over Bethlehem the grove of Adonis
was casting its shadow, and in the grotto where formerly the
infant Jesus cried, the lover of Venus was being mourned.’
“Please observe, Dr. Robinson, the significance of this declara­
tion—in the very cave in which the infant Jesus lay, Adonis, says
this Christian father, was mourned. For centuries the Christian
church had a tradition that Jesus was bom in a cave. Later they
changed that cave for a manger. It is quite reliably reported, and
this is very significant, that ‘the celebration of the resurrection of
Adonis became, without a break, the celebration of the resurrec­
tion of Jesus.’
“If, Dr. Robinson, the story of the resurrection of a god who
was the son of a god is far older than Christianity, if thousands
of millions of people in India, Egypt, Babylonia, Persia, Greece
and Rome lived and died in the conviction that savior gods had
died in their behalf, and if these resurrection stories were well
known to the people among whom Christianity rose, how can we
In W hich W e Really Meet "The Wanderer" 95
be certain that the account of Christ’s resurrection is not the
ancient myth told again?
“The worship of Osiris continued for about 6000 years. During
that time, thousands of millions of Egyptians believed implicitly
that he had risen from the dead. Christianity is less than 2000
years old; and the resurrection of Jesus is, as I have shown to you,
rejected by even the great percentage of students for the minis­
try. So I believe you and I can safely reject this resurrection,
even though, by its rejection, the Christian structure falls, which
it will not.
“The cornerstone of Christianity is the resurrection of Jesus.
But if He did not rise from the dead, then the entire Christian
philosophy of God can be discarded in its entirety. If Jesus did
not rise from the dead, Christianity has nothing to offer this
world. That, I believe, is abundantly demonstrated by the total
lack of the Power of God in your America—is it not?
“You see, sir, you and I care nothing for church traditions. We
are trying to introduce the Christian church to the actual Power
of God. The world is full to overflowing with the power of evil,
which is only the absence of the Power of God. What you see
today is mankind, slowly slipping into the depths of despair and
degeneration, simply because it is totally ignorant of the ex­
istence of the Spirit of God—in him. The reason he is ignorant,
is because your church is ignorant of the existence of the Spirit
of God in it. The Christian church cannot teach what it does not
know. All it can teach today, are the traditions on which Chris­
tianity was founded. But it will take much more than traditions
to straighten this world out. It will take all the Power God has.
I do not, however, expect the Christian church to rise to this
high calling. Rather do I agree with Dr. Jean Milner that the
Spirit of God will live in, and be revealed by institutions other
than the Christian church. That is a pity. A terrible pity. Making
the Power of God neutral because of their traditions.
“Of course, the Christian will reply to the statements I have
just made to you regarding the resurrections of other gods, by
96 The Wanderer
stating that these were only men, while Jesus was really a God,
and, as God, He conquered the grave. But that supposition can­
not be maintained. The truth is that Jesus was not a God. He
was an inspired prophet of God, but a man nevertheless. As a
man, His death was a human death, and therefore could not be
an atonement for the sins of this world. But Christianity teaches
that Jesus was God. It tells us that His sacrifice was divine and
infinite, and that as God, He rose from the dead.
“But if Jesus was God, how could He die? How could a few
moments’ suffering destroy the infinite resources of Almighty
God, my Father? How could a God’s infinite hold on life be con­
quered by the frail means used to overcome the life of a man?
Nothing could be more absurd Dr. Robinson, than the idea that
Almighty God was put to death by piercing the hands and feet
of a Syrian Jewish carpenter.
“But shall we suppose that God did die. Let us suppose that
the Creator of this universe, my Father, threw His life away,
and allowed crucifixion to reduce him to the cold pathetic still­
ness of death. God was dead. He lay dead in a tomb. They
buried my Father. But how did God come to life again? Who, or
what resurrected Him? A dead God, my Father, becomes a living
God—by what means? Could He again thrill his nerves with the
melody of life when He was dead? Could He, in death, re­
animate with infinite designs the brain from which all conscious­
ness had fled?
“You see Dr. Robinson, my Father is the only God, and if
Jesus was God, and He was dead, then my Father was dead, for
they were supposed to be one and the same. So if Jesus was God,
and He died, there could have been no one to resurrect him, for
only my Father can create and give Life—and He was dead.
“I am going to quite some length to explain to you the extreme
importance of the resurrection. I stated to you a little while ago,
while the train was at Oaksdale, that the story of the resurrec­
tion of Jesus was fiction.
“You see, aside from the absolute impossibility of the resurrec­
In W hich W e Really Meet “The Wanderer’’ 97
The Wanderer
tion or the death of Almighty God, the gospel paragraphers are
so very much at variance in their respective accounts. I happen
to know that Jesus did not die on the cross, but I am one of the
very few individuals who can say that with certainty.
“Then shall we suppose that Jesus died as a man. There again
you run into difficulty. You cannot tell from the record, which is
of very questionable authority at best, just what did happen.
According to Luke, Christ was on the cross about three hours.
Mark says he was on the cross six hours. I have explained to you
that crucifixion is a long drawn out death, the victim usually
dying in agony, not from loss of blood but from protracted nerv­
ous strain and hunger and thirst. You will recall that in the midst
of the agony Jesus did suffer, He said ‘I thirst.’ There is no won­
der He thirsted. But many times, the condemned man on the
cross lived for several days. In Jamaica, in 1760, a negro slave was
crucified on a cross. He lived for two hundred and ten hours—
nearly nine days.
“I happen to know that Jesus was not a weakling. It is strange
that the record should attribute His death within three or six
hours, is it not?
“You will recall that two thieves were crucified with Jesus.
Roman soldiers broke their legs, as was sometimes done. But the
legs of Jesus were not broken. I could submit to you very much
more evidence that Jesus was not resurrected, either as God or
man, but I believe I have covered this point thoroughly. I had a
motive in so doing. Aside from the fact that the truth or falsity of
the whole Christian structure hinges on the resurrection, the
point that Jesus was not raised from the dead must needs be
established beyond peradventure of doubt. If He were, it is too
bad for humanity. There is absolutely no hope whatsoever for it,
and you and I might just as well commit suicide in the light of
coming happenings.”
“The Wanderer” and I sat there looking at each other for
several minutes. Neither spoke. Much food for thought had been
98
given me, although he had told me nothing I did not already
know.
But who was this man? Where did he come from? What was
he doing in Spangle? And why did he board this particular train?
Whither was he bound? Was he going to leave the train at Mos­
cow, or continue on to Lewiston or perhaps Juliaetta. Perhaps
Kendrick. I was mystified.
There was no question about the man’s ability. Nor was there
any question about his being one of the best posted men on the
Christian Bible it has been my pleasure to meet. But who was
he? Was it coincidence which threw us both together?
I had been rather at my wit’s end for many months. Try as I
may, I had been unable to make the slightest impression on
church leaders. The Rev. Dr. Van Kirk had recently sent out an
appeal over the radio, asking anyone who thought they could
help the Christian church to more power, to let him know. I had
wired this gentleman, but the wire was ignored.
A few months before, hearing that Dr. Stanley Jones was in
Los Angeles, I had sent him a wire from the Leamington Hotel
in Oakland, asking for an appointment. I had heard that Stanley
Jones was a very broad and forward-looking minister. Perhaps,
if I could contact him, I could make known to him what the
Spirit of God is waiting to do for this world, preferably through
the Christian church, but if that cannot be, through anyone who
will believe in the Power of God. But Stanley Jones wired me
that nothing would be gained by a conference with me. How
very little he knew. This was the same sort of reception Jesus was
tendered when He tried to reveal the Power of God to the
world. Religious politicians of that day, who caused the arrest
and trial and death sentence of Jesus, were as callous to the
Power of the Spirit of God then, as Christians are now.
“Whom will ye that I release unto you—Jesus or Barabbas?”
‘W h y Barabbas of course.”
“But what shall I do with this man who calls Himself Jesus?”
In W hich W e Really Meet "The Wanderer” 99
IOO T he Wanderer
“W hy crucify Him, of course.”
“But what harm has He done.”
“Never mind that, he tells us our concept of God is all wrong.
He says there is another God, and that ours is not the true God,
so away with Him. Crucify Him—Crucify Him.”
And the cowardly religious political judge, probably scenting
an election around the corner, released unto that mob of back­
slidden religionists, Barabbas, and Jesus—they sentenced him to
death on the cross, between two thieves. If Jesus were to return
to this earth today, •preaching the very same doctrine He taught
nineteen hundred years ago, the Christian church would crucify
Him again.
Jesus was manifested on this earth to proclaim, not His own
gospel, but the gospel of the Power of His Father—The Spirit of
God. Instead of the religionists of His day listening to His mes­
sage, they would have none of it. As a direct result of that rejec­
tion of the teachings of Jesus, this world, nearly two thousand
years later, stands on the threshold of doom. If the Christian
church once more rejects the Spirit of God, then watch for that
Spirit manifesting in the most unexpected quarter. For God will
not allow His Spirit to be driven from this earth just because the
Christian church will have none of Him.
A few years ago, I was attending a Rotary meeting in the
Olympic Hotel in Seattle. The speaker was Dr. Dan Poling of
the Christian Endeavor Society. I sent a note to Dr. Poling re­
questing an interview with him in the interests of the Christian
church.
Dr. Poling graciously agreed to speak with me. Calling me
by hotel phone, I invited him to my room; he came, where we
spent over one hour and a half discussing how the Christian
church could use the Power of the Spirit of God to the redemp­
tion of humanity.
Dr. Poling told me frankly and plainly that he did not believe
any manifestation of the Spirit of God was possible, or in order,
on the earth today; certainly the church would not move a hair
IOI
to bring it about. I was absolutely flabbergasted. Here was a
“great man of God,” the leader of a world-wide Christian En­
deavor Society, denying the likelihood that the Spirit of God
can speak on this earth. With men like that in the church, is
there any wonder this world is in the shape it is in?
As I opened the door for Dr. Poling to pass through on his
way out, he gave me a cordial hand-shake, and said this to me:—
“Doctor Robinson—I’d give my right arm if I possessed one-tenth
the faith in Almighty God that you have.”
“Well you’d better go out and get that faith, Dan,” I said to
him, bidding him “Good-bye.”
* * *
Garfield, Oaksdale, Palouse and Pullman had been passed and
our train was on the last lap of its journey to Moscow. Nine
miles remained.
As yet I did not know whether “The Wanderer” was going to
get off at Moscow or whether he intended to go farther down the
line—to Lewiston perhaps. He had given me no inkling of his
destination, or what he was doing in the Palouse area.
I had gained very little information about this man. Yet he
had wound himself closer round me than any other man I have
ever met. His uncanny knowledge of matters religious. His
deeply spiritual soul. His constant references to “M y Father’s
business” and “M y Father” had won me completely.
I usually feel quite at home in any gathering. But this man
made me feel a sense of awe as I sat and listened to him. I felt
something like the apostles before alluded to, after they had
talked with Jesus. For my heart burned within me as I had
talked to him for the past three hours.
Here was a man whose further acquaintance I had determined
to make. I intended to cultivate him, and even follow him if that
became necessary, for I was convinced that he could tell me more
about God than anyone.
There was a quiet depth to him which I wanted to fathom. I
In W hich W e Really Meet “The Wanderer”
102 The Wanderer
wanted to know the source of his spirituality. I wanted above all
to know who he was. I was destined to find that out much later
in a manner which I little dreamed of then.
“W e shall be in Moscow in a few moments,” I said to him as I
reached up for my overcoat—“Are you getting off at Moscow, or
are you going down the line a ways?” I asked him.
“No—Moscow is not my destination,” he replied.
“But I feel that I must know you better, I want to know more
about you—I want you to tell me more about the Spirit of God,”
I told him. “I cannot let you leave me and have your where­
abouts unknown—I just have to find out who you are, and where
I can contact you if I feel I shall need your help in my work,” I
told him.
“You and I shall meet again Doctor Robinson. I shall probably
pop up in the most unexpected places, and at the most unex­
pected times,” he replied, rising to make way for me as I picked
up my grip and brief-case preparatory to leaving the train.
As the train drew into the station I could see my green two-
toned Cadillac pulled up to the curb. Mrs. Robinson would be
on the platform awaiting me.
“The train stops here fifteen minutes—would you not care to
step out on the platform and stretch your legs, and incidentally
meet my wife?” I asked him.
“Shall be delighted to do that,” he replied, getting into his
huge camel-hair coat. I was glad, for I wanted Mrs. Robinson to
meet this strange man. She accuses me of making the most un­
usual acquaintances on my trips, but I certainly wanted her to
meet this man.
Finally, the train stopped and the brakeman called “Moscow
—Moscow—all off for Moscow.”
As we stepped off the train I presented him to Mrs. Robinson,
telling her that I had had the most interesting time listening to
him talk that I had ever had on any trip during the past twenty
years. I refrained from introducing him as “The Wanderer” how­
ever, just introducing him as “M y friend.”
W e spent a few moments there chatting together until the
familiar “All aboard” sounded. Knowing that the time for our
parting was here, I offered my hand to him.
“If you ever really need me quickly,” he said, “just send out a
thought to your Heavenly Father that you need me, and I’ll come
to you,” he said.
I thanked him very warmly, and did not withdraw my hand
which was still outstretched to him. Looking at my hand, he
cautiously offered his. As we were about to clasp hands in our
farewell handshake, I chanced to look down at his right hand,
which he had extended to me. In the palm of that right hand, I
saw . . . a terrible scar.
In Which W e Really M eet "The Wanderer” 103
C H A P T E R F O U R
In Which
W e Read an Interesting Saga
AT TH IS POINT IN M Y NARRATIVE, I SHALL DETAIL FOR YOU THE
£ \ . facts of what many have called “The most fascinating reli­
gious saga of the past thousand years.” It is interesting to me only
because of the fact that the recording of this strange story will
reveal to you how the Spirit of God actually operates, with all
Its Power, here on earth. The constant use of the “I” is permis­
sible because this part of the book is biographical. Every incident
is true. In this chapter, real names and places are used. The facts
are all known to residents of Moscow, and their verification
would be very simple.
As an outstanding miracle of the Power of God, what you will
read in this chapter, and the following chapter will, I sincerely
hope, arouse in you a new hope and a new faith. I most sin­
cerely trust that through what I shall write from this point on,
you will entirely overlook the personality of the writer, for that
doesn’t matter. In various parts of the earth, men and women
who have learned something new about the Power of God are
duplicating to some degree at least, the amazing happenings this
chapter contains. It makes little difference who the individual is,
or where he or she may be, when contact with the Spirit of God
is actually established, the problems of life which confront all of
us may be solved very quickly.
When a man or woman has his or her eyes opened to the pres­
ent existence of God in his or her life, and fully understands
what that Great Presence means, things begin to happen which
I
stagger t^e imagination of those who have had no contact with
God. To those who have made the spiritual connection, what I
shall record in this, and perhaps following chapters, becomes
not the unusual, but the commonplace.
It has long been the contention of the Author that it is only
our ignorance of the nature and availability of God which is
responsible for the condition of this world. If my ministry is true
then, and if it is of God, occurrences such as I shall relate must
follow the Presence of the Spirit of God in the life. If I cannot
prove my theses, and if I cannot make demonstrations of the
Power of the Spirit of God, I have no right to be engaged in
this work.
If, on the other hand, there is a definite flood of spiritual
Power emanating from my efforts—if men and women are,
through my teachings, finding the Power of God, then what I
have to say should be very carefully listened to. Not that I have
anything which others do not have. I am perhaps the most in­
competent, impetuous weakling the Almighty has ever chosen
to reveal His truths through. But those truths are being revealed.
The time may come when the simple truths of God coming from
this little City of Moscow, Idaho, may sweep round the world,
bringing in their wake, a glorious freedom to mankind.
If this should prove to be so, it will not be because of any
merit there is in this writer, for no one knows better than he,
that there is little merit in him. He is sincere. He is honest. He
has bled his way through to God. He has been given a vision
from God, and in these perilous times, God does not give vision
to anyone unless He has a direct purpose.
The last thing I want to happen is for anyone to think that
what has happened in the past twenty years is due to anything
unusual about me. M y sole object in life is to present the truths
of God, which have been given to me by God, to the organiza­
tions who should be proclaiming these truths. On the very day
they agree to take up this message of the Power of the Spirit of
God, I will close the doors here in Moscow, and will devote all
In W hich W e Read an Interesting Saga 105
of my time trying to make God a living reality to the churches,
and will do everything in my power to help them organize for
God in such a manner that this God-less world will finally have
to come to the realization that there is very much more to religion
than a sermon, a hymn, or a prayer.
There is a Power to God which is immutable. There is a Peace
in God which this world knows nothing about. There is a virility
to God which, properly understood and used, can destroy from
the face of the earth forever, all who would try to subdue the
earth and bring it into subservience to them, leaving God com­
pletely out of the picture.
It is my feeling that the Christian church can so enthuse itself
with the Power of God, that the “Great Day of God,” for which
all our hearts yearn, can be brought to pass. Jesus will not return
from the skies to bring in that day. If it is ever brought in, it will
be brought in by men and women, just like you and me, who,
through some strange process perhaps, have finally come to the
realization that there is PO W ER in the Realm of the Spirit of
God.
Not one day passes which does not see more wires, more long­
distance phone-calls, more pleas for help than any religious or­
ganization in America receives. What do you suppose would
happen if all churches, of all denominations, were to lay aside
their hard-and-fast traditions which have only demonstrated their
inability to help the world find God, and in their place, preach
and practice the actual Power and Presence of God? If a poor
individual like me can find the Power of God, thereby writing
his name in America’s record of religious achievements, what
could not our churches accomplish by teaching the same Power?
There is nothing they could not do.
I love the Christian church. I know its frailties and its weak­
nesses, and still I love it. I love this man Jesus—not as a God,
but as the man who revealed the Spirit of God to me. But I do
not like to see the Christian church stagnate and die, and that is
io6 T he Wanderer
exactly what it is doing, when all the Power there is in the Realm
of the Spirit of God stands available to it.
As I see it, it is a case of a little less emphasis on old traditions,
and a lot more emphasis on the Spirit of God. So vague and in­
accessible has the Christian church made the “Holy Spirit,” that
few there are, even in the church, who ever mention that Great
Spirit. The “Holy S p irit,o f the churches is what I am teaching.
But I do not make that Great Spirit vague and inaccessible—I try
to make it the greatest living reality this world can know. And I
succeed. How much more could our churches do if they would
but equip themselves with all the Might there is in the Spirit of
God, and then, unitedly, tackle the problems which face this
world. I say to them all, they would be surprised at what the
Power of the Spirit of God would do for them.
* * *
I should not write the details I am about to write if it were not
for the fact that the Spirit of God led me so thoroughly and un­
failingly. It is in the recital of these happenings, every one of
them small in itself, that the reader will catch the true picture of
how the Spirit of God operated in one man’s life, and what it
accomplished for him.
If, at any point in this narrative, you feel that the Author is
bragging or boasting, please accept my assurance that such is not
the case. I have nothing to brag or boast about, and should not,
if I had. So, from this point on, I ask the reader to completely for­
get the Author, and read instead, what the Spirit of God in a
man’s life can do towards saving this humanity. It is the restless
urge, the uncontrollable urge of the Spirit of God which makes
this work possible. It will be the Spirit of God which will reveal
Itself to the reader through this work.
Now, with this observation, shall we read about one of the
most remarkable demonstrations of the Power of God to be given
to this world in many a day.
In W hich W e Read an Interesting Saga 107
io8 The Wanderer
A little way back in tbis book I have briefly mentioned that
some twenty years before I met “The Wanderer,” I first came to
Moscow with Mrs. Robinson and little Alfred. I had come, as
you will recall, to work for Mr. Chas. Bolles (pronounced
Bowles) at the Corner Drug Store.
It was a miserable April day when we arrived. After paying all
expenses, we arrived in Moscow with $42.00 in our pocket. To
be frank, I did not like the City at all. Horses were tied to the
hitching-post in front of “Bull” Ward’s hardware store, and alto­
gether there was something about this little place that I did not
like. W e did, however, engage a room at the Hotel for one eve­
ning, as we were all tired from our trip from Yakima.
I threatened time and time again that evening that I would not
work in Moscow. I told Mrs. Robinson to get a good rest, as we
would be on our way back to Spokane in the morning. We went
from Yakima to Spokane, taking the Palouse Special at Spokane,
Wash.
I had already called up Charley Bolles and informed him that
I was in Moscow, but was not going to work for him. I told him
that I had given his drug-store the “once-over” and considered it
a junk-shop. However, Charlie talked me into staying one month,
“just to get your expenses back” as he put it. I finally took a look
at the pocket-book and agreed. The next day we took an apart­
ment at the old Butterfield Apartments. That cost us $50.00 per
month.
When I went to work the next morning, I met a fellow called
“Cap.” Caplinger was working also for Bolles, and I sort of liked
both of them. Now, twenty years later, Charley Bolles and I are
very good friends. He still runs the Corner Drug Store, and every
few days I drop in and visit with him. He is one of the finest
men I have ever met.
By the end of the month I had made up my mind to stay in
Moscow. I had begun to like it a lot better. It was a different city
from any I had worked in before—
just a small college town of
about 5000 people, plus a University of Idaho enrollment of
about 2300.
The City of Moscow enjoys a lovely setting. It nestles in a
little hollow, and is surrounded on three sides by rolling wheat-
fields, and on the other side by beautiful pine-covered Moscow
Mountain. There, in the autumn one may rest under the shadow
of those hills, while the quivering and quaking aspens whisper
to the nodding, swaying pines. Altogether the scene is one of
sheer beauty. I often wonder now what there was about Moscow
which made me dislike it so when I first arrived here. Probably
I shall never know.
I had come to Moscow to write a philosophy of God which
would reveal the Power of God to America, and inside of thirty
days I had begun to get my thoughts in order. I had never writ­
ten anything in my life. I had never drawn up an advertisement
in my life. I knew nothing about business. I was just a common
garden variety of registered pharmacist, good for about $200 a
month. That is what Mr. Bolles paid me.
I used to carry a little black note-book round in the side
pocket of my coat, and whenever the Spirit of God would give
me something of importance, out would come that little book,
and I would jot it down. Both “Cap” and Charley Bolles often
tried to figure out what I was writing in that little black book.
None of them suspected, nor did I, that as a result of what I
was writing in that little black book, a world movement of large
proportions would spring into existence. Personally, I knew that
my experience with the Spirit of God was very real. I knew I had
a message for this world, of tremendous import. But how to get
that message to the American people was something I had to
figure out alone. Alone? No—not quite alone.
The Spirit and the Power of God were very close to me in
those baby days of Psychiana. Every spare moment I had was
spent alone with God. I opened up the innermost secrets of my
heart. I told Him I knew there were rough times ahead. Just
In W hich W e Read an Interesting Saga 109
I I O The Wanderer
how rough I did not know. But God and I became so very close
that there never was any question in my mind about the Move­
ment I should shortly start, sweeping round the world. That
seemed to be a foregone conclusion.
I had a message from God. It was the message which would
save this world from destruction if it ever was saved. That mes­
sage would rock the Christian church to its very foundations. It
would bring down on my head the concentrated hatred of all
systems of religion. I knew these things full well. Yet the
thought of hesitating or stopping never once entered my mind.
As far as I was concerned, I was already on my way. The work I
had been called to do was not my work. It was not in my own
interests. I had personally found God, and I had found a rapport
with God which was absolute and complete. I could have done
anything I wanted to for myself, through the Power I had so
recently found.
But God had other plans. I am glad He did have. As I look
back this evening, I would not have one thing different. I would
not change a single experience. I should do the very same things
over again. If I have been lax in anything in bringing this Move­
ment into existence, it has been in not working hard enough.
Perhaps I have taken things a bit too easy. When I ponder on
the conditions existing in the world now, some twenty years
later, the urge to double my efforts keeps me harnessed to the
task set before me. I never know from one day to the next, just
what my plans will be. I do not know what a day will bring forth.
I do not care. About the only thing I know is that if this world
does not find the Power of God very soon, it will perish.
I had not been in Moscow sixty days until I was renting the
dining-room at the Hotel of an evening, paying five dollars a
night, and giving lectures on the Power of God. I had never
made a public lecture in my life before, yet it was my duty,
whenever and wherever an opportunity occurred, to tell my fel-
low-Americans what the Power of God could do for them.
Moscow is, as I have stated, a university town. That means
Ill
that most of the brains in the State of Idaho are concentrated
here in Moscow. You can imagine that it took quite a bit of
courage to give public addresses on the Power of God. It was not
too long however until we could not seat the crowds that came.
Prominent among my audience were many college professors,
both male and female. Usually I would throw the meetings open
for questions.
One evening, a lady college professor who is well known here
in Moscow, undertook to stump me. “May I ask a question?” she
inquired. “Certainly madam—what is your question?” “Well
could the Power of God, of which you have been speaking, grow
a new leg on an old cow who had had an accident and had its
leg cut off?”
A snicker went through the audience, and a sense of appre­
hension, for many of those there knew that in an emergency I
can be rather quick on repartee. Thinking for a moment I re­
plied:—“I do not know, madam—suppose you go and have your
leg cut off and we will find out.” I have often been sorry that I
made that rejoinder. Nevertheless, it was apropos I believe in
that meeting and with that particular professor present.
Moscow had never known anything like this. It has not seen
another drug clerk either before or since who filled prescriptions
and sold rat and gopher poison all day and then lectured on the
Power of the Spirit of God at night. Many would see me on the
street the day after the meeting, and one would point to his head
with the first finger of his right hand, and wiggle the finger
round in a circular manner. However, the crowds came until the
University of Idaho issued an order that no member of the
faculty was hereafter permitted to attend my lectures. That was
the first rebuff I suffered in this Movement. I wish it had been
the only one. The farther the Movement goes though, the more
severe have been the attempts to stop it. Now the picture is
finally changing. Even universities (religious departments) are
inviting me to speak, and that really is one for the book.
The churches too—the impression seems to be slowly gaining
In Which W e Read an Interesting Saga
1 12, The Wanderer
headway that “perhaps that man Robinson has something we
should have.” There is little question about that. I would to
God the churches had half the desire to reveal the Power of God
to the world that I have. There would then come the grandest
spiritual awakening this world has ever known. I cannot do it
alone. I can do, and have done much for one man. But if all our
churches were to lay aside their prejudices, and their self-com­
placency, and snap out of their spiritual lethargy, what a bright
world this would be. Perhaps they will some day. Who knows.
But it will have to be speedily I am afraid.
By the time the little black note-book was fairly well filled
with notes, I had the outline of what I wanted to write, about
ready. I had no typewriter and no money with which to buy one.
So I borrowed one from Carey Smith, a local clothes cleaner, who
still operates here in our small City. Carey Smith and I and a
dentist had a wonderful time at the Bungalow, away back in
the hills, fishing, the first year I was here. I shall never forget
that trip. I have had slides made of the pictures we took there. I
run them every once in a while when I have time on my hands,
which is very seldom.
It was an old Corona Carey loaned me. I later bought it from
him for five dollars. I still have it in my possession and prize it
very highly. As you know, the drug stores in Moscow close at
six, rather they did at that time. Saturday evening was the ex­
ception. The closing hour on Saturday nights was 9 p .m . One
Saturday night I took home a ream of paper which I had pur­
chased from the Corner Drug where I worked, went into my
bedroom and asked the good lady of the house not to disturb me.
She honored my request.
I wrote all night. I wore my fingers to the bone almost before
I had finished the first twenty Psychiana Lessons. Believe it or
not, as I sit here writing this book, both index fingers are, at this
moment, taped. I have been writing continuously twelve hours
a day, for the past three weeks. My index fingers are the only
ones I use when typing. I never dictate a book. I never write in
1
long-hand first. I never begin a book unless I have my message
clearly in my mind.
Then, I sit down and write, day and night until the book is
finished. After it is finished I never want to look at the manu­
script again. I send it to the printer or publisher, and, something
like Mark Twain, who used to type a whole page of commas and
periods and tell the printer to put them where they belonged, I
let the publisher or printer make the corrections. This happens to
be Tuesday night, August the 13th, 1946. I have been writing
constantly and without a break for even a meal since seven this
morning, and it is eleven-thirty at night.
This is immaterial to the subject matter of this book, of course,
but you may find it interesting.
When the entire set of the first twenty Lessons was finished,
the real work was about to start. The Lessons in finding the Power
of the Spirit of God were as effective as I could make them. They
contained the best I had. The problem, however, was how to
proceed from that point on. It costs plenty of money to start a
religious Movement by mail, especially the printing of material. I
shall just sketch briefly the highlights of how the physical part
of this Movement was developed. It is a very interesting story,
and one which I do not believe ever has been, or ever will be
duplicated.
Handing the finished Lessons to Mrs. Robinson I said:—“You
might read these while you are at work, if you will.”
After she had read them I asked her for the verdict. It was
good. But she did not see how I would ever be able to get them
printed and start the Movement on its way. I did the best thing
I could think of, and kept on doing just that. I took the only
way which seemed open, and I still do, always under the guid­
ance of the Spirit of God.
I knew that $2500 would be necessary. Those twenty Lessons
had to be printed. I needed one thousand sets of each. I also
needed ten thousand sets of letters which were to be sent to all
who answered my advertisements. I knew of no other way to
In W hich W e Read an Interesting Saga 113
T he Wanderer
start the Movement other than by mail. I knew I could reach
more people in that manner, and I knew the more people I could
reach in the quickest possible time, would spread the good news
of the Power of God faster than any other method I knew of.
But where was the $2500 to come from?
One evening, after dinner, I took out my overcoat, packed the
twenty Lessons in an old brief-case I had, and reaching for my
hat, said to Mrs. Robinson:—“I’m going down town and will be
back in a few hours.”
She inquired where I was going and what I was going to do,
as a loving wife should. I told her that I needed $2500 and was
going down town to get it.
“But you don’t know anyone in Moscow—can you get $2500
here?”
“If I can’t, I haven’t got the right philosophy of God,” I told
her. In less than three hours I was back with the sum needed.
This is how I did it. I went first to the drug store, and stood in
the entrance with the brief-case containing the Lessons inside it.
The first man who came along was Ned Phillips. Ned was man­
ager of Lane’s Thrift Stores, directly across the street. I had
gotten rather well acquainted with Ned, and I liked him. Evi­
dently he liked me too. Ned stopped to pass the time of day in
the usual friendly manner, and I said to him:—“Ned—have you
any money?” Looking at me rather curiously he said:—“I have a
little money—why?” “Then come into the drug store. I want to
show you something,” I replied to Ned. Inside the drug store I
opened the brief case and showed him the Lessons I had just
completed.
“I am going to bring to this earth an utterly new picture of
God, Ned, and I need $2500 to start the Movement going—can
you help?” I asked him.
“Well I don’t know you very well, Frank, but I think this
world certainly needs a new concept of God or it will go to hell
sure,” he replied.
1 14
“How much money can you let me have Ned?” I then in­
quired.
"Oh—about five hundred dollars,” he replied. He gave me the
$500 and did not ask for a note or any other sort of security.
Just gave me a check. I thanked him and asked him if he knew
of anyone else who might want to give me another five hundred
dollars. Ned thought for a moment and then said:—“George
Benson, my brother-in-law has five hundred dollars, and I think
he’ll let you have it.”
George Benson was then, and still is a partner in “Bull”
Ward’s hardware store, the same store which provided the hitch-
ing-posts which had so irritated me on my arrival in Moscow.
Asking Ned to call George, which he did, it took me just a few
moments to explain to George Benson what I wanted the money
for. George gave me another five hundred dollars. That was one
thousand dollars the first half hour.
“You two boys should know someone else who would like to
help me make God real to the world—don’t you?” I said.
“Well there’s Elmer Anderson, assistant cashier of the bank
across the street, he should have some money,” said George
Benson.
“Then call him up,” I requested. In about fifteen minutes
Elmer Anderson came down. Incidentally, Elmer Anderson has
been business manager for Psychiana for the past sixteen years.
He had seven hundred and fifty dollars which he gave me, mak­
ing the total given to me by almost complete strangers, seventeen
hundred and fifty dollars. That left only seven hundred and fifty
dollars more. I asked them to suggest someone else, and they
suggested the name of Oscar Anderson, who lived about ten
miles out in the country. Piling into 'Elmer Anderson’s car, we
all headed through the snow for Oscar Anderson’s place. The
story was the same there. He gave me seven hundred and fifty
dollars, and the sum I needed had been given to me, in a strange
town, by men who had known me less than sixty days. I was
In W hich W e Read an Interesting Saga 1 15
very happy, and knew that God was taking care of the finances.
It was just two and one-half hours after I had left the apart­
ment that I returned. Throwing the checks on the table I said
to Mrs. Robinson:—“There is the twenty-five hundred dollars.”
She looked at me and said:—“The Law of God does work,
doesn’t it.” I admitted that the Spirit of God had responded so
far, but would respond to a far greater degree before very long.
Even then I did not dream that one year from that date, I should
be sending my philosophy of God into sixty-seven different coun­
tries, for that is exacdy what happened, as I have previously told
you.
At this point I believe I shall tell the reader the facts about
the name “PSYCHIANA” and how it came into existence. The
story has been very inaccurately told by writers for newspapers
and magazines, whose imagination was greater than their desire
for truth. Here, you will read the story as it actually happened.
I do not consider there is anything miraculous or supernatural
about any of the strange happenings I shall relate to you. Far
from being miraculous or supernatural, they are most beautifully
natural. These are the things which happen automatically when
one learns the secret of actual communion with the Spirit of
God. When this world begins to learn something of the actual
and literal Power which lies latent in the Realm of God, only
waiting for us to use it, life on this planet will be different, I
assure you.
In the discovery of the atomic bomb, man is just beginning to
discover that there is a lot more Power in this universe than he
ever dreamed possible. What man is actually doing in splitting
the atom, is undoing the works of the Creator. That—
is danger­
ous business.
When the Spirit which is God spake this universe into being,
He charged and super-charged it with energy so dynamic that
the replacement of even an atom is accompanied by the most dis­
astrous effects, as those dead residents of Hiroshima and Nagasaki
could testify. Our scientists have discovered how to undo the
xx6 The Wanderer
handiwork of God. They have discovered to a little extent, how
to undo what God did. That, l repeat, is dangerous business.
One of two things will happen. These scientists will make
more discoveries of atom-splitting, and will place in the hands of
the human race a power so fearful that man will completely de­
stroy himself with it, not knowing how to handle it—
or—
man
will make a correspondingly stupendous spiritual discovery which
can nullify the dreadful power already unleashed. If man dis­
covers the secret of spiritual Power, he will have discovered
eternal life here on earth.
Eternal life is the opposite of eternal death. Both are possible
through the knowledge man is on the verge of finding. So far,
man has only discovered how to destroy the atom. He is very
close to discovering how to create the atom. Let us pray that man
does just that.
* * *
Now I shall get down to the story of how PSYC H IA N A got
its name. The story may sound unbelievable. It is absolutely true
and may be checked upon any time. The twenty first Lessons on
the Power of God had been written. But I had not been able to
find a suitable name for them. I knew that whatever name I
chose would have to be something new. It would have to have
its own identity. “The Robinson System of Religion” would not
do, nor would any other name I could think of.
I was discussing the problem of a name with Mrs. Robinson
late one evening, and out of a clear sky she said to me:—“Why
do you not use the same Power you used to secure the $2500?”
There was the answer. W hy I had not thought of it before I do
not know. Anyway, that night, on retiring, I placed a pencil and
a tablet of writing paper on a chair near the bed. I knew that I
should have the correct name the next morning, though how it
would come to me I did not know.
Towards morning, I was deep in a very heavy dream which
was quite realistic. I seldom dream. But this night was different.
In Which W e Read an Interesting Saga 1 17
That dream seems as vivid to me now, twenty years later, as it
was when I experienced it.
I was in a large room, about twenty by fifteen feet. The walls
of the room were black. A small light dimly illumined the scene.
In the middle of the room was a Helen Gould canvas cot—the
type which was used in the army during the last war. Perhaps
they were used in the war which, we hope, has just ended.
On this Helen Gould cot lay a dead man. A corpse. The arms
were folded across the breast. Standing over the corpse was a
man whom I had never seen before. He stood facing the feet,
and was making up-and-down motions with his arms and hands,
while in a stooping condition over the head of the corpse.
Entering the room, I walked up to him and looked into his
face. He looked up at me and smiled. “Just what are you doing—
what is all this?” I queried. Standing erect he said to me:—“You
ought to know—this is 'P SY C H IA N A ,' the Power that will
bring new life to a spiritually dead world.”
As he said that, I awakened. If you have ever tried to bring
something from the dream-realm into active consciousness, you
know just how difficult it is. However, I kept repeating the name
"Psychiana,” "Psychiana" until I was awake enough to write it
down on the pad of paper which lay on a chair beside the bed.
The moment I was fully awake, I knew I had the answer to my
desire. Once more the Spirit of God had responded. How well
that Spirit has responded is known to everyone for there is hardlv
a country in the world where the name “Psychiana” is not
known.
Later that same morning, I drove over to Rev. Drury’s home
and asked him what he thought of the name. He was familiar
with what I had written, and the trouble I was having finding a
name. He suggested “Psychianity,” to which I replied:—
“No,
Drury, this name came from out of the Realm of the Spirit of
God—so I believe I’ll leave it exactly as I received it.”
The strange part of this story remains to be told. In sending
out our Lessons, I always send each member of this organization
1 1 8 T he Wunderer
a small photo of myself, and request one of the member in re­
turn. One day, not too long after the Movement had been
launched, possibly one year, I was walking by the table on which
the girls were opening the incoming mail. I saw there, lying in
plain sight, an 8 x 10 glossy print of a man.
Stopping dead in my tracks, I gazed at that picture, in a sort
of a fascinated way. “Who is that man?” I inquired of one of the
girls. She told me. At once I called a stenographer into my office
and told her to take a letter. In the letter I said to this man, in
part:—“You may not know it, but you are to be associated with
me in this Movement. Please send me $40,000 at once, as this
is the sum I need to launch a large advertising campaign from
coast to coast, in which I shall tell men and women about the
Power of God.”
In about three weeks, The Spokane and Eastern Bank in
Spokane called me long-distance. On answering the phone I was
told that a Mr. Sam Kimbrough was speaking. He advised me
that he had quite a sum of money for me, which had been wired
from Egypt.
“How much is it?” I inquired—“Forty thousand dollars?”
“No, we have twenty thousand now, and twenty thousand
more will be here in two days,” he told me.
There was the $40,000 I needed to launch the Psychiana
Movement.
W hy did I write that letter to the gentleman in Egypt—and
why did he send me the requested $40,000? W ell you see—the
photo which I saw lying on the table on which the girls were
opening the mail, was a photograph of the man 1 saw in the
dream standing over the dead man.
An incident happened a few months before, which should be
related, as it gives an insight into the faith I had in the Spirit of
God, and how that faith was rewarded by God.
One of the large publishing houses wired me one day that it
would sell me an outside cover for the same price an inside page
cost which was $5000. That magazine had a circuladon running
In Which W e Read an Interesting Saga 1 19
120
into the millions, and I needed that back cover for a full-page
advertisement in the worst way. The office manager, a Mr.
Burton, brought me the wire.
Studying it for a few moments, I said:—“Wire them that we
will accept that offer, and have the regular full-page ‘TALKED
W ITH GOD,’ copy sent to them,” I instructed him. ;
“But where are you going to get the $5000 with which to pay
for that ad?” Burton asked me. Turning to him I said:—“Burton—
that is not my business. That full-page advertisement will tell a
few million people what the Spirit of God can do for them, and
that is my business. When the time to pay for that advertisement
comes, the money will be in the bank. The Spirit of God will see
that it is.”
“W ell I hope it is—we have $358 in the bank now and they’ll
be sending you a bill for $5000 next month—you’d better have
it,” replied Mr. Burton.
About a month later, the invoice for the $5000 less two per­
cent came in. Burton knew that we did not have $500 in the
bank at the time, and I suspected that he felt he had me on a
spot when he handed me the invoice, saying:—“W ell here it is
—what are you going to do with that?”
Looking Burton right in the eye, I said to him:—“Make out a
check for $5000 less two percent and I'll sign it.”
“But the money is not in the bank, and it won’t be, when this
check clears,” he said.
“Will you make out that check Burton, or shall I?” I asked
him.
Going to the little iron safe we had, he got the check book and
brought it to me, after having made out a check for $4900. I
signed the check, addressed an envelope, affixed a stamp and
handed the letter to Burton with instructions to take it to the
post-office which was directly across the street, and mail it.
He looked quizzically at me for a moment and then said:—
“Do you have any money that I don’t know about—or are you
expecting some money in before that check clears?”
The Wanderer
X21
I told Mr. Burton that I did not have the faintest idea where
the money was coming from, adding:—“But by the time that
check is back here, there will be money enough in the bank with
which to pay it.”
After Burton had left for the post-office, I closed my eyes,
bowed my head a little as I usually do when talking with God,
and, in one of those tense moments I always have when God and
I know we are together, I said:—“Spirit of the living God—I need
$5000—please send it to me. Thank you, Father.”
The phone rang. Lifting the receiver, the following conversa­
tion took place:—
“Is this Doctor Robinson?”
“Yes.”
“This is Melgard at the First Trust and Savings Bank—can
you come down to the bank right away?”
“What’s the hurry Melgard?”
“W hy—I have some money for you and I want you to come
and sign for it. It was telegraphed to this bank and I have to
have your signature in person.”
“How much money do you have there for me—$5000?”
“Yes—$5000. Did you expect it?”
“No I did not. Where did it come from?”
“From Honolulu.”
“Okay Melgard, I’ll be right down.”
It will be noticed that before Burton had an opportunity to
drop the letter containing the check in the mail, the money was
in the hank in Moscow.
There have been very many instances similar to that, but I
shall not mention them all. As a matter of fact, this whole Move­
ment testifies to one “miracle” after another. The one knowing
the Power of the Spirit of God however, knows that what looks
like a “miracle” to others, is no miracle at all—just the beautifully
natural working out of the Spirit of God. And that Power is
limitless.
Perhaps I should mention here how I personally make contact
In W hich W e Read an Interesting Saga
122
with the Spirit of God. Of course, it is very difficult to explain as
one’s whole life is involved. Contact with God is not something
to be taken lightly. Whenever it happens, it is the most serious
thing ever to come into anyone’s life. At that moment, the veil
which seems to separate man from God seems to be temporarily
lifted. There is a moment of complete union and rapport be­
tween man and The Creator.
When one has been travelling through life with God for some
years, that moment of actual communion is always there. Man
may find himself not always ready to establish the “contact,” but
it can be established nevertheless, at any time.
When I need anything from the Spirit of God, I usually know
what it is. I keep quite quiet, realizing that shortly I shall be
talking with God, and these moments when I do that are very
sacred to me. No religious creed or doctrine is involved at all. I
just simply have established the fact that man can talk with
God, and secure anything he desires from God. So, as I did in
this case, I usually close my eyes, and then I speak personally
to the Spirit of God within me. Not always am I asking for
something, in fact, very seldom do I ask God for anything except
guidance in my work. I have discovered that when the Spirit of
God is a Living Reality in life, all one has to do is to fear­
lessly pursue one’s objective, which should always be the spread­
ing of the knowledge of God, and usually everything I need
comes to me without even asking for it.
As I have explained before, I am not the brightest man in the
world, and many a time I have wondered why the Creator does
not lose patience with me. However, when anything is needed
which I cannot see on the horizon, I can always go “into my
closet, shut my door, and there, my Father which seeth in secret,
hears me and sees me as I am, and rewards me openly,” and I
never forget to give thanks to God, not after what I need has
come, hut before it has come. In that way, I am absolutely sure
of getting it.
The Wanderer
Now that the needed $2500 was in the bank, I took the Les­
sons down to the Star-Mirror, which was the daily newspaper in
those days. It has been merged with my paper, and is now known
as The Daily Idahoan. This is a regular daily newspaper, not
a Psychiana newspaper. It is the largest circulating daily in the
Palouse Empire and is a very good newspaper.
The next step in my plans was the drawing of the now fa­
mous ad, “I TALKED W ITH GOD.” As previously stated, this
piece of advertising copy had been reproduced many times.
Advertising Age, I believe, has reproduced four of my advertise­
ments. I sometimes vary them, but always come back to the
original “I TALKED W ITH GOD” copy. The success of this
piece of copy is absolute proof that the American people are
interested in talking with God. They want to actually know
where God is, and if He can be found and His Power used. I
can tell them very positively—“yes.”
I recall an incident which occurred during the early years of
this Movement which perhaps will demonstrate how the Power
of God operates in a human life. I mention this particular inci­
dent because, when it happened, the Realm of God seemed closer
to me than at any other time I can recall.
I was standing on the corner of two busy streets in upper
New York one evening. Selling papers was a cripple, who was
suffering from a disease which I believe is called “Hutchinson’s
Chorea.” In any event, the sufferer has no co-ordination of his
muscles. These “Hutchinson’s Chorea” cases are pitiable, and in­
curable. I watched that poor chap for over an hour.
While standing there, the thought came to me:—“The Spirit
of God can instantly heal that man—
why don’t you go and do
that?”
I make it an invariable rule of my life to follow instantly every
direct leading which comes from the Spirit of God. Instantly I
was on my way across the street. When I arrived there, the crip­
ple had walked, or rather struggled into a drug store outside of
which he had been selling his papers. Entering the drug store,
In W hich W e Read an Interesting Saga 123
I saw the poor devil standing against the counter. He had de­
posited twenty-five cents on the counter and had asked for a box
of aspirin tablets.
Standing near him, I closed my eyes, and said quietly:—
“Spirit of the Living God, I want to heal that man by your
Power in me—Thank you Master—
Thank you.”
A Hutchinson’s Chorea case, I neglected to mention, cannot
keep still a moment. They shake and shake, and have little or
no control over their muscles. As the crippled newsman picked
up his aspirin, he took the cane he used to help him navigate,
and started for the door. Quick as a flash I literally grabbed that
man by the shoulder, swung him round, and, fixing my rather
penetrating eyes on him said, while holding him in a grip like
a vice:—“W hy don’t you stop that shaking?” I did not take my
eyes from him for one instant. In addition to that, I was in­
wardly speaking the Power of God into that poor chap. Suddenly
I noticed that he was not shaking. He looked at me as if to say:—
“Who are you?” but not a word did he say, as his speech was im­
peded along with the other physical manifestations of the disease
he had.
Seeing that the shaking had completely stopped, I said to
him:—“Give me that stick.” He gave it to me, and, taking him
gently by the arm I led him out of the door, and back to his
newspaper stand.
“You see—you’re not shaking, and you never will shake again
unless you want to,” I told him.
For the first time in his over forty years of life, that man spake
intelligibly. Looking down at his hands and feet, he said, weakly:
—‘W ho are you?”
“Who I am makes no difference. It doesn’t matter. What does
matter is the fact that you have been instantly healed. You will
stay healed if you will recognize the fact that the Spirit of God in
you, and in me, has done the healing. Now from this moment on,
act as if nothing has happened. Get another corner on which to
sell your papers. If anyone asks you how you come to be healed,
124 The Wanderer
tell them the Spirit of God, in you, did the healing,” I said to
him.
I shall never forget the look in that chap’s eyes as I shook
hands with him and left him. Tears were streaming down his
face. But there were smiles there too, and I liked the smiles.
When one finds the Power of the Spirit of God in his life,
and when he is actively engaged in unleashing that Power for
the benefit of others, there is, I repeat, a moment when the veil
which seems to separate man from God is temporarily lifted.
That is a hallowed moment.
You will note that I said “seems to separate” man from God.
The fact is that man is never separated from God so long as he
lives. The consciousness of the presence of the Spirit of God
in man, is what comes to the forefront in such moments as these.
Man consciously recognizes the actual and absolute presence of
the Spirit of God, and he recognizes that Spirit in him, which
is the only place conscious recognition of an invisible spiritual
power could take place.
The point I have always tried to emphasize is that the Spirit
of God actually lives in every one of us. Very few, however,
know that. It is foreign to every theological teaching on the earth.
But is it not much more plausible to believe that the Spirit of
God lives in the life God has given man, than to believe that
God created man, then allowed him to fall, and withdrew His
presence, never to reveal It again unless he “believes” something
that some theological organization teaches?
“Belief” has nothing to do with the actual Presence of God
in man. How can it have? Either God exists or there is no such
thing as a God. If God exists, and if He is to be of any material
benefit to this earth, where can God exist but in man? Man got
off the track when he failed to recognize the Spirit of God where
Jesus said it was, and began to look to “the skies” and other
equally impossible places.
Note the leadings and the Power of the Spirit of God in the
few instances I have brought to your attention thus far in this
In Which We Read an Interesting Saga 125
126 The Wanderer
book. First—there was the definite consciousness of the Spirit of
God—in me. That was evidenced by a peace, so sweet that there
could be no mistaking where it came from. Such a peace can
only come from contact with the Father.
Then there was the direct leading to leave Los Angeles and
go to Yakima. Then the place here in Moscow where the drug
stores closed at 6 p .m . Then the writing of the Lessons. Then
the providing of the $2500 and then the $40,000 and then the
proper piece of advertising copy which has beaten all known
records for pulling power over the years.
Could these things have happened, think you, if I had not
discovered the Power of God in me? I think not. I know myself
too well for that. But shall we get along with our story of what
happened here in Moscow during those early years?
* * *
The advertisement was drawn in my bedroom one evening. I
had borrowed a newspaper size sheet from the Star-Mirror. Sev­
eral blank sheets as a matter of fact.
I sat in my room with a piece of pencil and those sheets of
paper. I thought perhaps there is something mysterious about
writing successful advertising copy. I had never written a piece
in my life before, so knew practically nothing about it. However,
I went back to the Spirit of God in me, closed my eyes, thanked
God for having heard me, and then wrote the advertisement.
I had already reserved a full page in Psychology magazine.
The magazine charged me $400 for the page. I thought per­
haps it might be good business to make a connection with a
reputable advertising agency, as I knew there would be much
advertising from now on, and did not care to take care of the
details of it all when I could get an agency to do that for a
commission, paid by the newspapers and magazines. In passing,
it may be interesting to note that no one has ever written any
advertising copy for me. Several agencies have tried to improve
upon the copy I received from God, but of course that is an
impossibility.
Anyway, I took the copy and four hundred dollars in cash,
and went into Spokane where I contacted the largest and most
reputable advertising agency there. It was the Syverson-Kelly
agency. Throwing the copy and the $400 on Mr. Syverson’s
desk, I asked him if he would send it in to Psychology magazine.
I informed them that I was bringing to the human race a direct
revelation of the Power of God, and was going to do it by adver­
tising and by using the mails, not by building churches and
preaching.
Syverson looked at me, looked at the copy, and then, pushing
both copy and $400 in cash towards me said:—“W e are not in­
terested in that sort of junk—we are a reputable advertising
agency.”
I informed him that I was a perfectly reputable individual,
and that the advertisement was advertising the Power of God,
and therefore must also be reputable.
Calling in Mr. Kelly, Syverson opened the copy once more,
and showed it to Kelly, with this remark:—“W e don’t want to
handle that sort of stuff—do we?”
Kelly, a good Irishman, looked carefully over the copy and
said:—“No—we don’t want to handle that sort of stuff—who is
this bird anyhow?”
I told the Irish gentleman that my name was Frank B. Robin­
son and I was going to bring to this world a new concept of
Almighty God.
“W ell you’d better take your $400, go back to Moscow, and
forget about the new-fangled ideas about God,” said Mr. Kelly,
adding, “The Church knows all about God, and doesn’t need
your help either.”
“But what is wrong with the copy?” I inquired.
‘W ell there are three things wrong with it,” chirped up Mr.
Syverson. “In the first place, it is mechanically imperfect. In
the second place, no newspaper or magazine will run that sort
In Which We Read an Interesting Saga 127
128 The Wanderer
of copy, and in the third place, if they did run it, you wouldn’t
get -
any replies for the American public isn’t interested in new
ideas about God.”
Mr. Syverson was wrong on all three counts. The copy was
not mechanically imperfect, but was beautifully perfect, as many
large advertising periodicals have given it credit for being the
best thought out piece of copy ever written. In the second place,
inside of two years, nearly nine hundred magazines and news­
papers were running that copy. In the third place, as Syverson
said, that particular piece of advertising copy outpulled any
religious copy which had ever been run in the United States.
When the Spirit of God dictates a piece of advertising copy,
you may be sure it will accomplish the purpose for which it was
intended.
That advertisement, which cost $400, brought in over 23,000
replies, so Syverson certainly was off the beam. Those replies
brought in over $25,000 worth of orders for The Psychiana
Religion. The Movement was on its way.
The next place I ran that copy was in Physical Culture maga­
zine and this one duplicated what Psychology had done. The
third place was the Pathfinder. I ran an ad. there which cost
about $1500 and that too brought about $25,000 worth of orders
for the Teaching. I knew then that America does want to know
about God.
In the meantime, I had rented a small office in the Urquart
Building, which was owned by George Lamphere, the owner of
the Star-Mirror. W e paid five dollars a month for that office.
Not having enough money to buy furniture, I called upon
Oscar Anderson, Ned Phillips, George Benson, Elmer Anderson,
and told them to bring a saw, a hammer and some nails as we
were going to build our own fixtures. W e worked there night
after night, building a table, and a "filing-system” which has
been elaborated until now, when it is called the most efficient
mail-order filing system in existence.
By that time, the Star-Mirror had delivered the first installment
of the Lessons and the other letters, which were to go to all who
replied. All of this literature I drew personally. No one helped
me. The first Lessons, Mrs. Robinson and I stapled together in
our apartment. I was still working in the drug store.
It was several months between the time I sent the full-page
advertisement to Psychology magazine, and the time which it
appeared. Those were anxious months for everyone except me.
I knew full well that the new revelation of the Power of God
was wanted. I knew it would sweep round the world, and it did
just that. Sixty-seven countries in its first year.
W e had driven out to Oscar Anderson’s place in the country
one Sunday afternoon, Mrs. Robinson, little Alfred and I. On
the way in, I said to Mrs. Robinson:—“I think I’ll stop at the
post-office and see if we have any replies yet.” I had been wise
enough to rent the largest box the Moscow post-office has for
rent. I had expected replies, but I did not expect the flood I got.
There was a note in the box asking me to go to the back door.
There, I got a whole mail-sack full of them, and before Psychol­
ogy magazine had stopped pulling, there were, as before stated,
over 23,000 of them.
You can imagine how a small-town drug clerk felt when his
first venture outside of the drug business was received as this
one was received. Those replies surpassed my wildest dreams, and
I was happy. I knew that the people would be just as responsive
to the Teaching as they had been to the advertising, for if the
advertising had been inspired by the Spirit of God, certainly the
Lessons were.
It became evident that I should have to get some help, al­
though for the first few weeks, Anderson, the other Anderson,
Benson and Phillips and I worked nights getting those replies out.
As the Moscow citizens saw the sacks of mail coming in and
going out, prophecies were made on every street corner as to how
long the Movement would last. Some said “Six months” while
others said that it would never stop. It was rather unusual to see
a drug clerk working in the drug store all day, and then lecturing
In Which We Read an Interesting Saga 129
at the hotel at night, and then getting, and sending out huge
sacks of mail. Our postage bill now runs about $100,000 a year,
and that means that ten million people get our literature each
year.
Soon, I was compelled to go on half time at the drug store.
I had engaged the services of a girl, Edith O’Brien, to work half
days, and soon she worked full time. Then another girl was
necessary. In the meantime, copies of Psychology magazine had
come to Moscow, and the citizens noted with pride the publicity
their little City was getting.
Inside of sixty days, we were compelled to rent two more
offices, and inside of another six months we leased a very much
larger building. But the growth was so tremendous that I was
fortunate enough to purchase a quarter of a city block from
Howard Short, the local undertaker, for $4000. That corner and
the building on it are worth more than $100,000 today.
I could write a book on the amusing incidents I have had
since launching this Movement. Some day perhaps, I shall. Dr.
Bach has such a book in mind, and I hope he publishes it. The
suggested title is “Moscow Miracle.” That is not quite true, al­
though what we have seen here is certainly a miracle, if you
leave the Power of God out of it. I cannot do that however.
It was not long until the large church periodicals began to pay
their respects to us. Most of them referred to me as an “atheist.”
There is not to be found in any of my writings, one word of
anything which is not connected with the Power of the Spirit of
God. This theme permeates everything I have written. Nineteen
books, hundreds of magazine articles. Hundreds of radio lec­
tures. Nothing but the Power of God in them. But I do not agree
with these good religions of the day on matters of Christology,
so I am an atheist.
Several significant prophecies were made by some of the lead­
ing church periodicals, notably the Presbyterian Banner. In an
article written in 1932 by the Rev. Clifford M. Drury, to whom
I have referred before, the statement was made that “Here is a
130 The Wanderer
new religion in its infancy. W e cannot ignore it. No matter how
violently some of us disagree with what Robinson says, the fact
remains that he is reaching millions whom the churches cannot,
or will not reach.”
But most of the editorials were very critical. Not one of them
would admit that the Power of God exists, and certainly not one
of them would admit that anyone who does not believe the
Christian theology can know anything about God. Their eyes
have been opened I believe. I hope to open them some more.
* * *
Now a few paragraphs about the actual results of the Power of
the Spirit of God in human lives. After all, that is the supreme
test of the merits of this Movement. If it reveals God to the
people, it is good. If it cannot reveal God to the people, it is no
good.
Nothing was farther from my mind than healing, when I
launched my philosophy of God. M y sole object was to reveal to
men and women, the staggering fact that all the Power God has
is instantly available to all who want that Power. It was a spirit­
ual revelation I was making, not a healing demonstration in any
sense of the word.
It was not very long however until I discovered that the heal­
ing end of the Movement was something which was going to
have to be reckoned with. W e were absolutely swamped with
requests for “prayers” etc. W e of Psychiana never pray. W e talk
with God, but we do not consider that “praying,” in the accepted
sense of the word. But maybe it is.
At once I put out a circular asking members not to write us
about physical healing. I told them, if they were taken ill, which
they should not be, to call the best physician in their neighbor­
hood and follow his advice. M y theory was that if the remedy for
a disease exists, the Creator has made that remedy possible
through the illumined mind of some medical man. Therefore it
is foolish to ask for “divine” healing if God has already provided
In Which W e Read an Interesting Saga 13 1
the healing, and if the medical profession is familiar with the
remedy.
W e know that diphtheria antitoxin is an almost sure specific
for diphtheria, if used at the onset. How very foolish it would
be then, for someone afflicted with that disease to get down on
his knees and ask God to cure the diphtheria. The remedy al­
ready exists. The Spirit of God has already provided it. Yet I
know of a family of “Pentecostalists,” who are so full of the
“Holy Ghost,” that they refuse to have a physician in the house.
I saw three of them die a few years ago, and then called the
authorities and forced them to have a physician.
Even now, whenever a long-distance call comes in, which is
many times daily, asking for healing, I invariably insist that they
call the best physician available and follow his advice. If a physi­
cian can do nothing, and admits that he can do nothing, that is
the time I can help, but I insist on that procedure.
It may be that the fullness of the Power of God may be made
known to the peoples of this earth through the medical profes­
sion. It may be that science will bring to us the full knowledge
of the Power of God, and eternal life—I don’t know. Nor do I
care. If that is the way it has to be, that is the way it should be.
Physicians are working towards eternal life. Scientists are
working towards eternal life. The only1 difference between them
and me is that I am approaching the matter not scientifically, but
from the angle of the Spirit of God. But I should be the last one
to expound that everything science and medicine is doing is
wrong. What do I care through whom truths of God are brought
to humanity so long as they are brought?
I have not sufficient education to approach the matter from
either a medical or a science standpoint. I prefer the God-stand-
point for I know something about the Power of God, little about
either science or medicine.
I shall never forget the first case of a “miraculous” healing to
come to us. It was a lady in Youngstown, Ohio who had not been
1 32 The Wanderer
out of her bed for seventeen years with inflammatory rheumatism.
Our fourth Lesson brought her the light, she jumped out of
bed, and is still in perfect physical condition.
When the letter containing that information came in, I
jumped into my car, sped up the Third Street hill to my home,
and, reading the letter to Mrs. Robinson said:—“The Teaching
is actually working and is healing people—I never expected that
to happen.”
The next day several more letters were received, all telling of
similar results. Cancer, diabetes, heart conditions—it makes no
difference to the Spirit of God what the disease may be. The
Power of God, which created the human body so long ago, still
has the ability to keep that body in perfect functioning order.
That is because the Spirit of God lives in that hody. A perfectly
plausible explanation.
Gradually I came to see that these healing cases were a long
way from being unimportant. They are extremely important.
They are absolute evidence that the Power of God can cure
supposedly incurable diseases instantly. I wish we had the space
in this book to go over a few dozens of them, but we have not.
I must get back to “The Wanderer.” Suffice it to say that in the
past twenty years, more than five hundred thousand of such
cases have heen offdally received hy us. I believe this is the
greatest demonstration of the Power of God this world has seen
since the time of Jesus.
I have seen death defeated so many times that it does not even
arouse my interest any more. Shall I tell you a secret? I have one.
W e have, in our files, several cases of people who were dead be­
ing raised again. They have all come from foreign countries and
I have had no chance to verify them. What I expect to see one
of these days before too long, is the Power of the Spirit of God
demonstrated to such a degree that life—the Spirit of God—shall
be called back into a body from which it has fled. I believe that
to be entirely possible, and while that would not mean too much
In Which We Read an Interesting Saga 133
if it were to happen, I should like to see it once. It would create
a national sensation, but, I again repeat, it would mean little,
if the raised up person died later.
I have seen strange things in the past twenty years in which I
have dealt with hundreds of thousands of people. So strange that
I put no limitations on the Power of God, right here on earth.
But my main object of course, is to definitely establish the theory
I have proven in a lesser degree so many times, that life on this
earth, through union with the Spirit of God, is not only possible,
hut is the natural order and aim of the Creator—it is what He
intended when He placed man on the earth in the first place.
The death-idea has no place in the Realm of God. It was not
originated by God, and it will not be eliminated by God. It is a
product of ancient, faithless man, but modem man, full of faith
in God, will restore mail’s original estate, and will do that by a
perfectly normal, natural process—that of coming into vital living
contact with the Spirit of God.
No man could have seen what I have seen and doubt the
ability of God to so illumine the mind of someone, so that, as a
result of that illumination, this last enemy of man may be de­
stroyed. No man could stand on the corner, as I did in New
York City, and feel the Power of God surging through him, and
ever again doubt the willingness and the ability of God to make
the Supreme Revelation to someone, that man and God are sup­
posed to live forever on this earth.
Death does not make sense. It does not belong here at all,
when it is finally eliminated, as it must be, wars, sin, crimes,
anarchy with their allied ills, will go with it. The next major
revelation of God to this civilization will be something which
will remake history. The thing I most fear is that the revelation
I am trying to bring to humanity will come too late. I fear that
the human race will destroy itself with some atomic weapon be­
fore the churches grasp what I am trying to do. If that happens,
it will be a pity. But it can happen, for there is little actual faith
in God on the earth, in the church or out of the church.
1 3 4 The Wanderer
The fact that a Movement such as mine can start from scratch,
and go as far as we have gone, in spite of all the opposition which
has been thrown against us, is proof very positive that the world
is hungry for God. But it wants God. It will take no substitute.
Can someone present the true concept of God to this world in
time to save it?
Perhaps “The Wanderer”
In Which W e Read an Interesting Saga 135
can.
C H A P T E R F I V E
InWhich W e See “TheWanderer” in Action
I
T IS ALWAYS A BUSY TIM E FOR SEVERAL DAYS AFTER ONE OF
my trips east, and I did not have too much time to think about
the strange man I had met on the train. But after the accumu­
lated piles of letters, business and otherwise had been disposed
of, I was able to give much more thought to “The Wanderer.”
There had come into my life, since meeting him and spending
three and one half hours with him on the train that day, a feeling
somewhat different from any feeling I had experienced before. I
don’t know that I can analyze that feeling successfully. Nor do I
know just at what moment it came.
When one is called upon to direct the activities of a religious
Movement which has had as rapid a growth as my Movement
has, there is a tendency to become rather hard—
perhaps callous
through the press of demands upon one’s time. I frankly confess
that I am not the sweetest dispositioned man in the world, and
there have been times when I am unusually tired from the strain
of continually trying to help men and women who could have
helped themselves had they known the Power of God, when I
show decided traits of irritability. Small matters, which, when I
am not tired I would laugh at, in such moments as I describe,
seem much larger than they really were.
But since meeting “The Wanderer” on the train that day,
there was very surely creeping into my life a mellow, compas­
sionate feeling.
It was, if anything, a deepening of the inner peace which is
automatically present in the life of everyone who has made the
contact with God everyone should make. I smiled more fre­
quently. I was very much more tolerant with the employees.
The barking of the dog next door, in the middle of the night did
not seem half as irritating as it had before. Altogether, the short
meeting with this unusual man, had made a very marked change
in my life. It had changed it for the better.
Strange, how just three and one half hours in the company of
a complete stranger should have done that. Or was this man a
complete stranger? Try as I did, I could not rid myself of the
impression that somewhere we had met before. I seemed to know
him, yet I did not know him. But then, everything about that
meeting was strange.
W hy was he on that train at all? What was he doing in the
little town of Spangle? W hy would he not reveal his true name
to me, instead of asking me to call him “The Wanderer”? What
was his business? W hy was the seat opposite me the only vacant
seat in the coach? What was behind the coincidence of his
brother stealing my car and my motion-picture camera? Then
too, he was born in Bethlehem of Judea, but he lived, he said,
in Nazareth. What was the coincidence of that fact? And what
sort of a man would offer his expensive camel-hair overcoat to
a complete stranger?
How was it possible for him to have such a grasp on Bible facts,
and from whence came his evidently very deep religious experi­
ence at his young age of thirty-three? What was his real business?
True, he had stated that his business was bis Father’s business,
and when I had asked him further questions along that line, he
had stated that he meant his Heavenly Father. The more I
thought on this strange and casual acquaintance, the more mys­
tified I was. Yet there was no gainsaying the fact that acquaint­
ance with him had left a marked and deep impression on me.
Somehow or other, it seemed to me, I was changing my man­
nerisms, about which I usually am not concerned, to his manner­
isms. I was imitating his actions. M y thoughts were becoming
more in line with the deep thoughts he had expressed to me on
In Which W e See "The Wanderer” in Action 137
The Wanderer
the train. Altogether, my meeting with this man was, in many
ways, the most unusual happening in my life to date.
But I wished I knew who he really was. I recalled his promise
that he would come back and see me whenever I felt my need of
him. But what need of him could there be? Was I not making
religious history as it was? What made him think I should ever
need his services or his advice. Yet he must have foreseen that I
should, or he never would have made that statement to me.
Mrs. Robinson and I were discussing this strange experience
and this very much stranger man in the living-room the night of
the day I had returned from the east. I had detailed to her,
everything I could recall about “The Wanderer.” This good
woman often has much better judgment than I, and I seldom fail
to advise her of any unusual happening in my life, or my work.
That evening as we sat in front of a large roaring fire, she gave
me an opportunity to tell her about my meeting with him.
“Who was the man you introduced me to at the depot,
Robbie?” she asked. I am always “Robbie” to her when we and
the children are alone. Alfred was doing some home-work at his
desk while Florence was entertaining a few girl friends in the
play-room in the basement.
“Well, I don’t know his name,” I replied. “He refused to tell
me, rather he asked me not to require him to tell me. He said
before too long I should know who he really is, but further than
that he refused to divulge his identity. There is one thing I do
know about him though—he is a man with a very deep spiritual
experience.”
“Is he a preacher or priest? He said that his business was his
Heavenly Father’s business—would not that suggest that he is
engaged in some religious work of some sort?” the good lady of
the house asked.
“No—he is neither preacher nor priest. He is a Syrian Jew,
and a Jew cannot belong to the Christian faith, so I don’t believe
he is either.”
“He might be a rabbi,” suggested Mrs. Robinson.
138
“No—he is not a rabbi. He carried a New Testament in his
pocket, and had he been a rabbi he would have had a copy of
The Talmud, or some other Jewish religious literature—certainly
not the New Testament.”
“W ell—could he not be one of those converted Jews?”
“I don’t think so because I asked him plainly if he was a Chris­
tian and he replied—‘no Jew can be a Christian’ so that is not
the answer either.”
“Perhaps he’s a salesman for some oriental rug dealers or some
other oriental line of goods?”
“But if that were the case, what would he be doing in Spangle
—or in this territory at all?” I inquired.
“Do you suppose he is one of those eastern mystics—maybe a
Yogi or ‘holy man,’ or something on that order?”
“I don’t think so—he was too well acquainted with our west­
ern civilization and our customs for that. No—this man knows far
more about our present western civilization than appears on the
surface. As a matter of fact, the thing which impressed me most
was his unusual knowledge of the Christian Bible and the very
deep spirituality which was evident in his every action. I just
wish I knew.”
“Well, why don’t you ask God to bring him back into your
life as he said you might?” she asked me.
“I see no special need of that. If there was an emergency which
I did not think I could handle, I most certainly would rather
have that man on hand than anyone I have ever met. After meet­
ing him, one feels that he is just a mite, compared with the intel­
lect and the spiritual Power he possesses.”
“I didn’t get much of a look at him—I saw he was a foreigner
of some sort, and thought perhaps you had picked up another of
the unusual characters you are in the habit of picking up when
travelling—I think I had better go with you after this,” said Mrs.
Robinson.
“But someone has to be here to watch the Movement—we can­
not both be away at the same time, can we?”
In Which We See "The Wanderer” in Action 139
Finally she agreed to that, and we returned to our talk about
this strange “Wanderer.”
“Couldn’t you check up on him through the sheriff’s office?”
she asked.
“Yes—I could,” I replied, “but I shall not. I would consider
that a violation of confidence. That is the very last thing I would
do. No—I shall see that man again. He has come into my life,
and I should not be at all surprised if he didn’t stay in my life. I
rather wish he would. I’m a better man for having met him.
Funny, too, whenever I think of him, I sort of feel his actual
presence near me. I believe a few weeks spent with that man
might increase the Power of this Movement, and I’d do any­
thing which can make this ministry more effective.”
“I know you would, but if I were you I’d just forget him for
a while and concentrate on the work you are doing. If it is meant
for you to meet him again, you will meet him again. I’m a great
believer in the axiom that what has to be will be.”
“Play me a few hymns,” she said.
“All right—I haven’t touched the organ for several weeks,
have I?”
Opening one of the old hymnals which are always to be found
on my organ console, I turned to one of the sweetest hymns ever
written. It was written by a pious Greek monk, Saint Stephen
the Sabaite, called that because he spent his life, from the age of
ten, in an old monastery called the Monastery of St. Sabas. Not
only the words, but the beautiful melody never fails to charm me.
As I played quietly, slowly, and feelingly on the pipe-organ,
all seven verses of this wonderfully sentimental hymn, it seemed
as if “The Wanderer” had stolen into my living-room, where the
organ is. There was something about every verse which reminded
me of him. The first verse—
“Art thou weary, are thou languid,
Art thou sore distrest?”
“Come to Me,” saith One, “and coming,
Be at rest.”
140 The Wanderer
In this first verse I was sure that I detected something of the
weariness and sadness which somehow I knew lay beneath the
smiling face of “The Wanderer.” I also seemed to detect, too,
that he had heard someone at some time or other, sing this song.
He had taken the advice offered by the One in the first verse,
and, coming to that One, he had found rest.
“Hath He marks to lead me to him,
If He be my Guide?
“In His feet and hands are wound-prints,
And his side.”
Whenever I play these sacred old hymns, I usually hum or sing
along with the music. I am not much of a singer, but it is a
favorite form of relaxation, to sit at this beautiful pipe-organ and
sing and play the old hymns and melodies which, through the
years, have endeared themselves to me with cords which will be
hard to break. As I played and sang the second verse, I was
thinking of the terrible scar I saw in the palm of the right hand
of “The Wanderer,” when he shook hands with me at the depot,
only this morning. Could there be any significance in that scar?
Was that coincidence, too? . . .
Then I played the third verse:—
“Is there diadem as Monarch,
That His brow adorns?—
“Yea-a crown—
in very surety,
But of thorns.”
M y thoughts carried me back to the story of Jesus, crucified so
long ago—and I remembered what “The Wanderer,” had said
about crucifiction on the train earlier in the day. Came then
slowly stealing into my memory, the words of Matthew 27:29
“And when they had platted a crown of thorns, they put it upon
His head, and a reed in His right hand: and they bowed the knee
before Him, and mocked, saying, Hail—King of the Jews.” I
remembered, too, that “The Wanderer,” told me he was a Syrian
Jew.
In Which We See "The Wanderer” in Action 14 1
142. The Wanderer
“If I find Him, if I follow,
What—
His Guerdon here?—
Many a sorrow, many a labor,
Many a tear.”
I knew how true that verse was. The past twenty years had
brought to me many a sorrow, many a labor, and many a tear.
And I had only tried to bring to this world, the very same mes­
sage Jesus had tried to bring. Should I fail too? Sometimes it
seemed as if I might. At other times, it seemed as though I
should succeed. But perhaps that would be hoping for too much.
Jesus had not been able to successfully point the way to the
Spirit of God. W hy should I believe that I could do any better?
Still—I could try. I must try. I did try. And I knew that the old
monk who, in the year 739 a .d . had written these beautiful
words in the Monastery of St. Sabas, well, he too must have
tried, and failed.
Then verse number five—perhaps my favorite of all the verses.
Changing the stops to a quieter combination, consisting of the
Vox Humana, Flute, and Tibia combination, I closed the shut­
ters, threw on the tremulant, and played: —
“If I still hold closely to Him,
What hath He at last?—
Sorrow banished, labor ended,
Jordan passed.”
The old monk evidently here saw a picture of the end of the
dispensation in which he lived. This present dispensation. As
he saw it, there will be a time when all sorrows shall be banished
from the face of the earth. A time when all labor, and I presume
that means strikes too, will also be gone. I believe in his refer­
ence here to the passing of Jordan, Stephen the Sabaite believed
that the day he looked forward to when all sorrow shall be ban­
ished, cannot come until the River Jordan, the River of Death
had been passed. He too, with hundreds of thousands of other
ministers and priests, fully believed that The Almighty is not
capable of leading men and women to Him, without killing them
first. I do not believe that of course, and, if you will think it out
carefully, neither will you. I am sure “The Wanderer” does not
believe that. Some day, I thought, I would ask him that question
once more, just to be sure that I had not mistaken him on the
train.
Verse six.
“If I ask Him to receive me,
Will He say me nay?
Not till earth, and not till Heaven,
Pass away.”
It is evident again, that Saint Stephen held the common idea
that Jesus was Almighty God. Holding this belief, and thereby
missing completely the beauty of Jesus, he nevertheless asked the
question in verse six. Of course, had he known the concept of
Jesus as this concept is coming to the earth more and more every
day, he would have known that all Jesus asked was that men
and women follow, not Him, but His Father—The Spirit of God.
I often wonder just how close this world would be to God, and
how very different a world it would be, had those old church
fathers, instead of making a political institution out of religion,
followed the guidance of Jesus, correctly understanding His mes­
sage, and taught that message to the world. It might just possibly
be that all would be at peace now. All might be at rest. But that
was not done. Instead—they crucified the One who came to bring
the message. Now—the work has to be done all over again, with
the chances many to one that man will completely destroy him­
self in his pitiable absence from God.
“Finding, following, keeping struggling,
Is He sure to bless?
Saints, apostles, prophets, martyrs,
Answer—
Yes.”
In Which We See “The Wanderer” in Action 143
There is no question but what the Spirit of God is sure to bless
those who, leaving their all, decide to follow that Great Spirit.
But I do not like the word “bless” very well. I like the word
“Power.” Had I been writing that last verse, I believe I should
have worded the second line something like this:—“Is He sure to
give them Power enough to overcome every obstacle?” The an­
swer to that would be the same—yes, He is.
After playing a few more favorites, I threw the switch, closed
the console, and retired for the night.
* * *
Several months had passed. The cold Idaho winter, with its
deep snows, had been replaced by early summer. The lawn in
front of my home was green again. The wheat-fields which
surround this beautiful little City on three sides, were green. In
just a few months more they would be ripe. The combines would
once again cut the ripened grain, and nature would once more
blanket the earth with its white mantle.
I had not heard a word from “The Wanderer.” Nothing of
importance had happened since I had last seen him. The usual
run of trips throughout the country, helping in emergency cases
of illness. Most of these trips I made by train. Some required
urgent speed, so in such cases I went by plane.
M y friend Ernest Holmes and I had held some large meetings
together in the Philharmonic Auditorium in Los Angeles, and
crowds were turned away. So I presume the meetings could be
called successful. Ernest is Director of The Institute of Religious
Science and Philosophy in Los Angeles, and he happens to be
the only man I have shared the platform with. He is a good man.
Now that summer was here again, the demands for my per­
sonal presence would, I presumed, increase. They usually do in
the summer time. Nothing had happened which had required
the presence of “The Wanderer,” so I had not followed his
instructions and sent for him, through my Father, the Spirit of
God. I wondered many times if he would think that I did not
144 The Wanderer
wish to see him any more. Perhaps I should have sent for him.
Had I done so, all we should have done when we met would be
talk about the things pertaining to the incoming Kingdom of
God. I had many times suspected that, whatever he was doing
it was something more than talking.
* * *
I think I had been back just one day, when a wire came in.
Here is the wire, with the name of course completely changed:—
"Mrs. Scott dying of cancer. Can you come. Will be glad to
pay all expenses. Please hurry as doctors say she cannot last a
■ week."
I should explain here that in the twenty years in which I have
been directing the Psychiana Movement, I have never allowed
anyone to donate even one gallon of gas. I pay all expenses of
the trips I make, and I do not allow anyone to reimburse me. If I
did, I should not be able to help much.
I have known Mr. Scott many years. He is head of a large
electric light company, and we shall say for the purpose of this
book that he lives in Portland, Oregon. I was deeply grieved to
hear of the condition of Mrs. Scott, as both of them had attended
a National Convention I had held in Portland some years earlier.
They were delegates from the City of Roses.
Taking this particular wire, with a couple of others, to the
house, I sat in my favorite chair, pondering the reply I should
send to Mr. Scott. I knew from the urgency of the wire that it
was a case of life or death. I knew Mrs. Scott was a great be­
liever in the Power of God, and was at a loss to understand how
she had allowed such a growth to take precedence in her life
over the Power of God—for that is what it amounted to. Illness
and the Spirit of God cannot occupy the same body at the same
time, unless it is -with the consent of the owner of the body.
Of course, in the millions of cases which do not even faintly
In Which We See “The Wanderer’’ in Action 145
The Wanderer
suspect that the Almighty actually lives, with all His Power, in
every human body, they get ill and die, because they do not
know of the existence of the Great Spirit in them, and, not
knowing of the existence of God in them, they certainly cannot
know how to use the Power of God against whatever illness may
come along. However, ignorance of the Law which is God is no
excuse. They should know of it. Our churches should have told
them.
There were two other wires which had come from people who
were Members, whom I had never heard of. They too were ur­
gent telegrams, and the thought came to me that perhaps I could
cover them all on one trip. The second wire was from Klamath
Falls, Oregon, while the third was from Redwood City, Cali­
fornia.
The Klamath Falls wire read as follows:—
“My hoy hurt in automobile accident. Not expected to live.
Please use the Power of God for his recovery. Doctors say no
hope as his skull is fractured and he has internal injuries.
Could you come. We have no money.”
The wire from Redwood City, Calif, read like this:—
"Daughter Marie dying of heart condition she has had since
birth. Twenty-one years old. Has less than month to live. Can
you help. We have been Members of Psychiana many years!'
Those are the three wires I sat pondering over in my chair.
I had called Mrs. Hill who is in charge of our Student registra­
tion, and had verified the fact that the Klamath Falls family, and
the Redwood City family were bona-fide Members. I cannot act
where those requesting help are not Members of Psychiana. I
cannot even do as much as I should in helping those who are.
I always keep a suitcase filled with clothing, and I have on
hand a sufficient sum of money that I can leave Moscow at a
moment’s notice whenever necessary. Duplicate shaving gear,
146
shirts, collars, ties, socks, two suits and a couple of suits of
pajamas and underwear—all these things the good wife has ready
in my emergency suitcase. All I have to do whether she is at
home or not, is to climb into the car and get on my way.
Then, almost intuitively, I made up my mind that I would go
to Portland and heal Mrs. Scott. Then, after she had recovered
I would drive to Klamath Falls, do what I could for the injured
boy there, and then go on down Highway 97 to Redwood City,
Calif.
I took the Cadillac this time. I usually take that car for a long
trip. I keep two cars, and one of them is always ready for an
emergency trip. Writing a note for Mrs. Robinson, and leaving it
on the kitchen sink, I put the emergency grip in the car which
was standing on Howard Street in front of the house.
Alfred and Florence had gone to Spokane with their mother.
They hold in this district, what is known as “Teacher’s Insti­
tutes,” and while these are being held, the students get three
days off from their school work. These are good days to shop in
Spokane, and usually my family, which was born with a “shop­
ping” instinct it seems to me, takes advantage of those three days.
The note I had left, informed Mrs. Robinson that I had gone
on an emergency call, and I had given her my itinerary. She
would know, when she returned, just where I could be reached
at any time. I always call up though, every night, when I am
away, and my office, through my home, can always get in touch
with me in a few hours. Most of the traffic officers throughout
the northwest know my car, and many a time I have heard a
siren behind me, only to be told, when I had stopped by the
side of the road—“On an emergency trip, Doctor?” If I replied in
the affirmative the reply would usually be:—“If there is anything
we can do to help, just let us know.”
Taking one last look round the house to see that the doors
were locked, I cast a loving glance at the pipe-organ which brings
to me so much inspiration so many times. Standing there look­
ing at the inanimate instrument, I went to the head of the base­
In Which We See "The Wanderer” in Action 147
ment stairs and threw the switch. I should need all the divine
Power I could get on this trip, and I needed, oh how I needed
such Power.
At no time since I launched this Movement, have I ever had
the mistaken idea that I personally possess any power of my own.
I know better than that. When the Spirit of God revealed Itself
to me that day in North Hollywood, I knew full well that while
the Spirit of God lives in me, the Power is not mine—it belongs
in Its entirety to God. It is God. The fact that such a Power has
condescended to live in me is nothing to my credit. Nor does the
fact that the Power of God lives in a human body detract any
from Itself. In fact, instead of detracting from Itself, it raises the
physical body to a much higher plane—so high in fact that It is
able to cast out every illness which should not come to a physical
body, but which does come because the owner of that body does
not know of the shimmering, dynamic Power of the Spirit of
God, which lives—yes actually lives—in every created human
being.
The organ had now throbbed to life. The two-horse-power
motor, which is always kept well oiled and greased by John
McGoung, who drives our truck and does other jobs round the
house, thrilled the instrument with power, while the motor
electrified every part of those nine hundred pipes.
Could I spare a few moments with God, playing an old hymn,
at the console of that organ? I believed so. Choosing an old
Coronation Hymnal, I thumbed over the pages until I had found
the hymn I wanted. It is one I love so very much. I have not the
history of this hymn, not even the name of the author. But that
doesn’t matter. The words and the melody lift me close to God
when nothing else seems to.
Placing the hymn-book on the music rack in front of the
organ, I threw on my favorite Vox Humana, Tibia and Flute
combination, and began to play, very softly at first, then swelling
to full organ. I paid particular attention to the words this day.
They are apropos of the moment and the need. For was I not
148 The Wanderer
going into the highways and byways, trying to do the very same
thing that Jesus did, according to this hymn? Was I not going
out among the suffering to try to demonstrate the Power of The
Spirit of God, as Jesus did? Oh yes I was. And I knew that the
very same Power Jesus used would be used by me. And I knew
that the very same results Jesus obtained would also be obtained
by me, not because there was the slightest resemblance between
the great life Jesus lived and the simple, erring, impetuous life
I live—oh no—that was not it. But the Power is the same.
Had not Jesus said long ago:—“The things that I do shall ye
do also”? Has the church been doing these things? I think not.
But now, well, times are critical. The Power and the message of
Jesus must be brought again to this world, or it will perish. But
Jesus was dead. He could not help me—or could He? And was
He really dead? “The Wanderer” had told me that Jesus was not
dead when they took Him from the cross. He had inferred that
Jesus was still alive. But could that be?
Somehow or other, I wished for “The Wanderer” as I sat
there at the organ. I really wished he was here, and could make
this trip with me. Remembering his statement that he would
come if I needed him, I closed my eyes, while my fingers softly
pressed the keys which produced the beautiful melody of "At
even ere the sun was set.” Then, while the soft tones were roll­
ing out of the organ grille in the dining-room, I uttered a very
short request to the Spirit of God within me. This is what I
said:—
“Spirit of the Living God—
I am going out on a mission which
is Your responsibility. Whatever will be accomplished on this
mission of mercy, will be accomplished by Your Power, not by
any Power I possess, for I am nothing—
just nothing hut a broken
vessel, lying here at Your feet, just waiting to be filled once
more with the Power of the Spirit of God, and the consciousness
of that Power. Be with me. Help me. So' fill me with Your
Power that no disease or no illness will be able to withstand the
Power of God which I shall call into operation for others. Heal
Mrs. Scott. Heal the boy in Klamath Falls. Heal the girl in
In Which W e See "The Wanderer” in Action 149
The Wanderer
Redwood City. Hold their faith firm until I can demonstrate the
blessed Power and ability of You, my Father, to heal both body
and mind and soul. Spirit of the Living God—
send “The Wan­
derer” to me please. Father, I thank Thee.
This done, I opened my eyes and turned them to the old
Coronation hymn-book, playing, and singing softly as I played:—
“At even, ere the sun was set,
The sick, Oh Lord, around Thee lay;
Oh in what divers pains they met,
Oh with what joy they went away.”
These were divers cases I was going out to heal. A cancer.
An automobile had almost killed a young boy. His skull was
fractured and he had internal injuries. No hope, according to
attending physicians. A heart-disease case in Redwood City. No
hope. Suffered from birth. Yes—these were divers diseases. Divers
pains were being suffered in all three cases. Yet Jesus had healed
divers diseases. And the very same Power that Jesus used was
available to me. How then can I fail. I never had failed—had I?
I should not fail this time either. In my acknowledged weakness,
as I sat at the organ playing this beautiful verse, there came surg­
ing and thrilling into my soul, spiritual Power the like of which
I had not known before. In fathomless billows, the actual Power
of the Spirit of God came, in wave after wave. Power, the like
of which this God-less earth with its trickery, its intrigue, its
double-talk, its wars, its debauchery could know, but never has
known.
“Oh God,” I cried, “Make me be faithful, even unto death.”
Tears usually stream down my face when I talk with God.
They were streaming down it now. But the tears did not dim the
glory of that revelation of the Power of God. Jesus cried, on more
than one occasion—yet His tears did not dim the glory the Spirit
of God gave to Him either. Nor was the rapture of that moment,
1 5 0
sitting at my organ, dimmed because the tears fell. I am never
ashamed of my tears. The only time I shed them is when the
consciousness of the Power of God is very close to me.
You will note that I say “the consciousness of.” The Power is
always there—but we are not always conscious of It. There is so
much of the Spirit of God on this earth now, that if the so-called
“peace” conference which is sitting in Paris as I write this, only
had sense enough to halt in the middle of its deliberations, and
ask the Spirit of the Living God—in each one of them—to reveal
Itself, what a success that conference would he. As it is, it is a
farce. An atomic war is being planned even as this farce goes on.
May the Spirit of God speak very quickly to our churches. They
have little time left.
I paused at the last two lines of the second verse:—
“What if Thy form we cannot see,
We know and feel that Thou art here.”
Oh yes—after that baptism of the Power of the Spirit of God
which had just come to me, I knew and I felt that God was there.
Never shall I question the presence of God in my life, whether
I can feel It or not. It is never necessary to feel the Spirit of God.
It is there whether It is felt or not. Only they who have come
up through great tribulation get baptisms of the Spirit of God
such as the one I have just told you about. That is a partial re­
ward for trying to be faithful.
Not wishing to spend too much time playing at the organ
while three families were awaiting my arrival (I had had the
office wire all three families that I was on my way) I turned to
the last verse of this sacred hymn. (I have just discovered who
the author is—he is the Rev. Henry Twells.)
This sixth verse is the one I find so very much comfort in.
It is so blessedly true. It is so profoundly pregnant with meaning.
It is such a sacred verse. Here it is:—
In Which We See "The Wanderer” in Action 15 1
I 5 2 The Wanderer
“Thy touch has still Its ancient Power,
No word from Thee can fruitless fall;
Hear—
in this solemn evening hour,
And in Thy mercy—
heal us all.”
It was not evening that day. It was about io a .m . But the
Power of God is available at any hour of the day or night, so
the words are as appropriate in the morning, the middle of the
day, as they are at the evening hour.
One last look around the place I love so well, and I would be
on my way. I went to my study desk and took out the duplicate
set of keys to the Cadillac, for I did not want the same experience
to happen which had happened in Palo Alto a few weeks before.
I had been down there on a similar mission, and while in that
city, had parked for just a minute in front of a fire hydrant while
I had gone into a Western Union office to send an important
wire. When I came out I discovered I had locked the car and the
keys were in the switch. I hired a locksmith from a local garage,
and soon we were on our way. But for thirty minutes I was
parked in front of a fire hydrant in one of the strictest cities in
San Mateo County. Funny part of it all is that a policeman stood
there watching it all.
I could not resist the temptation of going to that policeman
and saying to him:—
“Of course—I’m not looking for a ticket for parking in front
of a fire hydrant as I am on an exceedingly important mission,
but I’d really like to know why you did not give me a ticket—
would you mind being perfectly honest, and telling me?”
He was a big burly Irishman. Strange how so many Irishmen
join the police—isn’t it. Looking into my expectant face he said:—
“I know why I didn’t give you a ticket—I’ve been standing
here half an hour, and all the while you’ve been parking right
in front of that hydrant. Oh—I knew that you had locked your
keys in the car, but that didn’t make any difference. But when
I saw you park there, and go into the Western Union office,
something inside me said ‘Leave that man alone—he’s on my
Father’s business,’ and as I always do as I am ordered to when
I get that sort of directions from inside me, I just refused to give
you a ticket,” he replied.
“Are you a religious man?” I asked the officer.
“Oh yes—I’m a good Catholic, and when the Spirit of God in
me tells me not to give a man a ticket, I never disobey—but if
the Spirit of God tells me to give a man a ticket, I’ll sure give it
to him.”
“Just where did you learn about the Power of the Spirit of
God?” I said to the gentleman.
“Where—why in my church of course,” and then he made
one of the most significant statements I have ever heard any
church-member make. This is what he had said:—
“You see, Brother—I can find God in my church and you can
find Him in yours, hut you have to dig deep to find Him.”
I shook hands with him and thanked him for his courtesy.
On closing the car-door and starting the motor, I heard him say
to a friend who was standing by his side:—
“Funny thing how I just couldn’t give that man a ticket.”
* x *
I started the motor, looked at the gas gauge, and decided to
have both gas and oil checked before leaving Moscow, so I
wheeled into Third Street down to Washington, turning left to
Walter Johnson’s service station where tires, oil, battery water
and gas were attended to. M y suitcase was lying on the floor in
the back of the car. W hile Walter was servicing the car, I stepped
into the Western Union office and gave the operator my itinerary.
I sometimes do that, so that he can re-route specially important
wires to whatever city I am going to. This, in addition to full
information which Mrs. Robinson always has.
When the car had been completely serviced, I drove up Main
Street to our number two building, which houses the accounting
department and the offices. Leaving a few last-minute instruc­
In Which We See "The Wanderer" in Action 153
The Wanderer
tions with Elmer Anderson, before referred to in this book, I
shook hands with the employees, climbed into the car, and drove
down to the Daily Idahoan to say “Good-bye” to Bill Marineau,
Monty, and Louis. Bill is the M .E. on the newspaper, while
“Monty” is John Montgomery, advertising manager, and “Louis”
is City editor. A trip out of the City of Moscow would be
incomplete if it did not include a visit to the newspaper office,
and a “Good-bye” to Bill and the rest of the boys who work
there. Dick Westwood, the pressman, usually comes to the front
office to say “Good-bye” to me. Dick had been with us ever since
the paper was started some twelve or thirteen years ago. I like
Dick very much.
That duty performed, I turned the car around in a free park­
ing lot across the street provided by the City of Moscow, and
headed back towards Third Street from which street I would get
on the Pullman Road. Making sure that the telegrams were in
my coat pocket, I settled back hard against the seat, turned on
the radio, and made myself comfortable for a trip of over four
hundred miles to Portland, Oregon. I had made this trip so many
times that I knew every turn in the road.
Stopping at the “stop” sign at Main, I turned to the left, and
saw something which made me almost jump out of the seat. It
was a distinct shock to me, yet, when I looked again and saw that
my first glimpse of the man was not a case of mistaken identity, I
was so glad I could have shouted.
For there, standing outside of David’s Department Store, was
"The Wanderer.”
Pulling to the curb as quickly as possible, I went up to him
and, with outstretched hand said:—“Boy—am I glad to see you.”
He looked at me the way he had looked when I left him at
the depot some six months earlier. The same sad, though joyous
smile lighted his handsome face—and it was really handsome.
This time he was dressed quite differently from the last
time I had seen him. Then, he was wearing a suit of banker’s
grey. But now, he had on a suit of whites. He wore an imported
154
panama hat which was pulled down, too far I thought, over his
eyes. His tie was red, and he wore white shoes. He was the
typical tourist of means, wearing the clothes best suited to the
weather. While the winters are cold in North Idaho, the sum­
mers get plenty warm.
I too, was wearing my summer palm-beach suit which I had
had made in Havana, Cuba a few years before.
Outside of the clothes, “The Wanderer” did not look any dif­
ferent from what he had when I last saw him. The white clothes
rather intensified his swarthy features, I thought, and perhaps
the smile which he usually wore was not quite so pronounced,
but he was “The Wanderer” and he was the one man I wanted
to see more than anything else.
And there he was. Standing unconcerned in front of David’s
Department Store. Was he waiting for me? Had he known that
I should send for him? How had he reached Moscow so quickly
—or had he been here all the while?
It could not have been more than half an hour since I had
asked The Spirit of God to bring him to me—yet here he was. A
man of mystery certainly. However, I would try to talk him into
making this trip with me. If he agreed to come, I should have
lots of time to ask him many questions I had wanted to ask him,
but which, on account of the circumstances under which we had
primarily met, I did not have an opportunity of asking him.
He seemed to hesitate a bit about accepting my proferred
hand. Perhaps he was sensitive about the scar I had seen in the
middle of the palm of his hand. However, to set his fears at
rest, in case he had any, I said to him: —
“Don’t be sensitive about the large scar you have in the palm
of your right hand—I saw it at the station when we last parted
—its nothing to be ashamed of I am sure, for you probably se­
cured it in a perfectly honorable and worthy manner. Probably
was an accident, and you need not hesitate to shake hands with
me on that account—if that is it.”
Fastening those hypnotic, fascinatingly powerful eyes on mine,
In Which We See "The Wanderer” in Action 155
The Wanderer
he said:—“Yes—Dr. Robinson—I received that scar in a worthy
cause—but in a hopeless one I’m afraid.” With that, he out­
stretched his hand, and I took it with a warmth and pressure
which should have told him that I really was happy as could be
about seeing him again.
“Let’s sit in the car,” I invited, “I have to make a trip to Port­
land, Oregon, then to Klamath Falls, and then down to Cali­
fornia—do you suppose you can come along with me?”
“You sent out a request for me—did you not?” he asked, to
my absolute surprise, for I remembered once more that it could
not have been more than half an hour since I had asked God
to send him to me.
“Yes I did—but that was scarcely more than an hour ago at
most—have you been in Moscow—just where were you when you
received instructions from your Father to come to me?” I in­
quired.
Smilingly he said:—“Doctor Robinson—there is neither time
nor space in my Father’s domain—all is an eternal now.”
Swinging my right arm over the back of the front seat to get
a better view of his face, I said to him:—‘W ell I don’t care how
you got here, I’m too glad that you are here to ask many ques­
tions about that—what I want to know is—will you make this
trip with me?”
“Of course I shall—did you not send for me for that express
purpose?” he asked.
How this man secured that informadon I did not know. I be­
gan to suspect however, that here was someone who was some­
thing more than a man. Could it be that “The Wanderer” had
come to this earth from another planet? There were so very
many questions I wanted to ask him, but I refrained. But he
could not possibly have known that I had asked God to send
him to me, for no one was present at that little talk with God
before the pipe-organ in my home, hardly one hour before. Yet
he had known.
Perhaps he was an eastern mystic with powers far beyond
156
those we of the western civilization possess. I did not know. But
I was very sure that this man possessed either supernatural or
divine Power of some sort, and I made up my mind that, if he
would accompany me on this trip, I would have the knowledge
of who and what he was before we returned. What I was to wit­
ness on this trip however, was something I little suspected or
even dreamed possible.
As we sat there, I pulled the three wires, and the carbon
copies of their answers out of my side coat pocket, and handed
them to him. Reading them casually I passed them to him and
said:—“Where is your grip? You will need extra clothes for this
trip, as we shall probably be gone three weeks or a month.”
“I never carry a suitcase or a change of raiment—I make ar­
rangements for that along the way,” he replied.
“Then you won’t need a change of clothing with you?” I
ventured.
“No—I shall not need to take any clothing whatsoever with
me—you see, my Heavenly Father takes care of all that.”
Just how this could be I did not dare to inquire. I had seen
the Spirit of God perform many strange acts over the past twenty
years. Here was a man, however, who made me believe that per­
haps I had not even skimmed the surface in the exercise of faith
in God. If this man could depend upon God for changes of
clothing, shoes, socks, a tooth-brush and tooth-paste, along with
all the other necessities of life, then he was manifesting a faith
and a Power I had never seen before.
Sitting there completely mystified, I happened to look again
at the face of “The Wanderer.” Returning the look, I saw his
face wreathed in that same sad smile, as he said to me:—“In my
Father’s house are many mansions.”
“Yes I know that,” I replied, “but what has that got to do with
your needing a change of clothing, a tooth-brush, a hair-brush
and all the rest of the things one needs while travelling through
the country?”
“What is ‘my Father’s house’?” he asked me.
In Which We See "The Wanderer” in Action 157
158 The Wanderer
“It must be the place where your Father lives—is it not?”
“You are correct, Doctor Robinson—now tell me where my
Father lives—where is His house?”
I pondered for a moment trying to discover just what he was
driving at. God was his Father, and the Spirit of God lived
throughout all space, I mused—but that is not what he means.
He has something more definite than that on his mind. Just what
was he trying to get at? Then I got it. Turning to him I smilingly
said:—“What you are trying to say is that because your Father
actually lives in you, He is able to provide the every-day neces­
sities of life—is not that it? Are you not referring to your body,
and mine?”
“That is exactly it,” he replied. “And for that reason I take no
thought for the morrow. I never take extra clothes with me. M y
Father provides them as we travel along together—God and I.”
Returning the three wires to me he said:—“I am ready to start
any time you are, sir.”
“Then let’s go,” I replied, at the same time pulling away from
the curb and turning into Third Street, and onto the Pullman
Road.
W e passed the number one Psychiana Building to our left,
and next door to it, The Robinson Professional Building, which
I had built some ten years ago. The number one Psychiana
Building is the one from which the millions of pieces of direct-
mail are sent out. The Lessons, records, and Members’ corre­
spondence all go out from the Main Street building.
Across Asbury, past Anthony’s Palace, a gorgeous residence
on the outskirts of Moscow, we crossed the Union Pacific tracks
and then over the State line into the State of Washington, the
line being just one mile outside the Moscow City limits.
To the right we passed the Vandal Florists, several farm
houses, and then acre upon acre of peas, almost ready for the
combine. John O’Donnell’s place loomed large on the left, and
the Hagedom place on the right. Soon we had passed the stone-
quarry, and in no time at all it seemed we were in Pullman
where I stopped at Mr. Hutchinson’s photographic studio and
picked up some film for the motion-picture camera I carry with
me most of the time.
Our employees had graciously given me this wonderful mov­
ing-picture camera about ten years before. It had lain in a dresser
drawer in my bedroom-study ever since, until a couple of years
before when Alfred was home on leave. One day he asked me
where the camera was. I told him it was still in the upper drawer
in my bedroom dresser. When he asked me why I did not take
it with me on my trips, I informed him that I did not know how
to load and unload it, and had never had the time to be shown.
With that, Alfie had shown me, and now this machine travels
with me wherever I go.
Just outside of Pullman, Wash. I believe about two miles out,
I saw through the rear-view mirror that a car was travelling fast,
evidently trying to catch up with us or pass us. As I heard a
siren going full blast, I knew it was an officer’s car. Slowing down
a bit, thinking that perhaps it might be someone trying to catch
me, I discovered that I was right. It was Archie Campbell, of the
Pullman Police Dept. I was to call Moscow at once. Thanking
Archie, I told him I would call from a farm-house a little ways
along the line, which I did. Another wire—an emergency wire
had come in from Portland. Elmer Anderson gave me the con­
tents of the wire, and, after having made a note of them, plus
the address, I put them in my pocket with the other wires.
“The Wanderer” had stayed in the car while I was at the
telephone.
After having thanked Mr. and Mrs. Schneider for the use of
their telephone, I started the Cadillac, and we pulled from the
farm-house onto the highway again. I had instructed Anderson
not to try to contact me again, unless it was a matter of vital
importance. I told him that Mrs. Robinson would be back from
Spokane that evening, and asked him to take up with her all
urgent matters which otherwise would have called for my per­
In Which We See “The Wanderer” in Action 1 59
sonal attention. This was one trip on which I did not wish to be
disturbed, unless it was absolutely necessary.
What I had seen of “The Wanderer” a few months ago, and
what I had seen during the past hour and a half, had convinced
me that the more I cultivated this man, and listened to him, the
closer to the things pertaining to God would I be, and that, of
course, is what means everything to me. The Robinson Building
we had just passed in Moscow, The Daily Idahoan Building,
both Psychiana Buildings, the home, all these, and many other
holdings I had turned over to the corporation as fast as I had built
them. All I asked was a decent living, and a nice home—the rest
of the assets the corporation could have. According to our reli­
gious structure, all of these assets are permanently owned by the
corporation known as “The Archbishop of Psychiana.”
Outside of a few comments about the beauty of the country­
side, I did little talking between Pullman and Colfax. I thought
perhaps “The Wanderer” might open up. I discovered however
that he never opened a conversation. He was always willing to
talk when he was spoken to, but neither on the train, nor now,
would he begin a conversation.
There was once however, I did ask him a question or two.
They were about a sign which some religious organization had
erected alongside the highway, probably on the farm of one
of their members. These signs are scattered all over the north­
west. They are quite large, and I have been glad many times to
see a religious organization with enough energy, and enough
faith in what it believes, to go to the expense of having signs
made and placed where travelling motorists can see them, even
if little attention is paid to the message on the signs.
At the entrance to Moscow there is a small sign about two feet
square. It lists all the churches in Moscow in alphabetical order,
by name, and by location. One would not see the sign unless
one were looking for it. There is not a word about the Power of
the Spirit of God on the sign. Not a word about the impending
holocaust which this earth will plunge headlong into before long.
160 The Wanderer
Just a small sign, telling where these churches are located. Of
what use is a sign like that if it contains no reference to the
Spirit of God? This world does not want to know where churches
are located—it wants to know where the Power of God is located,
for, whether “believer” or not, men’s hearts are failing them for
fear of the things they know are coming to pass on the earth.
This particular sign to which I have reference however, said
in very large letters:—
“ T H E G I F T O F G O D I S E T E R N A L L I F E
Through Christ Jesus our Lord.”
Calling “The Wanderer’s” attention to the sign, I said to
him:—“More and more of those signs are appearing throughout
the northwest. Do you place any significance in that?”
“Yes—there is some significance in that message, but it is very
misleading. It will never lead anyone to the Power of God. As a
matter of fact, that particular sign can do nothing but drive men
and women from the Kingdom of God. The first part of the
sign—the part in large letters stating that ‘The Gift of God is
eternal Life’ is quite correct. But the second line spoils it. It says
to the people who pass, that they cannot ever possess eternal life
unless they get that eternal life through Jesus, and that is not
, >
>
true.
I said nothing, waiting for “The Wanderer” to continue,
which he did. .
“You see—eternal life is the gift of God to everyone, not alone
to those who believe that Jesus was Almighty God. This earth
was populated by millions of people long before Jesus or the
Christian religion was ever heard of. Do you believe that these
millions are to miss eternal life just because they were bom
before the time of Jesus? It was not their fault that they were
bom long before the time of Jesus. But they are all children of
God. When my Father created them, he gave to them eternal
life. Had they known that, they would still be living. So it is
In Which We See "The Wanderer” in Action 16 1
162 The Wanderer
very misleading to put a sign along the highway telling those
who pass by that they are lost unless they believe that Jesus was
Almighty God. People will not read such a sign, and if they do,
they will pay no attention to it.”
I waited for a moment, but “The Wanderer” was evidently
waiting for me to comment, which I did.
“You know,” I said, “I believe I can write a sign which the
people will look at and read, and not use anywhere near as many
words as they have used.”
“What would you put on it?” asked “The Wanderer.”
“W ell if I were doing it, I should put these words on it:—
“T H E G IFT OF GOD IS E T E R N A F L IF E -T O A L L -
H ERE A N D N O W ”
“But do you believe men and women would believe that any
more than they believe the sign which is there now?” he inquired.
“I do not believe that men and women are interested in things
pertaining to God, nor will they he, until the Christian church
itself endows itself with Power from on high, and then awakens
the world to the fact that it has discovered its former message
was wrong, and that it has now discovered the right message. In
other words, I do not believe even the return of Jesus Christ
would awaken this world from its spiritual lethargy,” I said to
“The Wanderer.”
I definitely saw pain in his face when I said that. It was more
than pain—it was agony of soul. I watched him very carefully,
trying to recall what I had said which had brought pain and
agony to the man. I would not willingly hurt his, or anyone else’s
feelings for the world. Yet evidently what I had said about the
return of Jesus not being sufficient to awaken the world out of
its spiritual lethargy, had brought pain and misery to “The
Wanderer.”
I have a habit of saying the wrong thing at the right time,
so I thought I would not talk any more, until he had made
known to me the cause of the pain. I slowed the car to about
thirty-five miles an hour, to give me a better chance to observe
him. What I saw him doing was this—he was holding his right
hand in his left, and was looking at the horrible scar which he
carried in the middle of his right hand. What the meaning of
that was I could not guess. He had been so very sensitive about
it, it seemed to me. Yet, at my mention of the return of Jesus, he
held that right hand, palm wide open, in his left, and kept look­
ing at that scar.
I glanced up to his face. I wish I had not. For, as tears had
rolled down my cheeks a couple of hours before, tears were now
rolling down his—but for a very different reason. Mine were
tears of Joy. His—were tears of Sorrow. Had he introduced him­
self to me as “The Man of Sorrows” he would have been closer
to the truth, I thought. But then, he could not do that, for An­
other had carried that name.
I had turned off the radio while speaking with “The Wan­
derer” outside of David’s store in Moscow. Now, to relieve a
rather tense and sorrowful situation, I turned it on. It was tuned
to a Lewiston station. A religious group with a wonderful
quartette was on the air. W e sat there, listening to the hymns
and the speaking. After a little while, the quartette, in beautiful
harmony, began to sing that old hymn of the Christian faith,
beloved by so many: —
“I shall know Him—
I shall know Him
As redeemed by His side I shall stand;
I shall know Him—
I shall know Him,
By the prints of the nails in His hands."
When the quartette had come to the last line, the one referring
to the prints of the nails in His hands, “The Wanderer” turned
to me, and, laying his hand with infinite tenderness on my arm
said: “Would you mind turning the radio off?” I turned it off. I
understood.
In Which We See "The Wanderer’’ in Action
The Wanderer
By this time the car was passing a little place called Dusty,
Wash. There is a grocery store, a filling station, a garage and a
restaurant in that little place, which is really not even a town-
just a small group of houses and a few stores for the convenience
of the farmers who live in the surrounding wheat-belt. This little
hamlet stands at the fork of two roads—one, on which we were
travelling, leads to Walla Walla, Wash. The other winds round
the hill to Ritzville, LaCrosse, ending up in Seattle, Wash.
W e had just passed Dusty. I was clipping along at about sixty
miles an hour. The road here is straight, wide, and good. I could
see quite a way ahead. I knew exactly where the next turn was,
and what sort of a turn it was. So, approaching the curve, I
slowed down. And then it happened. The most amazing experi­
ence it has ever been my privilege to witness. I saw "The Wan­
derer" in action.
Ever since the quartette had alluded to the "prints of the nails
in His hands,” at which point in the program he had asked me
to turn off the radio, “The Wanderer” had been strangely silent.
He had been hurt. Deeply hurt. And I had been the unwitting
cause of it—or had I? In any event, I knew that deep emotion
was throbbing in his breast. I did not know the cause of that
emotion. But I knew it was there. And I was sorry. This man had
come into my life—and I had hurt him. The very man I had
asked God to send to me, I had wounded. Either I, or that
song, had deeply wounded this man who was sitting beside me.
Perhaps it recalled memories. Perhaps there was something about
that hymn which had brought the flood of emotion which I had
seen in his face. Those hot, scalding tears. And they had come
a-plenty. But whatever it was, at the very first opportunity I was
going to tell “The Wanderer” how very grieved I had been over
the whole incident.
Just as I rounded the curve in the road, I saw one of those
beautifully plumed China pheasants, with his hen, and brood
of about seven chicks, feeding along the highway. Knowing that
when frightened, these timid creatures will run in any direction,
164
I purposely slowed the car, intending to bring it to a complete
stop until the danger to that little family of China pheasants was
past. For I hate death.
I cannot stand to see men shooting down harmless deer, or
rabbits, or ducks, or any other feathered fowl which they cannot
create. It may be “sport,” but I have never been able to see any­
thing “sporting” in it. The poor deer, rabbit, duck, or whatever
animal it may be hasn’t a change. What chance has the fleetest-
footed deer against the speed of a bullet? What chance has a wild
duck against a charge of buck-shot? What chance has a gentle
rabbit against a pack of hounds? It may be called “sport,” but I
have never wanted any of it. I have never been able to bring
myself to kill anything, even though that sort of animal murder
goes under the name of “sport,” and even though our States
issue licenses to kill, and accept money for them.
As I slowed the car, I pressed on the electric horn at the same
time. W e were very close to the little family when I first saw it.
At first I thought everything was going to be all right, for the
hen, and her brood, following her, had run off the side of the
road where they were feeding on some grain which had leaked
out of one of the grain wagons which regularly travel that road,
into the sage-brush at the side of the road. But the rooster, evi­
dently trying to protect his little brood against two tons of on­
coming car, was flying directly in the path of my car, and
towards it.
It was inevitable that this beautiful feathered creature should
hit the windshield. It did, and with a thump which I at first
thought had smashed it, even though it is made of shatter-proof
glass. The window was not damaged though. Just some blood
on it. The blood of a China pheasant which, just a few seconds
before, had been happily living its life with its wife and small
brood of chicks, alongside of Highway 1 o 1. Now its broken body
lay back there in the dust. Never again would that harmless
China pheasant watch over his hen-wife and his brood by the
side of that, or any other road. For no bird could crash against
In Which We See "The Wanderer” in Action 165
The Wanderer
the windshield of this car, traveling as fast as it was, and live.
I pulled the Cadillac to the side of the road out of the way of
traffic, and climbed out. I had intended to wipe the blood off the
windshield with my handkerchief. “The Wanderer” got out of
the car too. Looking back I saw the broken body of the pheasant
lying just off the highway, close to a sage-brush bush. Looking
at “The Wanderer” I said:—“I’d give my right arm if that had
not happened.”
He stood there for a moment looking at me. His eyes were dry
now, and in them there seemed a light which I had not seen there
before. It was as if someone had offered him a challenge. They
flashed as if they contained fire. They disclosed to me, a new
“Wanderer” and I was puzzled at this change of expression.
“I’m going back to see that pheasant,” I said, “want to come?”
He did not reply, but he followed me to where the dead body
of the China pheasant lay, just by the sage-brush. I got there
first, and, looking down at the beautiful thing, I saw that it was
dead. Its neck was broken. I do not know why it is that I cannot
stand to see either suffering or death. Perhaps because I hate
them both. As I stood there, looking at that dead body, there
surged through my whole being a compassion which must have
been born of God. I do not believe any human being can experi­
ence such a compassion unless it is bom of God.
I was on the verge of tears as I picked this broken body up,
and, holding it tenderly in my hand said to “The Wanderer” :—
“There is something so very unjust about this. I cannot under­
stand it.”
“But it was an accident—you could not help hitting it,” he
said to me.
“I know it was an accident,” I replied, “but that doesn’t change
the fact that it’s all wrong. The whole thing is wrong. There is
no justice in it. Here is this beautiful bird—its body broken. It
lies still in death. Never again will it raise its little family. Never
again will it accompany its wife and her little brood along the
highway or through the field, taking care of them until they grow
166
big enough to take care of themselves. No—it’s dead—and my car
killed it.”
“The Wanderer” saw that I was considerably upset. He stood
quietly by, watching me, and listening to the words of regret
which were coming from my lips—for I really was hurt. Then I
heard a very tender voice, it came from “The Wanderer,” say
to me:—“Is there anything you can do about it?”
Turning slowly round and facing him I said:—“No, there is
nothing anyone can do about it now—the China pheasant is
dead. But that does not make what has just happened, right.
God made this bird, Man could never make one like it in a
thousand years. It took the Spirit of God to enthuse this beauti­
ful thing with life—and enclose that life in a body as wonder­
fully feathered as this dead body is—then what right does a car,
a piece of machinery made by man, have to destroy the Life
which only Almighty God can give. Is there anything right about
that?” I asked “The Wanderer.”
Thinking for a few moments he said:—“Is there anything right
about anything on the earth? Is there anything right about the
awful slaughter of the sons of millions of families which you
have witnessed during the past few years. Was there anything
right about the dropping of the atomic bomb on Hiroshima?
Was there anything right about the attack on Pearl Harbor? Is
there anything right about the economic situation in your country
where men will not allow their fellow human-beings to work
unless they wear a certain badge in their cap and belong to a
union? Is there anything right about anything in the world
today? You answer me that question Doctor Robinson and I’ll
tell you whether there is anything right about your car killing a
China pheasant.”
“But I still hate to continue this trip of ours, to demonstrate
the healing Power of God, and leave a dead China pheasant
alongside the road, a mute witness to our utter inability to fully
believe in the Power of God. W hy ‘Mr. Wanderer,’ if you and
I had one grain of absolute faith in the living Power of a living
In Which We See “The Wanderer” in Action 167
i68 The Wanderer
God, such as you and I say we know, and are teaching, do you
believe we should leave this dead bird lying here, unable to do
a thing to help it?”
“What do you think should be done, Doctor Robinson?” he
asked.
“W ell—if you and I really believe in the Power of God, we
should be able to raise to life again this dead China pheasant,
and restore it to its family which, by this time no doubt, are
wandering round looking for their father and husband,” I said
to him.
“Do you really believe that to be possible?” he asked me.
“I most certainly do. I do not believe there can be any limita­
tions whatsoever to the Power of God on this earth. Some day,
perhaps, we shall know the fullness of the Power of the Spirit of
God, but just so long as we leave this dead China pheasant lying
here on this highway, you and I are a pair of hypocrites—either
that, or we just do not have faith enough in God to wad a shot­
gun—now do you understand what I mean?”
“I understand perfectly, Doctor Robinson,” he replied, his
face wreathed in smiles. Gone was all the sadness. Gone were
the tears. In their place, the implacable light of fire which I
thought I had seen in his eyes a few moments ago, shone bril­
liantly. Then, as if an afterthought had come to him, he said to
me:—“Can you restore the Life which God placed in this bird,
but which your car has taken away from it?”
I looked at this man who called himself “The Wanderer” in
utter amazement. Here he was, standing there so unconcernedly,
and asking me the very question I was asking myself. Who was
he? I came within an ace of asking him, but did not wish to
break his chain of thought. For here, on Highway number io i,
was being enacted a drama which, could the world have but seen
it, would have made the “best-seller” of all time. Here were two
men, both understanding their limitations, at least one did, and
both discussing whether the Power of God can restore life to a
dead China pheasant which had been accidentally killed by the
car of one of these men, while they both were on an errand of
mercy, and while they both had given their lives to the sacred
task of revealing the Power of God to the world.
It has been a long time since anything as dramatic as that
scene was witnessed. Not since the days of Jesus.
Turning again to “The Wanderer,” I said to him quietly:—
“No—I cannot restore life to this wonderful thing. I could if I
had the right sort of faith—but I’m afraid I don’t have it. Would
to God I did have it.”
“Then give the China pheasant to me,” he said gently, at the
same time reaching out with hoth hands this time, to take it
from my hands. And as he reached his hands for the dead China
pheasant, I saw, in the middle of the palm of hoth his hands,
the same horrible scar.
I had seen the terrible scar in the right hand of “The Wan­
derer” at the depot the reader will recall. Now, out here on this
Washington highway, under the most amazing of all circum­
stances, I had seen the other scar. What did it all mean? It
confused me. It mystified me. I had a possible solution to the
mystery, but that was so utterly fantastic that I did not even
consider it.
Handing the dead bird to “The Wanderer,” I watched to see
what he would do.
He had taken the bird from me very gently, and was holding
it in his open hands. Its long, multi-colored tail-feathers were
drooping limply from his left hand.
May I assure the reader that there was a very great reverence
in what we had done and said throughout this entire scene. I
instinctively seemed to know that I was about to witness an
awful moment in Time. This world recently witnessed an awful
moment in Time, when it dropped an atomic bomb on Hiro­
shima. “The Wanderer” and I were about to witness another
awful moment, yet one which would witness the restoration, or
the creation of life, not its destruction.
He stood there for several moments with the dead bird in his
In Which We See “The Wanderer" in Action 169
The Wanderer
hands. Then, slowly closing his eyes, I saw his handsome though
sorrowful face become tense. His head drooped a little. Then it
drooped a little more. I saw his lips open. He was getting ready
to speak—what would he say? I was soon to know. And I was
soon to witness an event so epoch-making that no such event has
happened on this earth like it since the time of the Man Jesus.
I stood very still. I removed my hat, holding it in my left
hand. One removes his hat in such moments as these, if he is
ever privileged to witness such moments. And then I heard i t . . .
slowly, quietly, and then in a voice that grew louder and louder,
“The Wanderer” said:—
“Spirit of the Living God—
this China pheasant which You
made, is dead. It was killed accidentally by Dr. Robinson’s car.
Its life has gone. There is none on the earth who can restore
that life. We are both sorry that this precious creature had its
life taken away from it prematurely. But—
my Father—
You gave
it that life—
the man You created inadvertently took it away. He
did not mean to. We are both on a mission which will defeat
death and will reveal the absolute Power of You, my Father,
over illness which is purely physical. And now, my Father, it
becomes my duty to call back again the Life which came from
Thee, and which, until a few moments ago, thrilled the nerves
and pulsated the heart of this dead bird. And so, not because I
need the vision, but in order that my friend, one who believes
in the Power of God, may see the glory of God, I now restore,
through the Power of God into the body of this dead bird, the
Life it previously had. I thank Thee Father that Thou hast heard
me."
I stood there, hat in hand, head bowed, but watching every
move “The Wanderer” made. Quick as a flash his eyes opened,
as, throwing the dead China pheasant high into the air, he
turned to me and said simply:—“Shall we go?”
Replacing my hat on my head, I turned towards the car, “The
Wanderer” staying close by me. Overhead we heard the whirring
of the wings of the China pheasant as it flew into the adjoining
wheat-field, there to rejoin its little flock of babies and its wife.
170
W e both climbed into the Cadillac; a sense of awe and rever­
ence surrounded that entire scene. M y hand was on the switch
and I was about to touch the button which would send power
into the eight-cylinder motor with a roar, when I felt a restraining
hand on my right arm. Refraining from turning the switch, I
saw “The Wanderer” feel in his right hand coat pocket. He
pulled out a little Testament—one of the sort which has the
sayings of Jesus printed in red in it.
Turning the leaves, he stopped at a certain place and handed
it to me, at the same time pointing to a certain verse. It was the
Gospel according to John 10:40. Slowly I read these words:—
“Said I not unto thee, that, if thou wouldest believe, thou
shouldest see the glory of God?”
The smile on his happy face told me that I might start the
motor, which I did. W e were again on our way to Portland.
What should I see there?
In Which We See “The Wanderer’’ in Action 17 1
C H A P T E R S I X
In Which W e Go Abroad
T
h e s t e a m e r l l o y d t r i e s t i n o w a s p l o w in g i t s w a y id l y
through the blue waters of the Mediterranean Sea. It was in
the early fall, and some of the heat which summertime brings
to the Mediterranean, had been exchanged for a more comfort­
able cool. The sky overhead was cloudless. Only the whirr of
the turbines, and the natural noises which are present on every
steamer, disturbed the placidness of the scene.
I was occupying cabin number thirty-three, alone. This cabin
was on the upper deck. It was nice and cool in the evenings, and
I had a fine view through the portholes in the daytime. There
was a conglomerate passenger list consisting of Italians, Arabs,
Greeks, Syrians and several more races which I had not been able
to correctly classify.
The only thing which spoiled that trip for me was the menu.
It was printed in three languages, Italian, Greek, and Syrian. I
could not read a word of any of these languages, and as I was the
only American on the boat, and the only person who spoke Eng­
lish, I had quite a time ordering my meals. No matter what I
would point to on the menu, taking a chance, it would be covered
with either grated cheese or oil. I was quite tired of both.
In vain had I tried to make the waiter in the dining-room
understand what ham and eggs were. Finally, in desperation, I
drew a picture of a pig. Then I drew two round objects which
I thought looked very much like eggs. Taking this drawing into
the dining-room with me the second morning out, I showed it to
the waiter, who had no difficulty deciphering the drawing of the
pig. The eggs, however, he could not get.
The steward was a little better guesser, and soon I had ham
and eggs. Three times a day I had them—and did not get sick
of them either. Coffee—they knew what that was. But at every
meal there would be the proverbial glass of Italian wine, which,
incidentally, I did not touch, being, of course, a total abstainer-
something which is hardly ever understood in this day and age.
But I am, nevertheless.
I have stated that I was the only person who spoke English on
the ship. That is not quite correct. There was an American
couple on board whom I did not know were on board until the
last day of our trip, the destination of which was Alexandria,
Egypt. The lady had been quite ill, and her husband had kept
watch over her in their cabin.
After breakfast, the morning of the last day at sea, I was stand­
ing on the upper deck with a pair of binoculars, trying to make
out the Island of Stromboli, which is, in reality, a live volcano.
On this Island “Bad-man” Mussolini used to put those Italian
renegades who would not fall for his Fascist propaganda. There
were many of them on the Island.
I could just faintly make out the Island. The binoculars I was
carrying have lenses which magnify thirty times. They are very
powerful German-made lenses, not available anywhere now.
Deciding to wait an hour or so before trying again to make out
Stromboli, I was putting the glasses into their case which I car­
ried slung over my shoulder, when I heard a voice on the op­
posite side of the deck say:—“W ell I’ll be a son-of-a-gun.”
While not the most polite words, they were music to my ears,
and it did not take me very long to make my way to the other
side of the ship, to discover who knew how to speak the only
language in the world which makes such words possible.
I walked up and down the deck, listening to the passengers
who were occupying the long row of deck-chairs, and it was not
long before I saw a couple who were talking the good old Ameri­
can language. The gentleman was quite plump, but not as plump
as his wife. One could see that she had been ill, although I sus-
In Which We Go Abroad 173
The Wanderer
pected the illness was nothing more serious than mal de met.
Stepping up to the gentleman I introduced myself, telling him
how fortunate I considered myself to be, at having discovered on
the ship, someone who could speak English, and expressing my
regret that I had not had the privilege of meeting them before. I
related to them, by way of introduction, my experience in the
dining-room, trying to get a good old American dinner.
“M y name’s Benjamin, Doctor Robinson, and this is Mrs.
Benjamin.”
I acknowledged the introduction and asked the Benjamins
where they came from.
“Great Neck, Long Island—we are in the Jewish hardware
business,” replied Mr. Benjamin.
“What’s the Jewish hardware business?” I inquired.
“Oh,” said Mr. Benjamin, “you’re not a New Yorker. Jewish
hardware is ladies’ ready-to-wear.”
The Benjamins insisted on taking some pictures of me, and I,
in turn, took some motion pictures of them, which I still have.
I promised the Benjamins that if I ever was in Great Neck,
I would certainly call on them. I have lost their address however,
and have not seen these good people since. If they read this,
they may be interested in knowing that every once in a while I
run through the roll of film I took of them on the S.S. Lloyd
Triestino. They are a wonderful couple.
I had not seen “The Wanderer” since we parted company in
San Francisco a few months earlier. The reader will recall that
after the seemingly miraculous restoration of life to the China
pheasant that had been accidentally killed by my car, we con­
tinued our trip to Portland where a Mrs. Scott lay dying of
cancer.
The technique I used in this case was very simple. It brought
an almost immediate recovery. To use Mr. Scott’s own words in
a letter to me:—“I saw the cancer disappear like a sea-anemone.”
Knowing Mrs. Scott very well over a period of years, I had
given her considerable thought on my way down, and had come
174
In Which We Go Abroad
to the conclusion that she had never really understood the simple
fact of the existence of the Spirit of God in her. So when I ar­
rived at her home, after being met at The Multnomah Hotel in
Portland by Mr. Scott, I put the question very plainly to her.
She had been a member of my organization many years. She
had been a delegate to one of our Nadonal Conventions which
had been held in The Shrine Auditorium in Portland. Yet I was
convinced that while she may have believed in the basic philos­
ophy underlying my Movement, she had not as yet made the
vital contact with the Spirit of God in her. I was not so sure that
she really understood what I had taught her of the existence of
God—in her.
Mrs. Scott was not in very good shape when I saw her. Had
it not been for the Power of God she unquestionably would
have passed on within a few days or weeks. However, she is
alive and well today, and has not the slightest sign of cancerous
growth anywhere on her body.
It was late in the evening when I arrived in Portland. “The
Wanderer” had insisted that his presence would not be neces­
sary, so I had left him in his room at The Multnomah.
The Scott home is located on Council Bluffs, high on a hill
overlooking the City of Portland. It is a beautiful home, and
the view of the surrounding country is wonderful. Taking a
chair by the side of her bed, I adopted the most cheerful, jovial
attitude I knew how to adopt. I usually adopt this attitude in my
“life or death” cases. M y object is to impress the sufferer with
the conviction that so far as I am concerned, the recovery is
absolutely, sure. It is amazing how much that attitude has ac­
complished over the past twenty years I have been doing what
the reader sees me doing now.
Taking one of her hands in mine I said to her:—“Mrs. Scott—
I’m going to pull aside the blinds and show you what a beautiful
night it is. I’m going to let you look at the stars.”
Stepping to the window on the north side of the room, I
drew up the blind, and also raised the Venetian blind under-
175
neath it. Then, going back to my chair near her bed-side, and
taking her hand again, I said:—“Mrs. Scott—do you see those
beautiful stars shining up there in the sky?”
“Yes—I see them,” she replied in an almost inaudible voice.
“Now I’m going to ask you a question—what Power do you
think it is which made yon wonderful stars, and keeps them
swinging in their orbits with such unerring accuracy and such
matchless precision?”
“W hy—it’s the Power of God, isn’t it?”
“Exactly, Mrs. Scott,” I said to her. “And now, let me ask you
another question—Where is the Power of God which performs
such matchless feats as that, and a hundred million more, equally
as matchless?”
“You teach that the Power of God is within.”
“Once again you are correct Mrs. Scott, and now, if you feel
equal to it, I have another question I want to ask you. If the
superlative Power of the Spirit of God, which keeps those planets
whirling in space; which made those stars, and the sun, and the
moon, and which holds our little lives in the hollow of Its hands,
actually lives in you, what is there to prevent that Great Spirit of
God from casting out of your body, this cancerous disease, which,
by the way, is a physical disease only. Now you answer me that
please—take your time.”
She thought for a moment and then, turning her head slightly
towards me said:—“There shouldn’t be any reason, Doctor Robin­
son, but for some reason or other I don’t seem to be able to make
the connection. I want to live. I don’t want to die. But there’s
something wrong somewhere. I know that God can heal me if
He wants to, but I’m dying just the same.”
“No such thing,” I replied—“You’ll be up and walking round
this room inside of a week if you will grasp and understand the
very simple truths I shall say to you. Now you say that God can
heal you. Then you go and spoil it all by adding ‘if He wants to’;
That is not sound logic, Mrs. Scott—it’s the very poorest sort of
logic.”
176 The Wanderer
In Which We Go Abroad
“Where did I get off the track, Doctor Robinson?” she asked.
“You did not get off the track, Mrs. Scott, because you never
were on it,” I said to her, hoping against hope that she would
grasp the very simple truth I was trying to get across to her. (If
the world at large would recognize the one truth I am going to
state now, there never would be any more wars among nations.)
“You see, Mrs. Scott—it’s like this—and please listen to me
carefully because this is a matter of life or death. You can re­
cover, or you can die—which you do is a matter of your own
choice. Now listen to me—you said to me—you admitted to me
that you know that the Spirit of God, in you, can heal you. You
also said ‘if He wants to’ and that is the point I want to make so
very clear, for on that one point, your life hinges. It is not a
matter of whether God wants to heal you or not. To he brutally
frank with you, which I usually am, it makes very little differ­
ence to God whether you recover or not. If you die though, it
will be your fault. God will not care, one way or another.
“I think I know just where the trouble lies, and if you are as
intelligent a woman, as I believe you to be after having known
you many years, you will throw away this cancer so quickly that
it will make the neighbors sit up and wonder. Here is where the
trouble lies Mrs. Scott—you know full well, from what you have
learned from me, that The Spirit of God actually lives in you.
You know too, that so long as that Spirit of Life is in you, the
condition of the body makes no difference at all, because the
Spirit of God which, as you admit, lives in you at this very mo­
ment, made your body, and certainly the Power which made
your body, has the ability to keep your body in perfect condition
—has It not?”
She admitted that the Creator of all human bodies has the
Power and the ability to heal, and to re-make, if necessary, the
body the Spirit of God so wonderfully made in the beginning.
Then I said to her:—“Mrs. Scott, feel your own pulse—can you
do that?” She could, and did.
“Now let me ask you—what Power is it which makes your
177
heart beat, your lungs inhale and exhale, and the rest of your
bodily organs—your eyes, your ears—function without any aid
from you?”
“It is the Power of God in me Dr. Robinson, and I am begin­
ning to see what you are driving at,” she replied.
“No you’re not—not just yet. What I am driving at is this—so
long as you need no physical attention; so long as your physical
body needs no special attention, the Spirit of God in you will
condnue to cause your physical organs to function properly—
something that in itself is the greatest miracle of the ages. But—
and listen to me carefully here—when something arises which
threatens to destroy your body, or any part of it—it requires you
to call the attention of the Spirit of God in you to that fact.
Once the Spirit of God in you, knows what it is you need and
want, that Spirit at once springs into action, and when It springs,
all the Power there is in the great Realm of God is in that Spirit.
Now—have you ever aroused or awakened that Great Sleeping
Giant of the Power of God in you? Have you ever impressed
upon it that your life is in danger, and that immediate help is
needed?”
Her answer was “No.”
“Then let us get busy right away,” I said, explaining at this
point:—“You will notice that I referred to the Spirit of God in
you as a Great Sleeping Giant, and that is exactly what it is.
When The Almighty placed His spirit in man, He considered
that man would at least have brains enough to use It. But man
evidently has not that amount of confidence in God, or brains
sufficient to use this immutable Power of God in him. Just as
long as things go swimming along as they should, the Spirit of
God attends to Its own business, and that is to keep your physical
body functioning. But you let that Great Spirit know that an
emergency exists, such as the emergency which is facing this
Scott family now, and once the Spirit of God realizes that you
have a need for something unusual, that Spirit will spring into
action, and, regardless of what it is you need, the Spirit of God
178 The Wanderer
in you will turn Heaven and hell loose if it has to, to accomplish
that which The Creator sent It to do—and incidentally that thing
God sent His Spirit to do is to give eternal life to as many as
■ will receive it.
"Now do you understand what I’m talking about—and will
you awaken the Spirit of God in you, Mrs. Scott?”
“If you will tell me how to do that, I will,” she replied, with a
different tone in her voice.
“That is the simplest part of the whole thing,” I said to Mrs.
Scott. “You see—the Spirit of God knows even now that you
have need of physical healing, but that Spirit cannot act, unless
you consciously make it possible for It to act, by your simple
recognition of the fact of what that Spirit is, and what It can
accomplish for you—now.”
Mrs. Scott quietly drew her hand from mine, closed her eyes,
and lay there in thought for a while. Then, opening her eyes
and smiling at me she said:—“Doctor Robinson—I see it—I see it
—Glory be to God—I'm getting up.”
And up she got. She has been up ever since.
* * *
The other two cases, the one in Klamath Falls, and the one in
Redwood City, I shall not recount in detail, as I want to get back
to “The Wanderer.” Suffice it to say that in the Klamath Falls
case, an entirely different kind of technique was necessary. This
boy, who had been run over by a truck, while riding his bicycle
home from school, was unconscious when I arrived there. He
had been unconscious ever since the accident.
That was a home of sorrow when I arrived there. The family
was distracted. I talked to the attending physician, and he told
me there was a fractured skull, blood clots, and intestinal lesions
of the abdomen.
“Do you consider the case absolutely hopeless Doctor?” I had
asked him.
“I do.”
In Which We Go Abroad 179
"In which case you can have no possible objection to my dem­
onstrating what the Power of the Spirit of God can do—have
you Doctor—you see—I am not a medical man—just a religious
leader?”
“I have been practicing medicine long enough Doctor Robin­
son to know in the last analysis we physicians don’t know what
the score is—we don’t even know what makes the body tick—we
don’t know what the Power is—we know there is one, but our
job is entirely physical—
we deal with the physical body and
nothing else. You preachers and priests ought to take up where
we leave off—if you know anything at all about God,” said the
attending physician, Doctor Pugh.
That was rather a smashing indictment of preachers and
priests, although the good Doctor was unconscious of what he
was saying.
Dr. Pugh reached for his hat preparatory to taking his leave,
for he is a very busy man, and a very conscientious man too. I
believed that here was a physician who would like very much to
see what God can do when medical aid is helpless. So, calling
the Doctor out on the porch I said to him:—“Dr. Pugh—I think
I can talk plainly to you. You know who I am, and you know
that I’m not any sort of a nut. You know that I keep my feet
solidly on the ground all the time. You also know that when I say
to you that the Power of God can do what medical aid cannot do,
I know what I’m talking about. You called me a preacher Dr.
Pugh. I’m no preacher. I disagree with about everything preach­
ers and priests teach. But I have made an independent scientific
search for God, and I have been successful—now—would you
like me to demonstrate to you what The Almighty can do when
man is helpless?”
Turning to me and taking my hand Doctor Pugh said:—
“Thank you Doctor Robinson, for taking me to be the man I try
to be, and for giving me credit for being broad enough to keep an
open mind so far as medical knowledge goes. I respect your pro-
180 The Wanderer
In Which We Go Abroad 181
fession just as I know you respect mine—go ahead—I think you
know what you’re doing. Show me what the Power of God can
do in this case, and I’ll never stop singing your praises,” he said.
“That is just exactly what I do not want you to do Doctor.
W hy do you think I run around most of the time in an old shirt,
with a 5-gallon Stetson on the back of my head? W hy do you
think I look like a rough-neck or a tramp most of the time? Do
you know that I am an ordained and consecrated Bishop in the
Eastern Catholic Church—yet I haven’t had a robe on for years.
W hy, if you made public what you are about to see, and told the
newspaper here what had happened, you would start such a rush
on Moscow that it would defeat the very thing I am striving so
hard for—that is, that proper credit be given for the things which
are following one simple man who actually believes in the Power
of God. The trouble with the world today lies in the fact that
it tried to make a God out of a Messenger of God, and it failed.
Now it has no God to which it can turn in this world crisis.
Please do not tell anyone of what you are about to see. It will
not only injure my work, it will hinder the full revelation of the
Spirit of God from coming to this earth, for it will be a super­
miracle if humanity saves itself. No—Dr. Pugh—this work is not
mine. It is God’s work. So let God have the credit—I don’t de­
serve it and don’t want it.”
Re-entering the house, we went into the bedroom where the
injured child lay. Closing the door I said to the Doctor:—“There
is nothing miraculous about this at all, sir—it’s just a practical
application of the Power of God. If this boy were conscious, I
could give him a reasonable explanation of what is about to hap­
pen. You know, Doctor—the way to God is so plain that even a
fool can find it. But, being unconscious, I shall have to do the
work for this boy without his knowledge.”
Walking over to the injured school-boy, I gently placed my
hand on his head, and commanded the healing Spirit of God in
him to bring to him a complete and speedy healing. The words
182
I used were probably something like this—I do not recall the
exact words. But I spoke in a very loud voice, saying:—“Spirit
of God—heal this boy, and begin the work now.”
That was about what I would say. Anyhow, before I left the
room, there was a movement on the part of the boy, who, for the
first time since the terrible accident, had opened his eyes. The
Doctor checked to make sure that he was conscious. He was,
and inside of five days he was running round with his playmates
again. I trust he watches for trucks after this. I also trust that
these truck-drivers exercise a little more care with their large
motor vehicles. They are dangerous on the highway.
* *
It was perhaps three months after “The Wanderer’s” last
visit to Moscow. Early fall was just around the corner. I had had
a very strenuous year. One day, after supper, Mrs. Robinson was
working on her knitting in her favorite chair by the radio, and I
was lying down on a large davenport, resting.
“Robbie—why don’t you take a nice long vacation. You have
been traveling at a pretty fast pace, and I think you owe it to
yourself and your family to get away for a while—don’t you?”
“Always trying to get rid of me,” I good-humoredly retorted.
“No—I mean it. Is there any place in particular you would like
to go?”
“I’ll tell you what I’d like to do,” I told Mrs. Robinson, con­
tinuing, “I’d like to make another trip to the Holy Land. You
know, ‘The Wanderer’ told me in San Francisco that he was
going back to his native land, arid probably would not be in this
country again. I’d sort of like to take a few months off, and make
that trip.”
“W ell why don’t you? Your grip is all packed—you call up Joe
Cain now and get reservations for New York, and take your
. • »
trip.
Before I retired that evening, I had fully decided to go to
Europe. Perchance I might see “The Wanderer” again. In any
The Wanderer
event, I knew a complete rest would not do me any harm. It had
been many years since I had completely relaxed and taken life
easy. I believed I had it coming to me.
In the morning I called Joe Cain, the ticket-agent for the
Milwaukee Road in Spokane, and inquired about reservations
to New York. Joe had a drawing-room which I reserved, asking
him to give the railway ticket and the reservation to the con­
ductor of the Olympian which left the next morning. I would
drive to Plummer Junction and pick up the train there, thus sav­
ing an overnight stay in Spokane.
Bill Marineau drove me to Plummer Junction in the Cadil­
lac, returning to Moscow about noon of the same day. Bill likes
to get his hands on the wheel of my car. I get scared every time
I ride with him. Yet he has never had an accident. I keep telling
him though that there is always a first time.
The Olympian, as usual, pulled into Plummer Junction on
time. This little way-station is about fifty miles from Moscow,
and by driving there in the morning, I get one extra night at
home as I have previously explained. Drawing-room A in car 53
was assigned to me, and shortly after the porter had carried my
one grip and a small radio which I usually carry while travelling,
Bill Akin, the conductor came round to deliver my ticket to me.
“Doc—you’re the only man I know who can get credit from
the Milwaukee Road, and I’ve been making this run for a long
time—how do you do it?”
“I’m not getting any credit from the Milwaukee Road, Bill. I
just took a notion to save one night in Spokane by driving to
Plummer. I called up Joe Cain, and asked him to get the reserva­
tions and give them to you to deliver to me. Joe will send the
bill to Moscow and he will have a check back the next day.”
“I know all that,” said Bill Akin, whom I have known for
many years, “but it’s credit just the same Doc—and you must
stand pretty good to be able to pull that and get away with it.”
“Bill,” I replied, “Do you know how many trips I have made
across this country on The Olympian in the past twenty years.”
In Which We Go Abroad 183
The Wanderer
“You’ve made a lot of them Doc—I have been carrying you
for nearly that long. How many—one hundred?” I nodded. He
had guessed it correctly.
“Let me show you something, Bill.” Pulling out my ministe­
rial card I showed it to Bill Akin, saying:—“Do you know Bill,
I don’t even have to buy a ticket if I don’t want to—I can get a
ministerial pass any time I apply for it.”
“W ell what’s the big idea of paying your fare when you can
travel for nothing, and you certainly can on that card?”
‘W ell Bill—it’s like this; in the first place I don’t believe
preachers or priests should travel free on any railroad. Nor do I
believe they should hold their property tax-free. These big reli­
gions have lots of money, and their ministers should pay their
fares just like anyone else does—and besides Bill, I don’t want
anyone to know the sort of work I’m engaged in.”
‘W h y not?”
‘W ell—ever notice how, when a train-load of people know
a man is a minister or a priest, they keep as far away from him
as they can—unless of course they happen to be members of his
religion?”
“That’s true enough—I see that every trip on this train.”
‘W ell I don’t want people to keep away from me Bill; I want
to know people, as you know. There isn’t a man or woman on
this train who would suspect me of being in the religious field,
is there?”
“Not the way you’re dressed—and by the way you act,” said
the conductor.
“You see Bill—when I get out among men, on a train, or no
matter where, if they do not suspect that I am an agent of God,
I get the low-down on what they are thinking. I get a better
chance to see men as they really are—see what I mean?”
“Yep—I see Doc. But what do you think of men as you find
them—a pretty rotten mess ain’t they?”
“Not on your tin-type Bill. There’s nothing wrong with the
human race. There is a lot wrong though with those who, while
184
making a living under the garb of God, fail utterly to reveal any­
thing about God to the world, choosing instead to try to propa­
gate their own religious organizations. That is all that’s wrong
with this world—it just doesn’t know anything about the Power
of God.”
“Think it ever will?”
“Not in your day or mine Bill. I am of the opinion that the
human race will have to go through much more fire and blood­
shed than it’s gone through already, and God knows it’s been
through enough.”
“W ell Doc—just who is to blame for conditions as they are
on the earth today?”
I looked at Bill Akin. I had been asked that question many
hundreds of times during the past twenty years. So I answered
Bill’s question like this:—
“Bill—there probably is one great big underlying cause. It may
be that man has not yet discovered just what God is—what do
you think of that for an answer?”
“I think it’s a good one, Doc,” said the conductor as he left me,
closing the door of the drawing-room behind him, evidendy not
wishing to talk religion.
The trip to New York was completed without incident. I had a
little time to relax and think about “The Wanderer,” for he was
always in my thoughts. One cannot make the acquaintance of a
man who can perform a “miracle” such as I saw him perform,
without constandy thinking of such a man and wanting to see
him again.
I seemed to feel that “The Wanderer,” and I would meet
again. Probably somewhere on this trip. Recalling his promise
to come whenever I needed him, I sent out a spiritual request
that he contact me somewhere, before this vacation trip was over.
He did. And the results of that meeting can leave their mark on
human history. I did not know then, of course, what he would
reveal to me, but I did have a very strong suspicion that it would
be epochal. It was.
In Which W e Go Abroad 185
I stayed in Chicago just a few hours between trains. The
Olympian had arrived in the morning, and I took The Commo­
dore out at four fifteen the same afternoon, arriving in New
York City in the morning. I had wired The Roosevelt for reserva­
tions—the usual reservations, which consist of a single bedroom
with a parlor attached.
The rooms were ready for me on my arrival. Hastily changing
my clothes, I took a bath and hunted up an agency which had
the listings of the steam-ship sailings for Europe. I was fortunate.
The following day the North German Lloyd Steamship N ew
York was leaving for Southhampton, and a last minute reserva­
tion on Cabin 66 had come in. I had the passport I had previously
used in my possession, so did not need to contact the State De­
partment in Washington on that matter.
Most steamers for Europe leave New York at midnight, taking
the tide out. The S.S. New York is a fine vessel of some ten
thousand tons. Being German-owned, the crew of course were
Germans. Cabin 66 was on the upper deck, and, as I have
travelled by sea so much that I never get sea-sick, I was looking
forward to a fine few months’ vacation.
I needed that vacation, for I take my mission in life very seri­
ously. Of course, I am not foolish enough to believe that the
world will stop revolving on its axis if my work stops, or anything
like that. But nevertheless, I do realize the seriousness of my
message, and the tremendous implications of it. I have known
from childhood that I should be used by God in some major
work for the Kingdom of God. It was not until the Spirit of God
came into my life in North Hollywood, or shortly after, that the
details of my work began to make themselves known to me. They
were unusual details. A religion; operating exclusively by mail;
buying advertising space just like a commercial organization
would; making a definite charge for the Lessons in Truth.
One expects a religious organization to build a church or rent
a building, and pass its message on by the spoken word. But that
method was not fast enough for me. It would have taken me a
1 86 The Wanderer
whole lifetime to have reached 1 % of the people I have reached
by the methods I have used. In twenty years, I liave, as Dr.
Marcus Bach states in his book, They Have Found a Faith,
written my name “on the scroll of American religious history,
never to be erased.”
I don’t care very much about writing my name on any scroll.
What my name is, or who I am, means little. What has a tremen­
dous meaning is the message I am bringing to this world. That
message has come to me as a result of personal talks with God.
Many personal talks. So the American people will be wise to
listen to what I have to say, even though many of them may be
misled into thinking that the message is purely commercial, be­
cause of the methods I use.
I have broken, perhaps, every tradition known to religion. I
have refused to be bound by any of the requirements of any
religious organization. Even back there in the Toronto Bible
Training School I did everything I was supposed not to do. Yet
the instructors recognized the fact that a great work of God
might very easily be done through the humble efforts of the man
they looked upon as “so very different,” as Dr. Imrie expressed
his opinion of me one day to Dr. Elmore Harris.
Many a time have I thought of the day a group of four of the
instructors, with the president of the School, called me into the
office to tell me that God had laid it on their hearts that a great
work was to be done through my simple ministry.
“Frank—we want to have a little word with you. W e want you
to be very humble. It seems to be the consensus of opinion among
the instructors here that God is going to use you to draw the
whole world closer to the Cross.” This is what they had said
to me.
But even then I had been honest enough to tell these good
men that I had not been sold on the philosophy of the School.
I had asked many questions about the Bible which had not been
answered. I had asked many questions about Jesus, and they had
not been answered either. I had asked many questions about God
In Which We Go Abroad 187
1 88
—but bad not received answers my reasoning mind could accept.
So, at this conference I had informed those wonderful men of
God (and they were wonderful men of God—I wish the world
was full of them) that I should never preach another sermon. I
told them very frankly that I had not been convinced that the
Christian concept of God was true. That had shocked them. It
was exactly how I felt however, and I plainly told them so.
And so, “the Spurgeon of today,” as they had called me, went
out of their lives, not to lead the world closer to the Cross, but to
take it farther away from the Cross. I wonder if I have not been
able to draw the world a litde bit closer to God by taking it
away from the Cross? I believe I have. I believe that when the
day comes, if it does, when the Christian world forsakes the
“Cross of Jesus Christ,” accepting the Power of God in its stead,
they who have cursed me will bless me. They who have tried to
interfere with this work, will be sorry. They who have maligned
and libelled the founder of this work, will be shown to the world
in their true colors.
* • x *
After a wonderful night’s sleep, the first I had had on the
ocean for many years, I awakened to feel the beautiful sea air
flooding through the porthole, and filling my cabin with the
tang of the sea. I loved it. Now, I could really let down the bars
and rest for a little while. It seemed as if a great load of care
had been lifted from my shoulders. I felt free as the sea-gulls
which follow every out-going liner for many miles, searching for
food which they always find in the waste which is thrown down
the scuppers.
At breakfast the next morning, I happened to look across the
dining-room, and to my surprise saw two lady college professors
from the University of Idaho eating their breakfast. As they were
at the opposite end of the dining-room from where I was sitting,
they did not spot me. Nor did they know that I was on the ship
until, some time after they had returned to Moscow, one of them
The Wanderer
In Which We Go Abroad
was looking over the passenger list when she spotted my name
on it.
“It’s a very small world,” she told the Moscow Historical Club
when reciting the incident some months later.
The usual guessing as to the number of miles the ship would
travel before she came to Bishop’s Light, was indulged in. It is
the custom on ships travelling between this country and South­
ampton to conduct a “guessing” contest. Each passenger who
cares to, puts ten dollars in the “kitty,” and makes a guess on
the number of miles on the log when the ship is passing Bishop’s
Light.
The one whose guess is closest gets the entire amount in the
“kitty,” with the exception of twenty percent which is retained
by the ship’s crew conducting the contest. In went my ten dollars,
and I made a guess. I won the “kitty,” which, incidentally, was
big enough to pay for all expenses of the trip.
W e passed the famous historic Eddystone Lighthouse, and
finally arrived at our destination—Southampton, from which
beautiful sea-coast city I took the “boat-train,” to London where
I engaged a room at the famous Savoy Hotel, since, badly bat­
tered by bombs in the war just ended—we hope.
W hile in England, several interesting things happened. I be­
lieve they will interest the reader, and help fill in the time which
must elapse before we meet “The Wanderer,” again. One un­
usual thing I noticed about the ultra-modern Savoy Hotel was
the fact that instead of having the hired help mop the floors at
night while the guests are asleep, they save that job till the
morning, and then, instead of mopping it clean with the tradi­
tional mop and squeezer which we here in America are familiar
with, they turn loose a gang of “scrub-women,” who go down on
their hands and knees with a brush and a cake of soap. They get
the floor clean all right, but what a round-about way of doing it.
But that is England. There are good points about it, and many
bad points.
It is becoming increasingly evident that Great Britain thinks
The Wanderer
more about oil under the ground in the East, than it thinks about
the hundreds of thousands of suffering Jews above the ground.
She had better be careful. The Jewish problem in Palestine will
not be solved by force.
About the first American I saw in London was Tex Austin, the
Texas showman. He had taken a complete rodeo outfit to Lon­
don only to discover when he arrived that the London City
Council put the fees so high that Tex could not afford to take
his show off the railroad cars. How he made out I did not know,
for I was not in London long enough to find out.
The next American lady I met in the Savoy was Gene Dennis,
the “mentalist.” I met her in an elevator, or “lift,” as the English
call it. I had known Gene years before in North Yakima. She
had gone to the top, later marrying Mr. Von Herberg, of the
famous Jensen-Von Herberg theatrical combination.
I had a very laughable experience which you should hear
about. It shows up the English “nobility.” (As if there really is
such a thing on the earth, regardless of how much money one
has.) The Almighty created all men in exactly the same manner,
and true “nobility,” does not consist of the amount of cash one
has in the bank, but of what one is trying to do to make life
better, and more easily understood, for the rest of the world. It
consists of helping people, not lording it over them. The world
is finding that out.
One day I took a trip to Edinburgh. I intended to call and see
my old father. But, on sending him a telegram telling him that
I was in London and would like to see him, I received the typ­
ically “Christian” reply that he “had no son by the name of
Frank Bruce Robinson.” And that was that. So, instead of drop­
ping off in Northumberland, I went through to Edinburgh and
from thence to Musselborough, where I saw some relatives, stay­
ing with them a few days. I had kept my room at the Savoy.
W hile Edinburgh is in Scotland, and London in England, the
distance is small as we consider distances here in the United
States. The “Flying Scotchman,” the crack train of the London
19 0
In Which We Go Abroad
and Northwestern Railway Company makes the trip in about
five hours.
M y friends had driven me in their car from Musselborough to
Queensferry for the return trip. I was to catch the London train
there. Queensferry, by the bay, is just under the Forth Bridge,
which is really a marvel of bridge-building, considering its age.
It has come through two world wars unharmed.
Queensferry is also the country estate of the Earl of Rosebury,
a titled English peer, who makes most of his money from tenants
who rent small houses and farms from him.
Shortly after I had boarded the train and taken my seat in
the English Pullman, which is very much smaller than our Pull­
man cars, a tall, lanky Englishman entered. He was wearing a
monocle, which is an eye-glass affixed to one eye, the other hav­
ing to make its way as best it can. He had one of those “Sherlock
Holmes” caps on, with a peak both front and back. He wore a
heavy overcoat although the weather was quite warm. The in­
evitable walking-stick was slung over his arm, and in his left
hand he carried a book, and a pair of gloves.
In the English Pullmans, a small permanent table is set up be­
tween the seats. M y chair was on one side while the new ar­
rival’s was on the opposite side of the same table. It was Number
ten.
Entering the car, this lanky, loping Englishman said to the
"guard,” by which name the conductor is called:—“Oi si old
chappie—whear is seat number nine?”
The guard pointed him to the seat opposite mine. He took
one look at me, adjusted the monocle several times, I guess that
was in order to get a better look and convince him that he was
not seeing double. Then he walked back to the guard at the
other end of the small Pullman, saying to him: “Oi si—old
bloater—is there no other seat in the car except that one—I very
seriously object, dontcherknow to sitting opposite that individ­
ual,” adding, as if by the afterthought method “He looks like a
bloody American.”
191
The Wanderer
What there was uncanny or unusual about “that individual”
I have never known. I was dressed well, all in whites, and cer­
tainly looked as respectable as he did.
When the conductor, or “guard” informed him that there was
no other seat available, he came back, stuck his monocle in his
eye once more, and gave me my second period of scrutiny. Slowly
removing his coat, and never taking his eyes off me, he hung it
up by the seat. Then off came the typically English cap he was
wearing. The cane was hung up, and the scarf was tucked into
a side pocket of his overcoat. As if he was conferring a great
favor on me, he condescended to sit down. Shortly after, a news­
boy came through the Pullman selling papers, and my friend
across the table bought one.
Opening up the paper, he proceeded to look round the corner
of it, and I saw that he was still engaged in viewing me as a very
strange and curious individual. The trouble was, he knew I was
an American. The book he brought with him, he had laid on
the table, and as I looked at that book I smiled—someone was go­
ing to have some fun. It was a novel I had written a few years
ago, entitled "God and Doctor Bannister.”
Not a word did this English Johnny say to me. I would have
been all for sticking out my front paw and saying “How you
coming, pardner?” but I decided that this gentleman should
speak before I did.
Shortly after the train had left Queensferry, the waiter set the
table, and handed us both a bill of fare. I chose my meal, and
he chose his. Mine was “ham and . . .” and his was kippered
herring, tea, and blanc-mange, a favorite English cornstarch
dessert.
When the meals arrived, the waiter placed mine in front of
me, and this gentleman’s in front of him. He had happened to
put one of my plates a little bit over the halfway mark, perhaps
an inch more on my visitor’s side than mine. Taking off his
monocle, this gentleman carefully pushed the plate over to my
side of the table. I could have my half, but not an inch more.
192
In Which We Go Abroad
After the meal, the waiter cleared away the table. I gave him
a two shilling tip, while the Englishman gave him a “thrippenny-
bit,” which is five cents in our money. Two shillings was fifty
cents.
Picking up my four-bits the waiter thanked me profusely. It
was evident he was not used to that sort of generosity. But if
“The Wanderer” had been willing to give me his overcoat,
worth several hundreds of dollars, why couldn’t I give this Eng­
lish waiter two shillings?
Picking up the “thrippenny-bit,” my friend of the opposite side
of the table had given him, I heard the waiter say:—“Thanks—
my lord.”
So that’s who this chap was—an English lord. Oh well—he
meant nothing in my young life. There still had not been one
word passed between us, nor was there until several hours later
when the train pulled into Paddington station. Picking up his
book, and putting on his overcoat, scarf, cap, and hanging his
cane over his arm, as the train came to a stop in the station, my
friend turned to me, and, in a snapping voice said:—“Oh—good-
arftemoon.”
Looking up at him I said, with a smile:—“W ell, well, well—
where did you drop from?”
Turning to me with a look which would have bitten my head
off if it could bite, he said:—“I am a gentleman—and it’s always
customary for an English gentleman to bid good-day to those
with whom he travels on a train, even if he doesn’t like them.”
Smilingly I said to him:—“That’s okay with me, mister—I’ll
bet you’re one fine fellow if one could only get to know you—
but I don’t believe I’ll live long enough to get acquainted with
you—you’re too all-fired stuck on yourself.”
Looking daggers at me again, he beat me to the door of the
Pullman, and, swinging his cane high in the air with each step,
he loped towards the taxi-stand at the entrance of Paddington
station. In England, they pile more than one in a taxi, so, look­
ing forward to some fun, I piled in after him. As soon as he saw
*93
The Wanderer
me, he made as if to keep his hand on his pocket-book and said,
looking me right square in the eyes:—“Oh good God—are you
still here?”
“Yes—I’m still here—but I have no designs on you. W hy don't
you come down to earth and try to be a human being—why out
in Idaho where I come from, you wouldn’t last five minutes, re­
gardless of how much money you have.” He froze again.
Admitting one more passenger, the taxi-driver stuck his head
through the window and said:—“Where to, gents?”
“The Savoy Hotel,” said the lanky Englishman.
“The Savoy Hotel,” said Frank B. Robinson.
The other passenger went to the Ritz.
When my Queensferry friend heard me say “Savoy Hotel,”
he turned to me saying:—“The Savoy Hotel—why that’s one of
the swankiest hotels in London—you don’t mean to tell me that
you’re staying at the Savoy Hotel?”
“W hy not—I can have as much money as you have,” I replied.
“In what way do you make money—you are an American,” he
said to me.
Smilingly I hesitated for a few moments and then said, with
quite a twinkle in my eye:—“W ell—I made a little money out of
you.
“Out of me—how did you make any money out of me?”
“Oh—I wrote that book you have been reading on the train,”
I said, pointing to the book in his hand, "God and Doctor
Bannister."
This, of course, changed the complexion of the situation com­
pletely. At once he shook hands, and introduced himself as the
Earl of Boswains Ferry. W e got to be pretty good friends on that
taxi trip from Paddington station to the Hotel Savoy. As we
entered the lobby, the Earl said to me:—“Oi si—would you like
to have a little spot of whisky with me?” I informed the Earl
that I was a strict teetotaler, adding: “I’ll go in with you and
have a glass of ginger ale, if you wish.”
The Earl was quite agreeable. As we were sitting there at a
194
table getting better acquainted, I asked him what there was about
my general appearance which had made him so suspicious of me.
Then I knew. He said to me:—“Oh good lord—it wasn’t you—it
was that big hat I saw hanging up by your seat.” So that was it.
The big Stetson.
The next day the Earl hunted me up and said:—“Oi si—would
you like to meet the King?” The King at that time was the gen­
tleman who married the American lady and lost his throne by
doing so.
“Oh I don’t care, if he’s handy, trot him out,” I said to my
friend who had a very marked sense of humor I later discovered.
He did not get annoyed at that statement. It seemed that on the
following evening the King of England was holding an informal
dance at the Hotel Savoy, and the Earl had come to London to
attend it. I do not dance, but I did accept the Earl’s invitation,
and met the King of England the following evening.
He is a most charming fellow. W e sat on a divan, discussing
the water shortage in London, and his ranch in Alberta, Canada.
When I left him, he called over an official of Scotland Yard, and,
introducing me to him, asked that I be provided with two Scot­
land Yard detectives whose instructions were to be to show me
all the sights I wanted to see in London.
The friendship between the Earl and me continues to this day.
I took in about all the sights I could take in, in the limited
space of time I felt I could afford to spend there.
There was another laughable incident which shows once more
how very curious these English people are if you do not under­
stand them. When you do understand them, they’re all right. So
is every created human being, when he is understood.
One evening, after I had retired, I heard a knocking at my
bedroom door. Getting up, I opened the door and peeped out to
see who or what it was. There stood a waiter with a wagon-load
of food and liquor—enough to feed2a family of six.
“Supper is served, sir,” he said to me.
In Which We Go Abroad 195
“You must have the wrong room, this is 333 and I did not
order anything to eat,” I told the waiter.
Picking up the check from under the cloth which covered the
food-wagon, he looked at the number of the room on it. Sure
enough it was 333. Do you think I could convince that waiter
that I had not ordered that dinner!1 I could not. The ticket said
room 333, so room 333 it had to be.
I explained to the man that I had retired and that there was no
one in my room with me, and I impressed upon him again that
someone had made a mistake. I told him that in the United
States we went to bed to sleep, not to eat.
Finally the fellow took the wagonload of food away. But
when I checked out to take the cross-channel boat for Calais,
there was an item on my bill of seven pounds, eight shillings
and sixpence for “supper served in room.” In vain did I argue
with the cashier of the Savoy that I had had no supper served in
my room. That took about half an hour, and I did not have much
more time than that to catch the boat-train.
Finally he dug through the old room-checks and the dinner
had been sent to room 233. Asking him to hurry and take the
amount off the bill, he explained that he would have to get a
refund check from someone or other who was not in the hotel
at the time. I could not wait, so, hot under the collar, I told him
to mail the check to me at the King David Hotel in Jerusalem,
where I intended to go before I returned to the United States.
I have never been able to understand why he could not have
taken the overcharge out of his cash drawer and given it to me
instead of going to the trouble of having a special check made
out. But that is England. That, perhaps, is what makes it great.
W hile staying at the Savoy, I planned the trip I should take
from there. I would go through the Norwegian fiords, through
Sweden, would go to Oherammergau in Bavaria and see the fa­
mous Passion Play which was then playing. After that I would
return to London, take the boat for Calais, and then take the
Rome Express to Vatican City, and then go to the Holy Land.
196 The Wanderer
In Which We Go Abroad
I had visited Genoa, and had instructed Cooks Wagon-Lits
in London to arrange my trip across the Mediterranean so that I
could break the journey at both Syracuse and Messina. I wanted
to check up on something at Messina, that beautiful Italian vil­
lage which was almost completely destroyed some years before
by an earthquake and tidal wave. It was completely rebuilt, but
the last war shattered it again. W hy will men fight? W hy will
they not listen to the Spirit of God?
A few years before, a story had been widely circulated through­
out the United States that a statue of Jesus, in a church at Mes­
sina, had miraculously begun to bleed, the blood coming from
the left nipple just above the apex of the heart. Now I knew, as
every other thinking man knows, that no stone statue of Jesus
began bleeding under the heart by miraculous means. There
would be no object in it. I considered the whole story propaganda
expressly manufactured for American consumption, and I had
made up my mind that if I was ever near Messina, I would stop
there and investigate.
I did just that on the present trip. Although I do not speak one
word of Greek or Italian, my Bishop’s papers, w'hich I always
carry, got me entry to a Bishop of the Eastern Catholic Church
(Greek Orthodox) who spoke English. Telling him that I
wanted to see the church which had witnessed the miracle of
the bleeding stone nipple, he told me that he had never heard
about that miracle, nor had anyone else in Messina.
I had some of the clippings taken from a San Francisco news­
paper in my briefcase, so I got them out and showed them to
him. He started to smile, and then told me that he knew where
that church was. It was not a Greek Church, but a Roman.
W e went down to see the church, but experienced some dif­
ficulty in getting behind the altar, which seemed to be specially
guarded. However, the judicious use of ten lire got us both in
behind. The statue which had done the “bleeding” was, in
reality, only a half statue, and it had been affixed to the wall at
the back, and to one side of the altar proper. What I wanted to
19 7
see, however, was not the blood-stains on the front of the bust,
but whatever was back of it. I saw.
There was a hollow receptacle on the other side of the wall,
just where the left breast of the statue of Jesus was. Undoubtedly
blood had flowed through a small hole which had been drilled
into the nipple, but undoubtedly too, that blood had been placed
in the receptacle on the other side of the wall first. It held about
one quart of a liquid. From the front, where the public were, it
looked miraculous. From the back, where I was, it looked per­
fectly natural. The miracle would have been if the blood, having
been poured into the back of the device, had not flowed out of
the nipple. The hole was big enough as I plainly saw. Oh w ell-
such is twentieth century religion.
* * *
It was early one morning when the Lloyd Triestino pulled
into Syracuse on the Island of Sicily. I wanted to spend at least
one day there and get some pictures, which I did, and had made
into slides after I had returned to the United States. There were
two historical things I wanted to get pictures of; one was the old
amphitheatre where, in olden times, the Christians were thrown
to the lions. Water still runs through a channel in the middle
of the amphitheatre in which the dead bodies of those who went
to that horrible death for their theory that Jesus was God Al­
mighty. (If we had a few groups who would be willing to go to
their death for the Spirit of God, those groups would discover
that there is no death in the Realm of the Spirit of God. They
would know that the last enemy of man, death, has been de­
stroyed. They would be able to cry, with the patriarchs of old—
“Oh death—where is thy victory? Oh grave—where is thy sting?”)
The old stone houses in which the lions were kept, have, for
the most part, crumbled away. But the ruins of them can still be
seen.
Then too, I wanted to wander once again through the old
catacombs. I wanted once more to stand in the room where, it is
198 The Wanderer
In W hich W e Go Abroad
reputed, the four apostles met with the disciples, and where the
one hundred and twenty met when the “Holy Spirit,” as recorded
in the Acts, fell upon them.
I had stood in the room before where, according to the priests
who have charge of the catacombs, that little flock of one hun­
dred and twenty followers of Jesus met for their famous “Baptism
of the Holy Ghost.” I measured that room, and it is exacdy
twelve feet square. How one hundred and twenty people could
have crowded into it, I haven’t the faintest idea. But perhaps it
is held for exhibition purposes, as a charge is made for the trip
into the catacombs where this little “upper” room is. If this is the
authentic “upper” room, it is in the bowels of the earth. I re­
called the “bleeding nipple” in Messina as I stood there and
listened to the guide, who had had more than his share of wine,
relate the stories which are supposed to have happened in those
catacombs.
I had been through those catacombs before. It seemed to me
that there were many more bones of the martyrs now than there
were the last trip I made. Also, some of these bones seemed much
less than fifteen hundred years old. These catacombs go deep into
the ground. Alongside the narrow trail, hollow receptacles, some­
thing like bath-tubs have been hewn in the rock. Above the bath­
tub size receptacles, there are other receptacles, much smaller,
in which the bones of the murdered children were placed.
You can travel for hundreds of yards between these rows of
bone receptacles. I was lagging at the tail-end of the party. I had
an idea I should like to get hold of some of those bones and bring
them back to the United States to have them examined, just to
satisfy myself whether they were old enough to be authentic. I
did not think so.
The Italian guide, who carried on his hat a lighted acetylene
torch, similar to those used by coal miners in the mines, led the
party which consisted of about a dozen tourists. Incidentally Bob
Ripley and his group were there on a former trip I had made
through these same catacombs.
199
200 The Wanderer
Watching for a good opportunity, I hastily reached into one
of the cubicles and slipped a handful of bones into the side
pocket of the white palm beach suit I was wearing. How the
guide saw me I did not know. But he did. Walking back to
where I was standing, he said to me:—“De bone—de bone—you
putta back de bone.”
“Oh—all right, but you have lots of bones in here, you’ll never
miss a few—will you?” I said.
“He stood there crossing himself, and shaking his head. Then
he said to me:—“De bone—de bone—maybe de bone you gotta in
de pock, de bone of de marteer—de marteer—maybe de bone of
my ancestors.”
Pulling a ten-lire gold coin from my pocket I showed it to him,
saying:—“Here—take this—buy some more bones.”
But it was no go. Back into the cubicles had to go the bones I
had taken from them. (All except three, that is, which I brought
back to the United States. They were pronounced by experts to be
less than ten years old.)
There is a telephone in these catacombs which connects with
the buildings through which you have to pass to enter them.
Stepping to this telephone, the guide said something in Italian.
I did not understand what he said, but evidently some in the
party did, for they turned round and looked at me. I knew, of
course, that the guide had telephoned the incident of the bones
to his superiors. I thought perhaps I might be in trouble. How­
ever, when we got back to ground level again and were out of
the catacombs and in the buildings which have many “relics”
for sale, one of the priests motioned to me.
Rather mystified, I followed him into a small room off from
the main room where the relics were sold. This priest, like his
partners, looked as if he had not had a bath for ten years. They
were filthy. So was the rope which was wound round their waists.
Their shoes were so far gone that they never could have been
repaired. I have never seen a more filthier lot of priests, or monks,
or whatever they were, anywhere.
In Which We Go Abroad 2 0 1
I followed the old fellow into the room. He spoke understand­
able English and he understood English very well.
“Please sitta down—you gotta cigaretta—American cigaretta?”
I obliged the priesdy gentleman. Then he said, nothing bash­
ful about it either:—“You gotta two cigaretta?” I gave him an­
other one. Then, holding out his hand, he came at me. This
time it was:—“You gotta package cigaretta?”
Thinking that perhaps I would have some fun with the old
fellow I said:--“W hy don’t you buy your own cigarettes—you
probably have far more money than I have?”
I gave the priest half a dozen more Camels, and I cannot re­
call that he thanked me for them. Putting them in his pocket
he said to me, “You Cattolique?”
“I do not belong to your religion,” I replied.
“You Protestant?” was his next statement.
To this I replied “No.”
“Watta religion you?” he then said to me.
“Oh I have my own religion.”
“You wanta buy de bone—de bone of de marteer?” he then
asked me. I told him I should be very much interested in getting
hold of some genuine martyr’s bones. What I did not tell him
was that I still had three little finger bones which I had retained
in the catacombs, in my coat pocket.
I told him that I might be interested and asked him to show
me what he had to offer. Going into a drawer of a desk in one
comer of the room, he dragged out a paper sack about three by
six inches. It was a cellophane sack, and in it were a conglomera­
tion of small bones, probably finger bones or bones from the
foot. Maybe the bones were something else.
Handing the sack to me, and acting as if it contained diamonds
and mbies, the old priest said: “Dis bone—she come from foot of
St. Peter—ver valuable bone—I givva you de bone for twenty-five
lire.”
Having travelled in the East more than once, I knew how to
deal with Eastern traders, so I at once refused the offer. I did,
202 T he Wanderer
however, ask him how he knew the bones came from the feet
of St. Peter. He said that St. Peter had died in the little room
we had just left, in the catacombs, and that the priests had hid­
den the actual bones of the Saint. He had never offered to sell
any of them before, and he considered the price of twenty-five
lire very reasonable.
I told him that I would not be guilty of the sacrilege of carry­
ing round the bones of St. Peter’s foot, so thought perhaps he
had better keep them. He at once began to bargain, but to no
avail. Seeing that he was about to lose his “prospect,” the old
priest said to me:—“Waita—Waita—I hawa someting—someting
good—someting ver good—waita—I show you.”
Going back into the same drawer, he pulled out a litde vial
with about fifteen drops of a clear looking liquid in it. Probably
water. Anyway, according to the priest they were some of the
actual tears which Jesus had shed while He was hiding in the
catacombs below. Peter had saved the tears and had handed them
down to posterity to sell, later, I presume. But the tears did not
interest me either.
Nor did the piece of lace he exhibited as part of the “shift”
(chemise) which the Virgin Mary wore. I did, however, buy a
piece of wood which came from the original Cross on which
Jesus was crucified. Or at least—this priest said it was. Thus is
twentieth century religion.
There was just one more historical place I wanted to visit once
more in Syracuse, and that was the famous Ear of Dionysius.
The Emperor Dionysius lived about 400 b .c . He was known as
“The Tyrant of Syracuse.” He was always in politics, being a
humble clerk in a tax office. But Dionysius had ambitions. He
wanted to be a political and military big-wig.
When the Agrigentines, after their conquest of the city by
the Carthaginians, charged the Syracusan generals with treach­
ery, Dionysius supported their contentions and accusations, and
induced the Syracusans to appoint him a general, which they
did. Later, he became their emperor.
The Ear of Dionysius is the name given in the 16th century
to one of the quarries of Syracuse. It is now known also as the
Latomia del Paradiso, a grotto hewn in the rock, in the form of
a letter “S.” It is 210 inches deep, 74 feet high, and about one
yard wide. The shape of the “Ear” is due to the rounding of an
old theatre which adjoins, and which is round.
This “Ear” has strange acoustic properties. If you tear a piece
of paper in the opening, you can hear it reverberate like thunder
all through the grotto. On top of the hill, perhaps half a mile
away, is a house which is connected with this grotto, or Ear of
Dionysius. Political prisoners were confined in the grotto, and
their conversation was listened to from the house on the top of
the hill—a white building made of stone, and about twenty feet
square.
On the way down to the Ear, one may see the impoverished
Syracusans, trying to make a livelihood by weaving hemp into
rope. As this was the last interesting spot I wished to visit in
Syracuse, I retraced my steps to the Lloyd Triestino, which, hav­
ing made a stop of ten hours there, proceeded on its way to
Alexandria.
* * *
That is where you found me at the beginning of this chapter.
Our next stop would be Alexandria, which was the end of my
journey so far as the S.S. Lloyd Triestino was concerned. In the
City of Alexandria lived the gentleman, Pixley by name, who,
twenty years ago, had been seen by me in the dream I had while
trying to think of a suitable name for my religious Movement.
This is the gentleman who sent the forty-thousand dollars to a
complete stranger, and which gave the Psychiana Movement
its first real impetus financially.
I had wired my friend Pixley, whom, to that date I had never
seen, that I should be in on the steamer that morning. He came
out to meet me in a special police boat. Mr. Pixley turned out
to be a very wealthy cotton importer in Alexandria. He has a fine
In Which We Go Abroad 203
The Wanderer
home there in which I stayed for about a week. His father lives
in Surrey, England, and is one of the pillars of the Church of
England. He did not like his son being financially interested in
this Movement, for, as the reader knows by this time, I do not
agree with many of the fundamentals of Christianity.
However—this is not said to discredit them. I merely say that
there is a far more reasonable explanation, and a far more scien­
tific explanation than to attribute them to “divine” or “mirac­
ulous” origin. The Realm of God is a Realm of absolutely im­
mutable Law. It never changes. It cannot change.
After twenty years of dealing with hundreds of thousands of
people who are looking for God, and after studying minutely
and carefully the origin and histories of all known religions, the
most important lesson I have learned is that all religious concepts,
whether in the shape of doctrine, precept, prophecy, prayer,
religious devotion, or a belief in miracles, are a spontaneous out­
growth of the moral and religious elements of the human mind,
or what we call the human mind.
But the human mind has not yet seen the full picture of the
totality of the Law which is God. It has not conceived even
faintly, the glories which lie just ahead. Those glories will be
seen and understood when we cease tacking “miracle” and
“divinity” to everything about God which we do not understand,
but which we may understand if we will only give The Al­
mighty credit for being able to operate on a little higher plane
than that on which the human race operates.
Tradition, ritual, rite, precept—
none of these can drag God
down from His high estate to our low estate. We are the ones
who must allow the Power of God to raise us to the level of God.
Once that is accomplished, peace conferences will not be neces­
sary. But until we have climbed up to God, let us try to make
these practices as real as we can.
As I stood there musing on the deck of the steamer, the night
before we were to arrive in Alexandria, I looked into the clear,
cloudless Mediterranean sky. Yon stars, boundless and copious
204
In Which We Go Abroad
in their beauty, are whirled through limitless space with unerring
accuracy by the Power of the Spirit of God, the very same Power
I had seen “The Wanderer” use way back there at Dusty, half
the way round the world from me now.
From time immemorial—ever since the Spirit of God first gave
man life, man’s desire has been for a realization of the happiness
he once had, and may have again, and will have when he finally
decides that he has made a mess of running things on the earth,
and decides to allow The Almighty to run things instead, by be­
ing consciously alive and recognized in every human life.
205
C H A P T E R S E V E N
In W hich W e Meet Mr. Pixley
A LL ABOARD TH E STEAM ER W ERE U P BRIGHT AND EARLY THE
A next morning. The dining-room was crowded long before
its usual time. Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin sat at the same table at
which I was sitting. This was the first time Mrs. Benjamin had
been able to come to the table for her meals—
or perhaps I should
say this was the first time she had been disposed to come. That
may he nearer the truth.
I had never asked Mr. Benjamin what his destination was, nor
how long he intended to be away from the “Jewish hardware”
business. As a matter of fact, I never inquire into other people’s
business, unless there is some special reason why I should. I saw
no such reason on this trip. The Arabs, Greeks, Italians and
what-not which were aboard that ship were mostly all bent on
business. The Benjamin family and I were, I presumed, the only
ones who were on a vacation.
The waiter automatically brought me ham and eggs. I had
eaten them faithfully at every meal, all the four days I was on
the S.S. Lloyd Triestino. There was no way I could get anything
else, for I do not like fat and grated cheese, nor could I read one
word of the menu, printed, as it was, in three foreign languages.
The Benjamins seemed to have no trouble however. They
spoke, in addition to their very healthy English, some Jewish lan­
guage with which I am not familiar. Probably Yiddish. Anyway,
they were able to make themselves understood, and understand
the waiter themselves. They ordered herring. I can understand a
Jew not eating ham and eggs, although I know lots of Jewish
207
people who do not care what they eat. I know more who will eat
eggs than I do who will eat ham, however.
Believing that I could speak plainly to Mr. Benjamin, I shot
at him, quite unexpectedly, a question which had long been
bothering me. “Mr. Benjamin,” said I, “why is it that every
nation on earth, our own excepted, insists on persecuting the
Jew?”
He shrugged his shoulders, saying:—“Your guess is as good as
mine.”
“But there must be some definite reason, Mr. Benjamin—is it
because a Jew is usually a better business man than others, or
is it perhaps, a religious persecution?”
“I am not sure Dr. Robinson, but I shouldn’t be at all surprised
if it were not a religious persecution, no matter how it is dis­
guised.”
“But you Jews never interfere with the religion of another—
you are not aggressive in your religion—you stay to yourselves
and never inter-marry—why should you be persecuted because of
your religion?” I asked him.
“Dr. Robinson—Jesus was a Jew. A Syrian Jew as you well
know, being a religious leader yourself, and being well grounded
in the history of all religions. W e Jews have never believed that
Jesus was God Almighty. We know better. W e have always be­
lieved only in Jehovah, which, to you, would be God the Father.
W e have never believed in any purported “son” God might have
had. W e should not have believed in any “daughter” God might
have had, had that been offered to us. Nor do we believe in any
“mother” God might have had, because we know that God the
Father, being Spirit, could not possibly have a mother.
“Jesus had a mother of course, but Jesus was only a man. His
mother was a human mother, and her husband was a carpenter
who was known to all who lived with them. No one ever dreamed
that long after he was dead, a great religion would be built
round the name of Jesus, based on his supposed divinity. We
In Which We Meet Mr. Pixley
Jews know that Jesus was not God, and so does everyone else
who will think the matter through.”
M r. Benjamin paused for a moment, his wife listening in­
tently. I imagine this was the first time Mr. Benjamin had talked
religion to anyone who was not of his race. However, he shortly
continued:—“The Christian Church says that Jesus was of the
Seed of David—that is our race. That is preached and preached,
and yet, if Christians would believe their own Bible, they would
know that Jesus, if He had no earthly father, could not possibly
have had any of David’s blood in him, for certainly there was
none on his mother’s side.
“But shall I tell you Dr. Robinson the real reason for the re­
sentment against, and the persecution of the Jew?”
“I wish you would—that is something I would certainly give
much to know. I do not believe in it, and I have never been able
to understand it. I have always felt that there must be some deep
religious reason underlying it,” I replied.
“W ell if you want to know it my friend, here it is. The Chris­
tian Church, in fact all the nations which believe in the Christian
theory of God, have been taught that Jesus was a Jew. That is
perfectly correct. He was—but now here comes the rub. These
nations have been disappointed in their God—Jesus. He has not
been able to do one thing a God should have done. He has not
been able to reveal his so-called ‘Godship’ to anyone. Two
thousand years ago He disappeared, and He has not been heard
from since. This civilization is about to destroy itself, and there
isn’t a thing Jesus can do about it. No preacher or priest can
contact Jesus. If He ever had any Power, it is completely un­
known. He does not, and cannot answer prayer because he is
gone—absolutely gone, and this world to-day, outside of the
religion of the Jew, has no religion which worships Almighty
God direct, and as such—think that one over.”
He looked at me as if to see how I was taking it. “Go on Mr.
Benjamin” I said, “I’m listening.”
“You see Dr. Robinson, this world has been disappointed in
208 The Wanderer
Jesus as a God. Having no other God than Jesus, the world feels
that it has been double-crossed. The Christian Church has
double-crossed it. Every other church has double-crossed it, and
the result is that this world today is a seething volcano which is
apt to erupt at any time, and when it blows brother—
look out—it
will be a real blow.
“Now, Dr. Robinson—
Jesus was a Jew, and the whole human
race is persecuting the Jew because they are mad at Jesus. They
have been disappointed in Him, although God knows He did not
say He was God, and He never asked to be worshipped as God;
nevertheless, this world is taking out its spite on the Jew because
Jesus, a Syrian Jew, was deified by man and could not live up to
the expectations of man, being Himself only a man. Do you see
that?”
I did see it and told Mr. Benjamin that I saw it. Such an
answer had never been presented to me before. It did not take me
long however, to see the logic of it. I knew it was true as I
thought it over. What a pity. A whole civilization trembling on
the brink of disaster just because suspicious and superstitious
old church fathers gave to the world a man for a God.
For almost twenty years I had been trying to give this world,
/ a God for a man. I had been trying to displace the anthro­
pomorphic Jesus with the Spirit of God. How well had I suc­
ceeded? Time alone can tell. But time will tell.
I had often wondered just why the nations of the earth had
not made an independent search for the truths of God outside of
their churches. I had wondered why they had chosen blindly to
believe everything a priest or preacher told them, without mak­
ing the slightest attempt to discover whether they were being
told the truth or not. It had always been a mystery to me. Yet
here on the broad waters of the beautiful Mediterranean, was a
simple Jew, a man engaged in the “Jewish hardware” business,
giving me at least part of the answer. I understood now why the
hate of the Jew, and, understanding that, I also understood that
the Jew can never be restored to equality with other nations until
In Which We Meet Mr. Pixley 209
the truth about the humanity of Jesus, not His God-ship, has
been revealed to the world.
Christian ministers, especially the prophetic type, have harped
loud and long about the Jew. They have held him up as a pre­
cursor of “The second coming of Jesus.” They have quoted vari­
ous passages of scripture in their efforts to show that the Kingdom
of God is indelibly woven around the life of the Jew. It is. But
not in the way the Christian Church believes it is. The Jew will
come into his own, but only when the truth about Jesus is fully
known. W hen the last vestige of Godship has disappeared from
the brow of Jesus—when He takes His place as the greatest
spiritual Prophet, H U M A N Prophet, the world has ever known
—when He is shorn of all deity, and His message of the present
existence of the Spirit of God becomes fully known, then, and
not until then will the Jew be relieved of his persecutions, and
take the place which is rightfully his among the nations of the
earth, free to live his life as he sees fit, free to engage in any
business he chooses, without fear of persecution. As a matter of
fact, when that day comes, the Jew will be honored. He should
be, not because Jesus was a Jew, but because Jesus was not God.
There will come a day, if not on this earth, on some other
planet (and there are millions of inhabited planets besides this
one) when the glory of God shall so completely envelop all lives,
that there will be no room for the hates, the jealousies, the
anarchy, the utter lawlessness which is so very evident on this
dying planet today. When that day comes, there will be no
anthropomorphic “Gods.” There will be no churches, for they
will not be necessary. There will be no hate of the Jew or any­
one else. All, then, shall live forever, in the actual Presence of
the Spirit of God—The Spirit of Eternal Life. But that day can­
not come, and will not come until the human race raises its eyes
from man-God manifestations, originated by churches mostly,
and puts its eyes on the only God this world ever could have had
—the Invisible Spirit of God—The Great Creator of all Life.
There will be no “Catholic” or “Protestant” then. There will
210 T he Wanderer
21 I
be no “Jew” or “Gentile.” There will be no “White man” or
“Black man.” There will be no “Yellow man” or any other kind
of a man.
There may be “color” there. There may be both Jew and
Gentile. There may be both Catholic and Protestant, but if there
is, no one will know it and the preceding paragraph still applies.
For when man meets God, everything disappears that is not of
God. The glory of the Presence and Power of God will make us
completely oblivious to everything else.
There can be no other solution to the chaos of our day. Man,
without the Spirit of God, does not possess the ability to raise
himself from his present fallen condition. Man lost the con­
sciousness of God a very long time ago. And while it is a fact
that man, during the past hundred years has progressed to a
greater degree than ever before in his known history, with the
progress has come also the danger of his total destruction. I do
not say that man will, in the next sixty days, blow himself out of
existence. I do not say he will not. He has the weapon in his
hands with which he can. But I do say this—I say that sooner
or later, unless man is re-united with God, his complete destruc­
tion is inevitable. I say also, that there is not a religious organiza­
tion on the face of the earth which can reveal the Power of the
Spirit of God to man to such an extent that it can save this
civilization, with the precepts it has been teaching to date. These
doctrines do not have in themselves either the power or the abil­
ity to save man from his own created destruction.
If man is planning a future of peace on this earth, without
taking God into consideration, man is doomed to failure. In say­
ing this I am not talking about any man-God. I do not mean
Jesus, or Buddha, or Zeus, or Osiris or any of the twenty-five
“gods” who have, we are told, come from Heaven’s glory to earth,
to save it from its “sins.” I am speaking about a God this earth
knows nothing about—The Spirit of God.
The most normal thing I can imagiiie, is man living on the
earth in full and complete union with his Father—the Great
In Which We Meet Mr. Pixley
212
Spirit. Man is futilely trying to adjust his affairs today with that
Great Spirit. Even the man-Gods of the various churches are not
being taken into consideration in the Peace Conference now be­
ing held in Paris. What hope can there be then, that the only
Power which can bring peace to the World will be introduced?
It looks like man will have to learn the lesson the hard way.
And it will be a hard way—
believe me. It will mean the total
elimination of nine-tenths of the human race from off the face
of the earth. Only last Sunday, Professor Urey, the man who,
outside of Albert Einstein had more to do with the secret of the
atomic bomb than any other man, suggested that it might be
necessary to go to war with the atomic bomb to prevent other
nations from obtaining the secret. The professor took for granted
the supposition that other nations do not now have that frightful
weapon. I hope he is right, but if they do not have it now, they
soon will have, and they may have something even more fearful
—now.
Last Sunday, the same radio which told of the statement of
Prof. Urey, also told of the bloody religious riots in Calcutta,
India. Three thousand human beings, locked in bloody battle,
lost their lives. Two major systems of religions, each having a
combination of God and man—each having a “crucified man-
god,” cannot even live in the same country together in peace, and
the respective religion of each is at the very heart of the trouble.
They have different religions. Different gods. And the slaughter
goes on. These Moslems and Hindoos are convinced that their
respective “gods” are the only true gods there are. Each “god,”
so they tell us, was miraculously born of a virgin. Each came
from “Heaven” to earth to “save it from sin.” Each was crucified
on a cross; each rose from the dead. Each is coming back again—
some day. In the meantime, these two great religions battle to
the death. They murder each other. They each have a religion
which is so full of hate that what we are now witnessing in India
can be traced directly to their religions.
The Wanderer
Each of these two murdering religions has every precept,
every belief, every miracle, every hope which the Christian reli­
gion has, and they had them fifteen hundred years before Christ
was ever heard of. Are we any better than they? Can the Chris­
tian religion make any better showing? What do you think?
The bloody record of the wars in which Christian nations
have engaged puts the present riots in India to shame. If every
war in which the nations of this earth have engaged, had its
source traced, it would be found that man-made religion is at
the very core of it. Man-made religion is at the very core of it
because if the Spirit of God had been known on the earth, such
wars could not have happened. The only religion God knows
anything about—the only religion God can recognize, is a religion
which unites man with God. Such a religion is unknown on this
earth.
No one loves the Christian Church more than I do. I was bom
in its very shadow. In spite of all its faults, I love it. Everything
about it. But I hate the lethargy which has the Christian Church
so lulled to sleep, that it is satisfied to see this world plunge itself
into the hell of another universal war, while it sits supinely on
its haunches, not lifting a finger to help, and having no concept
of The Creator which has in it the slightest ability to lift the
human race from the very low depth to which it has sunk.
The Christian Church can preach the blood of Jesus till it is
black in the face. The Christian Church can offer its Jesus as
God Almighty till it is black in the face. But such teachings can­
not, and will not unite man with God. And until man is united
with God, this civilization will sink lower and lower into the
mire, until its extermination is only a matter of time. And a very
little time perhaps.
The Author is writing this book in the hope that he may be
able to say something which will make the Christian Church
think. Perhaps he can do that. Perhaps he can do nothing of the
sort. The lethargy is deep, the slumber is profound. The love of
In Which W e Meet Mr. Pixley 2 13
The Wanderer
creed is deep-seated. The hypocrisy is age-old. The hatred of
other religions is marked. The underground fight between
Catholic and Protestant is well known.
Can the Author say or do something which will at last awaken
the Christian Church to its duty and its opportunity? Only time
can tell. Perhaps—
oh, it’s a great perhaps—
but perhaps some
branch of the Christian Church somewhere, will be willing to
allow the Author to show it how the Power of the Spirit of God
can even yet, in this late hour, save the day. It will be a miracle
of all miracles if the Christian Church awakens, but it could
happen.
The Power of the Spirit of God is in this book. Every word of
every page has been written while the Author was very close to
God. It is in fictional form—
yes. But the Author has had to
descend to fiction to present the truths of God to the earth. May
the Spirit of God richly reveal Itself to every reader. If that
happens, we may yet see the greatest spiritual awakening this
world has ever known. We may yet see God and man united-
right here on the earth.
* * *
Breakfast was soon over. The Benjamins left their seats, after
having invited me to call on them if I was ever in Great Neck.
As stated before, I have lost the address, so if Mr. and Mrs.
Benjamin read what I am writing, I trust they will communicate
with me at Moscow, for they are not fictional people—they are
real people.
My packing was already done. I travel light. I had only taken
one grip with me on this trip. I had the binoculars, the motion-
picture camera, and a slide camera and a small radio. That was
all. I carried the slide camera and the Filmo 8 in the side pockets
of my coat, while the binoculars were slung about my neck. The
big Stetson was perched on the back of my head where I usually
wear it.
Taking my grip from the cabin, after giving the cabin-hoy a
214
five dollar tip, I went to the upper deck, intending to stay there
until we docked. The black and white lighthouse at the entrance
to the harbor at Alexandria could be plainly seen. It would only
be a matter of hours until the steamer was docked, and I should
be safe in the care of my friend Pixley, whom I had never seen,
but who had sent me $40,000 some years before.
Of course, I knew what he would look like as I had long
looked at the eight by ten glossy print he had sent me. I had that
picture in my office, on the wall. It is still there. Finally the boat
was inside the harbor. Many small boats, customs and otherwise,
sailed out to meet us. The usual tribe of fakers with their wares
was there. They would dive for money, or they would sell you
one of the gadgets they had carried out in their small boats.
As I was standing there I heard a voice hailing me from a
neat looking Police boat. I had not expected Pixley to meet me
with a Police boat. As a matter of fact, I knew very little about
this man until that trip. He had been very close-mouthed. His
application for Membership in Psychiana stated that he was a
“book-keeper” which, in a way, was true. He was more than that
though.
Knowing him instantly, I returned the hail of welcome.
(In this hook, I shall not tell the reader what is fiction and
what is fact. I shall let each reader decide that. This incident,
with many others, is true. In this case I have changed the name
of the gentleman for evident reasons, although TIM E, COL­
LIERS W EEKLY, T H E PATHFINDER, NEW SW EEK,
M AGAZINE D IG EST and scores of other periodicals have
given his true name to the world.)
I was saved the necessity of going through the dirty customs
office on the dock, as my friend Pixley had vouched for me to the
British authorities. On the dock stood his shining Rolls-Royce,
into which I was ushered by one of the sahibs Pixley had in his
employ.
Almost at once the natives began to climb all over the car,
begging me for “baksheesh” which means a gift of coin of some
In Which We Meet Mr. Pixley 2 15
denomination or other. Pixley and his sahib had a great time
getting away from these Arabs, and I don’t believe I helped him
any. I had thrown a few coins to them, and I discovered later
that had been a mistake.
The way Pixley handled them was quite different. He punched
them in the nose, kicked them in the pants, and did everything
else which would prove effective in clearing a pathway through
the mob which always gathers on the dock when a steamer
ties up.
Entering the Rolls-Royce, my friend sat back in the seat and
again stated how very pleased he was that I had been able to
make the trip, and include Alexandria in my itinerary. I was
just as glad to see him, and told him so. His $40,000 had really
helped greatly. The circumstances surrounding the whole un­
canny and unusual affair were, to say the least, something border­
ing on the mystical. What I wanted to know was just what led
this man to respond to my wire, sending me $40,000 when he
had not even seen or heard of me before. The Psychiana Move­
ment, you will recall, was then in its infancy. Our advertise­
ments were not world-known as they later became.
I suspected that there must be something very unusual at his
end, and I was soon to discover that there was.
The car sped along the main streets, and then veered into the
Rue de la Place, where the Pixley home is situated. It is a mag­
nificent home. It is one of those square mansions with about
twenty rooms. The ceilings are all built about twenty feet high
on account of the heat. In the basement of this palatial home was
a fine billiard room.
The bedroom assigned to me was on the ground floor. The
floors were of polished mahogany, strewn with the most beautiful
oriental rugs I have ever seen. I know an oriental rug when I
see one, and I knew that these rugs were quite valuable. One I
remember especially was an Ispahan “Prayer-rug.” Pixley told
me later that it was worth about $5000 in American money.
2 1 6 The Wanderer
Outside of the oppressive heat, to which I never become ac­
customed, my stay with my friend was a very lovely one. A
“sahib” was placed at my disposal. He sat outside my bedroom
door. I didn’t like that so I suggested to Pixley that he take him
away. There are moments of privacy when I am in communion
with my God, and sometimes I speak quite loudly. So I had this
“sahib” removed.
Pixley informed me that dinner would be served in about an
hour on the veranda. In the meantime I might take a “siesta,”
which I did not. I never sleep when there is work to be done,
especially in the day-time.
Now just a word about this man Pixley. When I saw him on
the Police boat, I was struck by the very remarkable resem­
blance to “The Wanderer.” He had the same handsome face.
The same raven-black hair. The same prominent aquiline nose.
The same sad smile. He stood the same six feet tall. The only
difference was that Pixley weighed only about one hundred and
ten pounds. He was very thin. In all other respects he did re­
semble “The Wanderer” very much. I discovered the reason for
his thinness later.
The grounds surrounding the Pixley home are beautiful. It
is one of the show-places of Alexandria. These grounds comprise
many acres, and all of these acres is full of flowers of the most
gorgeous hue. Many of them, like most tropical flowers, emit
no perfume, but there were others that did. Altogether, the Pix­
ley home is one of the most elaborate homes I have ever been a
guest in. I was glad indeed that I had decided to stop in Alexan­
dria.
I had to come through Alexandria anyhow, as my real des­
tination was the little City of Bethleham, where both Jesus and
“The Wanderer” were born. I wanted to go through the Holy
Land once more. I wanted to stand on the Mount of Olives. I
wanted to walk through the Garden of Gethsemane again. While
it is a fact that this whole region has been so commercialized by
In Which W e Meet Mr. Pixley 2 17
2 l8
the religious organizations who have this area in their control, I
still like to just be there where so many of the Christian tradi­
tions had been originated.
The location of the original Garden of Gethsemane is, of
course, unknown. What is offered the traveller as the “original”
Garden, with its trees, is mere guesswork, as is Jacob’s well
where Jesus met the woman of Samaria. But the setting is fas­
cinating nevertheless. Of course, what I really wanted was to
meet “The Wanderer” again. That had been the reason I had so
readily agreed to this trip at the insistence of Mrs. Robinson.
The chances were, as I had been through this entire part of the
world before, I never should have made the trip had it not been
for the fact that “The Wanderer” had told me he was going to
his native land.
Perhaps I should see him again. Perhaps I should not. After
I had freshened up a bit in my room, I stretched out on the
four-poster bed in my room in the Pixley home, and was think­
ing about this “Wanderer” man who had so mysteriously entered
my life, and with such staggering effect. Who was he? I did not
know, but I felt that the mystery would be explained before I left
the east for Moscow, Idaho. It was. And in a way in which I
little dreamed as I lay there on the four-poster bed, resting.
But had not “The Wanderer” told me that if I ever really
wanted him he would re-appear? Of course he had. Now that I
was in his own land, I did not think it would be too much of
an imposition if I sent out a request to the Spirit of God for “The
Wanderer.” This I did, and almost at once received the spiritual
assurance that before I left for home, I should have had another
conference with the strange man who had wound himself round
my heart with cords which never could be broken.
All meals in the Pixley home, in the summer time, are served
on the porch. My reveries were soon interrupted by a knock on
my door. Opening it, my “sahib” informed me, in perfect Eng­
lish that “Dinner is served sir—
please follow me.”
I followed. He led me to the porch on the west side of the
The Wanderer
house. All four sides had porches round diem. A small table for
two had been set, and as we began to eat, my friend Pixley in­
formed me that his father, who lived in this magnificent home
with him most of the time, was away in England on a business
trip.
I expressed my regrets at his absence, and expressed too, a
desire to meet the elder Pixley at some future time. I did, in
Surrey, England where this wealthy man Ws another estate.
The fare consisted of soup, a portion of roast beef, some cus­
tard pie—in fact the meal was as typically American as one could
wish. I discovered later that my friend had changed his orders
in the kitchen, to conform to the American taste of his guest. He
need not have done that though as I should have been mighty
interested in eating some of the Egyptian fare to which my host
was accustomed.
As we sat there eating, and discussing the strange manner in
which our paths through life had crossed, an incident occurred
which will ever be indelibly stamped on my mind—
perhaps more
indelibly than the incident, or perhaps the “miracle” I witnessed
when “The Wanderer” restored life to a dead China pheasant
near Dusty.
The meal was over. As I rose to follow my host into the
house, I noticed, in a small depression in the ground under a
rhododendron bush, a little bird. Evidently it had been injured.
It was lying on its back with its head on the ground in a rather
peculiar position. Every few moments this little bird would
violently flap its wings as if it were trying to right itself and
fly away.
As I have previously told you, I cannot stand the sight of
suffering or pain. And I hate death. Turning to my friend Pixley
I said:—“There’s a little bird under that bush—evidently it is
injured—I believe I’ll go and see what’s the matter with it.”
“It must have flown against a light wire. I saw it this morning
at breakfast, and dug that litde hole and put it in, thinking per­
haps it might be able to fly away, or that the parents might take
In W hich W e Meet Mr. Pixley 219
220 The Wanderer
it away. They have been trying to feed it, but the little thing
does not seem to be able to eat,” said Pixley, adding, “I believe
it has a head or a neck injury.”
“Let’s walk out and see it,” I repeated.
“Let’s do that—although I don’t believe there is anything we
can do,” said Pixley.
W e walked through the porch door and down the steps to
the bush under which the little injured bird was. I saw, on ap­
proaching it, that it was a wren. It was about six months old,
certainly old enough to fly, as it had its full growth of feathers.
Watching the little thing for a few moments, I gently turned it
over on its under side. However, it at once flopped on its back.
But it was completely unable to rise or fly.
Stooping over, I picked the little thing up, holding it care­
fully and tenderly in my hand. It fought me for a while, picking
at the hand that held it. Speaking quietly to the little thing, I
stroked its head with my forefinger, saying to it:—“All right
little bird—I’m not going to hurt you—I wish there was something
I could do to help you.”
Then, there flashed into my mind the strange restoring of life
by “The Wanderer” to the China pheasant. This bird in my
hand was not dead, but if “The Wanderer” had been able to
restore life to a dead China pheasant, and if the Spirit of God
had been using me for many years in the restoration to health
of hundreds of thousands of human beings, why was it not possi­
ble for me to at once heal this tiny little wren?
I shall now try to pass along to the reader the exact thoughts
and emotions which were passing through my mind. It is im­
portant that they be grasped, for, in the grasping of them, the
reader will understand just what is necessary before the healing,
miraculous, though perfectly normal Power of the Spirit of God
can be manifested. There must he perfect faith. Ninety-nine
and nine-tenths percent faith is not enough. It must he one hun­
dred percent.
That faith in God must be so strong that if the expected heal-
221
ing, or whatever it may be did not happen, therein would lie the
miracle, not in the work itself. If you and I can take for granted,
with the assurance with which we turn on an electric light
switch, that light will follow, there is nothing we cannot do
through the Power of God.
But that faith must be absolute. It must be unflinching. It
must be unwavering. It must be the same faith we exercise when
we raise a cup of water to our lips, that we can drink it. Doubt
positively cannot enter. If it does, there is no faith. One grain of
doubt can destroy all the faith in the world. It can render it
absolutely impotent, for, if that one grain of doubt is there,
there is no faith.
As I stood there, holding that little injured wren in my hand,
and stroking its little head with the forefinger of my other hand,
there seemed to come to me the thought that it would be quite
possible for me completely and instantaneously to heal that bird.
It seemed to be the most natural thing in the world to do. It
seemed to be my duty to do it. And yet, if I did, would not
every natural law pertaining to healing be broken? But had not
even the law governing life itself been broken when “The
Wanderer” had brought life back to a dead China pheasant? Or
had it? Perhaps instead of the law of life being broken by “The
Wanderer,” he had but fulfilled it.
So I stood there, thinking the thing through to the only logi­
cal conclusion I could come to. Was there in my mind, complete
and absolute faith that 1 could instantly heal that bird?
I seemed to have almost complete faith, but I detected the
slightest suspicion of doubt. I was not sure. And until I was sure,
I should have made a fool of myself had I thrown the little wren
into the air, only to have it fall to the ground and injure itself
more than it already had. I am a bit too smart to make a mistake
of that sort.
I knew, however, that one hundred percent faith did not exist.
What was the trouble? I had never had any difficulty healing
hundreds of thousands of people all over the world without even
In Which We Meet Mr. Pixley
seeing them, had I? So why did I stand here doubting, with the
injured little wren in my hand?
M y reveries and thoughts were interrupted by my friend Pix-
ley, who said:—“Is there something you can do for it?”
I thought for a long moment. Then, my face lighting up with
the smile I so very much like to smile (the smile that comes from
God), I turned to Pixley and said:—“No—there’s nothing I can
do for it, but there’s a lot God can do for it.”
With that, I threw the little wren into the air, as “The W an­
derer” had done with the China pheasant, and was rewarded by
seeing it fly away, returning later to show us, I suspect, that the
healing had been quite complete.
Where had the doubt come from? W hy had I hesitated?
The answer was contained in my reply to Pixley’s question:—
“There is nothing I can do, but there is a lot the Spirit of God
can do.”
W e returned to the house, and went below to the “game-
room” where the billiard tables were. Pixley invited me to have
a game of billiards. I told him that I knew nothing about billiards,
but that if he wanted to shoot a game of straight good old Ameri­
can pool, I would take him on. But pool is not known in the
Pixley home, so we contented ourselves with banging a few balls
around the table.
I was quite anxious to get at the circumstances which had im­
pelled Pixley to send that $40,000 to me. I have found that the
best way to get the answer to a question is to ask it. So I came
right out and asked him.
“Pixley—just how did you come to send me that forty thousand
dollars when I wired you for it so many years ago?” I shot at him.
He smiled. “I have been hoping you would ask me that. You
see, it really is a fascinating tale, yet one which can be very
easily corroborated here in Alex. (Natives call Alexandria “Alex.”
for short.)
“I was born a cripple. A hopeless cripple. The attending physi­
cian at my birth, at which he had to use instruments, had severed
222 The Wanderer
a nerve-center which controls locomotion. It was not his fault. I
was fortunate, or unfortunate enough, whichever you wish, to
be bom at all.
“M y father is a very wealthy man as you may have suspected.
Specialists were brought from England, Vienna, New York, and
other places. But the verdict was always the same. Nothing they
could do. Operations were useless they said. You may be sure if
anything could have been done, my father would have done it.
“I am thirty-eight years of age, and from my birth until my
very miraculous healing, I never moved from my bed. I could not
even move a muscle. I was an infinite burden to my family. Yet
—I was their child, and they did their duty. They took care of
me. They searched the world over for the physician who could
make me whole.”
I interrupted at this point with a smile on my face, saying:—
“And then you found The Great Physician?”
“And then I found the one Physician we had not thought to
look for,” he replied. “It came about this w ay:—M y father is a
very religious man. He stands high in the official circles of the
Church of England. Yet he is a very shrewd business man, and
I suspect that his affiliation with the church may be for business
reasons, for the Church of England, as you may not know, is the
heaviest stockholder in the Vickers-Maxim Arms Co. This com­
pany pays huge dividends, and that is where a great part of
my father’s wealth came from. His church made literally hun­
dreds of millions of dollars from the last war, and if another
comes, it will make many millions more.
“But my Dad has very little faith in the Church of England as
an agent of God. He does not believe, or he did not believe that
God was ever intended to be an actual entity in the lives of men
and women here on earth. He believes in the ritual. But he con­
siders God an ethereal something whom we may someday meet,
but with Whom contact can only be made by the creed, or ritual
of his Church. In other words, he has no actual belief in the
Power of God, and even after the miracle he saw happen right in
In Which We Meet Mr. Pixley 223
The Wanderer
this house, he still won’t sell one share of his stock in the Vickers
Arms Co. And sometimes he believes that what happened to me
was just chance, and that God had nothing at all to do with it.
No later than last week, he alluded to you as “that religious faker
from America,” and that, in spite of the fact that had it not been
for you, I should still be lying, a helpless cripple, in the very
bedroom which has been placed at your disposal.
“It grieves me, hut that’s how it is, and I’m really glad that
my Dad is not here. Actually, he’s a grand man. But his religion
is book-religion, creed-religion, and ritual-religion. He gets aw­
fully mad whenever a piece of mail from your office comes in
here and he happens to see it.”
I had heard of such individuals before and I was not surprised,
for I believe I know churchianity as well as most men. However,
I still did not know just how he was healed of his complete
paralysis, so I urged him to continue.
“This is exactly how it happened,” he began. “One day, in a
magazine I had been reading, I saw your advertisement—1
T A LK E D W IT H GOD.’ That evening I suggested to my Dad
that I send away for your literature. Now Dad loves me a lot,
and while he did even then allude to you as a religious racketeer,
he did allow me to write for your material. W hy he should call
you a racketeer without knowing the slightest thing about you
and your Movement, I have never been able to understand, but
I guess with Dad, everyone who does not believe what he does
about God and religion, is automatically wrong.
“One day, your literature came. I had the same sahib who
waits on you read it to me, for, while I could talk, I could not
move a muscle. I was very deeply impressed with what I read. It
rang true.
“Before this literature came I had, of course, considered that
this might be another of your fantastic American money-making
schemes, altho I could not conceive of anyone sinking so low
that he would try to make money by playing upon the religious
emotions of his fellow men and women.
224
“When I read what you had to say though, I was convinced
that you knew something about the Power of God which we,
over here, or in England have never known. You were talking
about God as if He is a real, live Spirit which can do anything
for anybody, and can do it now. You told me that the greatest
spiritual Power in the world is the Power of God, and you told
me too, that anyone—everyone—can find and use that Power
without believing anything any church teaches, and without even
reading a Bible.
“That certainly was something new in religion. Yet it appealed
to my common-sense. I wanted your Teaching more than any­
thing else in the world. I just had to have it. Of course, I had no
money. I had no use for money, as I had never been out of the
bed in which I was bom. I never expected to be.
“One night I said to my father:—‘Dad—will you send to Mos­
cow, Idaho, and get me a Membership in that Psychiana Re­
ligion?’
“Dad fussed and fumed for a while, but that didn’t mean
anything—he loved me, even though I was a hopeless cripple—
he still loved me or he would have had my life snuffed out
shortly after birth. So, more to humor me than anything else, he
sent to your office for the Lessons. Whfen they came, I had Sahib
Hassam el Eli, that is his name, read them to me. You know
your Lessons only came every two weeks, and I know now,
every one of them, up to the fourth, by heart.
“As soon as those Lessons came, there came into my utterly
hopeless life, new hope. In spite of the fact that the world’s best
physicians had said that as the nerve centers involved had never
functioned, but had shrunk to nothing, I knew, through your
Lessons, that the Power of God might be able to do something
for me. 1 knew I had found the man who, of all men, was writing
something which instilled faith in God in me, and that is some­
thing I had never known in this house, even though we are so
closely allied to the great Church of England.”
“Don’t bother me with the details,” I interjected, "just tell me
In Which We Meet M r. Pixley 225
226 The Wanderer
what happened when the Spirit of God cast out the sentence of
living death, and gave you the Power to walk again.”
“Well, it was something like your healing of the injured wren
a few moments ago. Your fourth Lesson had come in. The sahib
had read it to me over and over again. I had had a rack made and
placed across the bed; for the first time since I have been bom I
was really beginning to have hope that some day I might walk
as others all around me did.
“I prayed, until you taught me that praying, in itself, can not
get anywhere. You explained to me that actual belief was what
did the work. And, the more I studied your Lesson number four,
the more surely did the actual desire to walk come over me. I
had never doubted the ability of God to make me whole. What
I needed to know was how to change the little faith I had in
God, into the thing I wanted more than anything else in the
world—and that was to walk, and be as other normal human be­
ings were.
“The more I pondered over the matter, the greater did the
hope become. It seemed fantastic. It seemed impossible. But had
not Jesus raised the daughter of Jairus? Had he not raised Lazarus
from the tomb? Had he not, at eventide, healed all who were
sick of divers diseases? What a pity Jesus was not here now—
there was no question in my mind but what Jesus could have
instantly healed me.
“But had not your Lessons taught that Jesus was a man, even
as you and I? Had you not told me that the very same Power
Jesus used is 'available to us all? Had you not so very carefully
pointed out that the Power of God, as Jesus used it, can never
change? Then, believing that, it did not take me long to see that
all that was necessary was for me to get up and walk in and
through the Power of the Spirit of God, the very same Power
Jesus used. I saw that very clearly. And I believed it.
“But here I was. A hopeless cripple. Like the sick one at the
pool of Bethesda, I had no one, when the waters were troubled,
to put me into the pool. However, the sahib and I were very
close friends. One day I told Kim that God was going to make me
walk. The sahib, of course, is a Mohammedan. When I told him
that God was going to make me walk, he pointed his fingers
upwards and said:—‘Allah—he make you walk.’
“Then I explained to him that his Allah and my God were one
and the same thing. Many different concepts—many different
names—but only one Creator. Only one Great Spirit of God.
(The very point the Christian Church has missed.)
“Soon we had discussed a plan for getting me out of bed. We
waited until father had gone to England. The very night the
boat left, Sahib Eli, and three more of the servants my father
keeps here, came into my bedroom. Sahib Eli took charge of the
proceedings. I told him that all I wanted them to do was to get
me out of the bed and stand me on my feet. In other words, what
I was doing was trying to take the healing I knew the Power of
God had for me.
“In other words, Doctor Robinson, I was trying to do what the
man who had the withered hand did, when Jesus told him to do
something he had never been able to do in his life before-
stretch forth his hand, and as in the case of Matthew 10:12, with
the attempt to stretch forth the withered hand, in my case the
whole body—there came the cure.
“Before the four servants had gotten me out of my bed, I felt
the Power of God flowing through me. I began to walk, and
have been walking ever since—and that was nearly twenty years
ago.
“Of course, my instant healing created a great sensation among
the servants, but my Dad, strange as it may seem, did everything
in his power to hush it up. Had he not forebade newspapermen
to come to the house and write the story, a world sensation would
have followed, and, as my father hates publicity, it would have
broken him up completely. He had enough influence here in
Alex, to hush the matter up completely, and I’m not so sure he
was not right, although I cannot understand his hostility to you.
When he discovered that I had sent you the forty thousand
In Which We Meet Mr. Pixley 227
228 The Wanderer
dollars, which is only ten thousand pounds, he scolded me, not­
withstanding the fact that it had been your Teachings, and your
Teachings alone which had given me normal use of all my func­
tions. The Power was God’s, but you are the man who led me to
God. Now you know why, when I received your wire, I at once
wired you the money.”
“I knew there was something unusual, and I’m glad to know
what it was. Especially am I glad because some day, I’m going to
write a book and mention this incident. Of course, I’ll change
the name and so disguise it otherwise that no one will know who
I am writing about, but this incident, and others, will certainly
be published in book form,” I said to my friend.
That night, upon retiring to my room, I lay there thinking
upon what my friend Pixley had told me earlier in the day. I
thought of the little wren too. I had here, before me, two cases
of the actual operation of the Power of the Spirit of God, each
in supposed violation of all known natural law. But natural law is
only the law of the Creator of nature—nature’s God. So if such
happenings as these are considered “violations” of nature, then
it is quite patent that the human race will have to re-vamp its
ideas of what constitutes “natural” law.
W e are seeing heretofore little known laws being demon­
strated by the manufacture and explosion of the atomic bomb.
Perhaps nature holds other secrets too, through which the Powder
of God can be made known to the world in a manner little
dreamed of to date. Perhaps the Author, through long years of
religious persecution has bled his way through to God. Perhaps
the Spirit of God has given him an inkling of things to come.
Who knows?
* ¥■ *
I stayed with my friend Pixley several days. W e went to see
the most interesting sights in this famous old city, where, in days
gone by, many a religion was manufactured. Jew, Gentile, Arab,
Greek, their theologians all gathered here. They compared their
religious theories. One borrowed from the other. Another stole
outright from another. It was the hot-bed of religious superstition
and bigotry. Had it not been for this City, many a religion of the
twentieth century might not have appeared at all.
This ancient city was founded by Alexander the Great more
than three hundred years b .c . It is a link between Macedonia
and the rich Nile Valley. During the war just ended, the “desert
fox,” Rommel, came within a few miles of this old Jewish City,
and even today it bears the results of the bombs which were
dropped upon it by the armies of Christian nations. It is very
significant that there was not a Moslem or a Mohammedan
nation engaged in this awful war which, while seemingly ended,
could burst forth again in ever greater fury. They were all Chris­
tian nations except one. What a shocking indictment this is.
What a travesty upon the name of God. What overwhelming
evidence that the name of Jesus can do just exactly nothing to
heal the wounds of mankind. The name of Jesus, as such, is as
impotent today as it ever was, and ever will be. But the Power of
God—the Power Jesus came to the earth to proclaim—that Power
has never even been tried.
All of our churches have been too busy with their traditions
about Jesus, and Peter, and Paul, and the rest of the apostles to
even give the Power of God a chance to do something for human­
ity. What fantastic theory is it that tells us a Messenger of God
who was born two thousands years ago, was Almighty God, with
the world in the shape it’s in today?
Of course, our churches answer that men and women will not
accept Christianity. Then if that is the case, Christianity cannot
be true. Men and women will accept God, and if they will not
accept what the Christian church offers them, how can there be
any of God in it?
There is another wail which we occasionally hear from some
forward looking Christian minister, and that is the sop that
“Christianity has never been tried.” Yes it has. It has been tried
for two thousand years. For this number of years Jesus has been
In Which We Meet Mr. Pixley 229
The Wanderer
worshipped as Almighty God. That is certainly trying Christian­
ity, is it not? The Christian Church cannot evade its responsibil­
ity by saying that men will not accept what it offers, or by saying
that what they offer has not been tried.
The blame lies within the Christian Church itself, and no­
where else. It lies squarely upon its shoulders. It cannot blame the
world for what it has failed to do. Nor can it blame the world for
what its God—Jesus—has failed to do. W hen the Christian Church
decides to disrobe itself of the fallacy of the God-ship of Jesus,
then, and only then can it rise to the high pinnacle upon which
it should stand—dispensing actual knowledge of the Power of
God to the world.
Of what use is a prayer-meeting with the world going to hell,
unless that prayer-meeting reveals the actual Power of God? Of
what use is a Sunday school unless that school reveals the actual
Power of God to the young people who attend it? Of what use is
a Christian Endeavor Society meeting unless the actual Power
of God goes out from that meeting, to reveal Itself to this God­
forsaken world?
Let the Christian Church be honest. Let it throw away the
shame and hypocrisy which permeates its every fibre. W e know
what it is. It is fooling no one but itself. As my old teacher Dr.
McNicol said in his brochure:—“There is little evidence that
anyone today looks upon the Christian Church as a divine in­
stitution.”
W ell the people should look upon it as a divine institution.
And they will, just as soon as the Christian Church proves that
it is a divine institution, and not until. W hy should men and
women consider the Christian Church divine in its origin? What
has it done to merit such a high honor? Shall we consider it of
divine origin because it says it is? I’m afraid we know it too well.
W e have seen no signs of divinity about it. W e know its mem­
bers too well. W e see them out of church as well as in it.
When we see the Christian Church healing diseases, we will
believe in it. When we see it a militant, fighting force for God,
230
actually revealing the Power of God to the world, and telling
men and women that life eternal is possible on the earth because
God lives, we will believe in it. When the Christian Church
can convince the world that it knows God, we will believe in it
—but not until.
If all it has to offer is two sermons, a few hymns, a prayer,
and a collection box Sunday after Sunday, we cannot believe
in it. The greatest spiritual Power this world can ever know is
the Power of God. I have never heard a sermon preached on that
Power in the sixty-odd years of my life. I do not ever expect to.
I believe the Christian Church will be sucked down in the mael­
strom of horror which will inevitably come to the earth, unless
the whole human race is changed by the Power of God.
The Spirit of God will not leave the earth, even though that
maelstrom comes and destroys ninety percent of our civilization.
But that Spirit will never manifest itself through the Christian
Church unless and until it utterly throws away its fallacious
doctrine that Jesus Christ was Almighty God, and places Him
where He belongs; as the greatest Messenger of God this world
has ever known, but still a human Messenger, possessed, even as
you and I, with the Spirit of God in Him.
To continue to worship Jesus as a God, is to take part in the
destruction of this civilization. The Christian Church has no
business doing that. But that is what it is doing when it offers
itself as a “divine” institution, and yet fails to offer any proof
of that claim.
Its doctrines do not prove it is divine—they were all known to
millions, thousands of years before Christ was ever heard of.
Its record does not prove it is divine, for, through the ages, as
now, it has been in the very midst of every war which has
plagued civilization since Christianity arose. The actions of its
members do not prove it is divine, for they are men and women,
just like the rest of the men and women of the world. They could
all reveal the Power of the Spirit of God to the world if they
knew of the existence of that Power. But they do not know that
In Which We Meet Mr. Pixley 231
The Wanderer
any such Power exists. No one has told them. It is the duty of
the Christian Church first to discover the actual and literal
Power of the Spirit of God, and then reveal that Power to the
world, to such a degree that this Power—the Power of Almighty
God—can do what man himself can not do, that is, unite the
human race with God.
* * *
I had asked my friend Pixley if he would not be kind enough
to drive me to Cairo the next day, as I was anxious to get on to
Jerusalem. He readily agreed, and we left Alexandria early the
next morning on our trip. I asked him how it felt to be raised
from a living death, and he replied:—“It is hard to explain. You
see, for so many years I was completely helpless, that actually I
am only twenty years old. The eighteen years I was lying help­
less in that bed are completely lost to me.”
I asked him to tell me just what were his feelings when he
felt the Spirit of Life, which is the Spirit of God surging through
his nerve centres for the first time. He said that it was like the
very life of God coming into his life. I asked him if there was
ever a doubt in his mind that the Power of God had made him
whole, and he replied:—“I was too happy about being made
whole to doubt anything. I knew that the healing had taken
place as a result of faith in God, inspired by what you had writ­
ten. There is no question about that. Nor is there any question
about the life surging through me, and giving me the ability for
the first time since I had been bom, of standing and walking
alone.”
I asked him how long it took him to walk, to which he replied
that he stood alone by the side of the bed when he felt the Power
surging through him, and then walked unaided across the room.
When I asked him if he had ever had a doubt since; he said he
had never had the slightest doubt. So evidently the cure was in­
stant and complete, after twenty years.
Then I suggested that it might have been a good thing had the
2 3 2
miracle been publicized, stating that perhaps the churches might
try to discover the Source of such Power. His reply was char­
acteristic of the English people, for this is what he said:—“My
father was in England when it happened. Sahib Eli wired him
that I was up and walking round. Dad called me by radio-phone
and when I had corroborated the healing, he insisted that no
one be told about it. I promised I would comply with his wishes
in that.
“Of course, he took the next boat, and a week later he arrived
home. I met him at the door. He was completely mystified, and
insisted that I go into great detail about the whole affair. Then
he called the three physicians in Alexandria who had been in
attendance on me several times since birth. He also called the
one who actually brought me into the world. None of them
could offer the slightest word of explanation. They were loath to
admit that a notable miracle had been wrought, yet they had no
other explanation to offer, and, when told in detail the whole
circumstance, they said that perhaps you had some special heal­
ing Power which was entirely outside of the field of medicine.”
(They knew nothing about the Spirit of God in Pixley.)
Then I asked him if his father had ever actually given God
the credit for the healing. He said he did not know, but that he
doubted it very much, being loath to admit that anything good
could come from God, unless it came through the organized
church.
Then I asked Pixley if his father, great Christian though he
was, had ever prayed for him, or asked anyone else to pray for
him, to which he replied that it was his father’s attitude that fate
had handed him a dirty deal in that it had given him a crippled
son who never would be able to walk, and that there was nothing
to be done about it.
I then asked him how the mother had taken it, and this was
the first intimation I had that the mother had died at his birth.
Pixley told me that the reason his father seemed to love him as
he did, was because he loved his mother so very much.
In Which We Meet Mr. Pixley 233
T he Wanderer
I am always very much interested in the reaction of church
people to the results of the Spirit of God in human lives. On one
occasion, a minister in Moscow had called me to see the son of
a member of his church. The boy was in a pitiable condition
when I saw him. I do not recall what the disease was, as this
incident happened during the first year of my ministry. Anyhow,
the boy had a marvellous recovery. But instead of giving credit
for the recovery to God, who alone is entitled to the credit, this
minister circulated the story round Moscow that he had prayed
for the boy and a marvellous recovery had followed. The fact
that he had called me into the picture, and the fact that I had
ordered the disease to leave in and through the Power of the
Spirit of God, was never mentioned. If that minister prayed for
that boy, I did not see it. Nor was the recovery of the boy due
in any measure to whatever prayers he may have uttered some­
where else. It was due directly to the quick responding of the
Spirit of God to an act of faith on my part. Yet this minister,
who is no longer in Moscow, took all the credit. Or did he? About
the only person he fooled was himself.
The foregoing incident is factual. Here is another one. Some
thirty or more years ago, Gipsy Smith, the famed evangelist, who
some years later, while in his eightieth year married a young girl
of eighteen, I believe it was, had built a large galvanized iron
auditorium in Portland, for a series of evangelistic services. One
night, the rain came in torrents. It began just as Smith was start­
ing his sermon. Lifting his eyes to Heaven, the famous evangelist
prayed this prayer:—“Oh my Father—this is your meeting, not
mine. The rain is falling on the galvanized iron roof of this
building, and these people cannot hear me. Please stop the rain.”
Instantly the rain stopped. The next morning the Portland
Oregonian and the Journal and another paper which was pub­
lished at that time but which is now extinct, carried banner
headlines on the incident.
“E V A N G E LIST P R A Y S -R A IN STO PS”
“GOD A N SW ER S E V A N G E LIST ’S PRA YER”
234
At that time the Author was working for nine dollars a week
in the basement of the E. P. Charlton store, later bought out by
the Woolworth Co. The manager of the store was president of
the Portland Holiness Association. His name was Baldwin. I was
actively engaged in religious work in my spare time, being a
member of Dr. Hinson’s First Baptist Church in Portland. Dur­
ing this Smith campaign, I sang in the choir.
The morning after the rain incident, Baldwin sent for me to
come to his office. When I arrived there he said:—“Sit down,
Frank, and tell me what you think of the rain stopping last
night.”
I told him that it was quite evident what had happened. Smith
was being annoyed by the rain, had prayed, and the rain had
immediately stopped.
Almost jumping out of his chair, Baldwin shouted to me:—
“That is not what happened at all. Smith’s prayer didn’t even
reach God—it was my prayer that was answered, not his.”
I took issue with Baldwin on that, telling him plainly, although
he was the “boss,” that I considered that it was Gipsy Smith’s
prayer which had been answered, and that his prayer probably
did not get even as high as the roof. Baldwin, the president of
the Pordand Holiness Association fired me on the spot for argu­
ing with him about whose prayer stopped the rain.
* * *
Turning to Pixley as we were speeding along the Cairo high­
way I said:—“Tell me again about the circumstances which led
you to get in touch with me.”
He re-told the story of having seen my advertisement in an
American magazine, and had sent for the literature. Then, he
said to me rather quietly:—“Doctor Robinson, do you believe in
dreams?”
I told him that dreams seldom had any significance, but that
God very often spoke to men through visions, which can he very
In W hich W e Meet Mr. Pixley 235
easily mistaken for dreams if one does not know the difference
experience.
“Did you have a dream, or a vision?” I inquired.
“I sort of hate to tell you this—you may think it was just imag­
ination, or a dream. However, as I cannot forget the incident,
I’ll tell you about it and I shall be interested in knowing whether
it had anything to do with my recovery, and my sending you the
forty thousand dollars,” he said.
“Shall I begin?”
“You go right ahead, and be sure and omit no detail, however
unimportant it may seem. There is much more behind the cross­
ing of our paths than you realize now. Before I leave you I’ll
tell you how I came to send you the wire, asking you to send
me forty thousand dollars.”
“A few nights before I saw your advertisement in tbe maga­
zine, there came to me the very strangest dream I have ever had.
I do not dream any more, but those years in which I was lying
there hopelessly crippled, unable to move hand or foot, were full
of dreams every night. But this one was different. In this dream I
met a man who called himself ‘The Wanderer’.”
How I was able to stay in my seat I do not know. I had an
idea that I had been the only one to whom “The Wanderer” had
appeared. And now, like a bolt out of the blue, I was sitting
beside the man who first had such a miraculous healing, and
then had sent the forty thousand dollars which had made the
-Psychiana Movement possible, and he too, had seen "The
Wanderer.”
Hardly able to hold myself in the Rolls-Royce I said to my
friend Pixley:—“Go on.”
“W ell it was something like this. I was dreaming that there
came a great war. I saw hordes of soldiers over-running the City
of Alexandria and the surrounding country. I saw the whole
world involved in that war which, I seemed to believe, would
soon sweep across the Mediterranean and destroy all that I held
dear, even though I was not in a physical condition to enjoy it.
236 The Wanderer
“While I was dreaming of that horrible war, a strange figure
entered my bed-room, the room in which you have been sleeping
Doctor Robinson. He looked very much like me, and at first I
thought it was my brother Geoffrey who is in the Foreign Office
in London. Then I saw it was not Geoffrey. He was as tall as I
am, and just as dark, but much more handsome, and he had
the strangest look in his eyes.”
“How was he dressed?” I interpolated, again asking him at
the same time to omit no detail.
“Well he was dressed in a suit of banker’s grey and he had on
a red tie. His shoes were high shoes, and if I remember correctly,
they were brown. He stood there at the door looking at me, and
I saw in his eyes what I took to be a feeling of great sympathy or
compassion for me. I seemed to sense that he wanted to help me,
if he could. Of course, I knew that was impossible, for although
this was but a dream, a sense of my helplessness underlay all of
my dreams. I was never able to get away from that.”
Go on.
“You seem to be very much interested Doctor Robinson—do
you think there is any significance to what I am telling you?”
“You just keep talking, my friend. I’ll tell you what I think
after you have told the story in detail—go on.”
“This strange man, whom I seemed to like immensely from the
first moment I saw him, stood looking at me as I told you, for
quite a while. Then he slowly walked towards the bed and sat
down beside me. Reaching over, he took my right hand in his,
and as he reached out to take my hand, I saw in the middle of
the falm of his hand, a terrible scar.
“I seemed to have no trouble at all in moving the hand he
held. As a matter of fact, I moved my hand towards his, al­
though this was the first time I had ever dreamed that I could
move any part of my body. But I am quite sure that I met his
hand half-way.”
“What did you think when you saw that scar?” I asked him.
“I did not know what to think. I had never seen this man be­
In Which We Meet Mr. Pixley 237
fore and therefore had not the slightest knowledge of who he
might be.”
“Did you see the palm of his left hand?”
“I did a little while later, when he reached out to take both of
my hands in his, and lift me to my feet. There was a scar there
too.
“Go on,” I told Pixley.
“W ell as I have told you, he came over and sat on the side of
my bed, and first took my right hand in his hand, which, by the
way, was quite large. I should say it looked like the hand of a
musician—an artist of some sort or other. As we looked into each
other’s eyes, I said to him—‘Who are you?’ to which he replied,
‘You may call me The Wanderer.’
“W hy have you come to me—what are you doing in my room,
and how did you get in?
“He told me that he went about the world doing what he
called “M y Father’s business” and when I asked him what busi­
ness his father was in, he replied:—“Making people whole.”
“Hearing this, and wanting above all else to be made whole,
I said to him—‘Can your father make me whole?’ to which he
replied—‘That is why I am here—my Father has sent me to heal
you and make you walk just like other people do.’
“You will remember Doctor Robinson this is only a dream,
and there probably is not the slightest connection with what hap­
pened at all, and anyway, it makes no difference because I am
now completely well and have been for many years,” said my
friend Pixley.
“You just go ahead with your story, Brother—there is very
much more to this than you have any idea of,” I said to him.
‘W hat did this man do next?”
“He took my left hand in his right, and transferred my right
hand to his left, and then he said to me—‘Do you want to be
made whole?’ Of course, I told him that was exactly what I did
want. I told him that my father would pay him, or his father,
any amount of money if either of them could restore me to
238 T he Wanderer
normal health and make me walk round like other people did.”
“What did he say to that?” I asked, smilingly, as I believed
I knew the answer myself.
“He said that what he was about to do for me could not be
done through offers of money. He said neither his, nor his
father’s services were for sale. Then he told me that God was
his Father, and that seemed to put an entirely different light on
this man. I remembered the two scars which were in the palms
of his hands, and that, of course, reminded me of the scars in the
hands of Jesus.”
“Were you able to get a look at his forehead?” I asked.
“No—he had a hat on, and it was pulled down quite low over
his eyes.”
“Then you did not ever get a look at his forehead?”
Pixley thought for a few moments. “Seems to me that when
he bowed himself out, near the door, he raised his hat—and—yes,
I remember very distinctly now . . . There were scars across his
forehead too.’’
“Okay—and what did he do next?” I queried.
“W ell you will remember that he had asked me if I wanted
to be made whole, and I had told him that I wanted that more
than anything in the world. You will also remember that he was
holding both of my hands in his. At this point he asked me
again if I really wanted to be whole, and if I believed that God,
his Father, could instantly make me whole, to which I replied—
‘Of course I do . . . I have never had any doubts about God being
able to make anyone whole.’ ”
Pixley thought for a while, and then continued . . . “Then I
felt a tug at both my arms, and I heard this man who had called
himself ‘The Wanderer’ say . . . ‘Get up and w7
alk—through the
Power of The Spirit of God.’ ”
“And you got up?”
“Of course I had to get out of bed myself, but he pulled me
at first. I think he pulled me to a sitting position. After that, I did
the rest.”
In W hich W e Meet Mr. Pixley 239
The Wanderer
“Just what did you do then?”
“Oh—I put my clothes on and sat in a chair reading a maga-
• ))
zme.
“And what did ‘The Wanderer’ do?”
“Just stood there looking at me and then said . . . ‘Are you not
going to thank God for your recovery?’
“Hastily I apologized, telling him that my joy at being healed
was so great that I had not had time to think about thanking
God, or him, for the marvellous healing. Then he did a strange
thing Doctor Robinson—he began to weep. The tears came from
his eyes in blinding torrents. I asked him what the matter was,
and got to my feet intending to go over to him, but he waved
me back.
“I could see that the man was heart-broken, so I walked to
the dresser and took a silk handkerchief out of a drawer and
handed it to him, thinking that perhaps he might wish to dry
his eyes.”
“Did he take the handkerchief?” I asked Pixley.
“No—he opened the door, removed his hat, bowed a bit, it
seemed to me, and as he left he was saying over and over, ‘I thank
Thee Father that Thou hast heard me.’ ”
“Is that the last you saw of ‘The Wanderer’?”
“W ell shortly after that Doctor Robinson, I was awakened
by Eli for breakfast. It had all been a dream—but only a dream I
guess.”
“I’m not so sure of that,” I replied, remaining quiet in thought.
“Have you told me everything, every little detail?” I inquired
a few moments later.
Pixley thought for a while and then replied:—“There was one
little incident which is not of much importance, but if you want
to know of it I’ll tell you, for you evidently are interested in the
details of this experience, although personally I don’t believe it
had anything to do with the healing, which came from your
teachings alone, of course.”
“I could tell you many things my friend, if I chose to, but let
240
me say this one thing to you—that was not a dream . . . that was
a direct revelation from God. And now, please let me tell you
what the little detail was which you have omitted.”
Turning his eyes from the road, Pixley said to me:—“But how
can you know anything about what happened in that dream?”
“I don’t know—but I’ll make a guess that ‘The Wanderer’
handed you that magazine, opened to the page which contained
my advertisement.”
Pixley did not know what to say to that, but by the slow nod­
ding of his head I knew that I had correctly guessed.
W e discussed the dream, as he called it, from every angle.
I wanted to be alone though. I wanted to tie together some
loose ends about this whole affair. That it was very definitely
connected with the initial financing of my Movement, there
could be no doubt. But there were many thoughts running
through my mind which could only be answered by another
meeting with “The Wanderer.” That meeting came to pass
within the next week, for I had sent out two requests for “The
Wanderer” to come to me.
In Which We Meet Mr. Pixley 241
C H A P T E R E I G H T
In Which “The Wanderer” Reveals Himself
I
N DUE TIM E WE ARRIVED IN CAIRO W HERE I SAID A VERY FOND
“good-bye” to my friend Pixley. And to think that he had
almost not told me about what he called “a dream.” I knew now
that the Spirit of God had been behind that strange incident. I
knew that this dream, as he called it, had been given to him by
God, in order to call his attention to a simple advertisement in a
magazine, which advertisement, if he followed the invitation it
contained, would most assuredly lead him to the only God who
had the ability to heal his paralyzed body, and restore him to per­
fect health.
The appearance of “The Wanderer,” long before I met him,
was in itself proof that the entire incident was a direct manifesta­
tion from God. Everything tied together so very closely that there
was not the slightest question in my mind but that the Spirit
of God was about to make one last appeal to the nations of the
earth. It would give them one more chance to let the reins of
government of this war-weary planet rest where they ever should
have been—in the hands of God.
No man should hold public office, especially an office which
could plunge his nation into war, unless that man knows the
Power of the Spirit of God in his life. If the peoples of this
earth could discover some system whereby they could rule them­
selves, without having kings, and presidents, and dictators over
them, there never would be another war, because the people
themselves do not want war. They do not want to fight and they
never would fight, if they had their say. It is for this reason I say
that until the government of the peoples of this earth be placed
in the hands of God, there can be no surcease from the horrible
tragedies of useless and senseless war, for war never settles any­
thing. The only thing it does is breed new wars. And religion,
or what has passed for religion, in the past, as in the present, has
seemed to be at the very core of these devastating wars.
Book-religion. Bible-religion. Church-religion. Every sort of
religion except one which can actually reveal the Power of God
to the earth. W e have no such religion.
I did not remain long in Cairo. “The Wanderer” had not
appeared to me, and I took that to mean that I had not yet
reached the place where he desired to meet with me. So I laid
plans very shortly to continue my trip to Jerusalem. From thence
I should go to Bethlehem, a few miles to the south of the City of
Jerusalem.
As I have previously told you, I intended to stay at the King
David Hotel in Jerusalem, and reservations were awaiting me
when I arrived.
Since that day, the very hotel in which I stayed was almost
demolished by the bombs of Jews, or others, who comprise that
seething mass of misery which, at this writing, is Jerusalem.
Truly the “Abomination of Desolation” is now standing where
it should not stand. Truly, the time is here when the nations of
the earth must make a decision which will forever save them, or
destroy them. If they are destroyed, they will destroy themselves.
God will never do it.
As I sat there musing in my room in the King David Hotel,
I tried to put together the pieces in the sordid puzzle of the
nations of the earth. One shocking conflict had ended, and one
would think that the peoples of the earth would never want to
see another such holocaust. The people themselves do not want
to see it. But the forms of government under which most
nations live are such that at the orders of those in power over the
people, they must go to war. For if war is declared, and one re­
fuses to fight, such a one is at once incarcerated and punished as
a criminal. The Christian Bible says “Thou shalt not kill.” But
In W hich "The Wanderer” Reveals Himself 243
The Wanderer
when one country threatens another, the Bible and every other
book which tells about God, goes out of the window. And God
goes with them so far as the rulers of the nations are concerned.
The Author is trying to help men and women find God. He
wants to present to the nations of the earth, a suggestion that
they all take God into their reckonings as they try to secure inter­
national peace. This Author knows that there never can be, and
there never will be peace on this earth, until the nations of the
earth have received a concept of the Power of God which is of
such scintillating brilliance that they will automatically be drawn
to it.
So far, no such concept of God has been brought to humanity.
It follows then, as the night the day, that no such concept has
been seen by any of the many religious organizations on earth,
each of which claims to be teaching the truths of God, although
they all fight amongst themselves, if not openly, under the sur­
face. Certain it is that no common denominator has been found
upon which all religions can agree. That common denominator
must be found.
If such a common denominator is to be found, it will have to
consist of a new concept of God. It cannot be anything which
the churches themselves can concoct. For even if all the churches
in the universe were to combine, Catholic and Protestant, Moslem
and Jewish, that would not reveal the Power of God to the earth,
it would only eliminate some of the friction which exists among
a score or more of religious organizations, none of whom are able
to advance a single theory of God which has Power enough in
it to appeal to the nations of this earth. You may be sure that
when the T R U T H of God begins to be made known on the
earth, if it ever does, men and women by the hundreds of thou­
sands vail flock to that T R U T H . It is wrong, however to offer a
substitute to the world. It is useless. No man will recognize the
Power of God faster than the man on the street. In the time of
Jesus it was the “common people” who heard Him gladly. The
church hypocrites thanked God that they were not as others are.
244
W ell when the great day of reckoning comes, it will be dis­
covered that in the sight of God there is no class, no race, no
creed. For when God Almighty created man on this earth, He
made him of one blood; and when humanity is finally saved
from the errors into which it has plunged itself—when it finally
finds God—or rather when that portion of it which is left finds
God, it will be discovered that only one thing will matter then
—do you know the Power of the Spirit of God?
* * *
Whenever I am in the City of Jerusalem, there is a sacred
feeling which seems to hover near me. On this Saturday after­
noon about which I am writing, I was trying to view world
conditions in the light of the Man of Sorrows, Who, so very
long ago, predicted the very things which are happening now.
Not only the very things but the very places where these things
should happen. I sensed that we are coming very close to the
end of the age. I knew what would happen in the immediate
future. Knowing that, I was over-anxious to do what I had to
do, well. I was impetuously anxious to bring the answer to the
problems of the world, to the world, in the quickest possible
time. For there wasn’t very much time left, and I knew that too.
Whenever I go away for an extended trip, I have my news­
paper, The Daily Idahoan sent to me first-class mail.
This newspaper always carries the column written by Drew
Pearson, on the front page. As a matter of fact, it occupies the
place of honor on the page—the first column.
I had been reading “The Washington Merry-Go-Round,” and
when I saw there, the very things the Spirit of God had revealed
to me as destined to happen in the immediate future, I was more
perturbed than ever. As at the Feast of Belshazzar, I saw the
handwriting on the wall. It was the same now as it was then: —
“Mene, mene, tekel upharsin.” “Thou hast been weighed in the
balances and found wanting.”
In Which “The Wanderer” Reveals Himself 245
Here is what Drew Pearson had written on August the 17th,
1946.
“Beneath the surface, however, certain ominous developments
are seething in the Near East which could plunge us into a war
more horrible than anything ever envisaged by the mind of
man. Behind the scenes, the top military men of Russia and
England and, to some extent, the United States, are now ma­
neuvering for positions for a war which some of them think
could come in a matter of months—
even weeks.
Here are some of the secret moves which, only one year after
a war to end all wars, make the world so laden with dynamite:
1. Intelligence agencies have learned that Stalin now has
three giant airborne armies, totalling 120,000 men each, poised
along the Black sea. They are alerted and prepared for action—
presumably against Turkey.
2. The soviet politburo has decided on a showdown with
Turkey over the Dardanelles—
at once. Last week all the Rus­
sian field marshals met with members of the politburo for three
days in Odessa. Afterwards, Russia sent Turkey a demand that
the Montreux treaty covering the Dardanelles be revised at once
—
and be revised only by the soviet satellites.
3. The Russian navy is now concentrated in the Black sea
ports of Sevastopol and Feodosiya.
4. The British foreign office and the British general staff have
decided that the time for a showdown with Russia is at hand.
Their intelligence reports indicate feverish soviet experiments
with the atomic bomb and cosmic ray. The presence of rocket
bombs over Sweden is known to be Russian experimentation
with radio-controlled rockets eventually calculated to hit Eng­
land or perhaps cross the Arctic Circle.
British scientists know that the Russians may wind up with
the atomic bomb or even the more deadly cosmic ray if the
soviet is given another year to experiment. The British also
know that the United States is not ready to wage a joint Anglo-
American war against Russia; but they are convinced that, if
Russia and England clash, the U. S. A. would come in on the
British side.
5. The British general staff has moved three crack divisions
into Iraq for a showdown with Moscow over Iran. The British
fleet is poised in Mediterranean waters. At least nine other Brit­
246 The Wanderer
ish divisions and the entire royal air force are ready to support
Britain’s determination to dominate Iran. Baghdad, capital of
Iraq, is being heavily reinforced by the British.
6. The U. S. army is now spending increased amounts to
fortify Alaska and is working in close cooperation with Canada
on defense of the entire Arctic northwest. The Russian spy trials
in Canada revealed that Moscow was collecting all possible in­
formation regarding northwest Canada and Alaska; also that all
details of U. S. troops were reported back to Moscow, even in­
cluding the movements of regiments in the southern United
States.
7. The Russians are heavily fortifying the coast of Albania.
This gives them partial control of the entrance of the Adriatic,
and might keep an allied fleet from rescuing U. S.-British troops
at Trieste. Moscow has also been shifting the red army in Eu­
rope, has replaced war veterans with fresh men. In Germany the
red army is 750,000 strong. In Roumania, 90,000 red soldiers
have been increased to 350,000 men. Four Russian divisions are
in the Czech Sudetenland. A total of 6000 Russian planes are in
Poland and Roumania.
8. Twelve factories in Russian-occupied Germany are pour­
ing out munitions of war. The old Skoda works in Czecho­
slovakia, once used by Hitler, is turning out quantities of arms
of an interchangeable type, for use in either the Czech or red
army. Poland and Yugoslavia are manufacturing standardized
Russian arms.
The armament race is once more on. These are some of the
ominous undercurrents which could pull the world into another
war even before the wounds of World War two are healed, even
before a peace treaty is signed. Some diplomats and military
leaders say that these currents have gone so far that another
war is inevitable.”
As I sat there in my room in the King David Hotel, reading
the comments of Mr. Pearson and other writers, I knew that my
intuition that we are approaching the end of the present dispensa­
tion was correct. Even if the unexpected should happen, and if
a peace treaty which would mean something, should be signed,
that, in my opinion, would only postpone the inevitable destruc­
tion of man. Inevitable, that is, unless man finds God, and there
In W hich "The Wanderer” Reveals Himself 247
The Wanderer
is not the slightest hope that this will happen, until those or­
ganizations who say they represent God, bring to the world some
evidence of the truth of that claim.
* * *
From thoughts of war, I turned to “The Wanderer.” His un­
expected appearance to Pixley, and the added fact that Pixley
had seen scars across his brow, intrigued me more and more as I
thought the whole matter over. Who was this “Wanderer?” I
had seen terrible scars in the palms of both of his hands, and
Pixley had seen them too. But Pixley had seen something that I
had not as yet seen—the scars on the brow.
Had those scars been made by a crown of thorns? Had the
wounds in his hands been caused by the cruel nails—or were
they caused by something else? And the scars on the brow—had
they been caused by a crown of thorns? Or was the whole thing
coincidence? I was not willing to admit that there was any coin­
cidence in it at all. But if there was not, then “The Wanderer”
must be Jesus.
He was a Syrian Jew. He was bom in Bethlehem. His home
was in Nazareth. He bore on his body, scars which could have
been caused by the crude nails w'hich might have been used to
nail him to a cross. On his brow were marks which could have
resulted from a crown of thorns. And had I not seen him do
what no other man has ever done? Had I not seen him restore
life to a dead China pheasant? And had his appearance to Pixley
not made it possible for a hopeless cripple to be instantly healed?
If the impossible were to happen, and “The Wanderer” was
to prove actually to be Jesus, then what was He doing on the
earth? And why had He not revealed himself to the church, in­
stead of to me? If it should come to pass that “The Wanderer”
was Jesus, I intended to ask Him those questions. Those, and
many more questions I filed away in my mind, just in case He
did happen to be Jesus.
If He was Jesus, then many questions which had puzzled me
248
for many years would be answered, certainly. For I knew that
I should see “The Wanderer” again. But where? It should be
very soon now. I knew that he would not disappoint me. I had
his word, and I had travelled half way round the world to see
him. He must appear, and he must tell me who he is.
If he happened to be Jesus, then he certainly had come back
to earth in a manner little expected. Those among church people
who do look for the personal return of Jesus to the earth, and
they are very few by the way, are looking for Him to come on
the clouds of Heaven with great glory. They are expecting the
archangel Gabriel to blow his horn, and they are looking for
hosts of an angelic crowd to accompany Jesus and annihilate
with one fell swoop, everyone on this earth who does not believe
in the Christian religion.
Quoting from their Bible, they are expecting Jesus to come
back and reign forever on the throne of His father David in this
very city of Jerusalem. They are expecting the graves to open,
and they who have been dead for hundreds of thousands of years
to arise from the tomb. Some there are who say that those who
have died shall rise first, and meet Jesus in the air. After that,
they say, those who are left on the earth, and who believe in the
Christian religion, will all be taken up to Heaven while the
hundreds of millions who do not believe what the Christian
religion teaches, will be destroyed by Jesus when He comes.
I have never believed that, although that is exactly what was
taught me in my youth in the Bible Training School in Toronto.
That is too cold-blooded an explanation of the return of Jesus for
me. That smacks too much of what this world has been witness­
ing for the past centuries, the ruthless slaughter of the innocents,
and everyone else whose reason has dictated to them that they
could not possibly believe many of the things the Christian
church has advocated as necessary to their complete “salvation.”
If, however, “The Wanderer” was Jesus, then His return cer­
tainly was very far different from what the Christian Church
had taught its followers to expect. There would be something
In Which “The Wanderer” Reveals Himself 249
T he Wanderer
wrong somewhere if “The Wanderer” should turn out to be
Jesus. Somehow or other, the reappearance of Jesus as “The
Wanderer” would seem very much more logical to me than the
story of His return on clouds to destroy all who did not believe
that He was God, even to those millions who never had a chance
to believe, because they had been bom thousands of years before
Jesus was born. Then I began to ponder again—suppose He
was Jesus. What was He doing back on the earth? And why had
He only appeared to one man, so far as I knew, in person, while
He had only appeared to one other man in a dream? And if He
should prove to be Jesus, what would He think of world condi­
tions today? What would He think of the Christian Church
which, righdy or wrongly, has been founded on His name? And
what would H e think of the way this church had allowed the
world almost to destroy civilization, while the church stood idly
by on the sidelines, utterly unable to do one thing to prevent the
human destruction?
What would He think, if He proved to be Jesus, of the costly
priestly robes, the beads, the crucifixes, the altars, and the rest
of the paraphernalia which adorns the “houses of God” today?
What would He think of the fraud which was perpetrated in
His name at Messina? What would he think of the old priest
who was willing to sell “tears which fell from the eyes of the
Virgin Mary” so long ago, for a price?
What would He think of the stock the Church of England
holds in the Vickers Arms Co.? And what would He think of the
bridge-playing, dog-loving, gin-drinking, cigarette-smoking Chris­
tians who, while belonging to the “Ladies Aid” societies and
other church groups, spent most of their leisure hours leaning
against a slot-machine in some “non-profit” club through the
week, religiously attending church every Sunday morning?
Oh yes—if “The Wanderer” should turn out to be Jesus, there
were many questions I should want to ask Him. But was he?
It seemed too much to hope for—yet it could be. Either Jesus or
someone else had to appear on the earth and tell men and women
250
about the Power of God or it would certainly destroy itself. By
all appearances, that is the direction in which this civilization is
headed, and if Jesus, or someone else does not appear, then there
remains but little chance of any of us being saved from the
doom which seems to be so very close.
How different would it all be if only they who have made
such a profession of God, down through the ages, actually had
found the Power of God and manifested that Power to others.
As the Christian Church stands today, it has a great show of
Godliness, but no Power at all. If it really knew anything about
God it would be full of Power. God is full of Power. The church
“god” may not be, but you can depend upon it the God who
made this universe, and man—that God is very full of Power,
and that God is the God this decaying civilization needs.
* * *
I had made up my mind to drive down to the litde city of
Bethlehem the next day. “Perhaps that is where The Wanderer
wants me to meet him,” I thought. So, early in the morning, I
hired a car and drove the five or six miles which separate
Bethlehem from Jerusalem.
The word “Bethlehem” means the “House of Bread.” It is not
generally known, but this same city of Bethlehem, or so religious
tradition has it, gave birth to another virgin-bom “god” long
before it saw the birth of Jesus. There is so much that is ques­
tionable about the birth of all of the “gods” who have left the
wonders of Heaven to save mankind, that nothing like accuracy
is possible in the case of any of them. This includes the Christian
God—Jesus. For the sake of this work however, I am supposing
the Bible account of the birth of Jesus to be a correct account,
although there does not exist now, and there has never been
known to exist, a single original manuscript covering the birth,
crucifixion, or resurrection of Jesus. This fact is not known; I
mention it in passing so that you may know just what the facts
are. The entire story may have been copied from a much older
In Which "The Wanderer” Reveals Himself 251
The Wanderer
religion. I personally believe it was. However, there is that in
every religion, as I said once before in this book, which will save
the world if one will but dig deep enough to find it.
Even the so-called “Authorized Version” of the Christian Bible
was not authorized by anyone. It was never authorized by royal
proclamation, it was never authorized by order of the Council
set up by King James to put it together, it was never authorized
by an Act of Parliament, or by a vote of the Convocation. The
words “Appointed to be read in churches” did not appear by
order of the editors. These words were added later by the Church
of England. The strange part of this “Authorized Version” which
was produced by the Christian Church less than four hundred
years ago, lies in the fact that the manuscripts (so-called) from
which it was produced, have also disappeared.
I do not mention these facts with any intent to discredit the
Christian Bible which, as every Bible scholar knows, has never
been anything other than a work of man. It was written by men.
Almighty God has not at any time made any divine deposit of a
manuscript in the hands of any man or any church. The Chris­
tian Bible in its entirety is a work of man. While it is unques­
tionably true that “Holy men of old wrote” as they believed that
God inspired them, so have many other writers since that day
written in the same conviction. This Author is writing this novel,
firm in the conviction that what he writes has a divine inspira­
tion. There certainly is no other motive for writing the book.
Fame? . . . He cares nothing for it. Money? . . . He cares less
for that. As the reader should know by this time, the Author
knows, with every other thinking American, that there is some­
thing radically wrong with this world civilization. But, wrong as
it is, he believes the Power of God is equal to the occasion. He
believes that the Power of God can right every wrong, and give
to the human race the vision it needs to take its feet from a path
which is inevitably leading it to its doom, and place the feet of
this civilization on the road to something so very much higher
than anything it has ever known.
252
The writer does not believe that the doctrines advocated by
the Christian Church have in them enough value or merit to save
the world, even if they were all true. So he is trying to throw
what little light he may be able to, on a troubled world. He
believes that if the Christian Church will throw away the doc­
trines which have proved it to be powerless in saving this world,
and will concentrate instead upon the actual Power which must
lie in the Realm of God, it will, for the first time in its history,
be able to come to the world, not so much with the story of
Jesus, but with the Power Jesus came to teach.
All the priests and all the preachers and all the rabbis in the
universe can tell the world that Jesus came to save the world
from sin until the crack of doom. And the world will look the
Christian Church straight in the eye and answer:—“So what.”
This war-weary civilization does not need the story of Jesus
Christ. It does not need the story of Mohammed. It does not
need the story of Buddha, or of Chrishna or of any of the other
scores of gods who came down to the earth from Heaven to save
the world from sin. This world needs the actual Power of God,
and if the Christian Church will not allow the Power of the
Spirit of God to manifest through it, because of its unprovable
traditions, the Spirit of God will he forced to manifest somewhere
else. The Christian Church may not recognize the Spirit of God
in action when it sees It, hut there is one sure test which it can
apply if it cares to. “Ye shall know them hy their fruits”—Matt:
7:16.
There are those among the Christian Church, many of them
high up, who cannot bring themselves to face the facts they must
face, sooner or later. As a Methodist preacher of quite some
prominence said to me recently:—“Doctor Robinson—I agree
with everything you say and teach. The Virgin Birth of Jesus
means nothing to me. The Immaculate Conception never hap­
pened. The Resurrection is a farcical story in which my own chil­
dren would not be interested—hut can the Christian Church af­
ford to make an about-face?"
'' In Which “The Wanderer" Reveals Himself 253
The Wanderer
To which I replied:—“The Christian Church does not need
to make an about-face. Let it first find the actual Power of the
Spirit of God in it, and then let it use that Power, as Jesus taught
that it should use it, and the dross will automatically melt away,
revealing only the pure gold of the Spirit of God.”
If I have written anything in this book which may lead any­
one to believe that there is enmity between that Church and the
Author, I am sorry. The Christian Church hates this writer—but
it knows deep down in its heart that this writer is speaking the
truth as he receives that truth, directly from the Realm of the
Spirit of God, where the old church fathers received their in­
spiration. Their inspiration was good when they received it.
Mine is much better for the twentieth century.
* * *
This little City of Bethlehem is situated on a limestone ridge
about 2500 feet above sea-level. It is about five or six miles
south of Jerusalem. It has a very fertile countryside round it,
producing wheat, olives, grapes and much barley. A very old
city, I imagine the population is not over ten thousand people.
It was the ancient home of David and Joab as referred to in
2 Samuel 2:32. The District in which our litde City lies is called
Ephratah. While rich in ancient lore, Bethlehem was a ghost
city—completely forgotten when it became, truly, or traditionally,
the birthplace of Jesus.
The traditional scene of the Nativity is a grotto on the eastern
part of the ridge, and it is in this grotto, where, as before stated
in this book, another virgin-bom God, Adonis, was worshipped
for almost four hundred years after the birth of Jesus. This is
not a greatly publicized fact among Christians, but it is a fact
nevertheless that as late as 400 a .d . in the very same grotto cele­
brated as the place of the Nativity of Jesus, there was also being
celebrated there, the birth of another crucified God, Adonis by
name. Many think that the worship of Adonis became the wor­
ship of Christ. When we consider the fact that the Christian
254
Church did not have an “Authorized” Bible until about four
hundred years ago, and even then it was not “authorized,” that
Church cannot challenge the truth of the above assertion.
However—it doesn’t matter. The writer does not care if one
hundred and fifty crucified gods came from Heaven to earth to
save it from sin. It has not yet been saved, so the task of the
author and the Christian Church lies before them, for both are
trying to do the same thing.
In 330 the Roman Emperor Constantine ordered a great wall
built around the grotto, and this wall or basilica is now standing.
Justinian later restored part of it and added to it. In the eleventh
century Bethlehem was captured by the Crusaders, and was
made an Episcopal See. However, that did not last long, and
the possession of most of the grotto has passed into the hands of
the Roman Catholic Church. There are several monasteries
there, and a few Moslems, but not many.
The pity about this ancient and revered City is the manner in
which it has been, and still is being commercialized. Crucifixes
made from the cross of Jesus are manufactured and sold by the
hundreds of thousands. I saw enough wood purporting to come
from the cross of Jesus to fill a box-car. It is grossly wrong to try
to fool the public under the garb of religion, for money.
Beads, images, idols, everything the religiously minded can
think of, are all manufactured and sold in the little City of
Bethlehem, where, we are told, the Prince of Peace, the Savior
of the World was bom. It is about time that Prince of Peace—
that Savior of the World, manifested Himself if this world is to
be saved, at least by Him.
I am not too much interested in the various steps unbelieving
man has had to go through in his ascent towards knowledge of
the Power of God. I suppose that the re-ascent to God must
needs be much slower than his fall away from God. I have al­
ways been convinced that there was a time in the history of man
when he dwelt in perfect happiness with his Creator. There is
a very definite reason why man fell away from that estate, just
In W hich “The Wanderer” Reveals Himself 255
as there is a very definite reason why man will be restored to
that estate.
There is a great tendency on the part of man to consider that
this is the only planet which is occupied by human beings. But
nothing is more probably wrong. The vastness of the superb
celestial sphere above, and all around us, precludes from the
thinker, the idea that The Almighty, after having created yon
celestial sphere in all its wonderful majesty, concluded His work
by bringing human life to only one of the millions and perhaps
billions of planets the Great Architect of the universe flung into
space. That is a short-sighted concept of God.
If the human race can but get the proper perspective, and see
how very infinitesimal man is in comparison to the great created
scheme of things, then perhaps man will cease considering him­
self to be almighty and all-powerful. I do not believe the Creator
of this universe would even miss this planet if it should be de­
stroyed. Of course, it could not be destroyed without His knowl­
edge. But if it should happen that man does destroy himself and
this planet, and that could very easily happen now that men are
trying to explode the cosmic ray, Almighty God, while taking
cognizance of it of course, would neither miss this planet or the
people who inhabit it.
These picayunish concepts of the Creator, which have plagued
humanity for thousands of years, need to be changed for a very
much grander concept of God. Any religious organization which
thinks for one moment that Almighty God gave to it, the secrets
of the universe or the “salvation of man” is deluding itself. Any
religious organization which teaches that man cannot know God
unless he believes what it teaches, is also deluding itself. I can
discover more of the rhythm of God from a tiny flower growing
in some crannied nook, than I can from all the sermons ever
preached, or from all the “articles of faith” ever printed.
God wants to make a revelation of His Power to this world,
and He wants to make that revelation now. The only thing hold­
ing back the Creator is the fact that man’s eyes are not big
256 T he Wanderer
enough to recognize the revelation for what it is. The Spirit of
God wants to reveal Itself to every human being. The only thing
that keeps you and me from grasping the revelation, is our
inability to grasp the magnitude of God. W e are pretty small
ourselves, so we expect God to be as small as we are. W e keep
our spiritual eyes glued to some preacher, priest, or Bible, think­
ing that perhaps we shall find God in that manner. May I sug­
gest to the reader that he or she broaden his or her spiritual con­
cept, before expecting to behold anything of the beauties and
glories which are hidden from mortal eyes, because our mortal
eyes are so closed to the Light which is God that we cannot see it.
When the full manifestation of God comes to this earth, and
it will come to a certain portion of those who are now living on
the earth, it will be so shatteringly magnificent that we shall all
bow our heads in shame to think that we have believed for one
instant that our little system of theology—our Bible—contains all
there is to know of the Power of God.
There’s an old hymn of the Christian Church which goes
something like this:—
“We may not climb the Heavenly steeps,
To bring the Lord Christ down;
In vain we search the lowest deeps,
For Him no depths can drown.”
Yet the Christian Church, and its ministers, will try to bring
the Truths of God so low that they have assumed complete
jurisdiction over them. You cannot be “saved” unless you are
either converted or confirmed. One branch of the Christian
Church goes so far as to make the completely idiotic claim that
its priests, and its priests alone, possess the “keys” to the King­
dom of God. And supposedly intelligent Americans believe that,
and at the same time fear fills their hearts for what is about to
happen on this earth.
No—God has not given to any man or to any church, the
“keys” to His Kingdom. There isn’t a man or an organization on
In W hich "The Wanderer” Reveals Himself 257
The Wanderer
the face of the earth capable of receiving them, or would know
what to do with them if he possessed them. How is it possible
for any church-member to look at this world today, and then
assume that their church and their religion are “born of God?”
There is not a system of religion on the face of the earth which
was bom of God. If there were, that system of religion would be
able to reveal the actual truths of God to the world. Do you know
of a system of religion which is doing that? Do you know of a
system of religion on this earth which is capable of stemming
the horrible tides of war which once more threaten to engulf the
whole world.
To know God is to be able to use the Power of God, and I
know of no system of theology on the face of the earth which is
doing that.
* * *
On my arrival at Jerusalem, the News had sent a reporter to
the hotel to interview me. I never like interviews of that sort.
Although I am in the newspaper business, so many times, when
one allows himself to be interviewed, something one did not say
creeps into the interview. Sometimes the reporter will print some­
thing he thinks you should have said. Anyway, I usually have
little to say to reporters when I am travelling.
However, in this instance it was a good thing that I had this
interview. It appeared fairly accurately with a cut of me which
happened to be in the “morgue” of the News.
I know that Psychiana Members are to be found all over the
civilized world, but did not suspect that some of them would see
the item which appeared in the Jerusalem paper. However, I
proved to be wrong, for the paper had not been out very long
when the telephone in my room rang. It was a Student who had
been living in Bethlehem for many years. He was staying at the
same hotel, and, seeing the notice while reading the paper in the
lobby, had decided to give me a ring on the house phone.
I told him that I would be right down, and, sprucing up a bit,.
258
I took the elevator and was soon shaking hands with one of the
finest men I have ever met. His name is Josiah Blakely and he is
an Englishman. Later on I discovered that he had been a member
of my father’s church in London, many years before. I was happy
to meet him.
He had a large olive ranch just a few miles from Bethlehem.
Wouldn’t I like to go and spend a day or so with him? I cer­
tainly would, and did, leaving the next day for his ranch. He
called it a farm.
It took us less than half an hour to make the drive from
Jerusalem to Bethlehem. There I met Mrs. Blakely, the two
little Blakelys and the Blakely cat, a huge Persian. The biggest
cat I have ever seen. The Blakely home was a beautiful place.
Built in typical Bethlehem style. There were three guest-houses,
each occupying a corner of the large lot on which the house
proper stood. Every convenience was to be found in the guest­
houses, and one could come and go as one felt inclined to do.
I was offered a choice of a room in the house proper, or one
of the guest-houses. I chose the guest-house. That would give
me an opportunity to be alone, and perhaps I might want to
wander over those hills where Jesus wandered, once more. I had
travelled over them on previous trips to the Holy Land.
That evening the Blakelys and I spent in chatting together
in the comfortable, large living-room. Of course, our talk soon
turned to world conditions, but, not wishing to talk, only to
listen, I let Mr. Blakely do most of the talking. He was not very
optimistic about world conditions, especially in the Near East. It
was his argument that if there was no oil in that region, there
would be no trouble about Jews in Palestine or anything else.
The British would not be herding everyone into their homes at
six each evening, then erecting barbed-wire barricades to com­
pel them to abide by a six p .m . curfew ruling.
Mr. Blakely informed me that with the death of the old
League of Nations, Great Britain had no more legal right in
Jerusalem than the Man in the Moon has. He carefully pointed
In Which “The Wanderer” Reveals Himself 259
260 The Wanderer
out to me what he thought to be the root of all the bloodshed
which had been witnessed in the now bloody City of Jerusalem,
over the past few years.
“Russia wants the oil, Great Britain wants the oil and the
United States, which does not need the oil, has allowed Great
Britain to sell her on the theory that, at some future time, she
might want it,” said Blakely, adding:—“When are you Ameri­
cans going to stop being played for suckers by us Englishmen—
don’t you know that we can twist you round our little finger?”
I smiled, and added:—“Well don’t be too sure that you can
twist to your heart’s content, for when you begin to twist until
it hurts, then you are apt to find out that you have a wild-cat by
the tail.”
Altogether, it was an enjoyable evening. I excused myself
just after dark, stating that I wanted to take a walk alone out
in the orchards. Mr. Blakely had many acres of them. I was in­
formed that I should feel that I had complete run of the place,
and that I was to make myself at home anywhere. Moreover, I
was to stay as long as I cared to.
I thanked the Blakelys and made my way across the lawn to
my little house. It was beautifully furnished within. Persian
rugs, solid ebony fixtures, freely decorated with white ivory
elephants, of which the Blakelys had quite a collection, I later
learned.
On the bureau, done in fine ivory, was one of those sets of
three monkeys—“See no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil.” As I
looked at it wondering how those monkeys had managed to get
into Bethlehem, I thought what a paradise this world would be
if everyone followed the instructions on the pedestal on which
the three monkeys were sitdng.
* * X
-
Those who have learned the secret of actual communion with
God, have learned that such communion almost invariably comes
in moments when the world outside is forgotten, and when the
261
seeker after the precious spiritual experience which comes from
personal contact with God, is alone with his or her Maker. There
is a place in every man and woman where God can be met—and
recognized. That place is down deep in the innermost recesses
of one’s own soul. There is a place at which, when the soul of
man is alone with its God, free communion may be had. In such
moments, not vouchsafed to many, some of the beauties of the
Realm of the Spirit of God may be made known to the seeker.
Such moments are seldom forgotten. They are charged with
spiritual Power. The veil, which seems to separate man from
God is temporarily pulled aside, and one beholds some of the
vastnesses of the Ocean of Power that is God. When the human
family comes to the place at which it is willing to take time
enough to find and know the God within, which is the God
without, the last human problem will vanish quickly.
It may seem optimistic to even hope that such a day can come
on this earth—but it can. It is entirely a matter of man’s learning
the precious truths which lie in the Realm of God. That Realm
is constant. It can never change. It is there for man to find. Man,
however, must be in earnest enough to want to find God.
As the Author sees this civilization, it seems to be madly rush­
ing around looking for anything which offers “a thrill.” Some
new sensation. Some new vice. A gambling-ship, anchored out­
side of the twelve-mile limit will attract so many people that the
boats are unable to carry them to the object of their search. They
know that the gambling-ship is there to take them to the clean­
ers. They know there is slight possibility of their winning any
appreciable sum of money. Yet the gambling-ship offers a thrill,
it is something new, so it attracts the crowds.
The Author recently made a trip through the southern part
of Idaho. What he saw shocked him. He wonders if a permanent
civilization can be built upon the low morale he saw on that
trip. He had heard about conditions and he wished to get first­
hand information.
Gambling devices running wide open. Every sort of liquor
In Which "The Wanderer’’ Reveals Himself
262 The Wanderer
obtainable openly on sale. Houses of ill-repute. Profanity the
like of which he has seldom heard. The pitiable thing about it
all is the fact that most of the devotees of these vices seemed to
be returned service men. Youths—not thirty years of age—stand­
ing there against these bars, cursing, drinking, playing slot-
machines, roulette, dice, and every other form of gambling
which, legal or illegal, saps the moral character of everyone who
indulges in such vices.
Those who try to reveal the Spirit of God to this civilization
have set for themselves a goal which, to say the least, has no
immediate hope of being reached. They have set for themselves
a path that is a hard one to travel. And yet—if these precious
young men and women, for our girls are there too, could but be
led to the great beauties which lie in the Realm of the Spirit of
God; if they could be shown how very easy it can be for them
to exchange the fleeting, transcient, illusory “thrills” and pleas­
ures of this earth for some so infinitely better, what a joy it would
be to live on this earth.
But who is to show them? Where is the organization, religious
or otherwise which can bring to these young men and women,
some of the charm and beauty of the invisible Realm of the
Spirit of God? Perhaps “The Wanderer” has the answer.
I felt the need of silent communion that night. So, taking a
light sport coat with me, I left the guest-house of the Blakelys
and walked slowly through the olive grove. It was my intention
to spend the night alone with God. I do this quite often. I never
get down on my knees and pray in the traditional manner.
Rather, these moments of communion with God are moments in
which I keep absolutely still before God, and listen to what God
has to say to me. I listen for the “still small” voice of God, which,
although it be both still and small, is loud enough to make Itself
heard above the roar and tumult of this God-less world.
I have used the words “The rhythm of God” at one place in
this book. Those words express better than any other words, what
happens in such moments as these, when I get alone with God,
having a definite object in mind—more knowledge of the Power
of God. When we have the answer to it all, we shall find that
The Creator is a spiritual existence, filling all space with Its
own Power, which Power is instantly available to all who want
It. The trouble is not with God—the trouble is with a wayward,
mean, horrible race of men and women who will not take
enough time out from their waywardness, their meanness, and
the horrible things they say and do, to find the Peace which the
Spirit of God always brings to those who seek that Peace. They
may do no more than express a faint desire. Yet that desire alone
is sufficient to bring its corresponding measure of spiritual re­
ward. As the path is travelled, and as we change that tiny desire
into a surging hope, the whole Realm of the Spirit of God opens
up to us; we wonder then, why we have been so blind to the
glories and the beauties of the Realm of the Spirit of God.
On the other side of the olive orchard, there was a field in
which the Blakelys kept their sheep. They had a flock of about
five hundred. Lying along the fences, and huddled together in
little groups, the sheep had been bedded down for the night an
hour or so before. The field in which the sheep were pastured
was probably a mile and a half from the Blakely home.
The stars were shining brightly as they were another night,
almost two thousand years ago. A crescent moon shed its dim
light, and added to the glory of the scene. They were contented
sheep. Not a bleat could be heard from any of them. Away at
the other side of the field I could make out dimly, the form of
the shepherd who was watching o’er this flock by night. He was
standing in a corner of the field farthest away from me, resting
against the crooked fence which kept the sheep on the Blakely
property. I could faintly make out the crook he carried in his
hand. The old custom of shepherds carrying crooks still persists
on the plains of Bethlehem.
Looking at the shepherd, I wondered if he would disturb my
meditations, for I expected to be there all night. Sighting a small
out-building in which various tools and other farm implements
In Which “The Wanderer” Reveals Himself 263
The Wanderer
were kept, I unhurriedly walked toward it. There, I thought, no
one would disturb me, nor would I disturb either sheep or
shepherd.
Whenever I am in communion with God, I always bow the
head slightly, and wait. Soon there comes stealing into my soul,
the assurance that the Spirit of God is there. That night, on
those famed Bethlehem plains, the assurance of the Presence
of God came quickly. How quickly the consciousness of God
comes depends entirely upon the receptivity of the seeker. It
usually does not take the Author very long to enter that spiritual
rapport with God, for he has been walking along this path, lo,
these many years.
I had probably been standing there less than an hour when I
was brought hack to the immediate surroundings by the most
beautiful tenor voice I have ever heard. I have heard Caruso
when he was here. I have heard John McCormack. I always
listen to Jim Melton. But never had I heard such a voice as
this. For sheer beauty of tone, and brilliance of delivery, this
tenor voice seemed to come from another region.
I heard it very faintly at first, for it was evident that it was
coming from a distance. Faint at first, then increasing slowly in
volume.
I listened, transfixed by the sheer beauty of the voice, and the
melody which came floating across that starry night on those
tradition-famed plains of Bethlehem, into my entranced ears. I
knew that melody, I thought. Yes—I had played it many times
in my home in Moscow where the Mary and Martha Society
of the First Presbyterian Church used to hold their annual
Christmas meeting.
Entranced, there came floating to me through the stillness of
the night:—
“O little town of Bethlehem,
How still we see thee lie;
Above thy deep and dreamless sleep,
The silent stars go by:
264
265
Yet in the dark streets shineth
The everlasting Light;
The hopes and fears of all the years
Are met in thee tonight.”
Strange—here I was, alone with God, trying to deepen my
spiritual experience on the very same plains of Bethlehem this
beautiful Christmas hymn so graphically depicted. There was
just one thought came to me as that brilliant voice of the un­
known singer was wafted to me o’er the stillness of the quiet
night. The stars did not go by. They were part of the handiwork
of God. They—were constant, this earth was going by—not the
stars.
The first stanza had ended. Would the singer in the night sing
another verse? Did he know another verse? I believed he did. I
was correct, for soon the melody of the second verse came thrill­
ing into my anxious soul. For I love those old hymns of the
Christmas season. In spite of the fact that the Christian Xmas
ceremony did not originate with Christianity, having been
known and celebrated hundreds of years before the advent of
Jesus, I still love them. It made little difference to me that night,
as I stood there on the plains of Bethlehem, how much of error
had crept into the doctrines and teachings of the Christian
Church. For I realized that men had founded it, and whatever
man founds, or has anything to do with, is usually a long way
from being perfect. Perhaps I could do something to make it
perfect. Perhaps “The Wanderer” might be able to help me.
Thoughts of “The Wanderer” were swept from my mind
though, as the second verse of that wonderful Christmas hymn,
much clearer now, floated into my ears. Evidently the singer
was coming closer to the little tool-house against which I was
leaning:—
“For Christ is bom of Mary,
And gathered all above,
While mortals sleep, the angels keep,
Their watch of wondering love.
In Which “The Wanderer” Reveals Himself
266 The Wanderer
O morning stars together,
Proclaim the Holy Birth,
And praises sing to God the King
And peace to men on earth.”
There was a pause after the second verse. I thought about the
words, so beautifully written so many years ago (1868) by
Phillips Brooks. But it was a far cry from the peace the Christ-
Child came to proclaim to men, and the holocaust of coming
destruction which seemed hard ahead, even as I stood there on
the plains of Bethlehem. I thought of the ravaged homes, seared
and scarred by the cruel hand of death. I thought of the vacant
chairs, the empty bed-rooms, the dimmed eyes, as fathers and
mothers by the million, throughout this "civilized” planet, wept
daily for the son, or the daughter who would never again sit in
those empty chairs or sleep in those empty bed-rooms.
I thought of the millions who, even as I stood there, were
suffering, bleeding, and dying of starvation, hoping against hope
that the awful man-made thing called “war” would never place
its un-Godly hand on them or theirs again. I thought of the
hundreds of millions in China, many of them dying by the way-
side; I thought of the ghastly horrors of the concentration camps
in Germany, where so many of our American boys were tortured
to death. Then I thought of the cruel “justice” meted out to
those who had perpetrated such heinous crimes. Could one life
replace another? By taking a hundred lives could the sins of
those murderers be wiped out? Would the hanging of the arch­
criminals put an end to war?
And the armament race with atomic and cosmic forces w7
hich
is going on at this very moment—was that what Jesus had in
mind so long ago?
There is something wrong somewhere. Something radically
wrong. As I stood there on the plains of Bethlehem, listening to
the unknown singer whose voice possessed such marvellous
beauty, my heart bled for the world. I believed, as I stood there,
that I knew what was wrong with this civilization. Could I put
my message across? W ith the Power of the Spirit of God in me—
YES.
Then the voice broke in on me again; very much closer now.
I would wait until he had sung all four verses and then I would
step from behind the little tool-house and make my presence
known to this man, whom I believed to be the shepherd who
was watching o’er his sheep.
“How silently, how silently,
The wondrous gift was given;
So God imparts to human hearts,
The blessings of His Heaven.
No ear may hear his coming,
But in this world of sin,
Where meek souls will receive Him still,
The dear Christ enters in.”
As I pondered over that verse, the thought came to me that
the writer of the hymn, Mr. Brooks, must have had a very vivid
experience with the Power of God in his life. He knew that the
gift of God—the Spirit of God is that Gift—comes silently. He
knew too, that with the coming, or the recognition of the Spirit
of God in the life, all the blessings there are in the Realm of
the Spirit of God are made available to the one who finds, or
rather accepts the gift. For there is but one way to accept the
Power of the Spirit of God, and that way is to find It in one’s
own life.
Then again, how very true it is that no ear can ever hear the
coming of God into the life. It is a spiritual coming. When the
Power of the Spirit of God is recognized in the life, silent though
it may be, the world usually knows that something has happened
to the one who has had that blessed experience. But both the
recognition of the Spirit of God in the life, and the constant
communion that recognition brings with it, are silent. That is the
reason I was to be found on the plains of Bethlehem in the mid­
dle of the night.
Then came the fourth, and last verse. By this time the singer
In W hich “The Wanderer” Reveals Himself 267
268 The Wanderer
was so close that I could hear his breath as he inhaled and ex­
haled as he sang. He must be right on the other side of the tool-
shed. Soon, we should meet. I wanted most certainly to meet
anyone gifted with such a voice. Why, instead of herding sheep
in Bethlehem, that man could make a million dollars a year with
his voice. But perhaps he was like me—perhaps money did not
interest him. I hoped so, as the words and the melody of the last
verse came rolling in the sweetest tones I have ever heard:—
“O Holy Child of Bethlehem,
Descend on us we pray.
Cast out our sin, and enter in,
Be bom in us today.
We hear the Christmas angels,
The great glad tidings tell;
O come to us, abide with us,
Our Lord Emmanuel.”
That was all. There are no more verses, and I did not expect
the singer to start all over again. I wanted to meet him. Stepping
round the tool-house, I saw the figure of the. shepherd standing
there, crook in hand. It was semi-dark, of course, but not dark
enough to prevent me from seeing—"The Wanderer.”
W e stood there for several moments before either of us spoke,
our hands clasped. There was too much emotion in me to speak.
Probably too much in him too. But volumes could be written
about the look in that man’s eyes, and the silent understanding
which was passing between us. You see, I knew now who "The
Wanderer” was.
I had suspected that he might be Jesus for many months, but
the thought seemed so utterly fantastic that I had trouble making
myself believe it. Yet there had been too many incidents which
pointed to His being Jesus for me to doubt longer.
Here He was, dressed in the garb of a shepherd, calmly watch­
ing over a flock of sheep on the plains of Bethlehem. He had not
come in the manner in which I had been told He would come.
When He came, or how He came, none on the earth knew, for
He had been here many months to my knowledge.
I was so enraptured by the thought that I was standing there
tightly clasping the hand of Jesus, that it is no exaggeration to
say that I was, to all intents and purposes, living in another
world. The plains of Bethlehem disappeared. The sheep seemed
to vanish. I was looking on the face of Him who, I knew, could
give me the answer to the problems of this world, and tell me
wherein it has failed. That was information I wanted to know.
After I had received that information, I could then do my work
better. Where I had gone wrong, I could correct it. Wherein I
had fallen down, I could be careful that I did not fall again.
I knew that Jesus would tell me what mistakes I had made,
and I should be very careful not to make those mistakes again.
I do not know just how long Jesus and I stood there, our hands
clasped. It may have been just a moment, or it may have been
hours. The greeting and recognition were very short. But oh how
sweet it was. I just uttered one word:— “Jesus.”
“Frank,” softly said Jesus.
I can usually stand up under any emotion. I have had to steel
myself many times against emotions which would have broken
many a man. But to stand there and be able to say “Jesus,” and
hear him say “Frank,” would have melted the heart of a stone.
And I melted—believe me. Tears came streaming down my
cheeks. They were hot tears. They were tears of joy. They were
tears of sorrow. They were tears of gladness. They were tears of
pain. But they were tears—and I let them flow. I did not care to
even try to control them.
The reader will admit that it is a very unusual experience for
anyone to meet Jesus face to face, and have Him call you by
your first name. Yet that is what is happening on those Bethlehem
plains at this moment. So many different pictures have been
drawn of this man Jesus, and those pictures have been for the
greater part colored by what believers in Him think He should
In Which "The Wanderer’’ Reveals Himself 269
The Wanderer
be like, that the picture I am about to give you of Jesus, as He
appeared to me, may be quite different from what you expect.
It may be that we shall find that Jesus was a very human man
after all. It may be that in trying to find the truths of God
through Jesus, we have expected the impossible. It could very
easily be that we have been unable to see a tree because of the
forest. Then too, it may be that the attaching of deity to the
brow of Jesus, has made it impossible for us to understand
the message He came to earth to bring.
That He had a message, goes without saying. That His mes­
sage has not saved this world, also goes without saying. There
are many who believe that out of the whole creation, only a very
few men and women are to be “saved.” The rest will be eternally
damned because they have not believed that Jesus was Almighty
God in totality. I do not hold that view. If one of God’s creatures
is lost, God is imperfect, unless of course that man is lost because
of his own volition. I am not saying that, through some great
miraculous change which will come upon this earth, all who live
upon it will be miraculously transported into Heaven, in spite
of their actions here. What I am saying is that the plan God has
for the human race—the plan Jesus must have brought with him
—visualizes the salvation of everyone, regardless of whether they
believe in the name of Jesus or not; regardless of whether they
believe He was God Almighty, or not. For that is what ‘Reliev­
ing in the name of Jesus” actually amounts to. It means whether
or not you believe that He was, and still is for that matter, Al­
mighty God in totality.
W e live in a land which is traditionally Christian. That means
only that the religion of this land happens to be the “Christian”
religion. It does not mean that Americans as a whole, or even the
major portion of them, either belong to a Christian Church, or
believe that Jesus was Almighty God. Most of them seldom if
ever see the inside of a church, and most of them do not care.
They are bewildered. They do not know what to think. They
have seen two horrible wars, and, if they are smart, they see
270
another one in the making. So they are confused. They are be­
wildered. They do not know what the score is. They are asking:—
“What is the answer?” They long since ceased to look to religion
for the answer. They have long since ceased to look to any church
for the answer. They do not consider the Christian Church a
divine institution, and there is no reason why they should.
They who hold membership in the churches, of course, be­
lieve their own peculiar doctrines and dogmas. But they believe
them only because those in authority over them insist that they
do believe them—not because they have made an independent
investigation, and have proven the teachings of their church to
be true. Those in authority will take good care that their mem­
bers do not make such investigations. Some religions frown on
their members reading the Bible, telling them that they do not
have either the education or the ability to understand the Book.
So, they must ask their “superiors,” because they alone have the
power to read aright, and interpret the ‘W ord of God.” So you
go to them.
It must be evident to the thinker, that the truths of God must
be universal. They must include the entire human race. There
must be no “purgatory” for they who have failed or made punish­
able mistakes, nor must there be “outer darkness” or “Hades”
for they who would not, or could not believe what the churches
have asked them to believe.
It must also be evident to anyone who cares to think, that none
of the different ecclesiastical organizations on this earth, have a
concept of God which is big enough to include the world. Their
rules, rites, rituals, articles of faith etc. were made by them to
serve their own ends. Not one article of faith, one creed, one
rite, one ritual possessed by any church, came from God. Not
one Bible or “Sacred Writings,” (as some religions call their
bibles) came from God. Every Bible and every “sacred writing”
of every religion is man-made. They contain the ideas the church­
men of their respective days, subscribed to.
Now each of these religious organizations is absolutely con­
In Which "The Wanderer’’ Reveals Himself 271
The Wanderer
vinced that its inspiration is correct. It believes that the men who
inspired it, ages ago, received their inspiration from God. That
is correct. But whatever inspiration they received was second­
hand by the time they told it to others. It was received subject
to the mental and spiritual limitations of the men who were in­
spired. But the Creator has not set. aside some particular group of
men in any age, for inspiration purposes. Whosoever will, may
have all the inspiration he needs, right now, by listening to what
God has to say to him or her individually, and no Bible of any
religion has anything to do with that inspiration. When someone
quotes the Christian Bible, he is only trying to secure new
members for the Christian faith. (And at best, it is but a “faith.”)
When someone quotes the Bhagavad Gita, or the Koran, he
is merely trying to get members for that particular “belief.”
When one attempts the dangerous and foolhardy task of sug­
gesting to a major religion that perhaps its theology is man-made,
instead of divinely revealed—when someone attempts the equally
foolhardy and dangerous task of suggesting to some major reli­
gion that its Bible may be a human, instead of a divine produc­
tion, righteous indignation at once manifests against the “up­
start” who dares question the veracity of their religious persuasion.
It is all right to question the truth of the “other fellow’s” religious
set-up, but you must not dare to question theirs.
The fact remains however that it is most patent to the greater
part of this civilization, that it is off the track. It’s away off the
track. So any honest attempt to put it on the track, or make a
suggestion which might help get it back on the track, should
be gratefully received. There are those who contend that if man
is given time enough, he will find the solution to all his prob­
lems, and some bright day men and nations will live together
without wars. W e have had hints of a certain number of free­
doms which, if adopted, we are told, will bring such a day to us.
But even if it were possible to bring common-sense to the
nations, and eradicate all fears and all ambitions for world dom­
ination, man would still be off the track. He would be closer
272
to the track, but he would still be off it. Two problems would be
left to be solved: Death—and God. But I hear someone say that
“all have to die,” and I hear someone else say “We can get along
without God.”-1 deny both of those statements. The fact that
they are so universally made is complete evidence of the long
distance man is from the track.
I am suggesting to this civilization that it cannot eliminate
God without insuring death. I am suggesting that when the
human race finds the answer to the God proposition, it will also
have found the answer to the “death” proposition. To state that
man, through any church, knows all there is to know about God,
or to state that we are not supposed to know anything more about
God than we already know through what our churches have told
us, is to make statements with which the Author has to disagree.
I am convinced, after sixty years of a very interesting and
checkered life, that the human race has not learned anything
about the Creator, or the Power of the Creator in human lives.
I am convinced that this civilization is on the verge of making
the greatest spiritual discovery the world has ever made, about
the existence and Power of God. If that be true, then man is
close to the answer to the twin riddles of life and death.
The thing that worries the Author is this—Is there time? Man
is fooling round with the atomic homh and the cosmic ray, and
he might very easily w ife out this civilization before the actual
truths of God can he brought to it. That is what worries this
writer. He does not believe any church, in any land, will he
willing to admit that what it has offered the world as coming
from God, came only from men, and therefore is very imperfect.
The “inspired” writings of two thousand or even one thousand
years ago, cannot answer the perplexing problems of today. They
have not been able to disclose God to very many, if any. They
have been effective in holding membership in various ecclesiasti­
cal organizations together, but as far as drawing the human race
closer to God, or revealing the Power of God to the human race,
In W hich “The Wanderer’’ Reveals Himself 273
I am afraid we shall need some twentieth century inspiration to
take the place of first century inspiration.
In this novel, the writer has tried earnestly to point the way
to a possible answer. He believes that the reader will have no
trouble in seeing what he is driving at.
In presenting Jesus to you, as I see Him, in the next chapter,
I do so as He appears to me. I do not have the slightest intent
to discredit the Christian Church—only to help it. If it is honest,
it will admit that it needs help. There lies on the door-step of the
Christian Church, the greatest opportunity it has ever had, to
bring to this earth, T R U T H S of the Infinite God.
If it is smart enough to grasp these T R U T H S, and big enough
to lay aside for the moment at least, its unprovable theories of
the immaculate conception, virgin birth, resurrection, and unique
deity of Jesus, it will win this earth for God. If it will not, then
let every Christian Church in America write above its front door,
the following word, written to the last age of the church—The
Church at Laodicea:—
‘1 know Thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot; so
then, because thou art neither cold nor hot, I will spew thee out
of My mouth.”
2 7 4 The Wanderer
C H A P T E R N I N E
In Which “The Wanderer” Talks
« T E S U S .”
J “Frank.”
He called me by my first name.
When the silence between us was broken, it was Jesus who
broke it. Still clasping my hand tightly in His, He said: —
‘W hat was it that convinced you that I am Jesus?”
“May I call you Jesus?” I asked before answering Him.
“I want you to call me that. When I asked you, on the train,
to call me “The Wanderer,” I was not quite ready to reveal
myself to you. But it doesn’t matter now. But just what was it
that convinced you that I am Jesus—I have not said that I am?”
That was a hard question for me to answer. He had not said
so, yet I knew instinctively who He was. You see—he was dressed
as a shepherd. He wore the sandals the shepherds wear in the
fields of Bethlehem, but He wore no head-piece, and there,
across His forehead, I had seen in the moonlight, horrible scars.
“There was no one thing, Jesus, which convinced me that
you are Jesus—I had already seen the prints of the nails in your
hands, but I had not seen the scars on your brow until just now.
But the actual recognition came from within. M y Father, and
your Father, made known to me who You actually are. I have
suspected it for some time. But I did not expect you to come
back to earth like this—I half expected the universe to be lighted
with a brilliant light. I expected to hear the sound of a trumpet,
or many trumpets. I expected to see hosts of angels. I expected
to see the dead arise, and I also expected to see you, sitting on a
cloud and returning in great wrath, to visit Your anger on the
peoples of this earth. I did not expect You to appear as a Bethle­
hem shepherd,” I said to Jesus.
“I came to earth two thousand years ago to try to save man­
kind, and point out the way by which it can unite with God,
thereby completing my Father’s will and wishes. I do not come
to destroy. I come to reveal the Power of God.”
“But Master, why have you made your coming so perfectly
-natural?” I asked Him.
“I do not know any other way to come. I come to the earth
now, as I came before. Now you see me as a shepherd. I was a
carpenter then, and many times I would tend my father’s sheep,
as I am doing now. Joseph had many sheep.”
“Then you did not come to earth by miraculous means? You
were not immaculately conceived by the Holy Ghost, and born
of a Virgin in a miraculous manner?” I asked Jesus.
Smiling sadly, it seemed to me, Jesus answered:—“M y Father
does not permit births of that sort. He has laid down laws which
govern childbirth, and every child who comes into the world,
comes as a result of the workings of the Law M y Father has
provided for the physical birth of these precious children—and
oh—how I love them.”
“Then it can be truthfully said that You are a human being
just like me?” I said to Jesus.
“If I were anything else, how could I be standing here talk­
ing with you? How could I be tending sheep? How could I have
walked through the corn-fields plucking the ears of corn two
thousand years ago, had I been anything other than a human
being?” He answered.
“But how did the world come to look upon You as a God?”
I said.
“That is a mystery I shall never be able to fathom. It was a
mistake which has cost this earth millions upon millions of
human lives, and has brought more agony to the human race
than any other one thing could possibly have done. But many
systems of religion, long before M y time, and much larger than
276 The Wanderer
In Which “The Wanderer" Talks 277
the one which wrongfully bears M y name, did the same thing.”
‘‘You mean that long before you were born, the same story
told about you, was told about other men? You mean that other
religions had tried to make a God out of a man?” I asked Him.
“That is what I mean, and they all failed, just like the Chris­
tian religion has failed,” said the Master.
“But wherein specifically has Christianity failed?” I said to
Jesus. To which He replied instantly:—
“It failed because it tried to do as many older religions had
done. It tried to make me a God whereas I was only a man, just
as you see me now.”
“But Master, to what do you attribute such a terrible mistake?”
I asked Him.
“Mostly to the superstition and ignorance of the church lead­
ers of that day, and their lust for political power. When they
heard me speak, they knew that I was a Messenger sent to them
with a message from M y Father—God. They knew that if the
people were to grasp the message I brought, there would be no
room on the earth for their schemes. They were money-mad.
They were power-mad then, as they are today. They hid their
rottenness under M y name. So they plotted to kill Me. They
thought they had. But M y Father took care of that. And then
their hypocrisy was made manifest. After I was supposed to be
dead, they copied from the Hindoo, and decided to make me a
God, crucified on a cross, and they began to capitalize on Me,
never for one moment referring to the message I came from my
Father to bring to them. As a result, you have an idolatrous
church, worshipping a man instead of M y Father, and as a re­
sult of that, your world will soon pass into utter oblivion.”
This was about what I thought had happened, but it was
wonderful to hear it coming from the lips of Jesus. I had many
questions to ask Him though, so did not do much talking, except
to ask Him for the answers to my questions.
“Then you actually were crucified on a cross?”
“I was crucified—yes—but I did not die on that cross.”
The Wanderer
“But how did you escape with your Life?” I said to Jesus.
“There was a man there who lived in Arimathea, his name was
Joseph but I always called him Joe. He was a mighty good friend.
I could bank on Joe every time. He went to Pilate, after that
terrible crucifixion scene was all over, and, knowing that I was
not dead as he had come to Golgotha to witness the fiendish
crime, I had opened one eye slightly. Everyone else in that crowd
thought I was dead, although had they thought, they would
have considered it strange if a healthy man like me should have
died by crucifixion in three hours, for that is the total time I was
hanging there. And Frank, the agony of body and soul was
awful. The pain . . . the terrible physical pain . . . and the
agony of soul which I suffered . . . you see Frank, I had come
to earth to tell both the church and the world that M y Father
wanted them to have eternal life through His Spirit . . . and I
had failed in my mission. I had not been able to convince them.
Instead, the religious leaders of that day sent me to that awful
cross. I never want to go through an experience like that again,
and, thank God, I never shall.”
“But tell me Jesus, how did you manage to escape with Your
life?”
“I was coming to that.”
“You were speaking to me about Joe,” I reminded Jesus.
“Yes I was. W ell Joe went to Pilate and asked if he could
have my body, and Pilate, knowing that Joe and I were very
close friends, said he could. Waiting until it got a bit darker,
Joe, with his wife and two of his boys, took the cross out of the
hole in the ground, laid it flat, and very gently untied the ropes
which were wound round me. I fainted when they pulled the
nails out of M y hands and feet. Had I been God, of course, I
should have felt no pain, nor should I have been on that cross at
all. But, not being God, I suffered the awful agonies which only
they who are so tortured can suffer. It was torture Frank, believe
)
>
me.
“I am quite sure it was, Jesus, and had I been there, even
278
In Which "The Wanderer” Talks 279
though I might have lost my own life in the attempt, believe me
I should never have run away and left you like Your followers
did. There would have been a fight, even though I should prob­
ably have lost the fight. But those monsters who tried to kill you
would have had a battle just the same. And as for those cowardly
followers of Yours, they are not worthy of the name.”
Looking at me tenderly, Jesus said:—“Don’t be too hard on
them, Frank, those who say they follow me would do the same
identical thing today. And that would be all right. I came into
this world alone. I battled it alone. I shall leave it, alone. I tried
to tell the church that the Power of the Spirit of God could
straighten out this world, and bring eternal life to all men, re­
gardless of race or creed—and what happened? The very same
thing would happen today, only, instead of being crucified on a
cross, which is not permitted, I should probably be ruthlessly
shot.”
Wishing to have an authentic story of just what happened
after Joseph of Arimathea had secured his supposedly dead body,
I prompted Him again by asking:—“And what did Joe do with
you after he had got the nails out of your hands and feet?”
“Oh yes—I was coming to that. He took me to his home where
the whole family dressed my wounds. They fed me, gave me
some medicine, and then they turned me over to a group of
their friends who belonged to the same Order I did. I suppose
you would call it a “lodge” today.
"Who were those friends with whom You had gathered—was
it a society or some group similar to our lodges?”
“Yes Frank. They were Essenian Jews. You see, as I told you
on the train going to Moscow, I am a Syrian Jew. There was a
little group of us which used to gather in an underground cave.
W e held meetings whenever we could get together. I taught
them. Then the church people found out that we were meeting,
and tried to break up our meetings. They finally did.”
“Did your society have a name?”
"No special name. These people were, as I have said, Essenian
The Wanderer
Jews. They were called sometimes, Therapeuts. They belonged
to the Hindoo religion, but they were very faithful people. They
did not believe in any of the “gods” the Hindoos had offered to
them as being God Almighty, so we all met together in this cave,
and I told them the truth. They believed me. Those I went to
when I first began My ministry, would not believe Me. They
had me crucified. There was nothing left for me to do but turn
to these other peoples. By the way, those who decided to make a
God out of me were not known as ‘Christians’ until long after
I had disappeared. It was at Antioch in Syria, they were first
called ‘Christians.’
“And what did the Therapeuts do with you?” I asked. I knew
now that I was getting at the truth behind the fantastic claims of
Christianity that Jesus was Almighty God. One could not stand
here and talk face to face with Jesus and not know that he was
very much a human being.
“When my friends finally had to stop holding their meetings
in the caves, they decided to migrate. This was at the time of My
crucifixion. They held a special meeting the day after Joe had
got me from the cross, and it was decided they were to disguise
me, and we all decided to get out of the land entirely. So, in the
dead of the night, we all left. I could not walk, of course, so they
built a long wicker basket, placed Me in it, and they took turns
carrying it.”
Jesus paused for a moment, and turned his eyes toward the
sheep. He had heard a movement among them, and a few were
bleating. Satisfied, however, that they were all right, and that no
marauder was in the vicinity, Jesus proceeded:—
“W e travelled far. Very far. It was a long, tiresome journey
which took very many months. W e knew where there was a
group of men to whom M y Father had spoken, so we headed our
little caravan in their direction, finally arriving at our destination
a long time later.”
“Where were those men—what place did they live in?” I
280
In W hich "The Wanderer” Talks 281
“They live in a monastery in Tibet.”
“You say they ‘live’ in a monastery in Tibet—are they still
alive, as you are?”
“They are still alive, and have been since that fateful day
when my followers all forsook me and fled, leaving me at the
mercy of those religionists who could not afford to have the
actual truths of M y Father sent abroad through the world.”
I desired to ask Jesus a question about those men, so I said to
Him :—“You say these men are still alive—are they very old
v>
men?
“To the contrary, they are very young men—no older than I
am, and I am only thirty-three, even though I have been alive for
nearly two thousand years.”
“But does not that fact make you two thousand years old?” I
asked Jesus.
“There is neither time nor space in the Realm of M y Father
—the Spirit of God,” He replied, adding, “All is an eternal now.”
Although it was hard for me to credit the fact that there are
men in Tibet, in a monastery, who have lived there for many
thousands of years, I saw at once that the authentic story of the
crucifixion and escape of Jesus, as told to me by Him, was a much
more logical explanation than the one no one can believe, that
after three days the son of Mary and Joseph rose from the dead,
and, in sight of hundreds of witnesses, was carried into the sky,
never to have been seen or heard from since. Under that religious
philosophy, we have “Christian” America today, struggling for
peace in a world which is full of hatred, and not knowing one
thing about the Power of the Spirit of God, which, had Jesus
been listened to as a man, would have redeemed this world long
ago.
“Are you tired of standing there Jesus, why don’t we both go
over to my guest-house and sit down and finish our talk?” I
suggested.
“W e can sit down here, can we not? I cannot leave my sheep.”
Jesus replied.
282 The Wanderer
“I understand perfectly, Master,” I said.
I saw a great light in His eyes as we sat there looking at
each other. The most profound admiration must have shone
through my eyes, and He must have known it, for in His, I saw
profound understanding.
“W hy did you not reveal who you are to the churches, and
why did You come back at all, Master?” I asked Him.
“Please do not call me ‘Master,’ Frank, just call me by my
right name. M y full name was Jesus Azusa. But you just call
me Jesus. Now I’ll answer your question. I did not reveal myself
to the churches because I did not wish to suffer the humiliation
I suffered once at their hands. True, they could not crucify me
today, but what do you suppose would happen if I were to
present myself to the churches and tell them I was Jesus?”
Thinking for a moment, I replied:—“W ell they would probably
do to you what they have tried to do to me. They would call
you a faker and a racketeer, and would try to have your Teaching
suppressed, because if it was true, they would be out of a job.
They might even go as far with you as they went with me—they
might hire the most notorious racket in America to try to stop
you. One thing is certain Jesus, if you went to any major church
organization on the face of the earth today, and told them that
the Power of the Spirit of God is waiting to redeem this world,
and give eternal life to all men, they would get you out of the
front door in rapid-fire order, for the Christian church today
wants nothing more than it has. It does not want to be dis­
turbed. It is doped up to the eyebrows with idolatry, and that is
exacdy what it wants.”
“Then do you blame me for not appearing to it?
“I certainly do not,” I replied.
“Now as to your second question as to why I appeared at all.
I have been watching to see if there is the slightest chance of the
world being ready to receive now, the same message I tried to
bring to it when I came to this earth so long ago.”
“Well, do you believe this earth is interested in the things of
God?” I asked Jesus.
“It was never so much interested in the things of God, as it
now is. But what are the things of God? The people on this
earth are sick and tired of war. They are sick and tired of gov­
ernmental chicanery and double-talk. They know that some­
where, there must lie the truths of Almighty God, M y Father,
but what are those truths and who is there to bring those truths
to them? Who knows them? If your Christian churches, with
their organizations, ccfuld first find the actual truths of God,
instead of being interested in fiction and fable, it would be no
time at all till the whole world would be basking in the sunshine
of the Love of God.”
“Tell me Jesus, have you been in that monastery in Tibet ever
since Joe and your friends took you there?” I asked Jesus.
“Oh no Frank. I stayed there a few years, learning of them,
while they learned of me. W e discussed at many intervals, the
future of the man M y Father has created, and we wondered if
that man would ever return to God.”
‘W hat did you decide?”
“The chances are not good Frank. The chances of man’s anni­
hilating himself from the face of the earth however, are very
good. I am disappointed. I thought perhaps, in some manner or
other, someone might see the light, and tell men and women
what the actual truths of God are. A few have done that. You
are one. You have done more to tear down heathen superstition
and reveal the Spirit of God to the earth than any religious leader
this earth has had. That is the reason I appeared to you. I thought
perhaps you might succeed. Had the churches not done to you,
exactly what they have done to Me, you would have succeeded.
I see little hope for this civilization Frank.”
That was a very gloomy prediction for Jesus to make, yet He
made it. Seeing that I was deep in thought, Jesus held His peace
for a while until I was ready to receive His answer to where he
had been since leaving the monastery in Tibet.
In Which “The Wanderer” T alks 283
The Wanderer
“I have been about My Father’s business,” he said.
“On this earth?” I queried.
“Oh no—not on this earth. You see, My Father has many mil­
lions of planets beside this one. All the rest of them have found
the Power of God, and are living happily, and will live forever
with God.”
“Then, Jesus, you mean to tell me that there are other planets,
inhabited by human beings, besides this one?” I asked Jesus.
“Millions of them,” He replied, then asking me:—“What made
you think this is the only inhabited planet in the vast celestial
sphere you see above you? Do you think that My Father, in His
great magnitude, and in the magnificence of the scheme He
created, placed man on just one planet? Why, do you know
something?”
“What?” I replied.
Pointing to the stars Jesus said to me:—“Look up Frank—
lie
on your back.” I did, gazing up into the most beautifully starry
night I have ever seen.
“You see those stars Frank?”
“Yes—I see them, and have often wondered what they are.”
“Those stars Frank, are all inhabited planets. The light you
see emanating from them is the Light of My Father. They shine
with the glory of God, for everyone on all those planets has found
the Power of the Spirit of God. They have found eternal life. I
went to some of those planets long ago, and they listened to me.
They did not try to deify me, they listened to what I had to say—
and they found the Power of the Spirit of God—
my Father. Do
you know Frank, this earth is the only planet left which has not
found the Power of God. That is the reason it is dark. My Father
calls it ‘the dark planet.’ It will never be light, I am afraid.”
“You mean to tell me that there is no hope for this civilization
whatsoever? Am I to understand that all who live on the earth
are completely doomed?” I asked Him.
“I am afraid you do not understand, Frank,” said Jesus, add­
ing:—“My Father dooms no one. He has made it possible for all
284
men to come to a full knowledge of His glory and Power. He has
given them eternal life. They may have that eternal life here and
now if they will—
but they will not. That is the very message I
came to this earth to bring, two thousand years ago. And what
happened? They would not receive the message and nearly killed
the Messenger. If the nations of the earth do not want eternal
life, if they would rather wage incessant warfare, fighting among
themselves, blasting each other into a hopeless eternity without
God, there is nothing anyone can do about it. My Father has
made full and ample provision for all to live forever on the earth,
surrounded with the glory which is my Father. But if this earth
refuses that glory and that eternal life—
if it persecutes and tries
to kill those who bring the message of the Power of God, what
can My Father do about that? Man is a free-will agent. Ages
ago, through his own doubt of the ability of God to give him
eternal life, he drifted away from God. He conceived the 'death’
idea, and as a result of that ‘death’ idea, he has died. And he
will continue to die until he reaches out for the one Power which
can overcome death, and that is ‘TH E LIFE OF MY FATHER.’
That life, My Father gives to all at birth. It need never end.
Only the blindness of man and the hardness of his heart pre­
vents him from seeing the true Light which is shining into his
life, and which can liberate him from the tragedy he has brought
upon himself. Even those church organizations which pretend
to be teaching men and women about God, even they are so
blinded by their own church-made superstition that I am God,
that theirs is the greater crime—theirs is the greater blame.”
Jesus was deeply hurt. Yet as He made that statement I saw
that He knew what He was talking about. To a sense not ap­
parent to me before, I saw the bigness of the plan of God. I saw
the smallness of man.
“What sort of people inhabit the millions upon millions of
other planets your Father, and my Father created?” I asked Jesus.
“The same sort of people you are,” He replied. Then He went
on:—“There is very little difference. But they have been re­
In Which "The Wanderer” Talks 285
286 The Wanderer
deemed. They have believed God. They have not fooled round
with a lot of church-made theories of immaculate conceptions,
virgin births, resurrections or that sort of thing. They do not
believe that God created a man so bad that it took the death of
God Himself to redeem him, failing in that. They do not believe,
and they have never believed that Almighty God has opposition
in the form of ‘Satan’ or any other power. There is one Power
in this universe. That Power is My Father—
the Spirit of God.
It is very strange that the planet on which we stand is the only
planet among the millions which are scattered throughout eter­
nity, which made for itself man-gods, and depended upon those
man-gods for ‘salvation,’ sometime, somewhere. You see Frank,
your whole religious structure needs re-vamping. It is not true.
It is false in its every premise. Instead of being founded on the
solid rock of the Spirit of God, it is founded on a theory advo­
cated by old church-fathers, that man can never know God until
after he dies. May I say to you that if man dies on this earth
without finding the Power of the Spirit of God, then man is dead
for eternity. And my Father will shed no tears over him either.”
“And you say, Jesus, that the light we see in those twinkling
stars is the glory of God?” I asked my Friend.
“Frank, wherever God is, there is Light. Where God is not,
there is gross darkness. That is the reason the inhabitants of the
millions of other planets call this one, “the dark planet.” It may
be permanently dark. I don’t know yet. I hope not. But it may.
You see, when My Father’s great plan is complete, there will be
not millions, but billions of inhabited planets. They will expand
through all space, time, and eternity. Really these three, space,
time, and eternity cannot exist in the Realm of My Father, for
My Father is Spirit. Had it not been for your ‘dark planet,’ the
one we are sitting on now, My Father’s plan would be complete.
Yes—the Light you see in yon twinkling stars is brighter than
your little sun. These other inhabited planets are radiant with
the glory of God. Men and women there, accepted the truths of
God when those truths were brought to them. They did not
In Which “The Wanderer” Talks 287
doubt. They did not make the fatal mistake of worshipping
the Messenger instead of the message—they saw God through the
Messenger. But here on this earth, you see all around you, the
results of ignoring the Power of God. You see the results of try­
ing to make a God out of a man. Frank—
do I look like God?”
“Well Jesus, I do not know what God looks like,” I replied.
“What would you expect God to look like?” He asked me.
“Well to my way of thinking, and speaking from actual experi­
ence with God, I know that God is Spirit—invisible Spirit—and I
have called God, ‘Life, capable of existence with or without physi­
cal form’ but of course, God must be more than that.”
“No Frank—God is not more than that, but God is just exactly
that. You see, there is a great difference between physical life
and spiritual Life, which is the Life of God. Physical life cannot
exist in any form without God being in that life.”
“I have been telling men and women that for twenty years,”
I told Jesus.
“Yes I know you have Frank, and little do you dream what
the final results of your ministry will be. You have already seen
results which have staggered the imaginations of others who be­
lieve that when I died, as they think, all manifestations from the
Realm of the Spirit of God died with me. Why, those poor de­
luded people. They saw me raise the daughter of Jairus. They
saw me raise Lazarus from the tomb. But after they had seen that,
what did they see? They saw God doing it. Their false teachers
who had never known the actual Power of God, taught that only
Jesus could do those things. You know better. The irony of it
all is that when I went away, what little faith My few followers
had, went with me, and this ‘dark planet’ has remained God­
less ever since.”
“Then am I to understand that there is little hope of this earth
ever finding the Power of God—
do you believe it will destroy
itself completely?”
“Frank—that is the business of the men and women on the
earth. It is the business of they who say they represent God on
288 The Wanderer
the earth. As it looks to me now, there is nothing but complete
annihilation for the peoples of this ‘dark planet.’ I cannot see
the faintest ray of hope of your earth ever turning to God. Those
among you who are most earnest in their faith, are looking for
My return. They think I shall be used to bring peace to the earth.
I tried that once, and failed. If I tried it again, I should fail again.
Here I am—
back on the earth once more. Yet I dare not go to
those who have taken my name upon them instead of the name
of God. That would be disastrous. They will not believe me if I
come to them as a man. But what other way is there in which I
can come to men and women? I am not God—
I never was God.
True, the Spirit of God lives in me and gives me life as It does
you, and every other created human being. But that does not
make us God Almighty—
does it?”
“No—that does not make us God Almighty, hut it does provide
us with the means of coming into full communion with God,
does it not?” I replied to the question Jesus had asked me.
“Yes—and that is exactly what I tried to tell the people right
here in this neighborhood where I was bom, nineteen hundred
years ago. Every prophet of God down through the ages has tried
to tell them the same thing. And every prophet thus far, like me,
has failed. I saw it when I was a very young boy. At the age of
twelve I went into the temple and told the priests that they were
wrong in their philosophy. I said to them very plainly that there
was none of God in them. Why even their temples were filled
with money-changers just as they are today, only it’s far worse
today than it was then. Did I not tell them very plainly that of
Myself I could do nothing? Did I not tell them that it is M y
Father within who doeth the works? What reason had I to be­
lieve that they would think that I was the only one in whom the
Spirit of God dwelt? I had no way of knowing that the priests in
the temple would build a huge system of theology on my name.
Had I known that I never would have come to the earth. I should
have stayed where I was with my Father in His glory, and with
the rest of the people on the other planets, in their glory. But My
Father saw this ‘dark planet.’ He knew it was the only planet
which had doubted God. He saw it fall. He told me in my
earliest childhood what would be necessary to redeem it, and,
true to the God within me, I tried. I miserably failed as you can
see by looking at world conditions around you today. The people
on this ‘dark planet’ are headed into doom, and there is little I
or anyone else can do about it. You see—
if this ‘dark planet’
turns to God, it will have to be a free turning. It will have to be
because it wants to turn to God. My Father can give no help. He
has already provided all the help that is necessary. He has placed
His Spirit in all men. In other words, the Light shineth in the
darkness, but the darkness comprehendeth it not, because the
works of men on this earth are evil, so evil that they may destroy
the whole civilization.”
“What about man’s discovery of atomic energy—
is there any
significance to that, Jesus?” I inquired of my friend.
'Yes Frank, man, in his gross ignorance of the Spirit of God,
has gone so far in his attempts to discover just what the Spirit of
God is, that he has made the astounding discovery of how to de­
stroy the Power My Father put in and through all creation.
“When My Father created this universe, billions and billions
of ages ago, through His own Presence and hy His own Presence,
He charged it, and super-charged it with Himself. The whole
universe is charged with the Spirit which is God. Frank—there
is enough Power in this shepherd’s crook I am carrying to destroy
all of the civilization on this ‘dark planet.’ Men and women on
your earth are living in a dynamo of Power, so transcendently
enormous, that if they only realized it, they would shudder at
the Power of God. My Father wants them to know this Power.
He put it in everything, for their use. And now, your scientists
have discovered how to undo what God has done. They have
found the secret of destroying what God has created. They will
use this power for their own destruction. But, bad as the discov­
In Which “The Wanderer" Talks 289
The Wanderer
ery of atomic fission is, they are now trying to explode the very
Realm in which M y Father lives and operates—they are trying
to explode what they call the cosmic ray.”
‘W hat is the cosmic ray, Jesus?”
“The cosmic ray is an emanation from My Father. It fills all
interstellar space, and it is bombarding all the planets in the uni­
verse with untold energy. Your scientists on this earth have esti­
mated that these rays carry over fifteen million volts of electrical
energy. They are wrong. The energy in those rays cannot be
measured in volts.
“These cosmic rays Frank, are the closest thing to the Spirit
of God—
My Father. They are not God, of course, but, being
thinking rays, they do contain the Spirit of My Father. Any
attempt to explode those rays will bring devastating destruction
to this planet. In exploding the atom, man has already discov­
ered a secret of My Father which, if man uses it for destructive
purposes, will eradicate all life from this “dark planet.” Used for
constructive purposes, they can use the power in the atom to
point men and women to eternal life. Man is not far from God.
He is so dangerously close that unless men’s hearts change, they
will find that while My Father is the originator of life, any threat
to My Father means inevitable death to those who attempt it.
“You see this staff in my hand Frank?—
it has enough atomic
energy in it to blast out of existence, every human being on the
face of the earth as I have already told you. It looks like a piece
of wood—
but it is much more than that. Inside of every atom,
My Father has locked up so much of Himself, that while man is
very close to God, the chances are that he will destroy himself,
because of the hate and fear in the hearts of the leaders of the
nation. You see Frank, in addition to having made all of creation,
M y Father lives in it. Especially true is this in human life. My
Father did not charge and super-charge everything in the entire
universe with such awful power without Himself retaining con­
trol over this power. He has not turned such staggering energy
and power loose for man to do with as he pleases. He will let
290
man go just so far, and no farther. If men’s hearts will change,
and if they will substitute love for hate, they will find that My
Father has already made provisions for man’s every need. Eternal
life on the earth is very close. Man may have it any time he
wishes to take it. But man must be pure in heart before he can
have surcease from death.”
I saw the awful possibilities in what Jesus was saying, and,
turning again to Him as He sat there by my side, I asked a ques­
tion which had been puzzling me for some time. I had been
quite familiar with cosmic rays for many years, and had studied
the new discoveries which had been made about them. Long
ago, I published a statement that these cosmic rays were “think­
ing-rays,” and now Jesus was corroborating me. So I asked Him:—
“Is it true that the Spirit of God operates through these cosmic
rays?” to which Jesus replied:—“That is completely true, Frank.
My Father not only lives in those rays, but those rays are the
source of all life on this, and all other planets. Of course, this is
the only planet which is dark. It is the only planet which has not
discovered the secret of eternal life through My Father—the
Spirit of God. So it is the cosmic ray which actually gives, and
supports life here on this earth. If man tries to destroy, or explode
that ray, man is challenging the God-ship of My Father. That
can have but one inevitable result—
the complete destruction of
man.
“But do you not see Frank, how very possible eternal life and
perfect health are on this earth, through the existence of the
cosmic ray through which My Father gives life—His Own Life—
to every created human being? To most people on the earth, My
Father is some ethereal being living somewhere above the skies.
None knows anything about Him, and all have been religiously
taught that none may know anything about Him until after they
have died. Just because I happened to see the vision two thousand
years ago, and brought that vision to the people, they tried to
make a God out of me, but missed My message completely.
"So now I have come back. I shall not appear to the church,
In Which "The Wanderer" Talks 291
The Wanderer
but I shall leave a message with you for the church. Although it
brought about most of my pain and suffering, and that terrible
attempt to kill me, I still love it. It is a wonderful, but a very
misguided institution. It has little confidence in the Power of
God though, not knowing that Power. To it—I, Jesus, am the
great God of the universe. How very foolish that is. What a pity
such a picayunish theory ever got a head start on your earth.
“Where do you think the Life came from which I restored to
the dead body of the China pheasant on the Dusty road Frank?
How do you think I restored it? Let me tell you. I knew that
the Life of God, My Father, fills every nook and cranny of this
universe. I knew that the earth is full of that Life. I knew that,
throughout the boundless reaches of eternity, is the Life of My
Father. I call it the Spirit of God. Now I was holding in my hand
a dead China pheasant. The Life which came from My Father
had fled through that accident. I called that Life, which is God,
hack again. If you were as close to God as I am, you could have
done the same thing. You nearly did it in the case of the wren,
and the more than half a million cases of miraculous healing
which you have seen since you started your Movement; they are
all mute but very eloquent evidence that you too are close to the
Kingdom. But you have not reached it yet. You will.”
This was sweet music to my ears. I have been so completely
misunderstood that many a time my heart has been sore. I have
had to defend my faith and my religion against the most scurri­
lous attacks any religious leader has had to suffer in the history
of the United States—
yet here was Jesus, telling me I had been
right, and still was right. From now on I should be able to still
confound my enemies, and prove to the world that the vision of
God which came to me, is true—it just happens to be about fifty
years ahead of most of the religious thinking of the day.
“Won’t you tell me Jesus, what prevents eternal life from
manifesting on the earth today? Won’t you tell me why people
are sick and suffering all the time, crowding the doctors’ offices
until one has to wait nearly all day for a chance to see the doctor?
292
Won’t you please tell me why an American citizen cannot work
unless he belongs to a labor union? Won’t you please tell me why
there is so much debauchery in my land? Won’t you tell me why
the nations of the earth continue to fly at each other’s throats,
murdering human beings by the million? Won’t you tell me
why nine-tenths of the population of this earth are in abject
misery and fear, at this very moment—and won’t you tell me why
there is the rottenness and graft in government? In short, won’t
you tell me why the pitiable conditions on this earth exist at all?”
I said to my Friend.
“Certainly I shall tell you, although I suspect you are asking
that question because you want to put My answer in a book you
are planning on writing, not because you do not know the an­
swer. Anyway, the things you have mentioned, along with every
other sin and crime on the face of your earth, they all exist be­
cause this is the only ‘dark planet’ in My Father’s creation. It
is the only planet that does not glow with the Light and the
Glory of God. It is the only planet which tried to make its own
God, disowning the Father for a supposed ‘son.’ That was but
an excuse for getting away from meeting God face to face, and
accepting from God, everything He had to offer. Had the old
Christian Church fathers not been steeped in sin and debauchery
themselves, this earth would have known the fullness of the
Power of the Spirit of God when I came to bring knowledge of
that Power to it. So rotten was the structure Frank, that when
one hundred and eighty Roman Catholic bishops and priests met
to put together what they offered to the world as ‘The sacred
canon of Scripture,’ most of them got as drunk as hoot-owls and
the whole ‘holy’ mess wound up in a drunken brawl, accom­
panied by fist fights and killings. That was the way our ‘New
Testament’ came into being. That is quite a setting for the
Christian ‘belief’ that I am Almighty God, is it not?”
I knew all this of course. I knew that the present four gospels
were put in the “sacred canon of Scripture” by vote of a coterie
of Catholic bishops and priests, not by “inspiration of the Holy
In Which "The Wanderer” Talks 293
The Wanderer
Ghost.” I knew too, that after the “vote,” many of the completely
anonymous “manuscripts” which began to show up strangely at
that time, were left out of the “canon” because it was advanced
that they “are so ridiculous that people will not believe them.”
Yet they put in the “canon,” far more ridiculous yams about
Jesus, and on these yarns, originated in their entirety by old
“church fathers,” and based on anonymous manuscripts, the hu­
man race is asked to base its hope of eternal life.
There was one incident which is related in one of the “re­
jected” books of the Bible which I was especially interested in
asking Jesus about. Here was a good time to ask Him, and I
knew that He would answer me truly.
“Jesus—is it a fact that you and a small group of your play­
mates were playing on the roof of a house here in Bethlehem
when you were here, and did one of the boys fall off the roof
and die? And were You accused of pushing him off? And did
You awaken the dead boy from death so that he could testify that
you did not push him off? And did you, after he had answered
Your question in the negative, cause him to go back into death
again, instead of keeping him alive?”
Jesus smiled as He looked at me; and as He looked I saw the
same sad smile I had seen on the face of “The Wanderer” on
the Palouse Special that day when He first met me.
“No Frank—that did not happen. Nor did any of the rest of
the miracles attributed to me. That incident goes in the same
category with the immaculate conception, the atonement, the
virgin-birth, the resurrection, and the rest of those completely
impossible stories. They are all propaganda stories, taken from
older systems of religion then on the earth. Their sole object was
to sell the Christian religion to the people of that day, in opposi­
tion to other religions. These old church fathers knew how
superstitious the people were. They knew that if they hoped to
compete with the other major religions, they had to have
miracles,’ as great or greater. So they ordered the monks in the
monasteries to vie with each other in producing documents which
294
could be offered to the people as ‘divinely inspired.’ These doc­
uments, all man made and man-written, were voted upon. Some
of them got into the ‘sacred’ canon, others did not.
“Most of the so-called ‘miracles’ with which the early church
surrounded me, never happened. You can find duplicate stories
in the older religions. So very evident is it that these stories
were stolen, that if one did not know from which “bible”
they were taken, one would consider them identical. Of course
Frank, you know that before I came to earth, about two dozen
miraculously born God-men had appeared before. They had been
born of virgins, they had immaculate conceptions, they were
crucified, and they rose from the dead . . . according to the
respective religions which advanced these stories. Of course,
none of these ‘gods’ really existed, any more than I did, as a
God. But these stories go to prove that the fundamental theories
upon which the Christian religion was founded, were manufac­
tured out of thin air. They were the products of the fertile imag­
inations of the early church fathers. They were stolen, for the
greater part, from more ancient systems of religion.”
“There were then, in those days, religions and ‘bibles’ much
older than the Christian religion and its Bible?” I asked Jesus.
“Of course there were Frank, and if you’ll carefully study these
old ‘bibles,’ you will find that the cardinal religious conceptions
they contain are all essentially the same. They all run in parallel
grooves. Moreover, you will find that every chapter of every bible,
the Christian Bible included, is but a transcript of the mental
chart of the writer. You will find that no bible, pagan or Chris­
tian, contains anything surpassing the natural mental and moral
capacity of the writer to originate. So no divine aid or inspiration
was necessary for its production. If the Christian Bible had been
actually inspired by My Father, there is little in it now which
would be there, I assure you. For My Father’s ideas, and the
ideas of the men who wrote the Christian Bible, are two very
different sets of ideas. The writers of the Christian Bible deal
with death. My Father deals with Life—
eternal Life.
In Which “The Wanderer” Talks 295
The Wanderer
“You will find, Frank, if you study carefully, and I know you
have, that the moral and religious teachings of no bible reach a
higher altitude than the intelligence and mental development of
the age and country which produced it. I think you will find too,
that the Christian Bible in some respects is superior to some of
the other bibles, but only to the extent to which the age in which
it was written was superior in intelligence and natural mental
capacity to the era in which the other bibles were written; and
that this superiority consists not in more exalted religious concep­
tions, but only in the fact that, being of more modern origin, the
progress of mind had worn away some of the legendary rubbish
of the past. Being written in a more enlightened age, it is conse­
quently a little less encrusted with mythological tradition and
oriental imagery. Though not free from these elements, it pos­
sesses them in less degree.”
I listened eagerly to what Jesus had to say about the older
religions and bibles, remembering that I had been roundly
criticized by the Christian Church for advancing these very same
facts many years ago. At last though, the truth was coming out.
Hereafter I could speak with m.uch more authority, for I had
seen Jesus, and my heart burned within me as I talked with him
by the way.
“If you compare My history, according to the Christian Bible,
Frank, with the histories of the oriental gods, you will find that I
taught no new doctrine or moral precept. You will find instead,
that I inculcated the same religion and morality as other moral
teachers, but the Christian Bible writers have made me go to
very great and sometimes preposterous extremes, even in this.
You will find too, if you study the other ‘gods’ carefully, that I
differ so little in character, teaching, preaching, and practical
life from some of the older oriental gods, that no person whose
mind is not deplorably warped and biased by early training, can
call Me divine, while calling the others human. No Frank,
there is so little difference in the biographies of these ancient
‘gods,’ and Me, that if I was ‘divine,’ so were they. If I was a
296
In Which "The Wanderer’1 Talks 297
god, so were they—and you know how utterly impossible it is for
My Father to appear in person on this, or any other earth.
“Those myriads of planets, all of them lighted by the glory of
God, contain billions of people, just like you and me. They live
forever in the Power of God. They are surrounded by that
Power. Their lives are one with God. Yet none of them has ever
seen God. They could not, because My Father is Spirit, and
Spirit is invisible. So, no matter how hard the Christian Church
opposes you Frank, you must continue to teach and preach the
gospel you have been teaching and preaching for the past twenty
years—
not the Gospel according to Jesus Christ, hut the Gospel
according to The Spirit of God. You see—I had nothing to do
with the stories which have been published in the Christian
Bible concerning Me. My message was one of Life—I told the
people plainly that I had been born with a vision which would
give them Life, and give it to them more abundantly—and what
did they do? They tried to kill Me, and then, in their crass sensa­
tionalism, they tried to make a God out of me. They failed in
both instances.”
“Jesus—
may I take you back again to the matter we were dis­
cussing about the Spirit of God being part of the cosmic ray—I
am not quite clear as to just what part of God is in that ray—
will
You give me a bit more light?”
“Of course Frank. My Father is Spirit. His Spirit is Life. His
Spirit permeates the whole universe. IT IS. There is no time nor
space where My Father is concerned. Being Spirit, He must be
able to manifest as all Life, and at the same time manifest as
Life without physical form. He can manifest either way. What
you see on the earth—including man, could not possibly exist
without My Father. Not only has He created everything, but
His Life manifests through everything. Not all of His Life, but
some of it. There can be nothing—
absolutely nothing—
either
physical or invisible, which was not made by My Father, and
which does not contain My Father.
“Man has recently discovered that what he had thought to
The Wanderer
be ‘inanimate matter’ is so full of tbe power which is God, that
there is, throughout all of it, mankind included, enough of the
Spirit of God to make man shudder when he comprehends it all.
The beauty and magnitude of God. Truly the heavens above do
declare the glory of God, and the firmament does show His
handiwork.
“Now Frank, listen to Me carefully, every living thing on this
'dark 'planet’ and throughout what you call ‘space is definitely
and permanently linked with God—M y Father. ISlo matter what
the form may he—in each atom there may he found whirling
vortices of energy which can only come from God—M y Father.
Take a dead body for instance—
do you think that physical death
releases all life and energy from that body? Your scientists have
proved this is not true, for they know that all matter, in every
form, consists of atoms, which contain enough of the energy
which is God that it is impossible for the human mind to grasp
it all.
“Now shall we take your body, and mine, and the bodies of
every living soul on the earth. They too contain atoms. Then
they too must be charged and supercharged with the Spirit of
God—
must they not. But God is Life—and Life is not death in
any sense of the word—is it? Then it must be a fact, as you have
proclaimed for so many years, that man does now possess eternal
life, and the only thing which keeps him from enjoying eternal
life physically is the fact that he does not know he possesses it.
Your churches, those fantastic organizations which claim to rep­
resent God without knowing one scientific thing about God,
have so impregnated the human mind with the idea that death is
unavoidable, that the entire human race expects to die. I be­
lieve that God has ordained it that way. So man dies. And man
will continue to die until he is willing to understand that the
Creator of this universe is a God of Life—
not a god of death.
Death cannot enter where God is. Death does not really exist.
What you call human death is only the absence of the physical
manifestation of the Life which is God—do you see that Frank?”
298
“I do.”
“Now by what means do you think My Father carries His
Life to the millions of men and women on your ‘dark earth?’
Let me tell you. I have told you that the Spirit of God permeates
the entire universe—the heavens above and the earth beneath.
He has no residence or abode, being Spirit. He is everywhere.
The means by which God sends Life to the human race, is by
means of His own Presence. Every living man and woman on the
earth has the Spirit of the Living God in him or her. Now
imagine, if you can, some of the atomic energy wrapped up in
this shepherd’s crook, and then compare it with the energy in a
human body. And there is something else Frank you should con­
tinue to tell the inhabitants of earth. It is very important. Listen
—
Man is the only creation God has made which has the ability to
comprehend the fact that God lives in him—
and he is the only
creation which has the ability to make known to the Spirit of
God what his needs are. Once more—
Man is the only creation
of God that is able to direct the Spirit of God into whatever
channel he wishes. If he cares to, he can direct that Power into
the channel which will bring him eternal life on this earth. It
was on this earth God created man, and it will be on this earth
man will either destroy himself, or be redeemed.
“Man can arrive at complete consciousness of the Presence of
God, with all the Power that involves, whenever he chooses.
Of course, if the nations of the earth decide to continue to fight
each other and desecrate each other’s lands, fighting for the oil
My Father placed in the ground for man’s enjoyment, man will
automatically destroy himself and the planet he inhabits. God
will not care if that happens. It will be man’s own funeral.”
“Pardon me Jesus, but did you say that the peoples on the
redeemed planets are men and women just like us?”
“I did say that. There is a difference though. These people
on those shining planets have learned the secret of eternal life.
They have learned the truth about God. They can die if they
want to, but none of them is foolish enough to want to die, sur­
In Which “The Wanderer" Talks 299
rounded as they are by the Spirit of God, which provides them
an abundance of everything.”
“But how would they die, Jesus, would they commit suicide?”
“No that would not be necessary. All they would have to do
would be to begin to doubt the ability of My Father to take care
of them, and give them eternal life. That is the reason we call
this the ‘dark planet.’ You people here have not yet reached the
place where you give God credit for being able to give eternal
life to anyone. So you die. When you have learned to believe
God, and use the Power of God, when all the people and the
nations on the earth turn to God, believing in Him for the very
work’s sake, because of what He has done, if for no other reason
—you will live forever, and this planet will take its place in the
celestial sphere, there to abide forever and ever with God—My
Father.”
“Is it your opinion that this earth will do that—
or do you be­
lieve that it will destroy itself with atomic energy and, perhaps,
cosmic energy?” I asked Jesus.
“It is my opinion that mankind will destroy himself from off
the face of the earth. Not completely however. There will be
left a remnant who will believe in the Power of the Spirit of
God. On that remnant, my Father will build a new earth, and
then His creation will be complete.”
“It makes me sad, Jesus, to think that the earth on which I
live is the only planet which stands in the way of the completion
of God’s grand plan.”
“It makes me sad too. I have only come back to see if there is
the slightest hope of the earth coming to sanity, and believing
in the Power of the Living God.”
“Has what you have seen caused hope to awaken in your
breast?”
“I see but one possibility Frank. The Spirit of God has been
given to you without measure. You have the same picture I had
two thousand years ago. If there is some way you can get the
people, and the churches to listen to you, and if they will follow
300 The Wanderer
In Which “The Wanderer” Talks 3°*
your advice, there is a distinct possibility that the awful deluge
of horror toward which man is swiftly drifting, may be averted.”
“But the churches are closed to me, Jesus. They will not listen
to me. They write articles in their magazines and tell their follow­
ers that I am Anti-Christ, Satan in human form, and they tell
their people that if they listen to me, they will excommunicate
them. Even the great Methodist Church passed a resolution in
Boise, Idaho recendy, condemning every member of that church
who had anything to do with me. They forced my Assistant,
Dr. Tenney, either to resign from his Methodist ministry, or be
‘defrocked.’ He had to give up his position with me.
“When I secured another minister to help me in this work,
his church ‘defrocked’ both him and his wife. Another large
religious organization paid money to the greatest racketeering
organization in America to try to put my Movement out of
business. This organization wrote letters to every newspaper and
magazine in which our advertisements appear, telling them not
to run any more of those advertisements unless it said so.”
“I know all about that,” said Jesus. “That subversive, un-
American organization will come to a very unhappy ending. You
see, it has interfered with the work of My Father, which work
you are doing, and no organization can do that and prosper. It
sowed the seeds of its own doom, when, in Detroit, it accepted
money from a large religious organization to try to suppress the
truths of God, as you are revealing those truths to this world.”
“But can you suggest something more which I might be able
to do, to awaken this ‘dark planet’ to the Power of God?”
“Frank dear—there is one lesson you have not yet quite learned.
You are, like I used to be, a bit over-impetuous. You are in the
grip of the Power of the Spirit of God. You are anxious that
your mission in life be fulfilled. You want to see the glory of the
knowledge of God cover the earth as the waters cover the sea.
You will see that day. But you must not be impatient. I know
that the time is at hand. I know that the fields are ripe unto
harvest. I know there are few on the earth who have been given
The Wanderer
the vision you have. But you must be a bit quieter. You must
let your Father work out the details. You are ready and willing
to follow—
I know that. But be still—and know that My Father,
at the proper moment, will tell you what to do. Fie will make
your pathway so very plain. It will not be easy, I assure you.
You will suffer along the way, but you will triumph. The glory
of God will be reflected to the millions on your ‘dark planet,’
and then, your joy shall be very complete.”
“Thank you Jesus for those gracious words,” I said. Then
I asked him this question:—“If this earth does not come to
God, if it decides that there is no God except the gods of the
many bibles, if it destroys itself completely, what will happen to
those who are on the earth? If they are in danger, My Father
will take them to another planet where they do know the Power
of God. Those whose lives are not in danger, when the great
Armageddon comes, will be left, and it is they who shall finally
redeem this planet. They will believe in the Power of God.
Theirs will be a great triumph.”
“What will become of the Christians who have died, believing,
erroneously that you were Almighty God?”
“They will be just like others who have died down through
the ages. What My Father creates, He keeps. He does not allow
anyone to take from Him that which He has. No power is great
enough to do that. The greatest power on this earth is the pcnuer
of man—the power which makes him doubt the existence of God,
and the ability of God to give eternal life to every created human
being. It was mans own doubt, fostered by well-meaning but
grossly materialistic religious organizations which have kept the
human race on this earth, and God, apart. Away back yonder
Frank, when man was enjoying the glory which comes from
being with The Father, man, a free-will agent, began to doubt.
That doubt originated in the mind of man. Satan, or no other
mythical being had a thing to do with it. Man brought his own
fall from God. If man is restored to the glory he had with God
millions of aeons ago, he will restore himself, by believing in,
302
and actually experiencing the Power of the Spirit of God. No
one can do that for him. No church organization can do it. The
Messenger came once, and He was derided, mocked, and scorned.
He had to depart with His mission unfulfilled. Now, My Father
has sent you, Frank. You may have more success than I had. I
believe you will, if you will keep close enough to God.”
“Then am I to understand you that all men shall be saved, or
rather resurrected to live with God forever, regardless of what
they did while on this earth?” I asked Jesus.
“I did not say that, Frank. I said that none would ever be lost.
Man, as he exists today, is of dual nature. He has in him a
remnant of the glory which once was his, plus the degradation
which his doubt of God has brought to him. If man dies, with­
out beholding the glory of God, the Spirit in that man goes back
to Its Maker, without the body which is allowed to rot in the
grave. But even that body is not lost. Its form merely changes.
It is still full of atomic energy, and one day, that energy will
manifest itself. That day will come when your ‘dark planet’
decides to change its darkness for the matchless Light which is
God. But the Spirit of God which was in that man, still remains
the Spirit of God. It did not lead man to doubt God. It tried
every way possible to restore man to his God. But those who re­
fused to be restored, can never see the glory of God. They made
their choice. The utter oblivion into which they will go, will be
of their own making.”
“Then the millions of men and women who have died, firm in
some church belief that they were sure of a home in Heaven,
have been deluded—is that it, Jesus?”
“That is the pity of it all. Whereas the church organizations
which, through the ages, might have been pointing men and
women to the Spirit of God which alone can redeem man, have
been selling their membership on the proposition that member­
ship in their church was an assurance of life beyond the tomb.
Life came from God. It still belongs to God. No man, or no
church organization has anything to say about what God chooses
In Which "The Wanderer” T alks 303
to do with that Life after It has left a human body and returned
to Him.
“The theory that priest or preacher has anything do with the
soul, or even knows what the soul is, is propaganda designed to
increase the membership of that church, or hold its members in
fear of their lives. Believe me Frank, more men and women have
lost eternal life through believing what church organizations
have told them, than ever lost eternal life without those doc­
trines. The people are not to blame though; far greater is the
crime of him who, knowing nothing about God, attempts to
lead others to God. That is the blind leading the blind—they
both fall into a ditch.”
“What was the experience of those people who now inherit
eternal life on other planets Jesus—
were they once without the
Light, as we are now?”
“They were Frank. Those celestial planets, by the scores of
trillions, once were as this earth is. They were populated with
people much the same as the people here now. They had the
same problems you have. But none of these other planets tried
to make their own God. Many of these peoples never did doubt
the ability of God to continue them as He had made them.
Others did exactly as this earth has done. There were not many
like that though, and what few there were, returned very quickly
to God. They did not try to make their own God out of a com­
bination of Almighty God and a man, attributing to that man
unique deity. They came back to the God they had wandered
from. And when they returned, they found the God they had
wandered from waiting for them with open arms, just as this
planet will find God waiting, if it ever decides to return to Him.”
“Jesus—
is there anything more I can do, than I am already
doing, to bring the Power of the Spirit of God to this world,
preferably through the churches?”
“Frank—I am going to leave with you a manuscript which I
have been preparing for some time. I knew that My Father
would soon send me to see you, and I knew that you would ask
3 0 4 The Wanderer
In Which “The Wanderer” T alks 3°5
me the very question you have just asked. So, instead of telling
you what the churches should do, I have written it down, and
I want you to publish it. The book you will shortly write will
be a very famous book. Through it, the Power of God will be re­
vealed to hundreds of thousands of people. In that book, I want
you to insert the manuscript you will find lying on your dresser
when you return to your room. Read it carefully, and then pub­
lish it. Perhaps that will save your civilization through the Chris­
tian Church. If it does not, nothing will. It will then be hope­
lessly lost.”
The first faint gleams of the dawn were beginning to steal
across the morning sky. Jesus and I had been there all night.
And what a night it had been. It is not possible for either my
pen or my vocabulary to describe the glory of that night. I shall
not try. I have written down from memory much of what Jesus
said to me in that night of such sacred and hallowed memories.
I had not read the manuscript yet. I had not even seen it, for
Jesus and I were still sitting there on the plains of Bethlehem,
he tending sheep, I listening to the words of Power which fell
from His lips.
“Shall we meet again?” I asked Jesus.
“Do you think you’ll need me?” He answered.
“I don’t believe so. I know exactly what the message is. Of
course, I have not read the manuscript yet, but I presume that
contains some instructions for me.”
“It does. Now listen Frank, if the churches do not respond to
the appeal in that manuscript, then, until the Great Day of the
Wrath of God comes to the earth, and that won’t be very long,
you continue doing exactly as you are doing now. Put out as
much mail as you can. Tell the people what the Power of the
Spirit of God can do for them. Let them take it or leave it. When
the Day of God comes, you, and all who have believed in the
Power of the Spirit of God, will, if in danger, be transported to
another planet. If not, you will be left on earth to start another
race of men who will believe in the Spirit of God.
The Wanderer
“Is there anything else Frank, before I go? I must go and look
after Mr. Blakely’s sheep. Tomorrow night, another shepherd
will be here. ‘The Wanderer’ will cease to exist.”
“There is one thing more Jesus,—won’t you sing me a few
verses of Your favorite hymn? I know you have one. Won’t you
please?”
The same, sad, sweet smile swept over His lovely countenance
as He shook hands with me, bidding me:—“Good-bye Frank—
may the Spirit of the Infinite God be with you always.”
As He turned to go, there came to me the same sweet, strong
melodious voice which had so entranced me earlier in the night:—
“Lead—
kindly Light—
amid th’encircling gloom,
Lead Thou me on;
The night is dark, and I am far from home,
Lead Thou me on;
Keep Thou my feet, I do not ask to see the distant scene,
One stef enough for me."
“I was not ever thus, nor prayed that Thou,
Should’st lead me on;
I loved to choose, and see my path, but now,
Lead Thou me on;
I loved the garish day, and, spite of fears,
Pride ruled my will, remember not past years.”
“So long Thy Power hast blest me—
sure, it still
Will lead me on.
O’er moor and fen, o’er crag and torrent till
The night be gone;
And with the mom, those angel faces smile,
Which I have loved long since,
And lost awhile.”
As the last faint echoes of that song faded from my ears, I
turned my steps toward the olive grove, and the little guest-house
C H A P T E R T E N
In Which W e Read the Manuscript
I
T WAS W ITH A HEAVY HEART THAT I WALKED THROUGH THE
olive groves back to the little guest-house. I knew “The Wan­
dering Jesus” had gone out of my life for the time being. I knew I
should never see Him again on this earth. Yet He had left some­
thing with me. He had left the Spirit of God in a much more
marked measure than I had ever known before. The aching void
which came into my life as I watched Him disappear, was being
filled with a sense of the overwhelming Power of the Spirit of
God. That was probably the reason Jesus had appeared to me.
That is the reason He was bom, in this little City of Bethlehem
so very long ago.
One always knows when the Spirit of God is close. In such
moments, the world outside seems to be completely shut out, and
one realizes that while he is in the world, he is not of it. The
Source of his life is very much higher than the mundane things
of this “dark planet,” fallen, as it is, from the glory which is God.
The thought that there are millions of other planets, all beam­
ing with the melody of God, and all reflecting the glory of God
to such an extent that they shine as stars in the firmament, was
not a new one to me. I had never been able to believe that in
the grand and magnificent plan of creation, which the Master-
Planner had designed, this little tiny speck of a planet is the only
one occupied by human beings. If it is, there has been a terrible
waste of space, for while the heavens do declare the glory of
God, and while the firmament does disclose His handiwork, it is
evident to all who care to think, that the only place in the entire
scheme where the glory of God does not shine, is on this earth.
The Wanderer
There seems to be little chance of that glory shining with
world conditions as they are. Rather, one might expect the com­
plete annihilation of most of the human race, with the possible
destruction of this “dark planet.” There are nations on the earth
whose true nature and objectives have not yet fully appeared.
They will appear. These nations would utterly destroy every­
thing pertaining to God. They would blot out the name of God.
They will try to do just this. They will fail. But before this sin-
cursed earth is many years older, it will know that it has been
in a battle with those forces which, if they could, would bar the
mention of the word “God.”
Ultimately, the Power and the Glory of God will have to
shine on this earth as it shines on other planets. The Creator is
too wise to permit for very long, a plague-spot like this earth to
exist. Every possible chance, it seems to me, has been given to
man to find and know the Power that is God. It is very evident
today however, that the fleeting pleasures of a morbid mankind
are of much more importance to the human race than are the
things of God.
Millions of dollars are expended every year over the radio, to
tell the public which brand of soap is the best. Millions are spent
telling the people, or trying to tell them, which cigarette is easier
on the throat. Millions more are spent selling patent medicines,
while still more millions are spent on “quiz-kids” and gruesome
murder cases.
But where is the radio program which deals with the universal­
ity of the Power of the Spirit of God? Is not the Power of God
of much more importance to this world than a cigarette or a
bundle of soap, or a package of yeast tablets? Yet try to get on the
air, a program which tells men and women that the Power of
the Spirit of God can heal all the diseases from which this world
is suffering, and at the same time bring eternal life to all, and
see what the answer to your request for time will be.
Our religious programs are just as bad as the commercial pro­
grams. There is the “Catholic” hour in which Catholics try to
3 °8
sell the merits of their system of theology to whoever will buy.
There is the “Lutheran” hour in which they too, try to sell their
brand of religious hodge-podge. Then there is the “Federal
Council” hour, and a score of other “hours” in which the spon­
sors of the program have only one object, which is to propagate
their own individual brand of theology.
Not a single one of these programs has ever told the American
people that eternal Life, and surcease from the trials and tribula­
tions of this earth, may be had at any time, through the Power
of the Spirit of God.
Instead, it’s a case of “send a dollar” for this, or “send a dollar”
for that, until today, the religious programs on the air constitute
the greatest rackets of all. Recently the F.C.C. forbade the solici­
tation of funds over the air on religious programs, and many of
the so-called “evangelists,” old-fashioned and new-fangled were
forced to fold their tents, and, like the Arabs, silently steal away.
Take the money away from many of these religious fakers and
they lose all interest in “the precious souls” of their audience.
In spite of all these offers of “salvation,” this old earth con­
tinues to plunge headlong to its destruction. I had a letter the
other day from my old instructor in the Toronto Bible Training
School—
Dr. John McNicol, to whom I have referred in this
book. In my reply I said to this wonderful man of God:—“Is it
not a pity that while you and I and others argue and wrangle
over Christology and theology, the world continues to plunge
closer to hell, and there seems to be nothing any of us can do
about it.” That is the essence of one paragraph in my reply to
my friend.
Soap. Cigarettes. Patent medicines. Horse races. Murders.
Prize fights. Vitamins. Political double-talk. “Better business”
rackets. Jazz. Crooners. Religious racketeers. The Power of God?
. . . No. No room for that. Everything but that. What this
civilization bases its hope for security and peace on, I have not
been able to discover. As I see it, the seeds of decay are planted
in almost every phase of our American life. Let me leave this
In Which We Read the Manuscript 309
The Wanderer
subject. It sickens me to write about it. Let me get back to Jesus,
or more properly, let me get back to the Spirit of God which
Jesus came to earth to reveal, but which, because of the hard,
callous hearts of the people, He failed to reveal.
* * *
Quietly opening the door of the guest-house, I turned on the
light for it was not yet daylight. There, lying on the dresser, was
a package. I knew it was the manuscript Jesus had referred to.
I was eager to open it. I suspected it contained a message for the
churches. I doubted that it would do any good, yet I knew that
it was my duty to deliver the message, no matter what it con­
tained. It was not my message. It came directly, through Jesus,
from His Father—the Spirit of God.
Stepping over to the dresser, I took the package which was
about nine inches by twelve. It was done in brown paper, and a
piece of hempen string was wound round it. Taking off the string
and the brown wrapping-paper, I saw the manuscript itself was
written on parchment. Across the front of the parchment was
this message:—
“He that believeth on Me shall never die—believest thou this?”
In the upper left-hand corner were these words:—
"A Message from Jesus to the Christian Churches
throughout the world.”
I am Jesus. I send you all greetings through the messenger
who will bring this message to you. What I shall say to you will
come as a great shock. It will hurt you. Truth often hurts. But
truth only hurts those who are doing something or saying some­
thing which is contrary to the truth. What I shall say to you in
this message will humiliate you. You may feel like crucifying
the messenger who brings this message to you. Please don’t do
that. You did that to me. You did not know what you were
doing, and for that reason I asked my Father, in that dark hour,
3IQ
to please forgive you, because I knew that you did not know
what you were doing.
This message really does not come from me. I have come back
to earth again, thinking perhaps you might welcome me this
time—
but no. I am afraid that if I were to come to you per­
sonally, as I am now, and as I was then, you would humiliate
Me, and possibly order me put into jail, as was done two thou­
sand years ago. So I have chosen one from among you, whom I
believe to be qualified to bring you this message, and to help
you, in your dark hour of apostasy, back to the Realm of the
Spirit of God. The one I have chosen has no fear. He is able
to change your impotent ecclesiastical structure into one which
shall shine with the Glory of God. Please let him do this.
I have little hope that you will. I have much hope, however,
that the peoples who do not belong to your organizations, and
who do not believe the very erroneous doctrines you are teach­
ing, will gladly hear my messenger. He speaks not of himself.
He merely passes on to you what I, Jesus, have written in this
manuscript, by the direction of the Spirit of God, which is My
Father, and your Father too.
This manuscript will pass into the hands of the messenger I
have chosen, on the plains of Bethlehem, where I was bom. Let
me impress upon all churches everywhere, which bear the name
“Christian,” that I was N O T born of a virgin who was conceived
in some miraculous manner by what you call the “Holy Ghost.”
No ghost had any part in my birth. Joseph, a carpenter was my
father and Mary, a beautiful lady, was my mother. Had you
grasped this fact, and listened to the message I came to bring,
this “dark planet” on which you live, would now be shining in
the galaxy of other planets that have found the Power and Glory
of My Father, which Power and Glory I came to proclaim to you
so long ago.
While I lived on the earth, and for hundreds of years after
I had gone from your sight, no one considered that My birth was
in any way miraculous. Those who lived and knew me, knew
In Which We Read the Manuscript 3 1 1
The Wanderer
better than that. You did not tack deity onto me until long
after I had departed. You thought I was dead. But I was not. I
was very much alive, as I am now. Had you listened to the mes­
sage I came to bring, without offering me to the people as God,
your planet would have been spared so much suffering. It would
be a brilliant place now.
You have discovered however, that you cannot sell Me to the
people of this earth as God. You can sell me as a man with a
message from God. You know full well that there is nothing you
can do outside of try to sell your religious ideas to whoever will
buy them. You know, better than anyone else, your impotence
to manifest the Power and the Glory of God on this planet. You
know, and how well you know, that wars, and famines, and
pestilences are abroad as never before. You know that the “Four
Horsemen” are riding again. You know too, that, much as you
would like to, you cannot do one thing about it.
When, in your ignorance, you began to tell the world that I,
Jesus, was Almighty God in human form, you thought that you
could convert the world to that philosophy, and, through Me,
redeem it back to God. You have discovered that you can do
nothing of the sort. When you stole the idea of a “trinity” from
the Hindoo, you thought you were doing the world a favor. You
were not. You were but hiding the actual truth of the Spirit of
God from the world. You were hiding my message.
Oh yes—
I know—you still have a form of religion, but there
is no Power in it. The Spirit of God is completely unknown to
any of you. You have demonstrated that the philosophy with
which you hoped to save this world, has proved insufficient. Had
you been endowed with the Power of the Spirit of God, as you
should have been, and would have been had you listened to Me,
instead of trying to make a God out of me, you could have
restored man to the rightful place he should occupy with God.
Instead, you have made a social club out of what should be
“My Father’s House.” I once drove the money-changers from
the temple. Now, I shall let them stay in it. I have come hack
3 12 - A
to you. I shall make one more attempt to reveal the Power of the
Spirit of God to you. In all probability, you will not listen to my
messenger, as you refused to listen to me.
But the time is short. If this world destroys itself, you too,
without the Spirit of God in you, will also be destroyed, for the
Spirit of God is the only Spirit which can save you. I cannot. I
never could. I was chosen as a Messenger only. In my early
youth, the Spirit of God spoke to me and gave me Its message
of Power. I brought that message to you. You ignored it. You
told the people that I was God Almighty, when you knew full
well that I was no such thing.
There is no time left however, to talk about past mistakes. We
have all made them. Your own catechism says that you have
done the things you ought not to have done, and have left un­
done the things you ought to have done. I say again, the time is
short. You must now undo the things you have done which you
ought not to have done, and you must do the things you have
left undone.
Were it not for the fact that I know, down deep in the heart
of every Christian, there is an earnest longing for the Light, I
should not have written this manuscript. But I do know how
your hearts yearn for the truth. Few of you are satisfied with
what you have. Few of you believe that the answer is “The
Blood of Jesus, which cleanses us from all sin.” My blood is red
—and red blood cannot make anything white. The answer does
not lie in my name, and never has. I have never been able to do
one thing which you cannot also do. I plainly stated that when I
was here before. Now—
you know it.
The time is short. There is still a chance of the Christian
Church rising to its high calling. That high calling does not
consist of telling men and women that I was Almighty God.
That high calling consists of telling men and women that I
came to this earth to reveal the Power of the Spirit of God. I want
you to leave my name completely out of it. Men will believe in
the present existence of the Spirit of God, and that Spirit, if
In Which We Read the Manuscript 3 13
The Wanderer
haste is made, can save your “dark planet” and illumine it with
the Power of The Almighty. My name can do nothing to redeem
this world. My message can, but not my name, for once again
let me insist that I am not the totality of God, never was, and
never will be. I tried to make that very plain while on your earth
before.
When I left, I told you that in My Father’s House are many
mansions. Look above you some starry night, and you will see
that is true. This planet belongs with those planets which have
known the full Power of the Spirit of God. It has no right to be
bathed in bloodshed and war, and had you not “done the things
you ought not to have done, and left undone the things you
ought to have done,” these awful conditions could not exist.
The fault is yours. You had the vision. You had the Messenger.
You had the chance to send the message of eternal Life ringing
round the world. But you muffed that chance. You made a
political organization out of what should be a Power-House for
God. Now, I am giving you another chance. What I shall sug­
gest is revolutionary. It will bring to this earth, if you will do it,
a revolution in religious thought. But it will make available to all
men, not your theories of me, Jesus, but the Power of the Spirit
of God.
The patience of the Spirit of God is sorely tried. It will not
always strive with man. The end is very close. My Father has
decided that man prefers his sin, his wickedness, his money, his
graft, his immorality, to the things of God. But He is giving man
just one more chance, and His message, not mine, is offered to
the Christian Church, for, with all its faults and short-comings,
My Father hates to cast it aside.
But if the Christian Church refuses to listen again to the mes­
sage I am sending in the form of this manuscript, there is noth­
ing My Father can do. He will not permit conditions to continue
very much longer as they are. It is not fair to the young people
who are coming into the world. It is not fair to My Father, who
has made provision for the complete return of man to God. If
314
man shows by his acts that he does not wish to return to God,
and if the Christian Church shows by its acts that it does not
wish to return to God either, then, believe me, My Father will
wind up the sordid history of this “dark planet” very quickly.
I warn you, I know whereof I speak. I warn you, the day of
God is at hand. I promise you that if you will make the first
move and return to God, My Father will run to meet you, and
it will not be very long before this earth is reVelling in the Light
and the Glory of God, instead of scheming how it may destroy
itself. The atomic bomb is loose. All nations will have it sooner
or later. There is nothing on the horizon which leads My Father
to believe that man will redeem himself. There is nothing on the
horizon which leads My Father to believe that the Christian
Church will cast aside its idolatry, and charge, and super-charge
itself with the Power of the Spirit of God. Nothing at all. And
yet—I have interceded again with My Father. I have begged to
be allowed to come back to earth, to offer the Christian Church
another chance.
This time I have arranged it so that there can be no possibility
of anyone thinking I am Almighty God, for I shall not reveal
Myself to anyone, except one man, who I know, trusts me, and
who knows a little bit about the Power of the Spirit of My
Father.
Anyone who knows that man, knows that there is little chance
of anyone mistaking him for God Almighty. So I am entrusting
this manuscript into his care. He will turn the message over to
vou. What you do with it is your business, but with a heart
overflowing with divine Love—the Love of My Father, I beg of
you listen. I beg of you to completely re-vamp your present
structure, making it a central distributing house for the Power
of the Spirit of God.
In W hich W e Read the Manuscript 3 1 5
i6 The Wanderer
HERE ARE TH E TH IN GS I SHALL EXPECT YOU
TO DO
1. Get rid of every idol in the form of statues, models, pictures,
busts of Peter, Paul, the Virgin Mary, Myself, or any other
Bible character. These are idols. They detract from the
Power of the Spirit of God. As 1 was not Almighty God,
none of these things have a place in the House of God. Get
rid of them.
2. Have a large sign installed on all four sides of your church.
Make it large enough to be seen night and day. Have it
brightly illuminated at night. It should bear these words:—
"ETERN AL LIFE THROUGH TH E POWER OF GOD”
3. Those churches which specialize in crucifixes, beads, crosses,
images, icons and the like, must get rid of them all. All of
you know now that the cross on which 1 suffered as a man,
is not a symbol of God, because I never was God. If you
insist on having crosses in your churches, put two of them
there, and put on them the two thieves who were crucified
with me, for they believed me when I told them that "this
night ye shall be with Me in paradise.” You have not yet
believed in the message I came to bring to this earth, but
those two thieves did. So if you must have crosses, use them
instead of Me. There is no point in depicting Me on a cross,
for if I had been God, you may be sure 1 should not have
hung there, suffering the torments of the damned, unable
to lift a hand to save Myself. 1 consider these crucifixes,
statues, beads, and all the rest of this fol-der-ol to smack of
pagan idolatry—
not of the Spirit of God.
4. Get rid of all your priestly and ministerial robes. Nothing
which has any semblance of what you have known as "reli­
gion" must be allowed to remain. You have literally millions
of dollars tied up in those robes, and while they are very
beautiful, they cannot reveal the Spirit of God to anyone.
Those of the churches who have "holy water” and "con­
fessionals" must get rid of them too. Ministers and priests
should wear no special uniform, either inside or outside of
the church, which gives them recognition as agents of God.
If they truly are agents of God, they will not need to adver-
tise the fact, because the Spirit of God will he revealed
through them, and the world will know that they have been
with God without their advertising it. The women too—
they
must discard all the hoods and other paraphernalia they
wear, for it is very misleading. It leads one to think that
they represent God. But if they do, like the ministers and
priests, the world will know it. Those systems of religion
which seem to worship the church itself, must remember
that now it is revealed that 1 never was God, there can be
no need for such expressions as “The sacred heart of Jesus’’
or any of the many other expressions used by them. As
Jesus, there is no merit in my name, nor is there anything
I can do for anyone, except what these ministers and priests
should be doing—
revealing the Power of Almighty God to
the world. So all priestly and ministerial robes must go, if
the church is to reveal the Power of God to men and women
who, in their eagerness for the truths of God, look to these
churches for those truths. You must not fool them any
longer.
5. All ministers and priests should get the finest, lightest clothes
they can buy. They should never be black. They should
wear the conventional collar which others wear, and it
should button in the front, not the back. A light-colored tie
would be appropriate because they are now agents of the God
of Life—
not the God of death and purgatory. All priests
should marry, as that is the command of the Spirit of God.
When they do not, there is too much temptation surround­
ing them. Let them marry and raise children as God in­
tended they do, and as every normal man wants to. Nuns
should marry also. No man or woman living an unnatural
life, can bring to men and women on this earth, the Power
of the Spirit of God. Such a man or woman will have a
warped understanding of God’s Spirit, and anyway, the
first thing the Spirit of God will tell men and women of this
type, is to get married, and raise children.
6. All churches should be open twenty-four hours a day. Re­
ligion is for seven days a week, not for Sunday and Wednes­
day night only. It is a thing for the home and the business
life, not for the church. It is good for churches to be built,
but there should not be more than enough to take care of
the needs of the community. There should be no difference
In Which We Read the Manuscript 3 17
The Wanderer
in the names of these churches. They must all he “THE
CH URCH OF TH E SPIRIT OF GOD," not the Presby­
terian, Catholic, Methodist, etc. This only confuses the peo­
ple and hides the Power of the Spirit of God. There is hut
one Spirit of God—
there should he hut one church. As long
as there is the conglomeration we have today, you may he
sure none of the Spirit of God is in any of them, for the
first thing that Spirit would do, would he to unite them.
As long as they operate as individual units, then they are
operating as church organizations, and not as agents of the
Spirit of God. Some churches follow the Pope of Rome.
Others follow John Wesley. Others John Calvin, and so on.
All churches, if they are to save this world, must follow the
leadings of the Spirit of God—
not their "patron-saints” or
other originators.
7. In the basement of every church should he a Youth Center.
Pool tables, Ping-Pong games, and a soda-fountain should
be there. The grown-ups should each have a definite day on
which each will supervise the Center in the basement of
the churches. There shoidd he a reading-room, a smoking-
room for those who wish to smoke, hut no child under
twenty-one should he allowed to smoke in the church. All
children should he allowed to attend the Youth Center, re­
gardless of race or creed. Ministers holding membership in
the Ku Klux Klan must immediately resign from that un-
American organization. I am sorry to state that many min­
isters are members. They cannot know the Power of the
Spirit of God and belong to such organizations. The Ma­
sonic Order, Knights of Columbus, and other secret organi­
zations should he disbanded. No church-member should he
permitted to hold membership in any of them. A continu­
ous program of entertainment should he provided for the
young people, who should he impressed with the fact that
they now belong to an organization which is revealing the
Spirit of God to men, and that if they get a correct under­
standing of the Power of that Spirit, they need never die.
8. Anyone at all should he admitted to membership in all
churches. In fact, after a while, membership will not he
advisable. No one who applies for membership should he
asked what he or she believes. It would probably he wrong
anyhcnv. In any event, religion does not consist of what
one believes—
it consists of conscious recognition of the Spirit
of God in the life. When one has that experience, belief is
not necessary because the actual Presence and Power of
God in the life make "beliefs" completely unnecessary.
This consciousness of the Spirit of God should be taught as
early in life as possible. The graded Sunday school Lessons
should be designed to teach nothing but the actual Presence
and Power of God in the life. I should not be mentioned.
9. Ministers of all churches should be chosen from the mem­
bership. Theological seminaries are not necessary because
the theory that l am Almighty God has been definitely ex­
ploded. That leaves the human race completely ready and
willing to be taught the truths of the Spirit of God, and it
eliminates the last excuse for different sects and denomi­
nations. Now, all can teach the one great common denomi­
nator—
the Presence and Power of God—
My Father. There
will always be found one, or more, in every church, who
seems to
< have a capacity for receiving and revealing the
truths of the Spirit of God, a bit better than the rest. That
person, man or woman, should be the minister or leader of
the church. The order of service should be very simple.
There are millions of sermons preached in hundreds of thou­
sands of churches on this "dark planet” every Sunday. And
hundreds of millions of people attend those churches. They
sing a few hymns. They listen to a prayer and a sermon.
They put their offering on the collection plate, and they
leave the church for their homes with no more knowledge
of the Power of God than they had when they went into
their church. This goes on, year after year, and this it is
which blinds the eyes of men and women to that Power of
My Father. The people have come to believe that all there
is to God is what the churches have to reveal, and that is
nothing at all. The one requirement for membership in a
Christian Church is that you believe that I am Almighty
God. I have told you very plainly that l am not Almighty
God, and never was Almighty God. Therefore, the churches
on your earth must find another concept of God to bring to
the world. There is no other concept except the one I came
to bring, when both the world and the church refused to
listen to me. That concept is God the Father, and God alone,
with me left out of the picture entirely.
In Which We Read the Manuscript 319
32 ° The Wanderer
As religion is for the home and business, the church serv­
ice should he dispensed with altogether, or simplified greatly.
There should he no feeling of solemnity in any church.
Rather, there should he a very joyous attitude, for are not
the members, at long last, finding the existence and the
Power of My Father? Why he sad? Why he over-reverent?
My Father asks no one to he either sad or reverent in their
dealings with Him. All He asks is that men and women
on this earth recognize His Power, and use that Power for
the manifestation of every good thing they can possibly
need, including eternal life.
Church services should open with the singing of just one
hymn. This hymn should he used at every service, year in
and year out. Here is the hymn:—
“Open my eyes that 1 may see, glimpses of truth Thou hast
for me;
Place in my hands the wonderful key, that shall unclasp and
set me free;
Silently now l wait for Thee, ready my God, Thy will to see;
Open my eyes, illumine me, Spirit Divine.
* * *
Open my ears that 1 may hear, voices of truth Thou sendest
clear;
And while the wave-notes fall on my ear, everything false will
disappear;
Silently now l wait for Thee, ready my God, Thy will to see;
Open my eyes, illumine me, Spirit Divine.
* * *
Open my mouth and let me hear, gladly the warm truth every­
where;
Open my heart and let me prepare, Love with Thy children
thus to share;
Silently now, 1 wait for Thee, ready my God Thy will to see;
Open my eyes, illumine me, Spirit Divine."
After this hymn has been sung, there should he a period
of absolute silence for five minutes. During this period, the
members may sink deep into themselves and there, in them,
find the connection which exists with My Father. At the
end of the five minutes, the priest or minister in charge
should say aloud:—
"1 BELIEVE IN TH E POWER OF TH E LIVING GOD.”
The congregation should then repeat that statement of
fact in unison. It is the only religious "belief" which has any
Power in it, and the only one which is not man-made. Then
the leader should say that statement again, and the congre­
gation should again respond. That should he done three
times, after which the hymn "Open my eyes" should again
he sung. No collection should he taken during the service.
Every member of the churches should he required to make
a definite contribution to the support of the church each
month, and that should he taken care of by the business of­
fice of the church. Begging for money with which to sup­
port a religious work, has no place in a religious service. It
dishonors My Father. Those who do not make their regular
payment for the support of the church, should he declared
delinquent, and they should not he permitted to engage in
the activities of the church until they have done their share
in the support of the church.
There should he no sermon and certainly no praying.
Praying is predicated on an absent God. That may have
been all right when churches worshipped Me as Almighty
God. But now that they can no longer do that, the only
Power left is the Power of the Spirit of God, and that Power
is not only right there in the midst of the church, hut right
in every life. Each member then, in the five minute quiet
period, contacts the Spirit of God in him, completely elimi­
nating the need of prayer which in any case, so long as it
was directed to Me, was powerless. I cannot answer prayer,
and as there is no need for prayer now, the time which has
been spent in prayer can he saved.
The gathering should then he turned over to the mem­
bers who should tell what the Power of God has done for
them during the week. They should ask questions, and if
they have a problem that problem should he openly dis­
cussed before the entire membership. The answer will be
found in that membership. The service should be devoted
In Which We Read the Manuscript 3:
322 The Wanderer
entirely to telling how the members are finding the actual
Power of God, and what that Power is doing for them.
Open discussion of the Power of God is the best way to
cidtivate and know It. /
10. The Bible should not be featured too much. It is a work of
man and so many inaccuracies occur in it that it is a very
unsafe guid'e for anyone to follow in his or her search for
the truths of God. The book is -predicated upon My being
Almighty God. But as 1 am nothing of the sort, it becomes
valueless now that the actual Power of the Spirit of God is
available to all. Dealing directly with My Father is much
safer than relying on what man wrote, especially when those
who wrote the Bible did so in the false belief that 1 am
Almighty God. The fact that so many copies of the Bible
are being sold, is evidence of the hunger which exists in
the hearts of men and women for the truths of God. Now
that you are reliably informed as to just who and what 1 am,
the whole structure of religion changes. From henceforth
you will deal directly with God the Father, which is infi­
nitely better than dealing with God the Son, even if I were
the Son of God, which 1 am not to any degree different
from anyone else. As every created man and woman is born
with the Spirit of God in him or her, we may all be truth-
fidly called sons of God.
11. If any member of the church should die, the local under­
taker shoidd have full charge of the burying, and no mem­
ber of the church except the immediate members of the
family should attend the funeral. The minister should take
no part in the funeral, and under no circumstances should
a dead body be brought into the church. My Father—
the
Spirit of God, is the God of the living, not of the dead. No
words spoken over a dead body can have the slightest effect
upon that dead body. They cannot bring it back to life
again. Had the dead person fully known the Power My
Father possesses, the dead member would not have died.
The church should let the dead bury their dead. Living
members shoidd have nothing to do with death in any
form.
12. If a church-member should become ill, the minister or leader
shoidd call on the sick member and together they should
cast out the illness at once. There is no illness or disease
which My Father cannot cast out. The Spirit of God,
which created the human body, lives in it, and the Power
of God, which was great enough to create the human body,
is also great enough to keep it alive without illness mani­
festing in that body.
13. The church should be the leader in civic functions, and the
Power of God, and eternal life through that Power, should
be preached and lived at all times. As religion is something
for the everyday life, not for the church, the families that
belong to the church must have certain set periods every
day, in which they actually contact and talk with God.
These periods should preferably be in the morning. Per­
haps at the breakfast table or perhaps before. Every mem­
ber of the family must be required to spend five minutes
alone with God, before the duties of the day begin. The
head of the family should officiate at this quiet period.
When complete quietness of soul and body have been
achieved, the head of the family should say aloud:—
"I BELIEVE IN TH E POWER OF TH E LIVING GOD."
Then the family should join in unison, and the state­
ment should be repeated three times. Then, for five min­
utes, with eyes closed and head bowed, the family shall talk
with God, silently. Each member will make the actual con­
tact with the Spirit of God, and thus the day will begin
with perfect recognition of the Power of God in the life.
Each evening, the same religious exercise must be repeated,
and the regular church hymn—
"Open my eyes that I may
see," should be sung. Thus, a direct contact between man
and his God may be maintained. If this contact is kept alive,
and if man, day by day, grows in the grace and Power of the
Spirit of God, he will receive from God just exactly what he
desires and needs, plus eternal life. For God lives, and death
cannot destroy the life My Father created, not even the
physical life.
* * *
At this point, there was a break in the manuscript, and upon
reading some small type at the end of this part, here is what I
read:—
In Which We Read the Manuscript 323
32.4 T/zeWanderer
"At this ■ point you are to stop revealing the contents of the
manuscript to the churches. If you see later that they are doing
as I have asked them to do, you may reveal the other half of
this manuscript. If you see they are not, then destroy what is
left. Read it carefully yourself, but do not reveal its contents to
anyone. Destroy it. For if the churches again reject me and my
message, they are hopelessly lost, as is the world.
"When the churches receive this message coming direct from
me, many of them will scoff and will tell you that Jesus is dead.
They will tell you that you did not meet me, either as ‘The
Wanderer’ or as Myself, on the Bethlehem plains. But there
will be others, who, knowing there is no hope in the doctrines
of the past, will follow My instructions. Upon those churches
will fall such a baptism of the Power of God that those who
have doubted will re-consider. There is quite a possibility that
your ‘dark planet’ may yet be saved. Only the Power of God
can save your civilization. Only the Power of God can save an
apostate church. If the churches accept this part of my message,
the second half, which you will reveal later, will be of such stag­
gering import that before long, your ‘dark planet’ will have
taken its place in the firmament above, and then, truly, the
Glory and the Power of God shall cover the earth as the waters
cover the sea."
. . . Jesus
I
A U T H O R ’S C LO SIN G N O T E
This work is, of course, fictional. Yet underneath the fiction
there lies a great truth which is very much more than fiction.
Detailed instructions for baptizing any church with the Power
of the Spirit of God, will be sent to any minister or priest, on
receipt of his solemn promise to do what the instructions call for.
. . . The Author
i
