{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1947__mowbray___transition.pdf","mytitle":"Transition","mylang":"de"}
TRANSITION
By
MAJOR C.H. MOWBRAY
With a Foreword by
THE REV. C. DRAYTON THOMA.S
To the Memory ofJ. H. McK.
"There is no Death! What seems so is transition." - Longfellow.
Second Edition 1947
Published by
L.S.A. PUBLICATION LTD.
16 QUEENSBERRY PLACE, LONDON, S.W.7
For further information
with regard to
Individual Survival After Death
please write to
The London Spiritualist Alliance
16 Queensberry Place
London, S.W.7
England
:·_...---~ ...---.,,._,,..- -~ ...--~.,..- -~...--.,..)('.11:-- -~,,.--..,._...- - -.t...- ·.i, .,..--~...- ~"'
I' ~
) (
~ i
f ~
' (
~ ·c!Jh;s r:YJoof ts c!J?resented b11 the ~
) Gt (
~ i
r MARIANNE BAYLEY WORTHINGTON TRUST ~
k J
I' ~
' Office '
k t
I' 16 QUEENSBERRY PLACE, ~
k LONDON. S.W.7 J
r ~
~ i
)
I' ~
The object of the Trust is :- '
k i
l( To spread the knowledge, based on ascertained evidence, ~
f that humanity survives the death of the body. \
~ ~
r That such survival means unbroken continuity of ~
~ conscious life, affection and memory. ~
f That the Law of Spiritual Co~sequence governs life here ~
~ and in the hereafter. i
f That personal responsibility must be acknowledged for ~
i.t every thought, word and deed. J
r That people, both in the physical body, and those who ~
!{ have passed on to the unseen, influence each other for i
" ~
h good and for ill according to their individual thought J
f and feeling. ~
~ ~
~ J
•(...._ .:>t'<'-_ •.:>t'r'......•.X'r'-... ..x'r'-- _
,x.,.___
.xlvC.:>t.,.__..x..._. ~_•.x.....•.x...___,x...._"::i
No. 1
Tambourine levitated- Medium Lewis.
No. 2
Ectoplasmic Rod plucking strings of Zither. Observe ring in nose (see page 52.)
Medium Lynn.
No. 3
Table thrown on to ground.-Medium Lewis.
No. 4
Ectoplasmic Rod tapping table.-Medium Lynn. (See page 52.)
No. 5
Enlargement of No. 4.
No. 6
Ectoplasmic Rod tapping table.- Medium Lynn. (See page 52.)
No. 7
·'
Enlargement of No. 6.
No. 8
..
Apport (necklace) at moment of arriving.- Medium Lynn.
No. 9
Apport (saltspoon) at moment of arriving.- Medium Lynn.
No. 11
Visiting Card about to be removed from thread. (See page 50.)
Medium Lewis.
Transition 7
FOREWORD
Major Mowbray and I have been fellow members of the
British College of Psychic Science for some years. His enterprise
in research soon attracted my attention, for it was obvious that
he brought to it qualities which are favourable to success in
dealing with sensitives, whether of the physical or mental type.
While travelling together to address a private gathering in a
clergyman's drawing-room, Major Mowbray and I were exchang-
ing experiences. Some of the incidents he related struck me as
being of special value for students, and I therefore urged him to
publish them. A selection of these experiences has since appeared
in the pages of Light, and I now learn with pleasure that they are
to take book form. It is in response to the Major's request that
I gladly write this foreword.
While listening to the incidents told me in the train I noticed
that they provided conclusive refutation of the imaginative
alternatives by which critics have sought to discount the evidence
for human survival, provided by communications from deceased
people. In other words, Major Mowbray's experiences are
strongly evidential. They display facts which demonstrate that
messages from the departed do actually reach us, if and when we
can provide the indispensable conditions.
Doubts about existence beyond death are prevalent to-day,
and not a few boldly assert their entire disbelief. Both within
and outside the churches also there are not a few whose convic-
tion is too slight to support with fortitude the shock of bereave-
ment. For such as these, the evidence which brings certainty that
we survive the death of our physical body and continue life under
other conditions, opens a new outlook on existence, an under-
standing of life's meaning and a better appreciation of the laws
of spiritual help.
Under the heading, Scope andLimitation ofPsychic Experiences,
Major Mowbray gives sound advice. He reminds readers that
not all sittings are as productive as those which he has described,
and that much depends on·the sitter's patience and discretion.
He advises that one should first try to find a medium with whom
our communicators are successful and that we then take a series
of sittings with that Medium. This will give opportunity for our
communicators to do something more than prove their identity.
It is likely to result in our receiving valuable information about
life in the Beyond and other matters which, from their advanced
position and enlarged experience, they deem it important that
we should know.
Communication with the Beyond, like all other good things,
Transition
can be misused or ignored. The mere fact of conversing with
friends whose bodies we saw buried long ago, does not neces-
sarily, and of itself, do more for us than did our talks with the
same persons while they were here. Good things need wise using,
'ere their benefit can be enjoyed. It is here that the Christian
church should find its scope when the new knowledge is absorbed
by its clergy and utilised in their customary ministrations.
Unfortunately, many who have this knowledge seem unable or
uilwilling to use it, while others who could and would use it to
good effect, remain unaware of its reality.
I believe that the incidents recounted in this book by so con-
scientious and acute an observer are likely to prove an inspiration
to many who read them, and an aid in the supreme art of living
wisely and well, not only in actions, but also in thought.
C. DRAYTON THOMAS.
October, 1936
Transition · 9
INTRODUCTION
I have often asked what made me take up Spiritualism-
whether I really believe in it, and if it has done me any good.
The answers to these last two questions are easy, because I
absolutely know that spirits have the power to communicate
with their friends on earth, if they can find a suitable Medium ;
and the many sittings I have been to have convinced me that
human beings- and probably all life-survive bodily death.
Surely the knowledge-not the belief or hope-of survival is
all important. It does not in the least matter whether we wish
to survive or not ; the fact remains that we do ; and I have
found that, when death takes away a child from the mother, or a
husband from a loving wife, the sure and certain knowledge of
death being only a change of existence brings solace and comfort
to the bereaved one that nothing else can. Most decidedly the
knowledge of spiritualism has done me good. Whether it is
wrong or not to try and get into touch with the departed, I will
t discuss at the end of this book. ·
A great uncle of mine was a convinced Spiritualist, and my
mother at times was in the habit of describing to me some of the
sittings she had been to with him. Slade was the Medium. Of
course, these took place many years ago.
I always remember her account of one of these seances. There
were present, Slade- the Medium-my mother and her uncle
and aunt. The latter's son had gone out to Africa, but having
decided to come home, he had died on board ship and had been
buried at sea. The father, being a doctor, was naturally anxious
to know all about his son's illness. He had corresponded with
the Captain and learnt that the boy had died of some fever or
other. As the ship had no doctor the Captain had treated him,
and having few medicines on board and less knowledge, he had
dosed him with castor oil.
After a short time the Medium's guide said that Jim- the son
-was present, and his father carried on a conversation with him
somewhat after this fashion :-
Father : Well, Jirri, my boy, I am so glad to get in touch with
you again. You died of fever, I understand.
Jim : No, I didn't.
Father : What did you die of.
Jim : I was murdered.
Father : Who murdered you ?
Jim : The Captain.
Father : Why did he murder you?
Jim: Because he wanted my money.
10 Transition
Father : How did he kill you.
Jim : I wasn't very well, so he gave me some castor oil into
which he had put poison.
The Medium then said something was hurting his arm, and
turned up his sleeve. "James Osborn Davey "-the boy's full
name was seen to be written in red letters on his arm. The writ-
ing gradually disappeared, and in a vew minutes it had vanished.
When the father had written to the ship's captain for his son's
effects he had been told that there was nothing except his personal
baggage, but later on it was found that the Captain was wearing
the boy's gold watch and chain, which, he said, he had given him
in return for his kindness in looking after him.
Of course, nothing could be proved, but they were all tremend-
ously impressed, and until the day of their deaths the parents
fully believed that their son had been murdered. My mother
told me that she shared their view. '
She had other good sittings with Slade, but at the time I really
was little interested in the accounts, and in my heart of hearts,
I thought that it was all nonsense.
Then my sister had a series of-as T know now- wonderful
sittings with Mrs. Wreidt, the American .Voice Medium, but I
laughed at her and told her that she had been thoroughly taken in.
One evening, however, I was travelling down to Cambridge
from Liverpool Street. The carriage was full and I found myself
sitting next to a young man who was reading an evening paper.
This youth had a receding forehead and wore a billycock hat on
the side of his head with a jay's feather stuck in the ribbon.
Suddenly he remarked to the carriage at large, " What a fool."
The other passengers stared at him when he again said, " What
tripe." I then glanced over his shoulder to try and find out what
had caused these outbursts, and saw that he was reading an article
on Spiritualism by Sir Oliver Lodge. I wondered who was the
fool. I didn't believe in Spiritualism, and yet I couldn't bring
myself to believe that this young " knut " was the wise man and
Sir Oliver the opposite-it was absurd, and yet- - . I thought
about this a great deal, with the result that I made up my mind
to find out for myself. I got in touch witli the Psychic College
through Mrs. Hewat McKenzie, who arranged a sitting for me
with Mrs. Barke!, an account of which follows ; but I feel it is
up to me to express my thanks to that conceited young idiot-
I haven't the least idea who he is-for his inane remark.
MY FIRST SITTING
The first sitting I ever had was with Mrs. Barke!, and a remark-
able one it was, though I did not realise this at the time. It took
Transition 11
place on a certain Thursday at 3 o'clock. I had gone to the
Psychic College with somewhat mixed feelings ; I badly wanted
to find out if there really was any truth in Spiritualism, or if it
was just nonsense believed in by a lot of credulous old women
of both genders. Going upstairs to Mrs. Barkel's seance room
I passed an extraordinary looking individual coming down, and
I remember thinking to myself, "Heavens, am I going to get
myself mixed up with that kind of crowd." However, there was
no turning back now, but when I was introduced to the Meqium
I was agreeably surprised. I found myself in the presence of a
charming woman, nicely dressed, who talked quite naturally and
told me about her guide, "White Hawk," and what would
happen when she became entranced.
After talking together for a little time the conversation ceased,
and I noticed that the Medium seemed to be asleep, but ofcourse,
she had gone into trance. Suddenly" White Hawk" introduced
himself, and said :-
"Evelyn, Oxford." Now Evelyn is the name of my wife, and
she had gone to Oxford that morning to stay with cousins to
watch the " Eights." "White Hawk " then proceeded to tell
me that she had a very sore throat ; he said it was not dangerous,
but that it was very painful, and he remarked-" Blue China-
don't forget-it's a test; ask her; she will understand."
After that " White Hawk " described various spirits whom he
said were standing at the other end of the room, but wouldn't
come closer. One, he said, was an old lady who was showing a
walking stick, and another was a soldier, very old and very bent.
They were, he thought, near relatives of mine, but he could give
me nothing else. Certainly I had had an aunt who had always
gone about the house with a stick owing to lameness, and her
husband had been a Crimea and Mutiny veteran, but the des-
criptions had been too vague, and I wasn't in the least satisfied.
(Incidentally, I might mention here that sometime later the aunt
came again through Mrs. Mason, showing her stick and giving
her name, Anna.)
The sitting ·ended ; but just before the close " White Hawk"
reminded me about the Blue China, again telling me that it was
a " test."
I came downstairs thinking that the whole thing had been
nonsense. My wife, I knew, had been perfectly well that morning,
otherwise she would never have left home. It was curious that
I had been given "Oxford," but that was probably telepathy,
and as for the two old people, I wasn't going to be a credulous
idiot and say that my uncle and aunt had come to me.
12 Transition
(At a subsequent sitting, " White Hawk " told me that these
forms had been unable to come closer to me owing to the
conditions I had set up. He said that I had been in a great state
of excitement and had given off an atmosphere " like water
boiling in a kettle.") I went away from the College thinking to
myself," Well, that's the last time I shall waste my money there."
Next evening my wife suddenly walked into the house while
I was having dinner about 8 p.m. I was very surprised, as she
had gone away for a week, and when she had left home she was,
as I have already said, in perfect health. I said, " Hullo, what
on earth has happened? " She then told me that she had suddenly
got very bad toothache and, not wishing to visit a strange dentist,
had returned home to consult her own. She went off there and
then and had two teeth extracted.
It appeared that at the very time " White Hawk " had told me
about her throat, she was sitting on the Christchurch barge, with
the collar of her coat turned up, suffering great pain all down her
cheek and throat-a wonderful case of travelling clairvoyance
on " White Hawk's " part.
Next morning I went into her room and said~ " I had a funny
dream about you last night, it was something to do with Blue
China, and it is puzzling me."
She answered, " How extraordinary you should say that.
Yesterday morning at breakfast (i. e., Friday at 9.15 a.m.),. Maud
(her hostess) suddenly showed me two blue china cups, remark-
ing, ' When m:Jther died, I found she had put these away most
carefully, evidently thinking them valuable ; what do you think
of them ? ' " My wife answered, " They look like Spode, but
1 there are no marks on them. Why dont' you take them to a
curio shop and have them valued ? "
"White Hawk " had told me about "Blue China " some
eighteen hours before this had happened. It was something
absolutely unimportant, but of intense interest as demonstrating
the Medium's power of prevoyance.
This, of course~ put an entirely different complexion upon the
result of the sitting, and I immediately wrote to the College to
tell them about this wonderful prevoyance. "White Hawk"
must have known that I needed a really good test of his super-
normal powers, and provided me with one. This little incident
completely changed my outlook, so I determined to have some
more sittings, and arranged one with Mrs. Blanche Cooper,
the Voice Medium.
This first sitting taught me two most important lessons-
always to take full notes, and never ·to turn down anything
straight away, because what may seem to be false at the time
Transition 13
may be verified later on ; and not to put a difficult atmosphere
-barrier-which will most certainly make it impossible for
communications to come through.
Mrs. Blanche Cooper, I found to be a frail, delicately looking
woman, the last kind of person one would expect to possess the
strong psychic power she undoubtedly has.
Her mediumship is somewhat unique, as voices start speaking
within a few seconds of the lights aeing put out. Sittings with
her only last about half an hour, but those thirty minutes are,
as a rule, fuller of incidents than very much longer seances with
other Mediums.
I sat with her a great many times, but perhaps the first sitting
I had with her was the most remarkable. I obtained much
evidence of survival and had an exact representation of the
Pentecost enacted in front of me. This I believe to be a very rare
phenomenon, one which I shall never forget and have never
experienced again.
One sits on Mrs. Cooper's left side, holding her left hand all
through the sitting. One is thus able to be quite certain that she
never leaves her seat and yet one sees the luminous trumpet
floating about yards away from her. She seldom, if ever, goes
into trance.
She likes a gramophone to be played when the power lessens.
The moment I had taken my seat and the light had been
extinguished a loud voice addressed me, givimg me the name of
Eyles. He told me that he used to take me out fishing.
Though I hadn't given a thought to this person for years,
I knew at once that it was my mother's cousin, Colonel Eyles
Gordon, who had come home on leave from India about the
year 1888 or 1889. He used to hire a boat and take me out on
the river at Surbiton to fish. I know I much appreciated his
kindness at the time, and thought it wonderful of him spending
a couple of shillings boat hire on me for just an afternoon. He
was about the last person in the world I should have thought
would come, but since then I have learnt that so often it is the
the least expected person who does turn up. I have found that
if one thinks too much about anyone a barrier seems to be
imposed that hinders them and may prevent them coming at all.
This point was once brought home to me very forcibly when
later I was sitting with Mrs. Osborne Leonard. I had told a
friend staying at Westgate that I was having a sitting next day
at 11.30, and to try and get a message through to me. Feda-
Mrs. Leonard's guide-described the friend accurately, saying she
was sitting by the sea, but couldn't get her thoughts as she (the
friend) was concentrating too much on me. All this came quite
14 Transition
spontaneously, as at the time I was entirely preoccupied with the
sitting and had completely forgotten my request to my friend.
But to return to Mrs. Cooper.
Eyles reminded me of our fishing together and spoke of the
day when I had fastened my line to the end of the rod-leaving
the reel at home. This had vexed him. When he mentioned this,
I remembered the incident-though it had completely escaped
my memory-as well it might after a lapse of some forty years.
A child then spoke. She said that I knew her quite well. She
had stayed with me in " the other house." I knew her mother
very well. She called me " Daddy," which, after her last remark,
was rather embarrassing !
She asked me to give certain messages to her mother regarding
the disposal of her dolls and garden doll's house. She was quite
unable to give me her name, and I had no idea who she was.
My grandmother then introduced herself, remarking that I
was a " beautiful boy." I will not go quite so far as to say that'
this was highly evidential, but it was very curious for this reason.
I laughingly repeated this remark to my mother a few days later.
She then told me that she had.taken me to see my grandmother
a few hours before her passing. As I was going out of the room
the old lady had remarked to her, "What a beautiful boy."
I was under six at the time. Of course, its quite possible that I
had heard the remark which had sunk into my subconscious,
but had come up again to the surface when speaking to her, but
I think it far more likely that when she returned to earth she
had taken on again her last earth memories. As I was so young
when she passed, I could not recognise the tone of her voice,
but she said she had brought my grandfather with her. Now,
he lived until I was 22, and the voice that addressed me next
was his absolutely. It was most curious to listen to these two
voices-one male and one female speaking at the same time.
I couldn't carry on a conversation with both of them at once,
and had to ask them to speak separately. My grandfather told
me that he was worried because of my mother. So I asked him
if that meant that she was going to pass over soon:- He said,
"No, I am worried because she is worried." I protested that
I did not think she had anything very much to be worried over.
" Oh, yes," the voice answered, " she is worried over the house.
Tell her from me that I have thought it all over and that I think
under the circumstances she had better stay where she is and
buy it." This seemed to me very curious because my mother,
who had lived in her rented house for some twenty years, had
received a letter informing her of her landlord's death. The new
owner had written to her to say that he wished to sell the house,
,..
Transition 15
but would give her first refusal of it. If she did not wish to buy
it then he intended to auction it. My mother had already con-
sulted me about it, but I had told ner not to do anything of the
kind. I had suggested to her that it was probably bluff, but
anyway she was protected by the Rent Restiiction Act, and if
she did buy it, we children would find it rather a white elephant
when she passed over. I was so against the purchase that my
mother had said nothing more about it to me, and I thought she
had taken my advice, and I had almost forgotten the matter.
People who really know very little about it are always so ready
to rliurmer the magic word "Telepathy," thereby thinking that
they have said a very clever thing and solved all difficulties, but
in this case had the communication been due to telepathy from
myself, surely I would have been told to tell her not to buy it.
Ifthat had come through people could have said quite reasonably
that my own subconscious mind had been tapped, but you can't
have it both ways, though most of us would like to !
My grandmother then took up the tale, and told me that she
would try and show herself to me. A ball of dull luminosity,
about the size of a football, gradually formed. This seemed to
be manipulated in much the same way as a baker kneads dough.
Suddenly, a hideous face flashed out, hideous, I suppose, because
it was not properly formed. Mr. S. 0. Cox, the principal of the
British College of Psychic Science, informed me that once when
sitting with Mrs. Cooper, the same thing exactly happened with
him, only in his case a perfect face-his daughter's-was formed.
He described the " working " of the luminous globe as I saw it.
I never heard of anyone else having the same experience with
this Medium, nor did Mr. Cox ; in any case, it must have been
a very rare occurrence with her.
After this abortive attempt the globe vanished, but a few
moments later a tongue of fire appeared flitting about the room.
This was soon joined by another one. These two moved about
the room, reminding me, more than anything else, of two
butterflies in a garden on a warm summer's day. At times they
were at the top of the room, now in the corners, now under my
chair, only to return to the ceiling again. Often they were several
feet away from the Medium, whose hand I was holding all the
time. During these manifestations the breezes were so strong
that I judged they would blow a newspaper across the room had
a copy been there. I had no thermometer, but I should say the
temperature had gone down several degrees, as I was shivering
with cold. I wonder why the question of cold is not mentioned
in the "Acts of the Apostles," as·I have little doubt that it was
experienced. I saw the whole of the Pentecost enacted before
16 Transition
me that day-" voices," "tongues of fire," "rushing mighty
wind," and I shall never forget what I can only describe as the
gracefulness of those tongues of fire.
How history repeats itself ! I showed a friend of mine an
account of this sitting which I had written for Light. He
remarked, " you must have been to that seance after a regimental
dinner," the modern equivalent for "These men are full of
new wine."
The whole sitting was a most remarkable one, which entirely
removed from my mind any doubt I had about the truth of
psychic phenomena.
On returning home, I told my wife about the child who had
spoken, and she thought it must be "Penanne." This was the
young daughter of a cousin of hers who had lately passed over.
She had stayed with us the year before for six weeks or so while
her parents were abroad. Since her visit we had moved into a
new house, so her description of " the other house " would be
accurate. I determined to find out if it really was the child, but
it was many months and after many sittings before I absolutely
satisfied myself as to her identity.
It would be wearying to my readers if I were to relate all the
little bits of evidence I gradually obtained about this child, not
only through Mrs. Cooper, but through Mrs. Mason, Mrs.
Barke! and the Misses Moore. Gradually I became convinced
that the child really was Penanne, but she could never give me
her name, and I firmly refused to pass on any of her messages
to her mother until she did.
Matters had reached rather an impasse when, at a sitting with
Mrs: Barke!, my old friend Major M-- was able to rap out
his name. I wondered if this little girl could do the same ; so,
the next time I sat with Mrs. Barke!, I got into touch with the
child and asked if she could spell out her name by raps. She
said she could, and started" P,"" E,"" N." I naturally expected
her next letter to be "A," but it was not-it was "E," and she
spelt out " Penelope Anne " in full. This was her correct name,
though never in my life had I ever heard her called anything but
"Penanne." Surely, telepathy should have given me the name
I expected and had been waiting for for months.
The very next day I sat with Mrs. Blanche Cooper. The child
came through, and I said, "You gave me yo·ur name by raps
yesterday." "Yes-wasn't I clever? " was the comment; so I
replied, "You will be still more clever if you give it to me by
voice now." It was quite pathetic listening to the Voice trying
to get her name out. Sounds like "Pah," caipe, and then,
Transition 17
"Daddy, I can't." I told her that, as she had given me her name
the day before, I would tell her mother about her, which I did.
To cut a long story short, her mother was at first entirely
incredulous, said she didn't believe a word I had said, but
couldn't make out how I knew about the dolls. I gave her
lunch, arranged for a sitting for her with Mrs. Cooper, and went
with her-the sitting being booked for myself and a friend.
Now, this good lady has a very strange name-we call her
"Possett," though that is fictitious. Suddenly a voice called,
"Possett, Possett," with the result that my friend nearly jumped
out of her chair, and the Voice stopped. I told her to ask who
it was, and the Voice replied, "Granny." "Oh," she answered,
" are you Lumpy's mother ? " The Voice replied, " Not Lumpy's
-Arthur's ! "
(My friend told me after we came out that she had been in
the habit of calling her husband "Lumpy," much to the annoy-
ance of her mother-in-law, who would invariably correct her
and say, "His name is Arthur, not that silly name.")
Then "it" happened. A voice called, "Mummy, it's Pen"
(that was the name the mother always called the child), and the
two were restored to each other.
That one sitting turned a very miserable woman into a very
happy one ; and last time I heard, these two were in constant
communication. I also gained a very real friend for life on this
side and one on the other side, too, I trust.
On her return home my friend told her husband about her
marvellous experience, but knowing nothing about the subject,
he scoffed at the whole thing, telling her that he was ashamed
of her being so utterly credulous, but she implored him to go
and find out for himself. After a good deal of nagging, he at
last consented, with the remark, "Very well then, I will go and
show up the d-- Medium."
I saw him after he had come out from his sitting. He said to
me, "What astonishes me is that all my life I have been such a
fool as to laugh at these things without knowing anything about
them. Why, of course it's my child." He did not tell me all the
evidence that had been given to him, but whatever it was it
completely satisfied this ultra sceptic.
" Waste of time? " " Dishonouring the dead ? " " Tele-
pathy ? " Readers can judge for themselves.
Later on I took another lady to Mrs. Cooper. Her husband
had died under most tragic circumstances, in fact he had been
murdered. She had brought into the room a bunch of violets
which she placed under her chair. The sitting commenced and
her husband spoke, giving his name, which was Hugh. Now he
B
18 Transition
very much gasped this out in a manner difficult for me to describe,
but later, when I went with this same lady to sit with the Misses
Moore, he gave his name in exactly the same gasping manner,
and she told me that it had come in precisely the same way
through another Voice Medium, Mrs. Roberts Johnson.
We then both saw distinctly a ball of luminosity about the
size ofa golf ball-it seemed to form close to my frien d and then
slowly move to the other side of the room. It hovere over the
mantelpiece and then returned to her. She at once said, " A
flower has been put into my hand." There was a vase of asters
on the mantelpiece, and it was an aster that had been given her.
Seemingly the ball of luminosity had brought it to her. After
the sitting we found that the bunch of violets had bee undone,
and the violets scattered all along the floor almost in a line to
the mantelpiece. I found several violets actually on top of the
asters. During the whole ofthe sitting I never let go the Medium's
hand, and it would have been impossible for her to have carried
all this out fraudulently. But to make quite sure, I tried, when
the seance ended, to throw a violet from where we were sitting
towards the asters; but I found I couldn't get it half-way.
FURTHER EVIDENCE FROM "VOICE" SITIINGS
When my old friend Colonel R-- asked me to take him and
his wife to a sitting, I arranged for them to come with me to the
Misses Moore, the Voice Mediums, who work together, each
sister apparently being dependent on the other to get the voices.
The appointment had to be some time ahead, as they were
booked up.
Up to then I had never met Mrs. R--, but she kindly asked
me to spend the night before the sitting with them, so that I
could make her acquaintance. I was delighted to accept her
invitation.
When I arrived at their flat the Colonel was out, but Mrs.
R-- gave me a kind welcome. The first thing I noticed about
. her was that she was dressed in black, and she immediately told
me that her mother had passed over only a week b fore, and
she then asked me if I thought there was any chance of her
" coming through " at our sitting. I told her that in all proba-
bility the old lady would be still asleep, and that I did not think
there would be much chance. Mrs. R-- seemed very disap-
pointed, so I said, " If you have something of hers which she
wore constantly, take it-it might help."
Transition 19
At that moment the Colonel came in and the subject was
dropped.
Next evening the sitting took place, and soon after the lights
had been put out, the Colonel's Uncle James spoke. He gave
his name and apologised for dying so suddenly with his affairs
in such disorder, and he spoke about the trouble there had been
over his insurance policy. Later, they told me that this was quite
correct-the insurance policy, being lost, had delayed the
probate of the will being granted.
I then heard the feeble voice of an old lady talking in almost
a whisper-it was Mrs. R--'s mother, who addressed her by
the pet name she used to call her as a child. The re-union of
mother and daughter was most ·dramatic, but the conversation
only lasted a short time. Andrew, the guide, came through and
told us that the old lady had gone because she was still too
tired to talk very much, but he asked Mrs. R.-- " Are you
wearing something of hers, because she keeps on pointing to
your chest ? "
It then transpired that Mrs. R-- had slipped on a locket of
her mother's which she was wearing under her bodice, suspended
round her neck by a thin gold chain. This she had done after
the lights had been put out.
After one or two other voices had spoken, the trumpet dropped
on to the floor, and the Mediums asked me to put up the red
light. I did so, and then picked up the trumpet, which was lying
on the floor at my feet. While I was doing this, I heard a soft
voice come out of it saying" Toby." I thought it was my father,
who used'to call me by that name as a child. That was the end,
except that I distinctly saw a thin wisp of white vapour coming
out of the mouth of the trumpet-it looked like smoke from a
cigarette, and it must have been ectoplasm returning to the
Mediums. We immediately linked hands and reformed circle,
but nothing more happened.
The sitting was very impressive and the result was that both
the R--'s are now keen Spiritualists.
At another sitting with the same Mediums, a voice spoke to
me. It said his name was Albert, and he had been a soldier in
my company, but though I clearly recognised the voice, I could
not place it, and told it so. But it said, " Of course you know
me." I tried to soothe him by remarking that so many of my
men had been killed that I could not remember them all. " Well,
anyway," he replied, "you will remember who I am later." So
I said, " I hope so, but how are you getting on ? " He told me
he was all right now. " I have met lots of the old ' H ' Company
(my old Company) ; but you know, when I died and found
20 Transition
myself still alive, you could have knocked me over with a feather.
I did not know if I was standing on my head or my heels."
The voice ceased, and then I realised that it was Bertie Fraud,
my old batman. I tried to get him back, but I could not, and he
has never come to me again. Three or four weeks before his
passing (the result of injuries while a pris.oner ofwar in Germany)
his wife had written to me telling me that his end was very close
and that he would like to see me once again. I drove over and
saw him, and we spent a very happy afternoon together talking
about old times. So his voice was fresh in my memory, and this
was his voice (I was not suffering from hallucination, which I
have heard given as an explanation of these voices).
At a third sitting, a cousin of mine, John by name, came
through. He was another war casualty, and he asked me to
give a certain message to "George." Now, the only George
I could think of was another cousin, but I knew these two had
scarcely ever met, so I asked him why on earth he wanted to
send that message to George. The voice answered, " You are
Charlie Mowbray; aren't you?" and on my saying " Yes," it
said, " Well, then, please do what I ask."
I gave George the message, and he could not understand it ;
but when some time later my own sister, whom I had told about
the message, met John's sister and remarked to her how strange
it was sending that message to George, she was surprised to
hear her say that the message must have been intended for her.
Her second name is "Georgina," and her brother had been in
the habit ofcallingher George in private, unknown to other people.
Naturally, I had not understood whom the message was for,
and it is difficult to see why Bertie Fraud gave me the more formal
name of Albert, and why the other message should have been
for " George " instead of the name by which John's sister was
usually called.
The lady in question deeply regrets she did not get the message
in time to act upon it. Had she done so, she believes it would
have saved her from financial loss.
At this sitting, John spoke in his own voice-it used to be
somewhat thick, and the tones were exact. Later, I took another
relative to the Misses·Moore. John came through, but his voice
was not the same. This other person, I suppose, had brought
new conditions with her, and perhaps slightly upset the balance
of psychic forces.
Good Cross Evidence
One day when sitting with Mrs. Mason, Penanne came, and,
after passing the time of day with me, remarked, "You used to
Transition 21
tease me when I was on earth." I told her that had only been
fun, and no harm had been intended. She assented to this, but
told me that now it was her turn, and she was going to have her
fun and tease me.
A little time afterwards, when sitting with the Misses Moore,
the Voice Mediums, a kind ofclicking noise started, like someone
snapping their fingers very loudly. This seemed to go all round
the room-now up in the corner near the ceiling, now close to
the floor, and it continued so long that the Mediums discussed
stopping the sitting, not being able to imagine what this could be.
Suddenly a voice said, "Daddy, I'm teasing you." I said,
" You little beast," and the voice replied, " I am sitting on the
trumpet doing it." I said, "Well, then, bring the trumpet on to
my head and do it." Sure enough down came the trumpet,
resting lightly on my head, and the clicking noise came all
round it.
During all this I frequently continued a conversation with the
two Mediums, to convince myself that they had not left their
seat, and even if they had they knew nothing about the child
and her threat to tease me. No wonder I am not only convinced
·of survival, for an experience like that helps me to realise that
life on the other side is very like it is here, with the same feelings
and joie de vivre.
" The Evil that Men do "
Another time when sitting with the Misses Moore "Andrew,"
their control, informed me that a spirit, who gave his name as
"William," wished to speak to me. He was described as a
"preacher," and was in the same degree of relationship to me
as a grandparent.
From this and the description given, I had no difficulty in
knowing that my great-uncle William was present. I had seen
him once or twice some twenty years or more before, just before
his passing over. He had been a Church of England clergyman.
I have no idea what his doctrinal views were, but I should
imagine that he had been of Low Church persuasion. Anyhow,
he greeted me, and, after passing the time of day with him, the
following conversation took place between us :-
Self : Are you happy ?
William: I am now. (With emphasis on" now.")
Self: Why, weren't you always happy?
William : No.
Self: How's that ? Did you find yourself earthbound ?
William : No, but when I died, I expected to go straight to
Heaven. I found I wasn't there, and I was terribly upset. After
22 Transition
a little time I found out that I had been teaching wrong doctrines.
I had been very dogmatic, and the result was that I had to be
punished. I had to try and make good.
Self : But, surely, if you taught what you believed to be true,
it wasn't wrong of you? "
William : That didn't matter. I had done harm. I know it
was unintentional, but I had incurred a penalty, and I had to
try to undo the harm I had done by trying to influence other
clergymen to preach the truth. I have worked out my punishment
now; and, though I am not in Heaven, I am much happier.
Now this conversation upset my own ideas. I had always
imagined that, if one acted up to one's notions of right and
wrong, all would be well ; but, on thinking the matter over
afterwards, I wondered if my uncle had been slack. Perhaps
he had been too idle to read and enquire ; had he done so he
might have discovered the truth and altered his views, and I
think it must have been for that reason that he had been punished.
I knew he had been very fond of money, hungry for it, and I
daresay he had had to bear the penalty for being like that, too ;
but he never mentioned it. I cannot bring myself to believe that
anyone who really does his best and acts up to his lights, however
wrong they may be, will be punished.
I well remember my father being much amused. He had been
staying with this old gentleman and had got rather tired of his
continual talk of money, money, money. So he remarked to
him, " But I thought you were told to sell all you have and give
to the poor." The old man got very annoyed, and answered,
" Don't be silly-that text doesn't apply to me ! "
Even after he had worked out his retribution, my uncle seemed
to be very obsessed with a very narrow outlook, because he
continued to come to me through several other Mediums, always
telling me the same story-so much so, indeed, that one day I
told him he hadn't changed in the least : he was just as dogmatic
as he had been on earth. I told him to go away and try to advance
a little and not to keep on coming and wasting his time and mine.
The next time I sat with a Medium (Mrs. Mason), " Maisie "
said that " William " was there, but that he was keeping in the
background and wouldn't come near. I felt I had been a brute,
and I asked him to come and chat, but he wouldn't, and he has
never come to me since.
I would only add that it was not through Mrs. Mason that
I had told him to go away and" get on with it," so the incident
turned out to be rather a good cross-test. But I have always felt
sorry I had been so. abrupt with him on that occasion.
Transition 23
CONVINCING EVIDENCE'
Happeni~g to be passing a cousin's house one afternoon, and
thinking I should like a cup of tea, I stopped, and, finding her
at home, I went in.
We sat and talked for a little time, when she remarked, " I
do wonder what happens to one after death. I wonder if there
really is a future life ? " ,
" My dear Betty," I said, "you who go to church always
twice every Sunday, and do so many good works-you, of all
people, doubting." ·
"Well, when one gets older one begins to wonder sometimes,"
she answered.
So I said, "I'll fix you up. I'll take you to a sitting." Rather
to my surprise, she understood what I meant, and, jumping up,
almost shouted, " Do you suggest taking me to a Spiritualistic
seance?" .
"Yes," I said. " Would you like to come?" I was really
astonished when she answered, "I should love to."
Up to then, had I thought about it, I should have considered
that this very conventional lady of over seventy would have been
about the last person in the world who would have wanted to sit.
I had never mentioned Spiritualism to her, and I should certainly
have thought that such a thing would have shocked her. But
there it wa,s. So I promised her to do what I could, and in due
course I met her for an appointment with Mrs. Barke!. Though
it was her sitting, it was booked in my name, and to this day
no one knows who she was or where she came from. I acted
as note-taker.
The sitting was one of the most successful that I have ever
attended. " White Hawk " surpassed himself by giving not only
every name correctly put without the slightest hesitation what-
ever. My cousin's old father came through at once. He had
been in the Royal Navy many years before, and he was des-
cribed as wearing Naval uniform as worn in his day. He said
that he felt like a schoolboy going home for the holidays at the
idea of talking to his " little girl."
At this, " White Hawk " broke in, " Fancy calling you a
' little girl ' " (she is over six feet high), but her father replied,
" She is always ' my little girl ' to me."
My cousiri listened and then politely asked :
"But to whom have I the pleasure of talking?"
Quick as a flash came the answer, "Your old father, Bob
Sutton, of course ; who else did you think it was ? " He then
told her that he had brought all his relations with him, and I
24 Transition
think the old gentleman was·certainly speaking the truth. Her
grandmother, Hanna Jane (name correct), two aunts, and uncles
(full names, quite correct), and several friends all spoke through
"White Hawk," and my cousin chatted with each in turn, just
as if she had been meeting friends at a garden party.
It seemed to me as if the guides were making a supreme effort
to prove Survival to this honest but perplexed woman. They
certainly succeeded, and she has more than once told me since
that that afternoon made all the difference in the world to her.
Her mother ~me and asked her to "forgive and forget," and
was distressed at being told that she was forgiven, but that it
was impossible to forget ; but was finally a little bit. comforted
when my cousin told her she would do her best to forget. I
know that this was a most convinving piece of evidence of a
very confidential nature.
Robert Dilking came-he had been their gardener and had
passed over some forty years before, and the old father told his
daughter that the man was now serving him for love.
Her father sent messages to his granddaughter Jean, whom
he was particularly looking after, but he said he was di appointed
that his other daughter, Margot, had not come to talk to him,
and that she must be told to come next time.
But Betty was surprised, so she told me afterwards, that no
message was sent to their present gardener, who had taken
Dilking's place. He had worked with the father for years, and
the two had become great friends. (Surely telepathy must have
been asleep.)
" White Hawk " then spelt out RIALB, which I wrote down
but could not understand ; and when I told hii? so, he told me
to "hold it up to a mirror." I then realised that he had been
giving me her brother's name, Blair, spelt backwards.
I asked " White Hawk " why he had given it that way, and
he said, " You know I can't read. I only know my letters, and
I must have started the wrong end."
A villager came and thanked my cousin for going to see his
bed-ridden wife and reading " the Book " to her the Sunday
before. He said he had been in the bedroom at the time.
Her uncle (my great-uncle) then came, and after having given
his name correctly (Arthur Sutton), began to talk through the
guide. He spoke about his residence in Nice in his early man-
hood, and then " White Hawk " said, " He says he is running
away from the Coppers."
I told " White Hawk " I did not understand what he meant,
whereupon the remark was repeated, and the guide added, " I
think it was a joke, because he is laughing."
(
t
Transition 25
When we left the sitting, my cousin and I came to the con-
clusion that we had no idea what was meant, but we were
rather amused at the idea of the uncle running away from any-
one, as he had been nearly 100 years of age when he passed over.
My cousin was delighted with her experience, and went home
and told her sister, Margot, about it all, and also her brother,
Blair, but both were very cold-the former said, of course, it
was all telepathy, while the latter knew perfectly well that all
these Mediums were fraudulent.
He was particularly annoyed, I heard, when Betty told him
that her father had said that he was in a higher sphere than her
mother, whiCh incidentally would probably be quite true. Blair
had been the mother's favourite child, and this remark made
him wince. Both Betty's brother and sister were particularly
sarcastic about the old gentleman "running away from the
coppers," and instanced this as an example of Mediumistic
rubbish.
(Of course, it goes without saying that neither of these people
had ever been to a sitting themselves, or taken the trouble to
study the subject.)
Sister's Story
A little time afterwards I showed the notes to my sister,
who exclaimed, when she came to that statement, " Well, that
is about as good evidence as you have ever got." Naturally, I
asked for an explanation, and this is what she told me :-
Some years before she had stayed with my uncle at Nice,
and one day when out walking with him, he had remarked,
"That's where we buried the French flag," and he then told her
that when he left the Navy, at the age of 22, he had gone to live
with his mother, who had a villa in Nice. In those days Nice
was a much smaller place than it is to-day, with only a few
English people living there, but the sympathy of the latter was
entirely Italian, and when the day came and the French took
over the Rivieria, feeling was running high. There was a big
military parade, the Italian flag was lowered and the Tricolour
run up in its place. •
After dinner the flag was still flying, so my uncle, with some
other kindred spirits, went out to remove it, and my uncle
(whose Naval training seemed to make him the best-suited for
the job) was detailed to swarm up the flag-staff and get it. He
had nearly completed his task and was sliding down when one
of his friends shouted, " Look out, the gendarmes are coming."
He got to the ground and took to his heels, but with the flag
in his possession. After being chased through many streets, he
26 Transition
managed to throw off his pursuers and got safely home ; and
when all was quiet again he went out, collected his friends who
had eluded the police, and they solemnly buried the flag at the
spot he pointed out to my sister so many years after.
On bearing this story I immediately went to see my cousin,
who assured me she had never heard of this escapade. I
certainly never had ; the other participants were most probably
dead, and, as far as I can find out, my sister was the only living
person who bad ever heard about it.
" He says be is running away from the Coppers ! " Surely
quite good evidence that "White Hawk" was in touch with
my uncle ; but if our old bugbear bas to be invoked and tele-
pathy is the explanation, Mrs. Barke! must have tapped my
sister's memory many miles away-surely a thousand times more
difficult to believe than the Spiritualistic explanation.
I do not lose sight of the chance that my cousin may possibly
have heard about this adventure years before and completely
forgotten it. It would then have sunk deep into the su conscious
mind. I do not think this probable, but even so, it shows what
wonderful power Mrs. Barke! possesses. As regards telepathy,
it is interesting to remember what Dr. J. H. Hyslop, no mean
investigator, wrote :-
"As I do not regard telepathy as an explanatory hypothesis
at all for anything, and as I contend that there is no evidence
for selective telepathy as a fact, I do not give that theory of the
phenomena any serious consideration whatever."
Some time after this sitting I had occasion to act with Blair
as joint executor of a will. I saw a great deal of him, and I got
to like him very much indeed. I could never make out what his
religious beliefs were. I don't think he was actually an Atheist,
but he loathed churches and parsons and, as far as l know, he
troubled himself very little about the future. A little later he
passed over ; and, at one of my sittings with Mrs. Mason, he
came through, giving me his name in full. I was astonished at
his coming, not in the least expecting him to do so.
I found that he was in a very curious condition. He was not
happy or unhappy ; he was not in heaven or in hell. He kept on
remarking at intervals, " I don't know where I am, I am in a
strange place," and he seemed quite lost. He told me that there
was water there and he could bathe, but the curious thing was
that when he came out of the water he found himself quite dry.
He told me that he liked his smoke, and got it-but it is only
fair to add that when he was on this side he was a non-smoker.
Transition 27
I did my best to enlighten him as to his condition, and, before
he left, he thanked me for allowing him to come. (I had not-
he had just come " on his own.")
He told me that his sister, Elizabeth (sic) would be all right
when she passed over, as she knew about things, but that it
would go hard with Margaret (sic) as " she is like I was, and
knows nothing about the future life."
It was curious calling his sisters " Elizabeth " and "Margaret "
instead of " Betty " and " Margot," the names I had always
known them by. (Telepathy would almost seem to have let us
down again.)
I sent a copy of my notes to Betty, who showed them to
Margot, who, I heard, did not like his reference to herself at all.
It is a pity it did not make her think seriously-the only result
being that it confirmed her telepathic theory.
Betty wrote that she had been to a local Medium. Blair had
come through to her too. He seemed to be in much the same
state as he was when he came to me. She also told me that at
this sitting her mother had come, but she had asked the guide
to get her father for her instead. He wouldn't, because he said
it was important for her mother to talk to her. She needed her
help, whereas her father, who was much more advanced, did not.
There must be many people about like my cousin Betty-it
was only by the merest chance I was able to help her, and it
would be a real happiness to me if I could feel that some of my
experiences should prove to be of assistance to other people
who are in the same state of doubt that she was.
But the old saying seems to be as true to-day as it ever was:
" Even if one rose from the dead, they would not believe."
In this account I have used fictitious names, with the excep-
tion of Blair and Hanna Jane.
While I was preparing this work for the press I heard of '
Betty's passing. I trust she will be able to keep her promise
and try and communicate with me.
28 Transition
"EXCEPT YE SEE SIGNS AND WONDERS "
Evidence that excludes Telepathy
I have found from experience extending back to 1912 that,
as a rule, the people most rabid against Spiritualism are those
who know nothing whatever about the subject, have never been
to a sitting and, if they are inclined to make us any concessions
at all, they murmur the blessed word " telepathy," thereby
imagining that they have put us back into our prop r place.
I can sympathise with them, because I know in my own case
as I have already said, I absolutely derided the accounts of a
series of sittings my sister had in 1912 with Mrs. Wreidt, the
wonderful American Voice-Medium ; and it was not until later,
when I had had some experiences of my own, that I realised
that she had had some very evidential sittings.
I think I went through the telepathy phase, but I cannot
remember ever feeling so perplexed mentally as to try to explain
things away by the " hallucination " hypothesis.
My friend, Admiral X, was no exception to the rule. Spirit-
ualism to him was anathema-so much so that I made a point
of never speaking about it in his presence. I never could imagine
why he was so rabid against it- but there it was ; to his mind
survival was an idle dream and incidentally a very terrifying
fable.
Imagine my surprise when one day he came up to me in my
club and said, " Who do you think is the best Medium in
London ? " I stared at him in astonishment and asked what on
earth he wanted to know that for. " Well, he said, " my wife
would rather like to go to one."
Now, though I had at that time never met his wife, I knew
that he thought the world of her, and he had alway5 told me
that it was she who had all the brains and that she was a very
well-read woman.
I said I would do what I could, that I was going up to the
Psychic College after lunch and would try to book a sitting, and
ask them to communicate with her direct so as to save trouble.
He begged me to do nothing of the kind. " Can't you book it
for a friend of yours without mentioning her name? " he said.
" If anything did come through, it would be so much more
convincing if they did not know who she was.
I told him that it would rather cramp the Medium·s style, as
it would prevent her (having nothing better to do) going round
old burial grounds to see if she could find out something about
his wife's relations ; but I would get the sitting under his condi-
tions if be would promise to believe me if I said her name or
.J
-1
Transition 29
address would never be mentioned. He promised to take my
word for that, and I duly booked a sitting with Mrs. Mason for
"a friend of Major Mowbray."
The day before the appointment the Admiral asked me to
lunch, and I told Mrs. X what would probably happen next day.
J explained who " Maisie " (the guide) was, told her not to be
flustered and to talk to her in a natural manner. I also said,
" Your sitting is at 2.30, be at the College at 2.15 and I will
meet you there."
Next day I saw the lady coming along the street. I opened
the door, took her into the waiting room and told her to keep
quiet. When the Medium was ready, I took her upstairs and
said to Mrs. Mason, " Here is a friend of mine ; give her a good
sitting" ; and then to Mrs. X," I will wait for you downstairs."
"Good," she answered, "come and have tea at our flat after."
About an hour later, I saw Mrs. X coming downstairs-
crying ! So I remarked to her, "I see you have had a good
sitting." She answered," It was wonderful, but I want to collect
my thoughts, so let us go to the flat quietly.
We walked along in silence, got up to the drawing-room,
where the Admiral was sitting over the fire. He looked up and
asked in a half-mocking voice, " Well, did you get anything ? "
I will try and give the conversation I listened to as nearly as I
can remember :-
" Donald came."
"Nonsense," said Admiral X.
" He did. He talked about the wound in his chest and the
gash on his head, but then he talked about a bandage round his
throat, which, of course, he' never had."
"Oh yes he had," said the Admiral. "They performed
tracheotomy, but it wasn't successful, and he died a few minutes
later-I never told you about it to spare your feelings."
An Explanation
I then asked for an explanation, and they told me that
" Donald " was her son. When he was ten, he had been riding
his bicycle, it got out of control down hill, he ran into a milk
cart, the shaft pene.trated his chest and his head was badly
injured. He was picked up, taken to hospital and died there a
few hours later.
At the sitting, he remarked to his mother, " When you come
over here I shall have to appear to you as a little boy. You know
I am grown up now and am 30. You would not recognise me if
you saw me as I am now."
30 Transition
Mrs. X told us that her father had come-she ha.cl not in the
least expected him, as they had not been on good terms. He
gave her good evidence of identity and thanked her for letting
her brother have some of her spare furniture (which was true).
Then Mrs. X told us that a woman friend had come, who gave
her full name. She had died and her husband had married again
within three months. Mrs. X and others had been horrified, and
thought the widower had been heartless, but the first wife told
her that she was delighted her man had re-married, because he
was so lonely and so badly wanted someone to look after him.
She had added, " You know he is really mine, and will always
belong to me when we are reunited."
This was so opposed to Mrs. X's ideas that for her it ruled
out telepathy. She told us that several other friends of hers had
communicated, but 'I forget details.
And the result of this sitting ? Admiral X became almost a
missionary, and he told me, "You know, my wife is ultra-
truthfuJ. I know when she tells me anything it is the absolute
truth. I don't understand these things, but to my mind survival
is a fact. I shall not worry-I shall know all about it when I
go over."
I might add that a little time after his wife's sitting he had
persuaded a woman friend to sit with Mrs. Mason, and he told
me that the results were, if possible, even more concJusive than
those obtained by his wife.
Much to my regret he passed over a short time after this, but
at the next sitting I had with Mrs. Osborne Leonard, some two
months after his death, he came through to me.
He proved his identity to my complete satisfaction-in fact
I never have had better proof of spirit return than he gave me.
Unfortunately, a great deal of what he told me is of such a
confidential nature that I cannot publish it. I showed my notes,
however, to two mutual friends, one of whom is a complete
sceptic.
After reading them they both agreed that there was no doubt
whatever that Admiral X had returned.
Admiral X told me that what I had done for him had helped
him enormously when he passed over, and he added that my
thoughts had helped him too.
A few minutes earlier, another friend had also come. He had
passed over a fortnight after X. He told me that he had only
heard a little about Spiritualism (I had never spoken to him
about it). He knew practically nothing about another life, and
the result was that when he found himself on the other side,
he was very bewildered, and discovered that he had a great deal
.J
Transition 31
to learn. He now realises how important it is to know something
about the " equipment and the geography " of the next stage of
existence before one arrives there. He is doing his best to learn
as quickly as possible, so that he can be in a position to help
others when they come over.
This friend did not actually give me his name, but Feda said
it started with "B," and "B " was something to do with his
career. " B " was something he did. He used to work at figures,
something to do with accounts, counting up and books." Other
details were given, and I had no doubt whatever that I was
talking to my friend Brown, who had been in a London ·bank
and had passed over a fortnight after X.
An Extraordinary Sequel
The sequel to this is extraordinary. I was talking to General
Kemp about our mutual friend X, and he told me he thought
he had come to him through Mrs. Abbott. I told him about my
sitting with Mrs. Leonard, and when I mentioned Brown he
became intensely interested, because Brown had actually come
through to him at the same time as he thought X had come. He
had given his name-this time in full-occupation, and details
of his passing, which he stated had been a fortnight after the
other's death. All this he described in almost the same words
as he used to me through Feda.
General Kemp had never met Brown. Nor had he ever heard
of him.
Evidently these two friends of mine had met for the first time
in Mrs. Leonard's seance-room at Tankerton. They knew
nothing of each other on this side. It would almost seem that
they had struck up a friendship there and, knowing that I should
probably hear about General Kemp's sitting, Brown had come
with his new friend as a further proof of Survival, and at the
same time giving an excellent cross test..
Telepathy cannot account for this, and I don't think General
Kemp suffered from hallucinations ! (Alas, he has now passed
over.)
My talk with these two friends has, of course, confirmed what
,I have so often heard before- that knowledge of psychic matters
is of paramount importance when we pass over. One tries to
learn always, but I often have in my memory the sarcastic
remark of an old uncle, after he had passed on : " You think
you know a great deal, but when you come over here yon will
find that there are certain things that even you don't know."
If only people could realise that the more they learn here, the
easier it will be for them there, they would hardly be like a dear
32 Transition
old man I know who shouted out, when I told him l was going
to address a spiritualistic meeting : " Bah ! all Mediums are
frauds, and we are forbidden in the Scriptures to have anything
to do with them."
Before my sitting with Mrs. Leonard, I was speaking at a
meeting at the Tankerton Lecture Hall, and found my elf on the
platform with Mr. George Swift, who gives auric clairvoyance
in addition to ordinary clairvoyance. I thought him exception-
ally good, as did those he picked out in the audience-some
dozen people who, without exception, agreed with what he told
them. I was particularly struck when he told a lady that there
was a man standing by her who had been a very keen angler,
and who used to bore people to tears at dinner by telling them
his fishing yarns. " Do you recognise him ? " asked Mr. Swift.
"Oh yes, I do," she replied," it is my father." I questioned her
afterwards, and she told me that the description was typical of
her parent, who had never come through to her before, and was
therefore entirely unexpected.
HELPED BY KIND THOUGHTS
I once had a letter from an old brother officer of mine, in
which he mentioned that another officer in our regiment had
" come through " to him. I was greatly interested to hear this
because he had already been through to me. It had happened
like this.
At one time I was in the habit of sitting with Mrs. Barkel
once a week. She never went into trance. Sometimes we sat in
red light, sometimes in complete darkness. I used to sit facing
her, nothing between us, and genen:Jly held her hands. We
used to await developments and I was seldom disappointed.
Some ofthe things which used to take place were extraordinary.
I remember once the very disagreeable and unmistakable smell
of ectoplasm came, followed by strong psychic breezes. I
amused myself by asking these winds to blow on different parts
of my body- left ear, right arm, back of neck, etc.• etc. They
always responded to my requests. At another time lights seemed
to flash between us, and when we sat at a table it jumped about
as if alive. Once a globe of luminosity was formed above our
heads which worked itself into the semblance of a face, but
immediately dissolved itself. One day " Hugh's " wife, whom
I have mentioned before, said to me that she had never seen any
physical phenomena which she was quite certain was genuine.
I said, "Well, come along with me next week when I sit with
Mrs. Barke!, we never know what is going to happen, but you
may see something interesting." She was delighted to accept,
Transition 33
and that day we just sat at a table in good red light. The Medium
and I sat opposite each other, while she sat at the head, no one,
of course, being opposite her. After a little time the table seemed
to come to life and start tipping backwards and forwards between
Mrs. Barke! and myself. My friend, wishing to make quite sure
that we were not faking, asked the table to tilt from her end to
the other ; it immediately responded, thus proving to her satis-
faction that neither Mrs. Barke! or I were responsible for the
movement. What was the intelligence behind these movements ?
I wish I knew.
One day, when sitting in the dark, a globe of dull luminosity
seemed gradually to build up in the far corner of the room ;
and, thinking that light had got into the room from outside, we
turned up the lamp to investigate, but found the seance room
was quite dark, so we resumed our sitting in darkness. The
luminous globe again appeared after a few minutes.
Half jokingly I asked, " Is that a spirit-light ? " when, to my
amazement, three loud raps were given, which seemed to come
from a table on the further side of the room. I found out by
means of questions-the answers being given by raps-that this
was an officer of my regiment who had been killed in the War.
He said he was neither happy nor unJ1appy. I asked if he could
rap out his name, and I got "Willie." Not being able to place
him, I asked for his surname and got M--.
Now, Major M-- had been a great friend of mine, but he
had always been known by his nickname of Doodle, and I had
never thought of him by any other name. (Surely our old bug-
bear would have given the nickname ; what tricks Telepathy
seems to play !).
I then asked if there was anything I could do for him or if he
would like a message given to anyone, but he replied, "No."
I then asked him to move the light round the room. It immedi-
ately started slowly travelling, stopped and vanished.
Some six months later, when sitting with Mrs. Mason,
" Maisie" informed me that "Willie"' had come to thank me
for what I had done for him. I replied, " My dear old man, I
have done nothing for you. You said there was nothing I
could do." But " Maisie" answered, "He says you have given
him kind thoughts which have helped him."
Some time ago I was sitting with Mrs. Leonard, and had
taken a lady down with me to take notes. A relative of this lady
had been killed in an accident, when suddenly he came through
to her. My note-taker whispered in my ear, " Ask him if what
id in Edinburgh was any good to him." I had not to ask the
'on, because Feda replied at once, "Tell her it did him all
c
34 Transition
the good possible. It seemed to give him a kind of anchorage to
hold on to ; it seemed to clothe him .in a kind of spiritual
garment. Ask her if she can find time sometimes to go up to
her room and concentrate on him for a few minutes, instead of
giving him those rather nebulous thoughts. It would help him
more."
When I came out from the sitting, I asked my friend what she
had done in Edinburgh, as I had no idea. She replied, " I gave
his name in to a church to be specially prayed for at Holy
Communion on All Souls' Day." Well, some time afterwards
I was passing a church and happened to look at the notices
outside, one of which read as follows: "Next Sunday, 6.30 p.m.
Preacher, the Vicar. Subject, Holy Communion." A moment
afterwards I ran into the Vicar himself, whom I know quite well,
so I stopped him, and said, "I see you are preaching on Holy
Communion-now here's something to tell your congregation,
and confirm what I am sure you are going to preach about."
I then told him about this sitting. His reply was interesting.
It was, "Of course, that's what one would expect." And then,
pulling himself together, he added, " Of course, I don't accept
that real communication came from a spirit. It was just due to
telepathy from the lady." One would have thought that he would
jump at the idea of being able to confirm the church's teaching
by this, to my mind, rather beautiful message.
Telepathy. What a bugbear this word is, and what a refuge
for people who dislike the idea of spirit communication.
Kind thoughts and prayers are, I take it, identical-prayers
for the dead. Would our good Bishop of London, I wonder,
consider we had " dishonoured " our friends ; that all this had
been a " waste of time " or that we had been in touch with
" unpleasant spirits ! "
SUBALTERN'S MEMORIES
Gaps which Telepathy should have filled
I once had a sitting with Mrs. Mason which puzzled me quite
a lot. After the Medium had become entranced, her guide,
Maisie, suddenly said, "Arth= is here." 1 said, " You must
give me something much more definite than that. Arthur is too
common a name. Maisie replied, " That's his surname," so I
. said, " Well, what's his Christian name? " Quickly the answer
was given, N-- or M--.
Now this was becoming interesting, as a subaltern in my ow
regiment, M-- Arthur (the names are fictitious) was kille ·
the War in 1916. So I said, "Maisie, if that is M-- A
Transijion 35
ask fu if he remembers passing me in Cairo just before the
War, when I was marching my Company on to the range for
musketry?" Answer: "He says he was riding an ass." I
said," Good; ask him what he said as he passed me." Answer:
"He says he said, 'March at ease.'"
This was excellent, so I said, "Ask him what e was carrying
in his hand." But he couldn't remember, and eventually said
it was a stick.
Now the facts are as follows. On this day, M-- Arthur
had been on butt duty for another Company, and was going
home by himself. He was riding a donkey holding an umbrella
over his head, and as he passed me he laughingly said, " You
may march at ease, Captairi Mowbray." As this officer was a
good many years junior to me, this remark was, to say the
least, unusual ; and, of course, carrying an umbrella (he was in
uniform) was outrageous.
Thinking this might have been due to our old friend Telepathy,
and that the power had gone so that the Medium couldn't read
the word " umbrella " in my mind, I subjected him to a further
test and said, "Ask him if he can remember the cheery evening
with old D." Maisie replied, "He is laughing so," and then
described how he was putting on a woman's hat and cloak. He
couldn't remember anything else, so I gave him a lead and asked
him about a chair, but after a great deal of fumbling he said he
had sat on it.
Now for the facts. One day old D. had come into the mess
and, seeing Arthur, had said, " Doing anything to-night? "
"No." "Well, come to dinner and have a cheery evening."
Arthur's fate was sealed, and unwillingly, he had to go. Next
morning he amusingly described the evening which had started
as dull as ditchwater, but when the lad had got to the port
stage, he remembered that he had been asked to a " cheery
evening." So, when going out of the dining-room into the
drawing-room, he saw a woman's hat and cloak on a peg, and
he put them on and went into the drawing-room, roaring like
a lion. The hat and cloak belonged to old D.'s mother-in-law,
who objected to their being worn by an inebriated young dfficer,
and tried to seize them. Arthur dodged and tripped against a
small chair, and sat on it and broke it, and the evening ended
even more dully than it had begun.
Now, the question I have often asked myself is this : "Why
did he get the donkey, the 'march at ease,' the hat and cloak,
and not remember the umbrella and breaking the chair ? Tf it
was Telepathy, he should have got the lot, and I have always
thought that all this came from the lad himself.
36 Transition
Some time later I happened to meet Mrs. D-- in London,
and told her about this sitting. She asked if Captain Arthur
had remembered breaking her chair ? It is curious that the' thing
which had impressed her most had entirely slipped Arthur's
memory.
A little time later I ran across a brother officer of mine who is
very ·interested in psychic matters, and in the course of our
conversation he asked me if Arthur had ever come through to
me, because he said he had heard that he had come through to
J-- C-- in India. I had to wait two years before I met
J-- C--, and could ask him if he had been in touch with
Arthur since his passing. He then told me that about once a
year he and his wife tried what he called " Ragging table-
turning." "Arthur always comes, the table tilting out his name
in full- my wife then gets the wind up, so we stop it."
Arthur has been through to me once or twice since, but he
doesn't seem to have anything particular to say, he just seems
to want to pass the time of day, but I am very grateful to him for
having given me one further proof of survival of bodily death.
He wasn't a particular friend of mine, and I never in the least
expected him to try and communicate with me, in fact, .I had
hardly ever given him a thought. I imagine that he must be a
very strong communicator, and as I was probably one of the
few people he knew who attended sittings, he seized the oppor-
tunity of doing what he could, with excellent results-more
power to him.
I got a very shrewd investigator to read over this script. He
made the following observation on this sitting, which I think
so interesting that I quote his remarks in full.
"Arthur, holding the umbrella over himself, would not be
impressed with a memory of it anything like so forcibly as were
you who looked at it. It was visual with you; and therefore
perhaps a stronger recollection than that of Arthur's. Similarly,
the broken chair would mean so much to its owner and polite
persons who heard the story. To the culprit, who was not quite
sober at the time, it might leave little impression. l notice that
the things that stand out in memory are not the same for various
members of the crowd present on an occasion ; one remembers
this and scarcely recalls that, another remembers that and
scarcely recalls what is so vivid a memory to the other. I have
proved this myself."
CROSS-COMMUNICATIONS
Cross-Communications are ver; evidential, and I quote the
two following cases which impressed me very much. I have
Transition 37
Lady Rawlinson's permission to relate the first. I know General
Cummins very well indeed, and I am quite certain that his mind
would never have evolved the expression "damned cheek" as
coming from his old chief.
It must be over nine years since I took General Cummins
to his first sitting. The Medium was Mrs. Barkel, who had never
set eyes on my fi;iend before, and did not even know his name.
After giving some really excellent evidence, " White Hawk "
remarked, "Rawly is here and wishes to speak to Cummins."
The General said, "I knew Rawly, what does he want to say
to me?"
The "White Hawk" said, "He sends his Jove to Arthur."
But my friend did not understand ; so " White Hawk " said,
"Arthur B--," and then added the surname in full, and said,
" He says, ' He is very sentimental, carrying my photo about
in his breast pocket.' "
This was quite good, as this man had been on the Commander-
in-Chief's (General Rawlinson's) staff. General Cummins after-
wards wrote to Arthur B-- to tell him about the sitting and
to enquire whether he did in fact carry the photo about in his
pocket ; but he has never to this day had any reply from him.
Some two months afterwards, however, at another sitting with
another Medium, Admiral A. B. C-- was told that Rawly
wished him to tell Cummins that "A.B." was silly to be annoyed
at his letter. This was quite unintelligible to the Admiral,
because he had never known Lord Rawlinson, nor did he know
about the first sitting or the letter that had been written to
Arthur B--. He took it that "A.B." applied to him, being
his first two initials ; and it was not till he had delivered his
message to General Cummins-who explained things to him-
that it all became clear. I have had to alter two names, or,
rather, one name and two sets of initials, as one person in the
link would not like his name published ; but it does not affect
this wonderful cross-evidence.
After other messages, " White Hawk" said, " He says it was
like your damned cheek to send him, Commander-in-Chief in
India, home second class. If he had been awake you would not
have dared to do it."
This, at the time, was Greek to me, but when we came out of
the sitting, my friend explained that, as G.O.C. troops at Bombay,
he had had to arrange for putting the body of the late C.-in-C.
on board a transport for burial in England, and that the second-
class smoking room had been turned into a Mortuary Chapel.
So Lord Rawlinson had travelled second class-a fact which, I
take it, very few people knew-certainly not Mrs. Barkel or myself.
38 Transition
Major-General H. S. Cummins writes as follows, " I was
present at the sitting referred to and can confirm the accuracy
of Major Mowbray's statement, including that part of it con-
cerning Admiral A. B. C-- and myself."
When I was a small boy my father started calling me" Toby."
At the first sitting I ever had with Mrs. Leonard, he came through
and addressed me by that name. Feda remarked, " Toby-
that is a nice name- I will call you Mr. Toby. Next time you
go to another Medium I will come and call you that, it will be
a good test." I said, " Good, I am sitting with Mrs. Barke!
next week; you come and do it, it will be a splendid test."
Now, as far as I can remember, Mr5. Barke! became ill ;
anyhow the sitting never took place. But a little later on, I
went to Mrs. Mason. Suddenly Maisie said, " Feda is here ;
she is saying, Toby-Toby-Toby. What does she mean ?"
I have always been glad that the Barke! sitting did not take
place, otherwise some people might have said that Mrs. Leonard
had told Mrs. Barke! what to say ; but as things turned out,
Feda got her test through a different Medium, and one with
whom, at the time the promise was made, I had no idea I should
be sitting. Incidentally, I never for a moment thought I should
get this test through Mrs. Mason, and had quite forgotten the
promise.
I might add that Mrs. Mason did not know Mrs. Leonard,
and at the time when these sittings took place they had never
even set eyes on each other.
The whole sitting interested me enormously as contributing
to evidence for Feda's separate existence, a point contested by
most of my S.P.R. friends.
A .STRANGE COINCIDENCE
In the year 1909, I was home on leave from Malta, and went
down to Messrs. Vickers' works at Erith for a course of Maxim
machine-gun. The firm treated me with the greatest courtesy ;
the course was excellent, and in 1914 I blessed my lucky stars
for having gone through it. I used to lunch with the staff each
day, generally sitting opposite to Sir Hiram Maxim, who was
then a director of the company. ·
Now, Sir Hiram was much opposed to religion in every way,
and his favourite topic of conversation used to be against the
Bible and the reality of God. At my last lunch, I somehow felt
it was up to me to take up the cudgels against him, with the
result that we had a most heated argument and perhaps tempers
got a bit frayed. The last thing he said to me was, " Some day
something may happen to you-some little thing which will
Transition 39
show you what nonsense you have been talking, and then you
will be convinced that there isn't a God."
So I said, "Well, you know it is just possible that something
may happen to you which will make you realise that there is
one." He replied, " If ever I discover there is one, I will let you
know."
I never saw him again. He died some time before 1920.
Now for the sequel. About the year 1920 I bought the Evening
Standard, and a heading read something like this, " Strange
Spiritualistic Seance ; Sir Hiram Maxim purports to speak ;
he says : There is a God."
A strange coincidence, no doubt-but I know wh((n I read it
I turned cold all over-it seemed exactly like a voice from the
dead. Coincidence-was it?
GETTING NAMES
After I had convinced " Penanne's " parents that their child
was very much alive on the other side of life, they booked a
sitting with Mrs. Barke] and invited me to come along with them
-an invitation which I was very glad to accept.
Poor Penanne was in rather a difficulty. Since her passing,
she has taken to calling me "Daddy." Now she found herself
confronted with her real father and myself at the same time,
but she solved the problem by calling her father " Daddy " and
myself " Daddy Charlie."
After one or two minor incidents, " White Hawk " said,
" There is a spirit here who gives his name as Fred ; he says
he is a man, but I don't know what he means." However, he
quickly found out, because, after muttering, "Fred, man," once
or twice, he gave the name "Manfred" correctly-this being
the lady's uncle, who had passed over some time before.
Manfred, " White Hawk " said, was particularly anxious to
send a message to " What funny people you are, having a month
for a name: August, August, A., Augusta." (This was Man-
fred's second wife, who was still on this side.)
The message was that Augusta was not to oppose their son's
wish to go to America ; if he went out there he would do very
well indeed. Manfred then added that he wanted her to know
that he was with Julia.
I heard afterwards that this part of the message was not very
much appreciated, as Julia was Manfred's first wife, whom he
had divorced.
The son did go out to America soon after the message had
been delivered to his mother. I do not know how far she was
influenced by it, but in the end she gave her consent, and in a
40 Transition
short time he got an excellent job out there, which, in spite of
the slump, he has retained ever since. He is now married and
doing very well indeed.
At this sitting " White Hawk" gave the father news of his
brother who had gone abroad some years before and had never
been heard of since. The Guide suddenly came out with his full
name, and said that he had died in Australia, giving the name
of the town, and stated that he had left a considerable sum of
money which had never been claimed. My friends were much
impressed, and said they would take steps to verify this informa-
tion. Not knowing quite whom to write to, they let the time slip
by and now, death having intervened, it is too late. What a pity
they let this chance of verification and, perhaps, getting a fortune,
slip by. What a wonderful test it might have been.
How does " White Hawk " get these names through ? Some-
times he seems to get them straight away, but sometimes he says
he sees them written up in front of him, and at times he reads
the letters backwards. (I have already described how he got
" Rialb " for " Blair " at another sitting.)
Once I was sitting with a friend whose wife came through ;
and when speaking about their son, " White Hawk " gave his
name as Bird, "for you have a picture of it on your ring."
Now the boy's name was " Dick," and the father's signet ring
had a pelican engraved on it. In this case, "White Hawk"
seems to have seen the name as a picture.
Feda, Mrs. Leonard's guide, has once or twice traced a name
out in the .air, using her Medium's finger to write with. Now
and then with this Medium the name is given by the direct
voice. With Mrs. Barke! I have had names spelt out by raps on
a table.
I remember, when sitting with Mrs. Barke! with another
friend, his nephew came, and at first " White Hawk " seemed
to be completely baffled by his name-and in fact it was not
until a second sitting that " White Hawk " got it through ; but
he got it in the end, when it proved to be an old Saxon name
I had never even heard before.
DREAMING INTO THE FUTURE
Many years ago, a connection of mine, Captain Vesey, R.N.,
came down to breakfast one morning and told his old mother
about a very vivid dream he had had. He said that he seemed
to be walking along a road in Southsea (where he lived) and had
seen a naval funeral passing. When the gun carriage came
opposite him the wind seemed to blow the ensign back from the
coffin, and on the plate he read his own name with the date of
Transition 41
his death, which was in about a fortnight's time. He laughingly
remarked, " I think they might have given me a little longer
to live."
Well, he contracted influenza, which developed into pneu-
monia, and he died on the date he had seen on the coffin.
As he had been a Captain in the Royal Navy, and had at one
time commanded the Royal Yacht, Queen Victoria (it was many
years ago) sent down a special order that he should be given a
naval funeral, to which he was not entitled in the ordinary way,
as he was on the retired list.
I was a child at the time, but I remember very well hearing the
story. The death warning seems to have been in vain, as far as
one can tell, as being in perfect health at the time of the dream,
he did not take it seriously.
Of course, it's just possible that the details of this dream may
have sunk into his subconscious mind and actually brought
about the illness which caused his death. We know what extra-
ordinary power the mind has over the body, as evidenced by
the phenomenon of stigmata.
As we have so much evidence for supernormal occurrences it
is far wiser never to accept that explanation until we have
exhausted every other poss\ble cause.
SPONTANEOUS CLAIRVOYANCE?
In 1917, I had a job with a Cadet Battalion training young
officers. We were stationed at Parkhurst, in the Isle of Wight,
and we had men in every walk of life whom we tried to turn
into efficient second-lieutenants in the shortest possible time.
In one batch, we had a man who had been a conjurer in civil
life. He was absolutely first-rate, and before the war he was
continuously employed on the music halls. Unfortunately, I
cannot recollect his name after all these years, but if he is still
on this side of life and this happens to meet his eye, I would be
grateful to him if he would get in touch with me through the
Editor of Light.
One day, we were inspected by a very distinguished General
from the War Office ; and after the inspection, wishing to put
him in a good frame of mind, as he was staying the night, we
asked the conjurer to come to dinner in the officers' mess and
give a performance. There were some twenty officers present,
with the General and his staff. ·
The show went off without a hitch, the General was delighted,
and incidentally the Battalion got a good report !
Before turning in for the night, we were having a round of
drinks, when the General told us that one of the most extra-
42 Transition
ordinary things he had ever seen was on a voyage out to India.
Bertram, the well-known conjuror, was on board and read a
message in a .>ealed envelope.
" Oh," said our man, " I think I could do that. Write a
message on a piece of paper-don't make it too long-and seal
it up. Write two if you like and put them into different
envelopes."
The General went to one end of the room, where there was a
writing-table, and did as requested. In the meantime we had
taken our man to the far end, which was quite twenty yards
away, and made sure that it was quite impossible for him to
see what was being written.
The General came back to where we we:re and placed the two
envelopes on a table. Our man picked up the first, placed it
against his forehead, and said "You have written so-and-so"
which we found exact when the envelope was opened. He
didn't touch the second envelope, but he told us what was
written, which we found to be correct.
There could have been no question of trickery, as the experi-
ment only took place as the result of casual conversation. Was
it a case of clairvoyance ? Or did our man mentally suggest to
the General what he should write ? I think it was the former.
A SEQUENCE OF THREES
A few hours after my father's death, I was told that it would
be better if my mother did not see him again, so I carefully
locked the door of the room where he was lying and kept the
key in my pocket. ~
Next morning, I was working in a room under his-one of
my sisters and a nurse were with me, all of us being busy with
various occupations. Suddenly, the three of us were startled
by hearing three loud raps on the floor of my father's room.
We all looked up, and I remember my sister remarking that
someone must have got in there.
I immediately went upstairs, unlocked the door and made a
minute search of the room, but found nothing whatever which
could account for the raps in any way. I went downstairs. We
discussed the matter and then settled down to our occupations
again.
Now, in the room where we were sitting was a large oak
book-case, about 12 feet long and 5 feet high, full of books and
weighing a ton or two. I had noticed a fortnight or three
weeks before that someone had picked up three chestnuts
(conkers) and put them on top of this book-case, where they
had remained ever since. Suddenly I heard a noise, something
Transition 43
dropping on the floor, and found these chestnuts under the
dining-room table-" dropping " is a wrong word, it was much
more as if they had been thrown down. I picked them up and
went out and got a level to see if the book-case was leaning
outwards at all, but found it perfectly true. There had been no
heavy lorry passing ; and, even if there had been, it could not
have shaken the chestnuts off, as the house stands a good way
back from a quiet road.
After the funeral (which took place on a rainy day in late
autumn) my sister went up to my father's room to see that it
was in order and, while standing by the side of the bed, felt
three soft pats on the top of her head. Thinking that a slate
must have come off the roof and rain had come through, she
got a light, expecting to see a wet patch on the ceiling, as the
three taps had felt just like rain dropping on her head, but the
ceiling was perfectly dry.
What seemed curious to me was the sequence of threes :
three raps, three chestnuts, and three taps ; three generally
meaning in table rapping "Yes." I got the impression that my
father had been trying to say, "Yes, all is well."
CAN TELEPATHY EXPLAIN THIS CASE?
Spiritualism, like so many other subjects, is bristling with
difficulties. So often we seem to come up against a stone wall
and can find no explanation of our perplexities. The following
is an example of what I mean.
I had inherited some books from my father, and these I had
placed in a certain shelf in a book-case in the smoking-room
in my house at Cambridge. One day, about three months
before I moved from there, I had taken these books over to my
mother'i; house, leaving the shelf completely empty.
In the meantime I had arranged a sitting with Mrs. Garrett,
the well-known trance Medium, and I sat with her about three
weeks after I had moved the books. After a time, Uvani, her
Arab guide, said he would give me a book test. He then des-
cribed my smoking-room most accurately, giving the exact
position of the book-case, and said if I would look on a certain
shelf, "Where you keep your father's books," take the seventh
from the left, open it at page so-and-so, and I should then find
a certain sentence.
A moment afterwards he gave me another book-test- this
time telling me to look at a certain page in a book with a green
cover, which was lying on top of a pile of books on a wooden
box near my chair, and on which I was in the habit of placing
44 Transition
papers, etc. On my return home I found this test 100 per cent.
accurate.
Now, I had only been given this second book three or four
days before ; it had been sent to me by the Infants' Hospital ;
I had taken it out of the brown paper packing and put it down
without, as far as I can remember, opening it.
So my difficulty is this : When Uvani got the impression about
my father's book, it must have been at least three weeks before
the sitting ; but, when he got impressed with the second one,
it could only have been a day or two before. Why did he not
make a correction when the book had gone ? The whole thing
seems very puzzling, and I have never yet had a satisfactory
explanation given me. Once I was told that it was quite simple
-the astral bodies of the book were still in the shelf- but I
have still to learn that books have got astral bodies. Fancy
being haunted by the ghost of a book of irregular French verbs !
When Mr. Drayton Thomas most kindly read through my
script he made a suggestion, which I quote verbatim : " One
book test was selected some weeks earlier and held in memory
until a sitting gave opportunity for putting it through to you,
the later test being selected on another of the Communicator's
explorations. The same kind of thing has happened to me, and
my father says that he may go several times to inspect the book
from which he takes the tests." Mr. Drayton-Thomas has made
a speciality of getting these book tests, so his suggestion should
carry considerable weight. His father, of course, is on the other
side and is his chief communicator.
A GREAT PSYCHOMETRIST
The evening before I sat with Frau Plaat, the psychometrist
I asked my daughter to give me something she bad worn
constantly to take to the sitting. She suggested a slave bangle,
which I thought would answer my purpose admirably, and I
told her to wrap it up in brown paper, put it in a large envelope,
and seal it. This she did, and she then brought me some Egyptian
mourning beads which I had got in Thebes from a first-rate
dragoman and which I had every reason to believe were genuine
and not made in Vienna, where so many of these so-called
curios used to come from in pre-war days. These she wrapped
up in exactly the same way, and I put a small mark on the outside
of this envelope so that I could distinguish it from the other.
Next day I had the sitting, the Medium remaining seemingly
quite normal. I began by placing on the table the envelope
which I thought contained the bangle. Frau Plaat picked it up,
but immediately dropped it, remarking, "You have brought me
I-
Transition 45
something very horrible ; it belonged to an evil woman who
has been dead a long time."
" I answered, " I don't know if she is an evil woman or not,
but I do know she was alive this morning."
The Medium picked it up again, but again dropped it, saying,
" She is dead ; she had been dead a very, very long time."
A Fortunate Mistake
I then examined the envelope and discovered that quite
inadvertently I had given her the wrong one and that she had
handled the one containing the beads !
I said I was sorry I had made a mistake, " I think she is dead."
Whereupon Frau Plaat said, "Of course she is. She has been
dead for ages. She used to live in a country over the seas, further
away than France or Germany. She was a dancer. She belonged
to a religion that is not our religion. I can see her dancing in a
huge temple with enormous pillars." (Great Temple of Amon
at Karnak ?) She then described her face, form, colour of her
hair, height, etc., giving me a most vivid picture of a.very pretty
woman.
Here Frau Plaat put her two hands together and posed exactly
like the figures one sees in ancient Egyptian scupltures, and
added : "She died in great agony at the age of about forty,
from a disease peculiar to women." .
Now, of course, there was no way of verifying the Medium's
statement, but she most certainly described an Egyptian dancing
girl, and it is quite likely the beads had belonged to one who
lived three or four thousand years ago.
I was so glad I had muddled up the envelopes, as, under
the circumstances, it would be difficult to put this down to our
old friend telepathy !
I then gave Frau Plaat the envelope containing the slave
bangle. After having given an excellent character reading of
the owner, she said : "She has a bad leg," but gradually located
the hurt to the ankle. She told me that there had been " rub-
bing " which had done no good, but in time it would get all
right again.
Now, my daughter had hurt her ankle at winter sports in
Switzerland, and it had given her a lot of trouble.
Other people who tested this Medium got equally good results ;
and if my memory serves me right Mr. Stanley De Brath, the
well-known investigator and writer, was given a remarkable
demonstration of this Medium's power.
Later, I had many talks with Frau Plaat, and she told me of
46 Transition
the good work she had done in a foreign capital when working
with the police tracking down criminals.
Mrs. Osborne Leonard also possesses the power of psycho-
metry, and she once gave me a striking example of it. I was
having tea with a friend one day. There was also present a
lady who was almost a stranger to me. In the course of a
general conversation I happened to mention that I was going
to Tankerton next day, and on being asked why I was going
there of all places, I said that I was going to a sitting. This
aroused interest (incidentally, I have found that most people
are interested in Spiritualism even if they say it is all nonsense).
I talked a little to this lady, who then said she would be so
grateful if I could find out the future for her. I noticed that she
was wearing a valuable diamond ring. I asked her if she would
trust me with it and, on her agreeing to, I made her wrap it up
in brown paper and then seal the whole up in an envelope.
Next day, when the sitting was in full swing, I handed the
unopened envelope to Feda, who said, " The owner of this ring
is very unhappy. She is going to be separated from her husband.
She really wants to marry another man, but she won't be able
to do that because he is already married. She will get her
separation, but I see no happiness for her." As far as I knew
she was living happily with her husband, but within six months
she had got her separation and then she told me that it was
quite true about the other man.
HAND WITH BENT FINGER
"Fraud, Telepathy." How often we hear these words applied :!
to physical and mental Mediums, and one wonders how far
they are justified.
Mrs. Bayliss ·was a physical Medium who was reported to
have very strong power, so I determined to have some sittings
with her. These took place at the Marylebone Spiritualist
Association, and at each there were some eight to ten persons
present, the sitting.being held in complete darkness.
·we all linked hands, and after a short time sitters declared
that they were being touched by bands ; sometimes three or •
four people reported this at the same moment.
After this had been going on for some time luminous slates
floated round the circle. These were used to light up materialised
faces. When the slates came opposite to me I distinctly saw the
face of a man-it was extraordinarily like my father as he was
when be was about forty. (He bad passed over at eighty.) I
have a photograph of him taken when he was about this age,
and the face I saw seemed to be the same, but of course it is
Transition 47
extremely difficult to recognise something so dimly illuminated.
A little time afterwards a child's face came, and I distinctly
saw the lips move and utter the word" Daddy."
Now my little friend Penanne had started . calling me
"Daddy," though she was no relation of mine, and I am
positive that the Medium neither knew me nor had ever heard
of this child-again I could not swear to the likeness, but it was
most remarkable being addressed as "Daddy."
I determined to have another sitting, which Mr. Hawken,
the secretary, kindly arranged.
This time I took with me a lady, whom I introduced as "a
friend." I am quite certain that no one else in the room was
aware of the fact that she had lost a well-beloved daughter
about six months before. I sat next to her in the circle, and
when the lights had been put out, I placed in her hand a blank
card and a pencil which I had brought with me. After a short
interval she whispered to me, " The card and pencil have been
taken out of my hand " ; and ten minutes later she added,
" The card has been put back into my hand." Immediately
afterwards the pencil was placed over my right ear, with no
fumbling whatever. When the sitting was over and the lights
,turned up, I took the card from her hand, and on it was scrawled
in childish letters her little girl's pet name.
At the same sitting, a great-uncle of mine spoke who had
passed over (at the age of 97) a few months previously. I had a
little talk with him and remarked : "You must have been
surprised when you died and found yourself still alive." His
answer was extraordinarily characteristic of the old man : " I
have never been dead yet-and, what's more, young man, you
think you know a great deal, but when you come over here you
will find that there are things that even you don't know ! " This
is exactly the sarcastic remark my uncle would have made.
I then asked him to do something for me-to show me his
hand, but the only reply I got was a grunt. A little time after-
wards a hand came round the circle, lit up by a luminous state.
The fourth finger was bent double. Now, in life, my uncle
suffered from rheumatism, and the fourth finger of his left hand
was doubled up against his palm and could never be straightened.
It was for this reason that I asked the old gentleman to show
me his hand.
I might add that the hand I was shown in no way resembled
the Medium's. My uncle had long tapering fingers, and Mrs.
Bayliss' fingers were fat and podgy, and incidentally I am
absolutely certain that no one in the room knew of this
rheumatic deformity.
48 Transition
At this same sitting a very beautiful hand floated round the
room at the same time as a voice kept on saying, " What a
noosance, what a noosance."
Now this is a very favourite expression of "Feda's," Mrs.
Osborne Leonard's guide, and this seemed to indicate that this
hand had something to do with "Feda."
Sometime later, when sitting with Mrs. Osborne Leonard,
" Feda " remarked to me that she had once shown me her hand.
Be this as it may, this well-kept, beautiful hand was as dif-
ferent from the Medium's as day from night. I carefully
examined Mrs. Bayliss' hand after the sitting, and most decidedly
it was not her hand that had been shown.
Now a short time after these sittings Mrs. Bayliss was
"exposed" by the late Mr. Dennis Bradley. I believe he sud-
denly turned up a light-the Medium was found out of her
chair and her psychic career ended.
I am well acquainted with Mrs. Bayliss' whole history, yet I
am convinced that, at any rate, at these sittings her Mediumship
was genuine, but I suppose, like so many of these physical
Mediums, she held too many sittings ; the temptation to earn
money was too great and, her power failing, she " helped
things out."
Now, I do not think that I am particularly credulous, and I
have turned down several Mediums in the past. Probably, had
I been at ,Mr. Bradley's sitting I should have agreed with him,
but I do think that these sittings tend to show how very careful
one must be before condemning anyone, though, of course,
there is no excuse for fraud.
A PHYSICAL MEDIUM
It was at a seance with Lewis, a Welsh miner, that I obtained
the photograph of the strange bat-like looking object which I
will soon describe under the heading of " Photographing an
Elemental."
At one time Lewis used to come to London fairly often and
hold seances at the Psychic College. I think I attended practic-
ally all of them, and I used to take flashlight photos at these
sittings.
For some years now I have lost sight of him, but I trust that
he is still in the land of the living, or perhaps I should say " on
this side of life."
We always used to examine him most carefully before the
sitting, and devised various methods of securing him firmly to
his chair ; but I think by far the most satisfactory method is
the "surgeon's tape," one to be described later on.
Transition 49
Lewis always used to sit outside the cabinet, but there was a
table inside it on which were placed various toy musical instru-
ments, a luminous tambourine and a skipping rope, the latter
for the benefit of one of his guides, a child. If I remember
rightly his chief control was a West African Negro.
Sittings used to take place in complete darkness and he
required loud singing, led by Mrs. Lewis, who was always
present, and whose voice was most powerful.
Of course, objection may be taken to this continual singing
as serving to prevent one hearing any suspicious movements
of the Medium, but in the case of Lewis we never noticed
anything suspicious and, had he attempted fraud, I think the
photos would have revealed it.
At intervals his guide would ask for the red light to be put
up, so that the Medium's ties could be examined. We always
found them intact. Care was always taken to control the
Medium's wife by the sitters on either side of her holding her
hands.
When conditions were said to be good the musical instruments
would rise from the table, leave the cabinet, and float about the
room. When they were "up," I have heard three or four of
them being played at the same time. It used to be quite a pretty
sight to see the levitated tambourine moving about the room,
and I was on several occasions able to get good flashlight
photographs of it in the air.
To my mind the interesting thing about these photos was that
the edge of the tambourine invariably came out sharp. One
could see that the luminous dots on it had moved through quite
an appreciable arc. As the flash only lasted one-fiftieth of a
second, it proved that it was spinning quite fast.
Many times I got someone to sit in the Medium's chair and
throw the tambourine up into the air, taking a photograph in
exactly the same way as I did at the seances. The result was
always the same. The tambourine used to come out lozenge
shape. This seemed to prove that the Medium hadn't himself
thrown it up (I am assuming that to do thi5 he had got out of
his ties for the time being), because it would have been more or
less stationary when the photo was taken.
After the " flash " the tambourine used always to drop on
to the floor.
I think with Lewis we used to witness true levitation.
But to my mind the most interesting part at these sittings was
the apparent passing of matter through matter.
After Lewis had been seated in his chair and securely bound
we used to take a thick length of sewing cotton and bind and
D
50 Transition
seal one end to the arm of his chair. The other end was then
tied round his thumb, threaded through an engraved visiting
card, fastened round his other thumb and finally secured and
sealed to the other arm of his chair.
After the sitting the card was nearly always found on the
floor-quite intact-with the seals on both ends of the cotton
unbroken.
From an investigator's point of view these sittings were quite
interesting, but they never got one any " forwarder." But, in
my opinion, the same can be said about all physical sittings.
They do, however, rouse interest in the newcomers, and, in this
way, doubtless serve a purpose.
PHOTOGRAPHING AN ELEMENTAL
I was sitting with this same Lewis when I had a curious
experience.
I had arranged two cameras to take flashlight photos of
"happenings " (it was a dark sitting), and one of my cameras
was fitted with a quartz lens, which allows the ultra-violet rays
to be registered on the plate, not cutting them off in the way an
ordinary photographic lens does. (Vita-glass is made of quartz,
which acts in the same way.)
Suddenly the Guide shouted "flash," which I did, and he
then remarked : "You have something very extraordinary on
that plate."
Directly the sitting was over, I took my plates up to the dark-
room and de\leloped them, and I found on one that had been
taken with the quartz lens something that I can best describe
as looking like a bat, and this on the plate that the Guide had
remarked about. On the other plate, taken at the same time by
the same flash, but with an ordinary lens, there was nothing out
of the way.
As Mr. Hewat McKenzie happened to be in the building at
the time, I took the negative, wet as it was, to show him ; and,
after examining it, he asked me if I had moved my cameras,
and on my replying in the negative, he suggested tM t I should
put fresh plates into the slides, go down with him to the seance
room, and take some more flashes, his idea being t see if the
bat-like figure was due to reflectiory or anything of that sort.
I took three or four more flashlight photos, but found nothing
out of the way on the negatives when I developed them.
The whole thing seemed a mystery, but I printed a copy of
the " bat " and stuck it in my book with my other psychic
photos, and the matter passed from my mind. But Ii ten to the
sequel.
Transition 51
About two years later, a friend came round to see me one
evening to say that two people who were staying with him
would very much like to see my photos, and could he bring them
in ? Of course, I readily consented, and he introduced them as
a Judge of the High Court in Sierra Leone and his wife.
They turned over the pages of my album until they came to
the bat-like photo, when the lady remarked, " I say, you have
got an ' Ibudo ' here." The judge examined it carefully through
a strong glass and said," Why, yes, it is." And he then explained
to me that an ' Ibudo ' is the kind of totem sign the witch
doctors hang outside their huts in the Gold Coast, and he
added : " I have seen dozens of them."
Now, this is the extraordinary thing. Lewis's Guide is
"Sambo," a native of that part of the world ; and ever since
that evening I have always thought that I got the photo of some
elemental who helps him in his practices. If an elemental has
higher vibrations than we have, then it would be possible that
the quartz lens would catch them, but they would be unable to
pass through the coarser glass. _
Do the witch doctors see these elementals ? They would, at
any rate, seem to be aware of their existence, otherwise how
comes it that they have these totems as a sigi;i of their magic ?
Lewis' Mediumship consists chiefly of telekenesis, the playing
of musical instruments and what would appear to be the passing
of matter through matter, and it would almost seem that in his
case the elemental is employed to bring these things about.
Probably " Sambo " was a witch doctor and the 'lbudo' was his
"familiar." We are dealing with unknown powers, and it
behoves us to be very careful of what we are doing.
I might add that I have taken scores of flashlight photos at
seances, but this is the only time I have been told that I had got
something extraordinary on the plate, and is the only time I
have ever had anything of the sort.
AN APPORT MEDIUM
I have had several sittings with Lynn, the Newbiggin miner.
He was quite willing to undergo any tests we liked to impose,
and the results were always most satisfactory. I took several
flashlight photos of apports actually arriving, attached to the
Medium by ectoplasmic rods. _Copies of some of these photo-
graphs are reproduced jn this book.
To give an idea what these sittings were like, I will describe
in detail the first one I had with this remarkable Medium. I
travelled North to Newbiggin with the late Mr. Hewat McKenzie,
who was good enough to leave the precautions against fraud in
52 Transition
my hands. The circle consisted of Mr. McKenzie, Mrs. Lynn,
two miners with their wives, and myself.
I took Lynn out into his bathroom, stripped him quite naked
and made a minute examination of his body, combing his hair,
taking out his dental plate, giving him a drink of water, making
him gargle, looking behind his ears, etc., etc., absolutely satisfy-
ing myself that it was quite impossible that he had anything
concealed upon him.
I then put him into a shirt and pair of trousers, and finally
into a black alpaca sack with a tape round the top, which I
pulled tight round the Medium's neck, tied it, and sealed it with
wax. (At one sitting, in addition, I securely tied his arms to his
thighs before putting him into the bag. Though we got the results
just the same, I did not repeat it, as Lynn complained, as well
he might, of the discomfort.)
I then led him into the seance room and put him in a chair
in the cabinet which, in the meantime, had been carefully
searched by Mr. McKenzie.
No one, except Mr. McKenzie and myself went near Lynn
after I had brought him into the room, which was well lighted
by a small oil (white) lamp. In front of the cabinet was a small
table on which rested a metal tray.
MEDIUM IN A DEEP TRANCE
The Medium went into deep trance ; taps were heard on the
tray, and then the table started sliding about the room. I got
up and stood over the table, satisfying myself that no strings or
other contrivances were being used. The Guide then told me to
put a zither on the table ; and when I had done this, it started
to play. I again got up and stood over it- the light was quite
good enough for me to see the strings being actually moved by
some invisible means, and I felt a strong circular breeze on the
top of the instrument. (At another sitting I was fortunate
enough to get a flash-photo of the playing harp, which disclosed
an ectoplasmic rod plucking the strings.)
A photograph of this is reproduced. I have never been able
to make out what the ring in the Medium's nose is. Like the
rod plucking the zither strings it was invisible to the human
eye. It may be a case of transfiguration.
After this, the Medium went into even deeper trance, and
then the apports arrived, generally falling on the tray. Many
consisted of a pile of sand, some soot, sea shells, lumps of coal
and other articles that I have forgotten. At a subsequent sitting,
something like two dozen different articles arrived- a teaspoon,
a pen knife with both blades open, ten curtain rings, a large
Transition 53
fish-hook, etc., etc., and this after the most minute search of his
body we could think of.
One time, when taps were coming on a tray which had been
placed on a table, J got up, stood over it and attempted to put
my hand on the tray so that the taps would strike it ; but they
always avoided it. It seemed almost as if they had eyes and were
determined that I should not feel them. Photographs of these
ectoplasmic rods making these taps are reproduced.
When Lynn came to London, I asked the editor of a well-
known magazine to attend a sitting, and this is what he pub-
lished later :-
" Spirit photographs have always been particular objects of
attack by sceptics ; and, before publishing Mr. Shaw Desmond's
article, I made up my mind to see for myself. It was my first
experience of a seance. I myself assisted at the searching of the
Medium. I manipulated one of the three cameras that were set
at different angles round the seance room.
" I left the Psychic College with curiously mixed feelings.
To say I was ' converted ' is perhaps going rather far, but I
was certainly amazed."
Lynn is certainly a wonderful Medium, and I feel sure that
those who have sat with him will bear me out that I have under-
rather than over-stated the happenings which take place in his
presence.
As these sittings take place in such a good light the objections
which we all have to " dark" sittings are removed.
LIFELIKE MATERIALISATIONS
I was delighted when I was asked to go to a test materialisation
sitting with Guy L'Estrange, of Great Yarmouth, as I had
always wanted to see this kind of happening. So, one afternoon,
the late Mr. Cotesworth Bond and I went down to Norwich,
where it had been arranged for the sitting to be held. Besides
our two ~elves, Mr. Maitland (Norwich), the late Dr. Lamond
and two local people formed the circle.
Mr. L'Estrange was very anxious to undergo any test we
liked to impose, so we started by not only making a minute
examination of the seance-room, but of the adjoining rooms as
well, even taking up the linoleum and satisfying ourselves that
there were no hidden trap doors or other contrivances-installed.
After stripping and examining the Medium, we led him into
the seance room, and securely fastened him to his chair by means
of surgeon's tape, crossed with blue pencil marks which would
indicate the slightest degree of movement.
54 Transition
In addition to this, I tied a cord securely to the Medium's
left wrist and held the end in my right hand in order that I
should know if he bad got out of his ties and was trying to
move about the room. We locked and sealed the door and also
the windows.
We then formed a circle. I sat next to the cabinet on the left
of the Medium, Mr. Bond sat in the middle, and Dr. Lamond
on the right of the cabinet.
I placed the sitters in such a way that they were being con-
trolled by Mr. Bond, Dr. Lamond and myself. Hands were
linked and the light extinguished, the sitting taking place in
complete darkness. It should be noticed that my right hand
was free to hold the cord I mentioned.
After a little time, taps were heard and the luminous trumpet
moved about the room. After this had gone on for some time
one of the luminous cards, which were used for lighting up
objects, rose from the ground where it had been placed, floated
about the room and finally fell at my feet. I immediately
stretched out my legs and formed a kind of wall round it with
my feet. I thought that if there was any fraud going on and
someone was lifting the card with his or her hand, if they tried
to do it again, I should feel their hand against my foot.
I remember thinking that the card would stay where it had
dropped until the end of the sitting. A few minutes later,
however, it quietly rose and tapped against the ceiling. Up till
then I confess that I had been rather bored with the whole thing,
but when this happened I became very much more interested,
as I could not see that it was possible that this had been accom-
plished by normal means. ·
Suddenly the luminous aluminium trumpet, which was
floating about, dropped on the cord I was holding, snapping it.
The Guide immediately asked me to go into the cabinet to mend
it. Some of the sitters protested that if I did this it would quite
likely upset conditions and end the sitting. I po inted out to
them that it was possible that the Guide knew more about
conditions than they did; but they remained so averse to my
doing so that I gave in to them, because while the Medium still
remained securely bound, I had my right hand "fn:e. As it
turned out I was very glad I had.
A few minutes later I suddenly saw the figure of an Arab
standing close to me, made visible by the light of two luminous
cards that were slowly lifted up from the figure's feet to his
bead. The man seemed to be perfectly formed, clothed in a
long flowing robe and wearing sandals on his feet. As I gazed
Transition 55
at him, the cards dropped to the ground and I suppose he
disappeared.
After a short interval the cards were turned to the floor and
lit up the body of a naked child some two years old. The cards
fell to the ground and then Mr. Bond informed us that a baby
was sitting on his knee. He told us that he had his arms round
it and that it was gradually drawn upwards and seemed to pass
through his clasped hands.
This gave me an idea, so I asked the guide if I might touch
the next figure that came alorig, and permission was granted.
So when the figure of a nude young woman stood in front of
me, J passed my right (free) hand over from her waist up until
it rested on her head. She felt exactly like a normal woman-
including the breasts, which seemed perfectly firm and well
formed, as I saw quite distinctly by the light of two luminous
cards-but her temperature must have been well over 100 deg.,
and had she been "alive," I should have said she had a very
high fever. While my hand rested on her head, it gradually
melted away and she had gone.
My point in mentioning these details in this case is that the
Medium, being a man, it was impossible for him to pass himself
off as a nude woman-even had he been able to get out of his
ties, which were found intact at the end of the sitting.
Several other figures came, and I handled them all. One
seemed to melt away from the feet upwards, and sank lower
and lower, as if it were going through a trap door-which made
me glad I had taken up the floor covering at that very place and
had satisfied myself that nothing of that sort existed.
One figure put the slates against my face and peered into my
eyes, giving me a most eerie feeling.
Each figure seemed quite natural ; and unless I was hyp-
notised, I am certain that the sitting was genuine. In fact, I had
only seen what had been reported to us in London by other
sitters, and what I had come from London to see.
At this same seance, I passed my hand along the arm of a
young man who had materialised in front of me ; it felt quite
non;nal, though warmer than I would have expected it to be.
When I got to the elbow, the rest of the figure vanished, leaving
the forearm suspended in the air. I passed my hand round and
round in it all directions to find if there was anything supporting
it, but discovered nothing..
Just before the end of the sitting, the Guide told us .that he
had placed the Medium on the mantelpiece, which was on the
further side of the room, outside the cabinet, and that he had
intended to allow us to put up the red light so that we could
56 Transition
see him for ourselves, but the psychic forces were so delicately
balanced, he said, that any light would be a danger to the
Medium, so we must take this on trust. But, presently, I felt
something slowly passing me, and, putting out my hand, I felt
the .form of a man floating in a horizontal position and, as far
as I could judge, about three feet from the ground. l am quite
certain that the form was unsupported by any material means,
and I believe it was actually the Medium being taken back to
the cabinet.
I should have mentioned that, before this, there had been
the sound, which seemed to come from the direction of the
mantelpiece, of a falling, and the Guide told us that the Medium
had fallen. He seemed to be no worse for the mi adventure.
I heard later that, at another sitting, the red light had been
put up, and on the mantelpiece there was seen lying a small
figure which closely resembled the Medium-but only about
half his size. As I was not present I cannot vouch for this, but
I think my informant would confirm what I write.
Unfortunately, Mr. Bond and Dr. Lamond are no longer on
this side, but Mr. Maitland, I am glad to say, is s1ill with us,
and I am sure he will bear me out in everything I have said. In
fact, I know that he has seen other more wonderful things with
this Medium, as I believe at one time he was a ·regular sitter in
his circle.
Light published the account of this sitting, and the next week
they also published the following letter from the Rev. R. W.
Maitland, whom I mentioned as present that night.
A Puzzling Experience
Sir,-I well remember the materialisation sitting to which
Major Mowbray refers in his article in Light of October 17th.
It was held at the house of the stalwart worker in the cause of
Spiritualism, the leader of the Christian Spiritualist Church in
Norwich.
A curious incident which occurred on that occasion has often
puzzled me since. I suddenly felt someone sitting on my knee,
whether man or woman I could not tell, but I was able to feel
up the warm, moist backbone of a naked living body, freely
perspiring, until I came to where the head ought to have been-
and there was none. Arid yet, the body was obviously alive.
The weight, slight at first, afterwards increased rapidly until it
became so heavy that I felt my leg would give way under it, and
then suddenly it ceased to be.
It has often occurred to me since that it was probably intended
as a demonstration of the artificial nature of an ctoplasmic
Transition 57
body. A head was not required at the moment, and therefore
there was none.
It was at this sitting too, ifl remember aright, that Dr. Lamond
had the contact with his daughter, Kathleen, which he after-
wards described in one of his books.
Darsham Vicarage,
Suffolk. Rowland W. Maitland.
I was very glad to have his confirmation of what I wrote
about this wonderful experience with the further curious incident
added:-
J remember at the time Dr. Lamond telling the circle that
" Kathleen " was standing in front of him. As he was sitting on
the further side of the cabinet from me I did not see her myself,
so did not mention the incident in my Light article.
The account I have given sounds, I know, so strange that
readers, I realise, will find it difficult to believe. Every word,
however, is true. I am quite sure that there was no imposture.
After the sitting we, of course, examined the Medium, fou11d
all his ties intact, the door and windows still sealed. I only wish
Dr. Lamond and Mr. Bond were here to add their testimony
to Mr. Maitland's.
A SITTING WITH" MARGERY"
Readers can imagine with what delight I opened a letter from
Dr. Crandon bearing the Boston postmark, in which he told
me that he and " Margery " would be in England shortly and
would be giving a few sittings, and asking if I would care to
form one of the circle. My pleasure was further increased after
the Doctor's arrival in London, when he informed me that he
hoped I would be present at all of the sittings.
Actually only three sittings were held in London, at each one
of which J formed one of the circle ; and as comparatively few
people have had the opportunity of being present at a "Mar-
gery " seance, I will describe one of them for the benefit of my
readers.
Most people have heard of the Crandons, but for the benefit
of those who have not, I will just mention that Dr. Crandon
is a highly successful surgeon in Boston, U.S.A. " Margery "
is his wife-a very gifted physical Me<;iium ; whose guide
"Walter " is her brother. He was killed in a railway accident
some years ago. Dr. Crandon has spent almost a fortune in
investigating his wife's mediumship. " Margery " is absolutely
non-professional, and they would both be horrified if there was
a question of offering her a fee for her services.
58 Transition
I do not suppose at any time that there has been so much
controversy over the genuineness or not of any other Medium,
in fact, I believe at the present time spiritualistic circles in
America are divided into Pro and Anti "Margerys." Without
taking sides I am only going to relate what I saw, but I have
always asked-if she is fraudulent, then why on earth are the
Crandons wasting so much time and money with no apparent
benefit to themselves. I believe many of Dr. Crandon's patients
are Catholic, who are averse, or should be, to calling in a
Spiritualist. He certainly doesn't stand to gain by h:is notoriety
-very much the reverse. But to proceed:-
The circle consisted of some dozen persons and included well-
known investigators, scientists and medical men ; and as the
object of our sittings was for test purposes, every precaution
was taken.
After we were all assembled, the first thing we were asked to
do was to test the voice " cut-off " machine, which consists of
a bent glass tube in the shape of a " U " with a mouth-piece
fitted at one end. The tube is half filled with water, with two
luminous corks floating on the surface on either side of the tube.
Under normal cpnditions, these corks are, of course, at the same
level ; but when a person takes the mouth-piece into his mouth
and blows, one cork becomes depressed and the other rises to
the same extent, remaining in that position until he opens his
mouth to speak, when, air entering into the tube, the corks
immediately return to their level positions.
We all blew into the apparatus and tried to talk, keeping one
cork depressed, but found it quite impossible to do so.
During the sitting, if it is desired to test the Medium,
"Walter," the guide, brings her out of trance and she makes
the test herself, but the voice goes on talking with renewed
energy, thus proving that the Medium herself is not responsible
for it. Dr. Crandon told us that several hundreds of people
have tried the same test with the same result.
It was a matter of regret that during these sittings there was
no time for " Margery " to give us a demonstration of this
herself, but one can fully accept the testimony of the many
people (with some of whom I am personally acquainted) who
have been present at various times when the Medium has
undergone this very convincing test.
" Margery " was led into the seance-room by a well-known
lady doctor, who had previously examined her and satisfied
herself that nothing was concealed on her body ; she had then
dressed her in a one-piece seance garment. The Medium was
placed in a chair and secured to it by adhesive tape, bound round
Transition 59
her wrists and ankles and marked at the crossings with blue
pencil which would indicate the slightest movement on her part:
A kind of halter was passed round her waist and secured to the
back of the chair. This was all done under the supervision of
two medical men who were responsible for guarding against
trickery.
Lights were then turned out, and the room was in darkness
except for a small red light over the notetaker's desk. The
Medium speedily became entranced. "Walter" indicated his
presence by giving his ·usual whistle, and told us that the first
thing he wished us to do was to put any objects we liked into a
basket which was to be handed round for the purpose, and he
would then describe them and say to whom they belonged.
This was done and the basket placed on a table in front of the
Medium. In every case " Margery " correctly described the
various objects which, at the same time, were thrown on to the
ground.
What Dr. Crandon called the " luminous doughnut " was
then placed on the table, and after a few moments it started
floating round the room. When it came opposite me, I distinctly
saw a kind of claw holding it, and, as I was sitting some feet
away from the Medium, I was quite satisfied that she could not
have been responsible for the movement.
The sitters were all linked up by holding hands all round the
circle, and remained so during the whole of the sitting.
Before the seance had started, two flat dishes had been placed
on the table in front of" Margery "-one containing cold water
and the other ready to receive hot water (which was being kept
at the desired temperature in a kettle under the table), and
dental wax on which it was hoped that " Walter " would impress
his thumb-mark. This wax had been given to one of the investi-
gating men the day before, and he had cut a series of notches
in it so that he would easily be able to identify it.
"Walter" then instructed the two investigating officers to
form a smaller circle by holding hands inside the outer one,
which had already been formed in the same way. The inner
circle also held the Medium's wrists. Hot water from the kettles
was poured into the empty dish and then the marked wax was
placed in it to get it soft.
After a minute or so, we all heard a sound of splashing water,
and then " Walter " ordered the red light to be put up, and it
was found that the wax had been transferred from the hot water
dish to the cold dish, and on examination it was found that a
thumb-print had been impressed upon it. This proved not to be
the " Walter " thumb-print, nor the M~dium's, nor anyone's in
60 Transition
the room. It belonged to some strange person, believed to be a
woman, who but has, I believe, not yet been identified.
I should like to emphasise that from the time the marked wax
was placed in the first dish until it was taken out of the second
one, " Margery's " wrists had been held, in additi n to being
secured by the surgeon's tape, as already described-which, inci-
dentally, showed no sign of movement at the end of the sitting.
Of course, I was only an observer, and not responsible for
the control of the Medium, and have only described what I saw
and heard, but if the testers did their work properly (as I have
no doubt they did), then the question of fraud could not come in.
After the thumb-print had been made, " Walter " requested
us all to leave the room, with the exception of the lady doctor
and an assistant ; but after a short time we were called back,
when the former informed us that while she was bending over
the entranced Medium, " Walter " spoke, and his voice seemed
to come from some six feet above and to the side of " Margery "
-this in full red light.
The lady doctor commented upon the unusual physical state
of the Medium, which had the greatest significance in proving
supernormal activity. The particulars were not permitted to be
published, but I can at least say this : that these particulars
alone convinced me of the genuineness of the thumb-print.
I also attach the very greatest importance to the fact that the
" inner circle " had held the Medium's wrists while the thumb-
print was made ; and, so that there could be no possible doubt
about this matter, I rang up one of these investigators and put
the following question to him :
" Did you and the other investigators, or did you not,
hold ' Margery's ' wrists when you formed the ' inner circle '
when the thumb-print was being made ? "
The answer he gave me was : " We held ' Margery's '
wrists during that time."
In view of this evidence, I fail to see how " Margery " can
now be accused of fraud ; but as charges are always being made
against her, I am only too glad to put my conviction into print.
I have only described in part one of the three sittings I
attended, l:mt the others were most interesting, and I shall
always be grateful to Dr. Crandon and his charming wife for
allowing me to see for myself what I had so often read about.
I should just like to add that, after the sitting, one of the
investigators distinctly informed me that he could only account
for the happenings by inferring that super-normal means were
used ; but in the cold, grey light of the next morning, I believe,
he became more material and changed his mind.
Transition 61
A POLTERGEIST INVESTIGATION
Some ten years ago most of the evening papers and some of
the morning ones were full of strange happenings in a house not
fifty miles from a Midland town. It was stated that pictures
had been thrown down from the walls, furniture moved about
-in a locked room and crockery smashed. In fact, the Poltergeist,
if the disturbances were caused by one, had done most of the
things which a well-trained plotergeist should do. The house
was inhabited by a man and his wife with their only child, a
boy of about fourteen. He was the son, so we heard later, of
the first wife, who had died of cancer a few years before. The
family did all their own house work. After these disturbances
had gone on for some time, their nerves had become somewhat
frayed. So the father wrote to the late Mr. Hewat McKenzie
for advice. He answered the letter by return, telling him that
at the time he was very busy, but that he would come to them
the following week provided the disturbances still continued.
He impressed upon him the urgency of letting him know at once
if they ceased. Ifhe did not hear to the contrary he would arrive
on a certain day. One knows, of course, that in these poltergeist
cases the manifestations are apt to be intermittent, and naturally
he did not wish to waste his time if he was not going to see
something.
Having asked me to go with him, we set off one beautiful
summer's morning by car, Mr. McKenzie driving. By the time
we had arrived at our destination I think my nerves must have
been as shattered as those of the people we had come to see.
(People who have been driven by Mr. McKenzie will know why !)
However, we did arrive at our destination, only to be met by
the man with the remark that he was sorry we had come, because
nothing had happened in the house for some days. " Then why
hadn't he written to stop us corning," we asked. "Oh, I thought
my wife had written and she thought I had, but, any way, one
of us would have written to-day," was the unsatisfactory answer
we got. However, here we were, so we thought we would stay
the night, especially as we had arranged for Mrs. Eileen Garrett,
the trance·Medium, to come next day and hold a seance in the
house.
We sat up most of the night playing cards with the family
in order to relax any tension there might be. The poltergeist,
however, refused to oblige us, and we turned into bed about
three o'clock.
In the meantime Mr. McKenzie had closely questioned both
the man and his wife, and from the answers that were given he
62 Transition
came to the conclusion that here was a case of true (:>oltergeist
haunting. For instance, pictures, etc., had always f1 lien after
the boy had passed, never before him. No one had ever actually
seen an obj~ct start to move, though they had seen t em in the
air. We were told about the usual stones being thro n at them,
though they had never been struck by one. One day the boy
had got into a 'bus in the neighbouring town. Immediately one
of the plate glass windows was cracked. Once whe entering a
dance hall the electric lights had at once gone out. (Later we
found out from the electric light company that there had been
no other failure of the light that evening, and we als found out
from the keeper of the hall that, strange to say, the fuses had
not been blown. He told us that he had been \ ery puzzled
himself by the occurrence. He added that aftet some five
minutes or so the light had suddenly come up again. He had
rung up the electric power station but they had replied that there
was nothing wrong, and told him to look to his fust!s).
Next morning we had to get up fairly early t meet Mrs.
Garrett. We then went back to the house and had sitting with
her as Medium. Besides our two selves, the man and his wife
were present.
It was a strange sitting, and after the Medium had become
entranced, " Uvani," her guide, told us certain things to do
with the man and his wife. These were of such confidential
nature that I cannot relate them here. The gist of his com-
munication, however, was that some years bef: re the man's
first wife had been suffering from a fatal disea e from which
she had died. A nurse had been brought in from a local hospital.
In the meantime the man had engaged himself to marry his
sister-in-law when he was free to do so. On the ife's death the
nurse had got the widower to break off his engagement and
marry her instead. Of course, the sister-in-law was furiously
jealous. She had lately died and found that somehow she had
power over her nephew to use him to annoy the second wife.
While all this (and more) was being told us lby the guide, I
watched the couple's faces, and ifever a face gav4 a person away,
that woman's did. She listened intently, blushed crimson and
then got deadly pale. Mr. McKenzie reasoned with the sister-
in-law's spirit, telling her that she was doing no good and
hindering her own advancement. He begged her to leave the
boy alone. (After all, it wasn't his fault, he said) and try and
find something useful to do. "Uvani" promised to try and
help her. Though the woman was full of revenge, at last she
consented to do what was required of her. I think she must
have kept her word, as we never heard anything more of the
Transition 63
manifestation. The man and his wife seemed very glad to see
the last of us ; though when we came out from the sitting, they
owned that what we had heard was true. None of us had ever
heard of these people before, except what had appeared in the
papers, but nothing about their private lives had been published.
Of course, I do not rule out the chance that Mrs. Garrett
may have tapped the couple's subconscious minds, but that she
did get the facts leaves no doubt whatever.
It was wonderful the way Mr. McKenzie used to take charge
of a sitting, and, if necessary, reason with the spirits. He must
have had a great deal ofpower himself. I remember one morning
so well, after attending a sitting with him in the North ofEngland.
He had asked the Medium to come and see us in our hotel and
give us a short sitting as he wanted to question the guide. The
Medium sat down and went into trance, which wasn't deep
enough for Mr. McKenzie's purpose. So he got up, stood over
the Medium and made passes downwards over his head, with
the result that the Medium became cataleptic. " Oh," he
remarked to me, " I have put him too deep." He then proceeded
to make reverse passes until he had got him into the condition
he wanted.
A great investigator was Mr. McKenzie, and his passing a
great loss to the movement. I sometimes have a chat with him
nowadays through the Mediumship of Mrs. Osborne Leonard.
GHOSTS
I have often been asked if I have ever seen a ghost. While
I have heard strange footsteps and loud knocks in a haunted
house, and even been touched by, what I believe to have been,
a ghostly hand ; yet I have never actually set eyes on one.
My first experience was many years ago when I was on leave
from India. Having been asked to stay with some friends to
play in a tennis tournament, I went down to their house, not
far from Ascot, where I found a jolly house party assembled.
The house, which had been in the family for many years, had
originally been an old inn. It had been added to more than once,
and at the time of my visit, though somewhat rambling, had
been turned into a commodious residence.
The first night I went off to bed after having spent a cheery
evening, and was soon asleep.
Suddenly I woke up with a start. I heard footsteps in the
corridor outside my room, which I took to be another of the
visitors going up late to bed.
The strange thing was that I was in an unreasonable state of
fright. I felt clammy with perspiration and was trembling all
64 Transition
over. I switched on the light and reasoned with myself that I
wasn't a child to be frightened of the dark. I don't tnind con-
fessing, however, that I didn't like the idea of being i,-i the dark
again ; so I kept my' light burning for the rest of the night, and
eventually I dropped off to sleep again.
Jn the morning, at breakfast, my hostess asked me how I bad
slept ; and on my telling her that I must have had nightmare
and bad " got the wind up " because I had woken up hearing
someone walking along the passage, she remarked, '· She hasn't
been heard for two years, I thought she was laid."
She then told me that the house was haunted by the ghost of
an old lady wearing a " Paisley " shawl. She had been seen on
several occasions in the part of the house where m room was.
Some time before my visit an officer of Marines, t whom the
daughter was engaged to be married, bad come to stay. He
contracted typhoid, and for a Jong time was deliri us. During
his ramblings he used to complain of an old woman in a
"Paisley" shawl sitting by his bedside. He was occupying the
room I had slept in, but on account of his delusions (?) had to
be moved into the other wing of the house.
My hostess insisted, in spite of my protests, on changing me
into the other wing too, but I don't rrlind ownirtg that I was
very glad really that she did.
When I had gone down to stay with these peoJ)le, I had had
no idea that the house was haunted.
My only other experiences of this nature starte<l in 1927, and
were continued on and off for about four years.
I had received a very advantageous offer for my house in the
country, so deciding to accept it, I rented a house about seventy
years old in Cambridge.
A fortnight after settling in, a sister of mine came to stay,
and on the first morning after her arrival remarked to me that
she believed the house was haunted. I told her not to talk
nonsense. She said that in the night she bad heard a noise
outside her room. She described it as like a hard ball dropping
from stair to stair. Thinking it must be the cat playing with
something, she had listened for some time, and then got up to
investigate outside her room. The sounds had ceased and there
was no cat about, but when she had got back to bed they had
started again. I felt concerned, because I hate rats, and I thought
that perhaps there were some in the house whidh had made the
noise, though I rather hoped it had been due to water in the
pipes. I soon found out, however, what was tl1
1
e real cause.
A few nights after this I was awakened by a distinct, sharp
smack on my back. Next morning I told my wife about it, who
Transition 65
suggested that it was probably due to lumbago, from which I
had been suffering. I refused to agree, as I had had too much
of it not to recognise the pain. When the slap was repeated a
few nights later she told me to knock off my whisky before
going to bed, so I decided to keep my own confidences for the
future. My joy was extreme a little while later when she told
me one morning that she too had been smacked on the back in
the night. I murmured something about "whisky and soda,"
but she failed to see any humour in my remark.
A short time afterwards I had to go to my dentist, who asked
me how I liked my new home. When I told him that I believed
it was haunted, his only reply was to call his wife, and when she
had come into the room, he said to her, " Tell him what you
said when you heard that they were going to live in that house."
She hesitated, so I said," Its all right, I know." So then she told
me that she had remarked to her husband, "I wonder how long
they will stay in that haunted house." I soon found out that it
was well known to have a ghost, but no one had warned me
about it, and until I had experienced these manifestations I had
no idea whatever of its reputation.
Soon the disturbances increased. Night after night my wife
and daughter used to hear footsteps on the stairs, heavy knocks
on the floors, and once a visitor declared that she woke up with
a start in the night and saw a face looking at her. My family
became really frightened. No more was now said about lumbago
or whisky. Jn the meantime I had rid myself of the annoyance
of being smacked in the night, as once when it had happened
I turned round and snarled out, " What the h-- did you do
that for." I do not know if my language shocked the ghost or
not, but in any case the result was excellent, as it never disturbed
me again.
However, its moral scruples were distinctly light, as a few
nights later one of my daughters complained that something
had got into bed with her. She described it as having a human
shape, and she could distinctly hear its breathing. She was
almost petrified with fright. This was repeated when it paid a
further clandestine visit to the cook, who described to me how
she became cataleptic, not being able to move or utter a sound,
a condition which I understand is typical under these conditions.
Things had come to such a pass that I decided to ask Mr.
Horace Leaf to come and help us, which he very kindly did.
We held a seance in the house, at which his guide told us that
we were being troubled by the spirit of an old Cambridge
professor who had lived there and did not know that he was
dead. I was occupying his old bedroom and, naturally, he was
66 Transition
annoyed at finding a stranger in his bed. He also told us that
my old cook, whom I had already suspected of being a psychic,
was very much so indeed, and that she was supplying the power
for these manifestations.
After this sitting the nuisances gradually lessened until the
cook took another situation, when they ceased. Before she left,
however, she came to me in a great state of agitation one morn-
ing. She had seen, she said, a man in the hall. J1linking he was
a visitor she had taken no notice of him and h d turned her
head away. A moment later he had vanished.
Knowing her to be the most matter of f::tct r liable woman,
I never doubted that she was telling me the truth.
A short time ago I happened to be reading a book-" Haunted
Houses," by Flammarion, the French astronomer and psychic
investigator. In it I read of a haunted house where noises,
exactly like those my sister had described to me, took place.
He had added a footnote saying that these were usual in these
kind of places.
THE REPLY COURTEOUS
I said in my introduction that I would discuss the question
of whether it is right or wrong to try and get into touch with
friends who have passed over. I think the tollowing Jetter,
which appeared over my signature in the Sevenoaks News,
shows what my views are. But first a word of xplanation as to
how it came to be written.
Articles had been published in this paper for and against
spiritualism, followed by one from a clergy an condemning
spiritualism in no uncertain terms. This was sent to me by a
resident in Sevenoaks, asking me to reply to it, which I did in
the following is~ue. My letter ran :-
Sir,-I happened to see the Rev. C. H. E. Freeman's article
headed " Spiritualism " in your issue of Januaty 23rd, and I am
delighted at the good news he gives us that Spiritualism is
spreading so fast, but T think his letter calls for a reply.
No one should know better than the reverend gentleman
how dangerom it is to quote texts from the ~ible. He must be
aware of the fact that in England alone most of the numerous
sects have fallen away from the Establish d Church over a
dispute about the meaning of some obscure passage. Why,
even the great Churches of the East and West broke over the
word " Filioque." Let him ponder over the difference between
the Catholics and himself. I gather he calls himself an Anglo-
Catholic, but the Catholic Church considers him a heretic
because he rejects, or should reject, the doctrine of the Mass,
Transition 67
which is founded on a text.
But as he seems to be somewhat fond of texts, I should like
him to explain how it was that Samuel, who was a paid Medium,
was held up to us as such a good man. We have the record of
how Saul consulted him about his father's lost asses and paid
him a fee of quarter of a shekel. Incidentally, Saul was given
the information he required, and far from being told he was a
wicked man to go to a Medium, he was also told he was to be
King-a strange reward for evil doing.
Also, if it was so wrong for Saul to go to a Medium, it surely
was doubly wrong of Samuel to practise mediumship and be
paid for it !
David, on his death-bed, gave Solomon minute instructions
of the building of the temple which he said he received in writing
from the Lord by his own hand-obviously David practised
automatic writing. The priests were in the habit of consulting
the Lord by Urim and Thumrnim. Was this wrong of them ?
St. John tells us to "try the spirits if they be of God." How
can we try them if we are not allowed to contact them ?
St. Paul informs us that some people have the gift of dis-
cerning spirits. The people who have these gifts should keep
very quiet about them, I suppose.
We are told of Jesus' appearances after his death. Surely if
it is wrong of Mr. Smith to come back to his wife it would be
very wrong of Jesus to come to his followers-the moral law is
immutable.
Just to mention one more text : Joshua was told to destr.oy
all the women and children and not let one of them escape.
Surely Mr. Freeman would not hold with that text to-day,
however uncivilised and idolatrous an enemy was.
Mediums are wonderful people, but, unfortunately, being
human, they require to live in just the same way as a doctor,
lawyer, or even a clergyman.
I mention this because Mr. Freeman uses the word "profes-
sional " in connection with Mediums.
Finally, to my knowledge, Spiritualism has brought many
people back to a belief in a future life when the Churches failed
absolutely to do so.
I have no doubt whatever that this letter of mine is open to a
great deal of criticism. I referred to the Bible as Mr. Freeman
had based his arguments on Biblical texts. My view is that no
one can pick out a text here and another one there. One must
be guided by the general sense of the whole Book. I tried to
show that while it certainly seems to condemn Spritualism in
some passages, yet, to my mind, it approves of it in others.
68 Transition
IMPORTANCE OF PSYCHIC EXPERIE CES
Their Scope and Limitations
When my good friend, Charles Drayton Thomas, suggested
that I should publish some of my psychic experiences, I felt
very diffident about doing so, and I pointed out to him that I
could hardly expect people to be interested in my purely personal
communications, however much they appealed to 1 e. However,
he was insistent, and, bowing to his superior wisd m and much
greater experience, I somewhat reluctantly started to send up
articles to Light. The Editor considered that t ey interested
people, so I went on with them, until I found that I had published
everything that I thought advisable. Since then J have received
numerous letters from strangers asking me to write further
articles, if necessary, substituting initials for names, so that
readers should not know to whom the details ref¢r. It was then
suggested that I should re-write the articles in b ok form. This
I have now done. Some of them have been adde(J to and one or
two more experiences included. I have now finished, and details
of my other sittings I must keep to myself. These are chiefly
through the Mediumship of Mrs. Osborne Le nard, and are
mostly of an intimate and confidential nature.
If readers have been interested in what I have been able to
tell them, and especially if anyone has had b lief in Survival
strengthened, and knowledge confirmed that communication
between the two sides of life is possible, then my effort has not
been in vain.
It must not be imagined that all my sittings have been as
good as the ones I have described ; some of them-but not
many-have been blanks. As regards physica l mediumship, I
have come across a great deal of fraud, but I have found that
very often the fraud has been mixed up with genuine psychic
power. I think very often the sitters have be n to blame to a
certain extent. Some people are so credulo s that they will
swallow anything and, human nature being what it is, the
Medium is tempted to give them what they as for and expect.
The credulous person is a greater curse than the sceptic.
I have no doubt that physical mediumship is good-up to a
point. It is good propaganda and useful lO focus people's
attention on the supernormal, but it has its limitations ; and,
having attracted attention to forces outside ur ken, then we
should look for teachings through a good trance Medium.
By physical mediumship I mean telekinesis ; apports, levita-
tion and the like ; the direct voice is, of comse, in a different
category.
Transition 69
Personally, I now confine myself entirely to one trance
Medium, and my advice to a seeker would be-find a good
trance Medium who suits you, one to whom you can " tune
in," so to speak, and stick to that one. You will get far better
results than running about all over the country trying to get
fresh thrills each time you hear about a new Medium. I have
found that, by pursuing the method I recommend, each sitting
becomes, if possible, better than the last, and I learn more and
more about life on the Other Side, and often real uplifting
teaching comes through.
One has so often heard the remark made that one never gets
anything really worth while at a sitting, apart from the vast
importance of proving survival of bodily death. My own
experience has been that I get masses ofmost interesting informa-
tion about life on the Other Side, and dozens of serious investi-
gators are equally favoured.
Often_a sitter goes to a Medium just once or twice, and the
time is taken up in getting " tuned in " and communicators
trying to establish their ideQtity ; but when this has been done,
off goes the sitter to another Medium, and the process has to
start all over again.
In my articles I have tried to show that telepathy, in the
generally accepted meaning of the word, seldom if ever comes
in, at any rate when sitting with a properly developed Medium ;
but that is not to say that the spirit on the Other Side does not
convey its information by thought transference to the Medium.
I think this is the modus operandi ; but surely really well-
developed and intelligent guides such as "Feda," "White
Hawk " and others are able to differentiate between the vibra-
tions they are getting from the sitter and those from the
communicator.
We on earth are able to distinguish between voices ; why
should we be so ready to deny the same intelligence to our guide
friends?
Scientists have now fallen back on that blessed word Tele-
pathy, trying to make the man-in-the-street believe that it
explains everything ; and the latter, with little or no experience
in these matters, repeats "Telepathy" at intervals as an
explanation of these communications, thereby passing as a
highly intelligent person. I believe that when we have succeeded
in eradicating this Telepathy cult, as undoubtedly we shall, then
Survival of bodily death will be accepted as a scientific fact, and
the powers of communication between the planes of existence
will be acknowledged by everybody. Of course, it is extremely
70 Transition
difficult to disprove the thought transference theory. When one
gets something that is only known to a third and djstant person,
we are told that that is Telepathy at a distance ; but when we
get something that no living soul has ever heard of, and we
can't verify the statement, having no one to ask a out it, we are
then told that our information is absurd. I am thinking about
what we are so often told about life on the Othef Side.
However, there is one thing, it seems to me, hat we should
try to study as much as possible-pre-vision. When we are told
of sometlling about to happen in the future, whjoh later actually
does take place, .all must allow that Telepathy could not have
been responsible for the explanation. Then, how rud the
Medium know about it? People say, " Oh, that's the fourth
dimension "-but that does not explain it to me. Perhaps that
may be a correct hypothesis ; but why should it do away with
our spirit-control theory ?
I have been interested in psychic phenomena for over twenty
years, and I find that nowadays more and more people are
taking an intense interest in the subject, especia y young people
-this in spite of the Bishop, who stated that ur numbers are
diminishing. ·That statement is not true, and all the leaders of
the movement, who are in a position to know, ill bear me out.
Twenty years ago Spiritualists were considered " freaks " and
mad people ; to-day, I have been with young men who preferred
to talk to me on Survival than go and enjo_ themselves at a
dance.
But, of course, there are others. I have a great friend who
never neglects the opportunity of telling me that if I go on with
this trung I shall go mad and get possessed by an evil spirit ;
and yet he tells me with the next breath that the whole truog is
a fraud, and that spirits do not exist !
I have found, especially in the North, that some circles are
apt to look upon the Guide as a kind of minor deity, and are
inclined to follow ms advice implicitly. They do not realise
that Guides are no more infallible than they sed to be on earth,
and that sometimes their advice is less to e trusted, as they
have been out of touch with mundane things so long. Listen
attentively to what Guides have to say, b t never go against
your better judgment.
I won't go into the accusation that Spiritualists often attract
evil spirits who talk blasphemy. I have never had anything of
the sort myself, nor do I know of anyone else who has. When
I am told by someone ...that they know som one," etc., I always
tell them that" like attracts like, and iftheir friends get objection-
Transition 71
able communications, they must have objectionable minds
themselves.
Also I know of no Spiritualist who has been shut up in a
lunatic asylum, but I do know of many critics who most certainly
should be.
THE END.
