{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1828__hamilton_spurzheim_combe___correspondence_relative_to_phrenology.pdf","mytitle":"Correspondence Relative To Phrenology","mylang":"de"}
CORRESPONDENCE
RELATIVE TO
PHRENOLOGY,
BETWEEN
SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON, BART.,
DR SPURZHEIM,
AND
MR GEORGE COMBE,
•V
In JANUARY, FEBRUARY, and MARCH, 1828.
JOHN ANDERSON, Jun., EDINBURGH,
55, NORTH BRIDGE STREET ;
AND SIMPKIN & MARSHAIJ., LONDON.
1828.
•r .i.tH
,Vt)().IO’/i;!HH<l
i r
^ikLAvrrvu
, / ,.j/\ ,
r I J f sr.
.'y: -1 :
' f i \ '
I . 1 4
>.K t ’ 5
r>
^ U .V . . . -
' 4 -
inyiHSimfe UiS ‘
J
Tt , \iT I
I
j
^ ••
t 1
I
v.'( Jl| Jitjlf
N. '.I ' •
•.
'
'-1 J ‘l '' .•'M>‘. »*T
•'
'
'•-
X
*
r^l'l V«AiH*?!ai'4 .V?iA u,l
.f .•i.,T,—
i .>,: -•vr^'V '
e»
r-r- ^
‘l friTiml^^ 1i'
ii::
/*
'^'rfit.,'/. •' -. ^ ’.-r . 7"»1
vt
t6
« • - 'j-
ITJ
ftir
'^T
i. < ' 1
4
T; I i< J ^
r< t9
' •
. ;
T»*
' ' / . . »l .
i "A
Ir
«
Sir william HAMILTON, Bart.,
AND
PHRENOLOGY.
I.—CORRESPONDENCE PUBLISHED IN THE CALEDONIAN
MERCURY BETWEEN SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON AND
DR SPURZHEIM, AND BETWEEN SIR WILLIAM HA-
MILTON AND MR GEORGE COMBE.
Letter from Sir William Hamilton, Bart.
To the Editor of the Caledonian Mercury.
Sir,—The report of Dr Spurzheim’s lectures on Phrenology,
published in your paper of last Thursday, contains allusions to
me of such a nature, that I cannot with propriety suffer them to
pass without an immediate correction of their inaccuracy. What
Dr Spurzheim may state within the walls of his lecture-room I
have taken no opportunity of learning ; and I certainly should
not have deemed it incumbent on me to notice any observations
relative to my proceedings, had these not been thus obtruded
on my attention, and published to the world.
Dr Spurzheim complains that I have acted urffairly, in refus-
ing to print the papers against Phrenology which I read before
the Royal Society, and in not openly discussing the opinions
which I had ventured to attack. Before thus animadverting on
my conduct, he was certainly bound to have ascertained the ac-
curacy of his allegations ; and he ought therefore to have known,
from my correspondence with Blr Combe, (to be read in the
Fifteenth Number of the Phrenological Journal,) that, far from
refusing to publish these papers, I explicitly declared that I only
awaited the decision of the umpires appointed to report in re-
gard to the truth or falsehood of certain essential phenomena.
A
2 SIU WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY.
in order that both parties might have in common an indisput-
able foundation of reality, on which to establish or to refute the
hypothesis in question. (See p. 404.) If any hardship be felt
by Dr Spurzheim at the delay thus necessarily occasioned, this
cannot with justice be attributed to me ; but though it would
be preposterous, under these circumstances, to publish my ar-
gument before the state of the decisive facts on which it pro-
ceeds is recognized as correct, it will certainly be admitted that
I act with equal fairness and intrepidity, and afford to Dr Spurz-
heim the most advantageous opportunity of subverting my ob-
jections to his doctrine, by allowing, nay urging him to disprove,
by a comparison with nature, the positions of fact on which the
objections are established. I am willing to join issue with Dr
Spurzheim, as with Mr Combe, in periling the whole question
on the truth or falsehood of the propositions I am soon to pro-
pose. Res non verba quceso.
Dr Spurzheim seems to suppose that the objections I alleged
against Phrenology were founded, not on sensible appearances,
but on speculative opinions ; not on my own observations, but
on the authority of others.
It is true, that in the first paper which I read before the Royal
Society, in attempting to prove that the consequences of the
theory were diametrically opposite to those so fondly .deduced
from it by its supporters, I only indirectly assailed the doctrine
itself, through the logical incompetency of those on whose au-
thority it rested ; and I there endeavoured merely to establish
a general presumption, that the same causes of error—the same
prepossession, partiality, and enthusiasm—would be found in
the constitution of Phrenology to have vitiated the observation
of the fundamental facts, which, in their reasonings on its con-
sequences, w'ere displayed by the Phrenologists in the chimerical
superstructure reared on so incongruous a basis. I did not at-
tempt to show that Phrenology was false, because it immedi-
ately involved the conclusions of fatalism, materialism, and
atheism, but that, as the Phrenologists Avere so egregiously de-
ceived in maintaining that their doctrine supplied the most se-
cure foundation of moral liberty, of the immateriality of mind,
and of religion, natural and revealed, we were entitled to infer
tlie probability, that they were equally deluded in the slippery
task of authenticating and applying the phenomena which con-
dition or constitute the theory itself. It was only subsequently
to the reading of this paper, that I satisfied myself that this ana-
logical inference was correct ; and in the second paper I applied
myself exclusively to show, that the determining and integral
facts of Phrenology, when not merely selected specialties, were
either petitory orfalse.
Petitory—Because Phrenology assumes the very facts, of whose
existence, otherwise established, it could only, as a legitimate
hypothesis, attempt to explain the law. Professing to demonstrate
SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGV. 3
as its law the co-relation between the two phenomena of mental
manifestation and cerebral development, phenomena which were
necessarily supposed cognizable in themselves; Phrenology is
compelled, however, to resort to sundry subsidiary hypotheses
in order to evince the reality of the latter fact, and is only able
to equalize them with each other by postulating, in its definition
of development, the occult quality of internal structure, an ex-
ploded theory of the temperaments, and a baseless distinction
between activity and power. And even in so far as the more
discoverable phenomenon of Size was allowed to constitute de-
velopment, though their doctrine Avas solely a doctrine of pro-
portion, the Phrenologists, vacillating at their convenience be-
tween the different standards of absolute, of relative, and even
of topical size, have, to this hour, never yet established on any
of these standards a fixed scale, in reference to which alone could
their statements of comparison be held significant of aught but
the fancy of the individual manipulator.
False—Because the anatomical positions which Phrenology
assumes, either as the conditions of its proof, or as the most cer-
tain of its constitutive elements, were, as far as I could bring
these to examination, not only untrue, but even at the greatest
possible distance from the truth. Resolved to take nothing up-
on trust, I had (during the interval between my two papers)
looked with some attention both at nature and at books ; and,
notAvithstanding my anticipation, Avas astonished to find that
many facts, lying at the root of the hypothesis, and which the
Phrenologists coolly postulated as indisputable, Avere diametri-
cally opposed to all that nature manifested, and other physiolo-
gists had observed. As a merely casual investigator, I was cer-
tainly glad to find that my OAvn observations Avere, in general,
confirmed by the concurrent testimony of all impartial anato-
mists ;
but I never allowed any weight of authority to supersede
a personal examination of the fact. On several points I could
appeal to natural appearances alone, and overlooked many state-
ments of the most accurate inquirers, because unable to verify
them by any adequate induction of my own,
“ We go not to books,” says Dr Spurzheim, “ for support,
but with our five senses to nature ; and no king nor emperor,
“ no Hamilton, no Gall, no Spurzheim, can determine Avhat na-
ture Avill do,” No one can assuredly reproach the founders
of the new doctrine with any dependence upon authority;
but as all anatomists must be wrong if they are right, and
as the fate of their hypothesis must hinge on the correctness
of its authors, the question is of some interest :
—Did Drs Gall
and Spurzheim believe always A\'hat they perceived in nature,
or did they not often perceive only what they Avere predisposed
to believe ? To bring this problem to a final issue appeared,
hoAA'eyer, a matter of no inconsiderable difficulty. These two
theorists, as 1 have elsewhere observed, had for thirty years
4 sill WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHIIENOLOGY.
been advancing certain statements in regard to tlie anatomy of
the cranium and brain. These statements, in their truth or false-
hood, involved the possibility or impossibility of the new opinion;
and these statements were, in many instances, precisely the reverse
ot all that every other anatomist maintained. When the attention
of those most competent to judge was occasionally attracted to
the theory, the truth of these novelties was of course peremjitor-
ily denied. But the confidence with which its authors ahvays
asserted the superior accuracy of their observations,—the appa-
rent impossibility of being deceived in what were at once facts
of vital importance to the system, and, in most instances, of easy
discovery, if not of obtrusive notoriety,—and, in fine, the unac-
quaintance too generally prevalent upon subjects of this nature,
—all contributed to obtain for the fashionable doctrine a crowd
of converts, zealous, if not ahvays intelligent, in their faith. Ar-
gumentum pessimi lurha. But if the contradictions of the most
illustrious anatomists were either wholly overlooked, or thought
sufficiently refuted by the re-assertion of the litigious point by
some partial adherent of the system, how was I, a mere anato-
mical interloper, to hope that any statements of mine, however
articulate and correct, should meet with that attention which
had not been obtained by the weighty authorities of Blumen-
bach, Hufeland, Wenzel, Monro, ilagendie, Dumoulines, llu-
dolphi, Flourens, &c. ? Confident, however, in the strength of
my position, I was persuaded that I had only to constrain the
Phrenologists to interrogate nature and to proclaim her answers,
to prove, even to themselves, the fallacy of their best-established
observations ; while a concession of farts extorted irom them,
in opposition to all their previous asseverations, tvould at once
excite the curiosity of the public, and subvert for ever all confi-
dence in the credit of phrenological experience. This I hoped
to accomplish by a mutual reference to umpires ; as I w'as sure
that my opponents had, like myself, no other end than the dis-
covery and propagation of the truth. I accordingly proposed
to Mr George Combe, (the most distinguished of our Scottish
Phrenologists, and who had done me the honour of proposing
to reply to my objections against the doctrine he so ably sup-
ported,) to bring the whole question to a decision of anatomical
fact. “ So long,” I observed, “ as Phrenology is the compari-
son of two hypothetical quantities,—a science of proportion
“ without a determinate standard and an acknowledged scale,
“ so long as it can be maintained, that its facts, even if not as-
sumptive, constitute only a partial induction, which can never
“ represent the universality of nature, I deem it idle to dispute
about the applications of a law which defines no phenomena,
“ and the truth of an hypothesis which has no legal constitu-
tion. But let us take, not the hypothesis in itself, but the
“ foundations on which it rests,—let us take facts, not of occult
proportion, but of palpable existence,—facts which prove, not
SIR WII.MAM HAMILTON ANU PHRENOLOGV. 5
" the ’probability, but the possibility of the doctrine,—and, on
“ the truth or falsehood of the phrenological statements in re-
gard to these, I am content to join issue in regard to the cre-
“ dibility of the opinion, and to the confidence that ought to be
“ accorded to its founders. In making this proposal, I concede
“ every thing, and ask nothing in return. I agree to stake the
“ decision of the controversy on your proving, notthe<ra/A, but
‘‘
the mere possibility of the doctrine. In refuting this possibi-
“ lity, I bind myself to prove, not simply, that the assertions of
“ Drs Gall and Spurzheim, in rpgard to the fundamental condi-
“ tions of their hypothesis, are false, but that they are diametri-
colly opposite to the truth. ]\Iy proof shall rest, not only on the
” concurrent testimony of anatomists, but on the notorious evi-
“ dence of an extensive induction of crania, previously purged
“ on any general principle you may propose ; and I am con-
“ tented to leave to yourself the nomination of the umpires by
“ whom the result shall be determined.”
Mr Combe, as was to be expected, frankly accepted the con-
ditions, but declined nominating the umpires, who were accord-
ingly appointed in the usual way. Dr Scott Avas named by Mr
Combe, Professor Christison by me, and Mr Syme by the two
other arbiters. I proposed for their determination the following
conflicting propositions :
I. Phrenological Proposition.—In old age the walls of the
skull increase in thickness, and the cases in which the cranial
bones wax thinner, as the subject declines in life, constitute ex-
ceptions from the general rule.
Counter Proposition.—The rule is here the exception, and the
exception the rule.
II. Phrenological Proposition.—(Maintained by Spurzheim)
Young and adult persons have no cavities between the tables of
the frontal bone ; and the real frontal einuscs uccur only in old
persons, or after chronic insanity.
Counter Proposition. —The absence of the sinus in young and
adult subjects, so far from constituting the universal law, is a
rare, if not a doubtful, anomaly.
Ill* Phrenological Proposition.—Before the age of twelve or
fourteen, the frontal sinus never, or almost never, exists.
Counter Proposiimi.—Before this age the sinus is frequently,
if not generally, present.
IV. Phrenological Proposition.—The frontal sinuses are rarely
to be found in women.
Coiinter Propositions.—1. These cavities are rarely absent in
the female cranium. 2. Even more rarely than in the male.
V. Phrenological Proposition.—The sinus, when present, be-
trays its existence and extent by an irregular elevation of a pe-
culiar character, constituting a bony crest or ridge, or blister
and is distinguished from the forms under which the phrenolol
gical organs are developed.
O SIH WILLIAM HAJIILTON AND PHRENOLOGY.
Counter Propositio7i.—There is no correlation between the ex-
istence and extent of a sinus^ and the existence and extent of
any such elevation, whether superciliary or glabellar :
—either
may be present without the other ; and when both are co-
existent, they hold no reciprocal proportion in their dimensions,
or in their iigui'e. Neither is there any form of cranial develop-
ment which excludes the subjacent presence of a sinus.
VI. Phrenological Proposition.—In ordinary cases the sinus only
extends an obstacle over two organs (Size and Lower Individu-
ality), or, at most, partially affects a third (Locality).
Counter Proposition.—In very ordinary cases the sinus covers
a greatly larger proportion of the supposed organs, and fre-
quently affects more than a third part of the whole thirty-six.
VII. Phrenological Proposition.—The opposite sides of the
cranium are in general commensurate ; and, when not symme-
trical, this inequality is the effect, and consequently the index of
disease in the brain.
Counter Proposition.—The opposite sides of the cranium are
very rarely symmetrical, very frequently widely different in de-
velopment ; and this disproportion is seldom the consequence of
any morbid affection.
VIII. Phrenological Proposition.—The convolutions of the
opposite hemispheres of the human brain are almost perfectly
symmetrical.
Counter Proposition.—Neither on the upper nor on the under
surface of the brain, and in no age or sex of the human subject,
have the convolutions of the two hemispheres any reciprocal
symmetry, but differ remarkably from each other in figure, con-
nexion, situation, length, and breadth.
Note.—In the brain of the horse, which is adduced by Gall
as an example of an absolutely pet-fect symmetry, the cere-
bral convolutions are also widely dissimilar.
IX. Phrenological Proposition.—The whole brain (encephalon)
does not in general attain its full complement of size till thirty,
and in many individuals not till forty years of age.
Cotinter Propositioti.—From the age of seven the cerebral
mass gains little or nothing in volume ;
and the increase of the
head about the time of puberty, and afterwards, is determined by
the greater development of the cranial bones, muscles, integu-
ments, and hair.
X. Phrenological Proposition.—The cerebellum only attains
its full relative proportion to the brain proper, from the age of
eighteen to twenty-six.
Counter Proposition.—The cerebellum reaches this proportion
many years before puberty, and even probably as early as three
years old.
XL Phrenological Proposition.—In male animals the cerebel-
lum, proportionally even to their larger brain, is |»enerally
greater than the cerebellum of females of the same kind ;
and
SIK W1LI.1AM HAMILTON AND PHIIENOLOGY. 7
this dift’erence is still more decided in man than in the other
species of animals.
Counter Proposition.—The cerebellum of women (and the
analogy probably holds true throughout nature) is, on an aver-
age, and in proportiofi to their smaller heads, much larger than
the cerebellum of men.
XII. Phrenological Proposition.—As the female cerebellum,
even in proportion to a lesser brain, is relatively smaller than
the male, the ratio of its inferiority in size will be greatly in-
creased, if the two parts are compared directly with each other,
according to their absolute proportions.
Counter Proposition.—^Though on a smaller head, the cerebel-
lum of women (and probably the same is true of other females,
as compared with other males) is, on the average, absolutely
larger than that of men.
XIII. Phrenological Proposition.—In women, as more fre-
quently actuated by a strong natural propensity to devotion, the
organ of Theosophy or Veneration is in general more largely de-
veloped than in men.
Counter Proposition.—The manifestation cannot be denied
but those dimensions of the head which detei*mine the size of
the supposed organ of religious sentiment are proportionally,
even to the smaller size of the female head, much less, on the
average, in women than in men.
XIV. Phrenological Proposition.—As the “ knowing faculties”
are in full energy at a much earlier period than the “ reflective,”
the lower region of the brow, along which the organs of the for-
mer are distributed, is found more largely developed in children
than the superior parts of the forehead, in which are situated the
organs of the latter.
Counter Proposition.—The manifestation is notorious ;
but the
heads of children are peculiarly and remarkably distinguished
from those of adults, by the greater development of the higher
region of the brow, as compared with the smaller development
of the lower.
In all of these, the Phrenological position (with, perhaps, a sin-
gle exception) is to be found, virtually or in terms, in the writ-
ings of the two fathers of Phrenology. The seventh was at least
maintained by Mr Combe.
The decision of several of these points requires the dissection,
in the recent subject, of a considerable number of male and fe-
male, of young and adult heads ; an induction of this kind may
consequently require some delay. The consideration of those
propositions which require only an examination of a sufficient
complement of crania, and which can therefore be at all times
rapidly and easily accomplished, the umpires have agreed to
postpone. These, however, involve at once the most numerous,
and the most important of the facts at issue ; and nothing can
be easier or more opportune, than for Dr Spurzheim to mani-
8 SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY,
fest, if that be possible, the futility of my counter propositions,
the confirmation of which would completely eviscerate his sys-
tem. It fortunately also happens, that no difficulty can occur in
determining the crania, on which the experiment should be
made. There is extant, in the Royal Museum of Natural His-
tory, a series of fifty skulls from the catacombs of Paris, selected
in illustration of Phrenology, numbered, the sex discriminated,
and the developments noted, by Dr Spurzheim himself. These
cannot, therefore, by any, far less by Dr Spurzheim, be regarded
as unfairly adduced in opposition to the doctrine in support of
which they were procured. On these, though far from exhibit-
ing an average favourable to my positions, I am content to rest
the decision of the contested points. By them alone the second,
fourth, fifth, sixth, eleven, twelfth, and thirteenth propositions can
be satisfactorily determined. The eighth can be decided by the
dissection of any single brain. If that were thought expedient,
the frst, ninth, and tenth might be brought to proof, by examin-
ing the crania in the different anatomical collections ; and the
fourteenth, by measuring the heads of any twenty adults, and the
heads of the same number of children, in one of the junior
classes of a parish-school. I remain. Sir, your most obedient
servant, W. Hamilton.
16, King Street, 19th January, 1828.
Letter from Dr Spurzheim.
To the Editor of the Caledonian Mercury.
Sir,—Your paper of Monday last contains a long communica-
tion from Sir William Hamilton, in answer to the remarks on
his proceedings concerning Phrenology, as published in your
paper on a former occasion. I beg that you will oblige me by
inserting in your next number, if convenient, the following
reply :
Sir William is mistaken in thinking that I complained of his
acting unfairly. He may learn from his friends amongst my
numerous auditors, that I never used a single expression offen-
sive to his personal character ;
that, on the contrary, in my first
lecture I gave him credit for his acting openly, and compared
his doing so witft the concealed conduct of anonymous review-
ers. As his motto. Res non verba quceso, has been mine long
ago, I ask him at once, where in my works he read that, DL
“ The sinus, when present, betrays its existence and extent by
“ an irregular elevation of a peculiar character constituting a
“ bony crest, or ridge, or blister?” (See his Vth Phrenological
Proposition.) 2d, “ That the opposite sides of the cranium are
“ in general commensurate ; and, when not symmetrical, this ir-
SIB WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY. 9
“ regularity is the effect, and consequently the index of disease
“ in the brain ?” (See his Vllth Phrenological Proposition.)
And, 3d, that “ The lower region of the brow is found more
“ largely developed in children than the superior parts of the
“ forehead ?” (See his XIVth Phrenological Proposition.) I
declare these three statements to be inexact, and deny them to
be my opinions.
With respect to the greater number of his counter proposi-
tions, Sir William refers the public and myself to fifty skulls in
the Museum of Natural History at Edinburgh. As he styles
Dr Gall and myself theorists, and accuses us as being “the most
“ worthless of observers,” your readers may be glad to become
acquainted with Sir William’s accuracy in observing, and his
close reasoning in drawing inferences from his observations. He
comes forward with fifty skulls of persons of whom he knows
neither age nor condition of life, neither character nor talent.
These skulls were picked out hy myself in the catacombs of
Paris, among thousands of skulls, on account of their singular
shapes, in order to send them to the Phrenologists of Edin-
burgh, as proofs against the Edinburgh Review, which had af-
firmed that such different forms of heads as we speak of are not
to be found in nature, and never existed. They were forward-
ed by Mr Royer of the Jardin du Roi of Paris, to this city,
with this intention, and are evidently anomalies. It is farther
known to a certainty, that an immense quantity of bones was
carried to the catacombs of Paris from the church-yard Des In-
nocens, when it was changed into a market-place. It is also cer-
tain that in the church-yard Des Innocens, the very canaille of
Paris, and the lower classes uf the iiuarticrs de St Denis and de
St Martin, were buried. Now, I leave it to the public to de-
cide on the merit of Sir William’s accuracy in observing, and of
the fairness of his inferences, when he takes singular, and
several of them monstrous configurations, as types of female
heads, whilst some of them w'ere perhaps poissardes, or even
prostitutes. If Sir William has no facility of collecting skulls
of boys and girls, men and women, why does he not compare
living persons, in order to convince himself, that among the na-
tive females in all good families in Edinburgh, there is probably
not one single specimen of head similar to those skulls which
he holds out as standard forms of females, and on which “ he
“ is content to rest the decision of the contested points ?” If
this be accuracy of observation, I confess it is beyond ray power
of comprehension.
I also wish to Sir William success in proving to the medical
world, that “ the cerebellum reaches its full relative pro-
“ portion to the brain, probably at the age of three years (see
“ his Xth Counter Proposition) that the cerebellum of women
“ is, on an average, .and in proportion to their smaller heads,
“ much larger than the cerebellum of men ; and that this ana-
10 SIU WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY.
“ logy probably holds true throughout nature (his Xlth Coun-
“ ter Proposition) ; that though in a smaller head the cerebel-
“ lum of women is, on an average, absolutely larger than that
“ of men, and that probably the same is true of other females
“ as compared with other males (his Xllth Counter Proposi-
tion) ; that from the age of seven the cerebral mass gains
little or nothing in volume, and that the increase of the head,
“ about the time of puberty and after\vards, is determined by
“ the greater development of the cranial bones, muscles, inte-
“ guments, and hair (his IXth Counter Proposition) ;
and that
in very ordinary cases the sinus covers the greatly larger
proportion of the supposed organs, andfrequently affects more
“ than a third of the thirty-six,” (his Vlth Counter Proposition.)
If Sir William can demonstrate these his assertions, his name
will undoubtedly rank very high among those of illustrious ana-
tomists. I assure the learned gentleman, that I am no less
anxious than he is to derive my knowledge from nature, and
that I shall always be ready to learn from him, when he can
show me in nature what I did not know. But, after all, is he
not premature in his conclusions, when, by his own showing,
the data which he assumes are still unsupported by any exist-
ing evidence .? Should he not have had his supposed facts es-
tablished incontrovertibly before he appeared as a champion ?
Finally, coming to the conclusion, I beg your readers to re-
mark, that the fifty skulls in the Museum of Natural History
do not furnish satisfactory proof to determine Sir William’s
second, fourth, fifth, sixth, eleventh, twelfth, and thirteenth Coun-
ter Propositions i that his 8th Phrenological Proposition is not
to be found in any of my works j
that his pth and 10th Counter
Propositions cannot be proved in comparing the different indi-
viduals with each other; but that the same individual must be
observed at three years, at seven years, and in adult age ; and
that, as stated above, his 14th Phrenological Proposition is
merely assumed.
I heartily invite Sir William Hamilton to attend my lectures
and w’itness my demonstrations, and then he will prosecute the
inquiry with more satisfaction to himself, and benefit to Phre-
nology. Meanwhile, I repeat the offer made in Mr Combe’s
letter of 22d November, to meet him before as many judges as
he chooses to bring forward—to consider all the evidence he
may be pleased to adduce in support of his assertions—and to
answer his objections. I am, Sir, your very humble servant,
J. Spurzheim, M. D.
Edinburgh, 23d January, 1828.
SIR WIRLIA3I HAMILTON AND rilRENOLOGY. J1
Letter from Mr George Combe.
To the Editor of the Caledonian Mercury.
Sir,—In your paper of the 21st January, Sir William Ha-
milton has published a statement regarding the phrenological
reference lately entered into between him and me, on which I
beg leave to offer a few remarks.
On two several occasions Sir William read essays in opposi-
tion to Phrenology before the Royal Society of Edinburgh, in
the knowledge that the laws of that Society prohibited not only
visitors, but even members, from entering into controversial de-
bate ;
so that he Avas in safety to make whatever assertions,
and draw whatever inferences, were most agreeable to himself,
without fear of contradiction on the part of the Phrenologists.
He availed himself of this advantage ;
and, so far as boldness
of assertion and latitude of inference could refute facts, and
overcome legitimate reasoning, he appeared to triumph over
Phrenology. He Avas called upon during a period of many
months, both by the conductors of the Phrenological Journal
and by myself, to publish his Essays, but in vain. In April,
1827, his benevolence, co-operating Avith his love of truth,
prompted him to convert his essays into a popular lecture against
Phrenology, Avhich he delivered for the benefit of the distressed
operatives, within the College, to a numerous audience of ladies
and gentlemen. It again happened that, Avhen I offered to re-
ply to him on the spot, at the termination of his lecture, he
discovered that the rules of the University excluded all who
Avere not invested with an academical gown from opening their
lips within its Avails. I then challenged him to transfer his lec-
ture to the Assembly Rooms ; but this also he discovered was
not consistent with an academical etiquette. I therefore repeat-
ed the call for publication, and in the interim gave a lecture on
Phrenology in the Assembly Rooms, in answer to such of his
objections as I had been able to comprehend. Previous to
tliis time. Sir William Plamilton had assigned want of leisure
as the chief reason for deferring his publication ; but, aware of
the impression made by the lecture in the Assembly RoGms,
which Avas attended by nearly six hundred individuals, he there-
qfter produced a long series of antiphrenological Propositions,
and offered to refer them to umpires. UnAvilling to allow any
opportunity of meeting him to escape, I acceded to this pi'opo-
sal ; but, in a letter addressed to him, dated 9th May, I repeat-
ed Avhat had previously been stated, that there are at least a
“ hundred thousand educated men in Britain, every Avay quali-
“ fied to judge of the points in dispute, merely by reading your
“ statements and my answers to them ;
and Avith such a body
“ of umpires to appeal to, a public discussion appears greatly
12 SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY.
“ preferable '
to a private reference. He, however, insisted on
the private arbitration.
Accordingly, in July, 1827, the umpires met, and after two
long discussions about the terms of the propositions and answers*
to be submitted to judgment, they proceeded to consideration of
the evidence. Sir William Hamilton was the attacking party,
and, being called upon for proof of his assertions, produced
twelve or thirteen skulls, part of a larger number selected by
Dr Spurzheim from the catacombs at Paris, and transmitted to
the College Museum of Edinburgh. I stated to the umpires
that these skulls had been selected, not as specimens of average
human crania, but expressly as instances of extreme develop-
ment of particular organs, intended for the purpose of showing
the wide variety of form in which the human skull existed in
nature, the assertions of Drs Gall and Spurzheim on this point
having been confidently denied by the Edinburgh Review.
Further, I remarked that the age, and, in some instances, the
sex of the individuals were doubtful,—and therefore objected to
their being received as proper evidence of Sir William Hamil-
ton’s propositions. After hearing Sir William at great length
on the subject, the umpires unanimously set ^ide the whole
skulls produced by him, as incompetent to support liis proposi-
tions.
The next meeting of the umpires was held in November
last ; but Sir William was still unfurnished with any new or
better specimens, and in consequencfe the judges condescended
to take upon themselves the duty of doing what he ought to
have done before he made a single assertion on the subject,
namely, performing a course of dissections, in which the age,
sex, and disease of the individuals could be perfectly ascertained.
Since this resolution was adopted, they have examined one or
two cases, and it may require years before they find a sufficient
number to enable them to arrive at any general result. And
even after they shall have come to a conclusion, their decision
will still be that of only three individuals ;
and, however distin-
guished they may be for talents and attainments, the philoso-
phical world will be as little disposed to bow implicitly to their
award as to the assertions of Sir William Hamilton himself.
With great deference, therefore, the proposal to constitute the
medical men of Britain the umpires was rational and philoso-
phical, and ought at once to have been adopted.
In the letter to Dr A. Combe, dated 1st May, \S2T, published
in the Phrenological Journal, Sir William Hamilton w’rites thus:
• The answers to Sir William Hamilton’s propositions, submitted by me to
the umpires, were the same as those stated in Hr Spurzheim's letter to you ol
this date ; and, in particular, 1 denied that it had been any doctrine of mine
that irregularity in the opposite sides of the cranium “ is the effect, and con-
“ scquently the index, of the disease in the brain.”
sill WILI.IAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY. 13
-
— I have only to say, that Gall and Spurzheini are the only
“ authentic representatives of their own doctrine,” and that
“ Gall and Spurzheim are the only authors I propose to refute,”
—and he frequently repeated this statement on subsequent oc-
casions. On 22d November, therefore, when I had ascertained
that Dr Spurzheim intended to lecture in Edinburgh, I wrote
to Sir William, and proposed that he should meet Dr S. on his
arrival in January, 1828, and proceed with him to a final ter-
mination of the points in dispute ;
but Sir William declined this
proposal.
Here I beg leave to observe, 1st, That the very offer by Sir
William of a private reference to umpires, in place of a public
discussion, indicated a consciousness, on his part, that he was
not in possession of evidence sufficient to make good his asser-
tions ; 2dly, That the rejection by the umpires of the whole evi-
dence produced by him, as inadequate to support his proposi-
tions, positively establishes, that in the Royal Society, and in his
popular lecture, he indulged in assertions of which he possessed
no legitimate proof;
3dly, That his refusal to meet Dr Spurz-
heim, and conclude the arbitration with him, betrayed a decided
want of confidence in the positions which he had undertaken to
defend •, and, finally, that if he shall now reject the invitation
made to him by Dr Spurzheim to attend his lectures, just about
to commence, on the anatomy, physiology, and pathology of the
brain, so as to learn what Phrenology really is, of which, up to
this hour, he appears to be imperfectly informed ; and if he shall
fail to accept Dr Spurzheim’s challenge to bring forward evi-
dence of his objections during this gentleman’s stay in Edin-
burgh, which will be prolonged for a month, the public will
draw their own conclusions regarding the foundation of his op-
position, and the reasonableness of his asking the umpires and
myself to proceed farther in the reference, at a great sacrifice
both of time and labour.
It is amusing, as well as edifying, to compare the promise
made by Sir William Hamilton, in his letters of April and May,
published in the Phrenological Journal, No 15, with his subse-
quent achievements. He says,
“ I bind myself to prove 7iot
“ simply, that the assertions of Drs Gall and Spurzheim, in re-
“ gard to the fundamental conditions of their hypotheses, are
“false, but that they are diametiically opposite to the truth.
“ My proof shall rest not only on the concurrent testimony of
anatomists, but on the notorious evidence of an extensive in-
“ duction of crania, previously purged on any general principle
“ you may propose.” Again he says, “ I am prepared, ad-
“ mitting even the preliminary possibility of the hypothesis, to
“ demonstrate the falsehood of every integral position it in-
“ volves, which I have been able to bring to proof;” and far-
ther,
“ I cannot entertain a doubt, but that the assertions of Gall
14 SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY.
“ and Spurzheira are, in regard even to the plainest facts of
“ cranial anatomy, assuredly the reverse of truth, as is their
“ opinion in cerebral anatomy, that the cortical matter precedes
“ and generates the medullary substance. In these circum-
“ stances, it is idle to disguise the inevitable alternative ; either
“ Drs Gall and Spurzheim are the most worthless observers, or
“ my counter statements are a product of the most exquisite
“ delusion that presumption ever engendered upon ignorance.”
As Sir William has hitherto adduced no proof of his assertions,
I leave your readers to decide whether Drs Gall and Spurzheim
or he are most in danger of suffering from the application of the
foregoing alternatives.—I am. Sir, your very obedient servant.
Geo. Comdk.
25, Northumberland Street, 23d January, 1828.
To the Editor of the Caledonian Mercury.
Sir,—My letter of the 19th has drawn forth replies both from
Dr Spurzheim and Mr Combe.
In reference to the first, I am happy to find that the allusions
I felt myself compelled to notice are to be attributed not to Dr
Spurzheira, but to an erroneous report of his lectures ; and what-
ever I may say of that gentleman’s opinions, I hope I shall al-
ways be found to speak of himself with perfect courtesy and re-
spect. Dr Spurzheim is not correct when he says that I accuse
him and Gall of being “ the most wortliless of observers.”
One proposition (viii.) Dr Spurzheim says is not to be found
in his works. Does he mean to hold against Gall, and with all
other anatomists, that the convolutions of the opposite hemi-
spheres are not symmetrical } This would be an important ad-
mission.
Three phrenological propositions (v. vi. and xiv.) Dr Spurz-
heim declares to be incorrect in themselves, denies them as his
opinions, and asks in what part of his works they are contained.
To my accuracy it is indifferent whether they be held by Dr
Spurzheim, if they be maintained by Dr Gall ; but, in point of
fact, all three, with the exception of the seventh, which I only
asserted to be held by Mr Combe, are " virtually, or in terms,”
maintained by Dr Spurzheim. Even the seventh is apparently
involved in the eighth, as it seems difficult to conceive how the
convolutions of the hemispheres of the brain should be symme-
trical, and yet the opposite sides of the cranium be unequally
developed.
Thefifth that the simis when present betrays its existence
“ and extent by an irregular elevation of a peculiar, character,
“ constituting a bony crest, or ridge, or blister, and is distin-
SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY. li)
“ guished from the forms under which the phrenological organs
“ are developed this proposition is, in substance, to be found
repeatedly in Dr Spurzheim’s writings. Speaking of the objec-
tion of the frontal sinus as affecting Locality, he says, “ the de-
velopment of this organ and that of the frontal sinuses pre-
“ sent quite different forms ;
the frontal sinuses only form a
“ bony crest, while the isolated protuberance, indicating the
particular development of the organ of Space, is round and
large.” {Phys. System, p. 236.) In his “ Phrenology,” the
development of Locality is also, after Gall, said to be situated
higher in the forehead (p. 116). In all these places (and in his
Examination of Objections,” &c. p. 79,) the sinus and the bony
crest are used by Dr Spurzheim with Gall as correlative and
convertible terms ; and the latter explains the formation of the
cavity, by saying, that in subjects “ not very old” the external
plate separates and bulges out, forming two very sensible ele-
vations, which he afterwards describes as irregular, in contra-
distinction to the development of Locality. {Physiol. III. p.
43.) The term ‘‘
blister” was added to include Mr Combe’s de-
scription. How the proposition could have been generalized
more correctly I am yet to be informed.
In the fourteenth proposition, the clause, that “ the lower re-
“ gion of the brow is more largely developed in children than
“ the superior part of the forehead,” &c. is, / re-affirm, virtu-
ally or expressly asserted by Dr Spursheim and all the Phreno-
logists.
“ The manifestations of the mental faculties,” to use
Dr Spurzheim’s language, “ always follow the growth of the
“ cerebral organs.” The “ knowing faculties” are, and must
be admitted by the Phrenologists to be manifested, in full vigour,
long before the “ reflective ;” consequently the development of
the former precedes the development of the latter “ Eventu-
ality” is even stated by Dr Spurzheim himself to be “ largely
" developed in children.” That the proposition in question is
involved as an elementary fact of Phrenology, is proved, indeed,
by all the writings of the school. Hear Dr Combe. “ It is an
“ undisputed truth, that the various mental powers of man ap-
pear in succession, and, as a general rule, that the reflecting
“ or reasoning faculties are those which arrive latest at perfec-
“ tion. In the child the powers of observing the existence and
“ qualities of external objects arrive much sooner at their ma-
“ turity than the reasoning faculties. Daily observation shows
“ that the brain undergoes a corresponding change.” In
“ childhood, the middle and loner part of the forehead generally
“ predominates ; in later life the upper and lateral parts become
more prominent.”—{Phren. Transact, p. 414.)
It is sufficiently irksome to be compelled to reply to all this.
I now proceed to consider the more curious parts of the
Doctor’s letter, in which he struggles hard to escape from tlie
suicidal confutation afforded by his own collection of crania. In
SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHHKNOI.OGY.
]()
this collection the skulls are said to be “ singular in their shapes/’
and to be “ evidently anomalies.” With the exception of one
or two unimportant examples, this I positively deny, and I
would willingly refer the point to any anatomist. In the pre-
sent case, however, that the skulls were chosen to show the de-
velopment of the different organs in excess and in defect, is of
no importance, as the average is sufficiently large, and as the de-
velopments counterbalance each other.
Dr Spurzheim argues, that a comparison of the male and fe-
male skulls in this collection would not be decisive of the rela-
tive size of that viscus in the sexes, because some of the women
“ were perhaps poissardes, or even prostitutes.” Now the
Doctor has evidently no right to presume of the women what
I may not with equal justice do of the men. All general argu-
ment on this point, is, however, in this instance fortunately su-
perseded, as the developments, whether of excess or deficiency,
have been all carefully marked by Dr Spurzheim himself ; so
that we are able to determine, on his own authority, what is the
preponderance of extraordinary development in either scale.
And to put an end to all cavil, as we are generally able at a
game of facts with the Phrenologists to make them a present of
a few points, and still to win easily at last, I will allow all the
7nale. crania, in which their organ No 1 is marked as lars.e to be
arrayed against me, and I willfurther reject all thefemale skulls in
which this organ is similarly noted. I have, however, no parti-
cular attachment to these skulls, and only adduced them as
evidently demonstrating the perfect impartiality of my induc-
tion. But of this afterwards.
I am amused with the Doctor’s offer to try the question of
the size of the cerebellum in the sexes by experiment on “ the
“ 71 ativefemales of the goodfamilies in Edinburgh." I shall cer-
tainly have no objection to the proof, if Dr Spurzheim can per-
suade his female auditors to submit.
But if, under any circumstances, this collection could be held
not to afford a fair induction of the phrenological organs,' it
would be the grossest absurdity to suppose it incompetent to
decide the questions in relation to the frontal sinus. This I de-
fy the Phrenologists to find any anatomist to assert. If the
series exhibits only two or three crania of old persons—if not a
skull is to be found without a sinus—and if the smallest sinuses
are discovered in the oldest subjects—it surely subverts the doc-
trine of Dr Spurzheim, that “ these cavities occur only in old pcr-
“ sons, or after chronic insanity," to say nothing of the assertion
of Gall and others, that they “ are rarely to be foimd in 7vomen."
If Dr Spurzheim has marked three only of these crania as exhi-
biting the frontal sinuses, in which, however, the internal va-
cuity holds no relation to the external ridge, the phrenological
criterion of their presence is shown to be absurd. And if the
sinus is found frequently to affect from six to sixteen organs, the
SIR WILI.IAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY.
assertion of Phrenologists, that it covers, in ordinary cases, only
two, is shown to be equally unfounded.
Surely Dr Spurzheim and Mr Combe do not seriously sup-
pose that my induction is limited to these French crania. They
form a few only of those I have examined ; and I should have
equal confidence in my conclusions were they annihilated. I
only prize them as a convenient, accessible, and manifestly im-
partial, evidence in my favour. But all unselected skulls, as all
impartial anatomists, are on my side.
I cannot accept Dr Spurzheim’s hypothetical felicitations on
the novelty of my anatomical discoveries ; for, unfortunately for
my originality, with the exception of the eleventh and twelfth
counter propositions, the facts to which he alludes have been
fully established, through a large and most elaborate induction,
by the brothers Wenzel. These anatomists, whom the late Dr
John Gordon (a ti'uly competent judge) has justly praised in his
System of Anatomy, as the most original and accurate observers
on' the brain who have appeared for more than a century, have
proved that this viscus attains its full complement about seven
years old, and that the relative proportions of the brain and cere-
bellum are the same from the age of three. The articulate and
minute weighings and measurements of those physiologists, con-
firmed by the independent observations of Soemmering, Acker-
mann, Rudolphi, &c., (to say nothing of the experience of hatters,
adduced by Dr Milligan, which proves that the head does not
increase in size from seven years old till twelve, at which period
it is well known that the skull, cranial integuments, and hair,
begin to wax much thicker)—have only been refuted on the part
of the Phrenologists by vague and unauthenticated assertion.
My own measurements of young crania confirm the statements
of the anatomists.
I cannot comprehend how an attendance upon Dr Spurzheim's
lectures can have any influence on the present discussion. As a
matter of some interest, I meant to have witnessed Dr Spurz-
heira's dissection of the brain, which I have always heard was
performed with the greatest dexterity ; and, as that gentleman
has politely sent me a ticket, I propose attending these lectures
when not otherwise necessarily engaged. But as the only point
at issue between us, which can be determined by a limited de-
monstration, is the symmetry of the opposite convolutions ; and
as that, however vital a point, is now either given up or not
supported by Dr Spurzheim, it cannot be supposed that any ad-
miration I may feel of Dr Spurzheim, in his illustration of mat-
ters irrelevant to Phrenology, can have any influence in per-
suading me of the truth of facts whicli I know, from the most
accurate observation, to be false. It is idle also in my opponents
to talk of my ignorance of their science, while unable to adduce
a single specimen of misrepresentation ;
and it is still more ab-
surd to recommend me to attend their lectures, to learn what
B
J8 SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY.
“ Phrenology really is,” seeing that on this point the teachers
themselves are by the ears. Are not the faithful scandalized to
see Dr Gall anathematizing the heretical novelties of Spurzheim,
and Dr Spurzheim ridiculing Gall’s antiquated attachment to
the bumps ? Does not Mr Combe acknowledge Dr Spurzheim
to be wrong, and Dr Spurzheim combat the theories of Mr
Combe ? Have the professors also an esoteric doctrine only orally
communicated }
I now proceed to Mr Combe. I cannot afford time to refute
this gentleman's history of my relations with Phrenology. I
can only say I am sorry that any irritation should have so blind-
ed his better judgment, as to stoop to such statements and in-
sinuations as he has ventured to indulge in. The whole scope
of this perverse narrative is to impress on the public that I have
no confidence in my facts. This attempt is not a little amusing,
at the very moment when I am offering to prove the most im-
portant positions of Phrenology to be ludicrously false, and
when the Phrenologists are writhing to escape from the cruel
refutation of their system furnished by their own collections. It
is only a short time since I was accused of reckless temerity and
overweening confidence by the Phrenological Journal ;
and Mr
Combe has always found me any thing but diffident of my in-
duction. He has not stated in his narrative, nay, he has insinu-
ated the contrary, that I promptly acquiesced, though in viola-
tion even of academical decorum, in his desire to be permitted
to make observations on my argument at the conclusion of my
lecture, and that he himself subsequently contrived tofrustrate my
intention. He does not state that every facility was offered him
to examine the crania on which I was to found my public de-
monstration, and that he M as pressed and goaded, nay, even
taunted into an acceptance of the same specimens for the use of
his own lecture in the Assembly Rooms. What in fact had I to
fear from an appeal to nature.? All anatomical testimony is on
my side, and the phrenological propositions are so untenable,
that I defy and challenge my opponents to produce a single prac-
tical anatomist who will consent to stoke his reputation on their
truth. The question is, in fact, already decided with men of
science ;
and even the great world is beginning to suspect the
baseless nature of the fabric with which it has been so long
amused.
I shall only notice one or two of the principal misi’epresenta-
tions.
Some time ago, Mr Combe proposed to me to devolve the part
of d(fender in the arbitration on Dr Spurzheim. This I declin-
ed, because the end of the reference M^as not likely to be accom-
plished if I lost Mr Combe as an opponent, since the facts could
not all be decided during the temporary residence of Dr Spurz-
heim in this city. I felt also, I acknowledge, some dislike at
being placed in such strong and permanent collision with a man
SIK WIMvIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY. J9
SO completely identified with the system I opposed ;
I never,
however, as Mr Combe ventures to state, refused to meet Dr
Spurzheim, or even dreamt that he might not attend the meet-
ings of the umpires, at one of which he was actually present.
In regard to Mr Combe’s most erroneous assertion, that the ar-
biters decided against the general competency of Dr Spurzheim's
crania, I state the following facts :
—At the second meeting of
the umpires, after a tedious preliminary discussion on the ad-
justment of the issues, it was proposed, before separating, to
proceed to the consideration of one of the propositions ; and the
fourth was chosen in regard to their rare occurrence in the fe-
male cranium. I produced the skulls marked as women in Dr
Spurzheim’s collection. Mr Combe made no previous objection
to this production ; and he could not have learnt any thing of
their nature from Dr Spurzheim ; for he stated, that he did not
know on any better authority than in my report, that they were
marked by that gentleman. He agreed to ascertain the fact
from the doctor himself. When produced, Mr Combe made
sundry objections, that the age could not certainly be known ;
and even professed to doubt the accuracy of the sexual discri-
mination. Some loose conversation passed ; and it was agreed
by all, that the umpires should endeavour to procure crania of
whose age and sex no doubt could be entertained. The arbiters
came to no general decision in regard either to the thirteen skulls
before them, or to the others which they never saw. I am cer-
tain that no minute of any decision took place ; and there was
only an agreement that, on the special point under consideration,
it was better, in the first place, to procure the evidence most sa-
tisfactory to all. I was perfectly contented with this. From
an induction of several hundred crania, I did not believe that
there would be found in Edinburgh a single example of a
European female skull without the sinus ; and I was far better
pleased to have Dr Spurzheim’s competency as a craniological
discriminator redargued by his own disciple, than the unim-
portant evidence of these crania, on this point, unconditionally
accepted.
Mr Combe’s extraordinary statement, that at the last meeting
of the umpires in November (called by himself in the Phreno-
logical Hall), I was still unfurnished with skulls, is totally with-
out foundation, as is his insinuation, that the protraction of the
arbitration was occasioned by any delay on my part in producing
evidence to the umpires.
In a few days, though I have no hopes of ever satisfying the
Phrenologists, I am confident of being able to bring the truth
of their doctrine to a decision that will satisfy all impartial
judges—I remain. Sir, your most obedient servant,
W. Hamilton.
16, King Street, 26th Jan. 1828.
20 SIB WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY.
Letter from Dr Spuhzheim.
To the Editor of the Caledonian Mercury.
Sir,—Be pleased to communicate to your readers my final an-
swer to Sir William Hamilton. I am confident that a news-
paper correspondence will not decide about the truth or false-
hood of Phrenology. Further, Ties non verba quceso. What is,
is; and it is as it is, whatever Dr Gall, myself, Mr Combe, Sir
William Hamilton, or any other friend or enemy of Phrenology,
may affirm or deny. I declared three of Sir William Hamilton’s
propositions to be inexact, and asked him where in my works he
had read them ? Why, instead of simply copying the passages, does
he confine himself to informing your readers that my assertions
“ are in substance” what he assumes them to be? Let us aban-
don all inferential phraseology, and stick to reality ; I shall be
judged by the public. As, however. Sir William relies on the
late Dr John Gordon, whom he calls “ a truly competent fidge,"
he does not stand in need of attending my evening course on
the anatomy, physiology, and pathology of the brain. The same
Dr Gordon, supported by the Edinburgh Review, declared our
anatomical and physiological views of the brain to be “ sheer
“ nonsense and direct imposture,” and it was therefore unneces-
sary for Sir William to mention to the public, that, being invited,
he proposes attending my lectures in the evening when not other-
“ wise necessarily engaged.” Besides, who does not feel, that, in
this season, evening engagements are of much greater import-
ance than witnessing the dissection of the brain and examining
physiological facts, more especially when these are shown by a
person whom Dr Gordon, the oracle of Sir William, and, in ad-
dition, the Edinburgh literary gospel, have presented to their
readers as a quack and a mountebank ! Notwithstanding all this,
I shall thankfully witness the proofs to which Sir William al-
ludes, at the end of his last letter in your paper, and he may be
assured that no engagement, neither in the day nor in the even-
ing, will prevent me from examining the facts which he pro-
mises to show. His merit will be undoubtedly very great, if he
be able to bring the truth of Phrenology “ to a decision that will
“ satisfy all impartial judges.”—I remain. Sir, your most obe-
dient servant, G. Spubzheim.
Letter from J\Ir G. Combe.
To the Editor of the Caledonian Mercury,
Sib,—I beg leave to make a few observations in answer to Sir
William Hamilton’s letter to you, dated 26th January.
SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGV. •21
I have written a letter to the umpires, requesting them to fa-
vour me with a statement of the proceedings in the reference for
publication ; but the severe indisposition of Dr Christison pre-
vents them from returning an answer for some days. In the
mean time, I positively affirm, that my former assertion, that
hitherto Sir William has proved nothing, and that all the evi-
dence yet adduced by him has been rejected, was perfectly
correct.
Sir William says that he promptly acquiesced in my desire to
be permitted to make observations on his argument at the con-
clusion of his lectures ; but that I subsequently contrived to .
“frustrate his intention.” This is a most incorrect statement.
On the 14th April, 1827, after obtaining Sir Willie’s acquies-
cence, I wrote to Principal Baird as follows :
— My dear Sir,
“ I use the freedom to annex a copy of a correspondence betwixt
“ Sir William Hamilton and me, on the subject of my deliver-
“ ing a lecture for the benefit of the distressed operatives, in an-
swer to his objections against Phrenology, and most respect-
“ fully solicit the permission of the Senatus Academicus to give
“ a reply at the conclusion of the demonstration.” The answer
returned was as follows:—‘'Extract from the Minutes of a Meet-
“ ing of the Senatus Academicus of the Univei’sity of Edinburgh,
“ held 16th April, 1827.
" It was resolved that the request of Mr Combe (he not be-
“ ing a member of the Senatus) could not be granted.
" Andrew Duncan, jun.. Sec.”
This is what Sir William calls my “ contriving tofrustrate his
“ intention.”
As Sir William Hamilton is pleased to controvei’t the state-
ments in my letter to you of the 23d January, about his de-
clining to meet Dr Spurzheim, and proceed to the termination
of the reference with him, I solicit the favour of your attention
to the following circumstances :
Sir William is pleased to quote a passage from Dr A. Combe’s
answer to the late Dr Barclay, as embodying what he holds
to be a phrenological proposition. Had not Sir William him-
self positively precluded Dr Combe, it would have been easy
for him to show that Sir William has altogether misapprehend-
ed his meaning, and that his words and Sir William’s state-
ment are by no means equivalent. In his answer to Dr C.’s let-
ter of 30th April last, in which Dr C. had used the pronoun me,
as including himself among the Phrenologists whose principles
he was stating, Sir William reiterates the assurance no less than
four times in a single printed page, that the works of the founders
afford the onh/ genuine exposition of their opinions. He be-
gins, for example, by assuring Dr C. “ that Gall and Spurzheim
“ are the only authentic representatives of their own doctrines,”
and immediately adds, “ Gall and Spurzheim are the only
“ authors I proposed to refute and again, “ I stated them,” (his
22 sin WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHUENOLOGY.
first and third propositions), “ because I wished to demonstrate
“ the true value of the authority of Gall and Spurzheim and,
as if all this had not been enough to satisfy Dr C., he repeats
once more, “ I only observe, that wishing, as I said, only to
“refute the assertiojis of the two founders.”—{Fide Phrenolo-
gical Journal, vol. iv. p. 394.) —Keeping these assurances in
view, I would ask what Sir William really means? Does he
still hold the writings of Drs Gall and Spurzheim as the
only authentic record of phrenological doctrine, to the exclu-
sion of all other phrenological authors, or does he not ? If he
does, why, after his own explicit remonstrances, does he pro-
nounce to be phrenological, a proposition which is not to be
found in the works of its founders ? If he does not, then why
did he interdict Dr Combe from adducing the statements of
other Phrenologists as expressive of phrenological doctrines ?
And how can he expect Dr C. to defend his opinions in the
face of his. Sir William’s, own prohibition and denial of their
authenticity ? And why, while they are still under his ban as
unauthentic, does he now resort to them as if they did represent
the true doctrine ?
Keeping this statement in view, I beg leave to present you
with copies of my letter to Sir W. H., and of his answer about
admitting Dr Spurzheim as a party to the arbitration.
“ LETTER—GEORGE COMBE TO SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON, BART.
“ Edinburgh, Nov. 22, 1827.
“ My dear Sir,—Our arbitration-question has been long
“ postponed, owing to the absence from town of the parties, the
“ illness of Dr Scott, the marriage of Dr Christison, &c. ; but
now the umpires are ready to resume, and so am I. I beg
" leave to mention, however, that Dr Spurzheim has written to
“ me that he will positively lecture in Edinburgh in January
“ next ; and, as you stated at the first meeting of the umpires,
“ that you did not attack Phrenology, nor my exposition of it,
“ but solely the statements of Drs Gall and Spurzheim, it has
“ occurred to me that the most proper course of proceeding is
“ to delay farther discussion till Dr Spurzheim’s arrival, and
then that you and he should proceed to a final determination
of the points in dispute. The declaration, that you contro-
“ verted only the statements of Drs Gall and Spurzheim, placed
“ me, from the first, in an improper position ;
for I did not re-
“ present them, and had no authority to refer any views or
“ opinions of theirs to arbitration. In fact, I could proceed
“ only in so far as my own views were the same as theirs
“ which certainly, with very few exceptions, they were ; but
“ still these 'founders of Phrenology might well object to their
“ writings being condemned by arbitrators before whom they
“ had not been heard. Dr Spurzheim’s presence in Edinburgh
SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY. 23
“ will remove this objection. however^ you decline this
“ proposal, I am ready to proceed. Mean time, remain, &c.
(Signed) “ Geo. Combe."
“ LETTER—SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON TO GEORGE COMBE, ESQ.
My dear Sir,—I have to apologize for allowing your note
“ of 22d November to lie so long unanswered. I wished, pre-
“ viously to writing you, to see Dr Christison, and to ascertain
“ whether he was prepared to proceed with the arbitration,
“ which he is. I am also quite ready to meet you and the um-
“ pires whenever it suits their convenience and yours.
“ Your proposal of surrendering the defence of the arbitra-
“ tion to Dr Spurzheim, I must beg leave to decline, for various
“ reasons which it is here needless to enumerate. I certain-
“ ly never said ‘ that I did not attack Phrenology,
but solely
“ the statements of Drs Gall and Spurzheim for I know not
where Phrenology is to be found except in the statements of
“ its authors ; nor can I imagine any other expositor entitled to
“ represent their doctrine with an authority equal to that of its
“ founders. It is, however, only in so far as you coincide with
Drs Gall and Spurzheim in regard to the most fundamental
“ positions and the plainest facts that we have any controversy ; »
“ and you agreed to enter into the arbitration because you were
“ willing to peril their credibility, and the possibility of the
“ system, on the truth of the assertions which I offered to dis-
“ prove. Hoping that we may soon bring the points at issue to
proof, I remain, &c.
(Signed) “ W. Hamilton."
The meeting of the umpires suggested in my letter of the 22d
November did not take place till 22d December. It was then
held in the Clyde Street Hall ; but I positively affirm that Sir
William Hamilton only referred again to the crania that had
been previously rejected, and did not produce one jot of addi-
tional evidence to substantiate any of his propositions.
Sir William says, that Dr Spurzheim was actually present
“ at one of the meetings of the umpires." This is correct : but
he forbears to state what occurred. Owing to a previous engage-
ment, it was impossible for me to be jiresent; but Dr A.
Combe, accompanied by Dr Spurzheim, attended, not as par-
ties, but as spectators. These gentlemen waited with much pa-
tience to hear and see Sir William’s evidence; but they assure
me, that, though personally present, he neither said any thing,
nor did any thing, in furtherance of the objects of the refer-
ence.
Sir William proceeds—“ Mr Combe does not state that every
“ facility was offered him to examine the crania on which I was
“ to found my public demonstration, and that he was pressed
“ and goaded, and even taunted into an acceptance of the same
“ ^ecimens for the use of his own lecture in the Assembly
“ Rooms.”
24 SIB WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY.
This matter is very easily set at rest. On 26th April, 1827,
I wrote to Sir William as follows :
—“ I beg" to mention, that,
“ at the request of the committee for the relief of the distressed
" operatives, I shall deliver a lecture on the evidence of Phre-
nology, in the Assembly Rooms, at one o’clock on Friday,
'' and will be happy to exhibit as many skulls of the collection
“ used by you as will be allowed to be cut open. Farther, if
‘‘ you will honour me with your attendance at the Clyde Street
“ Hall, on Friday morning at ten, I shall saw open as many
“ skulls as you may select, carry them to the Assembly Rooms,
“ and abide by the evidence they afford, both as to parallelism
and the frontal sinus.”
Sir William wrote in answer, that he was allowed to offer
me “ the whole 50 skulls sent by M. Royer to the Museum;”
but that as Professor Jameson was averse from disfiguring the
heads, all that he could obtain was permission for me “ to open,
“ before the audience, one of the two cavities (the frontal sinuses)
in any three crania that may be selected.” Farther, he de-
clined my offer of opening as many skulls as he might select
belonging to the Phrenological collection. On 27th April I
wrote him, “ Unless I am permitted to saw open at least a
dozen of them (the skulls,) not selected on account of evi-
dent peculiarities, but taken at random, so as to afford a fair
‘‘ average, I shall be obliged to decline admitting them as
“ evidence.”
My reason for rejecting the skulls which I was not allowed
to saw open was, that, without being opened, the audience in
the Assembly Rooms could not see the sinuses, and, in that
case, had I not reason to apprehend that the whole would
have terminated in a controversy about facts which the au-
ditory had no sufficient means of verifying.? My wish was,
that the question should rest, not on assertions on the part of
Sir William Hamilton, and contradictions on mine, but on the
evidence of the senses of those present.
In conclusion. Sir William says, “ I am coiifident of being
able to bring the truth of the doctrine to a decision that will
“ satisfy all impartial judges.” Sir William has all along been
confident of doing so much, while hitherto he has accomplished
so little, that I am not very sanguine in expectation from this
announcement ;
but it would afford me the greatest pleasure if
he shall keep his word. I have spent much time and taken
much trouble with Sir William Hamilton ; but although from
other opponents I have learned something in the way either of
correction or elucidation, from him I have derived not one iota
of knowledge. Words, and words alone, have been poured out
upon me, and the stream has been so copious, that sense and
fact have seemed to me to be too often swept away in the flood.
I am, Sir, your very obedient servant.
Geo. Combe.
Kdinburgh, 30th Jan. 182S.
SIB WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY. 25
Letter from Sib William Hamilton.
To the Editor of the Caledonian Mercury*
Sir,—Might I request you to allow the insertion of the follow-
ing observations^ in supplement of the letter which appeared in
your last paper.
I there forgot to notice Mr Combe’s denial, ‘‘
that it had been
“ any doctrine of his that irregularity in the opposite sides of the
cranium ‘ is the effect, and cojisequently the index of disease in
“ ^ the brain.’ ” I beg to ask that gentleman, whether I am
wrong in supposing a philosopher to hold a doctrine which he
not only merely asserts, but even applies in parrying an objec-
tion to his system ;
and whether he himself did not, on this
ground, endeavour to extenuate the ludicrous illustration of
phrenological truth which the cranium of the atrocious robber-
murderer of Bali afforded ? Among other similar contradictions,
I had shown by phrenological measurement, that the skull of
this monster greatly surpassed that of George Buchanan, in all
the intellectual and moral organs, and was equally deficient to
it in all the brute propensities, and in particular in that of mm’-
der or Destructiveness. Mr Combe, in his lecture in the As-
sembly Rooms, finding that the two sides of this cranium were
not perfectly correspondent, (not a skull in a hundred, as ob-
served by anatomists, is found symmetrical, and the want of
symmetry in this specimen did not certainly exceed the aver-
age,) boldly asserted, that because thus, what he called " twist-
“ ed,” it was a diseased, and consequently an incompetent, sub-
ject of comparison. Will he likewise deny, that he attempted to
show of the same skull, that there was a deficiency in the organ
of Conscientiousness, by holding up in contrast with it, a thing
he called the cast of a head, and which exhibited the superior
and lateral parts towering into two mountains divided by an in-
terjacent valley ? On this anomaly, which he then took for his
mean standard of proportion, there could not probably be found,
on phrenological principles, an honest individual in Europe
but had it been convenient to have proved the owner of this
skull a virtuous character, it would not probably have been
difficult to discover on the nonce, among the phrenological appa-
ratus, a counter monstrosity, exhibiting the sides of the cranium
sloping from the vertex like a penthouse. Such is the opinion
that arrogates to itself the name of science ! Mr Combe, it ought
to be added, was on this occasion enthusiastically applauded,
by the believers for his triumphant vindication of their faith,
by the scoffers for his unconscious exposition of its absurdity.
In my first letter I also neglected to append a note to the
• This letter appeared in the same paper with the two preceding letters pf
Dr Spurzheini and Mr Combe.
26 sin WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY.
passage where the name of Hufeland is introduced. Among
other controverters of Phrenology, that author had been alluded
to by me in my correspondence with Mr Combe, printed in the
Phrenological Journal ; and the editor, in a note, says, that he
" had seen an extract from a /a/e publication, stating that Hufe-
land, o?i more careful and extensive observation, had confessed
himself obliged to renounce his opposition, and to adopt the very
" doctrine to which he hadformerly objected.’’ He then refers to an
article in the same number, on the progress of Phrenology in
Germany. On turning to this article, which purports to be
from a foreign correspondent, it no doubt appeared, from a trans-
lation out of what was said to be a “ recent” work of Hufeland’s,
that he had ended in becoming a decided convert to Phrenology.
It was not, however, long before I perceived that the whole was
a mere mystification. For, in thefrst place, the “ recent tri-
“ bute” paid to the science is extracted from a work of which the
second edition, now before me, is printed twenty-three, years ago:
in the second place, this “ tribute” is paid in the introduction (f
the very work in which he treats Phrenology to its refutatum :
in the third place, the translation, in essentialpohits, is little better
than afabrication. I am far indeed from supposing that the
editor of the Journal, whoever he be, was a party to the
deceit ; but the reference to Bischoff’s Darstellung should have
pointed out the hoax, had he not been ignorant of the history of
his own opinion. It is, however, evident from the example,
that scepticism is not amiss in regard even to phrenological
quotations ;
and in regard to facts, I have never yet met with
a statement of any consequence to the system, which, in its accu-
racy or its application, could bear a critical examination.—I re-
main, Sir, your most obedient servant,
W. Hamilton.
16, King Street, 29th January, 1828.
P. S.—I observe an erratum in the third paragraph of my last
letter, which reverses the meaning : —for are symmetrical,”
read “ are not symmetrical.”
Letter from Mr George Combe.
To the Editor of the Caledonian Mercury.
Sir,—In consequence of the assertions contained in Sir William
Hamilton's letter to you, published in the Mercury of 31st Ja-
nuary, it becomes necessary for me again to trouble you with a
reply.
Your readers will have discovered long before this time, that
philosophy or facts in nature attract, in a very subordinate de-
gree, the notice of Sir William Hamilton. He has commenced
SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY. 27
the present controversy by giving forth several absurd proposi-
tions, which he gratuitously ascribes to the Phrenologists, but
which the latter at once denied to be either taught or believed
by them. Any reasonable disputant would have perceived that
here the discussion as to them ought to have terminated ; be-
cause, both parties being agreed that the propositions have no
foundation in nature, farther argument could serve no legitimate
end. Sir William Hamilton, however, views matters differently.
He gravely states, that his object is to destroy the credibility of
Drs Gall and Spurzheim. His own words in his letter of 3d
May, 1827, are,
“ If all their assertions within our observation
“ be false, all beyond it are aititled lo no credit and how does
he proceed to show that all their assertions within our observa-
tion are false? He does this by thrusting certain disavowed ab-
surdities on these authors, and he hopes, by proving what no-
body denies, that these are sheer nonsense, to arrive, by “ a very
“ simple inference of analogy,” at the conclusion, that real as-
sertions, founded in nature, and consistent with sense, are not
to be believed ! The folly of this proceeding is very apparent.
First, The credibility of Drs Gall and Spurzheim constitutes no
element in the evidence of Phrenological science. These gentle-
men and the other authors on phrenology have all along explicitly
stated, that they require no person to believe any thing on their
testimony, but solely on the evidence addressed to their own
senses and intellects. Dr Spurzheim repeated this most parti-
cularly at the commencement of his present course of lectures,
and I have uniformly been equally explicit. Secondly, It is in-
trinsically absurd to enter into a grave discussion about the cre-
dibility of a person who rests his assertions upon facts in nature
which may easily be verified. No man of common sense in-
quires whether a chemist or natural philosopher is credible in
relating his experiments ; he repeats the experiments himself,
and believes or disbelieves according to the result. Thirdly,
Even were it philosophical gravely to discuss the credibility of
phrenological authors, ought not their own statements in their
avowed works to be assumed as the authentic record of their
opinions? Nevertheless, Sir William Hamilton, when called on
by Dr Spurzheim to point out where in his works three of the
propositions ascribed to him were to be found, could not do so,
but alleged that they were “ in substance” what he assumed
them to be. This is trifling with the public. Again, after re-
peating four times in one page, and in the most positive terms,
that “ Gall and Spurzheim are the only authentic representatives
“ of their onn doctrines,” and that he wished “ only to refute
“ the assertions of the two founders,” he attributes an absurd
proposition to Phrenologists in general, and adduces an alleged
statement of mme as the authority on which he rests. Not only
this ;
but he assumes his own recollection of an oral discourse,
delivered by me nine months ago, as a sufficient ground for im-
28 SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY.
puting to me a statement which I disavow, and which a printed
record of my words, published in the Scotsman newspaper at
the time, proves that I did not utter. This can easily be esta^
blished.
1^/, As to Dr Gall’s doctrine regarding the symmetry of the
two sides of the cranium, that author says, “ We must not for-
“ get, that often the healthiest heads, I mean those in which the
“ form has not been influenced by disease, have two sides tin-
“ equal.”
^dly. As to my statement—On 31st January last, I wrote Sir
William Hamilton as follows : — Will you oblige me by point*
“ ing out the authority for which you ascribe to me the doc-
“ trine, ‘ That irregularity in the opposite sides of the cranium
“ ‘ is the effect, and consequently the index of disease in the
‘‘ ‘ brain
”
The answer is in these terms :
—" 31st January,
“ 1828.—The authority on which I ascribe to you the opinion
“ in question, is your lecture in the Assembly Rooms. My memory
“ is very distinct on the subject. You argued, that as the skull
of the Bali murderer was twisted, the brain had probably been
diseased. I was the more particularly struck with the argu-
“ ment, because I had happened to have recently read in Dr
“ Monro’s Anatomy, that not one skull in a hundred was to be
“ found symmetrical, and to have examined an instrument in-
vented by him for measuring this inequality.” The follow-
ing is an extract from a report of my lecture in the Assembly
Rooms, published in the Scotsman of 2d May, 1827, prepared
not by me, but with the assistance of the notes from which I
spoke :
“ The supposed skull of George Buchanan had been produced
as an objection ; but, in the first place, Buchanan died at the
" age of 78, which was at least 30 years beyond the period of
“ middle life, to which Phrenologists confine their demonstra-
tive observations, and no one could tell how much the brain
and skull had diminished in the course of the ordinary decay
of nature. In the second place, the evidence of the skull hav-
ing belonged to Buchanan was found by the Phrenologists to
“ be so defective, that they had, for this very reason, avoided
“ publishing any account of it. In the third place, even grant-
“ ing it to be the skull of Buchanan, no attempt had been made
“ to show that its development was inconsistent with the mani-
“ festations.—It had, indeed, been contrasted, and held to be
“ equally good, with the skull of a Bali murderer, which Mr
“ Combe now sawfor thefirst time, and which had been sent in
“ by Sir William Hamilton after the lecture had begun. A
« friend sitting behind him (Mr C.) had looked at it since it
“ was handed in, and written the comments, which he woidd
“ now read :
—‘ The Bali murderer is old, as is seen by the ab-
“ ‘
sence of the teeth, and alveolar processes. It is therefore not
“ ‘ within the conditions required by Phrenology. The skull is un-
SIB WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY. 29
" ‘ equal and twisted. The propensities, generally, are very
“ * large.—Combativeness, Secretiveness, Self-esteem, Cautious-
‘
ness, are all very large, and Destructiveness and Firmness
‘
are large. Conscientiousness is moderate, as it rises little
" ' above the level of Cautiousness. Benevolence and intellect
“ ‘ are large. Here, then, cunning, passion, suspicion, and jea-
“ ‘ lousy, are the strongest among the propensities ; and with
“ ' such a combination, in a savage nation, murder from age or
“ ‘
from suspicion is quite probable. To prove this skull to be
" subversive of Phrenology, Sir William Hamilton must first
“ ‘ prove that it is not above middle life, and not diseased (which,
“ ‘from its appearance, andfrom the murder apparently not being
“ ‘ committed till old age, is at least doubtful). He must produce
“ ‘
evidence that the manifestations in mature age were at vari~
“ ‘ ance with even his present development ;
that he was not
“ ‘
violent in liis rage, not crafty, and not suspicious ; and that he
“ ‘
was not deep and calculating in his schemes against others
“ ‘ that he was not kind and firm to his friends ;
and that he
“ ‘
was not a man whose mental energy made him feared. Hav-
“ ‘
ing established these points. Sir William may then, but not
“ ‘
till then, produce it as evidence against Phrenology. We
“ ‘ do not receive it as evidence, because we expressly specify
“ ‘ middle life as the period for evidence in demonstration, and
“ ‘
we expressly require health as a condition.’
”
By the words, “ to appearance,” the whole indications of the
skull are obviously meant, its density as well as its twist.
Nothing can savour more of the spirit of perverse wrangling
than to found on this statement in the lecture the assertion, that
I maintain it as a general phrenological proposition, that “ irre-
“ gularity in the cranium is the effect, and consequently the in-
“ dex of disease in the bi’ain.”
Up to the present hour. Sir William Hamilton has not pro-
duced a shadow of evidence, that the skull which he calls
that of George Buchanan really belonged to that individual, or
that he did not die at the age of 78, which is beyond the period
of phrenological observation. Farther, in a letter, dated 27th
April, 1827, I begged of him to send me the letter of Mr Craw-
ford, in which the history of the Bali robber is alleged by him to
be detailed, but he has never done so nor has he proved any of
the foregoing points, which he was called on to substantiate be-
fore being entitled to assert, that this skull afforded evidence
against Phrenology.
Sir William says, that I held up in the Assembly Rooms, “ in
“ contrast with it, a thing called the cast of a head.” Sir Wil-
liam never before questioned that it was a cast of an actual
head •,
but as he now does so, I am ready, Avhenever he pleases,
to refer him to one of the oldest and most esteemed surgeons in
Edinburgh, as the authority on which the authenticity of that
cast rests.
Sir William next refers to an article in the Phrenological
30 sin WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHHENOLOGY.
Journal about Hufeland’s opinions in regard to Phrenology ;
but he conceals the fact, that I told him more than a month ago,
when he mentioned the error, that I had written to the author
of that article, who resides on the continent, and who had
translated Hufeland's expressions into indifferent English, for a
more explicit statement ; that an answer had then been received,
from which it appeared that the original report was not accurate
as to its date ; and that this mistake would he corrected in the
next number of the Journal.
Sir William denies that he called Dr Spurzheim “ the most
“ worthless of observers.” His own words are, either Drs
“ Gall and Spurzheim are the most worthless of observers, or
“ my counter-statements are a product of the most exquisite
“ delusion that presumption ever engendered upon ignorance.”
I am. Sir, your very obedient servant. Geo. Combe.
Edinburgh, Feb. 1, 1828.
Letter from Sir William Hamilton.
To the Editor of the Caledonian Mercury.*
Sir,—I am disappointed to find that, in what Dr Spurzheim is
pleased to call “ an answer” to my letter, every point at issue is
either passed over altogether, or studiously evaded. Quoting
the Res non verba quceso, the Doctor himself treats us to nothing
but words. After an oracular enunciation of the recondite truth,
“ what is is, and it is as it is,” he starts off in a tirade about
evening parties and evening lectures, the Edinburgh Review,
and vituperations which that “ literary gospel” had vented upon
himself and Gall. The occasion of this effusion is the luckless
employment I had made of the authority of Dr John Gordon, to
prove the high reputation of the Wenzels to the public, who, as
unlearned on the subject, were consequently ignorant of the
European celebrity of these accurate observers. The Wenzels
are not praised by Dr Gordon in disparagement of Spurzheim
and Gall, and his testimony is even contained in a systematic
work, written, I believe, before its author was acquainted with
the works of my opponents. Dr Spurzheim must not, however,
be allowed to escape conviction because he refuses to plead.
The Doctor does not answer my pointed interrogatory, whe-
ther he now at length admits against Gall, that the cerebral con-
volutions are not symmetrical ? I am willing, however, to accept
silence for a confession ; and am not less rejoiced to see Dr
Spurzheim thus compelled to evacuate the strongholds of the
system, and the surest positions of Gall in relation to the brain,
as I was to behold Mr Combe back out of the most important
• This letter appeared in the same paper with the preceding letter of Mr
Combe, and has therefore no reference to it.
sni WII-IilAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY. 31
and confident assertions of Dr Spurzheim touching the cranium
and the frontal sinus. So far so good.
In my last letter I proved to demonstration, that the two
Phrenological Propositions which Dr Spurzheim denied to be
held by him (fifth and fourteenth) were, however, actually his.
In his present letter he still affirms that they are “ inexact
but he cautiously abstains from attempting any proof of my in-
accuracy. “ The better part of valour is discretion.” As yet I
stand unconvicted of a single misrepresentation of my oppo-
nents, while they are seen endeavouring to avoid inevitable re-
futation, by sneaking out of their opinions,—denying of their
language its unambiguous meaning, of their doctrine its most
immediate corollaries.
Touching theffth Phrenological Proposition. If Dr Spurz-
heim can adduce a single passage from his own works or those
of Gall, where (in opposition to all those I have quoted, proving
that the sinus and the bony crest are uniformly maintained by
them severally to suppose each other) it is stated, that the in-
ternal vacuity, except in cases of old age and disease, is ever
found without its external index of the ridge ; —in that event, I
shall at once abandon this proposition •, but, if he cannot do this,
he necessarily stands convicted of the grossest quibbling.
In reference to fourteenth Phrenological Proposition, af-
firming the greater development in children of the inferior parts
of the forehead, &c., Dr Spurzheim must either deny, 1. That
the knowing organs are not situated in the lower region of the
brow, and the reflective in the superior ; or, 2. That the know-
mg faculties are not manifested before the reflective; or, 3.
That the development of the several organs is not correspondent
with the manifestation of their respective faculties. Unless he
maintains one or other of these alternatives, he cannot impugn
the accuracy of my proposition ; and, if he does, he virtually
denies the truth of Phrenology. He can only escape execution
by suicide. Be it observed, that I only quoted Dr Combe in il-
lustration of Dr Spurzheim, not as an authority representing
the opinion. This, however, it is chosen to misrepresent.
Dr Spurzheim also maintains silence on my challenge to try
the question of the relative size of the cerebellum in the sexes,
on his own skulls, alloAving him to retain all the male crania
marked by himself as large in that organ, and to throw out all the
female skulls in which it is similarly distinguished. I ought to
have added, that I would also permit him to reject all the male
crania in which No 1 may be marked as small, retaining those
female crania in which it may be similarly noted. The collec-
tion shall also be purged, by any teacher of anatomy, of all
skulls which may be “ monstrous,” “ singular,” or “ anomal-
“ ous.”
If Dr Spurzheim, therefore, is not anxious to evade the appeal
32 SIR WILLIABI HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGT.
to facts, and would not be reproached with havihg accused his
opponent of misrepresentation, without the shadow of a reason,
he will favour me with an answer to the four followiYig ques-
tions :
1. Does he not abandon Gall’s assertion in regard to the sym-
metry of the convolutions of the opposite lobes of the brain ?
2. In what respect have I mis-stated his and Gall’s opinion,
as published in their works, in regard to the co-relation of the
frontal sinus and the superciliary crest ?
3. In what respect have I misrepresented them in regard to
their doctrine of the greater development in children of the lower
region of the brow ?
4. Does he accept my challenge to try the truth of Phreno-
logy on his own series of skulls, and conceding to him every
possible advantage ?
I again defy the Phrenologists to produce a single practical ana-
tomist who will declare that the phrenological propositions are fiot
ludicrofusly false.
I say nothing in reply to Mr Combe, as I beg leave to de-
cline his interference in the present controversy between Dr
Spurzheim and me. I should be sorry, especially at the present
busy juncture, to occupy your columns with any answer to his
long-windpd statements, however easily refuted ; and am un-
willing to co-operate in distracting attention from facts of some
importance to personalities of none. This also I wish to be my
last letter on the present subject.
I remain. Sir,
Your most obedient servant,
W. Hamilton.
King Street, 31st January, 1828.
Postscript.—As my letter has not been published to-day, I
hope I may be permitted to add a few observations, suggested
by reading the report of Dr Spurzheim’s lecture on the frontal
sinus, which appeared in the Scotsman of this morning.
Mr Combe asserts, that he has never learnt any thing from
me. This cannot be maintained of Dr Spurzheim. I am re-
joiced to find, from this report, that the Doctor abandons his old
^opinions, and now actually inculcates tfe very doctrines which I
have offered to prove, and which are diametrically opposed to those
hitherto maintained by the Phrenologists.
In the first place, instead of holding that the sinus exists only
in old age, and as the effect of chronic insanity, by only supporU
ing the feeble negative that they are not found in every in-
" stance," he now evidently acknowledges that they axe generally
present. So far, therefore, he admits my second counter-pro-
position.
In the second place, instead of maintaining that the presence
SIB WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY. .33
of the sinus is always indicated by a bony crest, he now admits
that the crest “ sometimes accompanies a sinus, and sometimes
not." He thus adopts myjyih counter-proposition.*
In the third place. Dr Spurzheim seems to admit that the si-
nus exists in children after seven years old ; and so far, there-
fore, acquiesces in my third counter-proposition. In denying
the existence of the sinus before the age of seven, he is. How-
ever, opposed to all the most illustrious anatomists, (Morgagni,
Albinus, Bichat, Scarpa, &c. &c.,) who trace the sinus back even
to the fcetus.
But though Dr Spurzheim, less indocile than Mr Combe,
conceives it fas ah hoste doceri, he does not, however, appear
more inclined to acknowledge the tuition. He quietly advances
the new opinions, as if these -were his spontaneous statements,
and not involuntary concessions, extorted from him in the teeth
of all that he had ever previously taught. Of this, however, I
do not complain ; and am better pleased to be saved, by these
admissions, (which I shall hold good, if not denied by Dr Spurz-
heim,) the trouble of bringing my second, third, and ffh coun-
ter-propositions to a proof. With the suicidal effects of these
admissions to Phrenology, I have at present nothing to do ; nor
do I advert to the other statements of Dr Spurzheim concerning
the sinus, which I know to be not less untrue than the more no-
torious absurdities, from which he would now fain be allowed
quietly to back out. Of the fve phrenological propositions, on
the truth of which INIr Combe originally agreed to peril the
truth of Phrenology, and the credit due to its founders, three are
now given up by Dr Spurzheim himself •, and the two not yet
surrendered are even more untenable than the others. (See
Phrenological Journal, No XV. p. 390.) I suspect the Phrenolo-
gists now begin to nauseate_/ac^j, even more than they formerly
abominated reasonings.
Notwithstanding your notice, I trust that Dr Spurzheim may
be allowed to insert an answer in your journal to this communi-
cation.
2d February, 1828.
*** While we readily accede to the proposal which Sir Wil-
liam Hamilton so very handsomely makes in favour of his oppo-
nent, we must still repeat, that, in doing so, we do not hold
ourselves as departing from the resolution expressed in our last.
Letter from Mb George Combe.
To the Editor of the Caledonian Mercury.
Sir,—Acquiescing, as I fully do, in the propriety of terminat-
• The report of Dr Spurzheim’s lecture on the frontal sinus, referred to by
Sir W. Hamilton, will be found in section IV. of this article.
c
34 SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON ANO PHnKNOLOCFy.
ing the controversy, in your columns, on the subject of Phrer>-
ology, between Sir William Hamilton and me, I solicit the fa- <
vour of your inserting the Report of the Umpires, which I have (
only this day received ; and also an Extract from the Phrenolo- .
gical Journal, No I., published in October, 1823, relative to the <
fifty skulls, which establishes that the Phrenologists have never
varied in their account of the purposes for which they were se-
lected and sent to Edinburgh ; and remain, Sir,
Your very obedient servant,
George Combe.
Edinburgh, 8th February.
“ Proceedings of Ihe Arbiters in the Reference by Sir William \
“ Hamilton and Mr Combe, on the Anatomical Facts of Phren~ t
“ ology.
“ The first meeting was spent in arranging the Issues to be (
" tried regarding the frontal sinuses.
“ At the second meeting the Issues were farther arranged, 1
“ and Sir William Hamilton proceeded to prove his statements )
“ by examining a set of skulls in the University Natural History
IMuseum, said to have been sent from Paris by Dr Spurzheim. i»
“ Blr Combe stated various objections to these skulls being re- ;
“ ferred to ; and the arbiters agreed that satisfactory facts could
not be deduced from them,—in the frst place, Because the il
“ age and sex could be determined only presumptively, and ii
even that but in a few ; and, secondly. Because liberty could ij
“ not be obtained to lay the sinuses open to such an extent as i
“ appeared necessary for an accurate examination. !
At the third meeting, after a desultory conversation on the li
“ best method of procuring accurate facts for deciding the points il
“ at issue between Sir William Hamilton and Mr Combe, the i|
“ arbiters proposed, that, instead of examining skulls whose his- i
“ tory was unknown, and which could not always be cut open j
to the requisite extent, the parties and umpires should attend I
“ the pathological dissections at the Infirmary and Fever Hos- i
“ pital ; by which means they hoped, that, in the course of a I
“ few months, a sufficient set of correct observations might be i
procured, with all the necessary collateral circumstances.
This proposition was agreed to ; and, a few days afterwards I
the first examination was made in presence of all the arbiters
'
at the Fever Hospital.
“ (Signed) John Scott, M.D. James Syme.—R. Chris- i
“ Tison.
“ Edinburgh, February 8, 1828.”
Extract from Phrenological Journal, No I. p. l)'J.
“ We are able to state farther, that the skulls are really very i
“ interesting to the student of Phrenology. The question is of-
SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY. 35
" ten asked. On what principle did Drs Gall and Spurzheim
** map out the skull, and assign different shapes to the different
organs as appearing on the cranimn ? This collection presents
“ a most satisfactory answer to the inquiry. In cases of extreme
development of any particular organ, the bone situate above
“ it protrudes in the very form and dimensions delineated by
the founders of the science ; and these skulls were selected
with the view of illustrating this point, and do illustrate it in
“ the most decided manner. In one skull, for example, Cau-
“ tiotisness is the predominating organ, and the projection is seen
to be exactly of the shape and size marked in the phrenologi-
" cal busts. In another. Benevolence is the leading feature ; in
a third, Feneration predominates, and so on ; and in each the
skull is seen presenting a distinct elevation of a form corre-
“ sponding to that assigned to the external indication of the or-
“ gan by Drs Gall and Spurzheim. The history of the indivi-
“ duals to whom the skulls belonged is not known, and the
collection was sent as evidence merely of the fact, that eleva-
tions of the cranium, corresponding in figure and dimensions
“ to those delineated on the phrenological busts, actually exist
“ in nature, and that the lines of demarcation are not fanciful,
“ as is generally reported and believed.”
Letter from Dr Spurzheim.
To the Editor of the Caledonian Mercury.
Sir,—You were so good as to insert, in your paper of Thurs-
day, 31st January, an answer to Sir William Hamilton, which
I intended to be final ; but his letter published in your number
of Monday, the 4th of February, makes it necessary for me to
add some explanation to your readers, and I now trouble you
and them for the last time. I depend on their good sense that
they do not think me bound in duty to prove, that three propo-
sitions, which Sir William assumes to be mine, are inexact. He
is the accusing party ; hence let him prove his accusation, and,
instead of drawing interpretations, let him copy from my printed
works the passages in which I maintain the views attributed to
me, and combated by him.
Sir William asserts, that he has taught me the views which I
now maintain regarding the frontal sinus; but I am constrained
to declare, that hitlierto I have learned nothing from Sir Wil-
liam, who, by not bringing forth from my works the exact pas-
sages on which he founds his three supposed propositions, betrays
that he did not understand Phrenology as I taught it in 1815
and 1816, and who, by not attending any of my demonstrations,
shows that he is unwilling to become acquainted with the pro-
36 SIU WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHHKNOLOGY.
gress this science has made since that time. Your readers will
easily conceive, that I could not learn my doctrine on the frontal
sinus from him, seeing tliat all the specimens of the various »
modifications of it, through all ages, from new-born children to
very old age, in the state of health and disease, shown by me in r
Edinburgh, were collected in Paris, whence I brought them to
England, and seeing also that I taught the same doctrine in i
London, Bath, Bristol, Cambridge, and Hull, which I repeated I
in Edinburgh.
But Sir William, forgetting the old saying, nec sutor ulira I
£repidam, proposes to teach anatomical points unknown, I am i
sure, to all lecturers on anatomy in this city. The cerebellum, ,i
says he, has its full growth at three years, and the brain at seven |
years of age. The cerebellum, moreover, is absolutely larger in iji
ovomen than in men, and probably so in females than in males. To ;
my knowledge Dr Gall never saw such things. I also confess, ;
that, during the twenty-seven years that I have studied the struc- .
ture, functions, and diseases of the brain, I have never been able
to perceive facts to support the above-mentioned assertions of Sir
William; and BI. Chausier, formerly professor of anatomy and
physiology in the university of Paris, who paid particular atten- \
tion to this subject, and vrh.o professedly wrote on it, notwithstand-
ing of his great opportunities of examining brains both of chil-
dren and adults, states, in his Exjyosilion de I’ Encephale, published !
in 1808, the contrary of what Sir William undertakes to demon-
strate. I shall be glad to see him prove publicly his assertions
'
as soon as he finds it convenient, even by the fifty skulls on j
which \\e fully relies. At the same time, I regret not being able
to say. His gloriamur inimicitiis. :
I am. Sir,
Your very obedient servant,
G. “Spurzhkim.
Edinburgh, Cth February, 1828.
II. COllllESPONDENCE BETWEEN Sill WII.LIAM HAMIL-
TON AND Dll SPUllZHEIM, NOT PllEVIOUSLY PUB-
LISHED.
Sir William Hamilton to Dr Spurzhkim.
Sir W. Hamilton presents compliments to Dr Spurzheim, and
requests permission to inquire, whether Dr Spurzheim consents
to try the truth of Phrenology in the points at issue, by an in-
duction of skulls, taken indifferently from the various collec-
sin. WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHUENOLOGy. 37
tions in Edinburgh ; the age, sex, health, &c. to be rigorously
determined, without interference of the parties, or relation to
the questions in dispute, by the skill, and on the honour of the
anatomists through whom they are obtained.
Sir W. Hamilton, on his part, is willing that Dr Spurzheim’s
series of crania should be purified from any " monstrous,” " sin-
gular,” and “ anomalous” specimens, if such it really con-
tains, by any of the public teachers ofanatomy in this city whom
Dr Spurzheim may prefer. He likewise offers to include the
skulls belonging to the Phrenological Society in the induction,
provided, that their whole collection be submitted, without re-
servCy to the same impartial determination. Crania, not Euro-
pean, to be tivken, cum nota, in reference to the frontal sinus ;
and in regard to other points, those of children and of males
and females, only of the same race, and in equal proportions, to
be compared together.
16, Great King Street, 15th February, 1828.
Dr Spurzheim to Sir William Hamilton.
Dr Spurzheim returns compliments to Sir William Hamilton,
and, in answer to Sir Wm.’s note of yesterday, begs leave to
say, that he examined the skulls sent from Paris, and those pre-
served in the public and private collections at Edinburgh,—that
he explained, and continues to explain, to the public at large,
his doctrines on Phrenology,—and that it is not his fault if Sir
Wm. Hamilton, though invited by Dr S., did not think it pro-
per to attend any of Dr Spurzheim’s demonstrations, or to look
at any of the evidences which he brings forth. On the other
hand, Sir Wm. Hamilton does not stand in need "of Dr Spurz-
heim’s “ permission” to refute Phrenology whenever and wher-
ever he pleases ;
Dr Spurzheim, however, repeats the statement
already made in the Caledonian Mercury, that he is willing to
meet Sir Wm. H. as soon as Sir Wm. may be ready to prove pub-
licly his assertions. It is evident that Sir Wm. has the right
to proceed as he likes, and to appear alone or in company of all
teachers of anatomy in Edinburgh, to whom he alludes in his
note. The only thing upon which Dr S. insists is, that Sir
Wm. shall not confine his decision to a written document signed
by his friends, but shall bring all his evidence before the public,
and allow Dr S. to put any question concerning the contested
points to Sir Wm. Hamilton or to his supporters. Dr S. also
desires Sir Wm. H. not to wait till Dr S. has left Edinburgh, to
exhibit publicly the ^evidence of his assertions. From not at-
tending to this circumstance. Sir Wm. could not be free from
the charge of having alleged assertions which he could not sub-
stantiate in Dr Spurzheim’s presence.
Edinburgh, 16th February, 1828.
38 SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOOV#
Sir William Hamilton to Dr Spuhzheim.
Sir William Hamilton presents compliments to Dr Spurz-
heim, and regrets, though he is not astonished, that Dr Spurz-
heim refuses to join in any induction, by which the assertions of
Phrenology would be held up in collation with facts of Na-
ture. Sir William has done every thing in his power to mani-
fest the rigorous impartiality of his proof ;
and he flatters him- j
self, that he has succeeded in placing in a strong contrast, his i
own anxiety and the reluctance of his opponents, to bring the j
truth of their several positions to the proper test.
Sir William has applied for all the female crania extant in ;
the diffijrent anatomical collections of Edinburgh, and he has t
employed all indilFerently. The sex of many of these is known
independently of anatomical criteria. The others have been |
discriminated by the most skilful judges ; and no specimen has i|
been admitted, in regard to the sex of which any doubt has i
been entertained. The same has been done in respect to ante- i
puberal crania. From all the anatomical collections all the t
skulls have been obtained the teeth of which evidence the pro-
per age.
In regard to male crania, which are preserved in far greater |
numbers than those of women. Sir W. Hamilton offers to allow li
Dr Spurzheim himself to fix, without selection, on the adequate li
complement, iji any of the anatomical musas. i
Having done thus much, and expressed his willingness to in- j
elude Dr Spurzheim's own collection, under the most favour- I
able conditions—indeed under any terms Dr Spurzheim him- ii
self may choose—and to admit the skulls belonging to the |
Phrenological Society, Sir William is confident that nothing ;l
more on his part could possibly be performed, to decide the |
question on fair and liberal principles, nay, even on principles j
more partially favourable to the Phrenologists. He begs Dr i
Spurzheim himself to state, whether he can conceive it possible I
to act more generously by an opponent, without absolutely com- ,t
promising the interest of truth.
In regard to Dr Spurzheim’s insinuation, that the Edinburgh (
lecturers on anatomy are his ‘\friends” and “ supporters,” Sir I
W. Hamilton must observe, that, if it is meant that a disbelief h
in the phrenological anatomy constitutes them his friends, they !
are probably so, not less than all other anatomists alive and I
dead ; but if it is hereby whispered, that their impartiality is ;
not to be trusted in their scientific determination of the subjects :
of his induction, so unworthy an insinuation can only recoil on .
the head of him who could imagine the possibility of such a
supposition. Sir William may be somewhat strict in his no- '
tions on this subject ; but he can assure Dr Spurzheim, that he
would as soon forge a bill as colour a philosophical fact ;
and
sin WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRKNOLOGT. 39
even the most infatuated of the phrenological multitude, will, he
thinks, begin to suspect the delusion of a doctrine, which can
only be supported by innuendos against the integrity of whole
classes of honourable men.
If Sir W. Hamilton’s attendance on Dr Spurzheim’s physio-
logical lectures were of the smallest relevancy to the present
question, as it is of none, how could he, with any delicacy, have
availed himself of Dr Spurzheim’s invitation, after his attend-
ance was subsequently so unceremoniously prohibited by Dr
Spurzheim, in his second letter in the Caledonian Mercury ?
Sir William has only to add, that Dr Spurzheim will have
ample opportunity, privately to scrutinize, and publicly to can-
vass, the accuracy of his measurements. Dr Spurzheim is at
present only commencing a new course of lectures ; but, that no
time may be lost, that part of the induction which is already
finished, shall, if Dr Spurzheim pleases, be submitted to him
without delay. The earlier completion of the whole induction
has only been prevented by its extent, minuteness, and elaborate
accuracy.
16, Great King Street, 17th February, 1828.
Dll Spurzheim to Sir William Hamilton.
Dr Spurzheim returns compliments to Sir Wm. Hamilton, and
begs to remark, that in Dr S.’s letter to him. Dr S. says, that
he has seen the skulls in the different collections at Edinburgh.
If it be necessary. Dr S. adds, that all these skulls do not re-
fute any phrenological opinion which he entertains. It is in-
comprehensible to Dr S. how Sir Wm. could find in Dr S.’s
letter insinuations against the anatomists of Edinburgh. Dr
S. disclaims all such, and his letter does not justify Sir Wm.
in imputing them. Sir Wm. Hamilton publicly attacked Phren-
ology before Dr S. visited Edinburgh; it is now Sir Wm. Ha-
milton’s duty to prove publicly his assertions. Dr S. therefore
repeats, for the fourth and last time, tliat he is willing to meet
Sir Wm. H. before the public. Dr S. also repeats his desire,
that Sir Wm. may not wait till Dr S. has left Edinburgh, to
exhibit the evidence of his assertions. This cannot be difficult,
since it is but common sense to think, that Sir Wm. had col-
lected his proofs before he appeared as an opponent of Phren-
ology.
Edinburgh, 18th February, 1828.
40 SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY.
Sir William Hamilton to Dr Spurzheim.
Sib W. Hamilton presents compliments to Dr Spurzheim, and,
in answer to his yesterday’s letter, observes, that the fact, repeat-
edly stated by Dr S., of his having “ examined the skulls pre-
served in the public and private collections at Edinburgh"
a fact, however, of which the custodiars of the most extensive are
not aware—is of no importance ; as the question is not, whether
Dr S. has looked at nature, but whether he has truly reported
her realities. Sir W. cannot, of course, deny that these crania
do not refute the phrenological opinions w^hich Dr S. enter-
" tains;” he only knows that they utterly explode the phreno-
logical doctrines which Dr S. has published.
Sir W. H. having gained all he wanted, in manifesting that he
is simply desirous of the truth, while his opponent seems merely
anxious to elude the effect of an inquiry, has only, in reply to
the caution, that Sir W. would “ not wait till Dr S. had left
“ Edinburgh, to exhibit the evidence of his assertions," to state,
that on his part he is only apprehensive—from the very caution
itself—lest Dr S. should suddenly escape ; as he w'ould regret
if any thing were wanting to consummate the impending ex-
position of phrenological credibility. Sir W. therefore requests,
that, if Dr S. does not mean to conclude his present course of
lectures, he may send Sir W. warning a fortnight previous to
his departure.
16, Great King Street, 19th February, 1828.
Dr Spurzheim to Sir William Hamilton.
Dr Spurzheim returns compliments to Sir William Hamil-
ton, and does himself the honour to state, hi compliance nilh Sir
William Hamilton’s wishes, that he will be ready to meet Sir
publicly any day that may be convenient for him, be-
tween this day and Thursday, the b'th of March next.
Edinburgh, 20th February, 1828.
Sir William Hamilton to Dr Spurzheim.
Sib W. Hamilton presents compliments to Dr Spurzheim,
and as he has now nearly collected all the subjects of his induc-
tion, he begs again to repeat his offer, of sending Dr Spurzheim
a note of his measurements, and of submitting the various spe-
cimens to his examination. Sir W. is likewise ready to meet
Dr Spurzheim, and to afford him every explanation that may
tend to facilitate his scrutiny.
16, Great King Street, 27th February, 1828.
SIB WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PlIBENOLOGY. 41
Dr Spurzheim to Sir William Hamilton.
Db Spurzheim returns compliments to Sir William Hamil-
ton, and again states, that his published doctrines are the result
of many years’ examination, repeated in various countries, and
under the most different circumstances ;
consequently, that he
cannot be satisfied with a mere private explanation, which Sir
William offers to give. Moreover, Phrenology and its believers,
as well as Dr Spurzheim, having been -publicly attacked by Sir
William, and publicly accused of “ credulity and of infatuation,”
and of being, “ -without exceptioti, the most erroneous of observers
“ recorded in the whole history of science," the phrenological
public, or, as Sir William calls them, “ the phrenological mul-
“ titude,” or “.mob,” insist upon their right to ask for a public
refutation.
Dr Spurzheim repeats,yor the fifth time, his readiness to meet
Sir William Hamilton before the public, any day betwixt this and
the 6th of March next.
Edinburgh, 28th February, 1828.
Sib William Hamilton to Dr Spurzheim.
Sib W. Hamilton presents compliments to Dr Spurzheim,
and begs leave to observe, that in repeatedly offering Dr S. every
information, aid, and facility, in sifting the accuracy of his anti-
phrenological induction, far from supposing that a private meet-
ing for this purpose was to foreclose Dr S. from publicly criti-
cising this evidence, he was only anxious, lest, through any
omission on his part, Dr S. might not be fully armed for the
attempt. Though personally averse from any thing like a pub-
lic exhibition, and though convinced that a crowd is neither
the audience to understand, nor a crowded assembly the place
to detail, the evidence of an anatomical induction. Sir W. is too
thoroughly convinced of the certainty of his proof, not on other
accounts to court an opportunity of manifesting, in the most open
manner, the unsoundness of the opinion he controverts. He
therefore acquiesces in Dr Spurzheim’s proposal of a public
discussion. The points at issue are purely anatomical, and it
only remains for Dr S. to mention the persons most competent
to the task, whom he would propose as umpires on the occasion.
16, Great King Street, 28th February, 1828.
Dr Spurzheim to Sib William Hamilton.
Dr Spurzheim returns compliments to Sir Wm Hamilton,
and begs leave to observe, that, if Sir W. had privately intimated
42 SIR AVILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY.
to Dr S., that he is in possession of facts which may convince
Dr S. of the “ unsoundness” of his opinions. Dr S. would have
thankfully availed himself of a private meeting with Sir W., and
received from him private instruction in Anatomy and Physiolo-
gy ; but since Sir W. publicly attacked Phrenology and its be-
lievers, Dr S. can meet him only before the public. Moreover,
as the truth or falsehood of Phrenology depends neither on
what Drs Gall and Spurzheim nor Sir William Hamilton say,
nor on the opinions of umpires, but solely on the invariable laws
of nature, Sir William has nothing to do but to bring before the
public the proofs from which he draws his conclusions. Dr S.
requests, for the sixth time, that Sir W. H. will name a day and
place when Dr S. may meet him in public, and this before the
6th ofMarch next. Sir W. is requested to lose no time in doing
this, as several days’ notice of the meeting must be given to the
public, that they may attend. All other proceeding is unphilo-
sophical, and all correspondence to any other purpose in vain.
Edinburgh, 29th February, 1828.
Sir William Hamilton to Dr Spurzheim.
Sir W. Hamilton presents compliments to Dr Spurzheim,
and takes the liberty of saying, that Dr S. has acted precisely
as he has all along anticipated he would do. Sir W. was well
assured that Dr S., though professing to desire a public dis-
cussion, would never be brought to submit the truth of his
doctrine to an audience, any part of which was competent, at
once to form a correct opinion, and to embody that opinion in
an authoritative verdict. If driven to the worst. Dr S., he was
satisfied, -would only venture to give an irrelevant lecture to an
idle mob, without knowledge, as without a voice ; and thus af-
ford the opportunity to his friends of issuing a fallacious narra-
tive under the imposing form of a report. The points at issue
can only be decided by a patient investigation of anatomical
measurements; and a Phrenologist alone could propose to deter-
mine their accuracy, by submitting these, for an hour, to a tu-
multuary flock of men and women, who had probably never
handled a cranium in their lives. Sir W. has too much self-
respect, and too great a deference for truth, to co-operate in a
proceeding which would only serve to turn himself into deri-
sion, and to amuse or to delude the public. Sir W. is, however,
now, and at all times, ready to meet Dr S. or his adherents,
before any competent tribunal, to prove in their teeth, the lu-
dicrous falsity of phrenological facts. He is willing to allow
Dr S. to nominate the umpires, and defies him to point out any
collection of skulls, on which the craniological positions can be
cstiiblishcd. Dr S. avers, that “ his doctrine is the result of an
sin WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOOY. 43
" examination repeated in various countries.” Phrenology, if
true at Vienna, cannot be false at Edinburgh ;
and it is absurd
in Dr S. to think of supporting his own accuracy by his own
assertion, when it lies before him to silence scepticism by the
easiest of appeals to nature. Hie Rhodes, hie saltus. It is also
profitable to hear Dr S. confess, that “ the truth or falsehood of
“ Phrenology does not depend on what Drs Gall and Spurzheim
“ say,” seeing that Drs G. and S. have to this hour only asserted,
and never, by articulate induction, proved a single fact ;
while,
in the same breath, it is also coolly proposed to refer the deter-
mination of “ the invariable laws of nature” to a populace, who
know nothing of these laws, except on the dicta of those by
whom they may chance to be addressed. It also baffles an uni-
nitiated comprehension, how Phrenology can rest true, and yet
the opinions of its founders, with which it is identical, be found
false.
Dr S. having thus declined the only public meeting which
would not be conducive to the propagation of error. Sir W. has
only now to publish his state of facts. In the meanwhile, the sub-
jects of induction will be open, on application to Sir W., for the
examination of Dr S. and his friends until the 14th of March.
16, Great King Street, 29th February, 1828.
Dr Spurzheim to Sir William Hamilton.
Dr Spurzheim returns compliments to Sir Wm Hamilton^
and, in answer to his letter received to-day, takes the liberty of
saying> that as Sir William refuses to show the evidences of his
opinions to the public in the presence of Dr S., though he
thought it very convenient to attack Phrenology publicly, with-
out being supported by proper evidence. Dr S. will be glad
that Sir W., according to his promise, shall “ publish his state
offacts, as soon as his state of mind is become calmer tlian it
seems to be at this moment.
Edinburgh, 1st March, 1828.
Sir William Hamilton to Dr Spurzheim.
Sill W. Hamilton presents compliments to Dr Spurzheim, and
having been informed that Dr S., on Wednesday, examined the
constitute the subjects of Sir W.’s induction, and
that he is again to visit the Anatomical Museum to-morrow
begs leave to say, that if Dr S. should find any objection to anv
of these skulls, he is ready to reject the specimen at once, or to
44 SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY.
submit the validity of the objection to whatever anatomist of
eminence Dr S. may be pleased to name. If Dr S. declines this
Sir W. still offers, if Dr S. will mark and lay aside any cranium^
stating the specific ground on which he would object to its evi-
dence, to take the opinion of all or any of the practical anato-
mists in Edinburgh on the point. Sir W. only adds, that he
will treat with the most profound contempt, every general and
unauthenticated assertion which Dr S. or his adherents may,
hereafter, find it convenient to make in regard to the present
induction ; for even the credulity of the “ phrenological public”
can hardly be carried to such transcendent absurdity, as to at-
tribute any the smallest weight to objections which Dr S.
durst not prefer at the time, and in the form, necessary, equally
for their establishment and articulate refutation.
Sir W. also encloses three short notes which he proposes to
append, when he has occasion to quote Dr S.’s last (and unan-
swered) letter in the Caledonian Mercury ; and he is willing to
annex any observations which Dr S. may be disposed to make
in reply.
IG, Great King Street,
(Friday Morning,) 7th fllarch, 1828.
1. On " cerebellum age.”' The Phrenologists are as
rarely correct in their quotation of opinions, as in their report
of facts. My doctrine is, that the cerebellum reaches its full
PROPORTION to the brain at three, and that the encephalon (brain
anil cerebellum) obtains its ultimate size about, or soon after,
seven years old.—(See Counter Propositions IX and X.) It is
worthy of remark, that Gall makes a similar misrepresentation
of the doctrine of the Wenzels on this very point.—(Anat. et
Phys. du Cerv. III. p. 93.) It is always easier to attribute an
absurdity than to refute a truth.
2. On " Cerebellum males.” 1 beg that this nonsense
may not be attributed to me.
3. '^Chaussier demonstrates.” One not aware ofthe total
incapacity for accurate observation and correct statement, mani-
fested by the Phrenologists, would be surprised to hear, that
Chaussier, directly or indirectly, neither contradicts my real opi-
nion, nor even that so erroneously attributed to me by Dr S. I
have adduced Chaussier’s authority against Phrenology, but the
Phrenologists can find nothing in that eminent anatomist against
me.
Dr Spurzheim to Sir William Hamilton.
Dr Spurzheim returns compliments to Sir W. Hamilton,
and, in answer to his letter of yesterday, begs leave to say, that
Dr S., in Phrenology, relies only on the authority of nature, and
that he wishes every one might do the same. Sir William is
9
SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHUKNOLOQY. 45
mistaken in supposing that Dr S. intended to visit again the
anatomical collection in the College ; but Dr S. takes the liber-
ty of reminding Sir W. H., that he attacked Phrenology public-
ly, and that Dr S. and the Phrenologists of Edinburgh demand,
as matter of right, a public refutation. The 6th of March is
past, and Sir W. has not met Dr S. before the public. Sir W.,
however, has promised to publish the state of his facts. Dr S.
has already requested Sir W. to do this as speedily as possible
and he now begs leave to add, that, if Sir W. really intends to
bring his assertions to trial, he will leave the evidence on which
he founds his conclusions open to the inspection of the phreno-
logical public for a reasonable time after publication of his state-
ment, so that a fair opportunity may be alforded to all taking an
interest in the discussion, of comparing the assertions with the
proofs. If Sir W. shall withdraw the evidence before publish-
ing his statement, every intelligent person will form his own
opinion of the propriety of such a proceeding. The Phrenolo-
gists of Edinburgh have left their evidence open to public in-
spection one day in the week, for six years past, and they con-
tinue to do so ;
hence they have the right to demand of their
opponents a corresponding degree of publicity.
Res non verba queeso.
The 8th March, 1828.
Sir William Hamilton to Dr Spurzheim.
Sir W. Hamilton presents compliments to Dr Spurzheim,
and, in reply to his letter of the 8th, begs leave to remind him,
that the establishment of Phrenology is proclaimed by its propa-
gators to be, on their part, a war of extermination against all other
systems of psychology ; to attach the new opinion was, there-
fore, only to defend the old. If Sir W. read two papers in re-
futation of their hypothesis, within the walls of the Royal So-
ciety, where all opinions are freely canvassed by philosophers
of every sect, the Edinburgh Phrenologists have read, at least,
two hundred against doctrines which he maintains, or may main-
tain, within the sanctuary of their own Society, which excludes
all disbelievers in Phrenology, by law. If Sir W. gave a sint^le
lecture in refutation, Dr Spurzheim and Mr Combe have de-
livered above twenty courses in support, of the revolutionary
theory ; and even to that one lecture by Sir W., Mr Combe re-
joined by another professedly in answer. The balance is thus
all in favour of Phrenology, and “ Dr Sjmrzheitn and the Edin-
“ burgh Fhrendogists” cannot now “ demand, as a matter of
“ right, a public refutation."
Sir W. H. was, however, always ready to indulge his oppo-
46 SIB WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGV.
nents in what they had no title to exact and he had too intimate
an experience of their tactic, to afford them, on any ground, the
slightest pretence to hold out, that he declined to demonstrate,
in the face of the world, the futility of their doctrine. Dr Spurz-
heim’s challenge, he also shrewdly suspected to be mere brava-
do ;
and made little doubt, that, calculating on Sir William’s
very natural repugnance to a personal and public debate upon
a subject he so thoroughly despised. Dr S. would, in fact,
sweat blood and water to escape a meeting the moment his chal-
lenge was accepted. To render, however, the retreat of his oppo-
nent still more ignominious, and to blazon more conspicuously
to the world, that, even by the confession of its founders. Phre-
nology could not stand the light ; Sir W. not only closed in, at
once, with the proposal of a public discussion, but, at the same
time, afforded to Dr S., what, if confident in his opinions, he
would have most eagerly embraced : —viz. by the appointment of
arbiters, to render a popular meeting competent, in some degree
to the furtherance of scientific truth ; in providing it with an
authority, to regulate the proceedings, to check all evasive quib-
bling, and to pronounce sentence between the parties on the
various points to be determined. Nay, to exhibit, in its very
highest climax, the conscious weakness of his opponent, in con-
trast with his own confidence of strength. Sir W. actually offer-
ed to leave to Dr S. the sole nomination of the umpires. The
event verified the anticipation. The mention of enlightened
judges, a regulated discussion, and an articulate proof, was
enough. Dr S. was off ; and off upon the very ground that
raised a public meeting above a mountebank exhibition. So
much for Dr S.’s observation, “ The sixth of March is past,
“ a7id Sir W. has not met Dr S. before the public.”
In regard to the concluding demand of Dr S., Sir W. has
only to say, that he would build a golden bridge between his
opponents and his facts. Every facility has been tendered to
Dr S. for near a month, to scrutinize Sir W.’s induction; in
which Dr S. was first urged to co-operate—then to point out
himself it^ subjects—then to compare Sir W.’s measurements ;
and, finally, to specify any objection to any of the specimens.
All these proposals Dr S. has declined ; though he has twice
carefully examined the crania under consideration. Now, to de-
mand more, is perhaps unreasonable in Dr S. ; but all that Sir
W. can do in compliance, shall be done. He cannot promise that
every one of the proprietors should conveniently want his crania
so long ;
but all the skulls that can, shall be retained in one
collection, open for examination ;
at any rate, every speci-
men is to be numbered, and the names of the various custo-
diars shall be published.
16, Great King Street, 10th lilarch, 1826.
sin WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY. 47
Dr Spurzheim to Sir William Hamilton.
Dr Spurzheim returns compliments to Sir W. Hamilton, and
begs leave to observe, that in sciences, particularly so far as po-
sitive facts are concerned, every intelligent person may claim
the right of private judgment, and that the reference of any
physiological question to umpires alone is unphilosophical. If
it had been proposed to Harvey to refer to arbitration, the cir-
culation of the blood, would he, with propriety, have admitted
as umpires, those who denied his discovery, or would his oppo-
nents have admitted converts to his doctrine as fit persons to
render a final decision ? And suppose their decision had been
unfavourable to his discovery, would it have had any effect ex-
cept proving human fallibility ? The case of Phrenology is ex-
actly parallel ; it is the physiology of the brain, as Harvey’s doc-
trine was that of the heart.
Farther, Sir W. H. proposed to name umpires with the view
of “ regulating the proceedings, and checking all evasive quib-
“ bling and Dr S. begs leave to say, that it is in order to ex-
clude all shifting, evading, and erroneous representation, that
he considers a public discussion as the only one suitable to the
present case.
Sir W. Hamilton says, that every facility has been rendered
to Dr S. for “ near a month,” to scrutinize Sir W.’s inductions ;
and Dr S. begs leave to reply, that no opportunity has been af-
forded him of scrutinizing the evidences of Sir W. before the
public, and that it is neither the inclination nor the duty of Dr
S. to convince Sir W. of the trutli of Phrenology. Dr S. never
refused to Sir W. the right of choosing his assistants, or of bring-
ing to the meeting all the anatomists of Edinburgh : he only
insisted upon its being Sir W. Hamilton’s duty to prove his as-
sertions before the public, since he had publicly attacked Phre-
nology and its believers.
In order to leave to Sir W. no excuse. Dr S. adds, that if
Sir W. shall, within a fortnight from this date, name a day and
hour to meet Dr S. bfore the public, and give to him seven days’
warning of such a meeting, he will, although very inconvenient
for himself, discontinue his lectures in Glasgow, and return to
Edinburgh, in order to hear Sir W. substantiate his assertions
publicly.
With these observations. Dr S. leaves Sir W. to proceed as
he shall think proper, and declares all correspondence to any
other^ purpose in vain. Dr S. takes no notice of the puerile
boasting, and so little professor-like expressions, in which Sir
W. indulges in his letters. Dr S. entered into, and has con-
tinued the correspondence on public grounds exclusively, and he
leaves it to the intelligent public to decide on which side the
desire or fear of publicity has been most conspicuously mani-
13th March, 1828.
48 SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY.
Sir William Hamilton to Dr Spurzheim.
Sir W. Hamilton presents compliments to Dr Spurzheim,
and thought, from Dr S.’s long silence, that this correspondence
was at an end. In reply to Dr S.’s letter of yesterday. Sir W.
has only to say, that had Harvey challenged an opponent to a
public disputation ; had that opponent not only at once closed
with the proposal, but offered, (what he was easily able to do,)
to prove by experiment, in the face of an assembly, and to the
satisfaction of arbiters, appointed exclusively by the challenger
himself, that the veins had no valves, and that the arteries, when
punctured, emitted only air, agreeing at the same time to peril
the whole controversy on the ocular demonstration of these es-
sential facts ; and had Harvey upon this, deserting his challenge,
refused to bring his opinion to an issue before any judges, by
whom the facts could be examined, but would consent only to
harangue an ignorant multitude, by whom the phenomena
could not even be seen, who could believe only what they hap-
pened to be told, and who had even no organ to declare the im-
pression they passively and fortuitously received ; then would
the cases be “ exactly parallel but Harvey would then have
been no greater a discoverer than Gall, and the doctrine of the
circulation of the blood would have' been as futile as the doc-
trine of Phrenology.
In conclusion. Sir W. has simply to repeat, what he formerly
stated, that as arbiters are only a mean to an end, if Dr S.
will suggest any other mode by which an oral discussion can be
so regulated, that the parties Shall be constrained to prove arti-
culate issues, not by assertion, but byJ'act—that all irrelevancy
shall be checked—that objections on either side shall be pe-
remptorily determined—and that a final decision on the several
points shall be pronounced ; —Sir W. is ready to meet Dr S. be-
fore the public on any Saturday, and to prove his propositions
upon whatever collection of crania Dr S. may select. Sir W.
may observe that, independently of other considerations. Dr S.
is not the opponent he could safely encounter, without an au-
thority capable of estimating all assertions at their proper value.
The man who could, in print, coolly state at his convenience,
that a series of very ordinary crania, selected by himself, were
“ monstrous,” “ singular,” and “ anomalous,” on which it was
incompetent to establish any conclusion wdiatever, (a statement
Sir W. defies Dr S. to find any medical man, even the Phre~
nological Society, to stake his reputation in confirming ;)
who
could misrepresent his adversary’s opinions ;
and quote authori-
ties against these opinions which do not exist:—is not the oppo-
nent who could be trusted to take no unfair advantage of his
position, before a dumb and ignorant assembly.
16, Great King Street, 14th March, 1828.
sill WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY. 4‘)
Dr Spurhzeim to Sir William Hamilton.
Dr Spurzheim returns compliments to Sir W. Hamilton, and,
in answer to his letter of the 14th ult., reminds him once more
of what he seems willing to overlook, that he is the attacking
party, and Dr S. the defending party, and that, in consequence,
from the beginning, Dr S. declared that he leaves it to Sir Wil-
liam to procure the evidences of his assertion, and to take for
assistant whomsoever he likes, in order to refute Phrenology.
The only condition on Avhich Dr S. insisted to meet Sir William
was, that the public should be admitted, not with the view of
taking their decision on the spot as an assembled tribunal, but
by having the public as rvitnesses, that both Sir William and
Dr S. might be spared the painful task of disputing afterwards
as to what the arguments and evidences adduced really were.
Dr S. also insisted on this condition, since he was aware of the
manner in which Sir William Hamilton conducted the arbitra-
tion with Mr Combe. Sir William Hamilton boasted of his abi-
lity not simply to disprove Phrenology, but to demonstrate its dia-
metrical opposition to truth ; why then does he hesitate to show
his evidences before the public ? Dr S. has published his doc-
trines, and he exposes them to miscellaneous audiences, and to
numerous classes of the medical profession ; he thinks that any
scientific controversy should be conducted in the face of all per-
sons of education who may choose to attend, and that the pro-
per and ultimate tribunal by which all questions of science must
be decided is the great philosophical public, and not a few in-
dividuals of Edinburgh, or any other city.
Dr S. concludes by repeating, that he has seen, with regret
for their author, an habitual indulgence in expressions towards
Dr S., which, had Sir William alone been concerned, would
long ago have precluded Dr S. from any reply. Self-respect
requires Dr S. to state expressly, that he considers himself not
addressing Sir William Hamilton, whose opinions he has seen
no reason to value, but the public, before whom this correspon-
dence will soon be laid, and to whom Dr S. willingly leaves to
decide on the propriety of Sir William’s expressions, and on all
other points of the controversy.
Glasgow, Hutton’s Hotel, 17th March, 1828.
Sir William Hamilton to Dr Spurzheim.
Sir W. Hamilton presents compliments to Dr Spurzheim, and
is perfectly satisfied with having compelled both Dr Spurzheim
and Mr Combe so unequivocally to confess, that they dare not
D
50 SIB WILLIAM HAMILTON ANO PH IlKNOLOGY.
submit their doctrine to a close investigation ; and with words to
dehide the mmiy, that they have no fads to convince thefew.
Dr Spurzheim's Res non verba quaeso is significant—by anti-
phrasis.
Sir W. has only to add, that in the present correspondence, he
has employed no expressions that were not fully warranted,
both on the ground of truth and on the ground of retaliation.
He must also be permitted to say, that while he need not express,
as he cannot feel, a very high respect for one who can always
so easily accommodate his statements to his convenience ; he is
ce'rtainly not bound to treat with distinguished ceremony, a man
who had so little self-respect” as, in the security of his lecture-
room, daily to attribute to his opponent, absurdities, wliich he
had no opportunity of knowing, and which, in fact, if not silly
inventions of his own, were Aveakly credited on the cajolery of
others.
Edinburgh, 20th March, 1828.
III. CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN SIR WILLIAM HAMIL-
TON AND MR COMBE.
Sib William Hamilton to Mb Gbobge Combe.
My deab Sib,—Though the induction with which I am at
present occupied was more immediately intended to determine
my controversy with Dr Spurzheim, yet, as the points at issue
between us are the same as those in dispute between the Dr
and me, I am anxious not to lose the opportunity of submitting
my evidence to our arbiters. That they be enabled to appoint
a meeting agreeable to all parties, may I request you to name
the days and hours, when, during the week, you could most
conveniently attend. I remain, my dear Sir, very truly yours,
W. Hamilton.
16, Great King Street, 3d March, 1828.
Mb Geoboe Combe to Sib William Hamilton.*
Edinburgh, 4th March, 1828.
My deab Sib,—I have received your note of yesterday’s date,
and, in answer, beg leave to observe. That you commenced
your attacks on Phrenology in the Royal Society, where the
Phrenologists were not permitted to answer you, and although
* The figures numbering the sentences refer to Sir William Hamilton’s
notes in his next letter in answer to this.
sin WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY. 51
frequently urged to print and publish your objections, you de
layed doing so. (1) Next, you inserted advertisements in the
newspapers, and set up men with placards at the corners of the
streets, (2) inviting the public in general to come and hear you
deliver an antiphrenological lecture for payment of half-a-
crown. (3) Having given a lecture on my part, in answer to
yours, (4) you then discovered that a private reference to um-
pires, to fix some points of fact, was a proper preliminary to an
appeal to the public on the merits of Phrenology, and I acced-
ed to your wishes in this particular. (5) Umpires were named,
and proceeded to investigate the evidence you laid before them.
They rejected it as incompetent, (6) but agreed to seek evidence
themselves, by pathological dissections at the Infirmary and Fe-
ver Hospital, on the points which you had undertaken, but
failed, to support (6) by proof, and to this proposition you ac-
ceded. Having heard of Dr Spurzheim’s intention of passing
some weeks in Edinburgh this winter, and having read in your
letters, and heard you repeat in debate before the umpires,
that Drs Gall and Spurzheim are the “ only authentic repre-
“ sentatives of their own doctrines,” and that you wished
“ only to refute the assertions of these two founders,” I pro-
posed to you to devolve the reference on Dr Spurzheim ; but
this you declined, I acquiesced in your declinature, and ex-
pressed my readiness to proceed with you to a close. After
this, and without the least communication with me, you thought
proper again to attack Phrenology before the public, in the Ca-
ledonian Mercury of 21st January, J827 ; (8) to bring forward
all your antiphrenological propositions then under reference
to the umpires, to omit all mention of the fact, that the um-
pires had rejected all the evidence of them you had then adduced,
and had agreed to go in quest of evidence themselves ;
and,
nevertheless, in this state of matters, and after having declined
to admit Dr Spurzheim as a party, you called on Dr Spurzheim
“ to manifest, if that be possible, the futility of your counter-
“ propositions,” and asked him to do so by means of the very 50
skulls which the arbiters had already rejected, (9) I replied
in the Mercury to this most irregular and unfounded manifesto,
and the controversy was supported in its columns, between
yourself on the one hand, and Dr Spurzheim and me on the
other, until 31st January, when you wrote, I say nothing in
“ reply to Mr Combe, as I beg leave to decline his interference
“ in the present controversy between Dr Spurzheim and me,” By
your own act I was thus excluded ; and, after having declined to
take Dr Spurzheim as your party, you fixed on him alone. A cor-
respondence next ensued between you and Dr Spurzheim, which
I have perused, in w'hich he called on you repeatedly to name
a day for bringing forward your evidence before the public,
and offered to attend ; but in which you declined to proceed
before a mixed audience, stigmatizing them as a multitude and
52 SIR WILIjIAM HAMILTON ANO PHRENOLOGY.
“071 idle ?«o5,(10) without knowledge, as without a voice;"
and you requested him to name umpires to proceed to a private
discussio7i. {\\) This he declined, and reminded you, that you
had commenced by addressing your objections to an audience of
the very description to which you here alluded, (12) and that
the Phrenologists, as well as the very intelligent citizens of
Edinburgh, had a right to demand a public refutation, as the
attack had been publicly made. You persisted in refusing to
bring forward your proof in this way, but said you “ had only
“ now to publish your statement of facts." Dr Spurzheim re-
plied, that he will be glad how soon you shall do so. Accord-
ingly, in yesterday’s Mercury, you advertised as speedily to be
published, “ Fictions of Phrenology and Facts of Nature
but before this publication takes place, nay, on the very day of
your advertisement, and, forgetting that the umpires had fixed
a mode of proof, you, in your note of yesterday, have asked me
to attend before the arbiters to see you submit some new evi-
dence in the arbitration to be adduced by yourself. (13)
I am quite ready to meet you before the arbiters at any time
you please ; but respect to them as well as to consistency, re-
quires that you, in the first place, should terminate your dis-
cussion with Dr Spurzheim, by publishing your “ Fictions and
“ Facts and, in the next place, satisfy the arbiters regarding
the principle on which you have hitherto proceeded, and intend
in future to proceed. You appear to conceive yourself to enjoy
an unlimited latitude of inconsistency ; and appeal to the public
one day, then the next denounce them as ” an idle mob next
revert to the public, and again decline their jurisdiction ;
you
hold out Drs Gall and Spurzheim as the sole objects of your
attack, then refuse to assume Dr Spurzheim as a party ; never-
theless, you in a feAv days fix upon him, and exclude me ; next
you leave him off in the middle, at least before the close, and
desire me to proceed. Satisfy the arbiters of the propriety of
all this, and publish whatever you have to urge against Dr
Spurzheim, and I repeat, that I shall then be ready to meet
you before the umpires whenever you please. (14) I am, njy
dear Sir, yours very sincerely,
G. Combe.
Sir William Hamilton to Mr Combe.
My dear Sir,—Your letter of the 4th was so melancholy a
manifestation of the torture, which the fear of being publicly
crucified, under the arbitration, on the facts of nature had in-
Hicted, that I was almost resolved to pass it over as a writhing,
unseemly indeed, but pitiable; and, in these circumstance.s, 1
meant, in case you and Dr Spurzheim had lain quiet, to have
SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY. 53
simply refuted your doctrine, without exposing you personally
to the world, in all the ludicrous contortions of your polemical
agony. What I last night learned, has, however, altered my
resolve. I am informed that my opponents thought it better
to anticipate the expected publication of the documents on my
part, and that your letter, along with m3' recent correspon-
dence with Dr Spurzheim, was read, and (for the lookers-on,
ver3' amusingly) discussed, at the last meeting of the Phrenologi-
cal Society. The portentous mis-statements it embodies, form-
ed, however, as was to be expected, no part of the debate.
(The Phrenologists, indeed, by the wa}', seem to think them-
selves emancipated, in all relations, from eveiy regard to the cor-
rectness of their allegations : and, in reference to myself, I
have good reason to protest against any credit beuig accorded to
aught asserted by them of me, either in public or in jrrivate, either
in lectures or in print.) This publication and discussion b3' the
Phrenologists among themselves, induces me to signalize, once
for all, the very dignified and candid manner in which you are
pleased to conduct a controversy ;
while it also authorises me to
take what steps I may deem expedient, in bringing the whole
correspondence before the tribunal of the public. As I would
avoid the irksome labour of recapitulating your statements, I
beg leave to send 3’ou my observations under the form of notes.
1. None but the Phrenologists cou)d have dreamt that I had not
as good aright as themselves, and as all other speculators, to can-
vass a scientific doctrine, where and when I chose, and to publish
or not to publish my opinions, in conformity to my own humour
and caprice. Doctors Gall and Spurzheim lectured against all
mortal S3’stems for fifteen years; and they, I am well assured,
w'ere never pestered by the feverish anxiety of any other theo-
rists, “ to print and publish their objections.” You yourself,
have, I understand, privately circulated a pamphlet, in w'hich,
following me, you maintain that Phrenology involves the melan-
choly doctrine of a material necessity,—a doctrine on w’hich man
has no more moral responsibility than a jack. Have you been
“ urged” by the clerical associates of your sect to publish this
argument against their own professional utility } For though you
do not perceive its issue, those better versed in metaphysics and
theology, are well aware that it must subvert, if true, every
ground, in natural religion, for the existence of a God, and other-
wise, explode Christianit}' in disproving the possibilit3' of sin.
It w'as, perhaps howeve:, cruel to keep my victims so long in
suspense before indulging them with the coup de grace.
2. I beg leave, in answer to this very dignified and pertinent
allegation, to say, that I should blush indeed, could I be
thought capable of so vulgar a piece of quackery. This mode
of decoying the multitude to the lecture-room, is purely phre-
nological ; and in the annals of scientific teaching, belongs, I
should imagine, exclusively to yourskle.
r>4 silt WILMAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGV.
3. This is either the veriest twaddle, or there is an insinua-
tion (which I shall not stoop to characterize) intended for those
w'ho know nothing of the circumstances, that my lecture was
for any profit of my own. Whatever Phrenology has been to
you, its refutation neither has, nor ever can be of any emolu-
ment to me. It has cost me a little time, and afforded me some
amusement ; but truth was my sole motive in abating an opinion,
which cast a ridicule on the country, and had absolutely be-
come almost a common nuisance.
4. It is amusing to hear you talk of answering a demonstra-
tion which you and the leading Phrenologists durst not venture
to witness—not one iota of which you were able to invalidate
and the facts and arguments of which you did not know, did
not comprehend, misrepresented, or eschewed.
5. I only wished to compel my opponents themselves to con-
fess the absurdity of their facts, and to bring my refutation to
the level of the multitude whom I attempted to satisfy of their
hallucination.
6. See note 9.
7. Upon very good grounds. See above, pp. 18, 19.
8. Could I not, Avithout Mr Combe’s permission, defend my-
self when attacked ? Could I not, without abandoning my con-
troversy Avith him, engage, at my OAvn choice, in another Avith
Dr Spurzheim ? And could I not propose the same points for
discussion to both my antagonists ?
9. It is sad to be obliged to r^ply to such statements. The
umpires had nothing to do in my controvery with Dr Spur-
zheim ; and they never saw, never considered, and never rejected
theJifty skulls. And if they had, there Avere other crania in
Edinburgh on Avhich to refute the craniological hypothesis. It
Avas, however, in part to disprove before the umpires, the mar-
vellous assertions, Avhich, after Dr Spurzheim, you have ventured
to advance in regard to these skulls, that I Avished them to meet.
In regard to your other allegations, you know as Avell as I, that
it Avas only at the fag end of the second meeting of tlie umpires,
(and owing to circumstances Avhich, I have it under your hand,
did not originate with me, Ave had only three,) that I had any
opportunity of adducing evidence. The third Avas appointed by
you yourself, in the Phrenological Hall, Avhere 1 certainly had no
evidence ; and this meeting Avas only called to deliberate about
future proceedings. At the end of the second meeting, I merely
produced, in confutation of the phrenological proposition, that
the frontal sinus is rarely to be found in women, the thirteen fe-
male crania from Dr Spurzheim's collection. You professed
not to knoAv that the sex Avas discriminated by Dr S., and the
arbiters did not think themselves competent to decide that they
Avere accurately marked. You agreed to Avrite for information
to Dr S. The sinuses also, were at that time, only in general,
opened so as to be measured by a probe ;
and you disputed every
sin WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY. 55
measurement. It was by all parties agreed to supersede the
evidence of these thirteen crania on this point, and for these special
reasons; but there was no decision minuted, even to that effect.
Yet admitting this, it was worthy of the cause which you so
congenially support, to assert, that because a few of the crania
had been found, on temporary and particular grounds, incompe-
tent to establish owe subordinant point, that the whole collec-
tion is, on permanent and general grounds, incompetent to evi-
dence any conclusion at all. The decision could, in fact, how-
ever, have no relevancy whatever at present, and in relation to
Dr Spurzheim. Dr S. cannot impugn the accuracy of his own
sexual discrimination : and a sinus is now fully displayed in
every skull of the collection.
10. Who does not perceive that the expressions have here no-
thing to do with the personal respectability, or even with the
general intelligence of the audience ? The most fashionable as-
sembly would be a mere populace, in the determination of ana-
tomical problems.
11. You say you have perused my correspondence with Dr
Spurzheim. But your genuine Phrenologist can only perceive a
fact or report a statement, by contraries. My answer to the wish
which Dr S. professed for a public discussion, was, as you
know, in the following words :
—“ Though personally averse
from any thing like a pidilic exhibition, and though convinced
“ that a crowd is neither the audience to understand, nor a
“ crowded assembly the place to detail the evidence of an ana-
“ tomical induction ; Sir W. is too thoroughly convinced of the
“ certainty of his proof, not, on other accounts, to court an oppor-
“ tunily. of manifesting, in the most open manner, the unsoundness
“ ofthe opinion he controverts. He therefore acquiesces in Dr
“ Spurzheim’s proposal of a public discussion. The points
“ now at issue are purely anatomical, and it only remains for Dr
“ S. to mention the persons most competent to the task, whom
“ he would propose as umpires on the occasion.”
12. To my demonstration you gave, what you were pleased to
call, an answer. Phrenology and I are therefore quits on this
score. It is also a logic peculiar to my opponents, to infer, that
because a public lecture can be profitably delivered, a public
discussion can be rationally conducted, without an authority in
the meeting, to regulate and to decide.
13. It requires more acuteness than I possess, to perceive why
two birds may not be killed with one stone, and two antagonists
not be refuted on the same points, by the same evidence.
14. Knowing, as I do, the issue of my induction, I should
certainly, after the publication of my statement, deem it an idle
encroachment on my own, and on the patience of any reasonable
men, to repeat before them, the evidence in refutation of a doc-
trine, which, from its own futility, and the mode in which it is
defeneled, I now regard as all too contemptible for controversy.
SIB WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHKKNOLOOy.
I have undertaken to assassinate Phrenology, not to lay its
spectre. Si popvlns vult decipi, decipiatur. I remain, my dear
Sir, very truly yours,
W. Hamilton.
16, Great King Street, 8th March, 1828.
Mb George Combe to Sir William Hamilton, Bart.
Edinburgh, 10th March, 1828.
My dear Sir, Whatever contests you and I may maintain
in our characters of Phrenologist and Antiphrenologist, I pre-
sume there is no necessity for our quarrelling as individuals
and as, in your letter of the 8th March, you introduce certain to-
pics and expressions which have a natural tendency to produce
this last result, and are not relevant to the points under discus-
sion between us, I, in the spirit of perfect amity, beg leave to
point them out, not doubting but that they wdll be removed.
The object of my remark on the mode in which your antiphre-
nological lecture had been announced, was merely to show that
you had commenced by collecting a miscellaneous audience, but
I intended nothing disrespectful to yourself. The impression in
my memory Avas, that I had seen your lecture placarded at the
corners of the streets ; but as you say not, then I request you to
hold the statement to that effect as withdraAvn. As to the al-
lusion “ to payment of half-a-croAvn” in my letter, the object of
introducing it, Avas to call your attention to the fact, that, in
your attack on Phrenology, no discrimination Avas used in ad-
mitting the audience. In the public newspapers you invited
all Avho chose to pay that sum to attend and hear you demon-
strate the futility of the phrenological doctrines. I am sur-
prised, therefore, that you could conceive me to impute to you
the pocketing of the money. I considered the fact, that your
lecture had been delivered for relief of the distressed opei'atives
as so perfectly Avell knoAvn, that no person A\dio did not seek to
make a mistake, could possibly fall into error on the subject.
You are pleased to introduce some uncourteous remarks on
the placarding of my lecture in answer to yours. I consider
the expressions in Avhich you habitually indulge as indications
of the soreness of your own mind, and therefore pass them over,
as calculated to injure only yourself and your oAvn cau.se. My
lecture Avas advertised and placarded exclusively by the com-
mittee for the distressed operatives, and I feel no uneasiness
about the manner in which they managed its publication. Their
object Avas to draw as large an audience as possible, and Avhat-
ever conduced to this, and Avas not inconsistent Avith propriety,
met my entire approbation.
In your note 1, you introduce a long series of remarks on a
SIK WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY. 57
pamphlet which you say you “ understand I have privately cir-
“ culated.” It is quite true that I have privately circulated a
pamphlet, but diametrically opposite in character to what you
represent. If you have not seen “ the Essay” to which you
allude, how can you be justified in characterizing it as you have
done ? Nay, misrepresenting it to the utmost extent possible, in
a letter designed for publication ? My own conviction was, that
I had strengthened and systematized the proofs of design, wis-
dom, and goodness in the Deity ;
and a pretty numerous circle
of friends, not destitute of metaphysical acumen, :ire of opinion
that this conviction is well founded. If you have seen tiie Essay,
you must have observed, what stares every reader in the face,
namely, the caveat given in the preface, that “ I rely on the ho-
“ nour of every individual to whom the Essay may be presented,
“ that it shall not be reprinted, reviewed, nor publicly criticized,
“ but that it shall be treated in goodfaith as a private commu-
“ NiCATiON.” My object, as is there fully explained, Avas to
present it to reflecting individuals acquainted with Phrenology,
wdio take an interest in the improvement of mankind, and in
whose honour I had confidence, “ soliciting, in return, a free
“ communication of their opinions regarding it informing
them, at the same time, that it had been printed “ exclusively
'‘for private distribution ; that it is not p>ublishcd, and 7iot sold;
“ so that, if it should contain important errors, injurious to the
“ public, it is in my power at any time to suppress it and
“ pledging myself to do so whenever such mistakes are pointed
“ out.”
Let me put it to your candour, therefore, whether a commu-
nication made in confidence, upon honour, and for the purpose
of obtaining private criticism previously to publication, can
fairly or honourably be even adverted to, not to say stigmatized,
by you, to wEom no copy was presented, in a letter intended
for die public eye, on topics altogether unconnected ivitli the
Essay in question .? For my own part, I care nothing for your
denunciation. I have received many valuable remarks on the
Essay, and intend speedily to publish it, after availing myself
of these ; and you and the public will then enjoy a legitimate
right to treat it according to its deserts. But in the mean time,
for the sake of your oivn honour, I take the liberty to suggest,
what I conceive justice also dictates, that you should with-
draw the note, or paragraph, in Avhich allusion is made to this
private communication ;
in which event, all notice of it in this
letter will also be omitted. I trust that I need say nothing
farther on this point ;
yet I cannot avoid observing, that it ivould
be just as fair and correct on my part, to inquire concerning
the private and confidential remarks which you have made at
any time on the doctrines of Spinoza, and to charge you Avith
atheism. Tliis Avould be an appeal to the religious feelings of
the public, with a vieAv to prejudice you, that would reflect
58 SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOI-OCy.
disgrace on any man pretending to the character of a philoso-
pher, and I do no such thing. But if you shall persist in re-
taining/or ihe public eye, a paragraph which alludes to a sub-
ject utterly unconnected with our phrenological controversy}
the public will not be slow in judging whether this has been
done from a conscientious regard for the interests of religion,
or whether it has not been thrust in with the hope not only of
exciting an unjust prejudice against me, but also of withdraw-
ing attention from the actual merits of the controversy, aftei’
finding yourself on the losing side.
After the turn which you have now given to the correspon-
dence, I decline entering into any farther discussion with you
in this form. I repeat, that I am ready to meet you before
the arbiters on any day which you may appoint, and if they
shall be of opinion that the arbitration ought at present to be
proceeded with, before you have published your statement
against Dr Spurzheim, I shall cheerfully obey their commands.
In replying to this letter, I shall take it kind that you introduce
no new topics, so that the correspondence may here terminate
in the mean time. I am, &c .
George Combe.
Sir Williaji Hamilton to Mr Combe.
My dear Sir,—In reply to 3’our letter of yesterday, I have
only to say, in general, that if you feel sore at any parts of my
last communication, you must recollect that these were merely
the rejoinders, at length tardily provoked, by the irrelevant
personalities with which you have of late attempted to screen the
weakness of your cause, if not to disgust your opponent with
his controversy. Your own manifold misrepresentations in the
Caledonian Mercury, and the contemptible distortion of all
truth and reason in the anonymous articles of the phrenological
champion, the Scotsman, were allowed to pass, in general,
without refutation, because I had myself no patience for the
task, and was unwilling either to engross the columns of a news-
paper, or to perplex the public with contradictions of wliat,
even if true, had no influence on the scientific question. The
continuance of the same teasing conduct in your last letter, made
it expedient, however, to discontinue, for a moment, my for-
bearance ;
and, as I expressly stated, my answer to that letter
was intended “ to signalize, once for all," your undignified and
uncandid mode of disputation, affording, at the same time, a
samjile of the utter disregard, which, in common with other Fhre-
nologists, you habitually manifest to the correctness of' your most
positive and most important assertions. In doing this, I liad no
intention of exciting any irritation on your part ; but in check-
SIB WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHBENOLOGY. 59
ing a system of personal allusions, as inaccurate as irrelevant, and
wholly unworthy of a philosopher and the cause of truth, I was
certainly not bound to see that the missiles, I only retorted
from myself, fell without inconvenience on the hand from which
they had been originally sent. It is curious also that you object
to my letter, only in its more unimportant and least galling
passages ;
and are fain to pass over, in dumb endurance, its
annihilating expositions of the phrenological tactic you employ,
of reversing, in your reports, the reality oj the most notoriousfoots.
But though I might have conceded all you ask, had your letter
been confined exclusively to ourselves, the case is completely
altered by its publication, on your part, to the Phrenological
Society.
As to the matter of the placards, it would certainly have been
long before I stooped to reproach you with that device for con-
gregating a crowd. But as you have published, through the
Phrenological Society, that I condescended to adopt that mean,
1 must be allowed, on my part, to publish a contradiction of
so intolerable an allegation. My statement, that this mode ot
assembling a multitude was “ purely phrenological,” is also, I
am confident, perfectly correct. I know nothing of the Com-
mittee for the relief of the distressed operatives, but knowing,
as I do, the manoeuvring of your sect, (and you will correct
me if am wrong,) I surmise and venture to state, that the
whole business was a phrenologicaljob originated and cai’ried
through by phrenological members of that committee, whose
compassion for the starving operatives under their protection, did
not induce them either to encourage others to pay, or to pay them-
selves, their half-crown to any lecture but that in favour of
their own opinion. If the proceeding had not been phrenolo-
gical, if the only end in view had been the advantage of the
charity, and if the measure itself had u6t been indecorous, why
was it not proposed to me by the committee, that my lecture
also should have been placarded ? It was likewise a piece of
amusing subtlety to make the committee pay the expense of
placards, advertisements, &c. A larger sum could thus be
proclaimed and published as the proceeds of your lecture paid
over to the charity. Your friends truly neglect nothing to
captivate opinion, or to magnify themselves.
In regard to my third note, as no effect oould have been pro-
duced in Edmhurgh by the publication of the context, I am
willing to cancel it, provided you qualify your expression so
as to prevent a stranger inferring from it, as he naturally would,
that the lecture in question was for any paltry profit of mine.
The allusion in my first note to your pamphlet, was perti-
nently introduced, in illustration, once for all, of an absurdity
with which I have been often pestered by you ; that, having
read a paper against Phrenology, I had incurred an obligation
to the Phrenologists, of publishing my attack, and of publishing it
SIR AVILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOOV.
without delay. Had I conceived it possible, that the contents
of this note were such as to excite any prejudice against your
religious opinions, or to operate, in any way, to your personal dis-
advantage, it never could have been written by me. And if you
yourself will state, and any irapartia} person confirm, that the
smallest danger of such being its effect, is to be apprehended,
I must, perforce, withdraw it. Such a statement would, how-
ever, be tantamount to saying, that no philosophy can be ar-
gued irreligious in its consequences, without reproaching the
philosopher himself with irreligion. I hold, and am not bound
to dissemble my opinion, that Phrenology is implicit atheism;
but the Phrenologists would be greater conjurors than I believe
them, if they were able to trace the connexion, however ne-
cessary, between their philosophy and its results. Phrenology—
Physical Necessity—Materialism—Atheism—are, to those com-
petent to the question, the precipitous steps of a logical transi-
tion : but though you may have advanced a degree farther than
those weaker brethren, who still actually hold that Phrenology
is not inconsistent with the moral personality of man, I am far
from supposing that you have even a suspicion of the melan-
choly conclusion to which your doctrine inevitably leads. And
if the nature of my allusion could not possibly affect you per-
sonally, it is idle to say, that I had no right to refer at all to a
work, the opinions of which, in so far as they were stated by
me, you have publicly read in the Phrenological Society, which
you have printed, widely circulated, and distributed even to
women ; Avhich, right or wrong, is not confined to the sphere of
its distribution ; which is openly discussed in company, and has
even been attacked in print ;
nay, which you yourself declare
to he on the eve of a general publication. I was in fact entitled
not only to state the general doctrine, but to have minutely
canvassed the arguments of a work thus virtually published.
Did not the Christian Advocate of Cambridge publish an ela-
borate refutation of the CEdipus Judaicus, which was only pri-
vately circulated by its author ? I have never read your work ;
and if you mean to assert, that the doctrine it maintains is “ dia-
metrically opposite” to the material necessity or fatalism of
human action, I am happy to afford you the opportunity of con-
tradicting a current misconception ;
and at once acknowledge
the report, on which 1 depended, to be incorrect. But on the
supposition that you maintain that doctrine, I expressly stated,
that (with many pious individuals) you were wholly ignorant,
that the negation of the moral w'orld virtually denied the exist-
ence of a God ; and no more suspect you of irreligion for this
opinion, than I would accuse a divine of conscious atheism, who
could identify the philosophical doctrine of absolute necessity
witii the Calvinistic doctrine of the absolute decrees.
But, though not with reference to yourself, I can well ima-
gine you anxious, on other grounds, to have the note expunged.
SIK WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHIIENOLOGY. (11
The phrenological clergy have some character to support as
theologians. They are at last, perhaps, beginning to suspect
that they have placed themselves in a mighty ludicrous posi-
tion, and every exertion must be made to prevent them coming
to a clear consciousness of their situation. You are well aware,
that when they leave the camp, (and decamp they must,) they
will, in a body, carry back with them, as they brought over,
all the women converts, and half the men. Where then will
be your multitudes ? The bubble will collapse the moment the
pious breath by which it has been inflated is withdrawn.
But while I should hold myself disgraced, if I could have
w'hispered aught against you, to the prejudice of your religious
estimation, this reproach you actually incur, by the most odious
and unfounded of insinuations against me. You say, in refer-
ence to my allusion to opinions, which you have printed, circu-
lated, and publicly read, to an allusion in which you are per-
sonally guarded from all prejudice, that “ it would be just as
“ fair and correct, on my part, to inquire concerning the private
and confidential remarks which you have made at any time,
" on the doctrines of Spinoza, and to charge you with atheism."
It is Avell that a phrenological controversy teaches the 7iil ad-
mirari and I cannot treat this inuendo even with so strong a
feeling as contempt. I leave it to others to distinguish the total
difference of the two cases in every point, supposing the grounds
ffyour insinuation to be true. These arefalse ; and as I know
not by whom, or how you may have been deceived, I can only
declare in general, that / never at any time made any confidential
remarks on the doctrine of Spinoza ; that I never believed-, and
never expressed a belief in his opmions ; in short, that I never
uttered a philosophical tenet in private, which I would hesitatefor
a moment to proclaim in public. Pantheism, though sometimes,
of late, incautiously preached as Calvinism, I hold to be sub-
versive of all religion, natural and revealed. With his ablest
opponents I regard Spinoza, his first principles being conceded,
as the most cogent of philosophic reasoners. It is only in its
foundation that his doctrine can be assailed, and this foundation
cannot be denied by a Phrenologist. The paltry attempt at in-
timidation, contained in this unfounded aspersion, principally
determines me not to retract my reference to your pamphlet,
unless compelled to do so, by the personal plea, which, however
groundless, I would not choose to resist.
As this correspondence is professedly for publication, 7 again
protest against credence being given to any private assertion or in-
sinuation of the Phrenologists regarding me, of any kind. Almost
every statement they have hazarded, in print, has been disproved,
or allowed to stand unrefuted, only from indifference ; while,
on their side, they have been unable to invalidate one iota of
any assertion hitherto advanced by me. This caution against
their private misrepresentations, is not, however, founded onlt/
62 SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY.
on an inference, a fortiori, from their public. In this, likewise,
I disclaim any allusion to you. I remain, my dear Sir, very truly
yours, "W. Hamilton.
16, Great King Street, 11th March, 1828.
Mr George Combe to Sir William Hajiilton, Bart.
Edinburgh, 12th hlarch, 1828.
My Dear Sir,— o a lover of peace like myself, it is gratify-
ing to have it declared, that you would do as a favour what
could not be exacted as a right,—personally to oblige me,—be-
cause, Avere it not for your strong and repeated asseverations to
this effect, I should certainly have inferred, from the w'hole tone
and complexion of your recent communications, that your great
aim was, not to discuss a philosophical question, with philoso-
phical temper, but, through misrepresentation, violated confi-
dence, and an appeal to prejudice, to excite personal ill-Avill
against one Avhom you had failed to touch by the weapons
of reason. This conclusion would have been forced upon me,
even by your first attack upon a paper or essay of mine, noAvise
connected Avith our phrenological controversy ; and still more
by your persisting in this course, after being fully apprized of
its having been a private communication, made to persons in
whom I had confidence, under an express engagement, upon
honour, that it should not be publicly criticised in any Avay, and
that my object Avas to obtain their friendly advice and opinion,
before any position should be taken by me absolutely, even in
my private thoughts, or in any shape before the public. .
To
me, certainly, it did appear, that, after being put in possession
of those facts, your lips Avere as much sealed as those of the par-
ties on Avhom my confidence Avas originally bestoAved, and Avho,
by retaining my communication, agreed to the conditions on
which it Avas made. You justify your attack by reference to
the ansAver to the Qidiims Judaicus ; but you do not shoAV that
the CEdipus, like my essay, contained no allusions to any exist-
ing system, and that it was privately circulated among the au-
thor’s friends with the sole view of obtaining their confidential
criticisms on its merits prior to publication ; and, although you
had so shoAvn, I Avould still reply, that the commission of one
wrong by a Cambridge scholar does not justify another Avrong,
even by a senior wrangler of that university.
The error you have committed is greatly aggravated by the
avowal, that you have never seen the essay Avhich you have ven-
tured to characterize so offensively ;
an^ although my practice
hitherto has been to confine myself to a plain statement of facts,
supported by documents, in ansAver to aspersions, I shall ven-
SlU WU.MAM HAMILTON AND PHUKNOLOGY. (53
ture to assert here, tliat .you are the first person who, in pro-
found ignorance, in so far as personal knowledge is concerned,
adventured, on the faith of vague report, to charge upon another
atheism, and every thing else that could be supposed capable
of appalling the sentiments and scaring the imaginations of the
good and pious ; and all this, as you say, for the charitable pur-
pose of affording me an opportunity of contradicting the ru-
mour ! I have told you also, that I am about to publish the
essay of itself; and most men would have considered publica-
tion as a far better means of putting down gossip-misrepresen-
tation than by simple denial, or by overthrowing a metaphysical
superstructure, which owes its existence entirely to your own
imagination.
You certainly display no less confidence in your metaphysical
acumen than you did previously in your antiphrenological po-
lemics. In the latter, anticipating a triumph, you commenced
by vaunting on your own side, and contemning the other by
expressions highly derogatory and insulting to the intellect and
character of Drs Gall and Spurzheim ;
but neither in public,
nor under our private reference, have you hitherto adduced an
iota of evidence in support of your boasted objections. The
very fact of the umpires having agreed, as is established by
their report, to go in quest of evidence themselves on the sub-
ject of your allegations, proves, that you neither adduced, nor
offered to adduce, any which they deemed satisfactory. You
now talk with equal disrespect of the mental capacity, in regard
to metaphysics, not merely of your humble correspondent, but
of such of the Calvinistic clergy of Scotland as have embraced
Phrenology, and of the sex whom you derogatively call
“ wo-
men,” but who, in my opinion, have generally fully as much of
intellect, and a great deal more consistency in ratiocination than
their contemptuous critic. My allusion to Spinoza was not in-
troduced with the view of intimidation. Its sole purpose was,
by establishing a parallel case, argumentatively to put you out of
conceit with your mode of attacking me. Even this, however, has
failed to produce the desired effect. I leave it to the public to
decide on the motives both of your conduct, in this respect, and
mine, and only add, that I distinctly disavow every imputation
on your religious opinions, whether stated privately or in public.
It does appear to me, that one not of the least of the errors
into which you have fallen is fancying that the Phrenologists
are writhing under the lash of your pen. For myself, I can
say most truly, that I have suffered nothing, and experienced
no uneasiness whatsoever, except from the time wasted in reply-
ing to a correspondence filled, as it has always seemed to me,
with perplexed ideas and entangled expressions, and in which
my opponent has been constantly shifting his ground. An in-
toxicated person thinks every one else tipsy, and that the whole
external world is turning round. I account for your rhodomon-
04 SIR WILI.IAM HAMILTON AND PHKKNOi.O(tV.
tade, and for all your abuse, by supposing that, being angry
yourself, you take it for granted that all the Phrenologists are
impassioned. Being averse from quarrelling, I took no notice
of your expressions as they occurred ; but, before closing the
correspondence, I must distinctly state, that I consider you to
have indulged in assumptions and insinuations against the Phren-
ologists and me, of the most unhandsome, ungenerous, and un-
warranted description. In my own letters, I have watchfully
endeavoured to avoid being drawn into the imitation of such
conduct. If, notwithstanding all my efforts to the contrary, I
have in any instance misrepresented a fact or statement, or in-
dulged in any personality whatever, which, up to this moment,
I am unconscious of having done, I shall be most truly sorry for
it ; —nothing was farther from my intention, and nothing could
so effectually injure my cause.
I must also protest against your either making me responsible
for what has been done by others, or of turning your corre-
spondence with me into a vehicle of attack upon third parties.
I have told you before, and now repeat, that with the articles
in the Scotsman I had no concern directly or indirectly. That
journal is quite able to answer for itself ; but I may remark,
that what has appeared in it can hardly be called anonymous,
the author being known to every one, I should think, but your-
self. He has, I know, avowed the authorship to some of your
own friends ; and I have heard him say, that, out of kindness
to you, he gave his review of the controversy a title which he
is not accustomed to use, and abstained from pointing out a va-
riety of inconsistencies into which you had fallen. His review
w’as also, in my opinion, remarkable for its impartiality and dis-
passionateness ;
but, had it been otherwise, the answer should
have been sufficient, that I have not written a syllable against
you to which I have not affixed my name. As to personalities,
those who ought to be impartial judges have assured me they
consider you as the party who alone has unwarrantably indulged
in them, and that the language you have employed, when speak-
ing of Phrenology, its founders, and advocates, has been ex-
ceedingly discourteous and unhandsome. But of all this the
public will judge.
Your remarks respecting the placarding and advertising of
the lectures are unworthy of yourself. The committee of in-
habitants for relief of the distressed operatives did what they
saw proper, and announced the proceeds at what they saw just,
without the slightest interference on my part. I had no respon-
sibility, and feel no anxiety on the subject.
In one thing only I must in conclusion acknowledge you
have succeeded ;
that is, in drawing me into a correspondence
on various subjects utterly unconnected with chosen task
of disproving Phrenology in a scientific manner, by adducing
physiological evidence against it. But, for the future,, if 'we
SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY. 65
correspond at all, our communications must be confined strictly
to ymir proofs; for I am fully determined against travelling
with you, in this form and manner, over the boundless field of
ethics and metaphysics. On such subjects, there is no other way
of understanding each other, or making ourselves understood by
the public, than by delivering ourselves in the shape of a vo-
lume, or rather of volumes.
Sir William Hamilton, Bart., to Mr George Combe.
My dear Sir,—As you still obstinately persevere in your un-
tenable assertion, that I had no right to refer to your book, let
us throw the book out of the question ; and I beg you to answer
me this interrogation, Why are you better entitled to alhide to
opmions advanced by me, in a paper read before the Royal Society,
than I am (and in reply only to your own allusion) to re-
fer to opmions maintained by you in a paper read before the Phre-
nological Society, and ivhich was even reported and published in
the jihrenological newspaper, the Scotsman ? Independently of
all right, I have, however, already expressed my willingness to
withdraw the obnoxious note, if it can be shown, that its pur-
port could be, to you, of any personal disadvantage : and I fur-
ther offer to do so, if you state, either that the opinions in your
printed work, are not the same with those in your paper,—or
that you have subsequently changed your views,—or that you
have no intention of again publishing them to the world.
In regard to “ the mental capacity of such of the Calvinistic
“ clergy, as have embraced Phrenology," on that point, at least,
you and I are pretty nearly at one. Those of them who do not
hold the physical necessity of human action, are by you and me,
and all who know aught about the matter, despised as purblind
Phrenologists ; those of them who do, are by every one, not the
veriest tyro in theology, viewed as the most ignorant, or the
most heretical of divines. They can only escape the phrenolo-
gical, to be impaled on the theological horn of the dilemma. I,
indeed, contemn no Calvinist for phrenological opinions; as, hi
fact, no true Phrenologist can be a Calvinist. “ The contingency
“ of second causes,” and “ the liberty of man undetermined by any
“ absolute necessity of nature,” is a dogma, as much part and par-
cel of the Calvinistic scheme, and is as strongly enforced by the
Confession of the Scottish church,* as any of the Five Points :
and a clergyman Avho could maintain an opposite opinion, would
• See Confession, c. iii.
§ 1, c. iv. § 2, c. v., § 2 and 3 ; and, above all,
e. ix.
§ 1 and 2.
E
06 SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY.
promulgate a heresy, not only condemned by the standards of
Calvinistic orthodoxy, but in contradiction to all the doctrines
hitherto received as fundamental, by every Christian sect.
It is also well in a Phrenologist to insinuate against me any
disrespect of the Calvinistic clergy, and this, when in the very
act ofguarding their system against unmerited reproach ! Calvin-
ism, in its day, has been the object of no merciful abuse. But
the reviling of its enemies has been light, when compared with
the opprobrium cast on it by the philosophy, fondly embraced
b}?^ some of its disciples, even as a new pillar of their faith. The
treatment indeed of theirClerico-Calvinisticconverts,by the Phre-
nologists, has been at once cruel, perfidious, and ungrateful. After
seducing them from their walk of usefulness—after exposing
them to ridicule, for the credulous profession of an idle hypothe-
sis—and after abusing their ghostly influence to decoy the mul-
titude into the net ;
it was certainly too bad to hold up their
victims to public and to bitter derision, by jiroclaiming that a
faith in the jyeculiar doctrines of Calvinism, was only to be ex-
plained by the inordinate development of the brute propensities of
Self-conceit and Murder.*
That was the most unkindly cut of all
I must also protest to the ladies, against your groundless im-
putation of disrespect to the sex, in having spoken of them in
their generic capacity, as women. I regard them, on the con-
trary, as gracing any opinion they may choose to patronise
and of the phrenological, I am free to acknowledge, that they
constitute not merely its only ornament, but its principal strength.
I am, indeed, truly afflicted, in being compelled to contradict a
theory which they have taken under their especial protection
but philosophy has no politeness. And if I should have ofl^end-
ed their sense of logical independence, by insinuating that they
have been brought blindly over to the new doctrine, by the in-
fluence of clerical example on their constitutional piety, I merely
stated what the male Phrenologists themselves, not only pub-
licly proclaim, but on which they even profess to found a debt
of gratitude to the clergy of the Scottish church It
I leave the assertions relative to your own misrepresenta-
tions, &c., to be estimated, without any further comments. In
regard to the anonymous articles in the Scotsman, I am, to this
moment, utterly ignorant of their author. I certainly never
• “ Dr Price, universnJly known by his mathematical, moral, and political
writings, was the son of a dissenting minister at Brigend, in Wales. His fa-
ther was a rigid Calvinist but young Richard occasionally started his doubts and
difSculties, (iirs seli^-esteem and destructiveness heing small,)
and often incurred his father’s displeasure, by the arguments which he advanced
against the tenets of his sect.” Spurzheim’s Physiognomy, 1826, p. 105.
•|- See report of the speeches at a phrenological dinner, somewhere in the
Phrenological Journal.
SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY. 67
took the trouble of inquiring ; and if I had wasted a thought
upon the matter, I should have deemed it unjust to have attri-
buted on suspicion, to any respectable individual, such discre-
ditable productions. But though, in themselves, beneath con-
sideration, if your approbation extends so far, as to print them
in the Phrenological Journal, I may be disposed to deal with
them as representing the school ; and shall be happy, in that
case, if you will permit me to illustrate their merits by a com-
mentary.
I am glad to hear that you mean hereafter “ to confine your-
" self strictly to the proofs.” This is precisely the lesson I have
been desirous teaching and in following you, for a moment, in
your irrelevant excursions, I only intended, by retorting your
own warfare on yourself, to put you out of conceit with a fa-
vourite mode of disputation, and to compel you, evenfor your
own sake, to limit the controversy to the facts.
I allow many statements of yours to pass without observa-
tion; because, though easily refuted, their importance would
not compensate the trouble. I remain, my dear Sir, very truly
yours,
W. Hamilton.
IG, Great King Street, 14th March, 1828.
IV. REPORT OF DR SPURZHEIM’S LECTURE ON THE
FRONTAL SINUS,
{From the Scotsman Newspaper of Fehruwry 2, 1828, referred to hy Sir
William Hamilton on pages 82 and 33.)
As mentioned in our last. Dr Spurzheim did treat of the Fron-
tal Simis on Wednesday. He requested that it might be ob-
served, in the first instance, that, although all which had been
asserted respecting it were true, there was still a large field of
usefulness left for Phrenology. The sinus—or, in other words,
the hole or cavity betwixt the inner and outer plates of the
skull, affected only our means of judging of the amount of the
brain in theforehead—and generally a very small portion of the
lower part of the forehead. Buteven although the sinus were found
in every instance, (which is not the case,) the means ofjudging as
to the great mass of the brain of the whole regions assigned to
the propensities and sentiments—were left unaffected. And how
much of character—how much of conduct, depended on the pro-
pensities and moral feelings of each individual ! But let it be
observed, in the second place, that there is no sinus or cavity
in the crania of children at their birth, nor until they reach a
considerable age,—none at six months, two, five, or even seven
68 SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON ANI> PHRENOLOGT.
years. The cranium is very thin in infancy, and no one can
deny that the external conformation of the skull is then—in all
healthy and ordinary cases—indicative exactly of the size and
form of the internal brain. Here, then, although we should not
go beyond ten years of age, is a clear and unimpeachable field
on which we may judge of the comparative volume and distri-
bution of those portions of brain in the forehead assigned to the
perceptive or knowing faculties,—of what nature has originally
done and intended for each individual in regard to intellectual
powers : and is not this of very great importance } Is there
not a great deal of the characters and talents of individuals
even without Phrenology—knoAvn and indicated by the age of
seven ? But Phrenologists do not stop here. They say that
of two skulls one may have a cavity, and the other not, and
yet the skull without an open space betwixt the plates may be
thicker than the one which has a cavity. Dr Spurzheim pro-
duced instances of this. The existence or non-existence of a
sinus, therefore, was no absolute criterion of the thickness of
bone or skull ; and Phrenologists contend,—what, they say, ana-
tomists and physiologists who attend to the facts must admit,
that in the average of healthy individuals, in middle life, there
is an average thickness of bone or skull, embracing both the
outer and inner plates, and the space between, when there is a
space unoccupied ; that,- in the average of healthy adults, the
sinus is small, affecting only a small portion of tlie forehead
above, and laterally from the root of the nose, seldom occupy-
ing, and still more seldom extending beyond the external spaces
assigned to Size, Weight, or perhaps a small part of Locality,
or Lower Individuality ;
and never, in the absence of insanity or
old age, extending to Causality. In old age, and in disease,
unquestionably, various anomalies are presented. Every old
J
ierson has not a sinus ; but frequently the sinus increases as the
acuities decay ; and decay, it is well known, commences in dif-
ferent individuals at very different periods of life, and reaches
very different degrees. There is a precocity in decay as well
as in talent ;
and many diseases affect the condition of the brain ;
but, taking the mass of ordinary cases of healthy adults, the ex-
ternal size and conformation of the forehead may be relied on,
as indications of the amount of brain to be found within. This
was as much as was to be obtained in any science connected
with morals. Dr Spurzheim did not maintain that ^here were
no anomalies in nature, no difficulties to be overcome. On the
contrary, he strongly enforced on his audience, that many diffi-
culties presented themselves to those who would judge of the
intellectual powers from the external form. There was fre-
quently a bony ridge at the extremity of the eyebrows, Avhich
gave a sharpness to them,—which was sometimes solid bone,
sometimes hollow, and foi'ming what might be called a crest,—
which sometimes accompanied a sinus, and sometimes not,—but
SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON AND PHRENOLOGY. 69
which did not indicate the presence of brain. This ridge, when
it existed, and the presence of which could not be mistaken,
must always be abstracted, or held as entirely removed, in judg-
ing of the volume of brain. It was also not enough to attend
merely to the breadth and height of the forehead ", it was still
more essential to ascertain its depth, or the extent in which
examining it en projile—it projects forward from the portions
of brain assigned to Benevolence in the upper region, and Con-
structiveness in the lower—as to which the total mass of brain
forward from the centre of the ear—but still more the amount of
brain forward from the temple—affords an important and readily-
observable indication. We may thus—by careful observation,
but only by very careful observation,—^be able to say of an in-
dividual whether his intellect be shallow or deep. But the lec-
turer impressed strongly the necessity of Antiphrenologists taking
the trouble of ascertaining rvhat Phrenology is,—what it professes
to deal with—and what it still leaves unexplained,—^before they
slight it or attack it. If another course be taken, it merely
proves the rashness, conceit, prejudice, and ignorance of the
opponents. He then went on to explain the seat of Individu-
ality, or that faculty or tendency which made persons curious,
active, and desirous to ascertain all the individual existences by
which they were surrounded,—a propensity generally strong in
children, but stronger in one than another, not only in infancy,
but through life. There were individuals constitutionally ob-
servant or unobservant. The French had more of this character
than the English,—speaking of them nationally,—and the Scotch
were certainly more inclined to reason than to know individual
objects :
—but still, let the reasoning powers be ever so powerful,
it was necessary that they should lay in a stock of materials on
which to operate ; —they should ascertain objects and facts —even
of Phrenology—previously to their disposing of the science on
metaphysical grounds.
It will be understood, of course, that we have not followed
Dr Spurzheim through a lecture which occupied the greater
part of two hours : —we have merely endeavoured—in this in-
stance, from the controversy which is going on about the Sinus—
to give the essence of his prelection.
THE END.
Oliver & Boyd, Priiitcrj.
