{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1828__jennings___an_inquiry_concerning_nature_and_operations_of_human_mind.pdf","mytitle":"An Inquiry Concerning Nature And Operations Of Human Mind","mylang":"de"}
.~
AN
INQUI~Y
CONCERNING
THE NATURE AND OPERATIONS
OP THE
HUMAN MIND,
IN WJliOH
THE SCIENCE OF PHRENOLOGY, THE DOCTRINE OF NECES!'frY,
PUNISHMENT: AND EDUCATION,
ARE l'ARTICULARLY CONSIDERED.
(A. LECTURE DELIVERED AT THE MECHANICS' INSTITUTION,
LONDON.)
WITH NUMEROUS
ADDITIONS, CORRECTIONS, AND NOTES.
BY JAMES JENNINGS,
A .t:THOR OF THE FAMILY CYCLOPA:DU, OliS'ERVATIONB ON TDli· DJALECTSOf THE
WEST OF 'ENGLAND, OBNITHOLOGU_, &c. &c,
"rr..Sin.....W."
"A subject. which, till it is well thought of, and handled and discussed frtely,
boldly: and fearlessly, by ALL mankind, will continue, as it long has continued
to perplex, to divide, and to mislead us."
•• Nil est in lNTELLECTU1 quod non priusfuit iR SENsv."
,LONDON:
POOLE AND EDWARDS,
(SUCCESSORS TO SCATCH.ERD AND LETTERMAN,) 12, AVE·MAI!IA·LANE.
1828.
Price·21, 6d.
31.3 ~
Digitized by Coogle
J
f
..
•
Digitized by Google
To A. J. HAMILTON, EsQ.
OF DALZELl,. SCOTLAND.
Di:.\ R SIR,
In 1M acquisition ofa higl' degree of H .\PPI!' u~,
tkree t~ingsappear absolutelyneceuary: FatENDSIIIP, St NCERI TY,
aA&d Ta.uTn. Tlaat I posse88 your FatElfDSIIltt I hope and believe;
tl&at you. are SINCBRE I lwve no doubt; and tltat bot" yo11. a11d
myselfare in the pursu.it·ofTau·rn, wherever slle 11lay lead, I tun
equally tbf!ll assured. To you, therefore, I dedicate these page~.
as I lnow tlaat, should you find any errors in tlumt, yo~«r Tli~tdlltss
will point tlr.em out; slwuld you.find Tauru, you will approve.
I am,
DEAR Ssa,
Sincerely 4nd faithfuUy your:~,
JAMES JENNINGS.
lAsenll; Mm·ch, 1828.
Digitized by Google
•.• .Ma. DavtLU of thl! Strand, who is distinguished for his intimate
acquaintance witlt practka1 PHaiDIOLOG", hu kindly looked. oYer \hat pare oC
this Tract which relates to his favourite pursult, and has added a few Notes,
which his initiala, J.D., de~ignate.
EanATA.-Page 10, line 8, for suit read suita; page ll,line 18, for amtullar~
read annulare; line 22, for Chiltld1n read Che~eldim; line 25, for rteeives read
receive; page 12, line ult. for genera read ordtrs ; page 16, line22, for entiltd read
tlllitled.
.' ..
ON THE
NATURE AND OPERATIONS
OF THE
HUMAN MIND.
" Trace Science then, with modesty thy guide ;
First, strip ofTall hf'r equipage of Pride;
Deduct what is but Vanity or Dress,
Or Learning's Luxury or Idleness;
Or tricks to show the stretch of Human Brain."
PoPE,
\V£ are met this evening to consider one of the most momentous
and important subjects that can occupy the.attention of man. A
subject concerning which volumes have been written ; a subject
that is by no means yet exhausted ; a subject with which it
behovi!S us AtL to become, as much as possible, acquainted ; a
subject, a correct knowledge of which does not depend on the
deductions of LEARNING, nor on the DICTA of the professor; nor
does it lie in the supposed arcana of any mysticism-the jargon o£
the schools; nor in the wordy vocabulary of the system builder.
A subject which, for all practical and useful purposes, may be
studied with equal advantage, and with equal facility, by the
;peasant as well as by the Prince. A subject wllich, till it is well
thought of, and handled and discussed freely, boldly, and fearlessly
by ALL mankind, will qpntinue, as it long has continued, to perplex,
to divide, and to mislead us. I need scarcely add that the subject
to which I allude, and to which I now propose to direct your at-
tention, is what has been usually termed the HUMAN MIND ;~to
a knowledge of the nature of intellectual man-to a knowledge of
OURSELVES.
It may be useful in the commencement of our inquiry to remark,
that as all our knowledge, it will now I presume be generally
admitted, can only be derived through the medium and by the
operation of the senses ; and, as such knowledge is the result of
FACTS observed and recorded, or observed and communicated, eilher
•
Digitized by Google
told of the obscurity of the· subject
Jlteia'll•lnn~£"'li ingtli'ries-of the unprofitable'
illt1fllllitio:ns•.,&rJ;fML<tr~~~nenclous el ctelera of objections
from the }ltlrsuit. The very termot
Digitized by Coogle
Digitized by Coogle
Who can tell us, in morals, where
Is and what meanin~ well is? The
Jo\Jnd foolishness; the tllinlring rigltr
atood; and Nature's path, if found and foHowP11.41.vi11
To go from the &sag on Man to his Univer#ttl
most ul!lexct'ptionable of Pope's pier.«>s-ret, wh
"And binding.Naturl' fast tn.fate
Left fr«>e the human will,"
who does not st>e bert' a complet«> absence of jnotnP~s u~j~r--.llll.i'"~•""
phical precision ?-while in his E1so.y he says,
it is all
'' Dirtetion·which thou ~an~t not see;
All harmony not undl'rstood."
Wl1at sort of Joarmony there can possibly be in the supp·OSE!I(I(l'r'fllrlfll
H11man Will I !«>ave the advocatPs of PoPE to prove.
flis writing.~ concerning woMEN arf' any thing but jnst •
. " Most woml'n have no characteno p,.t all,"
ht' sayA; then I say, let Mao take the discredit to himseJ'f rot
attention to the formation of their eharactel1!. See --·-~•.o_,.__
Lerture.
The truth sprms to be. that he r«>ally f<new vrry
of the Human Mind or of effect and cauu. H"
the surface of things, b was, Vl'ry possibly, an
waa contentl'd to take his philosophical opiniiifls
LoRD BoLINOBROKB. In sober serionsnrss, wlrill'
homage to Pope as ·a Poet, and can abundantly
his poetical writings hav-wordl'd me, yet to him
alist, I cannot dt>fer: his E11ag on Man is bes11t with
It bas, nevertheless, many fine lint>s, (such as those
1ome good poetry, and occasionally some nnuanu~ru,uv
read with great circumsp~tlon ; indeed I
being placPd in the hands of tllP young. before
thtir min!ls ha\'e acquired ton~> a11d stability.
' ,•,
' ·. ...
10
..
blis of cailing yonr attention to FACTS ; I lea.ve td futtire observers,
to more able hands, when we possess a much greater accumulation
of FACTS, to systematize; we have systematized, I believe, on this,
as well as on so.me other scientific subjects, much too soon.
The term MIKD has been used with many different shades o£
meaning. Dr. JOHNSON's first ,definition of it in l1is Dictionary is,
Intelligent power; his second Intellectual capacity. A ,·cry slight
consideration will conviuce us that neither of these definition!t suit
exactly the subject which we are now con~idering. The fact seems
to be, that the term MIND, like most terms in common use; is a very
vague and indefinite one, so that, perhaps, scarce~y two persons will
be found who agree concerning it. Sometimes MIND. in its most en~
larged signification, im11lies, not only the intellectual powers of man;
so called, consisting of that assemblage of impressions and processes
distinguished h.y various names, such as sensation, perr.eption, ideas,
memory,Judgment, imd.gt"rwtion, thePassions,&c. including, bes;des;
such terms as Reason and Will, but also of some ORGAN or RECIPI-
ENT which receives such impressions, and in which are verformed or
take place, the varions processes which have been very often deno-
minated, in conjunction with the ORGAN or RECIPIEJ<T it..~Plf, the
:MIND; sometimes the U:\DERSTANDING. But the analytical inquiry
which I propose in this Discourse will lead us to take a n:ry difFer--
ent method in the nomenclaiure of MIND.
Whenever; therefore, I speak in this Lecture of the MI:qn, it is to be
understood as implying simply the ORGAN or RECIPIEKT, to which 1
havejustalluded, and not to the processes performed by or which take
pla~e in it. The seat of this ORGAN or HECIHE)'IT is, apparently, the
BRAIN ; but whether distinct from it, as many believe, or a conse~
qucnce merely of its peculiar nature-that is, whether it be distinct
fi·om the brain, or lite brain itself, are qt1estions into the discussion
of which it is not my intention to enter ; it will be sufficient for our
purpose to know and to admit that such an ORGAN or RECIPIENT exists.
The human BRAJN consists of the whole of that mass which, with
it3 surrounding membranes and vessels, fills the greater part of the
skull. It is said to be larger in man in proportion to the nerves be-
longing to it than in any other animal. It is divided into the Gere•
l!rum, Cerebellum, Thber annulare, and ~Medulla oblongata; the
whole of which weighs usually about 48 or 50 ounces; but its weight
varies in different subjects,
The cerebrum, which 'is by far the largest portion, is contained
in all the upper part of the skull ; it is dil'ided into a right and left
hemisphere by a membrane, a process of the dura mater, termed
Falz, Each hemisphere is also again subdivided into three lobes;
the two lying in the front portion of the skull being the largest. It
is surrounded with membranes, and accompanied with blood vessels.
The outer substance of the brain is called cm·tical or cineritious, it
being of a grE>yish colour resembiing wood-ashes. The interior,
..
•
.. .. li
ca1leU. meu · :\1 ar~, is Qf a wbitisl~ colom with a sligllt tjng.J or' yellow i
i1. is gt"cater in quantity, more opaque and firmer in texture, than the
e\ner\t\ous part. pread on glass and viewed with a microscope it
it appears n. kind ofpulp consisting ofglobules much smaller than the
\!,\obnles of the blood; plunged into boiling oil, macerated io alcohol
or in son1e of the diluted acids, it becomes firmer and more elastic, and,
on being lacerated in a particular direction, exhibits a fibrous ap-'
pea:rance. The c01·Lical part also exhibits something of the same
/
kind. T he cortical and medullary parts of the brain are also fre-
~uently blended together so as to form streaks.
"l.'he cerebt:llum or little brain is situated in the back part of the
s1·ull, beneath the posterior lobes of the ccrebrz."!z, from which it is
~epaxated by a membrane called tentol'ium. It is divided by the .
falx nainor, into two hemispheres, which are again subdivided into
\obules. lt con~i~ts of cineritious and medullary matter, similar to
1.bat of the cerehtum; but the cineritious bears a greater proportion
1. the medullary in the former than in the latter. ,
Tbe tuber annul/are is of a roundish form and aboul an inch in
length and ofthesamewidth; itisconnected with the cerebrmn and
cerebellum. From the tuber annulare arises the medulla oblongata;
which forms the beginning of the spinal marrow.
Cursu-DEN says that •· wounds in the cerebrum, tbongh very dan-
gerous; are not mortal; but in the cerebellum and medulla oblo11~
gnta cause sudd<>n death; and in the spinal marrow, loss of sen~e in
all the parts which receives nerves from below the wound." A
'"(>roof, I presume, that tbe chief seat of vitality is in the cerebellum
nnd medulla oblongata.* Yet some late cases of wounds in the
cerebellum appear to contradict this statement of CheseJden in !e-
gard to that organ.
From the Brain arise nine pairs of nerves; some in solid cords,.
others in separate threads whid1 afterwards onitc into cords. Of
these some have their origin in the cerebrum, some in the cerebellunr1
~orne in the tuber annulare, and some in the medulla oblongata.
From these, of course, those supplying the orgo.ns of smell, sigh/1
taste, hearing, and feeling in part, are derived. The great inter-
costal or sympathetic nen;e communicate<> with the fifth nnd sixth
pair ; the pair called pars vaga arises in the medulla ohlongattt.
This and the sympathetic pair supply some of the roost important
parts of the body with nerves; such as the Lungs, Heart, Stomach;
Diaphragm, &c.
The nerves are dc~rihed by anatomists as pairs not hecau~e they
proceed together from the brain and spinal marrow; but because
• "A wound in the cerebellum does not generally cause suddrn d~ath: but
injury or wound in \he left Inbe cansPS a wasting or the t~•tis de:rter, and fJict!
t•m8 a wasting in the testisltini3ftr; this has been provPd bl'yond a doubt. Att
injnry or both lobe• of the CI'Tt'hellum oestro~·· the procreativP powc>r."-.J. D,
Tit.. PbrPnolo~ists say that the or:~ans of mnnfit·rne.~s are in tbP. c~rehellum ..
Digitized by Google
!lJey proreed from tlie opposite lob of the 'llrniri, or rrorn .-............
sides of the spinal column, an~ supply silnilar parts ou
the head and \lddy with similar uerves. Anil,
happens in Jlaralysis, that, on one side of tlie body,
perform their office imperfectly, while on the otbet.v-,-..~"'-'
tion of nervous energy is evinced. And, hence, as
i'aculties have a double set of organs, it is apparent
is sometimes clear although one set may be l'.ml~i'iIArln.hl
From the spinnl marrow are given out
these, in conjunction with those arising from the
energy and feeling to the whole body ; and also, by
sensibility, convey to the brain, the mind, by what
even now accurately known, the g}iglltest as ell as
impressions made upon the ditl'erent organs; and hence
and pains, our hope$, our fears, and bur affections.
Hadng directed your attention to the brain, we shall not I t
be unprofitably employed iJJ. now devoting a few moments to
PHRE:.VOLOGY; a science which, by the zeal of Drs. GALL and
SPURZHEIM, has latterly excited no ordinary interest; and which
promises, should their positions concerning this Science be confirmed,.
to be of no common importance to mankind.
As I have lately ]>!.id some attention to this science, I hope the
Phrenologists will pardon me if I say, that they seem to have been
much too eager to theorize and systematize; that the faci~ already
observed and recorded concerning the MIND appear to me by far too
few to warrant us in mapping out the skull as the Phrenologi!.ts
have done. But there is, notwithstanding, orte fact alleged by these
gentlemen which, if subsequent and mm·e extensive observation shall
confirm, will enable us to attain some precision in this novel science~
rhe alleged. ti ct to which I allude is, that the hTELLECTUAL
Pol.Q#rS reside in t!te FRoNT part, and tlte ANIMAL powers in lite
flack part ofthe skull;* or, to speak more correctly, that portion of
the brain which is in the forepart of the skull is employed in intel•
Jectual operations ; and that portion which is in the back part of the
skull is engaged in such operations and functions as belong to the
mere animal. The PuRE. OLOGIS'fS, however, proceed much farther
than this. They say that man is endowed with thirty lltree or
more (some say, I think, thirtyfivet) distinct organs or FACULTIES
in Uie brain ; that in proportion as these are de\·elopcd, prominent,
will be the di11position of tho individual for the performance of actions
1.o which those faculties prompt him. They have divided these facul-
ties into two genera, namely, FEELINGS and INTELLECTS. The FEEL-
• "This iA fully provrd."-l'. D.
t" That tbfore are tlu'rty-jillt! organs. togt'thP.r IYith the seats of them, is no"
prmted beyond all doubt; taking the individual cases in my own collection, I
now ha\'1' upwards of seventy thout;and without oue in contradiction, "-J.D.
,.
. lr .,
~o.l3
r •
..
;;Gs t.hey divide into two gef(era, namely, PuoPEXi':ITIEsand SENTh
lEST~. The Propensities consist of AMATIVF.NES.<; or Pll,I/IJi('at
~ov~ '; of "PH 1 LOI'ROGE:>~JTIVENESS or the Love ql Children; of DEs,
rR.~~\.VENES.'>Or Propensity to destroy, &c. The Sentiments con·
iilst' of SELF E:>TEEM ;-LOVE OF APPROBA1'10N ;-CAUTIOUSNEsS, &c.
-.-The INTELLECTS, they say, consist also of twogeuem,namely, the
\tNOWTNG F.ACUL'riES,-the REFLECTING FACULTIES. The Knowing
Faculties consist of a knowledge of OBJECTS, or a memory qffacts;
-:--Oi lO'ORM, of MIZE. of WEIGHT, of COLOU8, of SPACE, of OllOER, of
TlME. of NUMBER, of TUNE, of LANGUAGE. The Rd{ecli11g Facul,
ties ~re those of COMI'ARISON, of CAUSALITY, of WIT, of IM11'ATIVE·
l'oOES!":.
NoW'. without going at largq, here, into the meaning of the term
F AC~JLTY, J am desirous of exciting your attention to the use which
1.he Phrenologb;ts make of it: for, cu.lling these dilfereni portions of
i.he brain Faculties, is, it appears to me, to assume that which I am
qbliged still to think requires much more proof than has yet been
brought forward to establish it. I cannot therefore yet asser.t to
their -prop~itioll ~h~t the arain consi$t;l of t/iirty lllr~e or more fac-
ulties.
' But tol.roceed: 'I'hey say that, when the hinder portion of tho
15kul\, an , consequently, the brain, exceeds or only even equals in
quantity the front or intellectual portion, the individual possesses so
JDuch of the mere animal that the front portion is not sufficient to
keep the anii:J:~al in check ; in other words, is not sufficient to prevent
1.he possEISSOr of such a. skull-of such a brain, from performing ac,
1.ions injurious to Society ; that is, of course, immoral, viciou~, or
• criminal actions. That, on the contrary, when the greater portion of
the brain is before, more 'Or less predominating intellectuality of some
"kind will be found, o.nd the anim~l powers or propensities be held in
'Proper subjection. ·
The PHRENOLOGisr& say, moreover, that in proportion to tho
size of each FACULTY, will generally its power he found to corres-
pond; the protuberances in the skull at the same time corresponding
to the size of the faculty. A small faculty being an indication of
~mall power, and a large one v:'ce versa. A high and broad fore-
head having, of course, many of the faculties much developed, is a
strong indication of considerable intellectuality-a low, narrow, and
receding one the reverse.
The qqa.lity and quantity of the brain, they say, are to be estima~
ted by observing the situation of the orifice of the ear, and the size
of the skull before and behind. In persons of high intellectuality
this orifice will be found from one to two inches nearer to the back
part of the head than it is to the front. In judging, however, of the
qualities of a skull, of the powers of the .,,tellect of any individual,
this is not all; it.is necessary to note whether there be great or littl&
distanc~ between the orifice of the eN aqd the crown of the head;
•
..
Digitized by Google
I ·
,,
......
.,
.. .td.i
• • ~t ~ • .
~ ... '!' . . ~...- .... ~
~alto, whether the skull ' be wide or oorrow, • . well before Ill
~fWid. In short, it would appear, from this view:dit, tha~ upon
~,Biz~ of the brain depends, in a great measur~t'ih~ q.q..
. of
- ~imal as well as mel)tal power w_
hich any individual~lll~ ;
thus bringing us back to the vulgar and trite OJ>inion, .to~( :
culed, that he who has, literally, few brains has littl~ se· · ~
~ret'ul attention to these several indications-indicationS.,\ ·_
admitted, which every one may readily appreheml-will, the ltrtmo, .
/ogisls say, always give us a general outline of the character..of.
every man. · ._ ,. ~
- •
Without, l10wever,·assenting to so m~ch II$ this, it d~s appca to
me that PHRENOLOGY deserves a serious investigatioii";.'il)4._th~t, for
!he present, our attention ougl}t to be emphatically directed to th~
conspicuous and obvious indication. If it shall be found that the
iutellectual portion of the brain is alway» in front, and also that the
C}Uantity of intellect is in proportion to the quantity of brain; and if
.. it shall; also, be found that the animal propensities or faculties exist
always iu the back part of the skull, and that these are in greatest.
force in proportion to the size also of that )>art of the brain, data
cf infinite import11.nce will be obtained. It will be afterwards de-
sirable to ascer~n, if possible, of what particulars these general
indicatiqns consist; ·and I think it is probable that some organs for
particular functions may be discovered; but I suspect that some, if
not much, o£ the mappi11g of the Phrenologists will require c:msi-
~erable modification. I suspect too that a good deal must be attri·
buted, after all, to the QUALITY as well as to the QUANTITY of brain ;
.-that brains of similar size and shape vary much in their intellec-
tual powers as well as in their physical propensities.t In justice tq
Dr. SPURZHEIM, I ought to state here, that siuce this Lectqre \Yas
prepared, I have bad the pleasure of hearing that Gentleman at the
L,ondon Instit~ttion, and he most decidedly admits, that although tho
~i'ie of the different organs is of great moment, yet that a great deal
also depends upon their QUALITY and ACTIVIT\·. .
That many, if not most, of our intellectual operations are carried
on in that portion of the brain which is in the front fart of the skull,
is I think extremely probable : for if any one wil attend to what
JI&SSes within him during, or rather immediately after, the progress
•" We do not say that he who has few brains has little sense· it is th~
ql14lity, combined with health, which gives power; for the largest and smalles~
brains, in 1200 casts in my collection, have the greatest powers of mind." ·
J. D,
t " I have stated that fJUality as well as quantitg must be taken into c:onsid~
f'ration. The tempe-rament must not be overlooked; this Dr. SPURZHEIM ha•
described in his work entitled • Phrenology in connection with PhgBiflgnomg.·"
• J.D.
May wr. not rationally conclude that what is called tempera~tlt depends, in
21't'at measu~, if not entirely, upon the fJUality of the brain, and the cunditiu11
of the nervt.•, with which, of course, tbe brain has :;e11eral connection?
•
Digitized by Google
or operation or !IC!i\C and int'nse thought, when the Lrain hu
laboured, as it were, with a. variety of ideas; or when eftorts aro
made to comprehend and remember many complicated processes in
our reasoning, or a variety of different facts or circumstances, varti-
cularly if the subjects presented to the mind be new; and if, imme-
diately afterwards, the actual physical state of the brain be examined,
we shall, I think, not fail to find that such efforts occasionally, (as
far as regards my own experience, I may say very often) produce
much action in the fore part of the brain, so as to induce sometimes
p. head-ach, which is not infrequently accompanied with increased
heat, plainly discover~ble by ourselves as well as others on feeling
the forehead. Hence I think it is fair to conclude that the higher
and more complex processes of thought are carried on in the ante-
rior portion of the brain.
If, beside~ this, it shall be found that any one portion of the brain.
by being more used than another portion, increases in size so as even
to alter the external form of the skull-and some observed facta
seem to indicate this*-we have the encouraging hope held out to
ll-s not only that the intellectual powers may be increased by use, as
~e know they in general are, but also that the animal propensities
by disuse, or by proper use, may be rendered subservient to the
JJobler part of our nature, and be made to minister only to our legi-
~mate pleasures and our "happiness.
Jn the hitherto imperfeqt ~cience of EDUCATION I anticipate great
•nd important re~ults from such a study of PHRENOLOGY, combined,
~ it ought always to be, with PavsiOGNOMV, a science, by the way,
*hat has not been attended to !lS it deserves ; and I would particu-
larly recommend those, who are engag11d in the instruction of chil-
dren and youth, to pay accurate att~:ntion to both these yet imper.
fegt sciences. There is reason to hope that the labours of instruc-
tion may be, by the study, greatly abridged, and the pupils themselves
essentially benefited and improved. Some of the results to be ob.
tamed from ;;uch a study, are, that mankind generally will become
more feeling, more benevolent, and more humane. At least, I think,
that such results will be the inevitable consequence of a better ac-
quaintance with the nature and operations ot the mind. ·
We have thus seen what the Phrenologists have done to eluci-
date the nature of the Human Mind-the Brai!f;-their inquiries
are based, as they ought io be, on FACT; from this they will I hope
never depart ; and we ought to be grateful for the zeal and for the
success, (amidst much unnecessary and uncalled for ridicule and
opprobrium) with which they have pursued and still continue to
pursue their observations and their labours. Let them froceed;
• " It no longer remains in doubt respecting the change of the brain bv 1u~
increaae, when aucceasfully employed, in any course of new tit~dies. "-J. D.•
..J
Digitized byGoogle
.. .
1.6
. .. '
~1-1\.~ty:~,~ill assur:cdly reap much ad1·an!.ige fr~ ~leir .e.froru1
,Jbe~r W.en~ and their zeal. . ~ 4~"-: -< ." •·
· ¥t W-ll~w examine this surprising, this stjpen<f6us orgAn, the
• .)11'Xo,-particularly as regards its operations, a little more closely.
-'The fluMAN MllJD evinces, &.nd is excited by, two orders·"'of_
~ENSATIONS; namely the PLEASUREAI!LE and the PAINFUL; to these·
tifo orders the .chief~ if not all, of its operations may be referred ; the
_'treat diff~rences in both orders consisting in degree. It appears'
. also.to be act,uated and regulated by invariable laws: for althoug~
~ we cannot ,always demonstrate, in every analytical inquiry conccrn-
·~ttg the mind, the cause of every operation or action, yet, from the
great number of operations and actions whose causes we can dis-
tinctly observe and trace, there is legitimate ground for the inference
that the mind Ollerates and is regulateu by invariable laws; in othe~
words, jn mental, as well as in cor}JOreal operations, there is NO EF·
FECT WITHOUT A cAusE. The truth of this position will appear
as we proceed. .
' To ni.any of our plea~urahlc, as well as painful sensations, have
J>e_en given, either from their intensity, peculiarity, or duration, dis-
tinctil·e names; some of them have been called PAS.<>IONS; a mo.re
vague anJ indefinite term than this can scarcely be imagined. lu
a l~tle manual, which bas lately fallen in my way, entiled ELE~
:ME.liTS OF SELF-KNoWLEDGE,* the PASSIONS are described under the
following names: Ambition, Anger, Antipathy, Curiosity, Fear,
Hope, Joy, Love, Shame, Griif, Sympathy, and Wonder; and thes9
ate a.train divided into many species and varieties.
In the same work the FAcULTIES of the Mt~D are described to
J>e Perceptz(m, Allen/ion, RetenliOll or Memory, Recollection, r
/maginalz'on, the Power qf Comparing, /)iscernment, the Pou•er
if Abstracting, the Power qf Compounding, Reasoning, Judg'"
111enl, IVi/l, Design, Foresighl, Liberty, Conscienr.e.-A few
grains of pure metal amidst the most incongruoqs and inconsistent
p~ass of _
dross that was eyer obtained from any philosophical cruci~
~! .
· Let us ~xamine a few items of the catalogue; and, in the first
place, what is meant by the term FACUIII'Y ?-Faculty, according to
n•y apprehension, is any iunate power or ability with which we arc
~udowed : thus we have the faculty of Beeing, of heani1g, offeeling,
j)f smelling, of ut11ring sounds, of moving the muscles, 4·c.; and if
it shall be proved, according to the statement.<: of the Ph1·enologisls,
that Amativmess, and Philoprogeniliveness, &c. form and occupy
iiistinct JIOrtions of the brain, and are born with us, these may per·
paps be denominated faculties; but these cannot yet, I think, be
admiUeJ asfaculties, and, therefore, in our present inquiry we shall
pot consider them as such. But how Reasoning, Judgment, 11/i/1,
• I
Digitized by Coogle
17
!)nd some othera just mentioned, came to be arranged as faculti4s.
it is. not my business to explain. Reasoning ~~d Judgment are
manifestly mental processes, carried on unquestionably by some
of our faculties, but they (that is. the processes themselves) are not
•.faculties. It behoves us, therefore, to be extremely cautious in the
use of the word FACULTY. It is very often greatly misapplied; and,
by such misapplication, is very likely to mislead us in our inquiries
on this highly interesting subject-the MnrD. Indeed if the
Phrenologists should succeed in persuading mankind to adopt their
present nomenclature, it appears to me tl1at almost every action
will have its appropriate faculty; and although I do not say that
this cannot be, I am, nevertheless, disposed to say that it is ex-
tremely improbable.
This misapplication of the term FACULTY, has been made by
many very able and eminent men. The poet Akenside appears to
have fallen into an error similar to this when he tells us. in his notes
to the Pleasures of Imagination, that we have a natural sen1e of
the ridiculous, as if ridicule or the talent for ridicule. like the smell
or sight, were .born with us; whereas ridicule, it is evident, is pro-
duced by ASSOCIATION: for what appears ridiculous to one person
is often not in the least so to another; were ridicule a natural
sense, I apprehend this could not be.
Now, as to the WILL, (about the freedom of which so many
volumes have been written,) if by the WILL be meant the desire to
do any act or obtai" any thing, which to every unsophisticated uD-
derstanding it assuredly is, such WILL will always be found to be
tile effect of some previous process or operation carried on in thiJ
mind; and this, whether the mind be conscious of such process or
not; and hence the impropriety of the term FREE-WILL: for, as the
mind in its processes or operations is governed or influenced by in-
variable laws, the wiLL, such as we here consider it, cannot be
I"REE; it can only be what the motives presented to it cause it to be,
whatever those motives may be. The WILL tl1erefore, the desire to
do any act or obtain any thing, is produced by the operation of fixed
and determined causes arising in the very natures of things ; let us
pursue the series as long as we please, or at least as long as we
are able so to do. It is.obvious, therefore, that the WILL cannot
be a FACULTY.• If, however, by the term WILL be only meant a
• Since this tract bas been in the press, Dr. HASLAM ha~~ given a series of
Ltct11.rea on the Mi11d to the London Mtdical Snciety: the•e Lectures have
been .since published in the l.An«t. It is not my w1sh or intention to make
any comments on them l!enerally, not havinjl; read the whole with sufficient
attention; hut as the definition of the WILL, as giv~n i11 the Lanret, Ilia.
217, page 125, apprars to me inconeet, I lake the lihimy (I am sure wi1h
the mo~t sincere feelings of respect for Ur. HASLh M,) to say that the will
is not, a!'cording to my apprehension, "the effort nf ..ttainment," which
Dr. HASLAM ~tales it to be: for the will, being the desire to do any act, or
obtain any thing, is a dati or diqoritiun of the mmd, and, conseiJUently, can·
B
{
J
Digitized by Google
18
power or capacity to choose, to select from the objects presented to
the mind; this power, or rather perhaps process, of the mind we
have manifestly the ability to use ; but in our choice, that is, the
process of choosing, we weigh the various things or motives which
are presented to us, or which arise in our minds, and are influ-
enced, determined, doubtless, by what appears to be, or are sup-
posed to be, either directly or indirectly most beneficial to us,-
mostproductive of the greatestquantityofpleasurable sensation,-
in a word, HAPPINEss. To suppose that we choose without some-
thing influencing, determining our choice, would be absurd; it is
evident that there always is some motive or motives, however la-
tent or unperceived, which do influence, determine the mind.-
What now becomes of the so much vaunted term FREE·WILL; and
of the WILL itself as a FACULTY?
It must not, however, be forgotten, that the motives which deter-
mine, produce the WILL to do even a single act, may be, and often
are, very various: internalfeeling, mental process, besides the in-
numerable variety of external objects, heat, cold, human society,
&c. are sometimes more or less combined to produce such will.
These errors in the use of terms have very much obstructedour
progress in inquiries concerning the MIND. They have arisen,
most probably, from two sources,-our ignorance, and from the
application of the common language of life to subjects for which
such language is, unfortunately, not well adapted; as it is almost
!mposs~ble to avoid u~ing such language, we all know, in a very
mdefintte and uncertain manner. Thus the processes ofReasoning
and Judgment have been separated and made, as it were, distinct
ideal bei11fJs. How often do we not ask; What says Reason?-
Where is your Judgment1-Whereas, if we examine both these
processes, for processes, be it remembered, they are; we shall find
that, if not identical, they are so very similar as not to require the
distinctions which many writers on the human mind have given
them. I have defined Reason, in the FAMILY CYCLOPEDIA,
That process or processes of the mind by which different ideas or
things are compared, t"eir fitness or unfitness perceived, and conclu-
sions drawnfrom such comparisons a11d perceptions. Is not Judg-
ment the same, or, at least, a similar process of'the mind 1
not be au effort. It may be the product of effort, or may cause effort, bot
the wiU il not itself an ~ffort. The effort of which the state of mind called
will is often the cause, is no more the will than tbe hand-writing is the band
itself. It is trnt, we do sometimes ~ay, that such a person writes a ~:ood
baud; but we all know that this is a figure of spctch for the hand-writing.
The trill is not, therefilrt-, according to Dr. H.\SI.AM, "simply the effort of
attainment," but a ttate or disporition of mind evinced by a desire or wish to
obtain or avoid, &c. certain things. The wiU, that is the state or disposition
of the mind so called, is, of course, the product ofsome cause or c:tUMcs ; and
"e cannot conceive of a will without a cause; and, indet>d, as far as we know
of the mind, there never was a wiU, that is, a state or di•position of the mind
to obtain or avoid, &c. without a cause or cauaeft producing it.
I
7 ~igitized by Google
19
Once more, if Ruaoa be a faculty,-and, if a faculty, it ought
in every individual to be the aame: that is, eimilar to the een1e1
of sight, smell, &c. ;-if it alway• enabled us to distinguiah good
from evil, and truth from faleebood, no eucb discrepanciee and
discordances as are found amonget mankind could exist. But do
we not find that what appears recuonahle to one person appears·
the most unreasonable and preposterous to another ~-Our Reasora
is influenced greatly by the. manner in which our minds have been
exercised and excited (as well by surrounding media ae by our in-
ternal feelings), and hence the influence which surroundingcircum-
stances, strong feelings, have upon our reasoning; and hence also
the powerful effect of Enuc.a.TION in all our reasoning proceases.
What a field is here opened for charity and forbearance towards
the opinions and actiona of those who think and act differently
from ourselves I ·
I have been .omewhr.t minute on this mistake concerning the
term FACULTY, because the explanation will be of considerable
service to us in all our researches into the nature of the mind. It ie
a mistake which, as I haYe said, has been often made, and that, too,
by many estimable and able men. Even Dr. JoaNsoN calls Rea·
son the Rational Faculty; and tbe WILL, that power by w/,icl& we
desire and purpose. LoeB::&, too, calls Reason a F.a.CULTY; and
we have seen thatAXENSID£ fell intoasimilarerror. Iftherefore
such popular and able writers have made these mistakes, we need
not wonder at the mistakes or inferior followers in the same path.
Dr. JoHNSON, however, in such definitions, as well, indeed, as in
many others in his Dictionary, aeems to have been more studious
to fix and determine the meaning of words as they have been va-
riously used by A UTHO&s, than to give one intelligible and definite
meaning, to which it is deairable, however difficult, to confine
every word.
It will now be necesaary that I should direct your attention to
another, and l believe the latest, writer in this country of any emi-
nence who has employed his energies in the deYelopment of the
nature of the Human Mind. The writer to whom I allude is Mr.
OwEN. He has nQt, it is true, given us his sentiments in an elabo·
rate treatise; what he has written directly concerning the mind is
contained in the space of a very few pages. This was first pub·
lished about five years ago in the INTB.ODUCTIOK to my FAMILY
CvcLOP.amu, and, as that work may not be known to many of my
present auditors, I will take the liberty to state the substance of
Mr. OwEN's observations; which.are, in fact, descriptive of an In-
strument that be somelears ago invented, a plate of which is given
in the work to which have referred. This Instrument, the late
Professor PICT.ET, of Geneva, advised Mr. OwEN to call the
PsvcnoG&APH; a term to which, however, there are certainly
very strong objections.· The design of Mr. Owen was, by this in-
i
r
f
Digitized by Google
20
strument, to render mental phenomena and operations more intelli-
gible to those unwillingor unable to enter into abstruse and~ as
they have been termed, recondite speculations;
The Fsychograplt, Mr. OwEN informs us, may be made either
of metal or wood; it consists of ten slides, each slide representing
a faculty or quality (or the germ of it) of'the human mind at birth;
The slides are divided into parts; the first and last of which on
each side denote the extremes of that particular faculty or quality
belonging to, or constituting a part of, the human mind. The in-
terval between these extremes is in nature infinitely divisible. In
Mr. OwEN's Psychograph the division is carried only to 100 parts,
these being sufficient for the purpose for which the Psychograpk
was designed.
According to Mr. OwEN's Psychograph, the Human Faculties or
Qualities, or the germs ofthem at birth, are the foJiowing, namely,
Strength, Courage, Sensibility, Perception, Reflection, Memory,
Imagination, Judgment, Affection, &if-attachment.
As the aim of Mr. OwEN, in the construction of this instrument,
was to direct the attention to facts, he informs us that " it is of lit-
tle consequence whether the faculties and qualities, which are by
the Psychograplt predicated of any human being, are precisely in
conformity to nature, or whether they are really more or Jess in
number, or whether they shall be designated by the names given to
them, or by any other ter!Jls. In these respects, "the Psycho~
graph,'' continues Mr. OwEN, "may be, and no doubt is, very de-
fective; it pretends to no accuracy in such points, because accuracy
cannot at present be attained: but it is a sufficient approximation
to nature for the present purpose." ·
"For instance,.human nature consists of a certain physical con-
formation, which must possess some degree of bodily strength;-
sensibility, or power of feeling; the germs of more or less natural
courage, perception, reflection, rt}emory, imagination, judgment, af-
fection for others, and attachment to self. And it i» evident that
individuals possess, by nature, these different faculties and quali-
ties in various degrees of strength and weakness, of perfection and
imperfection." .
"Since then," proceeds Mr. OwEN, "there is so wide an inter-
val between the extremes of each faculty and quality, and that this
interval is infinitely divisible, it is improbable that any two human
beings have ever been endowed with any one of these faculties or
qualities precisely in the same degree since the creation ofman; but
when the number of these faculties which enter into the combina-
tion of a human being is taken into consideration, it becomes
highly probable that no two infants ever have been,or ever will be,
born alike. ..
"Certain proportions and combinations of these powers produce
in the individual the highest degree of general excellence of cha-
Digitized by Google
21
racter; other proportions and combinations form an infinite variety
of natural character between these two extremes. These faculties
and qualities grow as the child advances in age, and, by training
and instruction, the growth of any of them ma,y be retarded or en-
couraged, and thus the natural combination may be materially mo-
dified. When this knowledge shall be raised to the rank of a
science, and its principles applied to practice, the human character
may be so improved in every individual, that, compared with the
past or existin~ generations, the new race of men will be regarded
as superior bemgs. This science may be called, t/,e Science of
Training and Instruction, or the Scumce ofthe lTflluence of CiretUll-
stance over Human Nature; and will be of far more real value to
mankind than all the other sciences united. By means of its
practical application, the· natural powers and qualities of each in-
dividual may be so directed and modified, as to produce that com-
bination which is best for the individual and for society. The
child, however, can have no control over the formation of the par-
ticular powers·and qualities which belong to him at birth; nor over
the circumstances which, through infancy and childhood, deter•
mine the peculiar direction and modification which these powers
and qualities receive."
Mr. OwEN, in conclusion, emphatically asks, "Why, then, is
punishment, for the correction of moral error, awarded to human
beings? Is it possible that human nature can become a fit sub-
ject for punishment of any kind? Has it ever been, or can it ever
be, other than an instrument of cruelty, and of the grossest injus-
tice 1 Experience bas proved that punishment never has attained
its object. Facts, open to the inspection of every one, likewise
prove, that by other methods, which preclude all the evils created
by punishment (and they are incalculable}, more may be accom-
plished in a few years, for the improvement of the moral well-being
of society, than baa been effected by punishment through the past
period of man's existence."
In this account of the Psychograplt, I have moat carefully fol-
lowed Mr. OwEN's description, except in substituting the expres-
sion human mind for human nature; an expression to which Mr.
OwEN seems particularly partial: why, I do not know.
Now, in examining these particulars of the mind, although it
must be admiUed they are much more simple than those to which
we have before adverted, we shall still, I think, find that Mr. OwEN
has occasionally misapplied the term faculty; but what I have said
before on this word will enable us to judge of the propriety of any
of the terms which :Mr. Ow:&N has used. I cannot,however, avoid
observing that, if courage be a faculty of the mind, so, it appears
to me, must its antagonist timidity orfear be ; if there be such a
faculty as self-attachment, as probably there .is, both courage and
fear will be found, I presume, modifications of it. It does, bow-
Digitized by Google
22
ever, strike me, that the faculties of the mind are much fewer in
number than they have been commonly supposed to be; and that
it is, probably, by the combined operation of those faculties, what-
ever they are, that most of our wr1ters on the mind have been mis-
led. Mr. OwEN, we see, calls Judgment a faculty: I think it is a
process, carried on by one or more of our faculties, doubtless; but
that there is no such thing as an aggregate faculty of Judgment,
Reason, or Will, in the mind, every inquiry which we make will, I
think, confirm.
Mr. OwEN, it is true, with that benevolent candour which so
strongly marks his character, informs us, that it is of little conse-
quence whether the faculties and qualities which arebythe Psycho-
graph predicated of any human being, are precisely in conformity
with nature : or whether they are really more or less in number:
or whether they shall be designated by the names given to them,
or by any other terms. In these respects, he admits that the
Psychograph may be defective.
. As far as regards mere names, it is certainly of little or no conse:.
quence what kind we apply to mental OPERATIONS or FACULTIES,
provided they do not mislead us in our pursuit of knowledge; but
when names are applied to operations of the mind, or to the facul-
ties of the mind, which convey meanings that, to the operations
themselves, or to the faculties themselves, do not belong, much
error will be the probable result; such nomenclature should, there-
fore, be, as much as possible, avoided. So far am I from thinking
with 1\lr. Ow:r.N, that it is of no consequence to us to determine
what are, and what are not, FACULTIES of the MIN o, that I think
it is of the greatest importance in these inquiries to know, if we
possibly can, of what, and of how many, faculties the human mind
consists. The Phrenologists are, beyond question, of the same
opinion-all their efforts tend to the fixing and defining of these
granu landmarks-the FACULTIES, or organs of the MIND-the
BRAIN. Had the Phrenologists avoided, for the present, a new
nomenclature, and simply contented themselves with numbering
what they assert to be organs, without forcing upon us a new set
of terms, they would not have raised, what I fear are, some new
obstacles in our pursuit of this interesting inquiry.•
I would ask, I am sure with the greatest deference and respect
to Mr. OwEN, Is it nothing to distinguish accurately what is born
with us, from what is acquired by us in our progress through the
world 1 We know very well, that formerly an opinion was gene-
rally entertained, that ideas were born with us; but, thanks to the
labours of LocKE, that great and dangerous error has been long
since overthrown, and we·now smile at such an opinion. Yet I am
not sure whether the doctrine which teaches that Reason, Judg-
• See aome farther observations on Pl&rC1111logy, at the end of tbis Leeton.
\
Digitized by Google
28
tnent, the Will, and aome other operationa, or eft'ectaof operations,
of the mind, are FACULTIEs, is not considerably more injurious to
the progress of truth, and to our pursuit of knowledge and happi-
ness, than that of innate ideas; and we have seen, too, that such
a doctrine has been, and is now very commonly, very generally ac-
cepted and believed.
From what has been said, it will now be, most probably, asked,
What, then, after all, do we know concerning the nature of the
Mind? It appears, with certainty, VERY LITTLE; we are unques-
tionably in the very infancy of such knowledge. We have yet, I
think, to get rid of some unintelligible jargon-some scholastic
verbosities, that not a little impede our progress in the pursuit of
this truly valuable and important science; but, besides this, it is
quite necessary that we should all, if possible, .become accurate
observers of what passes within and around us, taking nothing for
granted, but always endeavour to obtain and to state FACTs, by an
accumulation of which only can we hope to inform ourselves and
our species in the science of self-knowledge, and, of course, hap-
piness. I have mentioned, in a preceding part of my discourse,
that the most useful truths are often the most exposed, and, for
this reason, too often overlooked. I am disposed to think, relative
to the mind, that this is peculiarly the case. .
I do not think sufficient attention bas been paid to our ordinary
and simple SENSATIONS; and I think that our first steps in such
inquiries ought always to be directed to these: for all thatwe know
must be derived through the medium of what are usually called the
SENSEs-namely, &eing, Hearing, Smelling, Tasting, Feeling.
Mr. OwEN appears to have arranged these under one order-&n-
sibility, or power of Feeling. The effect of the stimulus or im-
pression which external objects make upon the different senses
when conveyed to the mind-the brain, as they instantly are after
being made ; or when an idea or ideas arise in the mind itself, and
there act, is called SENSATION. When this sensation is perceived
by the mind, it is called PERCEPTION ; which is, it appears to me,
nothing more than a recognized or apprehended sensation.
From the great disposition which there is in the mind to repeat
sensations once made upon it, it often happens that, without the
presence of the object which first excited the original sensation,.it
will nevertheless arise in the mind, and this, too, frequently with-
out our being conscious of the cause which produces it; although,
from what we know of the laws of the· mind, it could not have
arisen there without a cause; it sometimes-happens, too, that sen-
sations or perceptions once excited are often beyond our control;
that is, we cannot by effort, however strong, prevent the recurrence
of them; nor on many other occasions can we command their re.
currence. These sensations are, as I have said, of two orders-
pleasurable and painful, the degrees in both being infinite; and it
Digitized by Google
24
appears to me that all our researches into the nature and opera-
tions of the mind must be bottomed on this simple view of it,
namely, that it is capable of receiving a variety of impressions-
ltENSATIONS both pleasurable and painful: that these sensations,
in numerous instances, become PERCEPTIONS, p.erceptions IDEAS;
and that from these the whole apparatus of what is commonly called
the MIND is most probably made up.
· The disposition to repeat perceptions, ideas-whole trains of
thought, has been called a faculty-memory; but much of what is
usually called memory consists of processes. It is the greater or
less facility with which impressions once made upon the mind can
be again voluntarily called up, that constitutes a good or a bad
memory. The Phrenologists, we see, have given to the memory
many organs ; such are those of Facts, of Form, Size, Order, Lan-
guage, &c.: and they thus account for some persons remembering
things relating to any ode of these well by their having such organ
strongly developed: yet we must not forget Dr. SPu.RZHEIM's ad-
mission of quality and activity. In consequence of this, if it be a
truth, and I think it is, any Phrenologist who estimates the men-
tal organs by their APPEARANCE ONLY in the skull will be fre-
quently at fault; and herein it is that the science is manifestly
defective: as, under such circumstances, till we know, besides the
development itself, the quality and activity of the brain, we may
make a very improper estimate of the mental powers of any given
individual : and that this has been already done by some gentle-
~en who are esteemed. adepts in the science, I have personally rea-
son to know. The Phrenologists do not seem to think sufficiently
of the necessity of usiny the mind in any given way in order to alter
its quality and excite its activity. Now, although I do not con-
tend that usE alone is omnipotent, it is nevertheless of infinit': im-
portance : many skulls of indifferent promise will be found to con-
tain a fine mind.
Besides this susceptibility of the MIND, in regard to SENSATION
generally; it is to be observed that there are also dispositions in it
to avoid pain, and to receive or desire pleasure; these dispositions
are inherent in the MIND, and are, in numerous instances, exem-
plified soon after birth. To the operation or effect of these dispo-
sitions are given the various names of Grief, Joy, Fear, Anyer,
Love, &c. Many of them, from being attended with considerable
emotion, have been called PASSIONs.• They do not seem directly
• ST. PIERRE, who, from his writings, we conclude must have been an ami·
able man, aaya that "Nous avons observe qn'il n'y avoit que deux pas8ions
danale c~ur hnmain, l'arnour et l'ambiti1111.'' Now, it' Love and Ambiuoo be
P.unou, and, according to Sr. PIERRE, the only passions of the human
heart, how absurd must be any attempt to eradicate Vtbat, being denominated
a Pauimt, ba' been commonly suppoaetl to belong to 118 as animated bein~s!
Yet how often does this ingenious writer, in his works, inveigh against ambi-
Digitized by Google
26
under our control, but indirectly they frequ~ntly become so; they
may be so modified by circumstances, habit, education, &c. that
some pains, as well as pleasures, become obliterated; whilst
others are generated by the habits, usages, and customs of the
i!Ociety in which we live. Some of these pleasures and pains are
much more capableof being controlled than others. Those which
are least so are HUNGER and THUST, essential to the existence
Cio11! again1t trllt114lio•/-" L'Emnlation," aaya be, "eat Ia cause de Ia ph\-
part de. manx dn genre bumaio. Elle est Ia racine de l'ambitioa ; car l'emn·
latioo produit le rlesir d'etre le premier, et le desir d'~tre le premier, n'est
autre chose qne l'arulJition, que ae partage,suivaot poaitions et caracterea, en
amhitiooa poaitive et n~gati.,e, d'oo cooltnt pre•qne too• lea maux de Ia Yie
eociale !" Ya•z d'•• &lilairt.-From all that be aaya, aod from all tbat CaD
be gathered on the subject, it appears that to preveot men from desiring dia-
. tinction, from dP~iriog to be approved in their conduct by their fellow~, u,
moat probably, impossible; what then should be tbe object ofthe goveruon of
-nkiod-of those having in6uence t'itber in great or amaH communiti-
of P.\TRBRI and IIIOTRBRI offamilies, &c. &c. ? to dirtd tllildil,...,ioa uto
1/u 111011 btatjlcial chaantll-into those channels capable of con•eyiDit aDd
imparting tbe most happiuea.~. ThnR, if men become desirou•, and, if you
pleue, ambitious of doin~t !fOod-of promoting eacb other's happine•~, (and I
confess individually that I do feel aucb ambition,) torely such ambition can-
not be bad-it must be meritorioos-deeervinr of approbation ; alwaya re-
membering that we are not, in doing good, to trample upon the rirhts and just
demands of others: for the evil might thus become 11reater than the good we
might do; and besidt's, we cannot force any one to become happy contrary
to t.ie ioclination-luntlll'illtll bt'iog one of the essential in~tredieotl of indi-
vidual 11appi.
oesa. I conclude, therefore, tbat both ambition and ~m•lalioa
are then only bad when they tend to produce miaery-unhappine11; and that
when they, on the contrary, tend to promole general and individual happi-
ness, they are meritorion•. ~
There is, it will be observed, a great wnnt of philosophical llfeciaion in the
passage of ST. Pu:aaB above quoted: "Two pauiona of the buman heart"
ia too common-place and vagut'. The distinction which baa been some.time1
made by writers between the l&ead and the hMrt, the former being considered
as ialtlled, and the latter a•fuli'llg, is notoriously incorrect, and should never
be adopted in philoaopbical writing. It may do very well for ao oratorical
ftoorifh and the roondiug ofa ptoriod, bot u a mode of conveying truth it is
decidedly bad. The IIHrl is a viscus upon the regularity ofwhose action de-
pends tl1e ht'altby circulation of the blood ; in cousequeuee of the nerveR ac-
<'Ompanying it, and indeed the whole sangniferons system, it• motion i• very
!iable to be affected by innumerable impressions both pniofill and pleasurable
made npou the brain. No one wants to be told how soon tbe heart palpit;ttea
on the application of powerful, new, or exlraordinary stimuli to tbe mind-
the brain: the centre of aeniGlioa as wt'll as intelltct iM not however in the
AtCJrt bot in tbe head-the b,.ain, u will be sten from what bas been stated
above, u well as by accurate observation of what pao~es within ouroelvea:
tbe heart does not of course think-thought is in the brain, and, as far u is
known, in the brain only. 1'm aware it may be said that, in calling ambition
aod emulation two pa>aioos of the human f1cart, the expreSilion is jlgwatiu,
and that most persona will know what is meant: not nactly so. 1 have no
objection to figure in elucidation of truth ; but here the figure manife•lly ob-
ecuret it. It ia sot'h e~:pre11ions as these that have misled ns, and ever will
mislead us in the pursuit of trntb.
c
j
..A
Digitized by Google
26
of the individual, and that for the continuance of the species,
usually denominated LoVE. I am extremely unwilling to call
SYMPATHY a faculty of the mind; but wh~ther it be a faculty or
not, it is, at any rate, a disposation of the mind: and it is unques-
tionably a disposition too of considerable importance in numerous
mental operations. That we are, on various occasions, excited to
feel for and with others, is indisputably true ; many of our best
and kindest actions proceed from such sympathy. There is, as
far as is known of this quality of the mind, a peculiar, not to say
a mysterious nature about it which demands our serious investi-
gation. Many of the impositions and frauds which have been
practised upon mankind, have been effectuated by an artful appeal
to our sympathies or our fears; and, therefore, although our
sympathies are extremely valuable to us, as forming some of the
strongest links which connect us to our fellows, yet they, very
often, notwithstanding, demand control.
The sympathy evinced by the sexes towards each other basbeen
called by most persons a PASSION-LovE; the Phrenologists give
it a direct organ, the cerebellum (as we haye seen), and call it
amativeness. This sympat.
by is, it scarcely needs to be observed,
extremely powerful. When under suitable regulation, and com-
bined with intellectual pleasure, it confers, perhaps, the most ex-
quisite happiness of which we are capable; if ill directed, it is
often productive of the most consummate. misery. No wonder
that, in all ages, LovE has been one of the most predominant
springs of human action I Man has still to learn the best mode of
regulating this powerful lever in the elevation of his.happiness.
Besides such sympathies, which might be called the social sym-
pathies, and which we can· occasionally regulate, there are other
sympathies not so immediately, if at all, under ourcontrol. Thes~
are evinced when any derangement producing pain takes place in
our bodily organs, the mind sympathizing with such derangement
and s~ffering more or less accordingly. So also if the body com-
municate pleasurable emotions to the mind, a corresponding sym-
pathy is the result. The mind likewise communicates it11 sympa-
thies to the bodily functions, and, in a remarkable degree, it does
this to the stomach; so that no sooner, upon any occasion, does
the mind labour under painful emotion than the stomach almost
instantly becomes affected, and dyspepsia either temporary or o(
some continuance is very commonly the result. On the contrary,
if the sympathies be pleasurable, and not in excess, they contri-
bute to the general health; and, generally, when they are painful
to a certain degree, disease. Excessive pleasure, as well as ex-
cessive pain, produces not only disease, but sometimes causes
immediate death. Such indeed is the intimate connexion of the
mind and body during ourwhole existence here, that they mutually
act and react upon each other. For want of a proper sense of
Digitized by Google
27
the ~reat importance of this truth, and from an inattention to, or
our tgnorance of those laws by which they are mutually governed,
our knowledge of the method of curing disease, and especially
mental disease, still continues in a very imperfect s.
tate.
From what has been aaid, let us now see to what practical uti-
lity our present knowledge of the mind can be applied.
It is well known that, ifwe wish to become dexterous iD any art
:requiring considerable employment of the hand, the art ofwriting,
for instance, we must use it often, and for a long time, before we
can attain the ease and dexterity of a master; nay, that without
long and constant use such dexterity·cannot be acquired. The
M lli D, the or!Jan, the recipient, the elaborator of our ideas, the in-
strument in which our sensations, elaborated into thought, arise, '
appears to be similar in ita nature to the human band; it must be
usED before it becomes dexterous. .Slight and casual impressions
produce occasional motions often irregular, and by no means to
the purpose; to be efficient, they must be long continued regular
and uniform.
We know alao that if, in the performance of any manual opera-
tion, such as weaving, sewing, &c. &c., any motion not necessary
to the proper performance of the process, be introduced and.con·
tipued for a long time, the difficulty of getting rid of such bad
habit is often great, not to say sometimes impossible : hence the
necessity of learning the proper motions in the first instance. A
similar mode of reasoning applies to the mind: in order that ita
motions or operations should be useful, regular, and appropriate,
its exercise in such motions or operations is absolutely necessary;
and this exercise must not only be adopted early, but be long
continued, and of such a kind that no bad habits may be intro-
duced: for, once introduced, their eradication is always more or
less difficult, and sometimes, as in manual arts, ~most impos-
. aible.
I trust, therefore, that I may be pardoned for repeating here
what I have before stated in another work. Without EDUCATION
(which ill another term for applied knowledge) man is an insulated
being, connected to society by few ties and wh.olly unacquainted
with his duties. I consequently state a trite truism when I say,
In order that man may become a good member of society, it is
necessary that l&e should be educated; no one becomes good or vir-
tuous by accident. The education to which I here allude, is not
only that usually called such which is obtained, for the most part,
from schools and universities, or through 'the medium of books,
but also that CONCOURSE of ClRCUMS'I:ANCES which surrounds the
child from his birth, and attends upon him through his future life,
moulding his thoughts and directing his actions, and which makes
him often either the best or the worst of his species.
But it is, however, found, (to continue our simile of the hand,)
1
Digitized by Google
28
that some persons will more readily acquire dexterity in some
manual arts than others ; and sometimes different means must be
used with different persons in order that such dexterity may be
acquired. So, in the mind, ther~ is often a PREDISPOSITION, if
I may so call it, (the Phrenologists will tell us, I presume, that
this predisposition arises from some enlarged or active.organ) to
perform certain motions or actions. Of course, where such pre-
disposition exists, the attention and care necessary for inculcat-
ing such actions are necessarily abridged; while, in the mind less
apt, more attention and care wiJI.be necessary to produce them ;
but they may generally be produced notwithstanding. And,
hence, in EDuCATION it is ofthe first importance to have this truth
COntinually before US: namely, THAT THE METHOD OF INSTRUC-
TION MUST BE VARIED ACCORDING TO 1'HE NATURE AND DIS-
POSITION OF DIFFERENT MINDS, This h.as not been hitherto StrJ-
jiciently attended to in any of our processes of Edueation; and
hence, often, the failure. ofmany well-intended efforts to fasltima
the human mind.
It cannot therefore be too strongly insisted upon that the
EARLY exercise of the mind, and for a long continuance in any
given way, is of paramount importance to the future life; always
remembering that variety is necessary in the employment of the
mind in order to obtain at once its health, energy, and. activity.
Yet, although a consideration ofpredisposition in the outset of life
is extremely necessary, and should be sedulously attended to, it is
consolatory to know, that, in general, this predisposition, what-
ever it may be, becomes ultimately so much modified by educa-
tion-by surrounding circumstances, as to be very often super-
seded by other powers operating more forcibly upon the mind.
I here ·speak of the predisposition for actions which I suppose
ought to be performed, in other words good actions; but there is
sometimes another predisposition for motions or actions which
ought not to be performed, namely, bad actions•
.This consideration has been a stumbling block to myriads, and
is the constant theme with those who seem determined to see ob-
jects only through a certain medium. Now, in considering this
predisposition, we must remember that we are not often called
upon to contemplate it in its effects on the human character, until
it has acquired through the exercise of long habit, or bad educa-
tion, vicious circumstances, a force which it did not originally pos-
sess, and that, most probably, an early attention to such predis-
position, and an introduction of counter motions, if I may so speak,
tnto the mind, will counteract, obliterate, or render it quiescent.
lndeed, it is in the study of such predispositions (the exceptions
to man'11 general character) and in the introduction of such coun·
ter motions that the business, or rather the Labour, of Education,
•s far as concerns the moralist, principally consis.ts.
Digitized by Google
29
The MIMD, as I have before stated, operates or is influenced
'by invariable laws : there is no such thing as cuAN cE either in the
natural or moral world. Does any one question this ?-It may be
illustrated by the most common conduct and the every-day trans-
actions of life ;-we have no occasion to refer to any thing in the
least recondite or abstracted to prove it.
Whenever we wish to accomplish any object by the assistance
of another, what is the first step which we take? we consider the
capabilities of the person whom we think of engaging to assist us
in the object of our pursuit, well knowing that, unless his mind
and body possess certain qualities either inherent or acquired, he
will not suit our purpose; there being neither predisposition nor
acquired ability for the performance of certain actions, we know
of a moral certainty, that if we engage such a person in our
service, we shall fail in the object which we desire to obtain by
such assistance. This is ao obvious and so true, that no one
will, I dare say, for a moment dispute it; yet is it not founded on
our experience and the philosophical axiom as true as it is beau-
tiful, that tl•ere il no effect wit/wur a cause? which axiom, never-
theless, I fear many will yet be found to deny, and by conse-
quence, deny the necessity of moral actions, as an inevitable effect
of the nature and disposition of man.
It has been also objected to this doctrine that we have the
power of suspending certain actions altogether, and of others for
a limited time, according as our pleasure or our will may prompt
us. Undoubtedly we have: thus we may avoid taking food for a
considerable period; we may aay we will do absolutely nothing,
and do nothing accordingly ; we may say we will take no t,pought
for the morrow; we may choose or not to go to a particular place
on a particular day, and so ,on. But in all such ·determinations
to act or not to act, we shall find there is and always will be some
motive or motives which produce our pleasure or our will so to
co11duct ourselves. We resolve, for example, to proYe the truth
of the above statement by avoiding to take food for a considerable
period ; we do so for a certain time, while the motives for our re-
maining so continue more powerful than any other motives; but
let us wait till the sensation of hunger, of uneasiness, of pain,
shall excite us to relieve the hunger, the uneasiness, and the pain,
and our resolution of refusing to take food will be gone. Yet
during the whole period of such an experiment, we shall be as
much the patients of necessity as we are at the most active period·
of our lives.
In speaking, however, of the necessity ofmoral dctwns, we must
be extremely careful to distinguish this necessity from Fatalism,
with which it has, I fear, been sometimes confounded. Fatalism
implies that, do what we will, certain consequences will follow in
defiance of all our efforts to the coqttary. The necessity of which..
!'
(
Digitized by Google
30
I here speak, implies that certain consequences follow certain
actions; and that, if we deaire to produce those actions, we must
introduce the causes, if we can, which will produce them, or they
will not be produced. So if we how the causes of bad actions,
and these causes be wjthin our control, if we withdraw the causes
the actions cannot take flace. Hence do we not often predict,
with almost mathematica certainty, the effect which the intro-
duction of certain causes will produce ?-Now, unless there was a
necessary connexion between cause and effect, this we never or
but rarely could do. The further we extend our inquiries into the
nature of the mind, the more we shall be convinced that it ia
regulated by determinate laws--,-that chance has no place in its
chain of causes and effects., And it is extremely fortunate for
human happiness that such is the case: for were the mind regu-
lated by no laws, what a chaos should we exhibit both in o.ur
thoughts and in our actions!
The denial of the necessity of moral actions has arisen chiefty,
I apprehend, from the fear that, if such necessity were generally
~dmitted, how true soever in fact, some if not all of the bulwarks
ofour social and moral edifice would be destroyed.· It is necessary,
however, to meet this question fairly, as it is one of the deepest
interest to mankind. We can never cure any deep-seated wound
without examining it, and, if required, by probing it also to the
bottom. Let us go then at once, not to the restraints laid·on us
by the habits and customs of society, but to those painful and
tremendous restraints and penalties applied with the best inten-
tions, no doubt, to prevent, chiefly by the prospective operation of
fear, those great moral aberrations, those crimes, under which
society in enlightened England is at the present time grievously
labouring.
Now, from a contemplation ·of the PvNISHliiENTS, even to
death, which are so continually presented to our notice, is either
of the objects attained for which the Punishments are specifically
inflicted- these objects of course are, the reformation of the in-
dividual and the prevention of crime ?-Alas! the history of our
criminal jurisprudence-of our police, informs us, that the more
often a human being is submitted to imprisonment, trial and
punishment, in the same ratio generally is his disposition to im-
moral conduct increased; and as to the prevention of crime-need
I answer the question?-Well has Mr. Owen asked, "Why then
is Punishment for the correction of moral error awarded to human
beings?"
But it may be said, What! would you suffer the wretched out-
casts of society, the nightly marauder and the daiiy thief, to roam
at large, so that it may become impossible for the peaceable and
unoffeoding citizen to appear in our streets ?-1 answer, certainly
not; although our present practice is unquestionably bad, R:&.
Digitized by Google
31
STRAt'NTS are assuredly necessary; but such restraints ought
only to be introduced as may be precursory and preparatory to a
better order of things.
I have really'no desire to examine the present circumstances by
which the minds of a very large portion of the people of this vast
metropolis are constantly surrounded; it is, however, necessary
that we should look at them. On the one hand we behold im-
mense piles of wealth, the possessors of which too often osten-
tatiously and ridiculously display it; on the other, squalid poverty
and pining want; need we wonder that the sufferers in the last
mentioned group should occasionally cast a longing glance at so
many superfluous piles. Hence we cannot pass through any of
the more crowded streets, and those also inhabited by the lower
classes, without Witnessing the most painful traits of moral cha-
racter, both in male and female, in young and old. Let us look
too at those
'' Who weekly catch
The morsel tost by law-forc'd charity,
And die ao slowly that aooe call it murder.•'-CoLBRlD&•.
Let him who is at all in the habit of traversing our streets as I am,
tell us how often, in the course of his peregrinations, he witnesses
the personal contention of fighting, both in the young and in the
adult; and let him at the same time tell us of the supineness or
indifference which is evinced at such demoralizing exhibitions, the
nurturers of every bad passion-the panders to crime.
I might go on and readily show bow, step by step, the young
pilferer and the accomplished felon are produced, till at last, and
not before, in comes your restraint in the shape of Punishment,
and the law takes its course. This is not, this cannot be the way
to produce good moral conduct. The theme is too harrowing to
be dwelt upon; it is, besides, time that I should proceed to the
remaining objects of my lecture; before doing which, permit me
for a moment to glance also at the upper classes of society-those
classes where elegance and accomplishment are presumed to have
their chosen seat, and to ask, Is it at all probable that while
DuELLING shall be countenanced, shall be patronized, shall be
fashionable, and the phantom HoNOUR beckon our FA.THERs, our
BROTHERS, and our FatENDS to blood, that the mind will ever
be in that state of affectionate feeling .and regard for our fellow
creatures, which can produce extensively useful and benevolent
results?
But to proceed. Our mental operations, then, are prompted,
are caused, either by sensations arising within ourselves, as
hunger, thirst, &c.; or by those objects with which we are sur-
rounded, as heat, light, cold, human society, &c. &c. Such
promptings exercise over us a control more or less powerful, de-
pending upon their intensity, their duration, or the mode in which
Digitized by Google
they are applied. In the new-born child the sensation of hunger
or pain prompts him to express his uneasiness by crying; ahd
excessive, nay, even moderate light, will, for some time, cause
him to close his eyes. After a short time the image of his nurse,
who ought, if possible, always to be his motlter, becomes im-
pressed upon his mind; and the pleasure which the bland aliment
milk affords him, with her soothing endearments, excite the first
rudiments of reflective ideas-of thought. By degrees the ope-
rations of his mind, at first simple, increase ; he loves, he dislikes;
and accordingly as he is disciplined, will they ultimately become
the reflected images-copies-effects of thC?se circumstances by
which he has been, from his birth, continually surrounded; and
THEY can be NO OTHER. Hence arise his hopes, his fears, his
views of justice, and of right and wrong. This is a fact which
must, I presume, be universally admitted: upon its universality
rest both its value and importance as a Truth. .
We see, therefore, and I think it will be useful again to reca- ·
pitulate our positions here, that the MIND, the RECIPIENT, the
organ of thought and emotion or passion resides in the BRAIN ;
that sensation, reflection, imagination, judgment, most of the Pas-
sions,&c. into which the mind has been divided, appear, according
to our present knowledge, to be nothing more than the EI'FECTS
made upon it by the.external objects by which we are surrounded;
by some internal impression, stimulus, conveyed to it through
the agency of the nerves; or ·by a process arising in the mind
itself-the brain.
From this view of the MIND, let us now see how it may be
fashioned by EDVCATION, so as to become highly instrumental in
the production and increase of human happiness. By EDVCATION,
we must remember, I here mean that concourse of causes or cir-
cumstances which surround and form the human character ; and
not merely those scanty, incomplete, and often inefficient pro-
cesses commonly so named.
Man, we should never for a moment forget, is by far the most
imitative of all animals ; and he is so in consequence of the Sll-
perior capacity and powers of his mind. It has been said that
the whole creation is a miracle; but in contemplating the human
mind, a small part only of that creation, the apparent simplicity
of its original nature, and its capacity for the reception and com-
bination of ideas-of THOVGHT, miraculous as creation is, we
cannot hesitate to affirm that the human mind is one of the most
miraculous things with which man is acquainted. Who, for
example, did he not know the fact, would believe that from about
thirty simple soundll, or less, the whole fabric of human speech is
erected ; and that most of the alphabets of the different languages
of the world are comprised in less than that number of signs ?
It is necessary, also, to observe, in regard to the formation of
Digitized by Google
33
the l1uman character, that the MIN v for ever shrinks from all
attempts to force it into any mode of discipline or action; that
while it may be Jed by gentleness and argument almost any
where, the least appearance of force or violence produces revolt
and repugnance, so that it has been truly said, it is much more
easy to lead man wrongly, than to drive him right. This dispo·
sition in the ignorant and uninform~d has been frequently called
obstinacy; but it is, nevertheless, the rezmlt of a general law of
the mind which we all obey. There is no other effectual way of
removing such obstinacy, than by enlightening the understanding
-imparting knowledge.
Why is it that PuNISilfriENTS do not succeed in their object!
The answer is obvious-they force, not lead the mind to act. No
reasoning or persuasion is applied by the law to the criminal.
Circumstances have made him what he is. You may lead him
with much trouble and care from his vicious courses; but you
will never drive him from them. BErUVOLENCE,-KINDNEss,
are- therefore the grand levers, the most powerful and efficient
engines in working a reformation in the human mind-an alter-
ation in human action. When I say you will never drive him
from them, I mean, you will never by DRIVING alter the state of
his mind, nor the nature of his pursuits: for, upon the removal of
your restraint; he generally returns to the same or a worse state
than that in which he was when your penal process began.-
Wby? Because the causes of his delinquency still surround him;
these are WANT,• BAD liABITS, and BAD SOCIETY. While he is
so surrounded, impelled, how can he reform? The wonder is not
that he continues vicious-the wonder would be were he to
become reformed.
A society has been lately formed in this metropolis, or its imme-
diate neighbourhood, for the purpose of providing means of em-
ployment for persons who are discharged from prison, and who
have no means of supporting themselves. To such a society
every benevolent person must wish success, as it will tend to di-
minish, in some degree, the evils attendant on our present modes
of treating criminals. But would not our Benevolence be much
• That WA~T (by which I here mean, that state ofpainfnl privation offood
and raimeut which the sufferer has no legitimate means of obtaining,) sup-
J>resses or annihilates the social sympathit's in those who are the patients of
its influence, is undeniably hue; bene~ the great indifference which those
auffering under its 'absolute dominion evince for the suffering or pain of
others. It is well known that, in t>ases of absolute famine, rite benevolent
affections are rart'ly exemplified in the sufl'erers by it; occasional exceptions
will doubtless be met with, but the general position cannot be controverted.
Want, tfterefore, in ita numerozu ramijlcativns, i3 destructille to the muraljeeli.ga
-tl~ moral aeme of the mind. ·
D
__,...
Digitized by Google
34
more valuable !Old efficient, if exerted in preventing those demo-
rali~ing circumstances which necessarily produce felons from sur-
rounding so many of the people? Do we not know, are we not
assured, that contact witll prisons, in the way in which prisoners do
come in contact with them, produces extensive moral contamina-
tion?
It may be here useful to say a few words upon the utility of
LABOUR-muscular exertion, and its effects upon the mind.
So useful and necessary an ingredient has LABOUR been pre.
sumed to be, and, in some cases, we must admit actually is, in
preventing the recurrence of immoral acts, that our Legislators
and others having influence among us, have erroneously sup-
posed that, provided you have employment for the mass of the
people, all the machinery of society will work well. A more dan-
gerous mistake was never possibly committed. It is true, while
the demand for labour is continual, and equals or exceeds the sup-
ply, the effects predicated generally to a certain extent, take
place: but let the demand for labour cease, and you have thrown
on your hands a mass of disorderly machinery, which, the less it
has to do, the more difficult it is to be managed. This would in
some degree, perhaps, be the case, were the idle mass well in-
formed and intelligent; but when this mass is uninformed and ig-
norant, the results from their idleness and ignorance will always
be trem~dous. The necessity, therefore, of their becoming in-
telligent on this account, is of itself sufficiently obvious ; but
when, in addition to this, we know that, by enlightening the un-
derstanding-enlarging their sphere of knowledge, they become
more docile, more rational, more virtuous, more fitted for admix·
ture with the already intelligent portion of society, and that an
infinitely larger quantity of talent becomes developed for the ad-
vantage of all-these considerations are more than amply suffici-
ent to convince us that the more knowledge-the means of hap-
piness, are diffused, the more certain and permanent must be the
prosperity of any state, and that ignorance is its bane.
Let us never forget that LABOUR, in excess, renders the mind
incapable of much thought of any kind during its continuance;
and, after its cessation, so much repose is necessary to restore the
lost energy, that little time can be found, by the laborious classes
of society, for mental operations. I call that LABOUR in EXCEss,
when ten or twelve hours a day are devoted to continued muscu-
lar action, such as reaping, threshing, mowing, walking, &c. &c.•
• It may be objected tu this statement, that we occasionally find minds of
considerable power among the labouring classes : we do so; but these form
exceptions, not the rule. The extraordinary natural powers ofsome minds
will, it is well known, overcome obstacles which are quite insuperable to o.tbers
of the ordinary ataudard. We muat not, therefore, take the exception for the
a·ule.
- Digitized by Google
· Need we wonder, therefore, that the laborious husbandman, and
many other of the laborious classes of society, are ignorant and re-
duced to, or rather not raised from, the state of a mere animall-
But, in order that such classes of our fellows may become intelli.
gent, docile, and useful members of society, you must supply
them with the means of becoming so, or mere animals they must
and will remain. If you do not bring their reflecting powers into
exercise, how can you expect them to reftect : if you do not even
give them time for mental operations to take place, how is it
possible that high moral worth shall be engendered, shall be ex-
emplified t
But, although Labour in excess is extremely injurious to the due
development of-the mental energies, yet moderate labour, on the
contrary, appears to be directly and eminently beneficial to it:
for, whenever ihe mind is too long and too much employed, the
body too little, disease of some kind is very commonly induced.
Hence, many of the extraordinary and indescribable varieties of
insane and hypochondriacal cases pervading intelligent and refined
society, which baftle and confound our present imperfect art of
medicine; and hence, the necessity of well understanding the
nature and operations of the human mind, among many other
qualifications, ·in order to become the most efficient master of the
healing art; the moderate exercise, therefore, of both MIND and
BODY, consisting of alternations of the exercise of each, is abso-
lutely essential to the enjoyment at once of mental and bodily
health, to which there is no royal road, but it.must be sought by
every son of Adam in a similar way, if it be desired to be obtained.
In this respect, for the citizen, GYMNASTle ExERCISES promise
to be of considerable utility; and therefore, in the present state of
society, ought to be encouraged.
" By ceaseless action all that is snbsiste.
Constant rotation of the unwearied wheel
That nature rides upon, maintains her health,
Her beauty, her fertility. She dreads
An instant'• pause, and lives bot while she moves.
Ita own revolveacy upholds the world."
So says one of our most pleasing and natural poets, CowPEa:
the subsequent linea on exercise and activity, are too long for
quotation, but they are beautifully descriptive of the necessity of
labour for the production of both mental and bodily health.
And here, a word or two, in passing, of the TREAD-MILL.
There can be no doubt that, for the time, the Tread-mill has some
beneficial tendency upon the mind, by the labour which it causes,
in suspending, perhaps in some cases in lessening also, the moral
morbidness of the criminal : but the probability is that, upon the
Digitized by Google
36
cessation of such labour, the trains of thought, and the disposi-
tions which induced the moral aberration, will too often return;
the disposition for criminal acts, it is to be feared, will be of'ten
increased by vindictive discipline: and, I believe, the history of this
engine warrants this conclusion. What is wanted is not only a
suspension, of course, of the morbid trains of thought, but, be-
sides this, OTHER ·rRAINS OF THOUGHT, and OTHER"DISPOSITIONS
must be, if possible, introduced, or the disease never can be cured.
Here is the work, here is the labour, of the reformer of the crimi-
nal: and it appears to me, that BENEVOLENCE and K1NDNESS
only can effectuate this gigantic task.
But, as I have said above, should we not be more beneficiaUy
employed in preventing,than punishing, crime? And it does appear
to me that, till societies are established throughout the land, not
only TO EMPLOY the UNEMPLOYED AND IDLE, but tO INFORJII, IN•
TERF.ST, and ENGAGE THEIR MINDS, society must be COntent-the
WEALTHY must be content to suffer the terrible anxieties atten-
dant on the great and lamentable inequalities of condition so con-
spicuous in this country.*
• There will be, I apprE-hend, no ~:reat difficulty in putting such societies
into active operation. The chief thing wanting is the WtLI. of the WEALTHY
to establish them. They must be a sol't of Joint St11ck ComJlanics, tJolunta,-y
associations, not establishments by laro, and may be called simply, Societies for
t/u> Employment of those who llave nothing tn do. Such companies will prodnee
nothing, in return for the capital employed, but the PLEASVRES Rl!SVLTJNG
FROM DOING GOOD, INCREASED SECVRITY TO THE WEAI,TIJY OF TJIEIR DO•
MESTIC FIRE·SIDI!S, AND AN AIIVNilANT DIMINVTION OF CRIME: results of
infinite value in an estimate of Human happineu, and results which, it is de·
voutly to be hoped, the WEALTHY, for they only have the power to establish
such societies, will ere long see the imperious necessity of obtaining for
their own eomfort, their own happiness.
Sn<'h societies ought not to be established upon the common work-horue
plans, most of which are very inefficient. They should always be situated in
the country. London and its immediate vicinity-the vicinity of all large
cities, should be avoided. They should be situated where land can be ob-
tained in sufficient quantity to supply, by culture, all thefood, at least, ofthe
inmates ; and where every kind of manufactnre necessary for clothing them
should also be produced. Hence, the necessity of every kind ofuseful handi-
craft being there exercised, as well as, ofcourse, all the variety of agricultural
employments, _including gardening. So that, when auy penon applied for
employment, Rome one may be immediately found which til:.' applicant could
pt'rform. In all the various labours, no more machinery should be introduced
than is absolutely necessary ; and spade Cllltieation, instt>ad of the plough, in
agriculture, will be found, perhaps, an essential part of the plan. Nothing
should be purchased for the establishment which can be produced in it in
sufficient quantity for the use of the inmates; and no article produced in the
establishment shonld be &old, (that is, thrown iuto the general market,) except
in so far as such sale would be necessary to the comfort and well-being oftbe
inhabitants. The residence of the inmates should be perfectly wluntary :
while there they should be comfortably fed, clothed, and properly instructed;
- 0
Digitized b
;6o6gle
, -
37
To expect, therefore, any <>ne to become docile, rational, vir·
tuous, unless the proper means be taken to make him so, is truly
absurd. We now well know, whatever difficulties beset us in
fashioning or altering the character of the ADULT, that CHILDREK
receive impressions with the greatest readiness, and hence it is
that too early an attention cannot be paid to the method in which
they are brought up. Surround them with proper circumstances,
impress them with just ideas, '"ith suitable knowledge, and, we
need not doubt, we shdl not fail to obtain the desired result:
provided also, the same or similar circumstances surround them
in after life.
Till lately, in most of our systems of Education, if systems they
can be called, which have little else except the elements of dis-
union and discord to recommend them, two mistakes have been
committed, upon which it is necessary that I should make a few
observations. One of these is, in supposing that the education of
very young children is of trifling or of no moment: and the other
in concluding, that when we are enabled to take an active part
in the business of life, our Education is finished, whereas in truth
it is but just begun. The whole life of man may be designated as
merely a large educational process, in which we shall find that
and, during their hours.of rest, tht>y abonld be provided with suitable rerrea-
tion and employmt>nt for their mind•, by books, &c. but tlley 3/iollld b11 pai4
taOthing whatne•·for tlleir labour; so that the moment a demand for it arose in
the general market, they might be induced to quit the establishment. The
hours of labour should be ofcourse modt>rate; at most, not mort>, except under
particular circumstances, than eight hours a day; so that eight boors might
be allowed for sleep, and eigl&t for meals, and recreation, and instruction. It
does not appear to me necessary to enter into a further detail of such a society
here; but I will just observe, that the immediate superintendents of it moat
be BENEVOLENT and INTELLIGENT men; without which qualifications, such
a society could do little 1100d. I conclude, of course, that those who may be
engaged in the offices of instruction, will be persons of enlarged views, and
well acquainted with the best mode of influencing, and operating upon, the
mind. I am quite sure that, to the WEALTHY, such societies will not only be-
come agreeable engagements for TREH, in di~posing pleasurably of their su-
perfluous time ; but they will both directly and indirectly add incalculably to
the sum total of human happiness. Perhap$, too, the following positions
might be usefully impresse_
d upon the inmates of all these societies : No per-
son lias aright to live I'll the labour of another, ij able to labour /&imulf. It ia th1
duty, thertfure, ofet~ery membtrqfa&tate, to 11Upport him&elj, and those who are im-
, mediately dependmtupon him, by HIS owN L:I.BOUR. The exception& to thia rule
are, Uifancy, diseuu, uldage, andphysil:al ormental incapacity, or the imposlillility
offiNdi.Jig employmB11t. ·
It may just be added, that although nothing bas been said about the employ-
ment of the female st:r in such societies, yet it is concluded that the same care
will be taken to find employment for them Btl for the male sex. Among tlieir
diversified labours, I p1·esume that &pinning, sewing, knitting, and we1111ing,
will he particnlarly prominent, not omitting oi:caaional employment in t~
garden aud in the field.
Digitized by Google
38
we have always many things to learn-and those too of great
importance in the furtherance of human happiness and well-
being. Hence the necessity, as I have before said, of our endea-
vouring to keep the mind in a disposition to be taught. The edu-
cation, therefore, of young children, should be most carefully and
sedulously attended to; and the adult-the man-will find his ac-
count in a zealous endeavour to obtain all the useful knowledge-
a knowledge of facts within his reach; a knowledge of the best
means of producing and increasing both his own and his f'ellow-
creatures' happiness; and to whom it will become, and ought to
become, at once; both a duty and a pleasure to communicate to
others what he has himself obtained.
The previous steps in the education of children ought to be to
take into consideration their natural capacities or predispositions.
In this affair I am not without hope, that our friends the Phreno-
logists, may become very able assistants. I am sure that their
science bas my hearty good wishes; and I am also sure that
nothing which I have said to-night will tend to discourage any one
from the pursuit of apparently so valuable and interesting a study
if pursued with the caution which I have ventured to suggest
concerning it-namely, that we are still in the infancy of such
knowledge.
But again to proceed.-In one child, the memory may be al-
ready so powerful as to require no further particular exercise or
attention; while in another, it may be so weak that scarcely any
reflective process can be carried on. It is upon this quality of the
mind, memory, that most of our other mental processes depend :
he who has not a ready memory, that is, who cannot readily
excite in his mind former sensations, perceptions, ideas, cannot
have a large range of intellect. Nothing, however, is more clear,
than that this disposition of the mind, as well as, indeed, most
others, may be greatly increased by usE; and hence the absolute
necessity of USING our faculties-o.f EXERCISING our abilities, in
order that they may become active and efficient. Without use, or
being disused, a faculty, ability, or disposition, wl1atever it may be,
soon loses, in general, both its activity and efficiency. This fact
cannot be stated too strongly : for no notion can be more erro-
neous than that which supposes, if we have once been taught or
have acquired certain impressions or ideas, that the object of
education, or any other object, is accomplished; the impressions
must be occasionally repeated, or they will vanish from the mind•
.When therefore we hear persons complain of want of memory,
it will, in general, be found to consist in a want of attention or
application; a person who is fond of music will tell us he has no
memory for studies totally different from his favourite pursuit;
why? because he pays no attention to them; let the attendon be
paid, and the result will be accordingly. Under ordinary circum.
39
stances, there are few persons who have not sufficient memory to
retain all the impressions necessary to constitute a virtuous and·a
happy being: the excessive application of memory is, in morals,
neither wanted nor desired.
It must not be forgotten here, that when powerful trains of
ideas and circumstances connected with them have been once
introduced into, and for a long time have surrounded, the mind, a
sudden abstraction of such trains and circumstances, without sup-
piying other stimuli of equal or ·superior interest, will be ·often
attended with very serious results. Hence the disappointments.
that usually arise when men retire from an active life, with a for-
tune, to enjoy what has been erroneously termed otium cum dig-
1Litate. Pleasurable sensations are not the usual results of
quiescence. To possess these, the mind must be excited, impelled.
He therefore who retires to such a state, without providing for
himselfsome train of e:tciting ideas elJ.ual or nearly equal in inten-
sity to that whicl• he has given up, w1ll be greatly disappointed in
his expectations. He may, and often does, become a voluptuary,
but his mind suffers from the absence of the customary Btimuli,
and peevishness and disease are the usual concomitants. A fine
field will, however, always be open for such men in the career of
ACTIVE BENEVOLENCE, and the various opportunities for the
diffusion of Knowledge-of Happiness, which such persons must
abundantly possess. They need not have one idle moment.
Again to return. In another child the Imagination may be so
lively, eccentric, exuberant, as to usurp the place of the judgment
and hurry the possessor, in maturer years, into errors of the most
fatal kind. In another, the consideration of self may be so pre-
dominant as to absorb every sentiment of general Benevolence;
and, in manhood, to ripen into cruelty and general misanthropy.
In another, the desire of distinction may grow into such exube-
rance as, in given circumstances, to produce the desolator and
the tyrant of the human race.
That such Predispositions should be encouraged or counter-
acted according to their nature early, admits, I presume, now no
question ; how they are to be encouraged or counteracted, and
what are the dispositions best adapted to form the most virtuous,
the most perfect character, are questions by no means, I am sorry
to be obliged to admit, of such easy solution. That they may,
however, be encouraged or counteracted beneficially both for the
individual and for society, there is no reason whatever to doubt.
It appears, too, that in the Education of the human mind, and
indeed in its general employment, in order that we may obtain
the most · beneficial results, particularly to the individual,
VARIETY in the objects presented to it, and with which it is de-
sirable that it should be surrounded, is of the first importance.
To keep the mind continually directed to one object, how agree-
2
-
r
j
Digitized by Google
40
nble soever that object might be, is frequently, nar, generally,
mischievous in the ultimate result. In children, it 111 peculiarly
injurious; and in· adults, the mischiefs resulting from the mind
being directed to or engrossed by one object, are often distres-
singly exemplified. The effect of concentring the feelings, when
death breaks asunder the strong catenation, and where, at the
same time, remaining ties are slender, is often astounding; some-
times produces insanity, and sometimes death; but it is also ex-
emplified on many other occasions.
As health of the body is best promoted and preserved by a
great variety of muscular motions, so the health of the MIND will
be best insured and preserved by an introduction of, and by the
excitement produced by, a variety of sensations, ideas, thoughts-
useful and suitable ones of course. These observations are as
applicable to the adult as to the child; diversity of employment,
of thought, being equally necessary for both: for we find where-
ever the mind is exclusively employed on one subject, it matters
little what the subject is, that it very often becomes unfitted for,
or incapable of judging justly about others concerning which it
has not been exercised. Hence, frequently, the unreasonable
preference for pursuits in their nature comparatively trifling and
sometimes manifestly injurious. Happy then is he who can excite
in his mind vivid and useful trains of thought-a disposition for a
variety of modes of action and employment, so as to preserve
both body and mind in that healthy state of feeling and compla-
cency so essential to the enjoyment of pleasurable existence!
In this respect much may be, doubtles~, accomplished by dis-
cipline and habit. The habit, therefore, of varying our thoughts,
and if possible also our occupations, ought .to be acquired as a
means of insuring good, mental as well as bodily, health ; and thus
providing, as much as we can provide, against those unexpected
and unforeseen calamities which sometimes await us, and from
which none can be, from the very nature of things, always
exempt.
I might here, and would most willingly, did your time permit,
enter into an cxaminatioi! of the nature and effects of Ambitiat'
and Emulation, of Prais11 and Blame, of Reward and Pu11isltment,
(of Criminal Punishment, I have already spoken,) and their uses
as means of forming or re-forming the human character; Lut these
subjects, interesting as they are, would lead me into a w;c.! ·, field.
I will, however, just observe, that [ think both Ambition and
Emulation, and Prai.se and Blame, or, to'change the terms, ap-
probation, and disapprobation, may be advantageously employed
in the education of youth, and in the improvement of the human
character; but that the manner in which they are usually so em-
ployed is nevertheless bad. I am aware that this opinion is in
direct opposition to the opinion of many estimable men; but I
Digitized by Google
m~~l
41
I;Wve ·-wen considered·it, and have as yet seen no reasl>n to depaf1
t"rorn the conclusions to which I have come. Of natural rewards
-and punishments, arising out of the nature of things, and, which,
in numerous instances, we have no power to avoid, it is scarcely
necessary to speak; but artificial rewards and punishments, (and
Dlore especially the latter, which ill-judging man has decreed for
n1oral error,) upon examination will prove to be both injudicious
and unwise, and are injurious totbe general happiness, seeing that
we have other means which are much more effectual in producing
-.hat. which we all desire. &e a preceding nGte. ·
But it should not be forgotten that the most powerful means for
t.be education of the human mind, the formation of the human
character, are those circumstances by which the child is imme-
diate!y sutTounded ; which attend him when awake; which hover
over him when asleep: and which even prompt his dreams. The
_ looks, gestures, and conversation of his mother: the more grave
eonversalion and behaviour of the father: the opinions and con-
duct of the child's associates, and the general manners and cus-
:toms of the society in which he moves-all make up that con-·
course of causes which forms the character of almost every indi-
vidual that ever did or ever will exist.
This view of the Nature of the mind, of its Erl"ucation, is ex-
1:remely consolatory, as, by it, we have the cheering hope and pro-
mise that many, if not all, ofour moral evils may, with care and
attention, be 'eradicated: for as no effect can take place without a
.cause, so we know that the human mind cannot become immoral,
vicious, crimin!ll,. without a cause; and that it must become vir-
tuous by the introduction of causes calculated to produce so de-.
sirable an end. 1'o expeCt children or adults to become virtuous,
without the introduction of such causes, that is, motives, as will
induc.e t~m to beco~e so, is of all thin~s th~ most preposterous•.
Th1s v1ew of the mmd, and of EducatiOn, wdl also lead us to the
practice of the most extensive BENEVOLENCE and kindness, not
only towards the human race but to all animated Nature. It will
abate our malice, destroy our pride, and neutralize our anger.
When we see our fellow-mortals rushing to their own unhappiness
in the career of vice and immorality, shall we not be disposed in
the kindest and most affectionate manner to dissuade them from
their unfortunate and disastrous course- from their unhappy
aberration? shall we not shew them the beauty of virtue, and the.
best paths to obtain happiness-those which abound with plea-
santn~ss and peace ! · _
· In a discourSe which I desire should become as general and as
useful as possible, I have studiously avoided the introduction of
topics which might be likely to .produce any hostile difference of
opinion ; but this view of the huptan mind (I hope and believe, as
far as our knowledge extends, a just one,) will be found in the
:&
Digitized by Google
42
closest accordance with practical Christianity; that C h ristiaD;ity
which is taught by its FouNDER, separated from the errors wbJtt I
are too often mixed up with it. On this subject I-do not; wish to
say more here. Those who are admirers of the s'ubli10.e moralit'
of the New Testament (and who is not?)-will know ho"W" to make 1
the application. ·
To those, therefore, to whom the care of the rising generationis 1
immediately intrusted,-to our FAT~IERS and our IIWTUERS, l l
would say, much depends upon yourselves, upon your ouna con- 1
duct. Think not that whilst, in words, you direct or correct your
child, and your own actio»s oppose your doctrine, such a character
as you desire shall arise,-impossible! To those concerned in tbe
Education of youth, our Schoolmaster$ generally, the Clergy, and
our Doctors, who preside at the fountain of what is termed
LEARNING, (a thing of small value indeed in an estimate of human
bappiness)-be assured, most learned·Sirs! that not all the know-
ledge contained in all the tomes, ponderous, or light, or gay. or
grave, which adorn your shelves, will prevail against that living
example which is seen in your own persons and in the usages
around you. To our Governors, I would say, men become vir-
tuous or vicious, happy or miserable, according to the circum-
stances by which they are surrounded:. to you more immediately
belongs the duty of forming such circles, or of improving them if
formed. To expect men to become peaceable, orderly, virtuous~
intelligent, while causes are continually arising, operating to make
them the reverse, is as absurd as it is to preach peace to the
winds.
But, although living example, as here stated, is by far the most
powerful means .of fashioning the mind-the human character,
there are others, which, particularly in our present state of know-
ledge, must by no means be neglected. Next to living example,
or actions, opinions and conduct may be inculcated through the
medium of Language with conside~able effect; and this effect will
be greatest according to the manner in which they are conveyed.
Who needs to be told, that an eloquent discourse combining at
once simplicity and eleg~nce of diction, and an appeal to the most
powerful feelings of the mind, or the interests of man, makes mor~
impression when spoken with grace and effect by a person ofwhom
we entertain a high opinion, than when read in the closet?-This
disposition of the mind to be imP.ressed with living eloquence is a
very general one, and is found in every country having the least
pretensions to civilization-nay, even among savage tribes. Elo-
quence, therefore, unde~ suitable regulations, offers many and solid
advantages; but it is exceedingly liable to be abused. I am dis-
posed to believe that more mischief than good bas been hitherto.
effected by it. I hope, however, that this will not always be the
case ; I hope that Truth and Eloquence, and I may also 11dd
7
,.»oetry, will form such alegitimate alfiance that an immense a~
·: ession of human happiness will be the ultimate result. .
-~ Other, and perhaps, upon the whole, after living example, some
~- ,r the best, media, for the co!_!veyance of instruction and fashioning
' be human mind are LECTURES. We flaye daily. examples in this
,. netropolis, that many of the sciences are well taught by such
:neans; and surely the science o( the formation and education o(
.the human character may be effectually brought before us, and
_
:!omprehensively and practically inculcated.
·' The last method which offers for the education of the mind is
_;solitary reading. This is, it is true, inuch less immediately effec-
~tual than either of the methods to which I have just alluded: but
:.. from its nature it may be made almost universal, and hence its
': effects are, and, whilst mankind continue to acquire the art of
·reading, and whilst books are to be obtained, will be extensive,
i ; exciting, powerful, and useful: and more especially will these
:7 .effects be such, proYided care be taken in the choice of the lite-
~: rary stimulants placed before the mind.
" Before I quit the subject of Educatwn, I cannot avoid calling
~ your attention especially to the mode in which children, and in-
n deed adults, can be most effectually excited-taught. In morals
lli! we have just seen that example is much hlore powerful than pre-
a cept-Why 1 because an AC'I'ION more vividly impresses the mind
:l tban words, the symbols of such action ; action being, besides, in
11 morals an exemplification o( the state of mind of the actor, it
•l must, of necessity, outweigh many a dry moral precept, the utility
of which is not always perceived, and the practice of which is too
• often neglected by the propounders, the teachers of them. This
1! method applies to most if not to all the sciences. Language and the
• Science of Grammar may be much more efl:eetually taught viva
I voce, in conjunction with books or with written or printed formulre,
I than by books alone. This has been strongly exemplified in the
new mode of teaching languages; and there can be no doubt that
it may be advantageously applied to many other sciences and arta.
&nsible objects always make more impressio1t upon tlte mind than
descriptionsofthem in books. Hence the power ofe:.ample in morals;
hence the efficiency of experiments in ehemistry and natural phi•
losophy; and hence the advantage of real specimen~ in every de-
partment of natural history, both animate and inanimate. Hence
also the very superior advantage of dissecting the real subject ia
anatomy to any des~ription of it, however accurate, i·n a book.
From this sketch of the nature of the mind, of its operations,
and of moral education, the difficulty, if not impossibility, of car-
rying into effect such benevolent designs as are necessary to'pro.
duce the results which may with confidence be predicted, in pre-
sent society (London for instance), must be immediately perceived.
For, although improvements in educa~ion are daily taking place,
Digitized by Google
44
lbete relate to particular sciences only, rather than to t~e •et!
comprehensive and important one of 11101\ALS; and are be•ng at-
ried into effect without much, if at all., disturbing the present I!•
rangements"'or prejudices of society. Such is that juat alluded u
of teaching tbe languages by a new and more expeditiou.s ~el.b~i,
of which a gentleman of the name of HAMILTON has been. c.a
active and exciting agent ,• yet we must be extremely caut10111
• It ie, perbap,, eeareely neetasary, to state that this Gent!emau is in .,.
way related to my Friend, Mr. HAMILTON, of Dalzell, to .
whom theRe siU'et»
are dedicated. I take, however, the prt'aent opportunity to aay th,. t: I waor,
about four years since, EDITOR of tht' METROPOLITAN LITERARY J 0 V K 1!01..1.1.,
in the fint number of which ie a Paper detailing Mr. HAMILTOIIII"& n_etr
naethod oftnchiug languages, which tho11e who are deeirous of inforn7•l'lomr
eonct'ming that method may conanlt. Notwithstanding the temperate term~•
and rigid impartiality with which that Papt>r was drawn up, Mr. HA.IK a LTOII
thought proper to attack me by name, (althou~:h my name is not appended til
the. Paper,) in a rude and unjustifiable manner, in one of the daily print.&; to
winch, of cour~e, I did IIOt reply, except in.a NOTICE to the CORRESPON DB!'ITS
~ftbe JoURNAL, determining not to he drawn inte a controversy on the ~~6-
Ject: for one among other more substantial reasons, that, as I had no am-
medial" inftrul to aerve in the agitation of anch a qneation, I did not think
it worth my while to pay te~~, perha~ps, twenty guineu, for the use of baJf a
column of a Newspaper, to answer an unhandsome attack.
Mr. H.t.MILTON had alated, again and again, in his public addretllles. tta.t
(toil/a M"y/WJ tUtpliou) 110 11'07'111 in Glf!/ Language hull more IIUIJI ourM-i"'",
lllld ia tlaul mecningt~nKAt aluluys lobe traulated. Now, however desirable il
might bt>, that this po~itioo should be true, l believe what has been stated in
this ltctnre will ahnndantly Jli'Ove iu iueorrectnP88. O.te of tbe great evi/6-
atteodaat on langua11e being that word•, more especially those of frequc·nt oc-
currence, have often Dlllny meaning•, and hence in langnge not a few of" our
errors, mistakes, and difticaltiea. How many foreipera are thtre who e W'eU
in their long nse of Engliab never acqnire correctly that of the auxiliary
verba u:iU and •Aall, when applied to the different penona of the verb l In con-
troverting Mr.li.AKILTON's position, I cited senral examples, and among
others one from the Latin, which waa an ineorreet one i without, however,
attending to the errors or mistakes into whick the Paper •tated that the
teacher had fallen, be pounced upon my incorrect example, and flouriahedbi•
rod in no measured style. ·
A paper appeared a few years since in one of oar Philosophical Journals;..
in which the French wordll Fer bl- were translated literally 1111&ilt iro11; tbilt
the mere Eugli"
h aeholar could not nndentand, no such thing in tbis country
being so ••ame • the thing meant was, what is na1111ly called, li11-pl4te; that
is, ir011 plait' co. ered willa the metal c:alled till. It is remarkable that we very
·often call thia substance ti11, and the worker in it a fmlllllll: let na imagine
what notable norliienae would be produced, if a Frenchman liltrally tranelate4
thea.e word• into his mother tongue I The }'reach, on the contrary, Cllll tin-
plait, Fer bl111tC, ll'hite iron, and the workrr of it FerbltUilier, that is, c """""
ofw:hite'ir011. Firblantier most not, therefore, be rendered c 1110rktt- 'IfdiU-
m•,,.,tilrm•"· ·
I have found that in tra111lating, from the French in particular, the liltral
renderingof terms ofart would be frequently peculiarly abturd and very ofteo
never lead to the thing dengned to be expreaaed. Bot while literal ren-
~eringa alone would frequently mialead the pupil, they are ••evertbel881.el~
2
Digitized by Google
46
ip estimating ttle acquisition of such knowledge : Lsnguage, we
must remember, is the means not the end of human knowledge.
1 t will Be, I fear, not infrequently found, that the more language•
we acquire, creteris paribus, the less we know ; and this for a very
obvious reason: .so much time has been spent in their acquisition,
that none, or comparatively none, can be devoted to the obtaining
of a knowledge of FACTS; facts, and not sounds or signs for sounds,
being necessarily the basis of all our knowledge.
The SCIENCE oF MORALs, therefore, to which I have adverted,
cannot, I fear, be carried into practical operation in present so•
ciety. A conviction that it cannot, has induced Mr. Ow&N, and
other individuals, to endeavour to form villages of, what are
termed, mutual co-operation, where the demoralizing circumstances
now pervading general society may be shut out; and where
knowledge and labour may be more equally divided and diffused,
so that Corrifo7·t, Indtpendence, and Happiness, may be possessed
by, as they are the undoubted right of ALL•.
These visionary schemes, as they have been called by thosewho,
I believe, know nothing or very little about them, have been aa.
sailed by the witling and the scioliat with that species of attack
which their ignorance of the subject necessarily produces; for,
when they understand what they now do not, they will assail them
no longer. t If there· be. Truth in the doctrines which I have
stated concerning the MIND, and concerning EnvCATION, some
such societies as those contemplated by Mr. OwEN, and othe.-s,
having s\milar views and convictions with him, must be and will
tremcly nsefnl io directing 011 to the etymology of the word, and therefore, it
is very desirable that, in teaching, the real rendering should be accompanied
with the literal one; and if Mr. HAMILTON baa not already seen the use of
botll, be will, I dare say, ultimately find out the necessity of adopting it to
make his method more efficient.
Notwithstanding, I cannot avoid thinking that Mr. HAKlLT.ON himself(br
his injudicious mode oftreating those who have been the opponents of his me-
thod, I never wu,) bail been one of the 11reateat obstacles to the success ofit,
I still think it is one of the best, puhaps the very best which has yet been de.
vised for the expeditious acqniRition of a lan11uage. I am not, tbereforr, eo
besotted as to suppose tbaf it is not snsceptible of improvement; and this it
will no doubt in time receive, if not from Mr. Hamilton himself, from those
wbo win, probab~, more dispusionately observr.
t A nry ingenious work in defence of the Co-operative Sgllem hu latel.J
appeared, to which I would particularly solicit the reader's attentiou; it i8
entitled the REVOLT OF THE Haas, and terms with the moat beue•oleut sen-
timents. It is written in dialogue after the Greek ~odel, 'ltith elegant terse-
Dell and considerable naifetl!; it is one of those books whil'h are not nry
liktly to make a great noise, but its merit will be acknowled~~:ed when the
p110y bantlinp ofthe dill have expired and are forgotten: it ricWy daenet
to be readand atudied. .
Digitized by Google
46
be entered into by mankind, sooner or later, in order to g"et rid:
of much, if not all, of that deplorable mass of moral evil which
exists in the present state of society. It is a consummation which
their CoNVICTIONs and their BENEVOLENCE will effectuate, and
which human SUFFERING imperiously demands.
What, then, is the CONCLUSION to be drawn from the consider-
ation of the WHOLE MATTER ?-That we know very little concern-
ing the actual nature of the HuMAN.mind. That we do not know
with certainty, whatever may be our hopes and desires on this
interesting subject, whether the brain itself be the mind, or whether
some more refined and etherial substance pervades and resides
in it during our existence here. But, although we do not know
much of its nature, we know, fortunately, a great deal of its
processes and operations; and to these it behoves us to be accu-
ratelr. attentive, in order, as we have seen, that the greatest
posstble quantity of good-of happiness, may be produced for the
whole family of man.
I am sorry to have trespassed so long upon your time and .
your attention-a few moments more and I have done.
That a devotion of our energies to this momentous subject, and
especially to EDUCATION in the most enlarged sense of the term,
will contribute greatly to improve our knowledge concerning the
MUTD and the means by which HUMAN HAPPINESS may be greatly
increased and more generally diffused, there can be, I apprehend,
no question. .
Although we cannot re-make man, we can so re-form, moald,
and direct him, that he will no longer be the same being which
we now too often unfortunately behold him ; and, although we
have no reason to expect that he will so far improve the condition
of his natural and moral existence here alJ to be no longer liable to
mortality, we may reasonably expect, nevertheless, that during
his continuance here, his days may be rendered infinitely more
happy, and possibly more numerou.v. These consummations we
are fairly entitled to anticipate from the more general dijJ'usion
of knowledge, from the prevalence of more enlarged and liberal
principles of Government, and from the exercise and enlargement
of the benevolent affections.
Throughout this Discourse, I have not mentioned, except in-
cidentally, the FEMALE MIND, considering that what I have said
on the HuMAN MIND applies to both sexes. It may, however,
be useful, before concluding, io observe, that directly the female
of our species, WOMAN, has not engaged so much of the attention
of the MALE SEX in regard to her !llind and the formation of the
human chat'acter as she is entitl~d to and deserves: for, after all,
we shall find that much, nay most, of the formation of the human
character will always depend upon woruN-the mothers of our
t
=·
Digitized by cuugtl! a
47
offspring. The necessity, therefore, of their being weli acquainted
with t~ modes in which character can be beat formed is indis•
putable; in a word, WOMEN must be imbued with a knowledge,
and an intimate know~ge too, of the nature and operations of
t.he human mind, or they cannot be good moral Governeues and·
Jnstru~tresses of our offspring. Instead of the weak and helpless
beings we too commonly behold them, they must be taught to
think for themaelves; to submit to no dicta but those of Truth;
and to hold in no estimation those dogmas and opinions by whom-
soever uttered which have no basis but custom-no authority but
superior corporeal energy, or the overweening vanity of the
other sex.
Besides this, if man himself desire to enjoy in the society of
woman the greatest quantum of happiness, the sooner he raises
her from a state of pupilage and vassalage to one of independence
of thinking and of acting the better. To this end he must impart
to her his knowledge-make her the companion of his thoughts-
give her a taste for mental pursuits-for literature-for his best
modes of ob-.ining happiness; he must P.ncourage her in shaking
off the trammels by which she has been so long kept down; and
soon will she become not only more efficient in the production of
happiness for him, but also for herself, and all those around her.
Let it not be supposed, that in recommending this course, I
advocate pedantry, which is offensive in either sex; nor even
learni1zg, if by learning be meant a mere knowledge of Greek and
Latin; this is indeed of trifling moment in the scale of happiness;
nor would I advocate, for an instant, the Love-sick sentimentality
of novel reading, which, as novels are generally written, is the
worst of all reading; • but what I desire for woman is, a more e:z:-
• Sir WALTER SCOTT hu, it is trul!, in his tiords, generally avoided much
of the lotlt·lkk smtime11talilg to whicb allusion is here made ; bot be has, un-
fortunately, fallen into another error, which, it is to be feared, does infinite
miac!•ief to the progress of trot~ and tbe expaoaion of intellect, by per•
auadJUg us that now
" The wine of life is on the lef'l ;"
aa well aA by giving na false •iews and notion~ of forml!r periods of Rociety,
-of!(Olden and romantic times, which, iu reality, nenr existl!d except in the
ima~~:ination of the novelist and the poet.
If it be a rrnth that man is a progresriw ueing; tbat, by the ac<"umnlation
of knowledge, his well-bein~ and his happiness can only be increased, surely
to in<"ulcate the notion, that former periods ofaociety, its infancy, were those
in whi.
ch great happiness peculiarly abounded, is injurious and uuwi-1'. With
wbate¥er gorgeousness and pomp •·emotE' and by-gone times may be painted,
we may, 1 think, be morally a~surcd, that the means of happiness, and, con-
sequently, h&Jtpiueu it•elf, were not ~o generally dift'used as tht'Y ha¥e been
1
r
Digitized by Google
48
ttmsiDe acqnaintance with facte-with real and substantial :.kn(Jl.V-
ledge, on every subject IIJhich can contribute to the happiness of our
species. We, MEN, experience great pleasure on the intellectual
exchanges of thought which pass between us; the intellectual
exchanges of thought between man and woman are far more ex-
quisite, and, therefore, more to be sought after and desired.
Speaking individually, I can say, that I never experience so much
intellectual pleasure as when in the company of an JNTELLIG ENT
LADY. I presume, too, that such pleasure is reciprocal, and on
this account, of course, more to be esteemed.
That many of the Laws of this country are extremely oppressive
and injurious to wo~uN, depresl!ing to her MIND, and conse-
quently ,to her happiness, cannot be doubted; the customs of
society still more so-more offensively galling. One of the worst
of those laws is, perhaps, that of primogeniture; the practice, too
common with the wealthy, of bestowing their largesses upon the
male branches of their families, to the comparative neglect of the
helpless and defenceless WOMAN, is also decidedly .unjust, and
injurious to the best interests of the human race. Surely, if any
difference be made in the distribution of wealth, that difference
ought to be in favour of those who are least able to take care of
themselves! Such, however, is the Law and the Practice upheld
in later times; and that, from the absence of that powerful engine, the Press,
mucb wrong was committed and suffered without the possibility of redres~,
or of the sufferers having any chance of their being even heard. At the
present day, althou~h much suffering is still unfortunately tbe lot of many of
our population, tl,.eir complaints are at least heard, and, in consequence,
sometimes alleviated, if not effectually redressed. He, therefore, who looks
back to remote periods of history for better times than tbe present, (I do
not mean by the t•reserrt, this day, this week, or this year,) for times in which
the happiness of a,ll was more generally consulted, looks back to what bas
never, in all probability, existed.
As the world grows oldet·, our knowledge of the means of producing hap-
piness increases; and, therefore, nothing can be more unphilosopbiral, no·
thing more iujurionM to the progrtss of troth, than such writing; which will
be, of comse, most it•jnrious in proportion to the fascination through which
the sentiments are conveyed. That the hi$torical novels, by the anthor of
Waverly, are in this predicament, is greatly to be lamented; their redeeming
qualities, compared with this original sin, are comparatively few, and as duat
in the balance against the mischiefs which, whtle ,they continue to he read,
they will inevitably produce on minds more intent upon filling up the ttaiu•
. t~it.r, than C>f examinin!! the tendE-ncy of the sentiment< which they contain.
The springtide of their success ba,, however, it is presumed, reached ita
lteight; the next age will, most probably, see the current recede. Had the
gifted author more frequently kept in view a moral purpose, rather than mere
amuaemrnt, in those novels, of how mucb more real happiness might be not
have been the instrument in producing? bow much the progress of intellect,
and of human improvement, might he not bave accelerated?
Digitized by
49
by our present Institutions : the sooner, therefore, they are de-
parted f'rom the better, in favour of
"WoMAN, to whom we owe
Our hi~~:hest Happine.
•s below,
Must SnK be will-le~s-thou~~:htll'ss-all
Which MEN for their good pleasure call
Femiair&el--or shall Sua arise,
And learn, with us, to scan the skies;
O•er meads and mountains with us roam,
And bring progressive science home;-
Search with us knowledge man to bless,
And, thus, make exquisite his htlppiness r''
The t'heme is an animating one :-it will afford me infinite satis-
faction, ifwhat I have said, shall in any way contribute to the hap-
piness of that SEx for whom I shall never cease to feel a warm
affection, and whom also I respect and esteem.•
~ Perhaps I can·not more appropriately conclude than by a few
lines addressed to a LADY on the Education of her child.
"TKACH him a sympathy to feel
For Nat•re--for the gtneralweal.
Grave this-a lesson on his heart-
May he the precept wide impart!
''BE KIND TO ALL-TO 1\IAN-TO BBAIT,-
BIRD-FISH-WORM-INSECT"-'fbus a feast
Of Happi11eu will be partake,
And happy other beingR make.
'feach him-ALL VIOLENCE IS WRONG!
A Truth u useful as it's strong.-
THERE's NO EFPECT WITHOUT A CAUIB:-
This oue of Nature's wisest Laws.
To be all which yon may desire,
Your child will certain things reqnire:-
Fit circumstances must surround
Him, or your wishes he'll confound,
Crabs on the cherry do not grow ;
Nor does the pine produce the sloe.
All kindred things prodnce their kind;-
Thus is it with the HUMAN MillO:
lf'You·wonld wish him to he kind,
Impress kiird co!1duct on his mind;
Not by mere word&, bot let the DEED
Of kindness done before him plead;
Chietly, the deed performed by you,
Which, stei11g do11e, he'll wish to do.
"You will, no doubt, some learning give,
And teach him in the world to live;- ·
Bu·t what he'll want, a1 mnch as sense,
Is ACTIVE, w,\RM BENEVOLENCE.
• For other observations concerning woMAN, see my Family Cyclop~edia,
and the I,.ecture 011 the History and Utility of Literary lmtitulions•
..
Digitized by Google
Tbia will produce more happinm
Than .Ar.L be,ides he may possess.
1'rns teach him, and his little heart
Will &INll impressions soon impart.
Thus will there in &ill bosom spring
AFFECTION for each living thin~r.
And tlrus will be his Friends' delight
That beauteona BoY of promise bright.
" Seductive LADY ! is the theme!
INSTRIICTION, now a msbing Stl'l'llm,
O'ertlo~~ its banks on either hand
And widely fmctifies the land.
A goodly harvest may we see,
When all 6ball llli&e and happy be I
Meantime ONE WORD ~bonld be impresa'd
In letteu large on every breast-
It is most pottnt, and will well
Perform wbatcan't tbe PRISON CIILL;-
What vengeance always fails to do-
lt ia, fair LADY! seen in yon-
KINDNESS !-repeat the word agaio-
Kt NDN Ess! and thus I end my strain!"•
• From "Ornithologia, or tl1e Bird1, a Poem, with 411 llllrodudi011 to tlfeilr
Natural Hillory, and copious Notes."
-
POSTSCRIPT.
T.tiE author is desirous of adding to what has been said relative
to ~ocieties of Mutual Co·operation, that he does not believe the
knowledge by which such Societies can become permanently es-
tablished, is yet sufficiently diffused. Most of the persons with
whom he has come in contact, who have evinced a disposition to
enter into such associations, appear to overlook the necessity which
there is, in order to insure the well-being of the Society, that
the1·e should be among the Co-operators certain mental agreements,
dispositions, and tastes, in regard to leading objects, which, if not
identical, ought, at least, to partake of considerable similarity.
Many of such persons appear to possess zeal, without an adequate
portion of knowledge to attemper it-no such Society could long
exist amidst a prepollency of ignorance. They seem to think that
the disposition to bring their quota of labour into the common
stock of' the Society will be sufficient to insure its general and
individual prosperity. From this the author is, however, obliged
to dissent : he is convinced that again and again, attempts to es-
taulish such Societies, without the requisite dispositions of mind,
and a krtowledge by far more extensive than (ails to the lot of
the present majority of those no'ur disposed to enter into such co-
operation, must fail: for,· while it is admitted that one of the.
constituents of such a Society is a disposition to labour, yet a b9nd
Digitized by Google
61
of mental unioll must also be sought, which is not less nece&aary~
11ay, is even more essential than the disposition for corporal ac-
tivity. Mi!Ul, mi11d, mind, ever must be the pervading, the govern-
ing influence in such undertakings.
Another error has also been committed by many who are sin-
cerely desirous ofestablishing a Pantisocracy, not excepting Mr.
OwEN himself: too much stress has been laid on the form of the
buildings for such associations. The parallelogram, for example,
has become with the public a sort of standing jest. The author
thinks that the form of the buildings is comparatively immaterial.
If Pantisocracy be not as valuable in a cottage as in a palace, it is
good for little ~ and, although our present knowledge might enable
us «> acquire comforts unknown to former ages of the world, if
the principles of Pantisocratic association be good, be the best
which can be devised for th!) general happiness, whether we shall
live in cottages or palaces must simply depend upon the taste and
disposition of the Pantisocrats themselves. To avow an individual
taste, the author frankly confesses his predilection for an insulated '
cottage as a residence, to all the embellishments which art and
luxury can bestow on contiguous dwellings, whether consisting o(
streets, squarss, ofpalaces.
But although the author is obliged to admit th.
at his expectations
ofseeing a Society established, at present, on genuine Pantisocratic
principles are not sanguine, yet he nevertheless thinks that ap-
proaches may be, and he hopes are gradually made towards it :
and that those who have influence in human affairs, will find the im-
perious necessity of directing, by some benevolent and well-devised
; plans, the current ofour population, now directed so strongly to our
large towns, over other and more genial soils. In a word, an e~
ample must be set by the upper classes themselves, of remaining
in tlteir native provinces to succour, to stimulate, and to improve
those by whom their Lands are made productive. The fashionable
congregation of the aristocracy, the wealthy, and the wise, in our
overgrown towns, in London in particular, must be avoided. The
ABSENTEEs must return to tbeir patrimonialor other rural inherit-
ances and retreats, where each proprietor, gathering round him an
intelligent, a social circle must make it his 6usiness as well as the
pleasure of his life, to diffuse knowledge and happiness in every
direction ; exciting by his presence, and warming by his rays,
those germs which are ever ready to burst forth beneath the aus·
pices of a benevolent sun.
In Irelaad, the return of the absentees, and the establishment
of such circles and such residence, willdo more, he verily believes,
in one year, than has been done by all the acts of Parliament that
have ever been passed for the improvement of that populous~.fer-
tile, yet unfortunate, country.
a ..~-:--
Digitized by Coogle
52
PHRENOLOGY.
TaE following Letter, being explanatory of some points in tbi..;
interesting science, may, perhaps, find' acceptance among t.b <>S<e
who are desirous of pursuing mental inquiries. It originally ;ea.p-
peared in the New Times Newspaper, in December last.
SUl,-An abstract from the Pllrt110wgical Jmmtal was published in T~
Paper a few days ago, which apprars,to me to require some notice, - n
contains positions to which I do not think some of the most intelligent ofc::»arr
Pbrr11ologists will assent. It is to be lamentrd that enthusiasm in a favonrt tAe
punuit is very apt to lead. us astray; in l'hrrnology our enthusiasts have ~
occasionally very much at fault. If the positions stated in the abstnu:t b~
namined by an impartial inquirer, I much fear that the science of Pb~
nology, admitting the writer of the paper bas given a correct account of it;.
will be esteemed as not worth a straw.
However, I do not think phrenology ao poor a science as this paper would
tt'Bch us to believe. The writer has, or some one for him, adopted a singula.- ~
method of proving his positions. He applied to the Aatter• to ucertaiD tJae
dilferenee betwren the size of tbe aknlla of persons moving in tbe three
classes of society ; namely, the wpper, the middle, and the lou:er cl888es ; and
he finds from the llatter1 that the upper eluaes have the largest skulls, the
middle eiUSI.'s the next largest, and the lower cluses the least. Now, Sir,
a~mitting this as a general truth, w!Jich 1 am by no means disposed to do,
what does it prove? Absolutely nothing in regard to the intelltctualily of the l
dilfereut classes: fol', according to the writer's own showing, a large skull
may possibly posstss powtr l!f some sort; that is, great animal 'or great intel-
lectual power, as it may happen. Bot, leaving this, no notice whatever is
taken in the alntract, for I have not seen tl!4! original paper, of the power of ,
tdvcatio•, in altering the state and disposition of the mind as well as (there is
gl'eat ground for believing) the lise and form also of the skulL If, therefore.
the upper classes should be found, aatJO doubt they in general are (for the
be~t of all possible reasons,- btcause they have time and opportunity to direct
their minds to intellectual pursuits) more intelligent than the lower elasaea,
is not this sufficient to account for the dilferenee, without presuming that
nature baa drawn anch outlines? and which, sa far a1 my experience goes, I
beg leave, respectfully, (as regards the liu ofthe skull,not tbe intellectuality,)
to deny: for, from extensive acquaintance with the skulls of a numerous class
of agrieulturallabonrtrs in the West of England, I am persuaded that their
skulls generally are as large, if not larg.-r, than those of any other class iD
society. The size of the skull alone is, therefore, no criterion whatever ofthe
intellectuality considered apart from the various regions of thl! skull from
which the size is made up ; for it is demonstrable that two persons may have
skulls exactly of tht •a•e size, yet that from the regions of tbe brain being
differently developtd, tht>ir intellectual faculties may be a1 wide aa the
Poles asunder; nay, that skulls with •imilar dtwlopmtnt• may, .and jlo, vary
greatly in their intellectual powers. Dr. Spurzheim, Mr. Deville, and indeed
now, 1 believe, all intelligent phrenologists admit, that not only most the size.
and position of the organs be taken into the account in an estimate of the skull,
but their 'JIIality and actitity too; and hence, therefore, till we know the
quality and actitlity of any particular braiD, it is impossible exactly to predict,
t
Digitized by Google
53
by, a simple examination ofthe skull, of what the brain is capable. But it baa
been too 'much the practice with all the phrenologists to leave the power of
education, in altering the state and disposition of the mind, out of the ques-
tion ; as if daily experience did not teach us the wonderful elfect which habit
and education have upon us, in exciting us to activity, and in altering the
quality of om· minds!
It is true that we can, and do very generally, on observing the situation of
the meatus auditorius, predict of any skull that, from nature, there is given
more or less ability for intellectual pursuits, or for the exertion of grtoat animal
·power; but in botll cases, education, habit, the quality and activity of the mind,
mnst be taken into the account, before a true estimate of any one's character
from his skull can be made. How often do we not see a large subject, with
a large head, as torpid as the stream of Lethe, while a little subject, with ·a
little head, has the utmost energy, activity, and intelligence. The Bi:esimply
cf the sknil is, therefore, of little moment ; it is the form, quality, and actil'ity,
of the oraans to which we must attend. '
Let it not be ~opposed from this, that I estimate phrenology lightly; I do
not. I believe that if it be studied with care and circumspection, it may be
made eminently useful to mankind ; and I belit:ve not one of tbe least im-
portant of the results from its study, will be that of rendering us all more
kind, more tolerant, and humane.
I add my real signature to this communication, because I think diainterest-
~dness of J>nrpose is best evinced by it.
I am, Sir, &c.
JAMES JENNINGS.
Loodoo; Nov, 29, 182T.
END.
J, AND Co .AVL.ARil1 l'RINTEa&1 D.ARTDOLOXEW CLOSe,
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
AN ELEG~NT PRESENT FOR YOUTif.
Just published, in ttmo. 111.
ORNITHOLOGIA
Or, the BIRDS: a Poem, in two Parts; with an Introduction to their
Natural Hi&tory, aud copious Noltl, in which are described about Olle Thouall
~irds, and the most interesting and recently observed fads·concerning them;
the wbole forming a comprehensive Manual or tbe Science of Ornithology.
BY JAMES JENNINGS,
Embellished with two Picturesque and highly-finished Engravings on wood by
HvoHES from Original Desigm; and also accurate Delineations of the Golden
Eagle and the Condor.
"They whisp~r troths in reason's ear,
If human pride will stoop to ·hear."
Loan Ean:u9x.
This volume ia closely printed, and contains 500 pages of letter-press,~oaa goocl
paper, aud with neat type. Tho following are some of the numerona testimonia
to its merits:
" This ia, at once, a curiobs, an instructive, and an amusing work. The merf..
torious author hu put lo~ether an immense quantity of information and anecdote
respecting birds aud their habits, &c.; and his stories are not the leas entertain-
ing for being strung together by poetical licence. The latter, it is true, is rather
of a medley cut; bot we can assure our readen, especially those who are younc,
that they will hardly be able to dip into a page of this volnme, without meeting
with something to entertain and instruct them."-Lilerary Gautt1, Nllfl.10, 18!17.
''Mr. Jennings's Ornithologia is agreeable aud amusing."-G~t. Mq. fw
Feb. 18!8.
"Too often have .books on ornithology, as on other aubjeets, been rather
adapted for scientific than for general readen, much leas youthful minds; aad
terms not undentood by every one, and difficult of remembrance, have been
generally used, Mr. Jennings has long tun1e.d his attention to the removing of
this impediment; and it is but honest to avow, that, whether we consider the
txteot of information he has here collected, or the easy and unaffected style in
which his work ia written, our opinion is, that it should obtain a place in the libra-
ries of those who are seeking tor themselves, or their children, a plain and full
treatise on this intereatiog branch ofstudy."-Lilerary Clartmiell, Dt~:. 1, 18!7'.
"We cannot conclude this notice of Ontilhologia, without paying onr due meed
of praiae to its scientific details, as well as to the amiable spirit of philaQthropy
that pervades.both poetry and prose·."-New Literary Gaulle.
, "A very interesting volume : the poem which forms the ground werk affords a
faforable specimen of the author's genius in this brauch of composition."-Atlu.
"We can promise those who look into Ontitlaologia, a most pleaSIHlt and pro-
fitable employment. For youth eapecially, we know not a more clear or attrac.
life book."-Sullday Mo~tilor. See also the ToiiiOit C011rier, 4'c.tc.
London : Poole and ~dwards, Stationers' Covrt.
Digitized by Google
To THOMAS CAMPBELL, Esa.
Lord Rector of the University of Glasgow, &c. &c.
Lo11®11, Jarr. !11d, 1R2S.
Sm,-Aa it is generally understood that you are the Editor of the New JJ:Ionthly
.Magazine, I take the liberty to call your attention to an at·ticle whic.-h appears io
the number of·that periodical publisbetl yesterday, and which I am quite sure
yon did not write, and most p1'obably before its publication, never saw; for i£ you
had, I thiuk yon could never have suffered such trash 10 be made public. And
were it not that the name of the author of the Pleasures <if Hope, sePms to sanction
\\·hat appears in that MaJ!azinE', I should not think it deserved the least attention.
The article to whic.-h I ·allude treats my work on Birds, lately published, and
which has. l,leen, I am happy to say, very ..,:ell received by those who are c.-ompe,.
tentjtldgcs'of it, as a work of utter worthlessness, and, in your critic's opinion.
iltalt"i tlitt; and unprofitable! · Not content with abusing the poetry, he has pounced
.upon the.prose.; and although I have candidly, and, I trust, modestly explained io
'the Preface my motives for my attempt, and that it i~ designed as an elementary
work; yet all that I have said seems to have rendered the poor thing more pertina-
cionsly blind. I am, however, Rir, pbliged to draw.thiR conclusion, either that
your critic is totally incompetent to judge of the merit and value of my work, or
that all the numerons journalists and other scientific persons who have spoken of
it are fools !
It is very e88y, sir, for a critical butcher, with a knife and saw, to cut up the
labour nf three yeat's, and the accumulation of a life of obser"ation, with all tbe
effrontery and cruelty of ignorance and malice; but it is not very easy for those
who are the objects of his cold-blooded operations to bear·them. He may wrap
himself up in his anonymous cloak, and welcome; I have no wish to see him in bi&
nakednt>ss; but of this I am sure, that be is neither a judge of nly work, nor ofthe
scieuce of which it treats.
In conclusion, and not to weary you with a long Jetter, let me entreat you, sir,
for the future to exercise your discretion as an Editor, and refuse such trash
offered to you as criticism, or disavow your connec.-tion with such a periodical:--
your fame and credit will not be improved by the alliance,
I am, sir, with much respect, your most obedient humble servant,
JAS. JENNINGS.
P .S. :You ,rill obaerve,.air, a few.of tile pltblie teatimonies to the value of my
work on the precediug page. I could adduce many INters from some of the first
naturallsts of tbe agt>, and fellows of the Linnean Society, to whom I am pel'-
sonally unknownl who have voluntarily and ull8olicitedly expressed tbeir appro-
bation o( it; but such gratifying commlloications I have, of course, no right to
tnake public. ·
The following Works have also been published, by the Author ofOrnitbologia:
In Oct®o, price 27s. boards,
The FAMILY CYCLOPJEDIA; or, MANUAL of USEFUL and
NECESSARY KNOWLEDGE. Second editi~n~. With corrections and additions.
London: Sherwood, Gilbert, and Piper.
Of w1tom may •e had, in OctatJo, price 48. boards,
A LECTURE on the HISTORY and UTILITY of LITERARY
INSTITUTIONS. Delivered at .the Surrey and Russell lnatitutions, London, in
December aud November 18!2, with copious Notes.
In 121110. price 7s•
. OBSERVATIONS on some of the DIALECTS of the WEST of
ENGLAND, particularly SOMERSETSHIRE, with a GLosu:'v of WORDS
now in use there, and PoEMS and other Pti!CBS exemplifying ihe DIALECT.
London: Baldwin and Cradock.
·shortly will be pnblish~d, by the same Author,
The PLEASURES of ORNITHOLOGY, a Poem. It will be
printed so as to.be bound up witl& "Ornithologia," if deaired. ·
---r--·
-·
-
Gooolo----~
Digitized by () ~
