{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1828__stone___evidences_against_phrenology.pdf","mytitle":"Evidences Against Phrenology","mylang":"de"}
C c tc ^ flir t *7 iM jr ftp s b C 'S sl& + Z /r «*■
T H E
EVIDENCES AGAINST THE SYSTEM
OF
PHRENOLOGY,
S E IK O T H E S U B S T A N C E O F A P A P E R R E A D A T A N E X T R A O R D I N A R Y
M E E T IN G O F T H E R O Y A L M E D IC A L S O C IE T Y O F E D IN B U R G H *
By T H O M A S STO N E, E sq.
u Now, mark how a plain tale shall put you down.”
S h a k s f e a r e .
EDINBURGH:
MACLACHLAN & STEW ART, AN D CHARLES SMITH
T. & G. UNDERW OOD, LO N D ON ;
AND ROBERTSON & ATKINSON, GLASGOW.
1828.
I
TH E EVIDENCES
AGAINST TH E
SYSTEM OF PHRENOLOGY.
1)rs G all and Spcrzheim claim the merit of being the
discoverers of what they consider a new theory of philoso­
phy, which teaches,—
First, That the brain is a congeries o f so many distinct
parts, each o f which is the organ o f some innate special
Secondly, That the power o f manifesting each faculty is
always proportionate to the size and activity o f that or­
gan, or part o f the brain, with which it is supposed to be
in immediate connection:
Thirdly, That it is possible to ascertain, during life, the
relative sizes of these organs, by the corresponding protu­
berances or enlargements on the external surface o f the cra­
nium.
In the present paper, I purpose shewing that these seve­
ral propositions are untenable, and directly controverted
by the evidence o f observation, and the testimony o f re­
corded facts. I shall, however, first prove, that, so far
A
2
from the teachers of this system being entitled to any praise
for the originality of their views, they have only been re­
viving and promulgating doctrines that were taught in the
earlier ages, and which, having been rejected by the most
enlightened of those times, fell into that oblivion, from
whence, within the last thirty years, they have been res­
cued, without the slightest reference or acknowledgment.
Aristotle first assigned different operations of the mind
to different parts of the brain.* He also speaks of the fa­
culties being indicated by certain forms and projections of
the skull, which passage has been quoted with reprobation
by Pliny, f who seems to wonder why Trogus Pompeius,
his predecessor, “ a most accurate writer,” should have co­
pied from Aristotle such “ frivolous remarks.” The ob­
jection of Pliny was that of a philosopher, and rested on
their induction being founded on the observation of a single
part, instead of the whole system.J He names the science
“ Metoposcopy ;”§ and adds the curious fact of its having
been applied, almost as we see it in modern times, to the
portraits painted by Apelles. Suetonius, under the same
appellation, mentions a report, that it had been applied
to the heads of Britannicus and Titus Vespasian, when
schoolfellows together in the palace of the Emperor Clau­
dius.|
| It is, however, important to observe, that the
ancients always considered Metoposcopy, or Phrenolo­
gy, as it then existed, a vulgar superstition. The Cra-*
*
*
§
* De Anima. Nat. Hist. lib. xi. cap. 53.
± Nec universa h sc (ut arbitror) sed singula observat, frivola, (ut rcorj et
vulgo tamen narrata.— Ibid.
§ Ibid. 1
1 Tit. ad init.
3
niologic diviner was never introduced by any of the royal
family, not even by the jocular, good-tempered father of
Titus, but by Narcissus, a manumitted slave. Juvenal
expressly represents “ The Science" as a superstition of
the vulgar only, and satirizes the degrading extent to which
the higher order o f females were addicted, to the astro-
logic arts. “ But if she be poor," (says he) “ she will
draw cuts with straws, or stretch out her forehead to the
seer, who generally has a smack for his pains."* Cicero
alludes to the same doctrine, when he mentions “ Zopyrus
the Physiognomist, who pretended to decypher the dispo­
sitions and characters o f individuals from their persons,
eyes, countenance, and forehead.”-}-
In the thirteenth century, Albertus Magnus pointed out
the supposed sites o f the several mental faculties; and
Peter de Montagnana published a plate, representing
their several relative positions and sizes. Vesalius, writing
in 1542, condemns such notions, as being arrogant and
impious; and denominates the phrenologist of that time a
“ would-be Prometheus," and u a forger upon the great
impress of the d i v i n i t y . H e quotes Thomas Aquinas,
Scotus, and Albertus Magnus, as the most reprehensible
* “ Si mediocris erit— frontcmque, manumque,
Pnebebk vati crebrgm propysma roganti.**— Tu V. lib. vi. 581.
f Cic. D e Fato, cap. v. V ide etiam pro Roscio, p. 5 3 , in Calp. p. 741—
In both passages, he quotes the manifettations o f the forehead. Thefront
o f the ancients extended to the vertex, and, therefore, comprehended the twen­
ty principal organs o f m odem Phrenology.
+ Vesalius, Anat. lib. vzii. 623.
r
4
authors o f these doctrines; and, informing us that they con­
sidered the third ventricle, now the posterior horn of the late­
ral ventricle, as the seat of memory, he very truly denies that
the human cerebellum ascends above the highest insertion
o f the muscles in the occipital bone, or that it forms any
part u of that prominence of it by which the vulgar calcu­
late the powers of memory and ingenuity/'* Thus we
learn that they judged of the activity of these faculties by
the prominence that the lobe to which they were referred
communicated to the tuberosity of the occiput, by filling it
from within. Here, therefore, is not only the phrenological
development of the cerebral substance itself, but the indica­
tion of it by the external protuberance on the surface o f the
cranium. At the College of Louvain it was, in his time,
publicly taught from the chair, that the anterior ventriclewas
not only the seat, but was usually called the ventricle of
communis sensus; a term that comprehended the results of
the five senses,— odours, colours, tastes, sounds, and tactile
qualities: and it is worthy of remark, that within the curve­
line that included these, the present phrenologists have re­
ferred the same faculties of colour, order, number, size, lo­
cality, tune. T o the ventricle o f the second lobe, ** in ca­
pitis medium repositum," we are informed they referred
the powers of imagination, reasoning, and reflection; and
the organs which correspond to these now are ideality, cau­
sality, comparison, firmness, wit, hope, all of which are
within or near the same boundary
• In occipitio prominula regio, ex cujus tubere vulgus memoriae ingeniique
vim methur.— Ibid. 629.
f Vcsalius, Anat. lib. vii. 623.
5
Thus it appears that the modern system is no more than
a revival of what we are entitled to consider the old system
of Phrenology. The principal, and almost only difference
of importance between the two is, that the third ventricle,
instead of being sacred to memory, has been supplied by
the animal propensities, “ les facultes effectives* which
were formerly altogether excluded, and that the organs
have been brought out upon the surface of the brain;
which, however, was an easy combination of the above opi­
nion with that o f Erasistratus,^ who had maintained that
the convolutions were the scat o f the intellect, and most
perfect in the most sagacious animals. W e are further in­
formed by Vesalius, that the contrivance of mapping out
the brain, according to the faculties then in vogue, was ex­
hibited in the class-room of Louvain, in a plate taken from
a work called 4
< The Pearl of Philosophy," wherein the
three ventricles were delineated; which figures he and his
fellow-students diligently copied into their note-books.
Richard Saunders, in his curious work on “ Physiogno­
mic," treats also of Phrenology as it existed in his d a y ;
and many o f his axioms will be found strictly in accordance
with the fundamental propositions o f the present system.—
For example,—
“ Now, in our science o f physiognomic, theform , propor-
tions, and dimensions o f the head are to be considered;f o r by
it and itsform weju d g e o f the mind contained therein
+ Galen, lib. viii. De Uau Partium.
6
“ The brain, one o f the noblest jmrts o f the body, is ac­
cording to theform o f the cranium?*
“ The well form ed head is like a mallet or sphear,
there being some eminency before and behind; theform of'
the middle ventricle should be a little compressed, so the co­
gitative faculty is the more notable. I f the fo re part be
depressed, the man is o f no judgm ent; i f the hinder, he
hath no memory
The phrenological theorists of the present day triumph­
antly assert, that Drs Gall and Spurzhcim were the first
who, instead of founding their opinions upon speculative
reasoning, drew their deductions from observation, com­
paring, as they proceeded, the peculiar appearances of dif­
ferent heads with the dispositions and talents of living in­
dividuals, and also referring to the evidence of comparative
anatomy, to elucidate further the correctness of their infer­
ences. The opinions to which we have referred were also,
it appears, founded on similar comparisons, and facts a6
important brought forward to substantiate them. Thus,—
“ The little forehead denotes a person indocile, weak,
and given to mischief, believing in nothing but his own
foolish opinions. They are compared among the beasts to
the cat or rat of Pharaoh. The Emperor Caligula had it :
so also was he an epitome of all cruelty and cowardice, and
would never believe any person o f authority."f
• Vide Vesal. lib. vii. p. 630.
f Saunders* Physiognomic, Chiromancic, and Metoposcopic. 1653. Book
ii. 178.
+ Aspera frontc ne gaudeas, neque quae fossas monticulosve habeat: omnia
namque hacc signa versutiam, ct iufidclitatem nunciant, et interdum stultiliam
ct insaniam. A d a m a k t iv s .
7
u A square forehead, according to Aristotle, denotes mag-*
nanimity. Those that have such a forehead are courageous
as lions; and are compared to them, because o f their strength,
courage, and prudence.1
’*
« The concave forehead which hath pits and mounts, is a
sign o f fearfulness, deceit, cheating, and ambition. He
which hath a frowning, wrinkled, and capred -f- forehead,
is o f a saturnine humour and melancholic, and denotes one
that thinks more than he speaks. Such a one was Philip
Melancthon. These persons are o f a gentle humour, and fa­
miliar conversation. I f the person be very rich, the greater
is the melancholy, as saith Albertus Magnus.J
“ A clear forehead, without wrinkles, signifies a fairness
of mind, as well as o f body, but a malicious disposition,
given to debates, suits, and contentions. T he most part that
have it so, have not much devotion. T h e great Sidonius
Apollinaris saith that Epicurus had it so.
“ Those who have much carnosity about the eyes, so that
their eyes hang down like those of hounds, are fraudulent,
cruel, and unmerciful; deriving their cruelty from beasts
* Quadrata frons, pro faciei rationc racdiocris, magnanimos ostendit; ob
similitudinem leonis. A r i s t .
-f* A word, according to Varro, lib. vL 6, from Capra, a goat.
Quid illuc est quod illi caperat frons se veritudine ? P l a it t .
X Albertus M agnus is quoted on all sides as being the D r G all o f that
time. Thus, on this subject, he observes,— Q ui semper frontis rugas con-
tractas habent, melancholic!, et res magnas cogitari consued.” I do not, how .
ever, be it remembered, confound these rugas with the form* and eminences
o f the cranium which were equally considered by the authors cited.
r
8
of prey. Selymus, llie emperor of the Turks, had them
.so; and he was cruel, bold, agreat, indefatigable, and severe
warrior. It is said, also, that Charles Duke of Burgundy
had them so too.
“ A forehead that, on the first sign, appears sad, severe*
and austere, shews a strange and barbarous humour, prone
to all cruelties. Such are the Arabians, Cannibals, An*
thropophagi, people that know no pity. If it happen they
be of a melancholic humour, they are likely to devour their
own children, as saith a learned author, which I have my­
self observed in one who was executed at Eureux. His
name was Santin, living near a town called Ces Ventes,
who, transported with madness and cruelty, had eaten his
own children.” *
These facts are as well authenticated and as important
as any of those that have been recorded in the numerous
phrenological journals now before the public; and the in­
ferences deduced from them are, in every respect, as war­
rantable. It is therefore very obvious, that the phrenolo­
gical art of divination, or that of estimating the powers of
the mind, and our different sentiments and propensities, by
the appearances of the head, was practised at a very early
period; nor can we exonerate the modern phrenologists
from being much indebted to their predecessors, when we
perceive that the greater number of the phrenological fa­
culties occupy the same region of the brain now that they
did in the time of Vesalius. Nay, we are almost inclined
Saunders, c. rii. p. IBS.
9
to think, that the contrivance of the various mixture of
white and brown matter, and of diverging and converging
fibres in the individual organs, was suggested to the mo­
derns by the answer o f Galen to the above-mentioned doc­
trine of Erasistratus. 4
4 Since even the ass, a creature of
little sagacity, has its brain laid out into numerous folds,
though, by theory, it should have this organ the very re­
verse of complicated, Erasistratus should have concluded,
with more justice, that intellect is in proportion to the pro­
per mixture, or variety o f structure in the organ, whatever
those may be, which produce intelligence.7
’ *
D r Gall has expressly adopted this latter opinion, and
maintains, that the faculties o f animals are always multi­
plied in proportion as their brains are complicated,-f* which,
in a similar manner, he endeavours to prove by an appeal
to comparative anatomy. The history which the advo­
cates o f Phrenology give of what they term its discovery, is
alone sufficient to stigmatize the system as having been
founded in a very vague and unscientific manner, and clear­
ly identifies it as being properly a branch o f those studies
o f astrology, metoposcopy, and chiromancy, o f which it
originally formed a part. J The object of these 4
4abstruse
* Vesal. Anat. vii. 630.
Anat. et Phys. du Cerveau, t. iii. p. 364.
£ These several sciences appear at one time to have been no less fashion,
able than Phrenology was some few years ago. H ence, Saunders observes,
4‘ The Hebrews, Chaldeans, Arabians, Indians, Greeks, Latines, and Ita­
lians, great students in, and promoters of, this high part o f philosophy, (chiro.
m ancic), with no small pains, have, in their several tongues, written large
♦ B
10
and profitable sciences,** we are informed, was to interpret
the characters, actions, and destiniesof men, by « the sym­
metrical proportions of the body,1
” or fc the internal affec­
tions of natural bodies by the external signs thereof/* Thus
may Phrenology, under this head, be appropriately charac­
terized as u The art o f divining certain evil propensities,
noble sentiments, and ingenious powers o f the mind, by di­
vers remarkable appearances and protuberances on the ex­
ternal surface o f the skull” Its history is, indeed, un­
paralleled in the annals of modern science. Whenever the
phrenological theorists discovered any peculiar enlarge­
ment or prominence on the cranium, and found it existed
in a number of persons remarkable for possessing any si­
milarity in disposition or talent, it was with them, we are
informed, quite sufficient to establish an immediate relation
between cause and effect, inferring from thence that the
protuberance without was occasioned by the development
of the brain within, and that the part of the brain in ques­
tion was necessarily, therefore, the isolated organ of some
special faculty; never, by the way, pausing to enquire
whether such crauial prominences are, in reality, occasion­
ed by the development of the cerebral substance, or whe­
ther their other deductions are in accordance with the best
volumes thereon, as Aristotle, Princcps PhUo$ophornm> Virgil, Plautus, and
Juvenal, have copiously observed. Great magistrates have loved, used, and
honored this science; amongst whom were Lucius Scylla and Julius Cesar,
as Suetonius and Ioseplius report, who affirm, that by the band the s&id Ce­
sar discovered the false Alexander, who said he was son o f Herod. Infinite
copious might I be on the subject/'— / i i d __ Preface to the Reader.
11
principles of philosophy. Like the old systems to which
we have adverted, it was, therefore, essentially a doctrine
o f external signs ; and, as relating solely to the cranium,
was appropriately termed “ craniology, or cranioscopy.”
D r Spurzheim, however, has, within the last few years,
without assigning any sufficient reason, changed the name,
and dignified it with the more specious and imposing title
o f MP hrenology” or the doctrine o f the mind, although it is
one of theiravowed and reiterated acknowledgments, that the
theory has been devised and established without any investi­
gation into the nature or phenomena o f the thinking prin­
ciple. Bacon, Descartes, Locke, Leibnitz, Kant, are all, with
their acute reasonings, formally denounced by the phreno­
logical usurpers. T hey, it is urged, contented themselves
with studying only by reflection the several subjects o f
their consciousness; they suspected not that the brain was
a congeries of so many distinct mental organs; they were
lamentably ignorant o f the exclusive existence and mono­
poly of the thirty-five special faculties. T he phrenologi­
cal philosophy claims, accordingly, the special honour of
being u quite distinct from every other,”*— critical, tran­
scendental, or natural. It remains, therefore, for us to ex­
amine its several propositions, to determine whether this
distinction should be a subject of congratulation or re­
proach.
* Spurzheim1! Physiognomic System, p. 410, 411.
12
PROPOSITION I.
T H A T T H E BRAIN IS A CONGERIES OF SO MANY D IS T IN C T PARTS, EACH
O F W H IC H IS T H E ORGAN OP SOME IN N A T E SPECIAL FA C U L TY *
W illis, Vieussens, Lancisi, Haller, Van Swicten, have,
with many others, agreed in referring different states of
thought and feeling to distinct parts of the brain. In lat­
ter times, Soemmering, Prochaska, Mayer, &c. have ha­
zarded similar speculations. The most distinguished of
our anatomists and physiologists agree in considering the
functions of the brain yet involved in deep obscurity ; and
that, from our limited means of investigation, it is unlikely
we shall ever come to any satisfactory conclusion, or suc­
ceed in discovering the manner in which mind operates on,
or is connected with, matter. “ II est vrai, dit Gassendi,
que vous pensez, mais vous ignorez quelle espece de sub­
stance vous etes vous qui pensez. Le principal de votre
essence vous est cache, et vous ne savez point quelle est la
nature de cette substance dont Tune des operations est
de penser.” Admitting that the brain is the emporium of
thought, and that a certain perfect state of organization is
necessary for the exercise of the intellectual powers, we
have yet to inquire whether there be any evidence that
should induce us to consider it a congeries of distinct organs.
When we speak of different organs, which individually
perform separate functions, we must necessarily infer that
pach is characterized by its peculiar and appropriate struc-
13
ture. W e are not entitled to take their existence for grant­
ed, unless this can be demonstrated; nor can any thing
be more preposterous than to assign laws and attributes to
a being or thing, the existence o f which is itself not proved,
or involved in any uncertainty- The phrenologists, how­
ever, have liberally done this, since, on examining the
brain, we find not the slightest appearance o f those organs,
the relative positions and sizes o f which are mathematically
delineated on the external table of the cranium.
Vicq. d’Azyr, Cuvier, Chaussier, have, with many other
celebrated anatomists, censidered the brain as being remark­
able for the unity of its structure. The medullary and cine-
ritious substance is everywhere continuous ; and even were
we to admit, with Drs Gall and Spurzheim, that the convolu­
tions consist of two fibrous layers, agglutinated together by
the surrounding grey matter,* the continuity o f structure
would still remain. D r Barclay was the first in this country
who, upon these grounds, urged the following objection to
Phrenology.— u I f you ask for any ocular demonstration
respecting the existence of these organs, you are told they
are indicated by thirty-three modifications, that have been
observed in the form of the skull, and these occasioned by
thirty-three modifications in the form of the brain ; yet, on
opening the skull, and examining the brain towards the
surface, where these organs are said to be situated, it seems
to require no small share o f creative fancy to see any thing
* Anatomy o f the Brain, with a Geaeral View o f the Nervous System,
p. 111.
14
more than a number of almost similar convolutions, all
composed of cineritious and medullary substance, very near­
ly in the same proportions, and all exhibiting as little dif­
ference in their form and structure as the convolutions of
the intestines; nay, all, when unfolded, according to D r
Spurzheim, in cases o f hydrocephalus interims, presenting
but one uniform web o f cineritious and medullary matter.
No phrenologist has ever yet observed the supposed lines o f
distinction between them ; and no phrenologist has ever
ventured, in the course o f his dissections, to divide a hemi­
sphere o f the brain into any such number o f well marked
and specific organs? *
Dr Spurzheim himself has replied to these remarks;
and, as being one of the founders of the phrenological sys­
tem, he is undoubtedly the best qualified to defend it.
Let us notice, therefore, particularly the manner in which
he combats the difficulty.— “ I cannot,” lie observes, “ say
what Dr Barclay may be able to d o; but it is certainly
easy to distinguish the anterior, middle, and posterior lobes
o f the brain from each other: and were they shewn me se­
parately, I should never mistake onefor another? * What
has this to do with Dr Barclay’s statement ? That dis­
tinguished anatomist never even implies that there is any
difficulty in distinguishing one lobe o f the brain from ano­
ther ; consequently, this is altogether an evasion of the
question. Dr Spurzheim then proceeds,— w In the same
* Barclay’ s Life and Organization, p. 375.
f Vide Transactions of the Phrenological Society, Art. xii.
15
way, I should never confound the organ o f amativeness
with that of philoprogenitiveness, or philoprogenitiveness
with that of secretiveness, or the organ o f the desire to ac­
quire with that of benevolence or veneration ; and D r
Barclay may be sure, i f he make it his study to compare
the configurations o f the cerebral convolutions, and o f the
different organs^ he w illfind great differences, which he has
hitherto o v e r lo o k e d This specimen o f reasoning ought
not to be passed lightly over. It is a style o f argument
no man would have recourse to, excepting as a dernier res-
sort, when he really knows not what to say. The compa­
rison instituted between the cerebral lobes and the phreno­
logical organs is quite illegitimate, and involvesa petitio
principiu The query elicited by D r Barclay’s observa­
tions is simply as to the identity of the several organs. It
is not, therefore, sufficient to say, study the cerebral con­
volutions, as if every convolution was itself a distinct or­
gan. How are the numerous phrenological organs to be
distinguished from one another, that are crowded together,
not only in the same lobe, but the same convolution ? This
perplexing point D r Spurzheim altogether evades, and
sums up his unsatisfactory answer with the following most
preposterous assertion.— <
c M oreover, when he shall see9
besides the differentform s o f the organs, that they are f r e ­
quently developed in different proportions, he will have an
additionalp ro o f that the brain is a congeries ofparts^ per­
form in g different m entalfunctions.1
* W hat does D r Spurz­
heim mean by his antagonist “ seeing the different form s
o f the organs ?** Is there any line of separation between
those that are situated within the same convolution ? T o
10
say nothing of “ additional,” can ocular examination give
us any proof of their existence ? This ex cathedra exam­
ple of inductive reasoning is in itself so unique, and so cha­
racteristic of the phrenological philosophy, that I hesitate
not to adduce it as one of the many new features of that
originality which so pre-eminently distinguishes the pre­
sent system from every other of its predecessors or contem­
poraries.*
Professor Rudolphi, in Germany, went somewhat further
than Dr Barclay, and, instead o f questioning whether the
organs can be distinguished from one another by any dis­
tinctive characters in the brain, rests his objection on the im­
possibility of recognizing them when apart. “ Shew Dr
Gall,” (says he) “ the organ of theft, of murder, or of reli­
gious sentiment, separated from the cerebral mass, and be
sure he would not know them/'f* Dr Gall contents him-
* M r Andrew Combe, after having adduced the above remarks o f Dr
Spurzheim, gives us the following anecdote, which he considers sufficient to
shew that“ one organ can be distinguished from another in the brain itself,
without the intermedium o f the skull.” W hen D r Spurzheim was lecturing
in Paris, the brain o f a suicide was handed to him during lecture, with the
request that he would say what characteristic dispositions it indicated, and he
would then be informed to whom it had belonged: whereupon Dr Spurzheim
immediately proceeded “ to demonstrate the development of the several parts.**
Now, really this proves nothing, because the brain, as a whole, being laid
before him, lie was enabled, by knowing their relative positions, to point out
what he considers one organ from another. I need scarcely add, that by this
post mortem phrenological augury, Dr Spurzheim divined accurately the dis­
positions which the unfortunate man had manifested during life.
-f- Grundiiss der Physiologic, ii. Berlin, 1823.
17
self with giving an answer, which Dr Spurzheim terras
“ simply evasive;” and the latter, notwithstanding his in­
ability to reply satisfactorily to Dr Barclay on the same
subject, at once declares,— K F or my part, I will accept
D r RudolphVsproposition; f o r I maintain, that he who has
studied thefo r ms o f the peripheral expansions, will always
be able to distinguish, in man, the organ o f acquisitiveness
fro m that o f destructiveness, and that o f venerationfro m
either, as easily as an ordinary observer wiU the olfactory
fro m the optic n erve” * Here D r Spurzheim either pro­
fesses to do that which he must know to be utterly impos­
sible, or he is able to shew that the organs are divided from
one another, by their distinct limits o f size being ascertain­
able. But if it appear that no lines of separation exist be­
tween them,— that the organ of hope and ideality is, in fact,
only a continuation o f one material substance, every part of
which is characterized by the same unity,— then it must be
manifest that, to say nothing o f identifying the individual
organs afterwards, they cannot positively be separated one
from another, as Professor Rudolphi proposes. That this
is the case, can be proved not only by the testimony of
every practical anatomist, but by the evidence o f D r Spurz­
heim himself, and of his late colleague, D r Gall. In di-,
rect contradiction to the above assertion, the former ob­
serves,— u It is often objected, that the particular organs
o f the brain cannot be distinctly separated, as the nerves
• Anatomy o f the Brain, with a General View o f the Nervous System,
p . 112.
C
18
of the five external senses, It is indeed true, the limits or
lines of' separation between the different organs cannot he
exactly determined; but this is equally impossible as to
• the five external senses: the nerves of motion and feeling
have not yet been separated, though these nerves must be
different.1
1
'* Dr Gall, in the same decided manner, remarks
with him, u Nous avouons que nous ne sommespoint encore
en etat dindiquer avec precision les limites de tous ks orga-
nes du cerveau. Mais les anatomistes sont ils capable d’in-
diquer avec precision les limites du nerf moteur de la langue,
et du nerf gustatif ?'**f- Here, therefore, the objection of
Dr Barclay, and that of Professor Rudolph), is proved va­
lid, by the evidence of the phrenologists themselves. The
analogy which is, however, introduced, respecting the
nerves, is quite out of place. It is true, we cannot point out
the filaments of motion from the filaments of sense in com­
pound nerves; nevertheless, we are abk to do so in entire
nerves.% Thus, the optic and the fifth nerves we can distin­
guish as nerves of sense,— the portio dura as a nerve of
motion,— and, in a similar manner, did they really exist, we
ought to be able to recognize, by some distinctive charac-
* Anatom, et Physiolog. &c. vol. it. 379.
•f Physiognomical System, p. 181.
$ W e can, however, distinguish the former from the latter species o f fila*
ment, by its constantly arising from the anterior column of the spinal cord, as
the latter do from the posterior. It may be doubted if we can discriminate
the ultimate filament o f a muscle from that o f a nerve; but organs are not
distinguished by their ultimate filaments, but by their appreciable physical
qualities and relations.
19
tors, one phrenological organ from another. From none of
the enlightened teachers of Phrenology have we yet receiv­
ed any information how this can be effected; and we are,
therefore, justified in believing that they themselves pro­
ceed, in their demonstrations, on no fixed scientific princi­
ples, and, like the experienced necromancers o f old, rest
every thing upon the credulity of their “ excellent and gen­
tle converts”
The functions ascribed to these alleged distinct parts of
the brain, are not the less remarkable for their want of ac­
cordance with all the known phenomena of the human
mind. Each, it is said, is the organ o f some innate special
faculty. Drs Gall and Spurzheim appear to use this word
in the same sense as did Locke, Reid, and other metaphy­
sicians : that is to say, as implying a certain capacity or
power, the determinate action of which depends on external
objects and circumstances. They differ, however, from all
their predecessors, in assigning to the mind only a definite
number of these faculties; in considering that each has its
own peculiar and restricted mode of action; and in believ­
ing that they are all severally connected with different
portions of the encephalon. The phrenologists having
repeatedly disclaimed the necessity of any inquiry into this
part of their system, its incongruity should excite no sur­
prise. As an example of the inconsistency— I could al­
most say positive ignorance— which prevails upon these
subjects, we need only refer to M r Combe's definition o f
the wordfaculty^— remembering, at the same time, how fre­
quently he has used it, and how much he has made to de­
pend upon its signification. The term f a c u l t y (says
20
lie) u is retained, as a convenient expressionfo r theparti*
cular states into which the mind enters, when influenced by
particular organs. It is applied to thefeelings as well as
to the intellect. Thus, thefaculty o f benevolence means
every mode o f benevolence induced by means o f the organ
o f benevolence
Here both cause and effect are simultaneously confound­
ed, and the state of thought or feeling that is produced by
any particular faculty, is spoken of as the faculty itself. In­
stead of the faculties being considered mere relations, they
arc thus made positive agents, as though Mr Combe were
to say, the faculty to understand, understood; the faculty
to digest, digested; the faculty to dance, danced.-f- The
same author, in another work, gives a different meaning to
the word, and states, the “ termfaculty is used to denote
a particular power orfeeling cmnected with the brain ” %
The contradiction is here so manifest, that it requires no
comment. E x uno disce omnes.
That the mind does manifest consecutively an almost infi­
nite number and variety of faculties, there can be no doubt;
but we have no reason to presume that it is at the same mo­
ment an aggregate of an arbitrary and definite number, all
co-cxisting with different portions of the cerebral substance,
and restricted in their individual modes of operation. The
unity of consciousness would, on such principles, be neces-
* Combe’s Elements. 1825.
Vide Locke, Human Understanding, B. ii. c. 21.
$ System of Phrenology, p. 51. 1825.
21
sarily destroyed. According to the phrenological scheme,
different states of mind are conceived to originate separate­
ly, and independently of each oilier, by the supposed activity
of different material organs. Dr Gall attributes to each of
these organs five degrees of activity, occasioning Percep­
tion, Memory, Recollection, Judgment, and Imagination.
On the other hand, Dr Spurzheim allows only three, which
give rise to Perception, Memory, and Judgment. The
brain is thus made an aggregate of so many distinct minds;
and, to reconcile their even acting in conjunction, phreno­
logists must have recourse to a gratuitous supposition, an
hypothetical idea, that, by a law peculiar to each, they
all act in perfect harmony. Nevertheless, no ostensible
reason can be adduced to explain why this should happen;
for, as three degrees of activity are attributed to each or­
gan, and as their functions are all different, it is evident
there may be as many different degrees or kinds o f action,
going on in every part of the brain, as there are organs,
multiplied by the degrees of activity in each. Thus, 35
organs, multiplied by 3, equal 105, and including the 5
senses, which make 15 more, we may have no less than ISO
actions carried on in the same organ, every 35 o f which
may be simultaneously in operation.
The supposition, that different states o f thought and
feeling originate separately and independently from one
another, through the instrumentality o f perfectly distinct
agents, will thus be found incompatible with the evidence
of our personal or mental identity. Identity, says D r
Brown, is a relative term. “ It implies, in every instance,
a double sensation o f some sort. The identity of our mind
22
is its continuance, as the subject of various feelings, or, at
least, of that which is susceptible of various feelings. The
belief o f it9 therefore, can only arise from the considera­
tion o f its successive phenomena, and ts9 indeed, involved
in the mere consideration o f these as successive/'
Upon the phrenological hypothesis, however, instead of
regarding our several thoughts and feelings as relations of
the same mind to any of its own antecedent states, they are,
we are distinctly told, considered “ relations of the simple
substance, mind, to certain portions of the encephalon/'*
It, therefore, is evident, that, by this theory, not only is
the relation of one state of mind to another interrupted,
but an absolutely different thinking principle is established
between them. Thus, the perception, memory, and judg­
ment, arising from the u three degrees of activity" pecu­
liar to the organ of veneration, must be essentially differ­
ent from the perception, memory, and judgment, that re­
sult from the functional activity of every other organ in
the system.
The unity of consciousness, and the evidence of our per­
sonal identity, would hereby necessarily be destroyed; nor
is it of any avail to argue in reply,<
c that the several organs
exert a subsidiary and mutual influence over each other,
which is alone sufficient to prevent any such anomaly/* An
assertion of this kind is so extravagantly hypothetical,— so
obviously suggested to suit the convenience of the mo­
ment,— that it has no legitimate claim to any serious con-
Phyiiognomicsl System, 131*
23
\
sideration. D r Spurzheim, therefore, adopting the usual
mode o f phrenological fortification, has recourse to a direct
evasion.— “ The organs of our system,* says he, u are
double, and consciousness is single; so also are not our
eyes double ? yet we see singly ;— our ears double ? never­
theless we hear singly.” This attempt to defend and il­
lustrate the obscurum per obscurius is in nowise calculat­
ed either to remove or palliate the difficulty. Our sense
of vision, and that o f hearing, are, it is true, single, be­
cause the impressions received by these organs are convey­
ed to one mind, as so many rays of light which concentrate
in a single focus. Subdivide, however, this sentient and
and thinking principle,— scatter its energies,— endow thirty-
five parts of the brain, all co-existing at the same moment,
with as many distinct powers of perception,— and then is
it likely the same unity would be preserved ? It is not on
the duplicity o f the several organs only that this objection is
founded: it is upon the circumstance o f the phrenologists
having subdivided the unity o f the mind itself—that single
mind which alone harmonizes passion, regulates action, and
presides over all the phenomena o f animal life, as one
omnipotent power governs and pervades the changes and
beauties of the surrounding world.
Dr Spurzheim, accordingly, perceiving the inadequacy
of this reply, assumes a loftier tone, one infinitely more
suited to the zeal o f a theorist, and the dignity o f a phre­
nologist. <
c The explanation of this phenomenon,” he ob­
serves, (which is certainly incompatible with our sublime
* discoveries,) “ may, indeed, remain unknown for ever;
but it is not the less true, that the brain is double, and
24
that each half is composed of different parts or organs.*
In other words, “ appearances are certainly very much
against u s; nevertheless, it is not the less true that we are
absolutely right/’ Sic volo, sicjubco^ stat pro ratione vo-
luntax!
Instances of partial insanity have been brought forward,
with the view of establishing the phrenological principles;
but these, if impartially examined, will, I apprehend, have
a very different tendency. Dr Spurzheim considers that
the proximate cause of all mental derangement is disease
in the brain ; and he supposes that the peculiar character
of the symptoms depend on the morbid affections of parti­
cular organs. Hence we are informed that, “ in mania, tile
organ of destructiveness suffers most; in melancholia, that
of cautiousness. When the organ of self-esteem is disor­
dered, the symptoms that arise arc very different from those
that characterize disorders of the organ of benevolence or of
veneration: accordingly, there are as many sorts of symp­
toms as there are primitive faculties of the mind and their
combinations."* Unfortunately for this theory, those fa­
culties which, in mental derangement, appear to be prin­
cipally affected, are those which, not being considered as
primitive, constitute no part of the phrenological system,
and, therefore, have no distinct material organs. These
are volition, attention, memory, and judgment. Metaphy­
sically considered, therefore, we find, that, in insanity,^-
• Spurcheim on Insanity, 117.
25
cutties are deranged o f which phrenologists take no cogni-
stance; and we must, consequently, perceive that the li­
mited view they take of the human mind has led them to
exclude from their pscychology the very faculties which,
in this disease, appear to be most disordered.
No subject is more involved in obscurity than the patho­
logy of insanity. W e have not sufficient data to proceed
upon to enable us to establish any relation between the
conditions o f the brain and the different states o f mental
aberration. Numerous are the instances where, after the
most complete state of mental derangement has existed, the
ablest pathologist has been unable to detect the slightest
alteration in the cerebral structure; and, on the other hand,
although no previous symptoms of mental alienation have
been manifested, the brains o f those who have died of apo­
plexy, epilepsy, or convulsions, have been found very much
disorganized. W e have also many instances on record o f in­
dividuals who have lived for years, enjoying perfect health,
and the exercise o f all their faculties, notwithstanding the
existence o f abscesses and cavities within the substance of
the hemispheres.
The late ingenious D r W ells made most o f his dis­
coveries after a fit o f apoplexy, subsequent to which, we
are informed, he “ never regained complete possession o f
his memory, and became unfit for any difficult train o f
thought which was the production o f another person ; yet
he did not become less equal than he had been to his own
trains o f thought, so that he made more literary efforts
in the fourteen years following than he had done during
D
♦
26
the whole period of his life." * Here, then, was diminish­
ed activity of perception, no faculty of the new hypo­
thesis, and increased activity of ideality, which should
have been dimished or destroyed on the same hypothesis.
W e have, indeed, sufficient pathological evidence to con­
vince us that the brain, whether in mania or melancholia,
suffers as a single organ ; nor are morbid appearances pre­
sented to us only in those distinct parts of it which are
represented as being the organs of those faculties that
may, nevertheless, have been principally deranged.
Haslam relates the case of a young woman, aged twenty,
whose insanity was occasioned by religious enthusiasm, and
a too frequent attendance on conventicles. She was in a
very wretched and unhappy condition, and terrified with
the most alarming apprehensions for the salvation of her
soul. She sang, wept, and prayed alternately; and, after
continuing some time in this forlorn and pitiable state, she
died* Here, we may presume, the phrenologists would
have inferred disease of the organ of veneration. On exa­
mination, the pia mater was found inflamed, and an extra-
vasated blotch, about the size of a shilling, was seen upon
the membrane in the middle of the lateral side of the right
lobe of the cerebrum. There was no effusion between the
membranes, or into the ventricles, but a general determin­
ation of blood to the contents of the cranium.*
The same author reports another case, which, in a phre-
* Vide hi* own Memoir, p. xxxiii.
+ Haslam on Insanity.
I
27
nological point o f view, is equally well marked. A man of
sixty-four years of age was admitted into the hospital. He
was a person of liberal education, having been occasionally
employed as usher in a school, and at other times as an
amanuensis. When admitted, lie was very noisy, and
importunately talkative. During the greater part o f the
day, he was reciting passages from the Greek and Roman
poets, or speaking of his own literary importance. H e con­
ceived himself very nearly related to Anacreon, and pos­
sessed of the peculiar vein of that poet. His conceptions
gradually became less distinct, until he died. W hat, in
this case, would have been the phrenological prognosis ?
Assuredly not the following.— The pericranium adhering
loosely to the skull; tunica arachnoidea generally opaque;
a large quantity of water between it and the pia mater;
the contents o f the cranium unusually destitute o f blood;
considerable effusion into the lateral ventricles, which were
much enlarged; consistence o f the cerebral substance
soft. *
Numerous cases o f this kind might be brought forward ;
whereas there is not one pure instance on record of any
particular and isolated part of the brain being alone found
affected, notwithstanding the individual may, as in the
above examples, have manifested more especially aberration
of those faculties which are supposed to have exclusive and
distinct organs. T he pathological appearances, in every
case of partial insanity, afford, on the contrary, very clear
indication of the unity of the brain’s action. This view
• llaslam on Insanity.
28
also more satisfactorily accounts for any violent emotion,
whether of hope or fear, joy or sorrow, suspending occa­
sionally all the functions of the mind.
Pinel gives an account of an engineer, who proposed
to the committee of public safety, in the second year o f the
republic, a project for a newly invented cannon, the effects
of which would be tremendous. A day was fixed for the
experiment at Menden; and Robespierre wrote to the in­
ventor so flattering a letter, that, on perusing it, he was
transfixed motionless to the spot. He was, shortly after,
sent to the Bicetre, in a state of idiotism.* About the
same time, two young conscripts, who had recently joined
the army, were called into action. In the heat of the en­
gagement, one of them was killed by a musket ball, by the
side of his brother. The survivor, petrified with horror,
was struck motionless at the sight, and was, some days
afterwards, sent to his father's house in a state of complete
idiotism.-f-
Dr Reid relates the instance of a young lady, who was
one morning requested by her mother to stay at home, not­
withstanding which she was tempted to go out. Upon her
return to her domestic roof she found that the parent whom
she had so recently disobliged liad expired in her absence.
The awful spectacle of her mother’s corpse, connected with
the filial disobedience which had almost immediately pre­
ceded, shook her reason from its seat, and she continued
ever afterwards in a state of mental derangement.*
T rait! sur 1’Alienation Mentale.
Reid on Hypochondriacal and Nervous Affections, 51.
•f Ibid.
29
The influence of the mind on these occasions may, in
many respects, be inexplicable; but such instances afford U9
strong reasons for believing, that the several faculties, which
may thus be at once entirely abolished, cannot be regarded
as so many independent relations co-existing at the same
time with differently constituted organs. Other cases might
also be adduced to shew that our several propensities and
feelings do not necessarily result from any such physical
causes; but frequently arise from adventitious circum­
stances, that operate on, and sometimes exert an imper­
ceptible and extraordinary power over, the mind. Instance
the singular and well-known history o f Simon Brown, a
dissenting clergyman, who fancied he had been deprived
by the Almighty o f his immortal soul, in consequence of
having unintentionally killed a highwayman, although in
self-defence : also the amusing case given us by Dr Knight
of a poor humble maniac, who was transformed into a king
for life by an accidental conversation. *
• u I once witnessed a very whimsical origin o f the passion o f pride, which
beais immediately on this question. One o f m y patients, W m . Y . who, on
general subjects, possessed a most retentive memory, had forgotten that this is
not the age o f miracles. I t chanced that W illiam Faulkner, a quite, inoffen­
sive, meek, and rather melancholy lunatic, was placed in the same range o f
apartments with Y . who took an early opportunity to question m e respecting
this personage^ as he called him . I told him all I knew about Faulkoer. H e
eyed me with suspicion and derision, and, after a short pause, said, ‘ I f you
don’ t know, sir, I do. I have repeatedly told you, that I had seen his ma­
jesty’ s person in the clouds, in broad day.light, when I was walking the streets
o f Liverpool.’ (It is true, he had repeatedly mentioned this.) * O f course,’
30
Drs Gall and Spurzheim next assume, that, in propor­
tion as the brain increases in size, the faculties become gra-
M r V . continued, * a phenomenon so extraordinary excited my astonishment,
and roused m y attention. I now understand wherefore this vision was vouch*
safed to me. The features were too strongly impressed upon my mind, ever
to be forgotten; and this personage, who, for some diabolical and traitorous
purpose, is called W illiam Faulkoer, is no less than his majesty; and it is
impossible, sir, but that you must be well aware o f the fact.* So saying, in
the most respectful and distant manner, bowing to the ground again and
again, as he approached, and sidling round, that his back might be at no
time towards the presence^ he greeted W . F. with, ‘ I humbly, but most sin*
cercly, hope your gracious majesty is well,* bowing again to the ground.
His gracious majesty cast a look o f curiosity at his very humble and loyal sub­
ject, regarded him a moment, and then quietly and meekly resumed his walk.
His subject, however, had a suit to prefer ; and following, bowing, scraping,
and sidling round, which produced a very comical effect, he entered on the
history of his cruel and unjust confinement,— counting the weeks, days, and
even the hours he had been confined, which he could always do,— and con­
cluding, by most humbly, but most earnestly, beseeching that his majesty
would peremptorily order his liberation. During this address, which was
well spoken, I observed the drooping W illiam Faulkner gradually draw him­
self up ; and at the conclusion, to my astonishment, he replied, with an air
o f dignity, rather bombastic, 4 M y good fellow, I am sorry I can be o f no
use to you ; my enemies confine me here.*— 4 But if your gracious majesty
would be only pleased to direct to this person, pointing to myself, your royal
order, under your sign-manual, the gates would at once fly open.’— 4 M y
man,* his majesty replied, 4 your are mistaken. 1 am, I tell you, confined
here by my enemies; and I cannot at present, in this place, command any
thing. I sincerely wish 1 could help you, but I assure you U is out o f my
power.’ So saying, he walked off, with all the air and dignity imaginable.
Pride tookpossession o f his hreast; and, to the day o f his deaths he called
himselfa king,** K n ig h t on Derangement o f the Mindy 23, 24.
31
dually developed; and when, consequently, this organ has
attained iis highest degree o f development, which is gene­
rally about maturity, then the mental manifestations have
the greatest energy. On investigation, however, it appears
that no such co-relation does exist; and that the brain
attains its fullest complement in size before the evolution
of the intellectual faculties. Soemmering, in the explana­
tion o f his “ Tabula Baseos Encephalic states that this
organ is fully developed at three years o f age, which opin­
ion, it appears, he has subsequently relinquished. The
Wenzels have investigated this subject more minutely;
and, from the result o f their observations, demonstrate that
the brain acquires its fullest increment in size at the age o f
seven years, when they observe, u Illo anno cerebrum ho-
minis et quoad totum et quoad singulas partes absolutum
esse videtur." *— u In no one faculty/’ they add, u is a
boy of this age entirely deficient, but all are in a state of
inactivity. He is conscious of sensation, perception, judg­
ment, desire, memory, imagination, fancy, reflection ; but
all of these faculties, if not exercised, are inert and inope­
rative. Habits of observation, and the force of intellect,
grow upon him apace ; in collective trains o f ideas he in­
stitutes comparisons, and draws conclusions; still no ab­
solutely new mental faculty is added, but all acquire vigour
and concentration."-!-
These inferences being so much at variance with the
• D e Penitiori Cerebri Structure, cxxvii. 247.
-f- Ibid, cxx-viii. 255.
32
phrenological deductions, Dr Spurzheim naturally denoun­
ces them as incorrect: yet we are to remember that the
Wenzels— not the avowed advocates of any favourite theo-
ory— came impartially to their conclusions after a series of
inductive experiments; whereas Dr Spurzheim, zealous in
the support of his own system, opposes them merely with
a gratuitous assertion. The opinion of the Wenzels, that
the brain does not increase in size after seven years of age,
is corroborated by the experience of hatters, who find that
the head does not enlarge much after that period. W c
are, on this subject, much indebted to Dr Milligan for the
following interesting information.
“ The mean greatest length of the skull is 6t
5
j®
5 ; breadth,
5-
j
Yu, according to Dr Monro's measurement of adults.*
Hatters add the two diameters together, and take their
arithmetical mean for the diameter of hats, which surround
and measure the external visible circumference of the head.
As the number of heads they measure is immense, and
they themselves are void of all theory, the following table,
obtained from an eminent manufacturer, and exhibiting
the mean diameter of the external head at the different
ages, may assist us in comparing the growth of the brain
with that of the head.
* This measurement, it may be observed, is not taken from the external
tables, but from the centre o f diploe to diploe; so that, allowing for the exter­
nal table and integuments, we have a clear proof that the subsequent slight
difference in the size o f the head is not owing to any additional increment of
the brain.
33
« Table o f Mean Diameter o f Heads.
For a child of 1 year, 5$.
2 years, 51.
4 years, Gi-
It then varies little till 12.
7 years, 6|.
12 years, 6f-
16 to 18,
Adults, . . . . • 7*. Largest, 7 f to 8 inches.
Servants’ heads, generally smaller, 6 f to 7£. Also Ne-
groes’ heads small.
Women's heads are more roundish than men’s, and nearly
all of a size, varying from 6||to 7 inches in diameter.” *
On comparing this table with that of Dr Monro’s, it ap­
pears that the dimensions of the skull ascertained by the
learned professor are before average, and that the difference
o f mean diameter between the head of seven years and of
maturity, or the extra half inch, is to be attributed to the
growth o f the frontal sinus, external table, and soft inte-
gtunenls.'f
* D r M illigan's M agendie, p. 64-3, 544.
T be phrenologists have pretended latterly to doubt the validity o f the
W enzels’ observations 5 but they are, by the above table, proved to be per­
fectly accurate;— for as T j , the mean diameter o f the adult head : is to C f,
the mean diameter o f the head at the seventh year : : so is 6J the mean dia­
meter o f the adult skull (Elem . Anat. i. 203) : to 5-fo the mean diameter o f
the seven years old skull. B u t by the W enzels (pp. 254, 295) the measured
length o f the brain, is 64, the breadth 5 j J Wirtcmberg inches at seven years;
consequently, the mean diameter o f that organ at seven years is Sjjf incites
English, or exactly the dimension, at that age, betwen diploe and diploe, re­
sulting above, from D r M onro's measures, which are, therefore, too small by
the thickness o f the internal tabic exactly. T h e same tiling is evinced by the
difference o f an inch between D r M onro’s measure o f the adult diameter and
that o f the hatter.
E
34
It is therefore satisfactorily proved, that the brain attains
its full increment in size long before the intellectual facul­
ties arc fully developed; consequently the powers of the
mind cannot be considered as being evolved by the gradual
enlargement of the cerebral substance. No anatomical re­
search is, indeed, necessary to prove the supervention of
mental energy after the age of maturity. The fact is suf­
ficiently exemplified in the lives of many eminent men, as
in those of Cornaro, Swift, and Walcott.
PROPOSITION II.
t h a t t h e t o w e r o f m a n i f e s t i n g e a c h f a c u l t y i s a l w a y s p r o ­
p o r t i o n a t e T O T H E S IZ E AND A C T IV IT Y OF T H A T ORGAN, OR
P A R T O F T H E B R A IN , W IT H W H ICH I T IS SUPPOSED TO BE IN IM ­
M E D IA T E CONNECTION.
“ Ox remarque,* dit Dr Gall, “ que les fonctions de
Tentendement sont d’autant plus parfaites que le cerveau
est plus volumineux; on remarque encore qu’il les partage
d’autant plus avec le reste du systeme nerveux qu'il de-
vient plus petit a proportion de la masse de ce systeme.**
On this hypothesis, as man is the most intelligent of creat­
ed beings, so ought his brain, whether viewed in relation
to the size of the body, nerves, cerebellum, or medulla ob­
longata, to exceed in volume that of every other animal.
This appears not to be the case.
* Art Cerveau Diet. <les Sciences Naturelles.
35
Daubenton and Buffon have shewn, that the brain of
some of the monkey tribe (the Sapajous, or monkeys of
America) is larger in proportion than to that o f man ;
nevertheless, they exhibit no corresponding superiority, but
are inferior in intelligence to those even of their own
species whose brains are considerably less.
Cuvier remarks, It appears that, all things considered,
the smaller animals have proportionally the largest brains.*
Instance the mole, the rabbit, the mouse: in the cetacea,
the dolphin and porpoise; and, in birds, the eagle, falcon,
blackbird, canary, sparrow, linnet, &c. T he sheep, rat,
and field-mouse, have, in proportion, more brains than the
elephant, horse, or d o g ; yet we all know how much the
latter excel the former in their powers o f intelligcnce.-f-
The general proposition which, since the time o f Aris­
totle, had been laid down, that man lias a larger brain, in
proportion to the size o f his body, than any other animal,
being, by these facts, controverted, Soemmering has insti­
tuted another point o f comparison, viz. the ratio which the
hulk of the brain bears to the size o f the nerves proceeding
from it. His methoct is, to divide the brain into two sec­
tions,— the one comprehending that part immediately con­
nected with the sensorial extremities o f the nerves, which
receives impressions, and is therefore devoted to the wants
and purposes of animal life,— the other including the rest
o f the brain, which is to be considered the seat o f the intel­
lectual operations.! The brain o f the horse is cited as an
illustration : and, in this example, the absolute size o f the
• Lccjon. d’Anat. Comp, tom. ii.
"t Ibid, nium cm bach, Comp. Anat. hy Lawrence, p. 207.
+ Corp. Hum. Fab. tom. iv. §. 92. D e Basi, Enccphal. p. I t,
organ is only about halt' the size of the human brain ; while
the mass of the nerves at their origin, is no less than ten
times larger than we find them in man. Even this mode
of comparison however, is not sufficient to establish any
relation between the physical condition of the brain, and
«ny corresponding degree or variety of intelligence. Most
of the inferior animals have larger nerves, and possess some
of the nervous functions in a much more acute state, than
man. The brain of the seal is larger, in proportion to the
bulk of its nerves, than that of the dog : the brain of the
porpoise is larger, on a similar comparison, than that of
the ourang-oulaug; yet we are all aware how very supe­
rior the intelligence of the dog and the ourang-oulang is
to that of the seal or porpoise.
The relative size of the cerebrum to that of the cere­
bellum is the next point of comparison which has been at­
tended to by all anatomists and physiologists, from the
time of Willis. Man, it has been asserted, has a larger ce­
rebrum, in proportion to the cerebellum, than any other
animal. No such characteristic distinction, however, ex­
ists. In man, the relative weight of the cerebrum to the
cerebellum is as one to eight; in the horse, as one to se­
ven ; in the dog, one to eight; in the cow, one to nine;
in the saimiri, one tofourteen* On this hypothesis, there­
fore, the dog and the cow should be as intelligent as man;
and the saimiri very much his superior.*
i
.
36
• Cuvier Lee. d’Anat. Comp. tom. ii. 15?.— Blumembach’s Comp. Anat.
by Lawrence, p. 312.— Lawrence's Lectures on Physiology and Zoology, raL
i. c. vi.
I 37
Nor does the comparison between the size of the brain
and that of the medulla oblongata> proposed by Ebel, af­
ford a more satisfactory criterion, whereby the intellectual
powers may be estimated; as the breadth o f the medulla
oblongata in some baboons (the Macaques) nearly equals
what we find it in man,— while, in the examples of the dol­
phin, the proportion is nearly double. In man it is as one
to seven; in the Macaques, as one toJ iv e; in the dolphin,
as one to thirteen.* No relation, therefore, can be suppos­
ed, in any case, to exist between the absolute volume of
the brain and the different degrees o f intelligence; and
these facts sufficiently refute the phrenological opinion which
we have given in the words of Dr Gall.
The size of the phrenological organs is principally con­
stituted by the degrees of their development; nevertheless,
we know that many animals of considerable intelligence
have the brain smooth, and without any convolutions;
The hemispheres of the Rodentia, particularly the beaver,
hare, and squirrel, have, asW illis remarked, neither grooves
nor convolutions, but are smooth and flattened. This is
the case with the Sapajous; also with the opossum, as we
are informed by Tyson ; the phalangista of Cuvier; and
the two-toed ant-eater, according to Daubenton. J
The general size and configuration of the head cannot
be regarded as indicative of any superior or inferior degree
o f intellectual capacity, excepting when it presents an ap­
pearance of mal-formation; in which case some intellectual
• Joum . Complcmen. du Diet, den Sciences Med. tom. xiii. 811.
+ Jones1 Phil. Trans, vol. v. 178.
+ Button, Nat. Iiist. xiii. 94.
38
deficiency may be inferred, as it is not to be supposed that
the organ can perform its functions. Hence, according to
M. Find, idiots have the brain sometimes preternaturally
large, and often disproportionately small. “ W e meet,* he
observes, “ sometimes with the best possible formed heads
associated with a very narrow discernment; and frequently
singular varieties of conformation are united to every pos­
sible attribute of talent and genius/'* A similar observation
is made by Desmoulins. 4
< Je pourrais citer un certain
nombre d’hommes connus, aussi rcmarquables par la gros-
seur de leur tete que par la lourdeur de leur esprit ou la me-
diocrite de leurs talents. Jen pourrais citer bien d'autres
d’une superiorite ou d’une universality d'esprit bien de-
cidecs, et dont la tete est plutot petite que grosse.” -J
*
The predominant dispositions, and the abilities of the
mind, may, according to the theory we arc considering, be
discovered by the relative sizes of the phrenological or­
gans ; but, on this subject, Dr Spurzheim speaks with less
decision than Mr Combe. 4
<W e employ/' says the form­
er, “ the size of the cerebral parts to determine their func­
tions ; but the activity of the organs cannot be measured
by the size alone/' { The latter lays it down as a rule,
that4
< every faculty desires gratification with a degree of
energy proportionate to the size of its organ; and those
faculties will be habitually indulged, the organs of which
are largest in the individual." |
| Instead of entering into
* Traitc sur l’Alienation Mentale, p. 360.
f Anat. des Syst. Ncrv. vol. ii. 596.
$ Lectures Rep. in the Lancet, April 22, 1825, p. 71.— Phrenology, 3d
edition, p. 99.
|
| Combo's Elements, 185.
39
the arcana imperii of Phrenology, to indulge in any ab­
struse disquisition on the relative powers and activities of
particular organs, it is incumbent on us to inquire whe­
ther any of their several dimensions can be determined.
The size o f every organ, it appears, is to be ascertained by
its length and breadth,— the first being estimated by the
distance of its surface from the medulla oblongata,— the
second by the extent of its peripheral expansion. W e are
to judge o f them relatively; that is to say, taking into con­
sideration the general size of the head, we are to remem­
ber how many are included in a given region, and each is
then to be assigned its appropriate situation. Y et, how
are their individual sizes, then, to be ascertained ? The
founders of the system, as we have already seen, acknow­
ledge, that it is impossible to discover the limits o f the se­
veral organs: how, therefore, is it possible to determine
the exact size o f their individual expansions ? The an­
swer o f the Oracle is, <
c They are to be recognized
by experience'’— experience!— that experience which has
never failed to quicken the penetration, mature the judg­
ment, and perfect the abilities of every practitioner in the
art of divination, from the time of the earliest necromancers
down to that of the dilettanti calliper professors o f the pre­
sent day.
The activity of the organs, which cannot, according to
Drs Gall and Spurzheim, be determined by their size and
configuration alone, depends, we are informed, on their in­
ternal temperaments, four of which are particularly speci­
fied as increasing or modifying the energy o f the several
faculties.
40
1* The lymphatic or phlegmatic; indicating slowness and
weakness of the vegetative, affective, and intellectual func­
tions.
2. The sanguine; persons so constituted being easily
affected by external causes, and possessing greater energy
than those of the former temperament.
3. The bilious ; those endowed with which have a
strongly marked and decided expression of countenance,
and great general activity, and functional energy.
4. The nervous; persons so affected having the nervous
system preponderate greatly, and possessing great nervous
sensibility. *
These several temperaments, it is to lie remembered, are
supposed to form part of our original constitution. That
different individuals possess different idiosyncracies there
can be no doubt; yet these, on examination, will be found
to result from incidental causes, that affect the animal func­
tions in general, rather tlian from any original difference
or peculiarity of organization.
Luxuriant living, and sedentary habits, may more espe­
cially he considered as giving rise to that lymphatic or
phlegmatic state of the system, wherein the repletion o f the
cellular tissue gives the body a degree of robustness and
corpulency which appears, in every respect, unfavourable
to much muscular exertion. This will not be found to result
from any innate or organic constitution. W e do not find
that it ever affects those who, strangers to the indolence
• Phrenology connected with Physiology, c. i.
and luxuries of civilized society, devote themselves to ac­
tive and salutary occupations: we do not find it prevail in
the early history o f nations, when martial and athletic ex­
ercises are practised as preparatory to the profession of
arms, and the enjoyment o f the chase: we do not find the
“ stout gentleman" of Washington Irving directing the
army of the early Britons; nor any eligible members for
Addison’s humorous clubs o f fat gentlemen chieftains o f
the Scottish clans: it is in more luxuriant times only that
the turtle-fed alderman enters the august presence o f the
phrenologist, and the phrenologist, with one fatal coup d*mU
discovers the want of one “ degree of activity” in the en­
chanted region o f the thirty-five special faculties. H eu
quam difficile est crimen non prodere vultu ! Irony apart,
many facts may be brought forward to substantiate the
truth of the statement already advanced against the phre­
nological supposition.
When Napoleon headed the army o f Italy,— when he be­
came first consul,— when he ascended the throne o f France,
— how different was the temperament o f his constitution to
that which, when a prisoner in the island o f St Helena,
arose from the anxiety and remorse o f a perturbed mind,
that, like the Promethean vulture, preyed unceasingly on
his rest! His disposition, in early life, was over sanguine
and aspiring; yet, when the day o f his disasters arrived,
and the star of his destiny began visibly to decline, bis
habits, thoughts, feelings, assumed a different tone; and
he became, in every sense o f the word, o f a lymphatic
temperament. Assuredly, this arose from external circum­
stances, that affected his constitution generally ; nor can it
be considered, in any case, as an original condition of or-
F
41
ganization, necessarily occasioning a weakness and slow­
ness of the vegetative and intellectual functions.** W e do
not, indeed, find that it has invariably any such effect.
Montaigne and Dr Johnson both lived under its influence;
yet, in neither case, did it impair the vigour or activity of
their mental powers.
Examples of those who, in early life, possessed the san­
guine temperament in a high degree, are more particularly
calculated to show how incidental circumstances may effect
a complete revolution in the system, and give rise to a dif­
ferent and quite a contrary habit and disposition.
Tasso, born in the happy climate of Italy, at twenty-two
years of age the author of one of the finest epic poems in
the language, having displeased the Duke Alphonso, by ex­
citing a suspicion that he was desirous of leaving the servi­
tude of his court, was detained a prisoner at Ferrara, where
he was visited with a series of persecutions, that afflicted him
with an habitual and profound melancholy, from which he
never eventually recovered. The bitterness of grief, like
the simoon of the desart, swept its withering influence over
his heart; and no more possessed of that sanguine dispo­
sition, which rises superior to misfortune, he relinquished
every hope of future happiness. u M y tears," says he,
will now prevail no more below. Those who pledge me
their faith, mock my sufferings, and break their own pro­
mises. There will never, I believe, be an end to this un­
worthy treatment, which holds me every moment between
life and death."
“ Quests o tomba de vivi ov’ io son chiuso
Cadavcro spirantc, c si disscra
Solo, il career dci morti.”
42
43
His supposed love for the princess Leonora, *— his offence,
by expressing, in intemperate language, his indignation
against the house of Este; ■
f’— his cruel imprisonment on
the charge of insanity, J— his subsequent calamities and
despair,— his final sufferings and death,— are subjects con­
secrated in the page of biography, over which the genius
o f Poetry has not disdained to shed her softest halo.§ In
Tasso we have the instance o f a man o f genius, who was in
early life endowed with a sanguine temperament, or, as
Montaigne expressed it, “ a too fatal vivacity." His reverse
of fortune, diversity of sorrow, and long captivity, subdued
at length the ardour of his enthusiasm, the brilliancy of
his imagination, and the generous fervour o f his feelings.
A change, physical and moral, was thus wrought in the
essence of his bodily and mental constitution, and every
feature of his mind and disposition assumed an absolutely
new and different character.
Rousseau, who has been termed “ the apostle o f afflic­
tion," is another, and perhaps more striking, example
in illustration o f these views. H e was, in early life,
remarkably sanguine, and ever cheerful, generous, and
happy, until he entered on his literary career. Like
many who have, from the impulse o f their enthusiasm,
fallen into the same fatal error, he fondly pictured
* S crosi la V ita del Tasso, tom. i. lib. ii. 150.
•f Ibid. tom. ii. lib. iii. 33.
$ Muratori vide Lcttcra ad Apostolo Zeno. Tasso’s W orks, vol. x. p.
m .
§ Vide Childe H aiolde’s Pilgrimage, canto iv. A lso the Lament o f Tasso.
to himself hopes that were too lofty to be realized, and in­
dulged m visions of future fame and honour, that were
only the flattering creations o f a too fervid imagination.
It is a true and beautiful apothegm, that “ hope deferred
maketh the heart s i c k a n d when experience unexpected­
ly dissipates long cherished illusions, the wounds of disap.
pointment are too often deep, lasting, and never to be for­
gotten. This was eminently the case with Rousseau. The
first difficulties and misfortunes that overclouded his expec­
tations perplexed and overwhelmed him. Mortified pride,
hopelessness, and a sense of remorse, urged him, in the
bitterness of his vexation, into gloom and solitude. He
retired from the world, like the stern unpitying Democri­
tus, who is represented by Salvator Rosa* wandering
among the tombs, and smiling contemptuously on the va­
nity of all human wishes and distinctions. Thus the her­
mit of les Charmettes, in his miserable solitude, was ever
contemplating human nature in its darkest and most un­
favourable aspect. His disposition completely changed
and reversed; he became cold, calculating, distrustful, and
misanthropical; a morbid sensibility sapped the vigour of
his mental and bodily constitution; he pined himself gra­
dually away ; and, after having unbosomed all his own
sins and frailties, died wretched and neglected. “ His his­
tory,” says Richcrand, u is a proof beyond reply, that the
melancholic temperament is less a peculiar constitution of
the body than a real disease, of which the degrees may in-
* For an eloquent description o f this picture, vide Lady Morgan’s Life
and Times o f 11 Famoso Pittorc di Cose Morale, vol. iii.
45
finitely vary from a mere originality o f character to the
most decided mania.1
1
*
The bilious temperament, which is characterized by
great “ general and functional activity,” is always excited
by those circumstances that at particular periods call forth
great bodily and mental exertions. It is, consequently,
found to prevail with those men who have, by a certain
concatenation of events, been enabled to raise themselves
to high situations in the public state, to preserve which
they have, in a manner, been obliged to signalize them­
selves by superior energies. Examples, therefore, o f this
kind are found in Alexander, Julius Caesar, Brutus, Charles
X I I ., Cromwell, Cardinal Ilichelicu, &c. The determi­
nate characters of such men are unquestionably the result
of those peculiar and varied causes which contribute to
place them in those conditions in life that give rise to and
modify their after dispositions. Thus it is too true, that
“ men are the slaves of circumstances, when circumstances
seem the slaves of men."
The nervous temperament, like the preceding, will be
found to be occasioned by external causes. This may, in­
deed, be inferred from its generally affecting only a cer.
tain class of people,— from its being more prevalent at one
period than at another,— from its being frequently the
consequence o f some perceptible and accidental derange­
ment of the organic functions,— and from its being excited
by long continued or violent mental emotions; such as
love, anxiety, fear, and grief. Even in those cases where
+ Richcrand Physiologic, & c.
this habit appears hereditary, it should be considered
as a modification of disease, which may, with a due at­
tention to regimen, be overcome. It is in the fashion­
able circles of society, not in the humble walks of life,
that we find it principally predominate. There self-indulg­
ence, indolence, and luxuries, that are ever the attendants
on wealth, occasion all that excess of sensorial excitement,
which too visibly diminishes the happiness of those who
have, by the advantages of birth, been relieved from the
necessity of those salutary occupations which Providence
has made essential to our well-being. In those periods
when the progress of art has removed us the farthest from
a state o f nature, this temperament is most general. Ac­
cordingly, we are informed that nervous affections were
more numerous among the Roman ladies during the decline
of the Roman empire, when the habits of society had be­
come exceedingly vitiated. They prevailed also to an un­
usual extent during the eighteenth century, and imme­
diately preceding the dissolution of the French monarchy,
at which epoch appeared the works of Whytt, liaulin, Lor­
ry, and Pomme. Several of the most eminent men of these
times, among others, Montesquieu, Voltaire, and Frede­
rick, possessed this habit in a high degree; and the histo­
ry of their agitated lives sufficiently explains the causes
of its development.*
These several temperaments cannot, therefore, be consi­
dered as originally forming a part of the organization of
the brain; and their influence, as physically co-cxisting
Kicherand Physiologic, &c.
47
with the phrenological organs, appears obviously a chime­
ra. It is on the hypothesis of their being “ organic consti­
tutions" only, that phrenologists have been led to endow them
with the occult power of exciting different degrees of acti­
vity in certain parts o f the encephalon. Thus they have
fallen into the error of mistaking the effect for the cause,
inasmuch as these temperaments are, as we have seen, the
effects o f the mind acting on the body, and not themselves
organic causes, that excite a mechanical activity of the ma­
terial substance, with which they are supposed to be phy­
sically connected.
The absurdity o f this theory consists more especially in
the fact of every organ being endowed with its own consti­
tutional temperament; so that there are as many tempera­
ments in the brain as there are organs, all of which being pe­
culiar conditions o f organization, are independent o f external
circumstances, and those states of the health that may sub­
sequently affect the body. Furthermore, it appears that
there is no possible mode of judging of the activity of these
organs. The majority of them may be passive, or, as D
Spurzheim terms it, u d o rm a n twhenever it suits the conve­
nience of the phrenologist; and, on the other hand, a single
organ may, all of a sudden, become inordinately active, so
as to surmount all possible control, and hurry the indivi­
dual along, whether he wishes it or not, like the unfortu­
nate Ancient Mariner driven over the iC wide wide sea" by
the u lonesome spirit of the south people,” that doubtless
urged him onwards very much against his own inclination.
More consistent and plausible is the theory of Thomas
de Troisvevres, who represents the influence o f the tempe-
48
ramcnts as proportionate to the size.of the great splanchnic
cavities, each of which being possessed with its own tempe­
rament, determines the characters of men and nations.
Thus,—
tc The cranial temperament, has mental energy, ambi­
tion, profound emotions. Habitat— free countries—France,
England, Spain.
“ The thoracic temperament, the Hercules Famese,
better soldier than captain. Habitat— Germany, Poland.
4
4 The abdominal temperament, paucity of faculties,
passions, and physical force. Habitat— Germany, France,
and England; but, in the latter, generally combined with
cranial devclopement.
4
4The cranio-thoracic temperament renders man the Lord
of the creation :— possessed by groat surgeons, conquerors,
and usurpers,” &c.
4
4 These temperaments,” says he, (( change with differ­
ent ages, and obtain also in animals. They promise to as­
sist us in the amelioration and education of human charac­
ter.” *
Theories and opinions of this kind can only be adduced
as shewing how men, enamoured with any favourite notion,
succeed in persuading themselves ultimately to believe in
the most extravagant absurdities. In the words of an emi­
nent author, “ they weave their sophistry till their own
reason is entangled, and repeat their positions till they are
* Physiologie des Temperamcns, ou Constitutions; NouveUe Doctrine
applicable a la Medicine Pratique. Paris, 8vo. 1826, pp. 248.
*
49
credited by themselves. By often contending, they grow
sincere in the cause; and by long wishing for demonstrat­
ive arguments, they at last bring themselves to believe they
have found them/* *
Whatever standard of comparison we may adopt to es­
timate the weight or size of the brain, it is clearly ascer­
tained, and even admitted by the phrenologists, that cer­
tain animals have a larger brain in proportion than man,
and that the degree o f intelligence, in no case, depends on
its absolute volume. As, therefore, the law which applies
to the brain as a whole will apply to it equally in all its in­
dividualparts, so it must be inferred that the absolute or
relative size of certain portions of this organ can never be
considered as indicative of any superior or inferior degree o f
mental energy. The phrenologists, therefore, wisely have
recourse to an hypothesis which is so much w in double
darkness veiled,” that it cannot, on either side, be demon­
strated or comprehended. It is impossible to conceive how
the mechanical activity of certain parts of the brain can
give rise to different states of perception, memory, and
judgment; and the induction from whence this conclusion
has been drawn, resting, as it does, on the supposed orga­
nic cerebral temperaments, is so purely imaginative, that it
exceeds the bounds of reason, probability, and common
sense. Size is one condition necessary to activity, and the
fa n cy of the phrenologist himself appears to be the other ;
consequently, there is no definite principle or rule laid
• Rambler, N o. 31.
G
50
down whereby we may calculate upon the influence of this
supposed subsidiary power.
PROPOSITION III.
T H A T IT IS POSSIBLE TO A SC ER T AIN , D U RIN G L I F E , T H E R E L A T IV E
SIZE S O F T H E ORGANS, B Y T H E CORRESPONDING PROTUBERANCES
OR E N L A R G E M E N T S ON T IIE E X T E R N A L SURFACE OF T H E CRA­
N IU M .
I f, in addition to what has already been urged, it ap­
pear that the external form of the skull has no co-relation
with the internal configuration of the brain, the impossibi­
lity of discovering, during life, the development of those
parts of it which are considered different organs, will be
sufficiently obvious. The evidence on this subject does not
rest on any abstract or speculative reasonings. T o come
to a satisfactory conclusion, it is necessary only to institute
an investigation into facts that are within the reach of
every inquirer.
The skull consists of two layers of bone, an external and
an internal, which are separated from each other by a diploe,
or reticular net-work, that is interspersed between them.
The internal tabic is that which, properly speaking, forms
the covering and protection to the brain; while the exter­
nal, which is firmer and thicker, gives additional security
to the enclosed organ, and is connected with the bones of
the face. In proportion, therefore, as the facial bones in­
crease in size, the external table is separated from the in-
51
ternal, and the diploe between them becomes more or less
thick and irregular.
The parallelism o f the two tables is hereby destroyed,
and protuberances and enlargements formed on the exter­
nal table, that have no corresponding representations upon
the internal.
The action of the muscles has a considerable effect in oc­
casioning this inequality, and in determining the size and
configuration o f the skull.
In mammiferous animals, in birds, and some reptiles, the
internal face o f the occipital bone represents the general
size and figure of the cerebellum, and the extremities of
the posterior lobes o f the cerebrum ; but the muscles that
are attached to the external table draw it, to a certain extent,
from the internal, and give the bone without an extent o f sur­
face and form proportionate to the mechanical power they
exert.* Hence animals having the head placed obliquely,
in whom these muscles are very firm and strong, have the
occipital bone disproportionately large, compared with the
rest of the skull. This we find the case in the lion, the
hyasna, elephant, rhinoceros, &c. The muscles have a si­
milar influence over the central bones, which may be con­
sidered as forming the arch of the cranium. In the Afri­
can Negro and Carib, the temporal muscles being thicker
and stronger than in the European, the crania o f those
people are found narrow and compressed at the sides.
In the Mongolian variety, the characters o f the head
are of an opposite description. The cheek bones are pro-
• Desmoulins A n at dcs Syst, Nerv. des Anim . Verteb. tom, i. 101.
nrincnt, visage flat, and the cranium is of a square form,
with its prominences exhibiting a tendency to lateral pro­
jection.* This difference is accounted for by the deficien­
cy of the compressing force, the effects of which are so re­
markable in the examples of the African Negro and Ca-
rib.-f-
The same cause has a considerable influence in deter­
mining the configuration of the skulls of all animals:
Those with a powerful under-jaw, and large temporal and
masseter muscles, having the subjacent bone proportionate­
ly depressed; those, on the contrary, where the action of
the lower jaw is less considerable, and these muscles do
not exert so great a physical force, having the depression
nearly effaced,j
In the lion, tiger, wolf, &c. the temporal bone is exter­
nally most depressed over the part where the subjacent brain
is most fully developed ; and the zygoma of this bone, so
prominent in these animals, extends over the part where it
is least developed. |
|
In the centre of each parietal bone is a prominence, not
occasioned by the cerebral development, but by its being
the point from whence the osseous fibres radiate. A t the
centre of the union of these bones, along the median line of
the head, there extends internally the longitudinal sinus,
separating the two hemispheres, so that the brain docs not
there come in contact with the bone.
* Cuvier’s Animal Kingdom, by Griffith, vol. i. 165.
•f Pritchard's Researches into the Physical History o f Man, 60.
£ Desraoulin’s Anat. des Syst. Nerv. des Anim. Verteb. 105. |
| Ibid.
53
Supposing the brain, instead of a single organ, were a
congeries o f phrenological organs, it would still be impos­
sible to ascertain their positions and sizes externally, from
the notorious fact that the convolutions have no symmetri­
cal correspondence to each other in the two hemispheres.
In 1826, Dr Spurzheim affirmed, that they are, u in their
form and direction, remarkably regu la r” * In 1828, in his
correspondence with Sir William Hamilton, he directly
abandons this position. In the words o f Magendie, “ the
number, the volume, the disposition o f the convolutions,
are variable. In some brains, they are very large ; in others,
they are less, and more numerous. They are differently
disposed in every individual; and those o f the right side
are not disposed like those o f the le ft? \ The Wenzels, to
whose authority I may again refer, completely establish
this fact. The organs nevertheless must, in every in­
dividual, retain the same relative positions on the external
tables of the skull, although the cerebral substance o f one
may frequently occupy the place, or be within the boun­
dary, that is assigned to another.
In the anterior part of the head, the tables of the frontal
bone are, we find, separated from each other by intervening
spaces, or sinuses, which give the external table an eleva­
tion, and alone have a very considerable effect in determin­
ing the size and configuration of the forehead. It is of
considerable importance to ascertain how far these sinuses
* Spurzheim on the Anatomy o f the Brain,
t Milligan's Magendie.
5*
generally extend, and how many of the phrenological or­
gans they commonly affect. This question is easily deter­
mined by an appeal to fact. A considerable number of
crania have lately been opened with this view ; and it ap­
pears that the frontal sinuses extend over a greater
surface than has hitherto been supposed. Sir William
Hamilton, in a lecture at the Edinburgh University,
exhibited the open crania belonging to that museum, with
a number of other specimens, and thereby demonstrated
that these sinuses, which are very unequal in their extent
and depth, affect frequently as many, and often more, than
one-third of the principal phrenological organs; and that
the retirement of the internal table, from the irregularities
and protrusions on the external is so considerable as to ren­
der it impossible to discover, by any external manipulation,
the general size and development of the particular parts of
the brain.
Mr Combe, perceiving it necessary to make some reply, de­
livered a lecture on the same subject in the Edinburgh As­
sembly Rooms, producing all the counter specimens he could
find for that occasion. As this question is one which must
ultimately be decided by the number of facts brought for­
ward, and as Sir William Hamilton’s collection of crania
was so very extensive, it was incumbent on the phrenolo­
gists to bring into the arena, not only the select specimens
which they have been gathering in their own museum, but
as many other examples as they could possibly collect.
Mr Combe, aware of this fact, and assuming all that plau­
sibility which has, when dexterously managed, so fine a
stage effect, has announced to the public that he triumph­
antly refuted Sir William Hamilton's demonstrations, not
simply by the collection o f skulls from the Clyde Street
Hall, but by the whole of the open crania from a private
museum, which were doubtless, fro m their number, trans­
ferred to the scene o f action with considerable difficulty.
« I mentioned,” says he, « to the audience that M r
Syme, lately lecturer on anatomy, and now on surgery,
who not a phrenologist, had kindly favoured me with
the use of all the open skulls in his collection, which I then
exhibited along with the whole open skulls belonging to the
Phrenological Society; hereby enabling every individual
present, after ocular inspection, to decide for himself on
the parallelism o f the inner and outer tables o f the cranium,
as well as on the frequency and extent o f the frontal sinus.
By using M r Syme’s specimens, the charge o f selection was
obviated; and, by producing all o f them, no room was left
for suspecting the intentional omission of' a n y ; while, at
the same time, an opportunity was afforded o f contrasting
them with the phrenological collection, and detecting any
partiality in the latter, if it existed.” *
Nothing can appear, at first sight, more satisfactory than
this intelligence, whereby we are induced to suppose that
a considerable number of open skulls were brought down
from Mr Syme's museum, to determine the fact disputed;
and great is the praise due to Mr Combe, who, with a de­
gree of spirit and candour unexampled in the annals of
controversy, brought forward 4
<all M r Syme's specimens
whereby he clearly obviated the charge o f cc selection,” and
»
55
* Vide T h e Phrenological Journal, vol. iv. 383.
56
proved that no partiality whatever exists in the phrenolo­
gical collection. On visiting Mr Syme's museum, however,
I find that his collection of open crania amounts only to
three, one of which, being that of an infant of about two
years of age, would, in no wise, have affected the present
question. Here, indeed, we might pause to ask what con­
fidence is to be placed upon the authority of men who can
have recourse to so flagrant a misrepresentation, to mis­
guide their own credulous disciples, and impose on the un­
derstanding of the public ? What can we think of that
system which requires even its ablest advocate to defend it
by such a miserable expedient ?
The truth is, those who have the opportunity of vi­
siting either public or private museums, and examining any
number of open crania, will And, that the frontal sinuses
among men, as among nations, vary considerably. They
are, in every individual, very different and unequal in their
height, breadth, and depth, extending most commonly over
seven, frequently over twelve, and sometimes over siorteen,
of the most important organs of the phrenological sys­
tem.
While these sinuses exhibit this variety, there is no pos­
sible means of ascertaining, during life, their extent. It
has, indeed, been stated that their presence is always indi­
cated by a bony crest, while that of the organs is cha­
racterized by distinct and isolated protuberances; but the
fact, in contradiction to this assertion, is, that the bony
elevation alluded to never bears any relation to the di­
mensions or extent of the sinuses. Either may exist without
the other; and where the sinus has been found wanting,
57
the external surface has been perfectly smooth, and without
any protuberances indicative o f cerebral development.
D r Spurzheim has next asserted that the frontal sinuses
are generally wanting in children, young persons, and
adults, and that they occur only in old persons, or after
chronic insanity.* The absence o f the sinuses in young
and adult persons is, on the contrary, exceedingly rare: so
much so, as to have escaped the observation of Palfin, Ber-
tin, Portal, Soemmering, Caldani, and other anatomists.
Dr Monro mentions it as a remarkable fact, that, out of
forty-five skulls o f adults cut open, he found three only
where the sinuses were wanting. { Out o f the number
opened by Sir William Hamilton, the poportion is still
less.
Here, also, it may again be remarked, that the convo­
lutions do not extend, so as to fill the angle formed by the
union o f the anterior plate o f the frontal bone with its or-
bitar plate; nevertheless, over this cavity are situated the
organs of form, colour, order, number, &c. The same
objection applies to the organs at the base o f the cerebrum,
and to a considerable portion of the cerebellum.
The external configuration of the cranium appears,
therefore, to have no correspondence with the brain it en­
closes. In mammiferous animals, which are most favour­
able to such an opinion, as the skull is in them longer in a
cartilaginous and flexible state, the internal table receives
* Examination o f Objections, 79.
+ Vide M onro’s Elements, 133.
H
x Ibid.
58
the impression of the brain; yet, even here, the olfactory
and auditory cavities becoming interposed, the tables are
unequally separated from each other, and the whole con­
tour of the head is thereby visibly affected. This is parti­
cularly the case with the elephant, hog, and buffalo. The
air-cells also of birds in general pervade the cranium, and
have a similar effect, which is especially exemplified in the
ostrich, eagle, and owl. * In many reptiles, and in some
fish, the brain does not half fill the cavity of the skull, the
interspace being filled witli a watery or oily secretion.
Neither in man nor in animals, therefore, is it possible to
ascertain, during life, the relative positions and sizes of
those organs to which each of the more favoured faculties
has been assigned “ a local habitation and a name.”
Dr Spurzheim, in reply to these objections, has lately ob­
served, <
c We do notjudge by the particular elevations and
bumps upon the skull, but by its general development Our
adversaries are the bumpists— but no— look at the general
appearance—judgefo r yourselves/ ’•
(-
What Dr Spurzheim would have us to understand by
this declaration it is impossible to comprehend; for, in the
same course, nay, in the same lecture, he proceeded to
demonstrate the individual bumps and protuberances which,
in fact, constitute the system.
Have not the phrenologists, like the aspiring giants of the
* Blumcnbach, Comp. Anat.
f BIS. Notes o f Lectures on the Anatomy, Physiology, and Pathology of
the Brain, delivered in Edinburgh in 1838.
olden time, who piled Mount Ossa on Pelion, and Pelion
on Olympus, crowded organ upon organ, from the base to
the vertex o f the head P Have not the supposed relative
positions and dimensions of these, as indicated by isolated
protuberances, been taught in books, lectures, and deli­
neated on all the phrenological busts? Have they not
pretended to measure them severally and individually in
living characters, even to the eighth o f an inch ? But
this is not all. In adverting to the custom which dif­
ferent nations have o f compressing and otherwise changing
the form o f the head, D r Spurzheim remarked, u T he in­
strument that is worn for this purpose has been brought to
England. I know not exactly how long it is used, but
have heard about two years. It is curious, and worthy o f
investigation; and I would have you, should any o f you
have the opportunity, make this inquiry,— see, when the
bone is compressed, whether the brain underneath it ceases
to increase in size. You may try it in anim als; f o r i f it
be the case9 then we could, in i?ifants9compress the head in
its different parts, so as to g ive a direction and development
to the best a/nd noblestfaculties o f the human m ind*
**
How beautiful is this suggestion ! how characteristic of
the philosophy of all the phrenological speculations ! When
this annus mirabilis comes to pass, it will be the millc-
nium o f Phrenology. W c shall then, indeed, hear no
more o f u little bumps and protuberances” but shall
* M S. Notes o f Lectures on the Anatom y, Physiology, and Pathology o f
the Brain, delivered in Edinburgh in 1828.
Hi)
speak of the mountain of veneration being bounded, on
the south by the valley of amativeness, and on the cast
and west by the caverns of destructiveness. The ideal
Republic of Plato, the Atlantis of Harrison, the Utopia
of More, were all only dim and faint conceptions of that
state of perfectibility of which the human mind and
heart are thus supposed susceptible. But if, before this
happy period arrive, Dr Spurzheim himself renounces the
first and leading article in the phrenological canon;— if he
relinquishes the opinion that the different organs are ascer­
tainable, during life, by the individual, distinct, and isolat­
ed protuberances on the external table of the skull;— if he
himself joins issue with his opponents, and at length denies
the validity of the very principle whereby the system was
itselfdiscovered, and which still forms the basis of its con­
stitution ;— then must his own disciples acknowledge that
the whole phrenological superstructure has fallen into Ba­
bel-like confusion, and Mr Combe will l>e left, like ano­
ther Marius, weeping bitterly over its ruins.
T H E EVIDENCE OF A N A TO M Y.
A ll avowed theorists and speculative adventurers are,
in general, tenacious of their claims to originality; they
are unwilling to believe that any of their views could,
by any possibility, have been anticipated ; and resemble,
61
for the most part, the ingenious Dutchman, who clearly
convicted some of the ancient authors o f borrowing from his
writings. How far Drs Gall and Spurzheim may be entitled
to merit for having made certain discoveries which were well
known in the time of Malpighi, is not a matter o f the
slightest im port; nor is it here requisite to institute any in­
quiry into some controversial points in the structure o f the
brain, which, it is acknowledged, have no necessary con­
nection with the truth or falsehood o f the phrenological
doctrines.
The most accurate and minute anatomical investigations
will alone not reveal to us the use o f any organ ; yet the
study of anatomy is essential to the progress o f physiology,
as a knowledge o f the internal structure o f an organ will
always tend considerably to elucidate and confirm our opi­
nions respecting the nature o f its functions. It, therefore,
remains for us to enquire, Whether the anatomical re­
searches of Drs Gall and Spurzheim have thrown any light
on Phrenology ?
The object of all their demonstrations is to prove that
the brain is composed of a number of fibres, * which arise
* M alpighi, M ayer, Vienssens, Reil, and other anatomists, have described
the fibrous structure o f the brain. The late D r John Gordon was at the
pains to bring forward the evidence on this subject,— in reply to which D r
Spurzheim, with some asperity, entered into an explanation, endeavouring to
exonerate himself from having been indebted especially to R eil. (Exam ina­
tion o f Objections.)— T h e claims o f the new candidates m ay, however, surely
be set at rest by the following extract from M alpighi. “ From the trunk o f
the spinal marrow contained within the cranium, (medulla oblongata}) os from
a remarkable collection o f fibres, the whole fibres dispersed through the brain
from the medulla oblongata; and, decussating each other,
form the pyramidal eminences. They then, increasing in
and cerebellum appear to take their origin; for they ramify from the four
reflected crura o f this medulla, in all directions, until they end by their
branched extremities in the cortex. Their progress in the cerebellum is more
evident; it consist* o ffibres, extended in theform o f a tree, in the extreme
brandies, or leaves, as it were, o f which the cortex is elegantly laid, but so
unconnected with the adjacent parts, that the leaves appear free. In the
brain, however, the arch or roofo f (he ventricle consists o ffibres, which are
inclined towards the sides, andformed into a vault," Not only does Malpi­
ghi describe these flbres rising in fasciculi from the spinal marrow, and ra­
diating through the hemispheres, but also the unfolding o f the convolutions,
which he represents in the brain o f the fish. ( Vide Excrcitat. Epist de Cc-
rebro, p. 4 , 1169.)— The cerebral convolutions arc supposed by Drs Gall and
Spurzheim to be formed by two fibrous layers, slightly agglutinated together
by the surrounding grey substance. The experiment to prove this consists in
injecting a stream o f air or water against a transverse section o f the convolu­
tion which, it is affirmed, separates it from the apex to the base. (AnaL o f
the Brain, p. 171.)— This has been often performed ; and the effect, we arc
informed, has uniformly been, that the stream of air or water separates the
convolutions at the sides as well as in the mid<Uc; and the convolutions may
thus be divided into layers more or less numerous, and more or less thick, at
the pleasure o f the demonstrator. Dr Spurzheim affirms that this separation
only takes place when the stream is directed on the middle line. u I have
never,1
1 says Dr Gordon, “ experienced more difficulty in separating the la­
minae at the sides from each other than those in the middle; and supposing
the contrary to have been the case, it would only have tended to shew that the
lamina in the middle adhere to each other less firmly than at the side, which
is the opinion actually entertained by Reil.1
1 (Obs. on the Structure o f the
Brain, 14-3.)— Tenon, Portal, Sabatier, Pine), and Cuvier, witnessed Dr
Spurzheim perform this experiment; and, in a similar manner, they report
that, admitting the fact, it only proves u that there is less cohesion in the
middle o f a circumvolution than in the rest of its capacity.1
1 (Rep. o f the
Committee o f the French Institute.
63
size, form the crura cerebri. In their progress, they are
represented crossing over the pons varolii; entering the tha-
lami optici, corpora stria?, See.; and, after expanding into
layers, and contributing to form the upper and outer por­
tions of both hemispheres, they are, by the co-operation
of the fibres of the corpus callosum, brought into commu­
nication, and find, as it were, a centre o f union in the co-
missurcs.*
The presumptive evidence that is afforded by these ana­
tomical views is strikingly at variance with the phrenologi­
cal hypothesis. It is, indeed, impossible to conceive any
structure more illustrative of the unity o f the brain’s ac­
tion. In every part we trace a continuity o f the same ma­
terial substance, forming clearly a single organ; neverthe­
less, by a remarkable perversion o f judgment, it is insisted
that this continuous structure is a congeries o f no less than
thirty-five organs, the limits o f not one o f which can be as­
certained. This proposition, albeit unsupported by the
slightest vestige o f proof, is invariably taken for grant­
ed. It is the alpha and omega o f the whole phrenologi-
cal creed, and the petitio principii9 on which all their
reasonings depend. “ It is certa in f says D r Spurz-
heim, “ that the brain consists of' a multiplicity o f instru­
ments perform ing particular f u n c t i o n s Yet, on what
does the certainty of this conclusion rest ? How has it
been proved P W here demonstrated ? Had it been as­
serted that every separate bundle o f fibres, or each convo-
• Anatomy o f the Brain, with a General View o f the Nervous System.
64
lution formed a distinct organ, the supposition, although
equally hypothetical, would have been, to a certain extent,
more plausible; but, even then, no reason could have been
adduced to shew why every part of the brain might not still
l>c essential to the performance o f all its healthy functions,
as every part of the eye or ear has a reference to the sense
of vision, or of hearing.
The physiological speculations of Drs Gall and Spurz-
heim are absolutely opposed, therefore, to their own ana­
tomical demonstrations: for by what circuitous mode of
reasoning is it that we are to conclude that the very struc­
ture, which is proved to be, in every part, continuous, is
nevertheless a congeries of organs? Is not this inference,
in every respect, contrary to the evidence before us ? Had
Drs Gall and Spurzheim proceeded at all philosophically,
instead o f contenting themselves with reiterating a bold,
reckless, and gratuitous assertion, they would first have
set about proving this, the most important of all the phre­
nological propositions; but, on tlie contrary, they have sub­
stituted hypothesis for fact,— dogmatism for proof,— and
fatally, it is to be feared, imposed on some weak-minded
“ ladies and gentlemen,” who may, like Johanna South-
cote, never eventually recover from their delusion.
65
T H E E V ID E N C E OF C O M P A R A T IV E
A N A T O M Y -
T he phrenologists having framed their theory from a
superficial examination o f the human head, next proceed to
manipulate the skulls o f the inferior animals; but from the
little influence which, as we have already seen, the brain
has in determining the form and configuration of the ex­
ternal cranial bone, such examinations cannot afford suffi­
cient data on which to rest any chain o f inductive reason­
ing. W ith the same affectation that induces them to de­
claim perpetually against the metaphysicians o f every age
and nation, they inveigh against the use o f the word in­
stinct, and refer all its manifestations to the activity of
the phrenological organs. That this word may have been
applied by many writers in too indefinite a sense, may be
true; it is, however, not the less certain, that all animals
exhibit a species o f intuitive knowledge, which differs es­
sentially from human reason, and to which no better term
can be applied.
The proximate cause of this instinct has, by some writ­
ers, been attributed to the organization of the animal; by
others, to its experience; yet neither of these explanations
will sufficiently account for its phenomena. However striking
be the adaptation o f an assemblage of instruments to perform
certain, actions, we must always consider them in relation
to some moving, or directing principle. Did the struc­
ture of an animal alone give rise to its peculiar habits, all
I
66
its actions would be invariable, and preserve the same uni­
formity ; nor would it, in any case, vary its mode of action
to suit the contingencies of external circumstances. The
same bird, urged by the same blind mechanical impulse,
would, under every condition, build her nest in a similar
manner, without being influenced by the peculiar exigen­
cies of time and place. Yet we have many examples to the
contrary.
The sparrow, when building on a tree, always constructs
a covering for her nest, for the sake of protection; yet
never has recourse to this contrivance when building under
a shed or roof. The beavers, when they settle by the side
of a running stream, always erect a strong pier, or dam-
dyke, to preserve the water at the same height; yet they
never think of this operation when they meet at the brink
of a lake. The actions of many animals have also a rela­
tion tofu tu re exigencies, which is quite inexplicable on this
hypothesis. Many birds remain for weeks together upon
their nests, and, when they leave them, with provident
care cover their eggs, to keep them warm, and conceal
them from danger. The magpie, knowing her eggs are
the food of many birds of prey, covers her nest carefully,
leaving only a sufficient space at the side, to get out and in
at. Rabbits, and some other maimniferous animals, whose
young are born blind, as a protection, cover the holes
wherein they lie concealed.
Nor will the experience of the animal alone explain
these phenomena, as it is certain they perform many actions
that are independent .of all acquired knowledge. The in­
stinctive perception which enables the young partridge, al-
67
most as soon as it comes from the shell, to run about,
without injuring itself, among the long grass and corn,
and the young grouse among the rough heather:— the
skill and delicacy with which the uninformed swallow con­
structs her nest, and the gossamer spider its web, proves
incontestably a knowledge independent of that long chain
of reasoning which Berkeley refers to, as the cause of all
our acquired perceptions o f the situations and relative dis­
tances o f objects.
While, therefore, neither the organization o f the animal
nor its individual experience, will alone explain the source
of instinct, both these contingencies have doubtless a consi­
derable influence in determining and modifying its mani­
festations ; yet, to decide how far they may have operated
in affecting the habits and propensities o f different animals,
we must venture into a wide field o f speculation which has
hitherto not been explored.
DrsGall and Spurzheim have,indeed,proposed to examine
the structure of the brain and nervous system, ascending
from the simplest animals up to man. But what have they
in reality effected ? They have hitherto merely described
the nerves of the caterpillar, the brain and spinal marrow
o f the chick, and some few mammiferous animals; yet even
their work on these subjects, on the authority o f Cuvier,
Tiedmann, and other distinguished anatomists, is not ex­
empt from errors. No very extensive view of the animal
kingdom is, indeed, necessary to discover fa cts that are
opposed to their conclusions, and to perceive that they
have adopted a very unsatisfactory and partial mode of in­
duction.
66
I. The cerebellum is supposed to be the organ of Ama­
tiveness, and the faculty attributed to it is said to have al­
ways an energy, proportionate to the size of its develop­
ment.
In the class mammalia, the cynocephali possess this fa­
culty in a very extraordinary degree. In the words of
Desmoulins, “ il depasse tout ce que la nature a pu reali-
ser ailleurs, tout ce que Timagination peut inventer;" ne­
vertheless, the whole o f the cerebellum, and particularly the
lateral lobes, are less developed in proportion than we find
them in man.*
*
The domestic guinea-pig of India possesses this propen­
sity in a very inordinate degree. “ D ’un seul couple en
moins de quinze mois, on peut obtenir mille individus.
Frequence reiteree de Vaccouplement, et fecondite extreme,
tout devrait done, amener un developpement enorme, du
cervelet dans tous ses l o b e s y e t it is neither more nor less
developed than in the wild animal of the same species,
** qui ne s'accouple qu’une fois par an, et ne produit que
deux petits/’*f
In birds remarkable for the manifestation of this facul­
ty, the lateral lobes of the cerebellum are wanting, and
the median is not more developed than in those Avho do
not exhibit this propensity to such a degree.} In some
* Anat. des Syst. Nerv. des Anim. Verteb. ii. 575. "f Ibid.
* “ Dans les oiscaux ou l’accouplcraent est si ardent, le cervelet consiste
nniquement dans le lobe median, et e’ est aux lobes lat^raux que rlsiderait
ehez les mammiftres Tinstinct de la voluptd. Quoique dans les oiseaux la du-
jit de Tam our soit plus courte, que dans les plupari des soamxnifdres, quoi-
4
69
fish the median lobe attains the greatest size known. “ Par
exemple dans le Barbeau, les Silures, les Gades. Or atu
cun de ces poissojis ne s'accouple et m&me le plus souvent
les males ne connaissent pas lafemeUe dont ilsjecondent les
cnifs. Il y a non plus ici aucune education, aucun instinct
conservateur de la famille. Les parents ne connaissent pas
leurs pettits, et s’ils les rencontrent, ils les mangent comme
une proie ordinaire. D'apres ces faits il n’y a done aucun
rapport entre le sens de la volupte, Tinstinct de famille, et
de lobe median du cervelet. Tout indique au contraire
que le sens de la volupt^ est a peu pres nul dans les poissons
osseux. E t comme nous l’avons observe ailleurs* il y a
au contraire, un rapport inverse entre l’activite de ce sens
et la fecondite. La reproduction est d’autant plus abon-
dante, que le conscience de son actediminue dans les etres.
Ainsi, les milliers d'ceufs d’une morue paraissent etre con-
9U
S et deposes avec la m£me insensibilite que les millions
de fleurs d’un orme ou d'un tilleul sont fecondes et trans­
formes en graines.” *
f*
Toads, some species of frogs, and vipers, possess this
faculty in so powerful a degree, that its activity absorbs
all their consciousness; nevertheless, they have no cerebel­
lum.
que enfin le cervelet ne soit pas plus diveloppe dans le coq qui s’accouple
presque toute l’annle, que dans les oiseaux ou raccouplem ent ne dure que
qudques jours, nlamraoins la liaison de ces faits aurait pu sembler assez
constante pour que Ton en fit une loi.” (Ibid . tom . ii. ,578, 579.)
• Diet. Classiq. d ’ H ist Nat, art Cynocephaltt. •
j* Ibid.
70
II. The organ of Philoprogenitiveness is next represent­
ed as giving rise to parental attachment; but, on inquiry,
it will be found that the energy of this benevolent feeling
depends on moral, rather than on physical causes. In the ear­
ly history of nations, when the habits, manners, and laws
of a people, partake of the rude and barbarous spirit o f the
times, we find the exercise of this faculty, so far from
being the necessary result of any organic constitution, so
completely abolished, that we can scarcely recognize even
its existence.
The Phenicians and Carthaginians were, by their my­
thological creed, induced frequently to sacrifice their in­
fants to the gods. The latter had a law which decreed
that four children of noble birth should be regularly im­
molated on the altars of Saturn.* History records a me­
lancholy instance of this superstition and cruelty. It is
related they attributed their defeat by Agathocles king of
Sicily to the omission of these sacrifices; and, in order to
atone for the past negligence, offered up at one time two
hundred o f the sons of the nobility.
In some of the Grecian states infanticide was not only
tolerated but enforced by law. The Spartan legislator ex­
pressly ordained that every child that was born should be
examined, and if found weak or deformed, thrown into a
deep cavern at the foot of Mount Taygelus, called Apothe-
tce7 u concluding that its life could be of no advantage ei-
* Anc. Univ. Hist. vol. xvii. p. 237.
71
ther to itself or to the public, since nature had not given
it at first any strength or goodness o f constitution” * The
mild Plato even justifies this practice, and directs, in his
republic, that “ all children born with any deformity shall
be removed and concealed in some obscure retreat.”^
This barbarous custom was coeval with Rome. It was
authorized by Romulus, J sanctioned by the law o f the
Twelve Tables,|
|and continued until the time o f Constantine
the Great, after which it was exploded by the mild spirit
of Christianity.
The Hindoos, from the earliest period, have had recourse
to this apalling crime. The Greek and Roman historians
noticed it, and referred to the places where they practised
it. Dr Buchanan states that the number o f infantile mur­
ders in the provinces of C'utch and Guzerat alone amount­
ed, according to the lowest calculation in 1807, to 3000
annually ; and, by another computation, to 30,000. § M r
Duncan, the governor of Bombay, informs us that a sect of
Hindoos was discovered in 1789, who were in the habit of
putting to death all their female infants, the mother caus­
ing them to be starved. This sect, called the Rqjekoo-
marSy lived on the frontiers o f Juanporc, a district o f the
province of Benares, adjoining to the country o f Oude.•
*
*
§
• Plutarch’s Lives, translated by Langhorne, vol. i. 142.
-f* Ibid. vol. iv. p. 342.
$ Montesquieu Esprit des Loix, tom. i. 268.
|
| Cooper’s Justinian, p. 659.
§ Buchanan’s Researches in Asia, p. 49.
72
The practice had long subsisted, and was then prevail­
ing.*
In Otaheite infanticide was at one time so common, that
it threatened the depopulation of the whole island. Turn-
bull relates that, at least, two-thirds of the people were de-
stroyed.-f When Captain Cook visited the island, it was
found to contain $204,000 inhabitants. In less than thirty
years afterwards, the number was reduced to 5000. J
When the people became converted to Christianity, its be­
nevolent principles exploded the continuance of so horrible
a custom.
The Giagas, fierce and wandering people in the central
parts of Africa, indulge in polygamy, and bury all their
children the moment of their birth, choosing in their stead
the most promising children taken in war.
The frequent want of parental affection among barba­
rous tribes may be attributed almost invariably to the
* Asiatic Researches, vol. iv. 338.— Am ong the Jarcjah Rajeputs it was
the custom to destroy all the female infants as soon as born, which was some­
times done by the midwife, but more frequently by the mother. Navigators
describe also a society in the South Sea Islands, calling themselves Arreoyst
among whom a similar barbarous practice prevailed. These, and many other
facts referred to in the ensuing pages, may at first sight appear to have little
or no connection with phrenology. They will be found, however, on further
consideration, of considerable importance, as they tend, in a very striking man­
ner, to prove how the superstitions, habits, manners, and customs of a people,
without any reference to cerebral development, give rise to and determine the
leading features o f the human character.
■
f* Voyage round the W orld, vol. iii. 7T.
* Cook’s Second Voyage, vol. i. 349.
73
difficulty which they find in supporting their families,
and the low and degraded state in which, at such pe­
riods, women are generally held. Hence the Hindoos, in
expiation of infanticide, urge the trouble they have in rear­
ing their female children, and the improbability o f their
afterwards being married.* “ I wish to God,w said a poor
Oroonoka woman* when reproved for this crime; “ father,
I wish to God that my mother had, by my death, prevent­
ed the manifold distresses that I have endured. Had she
kindly stifled me at birth, I had not felt the pain o f death,
nor numberless other pains that life hath subjected me to.
Consider, father, our deplorable condition. Our husbands
go to hunt with their bows and arrows, and trouble them­
selves no farther. They return in the evening without any
burden ; we with the burden of our children ; and, though
tired with a long march, are not permitted to sleep, but
must labour the whole night. They get drunk, and in
their intoxication beat us, drag us by the hair o f the head,
and tread us under foot. A h, father, would to G od my
mother had buried me alive the moment I was born ! Y ou
know yourself the truth of my complaints. Then, after
a poor Indian woman has served her husband like a slave,
she is at length despised by him ; and, after twenty years,
he takes a younger wife, and maltreats her children or her­
self, and if she complains, she is silenced with scourges.
Can a mother do better than deprive her daughter o f life ?* f
• Buchanan’s Researches in Asia, p. 99.
+ GumiUa Histoirc de TOronoque, cxxxii. Voyage a h Gmane et s Cay­
enne, p. 148.
K
74
In all countries where infanticide is common, women are
literally slaves. The Giaga women reap, sow, cut wood,
toil in the fields and forests, while their husbands remain
supinely and indolently at home. The Hottentot young
men are admitted into the company of their seniors at the
age of eighteen, after which it is considered disgraceful to
keep company with women. D r Barrow describes a race
of these people called Bojesmans, who, when oppressed by
hunger, or obliged to fly from the Boors, without any he­
sitation strangle their children, cast them away in the de­
serts, or bury them alive.* In China, women are bartered
for, as slaves, and kept constantly under lock and key.
They have been notorious for infanticide. The late Sir
George Staunton estimated the yearly amount of infantile
exposures in the city of Pekin alone at 2000, Mr Barrow
at 9000, and many of the missionaries still higher.
The practice that prevailed in Greece and Home of men
purchasing their wives, and lending them out afterwards
among their friends, must necessarily have tended to di­
minish the attachment of a mother towards her children;
for the influence of tyranny, like the pestilent odour of the
upas tree, never fails to lay waste and destroy every gene­
rous feeling within its reach. As nations, however, gra­
dually improve, and become polished, females attain that
rank in society which they are so eminently destined to
adorn. An alliance of a more intellectual and sacred kind
• Dr Barrow’s Account of a Journey in Africa in 1801 and 1802, pp.
378, 379.
75
is then established between the sexes; the more servile
passions of human nature become softened and refined $
and the affection o f a mother towards her offspring assumes
a cliaracter of the purest, fondest, and holiest description.
The existence of the philoprogenitive organ was origi­
nally inferred from the fact, that the feeling of parental af­
fection is not so strong in the male, as in the female o f every
species of animal. The law holds universally, and yet it
cannot be denied, that the organ is frequently absolutely
and relatively more fully developed in the male, than it is
in the female. Fathers have been known, like Titus Man­
lius and Brutus, to condemn their sons to death; and mo­
thers have been seen to sacrifice themselves in endeavouring
to preserve the lives o f their children. The paternal is
unquestionably weaker than the maternal tie; yet are there
no other causes to which this may be attributed ? Is it
not obvious that the relation o f a father towards his child
is of a less intimate and endearing kind than that o f the
mother ? He has no reminisoence o f the long and anxious
sufferings that have been endured for its sake; be feels not
that the vital source o f its nourishment is dependent upon
him ; he mingles with the stir and bustle o f the busy
world, and his thoughts arc continually engaged by other
cares; whilst the mother, brooding in solitude over her
infant, cherishes the perpetual consciousness o f having
ushered it into existence; she alone feels sensible that its
feeble life is still dependent upon her support, and day and
night ministers, with all the tenderest solicitude o f love, to
supply its little wants and necessities. But, it will be asked,
are there no examples among us to the contrary P none of
76
maternal heartlcssness ? none even of infanticide ? It must
be acknowledged there are some melancholy instances on re­
cord, in which the unfortunate mother, from a sense of her
own frailty, and the fear of public ignominy, has been led,
in the delirium of her sin, to uplift her hand against the
life of her own child. The apprehension of exposure, the
dread o f persecution, above all, the trembling hope that
she may yet save herself from dishonour, would appear, on
such occasions, to raise a terrible conflict, in which reason
itself grows bewildered, or only conjures up some new and
more hideous phantom of alarm, urging the perpetration
of this revolting crime. Many are the moral causes, there­
fore, which manifestly excite, diminish, or even obliterate
for a time feelings of parental attachment; nor has any
evidence been hitherto brought forward to authorize us to
attribute the manifestations of this faculty simply to the
increased activity of a certain isolated portion of the brain.
Throughout the animal kingdom the attachment of eve­
ry female animal o f the same species to her young is al­
ways uniform; whatever variety may exist in the form or
size of the head, each will defend her young with the
same savage intrepidity ; nor does the feeling appear to be
at all affected or modified by any difference of cerebral
development.
The ingenuity which some animals exhibit in defraud­
ing the stranger from the place of their young, affords an
additional argument in favour of the opinion, that instinct
cannot be regarded merely as a blind impulse, resulting
from the organic constitution o f the animal. When the
hind hears the hounds, she puts herself in the way of being
77
hunted, and leads them from her fawn. The partridge,
wild duck, ringed plover, and arctic gull, drop a wing, and
feign lameness, enticing the obtruder to follow them, and
leave their young in safety. The lapwing is not less in­
genious : when a person approaches, she flies about, always
retiring from her nest. Actions o f this kind, suggested
clearly by the exigency o f the moment, and varied accord­
ingly, can never be considered as the result merely o f a me­
chanical cause, the effects o f which would, in every case, be
nearly similar, without any reference to the differences and
peculiarities of contingent circumstances.
The law appears to hold universally throughout the ani­
mal kingdom, that when the young animal is able to pro­
tect itself, the end of parental attachment being accom­
plished, the bond of union is dissolved. W hen the young
tigers can support themselves, they leave the jungle o f the
tigress; and when the young eagles can secure their own
prey, they are driven from the eyrie. This fact is strik­
ingly opposed to the phrenological theory; for how hap­
pens it that the organ from whence this feeling was deriv­
ed all of a sudden, as if by an inexplicable caprice, ceases
to continue its activity ? Again, it may be argued, that
all animals possessing the organ of philoprogenitiveness
should be endowed with the memory attributed to i t ; yet,
in no instance does the parent animal ever afterwards re­
cognise her young.
III. The organ of Inhabitiveness is the next which
claims our attention, being highly characteristic o f the spe­
culative genius o f the phrenologists, who have, with the
78
most singular acumen, been enabled to determine exactly
what are the primitive faculties of the mind, and have le­
gislated on their several capabilities and varieties, with as
much confidence as if they had been admitted prime mi.
nisters into the cabinet councils of nature, and were per­
fectly conversant with all her most secret operations.
As every flower and herb is indigenous to a certain soil
and climate, so every animal is the inhabitant of some par­
ticular country, and pursues that mode of life for which, by
its general structure, it is visibly destined. The bear and
the wolf would not live in the climate of the lion ; nor does
the rein-deer thrive when transported from its snowy re­
gions into the sunny valleys of the south. Certain animals,
from the peculiarity of their conformation, are indisposed
to much activity, and, like the sloth, move heavily along,
or remain for a considerable period in a state of indolence
and repose. Others, on the contrary, having the extremi­
ties light and flexible, are seen, like the wild goat or ante­
lope, bounding playfully along the sides of the steepest
rocks. Some, as the deer or sheep, browse quietly in
the fertile vale,* others, like the pacos, live only on the
tops of the highest mountains. There are some birds
* which, like the dodo, from their general structure, are in­
capable of flying; whilst others, like the eagle, rise very
high into the heavens. Such habits result unquestionably
from the general organization o f the animal. It is, for ex­
ample, remarked, that birds which live on earth, as our do­
mestic birds, and those which climb trees, have the poste­
rior enlargement of the spinal marrow much greater than
the anterior; whilst those which fly in the air, and mi­
79
grate, present an inverse arrangement.* But the struc­
ture o f the brain or spinal marrow alone would not lead
animals to adopt these peculiar habits: we must always
look to their general conformation. Thus, the chamois,
the inhabitant o f the Alps and Pyrennees, is, by the
light and tendinous structure of its limbs, peculiarly and
visibly destined to ascend and descend the steepest and
most difficult rocky paths; and there is every reason to
believe, that animals preferring the summits of the highest
mountains are led to do so from the difference o f climate
which is, in such places, more congenial to them. Hence
we are informed, that the pacos, which seem to require a
more purified and rarified air than is found even on the
tops of our highest mountains, never thrive if confined to
the valley, and invariably die when transported into a warm
climate.
The phrenologists, in their theorizing mania, conceive
that no bird can rise into the air, nor any animal ascend
a few yards up a mountain, without being endowed with
a peculiar cerebral structure, disposing it to self-eleva­
tion. Yet we know some birds of the same kind adopt
thus far very opposite habits, without it being possible to
discover the supposed difference in the conformation o f the
brain. The sky-lark, for instance, mounts high into the
heavens, and pours forth its “ stream of song,” from a
height that is dazzling to the naked e y e ; whilst, on the
other hand, the tit-lark perches on the branches o f the
• Lawrence's Blumembach, 251.
80
hedge-row, and the ground-lark rests upon the green­
sward. Again, the golden eagle builds her nest on the
inaccessible summits of the loftiest cliffs, sometimes shel­
tered behind a jutting crag, often exposed to the wind,
rain, and all the changes of the inclement weather. The
sea-eagle, on the contrary, living chiefly on fish, invariably
builds her nest down upon the sea-shore. Were even the
possibility of the existence of such a pre-determinate facul­
ty as that under consideration, for a single moment to be
admitted, there would be no end to the phrenological spe­
culations. Thus one organ would lead the bat to frequent
ruinous cathedrals and towers ; another of a different kind,
the owl, to the gloomy precincts of the church-yard ; and
another, tlie ostrich, into his wild and solitary deserts.
Like the sage and immortal Martinus Scriblerus, the
phrenologists appear to have been wandering in search of
the sublime when they discovered this organ; but as there
is only one step between the sublime and the ludicrous,
urged by an untoward phrenological impulse, they have,
it would seem, unfortunately overstept the fatal boun­
dary. Some opinions, indeed, may be maintained, that
are so absolutely ridiculous, that they deserve no se­
rious attention; and he who would begin gravely to con­
trovert them would only resemble Smollett’s honest pe­
dant, who sat down to prove, by mathematical demon­
stration, that it was wrong to do evil, and was laughed
at for his pains. Thus, when Dr Spurzheim tells us
seriously that “ one set o f rats, possessing" this organ,
mount into corn-lofts; and others, possessing it not, descend
\
%
81
into cellars?* W hen he assures us this primitive feeling is
first manifested by leading little “ children to climb up on
chairs, in order to be on a level with adult persons there
is something in the supposition alone so exceedingly ludi­
crous, that its nonsense and absurdity can be aggravated
only by the gravity with which it would doubtless be
defended within the walls o f the Phrenological Society.
IV. The organ o f Destructiveness, originally termed
that of u murder™ is considered by the phrenologists as hav­
ing been completely established; yet the manifestations of
the feelings attributed to this faculty will invariably be
found to result from those external circumstances and mo­
ral causes, which alone appear to determine all the darker,
as well as the brighter, traits o f the human character.
With every nation the effects o f climate, and force o f
example, are remarkable; hence the inhabitants o f northern
countries have been represented to possess more apathy and
indifference than those in more southern regions. A tribe
o f northern Indians has been described, who view, with the
most perfect complacency, scenes o f the greatest distress,
and even find an enjoyment in witnessing such spectacles.
M I have been present,7
* says Hearne, c< when one o f them
would imitate the groans, distorted features, and contracted
positions o f a roan who had died in the most excruciating
pain, and put the whole company except myself into the
most violent fit o f laughter.” J Even women in these re-
• Physiognomic System, p* 291. + Ibid.
t Hearned Journey to the Northern Ocean, p. 340.
I.
83
gions appear to lose all that mildness, gentleness, and sen­
sibility, which the author of Emile has so well described
as being the principal constituents of their natural character.
<
c In this territory,” continues the same traveller, “ they
desire their husbands and friends to bring them home the
prisoners taken in war, that they may themselves enjoy the
savage pleasure of putting them to death.'” *
With many tribes revenge is made a favourite and cherish­
ed passion, and its indulgence forms the leading feature of
their character. Among the Rookies, or Lunctas, it is cus­
tomary, if one of their number be killed, by falling from a
tree, for the rest to assemble, and cut it down ; and, what­
ever be its size, convert it into chips, which they scatter to
the wind."!" ^ one them become the prey of a tiger, the
whole tribe is up in arms; and the family of the deceased
remains in disgrace until, by destroying the animal, they
can give a feast of its flesh.J There are many entire tribes
on the western coast of Africa, with whom it is an avowed
maxim “ never to forgive or let an injury go unrevenged,'"
alledging that Mthe forgiveness of injuries is incompatible
with the nature of man/J
|
| The duty of vengeance is held
to be imperative among the North American Indians. The
instance is related by a traveller of a young Chactaw, who,
having been reproved by his mother, “ took so ill as, in
the fury of his shame, to resolve on his own death.*” He
committed suicide; and his sister, being his nearest rela-
* Hearnc’s Journey to the Northern Ocean, p. 140.
■f Asiatic Researches, vol. vii. p. 1S9 $ Ibid.
|
| Park's Travels in the Interior o f Africa, p. 15.— More's Travels into
the inland parts o f Africa, p. 26.
83
dve, and thinking herself bound to revenge his loss, told
her mother she had caused her brother's death, and must
pay for his life. “ Whereupon the old woman resigned
herself to her fate, and died by the hands o f her daugh­
ter.”* Among the Japanese the spirit of vengeance is car­
ried so far, that even the females, as well as the men, carry a
dagger in their girdle, and employ it with the utmost cool­
ness in their personal quarrels, not only against enemies
and strangers, but even against their own brothers, husbands,
and nearest relatives.-}* Am ong the Karatschai, or black
Circassians, a similar principle prevails. W hen one man
has been killed by another, the relatives o f the deceased
consider it necessary to avenge his death by the blood o f
the murderer, which they conceive can alone give rest to
his and their own souls.t The superstitious notions and
habits of such people, without any reference to the pecu­
liarities of cerebral development, invariably give rise to
and determine their individual dispositions : and as nations,
therefore, emerge from a state of barbarity, different cir­
cumstances, operating on the same constitution, excite feel­
ings and principles of an opposite description, and produce
in every respect a striking revolution o f character. Thus
the Goths, on their first invasion, massacred indiscriminately
man, woman, and child, and everywhere betrayed the most
ferocious cruelty; but after their intercourse with Europeans,
the same people became remarkable for their humanity.
• Roman’s Natural History o f Florida, p. 88.
■
f- Tavernier’ s Relation o f Japan, p. 5.— H um berg Voyages au Japan,
tom. iii. 213.
i Klaproth's Travels in the Caucasus and Georgia, p. 289.
84
The delight which it gave the Homans to witness the
combats of the gladiators, and the cruel 6ports of the cir.
cus, gives us an idea of the rudeness of that soil which,
prolific in crimes, gave rise to a Nero, a Domitian, a Cali­
gula, whose atrocities have darkened the page of history,
and appear, like the laws of Draco, to have been every,
where registered in blood. While their names are recol­
lected only for having been, as it were, consecrated to
eternal infamy, it is to be feared that even their cruel­
ties have been rivalled by some of the Persian, Turkish,
— nay, some of the European sovereigns of Christian coun­
tries, over the record of whose actions the veil of humanity
might well be drawn. I f the influence of literature, and the
progress of the fine arts, did not fail to mitigate considera­
bly the excesses even of Roman atrocity, what beneficial
consequences might we not have expected to emanate from
a religion whose benignant rays have gradually been dissi­
pating the heathen darkness of centuries, and have diffused
a mild and heavenly lustre over the humblest paths of life!
And yet it is to be remembered, that in all great and dis­
astrous political revolutions,— in religious wars and perse­
cutions, amidst the fierce and conflicting struggle that en­
sues for superiority, the boundary between virtue and vice
being for the time destroyed,— every heart becomes steeled
to the tears of sorrow;— every ear insensible to the cry of
mercy ;— and the human mind, like the mystic star in the
Apocalypse, seems, in its fall from all moral excellence, to
bring down desolation upon its country, and to u turn the
third part of her waters into blood.”
Whether, at such calamitous eras, we contemplate the
85
demon-likc Robespierre, Marat, or Carriere, rioting amidst
the anarchy of cruel and licentious passions,— or whether
we turn our eyes to the horrors of the Sicilian vespers, or
the massacre o f St Bartholomew, and see the infuriated en­
thusiast committing outrageous murder within the sanctu­
ary of the church itself;— the desire and propensity to de­
stroy will be found, in every instance, to be a feeling sug­
gested and excited by the influence o f incidental circum­
stances, and the prevailing spirit and temper o f the times,
rather than the result o f a particular configuration and de­
velopment of a certain part of the brain, urging the indivi­
dual, by its mechanical activity, to the commission o f the
most atrocious crimes.
The organ o f destructiveness was originally discovered,
by the phrenologists noticing the difference that exists be­
tween the skulls of carnivorous and herbivorous animals;
for as the former, it is argued, exhibit greater ferocity than
the latter, and prey on living animals, so they must be ex­
cited by an internal propensity to destroy; whereas herbi­
vorous animals, browsing quietly on grass and herbs, are
more gentle and docile, and manifest not this fatal propen­
sity.* Now, the fallacy o f this reasoning is very obvious.
Carnivorous animals, it is true, prey on others; they are
• The following are D r Spurzheim’s own remarks on this very philosophic
cal speculation. “ T h e tiger, lion, cat, & c. have teeth and claws, but an >*-
ternal power excites them to use them. A sheep could not em ploy such in­
struments any more than au idiot could employ his hands to perform things
for which they might be fit, but which his reason could not direct. Thus an
internal propensity must make use o f the external instruments, and this pro­
pensity is attached to a particular organ.1’ (Physiognomic System.}—.This
86
furnished with long pointed teeth, and strong, curved, and
sharp claws, enabling them to seize and lacerate their food;
they possess great muscular strength in the jaws, neck, and
limbs; and have a short alimentary canal, visibly destined for
the reception and quick passage only of animal substances.
Herbivorous animals present, on the contrary, an opposite
structure: their teeth are flattened at the surfaces; they
have no claws, less muscular strength, and a stomach of a
peculiar and complicated mechanism, adapted to the double
process of mastication. The general and peculiar struc­
ture of the two species of animals, renders a different mode
of life essentially necessary to each.
What is meant by the destructive propensity of a carni­
vorous animal ? He is, by hunger, instigated to seek, tear,
and devour the prey, on which alone he can subsist.
Urged by this instinct, the wolf, who is said to be naturally
a coward, becomes courageous from necessity, and will even
attack the buffalo and animals he would otherwise avoid.
The bear having gorged himself with food, retires with his
hide distended, and passes the greater part of the winter in
a state of abstinence and repose; when again, however, wast­
ed away, he prowls abroad, a mere skeleton, and the sa-
is a very fair specimen of phrenological reasoning; and is it possible to con­
ceive any thing more ludicrous ? The lion, tiger, and cat, having “ teeth and
claw*,’*must have an internal propensity to use them : but the poor sheep,
having the teeth without the claws, needs, it would appear, no such internal
power! The propensity to destructiveness being thus assigned to the lion, it
“ must" be attached to a particular organ $ and the said organ “ must" be
situated immediately over the ear. This is a phrenological induction !
*
vageness of his disposition is always proportionate to the
inconvenience he may be enduring. Thus carnivorous ani­
mals are urged by an instinctive power to seek and destroy
whatever may be necessary for their support, whilst a si­
milar principle actuates equally the herbivorous animal.
The sheep, the goat, the deer, the camel, tear down fences,
destroy grass, herbs, foliage, &c. and manifest precisely the
same faculty of destructiveness, in order to gratify their
wants and desires. The same propensity that prompts
the lion to spring upon his prey, or the tiger to plunge his
head into the body of an animal,— the same instinctive
power that guides the vulture to the field of slaughter, and
the jackall to the grave,— leads the antelope to the moun­
tain-herb which he prefers, the plover to the corn-field,
and the humming-bird to the flower from whence, with its
slender bill, it extracts the nectar on which it lives.
Nor is the analogy in other respects correct. Carnivorous
animals prey on other animals, yet never, in their wild state,
on the individuals of their own species; whilst the excessive
activity of this unfortunate organ urges mankind invariably
to murder one another. Its manifestations in the human spe­
cies are,however,singularlyand humorously varied. It leads,
we are, informed, children to break their nursery toys,— boys
to curse and swear,♦— tipsy gentlemen to break wine-glass-
87
• u Some boys,'* says M r Combe, u have a natural incapacity for swear­
ing, proceeding from destructiveness being moderately developed, in propor­
tion to the organs o f the moral sentiments.’ * (System o f Phrenology, p. 105.)
88
es, mirrors, and lamps,*— satirists to be sarcastic,— and
|>oets to concieve images of terror and sublimity ! f
All the analogical reasonings of the advocates of Phre­
nology, rest only on the preconceived hypothesis of the
brain being a congeries of organs, in accordance with which
it is asserted,thata differentand characteristic developmentof
it will invariably be found to correspond with, and indicate
certain habits and propensities throughout, the animal crea­
tion. This amounts, after all, merely to an assertion; yet
it ought not to have been advanced unless supported by a
very extensive series of observations; whereas, on the con­
trary, although the phrenologists, with an air of the most
devout candour, and ostentatious plausibility, entreat their
hearers to “ go into nature* they themselves have not ven­
tured beyond the threshold of the enquiry. They exhibit
in their demonstrations only the select crania of a very few
mammiferous animals and birds, and appear to have made
no enquiries to determine these much talked of differences
and peculiarities of cerebral development.
* “ One gentleman assured me,” continues Sir Combe, seriously, “ that,
when in a state of inebriation, the lamps, in his progress home, appeared to
him as it were twinkling in his path, with a wicked and scornful gleam, and
that he has frequently lifted his stick to punish their impertinence, when a
remnant o f reason” (query, The recollection o f the watchman ?) “ restrained
the premeditated blow. In him destructiveness is decidedly large; but, when
sober, there is not a more excellent person.*' (Ibid. p. 109.)
Lord Byron is said to have had the organ o f destructiveness large, because
his poems are wild and gloom y; and more especially in consequence o f his
having written the little sketch o f “ Darkness,•in which, says M r Combe,
the “ veryform and pressure o f destructiveness is exhibited.” (Ibid. p. 104.)
89
T H E E V ID E N C E O F F A C T S .
W henever the phrenologists find themselves in danger
of being defeated by a philosophical argument, they inva­
riably change their positions, and, retreating from the field
of rational controversy, appeal, with empirical dogmatism,
to the testimony of their facts. Overlooking for a time
the insuperable difficulties that beset the theory, let us
meet them on these grounds; and, first, we are entitled to
enquire, whether a sufficient number o f facts have been
brought forward to establish the system ?
The doctrines of Phrenology have been before the world
upwards of thirty years, and, during that period, its pro­
mulgators have been unremitting in their exertions to pro­
cure all the evidence they could possibly collect, in support
o f their views. In 1796, D r Gall commenced lecturing at
Vienna, and continued his demonstrations there for five
years. H e was then joined by D r Spurzheim ; and, in
1800, they set out upon their travels to pursue their re­
searches together. They were now seen travelling over a
vast tract o f country, from town to town, from village to
village; visiting public schools, prisons, hospitals, and
madhouses,— zealous, assidious, and persevering in the pur­
suit o f their anticipated “ new discoveries.” Considering
the variety and extent o f their opportunities, how many
facts ought they by this time to have accumulated ! How
long a catalogue o f them should at present be on record!
Instead of this, on examining their works, we find page
after page replete with glimmering metaphysical specula-
M
90
tions; argument succeeding argument on the existence and
the subdivision of occult faculties and primitive feelings;
tedious, long, and frequently incorrect, anatomical descrip­
tions ; the whole interspersed with the observations they
made, and the anecdotes they met with, which induced
them to determine the exact situations of the several organs.
They have given us no account of having taken, as the
Edinburgh phrenologists have clone, the measurements of
the organs of different individuals, to compare them with
their ascertained characters: they inform us only of having
noticed, in a few cases, certain cranial enlargements, or confi­
gurations of the head, which induced them to assign to
those parts the faculties in question ; and no cases in addi­
tion are recorded to confirm the truth or falsehood of their
conclusions.
Viewing Phrenology simply as a “ science o ffa ctsf it is
quite obvious, that the facts, which indeed constitute its very
existence, should be numerous, striking, and unequivocal:
they should not he tc few and far between,'* with ever and
anon a confusion and doubt as to their identity; they
should form a strong and irresistible body of evidence, suffi­
cient to silence the objections of the most scrupulous of scep­
tics. The doctrines of Phrenology having been for many
years industriously promulgated, in 1820, six gentlemen
in the Modern Athens, who, professing themselves “ fa­
vourers o f the phrenological system of Drs Gall and Spurz-
heim,” resolved themselves into a society, for the purpose of
“ collecting facts, and preserving views, that might en_
large the boundaries of the science.” Let us therefore en­
quire, what has been their success ?
91
After the example of other more ancient and learned bo­
dies, they proposed publishing their Transactions;— a work
which, if there had been the slightest truth in Phrenology,
would have been undoubtedly very interesting and valuable.
Not so, however : The “ Transactions of the Phrenological
Society,” ushered into existence beneath the auspices o f
the most zealous and sanguine of enthusiasts, arrived only
at the conclusion o f the first volume, which soon floated
down into the Red Sea o f literature, or the trunk-makers
warehouse, unnoticed, unreviewed, unlamented ! Whether
it sunk into oblivion from the heaviness of its metaphysi­
cal disquisitions, or whether it was discontinued in conse­
quence of the Editors having been 6
6 gravelled for lack o f
matter,” may yet be a problem to the publisher; but cer­
tain it is, this work, o f upwards o f 400 pages, contains
only eight phrenological facts, which, by the date o f the in­
stitution, and its transactions, appear to have beenJour years
in accumulating.* Thus died, in the first year o f its ex­
istence, the “ Transactions of the Phrenological Society;-’
and the proceedings of this learned association have been
since only transmitted, in 1
Cshreds and patches/* to the
Phrenological Journal, within the sybilline leaves of which
we find only an heterogeneous mixture of the most inco­
herent intellectual wanderings, and the coarsest personal
abuse. This work has been published quarterly for the
last five years. It has lately been supported by the princi­
pal phrenologists, and, after all, contains only twenty re-
• Societyinstituted iu 1820. Transactions, published in 1024#
92
ports of cranial measurements; so that, notwithstanding the
great outcry that has been raised of the many evidences in
favour o f Phrenology,— notwithstanding the zeal of its ad­
vocates and their united perseverance,— they have, in this
country, only been enabled to concentrate, within the pages
of their leading works, twenty-eight facts in support of
their thirty-five organs.*
Even these being selected partially, and measured only
by the phrenologists themselves, cannot be admitted, as
strictly speaking, impartial evidence. W hy do they
not have recourse to a more extensive manipulation?
One half the reports alluded to are of murderers, and the
majority of them invalidated by the following simple fact.
— When the criminal has been executed, the body is cut
down, and thrown upon its back; the uncoagulated blood
then distends the muscles of the back, neck, and the pos­
terior part of the head. Over this distension of the integu­
ments the cast from which the measurement is made is
taken; and the affective organs, which are those in such
cases principally concerned, are reported to be invariably
* I here only include those cases in which a report has been returned
o f the development o f a//, or, at any rate, theprinci/Hi/, organs o f the system.
Such, when contrasted with the disposition or character o f the individual
concerned, are alone entitled to the term o f faclsy since the phrenological
induction is drawn, not from the size o f a single organ, but from the rela­
tive proportions o f them all being taken into consideration. I also exclude
the ideal developments which the phrenologists hare ascribed to the charac­
ters o f Shakspeare, and their vague surmizes touching the development
and character of nations.
4
't; /; . >V »*'■ » '•
- > .'•
»
>£f ■*: - y
V -cjjjfc,
I
• . .'I
/•WB
J iX T O S J . £
fi'.i'-j; W *S'^wr^eT
iY r u r t l u f i M c » Y . * » v £ * U ' * M » U 'U I i t t f l j 5
JfuT , 4:o^C 1
» ‘i
«>(>.<• I 1
l
*
i. »■
JlttX
t*
N iV Iip tt.
• c.r a jtO
9
«
a n i 4
a r
j1 ;j m
r
r«y*
1
i
i
.
>£a*X
1 * * ! tJj £ T ' , . '• *
i • v M
t*-
•&&? *? AtonhuV, 'M \ ,
■ y • • *r e " 1
' :
1 .'..W S
* * * a
- 1 ) . , :
••*£*&**. JiM'i .j tC^**I. . JUi. ! xM'jtcK * 1 i TcTC f ^ '
- 'i ' f • * i
«-%■i
DBiiiRaniigi
93
large ; whereas, were the body thrown upon its face, they
would be as unequivocally small. In addition to this, we
shall find that the same phrenological report will admit of
any interpretation, and apply to almost every variety of cha-
acter. In the Table opposite, I have contrasted the develope-
mentsof Thurtell, Haggart, and Pallet, with those o f Miss
Clara Fisher, a child of eight years o f age, Raphael,
Sheridan, and Voltaire.
When the organs of acquisitiveness, secretiveness^ com-
bativeness, and destructiveness are large, they are supposed
to indicate the disposition of a thief and murderer; but
their activity may be restrained by the counteracting
influence of the organs of benevolence, and conscientious­
ness. On referring to the Table, it will be seen that
Sheridan was as good a murderer as Pallet, in as much
as, while they are both alike deficient in benevolence
and conscientiousness, that excellent Dramatist possesses
the organ o f destructiveness as large as Pallet, and that
of combativeness larger.
Voltaire, it will also be seen by the phrenological
indications, was a better murderer than Pallet, Hag­
gart, or Thurtell. Pallet has the organs o f combative­
ness and destructiveness la rge; in Voltaire they are
very la rge; in benevolence and conscientousness both are
deficient.
Voltaire should also have excelled Haggart as a thief.
Both have secretiveness very la rg e; but Haggart has
acqusitiveness only moderate, whilst, in Voltaire, it is large.
The philosopher of Ferney should also have been a more
atrocious murderer, because his organ o f destructiveness is
9*
larger, and lie has the organ of benevolence less developed
than Haggart.
Again, it is really impossible to look at the develop­
ment of Thurtell, and seriously believe he murdered
W eare; the poor man must surely have been innocent,
and executed by mistake, for he possesses the organ of
adhesiveness, which disposes to “ fervour and constancy
o f affection” very large> (and it is unlikely, with such
a development, he would have murdered his friend,)
that of veneration, which gives rise to “ religious senti­
mentsf and “ respect and deference to persons** large,
and benevolence, (the source of every generous feeling,)
very large. How is it possible, therefore, to reconcile
these indications with his real character? The difficulty
is solved by the phrenological report, which shall speak for
itself. “ The murder committed by Thurtell was a pre­
determined cold-blooded deed ; nothing can justify it. lle-
venge against Weare for having gambled too success­
fully, and, as he imagined, unfairly with him, prompted it;
but there is every probability that Thurtell laid the unwar­
rantable unction to his soul, that he would do a service to
others by destroying Weare. lie considered Weare as a
complete rascal, one who had robbed many as weU as him­
self and one who, i f he lived, would have robbed many
more:”*
f* thus the organ of benevolence is made to excite
the organ of murder; and the phrenological deduction is
* Combe’s System of Phrenology.
-f* Phrenological Journal, Vol. i. p. 331.
characteristic o f all the beauty, excellence, and purity o f
its philosophy!
By this Table it will also be observed that Voltaire should
have been a more atrocious murderer than Thurtell, because
Voltaire has the organs o f combativeness, secretiveness, and
destructiveness, all very large, and is deficient in the moral
sentiments of benevolence and conscientousness, which
Thurtell possesses in a higher degree, so that Voltaire, in
point o f fact, had less to restrain him from committing mur­
der than Thurtell, who, it would appear, ought to have
been a mild, benevolent, and religious character.
The histrionic abilities of the celebrated Miss Clara
Fisher, are next considered to be satisfactorily indicated by
the organs of concentrativeness, secretiveness9 imitation,
and ideality; whilst the other organs of the system are
supposed to exert, whenever it is necessary, their co-operat­
ing power. Haggart and Pallet, it will be seen, might
have worn the buskin, and been an ornament to the Bri­
tish stage. Both possess the organ of concentrativeness larg­
er than Miss Clara Fisher; both equal her in secretiveness
and imitation; and all three are deficient in that ideality,
which, we are informed, “ adds splendour to the perform­
ance.'' Thurtell, however, possesses this latter organ in the
same degree that she does, and the majority of the other or­
gans concerned larger; so that, in early youth, he should
have shone a Roscius, or, in more advanced life, a Kem­
ble.
The abilities o f Raphael are referred to the develop­
ment of constructiveness, form, size, and imitation, which
were, it is said, the fifi whole elements o f his future great-
95
96
ness."* Now, the organs o f constructiveness, form, and
imitation, are all in Ilaggart reported to be large and
andfully and size is moderately developed ; whilst, in Pal­
let, the latter is full, and the others referred to all of good­
ly dimensions; so that Nature probably designed the one
for a Michael Angelo, and the other for a Salvator Rosa.
Miss Clara Fisher, were it inconvenient to notice the or­
gans of combativeness and destructiveness, (and it would
be ungallant to compare her development, in every respect,
with that of the evil company she has met with in the
Phrenological Journal,) might be shown to approach very
nearly to the genius of Raphael; so that the phrenological
report o f the few facts that are on record may very clear­
ly be made to correspond with almost any character.
The most expert phrenologists have not, however, al­
ways been so fortunate as to return such an account o f the
developments as will, like the above, admit of any expla­
nation ; they have occassionally announced indications of
character precisely the reverse of those manifested by the
individual. Thus Voltaire, who, in France, reared the
standard of infidelity on the ruins of every moral and reli­
gious principle, possessed a large organ of veneration ;*f*
* Phrenological Journal, Vol. ii. p. 331.
+ This fact is admitted by the phrenologists, who urge, in reply, that the
organ o f veneration, which, be it remembered, was discovered by examin­
ing the heads of persons “ emminentfor piety" and the “ portraits of srmi/s,”
disposes the possessor also (by a kind of poetical license) to respect titles,
wealth, and power,” and “ pay deference to authority.” (System of
Phrenology, p- liOD.)— In reply to this, it must occur to ever)'one, that
97
and Sheridan, the most amusing and witty man of the
Augustan period in which he lived, will be found to have
been deficient in the development o f the organ o f wit.*
Voltaire did not bow to his superiors, either in rank or w ealth ; and was,
from his ow n indiscretion and im policy, frequently obliged to retire an ex­
ile from his native country. His intim acy w ith Frederick o f Prussia was
entirely sought and occasioned by the prince him R elf; nor did V oltaire, on
any occasion, play the Polonius in his court. ( Vide Condorcet’s life o f
V oltaire; M arm ontePs M em oirs o f him self and Contem poraries.) T h e
phrenologists, urged b y the extrem e em ergency o f the case, next go so far
as to actually assert that V oltaire was M a religious man ! " H e was, we
are assured, o f the u Religion o f Nature {" and the organs o f veneration
and causality, (Phrenological Journal, vol. iii. p. 572,) b y their combined
activity, prompted him to erect a “ temple to the S u p rem e/' or, in the
words o f Cowper, to “ build G od a church, and laugh his word to scorn.*’
Voltaire, on these grounds, (th e coadjutor o f A lem bert and D iderot,— the
author o f the “ Dictionaire Philosophique"— the reviler o f revelation, in
whose eyes all religion was a farce, and every notion o f futurity a
jest,) has thus been canonized in the Tem ple o f P hrenology ; and, consider­
ing the principles to w hich the phrenological doctrines lead, perhaps it
would have been impossible for them to have found a m ore appropriate tu­
telary sa in t!
* T he phrenologists have been at the pains to present us with garbled
extracts front M oore’s interesting life o f Sheridan, in order to prove that
the author o f the R ivals, the School for Scandal, & c. was not really a w it­
ty man, {vide Phrenological Journal, vol. iii. p. 3 4 .) H is “ reputation for
wit" resulted, it is said, simply from his “ capacity o f recollection" which
enabled him to 44 treasure up,for his own use, every gem o f thought which
might happen to come in his way." H e, besides, took notes, com posed w ith
difficulty, &c. T h e circum stance o f Sheridan’s having taken notes o f
those bright and transient thoughts w hich only occassionally, it would
seem, gleam across the path o f genius,— the fact o f his having subm itted the
happiest passages o f bis productions to all that “ lima labor ac merit”
which was dictated by a highly cultivated and elegant taste.— cannot dim i-
98
In the Edinburgh Museum is the skull of a Malay, a
native of the Bali Islands, who was a notorious robber and
murderer. His head will be found to indicate, by the de­
velopment of the phrenological organs, that he was a good,
an intellectual, and a benevolent man. The skull will be
found of a greater capacity in size than are the crania of
many Europeans with which it may be compared. The
organs of combativeness, destructiveness, secretiveness, &c.
are comparatively small, and the intellectual organs, abso­
lutely and relatively, very large. Sir William Hamilton
contrasted the phrenological measurement of this skull with
that of the celebrated Buchanan, by which it is seen that
the Bali murderer, who was executed for killing his wife,
by sawing off her head, possessed the organs of veneration,
benevolence, S
ec. in a higher degree than Buchanan, and
those disposing to combativeness and destructiveness in a
less degree ; whilst, on the other hand, Buchanan, one of
the most intellectual characters Scotland has produced, has
all the intellectual organs less fully developed than they
are found in the Bali robber. So far as it goes, this com­
nish Anything from his reputation. A s welt might it be argued, that
Gray was no poet, because he composed with hesitation and labour; but
w c have, in M oore's life, the testimony o f Fox, that Sheridan was one of the
wittiest o f his contemporaries, (see the Life o f Sheridan, chap. vi. p- 211,)
a passage passed over in silence by the candid spirit o f the phrenologists,
w ho insinuate that all Sheridan's wit depended entirely on the excellence of
his memory; yet, were this to have been the case, the difficulty, so far
as Phrenology is concerned, would only be aggravated, because the memory
o f wit is supposed to be dependent on the very organ which is so deficient
in the size of its development.
99
parison affords a vefy triumphant refutation of Phrenolo­
gy ; and the authenticity of both skulls, and the atrocious
character of the Bali murderer, is, I understand, sufficient­
ly ascertained,*
Considering Phrenology merely as a doctrine o f chances
and contingencies, we know that those cranial enlargements
which are termed organs are found invariably in almost
every human head ; and all the propensities, sentiments,
and intellectual faculties ascribed to them, are the common
and natural attributes of every man; so that, while there are
few skulls without such prominences and signs, there are
still fewer individuals who do not possess, in a higher or
less degree, some o f the mental endowments, which are sup­
posed to result from their activity. The chances are there­
fore always in favour of the phrenologist— finding, that the
individual who manifests a certain number of those facul­
ties will have, at any rate, some o f the developments, or
signs, to correspond. In other words:— “ Supposing there
was but one eminence on a given cranium, and the phreno­
logist had to infer, from a knowledge o f the faculties, the
• In regard to the B ali m urderer, (says Sir W a lte r H am ilton,) the evi­
dence regarding the authenticity o f his skull, and the authenticity o f his
character, is contained in M r Craw ford's L etters to Professor Jamieson*
These, m ention the nam e, and detail the atrocities, o f this w retch, whose
cranium was procured after execution b y A ir C raw ford, w ho holds a high
official appointment in the Indian Islands, and is w ell know n in this coun­
try as the enlightened historian o f the Eastern Archipelago. (Correspond­
ence with Mr Combe.) I need not enter further in to the evidence on this
subject, as it has already been a subject o f controversy, and will, I appre.
hend, be further noticed in Sir W illiam H am ilton's forthcom ing publica­
tion, entitled the u Fictions o f Phrenology, and the Facts o f N ature.”
100
eminence existing on the cranium, he might here commit
himself, in any one single given case, by wrongly inferring
the presence of the sign of that faculty he had observed in
the individual; but as the eminences arc exceedingly com.
mon things, like the faculties they represent, a highly de­
veloped character, has a chance of being accompanied by
an indication, which chance is greater in proportion to the
frequency of the eminence, and may be expressed by a frac­
tion, of which the numerator is the number of times in a
fixed number of skulls that the organ is present,and thzdeno-
minator another number expressing the number of times it is
wanting. Thus, if the sign of music be present in three men
outof fou r, the chancein favour of a conjecture made,thatthe
possessor of a high musical faculty possesses also the sign of
it, becomes as three to one, and may be expressed thus,—
* As, therefore, the prominences or organs increase in
number, the chance in favour o f the phrenologist multiply
in proportion; so that, considering they calculate on the
existence of 35 organs, which, taken together, are endow­
ed with as many, or even more than 105, different modes
of manifestation,-f- it is singular they have hitherto adduced
so few cases in favour of their theory. In addition, it is
to be remarked, that while these enlargements, or pro.
minences, are so numerous, and possessed by almost every
individual, the phrenologists can represent their relative•
• This doctrine o f chances is very clearly and precisely stated by Dr
Milligan— Pt<fc Magendie Physiol. Trans. Note, p. 549.
+ P. 21.
101
sizes or proportions, as may be most convenient to them­
selves, because they have not yet adopted any fixed scale
of measurement, so that the organ which one man may
consider relatively large, another may term only moderate,
or even small.
In the head o f Voltaire, and o f Mary Mackinnon, organs
are marked, by Mr Combe, “ large™ and u enormous*
which Sir William Hamilton, on remeasuring accurately,
finds to be, according to any average, incorrect. But how can
such a difference of opinion be determined, when there is no
determinate scale of measurement to which the disputants
may refer? The descriptive language of u enormous,
very large, largey moderate ” &c, has not been hitherto,
nor is it at present, regulated by any scale whatever; hence
we are justified in concluding, and must agree with Sir
William Hamilton, that u so long as Phrenology is the
comparison of two hypothetical quantities,— a science o f pro-
portion, without a determinate standard and acknozvledged
scale,— so long as it can be maintained, that its facts, if not
assumptive, constitute only a partial induction that can
never represent the universality of nature,— it is idle to dis­
pute about a law which defines no phenomena, and the
truth of an hypothesis that has no legitimate constitu­
tion.'1*
In taking a retrospect o f the arguments advanced in the•
• Correspondence with M r Combe.
102
preceding pages against the principles of Phrenology, I
find they may be reduced into the following ante-phreno­
logical propositions.
I. — On examining the brain itself, no evidence whatever
is found to exist in favour of its being supposed a congeries
of organs; its structure, on the contrary, is everywhere con­
tinuous, and strikingly illustrative of the unity of its action.
II. — The form, size, and extent of the supposed organs
are determined by no appearances indicating the limits of
their individual expansions: the division of the brain is ar­
bitrary and unfounded ; nor could the phrenologists, were
the organs dissected out and set apart from one another,
recognise them individually by any characteristic distinc­
tions.*
III. — No pathological evidences, from cases of partial
insanity, can be adduced in favour of Phrenology.*}* After
the most complete state of mental derangement, the ablest
pathologist has been unable to detect any morbid appear­
ances in the brain ; and when such have been presented, no
relation has been found to exist between the aberration of
a certain faculty, and any peculiar condition of that part of
the brain to which it is ascribed.J
• P. 24, 25. t P. 17, 10
$ I &m aware the phrenologists have referred to cases in which they
have presumed, that the aberration o f a mental faculty has been accom-
103
IV. — The brain attains its full complement in size before
the evolution of the mental faculties, so that the powers of
the mind cannot be considered to be evolved by the gradu­
al enlargement and development o f the cerebral substance.*
V. — The size of the brain, by whatever standard it be
estimated, is not indicative of any superior or inferior
degree of intelligence, or mental ability ;"f* and the law
which applies to this organ as a whole, will apply to it
equally in all its individual parts.J
VI. — The four temperaments, which, it is alleged, form
panied w ith what they term u diseased action*9o f the organ to w hich it is
referred. T hus, D r Spurzheim states, that he once saw a m an witness
the death o f his ow n child, by its being accidentally drow ned, whereupon
he imm ediately applied his hand to the organ o f philoprogenitiveness,
which suffered p a in ! In support o f this proposition, how ever, I m ight
accumulate the authorities o f M orgagni, D r G reding, (w h o made n o less
than 21G dissections o f maniacal patients,) Pinel, Haslam, M eckel, and a
num ber o f other em inent authors w ho have pursued w ith peculiar ardour
this investigation.
* T h e truth o f this proposition is m entioned (p. 34) as having been
“ proved.” It is so, b y the hatter's table o f measurement being found to cor­
respond w ith the reports which the W enzels have given o f the results o f
their experiments.— See the Note, p. 33.
+ In confirm ation o f this statement, I m ay observe, that the heads o f
B yron, Shelley, and Keats, were all remarkably small. “ Keats1 head,1’
says Leigh H unt, “ was a puzzle to the phrenologists, being rem arkably
small in the skull, a singularity which he had in com m on w ith Lord B y­
ron and M r Shelly, neither o f whose hats I could ever get on .” — (L ord
Byron and some o f his contemporaries, by Leigh H unt, p. 246.)
t P- dfl.
104
part of the u organic constitution o f the brain* and which
are on that assumption supposed to modify and determine
the degrees of activity ascribed to the several organs, do
not co-exist originally, or exclusively with any such organ­
ization, and their influence founded on such an hypothesis
is purely imaginative.*
VII. — It is impossible, during life, to ascertain, with
any certainty, by the external configuration of the skull,
the development of those particular parts of the brain
which constitute the several phrenological organs.
V III. — The phrenologists have not so far extended their
researches into the inferior animal creation as to warrant
their drawing any analogies or inferences in favour of their
theory. Hitherto they have made but few investigations,
and their inductions from those are very limited and partial.
IX . — There being no fixed scale, or standard of measure-
• From the time of Hippocrates down to that of D r Thomas, (to whose
amusing theory I have adverted, p. 4#,) it would be a task of some useless
difficulty to recount the number and variety of the theories which hare
been started respecting the temperaments. The majority of them all
differ, toto ccelo, from one another. I have merely been desirous of shew­
ing, that instead of being “ organic constitutions,” they are invariably the
cousequencG o f circumstances which affect the constitution gcneraJJy,— so
that the same individual, in the course o f his life, may experience suc­
cessively the lymphatic, sanguine, bilious, nervous, &c. The phrenolo-
gists, I perceive, have reviewed Dr. Thomas's theory with ludicrous gra­
vity, and find their 44 otrn experience strongly infavour of his a c c u r a c y .
Phrenological Journal, vol. ir. 453.
105
ment, which can be referred to, in order to determine the
relative sizes and proportions of the several organs, the
theory of Phrenology is not at present reduced to any de­
finite principles o f practical application; and the mani­
pulator, in taking measurements, can only be guided by
the bias o f his own judgment, which prejudice, fancy, or in­
terest may mislead.
X .— The phrenologists have not yet advanced a suffi­
cient number ofJacts to prove even the possibility of there
being any truth in their system; and among the few they
have recorded, some will admit of any interpretation, and
others present us with indications directly contrary to the
disposition and character which the individual they con­
cern manifested.
In conclusion, it may be expected I should say a few
words respecting the probable tendency and influence of
the phrenological principles. I forbear, however, entering
at much length into a subject which can only give rise to a
melancholy and humiliating prospect; for it must be very
obvious, that if the actions o f men are regulated entirely by
the activity of the phrenological organs, over which they
have no influence,— if every thought,feeling, and disposition,
must be referred to the same blind mechanical impulse,—
if virtue the most transcendant, and vice the most appall­
ing, are the consequences only of the same physical and ir­
resistible power o f necessity,— it requires little reflection to
perceive, that the moral relation o f man to society assumes
o
106
a new character. He is degraded into the condition of a
mere automaton; he has no more control over his own con­
duct than the hand of a time-piece has over the mechanism
that directs it. Here all responsibility ends; and when that
delicate organization, which, from its peculiar structure and
activity, gave rise to perception, memory, and judgment,
falls into decay, the mind, it must be presumed, will in­
evitably perish with it, and sink into the blank and
dreary void of hopeless annihilation.*
How can the pernicious consequences of these doc­
trines be better illustrated than by the fact, that the
phrenologists themselves, in the blindness of their credu­
lity, insist on the influence which their reports should have
in the jurisdiction of criminal courts! There see the no­
torious thief, “ if acquisitiveness be large, and benevo­
lence small,1
* acquitted of his offence, and let loose upon
society, or imprisoned for life in a lunatic asylum, on the
benevolent charge of insanity !\— There, again, the assas-
• It is in vain for those who cannot altogether reconcile themselves to the
incongruities o f the phrenological system, to argue, that this is not the ne­
cessary consequence of its doctrines. The mind is made to result as an effect
from a certain condition o f organization ; and when, therefore, that organi­
sation is itself destroyed, it must be inferred, that the mind, instead of
being destined to “ flourish in immortal youth,” will perish with it, “ even
as a vapour that appeareth for a little time, and then vanishetli away.’ *
This latter is actually the humane proposal o f M r Combe. “ A llow ,”
says he, “ the pubiie prosecutor to charge the individual, not with the
crime, but with possessing irresistible tendencies to crime, and assemble a
ju ry to hear the evidence o f the c h a r g e i f guilty, “ the jury might
safely return a verdict o f insanity, and the boy would at once be deprivedof
107
sin, pardoned o f his crime, because Nature, in her muni­
ficence, gave him such a development o f organs, that the
<
e impulsew to murder became “ irresistible H Conceive
the most amiable and benevolent o f our fellow-creatures
tried and estimated by such a standard, and those who have
u the evil signs upon them” universally shunned, pitied, and
despised, as though the curse o f Cain itself were written upon
their brow ! Some people have been described who mourn
over the birth o f their children, considering them only born
to endure sorrow and calamity ;* but with how many pangs
of misery must a mother contemplate her child, who, fresh
from the hand o f its Creator, possesses such a configura­
tion of head, as will in all probability dispose it in future life
to the perpetration of the most atrocious crimes! Never was
any system conceived in itself more incongruous, and in its
consequences more hostile to human happiness ! Yet, it will
be said, some good, intelligent, moral, nay even religious,
characters will be found among the select number o f its ad­
vocates. All things arc possible, and the contagion of this
theoretical hallucination may, for a time, bewilder a few
doubting and unsettled minds; yet, such have not exam­
ined the theory impartially ; they open not their eyes to
the palpable and acknowledged consequences o f the sys­
tem ; they— not the sceptics to Phrenology— should
liberty, and freed from responsibility o f human laws for life*” — System o f
Phrenology, p. 514.
* T h e Traueiy described by H erodotus, assemble to weep over the birth o f
a child, lam enting the evils o f the life iuto w hich it is u sh ered ™ L ib. ▼
.
§**
108
incur the charge of ignorance, resembling in their wis­
dom the library rats of La Fontaine, “ qui les livres
rongeans se font savansjusqu1aux les dents.1
”* But the truth
is, that Phrenology has made very little progress. Drs
Gall and Spurzhiem have, by their personal exertions, to a
certain extent, forced their doctrines on the attention of the
public; they have been zealously promulgating and de­
fending them for the last thirty-three years, and, during the
whole of that period, have not succeeded in making aeon vert
of a single man of any scientific eminence. The census of
their disciples is not to be estimated by the number who at­
tend their lectures; for so long as Dr Spurzheim will, like
a Mstar* in the dramatic firmament, visit only occasionally
the principal collegiate and metropolitan towns, so long as
* 4
4 Some wicked wits,” says P o p e ,4
4 have libelled all the fair.” Certain
it is, however, that in the 4
4 Modern Athens,” some of the fair sex have
been seized w ith the Phrenological mania, and educate their children, hire
servants, and judge o f their friends, by the calliper reports. King James,
in his curious Daenumolog\eydwelling on witchcraft, asks,— 4
4 W hat can bo
the cause that there are twenty women given to that craft for one roan ?
T h e reason is easie, for as that sexc is frailer than roan, so it is easier for
them to be entrapped in these grosser snares, as was over well prooved to be
trew by the serpent's deceiving o f Eve in the beginning.” Muralt, many
years ago, complains o f th e 4
4curiosity of woman to know tilings to come, and
their fondness for fortune-telling and credulity, (Letters on the French
and English Nations, letter 1, p. 1 2 ;) whilst W endebum observes, 44 La.
dies, mistresses o f families, are not ashamed to drive in their own carriages
to the door o f the cunning man.” — (V iew o f England, Vol. ii. p. 485.) The
transcendant merit o f the phrenological ladies is, that they have turned
amateur anatomists, and enjoy a peculiar gratification in seeing the human
brain dissected!
109
lie will give an amusing course o f lectures, interspersed
with popular anecdotes, those who have not before heard
him will attend; but were his doctrines left to make their
way by their own exclusive merits, there is little doubt he
might soon, like the Arabian wanderer, u return to the
place of his birth, and say, the friends of my youth where
are they ?" And an echo would answer— “ where are they?*
THE END.
i
