{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 3819 5247","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v3_constitution_and_rules_1885.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V3 Constitution and Rules 1885","mylang":"de"}
OO/Jatitlltion and RilleS.
VIII.
CONSTITUTION AND RULES.
1885.
TITLE.
I.-The name of the Society is-The Society for Psychical Research.
OBJECTS.
2.-The objects for which this Society is established are ;-
(a) To unite students and inquirers in all organised body, w.th
the view of promoting the investigation of certain obscure
phenomena, including those commonly known as Psychical,
)Iesmeric, or Spiritualistic; and of giving publicity to the
results of such research.
(b) To print, sell, or otherwise distribute publications on
Psychical and kindred subjects; to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects by correspondence and
otherwise; to collect and arrange facts respecting them;
to open Libraries, Reading-rooms, aml other suitahle
Premises and Offices; and genemlly to do all such othcr
things as may be conducive to the att.'l.inment of the above
objects.
NOTE.-To prevent miscon~eption, it is here expressly stated tlw.1
.1fembersllip of tlte Society does not imply tiM aCCl~ptance of
any pal路ticltlar exphnation of tlte plumom.~na investigated,
nor a.ny beliefas to the operatiOll, in tlte lJltysical lDorid, (If
forces otlMr tluin those recognised by Pltysical Science.
GOVERY:UEYT.
3.-The Society shall be governed by a Council consisting of
twenty-four Members. The Council shall elect from amongst the
'Members of the' Society a President, who shall be President of tbe
Society, and an ex.officio Member of the Council and of all Committee.'!,
and who shall retire from office ye!uly at- the first Meeting of t'le
2 K
Digitized by Google
OORslitlltwn and Rules.
Council after the Annual Goneral Meeting of the Members of the
Society. He shall, however, be elibrihle for re-election, and shall be
deemed as retaining his offices until he shall have been re-elected or his
successor appointed. The Council shall also from time to time elect
Vice-Presidents, who shall be ez..ojJicio Honorary Members of the
Society, and shall haye the privilege of being present at any of t.he
Meetings of the Council.
CONSTITUTION.
4.-The Society shall consist of-
(0) MEMBERS, who shall contribute not Il'SS than two guineas
annually, or a single payment of twenty guineas, and who
shall be eligihle to any of the offices of the Society; and
shall be entitled to vote in the election of the Governing
Council and at all meetings of the Society; to usc its
Reading-rooms and Libraries; to borrow books from its
Libraries; and to the free receipt of any journal, transactions,
or periodical publication which may be issued by the Council.
(6) AssOCIATES, who shall contrihute not less than one guinea.
annually, or a single payment of ten guineas, and who shall
be eligible to any of the offices of the Society; and shall
be entitled to attend all Meetings of the Society, except sucb
as are convened for business purposes only, and to the free
receipt of the ordinary published Proceedings of the Society;
and shall have free o.ccess to its Reading-rooms and Lihraries_
Members and Associates shall be entitled to purchase all the
pUhlications of the Society at half their published price.
5.-All Memhers and Associates of the Society shall he elected by
the Council. Eyery candidate for admission shall be required to give
such references as shall be approved hy the Council, unless he shall
haye been proposed in writing by two or more Members or Associates.
who, on his Lehalf, and by his authority, shall assent to the Constitution
and Rules of the Society, and consent to abide and be governed by
them, one of wIlom shall have certified in writing, from personal
knowledge of him, that he is a fit person for admission. Every SUell
certificate having llCen read and appl'OYed at a l\leeting of tIle Council,
the election shall be proceeded with; the election to be by ballot, and
.,ne black ball in six to exclude. The Council sll8o11 cause tlle result to
Digitized by Google
OonstitllUon ami Rule&. 49.>
be mai!o> known to the candidate, who, if elecW, shall be furnished
with a certificate of election Ilnd 1\ copy of the "Constitution and
Rules."
6.-The subscription sWI become due immediately on election, and
afterwards in advance on the first day of January in each year. In
the case of any Member or Associate being elected on or after the 1st
of October, his subscription shall be accepted as for the following year.
The subscription of each year remaining unPaid on and after the 1st
of July, will be considered Il.S in arrear, and no lIember or Associate
so in arrear shall be entitled to enjoy any of his pri\ileges while such
subscription remains unpaid. Any Member or Associate who is more
than three months in arrear, and who fails to pay after two applic<'1.
tions in writing, shall be liable to be struck oft' the list.
7.-If any Member or Associate desire to resign, he shall give
written notice thereof to the Secretary. He shall, however, be liablo
for all subscriptions which shall then remain unpaid.
HONORARY MEMBERS AND HONORARY AssOCIATES.
S.-The Council may invite any person who
(i) is either distinguished for knowledge or experience in Psychical
Research or otherwise eminent, to become an Honorary
Member of tbe Society; or any person who
(ii) has rendered services to the Society,
to become an Honorary Associate, lIuch person to be eligihlo
for re-election annually.
Honorary Members and Associates shall have the privileges without
the obligations attaching to Associates.
CORRESPONDING :MEMBERS.
9.-The Council shall bave power to elect as Corresponding
Members, who shall be on the same footing as Honorary Members.
persons able and willing to forward the objects of the Society. They
shall be eligible for re-election annually.
GENERAL MEETING8.
lO.-The Anniversary or Annual Generallleeting of the l\lembers
of the Society shall be beld in the month of January, on a day to Le
fixed by the Council, and of which not le.c;s thaD twenty-one days' notice
2 K 2
Digitized by Google
406
E>hall be gil路en. The business of such Anniversary Meeting shall be to
receiYe the Annual Report of the Council, and Statement of Assets and
Liabilities, to elect New Members of Council, and to discuss questiollS
on the Rules and management. A Member shall not moot any question
on the Rules or management of the Society unless he shall have given
at least fourteen days' notice thereof to the Secretary, but amendments
to any motion may be brought forward without notice, provided they
relate to the same subject. The Secretary shall giye seven days' notice
to every Member of all questions of which such notice shall have been
giyen to him.
I I.-Special General Meetings of the Members of the Society may
be convened by the Council, or by the President, or by the Secretary on
the requisition of ten Members, and notice of such Meetings, stating the
objects, shall be given at least ten days previously, and no other
business shall be entered upon at such Meetings than that stated in the
notice.
I2.-All General Meetings of the Members of the Society shall be
conyened by circular to the Members.
PROCEEDINGS IN GENERAL MEE1'ING.
I3.-The quorum necessary to constitute a General Meeting shall
be ten.
H.-The President of the Society shall pl'eside ex-officio; in his
absence anyone of the Vice-Presidents who may at the same time be 0.
Member of the Society; or should no such Vice-President be present,
n Member of Council. In their absence the Meeting shall nominate
its Chairman.
I5.-If within one Jlour from the time appointed for the Meeting n.
quorum is not present the Meeting shall stand adjourned for one week.
At the adjourned Meeting the number present for the time being shall
constitute the legal number.
I6.-All questions shall, at a General Meeting, be ~etermined by a.
majority of the Members present, except in the election of 11embers of
Council at the Annual General Meeting, for which election voting
papers shall be accepted. The Chairman shall have a second or casting
vote at all General l[eetings of the Society.
Digitized by Google
OO1l8titlltiO" ami Bule,. 401
ELECTION AND BUSINESS OJ' COUNCIL.
IT.-The Council shall consist of eighteen members, elected
annually at 0. General Meeting, and of other members co-opted from
time to time by the Council, provid~ that the whole number shall ,not
exOCt'd twenty-four. The names of persons for the first time proposed
to be co-opted on the Council shall be brought forward at one Meeting
of the Council, and shall be sent round to all members of Council
previous to its next }Ieeting, when the voting shall be by bailot, and a
unanimous vote of those present shall be requisite to carry the election.
The members co-opted from time to time by the Council shall cease to
hold office at the Annual Meeting at which new members are elected,
hut may be co-opted afresh at the First Meeting of the Council after
such Anllual Meeting.
H~.-Of the eighteen elected Members of the Council of the Society
so appointed, six or whatever number may be required to reduce the
number of elected Members to twelve shall go out of office at the time
appointed for election of Council in the year 1883; one other third, at
the time appointed for such election in the year 1884, and the remainder
at the time appointed for such election in the year 1885, and the
vacancies so made shall be filled by fresh elections. All Members of
Council from time to time elected at the annual elections shall go out
of office at the time appointed for the annual election in the third
following year. The Secretary shall e,-ery year, at least twenty-one
days before the ensuing Annual General Meeting,send to all the Member.
of the Society a list of the retiring Members of Council, and a statement
whether all, and if not, which of them are candidates for re-election. In
nIl cases the retiring Members shall be deemed as remaining in office
until they shall have been re-elected or their successors appointed.
19.-Any Member or Associate of the Society who shall Itaye paid up
all SUbscriptions due from him, including that for the current year, or any
Vice-President, HonoraryMember,or Honorary Associate of the Society,
shall be eligible for election, or re-election, as a Member of Council.
provided he shall have been nominated in writing by a Member of the
~iety, duly qualified, and such nomination shall have been forwarded
to the Secretary fQurteen days before the time of holding the Annual
General Meeting. A list of the persons 80 nominated shall be forwarded
to all the Mt:mbers of the Society, at least ten days prior to the
Digitized by Google
-!l9B CiJlltdituiion al/d Rule8.
lneeting. In case more persons, duly qualified, shall he nominate<l for
-election at any Annual Gen~ral Meeting than are required to fill up the
vacant places of those retiring by rotation, then such persons shall be
preferred and declared elected as shall obtain the highest number of
votes.
20.-If the number of nominations for election to the Council
-exceed the number of vacancies, voting papers shall be lent round to all
Members of the Society, at least ten days prior to the Annual General
}Jeeting. These papers must be in the hands of the Secretary of the
Society before the commencement of ihe Meeting. They shall be duly
signed by the Member Yoting, and be enclosed in envelopes securely
fastened and marked on the outside" voting paper," and enclosed in a
letter sent to the Secretary and signed hy the Member "oting, and they
shall not he opened till so directed by the Chairman at the Meeting.
21.-The Council shall at their first Meeting after e\-ery Annual
General Meeting, elect a President as provided for in Rule 3. A~ the
same Meeting they shall also elect a Treasurer and Auditor, and such
other officers as they may deem expedient, who shall retire from office
annually, at the same time amI under the same conditions M provided .
for in the case of the President by Rule 3. They shall from time to time
-elect Vice-Presidents, Members of the Society, and Honorary MemberR,
as provided for lly Rules 3,5, and 8. They shall have power to appoint a
salaried Secretary, and such other paid officers, assistants, and servants
as they may deem necessary, and to determine their duties. All the
appointments made by t.he Council, the Council may at their pleasure
!'evoke.
22.-The Council shall elect persons duly qualified to fill up any
vacancies which may, from time to time, occur in their own body ; and
any such persons so elected shall go out of office at the time when the
term of office of the persons in whose places they were respectively ap-
pointed would have expired.
23.-The Council shall meet monthly, unless otherwise determined.
An attendance book shall be kept, and signed by each Member of the
Council at the time of entering the Council-room. In all Meetings of
the Oouncil four shall be a quorum; aU questions shall be decided by
vote, and a decision of the majority shall, except where otherwi~
Digitized by Google
Oon8titlltwn alld RIIle8. 499
prodded hy these Rules, be the decision of the Meeting; the Chainnan
to have, in adclition to his own, a casting ,,路ote. The Chair shall b~
occupied by the President; or in Lis absence by a Vice-President who
is a subscribing Member of the Society, or should no such Vice-President.
be present, by a Member of Council chosen by the Meeting.
. 24.-The Oouncil shall have power to appoint for special purposes
Oommittees composed of Members of the Society or other suitable
penons. Every Committee appointed by the Oouncil shall report its
proceedings to the Council through the. Chairman or Seoretary of sucb
Committee, one of whom must be a Member of Council, and no report
sholl be published without the sanction of the Council.
25.-The Council shall have power, by a ml\iorityof three路fourths
of the ~lembers present, in a Special Meeting of their own body duly
convened for tho purpose, and of which, and of the objects thereof, not
less than seven days' notice shall have been gi"'en to each Member of
the Council, to add to, suspend, or alter any of the rules, regulations,
and bye-laws of the Society; such altel-ation to be in force only until
the next ensuing Anniversary Meeting, unless it llC then confirmed
lly the vote of a majority of the MemllCrs of the Society there
present.
26.-The Council shall have power to employ the fWlds of the
Society, including any funds obtained by donation, bequest, or
otherwise, in any manner consistent with the objects thereof, and they
may invest any surplus funds in such securities and in such manner
as they may deem proper; and they may sell, employ, or re-invest the
said funds.
27.-The Council may establish Branches, and Local or Provincial
Societies, in any part of Great Britain or elsewhere, \lnder such regula-
tions, and subject to such limitations as they may deem fit.
. 28.-The Council shall have power from time to time to co-operate
with, or accept the alliance of, othel' Societies, having similar objects in
view.
AUDITORS.
29.-There shall be two Auditors-one chosen by the Members
of the Society, and one chosen by the Members of the Council. These
shall audit the accounts of the Society, and report thereon to the
Oouncil. The auditors shall be emPowered to examine into the par-
Digitized by Google
600 OOI18fitution a;,d Bilks.
ticuln.rs of all expenditure of the funds of the Society. where they
shall see occasion; and ma.y report their opinion upon the whole or
any part of it, whether it has been expended in accordance with thE'!
constitution of the Society. '
FINANCE.
30.-The Council shall cause true &Coounts to be kept of all sums of
money received and paid, and shall submit the accounts of the Society,
with a statement of the a.sset3 and liabilities, to the Annual Geneml
Meeting.
PROPERTY AND FUNDS.
31.-Every paper &Ccepted by the Society for reading or publication
shall become the absolute property of the Society, unless the author's
rights be specially reserved..
32.-Tbe property of the Society shall be invested in Trustees
chosen hy tbe Council. The Trustees shall he eligible to any other
office in the Society.
NOTICES.
33.-The posting of a notice to the registered ad(h'ess of 1\ Member
or Associate shall be deemed service of a notice. Members or
ABSocia:tes residing abroad shall name a place of addrcBS in the United
Ki~tdom. In default of sucb address, the posting of n. notice in 1\
conspicuous pl&ce at the Offices of the Society shall be deemed to be n.
notice.
34.-A notice forwarded by post to thft Secretary of II. Branch or
Allied Society shall be deemed a notice to the Membf'rs of the Soci!'ty
of which he is Secretary.
INTERPRETATION 01' RULES.
35.-ln the Interpretation of these Rules words importing the
singular number only, include the plural, and words importing the
masculine gender only, include the feminine.
Natlunal Preu Allene1. Umlted. 13, Whltefdara SINet. B.C.
Digitized by Google
