{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1828__wilson___tetrabiblios.pdf","mytitle":"Tetrabiblios","mylang":"de"}
-
- ~ 2.s l - -
*
TETRABI BL Os;
q UADRIPARTITE OF ProLEMY,
*Eing
:/Font $500kg,
RELATIVE To The
STARRY: INTE". ATIENTC ES,
TRANSLATED FROM THE *~
CoPY OF LEO ALLATIUS,
Qiāiti, Gtritical amb (#xplanatory? Note$,
-.
BY JAMES WILSON, Esq.
AUTHOR OF THE COMPLETE DICTIONARY OF ASTRO
LOGY, AND OF THE ASTROLOGICAL TABLES.
Is ON Dorrs
Printed and Publishd by William Hughes, Islington
Green; and sold by all other Booksellers.
< - -
-
-
- -
|
T | 8 || II | G= J. m) = | IIl * | V | < | }<
it 83 & b #3 & u 8: 8b #3 8
2 : " : y : ung th £5, £17 9 7 b ###|u 7
b ###3 as ob's #3 as a b ###3 62 6
$ #3 u > b ###d 5 u > b : 3 #4 5u 5 b :
3 *, *,* ** * * * * * * * : * * * * * * *
l, 8% 8b #d 8||
CŞigns)
| Jolar semicircle..." mg = m f Vy T
Lunar D°--- - - - - gE II 8 m × <
Commanding------r 8 II g. a me
Obering-----------= m # Vf : X
Marculine Diurnal.-T II R = # *
Feminine Wocturnal 8 go mg ml wrx
Aony Ascension. --- gE su m = m f
whort D* --------yf 2 × T 8 II
Fixed -------------- 8 Ju mt 2:
Bicorporeal.-------II m # X
Tropical ---------- gE wif
Aquinoctial.-------* =
Fruitful...-------- - go m 3%
Reholding & or ) II & #|z & Wy
Equal Power...) # =# 1.
|
Of the double Figures, the first is the Dar term, the second the A'zhz.
2-\ . --- -
<planets)
on R or
-- Hot & Mozrt.
... Hot & Dry.
:-- Moist & Warm.
--Jndifferent.
? & J - Benefic.
d'. --- Malefic.
h u & #Marculine.
? --- Feminine.
'' ------Indifferent.
b & Durnal.
The 4× & A D >éonly.
4 : J - Mocturna/.
The 3 or hody is not an Apect.
---Moist rather War".
| & CHALDEAN tensis)
- Hot & Dry Moderateffy
|
*:REFA cr'. .
* * - - - -
** * * ** =
THERE is no work on Astrology so often quoted,
and so seldom understood, as this of Ptolemy, through
the want of a translation sufficiently intelligible to
assist the Student informing an opinion of his own;
which would prevent the exclusion of real genius, in
favour of the mere Linguist who has no genius at all.
It requires but little argument to shew that a Trans
lator should not only be familiar with the language,
but also with the Science of his author, so as not to
be reduced to the miserable shift of ondeavouring to
explain it from the opinions of others whose works
themselves want explaining, and whose systems are
anything but that of Ptolemy. The esteem they pro
fess, and the epithet they have given him of “Prince
of Astrologers” must not be taken as proofs that they
are at all acquainted with his system. The additional
aspects, the Zodiacal directions, the direct cosmical
motion, the subterrene direction by the Crepusculine
and obscure Arcs, Directions to Terms, of Prorogators
to Anaretas, of the Luminaries to their own Squares,
and to the Lunar Nodes, with a number of other in
novations, are convincing proofs they must have
been ignorant of every part of the Science as laid
down in the Quadripartite, except the name.
I have but very lately had an opportunity of in
specting the Original, and I can assure the reader,
that my ideas of the work are very different to what
they were when I perused it through the medium of
(*
iv. PREFACE.
what is called a Translation. Nevertheless, there are
still some difficulties remaining as the Student will
perceive when he examines the notes. Local circum
stances, Phraseology, Allusions to Ancient Customs,
Manners, and Habits; and to a state of Society
which has long ceased to exist, with the nature of
whose knowledge and opinions we are nearly unac
quainted, and whose Technicalities, however familiar
to themselves, are in many instances obsolete to us:
These are obstacles which cannot fail to throw a veil
of uncertainty over any Translation; and when to
all this we add, the blunders and omissions of Trans
cribers, and the interpolations of ignorant or design
ing persons, I will leave the reader to determine on
the prospect of success to one who has probably never
assiduously applied himself to investigate the science
he is employed to translate, except through the me
dium of other men’s opinions, and who is consequently
unprovided with the only probable clue to guide him
through such a labyrinth.
Considered in the Abstract merely as a Science,
this Treatise exhibits a masterly specimen of human
ingenuity, and compared with any other Astrological
system, ancient or modern, may be truly deemed
“Hyperion to a Satyr.” Its truth or falsehood forms
a distinct consideration. One thing, however, is
certain, that although its truth may be disputed, it
cannot be disproved, as I believe there is no instance
on record, since the time it was wrote, wherein it has
been brought to the test in the manner here laid down,
and although an attempt to decide this question may
easily be made by any individual, he would find him
self so much at a loss for want of sufficient materials,
as to render it impossible to arrive at any thing like
certainty. Those, indeed, who are ignorant of the
PREFACE. W
matter, and have read Partridge's Opus Reformatum,
where he speaks of his own experience in “a hundred
Nativities,” may suppose they are to be picked up
as plentifully as mushrooms, and in as good condi
tion. It should, however, be remembered, that Par
tridge was a man of such extensive genius, as to be
able to make his own Nativities to his own taste, as
he did in the case of Oliver Cromwell, whereby he
gained a considerable advantage in his predictions.
Those however, who are compelled to take Nature
as they find her, will very soon perceive, that to
procure a geniture that can be relied on with an
equally correct life of the native annexed to it, though
the experiment may not be attended with so much
danger as one of the labours of Hercules, it will be
attended with nearly as much difficulty.
Whoever is inclined to pursue this Science, should
particularly observe, that it has very little resem
blance to any present system of Astrology. It con
tains no Zodiacal direction whatever, nor any mena
dane or Rapt parallels; a Prorogator is never directed
except to the west angle, for according to the Actino
bolia, the Prorogatory place is that point of the
horary circle in which the Prorogator is found at the
moment of birth, and which always maintains the
same relative position with the Meridian and Equator.
. It is consequently immovable, and exposed to the
bodies or rays of Promitors, whether good or evil,
as they arrive by Mundane Converse Motion. The
term Latitude, has in this case, been greatly mis
understood. It is entirely used in a cosmical sense,
and means declination or the distance of any Point,
from the Equator. Thus in Book 1. Chap. xiv. we
read of the Sun's Latitude, which can only relate to
its Mund: ne posi ion, declination on the Celestial -
a 3
•
W1 PR EFACE.
Globe being latitude on the Terrestial. In bodify
conjunctions or Transits, both the Significator and
Promittor must have the same declination, or what
is here termed Latitude, else they weuld impress the
earth at different angles, and with different powers;
whereas, in aspects measured by right or oblique
distance, declination cannot alter the effect, for, as
the author remarks, their rays are all directed to the
same point, the earth's centre.
Application and Separation are nothing but Arcs
of Direction, within certain limits, measured in the
same way by the Semi-arcs. The passage where they
are mentioned, is certainly very equivocal, as it does
not state whether the preceding and succeeding places
are taken in the Horary or Zodiacal Circle. The
former has been the most general opinion, I have
accordingly given it in a note to Chap. xxvii. of the
First Book, but on further consideration, I am con
vinced it is a wrong opinion, and have accordingly
corrected it in a note to Chapter xv. of the Third
Book. There have been many disputes about direct
ing the part of Fortune, which never would have
been, had the disputants understood either Polemy’s
system or their own. Even according to the latter
it may be directed Zodiacaly, as the part of Fortune
has a Zodiacal motion whereby it preserves the same
distance from the Horoscope as the Moon has from
the Sun. It cannot indeed be directed to the west
angle as it is not carried away by the Rapt motion as
Placidus would call it, but its Genethliacal point in
the horary eircle, is equally liable with that of any
other Significator to be affected by the rays of a Pro
mittor in the Actinobolia prorogation. I have gene
rally found the simple rule of Ptolemy, which allows
a year to a degree, more correct than the Equations
PREFACE. wire
of either Naibod, or Placidus, and they are evidently
of great antiquity, as we find them mentioned in
Judges, chap. v., verse 20. The “ Stars which in
their courses fought against Sisera,” were the anaretic
periods which terminated his existence.
It is almost superfluous to remark, that as in Na--
tivities, the directions are all Mundane, the aspects
must necessarily be the same; and this alone is the
reason why Sextiles from signs of long ascension,
and Trines from those of short ascension, are liable
to be anaretic, because they often form Mundane.
squares. The Zodiacal aspects are chiefly used in
general predictions, relative to changes in the seasons.
or atmosphere; but in all cases wherein a scheme:
of the heavens is required, as in Nativities, Ecliptical
Periods, &c., mundane Aspects alone are referred
to; the whole being measured by the Semi-arcs. Only.
four aspects are admited, viz. the Opposition,
Square, Trine, and Sextile. Many have confounded
the terms. FAMILIARITY or CoNF1GURATION, with.
Aspect, whereas the former have a more extensive
signification, as they not only include the four aspects, .
together with the body or eonjunction, but also the
Solar and Cosmical Orientalities or Occidentalities,
comprising the Matutine and Vespertine Conditions,
and that of Satelitium, wherein they directly precede
or follow the Luminaries; the commanding, obeying, .
and beholding positions; the Phase or appearance,
as regulated by the domal distance, in the Solar and
Lunar Semi-circles; and in short, every possible
condition or situation, wherein the influence of a star
depends on its relative position with any other star,
or place whatever.
The Antiscions do not depend on Latitude, as is .
generally supposed. They are merely formed from:
viii PREFACE.
signs, wherein the Sun has an equal declination;
and according to the figurative method which per
vades the whole system, wherever two planets may
be situated, they are considered as having the same
relative power, as the sun would have in each posi
tion, viz. in commanding signs they are strong, in
obeying weak, and in beholding equal. Nor does
it appear, that the part of the sign makes any differ
ence, as the symbol is taken from the sign itself, and
not from the degree. We find in Book III, Chap.
xvi. that a Sextile is fatal from “ Obeying or
beholding Signs,” though after all, this is not a very
clear definition. Perhaps the word COMMANDING .
should be substituted for OBEYING.
I cannot clearly perceive what is signified by the
terms RULE and DOMINION. That it relates to
the domal dignity has been generally supposed, .
but this opinion is not quite consistent with the doc
trine laid down in Book Iv. Chap. Ix. where it is .
said, that if the anaretic place hath NO ruler, the
nature of that Planet whose influence arrives next ;
at the place must be attended to. Now every sign has
a ruler by house, and eonsequently it cannot be the
domal dignity, nor probably any essential dignity
to which this passage alludes. Perhaps the meaning
of this and of some other terms may vary with circum
stances, but I think, generally speaking, DOMINION
implies some kind of Configuration, and that the
ruler is strong or weak in proportion as it is elevated
or depressed, angular, or cadent, matutine or ves
pertine, &c. * - -
No mention is made of the Orbs, as laid down in
modern Astrology, for although Jupiter is allowed to
operate on the anaretic point sufficiently to save life
even at an angular distance of 12°, and Venus at 8°,
-
| PREFACE, 1X
no such distances are asigned to the others, and yet
I think some platick distances must have been
allowed. I need scarcely mention after what has
been said, that those benefic distances are not to be
taken in the modern way on the Zodiac. They, like
the arcs of direction to which they are added, are
wholly Mundane, and must be measured like them
on the Horary circle. -
Nothing is said about the Lunar Nodes, except
where the Moon is in them, nor is any direction
made to them, or to Rapt Parallels, or Terms, or
Own squares, or to any Zodiacal position: nor can
a Prorogator be directed to any anaretic point except
the west angle.
The whole is evidently a system of Divination, in
which no real operation of nature is included, except
in a figurative sense; but it certainly differs from all
other kinds of divination in this, there is not suffi
cient scope left for the operation of sympathy. In
casting cards, dice, lots, numbers, &c. there can be
no impediment or restraint, whereas in Nativities,
there are two certain periods over which we have no
controul, viz. the Courses of the Stars, and the
period of Gestation, and it seems too much to sup
pose that the lot of the Native should be happy or
otherwise merely because at the moment of birth
which we cannot by any mental exertion retard or
accellerate, the planets chance to be in what a few
individuals have chosen to consider as their essential
dignities or debilities; or to denominate bestial,
fish-like, fruitful, four-footed, fiery, watery, &c. &c.
thereby assigning to them qualities which have no
real foundation in nature, or in any thing else but
the mere fiat of those who invented them. In horary
questions the case is different. Thc time of putting
ź. PREFAGE.
a question is always at our own disposal, and regu
lated entirely by our own feelings, and by the conse
quent sympathy which those feelings produce; the
essential Dignities, Part of Fortune, Lunar Nodes,
or any other symbols therefore may be adopted, as
no question of this kind is like to be seriously pro
posed until the heavens are properly arranged for its
solution. *
In the doctrine of Nativities, there are two points.
for consideration, with respect to that which is real,
and that which is merely figurative. Of the first our
knowledge is but little; we do however know that the
power of the Luminaries varies essentially, not only in
the angles, but in the various spaces between them ;
and that their rays are more powerful the nearer they
are to our Zenith. An accurate observer too will find
that the barometer constantly varies with the Sun's po
sition in his hoary circle. It is evident, therefore, that:
an animal must partake of the nature of the Ambient
under which it is produced, but as I before observed,
we are too little acquainted with natural causes.
to make much at present of this Theory. Our next.
and chief consideration the efore, relates to the sym
bolical department of the science, but these symbols
if at all adopted, should be derived from the appear
'ances of nature, so far as they seem to resemble our
own condition; without having recourse to human
invention, beyond explaining them to the best of our
abilities. That the Luminaries were created for
“SIGNS,” as well as for “SEASONS, DAYS AND
YEARS,” (Gen. i. 14.) is by no means so unphiloso
phical a Theory as many imagine. The Sun and
Moon from their Celestial superiority, are considered
the figurative representatives of mankind who are the
superiors of the creation. The Phanets Jupiter and,
PREF.A.C.E. xi
Venus, from their lustre and beauty, are symbolical
of health and happiness, while Saturn and Mars,
from their unpromising and malignant appearance,
seem the harbingers of misery and destruction. Their .
aspects, as they are called, have in some degree a
real foundation in nature, for we find from the Tides,
that the Luminaries oppose each other at the square;
it is therefore considered an aspect of enmity. The
opposition from its appearance is likewise considered
the symbol of opposition and enmity, although this
does not accord with the real effects of the Sun and
Moon in that position.
At the Sextile and Trine the effects of the square
begin to cease, and therefore they are considered as
harmonizing aspects. When a planet is matutine and
encreasing in light, or when advancing toward the
Mid-heaven in the eleventh or tenth houses, it is sym
bolical of increasing prosperity. When Vespertine
or declining, it is the reverse. To extend these com
parisons would be superfluous, as they are amply
detailed in this work; it is sufficient to observe, that
these are the symbolical appearances of nature, not
invented, but merely applied to those sublunary
events they most resemble, furnishing a series of
coincidences, which have generally received, and
perhaps in some degree merited, the confidence of
men of research from the remotest antiquity. The
whole however, furnishes but an imperfect shadow
of things to come. Man was never intended to pos
sess the gift of Prescience in perfection, nor would
it add to his happiness. Nevertheless, there is a
certain affinity in nature whereby every part and par
ticle belonging to it is connected with and dependant
on the rest, and which, however imperceptible it may
ibe to "allow or prejudiced understandings, is as
or fort. -
xii PREFACE,
obvious to the man of observation as his own exis
Atence. Ardent minds are more subject to those sym
pathetie impressions than others, though they are
perhaps as much the result of habit as of constitution,
and it was an ingenious observation of Cardan's, that
Astrological predictions were probably oftener verified
among the Egyptians, who confided in them, than
among others who did not; and indeed, the power
of the human mind as to belief or unbelief, is
inconceivably effective; instances of which may be
found in Mark v–34, and ix—23, and particularly
in Matthew xiii-58.
With respect to my own observations, I have, as
I before observed, been able to make but few, owing
to the scarcity of Nativities on which I could depend;
but so far as they go, I have found the outline of
Ptolemy’s system generally correct, although I never
could depend on the more minute particulars, I
knew one who had both the Luminaries cadent in
the third house, in the sign Aries. This being a sign
of one form, denotes Travelling but once, or very
seldom, and being an Occidental quadrant, the
journey should have been westward. The Native did
itravel, and but once, but it was in a contrary direc
:tion, namely, to the East Indies. Mars was angular,
and also the part of fortune, and consequently, they
could have no influence whatever in altering the
direction. Another, whose day of birth only I can
ascertain, and whose Moon was in close square to
Mars, possesses a mind shallow but extremely acute,
and the temper dreadfully irascible. The tempers of
such as have Saturn and Mars in opposition I have
found very turbulent. On the contrary, one whose
Venus and Mercury were in the same degree of
Pisces with the trine of Jupiter from Cancer, and ne
PREFACE. xiii
"evil aspect whatever, was the most humane character
"I ever knew, and except under circumstances where
feeling or a misplaced confidence in the integrity of
others misled him, he manifested sound judgment
and acute intellect. Mercury and the Moon were
inconjunct, which according to Ptolemy, would denote
a want of sufficient mental energy; and really, dur
-ing the early part of his life, he was a constant dupe
to his own unbounded philanthropy and want of
even common suspicion. I know an infant with
Mars on the cusp of the horoscope opposed to Saturn,
"within five degrees, and in mundane square to the
luminaries which were within three degrees of the
opposition. She is not quite so unhealthy as might be
expected from so violent a position, but her constitu
tion is very weak, and her temper singularly irasible
and determined. The future life of this native would
"be of infinite value to the astrologer. I have never
met with any instance of the Hyleg setting in the
west, aecording to the Horimaian Prorogation, nor of
the part of Fortune being Hyleg; but judging from
what is to be found in the works of authors, I really
have no confidence in those doctrines.
. The student should be on his guard against placing
too much dependance on what are handed down to
us, as the Nativities of eminent men. Many of them
were so contrived as to answer particular purposes
‘and systems, rather than to elicit truth; and I have
known more than one instance of a person altering
his own Nativity when he did not like the appearance
of the scheme. There is notone in the works of Argol,
or in the vast collections of Sibley, in which I would
‘confide, although undoubtedly some of them may be
"correct; and in fact, before any system of Astrology
“can be depended upon, the whole must be founded
b
xiv PREFA C E.
on fresh examples of correct Natal figures, with the
respective lives annexed to then).
I have already observed, that the directions alluded
to in this Treatise, are all mundane, so that without.
attributing any error to the system, it is easy to con
ceive that such calculations must be often incorrect,
as in some instances an error of four minutes would
make the difference of a year in the arc of direction.
Nothing seems more clear than that both mental and
bodily qualities are derived in a great degree from
those of the parcntage, and as Ptolemy ingeneously
observes in Book 1. chap. 11. the difference in the
nature will cause a difference in , the production,
although the Ambient and Horizon may be the same,
and he certainly considered hereditary defects as
indicated, rather than caused by the celestial posi,
tions.
The following are the Nativities of two deaf and
dumb children. sister and brother, whose family were
remarkable as to having this defect among them for
generations.—Both are for the latitude of London.
The first was born on the 22d of February, 1799, 9"
20" A.M. and the second on the 24th of September,
1811, 11h 40" P.M.,
That they are not quite correct, seems probable
from the usual five minute time; but this is what
must be expected from Nurses and Accoucheurs.
In both of them the Moon was cadent in the sixth
house. In the first she had no support from either of
the benefics, and in the second, she is besieged by
Saturn and Mars, with no aid but what she derives
from the Configuration of Venus, which could be of
but little avail against such powerful enemies. In
Book III. Chap. ix. monstrous births are attributed
to the Luminaries being inconjunct with the Horo
*
FREFACE, xy
scope, and to the Malefics possessing the angles.
The Malefics are not angular in either of these, but the
moon is inconjunct with the Horoscope, and with the
place of the last copulation of the Luminaries. The
student, however, will form his own judgment, and
certainly there is nothing in this treatise which would
from the nature of those schemes, justify an opinion
that either of the Natives were deaf and dumb'; but
judging the Lunar condition, according to the rules
laid down, it certainly indicates some mral conforma
tion arising from hereditary disease:
With regard to the doctrine of the Trigons, however
formerly it might serve the purposes of divination, I
have never seen any thing in it on which I could de
pend; and as the doetrimes contained in Book 11. are
mostly founded upon this hypothesis, they must stand
or fall together. I really have no favourable opinion
of any system which attributes-the incessant visissi
tudes in human affairs to any fixed astronomical
period; when subjected to, and judged by the rules
of essential dignities. With Comets the case is
widely different. We have no correct knowledge of
their periods, ifindeed they have any that are regular,
which I greatly doubt, notwithstanding all that has
been said upon the subject. Their appearances are
unexpected, and their impression on the atmosphere
causes such powerful action and re-action of cold,
heat, drought, and moisture; that no one who is not
either inattentive to nature, or stupified by prejudice,
can aveid perceiving it Their influence on the
affairs of men may be more a matter of opinion, but
this may be easily decided by comparing their Times
with the corresponding periods of History. The
Comet of 1807, which appeared to the southward,
seemed the Precursor of the sanguinary conflicts in
b 2 -
xvi. PREFAGE,
Spain and Portugal. That of 1811, was first observed:
between the legs of Ursa Major, or the Great Bear.
Its figure was tremendous, its tail resembled a
shower of fire, and certainly the subsequent calami
ties in Russia, of which I believe it to have been ,
either the cause, or the symbol, or both, were never.
exceeded in the annals of human suffering. America.
too was visited by the same dreadful scourge, and
both Washington and Moscow were destroyed by fire.
The Comet which appeared just before the unhappy
affair at Manchester, was, like the event it preceded,
sudden in its appearance, and short in duration; and
resembled a sword blade with the point upward.
How far the Northern lights may be considered a
disastrous symbol is not quite so certain, as they sel
dom appear in these regions to any great extent. I
have always observed them to be the forerunners of:
warm wet weather, and I think nothing can be more
certain, than that the mind through the medium of
the body, is affected by atmospherical changes; and
few will deny that the affairs of mankind depend in
a great measure upon their tempers and propensities.
I shall merely remark, that in October 1827, a very
luminous specimen of this kind appeared. The suc
ceeding winter and spring were singularly warm,
and during the two first months of 1828, the greatest
destruction of human life occurred through fires and
other accidents that. I ever remember in so short a
space of time. The man of reflection will, attend to .
these observations, and the fool will laugh at them.
To the former I need only observe how clearly we
are taught by the analogy of things, that every celes
tial body must have an effect proportionate to its
magnitude, distance, and nature; and that those
effects are varied infinitely, like the infinite combi.
PREFA C E. xvii.
nations by which they are produced; hence arise
those endless gradations which characterise the form,
organization, and consequent disposition of every
existing being. Our fate in a considerable degree,
depends upon our conduct, and thus our destiny may
be considered as the result of planetary influence,
mixed with parental temperament, and moulded by
education, Habit, Society, and condition in life ; and
this was the opinion of Ptolemy.
We come now to the main point, namely, the
truth of Astrology considered generally, without re
ference to any particular system; and this can only
be considered, by a proper estimate of the real im
portance of the chief objections, and of those who .
make them—these may all be comprised under the
three following heads:- -
I. The Folly and Knavery of its Professors.
II. The Uncertainty of the Science itself as mani
fested by the frequent failure of Predictions.
III, The certainty that it mnst be false, because it
cannot be true, and therefore no man of learning and,
sense would believe in it.
- , *
The first objection contains more truth than vali
dity. The desire of possessing Foreknowledge is.
tempting; impostors will profit by it where they ean,
and formerly they had more opportunities of doing
so than they have at present. Wise men who
studied the science, although convinced of its truth,
were fully aware of its difficulties, and careful how
they committed themselves. Fools were not so scru
pulous, and Impostors thought of nothing but how
they could make the mostof it. At length things came
to that pass, that as Gassendus remarks, some would
xviii PREFACE.
“scarcely cut their hair or pare their nails without:
erecting a figure for the purpose.” It may not be.
improper to give a hint relative to an Impostor of the
present day, who under various ridiculous signatures
has lately addressed that to others which he does not,
believe himself, whose principal aim is to disgrace a
Science he does not understand, and to laugh at the
public while he is robbing it. A wretch like this is
infinitcly more despicable than the greatest blockhead.
on earth who is sincere. Astrology, however, must
stand or fall by its own merits or demerits, and not.
by those of its professors. Had the study of Che
mistry been abandoned because a set of fools urged.
on by knaves, ruined themselves in pursuit of the
universal Menstruum, the world would indeed have,
been deprived of a most useful Science..,
The second objection seems more plausible, but it
is equally applicable to other branches of knowledge,
whose truth is not even disguted... We are, for in
stance, as little acquainted with the true operations.
of Celestial affinities, as with the Pathology of the
human frame, and probably much less, as we have.
fewer opportunities of investigating them; and I,
would ask not only the medical man, but any man,
who has studied nature, whetherin the event of a
person receiving a wound in the hand or foot, he
would require the Physician to decide as to its being
succeeded by Tetanus: A, question like this could.
only proceed from extreme ignorance, and would be.
treated as such. Not one wound in ten, nor I believe,
one in a hundred, occasions a locked jaw, and yet
the identity of Traumatic Tetanus is as perfect as any,
other disease in Nosology.
To those who make the third objection, I would:
recommend patience, with the assurance that shonld:
PR EFACEs. xix
they by any accident, become men of LEARNING:
AND SENSE themselves, they will probably change.
their opinions. Besides, it is but right to inform
them, that men of sense often concealtheir senti
ments from a conviction that Fools are tee formidable
a body to be tampered with. A little investigation,
however will enable them to discover that a few ages
back, before, the spirit of research had been almost
subdued by prejudice, most men of acknowledged,
abilities did-BELIEVE 1N IT. Thegreat and in-,
genious Kepler, whose astronomical discoveries, and.
mental acuteness, have never yet. been surpassed;
and the profound, intelligent Locke, whose indefati
gable spirit of research may justly shame the brightest
genius of the present, age, were, well convinced of
the truth of Astrology, and not ashamed to acknow
ledge it... Other names might be quoted of equal.
celebrity, but no. such authority is required to sanc
tion truth, and the expedient is seldom resorted to
except with a view to blind the ignorant and give,
currency to, Prejudice. . As every age brings improve
ment,- “ the Seciety, for the Diffusion of Useful.
Knowledge” seem to have hit upon a plan of improv
ing this expedient, by circulating their OWN names,
to serve for authorities, instead of the names of their.
PREDECESSORS... I forget, who it was that pre
scribed a list of great men with little minds as a cure
for Hypochondriasis, supposing, it must operate upon
the Nerves through the medium of the Risible Muscles
The idea was ingenious, and really when I peruse tho,
“Diffusion,” and compare the names on its covers
with the nonsense on its pages, I am tempted to be
lieve we are in possession of the very desideratum.
alluded to... Such, a stale, common-place farrago of
Xx: PREFACE.
Physical absurdities was never before let loose upon
the uninformed mass of mankind.
I wish they had given us their receipe for making a
Universe. That for putting them in motion when they
are made is truly admirable. The feat it appears is
performed by “some PUSH given to them at first, and
forcing them onwards at the same time that they are
drawn towards a eertain point,” and again, we find
that this attractive force which draws them towards as
certain point, is “the same influenee or power that.
makes a stone fall to the ground.” Now, of all the
PUSHES I have ever seen, the original impulse
was but momentary, and although the effect must
havc remained through all eternity had there been
no obstruction, yet were there is, it must be gradually.
annihilated. . A stone thrown forward, , even were :
there no atmospherical resistence, must proceed in a
parabolic curve the effect of two conflicting forces,
viz. that of the first impulse, and the impeding power
of gravitation; but the former being but temporary. .
and the latter perpetual, the former would be gradu
ally exhausted by the latter and the stone would in
a given time remain relatively motionless upon the
earth's surface. All that now remains to be ascer
tained, is the nature of the Society’s “Push.”. Is
it like other PUSHES. likely, to be overcome by a
contrary impulse? and if it be, by what means does
it still retain its power unimpaired by resistance,
undiminished by gravitation? not to mention the va
riations at the apsides which can neither be caused
by Primitive impulse, or uniform Gravitation. This
TO ME would be “Useful Knowledge,” and I.
should be happy at seeing it “diffused” as soon as .
possible... I must, however, caution them that I am."
PR EFA.C.E. xxi.
not to be amused by a NAME or an AUTHORITY,
whether of Newton or any one else. I may be wrong
in applying to the Society for a reason of their own,
which they have not to give, but I mean to have a
Reason or Nothing. Did it never occur to those
wiseacres, that every distinct body in nature has,
like themselves, a will of its own, differing only from
theirs in being directed to much wiser purposes?.
could they never find out that the LAWS of Nature
are the WILLS of Nature exercised for the mutual
benefit, and preservation of all its component parts,
collectively and individually could they once be.
made to comprehend this obvious truth, it would:
assist them through many of their difficulties, and
among other things teach them to account for the
“ Falling of a Stone,” a Phenomenon which seems to,
puzzle them extremely, and but for the experience
they have to thc contrary, “it is,” they say, “quite
conceivable that a Stone might STAND still in the
air or fly upwards, or in any other direction; and,
thare is nothing at all absurd, contradictory, or in--
conceivable, or impossible in either of these supposi
‘tions, as there a would be in supposing the Stone
equal to half of itself, or double of itself; or falling
and rising atonce,” &c. Now, really, how one positive
absurdity can be more “CONCEIVABLE” than
another, is to ME “INCONCEIVABLE,” but this
is the inevitable consequence, when Lawyers and
Statesmen set up for Philosophers. Art is their
proper study. They are ignorant of Nature, and
should never meddle with her affairs, Every atten
tive observer perceives that in all bodies, whether
organized or not, each part or member is interested,
and indefatigable in contributing to the preservation.
of the whole; that were it not for the judicious ten
* -
xxii P.R. EFACE.
dency of all substances towards each other, so as to
form our common centre of Gravity, this globe would
instantly be shattered to pieces; and that to prevent
this catastrophe, a stone or any other substance left
at liberty, rushes towards the centre, or as it is,
vulgarly termed, “falls to the ground,” and that:
none but an idiot or very ignorant person could.
“conceive” it to be otherwise.
We come now to the choicest morsel of the whole;.
namely, their astrological aphorisms, the major part.
of which will be found in a work of theirs, called
“the Companion to the Almanac,” containing a choice
collection of Apophthegms, a smart philippic or two.
against “Moon and Star Men,” and “thc nonsense.
of Astrology,” and an oblique hint at the means by
which they aequired all this knowledge, which it
seems was through having “Intelligence, and goods
sense, as, lords of their ascendants.”
At page. 23, we are told, “ that the Revolution of
the Heavenly Bodies produce the appearances of the
Seasons, and NOTHING MORE.” At page 24, the
“Seasons” are left to shift for themselves, and “the
Celestial Bodies, exert no other influence than that of
GRAVITATION upon the earth;” and at page 27,
they are all, except one, turned out of office, in con
sequence of the discovery, that “being all much more
remote from the earth than the Moon, they have NO
INFLUENCE WHATEVER upon the changes of
the Seasons, or upon any thing that in any way affeets.
the Comfort or the ordinary pursuits of mankind.” If
any one can reconcile this discordant trash, I should
be happy to find myself in the list of his acquaintance.
Where were “Intelligence and Good Sense” that they,
did not happen to be “Lords of the Ascendant” upon
this occasion ? I fear we have lost even the Sun.in,
- *
P:REFACE. xxiii
the conflict. He is “much more remotefrom the earth
than the Moon,” being at 400 times her distance—he
is one of the OUTS.
I need not insult the reader’s understanding by any
comment, but pass onward, or rather backward to
the story of their conversion, which the reader may
find at page 218 and as this is a very curious docu
ment, I shall insert the passage verbatim.
“That the different Phases of the Moon have SOME
connexion with changes in the atmosphere is an opinion
so UNIVERSAL and POPULAR as to be on THAT
ACCOUNT ALONE entitled to attention. No obser
vation is more general, and on no oecasion perhaps is
the almanac so frequently consulted as in forming con
jectures upon the state of the weather, the common re
mark goes no further than the fact that changes from
wet to dry, and from dry to wet happen at the changes
of the Moon; when to this result of universal experience
we add the philosophical reasons for the existence of
Tides in the Aerial ocean, we cannot doubt that such
a connexion exists, and that the Moon exerts a con
siderable influenee upon the currents of the air accord
ing to her position. The subject, however, is involved
in GREAT OBSCURITY, and is one which can only
be elucidated by long and carefnl observation.”
This is truly “the - Nonsense of Astrology,”
and when we reflect that “ The Society” them
selves have been Astrologers all this while, without
having the wit to discover it, the thing seems scarcely
credible; but we find the whole is justly attributed to
the wicked machinations of that noted Enchantress,
“ UNIVERSAL AND POPULAR OPINION,”
who with all the persevering malignity of a Fairy,
seems never to have quitted those poor victims of her
delusions one moment from that of their birth to the
Xxiv. PREFACE.
present hour. 'Twas she, who in the disguise of
scholastic dogmas, and popular prejudices, first
taught them to deny the truth of Astrology, and then
in the garb of “UNIVERSAL AND POPULAR
OPINION” compelled them to believe in it, leaving
them to extricate themselves from between the horns
of the dilemma as well as they could. In addition to
these calamities they are, through some fatality,
always in the wrong, even when they happen to take
“the right side of a question. The weather does
|NOT change with the Moon, but four or five days
before it, and this period is the longer the nearer the
Moon is to her Apogee. That the subject is “in
“volved in great obscurity,” is owing to the meddlesome
ignorance of blockheads like themselves who can let
"nothing alone, and have ever been the enemies of
intellectual improvement; who are fiitter to perpetu
ate Prejudice, than to “diffuse knowledge” and who
"operate as a continual BLIGHT upon timid minds,
preventing their expansion, sapping their vigour, and
paralysing their energy, like the tail-less fox in the
fable, who was continually exerting himself to per
suade others into his own condition. It is strange they
cannot be persuaded to stick to their LASTS, and re
main within the very limited sphere for which nature
"designed them. Really, men like those who are merely
the echos of others opinions, without possessing one
original idea of their own, whose minds are so super
ficial and unreflecting, as not only to be incapable
of perceiving Physical truths, but even the nature
and tendency of their own ideas—men like those,
should be put under some kind of Surveillance, and
Anot be allowed to go about filling their own empty
Phials with other men's Compositions, which they
have not the skill to analyse, and forcing their con
PREFA CE. XXV:
tents, dregs and all, down the throats of every one they
meet. If they must become teachers of Philosophy, .
(though of this I do not see either the necessity or the
possibility,) they should become Wards in Chancery,
and fpursue their studies under proper tutors pro
vided for them. I think, however, they had better
remain as they are, or rather as they were before
they became “Moon and Star Men” Pikes like
those should remain at home in their native rivers,
and not venture to sea. They may shine at the BAR
or in the SENATE, where great pretensions and
small intellect are much oftener “Lords of the
Ascendant” than “ Intelligence and Good Sense,”
where, if we may credit Lord Chesterfield, a knowledge
of any subject in question, is no more essential than
a knowledge of “Celtic or Selavonian,” and where he
boasted of delivering with unbounded applause, a
Lecture on ASTRONOMY, while at the same time
he was an “ UTTER STRANGER” to that
Science. THERE they may be GIANTS, but I am
really serious when I assure them thcy are mere
PIGMIES. in Philosophy, .
:
*
*
-
Chap:
1
2
|
18
19
20
21
Ü O N T E INTTS,
Book 1.
THE PROEM . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
That a Knowledge of Astronomy may be
acquired, and to what extent . . . . . . . .
Of the Usefulness of Astrology . . . . . . . . . . . .
On the Effects ofuthe Planets . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Of the Benefics and Malefics . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Of the Masculine and Feminine . . . . . . . . .
Of Diurnals and Nocturnals . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Of Solar Configurations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Of the Power of the Fixed Stars . . . . . . . . . .
Of the Stars north of the Zodiac, ..........
Of the Stars south of the Zodiac ... . . . . . . . .
Of the Four Seasons of the Year . . . . . . . . . .
Of the Power of the Angles . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Of Tropical, Equinoxial, Fixed, and Bicor
poreal Signs , . . . . . . . . • • • • • • * * * * * * * * *
Of Masculine and Feminine Signs ........
Of the Configurations of the Signs . . . . . . . .
Of Signs Commanding and Oheying .......
Of Signs Beholding, and of Equal Power ..
Of Signs that are Inconjunct..............
Of the Planetary Houses..... * * * * : * * * * * * * *
Of the Triplicities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
- Page.
"1
8
8
14
17'
18
19
29
21
25
26
27
28
30
31
33
35
35
36
37
39
11 CONTENTS,
Chap. Page.
22 Of the Exaltations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
23 Of the Terms of the Planets . . . . . . . . . . . ... 43
24 Of the Terms according to Ptolemy . . . . . . . . 48
25 Of the Places and Parts of each Planet . . . . 51
26 Of the Phases, Thrones, &c., . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
27 Of Applications, Separations, &c. . . . . . . . . 54
BOOK II.
1 The Division of the Subject. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
2 Of National Peculiarities ....... . . . . . . . . . 59.
3 . Of the Familiarity of the Climates with the
Triplicities and Planets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
4 Method of Predicting Particular Events.... 77
5 . Of the Countries where the Event will happen 78
6 The Time of the Event . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
7 Of those most subject to its Effect ......... . 80
8 The Nature of the Event . . . . . • * * * - - - - - - - - - 85.
, 9 Of the Colours of Eclipses, Comets, &c. . . . 91
10. Of the New Month of the Year . . . . . . . . . . . - 93
11 . Of the Nature of the Signs and their Effects
on the Seasons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • * - - - - - 95.
12. Of the particular Effects of the Seasons .... 97
13 Of the Signification of Meteors. . . . . . . . . . . . 100
BOOK III.
1. The Proem ... . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103
2. Of the Conception and Birth, at which Period
the Animal quits the Womb and begins
a new State of Existence.............. 105.
3. Of the Horoscope........................ 107
4 Division of the Doctrine of Nativities ...... 109.
& Of Parents............................... 113.
CONTENTS. iii.
6
7
8
9
10
1.I
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
Chap. Page.
Of Brethren . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118. ,
Of Males and Females. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120.
Of Twins.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • * * * * * * * . . . . . . 121
Of Monsters . . . . . . . . • * * * * * *... • * * * * * * - • d > * 123
Of such as do not Thrive. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
Of the Length of Life. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127
Of the Aphetic Places. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128,
Of the Number of Prorogators and of the
Part of Fortune. . . . . . ..... •. •- e. e o e - e > * 130s
Of the different ways of Prorogation ... . . . 133.
Example. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 142.
Of the Bodily Form and Temperature ...... 149:
Of Blemishes, injuries, and Diseases... . . . 153
Of the Qualities of the Mind . . . . . . . . . . . . ... 160,
Of Mental Diseases . . . . . . . . . • •. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. * 173,
IBOOK IV.
The Proem ................................ 179:
Of Riches . . . . . . . . . . . . .... e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. • * * * * * * 179,
Of Honours ..... - e < * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * . . . . 1814
Of the Nature of the Profession . . . . . . . . . . 184.
Of Marriage ............................ 191
Of Children . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . w • * * * * * 199.
Of Friends and Enemies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 202
Of Travelling.......................... . . 206,
Of the Quality of Death. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 208.
Of the Division of Time . . . . ......... ... . ... 213,
* Hi E.
TETRABIBLOS;
OR,
Quantipartite of 13tolemy,
*~#)@@-->
C H A P T E R. I.
The Proem.
THERE are two things, O Syrus' requisite
to qualify a man for predicting future
events: The first, and most important of these,
is the one whereby we discover the Positions
of the Heavenly Bodies, and the various
Configurations, which they form with each other,
and with the Earth. The second, relates to the
various changes produced by those Configu
rations, according to their respective natures.
Of the first of these we have already treated
to the utmost of our ability in the Syntaxis (*),
* The Syntaxis, here spoken of, was what we term
the Almagest, a Work written by Ptolemy prior to the
Tetrabiblos, and which wholly relates to astronomy;
it was called in Greek, “Syntaxis Megistis,” and the
Arabians rendered it, “Almagest,” by prefixing their
A l to the latter term.
BOOK I. A
2
- BOOK I.
it being of the greatest importance, independent
of the second. At present we will speak of
the latter, not as placing it upon an equality
with the former in point of certainty, but merely
as a friend to science and truth; for the former is
always the same self-evident doctrine, whereas
the latter is not equally perfect or certain;
being, like all other occult qualities belonging
to matter, not subjected to the same unerring
laws, and therefore difficult to be perceived or
thoroughly understood. No event, however,
which derives its origin from the combined
effects of the Ambient, whether general or
particular, shall be deemed unworthy of in
vestigation,
With respect to persons who are in the
habit of condemning whatever they find difficult
to comprehend, those who censure the first of
these doctrines must be wholly without under
standing; whereas, those who object to the
second have something like truth on their side.
Some are of opinion that what is incompre
hensible to themselves must be equally so to
others; or, if they often forget what they learn
(which is easily done) that it is unprofitable
and unworthy their attention; we shall, there
fore, before we begin to treat of these matters
at large, first demonstrate that they are both
practicable and useful. -
CHAP. II.
That a KNoWLEDGE of AstroLogy may be
acquired, and to what extent. -
IT is clearly evident, that a certain power
passeth from the Ambient (*) to the Earth.
The two Elements beneath the Moon, namely,
Fire and Air, are the first to feel the effects of
the Ambient by which they are surrounded;
and these in return encompass the Earth and
Water, and affect them in a similar manner,
together with the plants and animals which they
contain. - -
The Sun, in conjunction with the Ambient,
operates on all earthly substances, not only by
the change of seasons bringing the seed of
animals and plants to perfection, causing the tides.
to flow, and substances to change; but also in its
diurnal progress producing heat and moisture,
cold and dryness, according to its position with
respect to the Mid-heaven. The Moon also, by
her proximity to the Earth, operates very power
fully upon it, affecting and changing every thing
animate or inanimate, encreasing or diminishing
rivers according to her light, varying the tides
*Bythe Ambient, or “that which surrounds,” is meant
the Firmament, including all the Stars and Planets.
4 BOOK I.
as she rises and sets, and causing plants and
animals to encrease or decrease with her. The
Stars also, whether fixed or moveable, are in
their courses the causes of many mutations, by
means of heat, winds, and storms; whereby all
sublunary things are subject to their influence,
and undergo various changes according to their
several mixtures and configurations. But of all
those powers, that of the sun is more prevalent
and universal, the others only operating in a
subordinate degree, by encreasing or diminishing
his influence: this is more particularly mani
fested in the Moon at her quarters and syzigies.
The effects of the other stars are more slow and
obscure, as they appear, disappear or decline.
Not only are all perfect substances subject to
astral influence, but even the germs from whence
such bodies are produced, are moulded accord
ing to the state of the Ambient; hence the ex
perienced husbandman, judging from the winds
at the times when the seed is sown, or animals
copulate, can foretel what accidents will happen
to the produce; and even the most ignorant
persons can judge of the power of the Sun ab
stractedly, when unconnected with that of the
Moon and Stars, Many brutes can distinguish the
change of seasons, and even of the winds: these
effects are chiefly caused by the Sun alone; but
there are others of a more complicated nature,
which may be known by observation, as mariners
P
O CHAP. l I.
foretel storms and hurricanes, produced by the
moon and fixed stars in their courses, although
they are often deceived through want of experi
ence, and not being acquainted with the times,
places, or courses of the planets; whereas if they
were exactly known, it would enable them to
predict with certainty: what, therefore, should
prevent those who are familiar with the motion.
of the Sun, Moon and Stars, their times, places,
and aspects, and the qualities belonging to them
as that the Sun is hot, the Moon moist, &c. what,
I say, should prevent them from knowing their
joint effects in all seasons, as that the atmosphere
will be more warm or more moist according to.
the aspects of the Moon and Stars with the Sun?.
And, if they can thus foretel the seasons, why
not also predict respecting man? For, according
to the state of the Ambient at the time of their
formation, the general quality and temperament
of each may be known at the time of birth, both
as to body and mind; and from the same cause
also future events may be foretold, as that
such a state of the Ambient will be suitable to
such a temperament, or vice versa. It is, there
fore apparent that predictions of this kind
may be made with certainty; but as those who,
slander the art assign certain reasons of their
own for so doing, we shall here demonstrate.
their absurdity.
6 BOOK I.
-
The depth and intricacy of the science causing
many to err, it naturally follows that a true
prediction, when made, is attributed often rather
to chance than knowledge. This, however,
doesnot arise from the weakness of the science,
but of those who profess it without understand
ing it thoroughly; or by pretending as some do, to
a knowledge of it merely as acover to some other
art which they practise, under the respectable
nameof this science, whereby they deceive those
who are ignorant by pretending to foretel many
things which from their nature cannot beforetold,
which is the reason why many intelligent persons
have no faith in predictions, even when they are
really true. This, however, is very illiberal, for
philosophy ought not to be despised because
some pretenders to it are undeserving. It cannot
however be denied, that the greatest adepts in
this science often commit errors, through their
own weakness, and the magnitude of the under
taking; for the whole theory of matter is conjec
tural and far from certain, owing to the great
variety of substances and the infinity of their
mixtures: besides, the former planetary configu
rationsfrom whence the observations were origi
nally made, were different to these at present:
they are continually changing, so that a complete
return of planetary configurations, so far as they
respect the Earth, can never happen, at least
not within any period which we can calculate:
CHAP. II. 7
and this very dissimilarity is in many instances
the cause why predictions fail, and probably is
the only real difficulty belonging to this science,
which is founded wholly on the motions of the
Celestial Orbs. But the doctrine of nativities, so
far as relates to nature and temperament, has a
more sure foundation, because it chiefly depends
on the diversity of the seed from whence animals
derive their origin. For although the Ambient and
horizon may be the same, the production will be
different, if the seed be different:—thus the
seed of mankind, will produce mankind, that
of horses will produce horses, and every
other thing in like manner will only produce
its kind. The place of birth, too, causes great
diversity, both in body and mind, although
the seed be the same and the Ambient exactly
similar. Education, too, will cause a very
material alteration: he, therefore, who does not
add these causes to the effects of the Ambient,
will only involve himself in difficulties; for
although celestial causes are the most powerful,
all others being subject to them, while they
themselves are subject to none, yet those who
judge from the effects of the Ambient alone,
without adding these other considerations, can
never hope to succeed. Predictions, therefore
are not to be wholly rejected because some are
untrue; nor ought we to expect absolute priec
tion, where the artist is but human, as all.
8. BOOK I.
were certain, and nothing conjectural. We do.
not lay aside the art of governing because
governments are liable to err, nor ought we to
reject this art because errors will often happen;
on the contrary, we ought to respect and admire
it, for it is wonderfully sublime. We do not
blame Physicianswhen they enquire into the con
stitution and diseases of the sick, neither ought
we to censure those who join the species, educa
tion and climate to the celestial motions, for .
physicians should not only endeavour to under
stand the nature of the disease, but also the tem
perament of the patient; and in like manner,
when we consider the effects of celestial causes,
we must take into consideration all other causes
that co-operate with them. -
-Q-2
CHAP. III.
On the USEFULNESS of ASTROLOGY.
HAVING thus demonstrated to what extent
Astronomical Predictions can be made, and that:
every thing belonging to man, such as the powers
both of body and mind, affections which happen.
on certain occasions, the duration of these
affections, together with external occurrences,
such as relate to the body, as possessions or mar
riage, and to the mind as offspring and dignities,
CIH.A.P. III. 9.
fortune, and all other accidents, arise wholly
from the influence and mutations of the Ambient,
all of which we confidently affirm, may be fore
known; it remains for us to shew the utility of
such fore-knowledge, and first let us investigate
the nature and effects of it. With respect to
those things appertaining to the mind; what can
afford more real enjoyment and happiness than
such an insight into futurity, as will enable us
to comprehend things both human and divine;
and, with respect to the body, a fore-knowledge
of the things that appertain to it must be
infinitely profitable and gratifying. Some may
despise it because it cannot produce riches and
honors that are not decreed,but the same objec
tion may be made to other studies that are
no more capable of procuring riches and dignities
than this, and yet they are not despised for such
reason; why, therefore, should this science be
condemned which is of much greater importance?
Those who think a fore-knowledge of events
useless, because after all they must happen,
must be very simple, and as great strangers
to Learning as to Truth. It is better for us
to be prepared for coming events, as at least
the evils arising from sudden and violent trans
ports either of grief or joy, may be avoid
ed; for the mind being prepared for , such
events, by prescience and meditating on them
beforehand, is enabled to encounter them with
10 BOOK I.
calmness and firmness: besides, are we justified
in supposing that all things unavoidably happen
by necessity, as if by some Divine command
or inevitable fiat from above, without admit
ting of any opposition ? By no means ! the
heavenly bodies alone are regulated in their
courses, by this immutable Divine Law ; but
the effects they produce are only of a second
ary nature, and merely a series of accidents
arising each from its respective cause. Many
things happen to mankind from universal causes,
independent of those appertaining to his own
nature. The great changes of the Ambient
produce plagues, floods, and fires, which cause
the destruction of multitudes, because the
greater cause overcomes the lesser, the stronger
subdues the weaker; and the stronger at those
times prevailing, is productive of general effects
in the way we have described, and certain
events must happen to individuals when their
natural qualities are over-ruled by the condition
of the Ambient, either more or less. It is
evident, therefore, that those events only,
whether general or particular, whose causes are
so powerful that nothing can withstand them,
can happen by necessity; but, the effects of the
weaker causes may be prevented, when the
power that otherwise would produce them, is
opposed by a power greater than its own; if no
such resistance appears, they will produce their
CHAP. III. 1:1
own natural effects, not from necessity, or from
irresistable force, but because the proper anti
pathy or resisting power is not known. This
is the case with all the productions of nature,
as stones, plants, animals, wounds, affections, and
diseases; some happen through necessity, others
do not occur when a power capable of resisting
them is discovered and applied. Persons, there
fore, who fortel events should do it from a
thorough knowledge of nature, (and notfrom any
silly opinions of their own) as that such a thing
shall happen in a certain way, because it is
produced by a power which nothing can resist,
and that such another circumstance shall not take
place because there is a power capable of resist
ing it; just as skilful physicians can foretel the
nature of diseases, and whether they are mortal
or curable. When those who calculate nativities
foretel events, they are only supposed to declare
the state of the Ambient, which, by disposing the
subject to a particular temperament, produceth a
particular affection: as if a physician says an ulcer
will corrode or putrify, or one who is acquainted
with metals, that the magnet will attractiron, it
is not because either of these events will neces
sarily happen, but because it was always the
nature of an ulcer to corrupt and of the magnet
to attract iron; but if the antidotes are applied,
neither will happen: it willjust be in those cases
as in Nativities, for if the magnet be rubbed with
12 Book I.
garlick (*) it will not attract Iron, nor will the
ulcer continue to corrupt, if proper remedies are
applied:—Justso, things happen to man, accord
ing to their nature, because the proper pre
ventatives are either not known, or not applied.
Again, when the nature of those events are
known, and the proper antidotes applied, they
either wholly do away what otherwise would have
taken place, or render its effectsmore moderate.
Some may wonder, seeing that both general and
particular eventsare derived from similar causes,
why general events are more often foretold than
particular ones, and more confidence placed as
to the result, for many attend to the seasons,
and the signification of the fixed Stars and the
Lunar Aspects for their own preservation, and
regulate their constitution accordingly by cool
ing things in summer, and warm ones in winter.
* The Garlicked Magnet of Ptolemy, has often.
subjected both him and his Astrology to ridicule, as if
the one was necessarily a counterpart to the other: no
doubt he ought to have fully ascertained the truth of
the experiment, before he committed it to writing;—
but his Geography, and (with the exception of his
System) his Astronomy has stood the test of ages, and
will last to the end of time—they form a sound basis
on which many of our most valuable discoveries are
founded; and it is neither wise nor liberal to reject a .
Science, because of a silly observation, in no way
connected with it, and which probably escaped due
investigation, merely because it formed no part of
those studies to which he devoted his whole time and
attention.
CHAP. III. 13
They regulate their voyages by the fixed Stars,
because they point out the proper seasons for
navigation; and they set their plants, and cause
their animals to copulate, according to the
Lunar aspect, when it comes to the full; and
no one considers these general precautions to be
either uncertain or useless; but in particulars
respecting cold or heat, arising from certain
bodily temperaments, and from a mixture of
other causes, they think prediction impossible,
and that it is useless to attempt it; and yet, if it
is evident that we can prevent heat in general
cases by the application of coolers, why may
not the same application answer in particular
cases, where the constitution labours under
excess of heat? But these incongruous opinions
are caused by the difficulty experienced in pre
dicting particulars with fidelity and truth, owing
to a want of proper management; for few are
perfectly acquainted with the proportionate
effect of every opposing influence; because the
joint effect of two causes is not so easily disco
vered, as the effect of one cause single and
unmixed; and, therefore, it is the general prac
tice to judge from one cause alone, and to con
sider it as immutable, and beyond the power of
resistance. But as prognostication is certainly
possible, though not infallible, so likewise the
benefits it affords ought to be held in estima
tion; and although only a few are capable of
B
14 . BOOK 1,
profiting by it, even in this light it is entitled
to respect. The Egyptians appear to have been
well aware of its efficacy, for in every case they
joined Astronomy to Medicine. Had they con
sidered the effects of the Ambient incapable of
being altered or mitigated, they would not have
instituted atonements, remedies, and preventa
tives against those evils, whether present or to
come, general or particular; but they considered
the effect of the cause, and the effect of the
opposing cause according to their natures, and
thus joined to the art of prognostication, that
art which they called Jathromathematics(*), and
from those they formed a valuable Science. By
Astronomy they judged of the temperament
and the accidents arising from the state of the
Ambient, that the cause might be known; and
by the medical art they discovered the sympa
thies and antipathies of each, whereby they
were enabled to assign to each disease a cure
or a preventative. Without a knowledge of
Astronomy, medicine is generally apt to fail; nor
indeed, can remedies be found for all bodies and
diseases:—but this brief explanation is suffi
* The Jathromathematics, here spoken of, was
the Astro-Medical scienceofthe Egyptians; it wassaid
to have been invented by Hermes Trismigistus. A
system bearing this name may be found in the Works
of Argol, but it is extremely silly, and probably
spurious. - -
CHAP. III. 15
cient. We will now, by way of introduction,
treat of the Properties of the Heavenly Bodies,
according to the Ancient System; and, first, of
the Planets and the Luminaries.
---
- CHAP. IV.
On the Effects of the Planets.
THE Q naturally causes moderate heat and
dryness; by reason of his magnitude we are
more sensible of his power than of that of the
other Planets, particularly with respect to the
seasons; the nearer he approaches our zenith
the more he stirs up heat in us, and assimilates.
us to his own nature. -
The D by nature is chiefly moist, through her
proximity to the Earth, which causes her to at
tract the moisture of such things as contain it,
and thus to excite dampness and putrefaction;
but she also contains a certain degree of heat,
because she is illuminated by the G).
E causes cold and dryness, owing to his great
distance from the @'s heat and the Earth's
moisture; but he is more cold than dry.
The rest operate according to their respective
configurations with the G) and D, and alter
the effects of the Ambient in various ways.
3 is very dry and burning, his nature
being fiery, as may be seen by his colour, and
16 B00K. I.
also from his proximity to the G), whose
sphere lies under him.
2! is by nature temperate, because he moves
between the cold of b and the heat of 3 ; he,
therefore, causes heat and moisture, though
heat is most predominant, owing to the spheres
that lie under him, which is the cause why he
produces such fruitful winds (*).
2 is nearly of a similar temperament, dif
fering only in the proportion, for owing to
her small distance from the Q, she causeth
heat, but not so much, and she is more
moist, from the same cause as the D is;
namely, the greatness of her light, by which she
attracts the moisture of the Earth in a similar
way.
* By the Spheres were meant the deferents
of the Planets, and what is now called their orbits.
In the days of Ptolomy they were unacquainted with
the Earth’s Motion, either annual or diurnal, and
therefore supposed that the Planets were each stuck
in a kind of circle, like a stone in a ring, which car
ried them round the Earth with different degrees of
velocity—there were ten spheres in all, the last of
which was the Primum Mobile. As to Ptolemy's
mode of reasoning (if it was his) it is by no means
conclusive. There is no cause why Mars, from being
just over the Sun's sphere, should be so excessively
hot, whenthe Sun who heated him only caused “mode
rate heat and dryness;” and, if proximity to the Sun
had been the cause of heat, both Venus and Mercury
ought to have been hotter than Jupiter. That the
Planets have certain effects must be evident, but the
cause of these effects is far beyond the reach of human
knowledge.
CHAP. IV. 17
# is sometimes dry and sometimes moist;
his dryness is occasioned by being near the @,
from whom he differs but little in longitude, and
this causes him to absorb moisture; but his prox
imity to the Lunar sphere, which is so near the
Earth, renders him moist, and the changes caused
by him are very rapid, because he moves so
swiftly with the G).
-Q-Q
CHAP. V.
Of the Benefics and Malefics.
THERE are four humours, two, generative and
active, heat and moisture, for these are the
sources of procreation and nutriment. The
other two are noxious and destructive, namely,
cold and dryness, for by these all substances are
dissolved and perish. 2 and 2 therefore
are called benefics, because they abound in
heat and moisture; and for the same reason
the D is considered as a benefic. b and 3 are
considered as malefics, b being very cold, and
3 very hot and dry. -
The Q and 8 are supposed to be productive
of either quality, according to the nature of
the planets with whom they are configurated.
18 * Book I.
CHAP. VI.
of the Masculine and Feminine.
THERE being two sexes, male and female, ,
The D and 2 are feminine, because they abound
mostly in moisture; but the Q, K, M, and 3 ;
are masculine. 8 is uncertain, because he
is drying at certain times, and moistening at
others. The Stars are also considered as
masculine and feminine according to their
solar position; when they are oriental and
going before the Q, they become masculine;
but when they are occidental and following
it, they are feminine. Also between the east
angle and the midheaven, and from the west
angle to the lower heaven, they are consi
dered masculine, because they are then oriental
with respect to the Horizon: in the other two
quadrants they are occidental and feminine(*).
* There is a tolerable degree of confusion in this
chapter; for if a planet go before the Sun, and be
posited between the south and the west angles, or the
north and east angles, it may be both oriental and
occidental, masculine, and feminine, at the same time.
How they reconciled such contradictions it is not easy
to determine.
Some modern Astrologers have considered the
oriental part to extend throughout the eastern part,
C H.A.P. VII. 19
CHAP. VII.
Of Diurnals and Nocturnals."
THERE are two apparent distinctions of time,
viz. Day and Night: The Day is masculine,
because of its heat and activity; the Night
feminine, because of its moisture and disposing
to rest. The Q and it therefore, are considered
diurnal; the D and 2 nocturnal. 8 is indif
ferent, being diurnal when oriental, and noc
turnal when occidental. The two Malefics,
#2 and 3, are also diurnal and nocturnal, but
viz. from the fourth house round by the east angle to
the cusp of the Tenth, the occidental extending round
the western in a similarway. The term oriental is used
to signify an increase of light: and a planet going be
fore the sun, if a superior, is always increasing in
light until it arrives at the opposition; and also when
it ascends from the east angle to the Mid-heaven. In
like manner in its course from the west angle to the
Imum Coeli, it is increasing in light to those of the
opposite hemisphere, and hence it was considered as
oriental with respect to the horizon. An inferior
planet increases or decreases in light, both before and
after the Sun, according as it is direct or retrograde,
and as its greatest increase of light is when it follows
the Sun (because it is then in that part of its Orbit
nearest to the Earth,) the inferiors have been very
"properly considered oriental when following the Sun,
as the Superiors are when preceding it, but there is no
mention of this distinction by Ptolemy. Their oriental
and occidental positions were the same as those of the
rest. -
20 BOOK I.
not like the others according to their nature, as
joining heat to heat, and cold to cold, but the
reverse, for one good temperament being added
to its like, increaseth the good; and an evil one
being added to that whichis contrary, diminisheth
the evil. i., therefore, being cold, is joined to
the heat of the day; and 3, being dry, to the
moisture of the Night, which by moderating
their effects, will render their temperature
more agreeable (*).
-->
CHAP. VIII.
Of Solar Configurations.
THE P and the three Planets have more or
less power according to their solar positions;
for in her increase, from the conjunction to the
first quarter she is more moist; from thence to
the full, more warm; from the full to the
last quarter, dry; and from thence to the
conjunction cold.
The Planets when matutine to the first station
are more moist; from thence to the opposition
* The opinion of a Planet being diurnal, when
above the Earth by Day, or under it by Night, is not
founded on the authority of Ptolemy.
CHAP. VIII. 21
moreheating; from thence to the second station,
more dry; and from thence to the conjunction,
more cold. These mixtures cause great changes
in the Ambient, each having his own power,
which is counter-balanced by those of the
rest. (*) -
--><>
CHAP. Ix.
of the Power ofthe Fired Stars.
WE shall now describe the nature of the
Pixed Stars, and the power and effects of each,
- as we did those of the Planets; and first we
will speak of those which constitute the middle
circle (+).
Aries.—The Stars in the head of the Ram,
operate the same as b and 3; those in the
mouth have the nature of 8, with something
of 5 ; those in the hind-foot are like 3, and
those in the tail like 9.
Taurus.—The Stars in the abscision are like
?, and somewhat like b ; the Pleiades' are of
* The first station is the point where they first
become stationary, previous to becoming retrograde;
the second station is, when they again become sta
tionary, before becoming direct. The three Planets
are the three superiors, because only those and the
Moon can acquire these solar positions, the two infe
riors are not even noticed.
+ The Zodiac.
22 BOOK I.
the nature of the D and 3; the bright red
Star of the Hyades in the head, which is called
a little torch (*), is like 3 ; the rest are like
b, with a little of : ; those in the tops of
the horns are like 3.
Gemini.—Those in the feet of Gemini are
like #, with somewhat of 2; the bright
Stars in the thighs are like b ; of the two
bright ones forming the heads, the foremost
called Apollo (+), is mercurial; the next, called
Hercules (£), is martial.
Cancer.—The two Stars in the eyes of Can
cer are like Q, with a little of 3 ; those in the
claws, saturnine and mercurial. The cloud in the
breast called Praespe has the same effect as 3
and D ; the two on each side of Praespe, called
Asselli, are like 3 and G). -
Leo.—The two Stars in the Lion's head are
saturnine, and moderately martial; the three in
the neck are like b, and somewhat like : ;
the bright Star in the heart Regulus is like
3 and 2: ; those in the loins, and the
bright Star of the tail, are like k and Q ;
those in the thighs are venerial and mer
curial. -
Virgo.—The Stars in the Virgin's head, and
the one at the tip of the south wing, are mer
* Aldebaran. + Castor.
| Pollux.
~~~~~~~ -e-a--, " - - - ****
CHAP. IX. 2:3
curial, and partly like 3 ; the other bright Stars
in the girdle of the wing are like #, and partly
like 2. Vindematrix, the bright Star in the
north wing, is like b and 8. The Star called
Spica is like 2, and somewhat like 3; those
in the upper part of the feet, and the edge of
the robe, are mercurial and partly martial.
Libra.—Those in the ends of the Scorpion's
claws, are like 8 and it; the middle of the
claws are like h, and rather like 3.
Scorpio.—Those bright Stars in the forepart of
the Scorpion are like b and 3, but mode
rately so. The three in the body, the middle
and brightest of which, called Antares, is red,
are of the nature of 3, and partly like it ;
those in the joints are like b , and partly like
Q ; those in the sting like 8 and 3 ; the
nebulous circle is like 3 and D.
Sagitarius.—Those in the point of the arrow
are like 3 and D ; those in the bow and the
hand that holds it, are like it and 3 ; the
nebulous circle in the face is like the Q and 3 ;
those in the sash and back are moderately like
2, and 8 ; those in the feet like it and
b ; the square figure in the tail is like 2 and
partly like b.
Capricorn.—Those in the horns have the
effect of 2, and partly of 3 ; those in the
mouth, are like b, and partly like 2; those
24 BOOK. I.
in the feet and belly are like 3 and 3 ; those
in the tail like E. and 24.
Aquarius.—Those in the shoulders are like
b and 3, as are likewise those in the fore
head and hand; those in the thighs are more
like to # than to h; those in the water stream
are Saturnine, and somewhat like it.
Pisces.—The Stars in the head of the
southern fish are like #, and partly like b ;
those in the body like it and 3 ; those in
the tail and the south cord are like b, and
partly like : ; those in the body and back
bone of the north fish are like it, and somewhat
like ç ; those in the north cord are like b.
and 1. The bright Star in the knot is like
3, and rather like #.
25
CHAP.X.
Of the Stars North of the Zodiac.
THE bright Stars about the Little Bear are:
like b , and partly like ç ; those about the
Great Bear are like 3 ; the group under
his tail are like the D and 2; the bright Stars
in the Dragon, are like E and 3 ; those in
Cepheus are like b and it; the Stars in Bootes
are like 8 and #. The bright red star,
Arcturus, is like 3 and 2: ; those in the
northern crown are like Q and : ; those in
Engonasin (*) are like #; those in the Harp.
like 2 and 8, and also those in the Bird (+);
those in Cassiopeia like b and 3 ; those in
Perseus, like it and b; those in the handle
of the sword like 3 and 8; the bright Stars in
the Charioteer are like 3 and 8 ; those in
Ophiuchus are Saturnine,and partly like Venus;
those in the Serpent are like b and 3.; those
in the Arrow are like # and partly like 2 ;
those in the Eagle are like 3 and 2: ; those in
the Dolphin are like b and 3 ; the bright Stars.
in the Horse (#) are like 3 and 8 ; those in
Andromeda like g; and those in the Triangle
like 3.
* Hercules. + The Swan. # Pegasus.
BOOK I. C.
26
CHAP. XI.
of the Constellations South of the Zodiac.
THE bright Star in the mouth of the south
Fish operates like 2 and 8; those in the Whale
are Saturnine. The shoulders of Orion are like
Mars and Mercury; the other bright Stars in .
Orion are like it and 2. Those which form
the River are like h, except the bright one
which is like it ; those in the Hare are like 2
and 8. Of the Stars in the Dog (*), the
bright one in his mouth (+) is like 3! and partly
like 3, the rest are like Venus; the bright Star
in Procyon is like 3 and partly like 3; the
bright Star in the Hydra is like b and 3 ; the
Stars in the Cup are like Q, and somewhat like
Mercury; those in the Crow are like 3 and 2.
The bright Stars in Argo are like b and it.
Of the Stars which form the Centaur, those in
the Human part are like 2 and : ; the bright
Stars in the part of the Horse, like 9 and 2: ;
the bright Stars in the Wolf, are like 2 and
moderately like 3 ; those in the Altar are like
2 and partly like #. The bright Stars in the
Southern Crown are like b and 2: . These are
the influences which the ancients have observed
to belong to the Fixed Stars.
* Canis Major, the Great Dog.
+ Sirius or the Dog Star,—it is the largest of all the
fixed Stars,
27
CHAP. XII.
ofthe Four SEASONS of the YEAR.
| THERE are Four Seasons in the Year, viz.
Spring, Summer, Autumn, and Winter.—The
Spring is full of Moisture, which, when the cold
terminates, and the warmth begins, is more
abundant. The Summer is Hot, because the
Sun comes near to our Zenith. The Autumn
is Dry, because the heat hath absorbed the
moisture; and the Winter is Cold, because the
Sun is at a distance from our Zenith.—with
respect therefore to the Zodiac, which as being
a circle. can naturally have no beginning; yet it
is considered to begin at the first point of Aries,
which is the first of the vernal Equinox; and
thus the Zodiac like all living creatures, begins
with Moisture, because all animals in their
beginning abound with Moisture, as doth the
Spring, which like them is soft and tender.
The Seasons therefore commencing with Spring,
the rest follow in their order. Summer is the
next because of its Heat, as the second age of
animals is vigorous and abounds in Heat.
Again, Autumn like the next period of animals,
inclines to Dryness and decay, and the last age
abounds with Cold, and tends to dissolution, as
doth the Winter.
28
CHAP. XIII.
Of the Power of the ANGLEs.
THERE are four Angles including the Horizon
from whence the winds originate:— the East is
very Dry, owing to the effect of the Sun at its
rising, because it dries up the moisture of the
night; the winds therefore coming from that
quarter, called East Winds, are Dryand destitute
of moisture.
The South Angle, is Hot, owing to the violent
heat of the Sun when it culminates; and also
because our situation is such, that our Mid
heaven declines to the South: the winds there
fore coming from thence, called South Winds
are of a very Hot and rarefying nature. The
West angle is Moist, for when the Sun arrives
there, the moisture which was exhausted during
the day begins to return; and the winds which
blow from that quarter, called West Winds are
filled with moist thick vapours. The part which
lies towards the Bears is Cold,because the Sun
is always (owing to our terestial situation)
distant from it when at the Meridian, and the
winds blowing from thence called the North
Winds are Cold and Frosty. These things are
aseful to be known, as they will enable us to
comprehend the various mixtures for it is evident
"CHAP. XIII. 20
that according to the Seasons, the Ages, and
the Angles, the Stars vary in their operations:
where there is no opposition, their power is
greater because it is unmixed; as in heat for
instance, those who are hot are more powerful ;
or in moisture, those that are moist; but when
the temperament is contrary they are weaker, as
hot-Stars are in cold temperaments, and moist
ones in those that are dry; and the same rule
holds good in every other mixture according to
their proportions. To these we shall add the
mutual,properties of the twelve Signs of the
Zodiac, because their general temperaments
resemble the Seasons subject to each sign;
besides certain qualities which they acquire
from their configurations with the Sun, Moon,
and Stars;—Of these, we shall hereafter treat,
but at present we will speak of their simple
powers, distinct from other mixtures, merely
as relates to their mutual positions with each
other (*)
* The doctrine of mixtures however little attended
to, in Modern Astrology is the chief basis of the Ptole
maic System: The Seasons here described were those
of Egypt; but, however they differ from ours, the
Principle laid down is uniform, namely, that the same
Planet would have a different effect under a different
temperament, whether of the Seasons, the Winds, or
the Human Frame; thus, Mars from its heat and dry
ness, operates more powerfnlly in Summer than in
Winter, or in dry than in moist weather. Saturn is
30
CHAP. XIV.
Of TROPICAL, EQUINoxIAL, FIXED and
BICORPOREAL SIGNS.
OF the Twelve Signs, some are termed Tro
pical, some Equinoxial, some Fixed, and others
Bicorporeal; two ofthem are Tropical, namely,
the thirty degrees of a from the beginning
of the Summer Solstice, and the thirty degrees
of w; at the Winter Solstice,—they are called
Tropics, because when the Sun is at the begin
ning of those Signs, he turns back from that
course of latitude to the contrary course, so that
by his entrance into g3 he causes Summer,
and by his entrance into w; he produces
Winter.
There are two Equinoxial Signs, the first is
on which begins the vernal Equinox; the other
is *, which begins the Autumnal, and they are
so termed because when the Sun is in the first
point of each, he makes the days and nights
equal,
more powerful in Winter than in Summer, and the
rest operate in a similar way, according to the nature
of the existing temperament. For the same reason,
Saturn in the doctrine of diurnal and nocturnal con
ditions was joined to the heat of the day, and Mars to
the cold and damp of the night; and in the tripli
cities, Saturn was joined to the airy and Mars to the
watery, because they were directly opposite to their
natureS.
CHAP. XIV. 31
Of the remaining eight Signs, four of them
are Fixed, and four Bicorporeal.—The Fixed
are those which follow the Tropical and Equi
noxial Signs, for the Sun being in them, the
cold, heat, dryness, or moisture of the Season,
which began when the Sun was in the Tropical
or Equinoxial Sign, preceeding, is more power
ful in its effect, , and we feel its influence more,
not because it is greater, but on account of
its duration, which renders us more sensible of
its power.
The Bicorporeal Signs follow the Fixed, and
from their intermediate situation between them
and the Tropics, they partake of the nature of
both, at the beginning and at the ending.
-->
CHAP. XV.
Of MAsculine and FEMININE SIGNs.
THE Twelve Signs are also divided into six
Diurnal and six Nocturnal;—and as the Night
is joined to the Day, and the Feminine to the
Masculine, so do these alternate Signs succeed
each other. The beginning, as already observed,
is taken from Y, because the moisture of Spring
is the beginning of the Seasons, and as the
Masculine virtue takes the lead, because the
active power preceedes the passive, Y and a
3:
2 T}OOK 1.
are considered Masculine and Diurnal, because
they describe the Equinoxial Circle, and cause
the greatest changes, and the swiftest motion of
any:—the rest of the Signs succeed each other
alternately.
Some, however, arrange the Masculine and
Feminine Signs differently, for they consider the
Sign ascending, called the Horoscope, as the
first of the Masculine Signs, as some consider
the first Tropical Sign to be the Sign of the
Moon (*), because she moves more swiftly than
the others; they therefore call the Horoscope
the first Masculine Sign because it is more
Easterly, and regulate the others by it alter
nately. Others again do not dispose of them
alternately, but divide the Zodiac into Quad
rants, calling those from the Horoscope to the
Mid-heaven, and from thc West Angle to the
Lower-heaven, Matutine and Masculine, and the
other two Quadrants, Vespertine and Femi
nine (+). They also denominate the Signs by
* Some translate it, “The Sign in which the Moon
is,” but this is wrong—it means no more than that
the first Tropic, was taken from Cancer, the Sign or
House of the Moon, because of the swiftness of her
motion. - *
(+) The Matutine and Masculine Quadrants, were
those from the Ascendent to the Mid-heaven, and
from the West Angle to the Imum Coeli, because
one of them is the ascending Quadrant in each
: Hemisphere. - -
“UHAP. XVI. 33
their appearance, namely, Four-footed, Terres
tial, Commanding, Fruitful, (*) and other names
which it would be superfluous to insert here, as
the cause is sufficiently evident, and should they
ever be required in the judgment of events,
they may be known without our further expla
nation. -
‘CHAP. XVI.
Of the ConFIGURATIONs of the SIGNs.
THERE are familiarities between certain
parts of the Zodiac, and those which arise from
Configurations, are the first in order, viz. That
which is diametrically opposite, and includes
two right Angles, or six Signs, or 180 degrees;
that which forms a Triangle, and contains one
right Angle and a third, or four Signs, or 120
'degrees; that which forms a Quadrangle, con
taining one right Angle, or three Signs, or 90
degrees; and that which belongs to the Sex
angle, containing two-thirds of the right Angle,
(*) The Fruitful Signs are Cancer, Scorpio, and
Pisces, See Book Iv. chap. 6. The double-bodied
Signs, and the houses of Jupiter and Venus, are
also considered fruitful.—See Book III. chap. 6 & 8.
34 BOOK is
or two Signs, or 60 degrees, and these are the
only distances admitted for this purpose. The
diametrical distance is taken because it consists
of one direct line; then take the two chief har
monizing parts, and the super parts (*), viz. the
two right Angles or halves of the Diameter, and
the third part of it—that which divides it in
two, forms the square, and that which divides
it into three, forms the Sexangle ond Triangle;
for the super parts being taken from the Quad
rangle will form the Sexangle, or added to the
Sexangle, will form the Quadrangle, or added
to the Quadrangle will form the Triangle:—Of
these Configurations the Sexangles and Tri
angles are said to agree, because they are made
from Signs of a like nature, viz. all feminines,
or all masculines; but the Opposition and Quad
rangle disagree, because they are not made from
Signs of the same but of a different nature (+).
* The super parts are the odd 30 degrees, which hy
being added or taken away, constitutes the difference
between the + n & A ; these, with the 9 are
he affirms, the only Aspects that can be admitted, and
yet several others are admitted by many who take
a delight in styling Ptolemy, the “Prince of Astrolo
gers.”
t The concluding observation is not easily explain
ed; the & is made from Signs, of precisely the same
Sex and Nature as those which form the + *
as
CHAP. XVII.
Of SIGN's Commanding and Obeying.
THose Signs are termed Commanding and
Obeying which are situated at equal distances
from the same, or either Equinoxial point; be
cause they rise and set in equal time, and form
equal parcllels. Those in the Summer semi
circle, command, and those in the Winter semi
circle obey, because the day is longer than the
night in the former, and the reverse in the
latter (*)
-->
CHAP. XVIII.
Of SIGN& Beholding each other, and having
Equal power.
THOSE Signs have Equal power, that are
equally distant from the same, or either Tro
pical point, as in whichsoever of them the Sun
may be, he makes the days and nights the same
in duration as when he is situated in the other :
they are said to Behold each other for the
.* This is the second species of Configuration, and
what are termed Parellels of Declination, but formed
from Signs of an unequal power. -
36 BOOK. I.
reasons already stated, and because each of
them rises and sets in the same part of the
Horizon (*).
CHAP. XIX.
Of SIGNS that are Inconjunct.
SEPARATE and Inconjunct Signs are such .
as have no familiarity in any of the fore-men
tioned ways, that is, they neither command nor
obey, nor mutually behold each other, nor possess
equal power, but being distant one Sign, or
five Signs, they do not aspect each other in any
of the four ways already described, viz. by
Opposition, Trine, Square, or Sextile,—all such
Signs are Inconjunct, for if they are at the
distance of one Sign, although there are two,
they only possess the angle of one Sign; and
if they are five Signs distant they divide the
whole Circle unequally; whereas the Oppo
sition, Trine, Square, and Sextile, divide it
equally (+).
* This is the third kind of Configuration, which like
The former relates to Parellels of Declination, only it
is formed from Signs of equal power.
This confirms the Doctrine of only four Aspects,
as laid down in Chap. 16, and sufficiently demon
strates that no others were known to Ptolemy.
37
CHAP. XX.
Of the Planetarr Houses.
THosEStars denominated Planets, are familiar
with certain parts of the Zodiac, called their
Houses, Trigons, Exaltations, Terms, &c.—The
origin of their Houses is as follows:
Of all the twelve Signs, Cancer and Leo
approach nearer to our Zenith than the rest
and from their warm nature occasion more,
heat, they are therefore assigned to the two
great Luminaries; Leo to the Sun as being
masculine, and Cancer as being feminine to
the Moon. Hence the semi-circle from Leo to
Capricorn is called Solar, and that from Aqua
rius to Cancer, is considered Lunar, that each
Planet might possess one Sign in each semi
circle, one configurated with the Sun, the other
with the Moon, according to the motion of
their Spheres, and their natural properties.
Thus, Saturn being cold and an enemy to
heat, and having the most distant Orbit from
the Luminaries, takes the opposite Signs to g3
and St, namely, w; and ::, because these Signs
are cold and wintry, and because the opposition
is inimical to what is good.
BOOK I. 10
38 BOOK i.
Jupiter being next to the Sphere of Saturn,
takes the next two Signs t and X because they
are airy and fruitful, owing to their trine aspects
to the Luminaries, a Configuration that tends
to the production of what is good.
Mars being dry by nature and under the
Sphere of Jupiter, has the two next Signs, of
the same nature as his own, viz. or and m,
whose aspects with the Luminaries, are dis
cordant and injurious. -
Venus being temperate and under the Sphere
of Mars, hath the next two Signs 8 and *,
which are fruitful and agree with the Lumina
ries by a Sextile ray, and this Planet is never
above two Signs distant from the Sun.
Mercury is never above one Sign distant
from the Sun, and being under the rest and
nearer to the Luminaries, he hath the remain
ing two Signs Gemini and Virgo (*).
* Nothing is said here concerning night and day
houses, it is therefore plain that Ptolemy was unac
quainted with any such distinctions:-The houses
appear to have been originally regulated by the dis
tance of the Spheres. The Solar semi-circle consists of
sl my 4- m 4 and w$, the Lunar of ga II 8 on
->e and :::
30
CHAP. XXI.
Of the TRIPLICITIES.
THE familiarity by Triplicity is as follows:
A Triplicity accords with an equilateral Tri
angle. The Zodiacal Circle is circumscribed
by three circles, the Equinoxial, and the two
Tropics: the , twelve Signs therefore of the
Zodiac are divided into Four Equilateral
Triangles.
The first Triangle is formed by Y Q and t
being composed of these three masculine Signs,
and it hath for its Lords, Q 2 and 3; but á
being contrary to the Solar condition (*), the
Trigon is governed by the Q and at , the Q
having dominion in it by day, and it by night.
m is in the Equinoxial Circle, Q. in the Summer,
and t in the Winter. This Trigon is chiefly
Northern, because it governs it; it is fruitful
and airy, and connected with the Northern
breezes; and it is also North-west, being con
nected with the West wind, on account of the
house of 3, who causeth those winds, owing
to his lunar, occidental and feminine (f) con
dition.
* His house Aries, being in the Lunar semi-circle.
t.Becausehe governs the West, which is feminine.
40 BOOK I.
The second Trigon containing 8 my and Wf,
belongs to D and 2, as it is formed of three
feminine Signs:—The D governs it by Night,
and Q by day. 8 belongs to the Summer cir
cle, my to the Equinoxial, and w; to the Winter.
This Triplicity is South, owing to the dominion
of 2, whose warm moistening nature causeth
South winds. By means of 2, also it hath a
mixture of the East wind, for his house w; is
Easterly —he therefore causeth East winds
because of his house, for it relates to the East,
because of its Solar condition (*)
The third Trigon consists of II n and ::,
three masculine Signs, and as it hath no relation
to 3, but to b and 8 because of their houses,
it is assigned to them, b ruling it by day,
because of his condition (+), and 3 by night.
II is in the Summer circle, n in the Equi
noxial, and #2 in the Winter. This Trigon is
chiefly Eastern, because of 2, and it becomes
North-east, being subject to 2, who is con
nected with 2 by means of his diurnal con
dition (£).
The fourth Trigon, consisting of 2 m and
x is left to the remaining Planet 3, who,
* Capricorn being in the Solar semi-circle.—Saturn
also is Eastern, by being masculine and diurnal.
+ Being diurnal and masculine.
f Both of them being diurnal and masculine—it
seems rather a forced application;—but the Quadrant
is North-east and 2; rules the North.
CHAP, XXI. 41
governs it because of his house nt, but the
Signs being feminine, the D by night, and 2
by day, govern it jointly with 3, owing to its
feminine condition. G2 is in the Summer circle,
m in the Winter, and x in the Equinoxial.
This Trigonis westerly, because of the dominion
of 3 and the D; yet the mixture it receives,
by means of 2 makes it South-west.
-
---
CHAP. xxII.
Of the ExALTATIONs.
THE Exaltations of the Planets are considered
to be as follows,
The Sun when transiting Aries, passeth into
the high, Northern Semi-circle, but when at
Libra, he passeth into the low Southern semi
circle; therefore an is assigned to him for his
Exaltation, as the days then lengthen, and his
warmth increaseth—for the contrary reason,
Libra is considered as his fall.
Saturn takes his station opposite to the Sun,
the same as in the arrangement of the houses;
therefore Libra is his Exaltation and Aries is
his fall, because where heat increaseth, cold
diminisheth, and as cold increaseth, heat is
diminished.
42 BOOK I.
The Moon when joined to the Sun in Aries,
makes her first appearance in 8, the first
Sign of her Triplicity, and therefore it is con
sidered as her Exaltation, and her fall is in m.
opposite.
Jupiter, from whence proceeds Northern
fruitful winds, is most northerly and powerful
when in ga, it is therefore his Exaltation, and
w; is his fall.
Mars being of a burning nature, and being
increased in heat in Capricorn, because he
is then more to the Southward, he takes that
Sign for his Exaltation, and Cancer is his fall.
Venus is by nature moist, and mostly so
when in X, where the moisture in the atmo
sphere is first observed; her virtue is therefore
greatly increased in ×, and she takes that
Sign for her Exaltation, and her fall is in my.
Mercury being of a contrary nature and rather
dry, takes his Exaltation in the opposite Sign
my, because then the dryness of Autumn, first
appears, and his fall is in x. (*)
* Modern Astrologers allow an Exaltation for the
Dragon's head, and another for his tail, and have their
Planetary Exaltations in fractional degrees of Signs;
for instance, they begins the Sun’s Exaltation in 19°
of Aries; but there is nothing of this in the System.
of Ptolemy.
43.
CHAP. XXIII.
Qf the TERMs of the PLANETs.
THE method of regulating the terms accord
ing to the Triplicities is of two kinds, one Egyp
tian, and the other Chaldean.—The Egyptian
neither attends to the order nor the quantity:
they evidently neglect the order because they
sometimes assign the first parts to the lords of
the houses, sometimes to the lords of the Tripli
cities, and at other times to the lords of the
Exaltations. Now, let us examine this defect
in order; if it belongs to the houses, why doth
b take the first part in *, when it is the
house of 2, or it in Y, the house of 3. If it
belongs to the Triplicities, why doth & take the
first part of wy, which is the Triplicity of 2;
and if it belongs to the Exaltations, why doth 3
begin ga, which is the Exaltation of n!. Again,
if it belongs to the majority of dignities, why
doth 8 begin ::, where he hath only Triplicity,
when it belongs to b, both by house and Tripli
city; or, why doth # take the first part of wr
where he hath no power whatever,—The same
44 BOOK I.
may be observed in the order of the others;—
neither is the quantity correct, for although the
aggregate number as stated by the Egyptians,
when collected from all the Signs, agrees with
the respective portions allotted to each Planet,
yet this might be found in various ways, by
changing the quantities in each Sign.
Some persons contend that these portions
belong to the Planets, by reason of the ascen
sions, and are the same in all climates; an
assertion which is not true; in the first place it
is founded on a vulgar practice, relative to the
equalizing of the ascensions of each Sign, which
is wholly erroneous.—According to this doc
trine, in the parallel which passeth through Lower
Egypt, Virgo and Libra would each ascend in
38 degrees and a third, and Leo and Scorpio
each in 35 degrees; notwithstanding it can be
shewn by rule that the latter two Signs take
up more than 35 degrees each in ascending,
whereas my and n each ascend with less (*);
besides, it is evident, that those who maintain
this doctrine, do not follow the general rule
respecting the quantity of terms, and have
adopted many false opinions; and when obliged
* Ptolemy, here is perfectly correct.—In his time, the
Ecliptical obliquity, was estimated at 23 deg. 48 min.
45 sec. which, for the sake of a whole number, may
CHAP. X. XIII. 45
to defend them, they use parts of degrees, and
after all they do not arrive at the truth.
be called 23 deg. 49 min. The parallel passing through
Lower Egypt, is the same as that mentioned in
Book III. chap, 15, where the length of the day is
14 hours, and the latitude is 30 deg. 23 min. which
will be found as follows,
The semi-diurnal arc is 7.h. or 105 deg. making an
ascensional difference of 15 deg. the sine
of which is, ......... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .... ... 9.41295.
Arith.Comp. ofthe tangent ofdeclination 23.49 0.35517
Tangent of the latitude, 30deg. 23 min..... 9.76812.
In this latitude the ascensional difference, &c. of
the Signs, are as follows,
Right Ascension. Ascensional Difference Oblique Ascension, Ascensional Times,
deg min deg min deg min deg min
on 0 . O or 0 . - 0 |
8 ... . . . . . . 9| 8 2, #320 - 31
II 57 - 45 || 8 ' ' ' ' '24. 13
> 90 . 0 |ny 6 . 57|* 75 - 0 |:
Sl. 122 - 15 ml Sl 109 : 37 #29 . 53.
tly, 152 . 9 × my 145 - 12|Y:
* 180 . 0 | II - * 180 - 0 <> *
lil 207 . 51 '', as in 24. As t?” “”
#: ' ) • £: '383 . 8:
Y: 270 . 0 |: W$ 285 . ml
: 302. 15|< * : 314. 53 m).
15 - 0 | 34 . 48.
X 332 . 9 |y? § %. 339 . : -
Leo and Scorpio therefore, in their Ascensional
Times, exceed 35 deg. by 35 min.—and Virgo and
Libra have 12 min. less than 35 deg.
We find that some had a way of regulating the
Terms by the Ascensional Times of each Sign, but the
' Scheme is founded entirely on the Essential
ignities. -
46 . BOOK. I.--
These terms admitted on the authority of
tradition, are as follows,
THE EIGYPTIAN TER.M.S.
Aries Taurus Gemini Cancer Leo Virgo
6 cle 8 s]: d : : E 6 d's 7| 7
6|12 *|61|| 6 12|s| 6|13|g| 5||1|g|10|17
--I- ---
820], 82.]: 51's 6|19||12
18|2|| 421
5
7
525 b 527 3 72|+|7|2|: 624|3| 7|28
6
30|3| *]: 630* :*|| ** 2|30
|
|
Libra Scorpio Saggitary Capricorn Aquaries Pisces .
b|6| 6’ 3 || 7 7
7| 1214 7|7|3|7|7|2|12|12|
8
s|s|12|3 411|s 517||7|1|*| 618: 416
1||7|21] 3 || 8
19|8 || 421| 9 || 8:22|3: 720s 3.19.
* | 72.1% 3:45.5% E 426||3 *:: 928
3. 230, *||*|| 430 k, 53), 230
And their numbers collected are as follows,
b 57, it 79, & 66, § 82, #76, which when
added together make 360. - -
The Chaldean System is more simple with
respect to its order and quantity, and seems
more consistent with the dominion of theTrigon,
but it is not so perfect as to be freefrom censure.
*CHAP. XXIII. 47
In the first Trigon, consisting of on Q and f,
(an arrangement with which the Chaldeans also
agree), 2, lord of the Triplicity takes the first
place, succeeded by 2, who rules the next
Trigon, then follow 2 and #, belonging to
the Triplicity of II, and lastly, 3, as lord of
the remaining Triplicity. In the second Trigon,
(which is also divided in the same way, between
8 m), and Wy) 2 takes the first part followed
by E. and #;— 3 succeeds them and it comes
last of all. The same order is also observed in
the other two Trigons; but where there are
two lords to the same Trigon, b and # for
instance, b takes the first place by day, and 3
by night: The quantities also are simplified and
diminished from the first order of the term, so
that the quantity of each term is less than the
former by a degree ; thus the first term consists
of 8 degrees, the second of 7, the third of 6,
the fourth of 5, and the 5th of 4, which when
collected together, make for b by day, 78, and
by night, 66.—?! has 72, 3 69, 9 75, and
8 hath 66 by day, and by might, 78, making in
the whole 360. . * ,
Of these two Systems, that of the Egyptians
is most entitled to credit, because they have the
authority ofthe Egyptian Authors on their side,
and because in exemplary Nativities, the Order
of the Egyptians for the most part is found to
agree. But, with respect to the Chaldean
4S BOOK I,
System, neither the Order nor the Number are
in any way made manifest by their Authors, and
the incoherence of the Order, renders the whole
liable to suspicion;—but we have met with an
old Manuscript, which assigns natural reasons
for the propriety both of the order and quantity
of the terms.
-Q-Q--
CHAP. XXIV.
The TERMs according to Ptolemy.
THE Order therefore of every Sign, depends
on the Exaltations, Triplicities, and Houses.
That Planet, which hath two dignities in any
Sign is placed first, even if it be a malefic.
Where there are not two dignities, the male
fics are always placed last. The lords of the
Exaltations take the first places, to them suc
ceed the lords of the Triplicities, and lastly, the
lords of theHouses, according to the Order
of the Signs, although as before observed, those
who have a double dominion always take pre
cedence of those who have but a single one.
Cancer and Leo being the houses of the
Luminaries, and the Luminaries not having any
terms, the malefics take the precedence in them
‘CHAP, XXIV. 49
because they are more powerful in that
order; G: therefore is assigned to 3 and
S. to 2 which is the most suitable arrange
Jment. -
Respecting the quantity of the terms, where
a Sign hath no ruler by two testimonies, either
in itself or in any of the two following Signs in
the Quadrant; the benefics, viz. it and 2 have
seven parts each, the Malefics b and 3 have
five parts each, and & who is common to either
hath six parts, making up thirty in all.
And, as in some cases, a planet hath always
a double right—as Venus for instance, who
(owing to the Moon having no terms) hath the
sole dominion of 8 and x (*) whenever a
planet hath two dominions either in one Sign,
or those which follow in the Quadrant, such
planet hath one degree more, and those were
distinguished by points (+); but, the degrees so
added, on account of the double testimony, are
taken from those who have only a single testi
mony, generally from b and it because their
motion is slower.
* This alludes to her having a greater quantity
than any other planet in those three Signs, because
of her House and Triplicity in Taurus, the Exaltation
and Triplicity of the Moon.—l see no reason why she
should have 8 degrees in Aquarius, where Jupiter
and Venus should have 7 degrees each.
+ In the Old Manuscript.
| BOOK I. ' E
50 BOOK I.
THE TriB.M.'s ACCORDING TO PTOLEMY.
Aries Taurus Gemini Cancer Leo Virgo
* 6 || 8 || #| || 7| 7
8 -
" 8|7|1512, *|| "|| || 6|1
- loa 2: -laalb
8 #| 7221% *: #| || 518
& *|| 224|8 #| 727|3| 62.1% #
a 43', 08', 43d, 350: 33d: 630
Libra Scorpio Saggitary Capricorn Aquarius Pisces
6|1|| 8 8|9 did: 6 de S 8
$: # 614|* di's ** *
8 - *|7|19|*| 820's 62
* 23|8 || 51 -TTTTTT
it. 625]: 525]3 || 6
i - – 3 |
: | 27|b|625|-|--
- – 3
& *|: *]: 530 & *|| *
It is evident from this Scheme, that the Order of
the Terms, as well as the Quantity, is regulated by the
Quadrant; although no mention is made of this in the
rule laid down: Thus, Mercury takes the second term
in Taurus, because of his power in Gemini, and Saturn
precedes Mars for the same reason. The double terms
Atoo may be mostly accounted for upon this principle.
51
CHAP, XXV. . . .* *
of the PLACES and PARTs of each PLANET.
SoMa have divided the Signs into still smaller
portions which they call Places, and parts of
dominion;—a Place is the twelfth part of a
Sign, and its dominion is attributed to the fol
iowing Sign; others arrange it in a different
way, and allow certain degrees to each Planet,
which they reckon from the beginning, in the
same way as the Chaldeans reckon their
Terms; but we shall pass these without further
notice, as they are neither probable nor
natural, but merely the result of vanity and
conceit ;— but we will not omit to mention
Mercury because of his power in Virgo, is joined to
Jupiter in Cancer;—Jupiter is joined to Saturn in
Leo, because it is the Triplicity of Jupiter; Mercury
having Triplicity in Libra, is joined with Jupiter.
Venus and Jupiter are joined in Scorpio, the former
having Triplicity in that Sign, and the latter, both
House and Triplicity in Saggitarius; and Saturn
and Mars are united in Capricorn upon a similar
principle.
The quantity of Saturn in Taurus is wrong; it should
be three degrees, as the additional one given to Mars
should be taken from Jupiter, A.
52 BOOK I.
what is requisite, namely, that both the Signs
and the Terms should commence at the begin
ning of the Equinoxial and Tropical Signs,
(*) which is evidently proved by Writers, be
cause as we have before shewn, their natures,
influences and familiarities, are wholly derived
from the Tropics and Equinoxes. If we were
to begin at other places, the nature of the Signs
would be of no further use in judging of events.
or, if we did use them we should err, as we
should alter the positions and distances upon
which their very influence depends.
CHAP. XXVI.
Of the PHASES, THRONEs, &c,
THESE are the familiarities of the Stars and
Signs: a Star is also said to be in its proper
Phase, when it hath the same position with the
Sun or Moon, as its house hath with their houses,
- * At the Tropics and Equinoxes each Planet begins
its own Triplicity, viz. Jupiter has the first Term in
Aries, Mars in Cancer, Saturn in Libra, and Venus
in Capricorn,
CHAP. XXVI. 53
as when 2 is in sextile to the Luminaries, viz.
occidental to the Sun, or oriental to the Moon,
according to the order in which the houses
succeed each other from their beginning (*).
They are also said to be in their proper
Chariots, Thrones, &c. when they have power,
according to the before-mentioned prerogatives
by two or more testimonies; because their influ
ence and strength are by this means encreased,
the familiarity and co-operation of the twelve
Signs of the Ambient being agreeable to their
nature. -
They are also considered to be in their joy,
when although the Ambient Signs have no such
familiarity with them, yet they have it with
others of the same condition with them (f); and
* This is usually, although erroneously termed the
face, and many foolish whims are in Modern Astrology
laid down under this denomination. It only relates
to the position of any Planet with the Sun or Moon,
so as to hold the same distance from either of them as
its house has from their houses in their respective
semi-circles. It is one of the five essential dignities,
and is called in the Text, “making appearance.”
t Although a Planet be peregrine, he yet enjoys a
certain power, when another possessing a similar
quality with himself is essentially dignified, because
the atmosphere in this case is partly adapted to his
nature; and by the same rule, any planet in his essen
tial dignity, has his power diminished when another
of a similar quality is peregrine. In what this simi
larity consists is not here defined; but it is probable,
that this kind of sympathy may be said to exist
between the two fortunes, or between the Sun and
Jupiter, Venus and the Moon, or Saturn and Mercury.
54 BQOK. He
although the distance be great, there is a sym
pathetic communication between them arising
from the resemblance. Again, when their con
dition is the reverse of this, their power is much
diminished, because a new mixture of influence
has then taken place, arising from the different.
temper of the Ambient.
-Q-O
CHAP. XXVII.
Of APPLICATIONS, SEPARATIONs, and other
QUALITIES.- -
THOSE which precede (*) are said to apply to
those which follow, and those which follow, to
separate from those which precede, when the
distance is but small (t); this must be under
stood as applicable either to conjunctions or any
of the before-mentioned aspects. But, in the
application or separation of bodily conjunctions,
the latitude should be attended to, for only cen
* The Modern System of Application and Separa
tion, causes this passage to appear more inexplicable
than it really is. The first part of a # precedes,
the latter part follows, consequently a Planet in (we
will suppose) 10 min. of Aries, must, ifdirect, apply
to another in 20 min. The former may not overtake
the latter, but still it applies. Thus, Saturn may
apply to the Moon, or separate from her, under those
circumstances; it is merely figurative, and the com
CHAP. XXVII. 55
tral transits ought to be admitted;—but in
aspects this is not requisite, for all rays are
carried to the same central point of the earth
from every position.
It is therefore evident from all we have said,
that the influence of the Stars is the result of
their own natural properties, the quality of the:
surrounding Signs, and their position with res
pect to the angles as before observed; and this
- influence is increased in the first place, by their
being oriental and swift in motion, for at such
times they are very powerful; but when occi
dental and slow in motion, their power is greatly
reduced.
They are also stronger or weaker according:
as they are situated with respect to the Hori
zon, for when in the Mid-heaven or succedent:
(*) to the Midheaven, they are very powerful,
and the same when in the Horizon or succedent.
to it, but chiefly in the Eastern Horizon. But
if configurated when under the Earth with the
ascendent, from the Lower Heaven or any.
other place they are much weaker, and if not.
configurated with it all, they are wholly debi
litated.
pletion of the Aspect is not as in Modern Astrology.
the point, to be considered.
+ Within the Orb.
* The succedent secms to be considered as strong:
as the angular position.
57
B O O.K II.
$3%)@*#
CHAPTER I.
The Division of the Subject under
Consideration.
HAVING stated the leading particulars
relative to Predictions in as plain a manner
as possible, we will now describe the rest in
order, so far as is requisite to complete the
Science of Prediction, keeping the whole within
the bounds of nature and reason.
Astronomical Prediction is divided into two
great and principal parts,
The first, termed General, is that which re
lates to whole Nations, Countries, or Cities:
The second, Particular or Genethliacal, is
that which relates to individuals.
Of these two parts, it is fit we should first
consider that which is universal, because general
events proceed from more necessary and power
ful causes than those which are particular;—
the stronger nature therefore overcomes the
Weaker, and as general causes comprehend
58 BOQR. II.
those which are particular, it is evident, that
before we can decide upon the latter, the former
must be fully investigated.
Again, general causes admit of two divisions,
viz. that which relates to whole Countries,
and that which only relates to Cities.—The
chief of these must be distinguished from that
which is periodical, the former producing War,
Pestilence, Famine, Earthquakes, Innunda
tions, &c. whereas the latter brings change of
Seasons, alterations in the weather, excess or
diminution of heat or wind, occasional plenty
scarcity, &c. The first of these as it relates to
whole Nations, and depends upon more leading
causes should be first considered, as being of
a more general nature than that which only
relates to Cities, and depends upon causes of
less importance. There are two principal points.
for consideration in this, viz. first, the relation of
the twelve Zodiacal Signs, and of the Planets
to the Climate; and secondly, the effects pro
duced at certain times and places by the Eclip
tical Conjunctions of the Sun and Moon, and by
the Planetary Transits, Risings, and Stations:
we will therefore investigate the reason of those
sympathies, from the nature and properties of
Nations, so far as relates to their customs and
bodily formation, and the planetary influence
which produces them, - -
59
CHAP. II.
Of the NATIONAL PECUEIARITIEs in every
Climate. -
THE peculiar properties of Nations com
prized within whole Parellels and Angles, are
distinguished according to their Position with
respect to the Sun, and the Circle of the
Eliptic.
The portion of the Earth we inhabit is situ
ated under the North Quadrant, but those who
are under the more Southern Parellels, between
the Equator and the SummerTropic, having the
Sun in their Zenith scorching them, are black
with thick curled hair and grim countenances;
they are strong made, of hot constitutions, and
savage dispositions, owing to the incessant heat;
—they are generally termed Ethiopians, and
the effect of the warmth of their climate, is
sufficiently evident from the state of the atmo
sphere, and the nature of every thing there, as
well as the inhabitants.
Those under the more Northern Parellels,
namely, under the Bears, having their Zenith
far distant from the Zodiac and Solar heat, are
consequently of very cold constitutions, and
contain much moisture, which is very nutritive,
and is not exhausted by heat—their colour is
60 BOOK II.
white, their hair long, their bodies large, tall
and fat, their constitutions cold, and their man
ners wild, owing to incessant cold. The atmo
sphere, animals and plants of this climate
agree with the men who are in general called,
“Scythians.” (Tartars.) -
The inhabitants of Climates situated between
the Summer Tropic and the Bears, not having
the Sun in their Zenith, nor yet far removed
from it, have a temperate atmosphere, but this
temperature is subject to many changes of heat
and cold, although neither great nor violent:
Those therefore who live within this tempera
ture, are of a middle colour and stature, their
oonstitutions are well regulated, they are not
dispersed or wandering about, but are social and
courteous in their manners. Those who live
more to the Southward, have more ingenuity
and subtlety, and are very capable of improve
ment, because the Zodiac, and the Planets
moving through it, being near their Zenith,
endows them with activity, energy, and a thirst
for knowledge.
Those towards the east, have more courage
and act openly in every thing, for this is accord
ing to the nature of the Sun, viz. oriental,
diurnal, masculine and on the right hand (*) and
* The East was considered the dexter or right hand
point, because the Sun rises there, and for the same
CHAP. II. 61
we find by animals that the parts on the right
are the strongest.—This therefore is the reason,
why those eastward are more courageous; but
those wholive westward, are more tender, effemi
nate and secret in their ways (*), for the west
is lunar, because the Moon always first appears
rising in the west after the conjunction, and
renders that climate effeminate, nocturnal and
left-handed,
For these reasons, all places differ in habits
and laws, and also in their natures according to
their respective situations; as in places whether
hot, cold, or temperate, there are other places
with their own peculiar temperature, being more
or less hot or cold, as their situation is higher
or lower; and as some are navigators from being
near the sea, others become horsemen from
living in a level country, and others become
gentle through the mildness of the climate, so
also by a natural familiarity of the Stars and
Signs with certain climates, certain peculiarities
are found in each, speaking generally, although
it does not extend to every individual; and as a
knowledge of this is requisite in judging of par
ticulars, we shall therefore give it a concise
definition.
reason it was diurnal, masculine, strong and open,"
the West was the reverse.
* The West was considered secret, in a figura
tive sense, because it hid or concealed the Sun and
Planets.
BOOK II. F t
($2 BOOK II.
CHAP. III.
Of the FAMILIARITY of the CLIMATEs with
the TRIPLICITIES and PLANETS.
THERE are four Triplicities in the Zodiac as
before observed; the one containing on Stand t
is northwest; 2 chiefly governs it because of
the North, and 3 governs with him because of
the West. -
That which is composed of 8, my and w is
south-east; 2 chiefly governs it because of the
South, and b has also a rule there, because of
the East.
That which consists of II, n and : is north
east; b goverus it because of the East, and 2:
rules with him because of the North.
That which contains ca, m and X is south
west; 3 is chief ruler because of the West,
and 2 rules with him because of the South.
Thus, the earth which we inhabit, is divided
into fourparts according to the triplicities; its lati
tudinal division is by the Sea near us, (theMedi
teranean) extending from the Straits of Hercules
to the Issican Bay, and from thence along the
CHAP. III. 63
1,3tuntainous part eastward, which line of lati
tude separates the South from the North of the
habitable Globe. The longitudinal line is the
Arabian Gulph, the Egean Sea, Pontus, and the
Lake Maeotis: by these the East and West
parts are divided.
The Earth being thus divided into four parts,
agreeing with the four Triplicities, one part.
which is situated north-west, contains Celto
Gallia, and is generally termed Europe. Oppo
site to the Quadrant, towards Eastern Ethiopia,
lies the south-eastQuadrant, called the South part
of Greater Asia. Another division of the Earth
is that of the north-east, towards Scythia, called
the North part of Greater Asia: Opposite to
this towards the south-west, is Western Ethio
pia, usually called Lybia. -
Of those Quadrants, the parts which are
nearest to the centre of the Earth, are in a cer
tain degree, opposite to the rest of the Quad
rant to which they belong, when its situation is
considered as it respects the whole Earth. For
instance, the European Quadrant being to the
north-west of the habitable Earth, the parts of
it which are near the middle, and the angles,
appear south-east of that Quadrant, and it is the
same with the rest: it is therefore evident, that
each Quadrant hath affinity with the two opposite
Trigons; for although all its parts belong to the
64 BOOK II.
same Quadrant, those parts which are opposite
are adapted to the nature of the opposite cen
tral parts, and therefore although such planets
are assigned to the Trigon as belong to it, yet
in those situations only, those stars can be said
to govern it by whom it is affected, and in those
central parts : is joined with them, because
from his intermediate condition, he has a com
mon affinity with them all.
Therefore, as the first Quadrant which con
tains Europe is arranged, all those parts of the
Earth lying towards the north-west belong to
the north-west Trigon, which consists of on, st
and t, and fall naturally under the dominion
of its Lords 2; and 3 occidental; and those
places as they are named from their inhabitants,
are as follow, Britain, Galatia (*), Germany,
Barsania (t), Italy, Apulia, Sicily, Gallia (£),
Tyrrenia ($), Celtica (), and Spain; and as this
Trigon is commanding and calculated for go
Verning; those nations are fond of freedom and
* Galatia is a part of Asia-Minor, and could not
belong to the north-west Quadrant—the name is pro
bably derived from Galatae, a Greek term for the
Gauls.
+ This may have been the Bastarnae, a nation on
the East of theVistula: there was also a part of Mace
donia called Basania.
1 Cisalpine Gaul.
$ Etruria or Tuscany.
| A part of Spain, near the Iberus.
CHAP. III. 65
war, and impatient under any restriction, indus
trious, ambitious, cleanly and high-minded;—
but owing to the occidental familiarity of 2 and
3 (*) and also the first part of the Trigon being
masculine, and the latter part feminine (+) those
nations are indifferent about women, and mani
fest no emulation respecting them, being much
addicted to masculine congresses, and the usual
jealousies resulting from it, without considering
it to be either improper or degrading: Being
therefore free from other excesses, they are not
debilitated, but retain their manly courage,
friendship and fidelity, are kind to their off
spring, and very benevolent. But Britain, Ga
latia, Germany, and Barsania, have more affi
nity with an and 3, the inhabitants therefore
are more barbarous, bold and cruel; but Italy,
Apulia, Sicily and Gaul, have more affinity
with S. and G), they are consequently more
imperious, yet benevolent and social. Tyrrenia,
Celtica, and Spain, have affinity with t and it,
* Because Mars governs the West.
+ This has no allusion to Aries, being on the as
cendant as Mr. S. supposes, for there is no ascend
ant in the case;—it relates wholly to the solar and
lunar semi-circles ; the solar is always preferred,
and Leo and Saggitarius belonging to it, were Gon
sidered the first or principal part of the Trigon and
masculine: Aries being in the lunar semi-circle, was
considered the last or lowest, and feminine—those
therefore under Aries and Mars, were considered very
depraved as all vespertine feminine conditions, were
supposed to be.
66 BOOK f f.
and the inhabitants therefore love freedom, sim
plicity and neatness.
The south-east parts of the Quadrant near
the middle of the habitable earth, viz. Thrace,
Macedonia, Illyria, Greece, Achaia, and Crete,
and also the Cyclades, near the sea-coast of the
Lesser Asia and Cyprus, extending towards the
south-east part of the Quadrant, acquire an
affinity with the south-east Trigon of 8, mg,
and w$ governed by ? and b, and also by
8. The inhabitants, therefore being under
their influence are temperate both in body and
and mind; 3 renders them obstinate, courageous,
and impatient of controul, but it endows them
with the love of freedom, self-command, skill
in public affairs and legislation. Q gives them
fondness for the sciences and music, and a wish
to exhibit themselves to advantage, and to dress
very meat. 8 renders them hospitable, sociable,
and addicted to every thing that is just, learned
and eloquent; but they greatly excel in the
institution of mysterious rites, through the occi
dental constitution of 2 (*). -
Again, concerning the said places, those who
inhabit the Cyclades, the sea-coasts of Lesser
Asia and Cyprus, are more influenced by 8
* All occidental qualities included mystery and
concealment, because the Stars are all hidden and
concealed by the West.
CHAP. III. 67
and 2, and are therefore addicted to pleasure,
neatness, and fond of whatever can set their
persons out to advantage; but those in Greece,
Achaia and Crete, are governed by my and #,
and are therefore more eloquent, learned, and
careful to adorn their minds rather than their
persons: those of Macedonia, Thrace and Illy
ria, are subject to w and b, and are therefore
fond of riches; not remarkable for civilization,
nor for subjection to the laws.
The second Quadrant to the South of the
Greater Asia, which contains India, Ariana,
Gedrosia, Parthia, Media, Persia, Babylon,
Mesopotamia and Assyria, as being towards
the south-east of the earth, properly belongs to
the south-east Trigon of 8, my, and w; and
orientally to ?, ?, and b; their manners
and propensities are conformable to the nature
oftheir ruling stars; they worship 2 by the name
of Isis, and 2 by the name of Mithranhelios;
many of them practisedivination, and devote their
genitals to their divinities because the familiarity
of these planets renders them very libidinous:
They are fond of dancing, ornaments and dress,
because of 2, yet owing to b, their mode of
living is simple; they are warmly addicted to
venery, which they commit openly, owing to the
oriental condition; but they detest masculine
congresses, and many of them have offspring
by their own mothers. The oriental configura
68 BOOK II.
tions have an effect in causing them to worship
with their breasts because the heart is the
noblest part, and partakes of the solar influence
(*), they are effeminate, nice, and fond of rich
dresses and ornaments through the power of $ 5
yet, nevertheless, they are noble-minded, great
in councils, courageous and warlike, owing to
the oriental condition of E. Again, Parthia,
Media, and Persia, are more under the govern
ment of 8 and 3 ; the inhabitants therefore are
richly habited in dresses that cover the whole
body, except the breast, and they are fully de
voted to pleasure and elegance. The countries
about Babylon, Mesopotamia and Assyria are
governed by my and #, hence they are great
mathematicians and astronomers. India, Arriana,
and Gedrosia, are under w; and b , therefore
the inhabitants are ill-formed dirty savages.
The rest of the Quadrant, viz. Idumea, Coele
syria, Judea, Phoenicia, Chaldea, Orchynia, and
Arabia Felix, are situated near the middle of
the earth, to the north-west of their own Quad
rant, and therefore have affinity with the north
west Trigon governed by 2, 3 and #; those
people are great merchants, insensible to danger,
* The open manner in which they conducted their
amours and their worship, was attributed to the
orientality of the Quadrant, and its rulers; for the
East seems as anxious to display the Light and the
Planets, as the West is to conceal them.
CHAP, III. 69
treacherous, and fickle-minded, owing to the
effects of those planets. The inhabitants also of
Coelesyria, Idumea and Judea are more under
the influence of an and 3; they are therefore
bold, atheistical and treacherous. The Phoeni
cians, Chaldeans and Orchinians, are subject to
S. and G), and are therefore humane and undis
guised; good astrologers, and worship the @,
more than any other nation. Those in Arabia
Felix, are governed by t and it, their country
is fertile, and full of spices; and the inhabitants
are well-made, and generous and upright in all
their dealings.
Of the third Quadrant in the North of the
Greater Asia; those parts which lie to the
north-east of the Earth, contain Hyrcanea, Ar
menia, Mantiana, Bactria, Casperia, Serica,
Sauromatica, Oxiana, and Sogdiana, and have
familiarity with the north-east Trigon, composed
of II, as and ::, and are under the government
of b and it, the inhabitants therefore worship
2 and the G) (*), they are very rich, have
abundance of Gold, are dainty in their eating,
fond of their ease, skilful in divinity and magic,
just and open in their dealings, full of magna
nimity, abhorring whatever is evil, sincere
friends, and in a good cause, willing to lose
* Some say Jupiter and Saturn, but this is a
mistake owing to the Trigon being ruled by them.
70 BOOK II.
their lives for their kindred;—in their marriages
they are modest and pure, sumptuous in dress,
open-hearted and high-spirited; all which is
chiefly owing to the oriental configuration of
12 and 14 (*). -
Those of Hyrcania, Armenia, and Mantiana,
are more familar with II and #, they are there
fore more acute and unprincipled: Those of
Bactria, Casperia and Serica, are under ~ and
2, they are therefore very rich, fond of ele
gance, and love good singing. The parts about
Sauromatica, Oxiana and Sogdiana, are under
# and 2, they are therefore more mischievous,
austere and brutish. The other parts of the
Quadrant in the middle of the earth, are Bithy
nia, Phrygia, Colchis, Laxia, Syria, Comma
gene, Cappadocia, Lydia, Lycia, Cilicia and
Pamphylia, and being in the south-west of this
Quadrant, they are influenced by the south
west Trigon, which consists of 22, mt and 2¢,
and have 3, 9 and # for their rulers : The
inhabitants therefore chiefly worship g, as
mother of the Gods by different names, accord
ing to their respective dialects; they also wor
ship 3 by the name of Adonis and other appel
lations, and perform their rites by lamentation
and mourning;—they are very mean spirited,
industrious, crafty, knavish and covetous,—they
* Jupiter governed it because of the North,
CHAP. l II. 71
even war through mercenary motives, and will
quarrel among themselves, and make each other
prisoners and slaves; all which is owing to the
oriental configurations of 3 and 2; and as 3 is
exalted in w; the Triplicity of 2, and 9 in X,
the Triplicity of 3, this causes the women to
be much attached to the men, makes them affec
vionate, domestic, industrious, and obedient to
them in every thing. -
Bithynia, Phrygia and Colchis, are chiefly
affected by ga and the D, and therefore the
men of those places are timid and servile,
while the women, owing to the oriental and
masculine position of the D (*) are more like
men; fond of ruling, and fighting like the Ama
zons; they avoid cohabiting with men, but de
light in arms and manly exercises : They also
cut off the right breast from their female
children, both with a view to render them fit
for military exercises, and also that when they
expose this part in battle array, they may have
the appearance of men. Again, Syria, Comma
gene and Cappadocia are influenced by m.
and 3; and therefore they are bold, wicked,
treacherous and laborious; those of Lydia. Cili
cia, and Pamphylia, belong to X and it, they
have therefore great possessions, are eminent
* Because joined to the North-east Quadrant, which
is oriental and masculine.
72 BOOK II.
merchants, live in freedom and in community,
and are faithful in all their dealings.
The remaining Quadrant occupies that part
called Lybia, which contains Numidia, Carthage,
Africa, Phasania, Nasamonitis, Geramontis,
Mauritania, Getulia and Metagonitis, and ex
tends toward the south-west of the whole earth;
it belongs to the south-west Trigon, which con
sists of ga, m and X, and is governed by 3
and 2 occidental : Owing to this configuration
of the Planets, the inhabitants are ruled by male
and female children of the same mother; the
men are governed by males, and the women by
females;—their constitutions are hot, and they
are much addicted to women, their marriages
are by compulsion, and in many places the
kings force the wives of their subjects: in some
places the women are common to all. The ope
ration of Q makes them fond of ornamenting
their persons and of wearing female attire; but,
3 renders them manly, crafty, addicted to
magic, great imposters, and ready for any dan
gerous undertaking.
Among those, the Numidians, Carthaginians,
and Africans, are chiefly governed by ga and
the ; they therefore live in society, trade
much, and have every thing in plenty; those of
Metagonitis, Mauritania and Getulia, belong to
m and 3, they are therefore savage, and fond
of war, cannibals, setting danger and death
CHAP. III. 73
at defiance, and are always ready to murder .
each other. Those of Phasania, Nasamonitis
and Garamantis, are under × and it; they
are therefore free and open in their manner,
industrious, upright, and generally live without
any government: They worship it by the name
of Ammon. The remainder of this Quadrant
in the middle of the Earth, containing Cyrene,
Marmarica, Egypt, Thebes, Oasis, Troglo
dytis, Arabia, Azania, and Middle Ethiopia,
situate in the midst of the Quadrant, hath fami
liarity with the north-east Trigon, which con
tains II, *, and ::, and is ruled by 2, 1,
and #; the inhabitants therefore are influenced
by all the five planets in their occidental condi
tion, and are worshippers of the Gods, whom
they fear, and to whom they dedicate their ser
vices; they observe funeral lamentations, and
hide their dead out of sight owing to their ves
pertine condition; they obey any law, and wor
ship any divinity*. When in a state of subjec
tion, they are submissive, fearful and patient;
but when they command, they are bold anddomi
neering. The men keep many wives, and the
t The Egyptians hiding their dead in the Cata
combs, was attributed to the vespertine propensity, to
conceal; and the vespertine condition of the five
Planets is assigned asthe reason why they worshipped
all sorts of Gods: Whatever was the reason; a more
degrading picture of humanity was never exhibited.
BOOK II. G
74 - BOOK II.
women many husbands; they are extremely lust
ful, and have sexual intercourse with their sisters;
both males and females are very prolific, and the
soil of the country is the same. Many of the
males are delicate and effeminate; and some of
them hold their genitals in contempt (*), owing
to the Occidental configuration of the malefics
with 2. Those, again, who inhabit Cyrene,
Marmarica, and the Lower Egypt, are more
subject to II and #; they are therefore, reflect
ing intelligent people, capable of any under
taking; of acquiring wisdom, and inventing
divine mysteries; they are magicians, institu
tors of divine ceremonies, and adapted to learn
ing of every description. Those of Thebes,
Oasis, and Troglodytis, who are under in and
9, are more warm and active, and have every
thing in plenty. Those of Arabia, Azania, and
Middle Ethiopia, are subject to : and b; they
eat flesh and fish indiscriminately; live dis
persed; never unite; but are beastly, rude and
uncultivated.
* The word Kalapgoveri, has been lately translated
to express mutilation; but it only means contempt,
and is rendered “Contemno,” “IDespicio.” The pas
sage alludes to the worship of the Phallus; aud such
as werc not addicted to it, were said to despise that
symbol. Much fault has been found with Whalley,
and I must confess his notes like himself, were very
simple, and his style very coarse and obscure; but
with all these defects, added to a considcrable degree
of negligence, his translation is the most literal of any
I have ever seen.
CHAP. III. 75
In this manner, the familiarity of the planets
and signs, and the effects they produce, whether
general or particular, are thusconcisely described;
but with a view to facilitate the acquirement
of their knowledge and uses, we shall arrange
each country according to its familiarity with
the twelve signs, consistent with the above
order. -
Disposition of the countries, with the Signs.
that govern them. -
v. Britain, Galatia, Germany;—the middle
parts are Palestine, Coelesyria and Idumea.
8 Parthia, Media and Persia; —the middle
parts are the Cyclades, Cyprus and Asia-Minor.
II Hyrcania, Armenia and Mantiana;—the
middle parts are Cyrene, Marmarica and Lower
Egypt.
2. Numidia, Carthage, and Africa (*); the
middle parts are Bithynia, Phrygia and Colchis.
* This is what is called Africa proper, and is only
that part near Carthage, next to Italy: The entire
Peninsula was termed Lybia.
The reader will probably observe, that the whole of
this is mere human arrangement, and ought not to be
put in competition with those great and immutable
laws to which we are all subject, and whieh we can
neither regulate nor changc. The Geographer will
smile at this partition of the habitable Globe; and the
man of reflection will consider the attempt to confine
universal planetary influence, within the limit of a
small district, as he would an endeavor to “bind
the influence of the Pleiades, or loosen the bands of
Orion.” Nature cannot be subjected to our regula
76 BOOK II.
Q. Italy, Gallia, Sicily and Apulia;—the mid
dle parts are Phoenicia, Chaldea and Archynia.
my Mesopotamia, Babylon, and Assyria; the
middle parts are Greece, Achaia, and Crete.
* Bactriana, Casperia and Serica;—the mid
dle parts are Thebes, Oasis and Troglodytice,
ml Metagonitis, Mauritania and Getulia;—
the middle parts are Syria, Commagene and
Cappadocia.
4 Tyrrenia, Celtica and Spain;—the middle
part is Arabia-Felix.
w; India, Ariana, and Gedrosia;—the mid
dle parts are Thrace, Macedonia and Illyria.
::: Sauromatica, Oxiana and Sogdiana, (Scy
thia and Tartary);—the middle parts are Arabia,
Azania and Middle Ethiopia.
X Phasania, Nasamonitis and Garamantis;
—the middle parts are Lydia, Cilicia and Pam
phylia.
Having said thus much, we should add that
the fixed stars have an influence over such places
as are under the Zodiac, according to their posi
tion on any line drawn through the Poles at
the Ecliptic: Cities are chiefly governed by
those parts of the Zodiac where the sun or moon
was at the time their building began; and the
tions; nevertheless, in a figurative sense, where the
question is symbolical and optional, or what is termed
horary, it would of course operatelike any other human
arrangement, by sympathy.
CHAP. III. . 77
ascendant at that time is their ascendant: If
this time be not known, the Mid-heaven of their
Prince or King, is their significator.
-Q-Q
CHAP. IV.
Method of predicting PARTICULAR EVENTs.
HAVING spoken thus much, we will briefly de
scribe how predictions should be made, and first
as relates to general events, either of cities or
countries; for the chief cause of the accidents
to which they are liable, are the Ecliptical Con
junctions of the sun and moon. (*), and the
Transits of the Planets at the time.
The first consideration is that of place, by
which we fore-know what places will be affected
by Eclipses; or by such planets as remain
stationary for a long time; namely, b, 2 and 3,
who when stationary, are of great importance.
The next consideration relates to the time of
the Event and its duration.
The next is a general consideration, relative
to whom the accident will happen; and the last
is a specific consideration of what the accident
shall be. -
* By Ecliptical Conjunctions, both New and Full
Moons must be understood.
78
CHAP. V.
Of the Countries where the EVENT will
happen.
THE first consideration relates to place, and is
as follows,
In the Ecliptical Conjunctions of the Sun
and Moon, chiefly in those that are clearly to
be seen, we observe the part of the Zodiac
where it happens, and the countries which de
pend upon that place in the Trigon. There are
also some cities, who sympathize with the sign
of the Eclipse, owing to the Horoseope, or the
place of the Luminaries at their building, or
to the Mid-heaven of their Princes or Kings.
All countries or cities belonging to that fami
liarity will be included in the event; but more
particularly those who are signified by that sign
where the Eclipse happens, if in those places
the Eclipse appears above the Earth.
-->-e
CHAP. VI.
The TIME of the EVENTS.
| THE second consideration relates to time, by
which we know the period of the event, and its
duration; it is as follows,
CHAP. VI. 79
Eclipses do not appear in all places at
the same temporal or solar hour; nor will the
magnitude of the Eclipse, or its duration be
equal in all places. We therefore draw out
the angles, (the same as in a Nativity) to the
hour in which they happen in each country
having familiarity with the Ecliptical place,
according to its Polar Elevation; and then exa
mine how many equatorial hours the Eclipse
lasts in each place —This being carefully at
tended to, we affirm that the event will last as
many years as the Eclipse did hours, if it be
of the Sun; but if of the Moon, months are to
be reckoned in place of years.
The commencement and force of the event,
is known from the situation of the Ecliptical
point in respect to the angles; for if this point
be near the Oriental Horizon, the accident
will commence in the first four months from the
period of the Eclipse; and its chief operation
will be in the first third portion of its whole
duration : If near the Mid-heaven, the com
mencement will be in the second four months,
and its strongest effect will be in the middle
third part: If it be near the western Horizon,
it will happen in the third four months, and
its force will be in the last third part of its
duration. -
But the particular strength or weakness of the
effect is to be considered from the intermediate
S0 BOOK It.
conjunctions, when they happen in the same
places where the cause was produced, or in
aspect with those places. Transits of the Stars
are also to be considered, when the Stars which
cause the Event, have familiarity with the Signs
which contain the cause, whether they make
oriental, occidental or achronical appearances;
for when they emerge from the Sun's rays, or
happen to be stationary, they render the event
more powerful; but if occidental, or under the
Sun-beams, or when they make achronical ap
pearance, their effects are weaker*.
-o-o
CHAP. VII.
Of those most subjFCT to its EFFECTS,
THE third consideration is concerning those who
will experience its Effects; this is taken from
the forms and natures of the Signs where the
(*) In the division of the diurnal arc into the three
Hylegiacal Angles, no notice whatever is taken of
the North Angle, which is a proof that no Eclipse
beyond the Horizon was considered to have any effect
let Authors suppose what they will: In fact, the
power and duration of the Effect, was whollyregulated
by the magnitude and duration of the Eclipse in
different places; it therefore could not operatc. where
it did not exist. The intermediate Copulations or
conjunctions were also regarded, as the effect of the
Eclipse was considered to be stronger at every con
junction during the period, if such Conjunction was
in the place of the Eclipse, or in any aspect to it.
CHAP. W II. 81.
Eclipse takes place; and the Planets and fixed
Stars that have relation to the Sign of the
Eclipse, and of the angle preceding it, and the
manner of ascertaining their dominion is as
follows, t
That Planet which hath most connection
both with the place of the Eclipse and the pre
ceding Angle, whether by application or separa
tion; or by being in or near them; and hath
most familiarity with those that are configurated
with them; and is also ruler of them, by House,
Triplicity, Exaltation or Term; this Planet only
shall be considered Lord of the Eclipse.
If the same Planet be not Lord, both of
the Ecliptic place and the Angle ; those two
are taken which have the greatest familiarity to
each, and those two conjointly are Lords of the
Eclipse: If several be found equal in power,
take that which is most angular, and which
hath most affinity or power. Thus much for the
Planets.
Of the fixed Stars, the brightest one should
be taken, which at the time of the Eclipse hath.
familiarity in one of the nine ways described
in the syntaxis (*), with the angle in advance
* The nine ways of familiarity are described in the
Almagest, or what is called, the Syntaxis, and are as
follows,
1st. When the Star is with or near the Sun, in the
£al Horizon; it is called, the “Matutine Sub
Solar.”
2nd, When the Star is on or near the Meridian,
either above or below the earth, when the Sun is as
82 BOOK II.
of the Ecliptic place; and also that which during
the Eclipse is in a visible place, and either
ascends or culminates with the Angle following
the Ecliptic place.
Having thus pointed out the Stars which are
rulers of the Event, we shall here advert to the
form of the Sign which contains the Eclipse,
cending to that Meridian; it is called, “the Matutine
Location.”
3d, When the Sun is in the East Angle, and the
Star in the West; it is called, “Matutine Setting.”
, 4th, When the Sun is in the Meridian, either above
or below the earth, and the Star on the Oriental
Horizon, so as to rise about mid-day or mid-night; it
is called, the Meridianal Sub-solar,
5th, When the Sun and Star are both either in the
same or opposite Meridians; viz. either in Conjunc
tion or Opposition, so that they both culminate; it is
called, the “Meridian Location.”
6th, When the Star is in the West, when the Sun
culminates, either above or below the earth ; it is
called, the “Meridianal Setting.”
7th, When the Star rises as the Sun sets; it is
called, the “Vespertine Sub-solar.”
8th, When the Star culminates either above or
below the earth, while the Sun is in the West; it is
called, the “Vespertine Location.”
9th, When the Star and the Sun are both together
in the West; it is called, “Vespertine Setting.’’
The bright fixed Star that holds any of the above
positions with the Angle antecedent to the place of the
Eclipse, is taken as Significator; and also that
bright Star, if there should be one, which ascends
if the Eclipse be east of the Mid-heaven, or culminates
if the Eclipse be West of the Mid-heaven. No men
tion is made of a fixed Star setting in an Angle
following the Eclipse, which is another proof, if
another was wanting, that Subterrenc Eclipses were
not included.
cHAP. v II. 83
and the Stars by which it is governed; for from
their nature and properties we form an opinion
relative to the class of animals, on whom the
effects of the Eclipse will fall; for if the Signs
be of human shape, and in the mid-circle of the
Signs and fixed Stars (*), the effects will fall
on mankind: If not of human shape, but ter
restial ; namely, four-footed, it will evidently
happen to those kind of animals: If like rep
tiles, it will fall upon serpents, and the like : If
like wild beasts, those mischievous animals,
will be affected ; and if like tame animals, it
will fall on that species which the sign resem
bles, as Horses, Oxen, Sheep, &c. The ter
restial Signs towards the Bears, denote sudden
earthquakes, or towards the South, sudden rains.
lf the ruling places are in winged animals, as
in Aquila, and those of a similar form, birds
will be affected, more particularly those on whom
we feed: If like marine animals, as the dolphin,
it will happen at sea to ships and mariners: If
in rivers, it will fall on those in rivers and foun
tains; and if in Argo, it will fall on both kinds.
Again, should they be in Tropical or Equi
noxial Signs, they denote changes in the atmo
sphere in those seasons, signified by those signs;
but they more properly denote an effect in the
growth of vegetation; for if they are in the
Spring Equinox, their effects will relate to the
* The Zodiac.
* 84 IBOOK. II.
budding of trees, as vines, fig-trees, and others
that sprout at that season: If in the Summer
Tropic, they will relate to the gathering and pre
serving of fruits; and in Egypt, they will affect
the inundation of the Nile : If in the Autumnal
Equinox, they will relate to seed, grass, and
herbage; and if in the Winter Tropic, they will
affect herbs for the pot, and the birds and fish
of the season.
Equinoxial Signs also have an effect on
Divine worship, and things appertaining to it.
Tropical Signs cause changes in the atmosphere
and in public affairs; Fixed Signs in foundations
and buildings; and Double-bodied Signs relate
to kings and their people.
Those in an oriental position relate to fruits,
young people and the foundation of things; those
in the Mid-heaven, denote things relative to re
ligion, middle-aged people and such things; and
in the west, to laws, old-age, and those that are
deceased. But the greatness of the accident is
known from the greatness of the obscuration, and
from the aspect of the Stars that rule the event
with the place of the Eclipse; for Occidental
configurations to Solar Fclipses, or Oriental to
Lunar, diminish their effect. The opposition
diminishes it by one-half; Oriental configura
tions to Solar Eclipses, or Occidental to Lunar,
augment their operation in the same proportion,
85
CHAP. VIII.
The NATURE of the EVENT.
THE fourth consideration relates to the nature
of the Event whether it be good or evil, and
what will be its effects: We acquire this know
ledge from the nature of the Stars which govern
the ruling places; and from their mixtures with
each other, and with the places they govern;
for the Luminaries in a certain degree, govern
all the other Stars; they are the real sources
from whence their powers originate, and the
causes of their strength or debility. Hence the
mixture of the ruling Stars will shew the effect,
and therefore we will commence by describing
the operative power of each Planet, merely ob
serving, that when for the sake of brevity we
say, that such a thing is generally effected by
the five Planets, not only their temperament
ought to be considered, but the co-operation of
others of a similar nature, whether it be favor
able or otherwise, and whether they receive a
similar mixture from the Fixed Stars, or from
their own position in the Zodiac: All those
things as we before observed, should be duly
weighed and considered. When we mention,
generally, the five Planets, it is their temper
and nature we would have understood, as fully
Book II. H -
86 BOOK 11.
as if we had said their temper and nature without
naming the Planets at all: And it should also
be considered, that in compounding their various
qualities, not only the mixtures they make
among themselves is to be observed, but also
the mixtures they make by their communication
with the Fixed Stars and zodiacal places, accord
ing to the familiarities before described. -
If k therefore governs alone, the evil will
arise from cold; and if mankind be included in
the event, there wiil be chronic distempers,
consumptions, debility, rheumatism, diseases
arising from moisture, and extensive quartan
agues; there will be also exile, war, grief, la
mentation, terror and death, chiefly among per
sons advanced in years: Useful animals will be
filled with diseases, and those who feed on them
will consequently perish: The Air also will be
come bitterly cold, frosty, cloudy, or turbid; and
pestilental destructive storms will arise, bring
ing with them such insects and vermin as are
noxious to mankind: At sea there will be tem
pests, shipwrecks, and diseases among mari
ners; the sea will recede, and then return with
terrible innundations; rivers will overflow, and
the waters they leave will become stagnant :
Fruits of the earth will fail, especially those
that are serviceable to mankind; they will fall a
prey to caterpillars or locusts; or will be de
stroyed by floods, rain, hail, or some such cala
mity, so that famine will ensue.
CHAP. VIII. 87
If t alone govern, he generally causeth en
crease, mere particularly among mankind, to
whom he will bring happiness, tranquility and
peace, encreasing all the necessaries of life, and
every enjoyment both of body and mind. He
is also the source of royal favors and muni
ficence, and renders kings themselves respecta"
ble, by encreasing their bounty and magnanimity:
In short, he diffuses general happiness. With
respect to animals, those that are tame and user
ful to man, will be multiplied; and those that
are injurious will be destroyed; the atmosphere
will become healthy and temperate, but rather
windy and moist, and such as is favorable
to vegetation. Ships and navigation will be
prosperous, and rivers will have a moderate
encrease; fruits will be plentiful, as will all
other things that are conducive to human hap
piness.
If 3 govern alone, the destruction occa
sioned by him proceeds from dryness. Wars.
among men, intestine sedition, captivity, devas
tation, and insurrection among the people :
anger of princes against their subjects, and sud
den death will be the inevitable consequences.
Fevers also will abound, tertian agues, haemor
hages, sudden violent deaths, chiefly among
young people; fires, murders, violation of all
law, cruelty, oppression, rapes and robberies.
88 BOOK II:
The atmosphere will be hot, with burning, pes
tilental consumingwinds, causing great drought,
thunders and lightnings from heaven.
At sea, there will be winds, thunder, and
shipwrecks, rivers will fail, and fountains dry
up, no water will be found to drink during
"summer, and the productions of the earth that
are useful to mankind, namely, domestic ani
mals, vegetables and fruits, will be destroyed,
some by heat, and others by violent tempests.
Those laid by in store, will be consumed by con
flagration. - *
When 2 rules alone, she is productive of
the same benefits as it, but attended with more
exquisite pleasure; mankind will be blessed with
fonor, esteem, delight, happy marriages, and
numerous offspring, attended with inexpressible
enjoyment; goods of all kinds will multiply; food
will be pure and delicious; religion, and all that
belongs to it, will be highly honored and esteem
ed; and the utmost harmony will subsist between
rulers and their subjects.
The air will be well-tempered, winds moist
and nourishing, and the atmosphere very salu
brious; ships will navigate in perfect safety,
their voyages will be prosperous and happy; and
all things for the use of man, both animal and
vegetable, will abundantly encrease.
When # is governor alone, he is conformable
to the nature of those he is with; but he en
to H.A.P. VIII. 89
creaseth their power by the addition of his own.
From his own peculiar nature he cataseth men to
conduct their affairs with subtlety and despatch,
and he is the source of robbery, violence, pilfer
ing, faction, conspiracy, and the like: If con
figurated with the malefics, he causeth losses
at sea, quartan-agues, coughs, haemoptoes, and
consumptions; all matters relative to Divine.
worship and ceremonies, affairs of government,
customs and laws are regulated by him, accord
ing to his quality and familiarity with the other
stars; and as he is dry, owing to his being so
near the sun, and so swift in motion, he causeth
great disturbance in the atmosphere, violent
changeable winds, thunders, lightnings; corus
cations, chasms in the ground, and earthquakes,
and by these means, a general destruction of use.
ful animals and vegetables. Also, in Occidental
Configurations, he diminisheth waters, and in
Oriental, he encreaseth them.
Such are the effects of each planet when it
governs alone by its own nature; but, when it
hath a mixture of matter, by aspect, or by fami
liarity in signs, and also by its respect to the
Sun, its effects will have the same mixture as
must arise from such communication; but as it is
impossible to describe every mixture and confi
guration which could possibly be made, because
the task would be infinite, the decision must be
left to the private judgment of every one, corr
90 BOOK. ff.
rected by the rules of Science. This much, how
ever, is certain, that all the ruling stars of the
Event must be taken into consideration, toge
ther with the countries liable to be affected by
it; for if the Stars are benefics, and govern the
places where the effect takes place, and are not
overcome by impediments, they encrease the good
according to their own nature; thongh, if they
are impeded or overcome by opposite influence,
their effects will be less powerful: If, on the
contrary, the ruling Stars are malefics, and
govern the places where the accident falls, or,
if they are overcome by contrary influence, in
either case they do less injury; but if they have
no familiarity with the said places, or are not
overcome by some contrary effect, the evils they
inflict will be the greater; and those persons will
be mést subjectto the effect whether it be good
or evil, whose nativities harmonize with the cause
of the accident, in the most prominent parts,
viz. those of the Luminaries and the Angles.
The effects of the partile Conjunctions or
Oppositions of those are inevitable, when confi
gurated with either of the Luminaries.”
* Those whose Nativities had the same Angles, or
the same Places for the Luminaries, as the Ecliptical
Figure, were considered as most subject to its effects,
which were said to be wholly unavoidable, if the
Genethliacal and Ecliptical Luminaries were in Partile
Conjunction or Opposition—but to do this, the Eclipst
must be in a visible place. -
91
CHAP. IX.
Of the colours of the ECLIPSEs, comETs, &c.
THE colours of Eclipses should also be consi
dered, so far as they relate to general Events:
When they appearlike rods, or something similar,
on or near the Luminaries, of a black or green
ish colour, they denote that circumstances will
occur, such as b produceth; if white, such as
are caused by 2: ; if red, such as proceed from
3; if yellow, such as proceed from 2; and if
party-coloured, from #: If the colour pervades
the whole body of the Luminaries, or the sur
rounding parts, the effect will begeneral through
out all those countries subject to the Eclipse;
but, if the colour only appears in certain places,
that country alone will be so affected, which lies
in a direction where the colour appears.
Comets also merit attention in the considera
tion of general Events, whether theyfirst appear
at the time of an Eclipse, or at any other period,
resembling beams, trumpets, tubes, or similar
figures; these operate like 3 and #, causing
wars, hot seasons, commotions, and all the evils
arising from them. The parts of the Zodiac
where they appear, and the places towardswhich
their trains are directed, point out the countries
92 BOOK II.
which will be affected by them, their forms fore
tel what the nature of their effects will be, and
on whom those effects will fall. The time of their
continuance shews the duration of the Event, and
their position with respect to the Sun, denotes
the period when it will take place: If they are
Oriental, it will be early, but if Occidental, the
beginning will not be so soon.*
Those matters being explained, which are
generally relative to countries and cities, we
must now descend to particulars, and describe
those changes which happen annually, and at
certain seasons; and first, we will treat of what
is termed the New Month of the Year.
* The method here laid down for judging the effects
of Eclipses, is wholly different from the System usually
practised by modern Astrologers, who generally look
no further than the Sign in whieh the Obscuration
takes place; the consequence is, their judgments are
never correct, and they render themselves the jest of
very silly characters, some with and some without
learning, neither of whom have sense to perceive
that there are necessarily many truths, with which
they are unacquainted; and that a Philosopher ought
to reject nothing until he has first correctly tried and
proved its absurdity. As to the Theory of Comets,
however it may be ridiculed, I can assure the man of
observation, (and I am quite indifferent about the
opinion of others) that he will find it perfectly correct
in its main principles;—they are the forerunners of
war, carnage, and misery of every description; and
so far as history and my own observations extend, 1
have found this rule without an exception. Whether
they are the causes or the sympathetic tokens of those
caiamities is not easy to decide; but, they usually
93
CHAP. X.
of the NEW Month of the rear.
IT is evident, from the nature and influence of
the New Month of the Year, that it should be
at the beginning of the Sun's circuit; but, it is
not easy to determine what pointof the Circle
is the beginning; we therefore, (and not impro
perly) take the middle of the Signs, circum
scribed by the Equinoxal and Tropical Circles,
as true beginnings, viz. the two Equinoxes and
the two Tropics; but some may be at a loss to
decide which of these is to be preferred: If
the Circle be simply considered, as such, it
can have no beginning or preferable point;
but as authors have assigned one certain pro
perty to each of the four points, according to
the dictates of nature and reason, the vernal
Equinox is considered to be the most natural
beginning, for at that period the days begin to
encrease; moisture is most predominant, and
brfng great heat followed by a re-action of extreme
cold, and always change the bias of the atmosphere for
a certain period at least, and frequently for years to
gether, probably causing those vast successions of
hot, cold, dry, or moist seasons, which no position
of the Luminaries can effectually counteract, and
which equally puzzle the Philosopher, the Astrono
mer and the Meteorologist, to account for their ap
Pearance upon any known principle.
94 BOOK II
every thing becomes generative: To this suc
ceeds the Summer Tropic, when the days are at
the longest, which is followed by the £owing of
the Nile, and the appearance of the Dog Star in
Egypt; then comes the Autumnal PQuinox,
when fruits are gathered and seed sown; and
lastly, the Winter Tropic, when the day no longer
decreases but encreases—this is their method of
arrangement.
But to me it seems more agreeable to nature,
to observe the Copulation of the Luminaries,
(whether at the change or full) which happens
when the Sun is near to those points, more par
ticularly should it be an Eclipse; and that the
Spring Quarter should begin at the first point of
Aries, the Summer at Cancer, the Autumn at
Libra, and the Winter at Capricorn; for it is the
Sun which causes the Seasons and their respec
tive qualities, and from those seasons and their
natures, even those who are illiterate can form
predictions. Winds also, according to their res
pective natures, are caused by the Sun, as well
as some other effects, which are different in dif
ferent seasons, and those generally depend upon
theCopulations made at the said points and on the
Planetary Configurations at those Copulations.
The New and Full Moons, and PlanetaryTran
sits, also have a particular effect in every Sign.
But as it is requisite to treat of the nature of
every Sign, and of their effects on the Seasons of
CHAP. XI. 95
theYear,we will now fulfil the task, for we have
already described the natures of the Planets and
Pixed Stars, with their various mixtures and
effects on the Wind and Atmosphere, and also
the connexion of the Signs with the Winds and
Seasons.
-&-> --
CHAP. XI.
Of the NATURE of the SIGNS and their
EFFECTS on the SEASONS
ARIES.—This Sign generally causes Thunder
and Hail, because it is Equinoxial, but its parts
are more or less powerful in this respect accord
ing to the nature of the Stars they contain; for
the fore part is rainy and windy; the middle, tem
perate; and the latter part hot and pestilental.
The Northern parts are hot and destructive, but
tho Southern are cold and frosty.
Taurus.—This Sign hath a double tempera
ment, more inclined to warmth; the fore parts
chiefly near the Pleiades, cause earthquakes,
clonds and winds; the middle is more moist and
cool; the latter part near the Hyades are fiery,
and bring Thunder and Lightning. Its Northern
parts are temperate; but the Southern turbu
lent and unsettled.
96 BOOK II.
Gemini.—This Sign is mostly temperate; the
fore part is moist and injurious; the middle,
temperate; the latter part changeable and tur
bulent. Also the North parts cause earthquakes
and storms; and the South is dry and burning.
Cancer.—Is chiefly mild and warm; the first
part near Praespe is suffocating hot; the middle,
temperate; the last parts windy. The South and
North parts, violently heating.
Leo.—Is chiefly a burning, suffocating, pes
tilental Sign; the middle parts are temperate;
and the last parts moist and destructive. The
Northern parts are variable, but burning hot;
the South part is moist.
Virgo.—Is inclined to moisture, and to pro
duce Thunder; the first parts are hot and un
healthy; the middle, temperate; and the last
part watery. The North parts are windy, and
the South is temperate.
Libra.—Is very unsettled and irregular; the
fore and middle parts are temperate; the latter
part watery. The North parts are windy, and
the South parts moist and hurtful.
Scorpio.—Is fiery, and generally productive
of Thunder; the fore parts cause Snow ; the
middle parts are temperate; the latter parts
bring earthquakes. The Northpartsare hot, and
the South, moist. -
Sagittary.—Is in general windy; the fore,
parts are moist; the middle, temperate; the last
CHAP. K.I. 97
produce earthquakes; also the North parts
are windy, and the South parts cause changes
and moisture. -
Capricorn.—Is wholly inclined to moisture,
but its fore-parts are heating and pernicious ;
the middle temperate, and the last part rainy ;
both the North and South parts are moist and
injurious.
Aquarius.—Is cold and wet, the first parts are
moist; the middle temperate, and the last parts
windy. The North parts cause heat, and the
South parts, saow.
Pisces.—Is moist and windy, the fore-parts
temperate; the middle moist, and the last parts
burning. The North parts cause winds, and the
South parts are watery.
-->
CHAP. XII.
The Particular Consideration of the SEASONs.
THE more general Consideration relates to the
Quarters when the New and Full Moons, which
happen near the Tropical and Equinoxial Signs,
are to be considered (as before observed), and a
figure to be erected to that time, arranging the
Angles as in a Nativity, according to the lati
tude of the place where it is required. Those
Stars which govern the place of such New or
BOOK II. I
98 fe OOR II.
Full Moon and the following Angle, are to be
taken as before directed for Eclipses. These
being taken, judgement is generally formed from
the nature of the Quarters; but the strength or
weakness of the Effect is determined by the
nature of the governing Stars, and their influence
on the atmosphere.
The second Consideration relates to every
Month, in each of which the New or Full Moon
should be attended to as it happens in each Sign;
but, if a Conjunction happens nearest to the
Tropical or Equinoxial Point which the Sun has
passed, such Conjunction must be taken to the
following Quarter; butif a Full Moon precedes,
the Full Moon must be taken. TheAngles also,
and the Lords of both places must be observed,
more particularly the nearest rays, and the appli
cations and separations of the Planets, together
with their properties and the nature of the places,
and the winds they produce in the parts of the
Zodiac where theyare: Also, the wind towards
which the Moon's latitude declines from the
Ecliptical obliquity; these qualities duly con:
... sidered according to their mixture, will shew
.
the constitution of every Month.
The third Consideration relates to more mi.
nute particulars, and describes their strength or
weakness: This is taken from the partile Con.
figuration of the Sun and Moon, not only at the
* New and Full, but also at the Quarters, because
-
CHAP. XII. 99
a change takes place generally about three days
before, and sometimes three days after the time
when the Moon hath equated her course to the
Sun. The nature of these changes will be
known by the Configurations which the Planets
make at those stations, whether Trines or Sex
tiles, according to the natural familiarity which
the aspecting Planets and Signs, have to the
Ambient and the Winds.
The effects which they produce will be more
striking for certain days, when the more bright:
andpowerful Fixed Stars make Oriental or Occi
dental appearance on Rising, because at such."
times they convert the quality of the atmosphere.
to their own natures; and it is the same when
the Luminaries pass the Angles, for in those
positions they change the state of the atmo
sphere more or less, just as the Sea ebbs and
flows according to the Lunar aspects; so when
the Luminaries are upon the Angles, the wind
will come from that quarter towards which the
Moon's latitude declines. - * * * * *
We ought therefore always to consider that
the more general and prior cause takes the lead,
and the particular cause follows; but the effect.
is more confirmed when the Stars which govern
the general cause are also configurated in that
which is but secondary". s * * *
* Those who peruse this work with a suitable de-,
gree of attention, will not wonder why so many super
100 Book Ir:
CHAP. XIII.
Of the SIGNIFICATION of METEORs.
IN the prediction of certain particulars, it is ne
cessary to observe any remarkable appearances
about the Sun, Moon or Stars. We foretel what
will occur during the day from the Sun at his
Rising, or during the night from his Setting, and
the duration and intensity of those changes from
his aspect with the Moon, as each aspect generally
indicates the state of the atmosphere until the
next aspect takes place: If the Sun at his Rising
ficial characters find it much easier to laugh at Astro
logy than to study it. To comprehend the contents of
this Chapter alone, is a task that would enmploy some
of them during the natural period of their lives.
The most prominent of the changes alluded to, are
those about the New and Full Moons; but the former
are most striking and powerful in their effects. Ptole
my assigns three days before and after, and it may be
so in Egypt; but in this climate the change takes place
at least four days before that in which thc Conjunc
tion happens, and generally five days if the Moon be
in her Apogee : There is also a change on the third
day after the Conjunction, but it is not so powerful or
lasting: At the Full Moon also, there is frequently a
change, but more in some seasons than others; and
when it takes place, it is generally within an hour or
two of the Opposition : The first Quarter likcwise
often produces a change to the very day and almost
the very hour; but this is mostly in time of rain,
which at that period, generally ceases.
CHAP. XIII. 101
or Setting be clear, and free from clouds or any
obscuration, it shews the Weather has a ten
dency to be fair; but, if he have a party-colour
ed or reddish circle, or if his rays are fiery, or
if he seems to draw such rays towards him, or
if he have those clouds called Parhelia (mock
Suns) near him, or reddish clouds resembling
streaks of light, it denotes violent winds gene
rally coming from that quarter, towards which
those Signs appear; but if he seems dusky and
watery, or encircled by Halo's when Rising or
Setting, it threatens storms of wind and rain,
from those quarters where the Parhelia or watery
dark beams are most apparent.
The Moon also should be observed as she
Transits the places of her Syzigies and Quadra
tures, or three days before or three after, for if
she appears pellucid and bright, with nothing
about her, it denotes fair weather; if bright but
red, and the dark part of her Orb to be seen,
and she appears to tremble, it denotes wind from
that quarter towards which she declines; and, if
she seemsdusky, or greenish or turbid,it denotes
both wind and rain. The circles also which en
compass her should be observed, for if there be
one and it disappears gradually, it denotes fair
Weather; but if there be two or three, the wea
ther will be bad: If they appear reddish and
broken, they denote tempests; or if dark and
turbid, storms and snow; if lurid, black, or
I02 BOOK II.
broken, violent tempestuous winds and snow.
The Planets also, and the brightest of the Fixed
Stars, have a signification according to their co
lour, the nature of the Stars which are near
them, the increased magnitude of the Fixed
Stars, and the Hues by which they are sur
rounded; for when they appear more distant
and larger than usual, winds will arise from that
quarter where they are situated. The Nebulous
Circles also, such as Praespe and the like, merit
observation, for if they are dim and scarcely to
be seen, they denote heavy rains; if bright and
vibrating, they threaten violent winds.
Certain appearances in the air at times, like
the appendages of Comets, generally signify
wind and drought, particularly if they be mu
merous; and their effects are usually of a long
duration.
The moving or shooting of Stars, where they
come from one quarter, foretel wind from that
quarter; but if from various parts, there will
be various winds, with storms of thunder and
lightning. Clouds also appearing like fleeces of
wool, sometimes denote foul weather; and the
appearance of Rainbows during bad weather,
signify that it will shortly be fine; or, if fine,
that it will be stormy; and in short, all appear
ances in the air, are the fore-runners of some
change or other according to their colours, "
resemblances as herein described.
168
B O O K III.
£)Q&.
CHAPTER I.
The PROEM.
WE have, in the first place, treated of those
Events which are universal, because they
are produced by the most powerful causes, suffi
cient to overcome the particular Events which re
late to individuals, according to their nature. The
knowledge of such particular Events constitutes
what is termed the Doctrine of Nativities; and
it should be remembered that the causes both of
general and particular Effects, and the Science
relative to them have the same foundation; for
all accidents, whether general or particular, ori
ginate in the Motions of the Planets and of
the Luminaries, and both may be foretold from
correct observations of the nature and changes
of those things which are subject to their influ
ence, and the manner in which they are affected
104 BOOK III.
by the Ambient, according to the planetary Con
figurations. But general Events are produced
by more perfect and powerful causes; whereas
particular Events depend upon those that are
inferior; but, although as we have observed, the
Science of Nativities and of general and parti
cular Events, have one and the same origin,
yet their principles are different; and our mode
of prognosticating from the Celestial Positions,
must differ accordingly. General Events arise
not from the same, but from many different
causes, nor do they always proceed from the
nature of those substances which are affected,
but also from that of the Ambient, by which
those Effects are produced; for we may venture
to affirm, that every thing depends on such
Eclipses and planetary Positions, as are most
perfect and remarkable. -
The beginning of each human being is both
simple and compound. The origin of the thing
produced is simple; but the subsequent opera
tions and powers of the Ambient, respecting it
are numerous; the first particular relative to it,
is its production; but this again is the founda
tion of many subsequent operations, and there
fore at its beginning, we first obscrve its nature
and temperament, and next those Events to
which it will be subjected through a succession
of years, as well as those peculiar to certain
periods,
105
CHAP. II.
Of the conception and Biarh, at which
period the ANIMAL quits the Wom B, and
begins a new stute of Existence.
THE time of Conception is when generation is
effected, by the operation of Nature; the time
of birth is accidentallydependant on that period;
therefore if the time of conception can be disco
vered by accident or observation, the effect of
the astral Configurations should be observed at
that instant of time, and a judgement formed
from it, relative to the qualities both of the mind
and body; for at the beginning the seed is im
pressed with the qualities of the Ambient, and
although through the period of its formation and
growth, it acquires other qualities, yet it still
retains the original impression, and partakes
mostly of that quality which it received at the
moment of conception.
When the time of conception is unknown,
the moment of birth should be taken, for it is
the most important in itself, and in no respect
inferior to the first period, excepting that from
the time of conception, those Events prior to the
birth are known; but from the Nativity we ac
quire a knowledge of what will happen after
106 BOOK III.
wards; so that properly speaking, the first may be
termed the beginning, and the second the after
beginning, equally important, although later in
time; for it is equal and rather superior to the
first, which is only the generative moment of the
seed, whereas the other is that of the man, for
at this time many qualities are impressed upon it,
which it had in the womb, and which are pecu
liar only to human nature, and its bodily forma
tion; for although the Ambient at time of birth
seems to have no effect in the formation, yet
it causes it to come forth at that particular
period, when the Ambient is in unison with the
first period at the beginning, on which its form
ation depended : It is therefore agreeable to
reason, that where the time of conception is not
known, the celestial Configurations at birth
should be taken in its stead, not because its
power is wholly effective, but because it resem- -
bles that which is effective.
We therefore intend to treat on this subject,
according to the strict rules of Science, as we
have already stated at the beginning of this
Treatise, when speaking of the possibility of
Prediction; and therefore we shall not take into
consideration the antient method of Prognos
tication, which is founded on the general mix
ture of all the astral influences, because it is in
finitely complicated, and in fact, useless, owing
to the extreme difficulty in comprehending the
CHAP. II. 107
whole, and attending to every minute particular
in their Traditions. We will therefore briefly
and according to natural inferences, explain
those principles under which every species of
Events are comprehended, and the influence of
the Stars on each according to their respective
qualities single or combined, assigning certain
parts of the Ambient, as a kind ofmark to which
certain Events relative to mankind are to be
directed, and adapting the operative virtue of
the Stars that have affinity to those places, in
a general sense, leaving their combined effects
to the skill of the artist, as the mark is presented
to the skill of the archer.
First, we shall commence with general Events,
beginning with the birth, systematically ar
ranged; for from that period, all subsequent
Events are to be derived; and it would be
desirable also to attend to those circumstances
arising from the conception, if possible, and the
judgment to be formed respecting them.
-Q-Q
CHAP. III.
Of the HoRoscoPE.
THERE is some difficulty in taking the period
of birth correctly.—The minute of the hour is
generally the nearest period that can be taken
108 BOOK III
by a Horoscopical Astrolabe; all other Horosco
pical instruments however attentively used are
apt to deceive. The Water Clock cannot be
depended upon, because the water owing to many
different causes flows irregular, and the Sun
Dial deceives owing to its position, or through
the distortion of the Gnomon (*); those inaccu
racies therefore render it necessary that a natu
ral and consistent way should be pointed out,
whereby the ascending point of the Zodiac can be
ascertained, after taking that point which at the
given time is found to be the nearest according
to the rule of Ascensions: With this view, the
New or Full Moon, which preceded the birth,
must be observed: If it be a New Moon, the
exact degree of the Luminaries must be taken;
but, if it be a Full Moon, take the degree of
that Luminary which at the time of birth was
above the earth. Observe the Stars which have
dominion in such degree, which is according to
these five ways, Triplicity (t), House, Exaltati
on, Term and Appearance (£), or Configuration;
that is, when the degree in question points out .
* We have none of those difficulties to encounter
at present; and yet with all the advantages derived
from our improvements, it would be no easy task to
discover the time to a minute, when the effects of the
Ambient is impressed on the native. -
+ The Triplicity here, is preferred to the other dig
nities
# Appearance is being in the very Degree of such
New or Full Moon,
CHAP. III. 109
the ruling Planet by one or more, or all of those
dignities.
When a Planet therefore is qualified by all or
most of these prerogatives, observe the degree
of the Sign which it transits; for a degree of the
same number ariseth in the nearest sign to the
Horoscope, by the rule of Ascensions.
If two or more have equal prerogatives of any
Kind at the time of birth, take that which hath
the most partile Transit to the degree ascend
ing: Thus far, as relates to degrees.
If two or more are very near the ascending
degree, take that which is strongestwith respect
to the Angles and its own condition.
If the distance of the degree of the ruling
Planet, be greater from the ascending degree
than from the culminating degree, make its num
ber the degree on the Cusp of the Mid-heaven,
and regulate the restof the Angles accordingly.”
*
--><>=
CHAP. IV.
Division of the DocTRINE of NATIVITIES.
HAVING spoken thus far, if we divide the Doc
trine of Nativities systematically into parts, as
* However “Natural and Consistent” this method
might appear to Ptolemy, I do not recollect any of his
BOOK III. K
110 BOOK III,
first, second, and so on, there will be found cer
tain considerations attached to each: One
relates to accidents prior to the birth; another
to those that succeed it ; one relates to the
brethren generally; another to those that are
born at the same time (*), which is so far from
simple, that it embraces many considerations:
Lastly, we consider those events which will
occur after birth, which is also a very compli
cated theory. Those things belonging to the
birth, relate to Males, Females, Twins, Mon
sters, or those that are still-born. Those subse
quent to the birth are the length of life; for
this has no relation to such as are not born
alive. We then enquire about the form of the
body, its diseases, blemishes, &c. and to these
succeed the qualities of the mind and affections,
with the fortune, whether relating to wealth or
honors. Marriage and offspring are the next con
siderations; the attachment of friends, travelling,
and lastly, the quality of death ; but in fact, the
latter is naturally connected throughout with the
Doctrine concerning the space of life, although
it properly becomes the last consideration.
numerous adherents who ever pretended to rectify a
Nativity by it. The time of Gestation is evidently go.
verned by the Tenth Lunation, and generally correct
almost to a day; yet, differences will occur, sufficient
to render this method of Rectification very uncertain.
* Twins.
CHAP. I W. 11I
All these doctrines shall be succinctly de
tailed upon the open principles of nature; but
those nicer disquisitions which do not appear to
be founded on reason, we shall pass unnoticed,
giving the preference to the causes that exist,
and are within the limits of possibility, excluding
the doctrine of Lots and Numbers, which is not
rational, and confining ourselves to the Theory
of Places and Configurations.
To simplify the subject and avoid repetition,
that part of the Zodiac which relates to any par
ticular Consideration in the Geniture should be
observed; for instance, the place of the Mid
heaven must be referred to for the active part of
life, or theplace of the Sun, for what relates to the
Father; and those places being accordingly taken,
observe what Planets govern the said places,
according to the five ways of Dominion already
described; and, if one be found ruler by all these
prerogatives, he shall have Dominion over the
Event; but if two or more have dignities in such
place, that Planet which hath most is to be pre
ferred (*)
The next thing is the nature of the Event,
which may be known from the nature of such
*This differsfrom the presentsystem, which is to take
merely the House which signifies any Event, and its
Lord; and judge, from the good or bad aspects they
receive. -
112 BOOK III.
ruling Planet, and the Sign in which it is, and
the familiarity which it has with the place of
such Event.
The strength or weakness of the Event is
known by the strength or weakness of the ruling
Planet, in respect to the World and the Geni
ture. They are strong in respect to the World
when in their own proper places (*), or when
Oriental, or swift in motion; and in the Geni
ture, when transiting an Angle or its succedent,
chiefly when they are ascending or culminating.
They are cosmically weaker when in places not
of their own nature, or when Occidental or slow
in motion; and they are weak in the Geniture,
when cadent from an Angle.
The general time of the Event is judged from
their positions, according as they are Oriental or
Qccidental, as respects the Sun and the Horo
scope, and also as they are angular or succedent.
If Matutine or Angular the Event will happen
sooner; but if Occidental or Succedent, their
effect will be more slow. The Quadrants which
precede the Sun, or the Horoscope, and their
opposite Quadrants areOriental; the other Quad
rants which follow these, are Occidental (+)
* Their essential Dignities. -
+ I must again remark, that a Planet according to
this rule, may be both Oriental and Occidental at the
same time; viz. Oriental with respect to the Sun, and
Occidental in respect to the Horoscope.
113
CHAP. V.
Of PARENTs.
THis therefore is the method ofjudging parti
cular Events, and that we may proceed in due
order, we shall commence with the Parentage.
The Q and b are Significators of the Father;
the D and 2 represent the Mother; and from
the evil Configurations which they form with
each other, or with other Stars, we predict those
accidents that will happen to the Parents.
The attendants of the Luminaries also shew
their wealth or prosperity; for, if they are sur
rounded by Benefics or by Stars of their own
nature, either in the same Sign with themselves,
or in the following Signs, it foretels a fortune,
splendid and brilliant; especially if the @ be
guarded by Oriental Stars, or the by Occi
dental (*) and the more so if they are well
situated (+).
If k or Q be Oriental, in phase, or angular,
they denote great happiness to that Parent
* The Sun, when preceded by Matutine Planets, was
considered highly dignified, because he resembled a
monarch preceded by his guards. In like manner the
Moon was considered as a princess or queen, when fol--
lowed by her train of attendants.
+ With respect to strength and dignity.
114 BOOK III.
whom they signify: If the Luminaries are void
of course (*) and have no attendants, the fortune
of the Parents will be quite the reverse, and
their condition obscure and mean, particularly
if b and 2 are not in good condition: If the
Luminaries are guarded, but not by these of the
same nature with themselves, it denotes a kind
of mediocrity with many vicissitudes of fortune
to the Parents, for instance, when 3 ascends to
the G), or b to the D (f); and the same if the
Benefics are not well situated according to the
rules here laid down: Also if the situation of the
part of fortune in the Nativity be in good agree
ment with the attendant Stars. the affairs of the
Parent will be secure; but, if it be discordant
and adverse, or if the attendants be Malefics,
their affairs will be deranged and unpleasant.
But the length or shortness of their lives de
pend upon other Configurations; for instance,
if 2 or ? have any kind of aspect to the G) or
to b ; or, if b have a good Configuration with
theG), namely, by 6, 4 or A ; if they are strong,
it shews long life to the Father, but not if they
are weak, though it does not denote short life
on that account: If they have no such harmo
* Having no Aspect, or application to an Aspcet
with any Planet.
+ That is, Oriental to thc Sun, and Occidental to the
Moon as before, whereby the Luminaries are guarded,
but not by such as are agreeable to them.
CIf A P. V. 115
nizing Aspects, and 3 be elevated (*) above the
G) or b ; or, if b disagrees with the G) by having
a Square or opposite Aspect, and when in this
state they decline from Angles, they only denote
infirmities; but if angular or succedent, they
cause short life and many accidents. In the two
chief Angles, the Ascendant and Mid-heaven or
their Succedents, they denote a short life; but
in the other twoAngles, the Occident and Lower
heaven or their Succedents, they denote many
diseases and injuries. If 3 beholds the G) as
before described, the Father will die suddenly,
or receive some injury in his eyes; but if the
same Aspect be made to b, he causeth cold
shiverings, fevers, burns, wounds, and all their
evil consequences, and frequently destroys life.
Even 2 himself, having a bad Configuration
with the Q, afflicts the Father with sickness and
death by means of distempers, proceeding from
watery humours: thus much relates to the Father.
Those things that relate to the Mother, are as
follows; if it be configurated in any way with
the Moon, or ? ; or, if 2 be in 3 + or A with
the Moon, the Mother will be long-lived ; but if
3 succeeds to them; or beholds them with a
Square or opposite Aspect; or if b only beholds
the Moon in a similar way, they being slow in
* To be Elevated above another Planet, is to be
nearer to the Mid-heaven if above the Earth, or to the
Lower-heaven, if under it.
H16 BOOK III ,
motion or cadent from Angles, they cause to the
Mother many untoward accidents and diseases:
If swift in motion or angular, they denote a
short life and much affliction. When in the Ori
ental Angles (*) or their Succedents, it denotes
short life, but in the Occidental, great affliction.
Should 3 therefore behold the Moon in this
manner when she is Oriental, it will cause sud
den death to the Mother, or some injury to her
eyes; but, if the Moon be Occidental, she will
die by miscarriage, or by being burnt or wound
ed: These are theconsequences when 3 aspects
the Moon in this way; but if he behold 2 in a
similar manner, death will happen from fever,
or some unknown disease, or apoplexy.
If k behold the X thus, when she is Oriental,
diseases and death will ensue from agues and
fevers: Ifshe be Occidental, they will arise from
hysterical affections, and wasting disease; we
ought, however, to take into consideration the
nature of the Signs containing the Planet from
whom these effects proceeds; and we ought also
to consider, that by day the G) and 9 ought to
be observed, and by Night, b and the D.
These rules being thus established, when the
case is particular, we should constitute the pa
ternal and maternal place as the Horoscope, and
consider the scheme thus crected as if it was the
* The Ascendant or Mid-heaven,
CHAP. V: 117
Nativity of such Parent (as we shall hereafter
demonstrate) and judge of their actions and for
tunes accordingly; but in this case, as in all
others, the various mixtures must be observed,
and attention paid to those Stars, which do not
wholly govern the Event, and to such as parti
cipate in the dominion; and a correct judgement
should be formed as to which has the power in
causing the Event according to their respective
influences; or, if they be equally powerful, then
the diversity of their natures, and the mixture
produced by them, should be attentively consi
dered and determined.
But when they are separate from each other,
so as to have distinct periods of operation, they
divide the accidents, arising from their respective
influences; the Oriental Stars operate more early,
the Occidental more late; for it is absolutely
necessary that the Star which produces any
Event, should have a familiarity in the first in
stance, with the Place to which the Event be
longs; for if no such familiarity did exist, nothing
of importance can proceed from it; for no Star
can operate with power, except it be configu
rated at the beginning: But the time of the Event
does not depend upon this primary dominion, but
is regulated by the distance of such ruling Star,
from the Sun and the mundane Angles(*).
* When Stars are together they operate together, be
cause they are of the same condition; but, when sepa
I18 BOOK III.
CHAPTER VI.
Of BRETHREN.
THE Place of Brethren, (by which is meant chil
dren of the same mother) will naturally be taken
from the Sign on the Mid-heaven, and from the
Maternal Place, viz. that which contains 2 by
day and by night (*): This Sign, and that which
succeeds it (+) being Maternal, will be the Place
of Brethren (£) (but we can only judge generally
of these matters; for any attempt to enquire
minutely into the particulars would be useless).
If this Place be configurated with the Bene
fics, it will increase the number of Brethren in
proportion to the number of Stars, whether in
rate, some being Oriental and others Oecidental, their
times differ, be cause those who are Oriental operate
sooner than such as are Occidental.
* Children being considered honorable, were uatu
rally referred to the Mid-heaven, which was the Angle
of honor; and they are referred also to the Maternal
Place, as being a part of the mother.
+ The Sign which succeeds, is that which follows :
the Maternal place; and also the Succedent to the
Mid-heaven
| Both Brothers and Sisters, that are of the same
mother.
CfA P. VI. 119
double-bodied Signs, or Signs of one form. But
if the Malefics overcome the Benefics or oppose
them, there will be but few Brethren, particu
larly if the Malefics surround the Sun: If the evil
Configuration come from Angles, and particu
larly from the Horoscope, b will affect the
eldest or first-born, and 3 will diminish the
number of the others by death.
On the contrary, should those Stars which
give Brethuen (*) be well situated in a mun
dane Position, the Brethren will be great and
eminent; but if cosmically weak, they will be
obscure and wretched: 1f the Malefics are more
powerful than the Stars which cause Brethren,
such Brethren will be short lived.
Stars in a Masculine condition, give Males,
and in a Feminine condition, Females; those
that are Oriental, signify the eldest, and the
Occidental, the youngest.
The Stars denoting Brethren, and that which
governs the Place of Brethren, having a good
Configuration with each other, the Brethren will
be greatly attached to each other; and if they
be well configurated with the Part of Fortune,
they will have one common stock together; but,
if those said Stars be inconjunctor in opposition,
they will hate and defraud each other.
* Jupiter and Venus.
*-** *
120 BOOK III.
CHAP. VII
Qf MALEs and FEMALEs.
HAV ING investigated the Doctrine of Bre
thren according to the rules of nature and
reason we will proceed to consider the con
dition of what is generated, and first, whether it
be Male or Female. This consideration is not
simply confined to one point only, but is taken
from the Places of the Luminaries and the Ho
roscope, and the Stars which rule those places,
particularly at the time of Conception and gene
rally at the Birth likewise. At all Events those
three places ought to be attended to, and
the Condition of the Stars that govern them,
whether they are all or most of them Masculine
or Feminine, and judgement should be formed
accordingly, whether the Birth will produce a
Male or a Female. The Masculine or Feminine
distinctions we have already described in the
beginning, as arising from the nature of the
Signs in which they are; from their mutual As
pects with each other, and their Mundane Posi
tions, where being Oriental they are Masculine,
or, if Occidental, Feminine; and, also from their
Position with the Sun, the Matutine being Mas
culine, and the Vespertine Feminine; a compa
CfIAt”. W. II. 121
rison being made of all these, that power which
predominates, whether masculine or feminine
will denote the sex of the Native (*).
b-e-e
CHAP. VIII.
Of TWINs.
THE same places, namely, those of the lights and
the horoscope, are significative of number, whe
ther there be twins or more; for a plurality of
births will occur, when those three places, or two
of them, contain bicorporeal signs; more particu
larly when the stars that rule those places, are
all, or some of them, in bicorporeal signs, and
when two or more of them are joined together;
for, if all the ruling places are bicorporeal, and
configurated with many planets, there will be
more than two at the birth.
The number produced is judged from the
star (+) which determines the number; but the
sex is judged from those stars configurated with
the sun, moon, and horoscope.
*Herethè Mundane and Solarorientalityappear more
rational, because thejudgment is formed according to
the majority of testimonies,
+ That is any of those having dominion in the
places of the sun, moon, or horoscope, when such star
BOOK III. L
122 BOOK III,
When the place of the mid-heaven, instead of
that of the horoscope is joinedto those of the sun
and moon, (*) twins are generally produced, and
sometimes more.
Three males are usually born, when b, 2.,
and 3 (resembling the Anactores) are configu
rated with the before-mentioned places in bicor
poreal signs; and three females are produced,
when Q , ) and # (similar to the Graces) are
disposed in a feminine manner, and configurated
in a similar way. If b, it and 2 (resembling
the Dioscuri) are so configurated, two males and
one female will be generated; but, if 2, D and
3 (like Ceres, Cora and Liber) are similarly con
figurated, the production will be, two females
and one male. In those cases, however, there is
usually some defect in the birth, or deformity
in some of the members; and frequently acci
dents occur, which render such productions ex
tremely singular and astonishing (+).
happens to be in a bicorporeal sign, or situated in any
of the positions about to be described.
* He has given us no rule for this, but it was pro
bably when the luminaries were both nearer to the
Mid-heaven than to the Horoscope.
f This chapter contains certain allusions to the
Mysteries of Ceres, of no importance to us, who are
not initiated, and apparently of but little to those who
were, as there seems no great analogy in the compari
sons. Mr. S. considers the Anactores to mean the
Anactes, spoken of by Cicero. These were a branch
of the Dioscuri, being the sons of Jupiter and Proser
.pine, and appear to have resided at Athens. The term
123
CHAP. IX.
Of MonstERs.
THE doctrine of monstrous births, is also found.
ed upon the same system, for in such cases the
luminaries are either cadent from, or inconjunct
with the horoscope, and the angles are occupied
by the malefics. In such a position, therefore,
the last copulation of the lights, prior to the
birth, should be attended to, (whether it be a
new or full moon), together with its ruler, and
the rulers of the luminaries at the time of birth;
signifies rulers or kings. The ancient name of Miletus
was Anactoria; and there was also a place in Epirus
so called, but whether from their being governed by
kings, or from what other cause is uncertain. The an
cients were so fond of comparisons, that they did not
always wait to consider whether or not they were quite
in point. It is true, we are not exactly certain whether
the Anactes were born, or the Dioscuri hatched at the
same time; but, it seems tolerably certain that Cercs
must have been born sometime before her two children,
Cora and Liber: and therefore, this group at least
could bear little resemblance to two females and one
male produced at the same birth.' Why Mr. S. in his
translation, says, “two females and one male, as in
the nativity of Ceres, Cora and Liber,” can only be
ascribed to a want of acquaintance with Mythology;
it is neither consistent with common sense, nor with
the original. He is also under a mistake in supposing
this Liber to be Bacchus. The latter was the son of
Semele; whereas, the Liber here spoken of, was, ac
cording to Cicero, the son of Ceres, and brother to
Libra or Proserpine, who was also named Cora,
124 BOOK III.
for if the places of the lights at the nativity,
and those of the moon and #, either all or most
of them, have no kind of familiarity with the
places of the prior copulation, the form of the
native will be monstrous ; and, if at the same
time the lights are in four-footed or beastly
signs, and both the malefics angular, that which
is born will not be of human form: If none of
the benefics, and only the malefics affect the
luminaries, (*) the thing produced will be of a
wild mischievous nature; but, if it or Q affect
them, it will resemble a dog or cat, or some ani
mal which is an object of divine worship: (+) If
# affect them, it will be like a fowl, ox, swine, or
some animal for man's use: If the luminaries be
in signs of human shape, under similar circum
stances, that which is born will have quite or
nearly the human form, but defective. In this
case, the form both of the signs that contain the
luminaries, and of those in the angles where the
malefics are, must be considered; and if none of
the benefics have rule in any of these places,
the thing born, will be quite irrational and in
comprehensible; but if one ofthe benefics affect
such places, Hermaphrodites, Harpocratiaci (£),
or something of the kind, are in such cases pro
* That is by ruling their places or aspecting them.
t Because dogs, cats, and several other animals,
were worshipped in Egypt.
| Those born dumb, because Harpocrates was the
god of silence,
CHAP. IX. 125
duced. Should # operate with it or 2, they will
live by giving oracles, or practising divination:
If # alone cause the effect, it will be deaf and
toothless, (*) although crafty and ingenious.
--><--
CHAP. X.
Of such as do not THRIVE.
FURTHERMore respecting the nativity,we must
now consider such as do not thrive. So far, this
may be said to relate to the duration of life, yet
it is a distinct consideration, for althongh the
length of life or the shortness of life, be in fact
the same subject, yet they depend on different
rules. The enquiry as to the length of life, be
longs only to those who live the full duration of
a solar period, that is to say a year; but as there
are shorter periods than this, viz. months, days,
and hours, the consideration of those who thrive
badly, relates to those who through some excess
of evil in their nativity, cannot live the year out;
and the difficulty of judging this point is much
greater than that which relates to such as are
more likely to be preserved.
1f one of the lights be angular, and either
joined to a malefic; or, if the latter be at an
* This no doubt means deaf and dumb.
126 BOOK III.
equal longitudinal distance from each luminary,
so as to form an equilateral triangle with them,
and no benefic aspecting them at the time, and
the rulers of the lights be in malefic places,
the child then born will be reared, but will
shortly die; and, if they be not so configurated
equilaterally, yet, if both malefics nearly aspect
the places of the lights, afflicting both or either
of them, whether by being succedent to them,
or in opposition; or, if only one of them afflict
one of the lights by a partile aspect, those who
are born cannot live long; for the power of the
malefics will destroy the vital principle. But 3
chiefly injures the G), and b the , by being
succedent to or elevated (*) above the lumina
ries, for then the @ is most injured by 2, and
the P by 3, particularly if they govern the
places of the lights or the horoscope: If there
be a double opposition, by the malefics being
angular with the luminaries, and at equal dis
tances, the child then born will be dead, or
nearly so. In this case, if the lights separate
from either of the benefics, or have any other
aspect with one of them whose rays fall on the
parts preceding the luminaries, the child will
* This throwssome light on the term elevated, about
which there have been so many opinions; it appears
to be the reverse of succedent, which signifies follow
ing or ascending shortly after a planet; whereas to be
elevated is to ascend before it.
CHAP. X. 127
live as many days or hours as there are degrees
between the apheta and the nearest malefic: If
the malefics cast their rays to the parts which
precede the luminaries, and the benefics to the
following parts, the child will be exposed (*);
but will, nevertheless, be preserved and live;
but, if the malefics be elevated above such
benefics, it will lead a life of misery and slavery.
If, on the contrary, the benefics be elevated,
, those who find it will treat it as their own ; and
if one of the benefics ascends with the moon, and
one of the malefics be occidental, it will again
be received by its own parents.
The same rule is to be observed, when more
than one comes at a birth; for if one of these
planets, whose aspect produces two or three
children, be in the west, they will be born nearly
dead, deformed, or imperfect; and if it be over
powered by the malefics, its life will be of short
duration.
-->
CHAP. XI.
Of the LENGTH of LIFE.
Of all events that occur subsequent to the
birth, the duration of life is most essential ; for
.* Alluding tothe infamous custom among the Egyp
' of exposing their sickly or £ infants to
perish.
T28 BOOK III.
it would be useless to calculate a series of events
for one who will not live to experience them.
The term of existence, therefore, should be the
first consideration; and to do this is no very
easy task, as it depends on a variety of consi
derations, arising from those which have domi
nion in the ruling places. The method to which
we adhere, and which seems most agreeable to
reason and nature, is this, that the whole dura
tion of life depends on the aphetic places and
their rulers, and the manner in which the ana
retic places or planets are disposed; the rule
for which is as follows (*). *
CHAP. XII.
Of the APHETIC PLACEs.
FIRST, the aphetic places are those to which
the right of prorogation belongs, viz. the sign on
the ascending angle, from five degrees above
the horizon, to twenty-five degrees below it.
Also the dexter sextile, containing those thirty
* Aphetic or Prorogatory places, are those which
contain the apheta or giver of life, as it is described
in chAP. xIII. The anaretic places are those which
contain the anareta or planet that destroys life.
..CHAP. XII. 129
degrees, called “The Good Daemon”(*), and the
square, which is the mid-heaven above the earth,
and the trine which we call the divinity, and
the opposition, or west angle. Again, the most
powerful of these are preferred, viz, first the
mid-heaven above the earth, next the east angle,
then the succedent house to the mid-heaven,
then the west angle, and lastly, that which pre
cedes the mid-heaven; for whatever is under
the earth is unfit for the aphetic dominion, ex
cept those degrees above the succedent which
arise into light with the ascendant. Those
houses also above the earth, which have no fami
liarity with the ascendant, are unfit to be taken
for such a purpose; namely, the house which
precedes the ascendant, and which we call the
Evil Daemon (+), because it is not only cadent,
but it likewise prevents the power of those
stars that are in it from reaching the earth, by
the thick and dense vapours which arise, and
which, by disturbing their rays, cause them to
appear different, both in colour and magnitude,
from what they really are : thus far, respecting
those matters.
* This is what we term the 11th house; it was
called “The Good Daemon,” because it is the significa
tor of every thing that is desireable. The 9th house
was called, “The Divinity,” but for what reason does
not appear. -
+ The twelfth house, from which all evil is said to
proceed, was termed “The Evil Daemon,”
130 Book III.
CHAP. XIII.
Of the Number of pronoGAToRs and of the
PART of ForTUNE.
THE next to be taken are the Sun, Moon, As
cendant, and Part of Fortune, as the four prin
cipally qualified to act as prorogators, and lastly,
the rulers of their places: I allude to the part of
fortune, which is computed from the number of
degrees between the sun and moon, whereby it
is placed at the same number of degrees dis.
tant from the ascendant, according to the order
of the signs. It is thus computed both by day
and night, that whatever aspect or distance
there is between the sun and the horoscope,
there shall be the same distance between the
moon and the part of fortune, that it may be
as a Lunar Horoscope (").
* Those who wish to see the doctrine of the part of
fortune more fully investigated, may consult the Dic
tionary of Astrology. All that remains here to be done,
is to lay down a method for taking it according to this
system, which is as follows: -
Add the oblique ascension of the moon with her lati
tude, taken in the pole of the horoscope, to the oblique
ascension of the horoscope; and from their sum sub
tract the oblique ascension of the sun, taken in the
pole of the horoscope, the remainderwill be the oblique
ascension of the part of fortune,
CIJAP. XI I I, 131
Of all the prorogators the Q must be preferred
by day, it in an aphetic place; if not, the moon,
Negusant's method is, to add the moon's right as
cension to the oblique ascension of the horoscope, and
substract the sun's oblique ascension from their sum,
the remainder is the right ascension of the part of
fortune: This, if compared with the right ascension
of the mid-heaven, will give the distance of 49 from
that angle; and if this distance be again compared
with the semi-diurnal arc of the 6+, which is always
the semi-diurnal arc of the D , it will give the oblique
distance of the GB from the horoscope. If its semi
diurnal arc, be less than its right distance from the
midheaven, the 4P is under the earth; in which case,
its distance from the horoscope must be measured by
the semi-nocturnal arc. Both rules are alike in effect, .
and their result is, that the D will have the same
aspect to the GB, as the Q has to the horoscope; and
the distance of the D from the Q, in oblique ascen
sion, will be the same as that of the 69 from the ho
roscope. The B will invariably have the lunar semi
arcs and declination. It is needless to add, that the
common way of taking the 49 is evidently incorrect,
as it will not accord with any of the rules laid down
by Ptolemy.
In one of the Latin Translations, it is stated, that,
“if the moon follows the sun according to the succes.
sion of signs (that is if she be past the full), the 69
must be taken from the horoscope according to the
succession of signs; but if the @ so follows the moon,
(which is before she comes to the full), the 69 must
be placed with respect to the ascendant, contrary to
the order of signs. This is evidently an interpolation,
most likely with a view to establish some favorite sys
tem.; but whatever was the motive, it is clearly incon
sistent with the rule that preceded it; namely, “what
ever distance there may be between the sun and the
horoscope, the same must be between the D and 49
which will then be as a Lunar Horoscope.”
132 BOOK 111,
if aphetically situated; if the moon be not, that
planet must be chosen which hath most claims to
dominion with respect to the G), the preceding
new moon, and the horoscope (*); but to be so
qualified, it must at least have three dignities
in one of those places; (observe there are five
ways of dominion). If no planet be so dignified,
the horoscope shall be taken.
By night, the moon shall be preferred if in
an aphetic place; but if she be not so situated,
the sun if in an aphetic place(f), shall be taken;
but if he be not so situated, that planet which
hath most prerogatives in the place of the moon,
the preceding full moon, and the part of for
tune(£). If no planet be so qualified, and anew
moon preceded, the horoscope shall be taken;
but if a full moon preceded, take the part of
fortune.
If both the luminaries and a planet so quali
fied be all in aphetic places, that luminary which
holds the principal place shall be preferred ($);
* I believe there are few Authors, who, with all their
pretended veneration for Ptolemy, ever selected such
a Planet for a Prorogator.
t The time when the Sun is under the Horizon, is
here termed Night; yet, he may be still aphetically
situated, if within the prescribed degrees of the east
or west Angles, according to CHAP. xii.
£ By three ways at least, as before stated.
§ This seems to differfrom the preceding rule which
says “the Sun, shall be preferred by day, if in an
aphetic place;” but it probably relates to the lumi
UHAP. XIII. 133
but if the ruling planet holds the strongest place,
and hath prerogatives suitable to the conditions
of both luminaries (*), he shall be taken in pre
ference to them.
-->-e
CHAP. XIV.
Of the different ways of PRoRogATION.
THE Prorogator being thus selected, there are
two ways of prorogation to be considered: one
of these termed, Actinobolia (f), is made to the
succeeding signs, when the Prorogator is in the
Oriental quadrant, between the Mid-heaven and
the Horoscope: And when the Prorogator is in
the quadrant, declining from the Mid-heaven,
not only this kind of prorogation made to suc
ceeding signs, but that also must be admitted,
naries being in the same house where their powers can
differ but little; and, undoubtedly, if the D be in the
south angle, and the G) in the 9th or 11th houses, the
moon should be preferred.
* Namely, he should have three dignities in two
places. to suit the condition of each.
+ Actinobolia; or, a “Casting of Rays” signifies the
rays projected from any planet, (good or evil) to the
Prorogator. It is that kind of prorogation, when the
body or aspect ofany Promittor is brought from follow
ing signs, to the place of the Prorogator, by Mundane
converse motion.
BOOK III. M
134 BOOk. ITI.
which is called, Horimaian (*), and is made to
preceding signs.
The next point for consideration, is the Ana
retic degrees belonging to that species of proro
gation made to preceding signs; though only
that on the cusp of the western horizon, is really
anaretic, because it cuts off the Ruler of Life.
All the other degrees, wherein planets meet the
Prorogator, by body, or affect it by aspect,
either add to or diminish the time of prorogation,
until the Prorogator is set; but they do not kill,
because they are not carried to the prorogatory
place, but that on the contrary, is carried to
them (+). The benefics therefore, encrease the
length of the prorogation, and the malefics dimi.
nish it. Mercury must be considered according
to the nature of those stars with whom he is
configurated.
The numbers so added or substracted, are,
according to the degree in which such operative
planet is situated; for the number of years will
* The meaning of this term is not very obvious; but
it seems to imply “hourly diminution,” or, “wasting,”
and probably relates to the condition of the Proroga
tor, whose period is wasting in its progress towards the
west. It denotes that kind of prorogation made from
preceding signs, when the Prorogator is carried (like
the Promittor, in the other instance, by Mundane
converse motion) to the body or aspect of any planet,
which in this case, can neither directly save or kill,
"but only adds to or diminishes the arc of direction to
the West.
# By Mundane, not by Zodiacal direction.
$HAP. XIV. 135
be in proportion to the horary times of such de
gree: If the birth be by day, the diurnal horary
times must be taken; if by night, the nocturnal.
But this only relates to those cases when the
degrees in question are in the ascendant [*]:
when further advanced, a deduction must be
made proportional to the distance, and so on,
until they come to the west angle [t], and leave
no remainder.
But, in the prorogation made to succeeding
signs, the places of b and 3 are anaretic in all
their occurses with the Prorogator, either bodily,
or by casting their rays to it, by square or oppo
sition, from either side [+]. The Sextile too is
at times, equally fatal from obeying or behold
ing signs of equalpower[S]; and also the square
from following signs to the aphetic degree [!] ;
and likewise the Sextile, when in signs of long
ascension, ifevily affected, and even the trine [4]
* When the preceding degree is in the Horoscope.
t This is fully explained in the next Chapter, where
examples are given of the proportional distances in
the different arcs of direction.
# Whether from preceding or succeeding signs.
§ When they are at the same distance from the Tro
pical or Equinoxial points. which of itself is an aspect.
See Book 1. CHAPTERs xvii and xviii.
|| According to the first kind of prorogation, which
is made from succeeding signs.
* This is not quite consistent with the rule laid down
in Book 1, CHAP. xvi. where the k and A are con
sidered to be harmonizing aspects, without regard to
the length or shortness of the ascension; nor is there
136 BOOK III.
will kill from signs of short ascension, as will the
solar place, if the moon be Prorogator. All
these occurses destroy life; because in this kind
of prorogation, they are carried to the aphetic
place; but they (*) are only anaretic, when evily
affected; for their anaretic power is irápeded,
should they happen to be in the term of a bene:
fic; or, if they receive the square, A, or & of a
any reason assigned for this difference; and yet there
should be one in all deviations from an acknowledged
rule. It has been supposed that the difference of as
censions might reduce a A or increase a k, to the
dimensions of a square, when measured by the Equa
torial degrees they contain, but this is not true. In one
ease, the angle of the A from the first point of ::::
to that of II, is in that latitude but 90 deg. 14 min.
when taken in the Horoscope by Oblique Ascension
which may be so far considered as a square; and also,
from X to g3, or from w; to 8, the distance on the
Equator, is95 deg. 54 min. which is likewise withinthe
orb of a square; but the longestSextiles containing Sl
with my, or * with m, contains only 70 deg. 23 min.
which,ifmeasured on those principles,is no aspect atall;
and certainly not a square. I rather imagine it alludes
to the Mundane Squares formed by Zodiacal Trines and
Sextiles. Mars, for instance, might be in Scorpio,
on the Cusp of the 10th, and the Moon in Capricorn,
on the Cusp of the Horoscope, this would be a Mun
dane Square, from a Zodiacal Sextile, in signs of
long ascension. Again, the Mundane Square from
Taurus, on the Cusp of the 4th house to Capricorn, on
the Cusp of the Ascendant, is formed from a Zodiacal
Trine in Signs of short ascension.
* Meaning the Anaretic Places.
CHAP. XIV. 137
benefic (*) at the very anaretic point, or on any
of the following degrees; provided such degree
be not at a greater distance than 12° from the
anaretic point if the ray be from '1', or 8 if
from 2. This too is the case, in conjunctions of
the Prorogator and Anareta, when they have
not the same latitude (+). Therefore, when good
and evil rays meet together, to the number of
two or more of each, observe which exceeds the
other, either in power or number. In number,
when there are more of the one than the other;
and in power, when either the benefics or male
fics are in suitable places or otherwise (£), more.
particularly when some are oriental and others
occidental (§). Those under the sun-beams, have
no power, either to kill or save; but the solar
place, (even though the moon be not Proroga
tor) will cause death, if it be afflicted by the pre
* Placidus thinks the k is not included, because it.
is not sufficiently powerful to save; but we are told
just before, that it was sufficient to kill. It is most
likely therefore, an unintentional omission.
t When the luminaries meet a planet, their latitudes
seldom agree; and therefore, the 6 can seldom be
fatal. It was the opinion of Placidus, that a smalldif
ferencein latitude, would preserve life. But it does not
clearly appear, why the Anaretic Planets should not
operate by their orbs, as well as the benefics.
! In their dignities or debilities, either essential, or:
accidental.
§ They are stronger when oriental, and weaker when +
eccidental,
138 BOOK III.
-
sence of a malefic, and be not relieved by a
benefic (*).
The number of years arising from the distance
between the prorogatory and anaretic places,
cannot be calculated in every case, simply by
the ascensions of the degree (#): This can only
be, when the Horoscope, or some part of it
whichis actuallyascending, happens tobethe Pro
rogator. There is but one rule to be observed,
by such as would calculate agreeable to nature,
namely, to ascertain in what number of equata
torial degrees, the succeeding place (whether it
be the body or aspect of a planet) will arrive at
the preceding place in the Geniture; and, as those
equatorial degrees, pass the Horizon, as well as
the Meridian, all distances must be calculated
according to the various positions of the places
in question with respect to those angles (£), and
every equatorial degree, signifies a year ()
* Planets under the sun-beams lose their effect,
which in such case, is transferred to the sun, who be
comes a Benefic or Malefic, according to the nature of
the planet to which he is joined, consequently, the
solar degree, (and not the degree of the planet) becomes
anaretic. - - -
t By ascensions, is meant what we call Oblique
Ascension. What we term Right Ascension, is here
-termed Culmination.
# According to their polar elevation.
| This measure of time is extremely simple, being
merely a year for every degree of the Equator. It is
almost needless to add, that all different Equations,
whether by Naibod, Placidus, or any other, are, con
trary to the rule laid down by Ptolemy,
CHAP. XIV. 139
When the prorogatory place therefore is on the
Oriental Horizon, those ascensional times must
be taken which intervene between the meeting
of the two places (*), for the anaretic point will
arrive at the prorogatory point, namely, the
Oriental Horizon, in the same number of equa
torial degrees measured by such ascension. But
if the prorogatory place be on the Meridian,
the ascensional times must be taken in a right"
sphere, until the arc has passed the Meridian (+).
when the prorogatory place is on the Occidental
Horizon, the distance must pass by descension; :
or, (which comes to the same thing) by the as
censional times, of the opposite degrees to the
Horoscope.
If, however, the prorogatory preceding place
be not on either of those three places, but in
some intermediate place, where neither the as
cending, descending or culminating times, will
bring the succeeding to the preceding place,
other times must be used for this purpose (#).
Countries which have the same position with the
Horizon as with the Meridian, have but one and
(*) The arc of direction must be calculated by
Oblique Ascension, when any degree is brought to the
Horoscope.
(+) The arc of direction to the Mid-heaven, can
only be measured by Right Ascensien.
(f) The other times here spoken of, are different
kinds of Oblique Ascension to that taken in the Horo
scope, and what we now term the Oblique Ascensions
of Places, under their respective Polar elevations.
140 BOOK III.
the same times (*): but those to which we allude,
are situated near one of the semi-circles that
intersect the Meridian and Horizon, at equal
distances from each other, making a difference
in time of about an hour (+).
As the times therefore differ in those places,
owing to the different angles formed by the
Ecliptic in passing the Horizon and Meridian (t),
so likewise the times of other spaces, differ
again from them according to their positions ().
But there is a more convenient method of bring
ing the following to the preceding place, whether
it be oriental, meridianal, occidental, or in any
other position, which is as follows;
Take the degree on the Mid-heaven, together
with the precedent and following degrees. Con
sider the position of the precedent degree, and
find its horary distance from the Meridian, by
*These are places at the Equator, where the Ecliptic
forms the same angle with the Horizon as with the
Meridian, and, consequently all their ascensions are
in a right sphere.
+ Those are the parallels of latitude which differ
from each other, about an hour in the length or short
ness of the day.
# The ascensional difference is caused by Polar Ele
vation, which makes a difference in the angles formed
by the Ecliptic, in passing the Horizon and Meridian.
| | Every different degree of Polar Elevation, has of
course an ascensional difference of its own; and thus
every house in a figure has an ascension more or less.
£ as it is more or less distant from the Mid
eaWCn, - *
CHAP. XIV. 141
dividing its distance from that angle in Right
Ascension by its horary time (*), diurnal or noc
turnal, according as it may be, above or below
the earth; diurnal if above, nocturnal, if below;
for each part of the Zodiac, has, in proportion to
the distance from the Meridian, the same horary
time, because it forms the same semi-circle (+).
Then find how many equatorial degrees it
will require, to bring the succeeding to the same
distance from the Meridian as the preceeding
place; and to do this, again observe the horary
distance of the latter ; and, having first ascer
tained what distance the succeeding place is
from the Mid-heaven, in its first position by
Right Ascension, find what distance it will have
from the said Mid-heaven when it arrives at the
horary distance of the preceding place; and this
will be found by multiplying this horary distance
by the horary time of the succeeding place, diur
nal, if the last position be above the earth, noc
tural, if under it; and the difference between
these two distances, will be the amount of the
years enquired after (£).
* The horary time of any place is of its semi-diur
nal or semi-nocturnal arc ; and if its right distance
from the Mid-heaven be divided by this, it will give its
horary distance, or distance in time.
The two semi-arcs of any semi-circle drawn
through the Meridian, have each the same horary
time, and form what Placidus terms the “Mundane
ParaHeis.” -
# All this is fully explained by example in the next
Chapter. It isjust worth remarking, that these are all
CHAP. XV.
EXAMPLE.
LET us by way of Example, take the begins
ning of m as the preceding place, and the be
ginning of II as the succeeding place (*); the
latitnde of the place being that in which the
longest day is fourteen hours (f), and where
Mundane directions, and all converse: there is no Zo
diacal direction in the whole Quadripartite; and since,
writing the note to chAP. xxvii. of the first Book, it
has often occurred to me, that the system of applica
tion and separation is wholly Mundane; and that the
planet which precedes, is that which has an advanced
position in the sign, and not in the horary circle.
Thus, if Saturn be in the first degree of Aries, and the
moon in the tenth degree, the latter, although sepa
rating from Saturn in the Zodiac, would apply to his.
place in the horary circle, while Saturn would sepa
rate from the moon; and thus the planet which precedes
in the Zodiac, would apply in the harary circle, and
that which follows would separate. To this may be
added, that the Mundane motion is uniform; whereas
the Zodiacal may be interrupted by a planet becoming
retrograde.
* In the Actinobolia, or first kind of Prorogation,
the preceding place is the prorogatory place, the suc
eeeding is the place of the Benefic or Malefio body
or aspect, to be directed to it.
+ This is one of the semi-circles mentioned in the
last Chapter. It is the second parallel, as its diurnal
and nocturnal arcs differ two hours in time, from those
at the Equator.
*GHAP. XV, 143
the horary time of the beginning of II is about
17•.
Let the beginning of an ascend, that the be
ginning of w; may culminate, and the beginning
of II be 148 equatorial degrees, distant from
the Meridian above the earth.
The beginning of an being 6 horary times
from the Meridian, multiply them by 17" which
is the horary time of the beginning of II, the
amount will be 102°: If this be taken from the
148°, which is the distance of II from the Mid
heaven, the excess will be 46"; and therefore,
the following place will be carried to the pre
ceeding place in 46°, which is the sum of the
-excess, and about the sum of the ascensional
degrees of or and 8, when the prorogatory
place, is situated on the Horoscope.
Again, let the beginning of an culminate, at
which time the beginning of II is distant from
Athe Meridian above the earth, 58 equatorial de
grees. In this second position, the first point of
II, will be brought to the Mid-heaven in the
58 times of the excess of its distance, which is
the time in which Y and 8 will pass the Meri
'dian, when the prorogatory place culminates.
In the same way let the beginning of on be in
the West angle, that the beginning of 2 may
culminate, and the beginning of II be 32 de
grees distant from the Mid-heaven above the
earth. In this case the beginning of p is, as in
144 Book III
re
the first instance, six horary times distant from
the Mid-heaven, and will, as then, if multiplied
by 17", produce 102°, which will be the distance
of the beginning of II from the Mid-heaven,
when it sets; but as the distance of II is already
32° degrees distant from that point, take this
from 102°, there will remain 70°; and therefore
it will arrive at the West angle, when it has
passed those 70° which is the excess, and about
the same number of degrees, which * and m
will require for their ascension.
By the same rule, let the beginning of, notbe
posited on any angle, but distant from and pre
ceding the Mid-heaven three horary times, so that
the 18th degree of 8 may culminate, and the
beginning of II be succeeding to the Mid-hea
ven, at a distance of 13° right ascension: If the
three remaining hours be multiplied by the I7” it
will give 51" which will be the distance of II
from the Mid-heaven, when it comes to the pre
ceeding place ofY. Add the 13° of right ascen
sion, which it wants of the Mid-heaven in the
first positiou to the 51° of the second position,
they will make 64°. (+)
* It is requisite here to observe, that as no fractions
are used in the calculation, the whole is of course im
perfect, although fully competent to answer the end
which the author had in view; namely, to explain a
rule and establish a precedent, which could be best
performed by whole numbers, as fractional parts might
only serve to create confusion.
CHAP, XV. 145
*
The times therefore of the Prorogatory place
were 460 ascending, 580 culminating, and 700 set
ting; and in the present instance it differs again
..
At the period when this Treatise was written, the
Obliquity of the Eliptic was estimated at 23 deg. 48
min. 45 sec. which for the sake of an even number,
may be called 23 deg. 49 min. The Latitude where
the longest day is 14 hours, will, according to this
Obliquy, be 30 deg. 23 min.-See the Note, Book 1,
Chap. 23. - -
The Semi-diurnal arc of Gemini, will, under these
circumstances, be 102 deg. 38 min: which divided by
6, gives 17. deg. 6 min. for its horary time. These
are only estimated at 102 deg. and 17 deg.
The right Aseemsion of Capricorn which culminates,
is 270 deg- and that of Gemini, 57 deg. 45 min. mak
ing its distance from the culminating point, 147 deg.
45 min. which is here called 148 deg. The Semi
diurnal Arc being substracted, leaves for an Arc of
direction 45 deg. 7 min. which is the Ascensional
time of Aries and Taurus; and this, through losing
the fractional 6 min: in the horary time, and the 15
min. in the right distance makes a difference of
nearly a whole degree in the Arc, which he estimates
at 46 deg. -
Again, the right Ascension of Gemini, and of
course its distanee from the Culminating point Aries,
is, as before stated, 57 deg. 45 min. which he esti
mates at 58 deg. making a difference of 15 min. in the
Arc of Direction to the Meridian.
Again, Aries being on the west Angle, and Cancer
culminating, the right distance of Gemini from the
Meridian is 32 deg. 15 min. which is estimated at 32
deg. If this be substracted from the Semi-diurnal
Arc, there will remain 70 deg. 23 min, for the Arc of
Direction to the west, which is the Oblique descension
of Aries and Taurus, or the Oblique aseension of
Libra and Scorpio. This is estimated at 70 deg. .
*
146 Book 11.
as being 64° from being three hours distant
from the Meridian; for when the distance
the whole of the quadrant, the difference of the
times is 12°, but the last being only the half
distance of three hours, the difference is but 6°.
But a more simple method may be used, as
for instance, if the preceding place be on the
cusp of the Horoscope, take the Oblique ascen
sion of the distance between it and the succeed
ing degree; if it culminates, take the right
ascension; if it sets, take the Oblique descension;
but if it be between the angles, as in the latter
instance, respecting the distance of Y, when
the begining of on was between the Mid-hea
ven and the west angle, the proper times of each
angle must be taken. Thus, the distance of the
beginning ofII from the Mid-heaven was 58", and
from the west angle 70°. Take the horary dis
tance of the preceding place from each of the
Again, if the preceding point be exactly in the mid
dle of the Semi-diurnal Arc, between the 10th and 7th,
houses, the 18th degree of Taurus will. Culminate,
and the first point of Gemini will be distant from
the Mid-heaven, towards the east, according to what
is here calculated at 13 deg. But the right ascen
sion of 18 deg. of Taurus, is 45. deg. 27 min. and
that of Gemini, 57 deg. 45 min. Its primary dis
tance therefore, will be 12 deg. 18 min. The half
of the Semi-diurnal Arc is 51 deg. 19 min. which,
added to the primary distance, will amount to 63:
deg. 37 min, or 23 min, less than the estimates
, CHAP. XIV. 147
angles, and the horary proportion between those
distances, must be either added to or substrac
ted from the difference of time, which is be
tween the two angles. - -
As in the present example 70° exceed 58 by
12", but the preceding place was only three
hours distant, or the half of the six hours which
forms the Quadrant; therefore, as three is the
half of six, take 6° which is the half of 12°, [the
excess of the Quadrant], and add them to the
58 times, or substract them from the 76 times;
the sum or remainder will be 64 times, which is
the distance required.
By the same rule, should the distance of th
preceding place, be only two horary times dis
tant from either angle, 2 is the third part of 6;
and therefore 4” which is the third part of the
excess, 12°, must be added to the 58°. if the
distance be from the Mid-heaven, or substracted
from the 70° if the distance be from the West
angle.
It now remains for us to describe the effects
of those meetings, and also of the descensions
(*); and first in order, those that first take
place (+), and likewise the good or evil that
* * £ descensions of the Prorogator, under the West
angle.
t Such as the form of the body, mental qualities,
diseases, or defects, frem the birth, &c.
148 BOOK 111.
may happen by Transits (*), when the places of
such meetings, are either afflicted or assisted (f);
together with the effects of ingresses happening
at those periods; for should both the places be
afflicted (£), the principal place by the Transit
of a Planet at the time of such ingress, death
mnst inevitably ensue. If one of the places be
favorably assisted, the period will be important
and dangerous; but if both places be assisted,
the evil will be as it were paralized, or some
slight suffering will ensue. But in all those
eases, the familiarity or connexion of the occur
rent places, with those of the Nativity, must be
attended to.
As it often however becomes a matter of
doubt, to which Planet the Anaretic power
ought to be assigned; those events which havo
already occurred, should be minutely observed,
and from them a judgment may be formed as to
the equality or inequality oftheirpower, in those
that are to follow (!). -
* See Book iv. cHAP. x. -
f The Transit is when a direction arrives, and a
Planet either good or evil, passes over the place of
such direction or meeting. The Ingressis the entrance
of a Planet on the place of the general, annual, or
monthly Period, and is fully explained in Book IV.
GHAP. X.
1 The principal place by Transit, and the secondary
by Ingress. -
d | This is what we term ratifying a Nativity by acci"
ents. . -
I49
CHAP. XVI.
Of the Bodily FoRM and TEMPERAMENT.
HAv1NG thus disposed of what belongs to the
Space allotted for Life, we have now to treat
of the form and constitution of the body, in
due order.
The formation of the body takes place before
it is occupied by the soul, and being more gross
it is endowed with certain properties suitable to
its nature: After this, the soul begins to mani
fest certain properties of its own (derived how
ever chiefly from the primary cause), which ma
nifest themselves at a still later period.
Respecting the formation of the body, there
fore, the Oriental Horizon must be observed,
and the Planets that rule it, and also the place
of the Moon; for from those two places and
their rulers, together with the natural form and
temperament of each distinct species, and the
figures peculiar to the fixed stars ascending ac
cording to their declination, may be inferred the
bodily form and appearance. The Ruling Pla
nets are the first in power, and with them their
Places operate according to their respective
150 B001.< 1 is.
qualities: the particulars are simply as follows,
W. When ruling and oriental, gives a yellow
ish complexion, good habit of body, black curly
hair, broad chest, full eyes, and a middle sta
ture, with a moist, cold constitution. When
Occidental, the Native is dark, thin, small made,
with scanty hair, and none on the body; yet,
well-shaped, with black eyes, and the constitu
tion is rather dry and cold.
1. Ruling and Oriental, gives a fair, hand
some complexion, moderate quantity ofhair, full
eyes, excellent stature and dignified appearance,
the temperament inclined to heat and moisture.
If Occidental, the complexion is fair, but not
uniform, lank hair, the forehead or crown of
the head bald, a middle stature, and the consti
tution more moist. .
3 When Oriental, gives a ruddy complexion,
good stature and habit of body, inclined to be
hairy, with a moderate growth of hair on the
head; the constitution is hot and dry. When Oc
cidental, the complexion is merely red, the size
moderate, eyes small, no hair on the body, and
that on the head, is sandy or yellow, and lank;
the constitution chiefly dry.
? Operates in the same way as 14, but she is
more productive of sweetnessand beauty, accom
panied with that delicate juicy softness, which is
rather the characteristic of women; the eyes are
very beautiful, and of a sky-blue,
CHAP. XY I. 151
# When Oriental, gives a yellowish com
plexion, a good well-proportioned stature, small
eyes, and moderate growth of hair; the tem
perament is chiefly hot. If Occidental, the com
plexion is more fair, but not good in appear
ance; the hair long and dark; figure slender
and lean, squinting eyes, a reddish complexion,
and goat-footed. The constitution is chiefly
dry.
When the luminaries are configurated with
those planets, they manifest their peculiar effects.
The G) adds comeliness to the stature, and
strengthens the constitution: The D also, but
chiefly when she is withdrawing her light (*),
makes the figure better proportioned and more
delicate, and the temperament more moist; but
this is chiefly regulated by the degree of her
illumination, as already mentioned in this.
Treatise (+).
Again, when Planets are Matutine, just be
ginning to appear, they will give a large sta
ture; if at their first station, it will be strong
and lively; if beyondit, the proportion will not be
so good; at the second station, it will be more
debilitated; and, if Occidental, it will be mean
and subject to insult and oppression ; at the
same time, admitting as before observed, that
* That is, when she is what is at present called,
“Separating,” from the Conjunction or Aspect.
t See Book I. char, viir.
152 BOOK III*
the places (*) coincide in the production of such
form and temperament.
• The Quadrant from the Vernal Equinox to
the Summer Tropic, gives a good complexion,
stature and habit of body, handsome eyes, and
a temperament containing abundance of heat
and moisture. That from the Summer Tropic to
the Autumnal Equinox, gives a tolerable com
plexion, good proportion, and healthy constitu
tion; large eyes, stout make, hairy, with a dis
position to curl, and a hot and dry tempera
ment. That from the Equinox to the Winter
Tropic, makes them yellowish, slender, lean,
sickly persons, with middling hair, butgood eyes,
abounding with dryness and cold, Thatfrom the
Winter Tropic to the Vernal Equinox, makes
them dark-complexioned, of a good stature, long
haired, but none on the body, well-proportion:
ed, and abounding with cold and moisture,
Those constellations which are of human
shape, whether in the Zodiac or out of it, more
particularly give a handsome well-proportioned
body; those of other forms, alter the proportion
their own way, until it in some degree resembles
their form and nature, by making it larger or
smaller, stronger or weaker, well or ill-propor
tioned : a, ny, and t for instance, make it
larger; and 2é, w?, and ge, make it smaller.
* The place of the Moon and the Horoscope.
CHAP. XVI, 153
Again, with r, 8, and Q, the upper fore-parts
give more strength, and the hind-parts cause
more weakness, when on the contrary, the fore
parts of t , m, and II, are more weakening,
and their hind-parts more strengthening. ny,
* , and t, make the body handsome, and well
proportioned, while m, x and 8, make it ill
proportioned and deformed; the other signs
operate according to their own natures in a simi
lar way, and all this should be carefully attend
ed to, and from their various mixtures, the form
of the body may be predicted (*).
*-Q
CHAP. XVII.
Of Blemishes, Injuries, and Diseases of the
BODY.
IT now follows, that the causes of blemishes,
injuries, and bodily diseases, should become the
subject of consideration, and to do this, the two
Horizontal Angles, namely, the East and West,
* The figure of every Constellation that ascends,
as whether it be that of a Ram, Bull, &c. are all to
be taken “according to their declinations;” that is,
however, far North or South they may be, and whether
belonging to the Zodiac or not (provided they are visi
ble in our Hemisphere); and from all of those com
bined, the form of the body is in part to be considered.
154 BOOK II.i.
but chiefly the latter, and its preceding parts (*)
which is inconjunct with the Oriental Angles,
must be taken.
This being done, observe the Malefics in what
manner they are configurated with thcm; for if
both or one of those are on the Cusp of the said
angles, or cast a square or & to them, some hurt
or disease will befal the Native, more particu
larly if both the luminaries be joined with, or
opposed to them; or, if only one of these be
posited on the Angle as already described; be
cause a Malefic ascending either before or after
a Luminary in an Angle, is capable of pro
ducing such diseases or injuries as are indicated
by the places of the Horizon, and the Signs,
and by the nature of the Planets themselves,
whether they be Malefics or others that are evily
affected and configurated with them. The de.
gree of the Sign on the afflicted part of the
Horizon, will shew the afflicted part of the body,
whether it be a hurt or a disease, or both toge
ther; and the nature of the Planet which causes
it, will describe its form and nature.
Of all the principal parts of the human frame,
b governs the right ear, the spleen, the bladder,
the phlegm, and the bones.
2: Governs the hand, the lungs, arteries, and
seed.
3 The left ear, the kidneys, the reins and
genitals.
* The 6th House.
CHAP. X W II. 155
Q The sight, brain, heart, nerves, and the
right side. -
2 The olfactory nerves, theliver and the flesh.
# The speech, intellect, gall, tongue, and
fundament.
D The palate, the gullet, stomach, belly,
uterus, and the left side.
Malefics when Oriental, generally produce
blemishes and hurts, but when Occidental, they
cause diseases. There is a difference between a
hurt and a disease, because the pain of the
former is but short, whereas a disease is either
continual or returns at intervals: These are only
general remarks; but for particulars, the more
immediate causes of such accidents are to be
considered.
Thus, there will be blindness of one eye, when
the D is in either of those Angles, exactly at
the 6, or at the full; or with any other configu
ration, if she applies to any of thcNebulous parts
of the Zodiac, as to the little cloud in e2, or
the Pleiades of 8, the head of the arrow in t,
the scorpion's sting, the parts about the platted
hair of Q., or the water pot of :::.
Again, if b or 3 be Oriental, and ascend to
the D, when she is in an Angle (*) and decreas
ing, it is the same. -
If they are configurated either in the same or
the opposite Angle, being at the same time Ori
* That is, if either of them follow the Moon.
156 BOOK III.
ental to the G), and Occidental to the D, they
injure both eyes.
3 Causes blindness by a blow or a stab, by
iron or by fire; if configurated with :, it will
be in places of exercise, or from robbers.
b Causes blindness by cataracts, colds, specks
in the eyes, and such like.
If 2 be in one of the said Angles, particu
larly the West, # being joined to, or configu
rated, or changing places (*) with her, 3 being
elevated above, or opposite to her, the Native,
if a male, will be impotent; or, if a female, liable
to abortion, or to bring forth either dead chil
dren, or such as must bedestroyed and brought
forth piece-meal: This chiefly happens in ge,
11%, Or Vf.
If the D be in the Ascendant, and apply to 3 ;
or if she be configurated to 8 and b in a similar
way, and 3 be elevated above, or opposite to
her, the native will be either an Eunuch or Her
maphrodite, or will be deficient in the usual
passages or outlets.
If the Q join the configuration under these
circumstances, and both the luminaries and 9
be in a masculine condition, the D decreasing,
and the Malefics ascending in the next succeed
ing degree, the males will be deprived of their
genitals, or receive some injury there, especial
ly under ar, sl, m, wy, and ::: The women
* In Reception. *
*CHAP. It VII. 157
will be childless and barren, and sometimes in
jured in the eyes.
E, #, and G), being in the said Angles, (par
ticularly when 8 is in the West, and the P
joins the Configuration) there will be a defect in
the speech, through stammering or some other
impediment; but, if 3 be with them, he will
cure the impediment, when the meets with
-him.
If the Malefics be angular, and the Lumina
ries in 6 or & ascend to them, or, if the Male
fics ascend to the Luminaries, particularly when
the P is in her Nodes (*) or in her Bendings (£),
or in hurtful signs, as Y., 8, 22, m, and w?,
the body will be deformed, with excrescencies,
lameness, bruises and dislocations: If the Male
fics be with the Luminaries, these will happen
from the birth; but, if they be in the Mid-hea
ven, elevated above the Luminaries, or in & to
each other, some dreadful accident will occur,
as being thrown from a high place, falling, or
being maimed by robbers or quadrupeds: 3
having the dominion, will cause it by means of
quarrels or robbers; but b will cause it by falls,
shipwrecks, or convulsions.
Blemishes are frequently caused when the D
is in Tropical or Equinoxial Signs. The vernal
* Ptolemy only mentions the Nodes when the Moon
is in them.
+ Her greatest North or South Latitude.
BOOK III. o
158 BOOK IIL.
Equinoxial Sign, causes scaley eruptions; the
Summer.Tropic, ring-worms; the AutumnalEqui
nox, leprosy ; and the Winter Tropic, implies
similar complaints. -
Diseases arise from the Malefic Configura
tions before stated, but with this difference, only
when they are Occidental to the G) or Oriental
to the D . In this condition, b causes cold
in the bowels, abundance of phlegm, general
debility, wasting, jaundice, dysentery, cough,
with expectoration, cholic, and leprosy ; and in
addition to these, the Native ifa female, will be
afflicted with hysterics.
3 causes spitting of blood, melancholly, dis.
eases of the lungs, sores and painful sensations
in the secret parts, through cauterizing or cut
ting, as is usual in fistula, piles, and tumours in
the fundament, or burning, putrifying ulcers.
Women are rendered liable to abortion, or the
foetus is either cut in pieces, or left to putrify:
and, even if they have not exactly those Confi.
gurations, they will still in some way or other
affect the body.
8 co-operates with them in a way that in
creases the evil; for instance, if he have fami.
liarity with 2, he will add to the cold, encrease
the fow ofhumours, and cause great disturbance
in the breast, fauces, and stomach: If familiar
with 3, he augments the heat, increases the
number of ulcers and abscesses, produces bald.
*...*
CHAP. X W II. I59
mess, eschars, erysipelas, ring-worms, and such
distempers as proceed from melancholy, insa
nity, epilepsy, &c. - *
There is also a pre-disposition to certain dis
eases in particular signs, when they occupy the
said Angles at the time of the said Configura
tions. Thus, ca, w”, and X, and in short, earthy
and fish-like signs cause putrefaction, herpes, le
prosy, scrophula, fistulas, elephantasis, and the
like. t and II, produce falls and epilepsy.
If the Planets be near the latter degrees of
the sign, the disease or blemish will be at the
extremities, and will arise from humours or in
juries, causing elephantasis, gout in the hands or
feet, &c.
If under these circumstances, no Benefic be
configurated with that Malefic which causes the
evil, or with the angular Luminaries, the evils
will be incurable, and the same even if they be
configurated when they are overcome by the
strength of the Malefics. But, if the Benefics
hold the principal places, and thereby over
power the Malefics from whence the evil pro
ceeds, the blemishes or diseases will be but
slight, and will not cause a disgraceful deform
ity. The Benefics being more Oriental will
remedy thisevil; it will do it by the help of man,
or by the means of riches or power he will either
conceal it, or procure a remedy: If & assist, he
will effect a cure by medicines and skilful physi
160 RQOK III.
cians. 9, either through the interposition of
some divinity, or by the advice of an oracle, will
make the blemishes rather pleasing, or at least
not disagreeable, and will cure diseases by me
dical assistance from the deities (*).
Should b join in the configuration, the per
sons so maimed or diseased will wander about to
display their afflictions; and if 8 takes part in
it, they will do this to obtain a subsistence.
=0
CHAP. XVIII.
Of the QUALITIES of the MIND.
THIS therefore is the consideration of whatever
relates to bodily defects; but the mental, name
ly, the rational and intellectual qualities, are
judged from the condition of #, while those re
lative to mere animal sensation, distinct from
reason, are judged from the bodily state of the
Luminaries, particularly of the D, and the Stars
to which she is configurated, either by separation
or application. -
But as these animal propensities are various,
they cannot be hastily or summarily decided on,
but only by minute and repeated investigation,
: * In those days the Medical Art was practised to a
considerable extent by the Priests; and on occasion of
sickness or any calamity, it was usual to apply to them.
or to an Oracle, for advice and assistance. In the
event of a cure being thus obtained, it was attributed
to divine interposition.
C IJAP. XVIII, 161
relative to the various signs, which contain :
and the D, and likewise to the rulers of such
Signs, which operate very powerfully in the for:
mation of the mind. The Configurations also,
which the Stars just specified have with others,
or with the Q and the Angles, must be attended
to; and also the peculiar nature of each Star
must be included, according to its operation on
the mental propensities. -
Thus, Tropical and Equinoxial Signs, endow
the minds of men with policy, and dispose them
to mix in political matters and state affairs, or in
any way that will encrease their importance; and
the same with respect to religion, making them
ingenious, accute, inquisitive, full of invention
and addicted to Astrology and Divination.
Double-bodied Signs render the Natives un
stable, crafty, inconsistent, superficial, flighty,
knavish, amorous, deceivers, fond of music, card -
less, easily persuaded, and often in a penitent
state of mind.
Fixed Signs make them just, not addicted
to flattery, constant, firm, prudent, patient, la
borious, inflexible, continent, mindful of inju
ries, steady in their pursuits, full of contention,
ambition, sedition, avarice and obstimacy.
Oriental Configurations including those with
the Horoscope (*),(particularly if they are in that
.* Being oriental of the Sun, or of the Horoscope,
viz. in the South-east Quadrant, or on the Ascendant.
162 Book III.
Angle), make men open and undesigning, fond
of enjoying themselves, persevering. ingenious,
unreserved and active.
Qriental Stations, and Culminations (*), render
them deliberate, constant, careful, firm, pru
dent, high-minded, successful in their pursuits,
inflexible, powerful, rigid, not easily deceived,
iudicious, impetuous, punishers of the wicked,
and full of wisdom.
Precedent and Occidental Configurations (+),
cause instability, wickedness, weakness of mind,
impatience, meanness, servility, ambition, arro
gance, slothfulness, insolence and impudence.
Occidental Stations (£), or, being on the Lower
Heaven, and also "? and #, making Vespertine
Settings by day, and Risings by night (l), make
men ingenious, and observing, but careless and
not fond of labour, very inquisitive, and fond of
* Being at the first Station, (See Book 1. CHAP. viii.)
or in the Mid-heaven.
t Being in the South-west Quadrant, or on the
West Angle.
1 Being at the Second Station, or in the North
Angle. -
| This is not very clear, according to our accepta
tion of the words, but it means when Venus and Mer
cury precede the Sun, when of course they will set in
the West by day, and rise in the East by night, if a
short time before day-light appears may be called Night.
It should be observed, that all Oriental or Occidental
Positions with respect to the Sun, are in Book I.
cHAP. v1.11. called, “Solar Configurations,” although
not having any measured Aspect with that Luminary.
CHAP. XVI 11. 163
occult science, such as magic and sacred mys
teries, mechanism and instrument-making, me
teorology, philosophy, augury, and the art of
interpreting dreams.
Moreover, if the Ruling Stars be in proper
places and conditions, they give great mental
endowments without any obstacles, attended
with great success, particularly if they have
power in both places, namely, by being configu
rated in any way with 3, and having either the
separation or application of the ).
If not so constituted, but posited in places not
proper to themselves, they imbue the mind with
their own qualities, but not so powerfully; the
propensities are not so apparent, but more weak,
and proceed with less energy. For the operation
of powerful elevated Stars, is impressed on the
mind with great energy and power: Thus, they
who from Malefic impressions are evil and un
just, neither feel their inclination or means of
committing it deficient, if there be no opposing
influence; but if this evil familiarity be overcome
by a contrary condition, they feel a check upon
their impulses, and are easily detected and pu
nished.
It is the same with those who are good and
and just, owing to the familiarity of the Benefics
to the aforesaid places, when no opposing power
is elevated above them; they go on with cheer
fulness and energy in the performance of their
164 BOOK III.
-
duties, no one injures them, and they enjoy the
reward of their virtues; but if this familiarity be
overcome by a contrary condition, they will be
despised for their meekness, accused of covet
ousness, despised and ill-treated. This, therefore
is the general rule by which the mental endow
ments are regulated.
We come now to treat of the particular qua
lities imprinted by each Star on the mind,
according to their separate dominions. Thus,
the planet b, having the sole dominion of the
mind, and ruling 8 and the D, if he be glorious.
ly situated with respect to the World and the
Angles, he will make men selfish, obstinate,
laborious, arrogant, severe in punishing, govet
ous, penurious, eager to acquire wealth, and
envious: But if badly situated in respect to the
World and the Angles, he renders men sordid,
miserly, mean-spirited, wickedly inclined, un
reflecting, malicious, timid, slanderous, fond of
solitude, apt to cry, impudent, superstitious,
laborious, unfeeling, treacherous to their friends,
low-spirited and slovenly.
If he have familiarity with 21, in the way be
fore stated, and in a good situation, he renders
men good, and attached to good men, ready to
help others, judicious, fond of acquiring proper'
ty, magnanimous, busy, anxious to do good,
attached to their families, mild, prudent, patient,
and philosophical: But, if badly situated, he
CHAP. XVIII. 165
makes men outrageous, foolish, timid, super
stitious, careless about divine mysteries, suspi
cious, averse to children, without friends, crafty,
injudicious, treacherous, shallow, ill-disposed,
angry, hypocritical, slothful, dishonourable, un
settled, austere, reserved, cautious, and slug
gish. * .
If configurated with 3, and well-disposed, he
makes men regardless, bold in speech, turbulent,
daring, morose in every thing, uncharitable, con
temptuous, rude, warlike, despising danger, se
ditious, deceitful, treacherous, unforgiving, ex
eiters of tumult, tyrannical, covetous, enemies
to their country, fond of quarrels, spiteful, ex
cessive wicked, violent, impatient, insolent, de
testal)e, proud, malignant, unjust, unyeilding,
inhuman, inflexible, unchangable, persevering,
able in managing affairs, active, invincible, and
ripe for any undertaking: But, if evilly situated,
they will be robbers, extortioners, adulterers,
delighting in wickedness, stickiug at nothing for
gain, atheists, strangers to natural affection, mis
chievious, treacherous, thieves, perjurers, bloody
minded, eaters of polluted meats, involved in
guilt and infamy, murderers, sacrilegious,impious,
plunderers of sepulchres, and terribly wicked.
If configurated with ?, and being in glory,
he maketh men addicted to women, ambitious,
fond of solitude, very reserved, despisers of
public opinion, and of what is generally consi
166 BOOK III,
dered respectable, envious, morose, disagree
able in society, eccentric in their opinions, fond
of ceremonies, mysteries, divination, and of being
priests, fanatical, strongly attached to religious
forms and superstitions, grave, bashful, and
rather philosophical, yet faithful in friendship,
cautious, ingenious, and religious, very peevish
and jealous of their women: If evilly disposed,
he renders meu cunning, lustful, obscene, lewd
and filthy, indiscreet, unnatural in sexual inter
course, grosly libidinous, debauchers of women,
chieflythose of his household, infamous, disgrace
ful, devoted to wickedness, detesting whatever
is good, slanderers, drunkards, superstitious, sly
adulterers, prophane, scoffers at the gods, at
divine mysteries, or whatever is sacred, sorcerers,
and fit for every species of wickedness.
If k have familiarity with 8 well placed, he
renders men very inquisitive, loquacious, stu
dents in law, and physic, mystics, diving into se
cret things, miracle workers, hasty in temper,
fond of business, active in mind, petulant, carc
ful, sober, studious, industrious, and fortunate:
If the position be evil, they will be shallow, ma"
licious, tyrants among their domestics, fond of
tormenting others, gloomy, night wanderers, de
ceivers, traitors, unmerciful, thieves, magicians,
sorcerers, forgers of deeds, ready for any evil;
unfortunate in all things, and devoted to ruin:
These things proceed from b.
*C*H a P. X. VIII. 167
. If 24 alone governs the mind, and be well
situated, he renders men noble-minded, agree
able, pious, revered, comfortable in life, courte
ous, honourable, candid, just, dignified, vene
rable, attentive to their own concerns, merciful,
learned, beneficient, very affectionate, and fit to
govern: If badly situated, the same propensities
are imprinted on the mind, but more faintly, and
with less energy; thus they will be prodigal in
stead of generous, superstition will be substi
tuted for piety, timidity for a becoming reserve,
pride for dignity, folly for good breeding, love of
pleasure, for love of business, negligence for
ease, and indifference for candour.
If he have familiarity with 3 well placed, he
renders men rough, warlike, good soldiers, im
petuous, hating subjection, hot-headed, bold, free
speaking, active, fond of disputes, contentious,
imperious, high-minded, honourable, hasty tem
pered, judicious and fortunate : If ill-disposed,
he makes men mischievous, careless, cruel, un,
feeling, seditious, quarrelsome, stubborn, slan
derers, arrogant, covetous, rapacious, unsteady,
shallow, unsettled, rash, faithless, indiscreet, tur
bulent, worthless, dissatisfied, lustful, contemp
tible, and wholly without any steadiness or rule
of action.
If he be familiar with 2, and well-disposed,
he renders men neat and cheerful, fond of what
ever is elegant, beautiful, kind to youth, profi
168 Book iii.
cients in arts and sciences, poetry and music,
valuable friends, undesigning, beneficient, chari
table, inoffensive, religious, fond of active amuse
ments, wise, loving and beloved, chearful, dili
gent, brilliant, ingenious, liberal, judicious, tem
perate, modest, pious, just, and ambitious to be
every thing that is good and amiable: If badly
disposed, they will be luxurious, sensual, effe
minate, gaudy, epicures, amorous, lascivious and
very libidinous, slanderers, adulterers, fond of
ornaments, vain, slothful, leading dissolute lives,
shallow, dull, wasteful and helpless, handsome
and very effeminate, fond of superstitious forms
and ceremonies, yet kind-hearted, no ways ma
licious, affable, open and kind, cheerful and
charitable.
If configurated with # in good condition, he
renders men fit for business, learned, good geo
metricians, mathematicians, poets and orators,
ingenious, temperate, humane, great council
lors and politicans, beneficent, fit to govern,
religious, devoted to the gods, fortunate, friend
ly, kind to those who belong to them, learned,
and every way admirable : If evilly-disposed,
everything will be reversed, they will be super
ficial, empty, contemptible, always in the wrong,
enthusiastic, fanatic, vain, petulant, fancying
themselves wise, stupidly proud, impostors, ma
gicians, and quite irregular,—yet some of those
have been skilful in various branches of know
*CHAP. XVIII. 169
ledge, with good memories, able to communi
cate instruction, and to live respectably. -
If 3 alone governs the mind, and be well
situated, he renders men generous, powerful,
hot-headed, addicted to war, unstable, robust,
confident, daring, insubordinate, careless, rapid,
rash, contemptuous, tyrannical, violent, passi
onate, and formed to govern: If ill-disposed,
they are cruel, mischievous, bloody-minded, tu
multuous, luxurious, noisy, seeking quarrels, ob
stinate, drunkards, robbers, unfeeling desperate
ruffians, violent and furious, enemies to their do
mestics, and atheists. -
If he have familiarity with 2 in good condi
tion, he renders men cheerful, docile, friendly,
addicted to enjoyment, merry, playful, simple,
kind, given to singing, dancing, and scientific
pursuits, good actors, brave, lustful, yet cauti
ous, wise and discreet, fond of promiscuous con
gresses with either sex, hasty in temper, prodi
gal and jealous: If ill-disposed, they are arro
gant, mischievous, lustful, and infamous adul
terers, liars, cheats, dangerous to their own
domestics, and to every body, soon cloyed with
the same object, violators of wives and virgins,
rash, violent and unruly, treacherous, perjured,
foolish, unstable, and shallow, insensible often
to shame, fond of dress, daring and insolent:
If he have familiarity with 8, and well posi
ted, he causeth men to be good soldiers, but
BOOK III. P
170 BOOK III.
very circumspect, persevering, active, yet fully
aware of danger, changeable, fertile in con
trivances, cunning, laborious, artful, eloquent,
taking every advantage, deceitful, inconstant,
apt in contriving mischief, ready-witted, full of
fraud and hypocrisy, devoted to whatever is evil,
always busy, litigious and successful, much at
tached to those who are like themselves, very
malicious to their enemies, but useful to their
friends: If badly situated, they will be luxuri
ous, covetous, cruel, ungovernable, bold, yet re
gretful and unstable, liars, thieves and atheists,
perjured, very rapacious, seditious, incendaries,
frequenters of theatres, every way infamous,
plunderers, housebreakers, murderers, forgers of
writings, and familiar with every species of crime,
jugglers, magicians, venders or givers of poison,
and parricides.
If 2 be sole ruler of the mind, and well situ
ated, the Natives will be courteous, beneficient,
delicate, eloquent, neat, cheerful, fond of danc
ing, jealous, not disposed to labour, delighting
in the arts, worshippers of god, well-disposed,
of decent habits, having pleasant dreams, very
affectionate, humane, and charitable, averse to
what is unclean, agreeable in company, very for
giving, fortunate, and devoted to love and friend
ship: If badly disposed, they will be slothful,
lustful, effeminate, timid, careless, worthless,
of bad repute, obscure and contemptible.
CHA P. X VIII. 171
If R have familiarity with 8, and be well
placed, the Natives will be artists, philosophers,
men of science and ingenuity, poets, fond of
learning, eloquent, well-behaved, refined in their
enjoyments, cheerful, friendly, godly, uniting
prudence with business, attentive, fortunate in
trade, very apt in acquiring knowledge by their
own exertions, full of emulation in every thing
that is great and good, persuasive and pleasing
in speech, serene and facinating in manner, fond
of argument, honest, judicious, magnanimous,
but rather addicted to male than female con
gresses, and very jealous: If evilly disposed,
they will be rapacious, crafty, ill-spoken, unsta
ble ill-disposed persons, deceitful, turbulent,
liars, slanderers, perjurors, traitors, and villains,
perversely evil, unskilful, debauchers of women
and youths, fond of ornaments and dress, effe
minate, dangerous, infamous, notorious among
the worst of characters, and ripe for any bad
undertaking.
If 8 alone have the dominion, and be well
placed, he renders men prudent, wise, reflective,
having extensive learning, inventive, skilful, good
logicians and philosophers, speculative, ingeni
ous, aspiring, virtuous, argumentative, search
ing, addicted to mathematics, and mysteries,
and anxious to acquire knowledge: If evilly
disposed, he renders them crafty, headstrong, for
getful, hot-headed, superficial, unstable, regret
172 BOOK III,
ful, foolish, thoughtless, lying, careless, change
able, insatiable, covetous, unjust, wholly dives
ted of steadiness of mind, and always in error.
In addition to all these, the influence of the
Moon, must be considered; for when she is in
her extreme North or South Latitude, she causes
the disposition to be more variable, crafty, and
unsettled ; but when in her Nodes, she renders
it more acute, active, and diligent. When
she is in Oriental Places, or when encreasing in
Light, she renders men ingenious, firm and
open; but, if in Occidental Positions, or in her
decrease, they will be more slow, dull, change
able, suspicious and reserved.
The Sun also co-operates when in familiarity
with that Planet which governs the mind: If
well-placed, he renders the Native more just,
Persevering, honourable, and every way perfect;
but if badly placed, more debased, laborious,
obscure, worthless, cruel, obstinate, and every
way depraved *.
*We find in this Chapter, that the rational faculties
are judged from Mercury, and the animal or irrational
propensities from the Moon ; that is, from the nature
of the Signs they are in, from the Rulers of those Signs,
and from the nature of the Planets with whom such
Rulers are configurated or joined. But it is clear, the
Fixed Stars are included; for, as the Author remarks
in Book 11. CHAP. viii. it is not the Planets themselves,
but their natures in whatever way produced, that are
alluded to; and therefore, the nature of every Fixed
Star of eminence, has been minutely described in
173
CHAP. XIX.
Of MENTAL DISEASEs.
THE Mental Propensities being thus far con
sidered, the diseases of the mind next claim at
tention, as madness, epilepsy and similar afflic
tions.
Book 1. CHAPTERs 1x, x, and x1. Equinoxial Signs are
not included, probably through an accidental omis
sion, but they are in other places, considered as similar
in effect to Tropical Signs. What it is which consti
tutes a Planet, Ruler of a Sign, does not clearly ap
pear. In Book I. CHAPTERS XX, XXI, XXII, and XXIII,the
Essential Dignities are arranged by House, Triplicity,
Exaltation, and Term ; in CHAP. xxiv. the Exaltation
takes the first place; the Triplicity the second ; and
the House the third : And in Book III. CHAP, 111. the
five ways of Dominion are described as follows, “Tri
plicity, House, Exaltation, Term, and Apparition, or
Configuration.” With these various modes of arrange
ment, it is rather difficult to determine which of the
first three Essential Dignities should have the prefer
ence; and in a Sign, Capricorn for instance, which is
the House of Saturn, the Exaltation of Mars, and the
Triplicity of Venus, I know not which of the three
can be chosen for Ruler with any degree of certainty,
except it possesses another Dignity.
Being posited in Glory, is when they are strong in
the World, and in the Geniture, namely, being seated
in their Essential Dignities, Oriental, Swift in Motion,
and Angular or Succedent, chiefly in the Ascending or
Culminating Angles. The reverse, is when they are
Peregrine, Occidental, Slow in Motion, and Cadent.
See Book 111, CHAP, IV.
174 BOOK III.
In those cases, we must again refer to :
and the D, according as they are posited with
respect to each other, or to the Angles, or the
Malefics; for if the D and # be inconjunct
with each other, or with the Oriental Hori
zon, and if they are overcome (*) or ruled (+),
or opposed by contrary Malefic Configurations,
the mind will be much deranged and afflicted by
various diseases, the nature of which may be
known from the nature of the Planets which
cause the affliction. Many slight disorders may
be accounted for, from what has been already
observed respecting the qualities of the mind;
for the excess of some of those qualities, certain
ly may be considered as mental derangement,
when it either falls short of or exceeds the
bounds of moderation. But there are also others
so greatly disproportionate to our nature, as to
wholly overcome and derange both the intellec
tual and sensitive powers, and it is of those we
intend to treat.
Epilepsy is generally seen in persons who
were born when # and the D were either incon
junct with each other, or with the Oriental Hori
zon, b and 3 being angular and configurated
with them, that is if k be so by day, and 3 by
* Through the Malefics being elevated above them.
t* Disposed of by Malefics, or configurated with
CHAP. XIX. 175
night: but, if their positions be reversed, that
is b by night and 3 by day, having dominion,
the Natives become insane, particularly if the
afflicting Planet be in ca, my or x.
If the ) be so afflicted, when in her Phases
(*), they will be tormented by daemons (+) and
have a moist brain, if at the New Moon the
affliction proceeds from b, or at the Full Moon
from 3, more particularly if they happen to be
in t or x.
If the Malefics thus operate alone, the dis
eases will be incurable, though not in them
selves very remarkable, or in some cases hardly
to be seen; but if n! or ? partake in the con
figuration, and be Oriental and Angular, while
the Malefics are Occidental, the diseases will be
curable. but very conspicuous; it will cure them
by medicine, diet or surgical operation, and 2
by oracles or divine interposition: But if the
Benefics be Occidental, and the Malefics Ori
ental and Angular, the diseases will be incura
ble, and very conspicuous. Those who are epi
leptic will be continually afflicted, and often in
danger of their lives; and those who are insane,
willbefuriousand unmanageable,wanderingfrom
place to place, wholly estranged from their do
* At the New or Full.
t The Ancients considered furious Madmen to be
possessed by Daemons or Evil Spirits."
176 Book III.
mestics, and living naked and wretched. Those
who are possessed by daemons, and have a moist
brain, will be violent enthusiasts, uttering mys
terious things, and scourging themselves.
The places from whence the Configuration
proceeds (*) also co-operate; thus, the places
of the G) and 3 (+) add additional strength to
insanity; those of n! and 3 encrease epilepsy,
2 adds to enthusiasm, and b and 2 augments
the complaints of daemoniacs, or those of a moist
brain. - -
These are the morbid changes which manifest
themselves in the intellectual faculties; but, the
principal deviation in the irrational or sensitive
faculties is chiefly manifest in the excess or de
ficiency (according as it may happen) in the
generative organs of the male or female, wherein
they exceed or fall short of the customary con
formation which belongs to their respective na
tures: The judgement of this is as follows,
Let the Q be with > in the place of 8 (£), and
3 and 2 have familiarity with them, if the Lu
minaries only are in Masculine Signs, the males
will exceed in that which belongs to their nature,
* The Signs in which the afflicting Planets are
posited.
+ That is their dignities.
1 Because the Sun and Moon govern the sensitive
faculty, as Mercury and Moon govern the rational
faculty.
CHAP. XIX. 177
that is, they will have the male generative or
gans in excess; but females will deviate from
their nature, that is, they will be disposed in
part, to the masculine conformation and ener
getic propensities: But if both 3 and 2 or only
one of them, be also in a masculine place, the
males will be much inclined to sexual inter
course, but only to that which is natural; but
the females will be addicted to that which is
contrary to their nature, and will be very lustful
and intemperate. If 9 alone be in a masculine
condition, they will endeavour to do those acts
privately, and conceal their propensities; but, if
3 be likewise in a masculine place, they will
act openly, and be wholly divested of shame.
If the Luminaries only be in feminine Signs,
the females will be fond of excess in that inter
course which is agreeable to nature; whereas,
the males will differ from their usual nature and
be more effeminate and delicate; and, if 2 be in
a feminine place, the female will be lustful and
wanton, and the males tender and effeminate,
with unnatural propensities, which they will en
deavonr to conceal ; but, if 3 be in a feminine
position, their acts will be open and shame
less.
When 3 and Q are Oriental and Diurnal,
they render the Native more masculine and
respectable; but if Occidental and Nocturnal,
they will be more effeminate and despisable,
178 BQ OK. Ill.,
If b also join the Configuration, he will
render them more obscene and infamous in
every respect; but if it be instead of b, they
will be more decent and respectable, 8 renders
them more active, fond of variety, notorious,
and intractible.
179
B O O K IV.
*@33}=<
CHAPTER I.
The PRO E.M.
THUS far, we have treated of those things
which occur prior to the Birth, at the Birth,
and after it, by which a judgement may be
formed 8f the temperament in general: It now
remains that we treat of External Occurrences,
the chief of which, are Riches and Honours:
Of these, the first, namely, Riches, belong to
the body, whereas Dignities relate to the mind
--->-r
CHAP. II.
Of RICHEs.
WHATEvER relates to possessions, must be re
ferred to the part of Fortune alone, which, whe
ther the Birth be by day or by night, is placed at
the same distance from the Horoscope, as the
Sun is from the Moon: This being done, take
180 BOOK IV.
the rulers of that part, observe their strength
and familiarities, and those also of such Planets
as are configurated with, or elevated above
them, whether they be of a similar or opposite
condition.
TheRulers of the part of Fortune being strong,
give great riches, particularly if the Luminaries,
give proper testimony to them.
* gives Riches by building, agriculture, and
navigation. * -
2! by the care of others, or by offices of trust
or ecclesiatical preferment.
3 by wars and military command.
9 by friendship, or property acquired by .
means of women.
# by eloquence and trade.
If k being in familiarity with the part of
Fortunc, have configuration with it, he gives
wealth by inheritance, the more so when in
superior Angles; and if 2 be in a Bicorporeal
Sign, or receiving the Moon's application, they
will be adopted by strangers, and inherit their
property. -
If those Planets which are of the same condi
tion as the Lords of that part, give testimony of
dominion, they will retain their property: But
if those of a contrary condition are elevated
above the ruling places (*) or succeed to them,
* The Places where the Lords of the part of Fortune
arc.
CHAP. II. 181
it will not continue in their possession : But the
general time is taken from the inclination of the
Stars which govern the causes, to the Angles
and Succedents (*). *
-e-Q-e
CHAP. III.
Of HoNovns.
HoNoURs are considered from the disposition
of the Luminaries, and position of the Stars by
which they are guarded; for if both the Lumi
naries are in Masculine Signs, and both, or only
one of them Angular (particularly if they have
the five Planets for Satellites +), the Sun being
attended by Oriental Stars, and the Moon by
Occidental, those born at that time will be
kings; and if the said Satellites be Angular, or
configurated to the Angle that is above the
* When they come to those places by direction; and
it relates to the Significators both of Good and Evil.
+ Placidus thinks that the Satellitium of the Five
Planets means a Configuration of them in any way
to the Luminaries; but this is evidently incorrect. It is
generally supposed, that a Planet to be considered a
Satellite must be only 30 deg. distant from the Lumi
nary; and it is certain, that Satellitium in Latin, and
Doriphoria in Greek, signify Guards or Attendants;
and conformable to the rest of this System, which is
B00K IV. Q
182 Bø OK. I.V.
Earth, (*), they will be mighty and powerful as
Lords of the World.
Furthermore, if the Satellites have a dexter
Configuration to the Angle above the Earth,
under the same circumstances as before de
scribed, with this exception, that the Lumina
ries be not as before stated, both in Masculine
Signs, but the Sun only in a Masculine and the
Moon in a Feminine Sign, and only one of them
Angular, the Natives will only be Princes,
having the power of life and death.
If the Luminaries be as already described,
and none of the Satellites be Angular, or give
testimony to the Angles (£), these born at that
period will be great, and enjoy certain honours,
as that of Governors, Generals, or some emi
nent dignity, but they will not be Princes.
If the lights be neither of them Angular, but
their Satellites Angular or configurated to the
Angles, they will not arrive at any eminent dig
nity, but they will be eminent to a certain de
gree in civil departments.
wholly Symbolical, any Luminary surrounded by a
number of Planets within, a certain distance, which
is not exactly specified, was supposed to resemble
Royalty, surrounded by suitable Guards, or Attend.
ants; and hence Ptolemy observes, that persons born
under such a figuration, will, by sympathy, become
Kings. ..I. rather conceive the distance can not be
much more than 30 deg. or 45 deg. at the utmost.
* The Mid-heaven.
t That is if they hold no Aspect with the Cusp of
_the Angle.
GHAP, III, 183
If neither of the s." configurated
with the Angles, they will be obscure and un
distinguished. . - - -
If neither of the Luminaries be either in a
Masculine Sign, or Angular, or guarded by the
Benefics, the person then born will be mean, de
spicable and miserable.
This, therefore, is the rule in a general sense,
by which judgement may be formed of the
various degrees of rank and dignity; but, as
there are many intermediate conditions of life,
they all depend upon the various conditions of
the Luminaries and their Attendants, and the
Rulers of the latter; for if the Benefics, or those
of the same condition, have dominion, the dig
nities will be more great and permanent; but if
the Malefics or those of an opposite condition
have dominion, they will be of a meaner de
scription, and very uncertain (*).
The nature of such dignity may be known
from the nature of the Satellites; as if b go
verns them, power will be derived from some
wealthy or profitable government: If it or 2
have rule, it will arise from some very pleasing
department, productive of gifts and honours: If
*To be ofan opposite Condition to the nature of the
Luminaries, is to have a disagreeing position, such aS
preceding the Sun, orfollowing the Moon, or by being
peregrine or disagreeing with the Angles, with which
they have familiarity
184 POOK IV.
3 be *.*.consist of military rule and
enterprize, victory, and a terrible exertion of
power over those who are subjected to it: If
8, it will arise from respectability, prudence,
learning, and attention to business (*).
CHAP. IV.
Of the Nature of the Profession.
THE Ruler of the Profession is taken two ways,
viz. from the Sun, and from the Sign on the
Mid-heaven. * - -
We should therefore observe the Star which
appears orientally next the Sun, and the Star,
(if any) posited in the Mid-heaven, more parti
cularly that which receives the Moon's applica
tion. If one and the same Planet is in both situ
tions, that is, if it make Oriental appearance
next the Sun, and be also in the Mid-heaven,
that Planet alone shall be taken to solve the
question; but if it have not both, but only one
* I am not aware of what is meant by the plural
term, “Angles.”—There can be no position where a
Planet is not configurated with some Angle; and the
only one here alluded to, must be the Mid-heaven.
CHAP.I.V. 185
of these qualifications, it must be taken as sig
nificator, if no other be so qualified.
If one Planet have the said position to the
Sun, and another be in the Mid-heaven, and
have Configuration with the Moon, both shall be
taken ; but that which is strengest, and most
adapted to the dominion, must be preferred.
If none be found appearing before the Sun
or in the Mid-heaven, that which governs the
Mid-heaven, shall be taken alone, but this only
will dispose them to follow some occasional em
ployment; for such persons usually are without
any regular profession.
Thus much relates to the Lord of the profes
sion; but the nature of the profession will be
known by the nature of the three Stars, 3, 2,
and #, and of the Signs which contain them (*).
# makes writers, managers of business, ac
comptants, superintendants, men engaged in
traffic, money-changers, and also diviners, astro
logers, and persons employed in sacrifices, in a
word, all who get a living by learning, and re
solving of questions, and by salaries or gifts for
so doing,
If E gives testimony to 8 (+), they will be ma
nagers for others (::), or interpreters of dreams,
* Should neither of these happen to be Lord of the
Profession, how is it to be known?
+ That is, if he governs the Sign in which he is.
| Because Saturn is a superior to Mercury, in the
same Triplicity.
186 BO OR 1 W.
or will hold some church preferment for their
skill in divination, or extreme devotion.
If x gives testimony, they will be painters,
orators, or sophists, and patronized by men of
eminence (*). -
If q governs the profession, they will deal in
perfumes made from flowers, in ointments, (+),
wines, colours, tinctures and spices; they will
be also makers of sweet ointments, garlands, (£)
and wines, or they may be apothecaries, weavers,
spice-merchants, painters, dyers, and dealers in
dresses ().
If E gives testimony, they will deal in things
that conduce to luxurious ornaments, sorcery,
poisoning ($), and to every species of deception.
If 2 gives testimony, they will be wrestlers,
those who are crowued with garlands(#), or such
as receive preferment by means of females.
* Jupiter is the Significator of great men and their
protection. -
+ In those days, to be anointed with perfumes was
considered a luxury; and Venus disposes of every
thing relative to luxury and enjoyment.
1 Garlands were worn at most festivals and saeri
fices, and these were under the dominion of Venus.
| Ornamental dresses, chiefly.
§ The compounding and selling of mischievous
drugs, was in those days a very profitable trade.
* Garlands were worn by the Athletae, who came off
victorious, by the higher order of the priesthood, and
by those who presided at banquets. We have nothing
of the kind now-a-days, but it relates to all those who
unite greatness and prosperity with happiness.
GHAP. iV. 187
If 3 governs the profession, and hath con
figuration with the Sun (*), he will make them
such as work by fire, namely, cooks, founders,
braziers, and operators by fire, on any kind of
metal: If he have no such configuration, they
will be shipwrights, carpenters, agriculturists,
masons, woodcutters, and the lower order of
workmen (+).
If 2 gives testimony, they will be seamen,
persons who excavate vaults, feeders of beasts,
cooks and butchers.
If 2 gives testimony, they will be soldiers,
or in some subordinate situation, as collectors of
taxes, inn-keepers, costermongers, or such as
minister at sacrifices (£).
If there be two joint rulers of the profession,
and if those be # and 2, they will produce
* If he have any aspect with the Sun; because
neither Mercury nor Venus could have any aspect be
yond their Orientality or Occidentality, their distance
not being sufficient.
+ Of that class who work with iron or edged-tools.
1 No correct idea can be formed of those matters,
from the manners of the Egyptians: But, the essence
of the whole is this, that Mercury governs every pro
fession relative to learning, or any particular exertion
of intellect; and Venus, those that are founded on
sensual enjoyment; and both of them are subjectto the
interposition of Saturn or Jupiter, so far as relates to
their application to good or evil purposes. Mars go
verns chiefly such trades as are either evil in them
selves, or have no relation to enjoyment either of mind
or body; and, even the testimony of Jupiter cannot
render them respectable.
-
188 BOOK iW.
musicians, or such as make melody, and are
employed among musical instruments, singing,
and poetry, the more so if they change places(*)
for then they will make them stage mimics or
actors, slave-dealers,instrument-makers, dancers,
performers on strings, tumblers, makers of wax
figures, and painters.
If h gives testimony, he will in addition to
these, make them dealers in women's ornaments.
If it gives testimony, they will be judges, off
cers of state, school-masters and magistrates.
If 3 and 3 be joint rulers of profession, they
will produce statuaries, workers in armour, en
gravers of hieroglyphics, or of animals, wrest
lers, surgeons, informers, adulterers, criminals
of every description, and forgers of writings.
If h gives testimony to them, they will be
men-slayers, stealers of cloathing, very rapaci.
ous, lurking theives, cattle-stealers and impos
torS.
If it gives testimony,they will be more indus.
trious and respectable; active, and careful in
what they possess, full of enquiry, and toler"
bly fortunate.
If q and 3 govern the possession, they will
be dyers, ointment-makers, workers in tin, lead,
gold, or silver, such as dance or exhibit in ar"
* If they be in mutual reception.
CHAP. IV. 189
mour, apothecaries, husbandmen, and that class
of physicians, who cure by medicine (').
If E gives testimony, they will be such as
superintend the sacred animals (+), diggers of
graves, mourners, or musicians at funerals, and
such as busy themselves in the mysteries, in la
mentations and blood.
If 74 gives testimony, he will make them sa
crificers, augurs, such as hold offices in the
church, superintendents of women, interpreters,
and such as live by similar professions.
The nature of the Signs which contain the
Rulers of the Profession, vary the employment
also, according to their respective qualities:
Human Signs for example, incline them to such
professions as are useful to mankind: Four
footed Signs, make workers among metals,
traders of every description, builders, smiths,
and carpenters: Tropical and Equinoxial Signs,
make interpreters, dealers in exchange, mea
surers, agriculturists, and priests: Earthy and
Watery Signs, give employment on the water, or
in watery trades, as gardening and ship-build
ing ; and also in funerals, and in pickling or
salting (£). - - -
* By way of distinction from those who cured by
miracles.
+ Those destined for sacrifice, because of their cruel
ty; and, probably they might superintend those kept .
for worship, the Apis for instance, who was destroyed
at certain periods.
| Alluding to the art of embalming.
199 BO © K I* *
The Moon also when she occupies the place of
profession, and after having passed the d, con
tinuing her course with # in 8, w$, or <>, shes
will render men soothsayers, sacrificers, and
such as divine by the Bason (*). In t or 3é.
she makes hypochondriacs, or those possessed by:
daemons (+). In my and mu, they will be magici
ans, astrologers, deliverers of oracles, and pre
dictors of future events; and in n-, or, or Šl, .
they will be enthusiasts, men, who interpret.
dreams, and conjurors.
In this way, are the various kinds of profes
sion distinguished; but their magnitude or pros--
perity must be decided by the strength of the
Rulers; for if they be Oriental or Angular, the
profession will be eminent; but if Occidental,
or declining from an Angle, it will be subordi
nate:... If the Benefics, be elevated, the trade
will be great and profitable, secure, respectable,
and pleasing; but if the Malefics be elevated
above the Lords of the Profession, it will be
mean and insignificant without profit or security.
Thus, b impedes it through coldness, and the
mixture of colours, and 3 through forwardness, .
* Meaning that they would be adepts in all the
ious frauds then in use among the Egyptians. The
ivination by the Cup or Bason, is mentioned in
GENESIs, chap. XLIV. -
+ Men who gained a living by such pretences,simi
lar to our mendicant impostors: Madmen were sup
posed to be possessed by Evil Spirits or Daemons,
*CHAP. IV. 191
and publicity, both ef which are inimical to the
prosperity of the profession (*); but the general
period when the trade is likely to encrease or
diminish, must be judged from the manner in
which the effective Stars are disposed with res
spect to the Oriental or Occidental Angles (+).
--e-Q-e
UHAP. V.
of MARRIAGE.
"WE now proceed to discuss what relates to
Marriage, or the Co-habitation of Male and
*The meaning of this, however familiar to the Egyp
stians, is not very obvious to ourselves. In these days,
trade is best promoted by publicity. "What is meant
by a Mixture of Colours, cannot correctly be known;
, but it probably signifies a defect in the regularity or .
brilliance of the manufacture, through the dulness or
negligence of the workmen.
it. If the Benefics or Malefics were in or near the
; Oriental Angle, the prosperity or decline were likely
to happen at an early period: If in the Mid-heaven,
about the middle of life; or, if in or near the West
Angle, towards the end of life. Some idea of the ar
rangement may be formed, from Book II. CHAP. v.-I
believe that no.Planet was in this case (and indeed in
many others) considered as elevated when under the
earth. There is much reason to believe, that the term
“Elevated” was like the rest of the Science, merely
figurative, and alluded to a Planet's greater altitude
in the Upper Hemisphere from whence he appeared to
look down upon and command the rest ; and it may
likewise have been the same, when they were all so
situated in the Lower Hemisphere.
I92 BOOK IV.
Female, as sanctioned by Law, which is as
follows:
With regard to Men, the manner in which the
Moon is disposed, must be observed; for in the
first place, if she be found in Oriental Quad
rants, she causeth men to marry when young,
or to marry young women, when they are old (*);
and if she be here overcome by the Sun-beams,
and configurated with 2, she will prevent their
marrying at all (#): If she be in a Sign of one
form, and applying to but one Planet, they will
. marry but once; but, if in a Bicorporeal, or Sign
of several forms, or applying (£) to several Pla
nets, she will cause them to marry several times;
and if the Planets receiving such application, by
proximity of place, or by Testimony (), are
Benefics, they will get good wives; or, if Male
. fics, evil: Thus b receiving the application,
* There is certainly an omission here, respecting the
Moon’s operation when in the Occidental Quadrants.
In some Latin translations, they are said in this cese,
“not to marry until they are old; or, if they marry
young, it will be to old women:” This is uniform with
what follows, relative to the influence of the Sun on
women; and therefore, it is probably correct.
+ This probably relates to the Moon, when in Occi
dental Quadrants, where, but for the former omission,
the sentence would have occurred.
f Application, must in no part of this Work, be
taken in a modern sense, but as described in CHAP.
xxvii, Book I, so far as it can be understood:—I really
think it means application in the horary circle by Mun
dane Motion, as described in the Note to CHAP. xiv.
BOOK. 111. -
| By Conjunction or Aspect.
CHAP. W. 193
they will be laborious and morose: If it re
ceives it, they will be prudent and domesticated:
If 3, they will be daring and refractory: If 2,
full of mirth and cheerfulness; and, if : , they
will be remarkable for wisdom and activity. If
2 be in familiarity with it or 8 (*), the wife
will be prudent, and much attached to her hus
band and children; but if with 3, she will be of
a violent temper, without wisdom or discretion.
This is only relative to men.
In women, the G) must be taken instead of
the D ; and, if he be placed in an Oriental
Quadrant, they will marry young, or to young
men (+); but if Occidental, they will marry late
in life, or to men past their prime, or very old.
If in a Sign of one form, or configurated to one
Oriental Planet, he will cause them to marry
but once; but, if in a bicorporeal, or many-form
ed Sign, or configurated to many Oriental Stars,
he will give them a plurality of husbands (£). If
# be configurated with the Q, he will provide
* Some add Saturn to the number.
+ This, (to be uniform with what has been said be
fore relative to men,) must mean, “in their old age.”
# This of course can only be when the Sun applies
to their body or aspect, as we have before seen with
respect to the Moon. Only Oriental Planets are men
tioned here as having any effect; and we may therefore
conclude, that application to Occidental.Planets, was
not considered to be a Marriage Symbol; but, that it
denoted a single life, the same as before observed, of
the Combustion of the Moon, in the case of mon,
BOOK IV. R
194 BOOK IV.
husbands of modest temperament, fond of riches,
and laborious : If it, they will be grave and
magnanimous: If 3, violent, without affection,
and unruly: If Q , spruce and handsome: If #,
such as are good providers, and always full of
business: If Q be familiar with b, they will be
dull and timid (*): If with 3, hasty, lustful, and
adulterous; and with #, such as are fond of
youths.
Those Quarters are considered Occidental with
respect to the G), which precede the Oriental
and Occidental Signs of the Zodiac (+). Those
of the Moon, are from the New and Full to the
Quarters: The Occidental Quadrants are oppo
site to those. -
When the Nativities of the husband and wife
have a harmonizing Configuration of the Lumi
naries, in each with the other, namely, in A or
* , their cohabitation will be permanent, the
more so if it be by change (#); and it will be
still more durable, when the Moon in the hus
band's Geniture, agrees with the Sun in that of
* There are many omissions in this Chapter; one
of which, is, that no mention is made of the familiarity
of Venus with Jupiter. Other Editions however men
tion it, as productive of such as are “virtuous, just,
and respectable.”
+ From the Cusp of the Ascendant to that of the
Midheaven; and, from the Cusp of the 7th to that of
the 4th.
j By Reception. - • *
GHAP. V. 195
his wife: But, if the Luminaries so specified, be
in Signs that are inconjunct, opposite to, or in
square to each other, the connexion will easily
be dissolved, and a final separation will ensue.
Again, If the Benefics behold a good Con
figuration, their connexions will be productive
of kindness, pleasure and profit; but, if the
Malefics hehold it, they will cause quarrels,
contention, and damage.
Also, in an unfavorable Configuration, if it
receives the Aspects of the Benefics, the con
tract will not be wholly dissolved, but reconcil
liation and re-establishment will take place; but
if the Malefics aspect it, the marriage will be
dissolved with disgrace and infamy. If # alone
join the Malefics, it will be through some public
disgrace; but, if 2 also be with them, it will be
for adultery, sorcery, or something similar.
Other kinds of marriage ("), are judged from
3, 3, and b ; if these have familiarity with
the Luminaries, the marriage will be domestic
and legal, for 2 hath a kind of affinity with 3
and b , with 3 by means of the florid appear
ance of youth (+), because they have their exal
tations in each others Triplicities: Her affinity
* Concubinage, a state of Co-habitation, which was
in certain cases, considered legal, and generally as
allowable.
t The inducement, which causes the connection,
when Venus and Mars behold the Luminaries.
196 BOOK 1Y.
to b, is through a more aged complexion, be
cause their houses are in A to each other.
The affinity therefore of 2 with 3, fills the
parties so cohabiting, with strong desires; and,
if # be with them, the connection between
them will be the theme of public conversation.
If q be found in a Sign common to them both,
as w; or x, she will cause such connection to
exist between brothers with sisters or other re
lations (*): If the D be with her, they will cause
a man to cohabit with two sisters or relations;
or, if it be with her, a woman will cohabit with
two brothers or kinsmen.
Again, if q be with 2, there will be much
pleasure and constancy in the connection; and
if : be with them, it will be profitable; but, if
& be there, it will be productive of nothing but
insecurity, misery, and jealousy: If 3 be con
figurated to ?, ?, and #, the ages of those
persons will be nearly equal; but, if he be more
Oriental, the marriage will be to a younger
man or woman; and if more Occidental, it will
be with those that are older: If 9 and 2 he
found in Signs common to them both, as w; and
*, it denotes cohabition with kindred. If such
a Configuration be on the Horoscope or Mid
* This merely relates to local customs; marriages
of this kind were common in Egypt, and not unfre
quent in Greece,
CHAP. We I97
heaven, and the ) be with them, the men will
cohabit with their mothers, aunts, or mothers-in
law, and women with their sons, or their bro
thers sons, or their daughters husbands; or if the
G) be instead of the Y, and more particularly
if they are Occidental, the men will be connec
ted with their daughters or daughters-in-law,
and women with their fathers, uncles, or sons
in-law.
Should the Planets configurated as aforesaid
(but not in the same Signs), be found in Femi
nine places, they will render the Native very
lustful and shameless, as for instance, in the
fore or hind part of Y', or near the Hyades,
the pitcher, the hind-parts of Q., or the front of
w: (*): If the said Planets E and Q be posited
in the East Angle, or the Mid-heaven, their pro
pensities will meet with public exposure; but if
they are in the West Angle, or Lower-heaven,
they will render the Native Eunuchs, or barren,
or without their natural passages.
The propensities which belong to males, are
judged from 3 ; for if he separates from 2 and
9, and have the testimony of it, he will ren
der males pure and modest in sexual inter
course, and strictly natural: If alone with k,
their temperament will be cold, and their pas
* Why they are called Feminine Places, I do not
know.
198 BOOK IV.
sions sluggish; but, if when together, they are
configurated with it and 2, their desires will
be more brisk, although they will conceal them
and avoid the shame. If k be absent, and 3
be alone with 2, or even, if it be with her,
they will be very lascivious, and anxious to
gratify their desires in every possible way. If
one of them be Occidental and the other Orien
tal, they will be attached to either sex, but not
to excess: If both of them be Occidental, they
will be much disposed to male congresses; and if
the Sign be Masculine, they will make no distinc
tion as to age. Also, if 2 be most Occidental
of the two, they will be connected with mean
female servants or other vagabonds; but if 3 be
most Occidental, it will be with gentlewomen
their superiors in rank, or with married women:
Thus much concerning men.
In women, we must judge from 9, for if she be
configurated with it or 8, they will be tempe
rate and modest in copulation; and although the
configuration with #, if b be not there, will make
their desires strong, yet they will controul them
and avoid the disgrace. If q hath configura
tion with 3 only, they will be very lustful and
intemperate; and if, when both of these are
joined or configurated, it happens to concur, and
3 be under the Sun's rays, they will then be
connected with servants or such as are their in
feriors, or vagabonds of any description; but
if 2 be under the sun's rays, they will copulate
CHAP. V. 199
with gentlefolks or such as are their superiors.
If these Planets are in feminine places, or have
feminine configurations, they will be content in
being passive; but, if it be in a Masculine way,
they will take the active part likewise: If b
have familiarity in these Configurations, he ren
ders them more infamous and obscene, it makes
them more decent, and & makes them more
notorious and offensive.
-e-Q-e
CHAP. VI.
Of CHILDREN.
WE now pass from these matters, to those
which relate to Children. Here we must consi
der the Planets that are in, or configurated to,
the Mid-heaven, or its Succedent, which is called
the “Good Daemon.” If no Planets be in these
places or configurated to them, the opposite
places must then be taken (*).
* The opposite Places, are of course the 4th and
5th Houses, but why or when they are to be taken,
seems quite a mystery. It is difficult to conceive, how
both the 10th and 11th Houses can be at the same
time, without the appearanee or configuration of any
Planet in the System; such a thing is impossible ex
cept the Aspect be limited to the Cusps, or to a cer
tain portion of those Houses, and I am not aware of
any such limitation. But that which must render the
case were it possible, still more inexplicable, is, that
the opposite Housesare similarly situated with respect
/
209 BOOK IV.
The D, II, and g, are considered to be pro
lific and givers of children. The G), 3, and 2,
are steril, or give but few children. Mercury
being common to both, operates according to
those with whom he is configurated; prolific
when Oriental; steril when Occidental.
The prolific Planets therefore being posited
as already described, and in single Signs, they
will give but single births; but in double-bodied
or feminine Signs, they will cause twins to be
generated. In fruitful Signs, as X, <2, and ml,
they will give two or more. If they are Mascu
line owing to the Solar Configuration (*); or,
being in Masculine Signs, they produce males,
but if Feminine, females. Ifthey are overcome
by the Malefics, or if in barren Signs, as S. and
my, they will give children, but these will neither
be healthy nor long-lived.
If the Sun and Malefics possess the aforesaid
places, namely, the Mid-heaven, or the Suc
cedent or Good Daemon (+), and be in Mascu
line or barren Signs, and are not overcome by
the Benefics, they denote a total want of chil
dren; but if they are in Feminine or Fruitful.
to Aspects, for all Configuration is precisely at the
same distance from the Cusps of the 4th and 5th.
Houses, as from those of the 10 and 11th. That Star
which is inconjunct with any House, is exactly the
same with its opposite.
* Being Oriental of the Sun,
+ There is no mention made here, of Configuration.
Gh A P. VI. 201
Signs, or supported by the testimony of the Be
nefics, they will certainly give children, but only
such as are sickly and short-lived.
If both kinds (*) are configurated, and in
Fruitful Signs, there will be a diminution of off
spring in proportion to that nature which is most
powerful, all, or a few, or many may be want
ing, according to the condition of the Planets
giving testimony, and the power they possess by
being more oriental, more angular, more eleva
ted, or more succedent.
If the Lords of the aforesaid Places (+), are . .
prolific, and are either Oriental or in their own
proper Places, the offspring they give will be
great and eminent. If Occidental or not in their
proper Places (£), they will be mean and ob
scure: If they have an agreeable familiarity
with the parts of Fortune and the Horoscope,
the children will be amiable, and well-beloved
by their parents, and will inherit their property:
If inconjunct, and in evil Aspect, they will be
worthless, despised by their parents, and disin
herited.
Moreover, if the Planets producing the off
spring, be agreeably configurated together, the
children will respect and love each other; but
* Benefics and Malefics.
t This seems to indicate that they must govern the
Places in question, or appear in them.
t Out of their Dignities,
202 BOOK IV.
if inconjunct, or in opposition, they will detest,
deceive and betray each other.
This is the general consideration relative to
Children; but in order to acquire a knowledge
of particulars, each Star which gives children,
should be observed, and placed on the Cusp of
the Horoscope; the rest of the figure being
drawn out and judged, as in a Nativity.
CHAP. VII.
Of FRIENDs and ENEMIes.
THE Judgement of Friendship and Enmity, is
as follows: Great and durable attachments or
disagreements, are considered as sympathies and
antipathies: Those that are trifling and tempo
rary, are but casual intimacy, or differences, and
they are judged by the following rules; for great
and lasting friendships or enmities, are derived
from the principal Places, in each of the Geni
tures of those, who exhibit such friendship or
enmity.
The places of the Sun, Moon, Horoscope,
and Part of Fortune, must be observed; for if
they be in the same Signs, or change places with
CHAP. VII. 203
each other, all, or most of them; or, if they as
cend within 17 degrees of each other, their at
tachment will be great and lasting: But if in
conjunct or in opposition, their enmity will be
strong and durable: If neither of these circum
stances exist, hut that they are merely configu
rated by Signs, and these by A or k, they will
produce slight attachments; or if by a square,
trifling enmity. These friendships will become
neuter as it were, for a time, while the Malefics
transit such Configuration (*), and the enmity
will be suspended in a similar way when the
Benefics transit the Configuration.
The Good or Ill-will, men bear towards each
other, originate from three sources, viz. Inclina
tion, Profit, and Pain or Pleasure; and should
all or most of the afore-mentioned Places, have
familiarity with each other, their attachment will
arise from all these; but if no familiarity exists,
enmity will take place in a similar way. As the
Places of the Luminaries are disposed towards
each other, friendship or enmity will proceed
from inclination alone, and friendship of this
kind is the best, and most firm, as by the same
rule, enmity so caused, is the most bitter and
deadly. Familiarities of the Partof Fortune, re
late to profitable views; and those of the Horo
*That is, when they transit the Places of the Lights,
Horoscope, or part of Fortune, in either Nativity.
204 BOOK IV.
scopes have relation to pain or pleasure: But the
Planets that are elevated above, or aspecting the
said Places, must also be observed; for that Place
which is nearest to the Planet so elevated, or to
the Aspect that succeeds to it, either in the
same or the next Sign, will cause the most po
werful friendship or enmity; but the place which
hath such influence of a Benefic nature, will
gain much by friendship, or suffer little by en
mity: Thus much, respecting those things that
are of a permanent nature.
With respect to others, occurring at intervals,
which have been already characterized as casual
intimacy, or differences, we judge them from the
planetary motions in each Geniture, namely, the
times when the motion in one Geniture, brings
them to the Places of the other Geniture; for
at those periods certain attachments and aver
sions will occur, and remain until the dissolu
tion of these ingresses; b and it arriving at each
others places, will cause friendship by meeting
together, by agriculture, or inheritances; 2 and
3 cause natural aversion, and vile stratagems;
b and 2, friendship between kindred, which
soon cools; b and #, attachments through bu
siness, or for profit, or by mysteries (*); 2 and
3, cause friendship through government or pre
* When they met together for the purpose of per
forming some Religious Ceremonies.
UriAP. VI.1. 205
ferment; it and 2, through women, or the
priesthood, or oracles: it and 8, by science
and philosophy: 8 and 2, by amorous pro
pensities, adultery, or fornication: 3 and #,
cause quarrels, hatred, and litigation through bu
siness, or sorcery: Q and #, bring attachments
through arts and sciences, literature or female
influence.
Their excess or weakness may be known by
the position of such Planets, as it respects the
four ruling Places already described; for if they
be angular with the Places of the Part of For
tune, or of the Luminaries, they will render
such casual love or hatred more evident ; but,
if they are at a distance it will be less conspi
cuous. But the good or evil arising from such
Planets, will be according to their qualities,
whether Benefic or Malefic. . .
So far as relates to servants, and their friend
ship or enmity towards their masters, the ruling
power belonging to them, is taken from the Sign
of the Evil Daemon (*), and from the Planets
configurated with that Place in the Geniture,
together with the Ingresses and Oppositions
that occur; but more particularly when the
Rulers of this Sign have good familiarity with
the principal Places in the Geniture, or in like
manner, if they are evilly configurated.
* The Twelfth House.
BOOK IV. S
206 BOOK IV.
CHAP. VIII.
Of TRAVELLING.
WHATsoev ER relates to Travelling, must be
considered from the Positions of the Lumina
ries with respect to the Angles, and more par
ticularly that of the Moon; for if she be Occi
dental and declining from an Angle, she will
cause travelling and change of place; and this.
is sometimes caused by 3, when he is Occiden
tal, or declining from the Mid-heaven; if he be
at the same time in & or Square to the Lumi
naries. Should the Part of Fortune also fall in
those Signs which cause travelling (*), the whole
ife, conversation, and manners will be foreign.
If the Benefics behold the aforesaid Places,
or succeed to them (+), travelling will be both
* The Signs which cause travelling, are the Cadent
Signs, where the Moon or Mars, or the Sun are posited,
by which means they become as before described, Sig
nificators of Travelling. -
+. To Succeed, namely to follow in the next Sign,
is considered in many instances, to be nearly as effi
cacious, as if they were in the Sign itself; as Succe
dent Houses were considered nearly equal in strength
to the Angle they sueceeded.
CHAP. VIII. 207
honorable and lucrative, and the return speedy,
and without difficulty: But, if the Malefics be
hold, or succeed to those Places, the travelling
will be injurious and hazardous, and the return
difficult, but it is requisite in all cases, to consider.
the temperament and strength of the various
Configurations. -
Generally, if the Luminaries are cadent in
the Oriental Quadrants, travelling will be direc
ted to the East and South Parts of tne World;
but, if in the Occidental Quadrants, they will
journey Northward and Westward. -
If the Signs that cause travelling be of one
form; or, if those be so which contain their Ru
lers, the travelling will be at long intervals, and
only at certain times; but if they are bicorporeal
or of two forms, it will be long and continual.
2 and 2 ruling the Lights and Signs which
cause travelling, it will be safe and agreeable;
and the Native will experience the kindness
both of the constituted authorities and of nume
ous friends, who will forward him on his jour
ney; the weather will be favourable, and all
wants will be supplied; and, if 8 be joined
to them, he will greatly encrease the gains, pre
sents, and credit of the journey.
b and 3 ruling the Luminaries, and being at
the greatestdistancefrom each other(*), they will
* Namely, in Opposition, which is the greatest dis
tance they can have.
208 Book IV.
cause great danger and losses: In moist Signs,
this will happen through shipwreck, or in desarts,
and places that are infectious and difficult of ac
cess. In fixed Signs, by precipices and adverse
winds. InTropical or Equinoxial Signs, through.
want of food, or from an unhealthy atmosphere.
In human Signs, by robbers, treachery, and de
predations. In earthy, by means of wild beasts,
or earthquakes. If 8 joins the Configuration,
the danger will arise through false accusations,
noxious vermin, and poisonous reptiles.
The good or evil result of those journies,
must also be judged from the condition of those
places assigned (as before observed), to profes
sion, property, personal welfare, or dignity.
The periods of travelling are taken from the
Ingress of the Five Planets, according to their
respective periods (‘).
CHAP. IX,
Of the QUALITY of DEATH.
THE Nature and Cause of Death now remains
to be described; and this may be determined
* When Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Venus, and Mer
cury, arrive by direction at the Places of the Lumi
naries, or of the Signs that denote travelling.
CHAP. IX. 209
*
from what has already been said concerning the
Space of Life, relative to the orientality or occi
dentality of the ruling place (*). If death arises
from the orientality, or Actinobolia (f),the anare
tic place must be observed, and the kind of death
judged accordingly. If it be from the Occiden
tal Condition (£), the Occidental Place must be
observed in like manner: For the death will be
conformable to the nature of the Rulers of the
said Places; or, if there be no such Ruler (), to
the nature of those whose influence arrives there
first, and to those must be joined the nature of
every configurating Planet, the quality of the
anaretic Place, and the nature of the Sign and
Term ; for all of these co-operate together.
In this way, 2 exercising the dominion of
death, it will occur through chronic disease: ,
phthysis, flux, wasting ague, disorders of the
spleen, dropsy, diarrhoea, or hysterical com
plaints; in fine, from such distempers as are
caused by excess of cold.
Jupiter effects it by quincy, inflammation of
the lungs, apoplexy, spasm, cardiac affections,
* Namely, whether the Prorogator be to the East or
West of the Mid-heaven.
+ See Book 111. CHAP. IV.
| By the setting of the Prorogator in the West.
| This relates to those Planets which affect the said
Places by Body or Aspect, and not those who rule
them by essential Dignity, forevery House has a Ruler.
210 BOOK IV.
shortness of breath, and diseases arising from
internal putridity and stinking breath.
Mars, brings death by continual fever, semi
tertians, sudden affections, stone and gravel,
blood-spitting, and haemorrhage, abortion, child
birth, erysipelas, and in short, by whatever ori
ginates in excessive heat.
Venus causes death by disorders of the sto
mach and liver, scorbutic eruptions, and dysen
tery, putrifying sores, fistula, and poison; in
short, by whatever arises from excess, or defect
of moisture, or its misapplication. .
Mercury causes death through madness, ex
tacy, melancholy, epilepsy, falls, coughs, and
spitting, and all distempers, arising from too
much or too little dryness (*); but this only hap
pens when the Rulers of death exert their own
natural qualities, and none of the Malefics con
curring, natural death ensues.
But violent and remarkable deaths happen
when both the Malefics govern the anaretic
Places, and are joined with, or in square or op
position to the Luminaries, or in some way of
other afflict them both, or either of them singly.
In this case, the evil of death will be the result
of both the Malefics concurring ; ,but the re
* The Ancients considered all diseases to arise from
the excess or defect of what they termed, “The Four
Humours,” viz. cold, heat, moisture, and dryness.
CHAP. IX. 211.
markable nature of the death will arise from
their effects on the Luminaries; and its kind,
from the rest of the configurated Stars, and the
Signs which contain the Malefics.
Thus, b squaring or opposing the Q (*), con
trary to condition (+), and in fixed Signs, death.
will occur by suffocation, or in a popular tumult,
or by hanging or strangling; or, if he be Occi
dental, and the D succeeds to him, it will be the
same. If in Signs, or places of beast-like form,
it will happen through wild beasts. If it gives
his testimony, and be much afflicted, it will
happen openly and in the day-time, through com
bating with those animals. If k opposes either
of the Luminaries in the Horoscope, death will
occur in prison ; or, if configurated with #,
particularly near the Constellation of the Ser
pent, and in earthy Signs, death will happen
by poisonous wounds, or bites, from reptiles
or ferocious beasts. Should Q be joined to
them, it will be by poison or female treachery,
provided b be in my or X. If he be in a moist
Sign, configurated with the D, death will be
caused by water, through suffocation or drown
ing. If near Argo, it will beby shipwreck. In
Tropical or Equinoxial Signs, in 6 with, or in &
* The Moon no doubt should be added, as we find
it just afterwards in the case of Mars,
+ Namely, in detrimént or fall, as the Malefics are
then considered to be very malignant. -
212 BOOK IV.
to the Q; or if 3 be with him, death will hap
pen through falling; and if in the Mid-heaven,
through falling or being thrown from very high
places. Such are the effects of E.
If 3 squares or opposes the Luminaries, con
trary to condition, the Native will be slain in
battle, civil or foreign, or die by his own hand.
If q gives testimony, it will happen by women,
or murderers employed by them. If # be con
figurated with them, it will happen by robbers,
desperadoes, or pirates. If in mutilated orim
perfect Signs, or near the Gorgon of Perseus,
death will be caused by beheading, or by loss
or mutilation of the members. If in m or 8, it
will take place through some surgical operation
of cutting, bmrning, or from contractions cansed
by those means. If in the Mid-heaven or Lower
heaven, it will be by crucifixion, particularly,
near Cepheus or Andromeda. If in the West,
opposed to the Horoscope, death will happen
by burning with fire. In four-footed Signs,
through falls, or broken bones. If it adds tes
timony to 3, and be evilly affected, it will arise.
through the anger of some prince or king, or the
sentence of a judge.
When both the Malefics concur in opposing
the said Places, the death will be still more
terrible; but the Quality of Death will be ac
cording to the Dominion of the Planet, which
is most in possession of the anaretic place, and
CHAP.1.x. 213
if both of them are equally powerful in the
anaretic place, such persons will be cast out
unburied, and left to be devoured by beasts and
birds; and this will happen more particularly
when the Malefics are in Signs like beasts or
birds, and not one of the Benefics giving testi
mony, either to the place below the Earth (*),
or to the anaretic place.
When the Planets who govern the Anaretie
Places, decline from Angles it denotes that the
death will happen in some foreign land; especi
ally if the Moon be in square or opposition to.
the said places.
CHAP. X.
Of the DIVISION of TIME.
HAVING now treated of the Nature of Death,
there yet remains the Division of Time to be
considered, according to natural order and suc
cession; and, as in all Genethliacal Cases, there
is a general disposing cause, to which, all par
* The 4th House was considered the Symbol of
whatever was under the Earth ; and therefore if it re
ceived the Aspect of a Benefic, it was considered as,
a Symbol that the person should be buried.
214 BOOK IV.
ticulars relative to bodily form, mental qualities,
national customs and manners, are subject; and
as such general principal causes, take prece
dence of particulars, those who would form a
correct judgement, mustkeep this axiom always
in view, lest when similar births occur, we might
be led to affirm (through not attending to the prin
cipal cause), that a Native of Ethiopia, would
be of a white complexion, with lank hair; or
that a German or Gaul would be black, with
woolly hair; or, that those people are addicted
to politeness or literature; or that the Natives
of Greece are rude and illiterate: In short, the
same erroneous observations might be made
respecting other nations, whose manners and
appearance are essentially different.
It is the same respecting the division of times,
the difference of ages, and the fitness of every
age for the events that belong to it; else in judg
ing those events, and confusing their periods,
we might attribute to infancy, the actions of
maturity, or to old age, the procreation of chil
dren, or some other action that youth only can
perform; whereas, it is, on the contrary, requi
site to know what belongs to every period of
life, and to apply them only to that period.
There is, therefore, only one way of judging
human nature, which is by arranging it accord
ing to the respective planetary spheres. We
therefore commence with the first age, and the
CHAP. X. 215
first sphere next above the earth, namely, that
of the Moon; and we terminate with the last
age, and the last planetary sphere, viz. that
of b : and indeed, it so happens, that the pro
perties of every sphere may be perceived in
every age, according to this arrangement. These
observations are necessary, that we may derive
the more universal events from the spheres, as
from an original order of things, and the minor
particulars from the peculiarity of the Geni
ture.
The first, or infantage, therefore of four years,
is the Quadrennial Period of the Moon, and is
adapted to it, because it is moist and incorrupti
ble, rapidly encreasing, nourished by moisture,
and very changeable in nature. The mind
likewise resembles the Moon, in its imperfec
tion, which is ibe proper characteristic of that
Planet (*).
The succeeding age from four to ten years,
belongs to the second sphere, which is that of
#, during which time, the intellectual and rati
onal part of the soul, begins to display its cha
racter, and imbibe the seeds of knowledge,mani
festing as it were, the elements and rudiments
of its genius and natural abilities, and their
future tendency; and the mind is excited by dis
* Because the Moon's appearance is generally im
perfect.
216 BOOK IV,
cipline and instruction, to imbibe the first prin
ciples of knowledge.
The next age, which is the third, belongs to
2, and lasts eight years, which is her proper
period; during which, the motion in the seminal
vessels commences, and with it all that eager
ness, rashness, and intemperance, which is com
mon in love.
The fourth juvenile age is governed by the
fourth sphere, which is that of the Sun, and its
duration, like his period, is nineteen years; at
which time the mind begins to exert its autho
rity, and those puerile irregularities are suc
ceeded by a greater sense of order and decorum,
by the pursuits of ambition; an eagerness for
honours and distinctions, and a thirst for glory.
After the Sun, 3 succeeds, and brings the
age of manhood, which endures like his own
period, fifteen years; a period of austeritv, an
xiety, labor and difficulty.
The sixth age is assumed by 1, and like the
motion of his sphere, it lasts twelve years, and
is the period of mature age, when dangers and
enterprizes are laid aside, with all their attend
ant troubles, and are succeeded by reflection,
foresight and prudence, and a proportional claim
to real honor, respectability, and ease.
Saturn being the last, regulates the last
period of life, which is that of old age, cold and
comfortless, wherein the animal spirits are ob
*CHAP. X. 217
structed; the mind, appetites, and enjoyments
dull and insensible, conformable to the slow
ness of his motion.
The universal property of the various ages
are thus laid down in a general way, but the
particular periods derived from the Geniture
must be taken from the chief Prorogators, and
from the whole of them collectively, although
each has its separate department, as in the
space which relates to the Duration of Life.
(*) Thus events relative to bodily accidents and
travelling are taken from the Horoscope; Riches,
from the part of Fortune; Mental Propensities,
Intimacies, and Connexions, from the Moon;
Honour and Preferment from the Sun; and all
the remaining Interests of Life, as Profession,
Friendship, and Children, from the Mid-heaven.
Thus the sole dominion of every thing is not
wested in one and the same Planet, whether
Benefic or Malefic, for in this case, several
opposite events could not occur together, so
as that the same person should lose a relative,
and gain an inheritance, or be sick and become
rich, at the same period, any more than he
could be a father without having children; nor
could he experience those bursts of Happiness
* The Prorogatory place which contains the Pro
rogator or Hyleg, but in this chapter he calls every
significator a Prorogator.
BOOK IV. T
218 BOOK IV.
or Affliction in things that relate to body
and mind. honour and profit; yet this will
sometimes be the case when a concourse of all
the Benefics, or all the Malefics, fall upon all
or most of the Prorogators at the same period:
but this rarely happens. Human nature seldom
reaches the extremes either of Good or Evil.
The changes to which it is liable, operate more
in a medium between both.
We must therefore select the Prorogatory
places according to the rules before laid down,
and all the Occursors to such Prorogators
must be taken, not only those of the Anareta,
as in the Space of Life (*), but all others; and
not only the bodily Congresses, Squares, and
Oppositions are to be taken, but also the Trines
and Sextiles. The time of events in each Pro
rogation, will be governed by that Planet which
occupies the Prorogatory place itself, or is con
figurated to it; or if none be so constituted,
the Planet which is next in precedence, will
govern the place in like manner until the next
arrives, which has Configuration with the next
degrees in succession, and who will govern in
* The Rules laid down in Book 111. Chap. xiv. are
there only applied to the Anareta, when it is directed
to the Prorogator of Life; but we find in this con
cluding chapter, that all Occursors are to be directed
in a similar way to every place which is a Significator
of any event, the same as the Anareta is directed to
the Space of Life.
GHAP. X, 219
the same way until the arrival of the next.
Thus every ruling Planet governs in succession,
and also those to whom the terms belong. (*):
Again, in the Prorogation of the Horoscope:
(+), the degrees of the distance will be mea
sured by the Ascensional Times(£) belonging
to the Climate; but in Prorogations of the
Mid-heaven, they are measured by the Cul
minating times; and in all other Prorogations
by proportional times, depending upon their
distance from their respective angles, Ascen
sions, Descensions, or Culminations ($), con
cerning which, we have already spoken when:
treating of the Space of Life ().
In this way the Chronocrators (£) of General'
Events are taken: but those who govern the
* The Nature of the term in which the Body or
Aspect falls, is to be considered, as if good, it will
increase the good, or diminish the evil, and vice versa;
but it does not therefore follow that the term of a
Planet is to be directed to any Prorogatory place, as
if the term itself was a Promitor.
t When the Horoscope, or a Planet in it, is Pro
rogator.
# The Oblique Ascension of the Latitude.—See
Book 111. Chap. xiv. and xv.
§ This is what we now term taking their Oblique
Ascensions under their respective Poles, a full
account of which may be seen in the Dictionary of
Astrology.—See Elevation.
| Book III. Chap. xiv. and xv.
*|| Occursors which show the time of Events by
direction. . -
220 *OOK IV.
Annual Periods are selected as follows:—num
ber the years from the Period of Birth, and
take the same number ofsucceeding signs from
the Prorogatory place, at the rate of a Sign for
a year, and the Lord of the last Sign will be
the Chronocrator for the last year. .
In Months the same rule is to be observed ;
namely, to reckon the number of Months from
the Month of the Birth, and take a correspond
ing number of Signs from that which belongs to
the Chronocrator of the present year, allowing
28 days for each Sign (*). It is likewise the
same in days, for the number of days from the
day of the Birth, must be taken in a similar
way from the Sign which belongs to the Month,
allowing for each sign, two days and a third (t).
* The Months therefore are Lunar, and the Lord
of the last Sign is Ruler for the Present Month.
Placidus was of opinion that the Annual calculations
were relative to the secondary directions, and the
Monthly to the Lunar progressions, but there is no
rescmblance between those and the Annual or Monthly
Periods of Ptolemy; nor were the Egyptians (with
the exception of himself and a very few other men of
science) capable of making such abstruse Astrono
mical Calculations as those in the works of Placidus.
The Annual, Monthly, and Diurnal Periods were
merely attempts to ascertain what Planet governed
each year, each month, and each day; and they had
no other system of secondary directions, except what
arose from those plain and simple rules as they are
here described.
+ Which is exactly 28 days for the 12 signs, so
that the days must be reckoned from the day of the
Moon on which the Birth took place,
CHAP. X. 221
*
The Ingresses that are made on the places of
those periods should also be observed, for they
have no small share in producing the event
(*) The Ingresses of b made on the places of
the general Periods (+) should be particularly
observed, as should those of it on the places
of Annual Periods, 3 Q 2 and 8 on the
places of Monthly Periods and the Transits of
the over those of the Diurnal Periods. It
must also be observed, that general Chrono
crators (£) have the greatest power in producing
events; the particular ones assist or oppose
them according to their respective natures.
But the Ingresses increase or diminish the
event. The place of Prorogation, therefore,
shows the true Nature and Quality of the
* The Ingress here spoken of, is the entrance of a
Planet on or near to the place of the General, Annual,
or Monthly Period. The Transit relates only to the
Time and Place of the General Period, which we
term the point of direction.—See Book 111. Chap. xiv.
+ The Places of General Periods are the points of
direction. Thus in the direction of the Anaretic to the
Prorogatory place, or of a Benefic to the said place,
the Transit of Saturn over that point at the Time of
direction, would render the former more dangerous,
and the latter less effective—it is the same in directions
of Marriage, Riches, Travelling, &c.
# The General Chronocrators are those places in a
Nativity which are Prorogators (or what we term
Significators of Events), and likewise those places
that are brought to them by direction. The particular
ones are Planets that oppose or assist those places by
Configuration, or by being Lords of the terms in which
they are posited.
222 BOOK IV.
Event, and its duration, as does also the Lord
of the general times (*) ; and that Planet also
to whom the term belongs (+), owing to the
familiarity of the Planets from the period of the
Geniture to those places which are influenced
from the beginning. The nature also of the
event, whether good or evil, is shown by the
nature of those Chronocrators, whether Benefic
or Malefic, and by their sympathy or antipathy at
the beginning with those places they governed.
(#) But the time in which events happen, are
chiefly shewn by the relative position of the
Annual or Monthly Signs, with the places which
cause the events ($) and likewise by the pla
netary Ingresses. (...) * . .”
* The Lord of the General times, is that. Planet
who governs by its Presence or Aspect, the place
that will be hrought to it by direction.
f The Lord of the term, as already shewn, where
the Point of Direction falls, is considered as having
very great influence in producing or neuteralizing the
event. - -
f Their Sympathy or Antipathy to the places, is the
Nature of the Aspect with which they behold them,
together with their own Strength, Dignity, and Gene
ral Condition. -
§ The Lords of the Anual and Monthly Signs, are
here omitted, probably by mistake; for the Configura
tion of the Signs themselves can have no effect, except:
when the Sign of the Year or Month be the identical
place of direction; but thePresence or Configuration
of the Lords of the Annual or Monthly Sign, is the
Position here alluded to. -
| The Rule relative to Ingresses, and Transits, is:
CHAP. X. 223
– 7
The Luminaries also operate according as
they behold the Annual and Monthly Signs:
for if they are agreeably configurated with the
operative places in the Nativity, and also at
the Ingresses, they are beneficial, but if other
wise, they are productive of evil; for when
they are in Evil Configuration to the said places,
and contrary in condition, and are found in
Square or Opposition at the time of a Transit,
they will cause Evil; but if they do not Square
or Oppose, but are otherwise Configurated,
they will not be so injurious. -
If the Lord ofthe Time and of the Ingress be
the same Planet; if it be Good, the benefit will
be extreme; if Evil, the evil will be excessive,
If such Planet have dominion also at the Birth,
and indeed, wherever all the Prorogators, or
most of them 9perate on one particular place,
or to one and the same end, or even if they be
not so constituted, if all the times and periods
have a continued series of Benefic or Malefic
Occursors, they will produce every thing in the
extreme, whether Good or Evil. -
This, therefore, is the method of judging
that the former only operate on the places in Secon
dary Directions, and have no effect on the original
places in the Geniture: whereas, on the contrary.
Transits operate on the Radix only, and have no
effect on the places of the Secondary Directions.
See Book 111. Chap. xv. -
224 BOOK IV.
according to the mutual operation of Periods.
But any endeavour to describe the particular
effects of those periods would be vain, for the
reasons already laid down at the beginning, and
therefore I shall not attempt it. The effective
qualities of the stars may be reduced to order
by judiciously blending their, real natures, as
already scientifically described, with their acci
dental mixtures; and judging accordingly.
- % #W Fes: "W".
i 171. W SEW -
- - b *** | +,
BRITAN
AT HArt.Wr
NICW
w, wVGHES, PRINTER, ISLINGTON,
