{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1829__brown___narrative_of_the_anti-masonick_excitement.pdf","mytitle":"Narrative Of The Anti-masonick Excitement","mylang":"de"}
xMuroBAwrro
ANTI-MASONICK EXCITEMENT,
IJf THK
WEiTERN PART OF THE STATE OF NEW-YORK,
DCRIW* TH1 TBARS 1826, '7, '8,
AMD A PAST OF 1829.
BY HBWRTT BWJWir, BSQ.
COUNSELLOR AT LAW.
BATAF1A, JV. F.
PR1HTED BT ADAMS & M'CLEART.
i'829.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
Jl'orihcrm District cfA'mu- York, To ivit:
B E I T R E M E M B E R E D , That on the eighteenth day of April, in in.
fifty-third year of llie Independence of the United Slates of America,
A . D. 1829, H E N R Y B H O W N , of the said District, has deposited io this
Office the title of a Book the right whereof he claims as Author, in tho
words following, to wit:
M
A Narrative of the Anti-masonick Excitement in the western part of
the State of New-York, during tlio years 182G,-7-8, and apart of 1829.
B y H E N R Y B H O W N , Esq. Counsellor at L a w . "
In conformity to the act of Congrc-s of the United States, entitled " A n
»cl for the encouragement of learning, by securing the copies of M a p s ,
Charts, and Books, to the authors and proprietors of such copies, during
the limes therein mentioned ;" and also, to the act entitea " A n act
supplementary to an act entitled 'Anact lor iho encouragement of lear-
ning, by securing the copies of M a p s , Charts and Books, to the authors
and proprietors of such copies during the times therein mentioned ' and
• mending the benefits thereof to the arts of Designing, Engravin'" and
ttthing historical and other prints."
RICHARD R. LANSING
CUrknf the District Court of the United Statu, for the J V o W A . —
Dittnct of J V W York. e m
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
f HON. MARTIN VAN BUREN,
^ SECRETARY OF STATE
/ OF T H E
UNITED STATES,
TBI FOLLOWEIS A A BR ATI VI, WITH SENTIMENTS 03 TBI E1<3H»«T • (••,•»»»
4T10H, M RESPECTKCLLY INSCRIBED BY BIS
MOST OBEDIENT,
AHD HUMBLE SEBVAHT,
HENRY BROWN.
BATATlA, OBKESBB CO. I
t
. T,
Java !0ib, 1829
Reynolds Library
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
PREFACE.
In presenting the following narrative to the pub-
iick, the author i
s aware of the existence of an honest
prejudice in the minds of some, against new publica-
tions, on account of the multiplicity of books, which
within a few years have been issued from (he press*
"O books ! books! books! i
t makes me sick
To think how ye are multiplied,
Like Egypt's fiogs, ye poke up thick
Your ugly heads on every side.
If a new thought but shake i
t
s ear
Or wag i
t
s tail, tho' starved i
t look,
The world the precious news must hear,
The presses groan, and l
o ! a book."
While the author of this Narrative feels, in com-
mon with others, the full force and effect ofthe above
remarks, he indulges a secret hope, that the impor-
tance attached to the anti-masonick excitement'
which commenced about three years ago in this vi-
cinity, and has since threatened (o extend i
t
s rava-
ges far and wide, which has excited the interest and
received the attention of politicians, ofchristians and
of patriots—in which women and children—the old
and the young—federalists and democrats—republi-
cans, Clintonians, Bucktails, Adams men, Jackson
men, Clay men, Presbyterians, Churchmen, Baptists
and Methodists, and even the modest and unassuming
Quakers, have all participated so largely, will afford
a sufficient apology for presenting at this time to the
publick, a narrative of i
t
s rise and progress. And he
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
PREFACE.
has only to regret, that a task so important as that
writing its history, has not fallen into abler hands.
Still, however, heflattershimself that this narrative,
defective as i
t is, will not be entirely useless, and
therefore has thought proper to give i
t publicity with
all its faults and follies.
Those who are determined not to believe, will
probably remain incredulous, and those tvho are de-
termined to believe, even without proof, will proba-
bly retain their f
i
r
s
t impressions, for
"A man convinced against his will
Is of the same opinion s
t
i
l
l
.
"
Should the following narrative be thought of suffi-
cient consequence to call forth abuse, its author an-
ticipates of course, his share. Experience has al-
ready shown, that the purity of an angel is no de-
fence against the reckless efforts of a disappointed
and desperate faction.
The author can only say,that its errours in point of
fact(if any)are unintentional. Future disclosures will
probably render some errours manifest,and should this
be the case, i
t will afford him pleasure hereafter to
correct them.
Honest Kien, however, whether masons or not
(for whose perusal this narrative i
s intended,) will
credit its statements and concur in its conclusions,
for "truth i
s great and will prevail." Their appro-
bation, next to the consciousness of having dischar-
ged his duty, will be the highest satisfaction which he
can receive, and a
l
l that he asks or desires.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
CONTENTS.
P P A O B .
C H A P T E R I.
Introduction, 1
C H A P T E R II.
Origin of Free-masonry 2
Introduction of Free-masonry into the United States, 5
C H A P T E R III.
David C. Miller, 13
William Morgan, 15
Circumstances preceding Morgan's Abduction, . 17
C H A P T E R IV.
Meeting in Batavia, . . . . . . 24
Attempt to burn Miller's office, . . . . 26
Richard Howard, . . . . . . . 27
C H A P T E R V.
Morgan's arrest in Batavia for petit larceny, . . 29
Morgan's trial, 31
Trial of Howard and others, 32
Edward Giddings, 35
C H A P T E R VI.
Morgan's Abduction, 38
C H A P T E R VII.
Miller's arrest, 51
Trial ofFrench and others 57
C H A P T E R VIII.
Meeting in Batavia subsequent to Morgan's abduction, 60
Appointment of Committees, 84
Gov. Clinton's Proclamation, . . . . . 6 5
Proceedings of Grand Chapter, . 67
Proceedings of Lyons R. A. Chapter, . . . 68
C H A P T E R IX.
Morgan's Illustrations of Masonry, . . . 70
C H A P T E R X.
Trial of Chesebro, Sheldon and others, . 74
Judge Throop's Address, 84
C H A P T E R XI.
Lewiston Convention, (8
C H A P T E R XII.
Petition of the Lewistion Convention, . . . 9 6
Mr. Granger's Report, . . . '
. . . 9 7
Debate in the Assembly, . . , . . 101
C H A P T E R XIII.
Progress of the excitement,—Town meetings, . 116
C H A P T E R XIV.
Popular excitement,--ThePopish plot, . . .120
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
CHAPTER XV. PAGE.
Popular excitement continued, Meal-tub Plot, . 13s
CHAPTER XVI.
Popular excitement continued—Elizabeth Canning, 138
CHAPTER XVII.
Popular excitement continued—Salem Witchcraft, 142
CHAPTER XVIII.
Progress of the excitement in the infected territory, 148
Celebration of St. John's day, . . . . 150
Exclusion of Masons from Juries, . . . . . 155
Trial of the Town Clerk of Bethany, . . . 156
Proceedings in relation to the Holland Company, 158
CHAPTER XIX.
The c
a
s
e of Eli Bruce , , 159
CHAPTER XX,
Thomas Hamilton 161
CHAPTER XXI.
A body found on the shore of Lake Ontario, supposed
for a short time to be Morgan's, . . . 167
Timothy Monroe , . 1 7 8
C H A P T E R XXII.
R. H. H
i
l
l 18
CAAPTER XXIII.
Proceedings in the Legislature of New-York in rela-
tion to the Morgan affair, during the winter of
1828. Gov. Pitcher's Message, . . . jog
CHAPTER XXIV.
Further Proceedings in the Legislature, . . igg
Proceedings in Congress, 197
CHAPTER XXV.
Thecaseof Col King and Capt. Hyde, . . J98
CHAPTER XXVI.
Miscellaneous events, • 205
Bruce's trial, 206
Thurlow Weed 207
Johnson Goodwill, 208
C H A P T E R XXVII.
Russel Colvin 209
C H A P T E R XXVIII.
Principles of Anti-masonry, . . . . < m
C H A P T E R XXIX.
Political history of anti-masonry, . , . 2 1 8
CHAPTER XXX,
Anti-masonry in the Church 239
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
A NARRATIVE
OF THE
Anti-Masonick Excitement.
CHAPTER I.
Introduction.
THE Anti-masonick excitement in the western
part of New-York, having for more than two years
been the subject of much animated discussion, and
having already become a matter of history, an im-
partial narrative of i
t
s origin and progress, cannot
fail to interest the friends of civil liberty and social
order.
T o develope the causes which led, in thefirstplace,
to i
t
s existence—to trace the effects which i
t has thus
far produced upon the morals, the politicks,and the re-
ligion ofthis i
l
l fated region, and to predict the conse-
quences likely to flow from i
t
s future operation, is a
ta*k difficult to perform ; and if undertaken with the
hooe of arresting i
t
s progress, or the expectation of
satisfying either of the parties, whom circumstances
alone, (without any fault of theirs except in a few ca.
ses.) have placed in hostile array against each other,
the attempt, at this time, would unquestionably prove
abortive.
Nothing, however, tends so effectually to dispel
the gloom of iguorance, and arrest the progress of
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
ORIGIN OF MASONRY.
errour, as the diffusion of correct intelligence. Such,
then, shall be my endeavour in the following narrative.
And, although I a m aware i
t m a y give offence to
some, and satisfaction, perhaps, to no one, I can only
say, in the language of Themistocles, "strike, but
hear me."
CHAPTER II.
Origin of Free-Masonry—Its introduction into the
United States, and into the western part of New-
York.
BEFORE entering upon the subject which the fol-
lowing pages are intended to elucidate, a few remarks
in relation to the origin of Free-Masonry—its intro-
duction into this country, and more especially, into
this vicinity, will not, it is presumed, be thought im-
proper.
The ambitious desire of an ancient origin, is, pro-
bably, as conspicuous among bodies of men associa-
ted for particular purposes, as i
t is among families.
Hence, every church in Christendom, during the mid-
dle ages, however obscure, if w e are to credit its
bishop, was apostolick in its origin. Hence the Chi.
ncse Historians with great labour, have endeavoured
to trace the foundation of their empire, and the suc-
cession of their monarchs, from an era anterior to
creation; and hence too, some masonick writers
with about as much plausibility, have attempted to
trace the origin of free-masonry to Eden's bowers.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
ORIGIN OF MASOtfRY. 3
That operative masonry, is almost c oeval with our
race, cannot well be denied ; but that speculative ma-
sonry, or free-masonry, as it is usually called, has
existed during that period, as by some is fooiishly
pretended, candour compels us to acknowledge, is
neither supported by reason, or established by author-
ity. That, however, it is more ancient than any so-
ciety now existing, must be conceded. Of this, the
fact alone, that its origin cannot be ascertained, is of
itself conclusive evidence. T h e grand lodge of
England, from which the masonick lodges in this
country originally derived their charters, was in ex-
istence in the year 597, some time previous to the
reign of Alfred. Its records furnish us with the
names of ths several grand masters, w h o presided
over that institution, from Austin the Monk, down to
the present time. The most distinguished Prelates
in the Church—the most eminent Heroes, Statesmen
and Patriots in the realm, and the most illustrious
Princes, who have adorned the throne, are included
among their number.* Whatever therefore, may be
* T h e following is a chronological list of Masters and
Patrons of the order in England, from the time of the Anglo
Saxons ; and, i
t is hoped, will afford some evidence, that
free masonry contains nothing repugnant to civil or religious
liberty. A. D 597, Austin the monk; 680, Bennet, ab-
bot of Wiiral; 857, Saint Swithin ; 872, King Alfred the
great, 900, Elhred, king of Mercia ; 924, King Athelot.ine:
957, Saint Dunstan, archbishop of Canterbury ; 1041, King
Edward the Confessor; 1066, Gundulph, bishop of Ro-
chester ; 1100, King Henry I. ; 1216, Pfter d,- Rupinus,
bishop of Winchester; 1272. Walter Giffatd. arch bishop
of York; 1307, Walter Stapleton, bishop of Exc-tfr; 13^7,
King Edward III,; 1357, William of W y k o h a m . bishop of
Winchester ; 1375, Simon Langham, abbot of Westminster;
1413, Henry Chichery, archbishop of Canterbury; i443,
William Waynfleet, bishop of Winchester : 1471, R;oh:ird
Bt-auchamp. biohnp of Salisbury ; 1485. Kinj; Henri VII. ;
J 493, J. Islip, abbot of Westminster ; 1515, Cardinal VVolsey:
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
4 ORIGIN OF MASOMRr.
the opinion of the present age, in relation to free
masonry, this truth must stand confessed, that i
t has
existed from time immemorial, and that i
t
s origin is
lost in the lapse of ages.
An attempt has recently been made, to prove by
the silence of history, that masonry has no preten-
sions to antiquity. Its silence however, cannot with
any pretence, be urged as proof of this position, so
long as direct and positive evidence to the contrary
exists in such abundance. I
t establishes however,
another fact, of the utmost importance. I
t affords
stronger evidence of the purity, which has marked i
t
s
progress through every clime, than the united testi-
mony of all its votaries. The religion of our Saviour
as received from i
t
s author, breathing peace and good
will to man, would have administered consolatiou to
a ruined world in silence, and scarcely have obtained
1549, Edward Seymour, duke of Somerset; 1551, John
Poy net, bishop of Winchester ; 1603, King James I
. ; 1607,
Inigo Jones; 1625, King Charles I
. : 1660, King Charles
II.; 1074, George Villars, duke of Buckingham ; 1685, Sir
Christnpher Wren; 1095, Cliarles Lemio , duke ol Rich-
mond ; 1719, J T D-saguliers, L. L. D., F. R S
S
. ; 1721,
John, duke of Montague; 1722, Philip, duhe ot Wharton ;
1726, William O'Brien, earl oflnchiquin; 1729. Thomas
Howard, duke of Norfolk j 1732, Anthony Brown, lord vis-
count Montacnte ; 1735, T. Thynne, lonl viscount Wey-
mouth ; 1736, John Campbell, earl of Loudon; 1738, H.
Brydges, marqiu SS of Caernarvon ; 1740. James lord Cran-
stoun ; 1752, John, lord Carysfurt j 1757, Sholto lurd A-
berdutir ; 1762, Washington Shirley, earl Ferrers ; 1707
Henry, duke of Beaufort ; 1772, Robert Edward, lord Petrie'
—1777, Ceorge, duke of Manchester ; 1782, II. ft {j,
Frederick, duke of Cumberland ; 1790, H. R. H. George*
Pr. of Wales; 1813, II. R. H. Augustus Frederick, duke of
Sussex; 1820, King George IV-, Gland Patron. Further
evidence of i
t
s antiquity, will b
< found in a subsequent chart-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
ORIGIN OF MASONRY. 5
a place in history, had it never been perverted.
That perversion has caused its annals to be written in
blood, the fire and the faggot which have accom-
panied its march, and the cruelties and horrors prac-
ticed in its name, have given i
t that conspicuous
place on the historick page, which our Saviour never
intended. T h e virtuous matron, whose character
suspicion has never stained, seldom adorns its page,
while the profligate woman, lost to a seuse of shame
and decency, supplies matter for volums.—The
ma/estick river which glides within its banks in
silence to the ocean, bearing on its surface the pro-
duce of every clime, is but seldom mentioned ; while
the mad stream which o'erflovvs its banks, and de-
stroys in a moment the toil of ages, amid whose shoals
and quicksands the frail bark has often sunk, and
its unwary pilot consigned to an untimely grave,
fills every journal with tales of wo. Had free-
masonry, as i
t is now pretended, been injurious to
pnMick morals, subversive of human liberty, or hos-
tile to our holy Religion, its brief and short lived sto-
ry, would long since have been told, and its career
of glory, hitherto so *plendid, ere this been closed
forever. T h e silence of history therefore, in rela-
tion to the masonick institution, is unquestionably a
prouder monument of its excellence, than could have
been reared by her toil, or cemented by her exer-
tions.
Free-masonry having been established in Europe,
long before the discovery and settlement of America,
our pious and venerable ancestors, who migrated to
this country, when it was a perfect wilderness, brought
it of course with them. T o procure, however, the
B 2
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
6 PROGRESS OF MASONRY.
necessaries and conveniences of life, and to pro-
tect their infant settlements from the incursions of
numerous savage tribes, residing within their borders
for a number of years, were the chief objects of their
solicitude. Masonry, therefore, for a long time, ad-
vanced to that eminence which it has since attained,
by slow degrees. At the commencement of the
American Revolution, i
t was confined principally to
our large villages, and sea-port towns. A short
time before thefirstblow was struck, which severed
the British empire in twain, a number of lodges in
the state of Massachusetts, which had received their
charters from the mother country, formed themselves
into a grand lodge, and assumed jurisdiction sepa-
rate from the grand lodge of England. Thus it
will be seen, that the masons of that day, preceded
even its patriots in their march to Independence.—
Dr. Joseph Warren, the illustrious patriot, w h o af-
terwards sealed with his blood, the sincerity of his
faith and practice, and departed hence in a blaze of
glory, was elected itsfirstGrand Master ; Washing-
ton succeeded to that distinguished post, and for a
number of years presided over the masonick institu-
tion, as well as over the armies and counsels of his
country. Our lamented Clinton, the late governor
of New-York, was Grand High Priest of the order,
at the time of his death, and no successor has yet
been appointed. During the revolutionary war
and afterwards, masonry became extremely popular
and its growth, under the auspices of a Washington
a Franklin, a Hamilton, and a host of others
qually distinguished on the rolls of fame, was equal-
ed ouly by the munificence of its object, and the
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
PROGRESS OF MASONRY. 7
purity of its precepts. Lodges have since been estab-
lished in almost every village in our country ; multi-
tudes af all ranks' and conditions, have sought, and
obtained, admission within its walls. Its banners
have floated in every breeze, and its works of
charity and mercy, have vibrated in every ear.
Among the thousands and tens of thousands,* w h o
have joined the institution, i
t would have been
strange indeed, if many unworthy candidates had not
found acceptance ; and equally strange, if many, ap-
parently worthy at the time of their initiation, had
not afterwards ceased to be so. The little family
of our Saviour while on earth, consisting of but
twelve members, contained a Judas. T h e most pi-
ous and exemplary churches in Christendom, are sel-
dom without communicants, who do not by their con-
duct, disgrace daily the name of the meek and hum-
ble Jesus. That charity, therefore, of which the A-
postle speaks, "which suffereth long, and is kind,
*' which is not easily provoked, which thinketh no
" evil, which rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in
" the truth, which beareth all things, hopeth all things,
" and endureth all things," which with the assent
of all mankind, has hitherto been extended to the
christian church, would, if adopted at the present
time, and reduced to practice by those who assume
the name of christians, without regarding the pre-
cepts of Christianity, at once relieve the masonick
institution from a large portion of that popular odi-
Hm, which the conduct of some of its members have so
richly deserved.
* It is estimated that there are in the United States,
3,000 Lodges, and between 150,000 and 200,000 member*.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
3 PROGRESS OF MASONRY.
The western part of New York, the principal the-
atre of atiti-masonick operations, was but a few
years since, a howling wilderness. Nothing but the
wolf and panther, uniting their discordant notes
with the savage war whoop, had hitherto broke its aw-
ful silence. The white men came—the forests fell—
the savage retired, and the wolf and panther fled be-
fore them.
In the settlement of a new country, the Spaniard,
we are told, erectsfirsta church—the Frenchman a
bail-room, and the Yankee a tavern. The masons,
however, in Le-Roy, a place of no ordinary celebri-
ty, supposing i
t would be good economy to unite the
th ree in one, i
t i
s said, f
i
r
s
t erected a lodge : of this
however, we speak only from report. The lodge
succeeding beyond their expectations ; an applica-
tion was in the next place made for a chapter.—
This succeeded also, and the lodge and chapter af-
terwards continued in session day after day, some
times for a whole week together. Elated with their
success, and ambitious of extending masonry far and
wide, they also procured a charter for an encamp-
ment ; and so zealous were they in its cause, that a
number, and among them Sir John Hascall, H O W an
jtnfi masonick member of assembly from the county
of Genesee, went to Utica, and were theie created
Knights of the Red Cross, Knights Templars, Knights
of Malta, and of the Holy Order of St. John of Jeru-
salem. The celebrated Round House, precisely as
well adapted to the purpose for which i
t was intend-
ed as though i
t had been in the shape ofatriarHe
was soon thereafter projected. While i
t was an-
proximating slowly towards completion, by the aid
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
PROGRESS OF MASONRY.
a
and with the means of some publick spirited gentle-
men in the village of Le Roy, the anti-masonick ex-
citement, occasioned by the abduction of William
Morgan, commenced ; masonry became odious in the
publick eye, and a large portion of the brethren, re-
siding in Le-Roy, who had beenfirstand foremost ia
its ranks, so long as i
t was popular, at once seceded.
The round house was abandoned, and afterwards
sold, by authority of a special act of the legislature,
passed for (hat purpose, and purchased by some gen-
tlemen in the village, whose object in so doing i
s not
certainly known.
The disciples ofourblessed Lord adhered tohis cause
so long as the miracles which he wrought galheied
an admiring multitude around him ; but no sooner did
armed men pursue him into the mount of Olives, with
a view to arrest, and bring him before the Chief
Priests and Elders, than "they forsook him and fled."
The secession of the Le Roy brethren, seems not
to have been voluntary, or entirely free, at least from
suspicion, of unworthy motives ; some of their num-
ber had been indicted for participation in transac-
tions connected with Morgan's abduction. A noli
prosequi about the time of their secession, was en-
tered on their indictment, by the publick prosecutor,
at the special instance and request of Col. Miller.—
The defendants were at the same time taken into
publick favour, and immediately acknowledged as
leaders of the anti-masonick party.
Milo, the famous Cretan, so distinguished for his
strength, i
t i
s said, knocked down a bullock with his
fist, and afterwards devoured i
t at a meal. Elated
with his performance, he attempted to rive an oak,
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
10 PROGRESS OF MASONRV.
when his hands caught in the cleft, and he miserably
perished. The masons in Le Roy, having as they sup-
posed, already achieved wonders, probably thought
themselves invulnerable ; but found, when i
t was too
late, that the abduction of Morgan, was more than
they could bear; they therefore resolved to return
their charter. The Alexandrian library, consisting
of 700,000 volums, i
t i
s said, never gave as much
light, as when i
t was burning. The brethren in Le-
Roy, unquestionably conferred more favours upon
the craft by the return of their charter, than by fif-
teen years of masonick labour.
Masonry took up i
t
s residence for a short time, in
Batavia, before its introduction into the village of
Le Roy : a lodge was chartered ; i
tflourishedfor a
few years—then gradually declined, and to prevent
i
t
sfinalextinction, was removed to Bethany, where
i
t remains to this day.
Experience and observation teach us, that a lodge
of free-masons, cannot exist andflourishwithout vir-
tue. Dissention in the place where i
t i
s located—
the want of moral principle among its members, or
among the people in its vicinity, arealike injurious
to i
t
s growth, and fatal to its prosperity. The cause
of i
t
s decline in this place, with reference to the sub-
ject of this narrative, is of but little or no importance,
and admits not, at this time, of profitable discussion.
W e shall therefore waive i
t for the present.
Batavia, however, on account of the celebrity
which i
t has recently acquired, deserves a few passing
remarks. Unfortunately for those who have hitherto
felt, and s
t
i
l
l feel, an interest in its future welfare, i
t
had acquired, during the late war, a character
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
PROGRESS OF MASONRY. Jt
especially abroad, which many thought susceptible of
improvement. Strangers resorting hither, were fre-
quently regaled with exhibitions which did not, in
every case, leave upon their minds, those favourable
impressions which jcould have been desired. That
many latent virtues existed among its citizens, has
never been denied. A perfect statue, w e are told by
a celebrated Grecian sculptor, exists in every block
of marble. T h e skill of the artist consists only in
removing its superfluous parts. The virtues, howe-
ver, alluded to as existing here, like the latent statue,
concealed amid extraneous matter, having never been
exposed to public view, and not having manifested
themselves by any overt acts, it has hitherto been a
doubtful question, particularly out of the village,
whether the impressions formed during that period,
ought not still to continue. T h e subject, however,
is one of a delicate nature, and may not, perhaps, be
fairly discussed, with entire freedom from personal
danger. Bracton, a celebrated jurist in England,
once wrote a treatise upon the law, and asserted the
right of a husband to chastise his wife, " provided he
did it with a stick no bigger than a man's thumb."
Some neighboring dames, not satisfied with the law,
as explained by the sage, afterwards made him a visit;
and under pretence of ascertaining, with more cer-
tainty, the size of a lawful stick, aliured him to a
pond in his vicinity, where the venerable author nar-
rowly escaped being drowned. Without, therefore,
asserting, much less attempting to enforce, the right
of chastising Batavia, for its faults or its follies, (if,
peradventure, it has any,) even "with a stick no big-
ger than a man's thumb," w e will, for the present.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
i& PROGRESS OF MASONRY.
leave i
t
s moral, political and religious character,
wholly untouched. The spires of christian Church-
es, are said by some " to avert the wrath of deity of-
fended." although many of i
t
s citizens, (there being
three such in the village,) for {he present, suppose
themselves safe—the experiment perhaps may faii ot
success. W e therefore suggest, without attempting to
dictate on the subject, whether our precarious situa-
tion in that event, ought not to induce us, if for no
other, at least for present purposes, to attempt some
partial reformation in our public morals. The ex-
periment, at all events, will be harmless.
In the year 1825, a new lodge was chartered
here—in 1826, a chapter, and in 1827, the encamp-
ment, before that time located in Le Roy, was un-
fortunately removed hither. Neither the Lodge,
chapter, or encampment, have recently been open*
ed for the purpose of business, nor is i
t desirable
that they ever should be. If the institution is
corrupt, i
t
s doors cannot be too speedily closed. -
If i
t
s principles are as pure as the angels in heaven,
the folly of attempting to sustain i
t here, has
already been evinced.-
In relation to the progress of free-masonry else-
where in the vicinity, we know of nothing in particu-
lar deserving our attention. W e shall therefore, with-
out further delay, proceed in our narrative, a,id in
thefirstplace invite the attention of our readers to
the circumstances preceding Morgan's abduction
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
m
CHAPTER HI.
David C. Miller—William Morgan—Circumstances
preceding the Abduction of the latter, ?
'THE names of Miller and Morgan have so long and
so often been connected with every thing relating to
the subject before us, it is difficult to do it justice.
without adverting briefly to each.
D A V I D C. M I L L E R , who has recentlyfilleda con.
siderable space in the publick mind, in consequence
ofthe part which he early took in the transactions
about to be reviewed, and who has unquestionably
been elected to the office of Clerk of the county of
Genesee by means of their aid, located himself some
years ago, in the village of Batavia, as the printer of
a publick journal. Endowed by nature with a great
deal of cunning—possessed of respectable talents,
and familiar with the arts to which designing men fre-
quently resort for the acquisition of power in caseB
of doubtful policy ; and withal, enjoying great free-
dom from religious scruples, which usually deter the
more conscientious from embarking in enterprizes of
a suspicious character, he was admirablyfittedto fill
a station which the folly or depravity of a few misgui.
ded members of the masonick fraternity created, it
seems, for his use and benefit. Sometime previous
to the abduction of Morgan, a difficulty had arisen
between Col. Miller and some of his political friends
which terminated in the establishment of the " Peo-
ple's Press," a paper printed in the village of Bata-
via, of politicks similar to those inculcated in the one
«f which Col. Miller was the editorand proprietor. As
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
H DAVID C. MILLER.
there was, at that time, another paper in the villag
of opposite sentiments, and but little patronage for
either, i
t was easy to foresee that both could.not
long be profitable. The "People's Press," owned
by a number of individuals of respectable standing
in community, could not fail of receiving a large por-
tion of that patronage which had before been given
to Col. Miller. The consequence, as might have
naturally been expected, was a violent altercation
between the two rival establishments. And, as in
such controversies, little is usually gained hut dis-
grace on both sides, nothing, i
t i
s believed, occurred
on this occasion, to take i
t out of the ordinary course.
As the patronage of the " People's Press" increased,
fhe patronage of Col. Miller declined, t
i
l
l finally
the publication of his paper ceased to be an object.
By these proceedings, Col. Miller considered himself
(with what propriety I shall not assume the province
of determining.) an object of persecution j* and, as i
t
is said by physicians, the human body i
s predisposed
sometimes to disease, so Col. Miller, in consequence
of (he above transactions, became predisposed to em-
bark in any undertaking, however desperate, which
should afford a prospect, though remote, of wealth or
power. Embarrassed in his circumstances—inatten-
tive to business—intemperate in his habits§—and
-Col. Miller infomis me that he considered himself at that
time, an object of masomck persecution. The e
f
f
i
e
, .,
prielor. of the » People's Press," however, and f m a K tf
their number were not, at that time, masons. Of coi r i
Miller must have been mistaken in his surmises.
•Since writing this paragraph. Col. Miller has hecn
member of the temperate society, recently established in t
l *
place, and strong hopes are entertained of his refiirm.. •
the above particular. formation in
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
WILLIAM MORGAN. 15
with a family to support, he arose in his might, an
with an energy of character, which t
i
l
l then had ne-
ver been conceded him, called the Morgan excite-
ment to his aid, and put toflightthe whole phalanx
of pretended friends and open foes.—
"The humblest worm will turn, being trodden on—
"The dove will peck, in safeguard of her young."
Col. Miller, although initiated many years before
as an entered apprentice mason, in Albany, as soon
as Morgan's intentions to publish the masonick se-
crets were proclaimed in publick, approved of the
undertaking; and with the expectation of amassing
thereby a fortune, agreed to become his partner.*
In order, however, to give i
t currency, and effect a
sale of the contemplated book, he foresaw the neces-
sity of " creating a stir among masons ;" and for that
purpose, commenced abusing them individually and
collectively. Some of their number, fell into
his snare, indiscreetly retorted upon him, and there-
by laid a foundation for one of the most singular and
extraordinary events hitherto presented for the
consideration of mankind.
W I L L I A M M O R G A N , whose name, by reason of his
unfortunate catastrophe, has recently become fami-
liar to the American people, was a native of Virginia,
and born in Culpepper county, in that state, in the
year f 775 or 6. Of his early history, little or nothing
is knovn. It has been asserted, though probably
more for effect than for any thing else, that he was a
*That the object to be attained by publishing Morgan's
book was money, is evident from the fact that i
t was sold at
f
i
r
s
t for one dollar a copy, when the expense of publication
could not have exceeded seven or eight cents. Upon this
pubject, see further evidence hereafter.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
I
t
* WILLIAM MORGAN.
Captain in Gen. Jackson's army, and fought and dis-
tinguished himself at the battle of New-Orleans. It
has also been asserted, that he belonged to a band of
pirates, and was sentenced to be hanged ; but par-
doned upon condition of his entering that army.
These, however, are merely reports, got up and cir-
culated since his abduction, and neither of them are
probably entitled to any credit.* In October 1819,
at the age of 43 or 4, he married Lucinda Pendleton,
of Richmond, Virginia, now Lucinda Morgan, of Ge-
nesee county, whose misfortunes have since been the
subject of much commisseiation, then in her 16th
year. In 1821 they removed to Canada, where he
commenced the business of a brewer, near York, in
the Upper Province. The destruction of his brewe-
ry afterwards, byfire,reduced him, i
t is said, to po-
verty, and he removed to Rochester, in this state,
where he worked at his trade, and received oeca-
sionally,some assistance from the masonick fraternity.
From thence, he removed to Batavia, in the county
of Genesee, and worked also at his trade, which was
that of a mason, t
i
l
l his unfortunate abduction in
1826. During the time of his residence in the latter
place, he was very intemperate, and frequently neg-
lected his family. Without the advantages of educa-
tion in early life, he had subsequently acquired a corn-
et has been pretended that his commission was amonff
some papers taken at Batavia, upon an attachment a short
time before he l
e
f
t this place. The charge, however i
s made
without any foundation whatever. If he had been a cantain
as pretended, the records of the war department at Wash'
ington, would have furnished the requisite proof; an 1 r
not probable, i
f such was the fact, that we should have'b "
l
e
f
t wholly i
n the dark, on a subject to which so much im-
portance has been attached. ~*
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
WILLIAM MORGAN. \J
petent knowledge of readiii'', writing, and arithmet
and wasatolerablegood accountant. Possessed of a
good share of common sense, and considerable sua-
vi t
v of manner, he appeared respectable; and when
uninfluenced by ardent spirits, was a pleasant, so-
cial companion.
H e was made a royal arch mason in Le Roy. about
four or live years ago ; but when or where he receiv-
ed (he previous degrees, i
s not certainly known ; and
we have no means at present, of ascertaining. When
i
t was proposed in 1826, or perhaps as early as 1825,
to establish a chapter in Batavia, a petition to the
grand chapter of the state was drawn up, for the
purpose of obtaining a charter. The individual to
w h o m i
t was intrusted for procuiing signature,
(without reflecting that all who signed ihe pel an
would become members of course,) inadvertently
presented i
t to him, and he being at that titne a
zealous mason, signed it. Before, however, the
petition was presented to the grand chapter, some
individuals, unwilling that he should become a mem-
ber, on account of his habits, thought i
t advisable to
draw up a new petition, which was according!) done
— ( h e new one presented, and a charter obtained*.
W h e n the charter subsequently arrived, and the chap-
ter was about being organized, i
t was found, much to
his surprise, that h's name was not included among
their number, and of course, that he could no) he ad-
mitted without a unanimous vote. Being unable at
thai lime, to procure s-ich vote, he was excluded. At
this he took offence; but whether i
t infliv ed his
subsequent conduct, i
s not s
r
t
i I can not cerlai h be
known. At all events, however, from being the
C2
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
'
I
'
c
i CIRCUMSTANCES PRECEDING
warm and zealous friend of the institution, as he ha
hitherto pretended to be, he became at once, its
determined foe. His habits being dissolule—his
principles hanging loosely about him, and the com-
panions with w h o m he usually associated, spurring
him on to the undertaking—the immense wealth,
which he, and probably they, supposed would
reward his exertions, induced him, at every haz-
ard, to attempt the revelation of masonick secrets.
Soon after this determination was formed, his inten-
tions were publickly announced. Atfirs(,i
t was re-
garded by all, masons as well as others, as a thing of
little or no importance. It was sTion perceived,
however, that an apparent uneasiness was felt on the
part of some inconsiderate masons. This, of course,
stimulated Miller, Morgan and their friends, to perse-
vere in the work. Some unfortunate altercation took
place in the village newspapers. This added fuel to
the flame just beginning to burn. Efforts to suppress
the work, were talked of; and some, i
t is said, propo-
sed doing i
t by force. The respectable part of the
masonick fraternity, supposing that nothing of that
kind would seriously be attempted, and like a nine
day wonder, that i
t would soon vanish and wholly
disappear, took little or no interest in the question.
While they were folding their arms in expectation
that thefire,kindled by folly, would soon be extin-
guished in i
t
s own ardour, an inconsiderate scheme
i
t seems. was concerted, by individual masons, for
suppressing, bj force, the contemplated work, which
in i
t
s execution afterwards, created an explosion
which has been he r 1 throughout the globe and
Which some contend, has shaken to its centre an in-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
M O R G A N ' S A B D U C T I O N . 13
stitufion, reared by virtue, and consecrated by time.
W e ought, perhaps, here to remark, and we do i
t
with perfect confidence, that the measures above re-
ferred to, were never conceited in any lodge, chap-
ter or encampment, in the state, or elsewhere, and
that they originated wholly in the minds of a few mis-
guided men. It has, we are aware, been frequently
asserted, that the graud lodge of the state, was
deeply implicated, and that the late governour Clin-
ton, then i
t
s Grand Master, issued a masonick edict
for suppressing " the Book." even at the expense of
human life ; and in support of this position, we un-
derstand, the expressions of individual masons, have
frquently been adduced as proof.
A desire to conceal the atrocity of crime, under
the sanction of distinguished names, i
s perfectly na-
tural. Hence, i
t was desirable to those suspected of
guilt, and convicted at all events of folly, that the
responsibility of their acts, if possible, should be re-
movtd from themselves to others. The declarations
therefore, of those suspected, implicating governour
Clinton and the grand lodge, ought to have been re-
ceived with the utmost caution.
The grand lodge was not in session from the time
of the annunciation of Morgans intentions, t
i
l
l long
after his abduction. The same i
s true also, respect-
ing the grand chapter—and the reputation of gov-
ernour Clinton, since translated to another, and we
hope, to a better world, was toofirmlyestablished in
this community, to be injured b
j
r such unfounded ca-
lumnies. His official acts, too, triumphantly refute
the ..ssertions.
The views of the writer of this narative, upon the
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
20 CIRCUMSTANCES I'RECKDING
subject then beginingrlo be agitated, were submitte
to the publick in an article published in "the Spirit of
the Times." a paper printed in this village, on the
1st of September 1826. twelve days before Mor-
gan's abduction. T h e article alluded to, was writ-
ten about two weeks before i
t
s publication. Had
the sentiments of (he writer influenced the whole
fraternity, Morgan, in all human probaDility, would
now ha\e been a resident of this village, and his
book been forgotten. S o m e <
>
f the author's personal
friends, residing at a distance, may, perhaps, feel an
interest iu knowing what those sentiments were.---
The article i
s therefore subjoined.
MR EniTort—I did not originally intend to have opened
m y lips on a subject which at preset,t seems to agitate the
public mind—much less to have given publicity to m y reflec-
tions through the columns of a newspaper. I need not. i
t is
presumed, inform you, that I allude to the subject of free-
masonry. T h e indiscreet conduct of some of its frieuds—the
unheard-of asperity of its enemies, and a recent perusal of
our village papers for the last two weeks, have induced me,
however much against, m y wishes, to appear in \ o m colunuine,
not. to rescue masonry from the destruction which awaits it,
but to rescue the character of our village from indelible dis-
grace.
Si.me time ago. a pretended mi mber qf the fraternity an-
nounced in bar-rooms and elsewhere, his intention to publish
the secrets of masonry. Not because he had been injured,
but in order to tepair a broken fortune, and if possible, bar-
ter hisfidelityand his oath for money- Sum,, of the masc-OB
i
t appears, took alatm. But why, >
.
r wherefore, no one i
t is
believed, can satisfactorily tell— ut all events nothing could
Ine . 1
' i more indiscreet, and at the same time,more onne-
eessury. T h e lion might as well have been alarmed becuiise
an anny ofbttes or crows, had threatened to invade hi®
proud domains.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
MORGAN'S ABDUCTION. 2
'
1
The attempt has often been made before, and as often
proved abortive. N o man in his sober senses, can, for a mo-
ment, credit the perjured wretch, who commences his career
by the publication of his infamy. Hence, all the efforts of
debased and degraded men, have hitherto, in attempts of this
kind, as might have been foreseen, terminated in disgrace*
even with those upon whose credulity they relied for coun-
tenance and support.
Masonry has continued to flourish. It has pervaded al-
most every portion of the habitable globe, and extended its
salutary influence to the distressed in every clime— unnerv-
ed the warrior's arm on the shores ofoui inland seas, and
converted the uplifted tomahawk's sanguinary blow into a
fraternal embrace. Even the mighty Tecumseh felt its influ-
ence, and amid the carnage of battle, the groans of expiring
victims, and the cries of savage torture, stept from his ranks
to save a fallen foe—because he was a brother. And well
it may—freemasonry regards no man for his worldly wealth
•r riches. 'Tis therefore the internal, and not the external
qualifications which w e cherish and admire—the hand that
grasps the spade, and the hand that wields the sceptre, are
equally entitled to our friendly grip. " N o matter whether
an African or an Indian sun may have burned'upon him—no
matter in what disastrous battle his liberties may have been
oloven d o w n " — n o matter if, like Lazarus, he has lain at the
rich man's gate, and the dogs have licked his sotes, the mo-
ment he enters a lodge of free and accepted masons, the dia.
tinctions of wealth, of rank, and of power,fleebefore him,
and he finds himself among friends and brothers, ready to
assist, defend and protect him—not, however, unless his con-
duct adorns his piofessioa : for among masons, as well as
among christians, it is admitted that many unworthy mem-
bers have found acceptance, 'Tis owing, however, not to
a defect in the institution itself, but to that frailty from
which none can claim exemption. Let it not then excite
surprise, that an institution, almost co eval with time, and co-
extensive with the habitations of our race, should, among her
Washington, her Franklins, and her hosts of patriots and
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
22 CIRCUMSTANCES PRECEDING
sages, have included men whose lives and whose conduct
have digraced Ike name, and dishonoured the profession, of
masons ; let i
t rather excite our wonder, that it has shed so
many brilliant rays amid surrounding gloom—that, it has so
often cheered " the poor and weary pilgrim, travelling from
afar,"-that distress ne'er entered its portals, or was driven
" pennvlcss" away.
W h y , then, should the world desire its destruction ? — W e
seek no contest with the throne, or the altar—we ask no as-
sent to political or religious d o g m a s — w e solicit no converts
to our cause:—based on the principles of immutable/ustice
—supported by " Wisdom, Strength, and Beauty," it will
endure till the " last syllable of recorded time."
Ferdinand, to be sure, who now disgraces the Spanish
throne, by a regal mandate, has closed our doers—despotic!;
Russia has followed his example. They might, however, as
well have undertaken to arrest the progress of time, or re-
sist the Niagara's foaming torrent. Only " let our light so
thine before men, that they, seeing our good works, may
glorify our Father, which is in heaven," and our standards
will rite majestick on every hill, and " holiness to the Lord"
echo through^very vale. T h e efforts recently made to dis-
cover our secfets, were they even successful, will vanish
like mists before the rising sun.
I was asked no longer ago than yesterday, whether an in-
stitution, liable to impression from such instruments as have
recently been employed to effect its destruction, is really
worth preserving ? T h e world al large, I a m aware, will
answer in the negative, and masons themselves be compel-
led, at last, to join in the same accents.
The idea, then, that masonry is susceptible of the least
impression, from causes to which I have alluded, after having
survived the storm of ages—the power of despots and the
pride of rulers, is not to be tolerated for a single moment • and
that hrother, who can for an instant, conceive so ungenerous
a thought, does, by his own example, inflict a more deadly
wound than all its enemies, and is unworthy of a place with-
in its walls.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
M O R G A N ' S A B D U C T I O N . '23
The man who should discharge a handful of mud at the
sun in its meridian, with a view to arrest its course, or extin-
guish its beams-, would act as rationally as he who should
publish the secrets of our order, in expectation of injuring
our cause. In the one case, he might, perhaps, for a moment,
pollute the atmosphere within his limited circle, and proba-
bly draw down on his guilty head, a filthy and corrupted
shower—and in the other, violate his oath, sacrifice his duly
to his friends and his God, and at last, to crown the scene,
receive the reward which a depraved world never fails to
bestow on acknowledged guilt, and masonry still survive.—
Masonry is seated on a rock, inaccessible to all the malice of
man. T h e thunder, even of royal indignation, rolls beneath
its feet—the lightnings of popular fury flash at her portals,
and are seen no more. She there surveysa world of miseiy
and woe : arrests the progress of many a tear down sorrow's
visatre ; she there bids her votaries go forth—aid and assist
the widow and the orphan, wherever dispersed around the
globe—soothe the unhappy—sympathize with their misfor-
tunes—alleviate their distresses', and pour the balm of com-
fort into their troubled minds. She then descends into the
vale below—takescvery child of humility and sorrow by the
hand, and in a voice that thrills through every nerve, bids
them, "arise, sad virtue, and rejoice"
Can i
t be possible, that an institution, founded on 6uch a
base will, like a reed, be shaken by every wind—that i
t will
iike the aspen, tremble at every blast: rather expect, that,
" like fabled Atlas,
When storms arid tempesls thunder on i
t
s brow,
And ocean breaks her billows'at its feet,
'Twill stand unmoved, and glory in i
t
s height."
A B R O T H E R .
The above article, it will be recollected, was writ-
ten at a time when the masonick intitulion stood
higher, perhaps, than at any former period.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
'24
CHAPTER IV.
Circumstances preceding Morgan's Abduction contin-
ued—Meeting in Batavia on the night of the Slh of
September, 1 8 2 6 — Attempt to burn Miller's Office.
THE object of Miller and Morgan, in publishing the
contemplated work, being, as it was suposed, entirely
mercenary, and emanating wholly from a desire on
their part, to gratify the worst of passions, some in-
considerate members of the masonick fraternity, i
t
appears, concerted, in evil hour, a plan for its sup-
pression. A more rash, foolish, and impolitick meas-
ure was never devised. Had Miller and Morgan been
left to themselves—had the book been printed with-
out any efforts to prevent it—and had the masons
manifested no anxiety whatever, on the occasion, i
t
would have fallen of its own weight, still born, from
the press ; and the author, and publisher, as such,
never been heard of more. Masonry, however, i
t
seems, as well as religion, was destined to have its
officious and intermeddling champions.
O n the 8th of September, 1826, at night, a party
of between forty andfifty,assembled in Batavia, for
the avowed purpose of breaking into Miller's office,
and procuring, by force, the manuscript papers, pre-
pared by Morgan, for the press, which i
t wus then
supposed, were partly in type, and partly in printed
sheets, nearly ready for distribution.
The history of this extraordinary convocation ie
derived from the affidavit of one Thomas G. Greene
S
i journeyman carpenter, of Buffalo, who. i
t appears
was one of their number, and a commander of divi-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
MEETING IN BATAVIA. 25
sion. The affidavit was prepared by a member of
the Lewiston Committee, and sworn to by Green
when under arrest, on a charge for murder,* and af-
terwards published in the Appendix to the report of
said Committee.
This motley assemblage, composed of individuals
who were strangers to each other, having probably
learnt that Miller's office was guarded, and being un-
willing to expose their lives in so foolish an under
king, dispersed at the dawn of day withoutattempting
to effect their object.
Some of their number, however, it seems were not
satisfied with the result of their expedition to Bat
on the night of the 8th, for on the night of the 10th
of September, an effort it appears was made to con-
sume by fire the same offices, which a want of cour-
* In justice to Green, we ought, perhaps, here to state, that
on leaving Buffalo, which he did sometime in 1827, he com-
menced labour upon the High School House in the county
of Monroe, at which place he was arrested for the murder of
Morgan, by virtue of a warrant issued in Genesee County,
Upon the complaint of a person in Erie County, for a .nnrder
committed, as pretended, in Niagara County. Instead, how-
evt r, of being taken bufore the magistrate in Monroe coun-
ty, wii" bad indorsed the warrant, or into the county of Ni-
agara where the offence was alleged to have been commit-
ted, and wh're only, he ronld have been tried, he was brought
directly to Genesee county—confined for a number of d a y s —
and at last discharged without an examination, no circum-
stances anoenrincr against him calculated to excite any sus-
picioo whatever of his guilt H e afterwards brought ac-
tions of false imprisonment against those who arrested and
detained him. and obtained verdicts. They have since been
came,! up to rh Supreme Court, and are now pending there.
Green's conduct was so justily reprehensible on account of
hi>- participation in the transactions which occurred at Biita-
via O P tbeai.-ht of the Hih of September, that he recovered
for hi1
arrest -ind imprisonment in one case only $15, and til
She other, only nominal damages and costs.
B
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
26 MEETING IN BATAVIA.
age, or as it is hoped, which reflection and repenta
had prevented them, on the night of the eighth,
from attempting to pull down and destroy.
Miller at that time occupied the upper part of
two buildings in a compact part of the village, sepa-
rated only by a narrow lane—stairs on the outside of
each led to his apartments. O n Sunday night, (Sept.
10th 1826,) the village was alarmed by the cry of fire.
It was however, soon extinguished,* and on the
following morning itscitizens wereso unwilling to be
lieve i
t to have been the work of an incendiary, that,
had not the act, base as i
t was, been followed by oth-
ers of equal or perhaps greater atrocity, the publick
would unquestionably at this day have remained in
doubt, whether thefirehad not been kindled by the
agency of Miller or his friends,.not for the purpose
of consuming them, but for the purpose of exciting
interest and compassion. Subsequent events, how-
ever, soon dispelled the illusion and convinced every
impartial mind, that injustice would have been done
to col. Miller by entertaining so ungenerous a thoug
Frmains of straw, and cotton bails saturated with
*Some teamsters who had arrived in the night for loads of
flour at Mr. Evans' mill, in order to carry them to the canal,
being unable to procure their loading at so etirly an hour,
and unable ulso to procure lodging, had taken up their abode
for a short time in a publick stage standing in the highway
near Miller's Office. T h e fire aroused them. They repair-
ed to the tpot, knd by the aid of water landing in some bar-
rel? under the eaves ofthe same building, extinguished i
i im-
mediately. T h e facilities for extinguishing fire, afforded as
in this case, by water under the eaves, and by persons so
near at hand, induced many for a short time to suppose, that
there was some concert between those w h o had kindled and
those who extinguished it. It appears, however, from stib-
Beijoertt statements, that the water under the eaves, and the
persons in the stage, were there by accident.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
RICHARD HOWARD. 2?
spirits„ofturpentine, were found under the stairs—the
sides of the buildings had been partially smeared with
that liquid—a short brush was also found, which had
evidently been dipped in turpentine, and not far dis-
tant a dark lantern.
Thus i
t would seem that a design to burn Miller's
office had been formed by some miscreants,*—that
preparations for that purpose had been made with
great deliberation—and that its execution was pre-
vented as i
t were by accident.
A warrant wasafterwards issued on the oath ofJohn
Mann, at the instance of some members of the Lew-
iston Committee, against one Richard Howard of
Buffalo, and given to Lorton Holden, one of the con-
stables of the town of Batavia, for execution. Mr.
Holden was directed by those at whose instance the
warrant had been issued, to call upon Thomas C.
* A reward of $100 dollars wasafterwards offered by
gentlemen of the Masonic fraternity residing in Batavia, for
the discovery and conviction of the author ofthis daring out-
rage. The notice was as follows :
" W H E R E A S , i
t i
s alleged that the Printing Office of
David C. Miller, in this village, was set onfirei
n the month
of September now last past, supposed to be the work of some
incendiary.—And whereas, no reward has hitherto been of-
fered for the apprehension and conviction of the said incendi-
ary. - And whereas, a regard f
o
r public justice, individual se-
curity, and violated law requires, that the offender or offen-
ders be brought to coDdign punishment.—Now therefore, in
order to effect so desirable an object, the undersigned have
thought proper to offer a reward ofO N E H U N D R E D DOL-
LARS, to be paid on the conviction of said offender. Da-
ted at Batavia, Genesee co. N. Y. this 7th day of March
1827. Signed, William, Seaver Jr. Henry Brown, Ebenezer
.Mix, Frederick Folletl, D. H. Chandler, S. Cumings, Ri
Dibble, H. Tisdale, Silas Finch, Wm. R. Thompson. D.
dale. Samuel Graves, John Cotes, David Danolds, J. Chal
B. Blodgett, JVahvm Lering, J. S. Ganson, E. Towner,
John Foet.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
28 RICHARD HOWARD.
Love, Esq. an active and efficient anti-mason of Buf-
falo, and now First Judge of the Court of C o m m o n
Pleas of the County of Erie, who, in the language of
the Report of the Lewiston Committee, "chose to
call in to his aid four others," of w h o m it is said the
Hon. Albert H. Tracy, his law partner, was one,
all of w h o m advised Mr. H. not to execute the war-
rant. H e of course returned without eflecting the
object for which he had been sent thither. Nathan
Townsend, at that time an active and vigilant public
officer of the County of Genesee, was immediately
thereafter sent to Buffalo, with positive directions to
arrest Howard at all events, but found on his ai rival
there that Howard hadfledon the 1 Oth of March, the
next day after Messrs. Love, Tracj and others, had
advised Mr. Holden not to arrest him. That Mr.
Love and his friends were actuated by the best of
motives and the purest intentions in the advice they
tgave, no one acquainted with either will pretend to
deny. Still it is equally evident, thai their advice
was not only indiscreet, butthat it afforded an oppor-
tunity for the accused to escape, and of course occa-
sioned thereafter, (without so intending it,) much a-
buse against masons because Howard who was one of
their number, had escaped that punishment which it
was Supposed he merited.
Howard is a foreigner by birth—a journeyman
bookbinder by trade, and has not, i
t is believed, been
heard of since he left Buffalo.
Strong circumstances of suspicion are said t t
against him, sufficient probably, to have coi i .H
him had he been arrested. It is therefore i
- .
greted that justice could not have bad its course It
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
MORGAN'S ARREST IN BATAVIA, 29
is also to be regreted that Mr. Love and his friends
should have suffered in the publick estimation, for
having been accessary to his escape, (as intimated in
the Report of the Lewiston Committee,) when i
t is
presumed they were actuated by the purest of inten-
tions.
John Mann, at the time of making the complaint
against Howard, was unquestionably deranged, and
that fact is now universally admitted by all who
knew him in his life time.
Without expressing anyopinionin relation to How-
ard's innocence or guilt,* we shall leave that subject
for the present, and conclude by repeating our re-
gret that he could not have been brought to a publick
trial.
CHAPTER V.
Morgan's arrest in Batavia for Petit Larceny—His
trial at Canandaigua—Is acquitted—and after-
wards committed to jailfor debt—Trial of How-
ard, Seymour and others, for arresting him.
In May 1826, Morgan, while at Canandaigua, bor-
rowed of one Kingsley, a tavern keeper in that village,
a shirt and cravat which he promised to return short-
ly thereafter. Having neglected or violated his prom-
ise in that particular, a warrant was issued on the com-
plaint of Kingsley, by Jeflery Chipman, Esq. one of
the Justices of the Peace of the county of Ontario, a-
* We are unable to ascertain the nature of the evid
upon which the charge i
s predicated.
Dm
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
jU MORGAN'S ARREST IN, BATAVIA.
gainst him (Morgan) for petit larceny. This war-
rant was delivered to one Halloway Hayward, a con-
stable in Canandaigua, to be executed according to
faw.
O n the morning, of the 10th of September 1826,
Hayward in company with others,started for Batavia
with a view to arrest said Morgan, and arrived there
some time in the evening. O n his way thither he
procured the warrant issued as aforesaid, to be in-
dorsed by a Justice of the Peace residing at L e Roy,
in Genesee county. O n the morning of the 1 !th,
Hayward called at the house of said Morgan in the
village of Batavia, took him aside and informed him
of the warrant and of his directions. Morgan with-
out making any objections whatever, immediately re*
paired to Danolds' tavern in said village, and break-
fasted with Hayward and his friends. Soon after-
wards, and while he was in custody of the officer,
Col. Miller, one of his bail for the limits, called at
Danolds'andinterposed anobjection to his (Morgan's)
being taken off the limits, on account of the liability
which he and others as bail would thereby incur.
Hayward, however, insisted, that as his process was
in behalf of the people, he had a right to arrest him
and take himto Canandaigua for trial. Morgan him-
self made no objections and voluntarily entered the
carriage. The party then proceeded.
O n arriving at Le Roy, Hayward offered to take
him before the Justice by w h o m the warrant had
been indorsed, that he might give bailforhis appear-
ance, (if he thought proper) at the next court of
General Sessions of the Peace, to be held j,, die
County of Ontario. Morgan however, declined thf
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
MORGAN'S TRIAt. 31
acceptance of this offer, and alleged as a reason for
so doing, that he could convince Kingsle) . the prose-
cutor, on seeing him, that although he had in his pos-
ses-ion the shirt and cravat in question, he did not in-
tend fo steal them.
Morgan's arrest in Batavia was without any force
or violence, and did not at the time excite much in-
terest or attention.
O n arriving at Canandaigua he was taken before
the Justice (Jeffrey Chipman, Esq.); an examination
was had, and i
t appearing that Morgan came lawfully
in possession of the property alleged to have been
stolen, that is, by a loan from Kingsley himself, no
felony could of course have been committed, and he
was therefore, immediately discharged.
After his discharge he was arrested for a small debt
due to one Aaron Ackley. another tavern keeper in
the village. A judgement was confe-sed thereon,
and an execution issued, by virtue of which he was
arrested and committed to jail.
Henry Howard, Harris Seymour. Moses Roberts,
Joseph Scofield, and some others who accompanied
Havward the constable from Canandaigua to Brita-
via, at (he time of Morgan's arrest, were afterwards
indicted, tried and acquitted.
An action was also brought against the Sheriff of
Genesee county for the escape of Morgan, which has
since been tried and a verdict found for the defendant.
The bail, Col. Miller and others, are of course dis-
charged.
The trial of Howard. Seymour and o.tjiers, having
beci the subject ol much popular clamour, demands
at this time a few passing remarks.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
§8 TRIAL Or HOWARD AND OTHERS.
That the warrant by virtue of which Morgan was
arrested had been regularly issued, no one it is believ-
ed, pretends to deny. Ttiere was, however, unques-
tionably in themanner of its execution, something ex-
ceptionable—not in Morgan's arrest, or in his traDSH
portafion to Canandaigua for trial, for that seems to
have been his wish—but in procuring, ifsuch was the
case, so many to accompany him thither.
Had Morgan remained in jail, or been restored to
his family, this circumstance would not have excited
the least attention. Subsequent events however,
gave i
t an importance which otherwise i
f never would
have received, and exposed the actors therein to sus-
picions and prosecutions, alarming in their nature and
serious in their eonsequences. The intelligence and
integrity of judges regardless of popular clamour,
and of jurors attentive to the law and evidence, and
observant of their duty and their oaths, however
saved them from unjust and ignominious punishment;
and proclaimed to the world in a language winch
cannot be mistaken that, to have been suspected or
to have been implicated in the abduction of Morgan
or in a conspiracy to arrest without reasonabiecause
and imprison or convict him for petit larceny, has
notin every case.aud under every circumstauce,been
conclusive evidence ofguilt.*
* A letter recently published in the appendix to the renor*
of the Select Committee in the Assembly, on that na t f
the Governor's Message relating to the abduction ofWil
liam Morgan, written by Bo wen Whiting, Esq. Distrci At
torney of Ontario County, to the Chairman of said com.mi
tee, states among other things, " that Cheaeebro testifi«l
•pun the trial of Howard and others, that there was
demanding between him and them, of any thing t0 hU
°|U n
*
to Morgan other than the bringing him to ^aoaudaigua and
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
TRIAL OF HOWARD AND OTHERS. 88
No connexion has ever been traced between the
persons who arrested Morgan in Batavia, and those
who subsequently took him from the jail in Canandai-
gua and carried him westward, (with the exception
of Cheesebro, who, itappears, was concerned in both)
nor i
s i
t believed that any such connexion ever ex-
isted ; nor has i
t ever been pretended that the for-
mer designed to imprison or destroy him. If so, why
did they offer to take him before the Justice in Le
Roy where he was well acquainted, and could have
procured bail in abundance ; and had he done so,
would thereby have been rescued from their grasp.
The fact unquestionably is,(hat Morgan, finding him-
self an object of suspicion, and feeling conscious, if
not of guilt, at least of a great neglect of moral duty,
wished to sec his accuser; and as he was about becom,
ing an author, and expected shortly to be the master
of untold thousands, desired an opportunity to clear
up hischaracter, and thereforeaccompanicd Hayward
and others cheerfully to Canandaigua for that purpose.
The acquittal of Howard, Seymour and others,
although i
t created for a short time no inconsiderable
clamour in this vicinity, particularly among those
who, as Caesar says of 'fully, " never follow any thing
trying him." " That the idea of Morgan's going west
ginated here, (Canandaigua,) after his discharge from tho
warrant." Other circum.-iiances confirm this statement.—
Howard, Seymour and oiliers, were therefore justly acquit-
ted of participation in Ins abduction. In relation to (hat
part of the charge against them, for conspiring to convict
Morgan of Petit Larceny, the Court charged the jury I hat
if they believed from the evidence, that there was a " reason-
able or probable cause" ofsuspicion against Morgan f
o
r deal-
ing the defendants ought not to bo convicted The jury
•having acquitted t
l
i
e
i
n under -ucircircum.- u
T
.
e
t
v
;
, W.J aienot
aware of any reason why the publicfe should complain.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
34 TRIAL OP HOWARD AND OTHERS.
which other men begin"—who are determined at ail
events never to be satisfied with any measures un-
less proposed by, or an) thing unless it emanates from
themselves : inasmuch as no evidence given or offer-
ed showed an intention on their part, either to carry
him without the realm, or to convict him without
cause of an offence committed within it, was unques-
tionably a triumph ofjustice and principle over pre-
judice and passion.
Could I with propriety be indulged in that particu-
lar, it would be m y wish here to close, and having
dropped a tear orJ.wo over the faults and follies of
those who have thus far appeared on the stage, leave
the residue of this narrative untold. T h e task, how-
ever, which I have assumed forbids. I shall there-
fore enter upon it, and accompany the ill fated Mor-
gan to Fort Niagara, where it is said, (though upon
questionable authority,*) he was confined by an
officer ofgovernment, while the star spangled banner
waved on its ramparts.
* T h e authority for saying that Morgan was confined in
Fort Niagara, is derived principally from the declaration and
exparte affidavit of one Edward Giddings, the anti-masonick
Almanack maker, who has rencently acquired considerable
celebrity, particularly with the anti-masonick party. Gid-
dins says, that he (Giddins) had charge, of him during a
part of the time he was so confined, and offered to swear to
it upon the trial of Bruce. His testimony however was
decided unanimously by the Court, to be wholly inadmissi-
ble, on accouutof his atheism. A s M;. Giddins is destined
probably to become conspicuous, and if to bo believed
was guilty as an accessary to Morgan's death, and as the
court have been severely censured for not altering the law
[as it lias been well understood for ajres,) to suit ti,„
^ „ . ,. ., • T . .. i r ' llle
views
of certain individuals, 1 have thought proper to insert a
sible and well written article upon the subject ofhig exrd""
gion, from the Ontario Repository.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
EDWARD GIDDINS. 35
From the Ontario Repoitory.
Testimony of Giddins—The exclusion of this individual
from testify'ng in the case of Eli Bruce and others, has been
a subject of much animadversion by the anti-inasonick pa-
pers throughout the state. T h e decision of the court has
been boldly arraigned and suspicion attempted to be cast up-
on its purity and impartiality. T o men of intelligence, and
w h o are acquainted with the character of the very respecta-
ble members of our common pleas' bench, and especially of
the learned judge, who for so many years, and with such dis-
tinguished ability, uprightness, and impartiality, has presi-
ded over that court, an attempt to vindicate the correctness
of that decision, and repel tha imputations cast upon the
character of the Court, may appear gratuitous and unneces-
sary ; but the prevalence of a belief among a portion of the
community, that the decision in question was in viola-
tion of the law and constitution of the state, requires
that an effort be made to disabuse them of their erroneous,
though honest prejudices on this subject.
In order to exhibitthe reasonoi the exclusion of Giddins'
testimony, i
t will be proper to advert for a moment to the na-
ture of an oath. A n oath is an appeal to God, as the moral
Governour of the world, to witness the sincerity of what is
about to be testified, and an imprecation of his vengeance up-
on the witness, if he does not testify truly. If therefore, the
witness denies the existence of the Supreme Being, or does
not believe that H e will punish perjury, he cannot with any
propriety be sworn. A s an appeal to Heaven, an oath, in
the cause of the individual snpposed, is but solemn mockery ;
the Being whose notice of the act is invoked and whose ven-
geance upon perjury is imprecated, either does not exist, or
is indifferent to the truth or falsity of what is to be testified.
Whether under this view of the subject, Mr. Giddins should
have been sworn, will appear from the testimony produced
on the trial. And here w e shall pass over that portion of it
which was verbal, and direct the attention of tho reader to
tho higher and more satisfactory vidence furnished by Gid-
dins himself, in a written declaration of his opinions, dohber-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
•36 E D W A R D GIDDINS.
ately penned in the confidence of a private correspondence
with an intimate friend. In a letter to David Morrison, da-
ted the 10th of April, 1827, of great length, and as its whole
scope and tenour indicates, written for the express purpose
of giving a formal statement of the writer's religious creed,
are theVollowing, among many other coincident passages :
" God has the same care of man as of an insect, of an insect
as of a tree, of a tree as ofa stone : With him there can be
no difference or distinction between beauty and deformity,
virtue and vice, perfection and imperfection. Players are
but mockery to His name, and ought not to be encouraged;'!
"All men can de, can not change Him ; H° is not susceptible
of persuasion, and as relates to man, he is incapable of love
or hatred." " This is my notion of virtue and vice; lhat
that they do not refer to any future time, but relate altogeth-
er to man in his present state." " M y views are not in ac-
cordance with the Bible, for that book represents the Deity
as vindictive, revengeful, and inconsistent."
Such were the views of Mr. Giddins but a few months
previous to the abduction of W m . Morg-an. By the testi-
mony of Mr. Griffin and Mr. W e e d , a declaration of his, last
May, was proved, that " his religious opinions werefixed, and
that he had not changed them for years. It was upon the ev-
idence of this letter, that the court came to the unanimous
decision, not to admit Mr. Giddins to his oath. N o w if the
competency of a witness requires a belief of the Divine cog-
nizance of the acts of his creatures, and that he will punish
false swearing, (a point which we supposed established, by
unnumbered decisions, and the uniform and immemorial prac.
tice of courts in every civilized country,) then therr can be
no question but Edward Giddins was proper^ „ . : . .T,.j|v re.
jected. The only question for the cnor, ,, ,
. ,
.
; , , t
was the law ofthe state as apn'i' , . , A/ith the
policy or impolicy, the pr , ^'y of the laws,
they had nothing to do. If the prinoiD]e, in any of it •
,
-
'
ik-nries or applications, should be found prejudicin] to indi-
Viduftl rights, or subversive of the ends ofjustice, then ;
. ,s
incumbent on the legislature to provide a remedy. jLlB ,^
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
3JT-
province of courts ofjustice, not to enact or change laws,
but to declare and execute them as they actually exist. It
is, however, deserving of serious consideration, whether the
abrogation of this rcle and the indiscriminate admission of
witnesses denying moral responsibility, and insensible of the
religious sanction of an oath, would not lead to consequence*
more dangerous than any which can result from the opera-
tions of the law as it now stands. It is only a sense of mor-
al obligation and future retribution, which can make an oath
what it has been fully termed, " the adamantine chain which
binds the soul of man to the throne of eternal justice."
But it is said that by the rejection of this witness, the per-
petrators of a flagrant outrage are to escape the punishment
due to their crime. So, too, i
t might happen, th.it an indi-
vidual convicted on record of larceny or perjury, might be
the sole witness of a robbery or murder, and that if admitted
to his oath, he would testify truly ; and yet, as the law dis-
allows the testimony of such a person, the highway robber
«r murderer must in that case go unpunished.
M a n y encomiums have been lavished upon the character
;«f Mr. Giddins, who is held up to the publick as a paragon of
integrity and moral worth But what, upon his own show-
ing, are his claims to such a distinction ? H e nas proclaim-
ed to the world a fact : that he was concerned in one of the
•nost nefarious outrages that was ever perpetrated m a civil-
ized coniu.unity. The liberty and life of an injured fellow
being were placed in his hands. Day after day lie held the
ill-fated Morgan confined in a dreary prison house, and heard
unmoved the suplicating cries of his prisoner, for sympathy
snd deliverance. By simply turning a key he might have
sent him forth to liberty and life. H e might hnve had re-
course to the civil authority, but he did not do it ; the mur-
derous tragedy is consummated, and long afterwards,when aa
outriged community come to make inquisition for the blooi
of their fellow, and an honest indignation is enkindled a-
guinst the atrocious transaction, then, forsooth, this Mr. Gid-
dins bccoirus the champion of a virtuous excitement ! In-
etead of humbling himaelf"in sackcloth and ashes" before
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
38
that community whose most sacred rights he had outraged,
he sets up for the leader of a party, and does not hesitate
even to trumpet through almanacks and newspapers, the sto-
ry of his own infamy, that he may speculate upon publick cu-
riosity and excitement. The impropriety and injustice of
thus giving publicity to the particulars of a transaction in
reference to which he then expected to be a witness against
his associates in a crime, thereby inflaming the feelings of
the publick against the accused, and leading them to pre-
judge the cause upon ex partestatements, must be obvious to
every one; and the conduct of Mr. Giddins, whether consid-,
ered in reference to the sordid motives which actuate it, or
the relation in which he stands to all the parties, deserves
'unmixed and most decided reprobation.
CHAPTER VI.
Morgan's Abduction.
The next morning after Morgan was committed to
jail as already stated, one Loton Lawson, who has
since been indicted, tried and convicted, for partici-
pating in his abduction, paid the small debt in favor
of Ackley and procured Morgan's discharge. At the
time of his release from prison, a carriage, prepared
it seems for that purpose, was waiting at the door
into which Morgan, notwithstanding his resistance,
was thrust wifh violence and driven directly to Roch-
ester. The persons who rode in the carriage thnh-
er, are slill unknown. It is in evidence, however!
that the carnage was hired and paid for by Nicho-
las G. Chesebro. Chesebro and Lawson. together
with Edward Sawyer and John Sheldon, were after-
wards indicted for participating in this transaction,—fe
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
M O R G A N ' S A B D U C T I O N . 39
Chesebro, Sawyer and Lawson plead guilty to their
indictments—Sheldon traversed his—was tried—un-
justly convicted, and together withChesebr'o, Saw-
yer and Lawson, subsequently imprisoned.* Neither
Chesebro, Sawyer nor Sheldon, left Canandaigua.
Morgan of course must have fallen into other hands.
The precise manner in which he was conveyed from
thence to the vicinity of Fort Niagara, has never been
ascertained ; nor has it positively been proved that
he was conveyed thither. Circumstances, however,
which in many cases are equallyconclusive with pos-
itive proof, and often more so, leave no doubt of the
fact.
It seems, therefore, to be established beyond con-
troversy, that Morgan left the jail in Canandaigua,
of his own free will—that immediately thereafter, he
became suspicious of a design upon his person and
made an alarm—that he was thereupon seized, thrust
by force into a carriage waiting at the door for his re-
ception—and, in defiance of his wishes, and in oppo-
sition to his will, conveyed to the ferry near Fort
Niagara.
* Lawson was imprisoned in the county jail for two years—
Chesebro for one year—Sheldon for three months—and Saw-
yer for one. The want of severity in their several punish-
ments having, in the estimation of some, exposed the court
to much censure, i
t is but justice hereto remark, that no
Jaw at that time, made the kidnapping of a white man any
thing more than a misdemeanor at common law, punishable
by Hue and imprisonment. Besides, from the evidence ad-
duced, and the exculpatory affidavits afterwards made and
filed, it is not to be inferred that, either of the defendants,
were concerned in any subsequent acts of violence, nor is it
to be presumed that any thoig else was intended by Morgan's
abdurth u, tlianto produce a separation between hiin and
Miller, and thereby prevent the publication of the contem-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
4® M-ORGAJM'S A B D U C T I O S J .
That the forcible seizure of Morgan, without an?
pretence of authority, and his subsequent conveyance
westwardly by force, was a gross and violent outrage
which can neither be justified or palliated by any l
e
-
gal, moral, religious or masonick principles, no one,
unless he be lost to a sense of right and wrong, can
ever deny. T h e conviction and imprisonment there-
fore of Lawson, Chesebro, Sawyer and Sheldon, with
the exception of the latter, (and as to him i
t is doubtful
whether he did not, for his foolish and improper con-
duct afterwards, deserve all that he suffered,) was
imperiously required, and in itself was a triumphant
vindication of the law against aspersions, which day
after day salute our ears in every part of the " infec-
ted territory," that no mason, however guilty, can be
punished, so long as the court or jury, or any part o
f
cither are masons.
The moral guilt of those convicted depends on»
•variety of circumstances. It i
s a rule of law, f
o
r
t
i
f
i
e
d
by the dictates of our Holy Religion, and supported
by every principle of c o m m o n sense and reason, l
l
i
a
t
in all criminal cases, the intention with which an a
c
t
is done constitutes the sole criterion of its guilt.—
Hence, if one man kills another in defending himself,
i
t is justifiable. If he does i
t by accident, i
t is in law
excusable—and if with premeditated malice, i
t i
s
murder. If Morgan, then, was conveyed to flu Ni-
agara frontier, (as by some is pretended) for the pur-
pose of being sacrificed to masonick ve geance then
all who participated in conveying him thither if such
was their intention and he wa< in fad then murdered*
are guilty of murder. If he wa%carrie there foi (he
purpose of being delivered to the masons in Canada,
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
M O R G A N ' S ABDUDTIOII. 4]
(as appears from Giddins' statement.) or to Brant
and his associates, or to be put on board of a British
ve-sel and sent to parts unknown, then those who
participated, though guilty of a heinous offence in the
si^ht of God and man, are not guiltj ofmurder, what-
ever may have been his fate.
That he was conveyed more than a hundred miles
through a well settled country, at great risk ai.d ex-
pense, for the purpose of being murdered in a partic-
ular place, is too abswrd to bel'or a moment credited.
It i
s said, though lam not aware on what authority, iliat
Morgan, during the whnle of this route was kept con-
stantly drunk. If so, i
t can hardly be supposed that
those who had him in charge, i
f they had originally
intended to have murdered him at last, would have
called in so many to their aid. I
t could have been
done as well and with less danger of detection, with-
out their interference—besides, Chesebro and Saw-
ver, both of w h o m are men of unquestionable veraci-
tv. have sworn, that the only object in carry ing off
Morgan, was to produce a separation between him and
Mdler, and thereby "prevent the publication of what
Morgan himself alleged he was under solemn obliga-
tions never to reveal." Subsequent circumstances
developed by the Lewigton Committee, and the state-
ments of Giddins, if entitled to any credit, fortify this
conclusion, ll must therefore be conceded that no
violence was atfirstintended, and that if Morgan af-
terwards perished by some murderer's arm,it was the
result of circumstances which those guilty of ins ab-
duction neither contemplated nor foresaw.
A m o n g the efforts made to excite the publick to
deeds of vengeance, i
t has often been reported,
D2
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
M O R G A N ' S A B D U C T I O N .
and indeed affidavits to that effect have frequently
been published and read, with an interest hitherto un-
exampled in this community, that Morgan, on his ar-
rival at Fort Niagara, was tried by a sort of Council
and sentenced to death—that he was afterwards ex-
ecuted by having his throat cut. his tung torn out,
and buried in the sands of the lake or river—that
previous to his execution he desired a Bible, and a
short time for i
t
s perusal, both of which were refused
— a n d no circumstance relating to the subject now
under review, has ever created so much sensibility,
or called forth so much indignation.
" Morgan's Immolation" in the manner above pre-
tended, has also been exhibited on canvass, to the ad-
miring eyes of thousands.*
It has also been stated, with great confidence, that
he was taken to the frontier in order that he might
be delivered to Capt. Brant, a son of the celebrated
Indian Chief, distinguished forhis cruelties and brave-
ry during our Revolutionary war. and that Brant
was sent for with a view to Morgan's sacnliceaccord-
ing to the rules of savage vengeance. Capt. Brant,
however, in a letter, denies that he ever heard of
Morgan t
i
l
l he saw his name in a New-York paper
connected with his own, and no one acquainted with
Capt. Brant, will for a moment doubt the truth of
his assertion.t
* The painting above alluded to by Cooley, a seceding
mason of Le Roy, i
s now advertised to be suen a
t Albany —
Price 12 1-2 cents. I
l was taken there for exhibition ashort
time before the anti-masonick Statu Convention.
jTu the Editorofthe York {V. C.) Observer—
SIR—1 have just read a paragraph in Hie N. Y. Specta-
toi of the 17th inst. wherein i
t i
s stated, that the fraternitr
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
M O R G A N ' S A B D U C T I O N . 43
Notwithstanding the pertinacity with which the
above reports lor a long time were circulated, the i
l
-
lusion hasfinallyvanished, and their falsehood i
s now
conceded by all. Morgan's fate, however, i
s yet un-
certain. "Clouds and darkness" s
t
i
l
l rest upon it.
It is, and perhaps will be for years, a subject of re-
gret, that the precise facts in relation to his final dis-
position near fort Niagara, have not been, and cannot
certainly be known.
Giddins. whose statements, unless confirmed by
other circumstances, are not entitled to any credit
whatever—who was himself an accomplice, and i
f to
be believed, the most guilty one of the whole, as will
by and bye appear, informs us that Morgan arrived at
his house, '-bound, hoodwinked and under guard," on
the night of the 13th of September. 1826—that he,
(Giddins,) arose, partly dressed himself—want down
to the river and assisted in rowing him and others
across—that they waited about two hours in expec-
tation that the masons in Canada would take him off
their hands—;
- that they were not yet ready"—and
therefore that Morgan was taken back and confined
in the Magazine—that he, Giddins, had the key and
supplied him during the time of his imprisonment
at Niagara, had sent for me to receive and sacrific
happy Morgan, of whom so much has been lately spoken.
You will oblige me by contradicting this report, which i
s
wholly false Neither i
n that instance, nor in any other,
has such a barbarous proposal btten made to mo, nor do I be-
lieve that a man exists who would have dared to wound my
feeling* in such a heinous manner.
I know nothing of the man, nor of any transaction relating
to him ; and I arn much surprised that my name has been
called i
n question. I am, Sir, Yours respectfully,
J. B R A N T .
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
44 M O R G A N ' S A E E U C T I O X .
with food—(hit Morgan became uneasy and made
considerable disturbance—that a black woman who
went with the keeper's He girl to the riverforwater,
heard a noi<e in the magazine and communicated the
fact to Giddins -that he, Giddins, inorder to deceive
her, mentioned that ghosts and witches infested the
fori, and went unpeiceived by her to the lop of the
mess house and made a similar noise—that a number
of masons on the evening of the 14th, took supper at
bis house, most of whom; however, went away soon
thereafter—that he, Giddins, and some others, after
they had retired, held a long consultation about Mor-
gan, and agreed that he ought to be executed—that l
i
e
hui!forfeitedhis life, and that they, as masons, were
bound to execute him—thatthey, with the exception
of one or two others went into the magazine—that
they afterwards returned, held a further consultation,
and came to the same conclusion—that i
t was then
proposed to take Morgan into the river and sink him
with a sione, and we, says Giddins,"did all consent to
the same, and moved some distance towards the mag-
azine for that purpose." One, however, (no! Gid-
dins.) lagged behind and said he could not sanction
the deed. This gave another ofthecompany courage
to make a similar declaration, "and the thi ig was a-
bandoned for that time." Thus i
t will be seen from
Giildins' own statements, that he was himself the first
and foremost in guilt. Giddins further states that
he afterwards desired the release of Morgan, and that
a quarrel between him and others arose out of ihis
circumstance—thai he, Giddins. however, at itsclose
gave the key of the magazine to his antagonist whose
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
M O R G A N ' S A B D U C T I O N . 45
views he knew were hostile to his release*—that he,
Giddins, afterwards, on the 17th, went away upon
business and did not return t
i
l
l the 21st, at which time
he found Morgan gone. The relations of Giddins in
res'rd to what passed between ihe 1 7thand 21st, are
therefore to be considered only as the hearsay de-
clarations of an accomplice in guilt, whose testimony,
on account of his disbelief in a God and a future state
of rewards and punishments, i
s inadmissible in a court
of justice. Giddins' statements, however, so fai as
thev are confirmed by circumstantial evidence, are
entitled to credit. The imprisonment of some per-
son for instance, in the magazine, is confirmed by
other testimony, and i
t i
s probable that this person
was William Moigan. Gi Idins, by way of apology
for absenting to Morgan's death, atfirst,states, that
he considered himself bound by his masonick duty so
to do. His sense of masonick duty was precisely
such as i
t i
s reasonable to suppose a professed atheist
would have, and his conduct on that occasion such
as mij;ht have been anticipated from one, who denied
all fiture accountability. W e therefore can readily
believe him when he speaks of things in relation to
himself, because the confessions of the most harden-
ed wretches on earth in such cases are evidence, but
when he undertakes to state the opinions or relate
* If Gilding, as he pretends, desired the release of Morgan,
having the key in his possession, the object could easily have
been effected. He had only to turn that key ami iVlmgau
would have been restored to liberty. He chose, however,
as t
i
e says, a
t the termination of a quarrel which arose out
of Morgan'sforlorncondition, to give the lay to a.nan "whose
views he knew were hostile to his release—a most singulw
and extraordinary mode of evincing his sincerity.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
46 M O R G A N ' S A B D U C T I O K .
the acts of others, the same rule does not apply, and
then Ins declarations require confirmation.
Notwithstanding then, all the light which has been
* If Guidins is to be credited, he must have been one of the
most heartless, cold blooded villains in existence. Take for
instance, his relation of that part of the transaction which
succeeded Morgan's arfival at the ferry on the night of the
13th of September 1826. I quote his own words. " A man
sat in front of him, (Morgan,) with a pistol in his hand ready
to shoot him if he made any resistance. Morgan attempted
to put his hand into his vest pocket, but the cord with which
his aims were tied prevented him from doing so, and he said
to me, (Giddins,) niv friend, have the goodness to put your
hand info m y vest pocitet and lake out a quid of tobacco."—
Again. " he, Morgan, was immediately interrupted by the
person who sat in front of him, who said, as he presented a
pistol, silence you damned rascal, or I will shoot you in a
minute, no more of your preaching." Again, after this, Mor-
gan made another attempt to speak, but before he could ar-
ticulate a single phrase, this m a n bore a pistol against his
breast apparently with some force, and said to him, " do you
feel that," " I do," said Morgan, " well" resumed this man,
" if you attempt to speak another wordyou are a dead man."
Morgan was then silent after uttering a groan. Such is
Giddins'statement of a transaction in which he, (Giddins,)
participated. It took place too in Giddins' own boat, on the
Niagara River in the night, when " there was no eye to
pitty, and no arm to save." H e was voluntarily there aid-
ing and assisting, and afterwards became, as he says. Mor-
gan's jailer. N o w this statement is either true or false—if
false, Giddins has only lied—if true, he stands convicted on
his own confession, of one of the most heartless, guilty cor-
rupt and depraved acts hitherto presented for the detestation
ofmank.nd; still he has the effrontry, instead of humbling
himself in dust and ashes, to present himself before this com-
munity as an object for its applause—and what is strnnrrer
still, that community appears to listen with eagerness to his
tales, and have since exalted a man who, in the silent hour
of midnight, looked calmly on and saw a helpless fellow be-
ing thus wantonly abused, and that too, without extendin *
to him either relief or pity, into a saint and a patriot. Well
may an indignant publick complain thai " Morgan's G h
WHlkfi unavenged among us,"so long as Giddins, with a|| kj
guili upon him, is permitted to stalk foith with impunitv nt
noon day, and without even a show of repentencn, to publinW
his deeds to the world, and to profit by his own depravitv
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
47
thrown upon this transaction by two years of labori-
ous investigation—notwithslanding (he revelation of
Giddins and of others, the fate of Morgan i
s s
t
i
l
l as
doubtful as before. W e are therefore l
e
f
t to form our
opinion upon this subject from probabilities more
than from any direct or positive proof which has yet
been adduced.
That Morgan was conveyed to the Niagara Fron-
tier, for the purpose of being taken across that i
l
l fa-
ted river, and not to be drowned in i
t
, caunot, after
considering the evidence which has been brought to
bear upon that point, reasonably be denied. The
only-question then, remaining for discussion, is, wheth-
er that intenlion was afterwards carried into effect,
or whether, by the interventionof subsequent circum-
stance, he became the victim of force, of fraud or of
violence.
Without pretending to give an opinion of my own,
(for i
t must be confessed great difficulties meet us
in arriving at a conclusion on either hand) I shall re-
peat the aigumenfs adduced by the advocates in fa-
vour of each position, and leave my readers (o judge
for themselves as reason and inclination, as prejudice
and passion shall dictate.
Those whoseimportance i
s derived in a great mea-
sure from the pubhck's belief in Morgan's death, hav-
ing abandoned theirfirstposition in relation to his sac-
rifice at the fort, by having his throat cut. his tongue
torn out and buried in the sands of the lake or river^
now contend that he was taken out in an open boat,
and by the aid of weights attached to his legs and
arms, sunk to rise no more. In support ofthis position*
some lo»se declarations of individual masons, are ad-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
48 MORGAN'S ABDIJCTION.
ded. His lo-.g and continued absence is also urged;
and this, 1 must confess, seems, at first, conclusive.
In reply, however, i
t i
s argued that, had Morgan been
sunk with wei-hts. as pretended, his body must una-
voidably have been found by those who afterwards,
with so much deserved zeal, industry, and persever-
ance, raked the river and lake, weeks and months for
that purpose.
It has also been urged as a reason why the body
was not discovered, that Morgan was drowned with-
out such weights appended, and might have been
driven by the current, into the lake.
In reply, i
t is said, if such was the case, he would
shortly have risen; for i
t is a well established fact,
thai the body of a person who has been drowned, be-
comes buoyant in a little time, and rises and floats
on the surface. The body of Timothy Munroe, for
ins'ance, mistaken by some honest, and by many de-
signing men, for Morgan's, which was afterwards
found on the shore of lake Ontario, and there reclaim*
ed. as if by accident, from a watery grave, sub-
sequently brought in solemn pomp, to the village of
Batavia, and there interred, soon after i
t was deprived
of life, rose and floated on the liquid element, t
i
l
l i
t
was driven by the winds and the waves, into a friendly
port.
Those whose interests and whose feelings are con-
nected with the belief that Morgan is yet alive, con-
tend with as great, and perhaps with greater plausibil-
ity, that Morgan was landed on the British shore,
and that reasons, known only to himself, prevent his
return.
The fact that his body has never been found, is
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
M O R G A N ' S A B D U C T I O N . 49
certainly a strong argument in favor of this positio
There was a time, when the inquiry " where is Mor-
gan ."'was in the mouth of every man, woman and
child in this vicinity. Were the position to be assu-
med for a moment, that he was landed on the Bri-
tish shore, the inquiry, "why does he not return?"
might, with equal propriety, be made, and perhaps
admit of a no less difficult solution.
I will repeat, however, a few, not as my own, but
as the answers of others, and leave their weight and
importance, if any, to be estimated by the candid rea.
der.
It is in thefirstplace suggested, that fear may pre-
vent it. It. is not impossible that, having been expo-
sed to one outrage, the apprehension of its repetition
may have an influence.
In the second place, it is urged that, having been
intemperate, for a long time, in his habits, and in con-
sequence thereof, inattentive to his family—being
held in but little estimation by community, and hav-
ing no property except in his book, no object in par-
ticular would be attained by his return.
It is also in the third place suggested, that his return
would prove entirely ruinous to his pretended friends.
It -annot be presumed that he is detained in custody
by masons, for of all men in the world, they are the
most interested in his return. There is not, proba-
bly, among their number, a solitary individual, who
cannotwith perfect sincerity, repeat with James Fitz
James, in the Lady of the Lake,
" MyfinestEarldom would I give,
Could I but bid Clan Alpine live."
N o proposition is perhaps more evident, than that
F
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
50 M O R G A N ' S A B D U C T I O N .
his return would entirely prostrate the party that
has grown up, been fostered, and is now sustained by
a belief in his murder.
In the fourth place, a consciousness of having vio-
lated the most sacred pledges to his masonick friends,
and a recollection of the favours which in times past,
he had received at their hands, may perhaps have led
him to suppose that his presence would be unwel-
come. If, therefore, he could not fellowship with
those w h o m he had betrayed, and his return would in
all probability prove ruinous to those w h o m he had
adopted, the question, " why he has not returned,"
is susceptible of an answer without supposing him
murdered.
And in the last place, he may have gone to parts
remote and not had time or opportunity to return,
or may have died a natural death since his abduction.
Whetherthe above reasons are conclusive or not, they
deserve at all events some consideration.
It has frequently been suggested, that inasmuch as
he was last seen in the company of masons, i
t i
s per-
fectly in their power to answer (he above questions.
And if those implicated could be sure, not only of
impunity, as in the case of Giddins, but of rewards
and honours, they would probably come forth and pro-
claim their infamy. It will, however, be recollec-
ted thnt but few can probably know, except from re-
port, any thing about his fate, and those few bein"
accomplices in guilt, can not perhaps, with safety
confess their crime. It i
s therefore to be feared that
much time will yet elapse before the whole truth in
regard to a transaction scarcely paralleled in the an-
nals of iniquity, will be fully and corrcctlv disclosed.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
MILLER'S A R R E S T . 51
Goodall who published " Jachin and Boaz" many
years ago, a book similar to Morgan's, and which has
been on the shelves of almost every book store in
our country since, was once a respectable m a n — a
tallow chandler by trade, and Master ofQueen's Arms
Lodge, St Paul's Church Yard, London. Being re-
duced in his circumstances, he thereby became des-
perate, and in order to re-establish himself in busi-
ness, wrote and published his book—his mysterious
absence gave i
t currency, and edition after edition
was sold at a guinea a copy. After an absence of
two years he returned, and to ingratiate himself with
the masons denied its authenticity. A fortune, how-
ever, of £100,000 had been acquired, and those in-
terested in the work, threatened to prosecute him for
fraud, when hefled,andfinallydied a vagabond in a
foreign land.
CHAPTER VII.
Miller's arrest on the \1ih of September 182C—Trial
of French and others,
After the intentions of Miller and Morgan in rela-
tion to " the book," were publickly announced, one
Daniel Johns from Canada, arrived in Batavia. H e
had resided for a short time in Rochester, and there
become acquainted with Col. Miller's friends, by
w h o m i
t is said he was recommended to Miller as a
suitable partner. Johns had a little money and of-
fered to make some advances—pecuniary aid was at
that time desirable. H e was therefore without much
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
52 MILLER'S A R R E S T .
scrutiny as to his motives, in the language of the re-
port "accepted and received into their confidence."
The object of Johns in the formation of this part-
nership, has never distinctly been ascertained. It is
probablehowever,and circumstances since developed
apparently justify the conclusion, that it was entirely
different from that of Col. Miller. Johns unques-
tionably flattered himself with the idea of obtaining
Morgan's manuscripts, and Miller with the idea of
obtaining Johns' money. A deception was from the
beg'nning therefore, intended, and subsequent disclo-
sures inform us that i
t partially succeeded—Johns ob-
tained a part of the manuscripts above alluded to,
and Miller about thirty or forty dollarsin cash. As the
manuscripts, however, were of no value, Miller, it is
admitted by all obtained an advantage—of this Johns
was aware, but in endeavouring to coerce Miller into
a more just and equitable distribution of the goods
and chattels oftheconcern, involved himself and some
of his friends in a series of difficulties.
A few days previous to Miller's arrest, a warrant
in behalf of Johns was issued by a Justice of the
Peace residing in Le Roy, against Miller and one
John Davids, his partner, tocollect the monies before
that time advanced by Johns in the prosecution of
theirjoint undertaking. This warrant, unfortunate-
ly for the officer, was placed in the hands of one
Jesse French, a constable of the town of Stafford, for
execution. French having been informed that Mil-
ler's office was guardtd, and that he was determined
at all events, to resist the serviceofany process what-
ever, employed i
t appears, a number of assistants •
and on the 12th of September 1826, accompanied by
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
MILLER'S A R R E S T . 53
those assistants, and followed by a large party, re-
paired to Batavia in order to eti'ect Miller's and Da-
vids'arrest. The presence of so many strangers
without any apparrent business, excited on the part
of its citizens the most fearful apprehensions. Early
in the morning Col. Miller received a note from some
person to him unknown, that an attempt would be
made on that day to obtain by force, possession of the
papers intended foi publication. This note was sub-
mitted to the inspection of a few of the most respec-
table citizens in the village, some of w h o m were ma-
sons and their opinions desired. They, not suppos-
ing for a moment, that any set of men could be so
rash and inconsiderate, as to attempt a measure so
foolish in itself, and so impracticable in its execution,
advised him to regard i
t as an idle rumour deserving
of no attention. When, however, so many strangers
without any ostensible business, appeared as i
t by
concert, at the same time those who in the morning
had advised Cot. Miller to treat i
t as an idle rumour,
began to fear that a plan concerted to obtain by force
the papers in question, had previously been formed,
and then awaited for its execution the orders only of
some rash, inconsiderate leaders. The absence at
this time of all the magistrates from the village, serv-
ed to increase the above suspicions. A number arm-
ed with clubs immediately repaired to the vicinity of
Miller's office, in order to be ready, should an at-
tempt of that kind be made, to repel force by force.
A number of the most respectable citizens, masons
as well as others, tendered their services on the oc-
casion to preveut a riot, which appearances for a
short time indicated was about to commence. The
F2
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
FILLER'S ARREST.
utmost anxiety was felt by all. Morgan had depar-
ted from Batavia on the preceding day, in the cus-
tody of an officer, and no intelligence of his destiny
•had vet been received. Appreheusions of the most
alarming kindfilledevery bosom, and consternation
was depicted on every face. The cloud, however,
which hung with such portentous horror over the
village at noon soon disappeared, and peace and qui-
etness were shortly restored.
Soon after the citizens had assumed* defensive at-
titude, and while waiting in the immediate expecta-
tion of an attack upon Miller's office, French, accom-
panied by a single individual, repaired thither for the
purpose of arresting Miller and Davids upon a civil
process—the office fortified by " two swivels, fifteen
or twenty guns, and five or six pistols." all of wiiich
were loaded, was at that time undefended, except
by Miller, Davids and Miller's son. Wilcox, French's
assistantfirstarrested Davids, who called for a pistol
—French at the same time arrested Miller. Both
submitted to the arrest, and were conducted by the
officer and his attendant through an armed crowd of
Miller's friends across the street to Danolds' tavern.
Thirty or"forty or perhapsfiftypersons from w h o m
the anticipated violence was feared, were there as-
sembled. Orderly and quiet, they gave no indica-
tions of any hostility whatever, and satisfied those
with w h o m they conversed, that no intention on their
part existed, which ought to create the least alarm.
Subsequent disclosures, however, render i
t evident
that an intention, at least in the minds of some had
previously existed, to obtain even by force if neces-
sary, the papers alluded to. This intention had been
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
MILLER'S A R R E S T . 55
communicated i
t seems, to some members of the fra-
ternity residing in Batavia, all of w h o m condemned
in the severest terms a measure fraught with mischief.
conceived infolly,and ruinous in its consequences ;
and a messenger was immediately sent to Stafford to
expostulate with the leaders of this misguided hand,
upon the folly, the depravity and total impracticabil-
ity of their supposed design, and to urge upon them
the necessity of prudence and forbearance. These
expostulations had the desired effect and the inten-
tion was at once abandoned.
The absence of all the justices, (three in number,';
was soon thereafter accounted for to the entire satis.
faction of every candid man, (they having been stib-
pcened to attend as witnesses, a trial in Bethany on
that day,) and Miller's return from Le Roy whither
he had been taken by the officer after his arrest, of
course quieted for (hat time the publick mind.
The circumstances however, attending his arrest—
the manner in which he was treated while in custody
—the issue of the suit, and a variety of other circum-
stances, led many to inquire into the cause of these
mighty preparations, and created strong suspicion
that all was not right.
After Miller and Davids had been arrested and ta-
ken toDanolds'as already stated. Davids beinga pri-
soner upon the limits and therefore not liable to be
arrested and taken from thence by virtue of a civil
process, was immediately, upon this fact being sug-
gested by the Sheriff, discharged from custody. Mil-
ler was detained oneor two hours, during which time
his friends had access to him—counsel were sent for
and a request made ofsome particular individuals, that
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
56 MILLER'S A R R E S T .
they would accompany him to Le Roy. H e then
departed in a waggon prepared by the constable for
that purpose with others for Stafford, a little village
six miles east of Batav;
a. The party which had ac-
companied or rather followed French to Batavia in
the morning, were at this time returninghome: these
together with Miller's friends following in the rear,
gave i
t an imposing appearance. At Stafford. Miller
was taken into the Lodge R o o m and kept under guard
for one or two hours, against (he remonstrances of
his counsel, who, together with a number of Miller's
friends particularly desired by him to follow after,
had in the mean time arrived and were admitted at
their solicitation into the Lodge room without delay.
The party now augmented by some additional force,
then proceeded on to Le Roy, a village four miles
s
t
i
l
l further east, where the Justice by w h o m the war-
rant in favour of Johns against Miller and Davids
was issued, then resided. Miller was there desired
to go into Hall's tavern which he refused to do, but
went directly to the magistrate's in company with
French, where he was put in the keeping of Wilcox
and Hurlburt. French in the mean time, went out
in pursuit of the plaintiff. The Justice was called
upon soon afterwards by Miller's counsel to proceed,
and after waiting about half an hour, no warrant hav-
ing been returned, and neither constable or plaintiff
appearing, Miller was discharged. H e had scarcely
left the office before French, accompanied by the
plaintiffreturned. French made one or two iuaiiec-
tual attempts afterwards to arrest him a second time
upon the same wairant. Miller's friends however
interfered and prevented him from so doing. HoJ-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
TRIAL OF FRENCH, AND OTHERS. 57
den, one of their number, a constable from Batavia,
stated to French and others that Miller was a prison-
er and in his custody. N o further effortswere there-
fore made to detain him, and Millerthereupon,in the
evening of the same day returned to Batavia.
An indictment was afterwards found against James
Ganson, Jesse French, Roswell Wilcox and James
Hnrlburt, for an alleged riot, an assault and battery
upon, and the false imprisonment of David C. Miller-
A trial was had at the court of Oyer and Terminer
held in April following, at Batavia in the county of
Genesee, before the Hon. John Birdsall, circuit
Judge, William H. Tisdale, James Taggert and Sim-
eon Cumings, Esqrs. Judges of the court of C o m m o n
Pleas of said county, two of w h o m are masons—a
part of the jury were also masons. Ganson was ac-
quitted—French, Wilcox and Hurlburt convicted
and sentenced—French to twelve, Wilcox to six, and
Hurlburt to three months imprisonment in the couu-
tjjai
'-
The information received by French that Miller's
office was defended by fire arms, would probably
have justified him in the employment of reasonable
assistance, had no further outrages succeeded. It
can hardly be supposed however, that thirty or forty
or perhapsfiftymen, accompanied him to Batavia on
that day for the purpose, nor can i
tfora moment
be credited that such was in fact (heir only intention.
W e are therefore left to seek other and different rea-
sons for this extraordinary assemblage, and • am not
aware that any can be found, without su, j >^. gas al-
ready siatid, ihata design had previously beei iiruiqp
to obtain by force the papers in question—that the
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
58 TRIAL OF FRENCH, AND OTHERS
plan so formed was abandoned in consequence of re-
monstrances from masons in the village—and thatthe
party proceeded thither with a view to obtain some
refreshments and the intention of returning immedi-
ately home. It would therefore seem, that the large
party by which the officer was attended from Batavia
to Stafford, and from thence to L e Roy, was more
the result ofaccident than design. Millers detention
for a short time in Batavia, was not in itself reprehen-
sible, as i
t afforded him an opportunity to employ
counsel and notify his friends that he was in difficulty
and perhaps in danger. Had the intention of those
concerned in this unfortunate affair been to carry o
f
f
Miller, as by some is pretended, i
t is hardly possible
to suppose that such an opportunity would have been
afforded him. Besides there is no evidence that
French was desired to proceed. His detention,how-
ever, in Stafford, admits ofno apology. The manner
too, in which he was treated while there with taunts
and threats, cannot be sufficiently censured. The
conviction and imprisonment of French and others
was therefore a just and merited rebuke for their con-
duct on (his occasion, and i
t i
s sincerely hoped that
their influence will never cease, or their cause be
forgotten. Ganson not having participated directly
or indirectly in the arrest or imprisonment of Miller,
and the intention for which the party i
t seems, had as-
sembled, having been abandoned before its arrival to
the scene of i
t
s intended operations, without doubt
was deservedly acquitted.
An indictment against Ganson and others, for a
conspiracy to procure said papers, in order to pre-
ven their publication, has also 'teen found, and i
t i
s
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
TRIAL OF FRENCH, AND OTHERS. 59
now pending in (he supreme court of this state. Of
that therefore-, i
t i
s improper now to remark.
The mystery which preceded, accompanied and
followed this transaction,from the commencement, by
Miller's arrest in Batavia, to itsfinaltermination, by
his discharge at Le Roy, and his subsequent return,
has induced many to suppose that i
t was the intention
of those with w h o m i
t originated, to have carried off
Miller as well as Morgan. The facts in the case,
and the circumstances by which i
t was attended, do
not, howevever, justify that conclusion. An appa-
rent mystery—a known and acknowledged wrong in-
tention, and a palpable outrage, all occurring at the
same time,and centering upon the same object, would
be apt, in almost any case, but more especially in
this, to induce a belief that other wrongs and injuries
were reserved in store. Although i
t cannot for a
moment be supposed, that this mighty preparation
was all made with a view to Miller's and David's ar-
rest upon a civil process, for a paltry debt of thirty
or forty dollars—and although i
t i
s conceded that a
design to obtain the papers in question i
s manifest
throughout, and that Miller's and Davids' arrest under
the semblance of law, was only a preparatory step to
its accomplishment, we are not warranted in the be-
lief that any further harm was ever intended.
The cases of Miller and Morgan, i
t will be recol-
lected, were entirely different. The object to be
effected by the removal of each, was equally so. Had
the manuscripts been obtained, Miller's progress in
the work must of course have been suspended, unless
athers could have been procured. The removal of
Morgan beyond his reach, and the possession of his
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
e
o MEETING IN BATAVIA.
manuscripts, i
t was unquestionably supposed, would
effect their purpose. N o object, therefore, could
have been obtained by Miller's abduction.
The conclusion seems, therefore of course, to fol-
low, that a design was formed by some rash, inconside-
rate men, to obtain, in some way or other, the Mor-
gan manuscripts. That in order to pave the way for
its execution, Miller and Davids were to befirstre-
moved, apparently by legal process—that this inten-
tion was afterwasds abandoned, and before their ani-
val in the village—that to save appearances, Miller
was arrested for debt, and taken to Le Roy—that in
order to gratify the disappointed expectations, or
perhaps, (he natural propensities of some who, clo-
thed, as i
t was supposed they were, with a little brief
authority, derived from a warrant, felt power and for.
got right, some of their number on the way to Le Roy
" Played such fantastick tricks before high heaven,
As make the Angels weep,"
andfinally,to close the scene, were afterwards justly
convicted and severely punished.
C H A P T E R VIII.
Meeting in Batavia subsequent to Morgan's abduction
—Appointment of Committees—Gov. Clinton's
Proclamation—Proceedings of Grand Chapter.
The aggressions on the part of masons terminate
here. Having endeavoured in the preceeding chap-
ters to elucidate the causes which led to Morgan's
abduction—having traced the operation of those
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
MEETING IN BATAVIA. £
J
J
causes stepbystep, totheirfinal consummation—hav-
ing shown, I trust, to the satisfaction of every impar-
tial mind, that Morgan and Miller, without anypatr;-
otick motives, furnished the deluded actoTs in those
scenes already described with a pretextforwhat they
did, unjustifiable, impolitick and illegal, I admit—
having exhibited to the publick view sufficient evi-
dence I hope, to convince rational and impartial men,
that all masons even in this vicinity did not partici-
pate in their deeds, or approve of their conduct—I
shall n o w endeavour to ascertain the origin, trace
the progress, and exhibit a true character of anti-ma-
sonry—to elicit the motives which first induced its
leaders without cause, to outlaw and proscribe the
innocent as well as tho guilty—to anticipate the ef-
fects which their principles, their conduct and their
policy, are calculated to produce on the morals, the
happiness, the religion and the politicks of our com-
mon country—and finally to draw ifposible, a fair
comparison between the tendency of masonick and
anti-masonick principles and duties, as taught and
practised at the present day.
The mystery attending Morgan's departure—the
circumstance of his not having been heard from—the
meeting on the night of the 8th of September—the
attempt to burn Miller's office—and the subsequent
arrest of Miller on the 12th, excited in the pubHfck
mind so many suspicions, that a few individuals resi-
ding in Batavia, very justly and properly deemed an
investigation necessary.
With a view to ascertain the circumstances in re-
•adot* to Morgan's being taken from the jail in Caa-
andaigua, rumours of which had as yet only reached
G
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
fl2 MEETING IN BATAVIA*
them, an agent was sent thither on the 22d of Sepf.
1826. A number of affidavits were procured on the
following day, which estab! shed beyond doubt the
important fact, that Morgan was arrested in violation
of law, after his discharge from prison on the 12th of
September, and notwithstanding his opposition, con-
vey ed from thence, in a carriage prepared for that
purpose, by force, they knew not where.
Publicity given to the information thus acquired.
served to increase s
t
i
l
l more the intensity of those
suspicions. The thunder of popular indignation be-
gan to roll. I
t was however atfirst,in low and
solemn murmurs. It emitted as yet no sparks, be-
cause no objects had yet been found on which i
t
s bolts
could descend. The inqairy " where is Morgan,"
had appropriately been made and no answer been
given. The citizens of (he county of Genesee were
therefore invited to meet in mass, at the Court House
in Batavia, on the 4th of October, for the purpose of
making some arrangements in order to ascertain his
fate.
The meeting was numerously and respectably at-
tended. It was a solemn and impressive scene. A
citizen of this free land, entitled to the protection of
its laws, bads been taken by violence and confined,
without authority, in some solitary place, or convey-
efl by force without the United States, to parts un.
known, or had fallen beneath some murderer's arm
and no information relative to his destiny or his fate!
had yet been received. The circumstance that l
i
e
was poor—that he was dissolute—that he was in some
respents unprincipled, and therefore held in bat little
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
MEETING IN BATAVIA. 63
•w'limalion by community, gave to the meeting, in the
eye of the philanthropist, additional interest.
Had he been a man of rank, of consideration, or of
fortune, the people at large would never have been
left to make the above inquiry. H e would have
been followed—he would have been rescued, and if
necessary, an army would have been roused at his
call and awaited his commands. The wrongs of an
individual once rocked the battlements of Troy, and'
made the throne of Priam tremble to its base. But
the unfortunate and degraded Morgan was suffered
to be carried off under circumstances calculated to
excite the strongest suspicions, without scarce an in-
quiry.
I cannot in justice to historick truth forbear to re-
mark that a number of the most conspicuous anti-
masons in the county ; men who became so long after
Morgan's abduction, and who have since participated
in the rewards and honours of a triumphant party,
designedly abstained from attendiug that meeling.
Nor can 1 injustice to my .own feelings, suffer this
occasion to pass without applauding, in the highest
terms, the candour, the good sense, and above all. the
holy fervour which appeared tofill,inspire and ex-
pand the bosoms of the great mass of which i
t was
composed. A writer of eminence, I believe i
t W%6
Mr. Burke, observes, that the publick opinion i
s
often wrong, but the publick feeling never. An out-
rage all thought had unquestionably been committed;
but its extent and its authors were unknown. An
inquiry was demanded—(he publick indignation was
roused, and (he defection and punishment of guilt
seemed to be its only object. A numerous and res-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
64 APPOINTMENT OF COMMITTEES.
pectablc committee, consisting of Theodore F. Tal-
bot, David E.Evans,* Trumbull Gary, W m . Keyes,
William Davis, Jonathan Lay, Timothy Fitch, Ly-
man D- Prindle, E . Southworth and James P. Smith
were unanimously appointed for that purpose, and
the meeting adjourned.
Similar ones were afterwards held in other counties,
and committees appointed, a part of w h o m subse-
quently composed the celebrated Lewiston Conven-
tion.
The committee above named immediately caused
a notice to be published, containing a brief statement
of the facts and circumstances in the case so far as
ascertained, and desired all who possessed any know-
ledge or information whatever in relation to either, to
communicate the same without delay to some one of
theirmembers. A request was also sent to his Ex-
cellencyGovernour Clinton, desiring his aid—it was
promptly afforded, and the following proclamation
immediately issued :
v
Mr. Evans soon after his appointment as one of the
bovo committee, left Batavia for New-York upon business,
and was absent during the winter. On his return i
n the
spring of 1827, anti-masonry having assumed a p
o
l
i
t
i
c
a
l
character, Mr. Evans, of course declined participating i
n
the acts of said committee, and never met with them after-
wards. Col. Davis and some others at a subsequent period
pursued a similar course.Thus i
t will bo seen, that there-
publican members of said committee, who were anti-ma-
sons from principle, perceiving objects which have since
been more fully developed, foresaw even at that day, the
tendency to which the measures then in agitation would
probably lead, and availed themselves of an early oonortuni-
ty to express their disapprobation of the course proposed —
Subsequent events have shown, as well their wisdom'on
that occasion, as the f
o
l
l
y and depravity of those who assen-
ted to the conversion of anti-masonry into a political eeffine
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
G O V . CLINTON'S P R O C L A M A T I O N . 65
1st Proclamation of the Governour.
D E W I T T C L I N T O N , Governour ofthe State of
(L. S.) New-York, to state officers and Ministers of Jus-
tice in said state, and particularly in the county of
Genesee, and the neighbouring counties—Greeting;
W H E R E A S , information, under oath, has been transmit-
ted to me by Theodore F. Talbot, Esquire, and other citi-
zens of the County of Genesee, acting as a Committee in
behalfof the people of that county, representing that divers
outrages and oppressions have been committed on the rights
of persons residing in the village of Batavia, and that distur-
bances have ensued, which are injurious, and may prove de-
structive to peace and good order in that quarter. N o w ,
therefore, I enjoin i
t upon you, and each of you, to pursue all
proper and efficient measures for the apprehension ofthe of-
lenders, and the prevention of future outrages. And I do
also request the good citizens of this State, to co-operate
with the civil authorities in maintaining the ascendency of
law and good order.
S o m e partial examination of the committee after-
wards, together with information received by them
from different sources, inducing a belief in their minds,
that the outrage was more aggravated than it was at
first apprehended, another communication was ad-
dressed to the Governour, desiring his mors effectual
aid in the premises. With that promptness which
ever marked his official course, he immediately issu-
ed another proclamation, on the 26th of Octobers
1826. A n d afterwards, as the proof strengthened5
and the evidence of guilt became more and more ap-
parent, on the 19th March, 1827, still another, as fol-
lows.
2d. Proclamation of the Governour.
W H E R E A S , i
t has been represented to me, that William
Morgan, who was unlawfully conveyed from the jail of the
county of Ontario, sometime in the month of September laet>
G2
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
06 GOV. CLINTON'S PROCLAMATION.
has not been found, and that it might have a beneficial ef-
fect in restoring him to his family and in promoting the de
tection and punishment of the perpetrators of this violen
outrage, if, in addition to the proceeding heretofore adopted
by me, a proclamation was issued offering a specific reward
for these purposes .—JVow Therefore, in order that the offen-
ders may be brought to condign punishment and the violated
majesty of the laws thereby effectually vindicated, I do heie-
by offer, in addition to the assurances of compensation Jiere-
tofore given, a reward of Three Hundred Dollars for the
discovery ofthe offenders and a reward of O n e Hundred
Dollars for the discovery of any and every one of them, to
be paid on conviction ; and also a further reward of T w o
Hundred Dollars for authentic information of the place
where the said William Morgan has been conveyed, and I do
enjoin it upon all Sheriffs, Magistrates, and other officers
and Ministers ofjustice to be vigilant and active in the dis-
charge of Uieir duties on this occasion.
I N Witness whereof, I have hereunto set m y hand
(L. S.) and the privy seal at the city of Albany, this 26th
day of Octobe.', Anno Domini 1826.
DE WITT CLINTON.
3d. Proclamation ofthe Governour.
Whereas the measures adopted for the discovery of W I L -
I.IAM M O R G A N , after his unlawful abduction from Canandai-
gua in September last, have not been attended with success:
and whereas many ofthe good citizens of this State are un-
der an impression, from the lapse of time and other circum-
stances, that he has been murdered:—Now therefore, to the
end that, if living, he may be restored to his family, and, if
murdered, that the perpetrators may be brought to condign
punishment, I have thoughtfitto issue this proclamation,
promising a reward of O N E T H O U I A N D D O L L A R S for the dis-
covery ofthe offender or offenders, to be paid on conviction
and on the certificate of the Attorney General, or officer
prosecuting oh the part ofthe State, that the persons claim-
ing the said last mentioned reward is or are justly entitled to
the same under this proclamation. A n d I further promise a
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
PROCEEDINGS or GRAND CHAPTER. 67
free pardon, so far as I am authorised under the constitution
of this State, to any accomplice or co-operator who shall
make a full discovery of the offender or offenders. And I
do enjoin i
t upon all officers and ministers ofjustice, anrl all
other persons, to be vigilant and active in bringing to justice
the perpetrators of a crime so abhorrent to humanity and so
derogatory from the ascendency of law and good order.
IN witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and
(L. s.) the Privy Seal atthe city ofAlbany, this 19th day of
March, Anno Domini 1827.
D E W I T T CLINTON.
The Grand Royal Arch Chapter of the state of
New-York, at itsfirstmeeting thereafter, in February
1827, adopted the following preamble and resolu-
tions.
{From, the Albany Masonick Record, Feb. 10.]
T H K G R A N D R O V A L A R C H C H A P T E R of the State of New-
York commenced its annual session in this city on Tuesday
last, and adjourned this day. Upwards of one hundred and
ten subordinate chapters were represented. Previous to its
adjournment, the following proceedings were had :
To the Most Excellent the Grand Chapter of the Slate of
New-York :—
The committee appointed by resolution ofthe grand chap-
ter, on the affair of William Morgan, respectfully reported :
That they have attended to the duties assigned them, and
that from the highly agitated and inflamed state of publick
feeling on this subject, and from the false and undeserved
imputations which have been thrown upon free-masons, and
the masonick order generally, your committee deem i
t pro-
per that this grand chapter should make a publick expression
of its sentiments in relation to the affair alluded to. Your
committee, as expressive of their views on the subject em-
braced in this report, would offer for the consideration of tho
grand chapter, the following preamble and resolutions :
Whereas, tho rights of personal liberty and security are
guaranteed by the free constitution, under which we, the
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
68 PROCEEDINGS OP LYONS R. A . C H A P T E R .
members of this grand chapter, in common with the rest of
our fellow citizens, have the happiness to live : and where-
as, we esteem the preservation of these rights of vital im-
portance to the perpetuity and full enjoyment of the bles-
sings of our republican institutions : and whereas, the com-
munity has lately witnessed a violation of the same, under
the alleged pretext of the masoniok name and sanction, (in
the case of William Morgan): and whereas, the principles of
our ancient and honourable fraternity contain nothing which
in the slightest degree justify or authorise such proceedings.
but, on the contrary, do in all their tenets and ceremonies
encourage and inculcate a just submission to the laws, the
enjoyment of equal rights by every individual, and a high
and elevated spirit of personal as well as national indepen-
dene : —
Therefor* Resolved, By this grand chapter, that we its
members, individually, and as a body, do disclaim all know-
ledge or approbation of the said proceedings, in relation to
the abduction of the said William Mojgan ; and that wo
disapprove of the same, as a violation ofthe majesty of the
laws, and an infringement of the rights of personal liberty.
secured to every citizen of our free and happy republick.
Resolved, That the following report, preamble and reso-
lution be published.
A true extract from the minutes ofthe Grand Royal Arch
Chapter ofthe state of New-York.
J O H N O. C O L E , G. Secretary.
T h e Lyons Royal Arch Chapter, in the County of
W a y n e , on (he 15th day of March, 1827, adopted
the following preamble and resolutions:
At a meeting of the Lyons Royal Arch Chapter, held at
Chapter Hall, March 15, 5827, the following preamble
and resolutions were adopted :
Whereas, the abduction of William Morgan, has given
rise to much excitement in tho publick mind, against the fra-
ternity of free-masons, and as efforts have been made both
in publick newspapers, and in private circles, to charge the
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
PROCEEDINGS OF LVON'S R. A. CHAPTER. 69
outrage committed upon his person, against the whole body
of masons, as such : and, whereas, many pretend to believe,
and endeavour to inculcate that belief in others, that the ma-
sonick fraternity claims a right to inflict corporal punish-
ment, and even put to death such of its members as reveal
its secrets, or violate its laws—Therefore
Resolved, That we hereby declare unto the world, that
masons acknowledge no laws which contravene the consti-
tution and lawsiof their country, and that the masonick insti-
tution claims no right to inflict corporal or other punish-
ment upon its members, except suspensions and expulsions,
and that the exercise of any further or any greater power
than this, would be in violation ofthe most sacred principles
of our order.
Resolved, That we view with deep regret, the gross vio-
lation ofthe laws of our country, and the rules and princi-
ples of masonry, by members of our institution, in the late
affair of William Morgan, and that we utterly disclaim all
knowledge of, or participation whatever in the abduction of
said Morgan ; and that we will as masons, have no commu-
nication whatever with those persons who were engaged in
the perpetration of this lion id outrage.
I certify the foregoing preamble and resolutions, to be a
true extract from the minutes of the Lyons Royal Arch
Chapter.—Dated March 15, 1827.
G R A H A M H. C H A P I N , Secretary.
Similar resolutions were adopted at the meetings
of different Lodges and Chapters in various parts of
the state. All united in the belief that a wrong had
heen committed—all disapproved ofthe same except
a few inconsiderate m e n of both parties : and so long
as the attention ofthe several committees was con-
fined to the discovery and punishment of its guilty
perpetrators, so long the considerate of all parlies
agreed in sentiment and wishes,
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
7Q MORGAN'S ILLUSTRATIONS.
CHAPTER IX.
Morgan's Illustrations of masonry-Publication there
While the several committees were pursuing their
inquiries with great assiduity, and those suspected of
guilt, preparing for the impending storm, the contem-
plated book entitled, " Morgan's Illustrations of Ma-
sonry," appeared. I
t was published in a pamphlet
form, the cost of which might probably have been teu
or eleven cents, and sold atfirstforone dollar. The
copy right i
t seems, had been secured according to
law, previous to i
t
s publication.
W h e n the committee in March following, were
about preparing their report for the press, some of
their members addressed a note to Sheriff Thompson^
desiring information from him in relation to certain
papes found in Morgan's trunk previously taken upon
attachment. T h e information thus sought to be ob-
tained, was immediately furnished, and copies ofthe
following affidavit, bond and letter delivered them,
pursuant to such request. T h e commission ofCapt.
which i
t i
s pretended Morgan had receved from Gen.
Jackson, was not among them, and for the best of
reasons, because none such ever existed. T h e a
f
f
i
-
davit, bond and letter, were not inserted in said Re-
port, and as they are calculated to throw some hght
upon a subject involved in mystery and may perhaps,
serve to explain the intentions, (he motives, and the
expectations of those originally concerned in i
t
- ;>ub-
lication, 1 have thought proper to insert them here,
Oi. .he 1 Uh of March 1826. while Morgan was
preparing his manuscripts, John Davids, one of his
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
MORGAN'S ILLUSTRATIONS, 7 j'
partners, and others, made and subscribed the follow
ing oath :
" W e and each of us, do hereby most solemnly and
sincerely promise and swear upon the Holy Evange-
list? of Almighty God, that we never will divulge do-
ri,,
~ "ur natural lives, communicate or make known
to any person or persons in the known world, our
knowledge, or any part thereof, respecting William
Morgan's intention, (communicated to u»,)to publish
a book on the subject of free-masonry, neither by
writing, marking, or insinuations, or any way devisa-
ble by man." Sworn and subscribed this 13th day
of March, 1826. Signed "John Davids"' and other.
O n the 5th day of August following, John Davids
and David C Miller of Batavia, and Russel Dyer of
Rochester, executed to said Morgan, a bond in the
penal sum of five hundred thousand dollars, con-
ditioned for the payment of cue fourth part of the
sum which should be received on the sale of a cer-
tain book upon free-masonry, which the said John
Davids, David C. Miller, and Russel Dyer were a-
bout to publish.
O n the 7th day of August, and two days only after
said bond purports to bear date, capt. Morgan, in
consequence ofdifficulty between him and his friends,
addressed to them the following note :
" A U G U S T , 7. 1826.
"GENTLEMEN-My note of this morning has not been
answered. Further evasion and equivocation I will
not submit to. Acknowledge you are not gentlemen,
or I will expose you in twelve hours, unless you do
as you agreed to do. I am not a child—if you sup-
pose 1 am you are mistaken. I am a man and will not
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
72 MORGANS ILLUSTRATIONS.
suffer myself to be imposed on—you have not acted
as gentlemen—I a m sory to be compelled to say it—
every part of your conduct has been mysterious, and
why so ? M yfirstimpressions were, that you are not
honest men ; therefore I wish to settle and have no
more to do with you. If either of you feel hurt, call
on m e as gentlemen and I will give you any satisfac-
tion you wish. W I L L I A M M O R G A N . "
The securing ofa copy right to preventothers from
publishing said book—its sale at first for one dollar
—the oath of Davids and others—the bond execu-
ted by Miller, Davids and Dyer, furnish at least pre-
sumptive evidence, that avarice, and not a love of
country, or a regard for its future prosperity and wel-
fare, was the principal stimulus to their undertaking.
It was, without doubt, Morgan's intention at first,
to have remained unknown as its author—and had his
intention in that particular met the approbation of
his more cunning and avaricious partners, his book
would probably have remained as much ofa secret
to this day, as its author himself. They however, i
t
seems, reasoned more correctly. They considered
a stir among masons " necessary to secure its sale,"
and by their exertions, and the folly and depravity of
masons,finallysucceded."
But few copies were sold at a dollar. Its price
was soon reduced to fifty cents—afterwards to twen-
ty-five cents, andfinallyto about thefirstcost. No
one it is believed, has made any profits of conse-
quence, out of its publication or sale.
The book was atfirstsought after with consideM*
ble avidity. F e w however, have had patience to
read it through, and of those few, but a small part
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
MORGAN'S ILLUSTRATIONS. 73
kVe willing to acknowledge it. It has sunk almost in-
to oblivion, and scarcely affords a subject for conver-
sation. Having never read it, 1 a m unable to speak
of its merits. I beg liberty however, to refer m y read-
ers to the opinion of Solomon Southwick, Esq. of
Albany, the late anti-masonick candidate for Govern-
our,in relation thereto. It will be found in the N a -
tional Observer, of Oct. 1826, andis in these words :
" W e shall only add, to what has been said by the editor
of the Repository, that as to the book, which Morgan has
written, we do not believe it is worth a cent. W e think that
all who purchase it, will " pay dear for the whistle."—Such
attempts have been made before now, and have always ter-
minated in the disgrace of their authors, without injuring the
cause of masonry. But, a3 we have said before and now
repeat it, Morgan's folly, depravity, or wickedness, form no
justification for the violation of the civil law, which has ta-
ken place in his person, as well as that of Miller the printer.
If we have a government of laws, let us adhere to it; for
anarchy is the ruin of all.
W e repeat it again, that we do not believe Morgan's book
to be worth a cent; but if there be any who wish to know
something ofthe history of masonry that is worth knowing
let them purchase a book, which was translated from the*
German, about a year since, and published by Messrs. Hos-
fords in this city. The work is worth reading; for whilst it
shews what abuses masonry has been subjected to in Eng-
land, France, Italy, and elsewhere, it likewise discloses, as
far as they can be disclosed, the good sources ofthe institu-
tien,and sublime principles of virtue whichbave ever governed
it in its pristine purity. The author ofthe work in question,
was a mason of high distinction in Europe; and the gentle-
man who translated it, has long been a respectable citizen of
this state, (a naturalized German, who came to this country
during the Revolution) and is well known to, and intimate
with some ofthe most respectable citizens of Albany. W e
are not at liberty to mention his name; and should not have
H
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
74 TRIAL OF' SHELDON AND OTHERS.
mentioned it here, butfor attracting the attention of the p
lick to his book, which possesses the interest of romance, or
deep dramatick design, with the strictest regard to historick
truth, and correct principles. It is worth a thousand such
trash as Morgan's: which, we repeat it, whoever purchases,
will "pay too dear for the whistle."
CHAPTER X.
Trial of Chesebro, Sheldon and others.
i
The county of Ontario having been the theatre of
Morgan's abduction, became afterwards the theatre
of its first judicial investigation. At the court of
General Sessions held thereafter at Canandaigua, in
Nov. 1826, two indictments were found by the Grand
Jury of that county, against Nicholas G. Chesebro,
Loton Lawson, Edward Sawyer and John Sheldon ;
thefirstfor a conspiracy to seize said Morgan and
carry him from thence to foreign parts, and secrete
E nd conf ne him there. The second for carrying said
conspiracy afterwards into execution. The indict-
ments by agreement of parties were sent to the court
of Oyer and Terminer, to be held at Canandaigua in
January then following, for trial. At said court held
in Mid for the county of Ontario, on the 1st day of
January 1827, before the Hon. Enos T. Throop, Cir-
cuit Judge the Hon. Nathaniel W . Howell, First
Judge of said county, and Judges,- Younglove, Atwa.
te'r and Brooks, the defendants were arraigned and
plead not guilty. A delegation from n.ost or all of
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
TRIAL OP SHELDON. Jtj
the several committees, selected for that purpose from
the adjacent counties attended. The trial was one
ofgreat interest, and elicited much talent.
The presence ofso many committees representing
different popular meetings—the my6tery which hung
over Morgan's fate—the excitement which then pre-
vailed—the number and ability ofthe Counsel, (no
less than seven,) employed by said committees in aid
of the publick prosecutor—the crowded audience
whichfilledthe Court House, intent apparently on
their conviction, together with a variety of other
circumstances, were calculated to render the ap-
proaching trial appalling, even to men conscious of
their innocence.
O n Monday thefirstday of the term, nearly one
hundred witnesses were called and answered. Pub-
lick expectation was raised to the highest pitch. O n
Tuesday morning the District Attorney Mr. Whiting,
moved on the trial of thefirstindictment. Col. Mil-
ler who hadbeen subpoenaed by the defendants as well
as the people was called, and to the surprise of every
one, he who had borne so conspicuous a part in the
transaction about to be reviewed, was not in atten-
dance. H e .was called again, his default entered, and
attachments were issued on motion of both parties.
It having currently been reported that Miller had left
Batavia with Mrs. Morgan, for the purpose of atten-
ding court, his neglet to answer created among the
assembled crowd, peculiar and extraordinary sensa-
tions.
In the afternoon of Tuesday, a rumour was set a-
fioat that Morgan's body had been found, was on its
way thither, and would be in Canandaigua during
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
76 TRIAL OF SHELDON.
the night. It was a period of anxiety to the defen-
dants, and of interest to their counsel.
O n the following morning the motion for trial was
renewed. Chesebro, Lawson and Sawyer, withdrew
their pleas of not guilty, and plead guilty to both
indictments, reserving of course, their right to move
the court in arrest of judgement upon either.
T h e counsel for Sheldon then stated that he admit-
ted the offence charged in the indictment had been
committed, but denied his participation therein. A
jury was thereupon empanneled to try the question
thus put in issue. T h e cause was thereby reduced
to narrow limits.
M r . Whiting the publick prosecutor, (who is a ma-
son,) having opened the case in a clear and lucid
manner, and commented with great justness, feeling
and severity upon the transaction generally, proceed-
ed to introduce his proofs merely to identify Sheldon
with the conspiracy. As the trial was one of great
interest, not for its importance after Chesebro and
others had plead guilty, but for its novelty, and as the
testimony, particularly that of Samuel D . Greene,*
*It having been currently reported and generally believed
that Samuel D. Greene, perjured himself at Canandaigua
upon the trial of Sheldon, justice to him requires a statement
ofthe circumstances which led him on that occasion to tes-
tify as he did.
A man by the name of Averill.from the county of Orleans,
whose dress in some measure corresponded with that which
Sheldon is represented to hove worn, but whose person
was very unlike his, came to Greene's house in Batavia a-
bout the time alluded to by him, on business, and some con-
versation took place in relation to the outrage committed on
Miller's office. Avenll also wrote a letter while there, not
to Stephen Van Rensselaer as Greeneswore, but to Solomon
Van Rensselaer ofAlbany. lie also subscribed i
t with hia
own name, and not with the name of John Sheldon as
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
TRIAL OF SHELDON. 7 7
an expelled mason, upon which it is understood the
verdict was almost entirely predicated, has been the
subject of much controversy, I have thought proper
to insert i
t at length, together with the able address
of Judge Throop in pronouncing sentence upon the
prisoners, and the affidavit of John Sheldon after-
wards made andfiledof record, which shows beyond
all question, that the " mysterious stanger" which
Greene saw, as he testified, at his house in Batavia,
on the 10th and 11th of September preceeding, was
not John Sheldon the defendant.
The examination of witnesses was conducted by
the District Attorney, Mr. Whiting, and Mr. Adams,
with great ability on the part ofthe prosecution, and
by Mr. Sibley with equal ability on the part of the
defendant. The closing remarks of Mr. Whiting
were peculiarly impressive, and the address of Mr.
Spencer to the jury in behalf of the defendant, was
one of great force and elegance.
The county of Ontario some years before, had
erected a splendid Court House,and with much taste,
had decorated the room in which the jury had been
cmpanneled and were then sitting in judgement upon
the liberty ofa fellow citizen, with the bustsof Wash-
ington, Hamilton and La Fayette or Franklin, and
Greene also testified. This letter has since been e
to a number of persons, acd i
s as harmeless a piece of non-
sense as was ever written.
Greene having been expelled some time before from the
Lodge in this place, and being a zealous anti-mason, may
have supposed that the defendant was the " mysterious stran-
ger" whom he had seen before. Although no one i
t i
s be-
lieved, now pretends that he swore truly, s
t
i
l
l i
t does not of
course follow that he wa3 guilty of perjury. He might have
been, and probablv was only mistaken.
H2
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
n TRIAL OF SHELDON.
which I do not recollect, all of w h o m were conspic-
uous masons ; and had contributed as m u c h perhaps,
to redeem these once oppressed Colonies from for-
eign vassallage, and establish their liberties on a per-
manent basis,as any individuals a m o n g the long list of
heroes, of sages, and patriots w h o had raised by their
exertions the proud Arch of American glory.
M r . Spencer's appeal to those venerable patriots,
for the purity of masonick principles, together with an
allusion to the H o n . Stephen V a n Rensselaer of Al-
bany, the present Grand Master of the Order, was
one of the happiestflightsof eloquence ever exhibit-
ed in a court ofjustice.
Sheldon,however was convicted.
Col. Miller was afterwards brought up on the at-
tachment issued in behalf of the defendants,fordiso-
beying a subpoena, and stated upon oath, that no fees
had been tendered him, and that he had no money ta
bear his expenses. H e was therefore discharged.
Extracts from the Printed Report of Sheldon'I Trial.
Mrs. Hall, (the wife of the jailer) testified, that on the
evening ofthe 12th September last, (Morgan then being a
prisoner in the jail,) Lawson and a man called Foster came
to the jail together; Foster sat in the chair, held his head
down and did not speak; had on a dark surtout like that
worn by defendant in court, and a black hat—Lawson said
he had come to pay the debt and take Morgan out ofjail-
Mr. Hall not being at home, they stayed but a few minutes,
and went away together. Lawson returned, and after sat-
isfying the witness, by the representations of himself, Chese-
bro and Sawyer, that i
t would be right toreleaseMorgan,
she consented to do it, and as she was about going into°the
priaon after him, Lawson went to the front door "and whis-
tled— she immediately went to the same door, and saw a
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
TRIAL 01 SHDLDON. 79
aerson, whom she took to be the one called Foster, come up
to the steps of the jail from the east ; saw him but a mo-
ment, turned and went into the prison, and released Mor-
gan, who accompanied Lawson out of the jail. After se-
curing the prison, witness went to the front door and saw
Lawson and Foster on each side of Morgan, going to the
east. Morgan appeared to be making resistance, and cried
murder. Witness thinks that the person called Foster was
the defend nit, suspected he had assumed the name of Fos-
ter, and that he was a limitarian from Victer, whom she had
before seen—defendant resided in Victor, and was then on
the limits. Morgan was released about 9 o'clock.
Stephen Collier—Says defendant told him, some time i
f
f
October last, that he supposed he knew as much about the
Morgan business as any body ; that he was at Kingsley's
tavern on the evening he was taken away, busying the minds
ofthe people so that they should not mistrust what was go-
ing on—that he saw the carriage when it went down after
Morgan, saw i
t turn and come back—the defendant is an
intemperate man, was intoxicated when this conversation
took place, and when in that situation his tongue runs glib.
is given to bragging, and pretends acquaintance with men.
and things he knows nothing about.
Israel R. Hall, the jailer—Knows the defendant, he eame
to the jail in the early part ofthe evening of th* 12th Sep-
tember, and inquired for Lawson.
Thomas Beach—Was asked if ho had had conversatioa
with defendant about Morgan, says he has heard him M y
that be did not know any thing about his being carried off
and that he could prove himself to be at another place—gava
same character of defendant as the witness Collier.
Hiram Hubbard—Drove the carriage that took Morgan
away ; knows defendant, but did not see him about the car-
riage, or any where except in Kingsley's bar-room, at eve-
ning—when he put on his great coat to go away, defendant
sat in bar-room and asked witness where he was going.
John Whitney—Knows defendant, saw him near the Ho-
tel on the 12th September—did not see him near tho jail,
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
80 TRIAL OF SHELDON.
and does not know that defendant knew that Morgan was
going away.
Mrs. Martha Davis—Saw some persons about the jail,
but did not see defendant.
£6. C. Kingsley—Defendant boarded with him during
the month of September, and spent the evening ofthe 12th
in the witness's bar-room—has no recollection of his being
out of that room from 7 till 9 o'clock, when he took a candle
and went to bed ; saw him next morning as usual; did not
see him in conversation with Lawson that evening or during
the day.
Samuel D. Greene—'Resides in Batavia, keeps the Park
tavern in that villag-e-defendant came to his house late in
the evening of the 10th September—got him some victuals
and he went to bed—took breakfast at witness's table next
morning ; after breakfast, told witness he had understood
that an attempt had been made during the night to set Mil.
ler's office onfire,that he (the defendant) was suspected of
doing it; called on witness to remember that he bad slept
in his house; defendant gave wi'.ness to understand that he
was a royal arch mason ; said he understood that Miller
was about publishing a book, and if he succeeded MasoDry
would not be wanted any longer in this country. The de-
fendant wrote a letter in hieroglyphikcs (which witness did
not understand) to Stephen Van Rensselaer, signed the
name of John Sheldon to it, and went to the post office with
the avowed purpose of putting it in. Speaking of getting
the papers from Miller, defendant said he had been about
Batavia engaged in that business ever since the Friday be-
fore, and that if something was not done then he should
give it up; defendant 'by an inuendo' gave witness to under-
stand that perhaps Morgan and Miller would not bent Ba-
trvia to carry on the publication of tho book. H e requested
witness to send for Kelsey Stone, who came to see him,
spent a short time in the room with defendant alone. Wit-
ness would not have understood from what defendant said
that there was any intention to carry off Morgan, had he
not before understood from others that such an intention ex-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
TRIAL OF SHELDON. 81
isted. Defendant remained at witness's house until about
noon ofthe 11th September—whether he dined there or not
witness cannot say—and then disappeared. Witness never
saw him before or since, until he now sees him in court;
he is confident, from present examination of his face, figure
and dress, that he is the same man; had on, when at Bata-
via, a blue surtout, striped trowsers with patches on knees.
Witness never told the facts above related to any one until
his present testimony.
The counsel for the people here rested their cause.
The defence was opened by Mr. Sibley, and the following
witnesses were called on the part ofthe defendant i
Kelsey Stone—Resides in Batavia, remembers being sent
for,to go to the Park tavern and see a man there, 6omc time
during the forenoon of the lltli September: went accor-
dingly and found a man up stairs en a bed,whom witness did
not know ; he told witness that Miller's office had been
fired, and that he was suspected of doing it. Witness does
not recognize the defendant as being the person—thinks
that he is not—that he had on a surtout or frock ooat, but
does not recollect any other part of his drees, nor will he be
positive that he did not wear a short coat.
E. C. Kingsley—Has no recollection of the defendant's
being absent from his house on the 9th, 10th or 11th Sep-
tember ; thinks if he had been absent he must ha7« known
it, and has no doubt that he was at home as usual.
William Bassetl—Worked in the shop with defendant du-
ring September; has no reeollection of his being absent;—
must have known it if he had been, and verily believes he
was not out ofthe village of Canandaigua on the 11th of
September.
JV*. Prescolt—Also worked with defendant on the same time
—believes ho was at home as usual on the 11th September;
thinks he could not have been absent without witness re-
marking it. Cross examined—Defendant came into tho
shoptha morning after Morgan was taken from this place,
and said, "Morgan is carried off, I know all about the busi-
ness, but shall not tell you j I know who went into the jail
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
82 TRIAL OF SHELDON.
after Morgan—he does not live in this village—Morgan has
gone where the people of this country will never see him,
but If his family will accept the funds the Masons have pro-
vided, they will be well enough off."—Defendant wore a
blue surtout and striped pantaloor.s in September last.
Wm. C. Yale—Was the bar-keeper at Kingsley's, where
defendant boarded in September last; has no recollection of
his being absent on the 9th, 10th or 11th of September, and
has no doubt but he was at home as usual.
Jacob Bowers—Boarded at Kingsley's in September; l
e
f
t
defendant there on Saturday the 9th September, and found
him there on his (the witness's) return on the morning ofthe
12th ; did not know or hear of his having been absent in the
mean time : defendant was in Kingsley's bar-room from
early in the evening until 8 o'clock ; was there when Hub-
bard went away, and when Hayward came in.
Holloway Hayward—Saw defendant at Kingsley's about
dusk on the evening of 11th September, and from 3 to 9 o
'
-
clock on the evening ofthe 12th.
Jeffrey Chipman—Defendant was present a short time at
the examination of Morgan before witness, on the evening
of Ilth September.
Timothy L. Bogue—Defendant worked for witness i
n
September ; does not remember his being absent on the 9th
10th or 1 lth of that month ; is quite confident he saw him
hero about 1 o'clock in the afternoon ofthe 11th, and again
in the early part ofthe evening; defendant was in Kings-
ley's bar-room on the evening ofthe 12th, and witness is
confident he was there when the carriage went past.
Chauncey II. Coe, (a stage proprietor)—Proved that de-
fendant could not have left Batavia after 9 o'clock in the
forenoon ofthe 12th September, and have arrived at this
place the same evening, by any publick conveyance, as the
stages then run—the distance 48 miles.
Theodore F. Talbot— Called, and asked if he had posses-
sion ofthe original affidavit of Mrs. Hall, (thofirstwitness)
taken before J. Chipman, Esq. on the 23d September.—
Answering in the affirmative, he is required to produce it,
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
TRIAL OF SHELDON. 83
and declines. T h e defendant's counsel serve him with a
subpoena duces tecum, in open court, and again require the
production of the affidavit—he still refuses, and is desired
by the court to produce it; by which it appears that Mrs.
Hall swore that the person called Foster was unknown to
her at the time of making the affidavit.
The defendant here rested his cause.
Timothy Filch—Called by the prosecution—says that he
drew Mrs. Hall's affidavit, and that she told him at the time
that she thought she knew Foster, Jnd the witness' impress-
ion is that she named defendant.
Samuel Greenleaf'fjx, proprietor of the publick stages)—i
Says that on the evening of the 7th Sept. last, three seats
were taken for Batavia, under the name of " Capt. Johnson,"
but does not know who occupied them.
Several other witnesses were called on the part ofthe peo-
ple, and ofthe defendant; but as they did not testify to any
thing material to the cause,or interesting to the publick,their
testimony is omitted.
Sheldon's Affidavit.
Ontario County, ss.—
John Sheldon, ofthe town of Victor, in said county, being
duly sworn, saith, that he was in the village of Batavia in
the month of October, eight years ago; that he has never
been in said village since ; that he never saw Samuel D.
Greene till he saw him in Court this day,and never held any
conversion with him whatever—that the statement made
bv Greene respecting an interview with this deponent in Sep-
tember last, is absolutely and totally false in every particular,
so far as it relates to this deponent.—That this deponent is
the father of three small childreu, and has no means of living
other than his daily labor. And this deponent farther says(
that he never saw Loton Lawson in the jail of Ontaiio county ;
nor was he ever in the jail or tho building connected with
the jail of Ontario county, in company with tho said Loton
Lawson ; nor was this deponent the person who was men-
tioned in tho testimony of Mr?. Hall, given on the trial of
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
04 JUDGE TllROOp's ADDRESS.
this deponent, and known by the name of Foster; nor Las
this deponent ever to his knowledge seen William Morgan
named in the indictment in this cause, nor does he know the
said William Morgan; nor was this deponent in any manner
whatever, either directly or indirectly, concerned in or privy
to the facts charged against this deponent in the indictment
in this cause; nor did this deponent know any thing ofthe
carrying away of William Morgan from Canandaigua, on the
12th of September last, until the morning after it took place.
And if this deponent has ever given any intimation in any
way contrary to the facts contained in this affidavit, i
t wai
done in the way of romance, and from amusement only, and
is the only fault of this deponent as connected with the mat-
ters which are the subject of said indictment of which he i
s
conscious. J O H N S H E L D O N .
Subscribed and sworn, this 6th day Jan. 1827, before me,
J E F F R E Y C H I P M A N , Commissioner, See.
Judge Throop's Address.
Tou have been convicted ofa daring, wicked and presump-
tious crime—such an one as w e did hope would not in our
day have polluted this land. Y o u have robbed the state of
a citizen, a citizen of his liberty, a wife of her husband, and
a family of helpless children ofthe endearments and protec-
ting care of a parent. And whether the unfortunate victim
ofyour rage has been immolated, or is in the land ofthe liv-
ing, w e are ignorant, and even you do not pretend to know.
It is admitted in this case, and stands proved, that Morgan
was, by a hypocritical pretence of friendship and charity,
and that too in the imposing shape of pecuniary relief to a
distressed and poverty bound prisoner, beguiled to entrust
himself to one ofyour number, w h o seized him, as soon as a
confederate arrived to his aid, almost at his prison door, and
in the night time hurried him into a carriage, and forcibly
transported him out ofthe state. But great as are the in-
dividual wrongs which you have inflicted on these helpless
and wretched human beings, they are not the heaviest part
ofyour crime. You have disturbed the publick peace—you
li&ve dared to raise your parricidal arms against tire law*
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
JUDGE THR00P"'S ADDRESS. 35
nnd constitution of your government—you have assumed a
power which is incompatible with a due subordination to the
laws and publick authority ofyour state. H e was a citizen
under the protection of our laws ; you were citizens and
owed obedience to them. W h a t hardihood and wickedness
then prompted you to steel your hearts against the claims of
humanity, and dare to set at defiance those laws to which
you owed submission, and which cannot suffer a citizen's
liberty to be restrained with impunity, without violating its
duties of protection, assured to every individual under the
social compact ? Will you plead ignorance ? Some of you
at least, have had the advantage of education and moral in-
struction, and hold respectable and responsible stations in
society; and all of you have learnt, what every school-boy
in lhi3 happy land, this free and intelligent community, knows,
that the unrestrained enjoyment of life, liberty and proper-
ty, is guaranteed to every individual living, obediently, un-
der our laws. Our constitution shews it; and the declara.
tion of our independence declares, that the unmolested en-
joyment of liberty and the pursuit of happiness, are the un-
alienable rights of man. So sacred do w e hold personal lib-
erty, that even the impressment of a seaman from one ofour
ships, has been considered a sufficient cause for national
war. M a n here, is not like m e n in other countries, a sub-
missive vassal ; but every citizen is a sovereign and I a m
happy to say, that here he possesses that intelligence and
high sense of feeling, which befits his elevated station. Our
laws will resent such attacks as you have made upon their
sovereignty. Your conduct has created, in the people of
this section of the county, a strong feeling of virtuous indig-
nation. T h e court rejoices to witness it—to be made sura
that a citizen's person cannot be invaded by lawless violence,
without its being felt by every individual in the community.
It is a blessed spirit, and w e do hope that it will not subside
—that it will be accompanied by a ceaseless vigilance and
untiring activity, until every actor in this profligate conspi-
racy is hunted from his hiding place.and brought before the
tribunals ofthe country.to receive the punishment merited by
his crime. W e think that w e sea in this publick sensation
I
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
G6 J U D G E THROOP'S ADDRESS.
the spirit which brought us into existence as a nation, awf
a pledge that our rights and liberties are destined to endure.
But this is not all; your offence was not the result of pas-
sion suddenly excited, nor the deed of one individual. It
was preconcerted, deliberated upon, and carried into eileet,
by the dictates of the secret councils and conclave of many
actors. It takes its deepest hues of guilt from a conspiracy
— a crime most dreaded, from the depravity of heart it evin-
ces, the power for unlawful purposes which i
t combines, and
from its ability to defy the power of the law, and ultimate
danger to the publick peace. Hence it is, that the crime is
considered full, when the wicked purpose is proved to have
been formed; and the subsequent carrying into effect the
object ofthe conspiracy, does not, in the eye ofthe law, ele-
vate the degree of the crime.
The legislature have not seen fit, perhaps, from the sup.
posed improbability that the crime would be attempted, to
make your offence a felony. Its giadc and punishment has
been left to the provisions ofthe common law, which trcota
it as a misdemeanor, and punishes it with fine and imprison-
ment in the common jail. The court are ofopinion that your
liberty ought to be made to answer fur tlia liberty of Mor-
gan: his person was restrained by force; and tho court, in
the exercise of its lawful powers, ought not to be more ten-
der of your liberty, than you, in the plenitude of lawloss
force, were of his.
With regard to you, Lawsoit—It appeared in proof, that
you was an active agent in this affair—you went forward
and took this man from the jail, and delivered him over to
those who stood waiting with a carriage to receive him.
Whether you accompanied that carriage or not, is not in
proof. But in your excusatory affidavit you say nothing
about it, leaving it to fair inference, that you did accompany
him in that carriage. There is nothing, either in your affi-
davit, or your proof to the court, which does much to miti-
gate your offence, except so far as they shew, that your pov-
erty has not been accompanied by idlenesa, and your char-
acter has not boon stainod by other transgressions. Under
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
JUDGE THROOP'S ADDRESS. 87
Til, the circumstances of your case, the court feel It their du-
ty to sentence you to two years imprisonment in the com-
mon jail of this county.
As to you, Chesebro—It appears by your affidavit that you
did not lay your hands upon this man to carry into effect the
conspiracy; and it appears by unquestionable proof, that
vou did not leave this village with the carriage. But you
admit, at least tacitly, in your affidavit, that you was one of
the conspirators ; and your language to the jailor, when he
called upon you the next day to account for your conduct,
and warned you that the publick would demand an explana-
tion, shewed an unsubdued spirit. It has been satisfactori-
ly proved to us,that you are a thriving mechanick ; that you
have a respectable standing in the community, and up to the
period ofthis transaction, your character for industry, hon-
esty, quiet and moral deportment, was without reproach.
Under the circumstances of your case, the court sentence
you to one year imprisonment in the common jail of this
county.
As to you, Sawyer, your affidavit, which, from the uniform
good character you have proved, w e fully believe to be true,
states, that you had no knowledge of this conspiracy, and
took no active part in it. But your accompanying Lawson
at his request, to the jail, to inform the jailor's wife that she
would be safe in receiving the amount of Morgan's debt
from Lawson, and letting him go, with the other circum-
stances, were sufficient to have convicted you, if you had
stood trial, and you acted wisely in pleading guilty. You
state that you had no idea that he was under restraint, until
you saw him enter the carriage a short distance from you,
and that you did not suspect that he was forced into it, until
in the progress of your walk, you picked up his hat—that
you was then surprised and confounded, and did not there-
fore give the alarm—but you spent the rest ofthe evening at
a publick house,and gave no intimationof what you had seen.
This then is your offence:—You should have given the
alarm—you should have raised the hue and cry, and endea.
*oured to effect a rescue. You however expressed in y o m
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
88 I.EWISTON COVVE3JTI0S'.
affidavit, and have always evinced, a feeling of remorse^
The court therefore sentence you to one month imprison-
ment in the common jail of this county.
As to you, Sheldon, you denied any participation in the
conspiracy, and put yourself upon trial. A s to all the acts
proved against you, there was mystery, and I doubt whether
vou was the man. Y o u was at the time confined on the
limits ofthe jail—you was most strongly identified in an ap-
pearance at Batavia, and although your proof of an alibi was
not complete, there was much in it to shake our faith in the
fact that you was the mysterious stranger whom the witness
saw. Your confessions of guilt, however, were clear and
indisputable, and fully warranted the verdict; and the only
explanation of them you offered, was the ungracious one,
that your confessions were the vain glorious boastings of a
drunkard and a liar. Taking all things into consideration,
the court have adjudged you to three months imprisonment
in the common jail ofthe county.
CHAPTER XI.
Lewiston Convention—Its proceedings.
The conviction of Chesebro and others at Canan-
daigua, the excitement which began to prevail, and
the information there received, led the several com-
mittees very properly to suspect.thatallthe facts had
not been developed—that perseverance would ef-
fect much, and as the popular current was beginning
to set in their favour, i
t is not improbable that some
of their number might have supposed, that to be
first and foremost in so great and so glorious an un-
dertaking, would thereafter lead to rewards and hon-
ours. A meeting of the several committees waa
therefore proposed to be held at Lewiston, in thes
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
1.EWIST0N CONVENTION. 89
county of Niagara, without delay; hence the name
of the Lewiston Convention. Its ostensible objects
were, to ascertain, arrest and convict the perpetra-
tors of this nefarious outrage.
A more worthy and deserving motive.never enter-
ed the human mind—but whether the means there
taken, were the most prudent and politick which
could have been devised, or the best calculated to
effect an object so desirable in itself, and so neces-
sary to assert the supremacy of the law, some have
recently questioned. It had formally been the prac-
tice in this vicinity, to arrest the supposed offenders,
preparatory to their punishments,and sometimes too,
even upon suspicion. But as this convention was
probably intended, at least by a part of those who
composed it,to supercede the necessity of any other
legislative or judicial tribunal, and to introduce
a new era in politicks, religion and law, they did not,
although they obtained conclusive evidence, if w e
are to credit their statement of the guilt of certain
individuals, think it proper to arrest them, because
it would have destroyed the pretence forsubsequenUy
asserting that no mason, however guilty, could ever
be punished. They only appointed a committee, to
use the language of Dr. Backus, in his letter to Col.
Norton, a copy of which is annexed, "to draft an
account ofthe transactions west of here, and to peti-
tion the Governour to offer a larger reward for the
disclosure of the fate of Morgan," and adjourned.—
The object of this convention being only to ascertain
facts, an official report of its proceedings could not
have been expected, and ought not to have been Jo-
tired. Secrecy was all important. Some of its
12
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
90 LEWISTON CONVENTION
members however were unwilling to remain un-
known, and equally unwilling that the parts which
they severally took on this occasion should be con-
cealed from publick view. They panted for re-
nown.
Dr. F. F. Backus, a Physician in Rochester, a
son of the venerable Dr. Backus, formerly President
of Hamilton College, and an efficient member ofthe
Convention, on the 30th of January, 1827, wrote to
his friend, Heman Norton, then at Albany, and now
an anti-masonick member of Assembly from the
County of Munroe, a letter containing a statement
of the proceedings of that Convention, and of the
discoveries which they had made, with a view proba-
cy to facilitate the arrest of those suspected. Thi
together with a letter of Bates Cook, Esquire, a La
yer at Lewiston, of similar import, and some others
is all (he information which has yet been given to
publick in relation to its doings or proceedings.*
These letters, said to have been confidential, were
delivered by Col. Norton to Solomon Southwick,
*Had the sole object of this Convention been to det
and punish guilt, and had they ascertained the authors of
that guilt, as they pretend, i
t i
s natural to suppose that
they would have caused the suspected persons to be arrest-
ed, and not emblazoned their own discovery to the world
in newspapers and handbills, for the purpose of enabling
those suspected to escape. Had their object been originally
to avail themselves of the then growing excitement, for the
purpose of acquiring thereby political influence, or power, or
ame they would unquestionably have pursued tho course
they did. Whether the conduct of this Convention i
s impu-
table to the vanity of some of i
t
s members, or to their want
of prudence, and discretion, or to their ambitious designs, i
s
d
i
f
f
i
c
u
l
t to determine. At a
l
l events nothing could" have
been more unwise. No course which they could have ta-
ken would so effectually have jeopardized tho sincerity of
their intentions. *
,
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
LEWISTON CONVENTION. 31
Esquire, editor of the National Observer, by w h o m
they were published. T h e letter of Dr. Backus be-
ing more full than either ofthe others, his standing
in society being respectable, and his literary attain-
ments, as will be perceived, being of no ordinary
cast, the letter itself too being better calculated to
express the views and feelings of the Convention, I
have thought proper to insert it at full length, pre-
cisely as itfirstappeared in the National Observer.
Rochester, Jan. 30, 1827.
D E A R S I R — I arrived from Lewiston last Saturday eve-
ning. W e had an interesting meeting, and feel ourselves
riiply compensated for all our trouble and expense. The
delegates assembled, vvere Cary, Davis, Holden and Fitch,
from Batavia ; Heman Chapin, J. Buel, and O. Benjamin
from Bloomfield ; Thad. Lacy, and John Garbut, from
Wheatland and Chili ; Esquire Rawson, Jenks, and Wheel-
er, from Victor ; Judge Devoe and Bates Cook, from Lew-
iston and Niagara Falls,and Samuel Works and myself from
this place, (Weed not going, bsing threatened .')—forming a
body of able bodied men, seventeen in number. There nev-
er was a happier man than Cook was, the day that w e ar-
rived ; he needed our presence and co-operation. The fra-
ternity in and about Lewiston vvere in a terrible stew at our
arrival and threatened wonderfully. W c paid no attention
to them thefirstnight. Early in the morning we all started
in a body for Fort George. W e engaged a room at a publick
house, and Cook informed Dr. of our wish to see and
converse with him ; after halfan hour he came, and told us
at full length, the whole story, pretty much as Cook had in-
formed us ; only tha: his statement was more full and partic-
ular. H e communicated rather more to us, than w e antici-
pated. H e corrected one point, viz. that Morgan's request
for a bible was not granted, but he was dispatched forthwith
His informer was of that place, a brother of
of Buffalo. The Dr. does not think him implicated, but
thinks he had his information from M His state-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
92 LEWISTON CONVENTION.
ment was a
l
l put down in writing in the form of an affidavi!,
which he stands ready to sign at any time when i
t shall be
needed. He also informed us, that he had a short time a
f
-
terwards^ relation ofthe same facts from another mason, of
the name of L who had i
t from a Mr. C of Buffalo,
who was an actor in the scene of the night of the 14th—he
i
s since dead. After leaving Fort George, we crossed over'
to Fort Niagara, and Col. Jewett being sick, we employed
the tavern keeper under the h
i
l
l to assist in examining the
man-azine, that being the only part ofthe fort that we thought
worth examining ; and we found appearances there,that sat-
i
s
f
i
e
d us, that Morgan must have been there, and probably
was there executed. This part of the fort never had been
examined before.
W e had several witnesses before us, who in their testimo-
ny corroborated the principal facts of '
s relation.
I would write more at length, but have no time before the
mail closes only to say, that the delegation thought proper
to appoint a committee to draft an account ofthe transactions
west of here, and to petition the Governour to offer a large
reward for the disclosure ofthe fate of Morgan. W e undei"
ctand, since our return, that . . and . . have l
o
f
t the coun-
try, bag and baggage. In haste, respectfully yours, & c
F F. B .
Mr. , Albany.
Dr. Backus in the above letter, i
t will be percei-
ved, says that a Mr. C , (Seth Chapin, mean-
ing,) of Buffalo, was an acfor in the scene of the
14th, and had since died. Mr. G. Chapin thereupon
addressed to Dr. Backus a letter, and enclosed to
him some affidavifs, which showed that his deceased
relative could not have been at Fort Niagara, as sta-
ted in Dr. Backus' letter, to which Dr. Backus, and
his friend, Samuel Works, replied as follows:
The undersigned attended at Lowistwn, on the 25th ult
ns delegates from the Rochester committee, to investigate
the circumstances of the abduction of Capt. William Mor~
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
LEWISTON CONVENTION. 93
gam During the examination of the undersigned, at Lew-
iston, some information of an unsatisfactory character come
to their knowledge, implicating a Mr. Chapin, of Buffalo, in
the affair, tending to show that he w»s present at Fort Ni-
agara on the night ofthe 14th of September last. This in-
formation was not intended for the publick eye, until some-
thing more certain could be ascertained. The information,
however, having been alluded to in a private letter, after-
wards made publick, contrary to the intentions ofthe writer;
the undersigned deem it their duty to state, that from sev-
eral affidavits submitted to them, they are convinced that
Mr. Seth Chapin, of Buffalo, now deceased, could not have
been present at Fort Niagara, at the time above mentioned.
The undersigned, therefore, consider it due to the family and
friends of Mr, Seth Chapin, thus publickly to state, that as
far as they have ascertained, he is in no way implicated in
the unhappy transaction.
FREDERICK F. BACKUS,
SAMUEL WORKS.
Rochester, February 22, 1827.
T h e ab«ve letter not mteting the entire approba-
tion of M r . Chapin, he addressed to him a second
letter, and received the following answer.
Rochester, Feb. 20th, 1827.
SIR: I received yours of the 15th this evening. You re-
quested m e to answer it immediately. As to my promulga-
ting a report that "a man named Chapin, of Buffalo, con-
fessed upon his death-bed that he had assisted in the execu-
tion of Morgan,"' it is false. Last Wednesday, for the first
time, I heard a report that a man by that name, at Buffalo,
had made some disclosures to his physician, previous to his
death, relative to the Morgan affair: but what they were I
was not told. Some time in the course ofthe day I saw Mr.
Fitch, of Batavia—inquired of him ; he said he had never
heard any thing of the kind. I was then satisfied that it
was a fabrication, and have said nothing on the subject
since, only that it was a fabrication. You furthor observe,
that you have seen a l f ^ y ^ ^ W ^ n b U M 6
® ! ^ " 0 1 1 b
^
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
94 LBWrSTON CONVENTION.
me. in our Daily Advertiser, in which I mention a Mr. C. of
Bufislo, as being an actor in the scene, &c. and that he i
s
since dead. On my return from Lewiston I wrote a lins
hastily, late in the evening, to Col. Norton, at Albany, sta-
ting to him a brief outline ef some of the discoveries ofthe
committee. This letter was, of course, a private one, and I
knew nothing of its publication until I saw i
t in an Albany
newspaper. But you observe-1 state i
t as information rela-
ted by the Dr. of whom I there speak. Your informant,
whom I know, is therefore mistaken as to thefirstcharge—
and as to that coutained in the published letter, my author
is probably known to you.
I regret extremely to have wounded the feelings of any
man by auy thing that should have fallen from my pen—and
probably can but faintly appreciate your feelings, but hope
this explanation will be satisfactory. If not, I ever stand
ready to communicate further. F. F. B A C K U S .
G. C H A P I N , Esq.
This letter being equally unsatisfactory with the
former, called forth from D r . Cyrenus Chapin, fa-
ther-in-law^to the deceased, the same Dr. Chapin
w h o was taken prisoner by the British and Indians
during the late war, and recaptured himself, his com-
panions, and their guard, on L a k e Ontario, in a man-
ner deserving the thanks of his government and
country, the following, to which no reply was given.
Buffalo, Feb. 25, 1827.
SIR: In the absence of my naphew, I have opened your
letter to him, ofthe 20th inst. which is in reply to one writ-
ten you by him, requesting you to inform him from whom
you derived the information to which you have given publi-
city, that S E T H CHAPIN, deceased, was concerned in the al-
leged murder of William Morgan. You was requested to
state explicitly the name of tha author of this most wicked
slander. This you have evaded—and you must allow me to
say, sir, that the wound you have inflicted, requires a differ-
ent mollient than the one proffered by yog. As I was the
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
LEWISTON OONVENT10N. 95
father-in-law ofthe Mr. C. to w h o m you allude, can you for
a moment conceive that I can, or shall, look tamely on and
see iny daughter's feelings torn by so cruel an outrage ; and
at a time too when they were sufficiently lacerated by her
6evere afflictions without the aid of base and infamous slan_
ders, to extinguish every vestige of hope and comfort ? Nei
ther shall I sit quietly end see her innocent babes just ex-
panding into life, lying under the infamy and disgrace of the
imputation, that the foul crime of murder is suspended over
the grave of their deceased father. Can any one be so
base, and so divested of all feeling, as not to shrink from
such sn infamous Blander?
Although you might have been heated in your imagina-
tions, and your misguided zeal might have carried you far
beyond the bounds of reason, still I am at a loss to conjecture
what malignant fiend could have entered your brain and in.
duced you to endeavour tofixthe stain of guilt and infamy
on the innocent—and one, too, w h o m the silence of tho
grave deprives ofthe privilege of repelling the foul calumny;
when by so doing, you must have been sensible that the
only effect would be to wring the hearts of surviving rela-
tions.
N o w sir, if your only motives had been to investigate
truth, you would not have turned aside from the track, and
been guilty of spreading abroad this slanderous report.
W a s it not more your intention to create excitement than
to promote inquiry and investigate truth? H a d you been
the gentleman I expected you was, you wculd have unhesi-
tatingly answered who your informant was.
N o w , sir, as you have given publicity to so wicked a
slander, depend upon it, you shall not be suffered to shield
yourself by saying you wrote confidentially to Col. Norton,
without any expectation that your letter would be published.
In thefirstplace.I have some regard to Col. Norton's good
or bad opinion. And in the second place, as you have been
the cause of giving publicity to this most wicked and vile
slander, you must and shall answer m e w h o your informant
was ; and disclose to m e the grounds you had to put in cir-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
96 PETITION TO THE LEGISLATURE.
culation such a false and wicked report; otherwise, m
ures will be taken in this business, of a decisive and wis.
quivocal character.
Your reply to this will be expected.
C Y R E N U S CHAPIN.
D R . F. F. BACKUS.
The above correspondence is not inserted on ac-
count of any intrinsick importance attached to i
t
,
but in order to rescue the memory ofa worthy man
from undeserved reproach, and more especially t
o
show the manner in which charges of the most s
e
r
i
-
ous kind have been made by some ofthatCommitt.ee
—their unwillingness to retract them when proved
to be false—and also to exhibit one among a multi-
tude of other cases, wherein masons were compelled
in the then state ofthe publick mind, though perfect-
ly innocent, to submit without redress to injuries and
insults—a state which it is feared will continue,so
long as infamy is regarded by so many "as the pass-
port to honor, and degradation the road to renown."
CHAPTER XII.
Petition of the Lewiston Convention to the Legisla-
ture of New-York—Mr. Granger's report—Debatt
thereon.
The Lewiston Convention, it appears, from Dr.
Backus' letter to Col. Norton, ofthe 30th of January
1827, (a document to which I refer with great satis-
faction, because it is the only one extant, save two or
three letters from other members of similar import,)
resolved among other things, to petition the Legisla-
ture, then in session, for its aid. A petition waa ac-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
J5R. GRANGER'S REPORT. 97
^ordingly presented soon thereafter, desiring that the
reward before that time offered for the apprehension
and conviction of those concerned in Morgan's ab-
duction and murder be increased, and also ,that a spe-
cial commission issue for the purpose of investigating
the transactions heretofore in part related, with n e w
vigour, and it was hoped, with final success.
T h e Petition being presented in the Assembly, was
referred to a select committee, ofwhich M r . Granger,
a gentleman of high respectability^from the county of
Ontario, was Chairman, w h o afterwards reported
thereon as follows :
That these petitions are signed by many highly respecta-
ble committees, who have been appointed on behalf of their
fellow-citizens, to ascertain the facts connected with this
most flagrant violation ofthe rights ofa citizen, by which
he has been deprived of liberty, if not of life.
These petitions set forth, that on tho 11th day of Septem-
ber last, the said William Morgan was by coloui of criminal
process taken from the village of Batavia, in the county of
Genesee, to Canandaigua, in the county of Ontario ; that
upon examination before a magistrate, the said Morgan was
discharged; that he was subsequently, and upon the same
day, arrested upon a demand against him, upon which judg-
ment was obtained, and he confined within the gaol of tho
county of Ontario : that on the evening of the 12th of Sep-
tember, certain persons who had been previously engaged in
procuring the seizure of Morgan at Batavia, and in his sub-
sequent removal to and confinement at Canandaigua, dis-
charged the debt for which he had been committed, and
caused him to be liberated from prison: That on leaving
the prison, the said Morgan was violently seized, and against
his consent forced into a carriage which was rapidly driven
from said village of Canandaigua, since which time no cer-
tain information had been obtained concerning him, and that
with this deprivation of liberty are connected many circuin-
K
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
98 MR. GRANGER'S REPORT.
stances whi«h create a belief that he has been deprived of
life. T h e foregoing averments are embraced in all the pe-
titions before tho committee.
A portion of the petitioners further represent that said
Morgan was conveyed to the Niagara frontier, where they
allege that ho was murdered on the night ofthe 14th of Sep-
tember last; and they all join in the belief that the conspira-
cy against this citizen was extended through several ofthe
western eoun'ies, and was the result ofa previously concer-
ted plan.
Under these circumstances the petitioners represent tint
the courts ofa single county are inadequate to the emergen-
cy, and ask the interposition of the legislative authority,to
procure a full developcment of a plot so base in design, so
fearless in execution, and fraught with consequences so dan-
gerous to the liberties of our people.
Your committee have delayed their report with the expec-
tation that the promised testimony would be furnished to
substantiate the charges contained in the petitions.
Within a few days several affidavits have been forwarded
to your committee, none of which reach the most severe al-
legations ofthe petitioners.
Frdm the testimony adduced, no doubt remains in relation
to the unlawful seizure and removal of Morgan, for which
offence several persons were arrested, and having pleaded
guilty to tho indictments found against them, are now suffer-
ing the penalties ofthe law in the gaol ofthe county of On-
tario.
The situation of this unfortunate m a n after leaving Can-
andaigua, so far as legal proofhas been furnished, is still l
e
f
t
to conjecture ; but by tho affidavits presented, many circum-
stances are brought to bear upon the allegation that he was
taken to Niagara, whatever may have been his subsequent
fate.
T h e strongest proof in support of this position is to be
found in the affidavit, of Paul Moshier, which, though resting
principally upon information derived from others, when not
under oath, carries to the minds of your committee a belief
of its general correctness. This affidavit is partially corrob"
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
MR. CEANGER'S REPORT. 93
orated by the certificate of A. G. Ilinman, a Justice ofthe
Peace for the county of Niagara, setting forth the proceed-
ings had before him against one Eli Bruce of said county.—
A n affidavit of David Maxwell, is also presented, which may
be considered as having a collateral bearing upon this point,
touching the probability of Morgan'o removal towards the
Niagara river.
A n attested copy ofthe affidavit of one William Terry, of
Niagara, Upper Canada, has been presented to your com-
mittee ; much as this deposition may be calculated to create
the dreadful belief that the life of Morgan was taken at Fort
Niagara, the statements in it are too undefined in their char-
acter, to'warrant your committee in acting on them : T h e
name's of his informants are not given, and it would seem by
the affidavit, that his information was principally derived
from residents of the Province of Upper Canada, beyond
the reach of our judicial authorities, and ofany power tnat
our govcrnmont could create.
Much animadversion has been had upon the statements
made by said Terry, and as some publick journals have pro-
nounced him unworthy of belief, the committee feel it due to
him and to those that procured his testimony to state, that
certificates have been furnished on this subject, which satis-
fy them that the imputation cast upon the character of that
gentleman was unjust. Your committee have now given a
concise reference to that part of tho testimony presented,
whichHhey consider ofa character sufficiently definite to
bear upon the allegations contained in the petitions. It is
also shown to your committee by the affidavit ofthe wife of
Morgan, that she knows nothing of his fate other than what
is kr.ovvn generally, and that she has not seen him nor heard
from him since the said 11th of September.
The committee also present to the house many other af-
fidavits in relation to this subject ; but they are ofa descrip-
tion so vague, resting often upon slight circumstances, and
in some cases without giving even the names of those sus-
pected, that however unpleasant may be the impressions
made by them upon the minds ofyour committee individual-
ly, they are not of a character which in their opinion would
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
100 MR. GRAXSER'S REPORT.
justify a statement of .their contents in a report to this boas?
After a full examination of this subject, your committee
have found themselves surrounded by embarrassments upon
"'They have endeavoured to devise a tribunal for the inves-
tigation of this transaction which could have a jurisdiction
eo-extensivo with the section of country through which thij
conspiracy is charged to have extended ; which would pos-
sess power to force the attendance of witnesses from every
part of that country, with right to imprison those who should
refuse to answer questions legally proposed ; which would
secure the arrest and detention for trial of those against
w h o m proof should be made, and yet which should not in-
fringe upon those chartered privileges that secure to every
citizen the right of trial by jury, according to the courseof
the common law, privileges to which a free people should
e'.ing as to the last rock of their political safety.
Upon the deepest reflection, your committee ore of o
r
-
.
i
i
-
ion, that such a tribunal, while it would be doubtful in prin-
ciple and dangerous in precedent, could not materially add to
the powers vested in our existing courts.
T o arrest the progress of this glaring crime ; to surren-
der to the injured and insulted laws of our country, their so
wanton violators ; to protect our people in the enjoyment
" of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness," is the duty
of every citizen, and particularly of those to w h o m are dele-
gated the power ofacting for the general weal. Yet iodoing
no, w e should not forget, that vvhilo w c acknowledge no priv-
ileged orders in our community, our free institutions are se-
cured equally to all—Let those w h o trample upon their
country's laws, answer at the bar of that country for the of-
fence, but the moral sense of the community should not ba
weakened by confounding the innocent with the guilty.
Aware that this transaction has called forth tho deep and
merited indignation of a people jealous in tho protection of
those liberties so dearly bought, and that are sofirmlyguard-
ed by the constitution and laws of our country, as sacred in
the humble citizen as in those clothod with the highest pow-
ers that freemen can bestow, your committee have anxiously
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
DEBATE IN THE AS3EMBLV. 101
•endeavoured to recommend such means as in their view
woull most conduce to the arrest and conviction of those
who have been actors in a scene which w e hope is and will
remain unparalleled in the history of our country.
They therefore introduce the following resolutions.
Whereas it appears that one William Morgan, citizen of
this state, was in the month of September last, forcibly and
unlawfully taken from the village of Canandaigua, in the
county of Ontario, since which period all attempts to discover
the fate of said Morgan, have proved unavailing, Therefore,
Resolved, If the honourable the Senate concur herein,that
'he person administering the government of this state be re-
quested to issue his proclamation, offering a reward of five
thousatid dollars, for the discovery ofthe said William Mor-
gan, if livir,-; and a like sum offivethousand dollars for the
murderer or murderers of said Morgan, if dead, to be paid on
conviction.
Resolved, Ifthe honourable Senate concur herein, that R
joint committee ofthe two houses be appointed, consisting of
five members, two to be taken from the Senate and three
from the Assembly, whose duty i
t 6hall be, to visit the seve.
ral counties of Ontario, Monroe, Livingston, Genesee, Erie,
Niagara, and Orleans, or such of them as they shall think
proper, with full power to send for persons and papers, to in-
quire into the facts and circumstances connected with the
abduction, detention and disposition of the said William
Morgan, and to report their proceedings to the next legisla-
ture ; that such other and further proceedings may be adopt-
ed as the nature of the case and the liberty and safety of
our citizens may require.
A n interesting debate was afterwards had upon M r .
Granger's resolutions, both of which were rejected
by large majorities.
DEBATE IN THE ASSEMBLY,
On the resolutions appointing a Committee of Inquiry to visit
the western part of this State, and offering an additional
reward of 5000 dollarsfor the discovery of Morgan.
Mr. Granger said that it was due more to the other gen-
tlemen ofthe committee than to himself, to make a few it-
K2
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
102 D E B A T E IN T H E ASSEMBLY.
marks in explanation of the course they had taken iu their
investigation of probably the most unpleasant and embarras-
sing subject ever submitted to a legislative committee, and
who had been furnished with no facts or documents other
than those embraced in the report, or to be found in the bun-
dle upon the table.
In considering tho subject the committee were desirousof
adopting a plan best calculated to detect the offenders, or
should it fail to do that, to allay the excessive excitement
that now pervades the western part ofthe state.
Fatal objections existed in the creation of such a court as
would meet the requirements of the petitioners, who have
prayed for the creation of a tribunal with not only the pow-
ers usually granted to the legislative committee, but tho
right to imprison those who should refuse to attend and an-
swer.
Such an inquest in its progress through that section of
country would be much more likely to increase than to allay
the existing agitation. In a moment of excitement, unguar-
ded expressions might procure the arrest of innocent men,
who indignant at the suspicion, might refuse to answer, and
thus would your gaols be filled with persons charged with
contempt towards this novel court, which could only confine
thern during the short time of its session, or leave them im-
prisoned at its dissolution, with no power vested in any one
for their release. Such a court could not indict: it could
not convict, nor could it even gather infoimation that would
be testimony in any future investigation. The committee
were therefore all of the opinion that such a course of in-
quiry could answer no end other than to create a new com-
motion or extend and heighten the present excitement.
These considerations of policy vvere sufficient to determiiw
them, had there been no doubts as to the principle and pre-
cedent of such a tribunal.
The committee wore not ignorant ofthe objections to b»
urged against the first resolution. They were aware that
so heavy a reward might open the door to perjury, and that
strong inducement to that crime could be found in such a
sum, by which probably the iunoccnt might be sacrificed!
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
D E B A T E IN T H E ASSEMBLY. 103
they also reflected that the executive had already offered a
reward probably unprecedented, and to the full extent of the
appropriation placed at his disposal for such emergencies ;
but they further consider this man, if alive, was probably at
a great distance ; in a foreign country, and could only be
procured at a heavy expense of time and money, or if dead,
the transaction was shown to be intricate in the investiga-
tion, and that the detection of the guilty would be attended
with many difficulties.
Considerable difference of opinion existed in the commit-
tee in relation to the second resolution proposed. Some of
its members believed that it would continue rather than al-
lay the present feeling, but he had differed from them upon
that subject: he had believed, and did now believe, that an
intelligent committee, consisting of gentlemen residing in
those sections ofthe state that are not excited by this ques-
tion : clothed with the authority, and carrying with them
the respect that would always belong to a committee thus
created, would be enabled calmly to examine all the facts
connected with this transaction : that such an examination
would much allay the existing feeling; would be more like-
ly to lead to the discoveries, than would any act done by a
committee partaking of a strong excitement; and that it
miirht remove any unjust imputations that now exist. These
were the motives that had governed him in his decision, and
which would induce him to vote for the resolutions.
Mr. G. said he had thus plainly stated the facts connected
with the report ofthe committee. Residing in a part ofthe
state where there wa3 much agitation on this subject, and
where there existed an excitement in which he might be
supposed to be a partaker, he should say as little as was con-
sistent with his duty, as a chairman of the committee ap-
pointed to investigate the transaction which they had found
ofa character the most unpleasant and perplexing.
Mr. Bucklin.—Thia is an unpleasant subject; and I re-
gret very much that it should have been thought of sufficient
importance to require legislative attention.
But as tho right to petition"for a redress of grievances, is
by the constitution, bill of rights, and the genius of our gov-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
104 D E B A T E IN T H E ASSEMELY.
ernment, secured to every citizen, and as a respectful me-
morial on the subject ofthe abduction of Morgan, has found
its way to this house, it became nece.sary that it should
take the usual course of legislation. The petition was there-
fore at once referred to a committee, highly respectable
both for talent and integrity. And I suppose that all the
facts, upon which these resolutions are predicated, are em-
bodied in the report which the committee have laid before
the house. From that report it is seen that a tremendous
excitement prevails in the western section of the state in re-
lation to this affair: and to excitement alone are we to look
for e. justification of legislative interference.
A proclamation issued by the executive has already gone
forth, offering a reward of 1000 dollars for the production of
Morgan, if living; and if dead, 2000 dollars for the discovery
of his murderers, to be paid on conviction ; with a full par-
don to all who may aid in the disclosure.
It is now proposed to add 5000 dollars to the reward al-
ready offered. And the important question presented to the
committee is, whether it is wise, prudent or necessary, that
this enormous sum should be offered; and that too under the
sanction of legislative enactment ? Is not the sum already
offered sufficiently large to accomplish the object ? If i
t can
be accomplished, without the aid of deception, fraud or per-
jury, which there is no little reason to fear would be invited
by, and grow out of, the unreasonable reward proposed.
In m y judgment, sir, if you authorise this reward, yon
open the judicial tribunals of that region to a scene of perju-
ry and fraud, stimulated by cupidity, and goaded to madness
by the excitement, which will jeopardize alike the innocent
and the guilty ; and involve perhaps both in the general
ruin.
W h y , sir, look at the state of things as it exists in that
region.
O n the strength of this excitement a publick newspaper
has been established at Rochester, for the avowed purposs
of fanning this flame, and increasing the general fever.
This paper circulates over that whole region of country.
Anonymous letters, inflammatory articles, essays, and affi-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
DEBATE IX THE ASSEMBLY. 105
davits headed with, "Murderers of poor Morgan," Morgan
and Masonry," & c .fillits columns. Meetings are called
in the different towns,villages,and neighbourhoods : at which
resolutions of the most inflammable character, against the
whole body of the fraternity, are passed. T h e conspiracy
eharged upon the institution itself, and every member impli-
cated, either as principal or accessary before or after the
fact; not one of w h o m is hereafter, according to these reso-
lutions, to be supported for any office, or place of publick
trust—and all this published, commented upon, cud approved
in this publick journal.
Under this state of feeling, is any thing further necessary
to end this effervescence in shedding of blood, but an ade-
quate cash reward ? N o sir.
A short time since a gentleman in appearance, and appa-
rently intelligent, residing within the sphere of this general
ferment, called on m e with a letter of introduction from a
friend in one of these excited counties. In the course of con-
versation I chanced to inquire, whether anything new on the
subject of the Morgan affair, had transpired in that region ;
as the city papers of that morning, contained certain vague
rumours and reports, which were said to have been furnish-
ed by a gentleman from the west. H e said no. Nothing
had as yet been developed, calculated to clear i
t ofthe mys-
tery in which the transaction was involved. H e inquired
whether 1 was a member of the order? I told him I was,
and had been for many years. Then, said lis, I presume you
know where Morgan is, and what has been hisfate. I told him
no ; that it was extremely uncharitable to suppose that tho
whole body of the fraternity should have been engaged in a
conspiracy agsiinst one man ; and he too, for aught that ap-
peared, by no means o. r "—icuous or influential character
— a n d from w h o m the n._ -tUtion had nothing to fear. But,
sir, I found him settled, ihefever had seized him ; argument
or expostulation was useless—they only served to increase
the flame, I therefore thought i
t prudent to change the sub-
ject—and shortly left him, apparently fixed in a most un-
charitable, and to even himself, a most tormenting belief.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
106 DEBATE IN THE ASSEMBLY.
Now, sir, I ask what may you not do with the aid of 7009
dollars, among a community the most respectable of whom
are thus unreasonably excited, and ready to countenance
any measure, and aid in any project, which a mistaken zeal
may suggest, to accomplish the object sought? Dangerous
indeed would be the effect of this reward in such hands.
Not long since the committee on courts of justice, of
which I have the honor of being chairman, were called on by
a resolution of the house, to inquire into the expediency of
prohibiting the execution of felons in publick. The commit-
tee reported a bill limiting the number of spectators of such
scenes; believing it to be called for, and satisfied that the
vast numbers who usually attend publick executions,congre-
gated together, increase the facilities to the commission of
crime ; injure the publick morals, and augment rather than
diminish the criminal calendar.
A few days after this bill was introduced, I received an
anonymous letter, post marked at Batavia, evidently written
in a disguised hand, cautioning m e h o w I protected the ma-
sons ; stated that the object of tho bill was well uuderstood;
that it was introduced with no other view than to shield ma-
sons from tho disgrace ofa publick execution; and afford on
opportunity to escape, & c . and concluded by saying, "If
will not do, sir ; masons must be hung in publick."
I mention the?e things to Bhow the extent of the excite-
ment, and the height to which it has been raised, and the
danger of increasing it still higher by this pecuniary reward.
And sir when in addition to all this, you see the grand ju-
ry of Monroe county engaged in a session of five days, ex-
citiilvcly devoted to the subject of Morgan's abduction, and
the circumstances connected therewith, examining more
than 20 witnesses, without being able to obtain facts or
proof sufficient to justify a solitfeyfndictment.and when only
two weeks afterwards, another grand jury is assembled, and
in a short time present seventeen bills (an ominious number)
ngainst as many persons, w h o are said to be implicated in
this affair ; what other conclusion can you draw, than that
the failure in the first instance only served to increase the
ferment in the publick mind ; and that the second jury,driven.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
D E B A T E IN T H E ASSEMBLY. 107
away in the whirlwind of this increased excitement, and pop-
ular clamour, did exactly what thefirstwould, had they
been operated upon by equal force. And, sir, if you add to
all the fuel which now feeds this general flame, tho prospect
of great pecuniary gain, you invite perjury upon the stand ;
and innocence itself may be the victim of that perjury ; and
that borne out and justified by the very flame which your re-
ward has increased, if not produced.
Sir, when Uuddleston, the Sheriff of Schoharie was mur-
dered ; his body found, identified, and the murderer had
fled—a reward of 500 dollars was found sufficiently large to
ensure his caption; although he had many days in advance
of his pursueis—perambulated the northern part ofyour
state, Lower and Upper Canada ; and was finally caught
on Lake Erie.
L seems from the documents which have been read, that
n man by the name of Bruce, and who I believe is sheriff of
Niagara county, is implicated or suspected. I presume ho
is a mason; and that of itself in this iniflammatory region
would seem to be almost sufficient tojustify his execution.
But when connected with the facUthat ho was at a particu-
lar time and place in company with Fox, the stage driver ;
and that somebody swears that Fox told him that Bruce
said Morgan was along; when, I say, these things are
knawn, and this suspicion exists, a less sum than 7000 dol-
lars would be sufficient to elevate Bruce under the gallows.
O n the whole, sir, I am decidedly of opinion that wc had
better let the subject alone. As to the resolution which
proposes to organize a travelling court to perambulate that
country, and thus keep up this fever, the project is too wild
and too dangerous to be seriously advocated for a moment-
I therefore hope the resolutions will at once be rejected.
Mr. Mosely.—Conscious as I am, sir, that this committee
is impatient, and that it will be unkind to detain you longer.
yet as I am now called upon to record m y vote upon a ques-
tion of much intrinsick importance, and which has produced
so much excitement, I am bound to give some ofthe reasons
for that vote. And as that vote Will be found in the nega-
tive, it is due to myself to state that I am not connected
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
108 D E B A T E IN T H E ASSEMBLY.
with the institution to which allusion'has been made*
and although constrained to vote against the passage of the
resolutions, yet, sir, some of the remarks which have been
made in debate, must remain the subject of much regret.
T h e inexpediency of legislative interference upon this
subject, has been already sufficiently made to appear. But
although it may be inexpedient to legislate upon it, either by
bill or resolution, yet sir, there is a law of much more bind-
in" force than any enactment produced by a vote of a major-
ity of this house. T o that law, you and I and all of in,
must submit. By it I am willing that my own conduct
should be judged ; and that law is, publick opinion. Ye6sir,
publick opinion is the paramount law of the land. It chains
down the strong, supports the weak, protects the innocent,
and imposes severe penalties upon the transgressor—penal-
ties more efficacious in their effects than any which can be
embodied in your criminal code. The publick feeling has r».
ceived a wound which requires a speedy correction.
If this most melancholy transaction had happened in tie
county of Onondaga, it would have required no precept from
a magistrate to have summoned to this man's aid sufficient
power to afford him relief. Nor would tin last scene ofthji
tragedy have been carried to the length to which there i
s s
o
much reason to apprehend it has been.
I presume not to lift the veil which has for so many cen-
turies hung around an institution, venerable at least for i
l
»
antiquity, and for aught I know, harmless, if not beneficial.
But it must not be denied that there is associated with it,or
with some of its members, a transaction which no man can
reflect upon with composure. T h e liberty, if not the life of
a fellow citizen, has been taken from him. T o those mors
intimately connected with him, the very doubt which hangi
on tho subject,must add another pang to the keenness of des-
pair. In a government where so much depends upon pub-
lick opinion, I shall be altogether mistaken, if it shall not be
found for the interest and reputation of the institution, th«j
the truth be disclosed. If William Morgan is alive, let bin
be restored to his family and society; if he is dead, let the
silence of his grave no longer protect from punishment tho»
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
DBBATB IN TUB AlgfiMBLr. 109
who put him away. It is however not within ray purpose to
connect this transaction with the masonick institution. From
any testimony yet disclosed, it would be unjust to do so : and
whatever the hand of time shall yet unfold, will bs passed
upon by that paramount tribunal, with unerring rectitude.
But, sir, what are you about to do? If w e will recur
back only to some period of modern history, and that too,
of our o w n country, w e shall find sufficient admonition to
caution in the discharge of our publick duties. Even in that
land where our pilgrim forefathersfirstplanted themselves
to enjoy the liberty of conscience, i
t was not long before
some strong delusion overspread the,pub)ick mind, which in-
fected all classes of people from the learned prelate down to
the most unlettered domestick. T h e arm of civil govern-
ment was called in to aid in inflicting punishment for crimes
which existed only in distempered imaginations. And the
records ofa portion of history, remain enly as evidences of
the ignorance and fanaticism of the people. A n d are w e not
now to erect an inquisitorial tribunal unknown to our consti-
tution, and at war with the spirit of our institutions ? Nay,
will it not be an inquisitorial tribunal, if not equally sanguin-
ary in its punishments, yet in its objects and modes of ac-
tion similar in principle to a Spanish Inquisition? Y o u can
recollect, sir, there was a time when the friends ofcivil liber-
ty rejoiced at the destruction ofa Bastile. Ifyou pass these
resolutions, there m a y be a time when w e shall regret the
vote which gave them existence. Rather let every good
citizen unite in a firm and vigorous execution of existing
laws, and which will be altogether more efficacious than pa-
per resolutions.
T H E S P E A K E R , Gen. Root.—This extraordinary legisla-
tion is to be justified, I suppose, ifjustified at all, by the great
excitement that prevails in the western parts of the state,
against the murderers of Morgan, and freemasons in gone-
ral.and this house is called upon to assume the exercise ofju-
dicial and execative functions. Evidence has been collected
for tho purpose of inducing the belief that Morgan has been
taken off by violent hands; but why should we, in a legisla-
tive tapacitr, interfere in the matter ? W h y net leave it te
L
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
110 DEBATE IV THE ASSEMBLY.
our judicial tribunals? It is said great excitement is pem-
ding the community; but w h y this excitement ? Suppose
him murdered: Are not our laws in force in the western
parts of this state ? Are not our courts open, before whom
offenders may be arraigned, and by w h o m they may be con-
signed to the punishment due to their crimes? But.it is not
stramro that there should be this excitement, considering the
population ; soma are from the land of steady habits, some
from the land of notions, some from the Jerseys, and same
from" Penn's land ; but because they are excited, it is not
necessary that tho legislature should attach blame where
none is deserved. There has been great excitement in t
h
i
s
region before now; hand-bills were circulated, headed by
lar^-e capitals, " The Grand Canal in danger!" and the peo-
ple were excited ; men have basn burnt in effigy, and since
than other excitements have existed; but the legislature
should not therefore usurp judicial powers.
That Morgan's liberty was violated, has been proved, and
condign punishment has been inflicted on the offenders
against the majesty of the laws. They are now receiving
the punishment due to the offence,iu the prison of Ontario
But it is said Morgan is murdered. If so, detect the perp»
trators of tho crimn, and punish them according to law.' K
he U murdered, the murderers have forfeited their neck*
But a few days since an individual in Delaware, by commit-
ting the crime of arson, forfeited his life, as much so as the
murderer of Morgan. H e escaped. Would you send a
Committee ofthe legislature in pursuit of him? W e read fre-
quently of murders being perpetrated ; are committees of the
legislature upon all such occasions to be sent in pursuit of
the murderers? No, sir; but for this excitement such a
measure would not be thought of. M e n are seeking to con-
vert this subject into a political affair, and for the purpose of
excluding masons from publick offices.masons are represent-
ed as setting your courts and your laws at defiance. 1 have
not belonged to any lodge for many years, though more than
thirty years since I was initiated. Is it to be believed tint
freemasons have conspired to commit murders and to shisM
nmrdcrors from punishment ' No, sir ; the objects to keep
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
DEBATE IN THE ASSEMBLY. Ill
masons out ef office, and those who raise the breeze, to oc-
cupy the places of honour and profit. T h e women, too, are
excited: they hold their meetings, and pass resolutions—
among others, that their daughters shall tiot marry freema-
sons, and, therefore, the legislature must erect an inquisition
to search out and detest those murdering masons. It is true
that w e have courts and district attorneys, and cannot free-
masons w h o are guilty of violations of law, be brought to
justice? Are our courts too feeble to bring the offenders to
justice ? Will a eommittee of the legislature have more povv -
er than a court ofjustice? This is strengthening the arm of
justice with a vengeance. T h e 6word ofjustice will be but
feebly berne by such an arm. Ygn give your committee
power to send for persons and papers ; but how are they to
bear the sword of justice with any effect ? they send a sub-
pojna to a person to appear before this grand inquisition ; he
disobeys; must they go and drag him by the ears before
them, or must they wait until the next session ofthe legisla-
ture—make a report of the contempt of their process, and
pray that the scijeant of arms may be despatched to bring up
the person in contempt! But i
t may be another legislature,
and they may not consider disobedience to 6uch process in as
high contempt as the present legislature; it may, however,
be this same legislature, if the honourable the senate should
condescendingly grant us an extra session ; but if it is so,
what will you do with the contumacious witness ? You m a y
send him to yonder prison, and there you would have a right
to keep him, while the legislature remained in session, but
no longer.
Thefirstresolution authorises the governour to issue his
pioclamation offering 5000 dollars in addition, I suppose, to
the 1000 dollars already offeied for a sight of Morgan, and
2006 dollars for the conviction of his murderers. W e do not
know that he has been despatched. From the evidence be-
fore us, we m a y suspect that he has suffered from violent
hands. During the prevalance of this excitement, is there
no danger that an innocent m a n m a y suffer on the gallows
in consequence of so great a reward being offered to produce
a conviction? Is perjury not to be feared while publick ex-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
112 DBBATE IB THE ASSEMBLY.
citemenfc is so strong, and when publick feeling is prepared to
countenance and screen the perjurer ? It would seem that
the publick desire some one's life; hang somebody, they say,
whether guilty or innocent; let Barabbas go, but erucify
him, crucify him. It is dangerous policy ; it is bidding a re-
ward for perjury; it is putting innocence in jeopardy. It i
s
said that the resolution [should pass,because the goveraonrii
limited by.the existing laws in the amonnt of the reward he
can offer; he cannot exceed 2000 dollars,and he has gone the
whole length of his authority: the legislature surely would
not give him more money to swear innocence on the gallows.
The legislature should keep within tho legitimate boundi
of their authority. Inquiries of this nature to search for ev-
idence have not been instituted, except as preparatory to the
impeachment of publick officers, or for the purpose of ascer-
taining whether the existing laws on any particular subject
required to be and could bo made more perfect; but in a cue
like the present, a committee ofthe legislature should be ap-
pointed a court, an itinerant grand jury, to inquire and pre-
sent, a jury and judges to try and condemn, though I believe
it is not asked that they should also execute their sentence,
is hitherto unheard of. T o keep up the excitement, a me.
morial has been drawn up and pre-sented to the legislature,
and the projector of it, I venture to eay, is an emigrant from
the neighbourhood of Boston. W h y should w e permit our-
selves to partake of this excitement, and authorize a pro-
ceeding which was never thought of before, though crimei
of as deep dye and alarming character have heretofore been
perpetrated? A n d why resort to this proceeding, which de-
feats its object ? Pass these resolutions and!you publish to a
l
l
who may be concerned, w e are coming, and w e now give yon
notice to depart or you will be brought up before the Inqui-
sition. The measure is novel; it is dangerous ; it is an usur-
pation of the functions of another branch of tho government,
and above all, it is inefficient.
The first resolution, by authorizing so great a reward,
opens a door to perjury. I'erjury may grow out of it, and i
t
may be questionable whether, even if it should pass, consid-
ering that the governour has already issued a proclamation
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
DEBATE IN THE ASSEMBLY. 113
offering a reward of 2000 dollars for the discovery of Mor-
gan, or the conviction of his murderers.
Besides, the evidence before us is of a very indefinite char-
acter ; i
t rests almost exclusively on hearsay. I doubt
whether w e should legislate at all upon the subject.
Mr. Granger said he had hoped that in the discussion of
this question, the very existence of masonry would be kept
out of view, and that these resolutions would be acted upou
without reference to the character or conduct of any secret
association. N o allusion had been made to that institution by
the committee, either in their report, or in calling the atten-
tion ofthe house to the consideration ofthe resolution's propo-
sed. They had denounced none; they had spoken ofthe trans-
action as a violation ofthe rights of a citizen, owing allegi-
ance to and protected by our government; and he must be
allowed to express his surprise and regret, that a discussion
on masonry had been introduced by those who oppose the
resolutions.
The gentleman from Jefferson (Mr. Bucklin) addressed
you in a manner calculated to create a belief that an honest
jury could not be found in the west, and that an innocent
freemason's life was not safe. And why? Because a person
on learning that the honourable gentleman was a mason,
had charged him with knowing the fate of Morgan, and some
other misguided zealot had sent him an anonymous letter,
charging him, as chairman of the judiciary committee, with
having introduced a bill with the intention to prevent the
publick execution of masons. Is this the way to meet the res-
olutions ? As well might I urge their passage upon the ground
that I had heard masons, and many of them, declare, that
this man had deserved his fate, and that they had arightto
deal with their own members in their own way. Such ex-
pressions I have considered as proceeding from those who
were neither honest masons, nor honest men, altjwugh they
have been common. Heaven forbid that they should hero
be charged upon an institution, among whose members are
ranked many of m y most valued friends. Yet such a course
would be as generous as the one adopted by the gentleman.
from Jefferson.
L2
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
114 D E B A T E IN T H E ASSEMBLY'.
Let thase resolutions stand or fall upon fair ground. What
are the facts connected with this act of violence ? A peace-
ful citizen of this state is arrested and taken fifty miles from
his house ; in his seizure and removal are engaged men who
under ordinary circumstances would never have been found
in the posse of a constable ; he is imprisoned ; by the same
persons he is released from his confinement, and taken, no
one knows whither ! For seven months all efforts to discov-
er his fate have been ineffectual. Those who took htm from
the jail have confessed their participation in that transac-
tion, but deny all knowlegeof his subsequent fate. It is no,
proved that he was taken to Niagara, but there is stron"
ground for such a belief. W h e n we con sider thai tho per-
sons connected with this transaction were those standing
fair in the community ; the strong inducements that exist to
tempt them to his restoration, was it in their power ; that i
t
is the only means by which they can save themselves and
their respectable families from disgrace and ruin; we hare»
right, we are compelled to believe, that this citizen has been
forced to a foreign country, or that his life has been taken.
Under such circumstances, I ask whether a case is not pre-
sented of a character so extraordinary, a8 to require extn-
ordinary means for its developement.
Again, I repeat, that I carry on no crusade against any
institution, nor would I implieate its innocent members.
Fiom thefirstpart of this inquiry,T h,ve avoi(]ed „„.
s.on to Free Masonry, nor should I now .peak of it, had not
some ot Us members who ommao 11,- i • t.
. , , , oppose these resolutions, seen fit
to place it in such bold relief.
be o^rTr ar
V"Stead Of590
° hilars, as" the reward to
be offered for the discovery of Morgan, or the dete.tion of
Ins murderers, if dead M r « . i j •
tl.o -m~ „.> c i S
'r e m a
rked, that by reducing
tie amor* of the reward, the temptation to perjury would
be lessened. H e h.mself, however, feared no such conse-
who hid T 7,7"' " "" a
PP'eh
"»led ^ gentlemen
who had addressed the committee. H e thought it due to *.
peiitioners that something shouId bo don.b « '
J J *
«d H was due ,o the PeoP,c ofthe s
t
a
t
e that * Z ^ 2
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
PROGRESS OT THE EXCiTKMEMT. 115-
luted authorities should evince their willingness to co-ope-
rate in the detection of offenders.
Mr. Hay remarked that the reduction ef the sum did not
obviate the objection. Until he should forget Titus Oates,
he could not vote for thefirstresolution. All history shows
that rewards of this kind are the worst species of subornation
of perjury.
The question was put on the adoption of the resolutions,
and they were rejected—thefirst,noes 76, ayes 26 ; the se-
cond, noes 74, ayes 23.
T h e wisdom ofthe Assembly in refusing to pass the
resolutions offered by M r . Granger must be obvious
to the most casual observer. N o legislative act
could reach an offence already committed. O f
course it was unnecessary to legislate upon the sub-
ject, unless with a view to increase the excitement.
T h e folly, danger, and depravity of doiug which, as
well as the folly, danger, and depravity of offering
large rewaids to informers, has often been exempli-
fied in English history, and in no instance so effectu-
ally as in case of the Popish Plot, to which I beg
liberty to refer the reader. It will be found in a sub-?
sequent chapter, and deserves attentive perusal.
C H A P T E R XIII.
. Progress ofthe excitement—Town Meetings—Dtnun*
cialions of Masons—and of the Masonick Clergy.
While the exertions of said committee were con-
fined to the detection and punishment of offenders,
they received, as already remarked, the approbation
of all honest, candid, and intelligent men. A n d had
the object for which they were appointed, been strict-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
116 tOWS MEETINGS.
ly adhered to, they would unquestionably have laid
the foundation for much applause. Some of the
prime movers in this affair indicated, however, by
their conduct at an early day, that such were not their
sole intentions.
The avidity with which the most improbable tales
were greedily devoured by a large portion of com-
munity—the malignity which marked the conduct of
6ome members of that committee, in the circulation
of falsehoods however base, passing without rebuke.
and the impunity which they apparently enjoyed i
n
doing acts, which at any other time, and under arrj
other circumstances, would have branded their au-
thors with deserved contempt, induced them to be-
lieve that now was the favourable time to commence
their march to empire.
Meetings were therefore called by their advice and
under their directions, in almost every town in t
o
i
l
and the adjacent counties, for the ostensible purpose
of devising means to detect the guilty, and raising
funds to aid and assist the widow and the orphans.
The meetings, however, when assembled, instead o
>
attending to tho business for which they were profei-
sedly called, indulged themselves in the most angry
vituperations against the whole fraternity—passed
the most inflammatory resolutions against masons i
n
general-denounced them as unworthy of publick con-
fidence—and usually closed by nominating candi-
dates for office,at the several town meetings then ap-
proaching.
A meeting of this kind was held at Middlebary, in
the county of Genesee, on the 21st day of February,
1827, as slated in their printed proceedings, "for the
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
TOWN MEETINGS. 117
purpose of taking into consideration the late mason-
ick outrages, and to make nominations tofillthe dif-
ferent offices in said town."
A meeting was held in the town of Poultney, in
thecounty of Steuben, at which it was amoDg other
things " Resolved, that they would not hear any free-
mason preach, unless said preacher should refuse to
meet with any Lodge of free-masons, and should
openly and boldly declare, that the institution of ma-
sonry is a bad institution."
The citizens of Pultney were not in that respect
alone. Similar resolutions were adopted elsewhere.
Clergymen were dismissed—the relations which had
existed for years between the Pastor and his flock,
were burst assunder—brethren of the same church,
" who had twined as 'twere in unity," refused to par-
take of the holy sacrament, so long as it was tainted
by a mason's presence—the dearest connexions in
civil and social life were severed in twain—brother
was armed against brother, citizen against citizen*
and. neighbour against neighbour. The groans of
Calvary were lost, and the precepts of the Redeemer
forgotten amid the universal cry of " where is Mor-
gan."
As a specimen of the resolutions passed at such.
meetings, I insert the following :
At a meeting ofthe citizens of the town of Elba,
in the county of Genesee, held at the house of John
Wyllis, on the 3d day of March, 1327, of which Sim-
eon Hosmer was chairman, and Daniel Woodward.
secretary, it was, among other things,
Resolved, " That they would not support any per-.
»on for any office, either in town, county or state, or.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
113 TOWN MEETINGS.
any minister of the gospel w h o is a m e m b e r ofthe
fraternity."
At a meeting of the citizens of the town of Cov-
ington, in the county of Genesee, held on the 10th
day of March, 1327, of which Walter Bonney was
chairman, and Robert Watson secretary, i
t was,
a m o n g other things,
Resolved, " T h a t w e deem free-masons, 39 such,
unfit for any office of trust or confidence, in town,
county or state."
At a meeting of a large and respectable number o
f
legal voters, ofthe tswn of Cambria, in the county o
f
Niagara, held at the house of John Gould, on the
17th day of February, 1827, of which Eliakim Has- j
m o n d was chairman, and John Groves secretary,it
was, among other things,
Resolved, " T h a t in our opinion, (considering a
l
l
the attendant circumstances,) the leading charactw
ofthe masonick fraternity must have been connected
ii, and approved of, tho abduction of Morgan—-there-
'ore w e consider it our duty to withhold oursupport
from any ofthe members of that institution, for any
office of town, county, or state."*
*At the town meeting held in Batavia, in April, 18*7, C»l.
William Davis, a member ofthe Lewiston convention, art-
publican, and gentleman of high respectability, became »
candidate fur supervisor, in opposition to Air. Bush, the reg-
ularly nominated anti-masonick candidate. Col. Davis, how-
ever, had been so unfortunate as not to discover niarkf o
f
blood on a piece of plank, brought from fort Niagara and pM-
rented to Mrs. Morgan, which had, for a long time, been im-
mersed in tan bark, and was therefore proscribed, aad dr
nounced as a recreant to their cause, in the Advocate, print-
ed by Col. Miller, in the followiug terms : —
"1 have just learned from a source entitled to full credit,
that William Davis Is to be a caudidate for Supervisor oftbi
town of Batavia. Mr. Davis, I understand, assigns as a r«-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
TOWN MEETINGS. 11$
More than a hundred different meetings, and prob-
ably more than a thousand such, were held in the in.
fected territory,at which resolutions of similar import
were triumphantly passed. Newspapers were estab-
lished to give them currency. Thebasest falsehoods
and the most inflammatory appealsfilledtheir col-
umns,and were read withan interest before unknown.
The effect of all this may perhaps be conceived by
the distant reader, but cannot well be described.—
Strangers living remote from the scene, i
t will hardly
be supposed, can credit their relation, unless by the
aid of history. It cannot therefore, be improper to
suspend for a moment the progress of our narrative
to trace the progress and consider the effect of popu-
lar excitement-in other countrys than our own.
son for his submitting to be a tool for freemasons, that he
:
dislikes Mr. Bush, and would rather have Mr. Baker elect-
ed. Mr. Davis does not wish to be elected himself, but
wishes to defeat the election of Mr. Bush. I think the peo-
ple who appointed Mr. Davis one of the.committee to inves-
.tigate the late outrages, had better withdraw their misplaced
confidence from sucii a rcereant to their cause. Let them
look well to it that their ranks are not divided and their
fore* destroyed. I hope the people will understand this
corrupt combination between the masons and some few
dough-faced anti-masons. If the poople are true to their
own cause they will triumph."
Mr. Bush, who is a very respectable man, was elected, but
refusing to comply with the requisitions of anti-masons rela-
tive to masonick Jurors was afterwards proscribed—and in
1828, Mr. Williams was elected in opposition to Mr. Bush ;
during hi3 administration Masons were returned as incompe-
tent Jurors, and in 1829 the people of Batavia having resu-
med their reason, elected Maj. Sutherland as supervisor, by
a majority of 29 over Mr. Williams.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
POPUtAR EXCITEMENT. •
CHAPTER XIV.
Popular excitement—the Popish Plot.
To assist the readers of this Narrative, and partic-
ularly those remote, in giving credit to some of i
t
s
statements in relation to the degree and effect of the
anti-masonick excitement in this vicinity, I have
thought proper to present for their perusal some well
authenticated cases of popular excitement from His-
tory. Although not immediately connected with the
subject before us, they contain a striking illustration
of the principles and practices which for two years
have been taught with great industry in the infected
district, and therefore present a theme for much
profitable reflection.
The existence of popular excitement is no phe-
nomenon. History is replete with examples. Du-
ring the reign of Nero, R o m e was set onfireby tho
direction of that Tyrant, and the crime charged upon
the Christians, then resident in that metropolis. Ai
they were an unpopular and persecuted sect, the
charge obtained extensive currency, and multitudes
perished by slow and lingering torments, for an of-
fence of which they were as innocent as the babo i
n
its cradle.
Religion, not as taught by our Saviour, but M
practised by those who pretend to be his follower^)
has evinced in every age a desire to persecute
Hence "its altars have burned brightest when human
victims fed the flame." Hence those great popular
excitements which formerly changed the scat of Em-
pire, and converted this globe into a theatre of nor-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
THE POPISH PLOT. 12!
rour. Hence the massacre on the eve of St. Barthol-
omew's day, when thousands of innocent, unsupect-
ing victims, fell a sacrifice to papal fury. Hence th*
Crusades, which for a time convulsed Europe to
its centre, and precipitated the whole Christian
world in arms on Asia ; and hence too that tremen-
dous excitement which enabled "Mahomet and his
disciples, arrayed in armour and blood, to ride in tri-
umph o'er the spoils of thousands slain by his victori-
ous sword."
It is needless on this occasion to refer to that scene
when artful and designing leaders induced a Jewish
populace to exclaim, "crucify Him, crucify Him," or
to go back to a remoter period and trace the cause of
"•hat excitement which presented the poisoned cup to
the lips of Socrates, because instances of more recent
date disgrace the annals of every nation, not except-
ing even the one in which w e live.
Christianity was introduced into Britain at an early
day. T h e Gatholicks, so long as they had the pow-
er, issued their papal bulls against all who refused to
bow at their shrine. The protestant religion having
at length succeeded and become paramount in the
state, the poor Catholick felt its wrath. Numerous
laws with severe penalties were enacted, and enfor-
ced with a rigour which makes humanity weep. T h e
nation was for a time about equally divided between
the two rival sects, and which ever prevailed was
sure to persecute all its opponents.
During, however, the time of Cromwell, the Pro-
'estant sect obtained the ascendancy,and in the reign
of Charles the 2d, who succeeded Cromwell, the peo-
ple had become so prejudiced against the papists, and
M
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
122 POPULAR EXCITEMENT.
apparently so fearful of their ascendancy, that some
mysterious design was" suspected in every movement,
enterprise, and profession of that monarch—hence
the Popish Plot.
The Gunpowder Plot had taken place some time
in the year 1604, and those concerned in it had con-
fessed their guilt, and mostly perished on the scaf-
fold.
The disposition of men's minds, during the reign
of Charles the 2d, (167C) predisposed them, even
without proof, to believe in another. Hence, says
H u m e , in his history of England, volume iv. page
311, " A plot all ofa sudden struck their ears—they
were awakened from their slumber, and like men
affrightcncd and in the dark, took everyfiguref
o
r
-
a
spectre. The terror of each man became the source
of terror to another, and an universal patiick being
diffused, reason and argument, and common sense
and common humanity, lost all influence over them."
O n the 12th of August 1678, says this elegantlnV
torian, one Kirby accosted the king as he was walk-
ing in the Park, "Sir," said he, " keep close within
your company, your enemies have a design upon
your life, and you may be shot in this very walk."
Being asked the cause of this extraordinary speech, he
said,that "Grove and Pickering had engaged to shoot
the king, and Sir George Wakeman, the Queen's phy-
sician, to poison him." This intelligence he added,
had been communicated to him by Doctor Tongree
whom, if permitted, he would introduce to his Majes-
ty. Tongree was a divine of the Church of England,
active, restless, full of projects, and void of under-
standing. H e brought papers to the King, which
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
THE POPISH PLOT. 123
contained information of the supposed plot. T h e
King sent them to the Treasurer, Lord Danby, and
ordered the two informers to lay the business before
that minister. They did so, and the King and his
minister vvere both satisfied ofthe imposture. Here
the matter would probably have rested, but for the
interference ofthe King's brother—he however, sent
for Kirby and Tongue, and found them living in con-
nexion with Titus Oates, who was said to have con-
veyed thefirstintelligence to Tongue.
Oates affirmed that he had fallen under suspicion
with the Jesuits—that he had received three blows
with a stick, and a box on the ear from the provincial
of that order, for revealing their conspiracy, and that
overhearing them speak cf their intentions to punish
him more severely, he had withdrawn and concealed
himself. This man, in whose breast was lodged the
fate of kings and kingdoms, was allowed to remain its
such necessity, that Kirby was obliged to supply him
with daily bread , and it was a joyful surprise to him
when he heard that the Council was at last disposed
to take some notice of his intelligence. But as he
expected more encouragement from the publick than
from the King or his minister, he thought proper, be-
fore he was presented to the Council, to go with his
two companions to see Sir Edmondsbury Godfrey, a
noted and active Justice of the Peace, and to give ev-
idence before him ofall the articles ofthe conspiracy.
Oates' narrative upon oath, before Godfrey, the
Justice, contained numerous specifications of the in-
tended plot, and among other things, he stated that
G rove and Pickering had been employed to shoot the
King with silver bullets—that the former was to re-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
124 POPULAR EXCITEMENT.
ceivethesum of fifteen hundred pounds, and the lat-
ter, being a pious man, was to receive 30,000 masses,
which estimating masses at a shilling a piece, amoun-
ted to a like value.
Oates, the informer of this dreadful plot, was the
son of an Anabaptist preacher—had been indicted for
perjury, and escaped—was afterwards a chaplain on
board thefleet,whence he had been dismissed on
complaint of some unnatural practices not fit.tobe
named. H e then became a convert to the Catho-
licks, as he afterwards boasted, in order to betray
them—was received by them into St. Omer'scollege,
from whence he was also dismissed, and finally, from
resentment, or want and indigence, he was induced,
'n combination with Tongue, to contrive the plot of
which he accused the Catholicks.
This abandoned man, when examined before the
Council, betrayed his impostures in such a mannei
as would have utterly discredited the most consistent
story, and the most reputable witnesses. Still, on
account of the prejudice against Catholicks, great
attention was paid to his evidence, and the plot soon
became the subject of conversation and the object of
terror.
Coleman's papers being seized, and containing, aj
il was supposed, evidence of (he conspiracy, though
nothing of that kind was apparent to the unprejudiced
eye, diffused still more the panick with which the nar
tion began already to be seized. M e n reasoned more
from their fears and (heir passions, than from the ev-
idence before them.
There was danger, however, lest time might open
the eyes ofthe publick; when the murder of Gadfiej
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
SHE POPISH PLOT. 125
completed the general delusion, and rendered the
prejudices of the nation absolutely incurable. This
magistrate had been missing some days ; and, after
much search, and many surmises, his body was found
lying in a ditch, at Primrose hill: the marks ofstrang-
ling was thought to appear about his neck, and some
contusions on his breast : his o w n sword was stick-
ing in the body ; but, as no consideiable quantity of
blood ensued, on drawing it, it was concluded, that it
had been thrust in after his death, and that he had
not killed himself : he had rings on his fingers, and
money in his pocket: It was, therefore, inferred, that
he had not fallen into the hands of robbers. With-
out further reasoning, the cry rose, that he had been
assassinated by! the papists, on account of Oates' evi-
dence. This clamour was quickly propagated, and
met with universal belief. • The panick spread itself,
on every side, with infinite rapidity ; and all men, as-
tonished with fear, and animated with rage, saw, in
Godfrey's fate, all the horrible designs ascribed to the
catholicks ; and no farther doubts remained of Oates'
veracity. T h e voice of the nation united against
that hated sect ; and, notwithstanding that the bloody
conspiracy was supposed to be now detected, m e n
could scarcely be persuaded, thattheir lives were yet
in safety. Each hour teemed with new surmises.—
Invasions from abroad, insurrections at home, even
private murders and poisonings were apprehended.
T o deny the reality ofthe plot, was to be an accom-
plice : to hesitate, was criminal : royalist, repub-
lican ; churchman, sectary ; courtier, patriot ; all
parties concurred in the illusion. The city prepared
for its defence, as if the enemy were at its gates; the
m
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
12« POrtJLAB ESClTEU£.iT.
chains and posts were put up : and, it was a noted
•aying, at that time, of Sir Thomas Player, thecham-
berlain, that, were it not for these precautions, allthe
citizens might rise, next morning, with their throats
cut.
In order to propagate the popular phrensy, seve-
ral artifices were employed. T h e dead body of God-
frey was carried into the city, attended by vast mul-
titudes. It was publickly exposed in the streets,ind
viewed by all ranks of m e n ; and every one, who
saw it, went away inflamed, as well by the mutual
contagion of sentiments, as by the dismal spectacle
itself. The funeral pomp was celebrated with great
parade. T h e corpse was conducted through the
chief streets of the city: seventy-two clergymen
marched before ; above a thousand persons of dis-
tinction, followed after : and, at the funeral sermon,
two able-bodied divines, mounted the pulpit, and
stood on each side of the preacher, lest, in paying
the last duties to this unhappy magistrate, he should,
before the whole people, be murdered, by the papists.
In this disposition of the nation, reason could DO
more be heard, than a whisper in the midst of a most
violent hurricane. Godfrey's murder by the papists,
was generally believed. A proclamation was issued
by the king, offering a pardon and a reward of 6001,
to any one who should discover his murderers, and
as it was afterwards surmised, that the terror ofa like
assassination would prevent discovery, a new procla-
mation was issued, promising absolute protection to
any one who should reveal the secret. Thus was in-
demnity, money atid security, offered to the fairest
bidder. . .
,
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
THE POPISH PLOT. 1ST
While the nation was in this ferment, the Parlia-
ment assembled. The king in his speech, mention-
ed the plot which had been formed against his life(
but declined giving his opinion, lest he should say too
much or too little.
The plot was immediately echoed from one house
to the other. T h e authority of Parliament gave sanc-
tion to that fury with which the people were alrea-
dy agitated,an address was voted for a solemn fast—a
form of prayer was contrived for that solemnity, and
because the popish plot had been omitted in the first
draught, it was carefully ordered to be inserted, lest
omniscience, to use the words of an historian, should
want intelligence.
In order to continue and propagate the alarm, ad-
dresses were voted for laying before the house, 6uch
papers as might discover the horrible conspiracy—
for the removal of Popish recusants from L o n d o n —
for administering every where the oaths of allegiance
and supremacy—for denying access at Court, to all
unknown and suspicious persons, and for appointing
the trainbands of London and Westminster to be in
readiness. T h e popish Lords, Stafford and others,
were committed to the Tower, and both houses, after
hearing Oates' evidence, voted, "that the Lords and
Commons are of opinion that there hath been, and
still is, a damnable and hellish plot contrived and
carried on by the popish recusants,for assassinating the
king, for subverting the government, and for rooting
out and destroying the protestant religion."
Oates, who, though his evidence were true, must,
by his own account, be regarded as an infamous vil-
lain, was, by every one, applauded, caressed, and
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
1
-
2
J POPULAR KXC1TKMENT.
called the saviour ofthe nation. He was recommen-
ded by the parliament to the king. H e was lodged
in Whitehall, one of the royal palaces, was protected
by guards, and encouraged by a pension of twelve
hundred pounds a year.
It was not long before such bountiful encourage-
ment brought forth new witnesses. William Bedloey
a man if possible, more infamous than Oates, appear-
ed next upon the stage. H e pretended in the first
instance, to give intelligence only of Godfrey's mur-
der, but afterwards emboldened by the general fury,
he accused the popish Lords, then confined in the
Tower. Encouraged still more by the success which
apparently accompanied all their efforts, Oates and
Bedloe accused the Queen of entering into a design
against the life of her husband. The king determin-
ed, a6 he said, " not to see an innocent woman abu-
sed," ordered Oates to be strictly confined,his papers
tobeseized,andhisservants dismissed; andthis darinff
informer was obliged to make application to par-
liament, in order to recover his liberty.
Coleman soon afterwards, was brought to trial—
Oates and Bedloe deposed against him, and although
not entitled to any credit whatever, on account of
their characters, the improbabilities and inconsisten-
cies of their story, Coleman received sentence of
death. The sentence was afterwards executed upon
him. H e suffered with calmness and constancy, and
to the last, persisted in his innocence.
Father lreland'sconviction succeeded that of Cole-
man's, and was produced by the testimony of Oates
and Bedloe. Grove and Pickering were condemn-
ed at the same time. All these men, before theirar-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
THE POPISH PLOT. 129
raignment, were condemned in the opinion ofthe
Judges, jury and spectators ; and to be a catholick,
was of itself sufficient proof of guilt. When the jury
brought in a verdict of guilty, the Chief Justice, Sir
William Scroggs, said, "You have done gentlemen,
like very good subjects, and good christians, that is to
say, like very good Protestants, and now, much good
may their thirty thousand masses do them." Allu-
ding to the masses by which Pickering was to be re-
warded for murdering the king. All these men went
to execution protesting their innocence, a circum-
stance which made no impression on the spectators.
Hill, Green and Berry, were afterwards tried for
Godfrey's murder, convicted on Bedloe's testimony,
and executed, protesting to the last in their innocence.
Berry died a protestant. Instead however, of its giv-
ing a check to the publick credulity, men were only
surprised, that a protestant could be induced at his
death, to presist in so manifest a falsehood ; and the
blood already shed on account ofthe Popish plot, in-
stead of satiating the people, served only as an incen-
tive to their fury, and each conviction ofa criminal
was regarded as new proof of those horrible designs
which they supposed, and were determined at all
events to believe, had before existed.
The credit ofthe popish plot still stood upon the
oaths ofa few infamous witnesses. Though such im-
mense preparations were supposed to have been made
in the very bowels ofthe kingdom, no traces ofthem,
after the most rigorous inquiry, had as yet appeared.
Though so many thousands, bothabroad and at home,
had been engaged in the dreadful secret, neither hope
nor fear, nor remorse, nor levity, nor suspicion, nor
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
130 POPULAR EXCITEMENT.
private resentment, had engaged any one to confirm
the evidence. Though the informers pretended, that
even after they resolved to betray the secret, many
treasonable commissions and papers had passed tliro'
their hands, they had not the precaution to keep any
one of them, in order to fortify their testimony. But
all these difficulties and a thousand more, were not
found too hard of digestion by the nation and parlia-
ment. The house of C o m m o n s offered further re-
wards to new discoveries, not considering the danger
which they incurred, of granting bribes to perjury.
A pamphlet having been published to discredit tho
informers, and to vindicate the Catholick Lords in
the Tower, these Lords were required to discover
the author, and thereby to expose their own advocate
to prosecution ; and both houses concurred in renew-
ing the former vote, that the papists had undoubted-
ly entered into a horrid and treasonable conspiracy
against the king,the state, and the protestant religion.
This extreme violence in the prosecution of so ab-
surd an imposture, disgraces the noble cause of lib-
erty, in which the parliament was engaged. W e may
even, says H u m e , "conclude from such impatience
of contradiction, that the prosecutors themselves re-
tained a secret suspicion, that the general belief we»
but i
l
l grounded. The politicians among them, were
afraid to let in light, lost it might put an end to so
useful a delusion. T h e weaker and less dishonest
party took care, by turning their eyes aside, not to
see a truth so opposite to those furious passions by
which they were actuated and in which they were de-
termined obstinately to persevere.
There was no interruption to the persecution of
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
THE POPISH PLOT. IS*
Catholicks accused of the plot. Whitebread, pro^
vincial ofthe Jesuits, Fenwick, Gavan, Turner and
Harcourt were the next victims. Oates, Bedloe, and
one Dugdale, a new witness, appeared against the
prisoners. Although the defendants proved by six-i
teen witnesses, most of them young men of the high-
est respectability, that Oates was at St. Omers, when
he swore he was in London, their testimony because
they were Catholicks, was totally disregarded by the
Court and Jury. Their reception in court was full
of outrage and mockery, and the Chief Justice, in re-
ply to one of the witnesses, said, "you papists, are
taught, not to believe your senses," T h e prisoners
were of course convicted, and afterwards executed,
protesting to their last breath, in the most solemn,
earnest and deliberate, though disregarded protesta-
tions of their innocence.
Langhorne, an eminent lawyer, was next brought
to trial. T h e witnesses for this unhappy man on ap-
proaching the Court, were almost torn in pieces by
the rabble—one in particular was bruised to such a
degree as to put his life in danger. Another, a wo-
man, declared that unless the Court could afford her
protection, she durst not give evidence ; but as the
Judges could go no farther than promise to punish
such as should do her injury, the prisoner himself had
the humanity to wave her testimony, and was con-
victed, the spectators at the same time expressing
their savage joy by loud acclamations.
While accusation was equivalent to sentence of
death, Sir George Wakeman, the Queen's Physician,
was put upon his trial. Oates, although he had pre-
viously confessed that he knew nothing against the
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
132 POPULAR EXCITEMENT.
prisoner, gave positive evidence of his guilt. The
connexion of his cause with the Queen's, who was
also accused, made men recollect themselves and re-
cal the good sense and humanity which seemed du-
ring some time to have abandoned the nation. The
Chief Justice himself, who had hitherto favoured the
witnesses, exaggerated the plot, and railed against
the prisoners, was considerably molified, and gave a
favourable charge to the jury. Sir George Wake-
man was acquitted. Oates and Bedloe had the as-
surance to attack the Chief Justice to his face, and
even to accuse him of partiality before the Council.
The whole party who had before extolled his con-
duct, now made him the object of their resentment.
Oates was at length brought to trial for perjury on
two indictments—and no criminal was ever convicted
on fuller and more undoubted evidence. Twenty-
two persons who had been students at St. Owen's,
most of them m e n of credit and family, gave evi-
dence, that Oates was at that seminary at the time
he swore he was a witness of the numerous treason!
in London—forty-seven witnesses, persons also of un-
tainted character, deposed that Father Ireland was
at Staffordshire, when Oates swore that he was i
n
London. Oates' sentence was, to befineda thou-
sand marks on each indictment, to be whipped on
two different days, from Aldgate to Newgate, and from
Newgate to Tyburn—to be imprisoned during life,
and to be pillored five times in every year.
Thus ended the Popish plot, after the nation hid
been agitated, its peace and harmony disturbed, and
its prosperity interrupted for years. After the blood
of some of its subjects had been shed on the scaffold,
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
THE MEAL-TUB PLOT. J 33
without pretence of guilt, save that derived from pre-
judice and perjury.
CHAPTER XV.
Popular Excitement continued—The Meal-Tub Plot
Trial and execution of Lord Stafford.
Ere the publick mind had acquired repose, the
meal-tub plot was conjured up by some necessitous
villains, incited by the success of Oates and Bedloe.
There was one Dangerfield,*a fellow who had been
burned in the hand for crimes, transported, whipped
pilloried four times, fined for cheats, outlawed for
felony, convicted of coining, and exposed to all the
publick infamy which the laws could inflict on the ba-
sest and most shameful enormities—still the creduli
ty ofthe people and the humour of the times, enabled
this man to become a person of consequence. H e
was the author of a new incident called the meal-tub
plot, from the place where some papers relating to it
were found. It only appears, that Dangerfield, un-
der pretence of betraying some of the conspiracies of
the presbyterians, had been countenanced bysome of
the catholicks of condition, and had even been admit-
ted to the duke's presence and the king's: and that,
under pretence of revealing new popish plots, he had
obtained access to Shaftesbury, and some of the pop-
ular leaders. Which side he intended to cheat, is
uncertain; or whether he did not rather mean
to cheat both: but he soon found, that the belief of
the nation was more open to a popish than a ptesby-
*See Hume, vol. 4, p. 349.
N
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
131 POPULAR EXCITEMENT.
terian plot; and he resolved to strike in with the pre-
vailing humour. Though no weight could be laid
on his testimony, great clamour was raised; as if the
court, by way of retaliation, had intended to load the
presbyterians with the guilt ofa false conspiracy.
Juries, however, were not at this time so partial
but that reason and justice, even when the popish
plot was in question, could sometimes prevail. The
Earl of Casilemaine, though accused by Oates (who
had not yet been convicted of perjury, as related in
the preceding chapter) and Dangerfield, was acquit-
ted. Sir Thomas Gascoigne, accused by two ser-
vants w h o m he had dismissed for dishonesty, recei-
ved a like verdict. These trials were great blows to
the plot, but did not discourage their projectors.—
The House of Commons, then in session, prosecuted
those accused with the same zeal and the same cre-
dulity as their predecessors—renewed the former
vote, which affirmed the reality of the horrid plot—
and expelled Sir Robert Can and Sir Robert Yeo-
mans from the house, for saying there was no popish
but a presbyterian plot. They greatly lamented the
death of Bedloe, who had died ofa fever'as Bristol,
and on whose testimony they much depended.
The commons even endeavoured, by their counte-
nance and protection, to remove the extreme infamy
with which Dangerfield was loaded, and to restore
him to the capacity of being an evidence. The whole
tribe of informers they applauded and rewarded;
Jennison, Turberville, Dugdale, Smith, la Faria, ap-
peared before them; and their testimony, however
frivolous or absurd, met with a favourable reception :
the king was applied to, in their behalf, for pensions
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
THE MEAL-TUB PLOT. 135
and pardons: their narratives were printed, with that
sanction which arose from the approbation of the
house : Dr. Tongue was recommended for the first
considerable church preferment, which should be-
come vacant. Considering men's determined reso-
lution to believe, instead of admiring, that a palpable
falsehood should be maintained by witnesses, it may
justly appear wonderful that no better evidence was
ever produced against the catholicks.
The impeachment ofthe Catholick lords who had
been committed to the Tower for treason, was after-
wards revived, and on the 30th of Nov. 1680, it was
determined to make viscount Stafford the first
victim.
Three witnesses were produced against the prison-
er—Oates, Dugdale, and Tuberville.
The clamour and outrage of the populace during
the trial, were extreme: great abilities and eloquence
were displayed by the managers, sir William Jones,
sir Francis Winnington, and sergeant Maynard : yet
did the prisoner, under all these disadvantages, make
a better defence than was expected, cither by his
friends or his enemies : the unequal contest in which
he was engaged, was a plentiful source of compas-
sion, to every mind seasoned with humanity. H e
represented (hat, during a course of forty years, from
the very commencement of the civil wars, he had,
through many dangers, difficulties and losses, still
maintained his loyalty: and was i
t credible, that
now, in his old age, easy in his circumstances, but dis-
pirited by infirmities, hewould belie the whole course
of his life, and engage against his royal master, from
w h o m he had ever received kind treatment, in the
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
136 POPULAR EXCITEMENT.
most desperate and most bloody of all conspiracies?
H e remarked the infamy ofthe witnesses; the con-
tradictions and absurdities of their testimony ; the ex-
treme indigence in which they had lived, though en.
gaged, as they pretended, in a conspiracy with king*,
princes, and nobles; the credit and opulence to which
they were, at present, raised. With a simplicity and
tenderness, more persuasive than the greatest orato-
ry, he stiil made protestations of his innocence, and
could not forbear, every momelit, expressing the
most lively surprise and indignation, at the audacious
impudence of the witnesses.
It will appear astonishing to us, as it did to Stafford
himself, that the peers, after a solemn trial ofsix days,
should, by a majority of twenty-four voices, give sen-
tence against him. H e received, however, with re-
signation, the fatal verdict. God's holy name beprai-
sed, was the only exclamation which he uttered.—
W h e n the high steward told him that the peers would
intercede with the king for remitting the more cruel
and ignominious parts of the sentence, quartering and
banging, he burst into tears: but he told the lords
that he was moved to this weakness by his sense of
their goodness, not by any terror of that fate which
he was doomed to suffer.
Stafford prepared himself for death with the intre-
pidity which became his birth and station, and which
was the natural result ofthe innocence and integrity
which, during the course of a long life, he had ever
maintained : his mind seemed even to collect new
force from the violence and oppression under which
he laboured. W h e n going to execution, he called
for a cloak, to defend him against the rigour ofthe
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
THE MEAL-TUB PLOT. 137
season: "Perhaps," said he, "I may shake with cold;
but, trust in God, not for fear." O n the scaffold he
continued with reiterated and earnest asservations, to
make protestations of his innocence: all his fervour
was exercised on that point: when he mentioned the
witnesses whose perjuries had bereaved him of life,
his expressions were full of mildness and charity.
H e solemnly disavowed all those immoral principles
which over zealous protestants had ascribed, without
distinction, to the church of R o m e : and he hoped,
be said, that the time was now approaching, when Ihe
present delusion would he dissipated ; and when the
force of truth, though late, would engage the whole
world to make reparation to his injured honour.
The populace, who had exulted at Stafford's trial
and condemnation, were now melted into tears, at the
sight of that tender fortitude which shone forth in
each feature, and motion, and accent, ofthis aged no-
ble. Their profound silence was only interrupted
by sighs and groans. With difficulty Ihey found
speech to assent to those protestations of innocence
which he frequently repeated : "we believe you, m y
lord! God bless you, m y lord!" These expressions
with a faltering accent, flowed from them. The ex-
ecutioner, himself, was touched with sympathy.
Twice he lifted up the axe, with an intent to strike
the fatal blow; and as often he felt his resolution to
fail him. A deep sigh was heard to accompany his
last effort, which laid Stafford, forever, at rest. All
the spectators seemed to feel the blow. And, when
the head was held up to them, with the usual cry,
this it the head ofa traitor, no clamour of assent was
uttered. Pity, remorse, and astonishment, had taken
N2
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
133 POPULAR ESClTEMEJft*
possession of every heart, and displayed itselfin eve-
ry countenance.
This is the last blood which was shed, on account
ofthe popish plot : an incident which, for the credit
ofthe nation, it were better to bury in eternal obliv-
ion ; but which it is necessary to perpetuate, as well
to maintain the truth of history, as to warn, if possi-
ble, their posterity, and all mankind, never again to
fall into so shameful, so barbarous a delusion,
CHAPTER XVI.
Popular Excitement continued—Elizabeth Canning.
In 1753, (see History of England, vol.6, page 113)
the metropolis of England, and afterwards the whole
Kingdom, was thrown into commotion by the revela-
tions of an obscure damsel, whose name was Eliza-
beth Canning. As some of the features which mark-
ed that singular case m a y possibly be recognized by
those residing in this vicinity, I cannot resist the
temptation of inserting it entire.
T h e genius of the English people, says Smollet, in
the history above alluded to, is perhaps incompatible
with a state of perfect tranquillity; if it is not ruffled
by foreign provocations, or agitated by unprofitable
measures ofdomestick administration,it will undergo
temporary fermentations from the turbulent ingredi-
ents inherent in its own constitution. Tumults are
excited, and faction enkindled into rage and invete-
racy, by incidents of the most frivolous nature. At
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
ELIZABETH CANN1XC. 139
this juncture the metropolis of England was divided
and discomposed in a surprising manner, by a dispute
in itself of so little consequence to the community,
that it could not deserve a place in a general histo-
ry, if it did not serve to convey a cbaracteristickidea
ofthe English nation. In the beginning of the year
an obscure damsel, of low degree, whose name was
Elizabeth Canning, promulgated a report, which in
a little time attracted the attention ofthe publitk.
She affirmed, that on thefirstday of the new year, at
night, she was seized under Bedlam-wall by two ruf-
fians, who having stripped her of her under apparel,
secured her mouth with a gag, and threatened to mur-
der her should she maketheleastnoise ; that they con-
veyed her on foot about ten miles, to a place called
Enfield-wash, and brought her to the house of one
Mrs. Wells, where she was pillaged of her stays ; and
because she refused to turn prostitute, confined in a
cold, damp, separate, and unfurnished apartment;
where she remained a whole month, without any
other sustenance than a few stale crusts of bread, and
about a gallon of water ; till at length she forced her
way through a window, and ran home to her mother's
house, almost naked, in the night ofthe twenty-ninth
of January. This story, improbable and unsupport-
ed, operated so strongly on the passions of the peo-
ple in the neighbourhood of Aldermanbury, where
Canning's mother lived, and particularly among fa-
naticks of all denominations, that they raised volunta-
ry contributions, with surprising eagerness, in order
to bring the supposed delinquents to justice. War-
rants were granted for apprehending Wells, who kept
the house at Enfield-wash, and hor accomplices, the
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
140 POPULAR EXCITEMENT.
servant maid, whose name was Virtue Hall, and one
Squires, an old gipsy woman, which last was char-
ged by Canning, of having robbed her of ber
stays. Wells, though acquitted of the felony, was
pupished as a bawd. Hall turned evidence for Can-
ning, but afterwards recanted. Squires, the gipsy,
was convicted of the robbery, though she produced
undoubted evidence to prove that she was at Abbots-
bury, in Dorsetshire, that xery night in which the fel-
ony was said to be committed, and Canning and her
friends foil into divers contradictions during the
course of the trial. B y (his time the prepossession
of the common people in her favour had risen to
such a pitch of enthusiasm, that the most palpable
truths which appeared on the other side, had no oth-
er effect than that of exasperating ihein to the most
dangerous degree of rage and revenge. Some of the
witnesses for Squires, though persons of unblemished
character, were so intimidated that they durst not
enter the court; and those w h o had resolution
enough to g>ve evidence in her behalf, ran the risk
of assassination from the vulgar that surrounded the
place. O n this occasion, sir Crisp Gascoyne, lord-
mayor of London, behaved with that laudable cour-
age and humanity which ought ever to distinguish the
chief magistrate of such a metropolis. Considering
the improbability of the charge, the heat, partiality,
and blind enthusiasm with which it was prosecuted,
and being convinced of tho old woman's innocence
by a great number of affidavits, voluntarily sent up
from the country by persons of unquestionable cre-
dit, he, in conjunction with some other worthy citi-
a*o«, resolved to oppose the torrent of rulgar preju-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
ELIZABETH CANKIK0. H I
dice. Application was made to the throne for mer-
cy : the case was referred to the attorney and solici-
tor general, who, having examined the evidences on
both sides, made their report in favour of Squires to
the king and council ; and this poor old creature was
indulged with his majesty's pardon. This affair was
now swelled up into such a faetion as divided the
greater part of the kingdom, the rich as well as the
poor, the high as well as the humble. Pamphlets
and pasquinades were published on both sides of the
dispute, which became the general topick of conver-
sation in all assemblies, and people of all ranks es-
poused one or other party with as much warmth and
animosity as had ever inflamed the whigs and tories,
even at the most rancorous period of their opposi-
tion. Subscriptions were opened, and large sums
levied, on one side, to prosecute for perjury the per-
sons on whose evidence the pardon had been granted.
O n the other hani, those who had interested them-
selves for the gipsy, resolved to support her witness-
es, and, if possible, detect the imposture of Canning.
Bills of perjury were preferred on both sides. T h e
evidences for Squires were tried and acquitted ; a*
first Canning absconded ; but afterwards surrendered
to take her trial, and being, after a long hearing, found
guilty, was transported to the British colonies. T h e
zeal of her friends, however, seemed to be inflamed
by her conviction ; and those who carried on the
prosecution were insulted, even to the danger of their
lives. They supplied her with necessaries of all
sorts, paid for her transportation in a private ship,
where she enjoyed all the comforts and conveniences
that could be afforded in that situation; and furnished
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
142 FOFELAR EXCITEMENT.
her with such recommendations as secured to her a
Tery agreeable reception in New-England.
CHAPTER XVil.
Popular Excitement continued—Salem Withcrafl.
The cases to which I have referred for the purpose
of illustrating the nature, tendency, and effect of pop.
ular excitement, to prevent any misconstruction what-
ever, are related in the language of their respective
authors. They teach us an excellenta moral l
e
i
-
son, and if duly estimated, cannot fail, at this time, o
f
producing salutary effects.
In order, however, to show that w e are not the on-
ly people even in our own country who have been
excited, and in order (hat the disgrace may be shared
among a greater number, I will cite one case more
out ofa multitude of others, and then resume my nar-
rative.
In 1692 the people of Massachusetts were alarmed
by the cry of Witchcraft. A strange delusion, and
not unlike the present one, except in degree, seized
on the minds of our pious and venerable ancestors i
n
that province, and for a while ovei spread the town of
Salem with melancholy gloom. This frenzy contin-
ued from March till November, and during that pe-
riod twenty-two persons received sentence of death
for the crime of Witchcraft. A m o n g them was the
Rev. George Burroughs, a pastor of the church, and
one Giles Cory, an old man, bowed down with years,
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
SALEM WITCHORAFT. 14?
who was pressed to death by slow and lingering tor-
ments, because he refused to put himself upon trial
before a court and jury which had just convicted
eight of his fellow prisoners of a similar offence.
While writhing in agony with weights upon his breast,
his tongue protruded from his mouth ; this the sheriff
put back with his cane.
"Every man," says the historian of that day, "was
suspicious of his neighbour, and alarmed for himself:
business was interrupted. Many fled from their dwel-
lings. Fear was in every countenance, and distress
in every heart. Every place was the subject of some
direful tale, and the most common incidents received
some fanciful construction to cover them with myste-
ry or load them with infamy." The testimony then
received, and upon which verdicts ofguilty vvere pre-
dicated, would now be considered a burlesque upon
judicial proceedings. StilUt was deemed conclusive
by the courts and juries of that day, and out of twen-
ty-two persons convicted, nineteen were actually
hanged for offences which existed only in distemper-
ed imaginations. The supposed sufferers, elated with
slaughter and emboldened by success, at last accused
some ofthe principal inhabitants ofthe province.—
This roused suspicion from its lethargy—condemna-
tion ceased—the accusers were silent—those under
sentence of death were reprieved, and subsequently
pardoned. A gentleman of high respectability, on
being accused of Witchcraft, commenced an action of
slander. This served in part to anest the progress
of the excitement, and taught even accusers mode-
ration.
Some of the informers afterwards begged pardon
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
144 POPULAR EXCITEMENT
"for having brought the guilt of innocent blood upon
the land." Twelve Jurors, by whose verdict a wor-
thy man was convicted, some years after, made t
h
i
s
publick declaration : " W e do signify our deep sense
of, and sorrow for, our errours, in actingon such evi-
dence. W e pray that w e may be considered candid-
ly and aright by the living sufferers, as being then un-
der the power of a strong and general delusion."—
A n aged woman, Martha Cory, afttr her condemna-
tion to the gallows, was excommunicated from the
church. Her sentence ten years afterwards was by
the same church erased from their records. One of
the Judges who had been concerned in the condem-
nation of these unhappy victims, on the day ofa pub-
lick fast, made a confession in the South Meeting
House at Boston, and desired the prayers of t
h
e
church "on account ofthe errours into which he bad
fallen at Salem."
O n this subject, Chief Justice Marshall very justly
remarks:
"The annals of Massachusetts exhibit one ofthoie
wonderful cases of popular delusion, which, infecting
every class of society, and gaining strength fromUi
very extravagance, triumphing over life, reveal t
o
man his deplorable imbecility, and would teach him
if the experience of others could teach, never t
o
countenance a departure from that moderation, and
those safe and sure principles of moral rectitude
which have stood the test of time, and have received
the approbation of the wise and good in all ages.
"In Great Britain, as well as in America, the opin-
ion has long prevailed that by the aid of malignant
spirits, certain persons possessed supernatural povr-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
SALEM WITCHCRAFT. 145
IEVS, which were usually exercised in the mischievous
employment of tormenting others; and the criminal
codeof both countries was disgraced with laws forthe
punishment of witchcraft. In the year 1692, this
weakness was converted into frenzy : its baneful ac-
tivity was extended to persons in every situation of
life, and many ofthe most reputable members of soci-
ety became its victims.
"Some young girls in Boston had accustomed
themselves to fall into fits, and had affected to be
struck dead on the production of certain popular
books, such as the Assembly's Catechism, and Cotlon's
Milk for Babes, while they could read Oxford'sjests,
or Popish and Quaker books, with many others
which were deemed profane, without being in any
manner affected by them. These pretences, instead
of exposing the fraud to instant detection, seemed to
have promoted the cheat; and they were supposed
to be possessed by demons who were utterly con-
founded by the production of these holy books. At
length an old Irish woman, not of good character,
who had given one of these girls some harsh lan-
guage, and to w h o m all this diabolical mischief was
attributed, was apprehended by the magistrate ; and
neither confessing nor denying the fact, was, on the
certificate of physicians, that she was compos mentis,
condemned and executed.
"Thepublickmind being thus predisposed,four girls
in Salem complained of being afflicted in the same
manner with those in Boston. The physicians, una-
ble to account forthe disorder, attributed it to witch-
craft, and an old Indian woman in the neighbourhood
was selected as the witch. The attention bestowed
O
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
146 POPULAR EXCITEMENT.
upon these girls gave them great importance, and not
only confirmed them in (he imposture, but produced
other competitors, who were ambitious of the same
distinction. Several other persons were now be-
witched. /( was necessary to keep up the agitation
already excited, by furnishing fresh subjects for as-
tonishment ; and in a short time the accusations ex-
tended to persons in respectable situations.- The
manner in which the accusations were received,
evinced such a degree of publick credulity, that the
impostors seem to have been convinced of theirpow-
er to assail with impunity all w h o m caprice or mi-
lignity might select for their victims. If the nearest
relatives of the accused manifested either tenderness
for their situation, or resentment at the injury done
their friends, (hey drew upon themselves the ven-
geance of these profligate impostors. For accompa-
nying on her examination a wife who had becnappre-
hended, the husband was involved in the same pros-
ecution, and was condemned and executed. The
examinations exhibit a deplorable degree of blind i
n
-
fatuation on one side, and of'atrocious profligacy oa
the other, which, if not well attested, could scarcely
be supposed to have existed.
"Many persons of sober lives and unblemished
characters were committed to prison ; and the pub-
lick prejudices had already pronounced (heir doom.
Against charges of this nature, thus conducted, no
defence could possibly be made. T o be accused,
was to be found guilty. T h e very grossness of the
imposition seemed to secure its success, and the ab-
surdity of the accusation to establish the verity ofthe
charge.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
SALEM WITCHCRAFT. 147
"The consternation became almost universal. It
was soon, perceived that all attempts to establish in-
nocence must be ineffectual, and the person accused
could hope to obtain safety,only by confessing the truth
ofthe charge, and criminating others. The extent of
crime introduced by such a state of things, almost
surpasses belief. Every feeling of humanity i
s
shocked when w e learn that to save themselves, chil-
dren accused their parents: in some instances pa-
rents their children ; and in one case sentence of
death was pronounced against a husband on the testi-
mony of his wife. There were examples of persons
who, under the terrors of-
examination, confessed
themselves guilty—among the number who were ac-
cused, only one person was acquitted. For this he
was indebted to one of the girls, who would not join
the others in criminating him. B y the court of oyer
and terminer, a considerable number who were con-
demned, of whom nineteen protested their innocence,
were executed. It is observed by Mr. Hutchinson,
that those who were condemned, and not executed,
had most probably saved themselves by a confession
of their guilt.
"Never (says Chief Justice Marshall) was there
given a more melancholy proof ofthe degree of de-
pravity of which man is capable, when the publick
passions countenance crime."
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
148 PROGRESS OF
CHAPTER XVIIJ-
Further progress ofthe excitement in the infected ter-
ritory—Exclusion of Masons from Juries—Trial of
the Town Clerk of Bethany—Inquisitorial powers
assumed—Proceedings in relation to the Holland
Land Company.
Although the cases alluded to in the preceding
chapters are somewhat lengthy in detail, it is hoped
they will not be thought irrelevant, inasmuch as they
afford a perfect exposition of the views, feelings, and
conduct of a considerable portion of community i
n
this enlightened age.
The popularity ofthe agents in the production of
this excitement, appeared to have no limits. Their
influence with the people knew no bounds. Com-
m o n sense and c o m m o n humanity were violated t
o
aid its progress. The most sacred rights of masons
were trampled under foot, and as M r . H u m e very
justly remarks in relation to the popish plot, the peo-
ple, "like men aflrigbtened and in the dark, took ev-
eryfigurefor a spectre. The terror of each man be-
came the source of terror to another—and a general
panick being diffused, reason and argument, and
common sense and c o m m o n humanity, lost all influ-
ence over them. The torrent of national prejudice
ran so high that no one, without the most imminent
danger, durst venture openly to oppose it; nay,
scarcely any one without great force of judgment
could even secretly entertain an opinion contrary to
(he prevailing sentiments." And as the historians of
N<*w-E"°la!id, when speaking of witchcraft, with equal
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
THE EXCITEMENT. 145
propriety observe, "Terrible was the day—every
man was suspicious of his neighbour and alarmed for
himself. Terror was in every countenance and dis-
tress in every heart. Every place was the subject of
some direful tale—and the most common incidents
received some fanciful construction, to cover them
with mystery or load them with infamy."
The torrent of popular prejudice did not, it is true,
run with thatoverwhelming violence it did during the
supposed existence of the popish plot, or at the time
when some honestly supposed that Witchcraft would
obtain the entire ascendancy in N e w England. The
cases, however, in many respects were parallel, and
had this excitement occurred in a different age, and
among a less enlightened people ;
• had the legislature
given it the sanction of their authority ; and had the
publick mind been familiar with scenes of carnage,
it would unquestionably have terminated in the mas-
sacre of all masons in the vicinity.
In order to test the publick sensibility on that
point, a number of false alarms were spread abroad,
either by Col. Miller or his friends.at different times.
Individuals supposing that Batavia was made up of
cannibals, w h o having devoured the adjacent coun-
try were about to devour each other, flocked hither
with loaded arms, for the avowed purpose of fighting
the masons. These expedients, however, were of
rare occurrence, and did not at the time excite much
interest or attention.
Attempts were made to prevent masons from meet.
ing as usual. Taunts, threats, and a variety of other
measures were resorted to for that purpose, all how-
ever to no effect. T h e publick mind was not yet
prepared for scenes of violence and bloodshed.
02
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
150 CELEBRATION OF
It has ever been the custom of masons to meet on
the anniversary of St. John the Baptist, and St. John
the Evangelist. T h e constitution of the Grand
Lodge requires it. Their right to do so has never,
it i
s believed, till recently, been questioned. In pur-
suance of this ancient custom, the Batavia Lodge,
in May, 1827, announced their intention to celebrate
in publick the then approaching anniversary of St.
John the Baptist.
T h e following article thereupon appeared in Col,
Miller's paper:
The Masonick Intelligencer ofyesterday contains a notio
of an intended celebration of St. Johns on the 2Sth of Juno
next. T h e notice closes by saying, " T h e neighbouring En-
campments, Chapters and Lodges in their corporate cipaci-
ties, as well as all Sir Knights, Companions, and Brethren i
n
the vicinity will be invited to attend." There is something
in this notice as well as the time of its appearance which
ought not to escape publick attention. W h a t is meant b;
their "corporate capacities ?" I have never understood that
lodges, or chapters, or even encampments were incorporated
institutions—nor can I conceive how they can have "corpor-
ate capacities," unless they be in some manner recognized by
law. They probably understand it better than the people d».
And besides, w h y is this notice given so early ? It is now
more than six weeks to the 2jth of June. There is still more
mystery about this part ofthe subject. A few days instead
of weeks would bo sufficient for all in the vicinity of this
place. But their object probably is to give their notice >
wide circulation and call together their " tens of thousands"
which they have frequently boastod they could command a'
a moment's warning. W h a t can be the object of calling to-
gether so many masons at this place ? W h o s e houses are to
be burnt or demolished ? W h o is to be kidnapped and mur-
dered? It'it be necessary to celebrate this masonick festi-
val, why is it not done by the respect ive lodges in their owa
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
ST. JOHN'S DAY. 1*1
neighborhood ? W h e r e is the necessity of their all congre-
gating at one place ? Is it to display their strength, mani-
fest their contempt for the people and set at defianee their
power ?
They will probably lay they have a right to assemble. So
they have. And so have the people a right to assemble.—
And now I would suggest to the good people of this county,
that a general county meeting be held at the court house in
Batavia, on the 25th day of June next, to deliberate upon
the proper measures to be adopted to secure our rights and
persons from masonick encroachment and outrage. It is no
time to sleep upon our posts. Eternal vigilance is the only
condition upon which liberty it vouchsafed to man. W e
have seen with what secrecy the masons contrive, and with
what facility tfeey execute their plans of vengeance. Eight
months have elapsed since a free eitizen of our country was
kidnapped and torn from his family and his home, and al-
though the active vigilance ofa whole community has been
enlisted in the investigation, still his fate is wrapped in the
dark artana of masonick mystery. The place of his grave
remains undiscovered, and bloody aesassias go unpunished.
And who is to be the next victim of masonick vengeance
time alone must disclose. In this state of things I think the
friends of constitutional law and civil liberty should eom-
raune together and adopt some measures for their future
protection. And that they may see the force with which
they have to coatend in their struggle to maintain the ma-
jesty ofthe laws, the independence of the country and the
rights ofthe people, let them assemble on the 25th of June.
They may then see the masons arrayed in robes of royalty,
with sceptres in their hands, and crowns upon their heads.
marching threugh the streets ofa republican country.
T h e Masonick Intelligencer of M a y 23, 1827, in
relation to the above article contains the following
remarks:
W e did not anticipate, when ia a former number w e gave
Botice of our intention to celebrate in publick the anniversa-
ry ef St. John the Baptist, on the 26th ofJune, in this village,
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
152 C E L E B R A T I O N O F
that it would have called forth such asperity of remark, or
that our right to do ao would for a moment be questioned.—
W e r e we,howevor,to judge from the general tenour ofsome
remarks on that subject in the last number of the "Morgaa
Investigator, and Advocate," w e should of course infer that
such a celebration at that time, in this village, is not to be
tolerated with impunity. M e n w h o have stood so loag
' 'sleepless on the towers of freedom"—who have so often and
so loudly proclaimed their patriotism, who have boasted to
much of their regard for individual rights and personal free-
dom, it was to have been expected would be thefirstto a
t
-
tempt their violation. Still w e do not believe that the pub-
lick at large are yet prepared to sacrifice masons on the al-
tar of prejudice, or to go all lengths with these pretended
patriots in acts of violence and outrage. W e think tbe time
is rapidly approaching, and even n o w is not far distant, whin
the appellation of " a Brother" will not be a term of reproach.
T h e recent excitement, originating, w e admit, in man;
eases, from the purest of motives, but which oflate, by a
combination ofall the angry passions, has, w e trust, in man;
instances been perverted to an end for which it was not orr
finally designed by many ofthe good and respectable mea
accessary to its formation, appears to be rapidly approxima-
ting to a close. - S o m e mighty effort seems therefore indii-
penstble to preserve its existence, in order that the "propri-
etor!" m a y not, like drunken men on the morning sabsequent
te a debauch, sink into that state of ,torpor from which no-
thing short of the last trumpet can apparently redeem then,
A n occaeion for additional excitement, these proprietors, w
presume, foDdty anticipate on this anniversary. W e trust,
•owever, in that respect they will be egregriously mistakes.
It has ever been a standing rule among masons, sanction-
ed and approved by centuries, to celebrate this day either is
publick or in private. W e are not aware that a publick cel-
ebration, if properly conducted, (and that this will be so W
kave no doubt,) ought to excite the animosity of any ratios-
»1 bong an earth. Such, then, being our viewe, w e cannot
• « exprcci 0«r ufeigned satisfaction that i
t ie in contem-
plate*,M 4 w < f8Bdlr h o p ,that w f9,]ow ^ ^ h o M (
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
ST. JOHN'S DAT. 153
riot masons, will unite in participating the festivities of that
day.
W e understand that a highly respectable gentlemen has
been desired by the committee of arrangements to deliver an
address on the occasion. W e hope he will accept the invi-
tation ; and from his talents, his standing, and his character,
w e anticipate an exhibition of masonick principles of which
the most violent and the most exasperated cannot but sanc-
tion and approve.
Col. Miller's paper ofthe next week contained the
following:
" There is much conversation respecting the meeting to
take place the 25th ofJune. The maaonshave their emblems
and signs, and on their aprons and sashes, the Sun, Moon,
and stars are engraved. The bright luminary of day throws
his beams over our heads, and the moon, with her borrowed
light, sheds her beams. It is unnecessary to have the Sun,
Moon, and Stars emblazoned on the flags ofthe people.—
The forty-seventh problem of Euclid, and compasses and
squares, would be equally foreign from our purpose. W h e n
the meeting takes place, numerous devices have been pro-
posed. "The Majesty of the People ;" "The triumph of
Justice over oppression ;" "Morgan's Ghost walks unaven-
ged among us;" "Masons have had their day -r" "Murder
will out ;" "He that sheddeth Man's blood, by man 6hall
his blood be shed ;" "The voice of Abel cries to me from tho
ground." The leaders on the occasion will select for them-
selves. There is much greatness to be maintained. The
sovereign people are to move in commanding attitude ; a
vile and contemptible society, with blood on their heads aro
to be met. Our citizens, we trust will act with decency.—
The great solemn subject will sink deep into their hearts
and evince itselfin their whole deportment.
T h e 25th of June, a day big with expectation, at
length arrived. About 300 masons assembled. A
large concourse of between 2 and 3000, by some mag-
nified into 4 or 5000, met pursuant to Col. Miller's,
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
154 EXCLUSION* OP
notice, at the court house. Some came armed with
guns,and left them in the environs of the village; and
some with large knives resembling the scalping knives
ofthe American savage. The day however passed
off, without any incident of consequence to mar i
t
s
festivity. S o m e feeble attempts to insult the mason-
ick procession, as it passed along the street, were
made, but speedily repressed by the good sense of
those assembled. The procession was once or twice
broken by the driving of a waggon through it and back
again, apparently with design. A few stones were
also thrown. These measures, originating as they
did with the meanest of the vulgar, met the disappro-
bation of all respectable men. Had the masoni,
smartingas they did under insults intended to provoke
them to hostilities, been so unwise as not to have sup-
pressed their resentment, the village of Batavia would
unquestionably on that day have been a 6cene of
horrour.
The proceedings at the masonick celebration were
solemn and impressive: the address delivered by
George Hosmer, Esq. of Livingston county, fully an-
swered the expectations of his most partial friends.
And the masons, for having endured the scoffs and
sneers of an enraged multitude with so much pa-
tience, deserved, and with many obtained, consider-
able applause.
As the people at large were not yet prepared for
deeds of violence, the managers of the excitement
found it necessary to alter their course. T o out-
law and proscribe the masons, had from the begin-
ning, with some, been a favourite object—and in this
particular they have in part succeeded.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
MASONS FROM JURIES. 155
As a preparatory step to this measure, it was
thought expedient by them to exclude all masons
from sitting upon Juries. T h e several town meet-
ings, in 1827, having terminated principally in their
favour, an opportunity was thereby presented for car-
rying this favourite scheme into execution, under the
semblance of legal authority.
The Statute, 1 st vol. Revised Laws, page 329, sec,
13, enacts that the supervisor, town clerk, and asses-
sors ofthe several towns shall annually, on or before
the first day of July, cause to be made and transmit-
ted to the clerk ofthe county, an alphabetical list of
the names, with the place of abode and addition of all
persons residing in their respective towns, and quali-
fied and of sufficient ability and tinderstariding to
serve as jurors in the several courts, and not contain-
ed in either ofthe boxes kept by the said clerk for
that purpose, who shall thereafter cause such names,
with the places of abode and addition, to be written
on separate slips of paper and put into the box out of
which the names of the jurors are next to be drawn.
And it is hereby made the duty of each ofthe town
clerks in the several towns in the respective coun-
ties, to transmit to the clerk of the county annually,
on or before thefirstday of July, another and a like
list ofthe names of all such persons who had before
been returned as able and sufficient jurors, but have
since died, removed out of the county, or become
otherwise disqualified, and the said clerk shall there-
upon destroy the several slips of paper containing
such names"
Among those returned as "able and sufficient ju-
rors" from the town of Bethany, previous to 1827.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
)b& TRIAL 07 THE
were a number of masons—who were freeholders--
men of understanding and integrity—some of whom
were members of churches, and one of them, Josiah
Churchill, Esq. had for three years represented the
county of Genesee in the Assembly of this state.
These, by an act of the town clerk, were all disqual-
ified, because they were masons. And their names
were of course taken out of the jury box. For this
the town clerk was afterwards indicted by the unan-
imous vote of an anti-masonick grand juvy. The in-
dictment has since been tried, and the defendant ac-
quitted.
O n the traverse of said indictment at the court of
Oyer and Terminer held at Batavia in April 1829, i
t
appeared in evidence that those returned as disquali-
fied jurors were freeholders, and it was admitted by
the defendant's counsel, that they were men of.un-
derstanding, of intelligence and integrity ; it was also
admitted that they were returned as disqualified be-
cause they were masons. It appeared in evidence
that great excitement prevailed in Bethany at that
time. That the exclusion of masons from juries wa8
frequently talked of, and generally conceded to be
correct and proper. It appeared also by one witnesi
that the town clerk was told that if he did not take
care of their interests, (the anti-masons) they would
take care of him. The defendant however was pro-
ved to be a man of integrity and candour, and it wa»
abundantly shown that he acted by the advice anu
counsel of others, and apparently with a view consci-
entiously to discharge his trust. T h e court charged
the jury, that although the defendant had grossly mis-
taken his duty, they did not think there was evidence
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
T0WH CLERK OT BETHAWT 147
enough to show that he acted corruptly—and advised
them to acquit him, which they accordingly did.
That the returning of masons as disqualified jurors
was in violation not only of the letter but of the spir-
it ofthe law, cannot reasonably be questioned. In
criminal cases, however, the intention constitutes the
sole criterion of guilt—some palliating circumstan-
ces were proved on the part of the defendant, and i
t
is therefore upon the whole perhaps right that he
should have been acquitted; s
t
i
l
l i
t was equally pro-
per that he should have been arraigned at (he bar of
his country for an act sanctioned neither by law nor
justice, and which could not be done without tramp-
ling upon both.*
O n a subsequent occasion, when masons met as
usual to elect their annual officers, efforts wore made
to prevent them from assembling; and for that-pur-
pose an effigy was carried through the streets, and
burnt opposite the lodge room in this village. This
outrage originating only with a Caw, and those of but
little consequence even among the anti-masonick
party, created of course no commotion, and ex-
cited no other feelings than those of contempt.
Hiving succeeded in removing masons from office
—having excluded them from juries, and in some in-
stances from the church—having outlawed and pro-
scribed some of the best and worthiest of our citi-
zens— men who had been foremost in acts of publick
*The Court also charged the Jury (anil in that poiticular
they vvere unquestionably wrong) Unit the defendant could
not be oonvicted on the indictment, because he acted merely
&s the clerk ofthe board of inspectors, in making the return
—wittiout adverting to the statute which makes i
t the sola
duty of the clerk to return those "who have since died, ra-
m«red out of tho county, or become other w u o disqualified."
P
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
153 FliOCElDIIGS IV RELATION TO
and private munificence, they resolved themselves
into a court of inquisitors, and at a county cor.vci.lion
held at Batavia in Feb. 1829, of which Stephen Gris-
wold, Esq. of Stafford, w a s chairman, and H. A
Reed, of L e H o y , secretary, it w a s amc
things in relation to the Holland L a n d Company,
" Resolved, That a committee ofsix be appointed by tht*
Convention, to inquire whether the local agent of said can.
pany is a mason, and ifnot, whether he is under the injlum
of thefraternity ; whether he bestows the patronage <
/
/
:
,
'
» r
/
-
Jice on members of the fraternity, and to sustain masonkkftt
pers, and those who are the suppoitcrs ofthe institution,anil
the revilers of those who are engaged in opposition to it,
whether the clerks employed in the Land cilice at this place'
and in other offices on the tract, are all of them maeoin,if
uot, how many are masons; whether all or any of those win
oro not masons are under their influence or controul, oriru
supporters of the institution ; whether the local •
the clerks in the several offices have, or do undertake from
the power and influence necessarily resulting from their s
t
a
-
tions, improperly tocontroul or influence tho publick opinion,
and that said committee correspond vvith'the corresponding
committee ofthe several counties on the said tract, in r
o
t
o
r
-
once to the above subjects, and that, if'thcy shall deem iter
pedietit, to recommend a convention of delegates from t
l
i
n
aoveral counties on the said tract, to be held at BUITUIOOD
the 4th day of July next, to take into consideration the sub-
jects mentioned in this resolution. And, in case they a
h
o
u
l
i
l
not deem it expedient to recommend a convention, to pub-
lish a report of the information they may acquire on thai-
kovo subject, in tho antimasouiek newspapers."
A n d however strange it m a y appear, T . Cnry Esq.
of this village, the intimate personal friend of Mr.
Evans, the highly esteemed and respectable agent of
•aid C o m p a n y , was placed on that committee. 1
ought perhaps in justice to M r . Cary here to remark,
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
THE HOLLAND LAND COJtPAKI. 159
that he was not a member of that convention, and it
is presumed disapproved of i
t
s proceedings. H e has
not however had the candour to avow in publick his
disapprobation, and of course has lent to its project
ors the sanction of his name.
The principles avowed in the .above resolution, as
they are without precedent, i
t i
s hoped will remain
without imitation. The dark recesses of the Span-
ish Inquisition do not afford a parallel. Papal R o m e
in her most arrogant days never prescribed lo her vo-
taries, who they should and should not employ as
clerics. The protectants in their zeal to persecute
the catholicks never made a similar requisition ; and
i
t i
s hoped another instance of the like kind will nev-
er disgrace our land.
Violent and unprincipled excesses in most cases
have carried (heir antidote with them. They majf
perhaps, and from recent demonstrations of publick
opinion i
t may fairly be inferred that they will in this.
The abuse of pnpnl authority produced the refor-
mation—the abuse of power by a British monarch
produced the Magna Chnrta—and the assumptions
of a British Parliament expanded the wings of our
Eagle, and propm ed inm for his noblest (lights.
CHAPTER XIX.
The case of Eli Bruce—His removalfrom the office of
Sheriff of the County of Niugara.
Eli Bruce, whose name is familiar to every one
at all conversant with (he "Morgan affair," in the
fall of 1825 was elected by the people of the county
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
160 ELI BE»Ci.
of Niagara as their sheriff for three years. Being a
person of great activity and vigilance in business, ind
possessed of fine liberal and social feelings, at the
commencement of the unfortunate difficulty which
afterwards occasioned his removal from office, he had
become extremely popular.
T h e most brilliant prospects howeverare often ob.
scored by clouds. Having been suspected of parti-
cipation in the abduction of Morgan, and the proofs
of his guilt as it was supposed being abundant, in t
h
e
spring or summer of 1827 a complaint was made t
o
his Excellency Governour Clinton, (hen, as already
stated, Grand High Priest of the General Grand
Chapte'r, by w h o m a summons was immediately i
s
s
u
-
ed, directing the party accuse d to appear before him
at Albany, and shew cause w h y he should not bene
moved from office. T h e sheriffnppe;ired before t
h
e
Governourby counsel,but neglected or refused to g
i
v
e
such an explanation of his conduct as was required
at his hands. Govornour Clinton therefore after wait-
ing a reasonable time for that purpose, and no expla-
nation being given, on thefirstof October, 1827, r
e
-
moved him from office. His reasons for so doinghe-
ing stated at large in Ihe proclamation issued on t
h
a
t
occasion, I have thought proper to insert it below.
By DE WITT CLIJVTCJV, Gov. of the Stale ofXewYork.
W H E R E A S Eli Bruce, eheriffof'tho county of Niagarii
has been charged before me with a violation of his duties i
i
a good citizen and a faithful ufTicer, in being coneerned i
n
the uuduction of William Morgan, and has heen lieurd i
n b
i
t
defence : And whereas, in the investigation of the said accu.
satlon, It appeared that i
t was completely in the power ofthe
said Eli Bruce, if innocent, to establish his innocence: And
whereas, in order to afford him that opportunity, a decision
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
THOHAS HAMILTON. 1
6
1
on the complaint has been suspended for an ample time, tad
he has giver, no explanation of bis conduct : And whereas i
t
appears that at a recent trial at Canandaigua, of certain per.
gons charged with the said abduction, the said Eli Bruce,
when called on as a witness, refused to testify on several
material points on the ground of self crimination ; from all of
which, I DID persuaded that he was participant in the said
abduction, and thereby has rendered himself unworthy of tho
official station which be at present occupies, I do therefore,
pursuant to the powers vested in me by the constitution o'
tiiis state, remove the said Eli Bruce from the office of sheriff
ofthe county of Kiagnra*
In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and the
(X Q i Priv
y K0;l1 of
' t,ie
state, at the city of Albany,
l
- ' ' the 1st day of October, A. D. 1827.
DE WITT CLINTON
CHAPTER XX.
Thomas Hamilton.
"Morgan's Illustrations of Masonry" not having
been so explicit as could have been desired—and ad-
mitting of various interpretations, it soon became ap-
parent that some explanations jvere necessary. A
difficulty arose, however, in finding a suitable person
for that purpose. While this dilliculty was felt and
acknowledged by all, and (he presence of some ono
ardently desired, whose talents and knowledge of ma-
sonry were adequate to the (ask, n fellow by the nnmo
of T h o m a s Hamilton suddenly appeared.
This Hamilton was not only one ofthe most cor-
rapt and depraved, but also (he meanest of mankind.
B y pretending to a knowledge of Morgan's f»(c, and
expressing frequent alarms for his pergonal safvtj, li«
PS
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
162 THQM.AS HAMILTON
contrived to gain their confidence—and as the toacb
of Midas is said to have converted every thing into
gold, the influence of anti-masonry at once converted
this villain by nature, this drunkard by practice, and
this vagrant by trade, into a saint and a patriot.
Having renounced masonry, he tendered his servi-
ces in thefirstinstance as an assistant editor to Col,
Miller. That situation however being at that time
occupied by Mr. Cochran, he commenced a coum
of lectures on Masonry, and from Batavia went to
Rochester, where, on the strength of a pretended eer.
tificatc from some methodist preacher in Canada,hi
recommended himself to (he benevolent of thatcom-
reunion, from w h o m he received a supply of money
sufficient to enable him to reach Utica, (he ostensible
goal of his utmost wishes. Having sucteeded in one
'mposture he attempted another, and with the aid of
a pretended letter recommending him as a person is
distress, lo another denomination of christians, ha so-
licited charity from them. T h e latter scheme, how-
ever, not succeeding agreeably to his wishes, he st
once cast off his pretended sanctity, and besieged the
ears and pockets ofthe credulous with talcs of Mor-
gan's fate, and at the same time with petitions for pe-
cuniary aid. Those who in the first instance hid
contributed to relieve his pretended wants, being ap-
prized of the imposture, made complaint to a justice,
by w h o m a warrant was issued and Hamilton thereby
arrested. The proofs being abundant, be was com-
mitted by justice Wheeler for three months as a va-
grant to the county jail.
At the expiration of the said three months, ko re-
turned to Batavia, and oace more resumed his aati-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
THOMAS HAMILTON. 1&3
masonick labours. Multitudes of all ages, sexes, and
conditions, flocked around him. Scarce any room
was sufficient to contain them. In Stafford and in
Elba his success it is said was greater still. Deacons
and elders of churches united in prayers for his safe-
ty, and the name of Hamilton was echoed and re-
echoed through the land.
H e afterwards went to Avon, in the county of Liv-
wgston. where he lectured with similar applause.—
One evening after his exercises were closed, he un-
fortunately (as was frequently the case) got so drunk
that his life was despaired of. It was immediately
repoited that he had been poisoned by masons.—
Newspapers devoted to the holy cause which Hamil-
ton with so much zeal, ability, and effect, was ad-
vocating, espoused his cause, and alarmed the whole
country once more with cries of murder.
This tale, tho' false and improbable,was devoured
by a credulous publick, and Hamilton, w h o m many
supposed already in his grave, was considered as a
mtartyr to their cause.
Unfortunately, however, for the managers, Hamil-
ton at length got sober, and soon thereafter departed
for Buffalo.
Buffalo at that time had not participated so much
ja the excitement as some neighbouring villages.—
Hamilton's success therefore in lecturingwas at first
problematical. Still, however, he contrived in a
abort period, by accident, to throw the whole village
iato a flame. O n e Norman Fay, of Batavia, was
about this time drowned in the Tonncwanta creek.
H e was found soon afterwards by some neighbouring
iahabitants, and decently interred. Hamilton had
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
164 THOMAS HAMILTON.
not been long in the village before he was unexpect.
edly missing. Search was made for him in every
corner, and he could not be found. During his myi.
terious absence, news of the death of a stranger
by drowning, within a few miles ofthe village, struck
their ears. It was immediately conjectured by those
who vvere determined to have it so, that (he mysteri-
ous s(ranger could be no other (ban (he persecuted
Hamilton. Horses and carriages were put in requi-
sition, and a number with great pomp and parade
proceeded to his grave. Witnesses to identify the
body were taken along, and some who remained at
home commenced the publication ofa handbill to an-
nounce the glad tidings to a credulous world. The
body of Fay, which those benevolent neighbours who
had given it a decent burial supposed would remain
Undisturbed (ill the last trump should sound, wai
dragged forth from its grave, but could not, with a
l
l
their prejudice and zeal, bcrccognizeda* Hamilton's;,
it was therefore re-interred, and the parly commen-
ced its return to Buffalo. Before its arrival, howev-
er, and before the handbill already in type had beta.
issued from the press, Hamilton emerged from a gro-
cery, where he had remained during ull (his (imt
drunk, and dispelled (he illusion.
H e soon departed for Ontario county, where hi
was received by an anti-masonick friend with open
arms, and (o reward the benevolence of Ins hoit, at-
tempted to commit a rape upon his daughter, a little
firl of nine years old, for which he was arrested, com-
mitted to jail, And afterwards died, convicted, and
sentenced (o hard labour in the stale prison at Au-
bona for seven years,
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
THOMAS HAMILTON. 165
Thus terminated the hopes, the expectations, and
usefulness of Thomas Hamilton, a man who had been
persecuted, poisoned, and drowned, on account of his
faith and practice.
Brown who kept the tavern at Avon, where i
t was said
attempts had been made by' the masons to poison Hamilton
some time before, on being accused of participation in that
pretended offence by one Wait,afterwards prosecuted him in
an action of slander, which was tried at the fall Circuit in
Livingston County 1023, held at Gencseo, before the Hon-
John Birdsali, Circuit Judge, and a Jury composed by con-
tent of parties, wholly of anti-masons, and a verdict found iu
favour ofthe plaintiff for $270 and costs.
I ought, perhaps, in justice to a few resectable anti-ma-
sjons in this vicinity to remark, that some of their number
gave Hamilton no encouragement whatever ; and i
t is much
to be regretted that the same cannot with equal propriety be
said of others.
Hamilton's letter published in the Republican Advocate in
this village on the 30th of November 1327, being somewhat
ofa curious document, and an excellent counterpart to Dr.
Backus'celebrated letter of the 30th of January preceding,
ought to be kept in remembrance, and is therefore inserted-
Aver*, Nov. 23, 1827,
Col. D. C. MILLER—
Sir—It is with all possible diffidence that I take up my pen
for ilie purpose of addressing- you on the present occasion.
have been here since the dny after I last saw you. I left Sa-
•aria on aaiurtfay morning and arrived here the next day.—
O n Monday I delivered a course of lectures to a large assem-
bly of persons, of both sexes, on the first seven degrees of
Mrnonry, which was graciously received by all, except tho
"Brethren." O n Tuesday evening we established a Lodge
°t the house of Mr. Wiard, a warm advocate against the "mys.
lie lie." W e have initiated, passed, and raised to the sublim*
degree of a Master Maaon. This cailed for something to be
done by the members ofthe self-styled "undent and honour_
ablo" fraternity, to put a stop to what they termed a "grow.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
166 THOMAS HAMILTON.
ing »vil!" O n Saturday I was arrested on a warrant, and
taken before Esquire Beunet, but was by him dismissed, ai
there was no cause of action. They, however, vvere unwil-
ling lo lose their victim ; and consequently on Tuesday fol-
lowing I was again apprehended, taken before another fast
tice of the peace, (Esquire Beecher) and again acquitted
The same evening I had another communication of Anti-Mi-
sons, and conferred the degree of Murk-Master. On Mon-
day last I went into a tavern kept by a mason, and had some-
thing to drink, after which 1 went to Mr. Keyes' with whom
I basrd at present; but, tins! scarcely had I arrived there,
before m y eyes began to roll in m y head, and I became per.
fecily senseless. T w o doctors vvere immediately Gent fori
'hey gave m e a double portion of tartar emetic, which caused
a {Trent »omiting. Dr. Ainsworth allowed that something
)ud been given me, that ought not to have been given. Ho did
not say it was poison, but intimated i
t as his opinion. What
I have thrown off m y stomach is preserved, for chemical ope-
ration. A s it respects myself, I have no doubt that I w«»
poisoned ! Thus ynu see "in the midst oflife we arc in death.'
Brace the above, there are many of the craft who have re"
ported through the neighbourhood that I was an impostor'
and knew nothing of masonry. T H . H A M I L T O N .
P. S. — Had the doctors been ten minutes later, my life had
been pone. Such was the opinion of all.
KTTrif! foregoing statement is certified to by the signs-
lore* offiverespectable citizens of Avon.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
TIM0TH™ MONRO. 137
CHAPTER XXI.
A body found on the shore of Lake Ontario, svppoted
for a short time to be Morgan's—First inquest
thereon—Second inquest—Third inquest—Prov»d
finally to be Timothy Monro's.
The Lewiston Committee,at already stated, during
the spring of 1 827, pursued their in quiries with great
diligence, in the hope and expectation ofliruling Mor.
grin's body, which i
t was supposed and believed by
many had in the month of September preceding, been
consigned to a walory grave. Boats vvere chartered,
a vessel hired, and instruments constructed, for the
purpose of aiding and assisting their researches.
The Niagara river and a part of Lake Ontario near
Fort Niagara vvere raked with great industry and ex-
ertions for a number of months, all however to no ef-
fect. The search wasfinallyabandoned, and i
t was
generally conceded that the same mystery which had
hitherto hung over Morgan's fate, would forever
thereafter conceal his morlal remains "in clouds and
darkness."
While publick expectations were thus disappoint-
ed, (he body ofa stranger, on (he 7th of October,
1827, was lound in the town of Carlton, in the coun-
ty of Orleans, about forty miles from Fort Niagara.
It was lying at the water's edge, where i
t had been
left by the surf. A coroner was sent for—an inquest
was held—witnesses who were personally acquainted
with Morgan were examined—and the verdict of a
jury pronounced i
t the body of some person to them
unknown, who had perished by d/owiiing. Being at
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
t63 TIMOTHY MONRO.
that time in a putrid state, and very offensive, is was
immediately buried.
T h e coroners' inquest was immediately published
in a variety of newspapers, and suspicions were at
once excited that the body thus found and interred
was the body of Morgan.
An important election was then approaching. Un-
principled and designing men, w h o had witnessed the
effect of popular excitement on a former occasion,
saw the necessity of some powerful auxiliary, and
concerted, it seems, a plan for bringing (his circum-
stance to their aid. Suspicions that tiiis was Mor-
gan's body, by a little exertion, soon became preva-
lent throughout the country. N o r is it singular that
such should have been the case. It is true (hat thir-
teen months had nearly elapsed since Morgan's ab"
duction, and the state of preservation in which (his
body confessedly was, indicated death at a more re-
cent period. T h e publick mind however was not i
n
afitcondition to judge impartially. Reason had
lost her empire, and prejudice and passion had usur-
ped her place. T h e slightest evidence, though c«M
tradicted by unequivocal proofs, though opposed, a,
in this case, even by nature's law, and improbable in
iUelf, became equivalent to perfect demonstration.
In this state of the publick mind, several gentle.
men from Batavia and Rochester, some cf them witb
the purest of motives.and some of them it is lobe fear"
cd with motives not so pure, on Saturday, (he 13th
of October, 1827, repaired to the grave. They dis-
interred and examined the body, and discovered, or
protended that they discovered, and in that particu-
lar some of thorn may perhaps have boeu sincere, s
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
TLMOTnr MONRO. 169
partial resemblance between the body in qutstion and
that of'Morgan. They caused i
t to be watched and
guarded with the utmost care till the Monday follow.
in", to prevent, as was said, the masons from taking
it away.
During the interval which elapsed between Satur.
day and Monday, a variety of expedients wore resort-
ed to for effect. Mrs. Morgan, then residing in Staf-
ford, was visited by a member of the Lewiston Com-
mittee. Her feelings harrowed up by frequent and
oontradictory reports, gave easy entrance to a tale
which bore on its face the appearance of plausibility,
and which she probably thought might in the end lead
to certainty, and give to her agitated mind some little
repose. Without reflecting for a moment that she
was to be made an instrument in the hands of design.
ing men to promote their selfish views, and then to
"be cast like a loathsome weed away," she placed
herself under their protection and accompanied them
to Carlton. Her anxiely on this occasion was per.
fectly natural, and it was therefore right and proper
that she should have been satisfied by occular inspec*
tion of the truth or falsehood ofthe current rumour.
O n arriving at Carlton on the 15th of October, the
body was slightly and imperfectly examined. It was
bloated and entirely black, putrid on its surface, and
offensive (beyond any thing conceivable) to sight or
smell. Its dross did not correspond with any thing
which they had seen before, and the religious tracts
in the pocket staggered some of the most credulous.
There was not in faet a singie circumstanee, either in
the dress, size, shape, colour, or appearance of tb*
body, which pointed it out as Morgan's.
Q
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
170 TIMOTHY MONRO.
Still, the managers of the excitement having watch.
ed with the eyes of an argus the current of publick
opinion, and seeing i
t begin to run decidedly in t
h
e
i
r
favour, and being unwilling that so useful a delusion
should immediately be dispelled, contrived, as i
t
w
i
l
)
appear in the sequel, to give this, one ofthe mostin.
famous frauds ever imposed on man, the sanction o
f
legal authority.
Had the inquiry on the I5(h of October been c
o
n
-
ducted with fairness and candour—had truth been
their object—had the two Potters who found thebody
who were acquainted with Morgan, and had beenei.
aminedonthefirstinquest, been sworn also on this-
had Hinman Holden of Batavia, a member ef t
h
e
Lewiston Committee, and a gentleman of too much
respectability to tamper with his oath for political e
f
.
feet, who had seen and examined the body onlhc
1 3th of October, before i
t was prepared for inspettki
by the deprivation of its hair and whiskers, hadk
been present and been sworn—had Col. Miller, wb0
was in habits of daily intercourse with Morgan, g
i
v
e
n
his opinion on oath—had Thurlow Weed and Timo-
thy Fitch been called on for theirs—had the body
been examined in regard to its size and length—-had
as much pains been taken to elicit as to conceal t
h
e
truth, the body in question would never have been
palmed as Morgan's upon a credulous world.
The jury however were not apprised of these
mighty preparations, and in the absence of all t
s
e
t
i
-
inony calculated to throw any light whatever upon the
subject, save the insulated opinions of Mrs. Morgan*
• *Mr». Morgan'* opinion, i
t will be found, i
s not supported
by any one circumstance abe related.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
TIMOTHY MONRO. 171
and two or three others, as a matter of course
found a verdict as they did.
The testimony taken on that occasion, which will
be found below, having excited in this community
much interest at the time, deserves an attentive pe-
rusal.
Information of witnesses, severally taken and acknowledg-
ed, on behalf ofthe people ofthe 6tate of New-York, and
touching the death ofan unknown person found in the town
of Carlton, in the county of Orleans, on the shore of Lake
Ontario, on the 15th day of October, in the year of our Lord
1827, before Robert M. Brown, Esq. one ofthe Coroners of
said county, on an inquisition then and there taken on view
ofthe said unknown person then and there being dead—as
follows—
Stitlman Hoxsie, Being sworn—found the body, lying on
t
h
t
> (are with his head towards the shore, a week agoyester"
day, between II and 12 o'olook_ffaVa information to the
Coroner before moving the body. Had on a frock coat,
bitted. KI»«I< ~—-* "•• -
> , ' 1 — , --^wttTTTr DXTCho fir».l *liilt.
handkerchiafcotton, or might be silk—did not know how
long he had Iain there—body i
s more swollen now and black-
er than when found, particularly i
n the face and head.
S T I L L M A N HOXSIE.
Lester Benrdsley, being sworn—has viewed the head of
the body, which has the appearance of William Morgan ;
the shape ofthe head i
s the same and the hair i
s the same .
knew Morgan, and saw him in August before he was mis-
sing ; the ears and the appearance about the ears i
s the same.
Morgan showed him his teeth—had what i
s called double
teeth a
l
l round his jaws, and the body has the same. No
teeth wero gone four years since when he shewed them to
me. Morgan's ears vverefilledwith hair more than people
i
n general, which was long and white, beard was grey, wore
no whiskers. His hair was long and combed up to cover his
baldness ; had a small nose, more hair on his chest than
people i
n general, f
u
l
l chest, light blue eyes, lightish com-
plexion, his height was similar to that ofthe body-should
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
172 TIMOTHY M O N R O .
hink hirn over fifty yean of age. Thinks that this is the
body of William Morgan. L E S T E R B E A R D S L E Y .
Thurlow Weed, sworn, saith that on the 15th iust. he
earns in company with other gentlemen from Rochester, to
view this body—that in consequence of its being stated by
one ofthe persons, who was well acquainted with Morgan,
that his ears were full of long white hairs, witness examined
the ears ofsaid body carefully, when he found several hairs
long and white, which came out upon touching them, and
that he found a large number of said hairs deposited in a
mess in the bottom of the ear. These hairs corresponded
with those represented by Mr. Fitch before tho body was
disenterred. Witness does not recollect any thing of Mr-
Morgan, although he must have seen him often.
T. WEED.
Lucinda Morgan, being sworn, says—I am the wife of
William Morgan, of Batavia. I saw him the last time, (he
11th of September, 132G. H e had on a blue coat, veet and
pantaloons—pantaloons of different kind of cloth from the
vest and coat. Should know the clothes if I saw them. He
t^a-tTo^hnrritil nlim,lwra >••.. "• ti-^ *™**iv-rfTT-CT».4,laa flanuj]
wrapper. H e had on boots and woollen socks; boots ele
and worn, thinks they were calf-skin. Had on a white neek
handkerchief, and linen shirt. Had a silk pocket handker-
chief, something worn. Used tobacco. Has seen the body;
finds points of resemblance between the body and her hue-
band. His teeth, his hands, his hair, breast, his nails on f
i
n
-
gers and tees, similar to thoso of the body. H e was inocula-
ted for tho small pox on the left arm. Had double teeth a
l
l
round. T w o teeth wore gone and one was split off. Dr.
Strong drew two teeth for him. His suspenders weie cot-
ton and knit. Coat pockets vvere lined with white, vest
lined with the same cloth as coat—lining of pantaloons wa»
white, thinks linen. Morgan was bald on the top of hu
head, except a small place in the centre of his head, where
there wa3 fine hair like dowu. Dressed his hair latterly by
combing it down. The teeth were gone on tho right eido of
the upper jaw. I havo no doubt but this is tho body of roy
husband. On thejoint of the big toe on the left foot ho had
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
TIMOTHY MONRO. 1 73
been frozen, and the physician cut open thefleshand scraped
the bone which left the same appearance which is now upon
the body. H e had a good deal of hair on his chest, which
was grey, and he was full breasted. Never had a broken
bone to my knowledge. On being shown the cress, I can
recognise HO part of i
t as the same which my husband had on
when he went away, nor the tracts. The hand-writing I
eannot swear to, though one or two letters somewhat resem-
ble his. I am fully convinced in my own mind, that this is
the body of W m . Morgan. L. M O R G A N .
D. C. Miller, being svvoin, says that he knew William
Morgan and hns partly examined the body. Did not know
that Morgan had double teeth, or that he had lo3t two teeth.
His dress when he went away, was a bhje frock coat, blue
vest and pantaloons. M y impression is that lie was bald
on the top ofhis head wholly. Thinks he had no boots, was
50 years of age or over, had a habit of drawing his hair over
his head with his hands when in conversation.
D. C. M I L L E R .
George W. Harris, being duly sworn, says that he knetv
William Morgan and has seen tho body . Morgan shaved
at m y glass and shaved higher than any man I ever saw.—
The body has been shaved up to the eyes—does not know
particularly about his hair. Saw him the day ho was taken
away, and knew him more than one year previous. His
dress was a blue frock coat, blue vest and pantaloons, old
boots—he never wore aflannelshirt as I can say, might have
worn aflannelwrapper : the size and shape of Morgan's
fingers andfingernails were 6»me as the body's ; Morgan
had a double chin, and thinks the body has a double chin.—
H e had afineset of teeth, and had lost some which he show-
ed when he grated his teeth or laughed. H e had an extreme
full chest; his bosom was quite hairy and gray; the colour
•f the hair is the same as that on the body. Morgan had a
lump towards the top of his head, which I think 1 observed
on the body ; he was not far from 50 years of age ; I think
nbout'fivre feel eight inches high ; don't know of his having
small er kine pox, he bad a tapering arm, and had a small
wr»t; fally satisfied that thie is the body of William Mor-
Q2
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
174 TIMOTHY MONRO.
gen. Ho had a short nose, was a brick layer ; lived , over
my shop; was agitated for some time whea talking befure
he was taken away. G E O . W . H A R R I S .
Win. W. Morgan, being sworn says, that he was acquain-
ted with W m . Morgan—iiis head, his beard, the hair upon
his breast resembles this body—and the make of his features
are similar. Does not recollect any thing about his teeth;
was acquainted with him two years ago last February, and
from that time since until he wa6 missing. I was absent
about nine months from Batavia, but saw him frequently.
Wm. W. MORGAN.
Russel Dyer, being sworn, says he knovv William Morgan '
and has seen this body ; thinks it the body of W m . Morgan;
the shape of the head ; the hair, are similar, he had double
teeth ; one tooth broken or split, and one gone in the upper
jaw ; mentioned when hefirstheard the Coroner's Report,
if the teeth were gone in the lower jaw, it could not bo Mor-
gan ; thinks he saw Morgan a year ago last August; he
boarded with him ; does not know that he had the small or
kine pox ; he had no scar about his body as he recollected;
when Ifirstsaw the body, found hair in his oars; longhair
and white, which fell out. H e wasfifty-oneyear* of ngeas
he informed m e about three years ago—I havfe no doubt but
this is the body of W m . Morgan ; he had hair about tin
breast, and a gray beard. R. DYER.
Dr. Ezra Strong, being sworn says, that he knew William
Morgan four years ago, from April to Sept. in the next ye&i,
Morgan and I113 wife boarded at m y house about 3ixmonths;
he was sick much of the time with sore eyes ; I attended
him'two or three months, sometimes with other physicians;
I think from the appearance ofthe upper part of the head of
this body, it is the body of William Morgan. I extractedtwo
teeth for him, which I found charged in m y book against him •
don't recollect from whieh side they were taken ; Mrs. Mor"
gan handed m e the two teeth taken out, and they will about
fill up the vacancy,* though the face is so much swollen I
* It is I believe a well known fact, that a tooth extracted
eannot, particularly after the lapse of some time, be replaced;
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
TIMOTHY MONRO. 175
cannot exactly determine as to theirfitness; he had a hearv
beard, and much hair on the breast; the body is innoculated
as seems by a scar on the arm ; one other tooth was broken
off: If a body had been floating about since Morgan was
missing, it would putrify more than this, but if had been un-
der water, it might have been better preserved.
E. STRONG.
Dr. John D. Henry, being sworn, says he knew William
Morgan when he resided in Rochester ; I attended him as a
physician; I do not recollect any strong mark which would
distinguish him as this body; he had inflamed eyes, and I
prescribed for him nearly nine months ; I knew his hair but
cannot identify bim by that to m y own satisfaction—I re-
membered his whiskers, and shaved them frequently—he
had fine teeth in front; the teeth of the body appear as T
should suppose the teeth of Morgan would appear; the shape
of b.13 head, though bloated much, is much tho same as Mor-
gan's ; I should be unwilliug to say it was Morgan's, or i
t
was not, though his teeth, the shape of his head, and his hair
resemble Morgans. J. D. H E N R Y .
All the above informations were severally taken and ac-
knowldged, the fifteenth day of October, in the year of our
Lord one thousand eight hundred and twenty-seven, in the
town of Carlton, County end State aforesaid.
ROBERT M. BROWN, Cor.
Orleans County ss.—An inquisition indented and taken fo;-
the people of the State of New-York, at the town of Carl-
ton in the county of Orleans aforesaid, in the open air, on the
shore of Lake Ontario in said county and town, the 15th day
of October in the year of our'lord one thousand eight hun-
dred and twenty-seven, before m e Robert M . Brown, Gen-
tleman, one of tho Coroners of the said state forthe county
aforesaid ; upon the view of the body of William Morgan,
then and there lying dead upon the earth, of Jehn Archer,
it will more than fill up the vacancy. Of course Dr. StroDg'
testimony in the above particular, establishes, so far as it
establishes any thing, a fact diametrically opposed to the one
which many attempt to draw from the above circumstance.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
176 T1M«THV K»NRtf.
Silas Joy, Suell Joy, W . Williams, Matthew Dunham, John
Barnura, R. Wilcox, Rodney Parish, John H . Tyler, Asa
Simpson, Asa Kimball, I. Hall, Stephen Jennings, Richard
Barry, Ebeneier Handy, Abel Barnum, John Murdock, Sam-
uel Baldwin, Asahel Byington, Reuben Scofield, Jesse Hall,
James Tafft, and Lyman G. Hoxsie; goad and lawful mea
ofthe said county, who being sworn and charged to enquire
on taepart ofthe people ofthe state of New-York, aforesaid,
when, where,how, and after what manner, the said William
Morgan came to his death ; do say, upon their oaths afsre-
said, that the said W m . Morgan, came to his death by suffo-
cation by drowning, and so the said jurors aforesaid do say,
he the said W m . Morgan came to his death—In witness
whereof, as well the said Ceroner, as the jurors aforesaid,
have to thair inquisition set their hands and seals the day
and year aforesaid, at the place aforesaid.
S A M U E L B A L D W I N , foreman-
Asahel Byington, John H. Tyler, L. G. Hoxsie, Asa
Simpson, John Barnum, Abel S. Barnum, James Tafft, A.
Kimball, Matthew Dunham, Stephen Jennings, S. Joy, Si-
las Joy, John Archer, Riehard Barry, Rodney Parish, Jesse
Hall, John Murdock, Reuben Scofisdd, W m . Williams, R
Handy, R. Wilcox, and I. Hall.
ROBERT M. BROWN, Conner.
W h e n the above testimony is contrasted with that
taken on the third inqaest, the fallacy of the above
cannot but strike even the most casual observer.
Notwithstanding,however, its absurdity, itwasgen,
erally believed, and the body (its identity being as i
t
was supposed, n o w established by legal proof) was
afterwards removed with great parade t
e
- the village
of Batavia, and there interretl in the presence of a
multitude who had docked thither to witness the sol-
e m n scene. A funeral discourse was afterwards de-
livered by one James Cochran, n o w residing in New-
York:, who at that time, when sober, and sometimes
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
TIMOTHY MONRO. 1
-
7
7
when otherwies, occasionally preached in this vicin-
ty, and was then assistant editor to Col. Miller.
W h e n the remains of Joseph Ellicott, agent of the
Holland Land Company, were removed from thecity
of New-York to this village, no gaping crowd follow-
ed his hearse ; no learned divine pronounced his re-
quiem. They were deposited without parade by a
few surviving friends in the house prepared for all
living, and B O evidence of self-congratulation esca-
ped their lips while returning to their homes. Not
so in the present instance. "Glad tidings of jjreat
foyr
' were diffused throughout the land. Morgan is
found, was at once the theme of every tongefe. Prov-
idence, it was said,had interposed its aid,and Heaven
laid bare its outstretched arm to avenge his det.thnot
upon the guilty perpsfrators omy, u-un... • i
fraternity. T h e already excited bosom received
.,<,« impulse, and future triu.ophc w » » r u n g i u STS-lf
ear. T h e cry oi vengeance was wafted on every
breeze, and mingled with every echo returning from
the lake where Morgan's ghest, it was said, "perfor-
med its nightly rounds."
A voice, however, from Canada, soon afterwards
dispelled the general joy. It was atfirsta still small
voice. The voice of an afflicted widow and her fa-
therless children interposing their claim to the last
relicks ofa deceased husbaud and father. Their pre-
tensions for a while were treated with lavity, and
their persons, by some, were insulted and abused.
Prejudice and passion, however, soon retired at the
approach of truth. Conclusive evidence established
the justice of their claims, and an insulted community
ratified the verdict.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
178 TtMOTHV MOMRO.
A noticefirstappeared in the Canada newspapers,
that one Timothy Monro, ofthe township of Clark, is
the district of Newcastle, in Upper Canada, left that
place in September, 1827, for Newark, in a small
boat, and was drowned in the Niagara river, while at-
tempting to return. A partial description of the
body found in Carlton, together with the clothes and
religious tracts found in the pocket of the deceased,
having been published in the newspapers in this vi-
cinity, soon after thefirstinquest, and coining to the
knowledge of Monro's surviving friends, induced a
belief that the body found in Carlton could be no
other tha*n his. Mrs. Sarah Monro therefore, widow
of the deceased, accompanied by her son, and one
John Cron, her _Sue.ad- jm~^^i;»iai» oftor the re.
- - -cerpT'oi this intelligence, repaired to the county of
Orleans, in order to examine it and to satisfy herself
of its irl«»t:tr-
O n their arrival at Gaines, and before the clothes
had been exhibited for her inspection, she was called
upon hy Bates Cook, Esq. and other members ofthe
Lewiston Committee, to describe them. She did
so, and in a manner which carried conviction with i
t
.
Some of them had been made in a manner rather un-
usual. Some of them had been mended—and the
stockings had been darned—all of which she minute-
ly described. Some particular marks had escaped
the Committee's scrutinizing eyes; these she men-
tioned, and among other things that a piece had been
sewed on at the bottom of one side of one leg of the
pantaloons, which gave it the appearance of a wide
hem : she described the lining, tho pockets, and even
the minutest marks. T h e clothes on their eubse*
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
TIMOTHT M0MB.0. 179
qnent production, (Ihey having during all the time
which had elapsed since their discovery been in the
possession ofthe Committee) exhibited all the marks
go particularly described by her, and which could on-
ly have been known to the person who had made or
mended, or closely examined them. Her statement
was confirmed by Daniel Monro, her son, who in ad-
dition thereto stated that he purchased the cloth for
the pantaloons, and that the pattern was rather scan-
ty, which accounted for the pantaloons being thus,
spliced. John Cron also testified that he saw Monro
on the day that he was drowned, in clothes similar
to those- described, and that he saw him have reli-
gious tracts, which he at the time put into his pocket.
Under any other circumstances, the above facts
would have silenced incredulity itself. It was
thought proper, however, that other proof should be
adduced in order to place the matter not only be-
yond the reach of controversy, but expose the former
deception.
For that purpose a Coroner's inquest was called,
and a jury were impannelled at Batavia, on the 29th
of October, 1827. The body buried as Morgan's
was disinterred, and the evidence detailed below
submitted to their consideration. They decided up-
on oath that it was the body of Timothy Monro, who
had been accidentally drowned in Lake Ontario on
the 26th of September then preceding.
Hinman Holden of Batavia, a witness on thisocca-
sion, is a gentleman of high respectability. H e was
at the time, and still is, a member of the Morgan
Committee. H e saw the body before the second in-
quest, and ever afterwards expressed his opinion
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
180 TIMOTHY MOKRe.
"without fear, favour, affection, or hope of reward,"
that it was not the body of Morgan. It will be ob-
served by referring to bis testimony, that he speaks
particularly and with confidence of the hair on the
head and the whiskers. Six other witnesses, four
of w h o m are not masons, testify to the same fact
T h e Coroner himself was not a mason, and but three
out of twenty-four of the jurors. Some dissented, i
t
appears, from the verdict, by voting in blank, not be-
cause they believed the body was Morgan's, but be-
cause they had doubts in relation to its being Monro's.
T h e inquest, however, it will be observed, was taken
at a time "when reason could no more be heard than
a whisper amidst the moBt violent hurricane." I
t
was taken too at a place where prejudice had formed
a channel in the publick mind ; and where, too, opin-
ions formed without proof had been confidently ex-
pressed, even by some of the jurors.
The conduct of "the managers" in relation to the
body of M'onro, evinces more depravity than any
transaction connected with the excitement; and has
left a stain upon their characters, difficult if not im-
possible to efface. It is not intended, however, bj
this to criminate all the Morgan Committee. There
are some honourable exceptions among them, and i
t
is to be regretted that there are not more.
Aregard for justice requires on this occasion some
further remarks in relatiou to the second inquest.
It is, or rather would be, at any other time, singular
that persons employed by their fellow citizens to in-
vestigate the truth, whose end was justice, should
have withheld from the second jury, the testimo-
ny which would at once have dispelled the illusion,
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
Tf«OTH¥ MONRO. 1.81
and all, too, for the purpose, as one of their number
triumphantly remarked, of making this "a good Mor-
gan enough t
i
l
l after election." It is also equally
singular that men pretending to respectability should
not, if they were themselves atfirstdeceived, in case
they were honest, when they afterwards became sat-
isfied of their erro-ur, have atoned for their conduct
by some publick declaration. Instead, however, of
doing this act of justice to those w h o m thev had in-
sulted and abused, they persisted s
t
i
l
l in the repeti-
tion of their wrongs, and some portion of community
it is said even at this day insist (on the authority of
Col. Miller) that the. body of Monro, which reposes
in the Batavia church-yard, is the body of William
Morgan.
A more gross and infamous deception was never
practised upon the world. Nothing short of the
most childish credulity on the one. part,,and the most
abandoned profligacy on the other, would have indu-
ced "the managers" to hazard so bold an experi-
ment: and nothing short of the servile homage to
those managers which the prostrate Hindoo pays to
his God, could have insured its success.
Time, however, which unfolds the secret works of
darkness, willfinallydispel the illusion, and a retur-
ning sense of right and wrong repair at last the rava-
ges it has made.
Mrs. Monro's affidavit, made and subscribed aflcr
her examination by Bates Cook, Esq. and the box
with the clothing brought forward.
Orleans County, ss.—Sarah Monro, of the township Of
Clark, d
i
s
t
r
i
c
t of Newcastle, Upper Canada, nged 44 yeare
being duly sworo, deposeth and sayetb, that she i
s the wid-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
182 TIMOTHY M O N R O .
ovv of Timothy Moiuo, late ofthe same place, now deceased,
that she was married to said Monro 24 years since—that a-
bout six weeks since her husband, the said Timothy Monro
left home for Newark, and has never returned, and that she
has understood and been informed that he was drowned ia
the Niagara river, in the latter part of September last past;
and this deponent further saith that the clothes now produ-
ced by Bates Book, Esq. and which are said to have been
found on the body at the mouth of the Oak Orchard creek
are the clothes which hsr late husband wore when he Ids*
left home—that he carried no change of clothes away from
home .with him, This deponent further saith thateliecu
and made the pantaloons and vest, and that the surtout coat
was cut and made by Mrs. Peikms.a neighbour of hers—that
she cut and made the shirt, and that she knows those nnw
produced are the same worn by her said husband. And the
duponent further 6aith, that the stockings, now produced by
said Bates Cook, Esq. were purchased by her husband when
he was absent from home, but that she has mended thesarno
and knows them to be the same which her said husbnnj
wore when he last left home—that she had mended the sur-
tout coat and pantaloons, and can identify them by the pie.
cee and manner of their being mended. And the deponent
further saith, that no person has ever given her any descrip-
tion ofthe clothing which was found upon the dead body at
the mouth of Oak Orchard Creek, and that the particular
description given by her before seeing the clothes, was given
from her recollection and knowledge ofthem, derived in con.
sequence of having made and repeatedly mended and seen
them.
Daniel Monro, a 6on of the deceased, swore that the
above clothes are the same which his father wore when he
left home in September last—and stated facts connected with
the purchase and making ofthem—John Cron swore that
he saw Monro the day he was drowned, and that he had on
clothes similar to those now produced—that he saw Monro
have some tracts or pamphlets, which he put in his pocket
at the same time.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
TIMOTHY MONRO. 133
Uinman Holden, (a member of the Morgan committee, of
Batavia) sworn—said that he with Timothy Fitch Esq. first
*avv the body at the mouth of Oak Orchard Creek, on the
13th of October inst. It was disinterred. Witness exam-
ined the body particularly, but could not discern any natural
features. The head was bald on the crown, and a baid streak
ran down each side to the forehead. On the top ofthe head
there was a tuft of hair which he supposed grow there. Tho
body had one whisker on, and i
t was apparent the other was
either slipped or pulled off". The whisker was quite grey.—
Thought the whiskers had been sandy. The hair on the
head was considerably greyish. A lock of hair was brought
to Batavia. Timothy Fitch was present, and we thought
the hair too dark for Morgan's; but upon Mrs. Morgan's
stating how i
t was, we thought i
t might be Morgan's. Mrs.
Morgan was much affected at the sight of the hair, and
thought it was her husband's. There certainly was a tuft
of hair between the bald spot on the crown of the head and
the forehead on the body which we examined on the 13th.
Miller and others at Batavia informed me that Morgan was
wholly bald on the top of his head. I saw particularly a bald
spot on each side of the head. I charged the persons who
went down the second time, to see if the hair was tumed up.
At the time I supposed the hair grew on the head, and still
suppose so. On the examination I at first thought i
t was
Morgan, but afterwards thought it was not. On hearing a
description of Morgan's head, I was more 6trongly impressed
with the belief that i
t was not Morgan. I could see nothing
but the colour of the hair and the shape of the forehead
which induced mo to believe that i
t was Morgan, and if i
t
had not been suggested to be Morgan'-, I did not know
enough about him to have 6aid or thought i
t was his body.
Dr. H. Vinton sworn—said that he saw the body at tho
mouth of the Oak Orchard Creek, when the second inquest
was held. The head was bald on the top, but had a very
considerable quantity of hair between the bald spot and tho
forehead. The head was not entirely bald on the side ;.—
J started the hair from the forehead, and knew that i
t grew
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
184. TIMOTHV MONRO.
there. It was not merely scattering hair on the top of the
head ; there was quite a handful. The hair of the tuft was
viuite long. Knows that the hair grew on the top of the
head. Cannot be mistaken about it. After starting the
hair I put i
t back.
Dr. Hall sworn—saw the body before i
t was buried the
first time. The hair covered the forehead and continued
back. There was a bald place on the crown, and a bald
place on each side as far back as the middle of the ears-
hair on top ofthe head as thick as witness'—witness took
hold of it—there was a dispute about its being Morgan, and
I examined it particularly—the hair grew there, and would
require pulling to get i
t out. I was on thefirstjury. Soma
said he (Morgan) turned the hair from the back pan of his
head over the baldness on top ; we therefore examined the
hair on the top of this body's head, to seo if i
t grew there,
or was merely turned over—we found that i
t grevv there.—
N o one of the jurymen examined his eyes—the body had a
good sot of teeth, and some whiskers—had lo6t two t
e
e
t
l
i
i
and had one broken. W h e n the body was taken up the sec-
ond time, the hair from the top ofthe head was gone—could
see where i
t was. I saw it,and Dr. Strong saw it, I shew-
ed it to him, and he saw it—but he did not admit it, only by
general consent. W h e n I was showing i
t to him, a man
came up, and said Morgan had hair on top of his head. W e
thought atfirstwo could see a scar on the forehead; but
concluded that the mark was occasioned by lying on cobble
stones. W e saw no mark on the arms, which were of a
chocolate color—we could probably have seen the marks of
India ink or gunpowder, if such marks vvere on them.
Moses Wood, Daniel English, and the two Potters, (wh*
first found the body,) corroborated the above testimony of
Holden, Vinton, and Hall.
The body interred was measured by the coroner, and was
found to be five feet nine and a half inches; and Dr. Van
Tuyl.Xone of the jurymen) swore that in in his belief, if the
body hud been properly extended, i
t would have measured an
inch more.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
TIJIOTHY MONRO. 185
Mr. Parmclee and Dr. Webster (members ofthe jury) con-
curred with Dr. Van Tuyl, in the above testimony.
Elisha Parmelee (a juror) sworn—saw the measurement
with the two foot rule, and thinks i
t accurate—should think
the body, if-straightencd out, would measure 5 feet 10 1-2
or 11 inches; knew the body was some bent when the coro-
ner measured.
Dr. Webster (a juror) saw the measurement by Mr. Wal-
do, with the long stick, which ho thought was not put low
enpugh to the bottom ofthe foot by half an inch ; but sup-
posed it immaterial, supposing that the jury were to rely on
the two foot measurement of the coroner—saw and remarked
that the measure was not down far enough.
C. L. Swart (a juror) sworn; saw the measurement taken
with a two foot rule by the coronA; tho body was three
lengths of the measure, wanting 2 1-2 or 3 inches—nearly
3 inches ; witness has measured the stick used with a rule.
Thomas Jl'Cully swore that he was well acquainted with
Morgan; that he was so near his height that he was fre-
quently taken for him, when his back was turned. Itemea-
eured himself 5 feet 6 inches, and weighed from 133 to 137.
Daniel H. Chandler, Ethan B. Allen, and Russel Dyer, men
well acquainted with Morgan, agreed with Mr. M'Cully as
to the height of Morgan.
Daniel H. Chandler, Ethan B. Allen, Thomas M'Cully,
John Robinson, and Russel Dyer, proved that Morgan was
wholly bald on the top of the head, and never wore whis-
kers.
Five teeth wore extracted from the body buried, and none
ofthe front teeth were double; sworn to by Drs. Strong and
Cotes.
Dr. John Cotes,jr. of Batavia, sworn—has examined tho
body; has cut open the feet, and canfindno mark ofthe bone
of any of the toes having been scraped; thinks a toe bone
could not have been scraped so, (as Morgan's is alleged to
have been) without the skin afterwards! growing to the bone!
discovers no evidence of the toe bone having been scraped .
witness has cut the flesh, and discovers nothing to indicate
R2
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
160 T I M O T H Y M O N R O -
any thing more than thefirststajje of decomposition; shonla
suppose from appearance that the body has been dead about
eix weeks—say two months at farthest; the part under the
ekin has not undergone decomposition; there was no clea-
ving of flesh from the bbnes or tendons; the flesh adheree
firmly to the bone; the stomach is in a perfect state, and
he thinks it has nearly the same tenacity as that of a per-
son recently dead ; thinks a body could not remain in thia
state a year without some artificial process to preserve it;
witness knew from information how this body was found on
the beach, and the particulars of its treatment since, and
does not think it in a more forward state of decomposition
than a body would be in six or eight weeks after death; hai
never seen a body which had been kept in water for a year
has seen a body kept sometime in spirits ; witness has dis-
sected the feet of this body, and thinks they appear like those
ofa body lately dead ; there is something ofa protuberance
at the junction of the great toe with one of the feet, which
appears as if it might have been caused by a tight boot: i
f
the wound was made within two or three years, I should sup-
pose, if the tendons were injured, I should have noticed it;
bat a wound might have been made through the 6kin and
flesh without injuring the tendons. I should not think a body
would be preserved 9 or 12 months in this state,—though
much would depend on the manner of keeping it. I think
the body, iffloatingand exposed, has not beep more than six
weeks or two months dead ; after being under water a year,
it would not be in so perfect a state; a body exposed would
decay much sooner after being kept so long, than if j«»'
dead. W h e n a tooth is extracted, it will not usually go in
again after a short time. I should not think this body more
decayed than a body drowned on the 29th of September, and
exposed as this has been since the Cth of October. (Tba
teeth drawn from the body being produced, witness says they
are not double deeth : and on examining the mark on the
paper in which the teeth were wrapped, saye it is the mark
of blood not decomposed.) Witness has seen front double
teeth, but those now produced are not what are ealled "front
doable teeth," and can tee no uncommon appearance in the
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
TIMOTHY MONRO. 187
teeth—nothing different from the teeth of personsfiftyyears
of age. who have good teeth, which set together square.
The verdict of the jury vva6, that the body is that of T I M -
O T H Y M O N R O , who was drowned in the Niagara river
on the 2Gth of September, 1327.
Genesee County, ss.—An Inquisition indented and taken
for the body of the people of the state of New-York, at Ba.
tavia, in the county aforesaid, the 29th day of October, in
the year 1827, before Jonathan Hurlburt, one of the coio-
ners ofthe state for the county aforesaid, upon the v.ew of
the body of Timothy Monro, then and there lying dead, upon
the oaths of Guy Carleton Towner, Osborn Filer, Alva
Smith, Heman Poraeroy, jr. Joseph Fursman, Charles C.
Church, Truman Hurlbut, Hall S. Gregory, Cornelius L.
Swart, Daniel P. Adams, William H. Webster, Abraham
Van Tuyl, John Thorp jr., W m . Blo9som, Elisha Parmelee
W m . II. Wells, Burnham Gilbert, John Waldo, Benjamin
Henshaw, Ebenezer Pomeroy, Lemont Holden, Ezekiel
Betts, Oswald Williams, and Nicholas Sogendorph, good
and lawful men of the said county, who being sworn and
charged to inquire on the part of the people of said state,
when, where, how, aid after what manner, the said Timothy
Monro came to his death, do say upon their oaths as afore-
said, that ths said Timothy Monro came to his death by
drowning, to wit: that in crossing the Niagara river from
Fort Niagara to Fort George, in a skiff, the same upset in
the said river, by means whereof the 6aid Timothy Monro
bscame accidentally drowned, to wit, on the 26lh day of
September, 1327.
In witness wheteof, as well the said coroner as the Jurors.
whose names are underwritten, have to this inquisition set
their hands and seals, the day and year aforesaid, and at the
place aforesaid.
A. Van Tuyl, O. Filer, C. Towner, W . H. Webster, N .
Sagendorph. H. S. Gregory, Chas. C. Church, D. P. Adams,
B. Henshaw, John Thorp, jr. Ezekiel Betts, Truman Hurl-
burt, Elisha Parmele.
JONATHAN HURLBURT, Coroner,
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
188 R- H. HILL.
All of the dissenters expressed themselves fully
that the body was not Morgan's, except two—one of
w h o m declared on the jury, that he would not be-
lieve but that was the body of Morgan, if twenty of
the most respectable men in Genesee county should
swear it was not.
CHAPTER XXII..
R. H.Hill—His confession—Imprisonment and dis-
charge.
The body found in Carlton, so long as it was sup-
posed to be Morgan's, changed the inquiry from
"where is Morgan?" to "who are his murderers9
"—
This last inquiry for a few days produced an intense
interest. Arrangements were about being made to
procure indictments for murder against a number of
suspected individuals, and no doubts vvere generally
entertained but that a large number of masons, a
t
least 60 or 70, would shortly be hanged. Some por-
tion of community were already feasting their eyci
in anticipation of such an event with their dying ago-
nies, and listening apparently with rapture to their
expiring groans.
During this period a person by the name of Hill,
then residing in the town of Alden, in the county of
Erie, avowed himself as one of the murderers. Hill
was a carpenter by trade; but whether he was ever
initiated as a mason or not, 1 have no means at pres-
ent of ascertaining. H e was represented to be -
person of an orderly and quiet life, and until he con-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
R. H. HILL. 180
fessed his participation in Morgan's death, never by
his conversation or conduct, gave any indications of
insanity. Having made some confessions apparent-
ly by accident, to those with whom he associated, he
was arrested on suspicion, and having repealed (hem
on his examination before the justice, was committed
to the Buffalo jail. While in jail he made and sign-
ed the following.
To the Citizens of Erie County .— I, R. H . Hill, of said
county, did, on Tuesday last, of my own free and voluntary
will, come forward and confess the crime of murdering a man,
that I supposed by information vv\i3 William Morgan. O n
examination I plead guilty. I was examined before Esq.
Case and Bivins, and by them taken to this place on Mon-
day following, and a cross-examination took place, and I was
committed to the gaol of said county for farther examin-
ation. Several gentlemen have called and questioned me,
and i
t was not my wish or intention to criminate any one
but mvself. For that reason I have answered the questions,
some conectly, and some I have hot. You dispute th-5 truth
of m y assertions in respect to the horrid deed I have com-
mitted. I wish to be punished by the laws of God and m y
country which 1 have broken, and atone for the crime I have-
done. I am not alone in tho horrid transaction. The stings
ofa guilty conscience, and a hand stained with the innocent.
blood of one that I saw only once, has stared m e in the face
continually. M y confederates and I did take the most sol-
emn oaths that we would not betray each other, and, in case
one of us should be arrested, suffer the penalty ofthe law in
silence. Such is my situation, and for pity's sake spare m e
the thoughts of breaking the oaths at present. I wish not
to be examined any more, until i
t is at a higher court, where
I shall plead guilty, and shall expect to die tlte ignominious
death ofthe gallows for my bloody dedds, and may the Lord
have mercy on my soul. Such will be m y dying w o r d s -
farewell. T h e prospect that is before m e is dark and gloumy,
when I consider how short is the time before I shall be suaa*
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
190 R. H. HILL-
tnoned to the tribunal of a just and angry God. Pity the un-
happy and miserable R. H. Hill, who begs your forgivciieai
in the arms of death. Take warning in me, and t
l
i
t
i
n the
paths of vice and sorrow, and remember thy Creator in the
days of thy youth. I should suppose that whoever came 1
1
9
I have done, and confessed the crime of murder, would need
no more evidence than his own confession. But I have corae
to satisfy that law which I have broken. W h e n I left York,
[Livingston county] I was accompanied all the first travel-
ling through a country unknown to me, and in the night.and
not making any inquiries, stopping once and a while, and
not leaving the carriage—during the night taking in some-
times a person whom I knew not, and others getting out, I
could not give a correct account of the country. In my
cross-examinations, I have endeavoured not to give correct
answers, so as not to betray others who were my associates'
W h e n I have had my trial, I will then declare, as I should
think i
t my duty. But at the present I wish to remain as I
am. The gentleman who has called and questioned me w
i
l
l
judge of this, and think what can be my object but to satis-
fy the law and the gospel. As to any thing more, I wish to
have it postponed until I have my trial in the county to
which it belongs. To the civil officers of Erie County.
„ „, R. H. HILL.
Buffalo, Oct. 17, 1857.
Hill shortly thereafter was removed to Lockporl,
in the County of Niagara, that being the county
where the alleged murder is supposed to have been
committed, and the only one in which he could have
been tried. At the first court held in that county
after Hill was committed, the case was presented to
the Grand Jury for their consideration. Hill was
desired hy Judge Birdsall to go before the Grand Ju-
ry and state h o w far, and in what manner, he had
been accessary to the murder of Morgan. This he
declined doing, but repeated his confessions and ac-
knowledged his guilt. N o circumstances however
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
R. H. HILL. 191
were shown to confirm his statement, nor was it pre-
tended that any such existed. The Grand Jury, sup-
posing him insane, and unwilling to predicate an in-
dictment for murder upon his insulated confession
without a particle of other proof, and without a soli-
tary circumstance being shown in confirmation of its
truth, rejected the bill, and Hill of course was dis.
charged.
It has been alleged, inasmuch as Bruce had before
this time been removed from the office of Sherilf,and
an anti-mason elected as his successor, and inasmuch
also as the jury were, i
t is believed, composed whol-
ly of anti-masons, that they refused to find an indict.
ment against Hill because they were intent on nobler
game; that it would reflect on the sagacity ofthe
Morgan Committee, who had announced others as
the murderers.
This allegation however is not sustained by proo^
It must therefore be conceded that the Grand Jury
acted with the most perfect purity of intention, and
that they were governed by a thorough conviction of
Hill's insanity, derived wholly from the fact that he
had acknowledged his guilt, which it was supposed
and believed by them would not have been the case
had he really been guilty.
N o explanation has since been given of Hill's ex-
traordinary conduct, nor is it known that any such
remains to be given. It is therefore at present inex-
plicable.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
192 cov. PITCHER'S MESSAGE.
C H A P T E R XXIII.
Proceedings in the Legislature of New-York in rela-
tion to the Morgan affair, during the winter o/1828.
On the 18th of March, 1828, Lieut. Governour
Pitcher transmitted to the Senate of this state the
following M e s s a g e :
TO THE SENATE.
Gentlemen:—Among the duties devolved by the constitu-
tion upon the person administering tho government, that of
"tak'uif care that the laws are faithfully executed," is, per-
haps, the most important. A large portion of the inhabit.
ants of the slate has been, for more thnn a year, highly exci-
ted by tho alleged forcible and clandenstine removal of a cit-
izen, and the uncertainty of his fate. It is believed by many
that he has been murdered, and i
t is certain that, if alive, be
is held in captivity. This outrage upon our laws has justly
alarmed our fellow citizens in that part of tho state, and haa
produced exertions such as might have been expected from
freemen conscious of their rights, ami determined to maintain
them, to develope the mysterious transaction, and to bring
the offenders to justice. A s yet their efforts have failed.—
T h e rewards and inducements which have hi>rctofor« been
proffered for a discovery, have been unavailing. The trial*
and convictions that have taken place, have rather increased
the mystery of the transaction. T h e efforts of individual
citizens, stimulated by a patriotic zeal, have not ulwnysbcen
guided by discretion, and there is reason to fear that lliey
have sometimes tended rather to prevent than promote a ju-
dicial devclopcment ofthe truth. It is publickly stuted, that
a witness while on his way to attend the trial of 6ome of the
persons charged with a participation in the original outrage,
has suddenly and unaccountably disappeared, and advertise.
ments offering rewards for his discovery have been exten-
sively circulated. If there be any foundation for this sug"
gestion, it affords a strong reason for the adoption of proper
measures to quiet the alarms of our fellow citizens. Undei
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
o«v. PITCHER'S MESSAGB. 1D3
these circumstances, it has appeared to m e important that
soch constitutional powers as may be within the power of
the Legislature, should be adopted, in order to facilitate the
discovery and punishment of the offenders. It is equally
due to the violated majesty of the laws, ta the apprehensions
of our fellow citizens, which never can or ought to be satis-
fied until justice is obtained, and to those whe have been or
may be incluJed in the general and vague suspicions which
are always produced by such transactions. It is an impera-
tive duty to the innocent, that those really guilty should bo
detected and punished.
Without intending to encroach upon the particular duties
ofthe Legislating I respectfully recommend, in accordance
with these views, that a law be passed, authorizing tho ap-
pointment of a competent person for tli3 special purpose of
investigating the alleged criminal transactions in relation to
the removal of William Morgan, and ail the incidents con-
nected therewith ; that tho powers of district attorney be
also vested in him ; I hat it be made his duty to repair to the
places whern tho offences were committed ; to examine wit-
nesses; to enter complaint.*; to cause witnesses and parties
implicated to be bound over to appear; to conduct all crimi-
nal prosecutions which m-iy ba instituted; an 1 to perforin
all other duties which shall be necessary to a full and fair
judicial invesiigatiou and deteiminalion of tho alleged offen-
ces.
That our government was adequate to the'punishment of
crimes and the protection of innocence, in the belief of all
w h o are beet acquainted with its principles. Hitherto jus-
tice has been administered without any arbitrary stretch of
power or any violation of constitutional principles by the con-
stituted authorities, and without the interference of any pri-
vate citizens not clothed with publick authority. Bv exerting-
the power ofthe government in a constitutional manner, w e
can show that the present instance need not form an excep-
tion to the general coune ofjustice. All experience leash-
es us, that designing men will be found ready always to avail
themselves ofa strong; and honest publisk feeling, to pervert
S
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
194 P R O C E E D I N G S IK
it to their o w n selfish purposes. A n y such attempts will be
most effectually prevented by the interposition ofthe govern-
ment ; because it will then be perceived that all individual
interference will be unnecessary,~theu the publick mind will
be preserved from all unnecessary agitation and prejudise-
lair and impartial trials will be sscured to those who may be
accused, and the course of justice will be steady, uniform,
and effectual. Calm inquiry will succeed feverish conjec-
ture; deliberate decision will take the place of impatient
prejudice; slid the impartial, unbiassed judgment ofinde-
pendentjnries, will vindicate the law and establish the vigour
and efficacy of our institutions.
NATHANIEL PITCHER.
.ilbany, March mh, 1328.
O n Friday the 21st of March, 1828, Mr. Spencer,
from the committee on the judiciary, to whom was
referred the message of the Lieuf. Governour rec-
ommending the adoption of Legislative measures t
o
ensure the detection and punishment of the persons
concerned in the forcible removal of William Mor-
gan, reported a bill in pursuance of the above recom-
mendation.
O n the 25th of March, 1C23, the merits of tie h
i
l
l
brought in by Mr. Spencer were discussed in the
Senate, and on the 4th of April following, in the As-
sembly. T h e bill afterwards became a law, (three
only in the Senate opposing it. of whom Mr. Crarj,
thelate anti-masonick candidate for Lieut. Governotir
was one,and seven in the Assembly,)and Daniel Mose-
Jy, Esq. of Onondaga county, was subsequently ap-
pointed Commissioner.
The law, however, did not meet the approbation
of anti-masons, for two reasons.
In thefirstplace it did not originate with them.—
This was of course conclusive. Experience has since
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
T H E L E G I S L A T U R E . 195
shown that no measure, however wise or politick,
is entitled to their support, unless it originated with
them, or was nursed and brought into existence by
their exertions.
In the second place, the law did not contain that
ferocity of aspect, which i
t was thought by some the
occasion required. Its object was merely to provide
for the detection and punishment of guilt. As this
was but a small part of what they conceived was to
be effected by the united exertions of so many patri-
ots, it fell short of their anticipations.
Mr. Mosely therefore was immediately assailed by
all the anti-masonick presses, and in the subsequent
discharge of his official duties, did not, it is said, re-
ceive that cordial aid which could have been desired,
Mr. Mosely being a gentleman of too much integrity,
and having too high a ragard for his own character
to be accessary in any way to the increase ofthe pre-
vailing excitement, aimed only to discharge his du-
ties and execute his trust. lie did not, like some of
the Lewiston Committee, send letters about the
country for political elfect. Nor did he exhibit the
hair of Monroe as Morgan's, for a similar purpose.—
Nor did he carry pieces of plank from Fort Niagara
stained wilh tan bark, in his pocket, and represent
them as being stained with Morgan's blood. Nor did
he publish in the newspapers his intention to prose-
cute certain individuals by name, in order to give
them an opportunity to escape. H e was therefore
denounced, and when he became at the fall election
in 1 828, the republican candidate for senator in the
7th district, his election was defeated by their exer-
tions.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
196 PROCEEDINGS
Mr. Moseley was afterwards appointed circuit
judge in the place of Lieut. Governour Throop, and
Mr. Spencer, a Commissioner under the above act,
continued in force for two years ensuing.
CHAPTER XXIV.
Further Proceedings in the Legislature of this Stale
Proceedings in Congress rtlative to the Morgan af-
fair.
A meeting of antimasonick delegates from a num-
ber of the western counties in this state, held 3t Le
Roy in the county of Genesee, during the winter of
1828, among ofher things resolved to present menu-
rials to the Legislature of New-York, and also to
Congress, both of which were then in session. Thtit
object in so doing, it can hardly be supposed was any
other than to bring themselves and the Morgan aflkir
into publick notoriety.
If the existing laws were defective,they knew per-
fectly well that no law could be passed consistent
with the constitution to punish an offence already
committed, and of course that nothing which had be-
fore occurred could in any event be a proper subject
of national or state legislation—that it was only a sub-
ject of execuliveor judicial inquiry.
In their memorial to the Legislature of this Slate,
they prayed for the abolition of extra-judicial oaths.
It did not perhaps occur to them that the only docu-
ments on which their previous application for a limi-
Jar law-were verified by oaths of this description, ot
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
IN coKansss. !37
(hat all trials in ecclesiastical courts were condu
by, and decisions had, predicated on them alone.—
Nor did they probably reflect how often and how un-
neces?arily oaths of this nature had been administer-
ed by them and through their agency to promote their
views. Nor did i
t probably oixurto them that extra-
judicial oaths were not a! the time recognized by law,
and of course that such a law was wholly unnecessa-
ry. Still, however, with a view to bring the subject
before the Legislature, Mr. Cliiids, of Rochester, an
anti-masonick member of Assembly from the county
of Monroe, on the 18th of March, 1828, presented
the memorial above alluded to, which was referred
to a select committee, consisting of Mr. Cliiids, Mr.
Granger, and Mr. Wardwell.
Mr. Cliiids afterwards reported a bill making i
t pe-
nal to administer such oaths, but never moved i
t in
the House, and of course i
t never became a subjectof
discussion.
T h e memorial to Congress was presented by Mr.
Tracv, of the 29th Congressional district, on the 12th
of May,1823,and a motion at the same lime made for
its reference to the committee on the judiciary. The
memorial prayed that an inquiry should be instituted
with a view to ascertain whether Morgan was impris-
oned at Fort Niagara, and if so, by whom and by what
authority.
It having been judicially determined that Fort Ni-
agara is within the jurisdiction of this state, and of
course that the persons residing there, whether in the
employment of government or not, are amenabje to
the laws of New-York, the petitioners could have
had no other object than to make noise.
S2
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
198 COL. JUNG ABB
it was discussed however in the House of Repre-
sentatives, by Mr. Barbour of Virginia, Mr. Wright
of Ohio, Mr. Storrs of this state, and others, and ad-
mitted by all to be a subject with which they, in their
legislative capacity, had nothing to do. It was
therefore referred to the President, (Mr. Adams)
since which time it has never been heard from.
CHAPTER XXV.
The case of Col. King and Capt. Hyde.
William King, who has been branded as a fugitive
from justice—who has been accused not only of par-
ticipation in Morgan's abduction, but also in his mur
der, for many years was a resident of the county of
Niagara. Possessed of many estimable virtues, and
being highly respected in his neighbourhood, he ob-
tained the confidence of his fellow citizens, and once
represented that county in the Assembly. Posses-
sing also the confidence of his country and its govern-
ment, he obtained some years ago the appointment
of agent for three of its military posts—Niagara,
Pittsburgh, and Michilimackinack. The abandon-
ment of them by government, left him with a family
of twelve children without support. Having no cap-
ital at his command, he did not conceive that a suffi-
cient inducement was offered him any longer to re-
m a m ; and therefore with that spirit of enterprise
which constitutes so interesting a feature in the A-
merican character, resolved once more to plunge in-
to the western forests. Having no definite place in
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
CAPT. HYDE, 199
view, he took leave of his family in the winter of
1827, with the cheering hope that he should be able
in a short time to provide them with a home. H e
took his departure inthefirstplace for Albany, where
he received an appointment from the late Governour
Clinton, to transact some business for the state at
Washington—to which place he repaired, and there
remained till the 7th of February, 1827. During his
stay at Washington, he received from the late Secre-
tary of War, Mr. Barbour, afterwards minister
at the Court of St. James, the appointment of Sutler
for Cantonment Towson inthe Arkansas territory,on
theRedriver,about ISOOmiles above its junction with
the Mississippi. O n the 10th of February, 1827, he
left Baltimore, and arrived at Cantonment Towson
by the. way of N e w Orleans, on thefirstof April fol-
lowing, and established himself in business. It was
there that he received information afterwards, forthe
first time, that his name was connected in the pub-
lick papers with Morgan's abduction.
As soon as he was apprised of this circumstance,
he resolved to return and abide the justice of his
country. While making arrangements with that
view, he was informed by some one who overheard
a conversation between some strangers who had just
arriv«d at that post, and Capt. Hyde, its command-
ing officer, that he was pursued. H e thereupon ex-
pressed a perfect willingness to be arrested in case
he was suspected of violating the laws of his country,
but on being told that he was to be carried in irons
back to his native state, he chose not to return in
that way, and therefore went to th* house ofa friend,
about too miles distant, where he remained till assa-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
200 COL. KIXG AKO
red of their departure. H e then completed his ar-
rangements as soon as possible, and by travelling day
and night a distance of nearly 4000 miles, arrived in
the county of Niagara soorV.after his pursuers' return.
Col. King having been publickly accused, as
already stated, of Morgan's murder—having fled
from the slate,'asit was supposed, to elude its justice,
and the place of his residence having with certainly
been ascertained—Burrage Smith and John Whitney
of Rochester, having also been accused of Morgan's
abduction, and having alsofledas it was supposed for
a similar purpose, Mr. Gurlinghotise, the Sheriff of
Ontaiio, and Mr. Bates, its former Sheriff, accompa-
nied by a Mr. Mead, on the 13th of December, 1827,
being vested with authority for that purpose, l
e
f
t
Canandaigua in order to arrest them. They arrived
at Cantonment Towson, in the Arkansas Territory
on the 14th of February, 1828, immediately made
known their business, presented their authority to
Capt. Hyde, who then commanded at that fort, and
desired his aid. Capt. Hyde refused to aid in the
arrest of Col. King, but directed an officer to accom-
pany them to Col. King's store. O n arriving time
they were informed that King.(apprised of their pur-
snit, inthe manner above related) had gone. Presu-
ming that further pursuit would be hopeless, they re-
traced their steps, and on the first of April, 1J2J,
made their report to Lieut. Governour Pitcher, at
Albany. O n the 17th of M a y Col. King returned,
and published in the Lockport Journal the following
card.
"T> Messrs. Garlinghouse and Bates: The undersigned tth
leave to inform them that he has returned to the county of
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
CAPT. HVDE. 201
Niagara, where he can be found, and i
s ready to transact
any business that they may have with him. WALKING."
T h e return of Col. King, at this particular time,
created the utmost surprise. Men who had abused
him in the harshest teims during his absence, imme-
diately became (at least to all appearance) his most
ardent friends. The load of publick infamy under
which he had suffered was at once removed. Those
good feelings of which he had participated so largely
in former times, resumed their accustomed influence.
And the tongue of slander, which had "out-venom«d
all the worms of Nile," lost apparently some of its
fangs.
During his absence, efforts had been made to in-
dict him for murder, but failed of success. H e was
however indicted'for a misdemeanour,but no attempts
on his return were made to arrest him. O n the soc-
ond day thereafter he went of his own accord to Lew-
iston, and was recognised himself in the sum of
{51000, with two sureties in the sum of $500 each,
for his appearance at the next court. O n the 27th
of May he published an address to the publick, con-
taing a statement of the facts before related.
Notwithstanding his return in May, 1828, his case
has never been brought to trial. His business in the
fall of that year requiring his absence, a "hue and
cry" was immediately raised against him in thcanli-
mssonick papers, and the terms "fugitive and mur-
derer" were once more connected with his n a m e . —
H e has again returned, and awaits his trial. I
t is
therefore but common justice to suspend t
i
l
l a judi-
cial investigation can be had, our opinion of his inno-
cence or his guilt.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
202 COL. KINO AND
John Whitney, of Rochester, afterwards returned,
and is now a resident of that village.
Immediately after the failure of Messrs. Garling-
house and Bates to arrest Col. King was communica-
ted to the war Deparlment,orders were issued for the
arrest of catp. Hyde,on acharge ofrefusing obedience
to the instructions of that Department iu relation to
Col. King; and that officer was directed to repair
forthwith to the city of New-York for trial. No
court however for that purpose, has been convened.
Whether the failure to procure an indictment against
Col. King for murder, or his voluntary return and
submission to legal authority, or some other causa
has prevented, I have not been able to ascertain.
As the conduct of Capt. Hyde on that occasion hai
been the subject of frequent animadversion, a few re-
marks at this time in relation thereto, seems to be
called for by a regard for justice to the accused.
Capt. Hyde it will be recollected was thecomman-
ding officer ofa fortress located in an extensive wil-
derness, and remote from the habitations of civilized
life. T h e bigotted Spaniard of Texas, and the fero«
cious savage, were his only neighbours. When
therefore a stranger, and particularly one of Col.
King's appearance and manners, with credentials
from his government, arrived at so retired a post, i
t
is perfectly natural that an interest should at once
have been created in his behalf.
Friendship in a station like this immediately at-
tains its perfect growth. It is neither chilled by the
blasts of adversity, nor frozen by "the nameless ills
thatfleshis heir to." Nor is it ushered into being or
sustained iu its precarious existence by the anticipa*
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
CAPT. HYDE. 203
tion of future returns. It flows from the heart as
pure as the water from its fountain, and free as the
air that rustles the forests leaves. "The shepherd in
Virgil grew acquainted with love, and found him a
native of the rocks." It may perhaps be so with
friendship. Col. King's reception at Fort Towson
ought not therefore to excite surprise. Nor is it sin-
gular, when strangers appeared at the quarters of its
commanding officer, demanding the surrender of their
victim, and more especially when it was announced
that that victim was to be bound in chains and trans-
ported as a criminal through the land—I say it is not
singular that friendship, as it exists amid perils and
dangers, as it is taught and practised in the wild and
solitary wastes, should have interposed her aid.
That Capt. Hyde ever took any measures to pre-
vent Col. King's arrest, has never been proved. It
rests wholly upon suspicion ; and upon the suspicion
too, of men who must have felt great interest in the
success of an expedition undertaken at so much haz-
ard, and accomplished by so much toil.
Col. King informs us that he was apprised of their
pursuit by a gentleman who overheard the conversa-
tion between Capt. Hyd&asjti some strangers, and I
am not aware of the existence of any reasons for
doubting his veracity.
Suppose however for a moment that Col. King
did in fact receive information that he was pursued
from Capt. Hyde,his voluntary return and subsequent
journey of 4000 miles on purpose to meet the charge,
instead of being brought in chains and exhibited Bsa
publick show, will it is hoped in some measure parry
the charge.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
g0 4 COfc. RIKA.
. When Louis the 18th by the aid of foreign bayo-
nets was placed on the Gallic throne, the adherents
of Napoleon, with certain exceptions, were permitted
on sending in their adhesion, to claim the royal par-
don. Lavalette, who had been a distinguished offi-
cer in the'army ofthe Emperor,wasone of those pro-
scribed, or one who had neglected or refused to send
in his adhesion. H e was therefore arrested and cast in-
to prison. Each succeeding day was supposed by him
to be the last. During this period of anxiety and sus-
pense, his prison doors were unexpectedly opened)
and who should enter but the partner of his bosom.
She proposed to him that he should exchange clothes
with her and flee. H e did so, and left his prison in
the disguise of a woman. H e repaired immediately
to the apartments of Sir Robert Wilson, a British of-
ficer of extensive renown, then residing at Paris, an-
nounced his name and the manner of his escape, and
desired his aid. Sir Robert, impressed by the mili-
tary air ana the confidence thus reposed, with re-
spect for the m a n before him, and in spired will)
that romantick chivalry which the brave feel for the
brave, did not for a moment hesitate to respond in
the affirmative to this lywejjl, and conducted him in
triumph without the realm. M a d a m Lavalette over-
come by the horrours of a dungeon and fears for her
husband's safety, became suddenly deranged, and
was consigned to a hospital of maniacks, instead of
her husband's arms. Sir Robert was afterwards ar-
rested as an accessary to hh escape, but was never
put upon his trial.
I do not cite the case of Lavalette for the purpose
of comparing it with Col. King's, or to justify Capt.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
MISCELLANEOUS EVENTS. 205
Hyde by the example of Sir Robert Wilson, but
merely to show that in other countries friendship's
sacred claim has animated with impunity thesoldier's
bosom, and expanded the soldier's heart.
CHAPTER XXVI.
Miscellaneous events—Bruce's trial for the abduction
of Morgan—Thurlow Weed's case—Johnson Good-
will.
The prominent facts attending Morgan's abduc-
tion, and the principal events which have grown out
of it, have now been reviewed. Before however we
proceed to consider the effects which the extraordin-
ary course pursued by those to whom their investiga-
tion was intrusted has thus far produced upon (he
morals, the politicks, and the religion of that portion
of our state which has been the theatre of its princi-
pal operations, a few miscellaneous events demand
our notice.
Bruce, Turner and Darrow of Lockport, were in-
dicted among others, for a conspiracy to carry off
Morgan, and also for his abduction. They vvere tried
at the court of General Sessions, held at Canandai-
gua inthe county of Ontario, on the 20th of August
1828. The indictments against Turner and Darrow
having been found upon the testimony of Giddings
alone, and Giddings having been rejected by the
Court as an incompetent witness, on occoant of his
Atheism, and no other testimony being offered to im-
plicate tbem or either ofthem, were ofcourse acquit-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
206 ERUCE's TRIAL.
ted. Bruce was convicted. Exceptions were takeo
to the indictment in Bruce's case, which were car-
ricd up to the Supreme Court of this State for t
h
e
i
r
advice. Those exceptions have since been argued
and decided against the defendant, and at the l
a
s
t
court of General Sessions held for the county of On.
tario, on the 23d day of May, 1829, Bruce was sen-
tenced to imprisonment in the county jail, for two
years and four months.
John Whitney, whose voluntary return i
s mention-
eclitithe preceding chapter, was also tried, convic-
ted and sentenced to be imprisoned one year and
three mouths in the county jail.
James Gillis was also tried. The Jury,however,
in his case could not agree, and ofcourse there was
no verdict.
Some other indictments are pending, and remain
yet to be disposed of. "The Morgan trials," howev-
er, are not at this time the subject of frequent con-
versation, they excite no peculiar interest, and o
f
course are tried as other cases are tried. The con-
troversy having become altogether political, anti-ma-
sons themselves seem not to desire the rigid prosecu-
tion of those suspected. Could they exhibit pioof of
Morgan's murder, and procure the conviction of
some one or more, i
t would probably gratify the f
e
e
l
-
ings of individuals among them, but at the same time
i
t would "spoil thetrade," and ruin forever the hopes
of those whose political existence i
s now, and furs
long time has been wholly sustained by having before
the publick a subject of constant irritation. When
the guilty shall have been punished, honest men will
be satisfied and not before. It i
s the voice of faction
only which calls for more.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
TRURLOW WEED. 207
A n indictment of some interest i
s now pending in
the county of Monroe, against the editor ofthe Mon-
roe Republican, on (he complaint of Thurlow Weed,
who has been a prominent leader under Miller and
Soulhwick, in the late anti-masonick party, and has
taken an active, efficient, and responsible part in eli-
citing or smothering the truth, and which remains yet
to be seen. The defendant in his paper, i
t is said,
charged Weed with having shaved or stripped off the
hair and whiskers on the body found in Carlton, pre-
paratory lothesecond inquest, inorderthat i
t might re-
semble Morgan's. The defendant, we are informed,
intends to justify the charge, the trial must therefore
be one of interest.
A number of slander suits in behalf of masons have
ben tried and recoveries had for accusations made in
relation to the Morgan affair, and some are s
t
i
l
l
pending.
Col. Goodwill of Batavia, during the winter of
1828, in passinga bridgeacross the Tonawanta Creek
in a cutter with Mrs. Goodwill, was accidentally
thrown ofl a steep bank, a distance of 30 or 40 feet—
he was himself much injured, and the l
i
f
e of Mrs. G.
was for some time despaired of. While she was con-
fined to her bed, and in the most excruciating agony,
Mr. Soulhwick, editor of the National Observer, who
i
s deservedly at the head of his party, after speaking
of some papers which he alleged Col. Goodwill had
assisted others to obtain on an attachment against
Morgan, says : "No redress has yet been obtained,
except by an act of Divine Providence, which pre-
cipitated one of them over a bridge in a sleigh, his
horse taking fright, by which he came nearhaving his
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
208 JOHNSON GOODWILL.
neck broke : this was the man, who, after he had ri-
fled or carried offher trunk, which be had no busi-
ness to touch, had the cruel satisfaction of telling
Mrs. Morgan, with a masonick grin, that he had ta-
ken her husband to jail! Well, indeed,was he thrown
off the bridge ; for if he had fallen from a precipice
fifty thousand feet high, into a volcano like iEtna or
Vesuvius, he would have been justly served for out-
raging the feelings of a woman in deep distress and
agony of mind for the fate of her husband. Perdition
seize such monsters !"
The above remarks, though from the pen of an
anti-masonick candidate for Governour, would not
have received a place in this narrative, had not the
sentiments therein contained,beenreceivedand adop-
ted by his followers in this vicinity. They therefore
deserve consideration as well on account ofthe high
source from which they emanated, as on account of
their being adopted by m e n w h o claim to be the
guardians of publick morals, and the exclusive pat-
rons of our holy religion, which breathes peace and
good will to man.
T o repeat the expressions of individual anti-ma-
sons, would be as unjust as tojudge ofthe fraternity
by the conduct of a few, and to test their principles
by the declarations of its foolish, depraved and incon-
siderate members. Although materials of that kind
exist in abundance, w e have no use for them here, and
shall therefore pass over tbem in sorrow and in silence.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
SVUSSkL COLVIN. 209
CHAPTER XXVII.
RusselTJolvin.
In referring to instances of popular excitement, i
Inadvertently omitted the case of Russel Colvin, for
whose supposed murder Stephen and Jesse Boom, in
a neighbouring state, were sentenced to be hanged.
The case, is so analogous to the one which has recently
excited so much interest and attention here, that it
deserves to be attentively perused.
Russel Colvin formerly resided at Manchester
Vermont, and some years ago left that place under
circumstances which induced strong suspicions cf his
having been murdered. Stephen and Jesse B o o m
resided at that time in his vicinity—were men in some
respects of exceptionable characters, and had had
some difficulty with Colvin. Suspicions of course,
were at once excited, that they were his murderers.
The circumstances, however, were not of such a na-
ture as to justify criminal proceedings against them
till some years afterwards.
One Merrill, a notorious scoundrel, being con-
fined on a criminal charge in jail with the Boorns.
pretended that they had confessed to him their guilt.
This together with the circumstances already exis-
ting, left no doubt in the publick mind of Colvin's
murder, and the Boorns' participation therein. T h e
Boorns were therefore arrested, and the publick had
already pronounced their doom, even before Ihev
were put upon trial. Merrill was admitted to bail,
and at once made a man of consequence. The cir-
cumstances in this as in every case of the like kind,
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
210 RUSSEL COLVnT.
being magnified, the feelings of the people became so
excited against the accused, that a man for expressing
a belief in their innocence^ and a desire for their ac-
quittal, was considered unworthy of confidence or
respect, and was even threatened with violence.
O n their trial, Merrill gave testimony against them
and immediately fled into the state of New-York,
where he was afterwards convicted of other crimes
and sentenced to the State prison for life. The
Boorns were convicted and sentenced to be hanged.
The testimony, however, did not appear so conclu-
sive to those residing at a distance, who had not par_
ticipated in the popular feeling as to those in that
vicinity. The Governour of Vermont therefore res-
pited their sentence till the meeting ofthe next Le-
gislature, by which the punishment of one of those
convicted was commuted to imprisonment in the
state prison for life, and the other was directed to be
hanged. O n e was accordingly removed to the state
prison at Windsor, where he was undergoingthe sen-
tence ofthe law, and the other was preparingforHie
awful fate that awaited him, when Colvin, for whose
supposed murder the Boorns had been sentenced to
death, was unexpectedly and by accident found re-
siding in obscurity in this state.
By the vigilance and humanity of the Common
Council of New-York, he was taken, (after having
been absent and supposed by his neighbours to have
been dead about seven years,) to Manchester in Ver-
mont where he arrived just in lime to-save the life
of an innocent victim, who, but for their timely inter-
ference must in a few days have paid the forfeit ofa
crime supposed and proved to have been committed*
but of which he was entirely innocent.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
PRINCIPLES OF&C. 21!
Colvin in passing through Albany on his way to
Vermont, reaped a rich harvest by exhibiting himself
in the museum during the winter of 1319—20, at 25
cents a sight.
The circumstances to prove the death of Colvin,
were stronger than any which now exist in relation
to the death of Morgan, and the testimony of Merrill
was entitled, at least, to as much credit asGidding's.
T h e jury without doubt, reasoned correctly upon the
evidence before them, and the conviction of the ac-
cused, was unquestionably predicated upon what
most men would regard as conclusive proof.
It shows, however, the fallacy of human testimony,
and the danger of introducing popular excitement iu-
to Courts of Justice.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
Principles of Anti-Masonry—their effect on publick
morals.
In reviewing the principles of anti-masonry, and
considering their effect on publick morals, serious
difficulties meet us at the threshold. Being, as they
are, of recent origin, particularly in this country, and
having formed as yet no distinctive character, their
effect in some measure is still problematical. At-
tempts to introduce them into Spain, it is true, were
made a few years since by the bigotted Ferdinand.
The Pope too once issued his bull for the suppression
of masonick lodges. Masonry, however, still exists
both in Spain and Italy.
Sufficient has already been developed during the
last two years, to convince impartial minds lhat anti-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
212 PRINCIPLES OF
masonry at all events is not "a saving ordinance."
And some of its most zealous votaries, particularly
those who have not obtained that influence and power-
to which by their zeal they supposed themselves en-
titled, aie beginning to doubt whether it is calculated
to promote their temporal, to say nolhing of their
eternal, welfare.
In the discussion of this subject, it becomes neces-
sary in thefirstplace to define the term anti-mason-
ry, and in so doing we may perhaps be enabled to
ascertain its principles, and afterwards determine
whether certain effects, known and acknowledged by
all to exist,are imputable to anti-masonry, or to some
other cause.
It has of late become fashionable (with what jus-
tice we shall endeavour bye and bye to show) to at-
tribute all the evils under which we groan to the ex-
istence of free masonry; and many suppose, or pre-
tend, that its annihilation is absolutely necessary to
hasten on those halcyon days which the christian and
the patriot anticipate with so much ardor.
Mr. Soulhwick, who may with propriety be regar-
ded as the oracle of his party, in the National Obser-
ver, says:—
"Anti-masonry sprung from the throne of God,and
under his Almighty wings.it will conquer "Hell's
master piece," and redeem our country from vile
slavery and galling chains—from eternal disgrace,
from everlasting ruin and degradation. The mau
who hesitates to support such a cause, stabs his coun-
try and dishonours his Creator. Let no such man
be trusted—let him live neglected and die unpitied
and despised, and let no monument tell bis name or
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
ANTI-MASONRY. 213
point to the spot where "his recreant ashes pollute
the soil that gave him birth."
Some anti-masons, however, it is believed do not
subscribe to this blasphemous effusion of fanaticism,
nor are they yet prepared to regard it as divine
Anti-masonry here is generally supposed to consist
in opposition to masonry—and anti-masons to be
those who embrace its doctrines. Although this defi-
nition may originally have been correct, it does not
ofcourse follow that all professing anti-masons, par-
ticularly at this time, are opposed to masonry. A
part of them at least have given strong indications
that their anli-masonry consists in opposition to ma-
sons only, and not to Ihe institution.
Some w h o have been expelled from masonick
lodges—some who have heretofore sought admission
and failed of success—some who have long been mem-
bers, and have not received the recompense due to
their fancied merits—soma who have felt aggrieved
by the conduct of individual masons—and some too,
it is said, for political purposes, have enlisted under
its triumphant banners. Some have become anti-
masons by listening to the slanderous tales a thou-
sand times refuted, which have been circulated by
artful and designing demagogues through the coun-
try, and some have become so purely from principle
H o w large a portion of each is included under this
general term, it is impossible to ascertain without
scrutinizing the motives of every individual, and a»
that is impossible with the means allotted to erring
mortals, and belongs exclusively to that being to
w h o m the secret thoughts and intents of all heart*
are known, weshall not make the attempt.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
214 PRINCIPLES OF
Reformers in almost every age have proposed to
themselves and to their followers, some definite ob.
ject, and usually have suggested some plan for ameli-
orating (he condition of human kind. The leaders,
however, in the crusade now commenced,and which
they anticipate, will shortly be conducted to a suc-
cessful issue, have not, I believe, suggested a plan
even for experiment.
Masonry has existed for some time among us, and
during that period our country has been prosperous
and happy. Oui population has increased in a ratio
before unknown. Wealth has filled our garners.
The arts and sciences have flourished. Religion has
expanded her charms, and liberty taken up her
abo^e. "Our canvass has whitened every sea," and
our narUe is respected in every clime. Masons hith-
erto, uot because they were masons, but because they
were men ef virtue, of lalents, and integrity, have in
common with (heir fellow citizens, and without dis-
tinction, participated in the highest honours which our
stale and nation could bestow. The attempt, Ihere-
fore, to denounce them at this lime, reminds us ofa
person.who in perfect health.look plysick and died.
As a warning to others he directed the following in-
scription to be engraved on his monument: "I wa3
well, I sought to be better—I took physick and here
I am."
T o say that the object of every anti-mason is to
put down the masons with a view to rise on their ru-
ins, would be saying more than is admitted, and more,
probably, than is true. Still, that such is the object
of many,and particularly of their leaders, is too obvious
to require elucidation. Facts speak for themselves.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
ANTI-MASONRY 215
Conceding however, for a moment, that their mo-
tives arc pure, the question still recurs: What ob-
jects are in truth to be attained, and what means are
to be employed in order to attain them.
A man's conduct is not often belter than his prin-
ciples, and frequently not as good—men sometimes
err when their principles are all on the side of recti-
tude- Were w e able therefore, to ascertain what the
principles of anti-masonry are, w e should probably
be able at the Same timelodetermine in some measure
their effects. As anti-masons, however, have not
deigned to avow them, they arc left to be collected
from their private conduct and publick acts.
Thefirstand most obvious principle of anti-ma-
sonry seems to consist in implicit homage to its lead-
ers, without reference to their moral, political, or re-
ligious worth.
It is a maxim ofthe English law that the King can
do no wrong. The Pope is said to be infallible, and
the English Church we are told is neverin the wrong.
Whether the introduction of such a principle into
this country, and the practical exposition of it en-
trusted to the several Morgan committees, is calcula-
ted to improve our moral or political condition, is at
all events doubtful. W e have already witnessed
some of its effects on a small scale, and have yet to
learn whether its entire ascendancy will pro-
duce a differed result. A certain quack once ad-
ministered cabbage as medicine to a shoemaker, and
cured him. Pleased with his success, he repeated it
on a tailor, and killed him. H e thereupon entered in
his journal,that "cabbage is good for shoemakers,but
not for tailors." Although anti-masonry has hither-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
^216 PRINCIPLES OF
to failed of producing those happy results in this vi-
cinity so confidently expected, it does not of course
follow that i
t will not elsewhere. Sufficient has al.
ready been disclosed in the progress of this narrative
to show that we are in some respects a "peculiar peo-
ple." Its failure here ought not therefore to deter
others (who may be so inclined) from repealing the
experiment.
Another prominent principle of anti-masonry con-
sists in denouncing, not only all masons indiscrimi-
nately, but all those who will not denounce them.
In that particular it resembles Balak, king of Mo-
ab, who not content with cursing Israel himself, sent
for Balaam to curse them too. For that purpose
Princes were employed as messengers, and the most
splendid offers were made. "Let nothing, says the
sacred historian, (Numbers XXII. 16-17.) hinder
thee from coming unto me, for 1 will promote thee
unto very great honour, and I will do whatever thou
sayest unto me. C o m e therefore, I pray thee, and
curse this people." The Lord, however, interposed
his protecting arm, and sent his angel, who stood "in
the way, and a sword drawn in his hand." Balaam
therefore, bowed down his head and fell on his face.
"The Lord," said Balaam unto Balak, "hath not be-
held iniquity in Jacob, nor hath he seen perverse-
ncss in Israel." The anticipated curses were there-
fore averted, and a blessing pronounced in their
stead.
Anti-masonry separate from the attainment of pow-
er which it professes to acquire by inculcating impli-
cit homage to it leaders, and by dealing "death and
damnation round the land," seems to have no ob-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
ANTI-MASONRY. 217
ject. "Havock and spoil and ruin are its gain."
Cold as the icicle that hangs on Norway's cliff—cheer-
less as the winter amid polar snows—obdurate as the
Tiger in its native forest—and deceptive as the Cro-
codile in its native fen, it can neither be approached
by sighs or tears. Nothing but submission to its dic-
tates and promised aid in the diffusion of its terrors,
can save its victims or avert the meditated blow.
T h e Lion is said sometimes to spare its prey, to
kill merely for the purpose of destroying, and to
benefit others is the province of a Jackall.
Anti-masonry therefore, it can hardly be supposed,
would yet have produced many happy results ; nor
is it, w e believe, pretended that it ever has.
.Its evils however, are more obvious. It has sev-
ered the ties of kindred—it has destroyed the peace
of families—it has interrupted the pleasures of social
intercourse—it has armed in almost deadly strife, one
portion of community against the other—it has caus-
ed the violation of law, of principle and ofjustice-
it has entered our courts—it has entered our Sanc-
tuaries, and it has entered our schools and semina-
ries of learning. Fraud, deception and hypocrisy,
have marked its course. Injustice and oppression
have accompanied its progress, and a wide waste of
moral ruin has followed in its train.
U
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
218 POLITICAL HISTORY
CHAPTER XXIX.
Political history of Anti-masonry—Campaign of
1827—Do. of 1828—Nomination of Mr. Soulh-
wickfor Governour, Col. Millerfor Clerk, and Mr.
Hascall for Assembly—Mr. Hartwdl's letter to
President Adams—Mr. Adams' reply.
That the abduction of Morgan was a foolish, incon-
siderate, and depraved act, we need not again repeat.
That it should have produced an excitement of great
interest, ought not to excite surprise. Had i
t been
otherwise, the patriot would have looked forward
with fearful apprehensions for the safety of ourRe-
publick. But that this excitement should have been
perverted, as it has been by artful demagogues, to
sinister purposes,and have been made the instrument
of personal vengeance, will forever remain a foul blot
on the American character, and should it hereafter
become the means of elevating unworthy men to pla-
ces of trust, of profit, or of power, it surely must be
deprecated and deplored.
While on this subject w e wish to have it distinctly
understood that those who participated in that offence
or justified i
t afterwards, have forfeited the confi-
dence and deserve the reprehension of a virtuous and
insulted commuuity. At the same time we wish to
have it as distinctly understood, that those members
ofthe fraternity who were not accessary before, at
the time, or afterwards, to its commission, deserve
now, as well as before, the confidence of their coun-
try ; and especially that those who are not masons,
who have uniformly condemned the outrage, but have
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
OF ANTI-MASONRY. 21 »
since refused to join in this unholy crusade against
the innocent, are entitled to the highest applause.
Mr. Jefferson in his inaugural speech expressed
the fond but delusive hope that the time would short-
ly arrive, when it would not be asked whether the
candidate for publick favour was a republican or a
federalist, but whether he was honest, whether he was
capable, and whether he was faithful to the constitu-
tion and government ofhis country. Although hopes
of this nature are for the present scattered to the
four winds of heaven—although the only inquiry
with a certain party in this vicinity now, is whether
the candidate be a thorough anti-mason or not, it so
happens, fortunately for our country, that such en-
quiries are confined principally to demagogues. T h e
good sense and intelligence remaining among us,
which has hitherto advanced our glory, unquestiona-
bly will in a short time redeem our character, and
dispel this popular delusion.
Preparatory to a consideration of the subject now
proposed, w e beg liberty in thefirstplace to call the
attention of our readers to the character ofa dema-
gogue. It is from the pen ofthe venerable Dr. Scott,
a name familiar to all. His remarks in relation to
"the policy of wicked men in drawing in respectable
persons to give an unintended and unsuspected coun-
tenance to the basest designs," it is hoped will be
read with that interest which their importance de-
serves.
"They are commonly most ambitious of authority, who
least understand its duties, and could least endure its bur-
dens. But when ambition prompts, the most self-indulgent
assume the appearance of diligence, aud the most haughty,
that of affability and condescension! and whilst men aspire
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
2 2 0 POLITICAL HISTORY
to the pinnacle of grandeur, they for the time pay the most
abject court to the meanest ofthe mob ! Such fawning sons
of ambition are peculiar to no age or nation : but let every
wise and honest m a n shun them as a pestilence. They make
their way by openly or obliquely traducing the characters,
or censuring the measures of their rulers; and the wisdom
and perfection of an angel would be no seeurity against their
malignant insinuations. As self-love cannot but murmur at
impartiality, and men are generally discontented and fond
of change, these demagogues always have proper persons on
w h o m to practice. By joining in their groundless complaints,
theyfindthey feed their discontent; by flattering their per-
sons, and approving their cause, they humour their pride;
and by lavish promises, (which cost and mean nothing,) ef
what they would do if they wero in power, they excite their
sanguine hopes ofgreater felicity ; and by a voluble tongue
and insinuating address, personal accomplishments, and con-
summate impudence, they steal the hearts ofthe people, and
prepare the way for popular tumults, insurrections, and rebel-
lion. For such is human nature, that these arts and attain-
ments go much further in gaining the favour of the multi-
tude, than wisdom and justice, truth and piety, or the most
important and long continued services ! This is the old
hackneyed way for men, destitute of conscience or honour,
to wind themselves into important stations ; and yei i
t is as
much practised, and as little suspected, as if it were quite a
new discovery ! N o wise and good man, therefore, should
on any account promise himself the continuance of popular
favour, or be cast down if he meet with treachery and ingrat-
itude ; yet, in general, w e may perceive the righteousness
of God in the basest treatment which w e can receive from
m a n ; and may thence be reminded to humble ourselves be-
fore him. N o villany can be termed complete, which is not
disguised under the mask of religion ;* especially at those
times when the profession of Godliness is treated with gen-
•Peculiarly applicable to the Henrietta resolutions; to
which meeting, modern Theology must, I think, b» vastly
indebted for thou1
discovery of the fulfilment of a certain
prophecy.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
OF ANTI-MASONRY. 221
«ral respect. The policy of wicked men and the subtlety of
Satan are exerted to the utmost, in drawing in respectable
persons to give an unintended and unsuspected countenance
to the basest designs ; by which those sentiments and prac-
tices acquire a degree of regard to which, otherwise, they
were not at all entitled: and none so much strengthen the
hands of profligates or infidels, as apostate professors."
Anti-masonry assumed a political character soon
after the commencement of its existence. O f this
position, their several publick meetings afford con-
clusive proof. T o them alone it is indebted for all
its consequence. T h e several Morgan committees,
so long as they continued to discharge the duties as-.
signed them, and confined their exertions to the le-
gitimate objects of their creation, received the appro-
bation of the wise and good, and our country was
not distracted by the conflicts of party. Facts de-
veloped at an early day, satisfied all accustomed to
reflect, that an offence had been committed, serious
in its nature and important in its consequences.
That it deserved the attention of courts and juries,
was universally conceded. T h e administration of
justice, however, disdains all party aid. Many there-
fore could not perceive the necessity of its interfe-
rence. T h e folly, or rather the indiscretion of those
to w h o m the management of this affair had unfortu-
nately been intrusted, without doubt prevented a
part of those suspected from being arrested and tried.
This was a subject of extreme regret. Some m e m -
bers of the committee ofcourse were censured. T h e
failure ofjustice so loudly complained of, was impu-
ted by many to their want of judgment or integrity.
Collision was produced. T h e several committees
endeavoured to repel the charge, and in order to re-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
222 POLITICAL Histcmr
move the gathering odium from themselves, like He-
rofiddlingwhen R o m e was burning, charged its fail-
ure to tfiejnasons. They, as welf as the Christian*
at Rome, having become odious in the publick eye,
began immediately to be suspected as its cause. The
committee perceiving with what avidity the most im-
probable tales were greedily devoured, at once vo-
ciferously proclaimed that justice was perverted,
by masonick influence, from its course; that no
member of the fraternity, however guilty, could be
brought to trial with any prospect of success. Aware
ofthe odium attached to masonry, and of their power
to assail with impunity, and conscious too of their
growing popularity, they redoubled their efforts, and
at once assumed the direction of politicks, as they
had done in morals.
W e have already remaikcd that in the spring of
1827, meetings were held in different towns,atwhich
the most inflammatory resolutions were adopted re-
specting masons. At the regular town meetings held
thereafter in this vicinity, they were generally pr«-
scribed, and in many cases, though in other respects
worthy, lost their election because they were mason3.
The offices, however, being generally unimportant,
no particular inconvenience was sustained by tbe
publick, although many who had no other preten-
sion than zeal for anti-masonry, were in 6ome case*
elected tofillthem.
In the fall of 1827, theanti-masonick party as such,
took the field. The anti-masonick committee gave
notice of an anti-masonick convention, to be held at
Warsaw in the county of Genesee, for the purpose of
nominating a Senator. A republican convention was
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
or -AKTI-MASOKRY. 223
held at Batavia for a similar purpose, on the day
preceding the one to be held at Warsaw, at which
Timothy H. Porter, Esq. of the county ofCattarau-
gus, who had once been a member ofthe Senate, and
also a member of Congress, was put in nomination.
One George A. S. Crooker, Esq. attended the con-
vention held at Batavia, as a delegate from the county
of Cattaraugus. From intimations thrown out by-
Mr. Crooker, it was thought by some that he desired
the nomination. But as he was a stranger (
.
o the
whole convention, and had never scarcely been-
heard of before, it was deemed inexpedient, at that
time, to gratify his wishes. H e therefore took War-
saw in his way home, and accidentally, it is said,
stumbled upon the anti-masonick convention while
it was yet in session. H e did not, we are informed,
present his credentials, because they had already
spent their force. H e lingered however, there for
some time, awaiting its deliberations, until,finallyaf-
ter a little "billing and cooing," he was by a unanim-
ous vote, nominated as the anti-masonick candidate.
A flaming handbill in glaring capitals, was imme-
diately issued and circulated throughout the district,
announcing the important intelligence, that George
A. S. Crooker, Esq. of the county of Cattaraugus^
was nominated as a candidate for the Senate, and cal-
ling upon all anti-masons, as they regarded their al-
legiance, to give him their support. His crimes,
which before were red as scarlet, were made white
as wool. The plastick hand of anti-masonry, imme-
diately transformed him into a patriot of the first
standing for talents and integrity, for private worth
and publick virtue. Votes were printed and circu-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
224 POLITICAL HISTORY
lated with great industry and exertion, and nothing
was apparently wanting to insure his election.
Unfortunately, however, for Mr. Crooker, a short
time before, he had written a letter to the Grand
Lodge ofthe State, and recommended Br. ,
as an object of its charity. In that letter, he stated
that he was a mason. Mr. Crooker's nomination for
the Senate elicited inquiry. T h e fact that such a
letter had been written to the Grand Lodge, was fresh
in the recollection of some of its members. Search
was therefore made among its records, and the ori-
ginal was found. This letter was afterwards deliv-
ered to the Morgan committee. N o sooner was i
t
ascertained that Mr. Crooker was a mason, than in-
quiries were instituted in relation to his conduct
while a residentof Livingston county some time be-
fore. His character, which unquestionably would
have escaped their scrutiny had he not been a mason,
was found in such inquiry to be bad. H e was there-
fore denounced by the Morgancommittee,and instant-
ly annihilated. In the county of Genesee he receiv-
ed but 49 votes, Mr. Porter 3,9 41 and in other coun-
ties about in the same proportion. As some still
contend, that the objeet of anti-masonry is not polit-
ical, I refer m y readers for proof, to the Circular
issued by the Morgan committee on that occasion.
To the Electors ofthe Eighth Senatorial District.
F B L L O W CITIZENS.—We have just seen an affidavit made
by a gentleman of unquestionable veracity, residing at
Jamestown, Chautauque county, proving that George A. S.
Crooker is a member ofthe Sylvan Lodge of Free Masons,
in Gerry, and in August last was holding communications
with the Grand Lodge, and his original letter on the subject
>« now in our possession- W e have also seen a letter from.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
OP ANTI-MASONRY. 225
a gentleman of unimpeachable character and respectable
standing in Livingston county, stating that he is a man of
bad moral character and principles. W e are therefore sat-
isfied that the members of the convention at Warsaw, by
whom be was nominated, were deceived as to his character,
and we deem it a sacred duty thus publickly to declare, that
we think him notfittofillthe office of Senator, and we ad-
vise our personal, political and Anti-masonick friends, not to
support him by their votes or influence.
Having received satisfactory information that Timothy
H. Porter, is not a member of the Masonick society, and
some of us being personally acquainted with him, and having
confidence in his patriotism and integrity, we shall give him
our eheerful and vigorous support.
Josiah Bissell, Jr. Heman Norton, Fred'k Whittlesly,
Theodore F. Talbot, Samuel Works, F. F. Backus.— Mor-
gan Committee.
After perusing the above, it will not, I trust, for a
moment, be contended that anti-masonry is not a po-
litical institution. Should any, however, persist in
doubt, 1 refer them for proofs to the proceedings of
the late Anti-Masonick State Convention, which
"Resolved, That at all elections hereafter, whether
general or local, anti-masonick candidates be run."
If they still have doubts, I refer them to the anti-
masonick newspapers for proof, and particularly to
the New-York Beacon, which openly and boldly de-
clares, that "anti-masonry and politicks are joined
together by legitimate bonds, and no hand can part
them."
In the fall of 1826, M r . Evans of Batavia, was
elected to represent the 29th Congressional District
in the house of Representatives ofthe United States.
H e was afterwards, in the spring of 1827, appointed
local agent ofthe Holland Land Company, the ac-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
226 POLITICAL HISTORY
Xeptance of which, made it necessary that he should
resign his seat in Congress. A new election was
therefore ordered in the fall of 1827.
Phinehas L. Tracy, Esq. of this village, in opposi-
tion to the wishes ofa large portion of his party, be-
came on that occasion, the anti-masonick candidate.
Possessed of respectable talents, great industry, and
an ample fortune—having taken no part in the Mor-
gan affair, until about the time of his nomination, and
then barely sufficient to effect his object—having
been attached to no political party for many years,.
and his opinion in relation to the presidential ques-
tion,then beginning to be agitated,being quite uncer-
tain, and he ofcourse claimed by the friends of Mr-
Adams and General Jackson both, his nomination
was peculiarly acceptable to a large, majority ofthe
people, and he ofcourse, was triumphantly elected;
W e are not sufficiently conversant with political
anti-masonry in other counties during the campaign
of 1827, to give its history, and shall not therefore
make the attempt. Presuming however, that the
cases staled are a fair sample of it elsewhere, we
emit with less regret its particular details.
The campaign of 1828, was opened during the
wintei, in superiour style. One Solomon Southwick
of Albany, who had a few years before been dismiss-
ed from the office of Post Master in that place, began
in 1827 to make a considerable noise. H e had been
a member ofthe maso nick fraternity for many years,
and discovered about this time, that it was a "Hell
born and Hell deserving institution." H e had been
a candidate for Governour once before, and received
fifteen hundred or two thousand votes in the state.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
OF ANTI-MASONRY. 227
H e edited at the time, a paper in Albany, remarkable
only for its bitter vituperation, and thought himself
a suitable person to fill the executive chair. Pre-
vious to the ridiculous farce which was afterwards
played off with so much success, a few seceding ma-
sons in L e Roy, wrote to Mr. Southwick desiring
his presence. H e repaired thither without delay,
and in March 1828, was first nominated for Gover-
nour at Green's tavern inthe village of Batavia.
Addresses were exchanged. T h e nomination was
accepted, and Mr. Southwick returned. Instead
however,-of its being echoed and re-echoed by the
anti-masonick editors as anticipated, it was treated
by many, only as a farce, and Mr. Southwick after-
wards was induced to decline the intended honour.
A State convention of Mr. Adams' friends about
this time was held at Utica, at which the Hon. Smith
Thompson, one of the Judges of the Supreme Court
of the United States, a gentleman ofhigh respectabil-
ity and of extensive legal and literary attainments,
was nominated as a candidate for Governour, and Mr.
Granger of Canandaigua, a gentleman also of respec-
tability, was nominated for Lieut. Governour. Mr.
Granger afterwards was nominated at the anti-ma-
sonick Convention held in Utica, as a candidate for
Governour, and Mr. Crary of Washington county,
formerly a member of the Senate of this state, for
Lieutenant Governour.
Mr. Granger unwilling to unite his political desti-
ny with a party, which from its nature and character
he supposed must be ephemeral, afterwards declined
the anti-masonick nomination for Governour, and
accepted of his nomination for Lieut. Governour,
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
228 POLITICAL HISTORY
For this he was denounced. Judge Thompson hav-
ing been written to by the Morgan committee, with
a view to ascertain whether, in case they would sup-
port him and he should be elected, he would consid-
er himself as an anti-mason, is said to have replied
that in case of success, he should consider himself the
Governour of a State, and not the tool or patron ofa
party, he was thereupon denounced.
An opportunity was thereby afforded for the revi-
val of Mr. Southwick's claims. A meeting was there-
upon held at L e Roy, made up principally of sece-
ding masons, fifteen altogether, including comers
and goers, at which Mr. Southwick was nominated
by a majority of one. This nomination, for want of
a better, was echoed by soma anti-masonick papers.
H e was afterwads nominated at other similar meet-
ings held in different parts of the country, and sup-
ported by the whole anti-masonick party, with per-
fect confidence in his success.
. Mr. VanBuren who is too well known to require
the aid ofeulogy, whose talents for years had adorn-
ed the counsels ofthe State and Nation was after-
wards nominated with entire unanimity at the Re-
publican Convention held in Herkimer, as a candid-
ate for Governour, and Judge Throop ofthe county of
Cayuga as a candidate for Lieut. Governour. Nei-
ther ofthem were masons, although both were pro-
claimed as such in the newspapers, before and at the
polls during the last election- Out of 276,53* votes
given in the State, Mr. Van Buron received 136,735,
Judge Thompson 106,415, and Mr. Southwick 33,-
335. And however strange it may appear, it is no
less strange than true, that Mr. Southwick received
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
OP ANTI-MA«0NRV. 229
in the county of Genesee, 4,794, Mr. Van Buren 2,-
274, and Judge Thompson 605 votes.
It having been frequently intimatei that in case
Mr. Southwick had not been a candidate, Judge
Thompson would have succeeded, I take this oc-
casion to observe, that a large portion of the votes
given for Mr. Southwick would in that case have been
given for Mr. Van Buren. The result of course
would have been the same.
W e have already remarked that Col. Miller, in tha
fall of 1828 was elected Clerk of the County of Gen-
esee. There are some circumstances attending his
nomination and election, deserving of particular no-
tice. If anti-masonry alone, without any other qual-
ifications, ever entitled a man to office, Col. Miller's
claims were preeminent. Aware of intentions ex-
isting in the minds of some who had united themselves
with the anti-masonick party after the battle had
been fought and won merely for its spoils,to put down
and prostrate the author of this mighty uproar—
the man who had given them what little consequence
they enjoyed, and fearing, himself, the result of a
county Convention held under 6uch circumstances,
Col. Miller, in the summer of 1828, announced him-
self as a candidate for County Clerk. Supposing of
course, that the party to which he was opposed, would
immediately commence upon him a war of words,
and thereby strengthen the rope of said by which he
and his adherents were bound together, he was alarm-
ed at the re-publication of his address in other pa-
pers witheet note or comment. Abuse in this eoun-
*y, being the only aliment which can sostain the « -
firant for office, he would probably have fallen ef
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
230 POLITICAL HISTORY
his own weight, like the bird in an exhausted receiv-
er, had not some of his own party undertaken the
task which he desired and expected from his foes.
His unfitness fos the office to which he aspired, was
acknowledged by all. Opposition therefore, from a
source least expected, began gradually to unfold i
t
-
self. Its progress atfirstwas slow, but meeting with
unexpected encouragement, it acquired new vigour
as it progressed, and at last began to flap its wings in
token of future triumph, when he distinctly told them
that the support of Mr. Southwick and (he nomina-
tion of himself were indispensible to their success.
The leaders who had been struggling for precedence
were hushed in a moment by "the master spirit of
the storm," and submitted to his dictation without
a murmur. A convention was called. A seceding
mason was appointed its Chairman, and another its
Secretary. Mr. Southwick's nomination for Gover-
nour was concurred in—Col. Miller was nominated
for Clerk, and Mr. Hascall, another seceding mason,
for Assembly ; and a triumph crowned their efforts.
The nomination of 10 many quondam masons as can-
didates,and the whole management ofthe convention
by seceding masons, were at first calculated to ex-
cite alarm and produce jealousies among their lead-
ers. Tli^ir motives in withdrawing from the Lodge
were for a-while arraigned. Experience however,
has tested the policy of placing the whole power and
influence of the anti-masonick party in their hands,
and shown conclusively, that it is the true and per-
haps the only mode of success. Whether the party
will hereafter continue in submissive homage to such
policy, perhaps is questionable. T h e Jackalls, we
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
OF ANTI-MASONRY. 231
tire told, pursue their prey in packs on Lybia's dus-
ty plains, until the object of their pursuit is almost
within their reach, when the tawny Lion obtrudes
his unwelcome visage and robs them of all their toil.
W h y not then in the present instance. Arnold was
made a Brigadier General in the British service, and
why may not others with impunity imitate so glori-
ous an example.
The conduct of anti-masons during the election of
182*, offerds a more perfect clue to the discovery of
their objects, than any thing yet disclosed. It un-
folds a more perfect system of political inconsistency
and evinces more hardihood in political depravity,
than has hitherto degraded and disgraced the char-
acter of our state. Mr. Van Buren and Judge
Throop were denounced, not because they werema-
sons, fortheknowingones whenthey made the charge?
knew also it was false, but because they were nomi-
nated in the usual way by a Republican Convention.
Judge Thompson and Mr. Granger were also de-
nounced because they refused to fall down and wor-
ship a phantom of tueir creation. Electors in favour
of Mr. Adams and Mr. Rush were generally suppor-
ted, because Mr. Adams said he "never was and nev-
er would be a mason." Mr. Rush however, it was
conceded by all, was then, and had been for years,
a prominent mason. The anti-masonick electors,
true fo their pledge notwithstanding, gave him their
votes without one solitary exception. Mr. Coffin,
the late Clerk of Genesee, a long tried and faithful
servant ofthe pulick, who had not been in a Lodge
for twenty years, was displaced to give room for a
political adventurer. Mr. Hascall, who was a Knight
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
232 POLITICAL HISTORY
Templar at the time of Morgan's abduction, and an
active m e m b e r of the E n c a m p m e n t long afterwards,
succeeded in his election over G e n . Cburehill, who
for years had been an anti-mason from principle
w h o was an fficer during the late war with England,
and a prisoner in Halifax at the time of its close.
In order to enlist anti-masons in favour ofMr. Ad-
ams, a variety of expedients were resorted to. A-
m o n g others, a M r . Hartwell of Canandaigua, who
had some time before been dismissed from the office
of Post-master in that village, wrote to President
A d a m s a letter as follows :
" Canandaigua, 31st March, 1828.
To hia Excellency John Q.. Adams,}
President of the United States. \
"Si,—In consequence ofa great many of my fellow citi-
zens and neighbours who feel equally interested with m» to
know what we coasider a very important fact, 1 take the
liberty to inquire of you whether you are a mason ?
"The prostration of that dangerous Institution is comid-
eied in this section of the country paramount to any other
consideration, and i
t would give us great pleasure and satis-
faction to hear directly from you, and to hear that you did
not belong to that brotherhood. I have reflected upon the
propriety of writing you directly for this some time past,
;ind havefinallyconcluded that i
t is undoubtedly my duty to
make this inquiry, and I conclude you will most cheerfully
give me an answer. I am satisfied with your adniinistratioui
and shall feel very cordially disposed to support your re-elec-
tion should I hoar you never have been contaminated with
that useless trumpery, masonry ; and you may be assured
that in case you have not been so unfortunate as to ha»o
joined that Society, very much cau and will be done in this
section ofthe state in your behalf upon that grouud.
"Respectfully yours, &c.
(Signed) "OLIVER HARTWELL."
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
OF ANTI-MASONRY. 233
REPLY.
"Washington, 19th April, I8S8.
"'Oliver Hartwell, Esq. Canandaigua, N. Y.
"Sir—In answer to your inquiry in your letter of tho 31st
ult. I state that I a m not, never was, and never shall be a
free mason. I give you this aniwsr, in the spirit of friendly
return to the kindness with which you have made the in-
quiry. But unwilling to contribute in any manner to that
excitement pioduced by tho mysterious abduction and too
probable murder of William Morgan, I request you not to
givepublicity to this letter. The deep and solemn feeling
which pervades the community on this occasion, is founded
on the purest principles of human virtue and of human
rights. In the just and lawful pur3ait ofa signal vindication
tif the laws of nature and ofthe land, violated in his person,
which hac been undertaken, and is yet in progress, with the
authority and co-operation of your legislature, I hope and
trust that the fellow citizens ofthe sufferers will temper with
the spirit ofjustice, the reperation of her wrongs, and in the
infliction of every penalty carefully abstain from visiting up-
on the innocent the misdeeds ofthe guilty.
I a m with respect your fellow citizen,
J. Q. ADAMS-'*
Letters bad previously been addressed to Mr.
Adams in order to ascertain his opinion on the sub-
ject of religion. Those he very p.roperly refused to
answer. W h e n , however, bis friend Mr. Hartwell
addressed him a letter on the subject of freemasonry,
and apprised him of its bearing on the Presidential
contest, his letter was answered without delay. The
aeswer however, was calculated to excite surprise.
A President ofthe United States, tho most dignified
officer in the world, writing political letters to a dis-
missed post-master, forthe purporc of enlisting the
M o r g a n excitement into his service, was a novel spfe»-
tacle to the American people. It has been pretend-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
234 POLITICAL HISTORY
ed that such was not his object. The peotoliarphrase-
ology of the letter itself, however, refutes the as-
sertion : particlarly the expression, " I a m not, nev-
er was, and never shall be a free mason." Had Mr.
Adams merely informed his friend, (as theletterwag
not intended for publication,) that he was not a ma-
son, it would, in all probability have suffieiently grat-
ified Mr. Hartwell's vanity, and produced the desir-
ed effect. When, however, he descended from the
dignity of his station, and pledged himsel to Mr. Hart-
well, "that he never would be a mason,'^the conclu-
sion irresistably follows, that it was Mr. Adams' wish
as well as his friend Mr. Hartwell's, that this excite-
ment should administer, in part, to his ambition.
The final effect of anti-masonry on the politicks of
our country, it is at present difficult to predict. The
disaffected of all parties will, unquestionably unite
under its banners. As no political object, however,
is proposed thereby to be effected, other than to ele-
vate designing politicians to power, and as no bond
of principle unites them together, i
t can hardly be
supposed that it will prevail to any great extent, or
be of very long duration. Its practical effects where
it has hitherto been triumphant, have already, in ma-
ny instances, produced its downfall. Reason has be-
gan to assert its prerogative, and prejudice and pas-
sion have fled before it. As the receding wave is
generally the strongest, it is not improbable that the
anti-masonick leaders, after being driven for a while
without rudder or compass, on that political sea
which they have excited to rage, may at last beswal-
lowed up in its quicksands, or stranded on its rocks.
Their arrogance and self importance have hither-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
Or AXTI-IIAtOXRT. <i:.,
to (until chastened by recent defeat,) been almost in-
tolerable, and would not shrink from a comparison
with that ofthe Negro Prince, of whom Montesquieu
•n his Les esprits de lois, tells the following amusing.
story.
" T w o French Sailors being cast away on the
shores of Negroland, applied in their distress to a
Negro Prince for aasistence. After much difficnlty
they obtained admission to his royal presence. H e
was seated on a log of wood which served for his
throne. A tattered umbrella held over him by a half
famished Negro, served as a canopy of State, and a
few ragged subjects armed with stakes hardened at
the points byfire,constituted his body guard. The
ceremony of introduction had scarcely been closed,
when the sable monarch, with much complacency
enquired ofhis guests—"Am I not much talked of in
France."
Although anti-masonry may have extended our
fame and made us "much talked of in France," we
have yet to learn whether it will add to our political
importance or future renown.
Since writing the above, a number ofcharter elec-
tions have been held in the infected territory, and
terminated in the defeat of political anti-masonry.
In Batavia, Rochester, Geneseo Lockport, Albion
aed Buffalo, the county towns of Genesee, Monroe,
Livingston, Niagara, Orleans end Erie counties, it
has been met and vanquished. In Allegany, Catta-
raugus and Chautauque counties, a similar fate has
attended it. Nothing, in fact, is wanting, but confi-
dence and a little time, for the publick to reflect and
consider, and its defeat if certain.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
236 POLITICAL HISTORY
"Our doubts
"Are traitors, and make us loose the good
" W e oft might win, by fearing to attempt."
. That many good and worthy men are as much op.
posed to masonry as before, 13 unquestionably true.
It is the anti-masonick system of proscription and in-
tolerance, which they oppose. T h e institution of
anti-masonry is now tottering to its fall, and in a short
time will unquestionably be spoken of, as a thing that
was, but is no more.
Whether Freemasonry will survive, is another
question with which w e have nothing at present to
do. Should its principles bear the test of publick
scrutiny, and the conduct of its members correspond
with their professions, it will unquestionably rise tri-
nmphant from its present depressed condition, and
like a precious metal often refined, acquire new bril-
liancy by every ordeal. O n the othrer hand, should
it shrink from publick seruliny—should its principles
be found repugnant to morality, religion and law—
should the charges alledged agaiest it, hereafter be
investigated by an unprejudiced publick, and a sen-
tence of condemnation be pronounced at its cnlight-
ed bar, it requires no prophetick aid to predict its
doom. Its members in that case will gradually with-
draw, and without n o w accessions, it must sink, of
course, into the ocean of oblivion without a struggle
and without n sigh.
The organization, however, of a political party
with a view to this result, is wholly unnecessary, it is
ua.es.lled for in this enlightened age, and in this fa-
voured land. Publick opinion is sufficient if masoa-
ry be worthless. T h e sentiments of Mr. Holly, i»,
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
*P AMTI-MASOBRY. 837
the late anti-masonick State address, are unworthy
of a man. " W e are, (says he,) commencing a course
" which will necessarily bring with it much disquie-
" tude and distress—the intercourse of business will
" be obstructed—the laudable associations of neigh-
" bourhoods will be convulsed, and many ofthe best
" sympathies of our natures, will b« violently turned
"away from their customary channels." Such sen-
timents a Robespiere or a Marat, would have been
ashamed to own. N o othor than m e n reckless of
character, of feelings, and of fame, would havs) cher-
ished such malignant intentions, and no other than
the "architects of ruin" would have given them ut-
terance. It ought not therefore, to excite surprise,
that anti-masonry, as taught and practised at the pres-
ent day, received in that convention a fatal blow.
Freemasonry, though constantly assailed, and often
drenched in thebloodof her followers—thoughchains
and dungeons have been their doom, and the rack
and the wheel have responded to their groang—has
hitherto remained unhurt by the demons ofignorance,
superstition and tyranny, and by the aid of its en-
lightened philanthropy and undefiled religion, and its
pure and ardent patriotism, has soared aloft, dip-
ped her broad pencil in the clouds of Heaven and
spread the cement of brotherly affection thro' earth's
remotest realms. She has scattered the brands, ex-
tinguished the flames, and unbound the victim.*
She has shed her rays in every portion of the habita-
*At the battle of the cedars, about thirty miles from Mon-
treal, on the St. Lawrence, Capt. M'Kinstry, of Col. Pat-
terson's regiment of Continental troops, was twice wounded
and taken prisoner by the Indians. His intrepidity as a par-
tizan officer had excited the fears and unforgiving resent-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
238 POLITICAL HISTORY.
ble globe, and extended her salutary influence to
the distressed in every clime. " H e r merited praise
is in every quarter of theglobe. T h e widow'sthanks
and the orphan's tears, are her grateful encomiums.
Courtesy and friendship hail her with gratitude. She
has promoted the kind intercourse of nations—has
softeaed the asperities and diminished the woes of
w a r — s h e has smiled upon science and literature,
and in concert with other institutions has aided chris-
ment of the savages, who determined to put him to death.
Already had the victim been bound to the tree, and sur-
rounded by the faggots intended for his immolation. Hope
hadfled,and in the agon/ of despair he uttered the last mys-
tic appsal ofa mason, when as if Heaven had interposed for
his preservation, the warrior Brandt understood and saved
hire. Brandt had been educated in Europe, and was there
made a mason. Capt. M'Kinley died in June 1812.
A short time since, the following placard was posted up in
the streets of Lisbon to influence the royalists against free
raasone.
"Let the Queen Donna Carlotta de Bourbon govern and
deal death at one blow to the republican monster of free ma-
sonry. The gallows and the triangles must work conjointly
and with energy, andfiresmust be kindled in every quarter
of Portugal to reduce to ashes the bodies and property of
these vile monsters. Then, and then only, may we exclaim
safely and triumplantly,
Long live the absolute King,
Long Jive our holy Religion,
Long live our beloved Queen,
Long live all true Royalists,
Death and destruction to all free masons."
At the last anti-masonick celebration held at Le Roy in
the county of Genesee, on the Fourth of July 1828, the fol-
lowing elegant and sentimental toast was given by a gentle-
man of high standing in the ant imasonick ranks, and one of
the vice-presidents at ths celebration, and drank by hundreds
and some say by thousands, with unbounded applause.
"Free Masonry—May i
t bo put where i
t will stay put."
The preceding cases show the contrast between masonry
and anti-masonry, and also that the latter is substantially
tho same in Portugal and Le Roy.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
ANTI-MASONRY. 239
tianity in introducing this distinguished era of ligh
and salvation."
"Should she now close her operations, and never
"again wield her trowel, extend her plumb-line, nor
" lift her hammer, let these utensils be laid up in the
"choisest cabinet of her sons, for an everlasting me-
" morial of her industry and her alms. Let her
" withdraw to the shades of honourable retirement,
" and having sunk into her eternal rest, let her mod-
" est marble present the indelible inscription, 'Peace
" to her ashes, and glory to her name.' "
CHAPTER XXX.
Ami-Masonry in the Church.
Religion, or more properly speaking, the pretence
or want of it, has in every age been the subject of bit-
ter animosity.. Even its discussion has elicited in
many cases more asperity than any other which has
fallen under human cognizance. In its struggle for
power it has evinced a greater want of candour, and
frequently indicated stronger intentions to vex, har-
ass, oppress, and totally ruin, all those opposed to
its pretensions, than any thing which has hitherto en-
gaged the attention of mankind.
Hence the framers of our Constitution, as well to
preserve religion in its purity as to prevent its direct
interference in matters of state, guarded as they sup-
posed every avenue through which it could approach
that political fountain from whence civil authority
should only flow.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
240 ANTI-MASOHRY
Anti-ma»onry, intent on power, and conscious of
the influence which true religion ever has had and
ever ought to have, and which its counterfeit has
sometimes had over the minds of men, regarded i
t at
an early day with a wistful eye. Religion, not the
religion of our Saviour, but what passes sometimes
as such, "in the corrupted currents of this world,"
intent also on power, under the influence, sometimes
of corrupt and designing, and sometimes of weak and
inconsiderate men, seized with avidity, as it was sup-
posed, the glorious opportunity thus afforded of ad-
vancing her cause, and in some instances, united her
destiny with theirs. The effects of this unhallowed
combination thus far w e have seen—its future conse-
quences remain for time to unfold.
While w e contemplate with joy the deserved zeal
with which the votaries of Christianity, in imitation
of the meek and lowly Jesus, have penetrated the
forest's gloom—have scaled the mountains' tops, and
sought the objects ofa Saviour's love amid the dark-
some fens, it is with pain that w e are compelled to
remark in justice to historick truth, that the evidence
of their good deeds in this vicinity, is not so abun-
dant as could have been desired, and it is much to be
feared that many of their acts will notpass inspection
at the last great day in Heaven's Chancery.
The proceedings of the different ecclesiastical tribu-
nals which have been convened and under pretence of
advancing the cause of Zion have denounced masons
and masonick clergymen, ceuld hardly be comprised
within the limits assigned to this narrative, and roust
therefore be passed over in silence. As anti-mason-
ry, however, in the church, has been so uniform in
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
IN THE CHURCH. 541
its operations, its effect, in the Presbyterian Church
in this village, will probably suffice.
Batavia,and the region round about, even as far as
Buffalo and Rochester (
t
i
l
l lately) it is said have not
been remarkable for their growth in grace. The
outpourings of the Holy Spirit, unfortunately for our
country, as well as those who came hither in hopes
of converting a wilderness into fruitful fields, thereby
to extend the boundaries of Jehovah's empire, have
unfortunately been withheld, and for many years af-
ter its settlement,
"The 60und ofthe church-going bell,
These vallies and rocks never heard—
Ne'er sighed at the round ofa knell,
Or smiled when the Sabbath appeared."
A m o n g thefirstsettlers of this village, however,
there vvere some who had experienced religion, and
by their lives and conduct had given evidence of
thtir sincerity. Of these, Deacon Benjamin Porter,
was the most conspicuous. Educated in a land of
Christian light; accustomed for years to the benefits
of Christianity, and participating largely in its joys,
he felt as every good man should feel, a desire to ex-
tend those benefits in these uncultivated wilds. His
was emphatically the house of prayer. Did sickness
or sorrow present its bitter cup to his afflicted neigh-
bour, he was there to assuage its agonies. Did dis-
ease prey upon him, he was there to administer con-
solation ; and when the immortal spirit hadfled,his
was almost the only voice to pronounce its requiem.
As soon as the settlement had progressed so as to
justify an attempt to erect a house for publick wor-
ship, he was among thefirstand most efficient of its
projectors, and being limi'ed in his means, became
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
242 AHTl-MASOKBT
thereby embarrassed. His christian fortitude how-
ever, never forsook him, and having for a long time,
"carried the Church in his arms," he looked forward
with confidence to that period, when it should afford
him a resting place from all bis troubles.
T h e Church being at length completed, and &
Clergyman settled, all was peace and harmony, t
i
l
l
anti-masonry presented itself at her portals. Such
was the state of Eden when the Serpent entered its
bowers. Anti-masonry, however, did not boldly
"Advance its mis created front."
But like its prototype
"With tract oblique,
Atfirst,as one who seeks access, but fears
T o interrupt, sidelong worked its way.
And of its tortuous train,
Curled many a wanton wreath in sight of Eve,
T o lure her eye.
Till bolder grown, uncalled before her stood,
But as in gaze admiring : oft it bowed
Its turret crest and sleek enamelled neck
Fawning and licked the ground whereon she stood."
A certain portion ofthe church havieg determined
on its admission, without manifesting even that coy-
ness visible in every thoughtand every act of our first
mother before the fall, at once bade it welcome.
"Hope elevated, and joy brightened its crest."
The church at last, influenced by some of its cor-
rupt and unprincipled members, united in a request,
that anti-masonry should thenceforth be united with
Christianity in administering at her altar. Deacon
Porter being a mason, was thereupon dismissed.
"The Falcon towering in its prido ofplace
Was by the mousing owl, hawked at sad killed."
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
»w » « B sauacH. 243
Notwithstanding the asperity which existed in the
church against the masonick institution, itwas hoped
by many, that Deacon Porter, although a mason, on
aecountofhis long and meritorious services the
zeal which he manifested in the cause of his Redeem-
er—and more especially, on account ofthe frost of
seventy winters which bleached his brow, might for
a short time have been spared. But no—the reck-
less spirit of anti-masonry forbid. Not satisfied with
his abstaining from the Lodge, and his promise to do
so thereafter, he was required to renounceand pro-
claim to the world that he had been a hypocrite and
villain for years. This he promptly refused, and was
therefore excluded from the Church, which he had
contributed so much to adorn, and in which he had
been so long "a burning and shining light."
Mr. Whitehead, the pastor, unwilling at first to
admit anti-masonry into full communion, by over
persuasion, at length became its patron, and after-
wards its victim. The pulpit resounded with "Morgan
and Masonry," till he became satisfied that his use-
fulness was at an end, when he applied for a dismis-
sion. This being refused, he took leaveof his church
and people in this place, and has never returned.
The Church for some time remained without a
Pastor. Mr. Whiting has since been installed as such,
and should Christianity hereafter be taught and prac-
tised, there can be no doubt of its future prosperity.
There certainly never was a more ample field, or
more abundant materials, and should those materials,
" like kindred drops be mingled into one," it will af-
ford a manifestation of Almighty power, which this
world has seldom witnessed.
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
244 ANTI-MASONRV.
W h e t h e r the exclusion of masons from christian
fellowship—the pollution of God's holy temple by
the spirit of persecution—the perversion ofthe sa-
cred desk, to purposes of proscription, and the des-
truction of harmony in religious societies, by the en-
couragement of anti-masonick intolerance, will ad-
vance the Redeemer's kingdom, remains for the All
wise dispenser of human eventshereaflertodeterrnine.
W e cheerfully leave it there. T o his decision w e
b o w with reverence, and from it w e desire not, if we
had the power, ever to appeal.
Note—It was the intention originally of the author to
have subjoined to this narrative, a concise history of the
origin and progress of free-masonry, and ofthe persecution
which the fraternity have suffered in different ages as well
as a view of its principles, far t!»B purpose of obviating the
several objections made against it by its opponents. It was
also his intentron to have submitted 10 the publiek in candour
and kindness, some further rfin.irkr in relation to tho con-
duct, inconsistency and motives, of iliose who have ostenta-
tiously seceded. It was found, however, on reflection tore-
quire more time and talents to do i
t justice, than he could it
present command, and is therefore omitted.
In conclusion he remarks, that i
t has been conclusively
shown by the testimony of Bruce lately published, that Mor-
gan was taken to Fort Niagara for the purpose of being de-
livered to the masons in Canada, and was afterwards coufin-
•d in the Magazine of that Foit. It seems therefore to be
settled, that the objeet in carrying off Morgan, was to pro-
duce a separation between him and Miller, as already stated,
and not to murder him, as has so often been pretended. Hi»
subsequent fate is still uncertain.
Col. King, who occupies e conspicuous place in the fore-
going narrative, died at his residence in Youngstown on the
S8th of May 1829, and was buried oa the following day with
military honours, under the direction of the commandant at
Fort Niagara. Cql. King'wis in tho expedition at Little
York, under Gen. Pike, and commanded the troops of the
15th regiment. H e was also at Four Mile Creek, where he
distinguished himself and was wounded. His funeral was
attended by a large concourse of afflicted relatives and
friends. Having gone to his long home, masons and anti-
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
ERECTED BY VOLUNTEER
CONTRIBUTIONS PROM OVER
2,000 PHRSONS RESIDING IN
CANADA, ONTARIO
AND TWENTY SIX OP THE
UNITED STATES
AND TERRITORIES.
THE COURT RECORDS 0?
GENESJ3E COUNTY
AND PILES OP TEE
BATAVIA ADVOCATE
KEPT IN THE RECORDERS
OFFICE CONTAIN THE HISTORY
OP THE EVENTS THAT CAUSED
THE JSHECTION OP THIS
MONUMENT
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
Inscriptions on Morgan Monument
at Batavia, N. Y.
BANE
"THE BANE OP OUR CIVIL
INSTITUTIONS IS TO BE POUND
IN MASONRY, ALREADY
POWERFUL AND DAILY BECOMING
MORE SO—I OWE TO MY
COUNTRY AN EXPOSURE OP
ITS DANGERS"
CAPT. Wm. MORGAN.
SACRED TO THE MEMORY OP
Wm. MORGAN
A NATIVE OP VIRGINIA
A CAPT. IN THE WAR OP 1812
A RESPECTABLE CITIZEN
OF BATAVIA AND A MARTYR
TO THE FREEDOM OP WRITING
PRINTING AND SPEAKING THE
TRUTH. HE WAS ABDUCTED
PROM NEAR THIS SPOT IN THE
YEAR 1826, BY FREEMASONS
AND MURDERED FOR REVEALING
THE SECRETS OF THEIR ORDER.
^K^
Central Library of Rochester and Monroe County · Historic Monographs Collection
