{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1829__chenevix___on_mesmerism.pdf","mytitle":"On Mesmerism","mylang":"de"}
THE
'
LONDON
MEDICAL AND PHYSICAL
JOURNAL.
EDITED BY
JOHN NORTH, , ESQ. F.L.S.
MEMBER OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS,
AND OF THE MEDICAL AND CHIRURGICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON;
AND
JOHN WHATLEY, M.D. A.M.
M~MBEI\ OF THE ARCADIA OF ROME;
JIJEMBER EXTRAORDINARY OF THE ROYAL MED. SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH;
MEMBER OF THE MEDICAL AND CHIRURGICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON;
AND OF THE MEDICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.
(VOL. LXI.)
NEW SERIES, VOL. VI.
-
Et qaoulam nrlaat morbi, varlabim111 artes;
Mille mall epeclto, mille salntis erant,
LONDON:
JOHN SOUTER, 73, ST. PAUL'S CHURCH-YARD,
AICD TO BE BAD OF ALL TUE MEDICAL BOOJ:8ELLERSo
1829.
Digitized by Google
THE LONDON
Medical and Physical Journal.
N\? 361, VOL. LXI.] MARCil, 1829. [Nl! 33, New Serie1.
For many fortunate dlacoverlea lu medlcloe, aod for the oletectloo or oumeroua errora, the
world Ia Indebted to the rapid circulation of Monthly Jourual11 and there never exl•ted
aoy work, to which tbe Faculty, In Europe and Amerlc"• were nuder deerer obllgatlona
tban to the Medical and Pllydcal Journal ofLondon, oow formlog a loll£, hi anlnvaluble
~rles.-KUSH.
ORIGINAL PAPERS, AND CASES,
OBTAINED FROM PUB-LIC INSTITUTIONS AND OTHEH.
AUTHENTIC SOURCES.
Digitized by Google
Mr. Chenevix on Alfimal1t/'agnetiam. 219
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
On Mesmerism, improperly denominated Animal Magnetism. By
RtcnAnD CnENEVIX, Esq. F.R. anJ E.s. M.R.t.A. &c.t
A NJMAL magnetism is true. In the whole domain of
human acquirements, no art or science rests upon experi-
ments more numerous, more positive, or D:~Ore easily ascer-
~ained. As this assertion is in direct contl'adiction to the
• We gave a translation of these <'ases in our Number for October, 1828.-
~DITORt. ·
t We are informed that Mr. CHI!NEVIX intends paying tiR a •iait in London
and tbat he is prepared to convince the most sceptical that "me•mPrism'' ia
not the sy.te1n of ju~:~:ling imposition which ,by many it hu bun belteved to
he. For our own part•, we candidly confess we are yet to be converted.
Our opinions uron thi~ snbjl'ct are fully ~tatl'd in tbe Novemher Number of
18!6 We hope Mr. C. will ~tive us an opportanity of witnetsing the effects,
qf animal magnetiam,-J!;ulTOill·
/l'o. S61.-No. SS1 New Striu. t G
Digitized by Google
ORIGINAL PAPERS.
vast majority of current prejudices, it is just to state the
grounds upon which it is made.
In fo1·mer times, whenever animal magnetism was men-
tioned, I joined the general tribe of scoffers; and so much
was I convinced of its absurdity, that, being at Rotterdam
in 1797, I laughed to scorn a prop~al made to me by an
English resident there, to witness some experiments in
which he was then engaged. His assertion was, that a
somnambulist of his should, in her sleep, without any signal
from him; leave her chair, and seat herself on any other
chair which he should mentally designate. The· respecta-
bility and general understanding of thili person left no
mode of accounting for so extraordinary an illusion, but to
suppose him labouring under monomania.
In 1803 and 1804, while travelling in Germany, I heard
many very enlightened men of the universities talk of
animal magnetism, nearly with the same certainty as of
mineral magnetism; but their credulity I set down to the
account ofGerman mysticity, and thought it not incongru-
ous that .the nation which took its philosophy from Kant,
and Tiehte, and Schelling, should believe that certain
motions of the hands could, by the will of the mover, trans-
mit an influence to the person acted upon, which should
produce the wonders related of animal magnetism. 1 re-
mained an unbeliever.
In 1816, some persons of my acquaintance proposed to
take me to the bouse of a lady in Paris, whose daughter was
an artificial somnambulist, and, in the terms of the art,
lucid. I went to laugh: I came away convinced.
To suspect any thing like a trick in the parties concerned
was impossible. They were of the highest respectability
and distinction, and some of them I had known for many
years. The magnetiser was, indeed. in the frivolous Fr~nch
metropolis, called a charlatan, which made me suppose that
he was not so; and the event proved that I was right. He
was, indeed, poor; he exercised his art for money; be gave
public lectures at three francs a ticket. Many young phy-
sicians have as fair a claim to the title as he had. But,
from the hour above alluded to till the period of his death,
I remained acquainted with ihe Abbe Faria, and ne\·er
knew a man to whom the epithet impostor wai less appli-
cable.
No sooner had the Abbe Faria begun to operate than the
countenance of the young lady changed, and in two seconds
she was fast asleep, having manifested symptoms which
could not be counterfeited. The sitting la.~ted aboot two
2
o,9itized by Coogle
Mr. Chencvix on Ani'mal .Magnetism. 221
hours, and producE'd results which, though I stiJlwemained
a sceptic upon some of the most wonderful phenomena,
eutircly convinced me of the existence ofa mesmeric influ-
ence, and of an extraordinary agency which one person
can, by his will, exercise upon another. The Abbe Faria
offered every means to dispel my remaining doubts, and
gave me all necessary instructions to obtain total conviction
from experiments of my own. 1 most zealously attended
his labours, public and private, and derived complete Ratis.
faction upon every point relating to mesmerism; even upon
those winch appear supernatural. Many of the experi-
ments I repeated, not only upon persons whom I met at his
house, but upon others totally unacquainted with him or
with his studies, and was ulti.rmitely compelled to adopt the
absolute and unqualified conclusion announced above:
''Mesmerism is tnre." Other occupations, however, pre-
vented me from continuing the subject, and I had only
casual opportunities for exercisin~ the art, until accident
called back my whole attention to Its truth and importance.
Witness of some of the wonders which have latelv been
the subject of discussion in the French Academy of "Medi-
cine,• and surprised at the pusillanimity of that body, which
cannot deny, yet has not manliness enough to avow, the
facts which one half of its members declare they have wit-
nessed, I resolved, with all due humility, yet not shrinking
from the task, to de\·ote some time to the collection offacts,
and to offer the results to a much more enlightened public
than that to which the art is compelled to appeal in France.
My first opportunity for renewing my practice was in
May 1828, when, happening to be on a visit to Ireland, I
inquired for some patient among the peasanb·y, no matter
what the disorder.
Jane Hurly, an epileptic woman, aged thirty-four, was pro-
duced; and as, but a short time before, she had been seen in a fit
by a person of the family at whose house I was residing, there
could be no doubt of the reality of the distemper. Besides, she
had lately fallen into the fire in a paroxysm, and most dreadfully
burnt her leg. She had been six years epileptic: bad a strong
tendency to paralysis of the left leg and thigh: was subject, almost
daily, to spasmodic contractions in her bands and feet, accom-
' panied by racking paiu, and which sometimes lasted twelve hours
• Experi~ncE>S publiqn~s RDf le Magnetisme Animal faites aI'Hotei-Dien
de Paris, par J.l>tJPOl'££. Also the case of Paul, in the Hennes; by l>r.
}'ouuc.
l>eliberatiooa de I'Academie de ~Jed~cine bUr le Ma&neti:;me Animal. Rap·
port tait par M. HussuN. :
Digitized by Google
ORIG1NA1. PAPERS.
or more; had occasional absences of mind and loas of memory:
never slept more than a couple of hours at once, and that but
rarely: was constantly thirsty: her appetite was bad. She was
eight months advanced in her sixth pregnancy, aud it was after
her first confinement that she had her first attack.
Tuesday, May z:ld.- Mesmerised her for forty-five minutes: np
sleep. but a little drowsiness.
24th.-Night better than u~ual; no spasms in hands or feet.
Mesmerised her again forty-five minutes: no sleep. Gave her
mesmerised water to drink.
'25th.-Felt heavy and drowsy ever since yesterday. Mesmerised
her again forty-five minutes: no sleep.
On the 26th, I did not mesmerise her.
27th.-The day before yeste.rday, she had a return of the spas-
modic contractiontl of the hands and feet, but they laated only
two hours. This day, after mesmerising her for nine minutes, she
fell into mesmeric sleep. She feels herself stronger and better
than when the treatment was begun.
On the 28th, I did not see her.
29th.-She fell asleep in three minutes, but awoke as soon as
spoken to. Yesterday she had a second return of the spasms, but
only in one foot, and for a few minutes. The use of mesmerised
water, begun on the 24th, had entirely assuaged the thirst, which
used to be habitual and intense. Dr. M•Kay, whom I shall pre-
sently mention, was present at this sitting.
30th May, 1st and 3d of June.-Fell into complete mesmeric
sleep after two minutes' mesmerising. Her health is improving
rapidly.
5th June.-The person at whose house I was visiting.being de-
sirous of seeing some effects of mesmerism, I put the patient to
sleep in his presence in six minutes, by my will alo~K?, and without
any visible manifestation of it.
7th.-In the presence of the !'lame pet!lon, I mesmeri!led the
patient through the door, and at the distance of tifteen feet; she
not knowing that I was acting upon her, but supposing that I was
absent; and in fourteen minutes she was in complete meRmeric
sleep.
lOth.- Being absent, I did not see this woman for two days.
In the interval she had a se\·ere spasm in her left leg and thigh tor
six hours, followed by cold and numbness in those limbs. This
day I put her to sleep in half a minute, and mesmerised the
part affected. In forty minutes I wakeued her: the pain was
gone, and the limbs had recovered their natural strength and
heat. This was the last return of these symptoms. By this time
she had comple1rly recovered her sleep, not only at night, but was
frequently obliged to lie down in the day, after quitting me. She
now slept ten or twelve hours in the twenty-four, and one day
sixteen hours. She continued rapidly to improve in health, and
her appearance was so much changed that her neigh~ours, who
Digitized by Google
Mr. Chenevix ou A11imal Magnetism. 223
knew nothing of the treatment, wrre struck at the alteration. The
operations were continued until June 20th, when her pregnancy
made her unable to come out; and on June 28th she was deli.
vered.
July oth.-I went to her house, and found her up and well,
with the exception of rheumatic pains in her left shoulder, for
which I mesmeri:~ed her. She soon felt them de~cending to her
elbow, and thence to her wrist, and in lelis than ten minutes was
perfectly relie~ed.
l7th.-She came to thank me for her entire recovery: and, to
prove it to myself, I mesmerised her during thirty minutes, with
the strongest will to put her to sleep: but, though formerly she
fell into mesmeric sleep in half a minute, I could not now produce
the slightest effect upon her.
I repeated the same experiment the next day, but with no effect.
I did not then see her until September 17th, when I again attempt-
ed, but in vain, to produce mesmeric sleep.
It would be childish to attribute the cure of this woman
to her pregnancy or her confinement. From the very first
day she was mesmerised, the symptoms were alleviated,
and decrea.'led regularly as the treatment advanced. In
less than a week, thirst, insomnia, shiverings, and pains, to
which she had been subject for six years, ceaRed; the para-
lytic tendency diminished; and the spasmodic contractions
were entire}y removed after the t weifth day of mesmerising.
Before her confinement, her health was completely restored,
and she has not had a return of epilepsy for nine monthR,
though tht'! attacks were formerly very frequent. If this
case does not offer a fair affiliation ofcause and effect, there
is no truth in deducing the cure of ague from the admini-
stration of bark.
Although none of the extraordinary phenomena oflucid-
ity occurred; although this patient awoke the instant she
was spoken to; her cure i11 interesting, as being completed
110 rapidly. Twenty-one sittings sufficed; and after them,
and the cessation of all former symptoms, I could not pro-
duce any sensible effect upon her. Even at the period when
she used to be mo~.o~t affected, the touch of my finger, so
slight as to be almost imperceptible to myself, rou!'ed her
from her state of mesmerism, and with a sensation which she
described as like the prick of a pin. I have known some
educated person~.o~, who experienced a· similar sensation,
compare it to an electric spark.
Epilepsy is one of the diseases where the medical art is
the most in default. It is also one where mesmeriRm effects
the slowest~ure. I have known a case in which this pow-
erful agent was employed daily, for an hour each time,
Digitized by Google
224 ORJOINAL PA1'ERS.
during seventeen months, and in which, though the symp-
toms had begun to yield almost at the first sitting, the cure
was not complete before that period. Its frequency among
the lower classes is extreme; tor in six months I saw thirty-
seven cases, thirteen of which I treated myself, by no other
means than mesmerism. In three of these ca!>es I was com-
pletely successful; in eight more I procured immense
relief; two only were failures. Four of the eight are still
under treatment by me, and the t·emaining four are treated
by a relation of each respective patient.
Judith Doonah, a laundress, was affiicted with violent pains in
her head, which returned periodically every sixth day, and the
precise nature of which was not entirely ascertained by physicians.
1n the opinion of some they were rheumatic; according to others,
they partook of the nature of tic douloureux. They came at the
end of a bad ophthalmia, and continued long after that disease
had subsided. The right temple, cheek, eye, and shoulder, were
the parts particularly affected.
June 23d.-I mesmerised her for the first time, and during a
paroxysm. In a very few minutes she found relief. I repeated
the operation thirteen times, but, being occupied with other pati-
ents, I could not sufficiently attend to her. I gave her, however,
mesmerised water to bathe the part affected, and a piece of mes-
merised glass to wear upon the temple. From June 29 till July
20, she had no return of the pains, but on the latter day she had
a slight attack. Shortly after this I left the country where she
was, and did not see her tor two months. The pains had returned,
though not quite so frequently. As I had not time to mcsmerise
her constantly, I recommenced the mesmerised water and glaas;
and in six weeks she was completely cured, without the use of any
other remedy. .
Between May 2Sd, 1828, and January 20th, 1829, I tried
the effects ofmesmerism upon J64 persons, of whom 98 ma-
nifested undeniable effects; some in one minute, some not
till the operation had been repeated several times. There
was hardly an instance where disease existed, that relief was
not procured; and many of the patients offered phenomena
as extraordinary as any recounted in Germany or France.
'I'he space allotted to this communication does not ,allow a
minute relation of them. and I must confine myself to turn-
ing the public mind to this most wonderful agent, which,
like all that is new, has been assailed by ignorance, by pre-
judice, and by ridicule, yet which is as true as gravitation
or affinity. While prosecuting tbege experiments, I had
the good fortune to meet with many benevolent and zealous
persons, not of the faculty, who have made·trial of the art
with entire success, having hardly ever failed to procure
Digitized by Google
Mr. Chenevix on Animal lt-lagnelism. 225
relief for their fellow-creatures, at the same time that they
produced phenomena which highly surprised and gratified
them. I can at this moment count at least fifty persons
who have becomecom·ertsand practitioners inconsequence
of what they h~d heard or seen, directly or indirectly, by
my means; and who have assuaged the pain~, if not cured
the diseases, of some hundreds ofsuffering individuals, with-
out the aid of medicine. 'fo this list must be added three
enlightened practitioners, Drs. M'Kay, Cotter, and Peacock,
all of them physicians to public establishments in the neigh-
bourhood of the place where the experiments were made.
The former kindly lent his as,istance upon all occasion8, to
determine the nature of the disease, the progress of the
eure, &c. and witnE•ssed many wonderful phenomena, of
which he is ready to testify the truth to all who may require
it. The protracted scepticism of the second led to the
following trial:
On Thursday, October 2d, I requested Dr. Cotter to be
present at !lome mesmeric experiments. He saw two epi-
leptic patients put to sleep in about half a minute each.
One of them, while under the mesmeric influence, had a
slight fit, which, by increasing· the action, I arrested instan-
taneously. 1'he other he saw me strike motionless, by my
will alone, as she walked across the room, and set at liberty
in an instant by the same agency. 'l'o the8e facts he, as
well a~ two other gentlemen present, could not refuse their
assent; but still a suspicion of connivance and trick might
lurk in his mind. I requested him to bring me any five
patients of his own, whom he was sure I never could have
known or heard of, and to hang his conviction upon this
test, that I would, in halfan hour, produce effects upon one
of these five, wlaich should convince him of the existence of
the mesmeric influence. ·
On Saturday, October 4th, he came with a female patient,
whom he had been treating for dyspepsia, costiveness, and
headach, during four years. Her usual aperient dose was
thirty grains of jalap with ten ofcalomel. I never saw her
till that day, and only in the presence of Dl'. Cotter. She
had no idea of what was to be done to her, and was at the
moment suffel'ing with severe headach. In three ininutes'
mesmerising she said her headach was better; in five mi-
. nutes she said it was quite well. In eight minutes she was
in one of the soundest mesmeric sleeps I have witnessed,
and continued so for thirty-five minutes, when I awoke be•··
While she was asleep, Dr. Cotter said to me, in Latin,
that her bowels we1·e at that moment particularly bound. •
Digitized by Google
ORIGINAL PAPEIIS,
I directed my attention to procuring an evacuation, passing
my hands before the abdomen, without, however, touching
it, or approaching nearer to it than three or four inches.
In less than an hour after she had left the bouse, she had
three evacuations. and for some days her head was conside-
rably relie\·ed. This patient lived at too great a distance
fu1· us to continue the treatment; but the following note
from Dr. Cotter, relating to another patient, was this mo-
ment brought to me :
" Within this week I have witnessed the effects of mesmerism
in the case of Miss P., aged fourteen. She bad long been subject
to an irregular pain in the left side, over the kidney, accompanied,
iu its attacks, with a sinking, as described to me, or a tendency to
faint. Having long tried medicine without any permanent good,
I was desirous to leave off a habit so injurious to a growing sub-
ject. ( had recourse to mesmerism, without describing- to her
what I was going to try. Four minutes produced a complete state
of somnolency. I have performed it npon this subject uut three
times, and she has had no return whatever of the pam in her 11ide;
neither has there been occasion to exhibit aperients, for which,
previously, there was a continual necessity."
That any person, whether a belie\·er or not, can produce
mesmeric phenomena, may be learned fmm the folJowing
fact: A lady of a very robust frame, and a very energetic
will, had heard and read much upon mesmerism, but was
not convinced. 'l'hree patients, whonl I bad never seen
before, were waiting for me. I proposed that she should
try wbicbsoe\er of them she pleased. 'I'he most unheaHhy
female was selected. In two minutes the patient's head
dropped, but she started up immediately; in less than four
minutes, however, she was fast asleep. Here neither the
mesmeriser nor the mesmerisee had the slightest oonviction
upon the subject, yet the experiment succeeded ail com-
pletely as with the most habituated professor.
Neither previous knowledge nor education is necessary
for the development of this precious faculty, in those who
heartily wish to exercise it.
December 2d, 1828, Catherine Nicolson, a woman of the very
lowest class of Irish peasantry, brought me, on her back, her
daughter, aged nine, dreadfully affiicted with scrofula. She had
seven sores near her kuee. I instructed this woman how to mes-
merise her child.
12th.-She came to tell me that some of the ulcers ~er• dis-
posed to heal, and that a splinter of bone had come out of one of
them.
January 2d, 1829.-The girl can stand alone, and walk with a
crutch. Two more ~pi inters of bone have come away, and the
Digitized by Google
Mr. Chenevix on Animal Magnetism. m
ulcer which voided them is very much inflamed; the others being
better.
19th.-Three more splinters of bone have come away, one of
them three fourths of an inch long, and as thick as a crow'aquill.
Another girl. Bridget Hedouin, is neatly cured of epilepsy. by
her father, an ignorant peasant, who.m I taught to mesmerise her;
the attacks being reduced to one fourth in frequency, duration,
and intensity, since December ad, 1828, when the treatment was
commenced.
Both the above treatments are now in progress.
I have at this moment eleven cases of different diseases,
in which a friend or relation is the operator, and nine of
which are proceeding with the most extraordinary success.
I could here enumerate near two hundred examples, but
I am fully aware that, in the present condition ot' the sci-
ence, these things must be seen to be credited. I shall not,
then, attempt to argue or convince my readers, but to
implore them to try the experiment themselves. Every one
can mesmerise, though not all with equal etrect, and prac•
tice increases the power: but it is not every one who is
susceptible of a sensible influence from this agency; and
somnambulism is generally estimated not to occur more
frequently than in one case out of five, and _.ot one in
twenty-five patients becomes lucid.
I was myself an unbeliever until I was undeceived by
my own experiments: but, had I sooner taken this plain
and rational road to knowledge., instead of thinking all
men mad who trusted to their eyes that told them truths,
which to me seemed more marvellous than all ·the other
wonders of creation, 1 should, many years since, have pos-
sessed the conviction which I now enjoy, and not bewail
that; in 1797, my presumptuous ignorance had shut in my
own face the door of a sctence more directly interesting to
man than all that chemistry and astronomy can teach.
Nine tenths who may read will laugh at this, as I did at my
friend at Rotterdam. Let them do so; but, while they
laugh, let them learn, and not, thirty years afterwards,
have to lament that so short a remnant of life is left to
them to enjoy this new and most valuable secret of nature.
In Germany this science has long been practised; and in
Berlin an hospital was established in 1815, in which no
medicine but mesmerism, and the prescriptions of lucid
somnambulists, was used. Htifeland, once a scoffer, but
converted; Hiifeland, in himself a host, was at the head of
this hospital, and fifteen volumes of mesmeric cases have
No. 361,-No, 33, Ne111 &·itl. i!H
o,gitized by Google
ORIGINAL PAPERS.
been published. Even in Holland, last year, I found the
truth of mesmerism hardly doubted; and I met with some
patients at Aix-la-Chapelle who had reaped benefit from
tt. In France it has been believed, and reviled, and be-
lieved again, and has followed all the vicissitudes of
fashion. In England it has never risen above the level of
quacks, and there that hivel is low indeed. Its fate in
these countries was exactly analogous to the characters of
the respective nations. The Germans were attracted to-
wards it by their love of ruysticity, and hailed it on account
of its marvellousness. This once, however, the spirit
which has so often been prejudicial to the German mind,
has led to truth, while other nations turned aside frqm the
path of knowledge. In France, where words and jargon
are more valuable than facts, it has been treated as a mat-
ter of opinion, not of experiment. Though all the pheno-
mena have been produced over and over again, yet, as
these phenomena are not phrases, the Academy of Medicine
thinks it can argue down somnambulism, and talk lucidity
out of existence. The repugnance of English minds to the
supernatural in science has·prevented them even from be-
. s~owing a thought upon the subject; but let a few authen-
tic results be known, and, in this seat of powerful under-
standing, it will make more npid strides in one year, and
without the assistance of governments or academies, than it
has done since 178!, when aided by mysticism or garrulity•
.Nothing can be more fair and candid than the laoguage
spoken by the partizans of mesmerism in all countries.
Instead of calling themselves gifted beings 'in whose hands
alone the power resides, they say to unbelievers, ''Come,
and see," and then "Go, and try."
Natural somnambulism has in all ages been so often seen,
and so well authenticated, that to deny it would be absurd.
Now what is artificial somnambulism, and what lucidity,
but the same state as the former, produced and regulated
by certain principles which all men can command. Won-
derful, indeed, it may appear; but what makes any thing
wonderful to us, if not our ignorance. Since the world
began, men have been wondering at every thing, till habit
tamed their minds upon it. In my remembrance, they ha\'e
wondered at hydrogen and oxygen; at adead frog jumping
between two Hlips of metal; at gas-lights, andsteam·boats;
and now they wonder at all who wonder at those familiar
themes. 'fhey would pity the wretch who would not in-
stantly believe that a stone falls, and a balloon rises, by the
•
o,9itized by Coogle
Mr. Chenevix 011 .Animal Magneti1m. 229
same impulse; or that the taste which his tongue percei,ves
when placed between a piece of silver and a piece of zinc,
bas the same origin as the thunder which strikes his soul
with awe. Every thing in creation is wonderful, or nothing
is so, but the last known truth always appears the most
miraculous to unreflecting minds. ,
Much is to be apprehended from enthusiasm in this sub-
ject. Mesmerism 1s beneficial in all diseases, but it does'
not cure all cases of all diseases. It acts with equal success
upon epilepsy, fever, rheumatism, diseased liver, diseased
lungs, gout, scrofula, &c. Where bark would kill, where
bark would cure, this agent may be alike applied. It is
the mightiest of therapeutic aids, but it is not omnipotent.
lt is the most beneficent, too; but, in the hands of persons
disposed to make a bad use of the ascendancy which it
sometimes gives over the patient's mind, it might become
the most dangerous. Let honest men, then, get possession
of it, that they may be able to cope with knaves. ·
Neither is it pathologically or physiologicaUy that this
agent must principally be considered. Its psychological
importance is far above the part which it can play in the
art of healing. When a human being can, by the operation
of another human beinff, see without his eyes, taste with-
out his tongue, hear wttbout his ears, and obtain complete
insight into things of which, in his waking state, he bad no
knowledge, the condition of his mind in that moment is
worth investigating. Yet these things are true: they are
familiar to mesmerisers, and I myself have witnessed them
full twenty times. 'l'hey are not, however, every-day oc-
currences; and the novice practitioner must not be dis-
heartened if he does not meet with them immediately: he
must be content to produce, by his first efforts, some of the
simplest phenomena. Let him persevere, and be will See
the wonders which other mesmerisers have seen, and add
new knowledge to our present stores. . .
However wo{lderful mesmerism may appear, one thing
relating to it is still more wonderful, viz. that its truth has
even been questioned; since it is in the power of every one,
without previous knowledge, study, or acquirements, to
obtain conviction at least in a week, perhaps in a few se-
.:onds. The truth which Pythagoras told of the earth's
motion, reviled in its day, was reproduced by CoP.ernicus
two thousand years afterwards, and was again rev1led; but
this truth re9.uired all the mind of a Newton for its demon·
stration. Mesmerism, which the simplest motion of the
hands, directed by the will, can prove, perhaps, instantane-
Digitized by Google
HOSPITAL R~PORTS.
ously, has been discredited ever since 1,\lesmer first revived
it; and, before his time, was often believed, and as often
forgotten. To me (and before many years the opinion
must be universal,) the most extraordinary event 10 the
whole history of the human science, is that mesmerism ever
could be doubted.
Digitized by Google
THE LONDON
Medical and Physical Journal.
N<! 364, VOL. LXI.) JUNE, 1829. [NO 36, New Series.
For many fortunate discoveries lu medicine, and for the oletectlon of numerous errors, the
·world Ia Indebted to the npld circulation of Monthly Jouruala 1 and there uever exl•ted
any work, to wblch tbe Faculty, In Europe and America, were under deeper obligations
tban to the Medical and PllylicalJournal of lA>ndon, now forming a long, but an invaluable
serles.-RUSH.
ORIGINAL PAPERS, AND CASES,
OBTAINED FROM PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS AND OTHE!l
AUTHENTIC SOURCES.
Digitized by Google
Mr. Chenevix on Mesrnerism. 491
MESMEltiSM.
Observations and Experiments on Mesmeris,n. By RICHARD
CnENEVIX, Esq. J!.R. and E.s. M.lt.I.A.
IT is by no means the desire of those who are convinced of
the truth of mesmerism to ur~e belief upon their mere as-
sertion, but to excite curiosity; to turn the public mind
toward this powerful agent, so true, yet so much despised;
and to engage some inquirers to lay aside their preconcep-
tions for a moment, and have recourse to fair experiment.
The difficulty of overcoming the first disbelief, the first re-
pugnance to actual trial, is extreme; but, as the authority
of some respectable medical men, whom their own senses
and their own experience have induced to practise this art,
may contribute to remove it, the following cases are sub-
mitted to the public:
'' BallyflliCGrig (Ireland); Ftbruary 5tla, 18!9.
" Dear sir,-In the month of September last, a few days afterl
had first witnessed the wonderful effects of mesmerism in your
hands, I happened to pay a professional visit at Mears court,
in this neighbourhood. While there, I learned that a man, named
Hubert Gainer, was at the point of death.
"I should inform you that this man, for the last four or five years,
had been continually under my care, in the di"speusary, for very
bad dyspepsia, particularly marked by the most obstinate state of
the bowels, requiring generally a double quantity of the strongest
purgatives every three or four days.
" On arriving at his house, I found him stretched out in bed,
with the stomach inordinately distended, and his thirst excessive.
His extremities were cold, his countenance ghastly, his pulse
small and quick, his tongue white; his bowels confined for the last
five days. He was writhing in torture from pain in his stomach.
I learnt, on inquiry, that he had had no rest for the two preceding
nights.
" Though at that time J was far from believing in the practical
• I ought to mention that I have not visited Naples, where the disease ia
said to 88iUme a particularly severe form, and where some have asserted it
first appeared. Throughout Italy it is termed •• Ia malattia Francese;•
thereby pointing out thtuource wbent•t it came into this country.
No. :564.-No. 86, Ntw Seriu. S S
Digitized by Google
492 OIUOIN AL PAPERS,
utility of mestucrism, yet finding that in the case of this patient
something should be done immediately, I proceeded to try my
hand at mesmerism, in imitation of what I had aeen you do. After
some time the man grew quiet; when, with the hope of exciting
the stomach to action, I directed my intention particularly to the
epigastric region. Continuing this for two or three minutes, the
man turned round suddenly, and, to my surprise, vomited an im-
mense quantity of liquid, (the most acrid bile.) He then threw
himself back into a profound sleep, which continued for an hour
and a half. At this period I gra~ually awoke him, when he was
evidently better in every respect. Leaving directions that his wife
should report his case to me in the dispensary next morning, I
took my departure. ·By the account I received the following day,
I found that he had slept soundly, and that his bowels had been
freed three limes in the night: in short, his wife reported next
morning that he was perfectly well. In a few days I called to see
him, and found him complaining of weakness only; but his bowels
were again confined, and again I had recourse to me101erism, with
the same good etfec:t.
" I resorted to mesmerism in this man's case but three times in
all, and he is, as I have aeen this day, in perfect health; neither
have I had occasion to give him any aperient medicines since the
first application of this surprising influence. .
_ " As the above case appears, to me at least, highly interesting,
I take the liberty of giving it to you somewhat in detail; and have
the honour to be, dear sir,
" Your most obedient servant,
·cc To Richard Cbenevix, t!q. Sonna."
" R. CoTTER, M.D."
.Michael Donally had been attended for some time by
Dr. Cotter, who pronounced him to be f11.r advanced io
mpid consumption. He was taking small but repeated
doses of tartar emetic and digitalis. On February 11th, I
tnestneri!!ed him for the first time. He was in bed, and
exceedingly weak; hi& voice was hardly audible. The only
sensible effect produced during the operation was profuse
pers~iration.
Feb. l2tb.-Aftet l had left him yesterday, he slept for
about an hour, and, on waking, found bis cough and
breathing easier. He had left off the tartar emetic and
·. digitalis, as well as aH other medicines. Mesmerised him
thirty mmutes, with the same effect as yesterday.
Feb. 13.-Found him going on very well. His voice
was stronger, and he seemed more alive than I had yet seen
bim.
As I Muld not visit him every day, I instructed his wife
how to pr04eed and desired her to mesm~rise him night and
o,gitized by Google
Mr. Chenevix ox ft-'lesmerism. 493
morning, during thirty minutes each time. I also informed
Dr. Cotter that I had undertaken this desperate case, add-
ing a hope that we still might Have the patient. Dr. Cotter's
reply was, "lfthe poor man is saved, I will substitute the
pronoun you for we."
Daily accounts were brought to me of the pro~ress of
this man until February 27th, when I called upon htm, and
found him up and dressed. He received me at the door of
his cottage, spoke with a strong, firm voice, looked healthy,
and said he was nearly reco~·ered . I told his wife to perse-
vere in the mesmeric treatment. .
March 16th.-He came to see me, and looked quite well.
I mesmerised him for a few minutes: he slept, and even
showed some interesting phenomena. I urged his wife to
continue the treatment some time longer; for mesmerism,
when persevered in after the cure is effected, is never dan-
gerous.-This case can be attested by at least twenty wit-
nesses of the first respectability. .
The two following cases were communicated to me by
Mr. LEVINGE, of the Royal College of Surgeons, Dublin,
with permission to publish them:
· February 9th, 1829.-Mary Spotten, mt. sixteen, had for seve-
tal months been complaining of a severe and continual pain in her
back, with a fixed and numb sensation shooting from the bottom
of the abdomen down the inside of the thighs. She was much
emaciated; her countenance was pale and yellow; her appetite
quite lost. When I first prescribed for her, about aix months QgO,
abe was essentially relieved; and• in a short time the .-egular d1"'
charge appeared, but in aJmall quantities.
" After this time I did not see her for two months, when I
learnt from her mother that abe was as ill as ever. A considerable
period then elapsed, during which nothing was attempted for her.
I bad, in the mean time, beard much of the salutary effects pro.
duced by mesmerism under the care of Mr. Chenevix, and, through
the kindne11s of this gentleman, had seen two or three of his pa-
tients who had been cured by him, and many others who bad been
considerably relieved. Instructed by him respecting the mode of
applying the mesmeric influence in these charitable performances,
my opinion, which had hitherto been strongly prejudiced against
the doctrine, became so changed, that, on r~turning home, I sent
for this girl, and commenced to try mesmerism upon her. The
operation was repeated daily at the same hour, and continued for
thirty minutes each time. The first days she did not sleep, but
said she felt as if her heart ha4 ceased to beat. After a few
repetitions ofthe opet·ation, however, sleep came on regularly, and
usually continued while that lasted. Now and then, on awaking,
she complained of vag·uo puin:J in her head, belly, and ·legs; hut
o,gitized by Google
494 ORIGINAL PAPERS.
they immediately ceased when I directed my attention to those
parts. During this time she took not one particle of medicine,
but every day she drank a quart of mesmerised water. At the end
of one month she was discharged cured: but the treatment ap-
pears not to have been continued long enough, for, duing a sus-
pension of it, necessarily caused by my absence, her illness has
returned.
"Biddy Connell, ret. eleven, had for some time been afflicted
with cough, loss of appetite, and slight bronchitis, and had passed
several small worms. About three months since, she applied to
me for relief. Every day, for three weeks, I performed the opera-
tion of mesmerism upon her during thirty minutes. After the
first four days she passed many worms, and felt much better:• her
cough began also to diminish gradually. At the end of a fort-
night, the quantity of worms which she had voided was very great,
and the relief which she experienced was as remarkable. She
also drank magnetised water. After the treatment had been con-
tinued for thre:e weeks, I was obliged to go to Dublin; but the
girl was recovered ; neither has she had any return of her illness
since that time.
· " This patient did not sleep more than two minutes at a time;
and, as soon as she opened her eyes, she seemed as completely
awake as if she had not slept at all." ·
The follawing is extracted from an intended publication.
now preparing for the press, and in which the res11lts of
experiments and observations made upon 442 patients will
be detailed. Ten months were devoted to these laborious
but interesting investigations, and six, eight, sometimes teo
hours a day, were allotted to their prosecution uninter-
ruptedly. .
A common opinion among persons who admit the truth of
mesmerism, but who are little acquainted with its practice
or effects, is that it is most efficacious upon nervous tempe-
raments. Having tried this agency pretty extensively
upon other disorders, and havins been led to an opposite
conclusion, I was anxious to put It to the proof in·a a.sease
which may be considered as the very epitome ofnervousuess,
in~anity. With great ea~erness (embraced an opportu-
nity offered to me by the kmdness of Mr. HIGGINs, whose
name, so well known among the benefactors to that wretch-
ed class of beings whom malady has deprived of reason.
deserves to be remembered as long as humanity exists
among men. Informed of the power of mesmerism, and
satisfied as to its general truth, Mr. H. proposed to me to
.try it in his neighbourhood, where I then happened to be.
• I have myself cured seven caaes of worms.
Digitized by Coogle
Mr. Cbenevix on Mesmerism. 495
in the lunatic asylum of Wakefield, in Yorkshire; an esta·
blishment where madness ceases almost to be a misfortune,
which, in any other country of Europe, would be eJftolled
as one of the greatest ofnational monuments, but' which in
England rears its immense but modest bulk in a sequestered
vale, and is ha•·dly heard of beyond the district where it
spreads its blessings. Thither Mr. Higgins bad the good-
ness to accomt>any me, and there, under the auspices of J>r.
ELLIS, physic1an to the establishment, the experiments were
made. The subjects selected for trial were two males and
eight females. One of the males was furious and manacled.
1.'he first ten minutes produced no sensible effect upon him;
but afterwards his head twice sunk down upon his chest,
with an evident tendency to somnolency, wh1ch, however,
was soon disturbed by his suddenly starting up almost as
frantic as before. Two women, afflicted with melancholy,
were tried, but with no sensible effect: neither was the
success more apparent upon any of the remaining subjects,
two only excepted.
A woman, whose rea!lon was much less subverted than
that of the other patients, said that every time l drew my
band before her, she "felt life going down through her
body along with them." to use her own words; a feeling
analogous to that which many delicate persons have de-
scribed. ·
A girl, aged eighteen, epileptic as well as insane, showed
symptoms of somnolency in one minute after the operation
began; and during half an hour, which it lasted, was three
times in mesmeric sleep. But she always started suddenly .
out of that state, into which she again fell in one minute.
One general effect, however, struck all the attendants
who accompanied these patients in the room where the
experiments were made. A state of calmness was produced
as soon as the passes began, and continued during the
whole operation. · Even the furious man became more
sedate while under the action of me!lmerism; and a girl,
who never could be prevailed upon to remain quiet, re-
quired less coercion from her attendant than in ordinary
circumstances. The trial upon each patient never exceeded
thirty minutes; and these experiments can by no means be
considered as conclusive respectin~ the therapeutic effects
ofmesmerism upon insanity. Neither were they intended
to be so. The object was to compare the immediate physi-
ological influence of this agent upon persons in a healthy
and in a deranged state of mind : and even in this point of
view they are of very limited value. As far, however, as
6 .
Digitized by Google
496 ORIGINAL PAPERS.
one trial, of half an hour each, upon ten insane person~~,
can authorize an inference, it must be concluded that the
influence is considerably less upon them than upon persons
of sound mind; and still Jess again than upon persons
inflicted with other infirmities. Two medical gentlemen
attached to the establishment, together with Dr. and
Mrs. EUis, were present at these trials; and, if the reality
of mesmerism had hung upon the results, the science
would be in a sad plight. The effects were so weak as
hardly to be perceptible to persons \Vholly unacquainted
with mesmeric phenomena, whose inexperience well might
question their existence, and whose preconceptions would
aUow them to discern nothing but failure in all that OC•
curred. Neither was conviction exr-ected to follow these
trials, or any other consequence but a comparison between
persons sane and insane. But truth, though often clouded,
will burst forth; and a little triumph was reserved for that
which is the great guide of man, in a world where the
utmost light he can attain is just enough to make darkness
visible.
In the evening's conversation, Dr. Ellis mentioned an
extraordinary complaint to which he was subject in his
stomach. I re«Juested to mesmerise him for fifteen minutes.
At the expiration of two minutes his countenance became
flushed, his eyes a little bloodshot, and he smiled; he soon
afterwards closed his eyes. When the fifteen minutes
were elapsed, seeing that he was not asleep, I asked him
how be found himself? " I never felt so comfortable in my
life. I feel as if I should like to remain in this state always,
and never more to move hand or foot." "Pray let me ask
you," said I," why you smiled at the end of two minutes?"
" I smiled to find all my incredulity oozing out of me."
" You do, then, from your own feelings, acknowledge an
effect in mesmerism?'' "I do; I must." Dyspeptic cases
are among those in which I have found the curative in-
ftuence of mesmerism the most prompt and efficacious.
It must not be concluded from the above that mesmerism
is ineffectual upon insanity. In the " Expose des Cures
operees en France par le Magnitisme Animal," two vols.
a work indispensable to all who study this science, eight
cm·es are instanced as effected by a continued treatment.
Among sixty-seven epileptic patients whom I myself have
treated, two were afflicted with mental derangement, and
many with temporary alienation, for several hours after each
epileptic paroxysm. In no one instance did the- latter
symptom fail of being alleviated. In the two insane sub-
Digitized by Google
Mr. Cbenevix on.Me~merism. 497
jects, the intensity of both diseases was diminished; but,
though one patient was magnetised fifty-four times, and the
other seventy-six, neither was entirely cured. As I left
the country where they resided, the continuation of the
treatment was confided, with proper instructions, to their
relations.
From the very extraordinary power which mesmerism
possesses in other diselll!es, it is much to be hoped that it
may be tried in insanity also ; and that no prejudice, no
sneers .of wilful ignorance or of inconvincible presumption
will longer oppose the application of a means, which, in
every other country in Europe, hmt been practised with
miraculous success; which reckons thousands of converts
in Germany, Switzerland, Italy, Holland, and France;
and which bas been admitted by Hufeland, Jussieu, Cuvier,
Ampere, and Laplace.
· The preceding extract was submitted to Dr. Ellis for
his sanction, and the following answer was returned:
" Wakefield A'Ylum; April 9, 18!9.
" Dear sir,-I have carefully read your extract, and find it
perfectly true and candid. For myself, I have no hesitation in
declaring that I felt very sensibly affected by the operation; for,
where truth and science are to be promoted, no fear of being
laughed at shall ever deter me from avowing my sentiments. I
have no doubt, too, that I should have fallen asleep if we had been
alone; but, surrounded as we were by so manrspectators, the
very consciousness of feeling the sensation commg upon me, as
-,uu truly observe, made me smile, and aroused me. I am too
•gnorant upon the subject of mesmerism w say any thing upon it
that is worth your attention; but, on reflectio~ upon it, it has
struck me that there must be a great difference m the susceptibi-
lity of pera011s being affected by it, according to their states of
health, temperaments, &c. AU circumstances relating to it should
be carefully noted down; and, as soon as you have put the matter
ioto a tangible shape, l shall certaiuJy give it my most serious and
candid attention."
Since the experiments were made at Wakefield, I have
repeated similar trials in some ordinary hospitals. in the
presence of several spectators; and the results obtained
have induced me to modify my opinion respecting the li-
mited success which attended them in that institution. The
state which mesmerism tends to produce js a state of qui-
etude and calmness. Numerous witnesses disturb and
annoy both the patient and the operator. The latter, too,
becomes uneasy at seein~ his patient agitated, and his
anxiety takes away from buo the power ofconcentrating hia.
o,9itized by Coogle
498 ORIGINAL PAPERS,
mind; a condition far more necessary to produce eft'ects
than any mental state of the person acted upon. It is then
possible that the spectators, whose presence was an annoy-
ance to Dr. Ellis, may have disturbed the insane patients;
and that insanity may be as susceptible of mesmeric influ-
ence as any other disorder. We are at present, with regard
to mesmeric knowledge, nearly in the same state as was the
first man who saw a straw attracted by a piece of amber,
with respect to t'lectricity.
Three medical practitioners, two M.D.'s and one sqrgeon,
were thus convinced of the truth of mesmerism by experi-
ments made either by them or tln them: and experiment is .
the test to which the proselytes of this doctrine demand
that it should be put. Their first cry is for experiment;
their second for experiment; their third for experiment.
The ignorance of the medical world in this country upon
mesmerism is as great as the precipitancy with which the
question is prejudged. Every work upon it current either
in Germany or France, has been slighted and despised.
The accounts published at Berlin of the cures performed in
the Mesmeric l:lospital there, since 1815, have not been
listened to. The extraordinary case of Mademoiselle
Samson, witnes11ed successively by thirty-two physicians of
the Faculty of Paris, at the Hotel Dieu, is unknown here,
though it bas been the subject of so much discussion there.
The still more wonderful cure of Paul at the Charite,
though attested by near two hundred credible witnesses, bas
niet only with contempt from the very few medical men in
England who have ever heard of it. The deliberations of
the French Academy of Medicine, in which nearly one half
of its members confess that they have seen and believe
mesmeric phenomena most marvellous and important, have
never been laid before the British public as they should
have been. The common opinion is that mesmerism still
is what it was forty-five years ago, and that it was then laid
to rest for ever by the report of Bailly, Darat, Lavoisier,
Franklin, &c. 'J'bis article shall be concluded with an ex-
tract from that report, and with the more recent opinions
of two men, whose authority even sceptics must respect.
•.rhe words ofthe report are as follows:
"The patients (submitted to mesmeric experiments,) present a
very varied picture of results. Some are calm, quiet, and perceive
DO effect; others cough, spit, feel slight pains, partial or general
heat, and perspire; others are tormented and agitated by convul_.
aions: those convulsions are extraordinary for their force and
duration. As soon as one convulsiou begins, others declare
o,9itized by Coogle
Mr. Cbenevix on Mesmerism. 499
themselves, and your commissioners have seen some which lasted
more than three hours. Nothing can be more astonishing than the
sight of these convulsions. He who baa not beheld them can
form no idea of them; and, even in beholding them, one is equally
surprised at the profound repose in which some of the patients are
plunged, and at the agitation which animates others. It is impos-
sible not to recognize in these effects, whic/, are constant, a great
power which agitates the patients, which ever masters them, and
of which the person who magnetizes 1eems to be the depositary.
This convulsive state is improperly denominated crisis• in the
theory of animal magnetism."
This is the report which the present opfosers ofmesme-
•·ism invoke, as having given an eterna quietus to the
science, and in which tliey say that the J?henomena are
denied. Yet even this report, far as it is from not admit-
tin~ mesmeric fact!!, and from countenancing the interpre-
tation which is often given of it, as great a mao as any
who liigned it, J uss1 EU, thought unworthy of the subject,
and made a contradictory report. Jussieu,-aut deus, aut
Jussieu,-well accustomed to interrogate nature, instituted
separate experiments, which fully proved the reality of
mesmerism, and authorized the conclusion that imagination
plays as great a part in mesmeric phenomena as in any
other physiological phenomena, and no greater. The fact
is, that ninety-nine experiments in a hundred refute the
byrothesis of imagination. .
Let M. CuviER now be heard. In the ll7th page of
the second volume of hi11 Comparative Anatomy he says,
"It must be confessed that in all experiments, the object of
which is to determine the action which the nervous system
of one person may have upon the nervous system of an-
other, it is difficult to distinguish the effects of the imagi-
nation of the person acted upon, from the physical effects
produced by the person who acts. Yet the etfec~ pro-
duced upon persons who, before the operationwas begun,
were in a state of insensibility; those which have taken
place upon other persons, after the operation itself bad
reduced them to that state; and also the effects produced
upon animals, no longer permit it to be doubted that the
proximity of two animated bodies, in a certain position, and
with the help of certain motions, do, produce a real e.ffect,
• The modes and the reanlta of mesmerism have been almoat as much modi.
fied 'ince 1784 as those o( electricity since the days of Pliny, and con~ul•io!ls
now are unusual phenomena, Of •4t patienta whom I hue meAmeraae~ JR
ten months, and s•xty:senu of whom were.epileptio or hy~teric:al, but e1sbt
barl convulsions. These belonged to the latte1· aixty·sevcn, and the 1•aroxysms
were very speedily relieved. ·
r>,'o, 364.-No, 861 NtU' &ric1. :i T
o,9itized by Coogle
500 ORIGINAL PAPERS.
wholl.!J i11dependent ofthe imagination of eitl1er. It is also
evident that these effects are entirely owing to a communi-
cation which takes place between the nervous system of
the two parties."
The last evidence which shall now be beard is LAPLACE.
The words (translated) of this great man, in his '' Traite
analytique du Calcul des Probabilites," page 158, are,
"The extraordinary phenomena which result from the
extreme sensibility of the nervous system in some persons,
have given birth to a variety of opinions on the exist·
ence of a new agent, denominated animal magnetism.
It is natural to suppose that the influence of these causes is
very weak, and that it can easily be disturbed by accidental
circumstances; but it would be unfair to conclude that it
never exists, merely because in many cases it does not ma·
nifest itself. We are so fa1· from bein~ acquainted with all
the agencies of nature, and with the1r different modes of
action, that it would be unphilosophical to deny the exist-
ence of phenomena solely because, in the present state of
our knowledge, they are inexplicable to us." I have my-
self had more than one conversation with 1.\'1. Laplace
upon this subject, about the years 1816 and 1817, and his
expression constantly was, that the testimony in favor ofthe
truth of mesmerism, coming with such uniformity from en-
lightened men of many nations, who had no interest to de-
ceive, and possessed no possible means of collusion, was
such that, applying to it his own principles and formulas
respecting human evidence, be could not withhold his assent
to what was so !ltrongly su{tported.
Now, though the super10rity of British intellect has no
more strenuous advocate than myself, I must say that it
would not disgrace the greatest man whom England ever
bas produced to attempt an experiment or two upon a doe-
trine which Hufeland, Juss1eu, Cuvier, Ampere, and
Laplace believed. Nay, would it not disgrace him more to
contemn, without knowing any thins about it, what they
knew and credited? Is supercilious 1gnorance the weapon
with which Bacon would have repelled a: new branch of
knowledge, however extraordinary it might have appeared
to him 1 and would not Newton have repeated the experi-
ments of Euler and of Dollond, before he would have
dared to deny them? Surely, what great men believe
ordinary men may try. Then, if they err, they will have
noble companions, with whom it may be an honour to go
astray: if they are right, they will stand with mighty minds
and truth upon theh· side.
6
Digitized by Google
Dr. Wilson on Turpentine and .'Jiercury. !.01
If mesmerism be wilful deception and juggling, this ill
the country whose duty it is to expose .the 1mposture. Ifit
be venial error and delusion, England~ the chiefsupreme
of intellectual judicature,.should rectify it. If it be true,
she should not be the last to acknowledge it. But, me~­
merisers come forward under the broad ~egis ofexperiment.
By experiment let the truth be told. Let any twelv.e men
in England devote twelve half hours each to experiment,
secundum artem, and then relate the issue.
The books which give the.best account of the present
state of mesmerism are, "Histoire critique du Magnetisme
Animal," by M. DELEUZE; "Instructions pratiques sur le
Magnetisme Animal," by the same; "Traite du Somnam-
bulism," by BERTRAND; "Exposee~ des Cures operees en
Fra~ce par le Magnetisme Animal depuis ~esmer jus9,u'~
nos JOUrs," 2 volS.; "Annales du Magnetism;'' "Bibh·
othe~ue Magnetique ;" u L'Hermes," and" Le Propaga-
teur, ' two periodical journals, exclusively · destined to
mesmerism. The fifteen volumes of cases published in
Berlin, and in German, are the riche~t collection of roes-
. merle transactions existing. The works of HuFELAND,
KIESER, WOLFART, &c. are also of the highest value.
Digitized by Google
THE
LONDON
MEDICAL AND PHYSICAL
JOURNAL.
EDITED BY
JOHN NORTH, ESQ. F.L.S.
MEIIB£R OF TH£ ROYAL COLLI!G£ OF SURGEONS,
AND OF 1112 IIEOJCAL AND CHIRURGICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON;
AND
JOHN WHATLEY, M.D. A.M.
lfEIIBEk OF THE ARCADIA or ROllE;
llltiiBER BXTIUOROINARY OF TH'B ROYAL liED, SOCIE!Y or EDINBURGH;
IIEIIBBR OF THE IIEDICAL AND CHIRURGICAL SOC:IETT OF .LONDON;
AND OP THE MEDICAL SOCIETY OF LONDON,
LONDON:
JOHN SOUTER, '78, ST. PAUL'S CHU:RCB·Y.A.RD,
AliD TO •• BAD OF ALL TB& M&JIICAL &OOU&LL&&a,
1829.
Digitized by Coogle
/;JI";/;'~u>-/19
THE LONDON
Medical and Physical Journal.
N~ 366, VOL LXII .) AUGUST, 1829. [lliC? 38, New Striel.
For ID&D:J Cortlln.tte dlaco-nrt.. ID medlelne, aod lor tbe •'*teetloa or DDID8f0111 errort, tloe
world Ia Indebted to the rapid clreulacloo or Monthly Jooruala1 and thrre ne~er eshl•d
aay work, to which the Faculty, lu Europe and Amerlc•, were uuder deerer oblll(atlona
thaD to the M«lical and PAytlcalJoiU'Jilll o/Imtd<>lt, oow formlns a loJIIt, bot an lu•alu.tble
aerift.-KUSH.
ORIGINAL PAPERS, AND CASES,
OBTAINED FROl\1 PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS AND OTHElt
AUTHENTIC SOURCES.
Digitized by Coogle
114 ORIGINAL PAPERS.
l\1ESMERISM.
Experiments and Observations OtJ Mc5merism. By RrcuARD
CnE.NEnx, Esq. F.n. and E.s., llt.lt.J.A., &c. (:Jd Article.)
Tu E opinion of many who have devoted themsehes to the
study and practice of mesmerism is, that this art should be
wholly confined to the benevolent end of curing diseases.
'l'his maxim is no doubt founded on charity, but it is satis-
factory only as far as therapeutics are concernE'c!; and more
• 1\evue l\fed. l:ev. 11!!4,
Digitized by Coogle
Mr. Chenevix on Mesmerism. 115
than one great province of mesmerism would lie· unculti-
vated, were it strictly adhered to.
Mesmeric phenomena, in the present state of our know-
ledge, may be classed under three beads: pathological,
physiological, and psycological. Humanity, perhaps, in its
limited sense of iodavidual good, might demand no more
than an acquaintance with the former; but a wider spirit
of advantage, that which makes men feel that the researches
of philosophy are of higher import than the alleviation of
many a malady, will desire investigations conducted upon
other principles, and directed to every ramification mto
which this old, but oft rejected, ta·utb can branch out. It
is fortunate that, in pursuing the subject with a view to
immediate utility, its other departments cannot be entirely
neglected; and, in the hands of those who consider it merely
pathologically, other phenomena start into notice, and claim
attention when they are least expected.
Ofall these phenomena, the most worthy of consideration
are those denominated psycologicnl. They are also the
most rare, and, as fa1· as my observation reaches, they are
not strikingly manifest in more than three or four cases out
of a hundred. They consist in a peculiar state of the men-
tal faculties; and to it the name of lucidity has been
applied. As, in the present article, no allu~ion will be
made to any of these, it is useless to describe them here.
Persons who desire more ample information may obtain it
by consulting the foreign works, {fllr l am sorry to say
there are none in English that treat of thi9 subject,)
and of which an enumeration was made in a preceding
article.
Physiological phenomena are of much more frequent
occurrence. They consist principally in a peculiar state of
the nervous system, without reference either to the state of
the mind or to the cure ofdiseases. They manifest th£>m-
selves in mesmeric slePp, in particular sensations excited or
allayed in the patient, by the action of the operator; in the
suspension or the promotion of certain functions of animal
life, whether voluntary or involuntary; certain modifica-
tions of the sense~. contrary to what are admitted as the
usual Jaws of nature, and produced entirely by the mesme-
ric influence. These are the most common results of
mf'Smerism; and so frequent, indeed, that it may be ques-
tioned whether two animated bodies ever can come wttbin
certain limits without producing some ofthem, provided the
nervous system of the one be but aclively directed toward
the other. 'rhese elfects, it is true, may not be pe1·ccptible
Digitized by Coogle
116 ORH.IINAL PAPERS.
unless the nervous systems of both parties are suitably
disposed; but they are not the less real on that account.
As weB might we say that the innumerable hostS' of stars,
discovered by later instruments~ were created on the very
day when Herschel first beheld them, as deny the existence
of phenomena when !IO minute as to elude our senses,
though we acknowledge their reality when they appear
before us in more palpable forms.
To produce the~ phenomena, to make them evident to
all who are attached to scientific truth, a~pears to me as
legitimate a pur!!uit as any within the domam of physiology,
provided it he held subordinate to tbe rules which should
guide all similar researches, and the first of which is, that
no experiment should be attempted if attended with unne-
cessary pain or danger. Since I began to occupy myself
seriously upon the subject, not a single accident has occur-
red to me: neither is it probable that any will occur to
operators who do not venture imprudently.
These observations were necessary, because much of
what is to be stated in this article relates to the physiolo-
gical class of mesmeric phenomena. Being desirous to
prove by experiment that an asst>rtion made in my first com-
munication upon this sul>ject is founded on fact, "Mesme-
rism is true!" I sought for an opportunity to put the
science to the test, in some of the many hospitals with which
this city abounds. By the kindne!ls of Dr. V\t.HYMPER,
surgeon-major to the Coldstream regiment of Guards, and
of Mr. G. SMITH, surgeon to the same regiment, the first
trial was made in their establishment; and an account of
these experiments shall fill the following pages.
My short stay in London did not permit me to undertake
any patient in the absolute hope of effecting a cure. Nei-
ther could I expect, in so short a time, to spread conviction
very far. All my ambition was to excite curiosity; to
break the ice of public incredulity; to turn the attention
of a few of my eminent countrymen to a subject, of which
so many distin~uished foreigners have long admitted the
truth. Tbe most rapid pht>nomena, those which manifest
themselves in the shortest time, were the most likely to
conduce to this purpose; and with this intention the fol-
lowing experiments were undertaken.
'l'he mode of proceeding was constantly as follows: Dr.
Wbymper and Mr. Smith examined their Jist of sick, and
called into the room whomsoever they pleased. I had no
communication whatever with the patient submitted to
experiment but in their presence; and it very rarely hap·
I
Digitized by Coogle
Mr. Chenevix on Mumerinn. 111
pened that I uttered one single word to any of them
previously to the operation, or while it lasted. The minds
of all were entirely unprepared, at least until the process
bad become a subject of conversation among the inmates of
the hospital; and then their opinions must have taken their
bias from effects already produced, that is to say, from
mesmerism.
April 12th.-Mr. Smith only was present this day, Dr.
Wbymper being occupied elsewhere. Serjeaut Oakley:
mesmerised him twenty minutes; no sensible etrect : tried
him no more.
Case of Richard lrtla11d.
April 12th. Mr. Smith alone present.-In two minutes'
mesmerization, Ireland's eyes began to water, and his left
nostril to run. His eyelids trembled very much. In six
minutes I saw be was asleep. I then raised his arm almost
as high as his head, and let it suddenly fall : he did not
waken. When he had slept twenty-five minutes, I at-
tempted to waken him by transverse passes made in that
intention. He remained asleep, however, until I called
him by name.
Second; April 14th. Dr. Whymper and Mr. Smith
present.-In about five minutes he was asleep, and remained
motionless for thirty minutes; at the expiration of which,
I called him by name, and he awoke. Questioned by Dr.
Whymper, he said he bad slept soundly.
Third.-lreland having been thus put to sleep by my
mesmeric action, and in a manner which left little doubt
upon the minds of Dr. W. and Mr. S., 1 was anxious to
prove to these gentlemen a truth, which is one of the most
Important features of the doctrine, viz. that the faculty of
mesmerising is not a peculiar gift, confined to a few "quos
equus amavit Jupiter," but a power diffused as equally as
any other power over the whole species. Serjeant Bradburr,
who for nine years has superintended the pharmaceutic
department of the hospital, was called in. I showed him
the mode of operating, and gave him the necessary instruc-
tions, (which preliminaries may have occupied two minutes,)
and he then proceeded to act. In six minutes Ireland was
fast asleep. While be was in that state. I desired Serjeant
Bradbury to raise his (the patient's) arm, nearly as high as
his bead, and let it suddenly fall. He did so: Ireland
remained fast asleep. Bradbury, by my direction, attempted
to waken him by transverse passes, but in vain. His name
was then called, and be awoke. Questioned by Dr.
Whymper, he said he was not aware that his arms bud
No. 366,-N•. 38, NttD Scrit4. R
Digitized by Coogle
118 ORIGINAL PAPERS,
been raised or touched; that he had slept soundly, but had
not been in the chair more than ten minutes. ·
Fourth; April 17th. Dr. W. and Mr. S. present.-
Bradbury put him to sleep in five minutes very soundly.
He remained motionless for twenty-five minutes, and was
then awakened. Questioned by Dt·. Whymper, he said he
felt his health better, that he coughed less; did not know
why be slept; was never in the habit of sleeping during
the day, but supposed that tlte hands passing before his
eyes, and the quiet of the room, set him to sleep.
Fifth; April 18th. Dr. W. and Mr. S. present. Mr.
NoRTH was also present this day.-Bradbury put him to
sleel> in three minutes, and very soundly. He slept until
Mr. North raised his arm, and let it fall suddenly. It is
here necessary to state, that no person should be permitted
to touch the patient while asleep, except the mesmeriser;
the most dangerous consequences might ensue: but,
as this man was not particularly sensitive, and as the
gentlemen present were anxious to make some trials of
their own, I consented, in order to satisfy them; warning
them, at the same time, that such experiments should not
be repeated.
Sixth; April2lst.-He was mesmerised by Bradbury, I
not being present this day. A person, who witnessed this
day's ~itting, told Ireland to try to resist sleep. He did so,
and succeeded; but his eyes and nose watered much, and
the inclination to sleep was very great. He said that, bad
be shut his eyes one moment, he must ltave slept.
Seventh; April 22d. Dr. W. and Mr. S., with two
private gentlemen, were present. Bradbury put him to
sleep in six minutes, he being told not to resist. At the
end of twenty minutes I woke him, by making transverse
passes with that intention.
Eighth; April 23d. Dr. W. and Mr. S. present.-
Bradbury mesmerised him for twenty minutes; but, as he
said that he came into the room ful1y determined to resist,
he did not sleep. His health was not improving, and no
more experiments were attempted on this man.
'l'he third patient tried here was Garrand, of the band of
the regiment.
First; Aprill5th.-He did not sleep, though mesmerised
thit·ty minutes, and said he was not aware of any effect
upon him. I then tried the following experiment: Having
previously announced to Dr. W. and Mr. S.• out of the
reach of the patient's hearing, that my intention was to
communicate to Garrand's band a sensation of heat or of
Digitized by Coogle
Mr. Cbenevix on Mesmerism. 119
cold, according to my will, without giving him any intima-
tion of that will. I touched his band with a silver pencil-
case, with that intention. The result!t of the SIX first
experiments were perfectly correct: that is to say, he felt
the pencil-case cold when I willed that he should feel it
cold, and bot when I willed that he should feel it hot,
without committing a single mistake ; but, when the expe-
riment was often repeated, be began to err, and his sensa-
tions ceased to be according to my will. I must here state,
that I have made this and similar experiments, with more
or less success, at least upon eighty patients; and that I
have always found that, when I repeated them too frequently
at the same sitting, the tact of the patient, however accu-
rate in the first trials, bt>came as it were bewildered, und
no longer ~istinguished the sensations according to my wiil.
These anomalie~ have been observed by every practical
mesmeriser, and are still more striking in the class of
phenomena which I have above designated psycological.
How to account for them, or for any of the effects of mes-
merism, I know not; but such deviations from regularity
are not uncommon in physiology. When we take succes-
sively into our mouths two known liquors, of different
flavors, we immediately recognize them: when we repeat
the trial too often, they are no longer distinguishable.
The following experiment was now performed: Garrand's
eyes were most strictly blinded; he was desired to raise
both his arms, and, being asked whether be felt any thing
in either of them, he answered "No." A piece of paper,
weighing perhaps from one to two grains, was placed upon
his right sleeve, in such a manner that it was utterly impos-
sible for him to feel it. He was then desired to raise both
his arms, and was asked "Do you feel any thing?" "Yes."
" What?" " A stiffness and weight in my right arm.''
The same experiment was tried upon his feet, and with
similar succt>ss, until too often repeated. Trial was then
made whether he felt weight or staffness in any of his limbs
when the paper had been taken off without his knowing it:
he felt none.
Second; April 16th.-He did not sleep, and evidently
struggled much to avoid sleeping. His eyes, however,
were so closed that, although be made many efforts to open
them, he could not. He had a violent pain in his forehead,
which some passes, made wi\h an intention to relieve it,
soon dissipated. 'fhe experiment of the pencil-case, tried
by Ur. Whymper himself, succeeded as yesterday. 1'bat
of the paper was not so satisfactory.
Digitized by Coogle
}j() ORIGINAL PAPERS.
Had my intention been to follow up the treatment ofthis
patient, and to attempt a further development of his mes-
nteric susceptibility, I 11hould have kept him entirely under
my own guidance ; but, my object being to produce some
prompt and striking result, the best method appeared to me
to request Dr. Whymper to substitute his will and action
in place ofmine; for in this case be must be perfectly secure
aga.inst collusion.
Third; April 17th.-Mesmerised him twenty minutes,
but did not try any further experiments on him.
Fourth; April 18th.· Dr. W. and Mr. S. present; Mr.
North also /resent.-No sleep, but his eyelids were so
much affecte that he was two minutes at least struggling
in vain to open them. After I had secretly announced to
the gentlemen present that my intention was to make his
limbs stiff and heavy by my action, I did so. It \Vas ac•
knowledged that this man could not ha,·e the slightest
notion of what my intention was; consequently, that his
mind could have no share in the effect. I then made a few
transverse passes with an intention to set his limbs free, and
they were free. The success of these experiments, upon
frequent repetition, was not constant, and for reasons al-
ready stated; but the general result was acknowledged to
be very extraordinary. I asked Mr. North, "Do you
think these effects reaH" ''Yes." "Do you think they
proceed from my action on this man?" ''I can see no other
cause."
Fifth; April22d. Dr. W. and Mr. S., with two private
gentlemen, present.-No sleep; was but slightly affected
by the experiments above stated of the paper and the
pencil-case. I fear they bad been too frequently repeated
the day before. I then said to the ~entlemen present, (of
course, without a possibility of bemg overheard by the
patient,) "I will try to fix this mao in his chair." I mes-
merised him with that intention for about three minutes,
and then said, in my usual tone of voice, "That will do for
today; you may go." He rose from his chair like a man
labouring under severe Iomba~?: and with considerable
difficulty. Questioned by Dr. whymper as to what pre-
vented him from rising from his chair, fie said, "My back
and thighs are so stiff!" I then demesmerised him for about
one minute, and he said the pains were gone; he added, "I
felt as if a weight had been pulling me aown."
The fourth patient was named Simpson. When he en-
tered the room, Dr. Whymper asked him what be expected
from the operation? he replied that he did not know, but
Digitized by Coogle
Mr. Chenevix on ll-feamerism. 121
that the other men said it numbed their blood. He was,
to all appearance1 asleep in ten minutes, with his head re-
clining backwards. After thirty minutes, be was asked
how be felt? "Very odd; but I have not been asleep.''
'' What do you mean by very odd." " The gentleman's
hands 86em to go through my flesh."
The fifth patient was Mrs. Whitaker, a soldier's wife;
native of Bruxelles; very ne"ous, headache, earachs,
noiaes in her bead. Dr. W. and Mr. S. present. She was
so much alarmed at the idea of the operation, that she
could hardly be calmed. Mesmerised her thirty minutes:
no sleep. She said, however, of her own accord, that she
had felt drowsy, and indeed that she had been nearly
asleep three times, but was too much frightened to allow a
fair result."
Second; April 18th. Dr. W. and Mr.S. present; Mr.
North also present.-She was mesmerised about twenty
minutes: appeared exhausted and sleepy during the opera-
tion, and said that she had been asleep. When she rose
from the chair, she was reeling and tottering from side to
side, and supporting herself upon every piece of furniture
within her reach. She complained of great giddiness. A
few transverse passes, made with an intent to demesmerise
her, removed these sensations in less than haifa minute. I
then put the following questions to Mr. North: "Are not
these phenomena extraordinary?" "They are." "Do
you think they result from my action upon this woman?"
" I do. "• The other gentlemen, who had now become a
little familiarised with mesmerism, were still more convinc-
ed of the reality ofthe effects which they saw.
When this woman was desired to sit again the next day,
she objected, saying that it made her gi3dy, and confused
and drowsy for the whole day, and that her child (she was
pregnant) moved violently. She wall evidently very ner-
vous, and her imagination was much excited. She said,
however, that the rheumatic pains of her head and face
were much relieved.
The sixth patient was Richard Gould. April 22d. Dr.
W., Mr. S., and two private gentlemen, present.-His
complaint was rhe\ruatism in the right thigh; he was
• It wu not my intention to npreaa my belief that the "trannene puaea"
rrmo-red the aeosationa of which the woman complained. I have no doubt
lhe would han quickly and completely recovered from the aeosations Mr.
Cllenevb: deecribet, without any attrmptl to "demeamerin her.'' She had
beco, in fact, in a state very nearly resembling sound and natural alee!!, aod
a few momenta were rrquired before abe could regain her ~elf·poascaa&oo.­
J. N.
1
Digitized by Coogle
122 ORIGINAL PAPERS.
selected prorRiscuously from a long list of patients. He
slept in about three minutes, and remained motionless for
half an hour. His arms were raised, as in the case of
Ireland, and then let to fall, without any consciousness on
his part. 'fransverse passes were made before his face,
with an intention of wakening him, and in one .minute he
awoke. Questioned by Dr. Whymper, he answered that
he did not know that his arm had been raised, or that any
thing had been done to him; said that be felt his right thigh
warmer than the other. He was not sensible to heat or cold
produced by the contact of the pencil-case. A piece of
paper placed upon his sleeve, as in experiments above re-
lated, gave him a sensation of weight and stiffness in the
arm on which it rested; and he once complained of pain at
the insertion of the deltoid muscle. He said, also, that his
eyelids felt heavy and numb. A few transverse passes were
then made, after which he declared that he felt quite reco-
vered.
Second; April 23d. Dr. W. and Mr. S. present.-He
was soundly asleep in one minute and a half. His arms
were raised and let fall, without his knowing it. In twenty
minutes, I woke him by transverse passes made before his
face. I then put him to sleep again, and proposed to Dr.
W. and Mr. S. to try upon him an experiment which is one
of the most striking that can be performed upon patients
who are affected by somqolency alone, without manifesting
any other phenomenon. It is as follows: A patient being in
complete sleep, the mesmeriser, without his knowledge,
goes behind him, and there, at a given moment, makes
transverse passes with an intention to awaken him. In
such circumstances there can be no collusion between the
operator and the operatee; neither can the imagination of
the latter be anywise suspected of producing the result.
It is an experiment which I have repeated before witnesses
upon a great number of subjects, and very frequently, but
which succeeds only upon persons endowed with great
mesmeric susceptibility. In the present case the experi-
ment was thus made: Having announced my intention to
Dr. W. and Mr. S., without the possibility of Goold's
being a~_>prised ofit, I took my stationtt>ehind his chair. I
then wa1ted a couple of minutes, when I began to operate.
At the very first pass his eyelids fluttered, and in about one
minute he sat up erect in his c~air. He soon became en-
tirely awake, ·and in the same state as that in which be had
been put by the previous operation.
Thtrd; April 24th. Dr. W. and Mr. S. present.-Goold
Digitized by Coogle
Mr. Chenevix on JJ-[esmerism. 123
came into the room today evidently determined to resist,
and twenty-two minutes elapsed before I could produce any
effect upon him; neither should I have done so then, bad I
not told him that I was aware of his intention. His sleep,
too, was not sound; and I regretted most particularly that
I was thus prevented from fairly repeatins the experiment
of yesterday. My wish was to awaken th1s man again to-
day by transverse passes made behind his back; but no
sooner bad I ceased to mesmerise him before his face, than
be awoke. I mention the experiment of yesterday, then,
more as one of which I myselfam entirely convinced, than
as one to the validity of which the medical gentlemen, who
witnessed it but once, can give their full assent.
The seventh subject was J. Fuller, suffering from chronic
dysentery. April J5tb; Dr. W. and Mr. S. present. He
was taking a grain and a halfof opium daily.-No sleep,
but felt his head unusually light and giddy; felt very com-
fortable. He was not sensible ofany effect produced either
by the pencil-case or the paper. He sat constantly with his
eyes closed, and, when des1red to open them, be was full
two minutes before he could do so. When asked, "What
prevented you from opening your eyes?" " I could not ;
they were fast closed; there was no strength in my eyelids;
I never felt so before in my life."
This man was mesmerised again the next day, but only
for a few minutes, and without any remarkable etfect.
In a preceding article inserted in this Journal, it was
stated that about one person in six was susceptible of mes-
meric sleep; but, sleep not being the only etfect, a larger
proportion than this may manifest some oftbe phenomena.
In fact, to eyes accustomed to observe the results of mesme-
rism, more than halfofthe subjects submitted to experiment
show a certain susceptibility, in some shape or another.
Bot, in the present state of the science, it would be unfair
to obtrude upon novices the questionable phenomena which
inexperience may hesitate to acknowledge, howe,·er evident
to old practitioners. In every art tyros fail to discern the
delicate touches on which their satisfaction is afterwards
founded. For this reason I forbear to insist upon any re-
sults which did not ~ord entire conviction to the medical
gentlemen who beheld them for the first time.
Seven patients, then, were ruesmeri~d at the Coldstream
Guards' hospital; threeof whom, Ireland, Goold, and Mrs.
Whitaker, sleP.t· Every one of the seven, Oakley alone
excepted, exh1bited phenomena which no mesmeriser could
for a moment mistake; which even struck Dr.W. and Mr. S.
Digitized by Coogle
124 ORIGINAL PAPERS.
as most extraordinary, and for a large portion of which it is
impossible to account upon an~ known principle. A single
example is sufficient to estabhsh a general mode of reason-
ing upon all. Garrand, for instance, did not sleep, but he
was susceptible of other sensations, as in the expertments of
the pencil-case .and of the paper, and when he was nearly
rendered incapable of rising from his chair. Had this mao
been inclined to deceive us, the only effect ofwhich he could
have heard when first I mesmerised him, was sleep. This,
then, was what he would have counterfeited, for he knew of
no other; but he did not do so. The first time I touched
his hand with the pencil-case, he had no more idea of what
my intention was than ifhe had never seen me; yet the sen..·
sation which he described not only was one of temperature,
and never of any other physical quality,as weight, hardness,
&c., but it most accurately corresponded with the l'nri·
ations of beat and cold which, without his knowledse, I had
announced as my will to two unbiassed and enlightened
observers, both leaning ratht>r toward the sceptical than
toward the credulous side of philosophic hesitation. In
the same manner, Garrand never telt the paper hot or cold,
but always light or heavy; and light or heavy in exact
conformity to my will, previously and distinctly announced
to credible witnesses. Had this man, too, been the only
one of these patients on whom similar effects were produced,
something might be attributed to accident, to a casualty of
his temperament; but Goold was hardly less susceptible
than he was: Mrs. Whitaker manifested analogous symp-
toms; and, in all, six out of seven patients experienced
sensible and undeniable effects. Neither does the diminu-
tion ofsensibility or ofaccuracy in these experiments inva-
lidate their reality: it confirms it; because such a diminution
is in perfect harmony with all the laws of physiology. The
galvanic exeitability ofthe dead frog is exhausted by repe-
tition, and too frequent stimulation extinguishes even life.
Since these experiments were terminated, others have
been made at three hospitals in London, and at my own
house, in presence ofsome very eminent men. An account
of them shall be given successively in this Journal. Con·
viction, of course, has reached thes~ persons in different
degrees; and, lest the opinion ofany one ofthem should be
attributed to any other, I shall forbear mentioning them
until the exact words ofeach are attached to his name. In
what I have to communicate, I shall state nothin~ which
has not been submitted to the gentlemen whose testamony I
adduce, for their approbation; and ,.el'y often I shall be
Digitized by Coogle
Purulent Opldkalmi{J of/,[ants. 1~
able to quote their letters to me on the subject. My inten•
tion is to give, without reaene, and equally, an account of
all the impressions, favorable and unfavorable, made by
these experiments, and then to sum up the evid«.>nce on
either side. In the present instance, the notes were taken,
during each sitting, by Dr. Whymper himself, who commu-
nicated them to me; and from them I have drawn up the
preceding narrative, adding only a few observations, which
habit enabled me to make, and such explanations as ap-
peared necessary to elucidate this unstudied subject.
Digitized by Coogle
THE LONDON
Medical and Physical .Journal.
N'? 367, VOL. LXII.) SEPTEMBER, 1829. [NI? 39, NewSerie1.
Fot muy l'orllln~te dlocoverles lu medicine, and for the oleteclloo of oamerooo orron, the
world 11 Indebted to the npld circulation of Monthly Joaraala 1 and there never existed
&DJ work, to whleh tbe Faculty, In Europe ud Americ11, were onder deeper obllrallono
tbu to tbe Mtdlcal end PhyllcclJo,.,.MIII/ Lortdola, now formlos a lo1111, bot an lualaable
auin.-RUSH.
ORIGINAL PAPERS, AND CASES,
OBTAINED FROl\1 PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS AND OTHER
AUTHENTIC SOURCES.
Digitized by Coogle
210 ORIGINAL PAI'ERS,
l\IESMERISM.
Erperiments and Observations on Mt~merism. By RICJIA&D
CH£NEVJX, Esq. F.n., and E.s., M.R.t.A., &c. (4th Article.)
IT is the duty of a conscientious narrator to relate, with
equal frankness, e,·ery portion of his story; to give the tes-
timony ofall who depose against his doctrines, as well as in
their fa,·or; to record failure no less than success. In the
present instance, however, this duty may be dispensed with,
on account of the details into which it would lead me; and
having, in a former article, premised that not more than one
patient in six slept, or was sufficiently susceptible of the
mesmeric influence to manifest convincing phenomena, I
may spare my readers an enumeration of many experiments:
teJling them merely that, before I met with cases worthy of
being t~ubmitted to the witnesses whose evidence I am
going to adduce, I encountered many disappointments.
Such is the fate of all who make researches upon mesmerism
in its present state; and the happiest practical addition
which could be made to the science now, would be some
certain indication of mesmeric susceptibility, as nearly th·e-
sixths of the labour would be abridged to all who could
produce prompt and convincing resulls.
Being in Dublin on the 26th of March, 1829, I made
Digitized by Coogle
Mr. Chenevix on JU~smerism. 211
some experiments at the Hospital of Incurables there, by
permission and in pre!leoce of Dr. CaoKER, physician to
the establishment. The first 11ix patients exhibited no
etlects; at least, none which could convince an inexperi-
enced observer. The se\'enth patient was Mar_y Gl_ynne,
a severe case of vomiting, origanally caused by an injury.
She was obliged to have the nurse aud a crutch to enable
her to come down stair.r, as she said she could not come
down without their assistance. She could, however, with
the help of her crutch alone just walk from her bed to the
fireside in her own ward. For the last two months she had
excruciating pain~; in her left arm, which Dr. Croker teared
was threatened with paralysis. I had ne,·er seen this
woman before, and now only in the presence of Dr. C. I
desired her to sit down, and, without any conversation
whatever, mesmerised her for thirty minutes. She then, of
her own accord, said that she thought herself bettt>r, and
believed she could walk. She did so. I made her 11it
down again, and in fifteen minutes more she had clignot~­
m~nls of her eyelids, complained that she was too warm,
and got up again to walk. Thi$ time she used no crutch,
and declared (what, indeed, was notorious in the hospital,)
that for two months she had not been able to do as much.
She was mesmerised again immediately, and, after about
sixty rnintlfes, got up again, and walked quite well. The
nurse and attendants, when called into the room, expressed
the utmost astonishment at seeing her pace along without
the lt>ast unevenneSR in her gait; and she went up stairs to
her ward without any assistance whatever, leaving even
her crutch in the room where she had been me!lmt'rised.
Second; March 27th.-She said she had slept better last
night than she bad done for a long time, and continues to
walk quite well. She complained of a stinging pain in
head and hand; bas long been unable to put bea· left hand
behind her back. No effect was produced on it by mesme-
rism; neither was any effect apparent upon her this day.
Third; March 28th.-Continues to walk perfectly well,
insomuch that two medical students, who had not seen her
till now, could hardly credit that, but forty-eight hours
before, she could walk only with a crutch, and that very
badly. She did not sleep so well last night, on account of
an l'ruption on her head, caused, as it was supposed, by the
use of nitric acid. She felt heavy and drowsy today during
the operation. Her )eft arm is not getting better. Saw
her no more afler this day.
The improvement produced in this case, though so much
Digitized by Coogle
--
212 ORIGINAL PAPERS.
yet remain«:>d undone, was most striking, and made a forci-
ble impression upon all who were present, Dr. Croker and
three private individuals. The plain and undeniable fact
i!l, that, in about fifty-five minutes' mesmerising, this
.woman, deemed incurable, who for two months bad not
bt>en able to walk without her crutch, and bad been in
violent pain, was enabled to walk alone without pain, and
so well that even medical observers could not perceive any
lameness. One more patient in this hospital was also
strongly affected; but I pass over her case, to hurry on to
the metropolis ofscience.
April 21st, at St. George's HO!!pital, London, I mesme-
rised two female patients, in the presence of Mr. Bnonu,
Mr. SMITH, of the Coldstream Guards, and some other
persons. 'fhe effect was hardly perceptible.
April 26th.-I had two patients at my own house, sisters,
both epileptic from their childhood, and daughters of an
epileptic father. Mary Ann was aged nineteen; Sarah,
sixteen. The former had been mesmerised once, on the
preceding day; the latter I had never seen before. I mes-
merised them both this day, in presence of Dr. MILLIGAN
and Mr. SMITH; but I shallconfine my account toSarah,whom
I mesmerised for the first time. After a very few passes
her eyes closed, and in about one minute she wall in sound
mesmeric sleep. She awoke when I spoke to her, was
sickish in her stomach, and had a pain in her head. A few
trans\·erse passes removed her headach, but the sickness in
her stomach remaine(l. After the operation, Dr. Milligan
declared his opinion to be that the somnolency produced
upon this patient was the effect ofa peculiar influence exer-
cised by me; and that, on account of i.ts suddenness, it
could not he the result of any of the usual modes which
produce sleep. Mr. Smith coincided in this opinion. I
shall presently quote Dr. Milligan upon another occasion.
On the eleventh day of Mary Ann H. and the tenth of
Sarah H., May 7th, Mr. BnontE, Dr. PnouT, and Capt.
BAG'NOLD. were present.
Mary Arm H. appeared to sleep in about four minutes.
In twenty minutes I woke her by speaking to her. She had
a headach, which a few transverse passes, made with that
intention, removed.
Sarah H. had a headach when I began, which a few
transverse passes dissipated. Her eyes closed almost in-
stantly, and in about one minute she was fast asleep.
While she was in that state, I opened her evelids, in order
to show that the appearance of the eye was different from
Digitized by Coogle
Mr. Chenevix on ltlelmerinn. 218
what it is in waking persons. As these gentlemen were
hurried, I awoke both these patients in twenty-two mi-
nutes. The opinion of Mr. Brodie, on seeing these expe-
riments, was doubtful as to the reality of Mary Ann's sleep.
The following conversation took place respecting her sister. ·
I said, "Let me ask you two questions; but beware of
your answers, for it is fair to tell you that I wish to have
them for the express purpose of publication: Do you
think this girl really and truly slept?" "I do, and verz
soundly too." " Do you think she went to sleep hersel ,
out of fatigue or ennui, or, in short, by means of what you
saw me do(" "Certainly by means of what you did." In
a subsequent conversation, Mr. Brodie said that, though he
did not doubt that sleep had been brought on by means of
what I did, he saw no necessity for supposing the existence
of any new agency; for the effect may be accounted for
upon the same principle as giddiness, &c. produced by a
quick rotatory motion.
Dr. Prout doubted whether Mary Ann really was asleep,
but he bad no doubt as to Sarah. He was by no means
convinced, however, that my action was the cause of her
sleep; though he did not immediately see to what other
agency it could be ascribed. He added, that the circum·
stance of these girls having been so often acted upon before
makes the subject still more doubtful in his estimation.
The opinion of Capt. Bagnold ·was, that both ,atients
were asleep in three minutes and a half; and in thiS belief
I perfectly coincided. ·
The fact is, howevE~r, that the appearance of Mary Ann
was much more equivocal to persons who never before had
witnessed mesmeric phenomena; while it was impossible to
hesitate one moment respf."cting her sister. But let Mary
Ann be entirely struck off the list of facts, Sarah still
slept; and that she did sleep, is testified by the above
highly credible witnesses.
'fhe preceding statement \vas submitted to Mr. Brodie
and to Dr. Prout for their approbation, and the following
answers were returned in writing.
16, &llilU roc; MGg lS, 18!9.
" My dear Sir: What I have to say on the subject of the ex-
periments on the two girls which I saw made by you in Jermyn
street, is as follows: I have my doubts whether the eldest of these
girls really slept. I have no douLt that the other slept very
soundly for several minutes, and until you awoke her. I have no
doubt also that she slept in consequence of the means employed
by you. With such information, however, as I at this moment
N•. S67.-No, S9, New Serit1. IF
Digitized by Coogle
Itt ORlGINAL ~APERS.
posaess, I see no reaaon to believe that this girl's sleep may not be
explained on princip¥:s already known: aud I should tllink that it
~.ajf be cou;apared t.o dw giddiness wbicb is produced by turning
round; or, still better, to the sleep produced by rocking a child.•
"Believe me to be, my dear sir, yours m~t truly,
.. B. c. BB.ODlE.''
..,,,,..,.
"D~ar Sir: I return your statement with some slight alterations,
(wbieh made it as given above, relating to Dr. Prout's testimony,)
&e. • • I fear, on the whole, my evidence is rather against you;
and I confess that I must see much more before I can be satisfied
of the reality of mesmerism.
" Most truly yours, N. P&ovT."
On May 12th, the fifteenth time of Mary Ann, and the
fourteenth of Sarah H., Mr. FARADAY and Dr. HAnGooo,
both of the Royal Institution, were present.-Sarah H.
complained of a pain in her stomach and head, which a
few transverse passes remo,·ed. 1 then directed my inten~
tion toward producing sleep. After a pass or two her eye-
lids closed, and in less than two minutes sbe was asleep.
While she was in that state, I raised her left eyelid, and
showed the eye under it with the glossy and lifeleiiS appear-
lknce which it generally assumes when she is in mesmeric
sleep. In thirty minutes I awoke her, calling her by name.
Mary Ann slept in about three minutes, and very sound-
ly. I tftlcovered her eye also, which was not guite so much
aft'ectec;l as her sister's. In thirty minutes I awoke her.
She had a violent headach, which a few transverse passes
calmed.
Mr. Faraday's opinion was, that there was nothing in
these phenomena which a good actor could not play. A
circumstance which induced him to doubt the reality of the
sleep of Mary Aon, was that she coughed, and put her
hand before her mouth, as she might have done being
awake. But it is a great error to confound mesmeric sleep
with common.sleep; for, in the former, many appearances
are assumed which are incompatible with the latter. '.rhe
Mecond person I ever saw in the state of artificial somnam-
bulism walked about tbe house, and performed many do-
• This is precisely the explanation of mesmeric ~Jeep wbir.h we olfered in
our review of UUPAU on Animal Magueti8m, in onr Journal fi>r l\ovember1
18'l6, p.469; and we are, of course, confirmed in the opinion we then ex-
preaed by liodiog it supported by Mr. BRoDaa. In speaking of this pheno.
meooo, we observed "1'be>re·is here no myetery: tbe effect nai«ht be antici-
pated. 1'he magnetic fluid is not required. Upoo the same principle, a
child is lutlctl to rest by fatiguing its lit!nscs with 10me oursery luUaby, or eome
,entle aod oft·r"pcated motioo."-Ennoas.
Digitized by Coogle
Mr. Chenevix on Me1merism. 215
meatie functions wtlile in that state. In naturalsomnam-
lmtism the fiact bas long been acknowledged.
Dr. Hargood was. struck at the promptness with which
the pain in Sarah's head and stomach were relieved! by tho
tnlnnerse passes made with that intention, before the ope..
ration for sleep was begun. He believed both sisters to
be soundly asleep, bnt attributed all the phenomena which
he saw to imagination. Both Mr. F. and Dr. H, how-
eYer, considered these experiments as well worthy of
iavestiption, and expressed their wish that the subject
might meet with fair and candjd inquiry.
May 16th, I mesmerised Mary Ann for the eighteenth
time~ llJntortunately, hersister, who was in service, could•
not come this day. The Marquess of LANsnows E and:
Dr. HoLLAND were present. In about five minutes the
girl was asleep. I opened her eyelid, and showed the state
of the eye under it, fixed, and with a dead and glassy ap-
pearance.• She was slightly disturbed by this experiment,
yet abe continued asleep. At the expiration of about
twenty minutes I awoke her. I then put the same questionS'
to Dr. Holland as 1 had put to Mr. Brodie; telling him
also that my object was to have his testimony, be it what if!
might, for ~ublication. "Do you think this girl was<
asleep r" " I do." " Do you think abe went to sleep of
herself, out of lasRitude, ennui, or by means of what I did·
to bed" "Certainly I think that, without your means, she
would.not have slept." I asked the same questions of Lord
Lansdowne, and received the same answers. Neither
Lord Lansdowne nor Dr. H-olland, however, admitted theJ
necessity of any new agency to account for these eft'ects.
This statement was sent to Dr. H. foa· his approbation,•
and his answer was as follows:
" Dear Sir: l return the enclosed paper, havin~ nothing to
object to the statement respecting the girl whom I saw at your
bouse. I believe that she was asleep, and that she would not have
slept but for the means employed by you.
" Most truly yours, . H. HoLLAND."
May 19th, the Reventeenth sitting of Sarah H. Drs.
BABINGTON and B. BABINGTON present.-She slept in
two minutes. I opened her eye, and pressed my finger
hard upon the eyeball: 11he did not make the slightest mo-
tion. I then put my middle finger into her mouth as far as
• Mr.l'thTo, •ho aeeidPntally saw thi' passage in if~ way through flie ·
preu, observed to us that, in a doubt between genuine and pretended sleep,
tbe atate of the pupil ia a valuatble crite1·iou. In natural sleep, tile pnpil1 ac·
cording to 1\tr, 1\tayo, is at.,·ap greatly cuntracted,-EunuKs.
Digitized byGoogle ....
216 ORIGINAL PAPERS.
I could, and stirred it about for more than a minute, en-
deavouring to stimulate the fauces: she showed not the
slightest symptom of feeling any thing from this operation.
I then tickled her nose and upper lip with a slip of paper,
and put the same slip of paper UP. her nostril; but she did
not manifest the shgbtest sensability to the impressions
which should have resulted in ordinary cases.
Dr. Babington said that, if long experience of the many
impositions practised by the poorer classes in the hospitals
had not put him upon his guard, he might be induced to
give some credit to these appearances; but he wished to
suspt>nd his judgment until he could make some experi·
ments himselt~ in which he would use every means to guard
against deception on their part. I observed to him, that in
this case there could be no motive for imposition, as the girl
came to me every day from a considerable distance, without
a hope of any remuneration but health. :My wish, bow-
ever, being much more to excite active curiosity than to
impar~ supine conviction, most heartily do I hope that maq,y
will adopt the same mode of obtaining truth.
This statemef!t was submitted to Dr. B. for his approba-
tion. He confirmed it in writing; adding, that be had
not yet had an opportunity of showing it to his son; "but
I have no doubt that. he will agree with me in finding it
quite correct."
Dr. B. Babington has since written, to sav that the two
girls "did present the usual phenomena of sleep: I may
~ven say, ofprofound sleep. This did not, however, appear
to me to be mduced by any new or extraordinary influence,
and it seemed that the imagination, aided by the will, exer-
cised a power ovt>r the faculties," &c.
On April 27th and 28th, I tried some patients at the
Middlesex Infirmary in Great Pulteney street, but with
little success.
April 29th, I mesmerised an epileptic boy. Jn seven
minutes his eyes closed, and his head fell back: he did not
entirely sleep, however. On coming to himself he felt a
tremblmg, which 1 soon calmed. Mr. EvANs Runoat:,
of this establishment, was present, but said he saw nothing
which could authorize him to admit a mesmeric effect.
April SOth.-Mesmeri!'ed the same boy again. Dr.
Milhgan and Mr. Evans Riadore were present. No som·
nolency was produced; but in six minutes a tremor ensued,
as yesterday, and the boy said he felt a fit coming on. I
increased the intensity of the mesmeric action, with the in·
tention of preventing the fit, but without giving him any
1
Digitized by Coogle
1.\'Ir. Chcne,·ix on Mesmerism. 217
intimation of niyjurpose. In three minutes he said he was
much better; an in two minutes more he said he was quite
well, with the exception of a headach, which a few trans·
verse passes, with an intention to demesmerise him, took
away. During the tremor he became very pale, and after
it, Mr. Evans Riadore found his pulse slowe1· than before.
Dr. Milligan, who bad witnessed the first day's mesmeri-
zation of Sarah H., reaped new conviction from this pa·
tient. Yesterday, Mr. Evans Riadore had said to me, in
conversation, that mesmerism seemed so repugnant to his
reason, that be could not bring his mind to consider it at
all. This day he exclaimed, "I have seen something to-
day, I must confess, and I did not expect it. '!'here cer·
tainly is something in all this, and I will try it in this very
institution." "Will you sign this," said I, "and let me
publish it?" He answered, "I will." 'fo which Dr.
Milligan added," There is nothing which we say to you on
this head that you may not publish."
The handsome manner in which these gentlemen avowed
their conviction enhances its value, It is not eyery man
who today will admit, even upon experiment, what yester·
day be thought repugnant to his reason. Dr. Milligan and
1.\'Ir. Riadore did sign this report, approved by them.
The experiments which I shall now relate were per-
formed at St. Bartholomew's Hospital. On May 2;jd, Mr.
EARLE was kind enough to allow me to accompany him to
that establishment. 'J he first patient submitted to trial
was an epileptic young man, who at that moment was
taking large doses of nitrate of sih·er. His fits were very
bad and frequent. Though to all appearance this was a
person likely to be affected by mesmerism, be manifested
little susceptibiJity; so slight is yet the confidence to ·be
placed in any prognostic relating to this unfathomed sub-
Ject. Being pressed for time, 1continued to operate upon
this man only eight minutes.
The next patient was a woman aftlicted "'ith disease in
her bladd~r. During the first five minutes no effect was
manifested. She then said that she felt a fluttering in her
inside. I observed to .Mr. }~arle, in a language which this
woman certainly did not comprehend, "'I'his is a mesmeric
effect." Mr. Earle smiled doubtingly. ''To convince
you," continued I, in the !lame language, "I will now
take this effect away." By altering my intention, and de-
mesmerising the patient, without letting her perceive any
alteration, I did calm those feelings. Still Mr. Earle
doubted. "1 will now," said I, " give her those sensations
back again." After two minutes' mesmerising, they re-
Digitized by Coogle
,r
2&8 ORIGINAL PAI'&RS.
turned. " I wiU now take them aw8)1 again.'' I did so,
and by the same means. Still, however, tlao•gh Mr. Earle
and a student of the hospital, who was present, ackne>w-
Jedged that the results most accurately corresponded witlt
the intentions which I had announced, conviction made but
little progress, so extraordinary did the facts appear; and·
bad not good fortune thrown another patient in my way, on
whom the effects were still more palpable, my labour at St~
:Bartholomew's would have been in vain.
This patient was a woman afflicted with iritis, for which
she bad been largely ble~; and she was, moreo\·er, recover-
in~ from a severe mercurial course. ln less than two
mmutes' mesmerisin~, her head fell back, her eyes closed,
and a kind of hysteracal trance came on. In three minutes
she awoke, said she felt bot, then cold, and a shivering
ensued, particularly in her knees and thighs. This I stop-
ped in about one minute, by continuing the mesmeric action
10 this intention, as I bad announced to Mr. Earle in a·
foreign languagt-. I tried the experiment of the piece of
paper on her arm, but she felt it very slightly. 'l'ouched
with the silver pencil-case, my intention being (as in the
cases described in a former article) to give her a sensation
of heat, she said she felt as if all the warmth of her hand
bad gone to that spot. I thea demesmerised her, as she
complained of much uneasiness; and, having made her
stand up, I drew my bands down before her from the head
to the very soles of her feet, at the distance of three or
four inches, for about one minute and a half, with the in-
tention ofdestroying tbe preceding effects. She then said
that she felt better, and left the room much recovered. She
declared that, in her life, she never had experienced any
thinrc like wbat she had just felt; that she never bad an
attack of hysteria, epilepsy, or any nervous P.aroxysm.
This woman showed considerable t~usceptibality; and, bad .
time permitted me to continue the treatment, I have no
doubt that ~;he would ha,·e become a remarkable subject.
Mr. Earle assured me that be bad witnessed sufficient eft'eets
to encourage him to continue the experiments on both these
women, and recommended them, for that purpose, to two
of his pupils who were present, and to whom I gave all
the instructions in my power, pointing out to them the·
works in which the amplest detail~; upon the modes of ope-
rating, together with tbe dangers and advantages ofeach,
are given. These two gentlemen, also, were fully con-
. vinced that extraordinary effects bad been pl'oduced.
These three fHtlieuts were entirely selected by Mr. Earle,
without my influencing his choice in any manner. I had
Digitized by Coogle
.Mr..Cbenevix o.n Mesm~sm. itt
ne•er seeR ene of them before, and now only in ·the pre-
eenceofiocredulous witnesses, eager for truth, who gc-anted
nothing that was not proved, and who were very fairly
watchful to detect illuston or deception; and all can testify
that no act or word of mine could, in the remotest degree,
have conduced to intimate to those patients wbat my inteo.
tions were. They came into the room with their minds
uoeophisticated, unprepared for any result, for any im-
pression; yet, as Mr. Earle saw, at the very first pass ofmy
haad, the last patient began to manifest some of the symp-
toms so often described in every German and French work
on the subject as among those which mesmerism produces i
and in less than three minutes was violently affected. I
m1111t add that, at the time of operating, I was ignorant of
the disorders under which the two female patients were
labouring.
On tile following day the operation was repeated on the
third patient, by one of the pupils; and, in about seven
minutes, still more violent convulsive eft"ects were produced,
and which lasted longer than on the preceding day. From
their violence and duration, indeed, Mr. Earle would not
permit the experiments oo this patient to be carried to a
greater extent..
When this statement was submitted to Mr. Earle, be
returned the followirag answer.
" Gtorrt •lrttt; Jlay !81A.
" My dear Sir: In reply to your request that I would state my
honest opinion of the trials which you made at St. Bartholomew's
Hospital, I have no hesitation in saying that, in the first case, no
effect was produced; that, in the 11econd, the patient was under
considerable alarm, in expectation that she was about to have her
bladder examined, and that she said that she felt a fluttering in
her inside, which abated for a time, and was reproduced, as you
represent, on your repeating the motions of your banda. In the
third case a very decided effect was produced: and it was repro-
duced the following day by my pupil. In making this acknow-
ledgment, however, I am by no means prepared to say that the
effects were any thing more than the influence produced upon the
mind of an enfeebled patient by the mysterious movement of your
arms, and her ignorance of the object of these movements. The
circumstance of her erroneous sensations I have frequently ob-
served after syncope.
" You will perceive, from these observations, that I am yet an
unbeliever; but I am quite open to conviction, and will certainly
repeat the experiments under less doubtful circumstances. Should
more ample experience induce me to alter my opinion, you may
depend upon hearing from me. Believe me, my dear sir, Yery
truly yours, "Hx:Na.Y EARLE."
Digitized by Coogle
·.
220 1108PITAL REPORTS.
I shall at thi'l moment refrain from making any obse"a-
tions upon the preceding testimonies, and the modeR in
which the medical gentlemen, who admit the factsi endea-
vour to explain them. The next article, which wi I be the
concluding one, will contain the few trials which remain to
be mentioned, together with a summing-up of the evidence.
I must merely remark, that the convulsions of the third
patient, when mesmerised by Mr. Earle's pupil, do not in
the least surprise me; neither would they have deterred me
from pursuing the experiment. l have never met with one
case in which such accidents were attended with dan~r,
provided the operator continued to act upon the pataent
with an intention of arresting their progress. It requires,
however, some experience, and the confidence which prac-
tice gives, to enable the mesmeriser to preserve his calm-
ness; and a person who witnesses such phenomena for the
first time may, in common prudence, be deterred from car-
rying the operation any further. This experiment proves,
too, that mesmerism is not a thing to be trifled with, and
that its power of injury is not less than its power to do
·good. The only result to be regretted in this case would
be, if the alarming symptoms manifested by this patient
should prevent the prosecution of the inquiry by so candid
an obsener as Mr. Earle.
Digitized by Coogle
THE LONDON
Medical and Physical Journal.
NC! 368, VOL. LXII.) OCTOBER, 1829. [N? 40, NttD Smt~.
For miUIJ fortaaate dltcnerltt In medlclee, aad for the •lekctloo of nomeroaa errort, tho
world 1.1 Indebted to tbe rapid circulation of Monthly Joornal11 and there ne<er existed
aay work, to wblch tbe Facolty, In Europe and AmericA, were oader deeper obUratlono
tban to tbe Mdkrll tuul P~11H:elJo.,.,..l of LMt~Mt, now forming a loq, but ao lonlu~ble
terin.-ltUSH,
ORIGINAL PAPERS, AND CASES,
OBTAINED FROM PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS AND OTHER
AUTHENTIC SOURCES.
No S68.-No, 40, NtwJ Strul.
Digitized by Coogle
815
1\lESl\IERISM.
Experiments and Observations on Mesmerism. By RICHARD
CuENEVIX, Esq. •
·.n.. and E.s., M.U..J.A., &c. (5th and last
Article.)
Tus experiments which I now have to relate were made in
presence of Dr. ELLIOTSON. The following notes were
drawn up by him each day, and I transcribe them with a
few ,·erbal alterations, and remarks, to elucidate some
pojnts.
Dr. Elliotson says, "On May 14th, 1829, I was intro·
dnced to Mr. Cbenevix, at the Royal Society, by Dr.
Hodgkin, and invited to witness the phenomena of mesme-
rism, the next morning, at Mr. Cbenevix's lodgings in Old
Burlington street. On the followin~ morning I found two
females,• said to be sisters, sitting 10 two chairs side by
side; the one apparently about eighteen years of age, of a
pretty full habit, but a colourless and heavy countenance;
the other apparentlJ about twelve years old, with a fine
skin, florid complexaon, and animated expression.
" Mr. C. asked the elder whether she had any pain? She
replied, 'Yes, in her forehead.' He passed his bands be-
fore her forehead two or three times, and I believe placed
one of his fingers on it; when she said the pain bad moved
to the top.of her head. The same operation was repeated
on the top of her head; when she saad the pain was gone.
1\lr. C. then began to draw down his hands before her, in
the usual way of magnetisers, and frequently in contact
with her face and clothes, and likewise placed his bands
motionless on the front of the body and the loins, some-
times at the same moment; and in three or four minutes
she looked sleepy, when be gently pressed down her eye-
lids, and inclined her head to one side, as if to place it for
support ~ainst a piece of wood at the back or her chair.
She remaaned for a considerable time, as far as I could
judge by very carefully watching her features and her
breathing, in a sound sleep; and was at last awakened by
1\lr. C., as any person might be awakened by another.
''As soon as this girl appeared fairly asleep, Mr. C.
began the process with the younger sister; but, though she
soon appeared sleepy, she was as long again in assuming
the same appearance of sleep as the first; and, as I bad
placed my chair at the side of Mr. C. close to her, and
consequently could not make very minute observations on
the elder, I resolved to satisfy myself, as fully as I could,
..
• 1\fary Aun a.uol Sarah H., m~ntiouul in the la.t article.
./
Digitized by Coogle
3US ORIGINAL I'APERS.
that the little one played no tricks ; and, if she bad not
shown more marks of sleep than she did for the first few
minutes that her head reclined to one side, in the attitude
of repose, I should have remained doubtful of the power of
tbe manipulations. But at length, perhaps in about seven
or eight minutes from the commencement,• 1 was as satis-
fied of her being in a sound sleep as a bystander could be.
She did not waken until roused by Mr. C., as her sister
had been roused. Her eyes and cheeks were then red, ancl
her eyes heavy; exactly as is observed in persons really
awakening from sleep. While they were both appa~tly
asleep, Drs. Wright and Wilmot entered the room.
Mr. Chenevix was requested to attempt to throw the
younger one into sleep again. He did attempt it dllring
about four minutes, and she fell into the same appeaTance
as in the beginning of the former process; and, on being
questioned, she very ingenuously answered that she had not
been asleep t'his second time.
" On the second morning I too'k. Mr. C. to --, f'or the
purpose of seeing the process tried upon persons who bad
never beard of mesmensm, who were t~norant of what was
to be done, and had never commnmcated with Mr. C.
Dr.-- met.us there, and was requested to send for any
patient he thought proper. Mary P., about eighteen years
old, was introduced. She was subject to hysteria, and hac!
suffered a paroxY,'m that morning, and was asleep at t11e
time she was sent'for. She appeared a little flurried, and
her pulse was 150. Mr. C. had scarcely touched ber when
an hysterical paroxysm came on, and 'lasted for an ·hour ;
during the whole of which the process of mesmerism was
continued by Mr. C., who frequently attempted, but in
vain, to calm and rouse her. Sbe was perfectly insensible
during the w'ho1e hour, but the fit was less violent (saicl
Dr.--) thaD ordinary. A second fit, too, he informed us,
rarely happened in one day. I could discern in tbis nothi03
but an hysterical paroxysm induced by agitation .of mind.
Mr. C. frequently attempted to remove the rigidity of lier
arms, and to relax the fingers by mesmeriam, witbottt the
least effect. ·
" 1 now sent for a little girl labouring under chorea, but
who was nearly cured by subcarbona&e of iron. Tlte same
manipulations were tried for ten minutes, but not the teast
effect was produced.
• She was, in truth, aal~ep, llllnsnal, io one minute; tbonJZb1 to a peraou
wbo saw tbe!e experiJncuta lor the lirat tim~, abe might nut a)•pear a;u.
Digitized by Coogle
1\lr. Cbenevix on ltfesmerism. 317
" I sent for two other females, about ei~hteen or twenty
years old, on both of whom Mr. C., judgmg from the tre-
mulous motion of their eyelids, hoped for success; but the
manipulations of mesmerism, continued for ten minutes,
had no eftect. One of them, indeed, questioned by Mr.
C., said she felt her bead light. He then, without speak-
ing, moved his fingers before her forehead: she said it felt
heavy. These sensations alternated four times, till, after
a last manipulation, she declared her head to be quite
well.
''Dr.-- then brought in Emma W., about twenty-five
in appearance, and subject to epilepsy ; her a~e was, in
fact, but eighteen. In ten minutes her eyes closed, and
her bead suddenly dropped forwards; but I did not consi-
der her to be asleep until ten minutes more had elapsed.
She then really seemed in sound and tranquil sleep. Her
hands, when raised, dropped immediately; her eyes were
completely closed. The whole frame remained motionles~.
.I placed my face close to hers, for the purpose of seeing if
her eyes were quite shut, and she did not mo,·e a feature;
neither did the friction of her eyelashes cause contraction in
any muscle. On being woke by Mr. C., the redness of her
eyes and cheeks, and the heaviness of her look, were com-
pletely those of a person wakening out of sleep. Before
she appeared to waken, Mr. C. asked her some questions,
which she answered; and, while the conversation proceeded,
she became gradually, as it appeared, quite awake. Mr.
C. declared her to have been asleep, and her first answers,
to have been given by her in ma~netic sleep. He augut"ed
from this that in time lucidity m1ght be manifested.
"May 17th, carried Mr. C. again to --, where be
proceeded to mesmerise the bystel'ical girl, Mary P. He
said that, to his mind, it was clear that the paroxysm of
yesterday was the effect of mesmerism; and he was inclined
to think that, should another be brought on today, it would
be slighter. He looked upon this patient as the most sus-
ceptible he had yet met with in London. She was much
calmer to-day on coming into the room than yesterday: her
pulse was 130. She presently closed he•· eyes, and her head
went from side to side, as that of a person asleep; and I
felt satisfied that she was so. In a few minutes convulsive
moti.cns began, and continued near an hour. Dr.--
said that her convulsions were generally preceded by a
short drowsiness and insensibility. At length the convul-
sions became very violent, and Mr. C. again and again
attempted, in vain, to tranquillize her, to calm her arms,
No,366.-No. 40, NtW 8trits. ~ 1'
··Digitized by Coogle
818 ORWlNAL PAPERS.
legs, &c.; and we thought it prudent to stop the process.
She was carri~ to her bed, strapp~ down upon it, and in
about five mmutes she returned to herself, and became
calm.•
"Mr. C. then mesmerised Emma W. In about the same
time as yesterday ~;be looked asleep; her hands, wben
raised, dropped as before; and Mr. C. signified that be
thought her to be asleep. She remained so for ten minutes.
·Mr.. C. proceeding as he expected her to answer him in
that state. When be addressed her, however, she spoke as
if awake, and assured ns that she bad not been asleep.
either to-day or yesterday; contrary to Mr. C.'s expecta-
tion. She said that both times she felt drowsy. He then
mesmerised her arm, with the intention. as he said, of pat'8-
lysing it. She said it pained her. After a few transverse
passes, she said the pain was gone. The same effects wea-e '
produced. and by the same means, on her head. He then
placed a piece of paper (as related in a formea· article) on
one ofher arms, and desired her to raise them both. She
felt some difficulty in raisin~ that on which he had put the
paper. When she had walked about half-way across the
room to go away, he darted his bands violently towards her
feet. No effect ensued. Mr. C. said that be had often
arrested the progress of his mesmeric patients, and rendered
them motionless, by a similar process.
"May 18th.-'fhe chorea girl, who had felt her bead
successively light and heavy on a former day, bad com·
menced menstruating this morning, though she bad not
done so for several months. Three more female patients
were submitted to the process, but wirb no apparent result.
"A fourth patient was now seated in the chair. She ex-
hibited no apprehension of any kind, but was talking very
cheerfully to me. Mr. C., without saying one word to her.
began his manipulations, at the distance of half a foot, but
did not touch her. In about one minute she said, in a
plaintive voice, " Sir, don't do that;" and seemed in grt>at
aistress. She afterwards told us that Mr. C. drew weakness
• My opinion npon this patit>nt is, that both the.e paroxyamw Wt're inducl'cl
by mesmerism. 1 ban ~tenerally 1een, too, tbat the intcnally ofauch attacks
diminilhea each time, while the ratit>nt ia undergoing the procee.•. A girl,
aged teo, ba•l t-lrvrn tit1 the firh day I mesmerued ht'f, all, from first to le~t,
decreaiing in violence and duration. The second day abe bud thrltt', aud
aner after any. Had tbe patient, whoae cue is here· retlte• by Dr. Elliotson,
been miae, I woald not have pcnnith,d any oDe to touch her, but wwld hue
continued the opt>ration that day, and afterwards. Penons unacquainted
with lbe ntraordin •ry t-tfect. of mesmerism may, however. well be alaru1ed
at them; amclthe prudence oftheae gentlemen was highly commendablt'.
1
Digitized by Coogle
Mr. Chenevix on Mesmerism. ' 319
into her, and made her feel faint.. She complained of pain
in the abdomen. Mr) C. moved his hands transversely
before it, and she said the pain was gone. (Shehad felt a
1dight pain there before \Ve saw her.) She then complained
of great uneasines." in her chest; and after some transverse
movementsi made by Mr. C. witb the intention of removing
it, she dec ared it was gone. The pain in the. abdomeu
returned and ceased, as before, by the manipulations of
Mr. C. Mr. C. then darted his open hand towards one arm,
without touching it, and told her to raise both arms. She
scarcely could move that which he bad thus mesmerised.
He then made some transverse passes before it: she atonce
moved it, and declared the stiffness and uneasiness to be
gone. The same was repeated with the other arm, and
with the same etfect. He told her to lift her feet: she did
so with pertect ease. He then darted his hand toward one
leg, and she stared with astonishment at finding that she
could not stir it without the greatest difficulty. He then
made some transverse passes, when she instantly r11ised it,
and said there was neither pain nor stiffness in it. He then
closed her eyes, and put a very small piece of paper, weigh-
ing perhaps one grain, on her foot, in such manner that it
was utterly . impossible she could perceive it: she could
scarcely mo\·e that foot. The paper was removed in the
same manner, and without her knowin~ it: she could in-
stantly raise her foot. She now complaaned of pain about
the heart: Mr. C. demesmerised her, and she said it was
gone. In all tbeYe experiments, Mr. C. bad most clearly
announced to me, in French, what his intentions were; and
the effects coincided so accurately with those intentions that
1 confess 1 was astonished. Deception was impossible.
Mr. C. looked round at me, and asked, in F'rench, if I was
satisfied. 1 really felt ashamed to say no, and yet I could
scarcely credit my senses e~ough to say yes. I remained
silent. H~ then asked me, still in a language unintelligible
to the patient,·' Shall I bring back a pain or disable a limb
tOr you once more?' I, ofcourse, requested that he would
do so. He complied instantly, giving her a pain in the
chest once, and disabling her several times from moving
her Jimbs, and removing those etfects at pleasure, according
to the intentions which be announced to me; the whole
taking place exactly as it had done in every former trial on
this woman. As, however, she began to feel faint a.nd
uneomfortable, Mr. C. judged it prudent to desist; assuring
me ,tbat such experiments as these should never be repeated,
but with moderation, and only by experienced mesmerisers.
Digitized by Coogle
ORIGINAL PAPERS,
."On questioning this woman a few days after Mr. c. had
produced such decided effect~ upon her, respecting what had
occurred, she declared that he had disabled first one limb,
then another, and restored their use, exactly as appeared
to be the case; that she never bad felt any thing like it in
her life before; that, though she had not slept during the
operation, she had felt very drowsy; that she had not been
at all af~id; but, said she, ' I hope never to see that
doctor again, as 1 am sure he has something to do with the
devil.'
. "On May 20, I witnessed some experiments on another
patient, at .Mr. C.'s lodging, in company with Dr.Wright;
but the results were not satisfactory."
Here ends Dr. Elliotson's narrative.
The persons who have given up the most time and atten-
tion to such mesmeric experiments as I could make in
London, were Drs. Whymper and Elliotson, with Mr.
Smith; and they, too, have witnessed the most extraordi-
nary phenomena. Other persons saw but one or two trials,
and with five to one against success, that number is small.
I will, however, conclude the subject by summing up and
discussing the evidence of all; for, like every other evi-
dence, this must be appreciated not piecemeal, but in toto.
Confining myself to the experiments made in I,ondon ;
admitting five failures to one success; bearing in mind that
one positive experiment can do more to support a fact ttfan
ten negative experiments can do to subvert it; that "plus
valet onus affirmans quam mil1e negantes ;" I proceed to
say that I can quote, as witnesses to the mere fact ofsleep,
the Marquess of Lansdowne, Dr. Babington, jun. Drs.
Elliotson, Hargood, Holland, Milligan, Prout, Whymper,
\Vilmot, Wright, Messrs. Brodie, Smith, Bagnold; as
witnesses of other effects, Drs. Elliotson, Milligan, Whym.
per, Mess.rs. Earle and Riadore Smith: fifteen most cre-
dible men, or thel'e al'e none in the world. These credible
and highly enlightened men, then, admit the facts which
they saw; but, as is very natural on so novel a subject, ex-
plain them by various theories. Dr. Prout, who is not
pt'epared to admit that my action upon Sarah H. was the
cause of her sleep, or to believe in mesmerism, is ~et at a
loss to know to what other agent but me, he can ascrtbe that
sleep. Mr. Brodie explains it as he does giddiness by a
rotatory moti9n, or sleep produced by rocking a ·child.
f.,ord Lansdowne and Dr. Holland attribute it decidedly to
me, but deny the existence of any new agency. Da·. Hargood
Digitized by Coogle
Mr. Chenevix on Jt.lesmerism. 321
attributes all to the imagination of the patient, influenced
by me. Dr. Milligan, struck by the promptness of the
effect, admits that be cannot explain it by any of the usual
modes which produce sleep, but inclines to admit a peculiar
influence exercised by me. Mr. Evans Riadore was not
very remote from a similar opinion. Mr. Earle, ~iving
ample and able testimony of facts, is more a be1iever m the
operation of the /atient's mind than of my mesmerism.
Drs. Whymper an .Elliotson, and Mr. Smith, attempt no
explanation; but the facts which they saw need no com-
ment; for it is absolutely impossible to explain them by any
known agency. It will be sufficient, then, to prove that
these effects are inexplicable by any of the hypotheses ad-
vanced by the persons above quoted, in order to prove that
what they saw is also inexplicable by their hypotheses.
Imagination shalL·be first discu~;sed.
Imagination cannot act in conformity with the expecta-
tions of the operator, unless it has been previously told
what is expected from it. Now, ~en admitting the minds
ofGarrand and Gould, in the Coldstream Guarils hospital;
of the woman at St. Bartholomew's hospital ; of the
woman whose case has been just stated by Dr. Elliotson, to
have been prepared for some result, still it was impossible
fGr these patients to ~uess t11hat ·my intention was in each
experiment. Yet thear sensations, by the fair avowal of
Dr. 'Whymper and Mr. Smith, of Mr. Earle, and of Dr.
Elliotson, most accurately corresponded with the intentions
which I had previously announced each time. All these
witnesses, too, strictly watchful to prevent deception or
collusion, confess that nothing of the kind could be: for,
till the minute of trial, I had never seen any of these pa-
tients; had not, for twenty years, been in any of the hospi-
tals where I operated; and could not know what persons
would be selected for trial, since the physicians themselves
did not know whom they would choose. Imagination, then,
cannot be admitted as the agent by which these effects were
produced. Should a patient as often divine the operator's
will as occurred in these experiments, the wonder would be
as great as if the coincidence resulted from a new agency;
for his mind must, indeed, be endowed with supernatural
sagacity.
Mr. Brodie saw but one experiment and one result, sleep;
the least interesting and the least convincing of any. But
let him admit the evidence of Messrs. Earle and Smith, of
Drs. Whymper und Elliotson, (and surely we must some-
times credit each other's testimony;) let him connect their
Digitized by Coogle
ORIGINAL PAPERS.
facts with his facts, as proceeding froiD one cause. How
will he explain thia truth: that, at my will, whichever
limb I pleased, of a woman whom I had never beheld till
that moment,'was deprived ofmotion and restored to motion
instantly, without my ~iving that woman any intimation of
what my will was r 'I hat 1 gave her pains, and took painSo
away from her, as I pleased, she being ignorant of my in-
tention? That Garrand was almost nailed to his chair by
the same means l That Gould was wakened from profound
sleep by transverse paBSes made behind his back, unknown
to btm ? The rockmg of a cradle could not do all this.
Mr. Brodie diffidently says," With such information as I
at this moment posses8, &e." Most heartily do I regret
that his occupations did not permit him to follow up .the
subjeet more particularly ; for no testimony can be of
higher value than his. Had he seen the .experiments here
alluded to, his rationale of the facta would have been very
different.
Upon the whole, sufficient time could hardly be allotted ·
by any of the persons here named to these re~~earches; and
they were attempted under great disadvantages from that
circumstance.• Things which are so directly opposite to
current opinions should be witnessed more than ouce before
they are judged. Could these phenomena be infallib}y
produced at will, and before an unlimited number of wit-
nesses, the question would be decided at once. Sentence
might long since have been pronounced upon a public
theatre. But they are too delicate for common exhibition.
· To combat all evidence on a subject which seems so
marvellous, to destroy tbe value of every testimony, they
who think that no man can see but themselves, adduce the
many errors and impostures which have gained evidence in
the world for a time, and tben have been exploded. They
appeal to the fables of antiquity, to the superstitions of
Mahomet, to the savoges of Africa. But can any man of
good faith compare the principles and conduct of mesme~
risers with those l The ancients knew not "hat the dilfu.
sion of knowledge was, and science was a secret of priest-
craft. Mahomet founded an empire and a sect, and these
two great prizes of his ambition rewarded the lies and
devastation which his military apostles spread through the
world. Savages, at all times, were the easy dupes of su-
perstitious credulity. But the partizans ot' mesmerism,
~
• It is imposaible to give an rlementary co11ne of mumeriam iu these arti·
cleo; hut the " lnatmctioas Pratiq11es,'' by M. DBt.zun, in ODe amall 'fol.
llvo., more thao eUJtply ey~ry deficieucy.
Digitized by Coogle
Mr. Chencvix on !tfesmerism. 823
stimulated by no interest but truth, appeal not to an igno-
rant multitude, easy to deceive or to fanaticise; but to men
of science and genius, scrutinizera of nature, ponderers
upon her works. Would the author of the "Mecanique
t:eleste,'' which not fifty men living can comprehend, con-
descend to lay his opinions bare to umpires so much his
inferiors as they would be, whom mesmerism could this day
deceive~ Would all the learned disciples of this art in
Europe give up their bone"t fame for the reputation of im-
postors? Some antagonists avail themselves of the distte:.
dit into which Mesmer fell by his own doctrines. But this
is a fallacious mode of reasoning; for, if his doctrines are
true, Mesmer is absolved fl'om this imputation. Mesmer
was, indeed, declared to be the greatest mountebank of the
last century; but by whom? by the greatest mountebank of
. modern history, Bonaparte. That Mesmer was disinte-
rested, a profound philosopher, an original discoverer,
• cannot, indeed, be supported by the history of his life: his
rapacity was excessive; his injustice, in not sutllciently ac-
knowledging the prior claims of Maxwell, Greatreakes,
Ga!!Sner, &.c. was extreme; his own title to the doctrineil
which he taught was small. But those doctrines are inde-
pendent of his talent or his veracity: they stand upon their
own merits; they have been p1·oved by thousands; and, if
·rus name has here been affixed to tb'em, it is the hope that
the appellation of animal magnetism, now deemed to con-
vey an erroneous notion of this agent, may be discarded.
How strangely must they estimate nature, bow highly
must they value themselves, who deny the possibility ofany
cause, of any effect, merely because it is incomprehensible i
For, in fact, what do men comprehend? Of what do they
know the causes? When Newton said that gravitation
held the world together, did he assign the reason. why the
heavenly bodit>s do not fly off from each other into infinite
space? He did but teach a word; and that word ha11
gained admittance, as it were, surreptitiously amid causes,
even in the minds of the most enlightened, insomuch that
to doubt it now were a proof of ignorance and folly.
Let an untutored Indian bear, tor the first time, that the
moon, which rolls above his head, is suspended there by the
power of gravitation; that she obeys the influence ofevery
little speck which his eye can discern in the firmament; of
orbs placed beyond them again, but invisible to us, because
their light has not yet reached our globe; that the earth
cannot be shaken, and the shock not communicated through
the whole l:lystem of the universe; that e\·ery pebble under
Digitized by Coogle
ORIGINAL PAPERS.
his feet as virtually rulru~ the motions of Saturn as the sun
can do. Let him then be told that one sentient being,
placed in the vicinity of another sentient being, can, by a
certain action of hts nervous systt>m, produce the daily
phenomenon, sleep, and the rarer one, somnambulism; and
which of these lessons would be be the most prompt to
credit? Certainty not that which inculcates an impalpable
action and reaction between infinite masses, separated by
infinite distances. The pride of learning, the arrogance of
erudition, deem it ig~oble to believe what they cannot ex-
plain; while simple instinct, struck with awe by evt-ry
thing, is equally open to credit what it cannot a!l what it
can comprehend, and admits no scholastic degrees of mar-
vellousness.
Whatever explanation be given of mesmeric phenomena
by those who have seen them once, or by those who have
seen them repeatedly, still the tacts remaip the same; and
these are the truly precious parts of every science. If me-
dical men assert that the alleged cur~ of mesmerism are
performed by the mind, and that this is the peculiar pro-
vince of imaginative therapeutics, do they not culpably
neglect the most powerful agent of mental medicine, ifthey
do not practise mesmerism? If imagination can cure, and
if this be its most energetic exciter, then excite it ·thus;
cure by imagination, and the sick will bless you. If the
cause be analogous to a rotatory or a rocking motion, then
whirl or rock your patients into sleep and health. If it be
a new agency, find it out, and prove it by experiment.
Many of the persons named in these articles have promised
to put it to this test. I here summon them to fulfil that
promi!!e, and to fulfil it speedily. The interest of science
demands .it, whether it be to establit>h a truth, to subvert an
error, or to detect an imposture. A)l my hope is that ere
long the public may hear from them and others, that "mes-
merism is true"-or false. ·
Digitized by Coogle
