{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1829__du_commun___three_lectures_on_animal_magnetism.pdf","mytitle":"Three Lectures On Animal Magnetism","mylang":"de"}
THREE LECTURES
ON
AS DELIVERED
m·:tmW-YOBK, AT THE HALL 01' SC!ll!fCE,
On the 26th of July, 2d and 9th of August,
BY
~
DR.. JOSJlPH DU COMMUN,
:l!J) TEACHER OF FRENCH AT TilE U. S. :'tliLITARY ACADEMY,
"WEST-POINT.
2~~( 0~
.f!,ew::~ot•ft:
SOLD BY
ll:ElL\RD & .l\IONDON, No.3, COURTLAND-STREET.
G.&, C. & H. CARVILL, No.I03, BROADWA \·.
•\ND AT TI-lE OFFICE OF THE HALL OF SCIENCE,
llROOl\IE.STREET, NEAR BOWERY.
PRINTED BY JOSEPH DESNOUES,
~3, PROVOST-STREET.
1829.
TO
MISS FRANCES WB.IGJI'l',
FOUNDER OF NASHOBA AND OTHER USEFUL ES'l'ABLISHJ\IENTS,
.lUadam,
P crmz't me to present you with these lectu'fes ; a fcel-
l:ng similar to yours has dictated them-Philanthropy.
I have the honour to be, with the greatest 1·espect, and
the highest admiration for your talents, di$interestednes~
and courage,
Madam,
Your very humble and
obedient servant,
JOSEPI-1 D U COJJ1.:':YJU.N.
.!
DISCOVERY AND HISTORY.
GENTLEMEN,
LADIES,
THE purpose of this meeting is to present t~
your consideration a subject of vital importance
to human happiness and life, and one which has
given rise in Europe to vivid controversies in the
learned world; this subject is ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
I am confident that many among my hearers have
scarcely heard the uame pronounced; some may
have attached to it an unfavourable idea derived
from hostile publications; a few may wish to hear
more of a subject that may have excited theit·
curiosity, and a still smaller number friendly to
this discovery, will encourage by their presence
and support my exertions on this occasion. Jt is
then before an audience thus constituted that I
present myself with a due feeling of diffidence in
FIR S'l' LECTURE.
my own power3. A citizen of this happy country,
not by birth, but from choice, hardly able to com-
mand enough of the language to express plainly
and clearly my ideas, if I have to reque~t your
impartiality for the subject, I have at the same
time to beg your indulgence for the manner in
which it is treated.
About the year 1778, a German physician,
1\1ESI\IER, in his practice for the cure of several
sorts,of diseases, made use of magnetic iron bars,
or Tractors; this extraordinary genius one day, not
having at hand the magnetic Tractors, imagined
to substitute for them simple iron bars; to his
own astonishment he produced the same effect.
Struck with this unP.xpccted result, he substituted
for iron other metals-silver, gold, &c., and he
obtained constantly the same effect. Then, tak-
ing objects of a different nature with the same
intention, he finally came to use merely his own
hands. He mnde attempts; renewed them, and
succeeded in producing again the same pheno-
mena. He then recognised in man the power of
acting on the organs of another man, by means
which depend on the will of him who employs
then1. From that moment AnimallVlagnetism was
discovered, and the discovery received that
strange name in opposition to 1nineral magnetism,
or to the property of the loadstone, of which it
seemed to be but the substitute.
The manner this discovery was made, led to
the disadvantageous circumstance, that many cr~
DISCOVERY AND HISTORY.
rors were mingled, blended with a primitive truth.
Mesmer imagined he had made the discovery of
a universal fluid spread throughout, and generally
diffused in nature; a universal agent which, being
directed by the means he had adopted, would
cure all kiuds of diseases. Repulsed from his na-
tive country by those whose interests he .wounded,
he came to Paris about the year J78.1. The cures
he operated astonished those who witnessed them;
they soon excited a general enthusiasm. He made
pupils. A hundred of them paid him each a hun-
dred Louis d'or to purchase his secret. Some
have blamed Mesmer for having received money
to communicate his secret, some have excused
him on the score that a Physician has the right to
receive fees. However, a circumstance remark-
able in this transaction is that not a single pu-
pil reproached him with having imposed upon
their credulity. There was among the pupils
a very talented man, then first physician of a
French prince now the reigning king of France,
CHAnLES X. This physician, Dr. D'Eslon, adopted
the principles of Mesmer; formed a large appa-
ratus, called Magnetic Tub, according to the opi-
nion of a universal fluid, in order to accumulate
and concentrate it, and opened a public trcat-
Inent. Public attention being drawn to this sub-
ject, the French government thought it proper to
submit Magnetism to the judgment of the Aca-
demy of Sciences and of the Faculty of l\1c-
dicine.
s FIRST LECTURE.
Commissaries of these companies were appoint-
ed to examine the new doctrine. They were en·
lightened and upright men, but so much preju·
diced against Magnetism that they refused to call
on Mesmer; they went to D'Eslon's public treat·
ment; there they made experiments on the Mag-
netic Tub, in the same manner as they would have
done to verify phenomena of mineral magnetism
and electricity; they consequently produced no
effects, since tl10se effects could merely depend
upon their will; and, without having even heard
or seen the inventor, Mesmer, they declared that
lYiagnetism was nothing.
I cannot pass over in silence at this mon1ent a
circumstance most unfavourable in the United
States to the cause of this discovery. Benjamin
Franklin, the great Franklin, the honour of this
country and the friend of France, was, on account
of his great popularity and his known merit as a
philosopher, appointed, by the king of France,
one of the commissaries, and he signed in that
capacity the fatal report. To this unfortunate
circumstance we must probably ascribe the diffi..
culty this discovery has met with to find its way
among you. Indeed his signature seemed to be
a deadly stroke. Still when we consider how it
was obtained its effects on our opinion must be
modified. Franklin was sick; he did not attend
to any experiment. Oh! if he had, things had
·been very different! They presented the report,
to which he put his name while in .his bed, Ia·
DISCOVERY AND HISTORY. 9
bouring under acute pains. All that we can infer
then from the case is that Franklin had a strong
prejudice against lVIagnetism. I shall not expa-
tiate any more on that point, but leave to Frank-
lin himself to apologize in his own words, here
extracted from his private memoirs:
" We sometimes embrace an opinion which we
'' think correct, but upon maturer reflection we
" change it for the very reverse."
A name should be recorded here-that of pro·
fessor de J ussieu. Being one of the commissaries
of the Royal Society of Medicine, he had the
courage to refuse to join his signature to theirs,
and published a particular report, remarkable fot·
its philosophical "'iews in £'1vor of the discovery.
No sooner had the reports of the commissaries
been published than Magnetism, its author and
propagators were delivered up to public animad..
version ; insult and ridicule were not spared.
Pamphiets against it were multiplied to an incal-
('.ulable number, under every form, with answers,
replies, counter-replies, &c. The theatre, taking
possession of it, ridiculed Mesmer and his fol-
lowers. The faculty of Medicine prohibited its
tnembers to make use of a means they had pro~
scribed, and, adding proscription and persecution
to injustice, they dismissed from their number
those who would not adhere to their prohibition.
In the mean time, the pupils of Mesmer conti-
nued their operations; they performed cures, at-
tended with crisis~ convulsions, sleep, which were
2
10 FIRST LECTURE .
the only tl1ings the public obserred; the most im-
portant phenomenon had escaped the observation
of l\iesmer himself.
It was the good fortune of one amongst them to
1nake first the important observation. DE PuvsE-
cuR, a man of high birth and of a large fortune,
having by chance addressed a patient wh01n he
had just put to sleep, this one answerec..l, warned
him of the state in which he was, and of the pos...
sibility of producing a similar effect on others.
So was Magnetic Somnambulism discovered. It
soon attracted the attention of Magnetisors, and
the astonishment it excited, redoubled their zeal
and activity.
A new era begins here. From this moment the
practice of .!Vlagnetism spread more universally,
and phenomena the most extraordinary in their re-
sults were observed by those who were willing to
open their eyes. Societies of l\1agnetisors were
formed in several parts of France, Germany, and
even in the \Vest Indies, as much by the care of
De Puysegur and his brothers, as by the exertions
of Mesmer's other pupils and their own pupils, for
in their turn, they had made many proselytes. If
a man may be allowed to speak of himself ou
such an occasiou, I must declare here that I con-
sider myself as a pupil of De Puysegur; in that
capacity, I beg leave to pay him the tribute of
respect and regret that his memory deserves.
The most proper way to praise De Puysegur,
is to relate faithful1y what he has done, and to re-
late it, is to continue the history of l\1agnetism.
DISCOVERY AND HISTORY. 11
After having contributed to the formation of
societies in Bayonne, Lyons, Strasbourg, and se-
veral other cities of France, under the name of
Society of Harmony, a name which, in these
walls, must re-echo from the cars to the hearts of
my hearers; after ha\'ing carried the new benefi-
cent theory to the French colonies; after having
changed all the officers of the regiment he com-
manded into as many Magnctisors, the dawn of
the French revolution having made its appear-
ance, the ~1arquis De Puysegur, adopting its
principles, retired into Busancy, one of his estates,
to consecrate all his for·tune and time to the relief
of the sick and poor, he opened there a public
and gratuitous treatment on the l\·fesmerian prin-
ciple of a universal fluid, but modified according
to his own ideas. A large tree, as an organised
body, spreading its branches in the air, and its
roots under ground, seemed to him a 1nore proper
apparatus, to accumulate a wholesome fluid, than
the tub at that time in use. l-Ie obtained by these
means the power of magnetising se\'eral persons
at the same time; of being even supplied during
his absence, which was frequent, to attend dis-
tant or disabled patients. Neiiher the attacks
made in the newspapers, neither the ridicule
la\'ished on the stage upon his exertions, nor the
rccriminatious of the physiciaus~ were able to ·
cheek him in the course of beneficence he was
determined to iollow.
Indeed it had been one of the deplorable re-
,:;ults oft he publication of the reports, to put as it
12 FIRS'f LECTURE.
\\"ere at war the magnetisors and the physicians
as a constituted body; I say a constitut<><l body,
for many of them acknowledged the reality and
advantages of 1\fagnetism in the cure of diseases;
made use of it in spite of the prohibition of their
faculty, and even suffered their names to be
erased from the list of their corps. But a war,
whether waged with the sword or with the pen,
presents constantly the hideous spectacle of vio-
lence, injustice, hatred and venge~nce. Each
party would annihilate the opposite party, and
all means seemed good. The physicians scorned
and rejected Magnetism; the magnetisors, raising
altar against altar, endeavoured to make them-
selves independant of Hippocratic medicine. The
physicians, after having declared that Magnetism
was nothing, said it was a dangerous thing, and
dissuaded their patients from the use of it; the
magnetisors, to retort the argument and prove
the contrary, would sometimes take the patients
· the physicians had abandonned, and cure them.
The physicians attacked then the magnetisors
as quacks, and law-suits were instituted against
them; the magnetisors had E'everal consultations
made upon the same patient, and exposed pub-
licly the physicians that had given for the same
disease-contrary opinions. But let us draw a
Yeil on these shameful transactions; if they be-
long to the history of Magnetism, they have no-
thing in common with Magnetism itself.
·'Vars still more extensive and dangerous than
tlus put a stop to it-1 mean here the wars of the
DISCOVERY AND HISTORY. 13
French revolution. At this period the several
societies of 1-Iarmony were dissolved; their mem-
bers uisseminate<l; public treatments shut up; par-
ticular ones, if any, unobserved. It seemed that
Magnetism, that long folly, was finally forgotten.
Fifteen years after this apparent defection,
Magneti8m sprung up again, stronger than ever,
time and political interests had quelled the pas-
~ions and dissentions ; it hail been practised in
silence, and its effects observed with a philoso-
phical eye. The indefatigable De Puyscgur, came
forward, in 1806, 1807 and 1809, with three ''o-
Jumes of his personal observations. These works
had a great influence; they were followed by
more than 30 volumes, which c~ntain incontest-
able proofs of magnetism: an innumerable num-
ber of witnesses attest the effects. De Puysegur
was the first to expose the phenomena of Som-
nambulism and consequently the first who esta-
blished the doctrine on a solid foundation. A
1nultitude ef observations have confirmed his prin-
ciples, and made known the results; the end and
means have been indicated.
Then l\1r. Deleuze, now living, a professor at
the Royal Garden of Plants, gave his Critical His-
tor.!/ uf Jilagnetism, a work distinguished for its me-
thodical exposition of principles, its logical de-
ductions, and its great moderation. I akpo,dedgc
the obligations I owe it for the present historical
sketch. The works of De Puysegur and Deleuze
should be in the hands of all those who take an
14 FIRST LECTURE.
interest in the science: they may make up for all
others, and the others cannot supply them.
Now from every part of France publications
were daily made, on cures operated by this agent,
the necessity of a periodical work to record the
facts was felt; a regular journal, under the name
of .!lnnals of JJlagnctism, made its appearance in
1314. It was my good fortune to have a share
in it, and contribute my mite to the articles fur-
nished by magnetisors who publicly acknowledge
and practise l.VIagnctism.
Soon after, the _l\llagnetisors, feeling the neces-
sity of forming a corps-a body to be able to
stand against the attacks of their adrersaries~
united into a regular society, to communicate
their observations to each other, give and recei,·e
advice, and co1lect more light and information on
the favourite subject. They continued the annals,
under the title of Library of .!lnimal JJ1agnetism, up
to the year 1819. That collection presents a
mass of facts well attested, of obsen·ations and
experiments made with a scrupulous attention, of
researches on antiquity, most interesting and in-
8tructivc. I will freely extract from it what I may
think worthy of your attention in the following
lectures.
So far I have spoken on]y of what has passed
in France with respect to Magnetism, as if it had
been confined to that country by its Jimits. True
it is that France claims the honour of ha,·ino-
~
~heltcred Mesmer persecuted in his own countn·:
·'
DISCOVERY AND HISTORY. 1~
alHl it claim~ at the same time the honour of ha\'..
ing added a discover·y equally important to that
of Mesmer-Magnetic Somnambulism, obser\'eu
first by De Puysegur; still France di<l not con-
fine the discovery in its limits; it spread back to
Germany, f1·om whence it of'iginated, with a great
ardour. Societies were formed in imitation of
those of France, and learned men, such as pro-
fessor Von Eschenmayer, Doctor l\1uck Plugge,
Prince ~ohenlohe, l\1 r. \Volfart, and many others,
having examined the facts, and having called
public attention upon those facts, the reigning
transcendant philosophy being more fit to gi,·e
the explanation of l\1agnetic phenomena, they
lla\·e explained according to that philosophy the
most important and difficult questions. Have they
not proceeded too far, and is there not more dan-
ger than advantage in tbe association of Mag-
netism with mystic doctrines?
In Russia, l\1agnetism has been introduced and
cultivated by many German and French physi-
cians. Dr. Brosse, a Russian physician, at Riga,
professor Reiss at Moscow, Dr. Litchtcn~taedt at
St. Petersburg ha\'e sent to the society at Paris
many interesting communications.
It is to be observed that the Prussian and Ba,·a-
rian go,·ernments, have judged proper to resen·c
the practice of Magnetism to physicians. How
strange, how inconsistent! The same body of
pbysicians who called the invention a folly, and
the inventor a crazy, vision:u·y man, requested
1G FIRST LECTURE.
the authority of the country to grant them the ex·.
elusive use of his discovery. Some good has been
dcri,·ed fl'om that bad measure, Chains of Mag..
nctism have been instituted in colleges of medi-
cine, and it is not permitted a physician to be
ignorant of it.
They have done more in Austria. In 1816,
Magnetism was proscribed altogether. The effect
of persecution is well known; it increases the
zeal and devotion of the adepts. Magnetism was
secretly used. How can authority interfere in an
act that may be performed secretly between two
individuals ? Physicians, themselves, disguised
l\1agnetism under the form of electric or Galvanic
treatments. That of l\'lr. Soherr of Vienna, a well
know·n one, and renowned for its numerous at-
tendants, was in appearance a compendium of
Mesmet·'s tub, Volta's pile, and Franklin's light-
ning-rod.
, At Stockholm, in Sweden, the society of Inag-
netisors assumed the title of Exegetic and Phi-
lanthropic Society. They performed wonders, an<l
they thought they wrought miracles. They en-
tirely separated themselves frmn the body of phi-
losophers, and are persunded they have entered
into communication with supernatural beings. 'Ve
will speak of thcit· theory with some details in
our third lecture.
In Italy and Spain the progress of l\'lagnetistn
has been slow; the practice of it could not be
,,..ithout danger, on account of the I-Ioly Inqui~i-
DISCOVERY AND HISTORY. 17
tion; I am indebted for this observation to Major
Boado of the Spanish corps of engineers, an ex-
cellent magnetisor himself.
But the wonder of all wonders, more astonish-
jog to me than the very Magnetism is that it is
almost unknown in England. \Vhat under hea-
vens prevents its introduction there, a free and
enlightened country? are they all fools in Europe,
with the exception of the English? or will they
punish Magnetism for not having sought an asy-
lum among them? The support of the learned of
that country would be of great weight in this dis-
cussion. Nothing should be neglected to obtain
it, and, by turning over and over all the publica-
tions I possess on this subject, to find something
frotn England, I have finally put my hands upon
a work on Animal l\1agnetism, by Mr·. Baldwin
Ex-Consul of England at Alexandria, in Egypt;
translated into FreHch by Count Lepelletier d'Au-
nay. The preface is curious, it is the explanation
of what we are lookin~ for, why l\1agnetism has
not been introduced into England. I beg leave
to translate back into English that preface, at
the hazard of not doing justice to the style of
Mr. Baldwin: the interest for the subject will re-
deem the faults of the elocution. The preface ot'
the author, according to our translation, will then
run thus:
" \Vhen I returned to England in 1801, after
having resided as consul many years in Egypt, I
imparted to some frjends the resolution I had
3
]8 FIRST LECTURE.
taken, to communicate to my countrymen the ef-
fects I had produced on several persons by the
means of Animall\1agnetism, most of my friends
endeavoured to dissuade me from it. ' You will ex-
pose yourself,' said they, ' to public derision. There
is £n England aprejudice so strongly pronounced against
JJ1agnetism, that it will be impossible for you to sw·-
mount £t.' Feigning to yield to that ad~ice, I re-
mained quiet, and took the course of following, in
appearance, the torrent of indifference and incre-
dulity of the learned men of my country for this
important discovery. I took advantage of that
time to mature my ideas by reflection. I have
}Jarticularly sought for the reason, not only of the
repugnance, but of the fear they have for Animal
Magnetism. I think I have found it, and this is
what gives me at this moment the courage to sub-
mit to the whole world the examination of this
great truth." The author has found it, he says,
but he does not say what it is, he leaves to the
sagacity of his readers to guess at it. I then read
his book with a great deal of attention, to find it
out, thinking that it must be implicitly contained
in it, and, as I saw the writer endeavour to re-
concile Magnetism with the Holy Scriptures, I
supposed that he was afraid to gire offence to the
Church of England.
'Vhen I turn my looks upon my gentle au-
dience, when I enquire from them, why they have
come here to hear me treating of 1\llagnetism, and
why they ar(' not as well informed on this subject
DISCOVERY AND HISTORY. 19
us I may be myself, it seems to me that one among
them rises and says : '~Sir, although we are not
English, and consequently are not ruled by an ex-
clusive Church, that can proscribe what they dread
with or without foundation, still we all of us or
at least most of us speak but that language, all
our knowl~dge, science, information and opinions
come from or through England." ...
Yes, Gentlemen, I see what an almost insuper-
able barrier difference of language puts between
nations. 'Vith the greatest reasons to love and
esteem each other, the French and the American
are still strangers in many respects. They are
brothers of different mothers, of different tongues.
Let us try to conquer that difficulty; let us come
more and more in contact with each other; I
doubt not that we will find additional reasons to
be inseparable friends. For my part I will neg-
lect nothing in my power to bring about that
most wished for result; in particular with respect
to the interesting subject which at this moment
attracts your attention.
However, Gentlemen, do not think Animal Mag-
netism entirely neglected in the United States.
On my arrival in 181.5, I called two other per-
sons, whom I knew in Europe as having practised
the new science; we united in a society, of which
they honoured me with the title of president, and
we increased our number, which at this moment
is about 12; among which there are two doctors
of mellicine. This society of magnctisors, small
20 FIRST LECTURE.
as it is, has already diffused among the public
some knowledge of its object and of its useful-
ness. Cures have been performed, often without
even mentioning the name ofthe agency put in use.
Let us now cast a last look upon France, to
ascertain what is there the actual state of Mag-
netism: we will see that the war between the fol-
lowers of Hippocrates and those of Mesmer is at
an end. Doctors and magnetisors go hand in
hand. They have united in their exertions: mag-
netisors are willing to give their assistance to
physicians; doctors of medicine do not make ob-
jection to consult with somnambulists. What do
I say? they magnetise themselves and they pub-
lish their observations, in conjunction with other
magnetisors, in a journal of Magnetism, known by
the name of Flermes. There are curious articles
in this publication: the quarrel about magnetism
now is in the Faculty of medicine itself, between
the doctors of the old school and those of the ne'v
one. As there is all probability the oldest will
leave the ground the first, Death, according to
Mr. Dupin's expression, will bring the victory on
the liberal side.
Another circumstance will hasten the final suc-
cess of magnetism upon prejutlice and resistance.
Doctor n~Eslon, the first pupil of Mesmer, was
physician of the French prince who now is the
r~igning king, Charles X, as I have already men-
honed at the beginning of this discourse. The
prince must have been offended at the insults his
DISCOVERY AND HISTORY. 21
first physician had to endure on the occasion,
and it may be concluded that the doctor suc-
ceeded in convincing him of the reality of mag-
netism, of which he was himself so fully con-
vinced. An additional reason 1or me to believe
it, is that in 1814, at the first return of the royal
family, I presented to the prince the three first
volumes of our annals; the prince with a smile of
satisfaction saiJ: " Do they still practise mag-
netism in Paris? " "Yes, my lord, answered I,
D'Eslon has found successors." "I am very glad
of it," added he, " I will read your book with
interest."
The king has ordered a revision of the reports
of the first commissaries, and has ordered the fa-
culty to appoint new ones and make a new and
impartial examination of the subject so long in
litigation before the public. 'Ve have all reason
to hope that the new report will reinstate mag-
netism in all its due honours and privileges.
But then, my dear hearers, let me close this
lecture with an observation. How long shall we
see and hear with our neighbour's eyes and ears?
Let us use our own for once. The subject is well
worth the trouble. Let us examine by ourselves;
let us be our own commissaries. If you are will-
ing to join me, we will endeavour to settle our
opinion from our own experience and judgment.
If the authority by testimony was sufficient to
bring a full conviction, certainly here this autho-
rity would be superabundant; there are now more
22 FIRST LECrrURE.
than 2000 petsons who practise magnetism of
whom 400 physicians. More than I00,000 who
have felt the effects of it. A library of more
than 300 volumes could be collected, containing
cures, certificates, declarations, observations, ex-
periments, &c. These witnesses are, as you see,
numerous; they are living, they are round us, and
we may hear them ourselves; but, with all that,
there is no conviction as full and complete as
that which a single experiment made by our-
selves would bring to our minds. Let us then
examine and investigate the subject with a severe
and scrupulous attention; if we detect it to be
imposture, let it be rejected; but, on the contrary,
if we find here the truth, the amiable truth, let all
of us surround her, make for her a rampart of
our bodies, shield her from the assaults of her
enemies, proclaim her glory, and follow her steps
wherever she may lead us, for our own felicity
and the happiness of mankind.
END OF THE FIRST LECTURE.
APPLICATION AND EFFECTS.
IN my first Lecture on Animal 1\tlagnetism,
I confined my investigation to its Discovery and
History. It was necessary to do so, this subject
being so new to many of my hearers that, had I
not begun in this manner, the name scarcely
known would have presented no fixed idea. It
might have been inquired: what is this new
science you speak of?-From whence does it ori-
ginat~ ?-Of what importance is it ?-How did it
spread ?-Who cultivates it? It is precisely these
questions I have tried to answer in my foregoing
aiscourse. The very flattering attention I obtain-
ed from my audience, for the part of my subject
which I considered as the least interesting, makes
me hope, when I am to enter on the discussion of
the means of application, its effects on the human
frame and probably its usefulness in society, to
obtain the continuation ofyour favour.
SECOND JJEC'l'URE.
Before entering into the exposition of the se-
veral theories which will be discussed in my Third
Lecture, it is necessary to adopt one, in order to
fix our ideas in our operations. I will then take
the one most in use among the French magneti-
sors :-that of a vital and magnetic fluid. I will
adopt it, not as a demonstrated truth, but as
an hypothesis, and I will not even go so far as
to declare it my own, that I may not be accu-
sed of imposing on you my own opinions, leaving
you at full liberty, after discussion, to reject or
adopt it for yourselves; to choose one and even to
create another, which tnay appear to you better
for your own use.
This hypothesis being in such conditional man-
ner admitted, I will proceed thus in my way of
reasoning. To support life and restore strength,
Nature uses two agencies, that of food and that
of sleep; food, to make up for the material parts
of our bodies, wasted by jts exertions, sleep, to
make up for our vital fluid employed in those
exertions, the absence of 'vhich is felt by the sen-
sation of fatigue. During sleep, atmospheric air
is inhaled into the lungs, caloric (which, in the
Mesmerian language, may as well be called uni-
versal fluid) is disengaged, animalised, and from
thence carried to and accumulated in the brain,
where it receives from us the name of vital fluid.
T)1e anatomy of the brain, according to Dr. Gall's
system, shows that, bt:iug a series of lamina fold-
ed on each other, it is very proper for this accu-
APPLICATION AND EFFECTS. 25
mulation, as if in an electrical reservoir. As there
js no waste of fluid during bleep, except what
IS necessary for the involuntary motions, the indi-
vidual, at waking up, is charged (allow me the
expression, borrowed from electricity) is charged,
I say, with the vital fluid; he feels refreshed and
rcvired; the fluid thus accumulated in the brain
is ready for the use of the individual;· a part is
employed even without his knowledge, as in sleep
to maintain in him the involuntary motions, as the
beating of the heart, that of the arteries, the dis-
tention and contraction of the lungs in breathing,
&c., and another part is put at his disposal, to be
used at his will, for the voluntary motions. As
long as we consider this fluid in an individual for
the support of his life and motwns, we will call
it vital fluid; if we consider it employed to act
on another individual, we will give it the name of
magnetic fluid. So then, vital fiu,id and magnetic
fluid are one and the same, varying only the
name according to its application.
This theory, or supposition, gives us the means
to understand what is meant by magnetising;
for, to magnetise, will then be to direct our vital
fluid to another person.
This fluid is seen, by some somnambulists, as
a bright atmosphere round our bodies, and ema-
nating from our fingers, in the act of magnetisa-
tion, as rays of light. It may be, according to
some of them, concentrated in water, reflected
hy mirrors; it may impregnate many objects;
4
SECOND LECTURE.
it is not interrupted by opaque bodies, and pe-
netrates those towards whom it is direct~d. This
last circumstance determines that sympathy, or
antipathy, which we often feel at first sight for a
person, according to the similarity or dissimilarity
of our fluid with his.
The qualifications necessary to magnetise well,
are again derived from the same principle :-they
are three in number.
First.-Belief.
Second.-Will or Volition.
Third.-Benevolence.
Let us examine, separately, each of these
qualifications or requisites.
First. Belief is necessary, because we do not
try to do what we deem impossible. If then, be-
lief is necessary to qualify us to magnetise, and
if it is necessary to have magnetised to obtain
ihat belief, there seems to be an unconquerable
difficulty. So far you cannot have full belief, but
by granting a little confidence to your predeces-
sors, keeping otf doubts as much as you can,
wishing for success, and acting with attention and
with simplicity of heart, yo1,1 will certainly pro-
duce some effects, and these eff(lcts will create in
you true belief.
Second Requisite:-'Vill. I an1 afraid to have
as much difficulty hPre to make the word under-
stood as the thing itself.
In the actions of our lives, we do but ,vhat we
will to do. Let me quote an example ofevery day's,
APPLICATION AND EFFECTS. 27
of every moment's observation. I wish to raise
my arm, I know I can do it since I have done it
many times. I have, then, belief in my own
power. What more is to be done? To will it.
My will is the agent. I will it, and my arm is
raised : It remains in that situation as long as my
will and attention are permanent; it falls as soon
as the will ceases to be active. He who is able
to explain this simple fact, is able. to explain the
whole system of magnetisation :-They are of
the same nature. According to the theory of a
vital fluid, which we have provisionally adopted,
this fluid, accumulated in the brain, is eent by
the will of the individual along the nerves, as
conductors to the muscles of the arm, which it
swells and consequently shortens; the muscles
contract, and the arm is raised. But how does
an act of the will send the fluid from the head
into the arm, and in the precise quantity required?
This is inexplicable. It is merely a fact. So are
the acts of magnetisation to be ~onsidered. True
it is, that w£ll, in both instances, is necessary.
Will must be strong and permanent in magneti-
sing; it is one of the qualifications the most diffi-
cult to acquire, and the most fatiguing to ex-
ercise.
Third Requisite:-Benevolence,Charity or Love.
I make use of three words for the same idea; they
become a definition to each other. It might also
be expressed by a firm determination to do good.
This requisite is not less important than the pre-
•28 SECOND LECTURE.
ceding. If you should magnetise, with tl~c inten·
tion to do eviJ, your fluid, producing that impres-
sion on your patient, would be repulsed immedi-
ately; and all confidence in you would be lost. I
<1o not know whether any person ever magnetised
with the intention to injure. I have never seen
it, and I am inclined to think it impossible. To
tnagnetise is an act of benevolence. We do it
with the intention of relieving the sick. If we in-
dulge sometimes in some trials or experiments, it
should not be with the view of gratifying an idle
curiosity, but with the ultimate wish to acquire
more knowledge, to extend our powers, and to
enable ourseh·es more and more to do good. It
is difficult to describe the pleasure a magnetisor
feels in removing the pains of his fellow creatures;
and this pleasure is a sweet and just reward for
his devotion.
Good health, if not an indispensable qualifi-
cation, is a most favourable one. The fluid is
then abundant, well animalised, and not impreg-
nated with any deleterious quality. It follows,
also, from the principles established, that the most
favourable time in life to be a good magnetisor, is
the period when our frame has acquired its full
growth, and the mind the full extent of its
powers.
The better part of the human family~ I mean
ihe females, are very well qualified to magnetise.
"\Vhat they may be supposed to lose in energy of
volition, compared with men, they make up in
APPLICATION AND EFFECTS. 29
benevolence, charity and love, the best of their
attributes, and they prove to be excellent mag-
netisors. I will have the pleasure of recording
Inany interesting operations performed by the
fair sex.
From the premises just now established, are
derived the rules to operate. I will suppose that
you wish to magnetise a patient; sit opposite to
him, take hold of his thumbs, and look steadily
at him, with a permanent attention and intention
or will to produce the desired effect. After four
or five minutes, when his thumbs have acquired
the same temperature with yours, place your
hands on his shoulders, let them remain there
two or three minutes, then draw them along
the arms, and take hold again of the thumbs; do
so again three or four times; after, place your
hands on his stomach, in such a manner that your
thumbs may be in the centre and your fingers on
the sides ; when you feel a comm'unication of heat,
draw your hand down; afterwards place them
over his head, to draw them again down to the
feet, and continue in the same manner, taking
care in raising your hands to his head to extend
them both sides. The precaution never to
magnetise upwards, and to separate your hands
when you raise them, is recomm€nded as es·
sential.
Some expressiqns are used by magnetisors.
which I will translate into English, and which re-
quire a definition, as I shall use them myscl£ To
30 SECOND LECTURE.
magnetise for the first time in the manner descri-
bed is1 to place yourself z'n relation. Each motion
of the hand is a pass. To magnetise from head to
foot, is said by streams or currents. To magnetise at
a distance, is used when your hands cease to touch
the person; but more particularly when the dis-
tance is above several feet.
Let us proceed :-Touch slightly and slowly,
keeping your hands a few inches from the face,
and scarcely even touching the clothes; use no
muscular effort; let your motions be easy and
supple; your hand must not be stiff; let your fin-
gers be a little bent, and occasionalJy united, for
it is from the end of the fingers that the fluid flolvs
or radiates; do not be impatient of producing
effects; give yourself up entirely to feelings of
Sympathy, and to the lvish to relieve your patient.
If he feels pain in particular parts, hold your hand
some time on that part; continue your operation
for about half an hour. As it is necessary that
,your attention should be permanent, a longer time
would be fatiguing. In finishing the operation~
make several long passes, and one across the eyes,
to disseminate equally the fluid.
The relation once well established, contact is
not necessary; the action at a distance is often
more beneficial and salutary than that produced
by immediate contact.
The situation indicated is the most favorable,
so much so that the look of the magnetisor produ-
ces a great effect; but this situation is not always
APPLICATION AND EFFEt::TS. 31
possible; a patient may be confined to his bed:-
then you plac~ your hands on his head, his
shoulder, his stomach, dowu to his feet. There
are many other means; they are taught by expe-.
rience; sometimes guessed by the magnetisor, or
indicated by the patient himself.
In swellings or glands, you may put a clean
handkerchief on them, place your mouth upon it
and send your breath through; it produces a great
heat, at first mechanical, then magnetic, which is
very active. In sick headachs, or when the blood
ascends there, passes made over the legs are good
to relieve it. If the pain is the result of a blow,
keep your hand on the part affected for some
time before drawing down. It may happen a pain
felt in the shoulder is drawn to the elbow, then to
the hands, and finally thrown out at the fingers,
with some very observable perspiration.
It is proper, when a treatment must last seve-·
ral days, to magnetise at the same hour. Perio-
dif'al regularity seems to increase the effects.
'Vhen magnetism has produced an effect, it is
dangerous to interrupt the treatment; it must be
continued to the end: It would be better not to
begin it than to discontinue.
I will now make known the various practices by
which Mesmer, De Puysegur, and others, pre-
tended to enforce the effects of magnetism, and to
apply it to many persons at the same time. The
principal of these means are the Tub, the Trees~
and the Chain.
32 SECOND LECTURE.
Let us first explain what the Chain is :-When
several patients are assembled in the same place
with persons interested for them, and in favour of
magnetism, they must all be seated in a circle, in
such a manner that they touch each other by
their feet; they take hold of their neighbour on
the right by the thumb; in this way the chain
is uninterrupted, the magnetisor is one among
them. Then, in order to fix attention and to
keep a regular time, the magnetisor presses
the thumb of his neighbour, and says, Sleep: (I)
the neighbour passes the motion and the word
to the next, and so on, until it returns to the
magnetisor, who passes it round again in the
same manner. No disturbing circumstance, no
conversation introduced, attention by every one
must be kept active. At the end of a quarter of
an hour, the fluid is in circulation, all the patients
feel the action of magnetism. Then the magneti-
sor leaves the chain, which his two neighbours
connect again, and he magnetises separately those
who compose it, particularly the patients who
want it the most. Sometimes slight indisposi-
tions are cured by the chain, sometimes sleep
and even somnambulism are produced.
(1) It must not be understood that the magnetisors believe that
the word Sleep contains in itself any narcotic virtue, and con-
sequently that it is better than any other; but as it is neces-
sary to fix the attention on the object intended, this word has
been chosen.
APPLICATION AND EFFBCTS. 3i3
The magnetic Tub was a large wooden box,
containing pounded glass, iron filings, bottles full
of magnetised water, and arranged in regular
order; this box was supplied with a sufficient
number of conductors to direct the fluid. The
tub is no longer in use, the chain is preferable to
it, on account of the union of intentions.
A magnetised Tree is superior to the tub, it is
more powerful and salutary; it is under trees
that the most astonishing effects have been pro-
duced by De Puysegur. Unfortunately, these
trees can be used but during summer and in
fine weather.
The chain is the only collective mode still in
use, to operate on many persons at a time.
Music was proposed by 1V1esmer, as a means to
transmit the fluid. Now it is not used with that
view, to which it does not appear proper, but to
produce in a collection of individuals uniformity
of motions and permanence of attention.
No means to accumulate and transmit the fluid
must be neglected; all sorts of objects touchec.l
by a magnetisor, with that intention, may be im-
pregnated with it. But water seems more fit for
this purpose than any other. In order to mag-
netise a decanter or a tumbler full ofwater, hold
it on the palm of the left hand, and place t~w right
hand abo\-·e with the fingers closecl; open and shut
them by turns; move them over the surface, at a
short distance, to charge the water with the fluid,
in the same manner as philosophers would charge
5
\:34 SECOND LECTURE.
with electricity a Leyden bottle. This water
}Jroduces surprising effects. Sometimes it is pur-
gative, sometimes astringent; it w·ill now cool the
stomach, it will then warm it. How is that? \Viii
Jnagnetisors say they have communicated these
-opposite qualities to the same water by the same
means? No, they will say that the water carries
with it the vital fluid, which gives to the stomach
of the patient a new vital and energetic power.
Aftet· having described the means put in use by
the magnetis01·s to operate on the persons who
required their services, the next question which
presents itself is this. Is belief and confidence as
necessary a condition to receiye the magnetic
influence as it is to produce it? Faith is neces-
sary to the person n1agnetising, it is not to the
person magnetised; true it is, that an absolute
incredulity would trouble, and an invincible re-
pugnance counteract the effects; but a sick per-
son naturally wishe8 to be relieved, if he has not
·an implicit faith in the efficacy of the agent, he
wishes it to be true; this disposition is sufficient
to receive the beneficial influence.
Now let us proceed gradually with the phe-
nomena which have been observed in the ap-
plication of magnetism on the human body, from
the lowest to the highest. We will extract, from
QUr numerous collection of cures, those which
will show more particularly the case in question:
'\Ve will have no trouble except that of choosing
APPLICATION AND EFFECTS. 3.5
one from among many thousands of the same
description.
We will divide the phenomena into two dis-
tinct classes; those in which there is no som-
nambulism, those in which it is produced.
First Division.-No Somnambulism. 'Vhen one
person in good health magnetises another, the fluid
is equally abundant in each, no impression is felt.
This is the result, according to the observation of
De Puysegur, with those who have just been
cured of their diseases. This he considered as
the best test of a complete cure.
Some are relieved, or cured, and have expe-
rienced no particular action. Some have had
sensations, without being cured. Some have had
crisis, which remained without apparent results.
Some have been cured, after a long and obstinate
treatment. Some others have been cured, alrqost
suddenly.
The hand of the magnetisor, at two inches
distance, gives generally a sensation of heat,
scarcely ever of cold. Frequently it excites a
drowsiness, or heaviness of the head, which is
not unpleasant. On the stomach it often produ-
ces the effect of a weight; pulsation becomes
1nore lively and regular; perspiration is frequent-
]y very sensible, particularly in the hands and
feet; the patient gets into a state of ease, and
ceases to perceive the duration of time; he may
fall into a slight slumber, which the least noise
may destroy. Sometimes the Pyelids are contract--
SECOND LECTURE.
ed, he ~annot raise them, although perfe~tly
awake.
· These slight effects may be made more sensi-
ble in the succeeding operations. Now it is a
sound sleep· which lasts an hour and more each
day, until the patient is cured. Then a lively
sensation of heat, or a heavy oppression. It may
happen, that a pain not felt for several years is
suddenly renewed.
I ·will here extract from the eighth volume of
the Library of .llnimal Magnetism, the relation of a
cure which answers to the present progress of our
discovery.
"A cure operated in 15 llays by Magnetism
alone, without the assistance of somnambulism or
of any other curative means whatever.
"An Irish girl about twenty years of age, had
been afflicted during eighteen months with a dis-
ease which she at first termed a very bad cold. She
experienced every day two very violent fits of
coughing, one in the morning, the other in the
evening; after each fit, she felt weak, exhausted,
fainting. Besides, she experienced as she coughed
an acute pain in the left side, as if she had re-
ceived there a stab with a knife. A soreness ex-
tended from her breast to that part of her side.
To express her sufferings, she used to say that
she had an inside blister, which extended across
that part. She lost her appetite and grew very
thin. Five different physicians had been called
during these eighteen 1nonths; they had exhausted
APPLICATION AND EFFECTS. 57
all the resources of the art of medicine; no ease
followed, not the least hope of recovery. Two
had declared her consumptive, and that there was
no remedy.
" It is in that deplorable situation, on the 1st of
October 1818, that I found her at Laroque, near
Bordeaux, a country seat where she had been
invited to spend some time in the hope that the
air of the country might do her some good. I of-
fered to magnetise her; her sister expressed a
great repugnance; the patient, not less incredu-
lous perhaps, but beaten down by her pains, ac-
cepted it as a last resource. I magnetised her
three quarters of an hour; she did not precisely
sleep, but fell into a sort of drowsiness. At each
pass from her breast to her side, when my hand
reached it, she started as a person who has re-
ceived a blow. This symptom indicated that the
disease was in the spleen and not in the lungs.
At the end of three quarters of an hour-How
are you? asked 1.-Well.-Did you feel any effect
of the Magnetism?- Very much.- I will then
magnetise you twice a day, at regular hours.
"At the end of the fourth day, her morning and
evening fits of coughing had left her; the shocks
produced by Magnetism had ceased; her inside
blister, as she called it, was less sore.
" On the eighth day, she had an abundant per-
spiration at the parts magnetised, and no where
else, so abundant that drops would run out; this
58 SECOND LECTURE.
perspiration was renewed every day at the same
hour.
" From the moment this happy crisis took
}>lace, all the symptoms of her disease disap-
peared, cough, pain, inside blister and with her
appetite, returned strength, hope, and cheerful-
ness. I continued to magnetise her until the 16th
of October, and the thankful Irish girl now enjoys
a perfect health." '
This article is signed : G. GAuFn.ETEAU.
This relation is remarkable, and may serve as
nn illustration of what we have just now said.
The patient was considered as lost. She had no
confidence in ~1agnetism ; still, she · was com-
pletely cured in a fortnight, without the aid of
somnambulism or the help of any prescription;
her recovery, therefore, must be ascribed to the
curative power of Magnetism alone.
Second Division.-Somnambulism. On entering
on this new ground, I feel some embarassement. l
Of all the phenomena which have been observed
in magnetic treatments, the most astonishing, the
most inconceivable is Somnambulism. The de-
scriptions which have been given, often offer the
most incredible results. How shall I introduce
the subject? Let us see how Dr. Georget, a long
opponent to Magnetism, lately convinced of its
truth, opens the subject in his excellent treatise
on physiology.
" The wise, the enlightened observer, the sin-
APPLICATION AND EFFECTS. S9
·cere friend of truth," says the Doctor, "placed in
the middle of controversies and disputes, to which
new and extraordinary discoveries give rise, must,
before surrendering his opinion, before denying
or acknowledging the truth of the facts on which
they rest, take cognisance of all the cir·cumstances
which may enlighten his judgment. So far doubt
alone is permitted. Incredulity is but ignorance
and presumption. But vanity and pride induce
men often to believe that nothing exists in nature,
but must refer to certain laws which they are
used to consider as general and absolute; because
the weakness of their understauding does not al-
low them to pass over its limits. They do not
perceive that those laws are only mere abstrac-
tions, only mere results of the generalisation of
analogous facts; that these facts form the laws,
.or rather, that general laws are but the expres-
.sion of the co-ordinate and particular facts. From
thence it follows that experience, new observa-
tions, the discovery of unknown facts, the co-
ordination of which is different from those al-
ready known, cause changes and modifications in
these abstractions, which unfortunate1y in sciences
they mistake for things. At each important dis-
covery we hear every one exclaim : This cannot
be ; we cannot concei \'e that this should be so!
such facts, if they were true, would upset the
foundations of our knowledge. Poor ignorant and
feeble man! who wishes to know the how, the
lvhy and the end of all things, and still who is
40 SECOND J.ECTURE.
afraid to extend the circle of his knowledge, and
does not dare to take hold of a new truth which
seems to be separated from the chain or series
by an immeasurable distance."
When Magnetism produces somnambulism, the
being who enters in this state acquires prodigious
faculties of perception ; his exterior senses, par-
ticularly sight and hearing, are suspended, and
the sensations are transferred inwardly; it seems
that a new sense, which supplies all the others in
l1im, is developed.
The somnambulist has his eyes shut, and sees
not with his eyes; he hears not with his ears, and
he sees and hears better than in his natural state.
He sees and hears but those with whom he z"s
put in relation. He sees but the object on which
he brings his attention.
He is obedient to the will of his magnetisor, in
all that is not in opposition to his ideas of justice
and truth.
He often feels the influence of the operator's
will without the use of words.
He perceives the magnetic fluid.
He sees, or rather, he feels the interior of hi~
body and that of others; but he observes com-
rnonly but the parts which are not in a natural
state, and the harmony of which is disturbed.
He finds in his memory the recollection of
things he had forgotten when awake.
Time and space are no obstacles to him. He
kno,'rs the past, foresees the future, and sees ob-
APPLlCA'fiQN AND EFFECTS. 4l
jects out of the reach of the sense of sight. How-
ever these faculties are limited in their extent.
His elocution is generall_y elegant.
His faculties impro,re if he is well directed-;
they are destroyed if not.
He is very sensitive, and easily offended.
When he returns iuto his natural state, he loses·
completely the recollection of the sensations and
ideas he had in somnambulism; in such a1
manuer
thai these two states are as strange to each other;
as if the somnambulist and. the man awake were
two distinct beings.
The means a magnetisor has to excite in hid
Somnambulist lively sensations, to calm his suffer.:
ing·s, to change the order of l!is ideas, to direct'
his· attention upon such or such an object, to put:
him in 1·elation with other persons and to destroy
that relation, finally, the power of the magnetiso1~·
upon the magnetised appears magical to those
who see it for the first time.
Here is the best series of questions to be asked,
of a somnambulist: Do you sleep? How long do
you wish to sleep? \Vhen shall I put you again in
this state? Do 'you see your disease? Do you see
the cause of it? Do you see the remedy? \Vhat
course is to be followed to preserve your health,
after your cure is effected?
I will here relate some cures in which somnam..
bulism is produced, which will be a confirmation
of the faculties, and an example of what is to be
done in such a case.
6
42 SECOND LECTURE.
A l'emarkable case among the number of those
recorded in the Hermes, or Journal of Magnetism,
lately occurred at the Hospital of Charity in Paris,
which has made a great impression and attracted
public attention. A young man, Mr. Paul, a stu-
dent at law, was struck in a ball-room with an
a.poplectic fit, carried to his bed, and, after a few
days of an unsuccessful treatment, his left side re-
mained palsied or paralysed ; he lost the sense of
hearing and the faculty of speaking. However, at
the end of two years, by the constant attention of
the physicians of the hospital, he recovered so
far as to support himself upon crutches, but with-
out touching the ground with his left foot. The
acceleration of the pulse, the discolouration of the
skin, the constant heaviness of the head, the ex-
cessive weakness of the patient, caused the ex-
pectation of a fatal and speedy termination, when
he was ,put under the influence of Magnetism on
the 29 of August, 1827, under the directions of
Dr. Foissac.
The first passes ex.cited a smile of incredulity in
the patient, but soon he felt shocks in his limbs; he
.rubbed his eyes, and \Vas astonished .to find him-
self sleepy; his head fell on his br-east. Mr. Fois-
sac opened his eyes~ and he declared he had not
been able to resist his propensity to sleep.
During the sleep thus produced, the head of
the patient would follow ~onstant~y the motions
ofthe hand.
From the first to the seventh visit, the mobility
,of the patient increased; he could. not resist the
APPLICATION AND EFFECTS. 4S
effects of attraction produced on him; after use-
less efforts, he seemed to lose recollection and
consciousness, he was only occupied with the
hand of the magnetisor; he was spoken to, and
even pulled by his hair, he was unconscious of all.
At the seventh meeting, the sleep was com-
plete; the Doctor put to him some ·questions, the
last of which awakened him in a start. Interro-
gated how he was-1 feel better, said he, since I
am magnetised; my head is not embarrassed; I
have no longer any trembling in my limbs.
At the thirteenth visit, being in somnambulism,
he was asked by the Doctor-How are you?-
Better.-Do you believe that magnetism will cure
you?-Yes.-Are you sure ofit?-Yes, but it will
be long before, very long.
At the fifteenth visit, a pupil observed that the
patient began to lay his left foot on the floor; he
was no longer hard of hearing; his head was en-
tirely free. -
At the seventeenth visit, he prescribed, in his
somnambulism, to himself some pills, of which he
gave the composition.
At the eighteenth visit-Are you better than
yesterday?-Yes.-Prescribe precisely what you
want.-Cold shower-baths on the left side.-How
long each?-Two minutes.-Every day?-Ycs.-
Is there any thing else to be done ?-Bleeding.-
From what part?- The arm. -'Vhich?- The
right.-How much blood to be drawn ?-Two
porringers.- Is that all?- Sinapisms.-'Vhere
SECOND LECTURE.
placed?-To the feet.~Do you want ai~Y thing
else? He put both his hands on his face, as if
~.rying, and said in w~king up-How sleepy I feeJ.
Twenty-fourth meeting -Does Magnetisn) do
you good ?-Ycs, no doubt, very much.~Could ~t
~lone cure you ?-Yes, but it would require more
time.-:-If it should be in~errqpte~...?-God forbi~!
I coul9. never walk without ~rutches.-.-What is
Magnetis~?- This ig rather an embarrassing
question; this comes from your fingers.-ls ther~
any thing in my hand ?-No~hing.-Can nothing
p_rpduce any thing ?-\Vhy, po.-But ~vht\t then
acts upon yo!J ?-"'\Vhen you pass your hand,, it
warms, it pene~rates and ~azzles me, I lose PlY
~enses.-Pq you see what produces that effect?-
..
Yes, it is a vapour; bu~ I will n,ot tell you any
more to-:day.
On the 25th of SepteiQ.ber, \le affirmed ill som-
nambulism that on Friday, the 28th of the satne
month, he would walk without his crutches.
He affirmed again, on the 26th, th~t on the day
after the morrow he would walk with ease; he
accused his magnetisor of being deficient in hi~
faith, and of not believing him. He said he was
sure of it, and that he was not used to tell
falsehoods.
Finally, the day so impatiently expected came.
A great concourse of believers and unbelievers
had collected at the Hospital of Charity, on the
28th of September. At eleven mi11u.tes past nine
o'clock ir~ the morning, the paralitick yqung man
APPLICATION AND EFFECTS. 4~
eame to the usual place of meeting with the heJp
<;>f his crutches: put in the somnambulick statr.o~
he is addressed in Latin; he answers that the
question is not to speak latin, but to walk, a11d
that he is ready to keep his promise immediately.
He congratulates himself, that he shall not even
walk lame of the left foot, but perfectly straight;
how much he will walk and run to-day; he wishes
to have his eyes open to show that he does not
impose. l\1r. Foissac blows on his eyes i~ order-
ing him to wake up; he does immediately, and
asks for his crutches; he is answered that they
have been burnt, as they were hereafter useless.
lie refuses to believe these words, rises, and is
astonished to be able to support himself on the
leg formerly paralizep. He opens his way through.
the ~rowd, descends a step from the room into
the yard, and stops a moment there to breathe.
He seems af:l overcome by his joy. He crosses
the yard, ascends the staircase without support,
gqes towards his bed, walks round the room, to
the great surprise of the patients, the attendants,
nurses, curate, physicians, and ·particnlarJy of the
~nemies to Animal Magnetism. In fine, the whole
Qay, Paul did not cease to walk, being afraid
every t~me he would sit, that the palsy should
come again upon his limbs. Even during the night,
he rose and walked a few steps, to convince him.
self he was not deluded by a dream. In a few
<laJS, his leg had grown again to its usual volume~
his stre~1~th had increased, &c.
SECOND LECTURE.
Not to encroach too much on your. patienc~
we have been obliged to curtail long and inte-
resting details ; we have preserved enough of
them, however, to present you with a case in
which the somnambulist has displayed his powers
for his own cure, the influence of the will of the
magnetisor, his sensation of the fluid, the internal
view of his diseases, the remedies, the foresight
or prevision of the day of his cure.
Now let us choose one again from the Magnetic
Journal, Hermes, vol. I, page 358, in which the
somnambulist operates a cure on another person.
One day, Miss G** , put in somnambulism
during a long treatment she made for herself, re-
newed a scene that had already occured several
times. She rose suddenly from her seat, and ran
into the next room. where several patients were
assembled. " I followed her, says Mr. Grand-
champ, her magnetisor, and I saw a young girl,
who had just arrived in a distressing state. Miss
G** magnetises her, and gives her a glass of
sweetened and lukewarm ma~netised water ; after
having touched in su('cession the parts where the
pains where more acute, excited some perspira-
tion, she advised her to go to her bed, and not to
fail to come again on the morrow, warning her
that indeed she would suffer much for thirty-six
hours, but at the end of that time she would be
perfectly cured.
The next day, at twelve o'clock, Miss G*•,
&eing in s9mnambuli~m, expre?sed a great un:..
APPLICATION AND EFFECTS. 47
easiness, mingled with agitation and impatience.
-What is the matter, Miss? said 1.-This girl of
yesterday feels now excruciating pains·; she can~
not come, I 1nust go there.... and magnetise her.-
How can we, Miss? we neither know he...r name
nor her residence.-Ah ! Sir, I will go; I shall
find her out; I must absolutely go. Attention and
astonishment were vividly excited; we were all
()f opinion to let Miss G** do as she pleased.
She took her bonnet and veil, I offered my arm,
and we went out; there were alsD many persons
who attended. She crossed several streets, and
stopping at the corner of a square, she waited a
moment as a greyhound (I must be forgiven the
expression) who seems to interrogate the emana-
tions spread in the air, to find the track that must
lead him to his game. It is in that direction, said
she, she suffers very much. She is a washer-
woman; she got wet several times. I am going to
cure· her. I remained silent ; she crossed again
several streets, and suddenly stopping: It is here,
it is here. She ascends to the second story,
pushes abruptly a small door, and behold us in
the bed-chamber of the sick girl. In the same
manner as magnet is attracted by iron, Miss G**
rushes on the bed of the girl, magnetises her for
half an hour, eases her, cures her, magnetises a
pitcher of water, and says, in giving her a kiss
and taking leave of her: Drink this, keep your
bed, and to-morrow all will be over. We returned
home, where his Royal Highness the Duke of
48 SECOND LECTURE.
Gloucester expected us with impatience to hear
the result of our excursion.
I shall close these quotations with a fact of sight
at distance inserted in the Annals of Magnetism,
Volume 3d, page 27th, of which I have been the
\Vitness and the Agent, performed by my own Sis-
ter in somnambulism.
She had been in Paris with me for a fortnight
and a Somnambulist for a week, when in one of
her sleeps she told me she was very uneasy about
her son whom she had left inNantz. (There are
300 miles from Nantz to Paris). I placed my hand.
upon her head, my thumb on her forehead, and
commanded her to see her son.-This will fatigue
me.-No matter.-Ah! he is well, I am very glad
he is not idle. A navy officer justnow arrived
from England gives him lessons on navigation as
he has formerly done.-Very 'vell, this is for his
usual occupations, but at this hour, at the present
moment, what is he doing ?-He is planting flowers
in the garden with the son of the family where he
lives, but I am agitated, fatigued, it is enough.
As soon as she was awake, I told her to write to
Nantz, it was on Sunday, at 10 o'clock, a moment
sufficiently remarkable to recollect what we 'vere
doing: she asked her son to give her an account
of that day from morning to evening. At the end
of eight days no answer had arrived; I was very
anxious to verify the correctness of a very distant
~ision which is always difficult and embarrassing;
1 put her asleep again.-Wliy did we not get an
APPLICATION AND EFFECTS. 49
answer from your son ?-After a moment's silence
she said :my son has postponeu answering because
he wished to announce me a voyage he is about to
make and which was not yet decided upon, his an-
swer is made, he has not put it at the post-office,
he has given it to a friend to address it to me, and
I will receive it soon.
Here is now what twenty witnesses who have
been present at these declarations can testify: at
the end of two days she received a letter from
Nantz, opens it, it contains another from her son,
beginning with these words: "I do not know why
you ask me an account of my way of spending last
Sunday; probahly you suppose that I did some
folly. To show you the contrary, I give you an
exact detail. I got up at 8 o'clock, I intended to go
in the country, but bad \Veather prevented me, I
went into the garden at nine with S*** and we
planted hyacinths and ranunculuses until twelve
o'clock; I am still fatigued with it, particularly
as I had no breakfast, &c. &c." in that letter was
a little slip of paper in which he said he did not
think proper to speak of his approaching voyage
before it was certain, but he thought it \Vas now
time to announce it, &c. &c. So then here is a
fact verified in all its minute details.
I will, Ladies and Gentlemen, close here this,
discourse, not because materials are wanting, they
seem to multiply in proportion as we use them, but
because the few quotations given here are suffici-
ent to illustrate our assertiolls and,principles. We
7
SECOND LECTURE.
know that they cannot bring at once a full convic..
tion into your minds: this cannot be obtained by
the authority of testimony, as we have already ob-
served: we will be happy if we have succeeded
so far as to excite in you a degree of curiosity and
interest that may induce you to examine and judge
for yourselves. Conviction will come from your
own experience; I then entreat you, I beg of you
not to reject this address, you will be amply repaid
for your efforts, you will enrich yourselves with a
new power, the greatest and the most enviable,
that of doing good to your fellow-creatures. Is
there in this assembly a mother who has a sick
child? a sister who lingers for the recovery of
her sister? a brother, a husband, a son who feels
the pangs ofsorrow, and fears for the life of a sis-
ter, a wife or a mother; oh ! then let them listen
to my voice; let them trust to my promises, so far
.at least as to attempt the happy result; yes, I know
they will obtain it and they will join me to bless
forever Nature, for the inexhaustible treasures she
puts at the disposal of those wl1o know how to
jnterrogate her.
'END OF THE SECOND LECTUR!:.
THEORIES AND RESEARCHES.
In my first lecture, I spoke of the discovery of
Animal Magnetism which I attributed to Mesmer,
and of its history which, beginning at that period,
I brought to the present time, in making you ac-
quainted with the actual state of its progress in
the learned world.
In the second lecture, I presented to your view
and left for your mat,ure consideration the means
of application used by its professors, the effects
produced on the human body in curing its disor·
ders, and on the human mind in extending its fa-
culties by the acquisition of a new sense made
actil·e in the state of somnambulism.
This perhaps might be thought sufficient for its
practice and usefulness; but an objection arises:
Has man heen lately endowed with a new power? or, if
he possessed always that power, why d£d he not use it
sooner? This objection to the sudden apparition
THIRD LECTURE.
of a new doctrine, of a new power with which the
magnetisors seem endowed,ifnot answered, would
tend to diminish your confidence in the means pro-
posed. The object of this third and last lecture
will then be to remove that difficulty.
The discovery of Animal Magnetism might be
contested to Mesmer, if the merit of bringing it
forward with an undaunted courage, illustrating it
by a new theory, announcing the power of the
will, producing consequently more determined ef-
fects, and assigning to its phenomena philosophi-
cal causes, had not acquired and preserved for
him the title of inventor. Still, throwing our looks
two or three centuries back, we find Paracelsus
and Van Belmont announcing the great truth, but
associated with so many errors that it fell into
complete obli,·ion. Magnetism had then been an-
nounced and, in some degree, promulgated by
Mesmer's predecessors; but the supreme agency
of the will discovered by bim and the somnam-
bulic faculties discovered by De PuJsegur, justify,
we are confident, the course we have followed.
After Paracelsus and Van Helmont, some other
names may be quoted. Di'gby, in England, was
inventor of a powder to cure wounds by sympa-
thy, in applying it upon the blood which had run
from it. Ilobert Boyle, the founder of the Academy
of London, a profound mathe1natician and philo-
sopher, announced the action that individuals
. might exercise upon each other, and he adtnitted
of a universal fluid lvhich produces it. .Maxwell,
THEORIES AND RESEARCHES.
a physician of the king of England, published a
book, in 1679, of which the title was: De Medecinu
JJ1.agnetidi. There are great ideas in this work,
but'"'buried under a mass of absurdities. Servius
maintains the opinion of a universal fluid in a
manner rather singular: " All bodies in nature,"
says he, " radiate out of them an emanation by
which they act upon each other; their sphere of
activity is not unlimited, but it extends to a dis-
tance the limits of which are unknown. The sun
and the stars, placed at immeasurable distances
from us, send us light and heat. We are not
astonished because we are used to this phenome-
non; but bodies send in the same manner effluvia,
which we perceive more or less according to the
delicacy of our senses."
l\1
1agnetism seems to have been known and
practised among men in former times. If we
plunge at once in the remotest times of antiquity,
shall we not find it among the Egyptians? Scien·
tific and curious researches are to be found in
the .!lnnals and Library of Magnetism, out of which
've will make abundant extracts.
Priests were the only physicians in Egypt.
They practised the art of curing diseases in the
temples, as a divine art. They made a mystery
of their means, which the gods revealed only to
the priests, their favourites.
They employed all that can dispose to a firm
confidence-long fastings, bathing, purifications,
sacrifices, sitting up at night and fervent prayers,
54 THIRD LECTURE.
to obtain the divine revelations. It was after these
preparations that the patients, laying on the skins
ofgoats which they had immolated, slept near the
sanctuary, and there awaited for dreams and pro·
phetic visions. It is easy to conceive that, then
as now, somnambulism was not a general result,
rtnd many did receive no revelations in dreams.
Then there were priests of inferior classes who
delivered themselve,s up to dreams, and gave the
revelations. These somnambulic priests had par-
ticular names; it was considered as a constant
fact that those who were deficient in faith and
obedience would not receive any celestial com-
munication.
When success crowned the revelations, and. the
patients were cured, it was customary to engrave
in the temple the names of the sick, the disease
and the remedy. This was more particularly
practised at Ephesus, in the temple of Diana.
Some of these inscriptions have escaped the inju-
ries of Time : we possess five of them. I will
quote the two most interesting.
"The God, in a nocturnal apparition, ordered
the son of Lucius, who suffered by a hopeless
pleuresy, to take on the altar cinders, to mix them
, with wine, and to apply them on his painful side.
He was saved, thanked the God, and the people
wished him happiness."
The second inscription says," a blind soldier,
named Valerius, after having consulted the God
received for anslrer: go in the temple, mix th~
THEORIES AND RESEARCHES. 55
blood of a white fowl with honey, and wash your
eyes with it during three days : he has recovered
his sight, and has come to thank the God before
the people."
It is generally acknowledged that these inscrip-
tions in the temples were the medical code at that
time; they have been the foundation ofthe science
of medecine, there are even writers who have af-
£rmed that the writings of Hyppocrates have been
formed from these insc1·iptions. .
What more positive can be wished, upon the
certainty and multitudes of cures operated in the
different temples; and who would refuse to admit
here somnambulism and its salutary effects. Some-
times it was the patient himself, who in his sleep
saw and indicated the remedy: sometimes it was
the priest who prescribed in these dreams, and
what else do our somnambulists do at the present
time.
Galien declares having drawn great advanta-
ges for the healing ofdiseases, from these prescrip-
tions given in dreams. He announces that Hermes
of Cappadoce had taken receipts from the temple
of Memphis.
The impulsive principle which procured the be-
neficial dreams, was not revealed as were the re-
·medies ; it was concealed with the greatest care
from the l'ulgar. Animal Magnetism was the basis
of all these mysteries: they had adlied to it all the
imposing forms of superstition. A very curious
coUection which contains details on somnambul,ic
56 THIRD LECTURE.
treatments in the temple of Esculapius has escap-
ed destruction. It is the discourses of Aristides,
rsr. in honour of Esculapius. 2na. of Asclepiades,
and six under the title of Sacred Discourses, they
contain details of cures operated upon himself.
Is not the description of the treatment in these
discourses similar to a magnetic treatment related
day by day? this periodical sleep, these dream~
in which the patient prescribes regularly what he
must take or avoid, the inward view of his dis-
order, his foresight of the crisis or accidents he
must experience, is not all this exactly similar to
what we find now in our somnambulists? I regret
that I cannot devote more time to read these dis-
courses, but I must hurry you towards other im-
portant subjects.
After collecting observations on Somnambulism
which the Egyptian Priests knew how to excite in
the temple of Isis, Osiris and Serapis, there re-
mains but little doubt that it was principaiJy pro-
duced by AnimallVlagnetism, but they had interest
to make a mystery of it, as it was the source of
their authority, under the name of the Divinity.
Therefore the statues of Harpocrates, God of si-
lence, were seen every where in their temples,
with a finger on his mouth (1). However, is it not
possible,in spite of all their precautions, that some
rays of light may be collected from their monu-
ments to dispel that darkness and point out the
tt·uth.
(1) In omnibus tcmplis ubi colebatur Isis et Serapis, similacrum
llr:tt dig;ito labris imprcsso. r. Valerius. H\erographica. P· 261 .
THEORIES AND RESEARCHES./ 5)
Every one now knows how magnetism is appli-
ed, how somnambulism is obtained. It is by the
laying of hands, by the approach of fingers, an(l
even of one finger; therefore the word hand in a
metaphorical sense designated the agency of the
will, even the divine will who provokes the prophe-
tic inspiration, and operates wonderful things; th~
hand, the finger of the Lord has touchedhim, (1) were
and are yet a usual form of expt~ession.
\Ve are now to call your attention upon some
mysterious monuments collected and engraved by
lVlontfaucon in his .!lntiquite E,xpliquee which have
much distressed the antiquarians, and which might
well belong to magnetism. These are hands of
bronze coveretl with mysterious figures, having
three fingers extended and the others bent.
The first of these hands, has, besides other
Egyptian hieroglyphics, a kind of ring towards
the wrist, on which is seen a woman laying d~wn
with a child. This hand undoubtedly was conse-
crated to Serapis and to Esculapius: the first of
these deities is represented under the human form
with his attributes; the other under the form of a
serpent.
It is to be obsefved that all these hands are right
hands, they are dedicated to the same deities, Se-
rapis, Isis 'and Esculapius, that is to say those in
whose temples were daily operated magnetic
(1) Et cum imposuisset illis manus Paulus, ''enit Spiritus Sanc-
ws super eos, et loquebaotur Jioguis et prophetahant.
Act. Apost. Cap. S. Vers. 17.
8
58 THIRD J.ECTURE.
cures. We leave our hearers to judge whether
there is any probability in these conjectures.
We find also mysterious fingers which we think
equally to belong to magnetic mysteries. Vale-
rianus tells us that they gave the name ofMedical
Finger to the Index: all the bronze fingers engrav-
ed in that collection are each an Index.
So far we have seen in the Antiquities of Mont-
faucon Animal Magnetism by fragment: we saw
only hands and fingers, which in truth are the
direct ins,truments ofmagnetism : but that immense
collection presents also magnetism fully represent-
ed in scenes worthy all the attention of the cu-
rwus.
The first ol)ject which attracts our attention is
a picture taken from the wrappers or envelope of
a mummy. Upon a table or bed, the extremities
of which are in the form of a lion, is the figure of
a man lying down and wrapped up in a kind of
blue camail which falls on his shoulders and breast.
A brown vestment in the form ofpantaloons covers
him to the feet, the face is bare and the eyes open.
At his side is a person dressed in the same nmn-
ner with a cowl and a mask; his face is turned
towards the sick, he has his left hand on the breast
of the patient, and the right on his head in the at-
titude -of a person who magnetist"'s. At each end
of the bed are two women with bare arms and
feet; their head is covered with an Egyptian ca-
mail; one holds her right hand raised, the other
her left.
THEORIE$ AND RESEARCHES~ _
_
(l.a
This subject we consider as a true scene of ani-
mal magnetism: the person laying down is the
sick; the person who magnetises is an Egyptian
priest covered with the mask of Anubis. His at-
titude is not equivocal, one of the hands is placed
on the breast, the other on the head of the patient;
be has his face turnell towards him and his looks
1hed upon him. Montfaucon declares that he
leaves this picture without an explanation, the
learned did not as yet know magnetism. This pic-
ture is not the only one on the same subject fur-
nished by Montfaucon's collection; there are three
others with similar emblems, and representing
magnetic subjects; the only material difference is
the situation of the hand of the personage acting.
In the second, his hand's are, one on the head, the
other on the feet of the patient: in the third, his
hands are on both sides : in the fourth, on his
thighs. A remarkable circumstance is, that these
different pictures offer each a way of magnetisa-
tion, with the different stages of the cure. The
~ patient stretched at fuU length in the first, seems
to move in the second, to sit up in the third, and
to rise in the fourth. If this is not exactly a mag-
netic cure represented, what else can it be?
Animal magnetism is as old as the world, not
indeed under the present name, but under the veil
of a my~terious science. If from Egypt and Asia,
we turn our eyes. on ancient Italy and the Gauls~
we will find it again there. '
The characteristics of magnetism are the facul..
ty of curing diseases by the mere touch, and this-
THIRD LECTURE.
w:onderful somnambulism which reveals ourinward
diseases and those of others, enables to prescribe
the remedies, to foresee and predict the course and
results of the cure and many other things which a
magnetisor may be pleased to ask. This foresight
has an extensive sphere. It is stopped neither by
space nor time; its limits are unknown.
'Vhen '\Ye find the same effects, we must suppose
the same cause; the sibyls were then but females
in true state of somnambulism, since they predict-
ed the future and gave answers to those who con-
sulted them.
Cicero says that we should not be believers in
dreams, because they cannot be of divine inspira-
tion. If he denies the explanation, he admits of
the facts and furnishes us with some curious ex-
amples. He quotes for instance the dream of
Alexander the Great. In Cic. De divin. L. 2.
"Ptolemeus, (1) one ofhis principal captains had
been wounded with a poisoned arrow, and his
"·ound causing him excruciating pains, he was in
great danger. Alexander sat at the head of his
{1) Cum Ptolomreus familiaris ejus in prrelio telo venenato ictus
essct, coque vulnere somno cum dolere moreretur, Alexander assi-
dem, sornno est consopitus. Tum secundum quietem. visus ei
dicitur uraco, i!" quce mater Olympias alebat, radiculam ore ferre et
simu\ dicere quo ilia loci nasceretur; neque is looge aberat ab eo
loco: cjus autam e9Se vim tantam, ut Pto\omreum facile sanaret.
(1uum ;\lexauder experrectus narrasset amicis sumnium, cmisisse
qui illam radicu\am qu<erereut: qua inventa,_ et Ptolomreus sanatu'!l
riicitur, c\ multimilites qui erant eodem gcneri teli vulnerati. Cic..
db l.)iviu. Lib. 2. ~u. 133.
THEORIES AND RESEARCHES. 6l
bed, and fell asleep. The Dragon which his mo-
ther Olympias nourished appeared to him in a
dream, having a root in his mouth, indicated to
him the place where it was to be found, and as-
sured him that Ptolemeus would be immediately
cured by it ; they sent for the root at the place de-
signated by the Dragon: it was found there and
not only Ptolemeus was cured, but also many other
soldiers who had been wounded with the same
sort of arrows.
Let us weigh all the circumstances of the dream
of Alexander. Ptolemeus was one of the officers
with whom he lived most familiarly: familiaris cJus
Alexander sat near to his bed assz'dens, Alexander
slept soundly, somno consopitus est. It is in this
sleep that he sees the salutary plant: it is difficult
not to see here a true magnetic sleep. What hap-
pens to Alexander is what now happens every day
to our somnambulists.
Socrates was not less known in antiquity for
what he called his Demon or Genius than for the
wisdom of his philosophy and the injustice of his
contemporaries. Let us listen again to what Ci-
cero says in his t:eatise on Divination.
"Socrates said often that there is in man some-
thing divine, that in himself he called his Demon
or Genius, who never induced him to do any thing,
but, on the contrary, prevented him, and to whom
he never failed to obey." (1)
(1) Esse divinum quiddam, quod dremonion appellat; cui sem·
per ipse parucrit nunquam impellaoto srepe revocanti.-Cic. de
Divin., lib. I, § 54., N. 12.
62 THIRD LECTURE. '
Socrates, meeting one day Criton his friend with
a banded eye, inquired what it was. Criton an-
swered, as he has walking in the country a twig
struck him in the eye. Socrates reminded him
he had opposed his going to the country: "You
"rould not believe me," said he, " when from my
divine presage I wished to keep you with me."
It is a remarkable thing, continues Cicero, that
after the battle lost by the Athenians at Delium,
when Socrates, who was flying as the rest, had ar·
1·ived at a cross-way, he was not willing to take
the same way with the others, and as they asked
him the cause : " It is, said he, that my Genius de-
ters me from it." And in fact it happened that
those ·who followed not the same road with him,
fell into the cavalry of the enemy.
'Ve must listen to Socrates himself, in Plato, in
bis apology to the Athenians: " \Vhat prevented
me, Athenians, to come into your assemblies, is
my familiar Genius, that divine voice of whom I
f:.poke so often, and which was so often ridiculed
by l\1iletas. This Genius has attached himself to
1ne from my infi1ncy, &c." And a few lines lower:
'"If any one of my friends wish to impart me some
<letermination, if Jangerous, this voice obliges me
to dissuade them.
"Timarcus asked me, ' 'Vhat is your opinion,
Socrates?' I then heard the voice : Do not go,
said I. Timarcus could not resist, and went.
This is the reason he said to his brother, ' I am
about to die, because I would not listen to So-
crates.' ~'
THEORIES AND RESEARCHES. 6.3
And a few lines again lower, we find these
words: " You may yet be i11formed from many of
our fellow-citizens that I foretold them, before the
expedition to Sicily, the complete destruction of
our army."
A question presents itself in quoting those pas..
sages: Dicl Socrates obtain this wisdom, whicb
illustrates his name from antiquity to the present
day, from somnambulic faculties?
But let us return to the oracles and ~ibyls.
The sibyls, according to the meaning of the word,
were the interpreters of the willof the gods. Their
history ascends to the fabulous parts of history;
their books have not been preserved. The sibyl
of Cumes, spoken of by Virgil, is the first of whom
history has left records.
"When she rendered her oracles verbalJy," says
Virgil, .!Eneid, lib. VI, (I) " it appears she expe-
rienced violent convulsions; her face changed co-
lour, her hair would stand on end, her breast
heaved, her mouth foamed, her voice was fright-
ful; she struggled as if to disengage herself from
the god who presseJ, fatigued, subdued her, &c."
(I) Cui talia fanti
Ante f01·es, subito non vultus, non color unus,
Non comptre mansere comre; sed pectus auhelum
Et rabie fera corda tument, majorque videri,
Nee mortale sonans. . . . . . . .
At Phrebi nundiim patiens, inmanis in antro
Baccatur vates, magnum si pectore possit
Excussisse Deum: tanto magis ille fatiguat,
Os rabidum, fera corda domans, fingit que prcmendo•
.£neid, lib, VI, vers 45 et s~quen.
THIRD LECTURE.
According to Plutarch, she had predicted the fa-
nlous eruption of Vesuvius, which swallowed up
Pompela, Herculanum, and caused the death of
Plinius.
After the Sibyl of Cumes, the historians speak
of the nymph Egeria, 'vho served as a counsel
and an oracle to Numa. '\Ve may infer that Ege-
ria was a somnambulist, whom Numa consulted.
The Romans believed in the oracles of that sibyl.
''Ve will merely indicate the sibylian books
which were considered as depositories of the for-
tune and destinies of Rome; fifteen magistrates
were appointed for their preservation. The pre-
dictions they contained were often justified by
the events. They were destroyed by fire with
the Capitol, in 670.
St.. Justin assures that although the sibyls in
their predictions said a great 1nany fine things,.
they lost the memory of what they had announced.
Separate facts come here which are connected
with Roman history.
Tiberius, walking on the sea shore with Tra-
syle, who enjoyed a great reputation as a diviner,
they perceived a ship far off at sea. Trasyle
said immediately, there was on board a messenger
sent by Augustus with the order for him to return
to Rome. (1) 'Vas it not for l\1agnetism, it would
be difficult to explain that fact.
(1) Sic cnim certe omnia sciebat, ut cum procul vidisset navem
i.n qua nuntius vehebatur, ct quem de reditu in urbem mater et
Augustus au Tibcrium mittebant, statim (lllOd ille nunciaturus
e1·at, prredixerit.-Dionictrnus. Augustus, p. 74.
TIIEORIES AND RESEARCHES. .G!j
A trait of Mopsus. He was a great conjurer,
and when be pleased. Calchas was also a great
magician. They challenged each other. Mopsus
proposed to declare how many figs were on a fig-
t•·ee, and how many young ones had a sow just
passing by. Calchas could not answer, and died
of jealousy a few days after, when the prediction
of l\1opsus was literally accomplished, either for
the sow or the number of figs. 'Viii not our som-
nambulists, without being oracles, render us e\Tery
day witnesses of facts as surprising.
This is the way Magnetism throws the greatest
light on a multitude of facts in antiquity, which
were looked upon as fables, impostures or the
work of the Devil.
Let us now from Italy pass into the Gauls.
The Druids had also their sibyls. The fonc-
tion of the sacerdoce, that of divination and pro-
phecy were exercised by female Druids. They
attached a great importance to their sibyls; they
took a particular care of their education. The
young girls were collected in the isle of Sain, not
far from Brest; they obserYed with great atten-
tion those who had dispositions to fall into fits of
ecstacy.
Tacitus takes pleasure to praise the correct-
ness and success of their predictions. He men-
tions a certain Velleda, who had predicted a
great victory to the Germans, and the de&truction
of the Roman legions. ( 1)
(I) Nam prosperas res Germanis, ct cxciJium Jegionum pre·
di:terat.-Tacit. Hist., lib. 4, No.6.
9
THIRD LECTURE.
Vopiscus relates that Diocletian had a discus-
sion with a female Druid, on account of some vic-
tuals she had furnished him. " Diocletian," said
she, "you are too saving, too stingy." He an-
swered in a joke: "I will be more generous when
I am emperor." " Do not joke," replied the wo-
man," you will be emperor when you have killed
a boar.'' ( J) It must be observed that the word
.flpcr, which signifies in latin a boar, is also a
Jnan's name. Diocletian laughed, but still he put
himself to hunt and. kill boars, and said, seeing
Aurelian, Probus and others ascend the throne :
"I kill boars, but some others eat them." Finally,
it happened that Arius Aper stabbed the emperor
N umerian; Diocletian plunged his sword in the
bosom of Aper and succeeded the Emperor.
The heresiarch Montan, who lived in the second
century of the christian era, made predictions
emanated, he said, from the l-Ioly Ghost. He had
'vith him two females, Priscilla and 1\laximilla,
who fell into ecstacy, predicted the future, and
forgot, out of their somnambulism, what they had
said. The remarkable ·word Somniat, applied to
l\1ontan, is used by their historian (St. l-Iieron).
The heresy of .l\'loutan made proselytes, it even
seduced the famous Tcrtullian, the man the Inost
enlightened of his age, who, enjoying an immense
glory, consented to descend from that high rank,
to make hirnself a disciple of f;lontan and of vul·
(1) Diocletiane jocari noli, nam Impera.tor eris, cum Aprum oc-
cideris.-Vopiscus.
THEORIES AND RESEARCHES. 61
gar men and women. \Vhat can be the motives
that will excuse him in the eyes of the world, nay
in his own eyes? Tertullian must have had proofs.
anJ facts. It is from himself we will learn it.
" There is," said he, " now amongst us a sister
who is favoured with gift of revelations, she re-
ceives it in the church, in the middle of our mys-
teries, being ravished in ecstacy, she sees, she
hears celestial secrets, knows \Vhat is most hid-
den in the hearts of several persons, and teaches
salutary remedies to those who express the want
of them, &c."
This passage is positive and explains these
scenes which are so familiar to us and which our
modern somnambulists present.
A word on the cures operated by the saints or
monks in their monasteries in more modern times.
Thiers will be our authority.
Protogenes, says Thiers, a priest of Edesse, by
his prayers and his touch cured the children in-
trusted to his care; the monk John, had received
from God the gift of curing the gout : the monk
Benjamin, cured all sorts of diseases in touching
merely the sick with his hand. Parthenius, a bi-
shop in the Hellespont, cured all sorts of diseases,
&c." But continues Thiers, "they were holy per-
sonages, &c."
The good monks had the qualifications neces-
sary to magnetise, they had a firm belief and the
intention or will to cure; they employed the touch:
this is exactly Magnetism.
6~ THIRD LECTURE.
Another word upon possessions by the devil.
John Weir relates several histories of persons
haunted. A young girl in a fall, had a little knife
plunged in her side; they would not believe her.
She refused during several days to eat and drink:
in her paroxysms, she made several predictions;
she positively predicted three months in advance
that on the lady's day the knife would be visible.
She was considered as haunted by the devil, be-
cause her friends by mildness or threats could not
do any thing with her, but the prognostication
being accomplished, she was cured.
A magnetisor here will ask: and what became
of the devil ?
The same writer relates that a very ignorant
'voman, but agitated by the devil, having been ask-
ed what was the best verse of Virgil replied im-
mediately by this latin verse of Virgil, of which
here is a translation ~
Be just, and fear the Gods (1).
The choice is admirable, and shows that the
devil spoke as a good christian.
\Vhat shall we say of the convulsions on the
tomb of Deacon Paris? Not only more than 2000
persons experienced convulsions such as never did
even the Sibyl of Cumes; not only by a natural
1nagnetisation, the lame, the paralitics, the sick,
recovered their health, but many of the ecstatics:
could read the most secret thoughts, and made
predictions which have been preserved with care.
(1) Discite justitiaw moniti, et non temnere DivQs.
THEORIES AND RESEARCI!ES. 69
Dr. Hocquet appeared with his formidable work
on convulsions and proved that all this <lid not
proceed from God, nor from the devil, but from
Nature.
Dr. Hocquet makes a curious quotation; it re..
fers to the page of a Spanish Grandee; in health,
said he, he had but little sense, but in his mania,
his powers increased to such a degree that his
master was very happy to follow his counsels in
his government, so that the page and the lord
were very angry against the physician who cured
him.
Happily for Numa, the nymph Egeria had no
physician.
Let us leave our legends, and speak of the un-
fortunate Johanna d'Arc, called in French la Pu..
celle d'Or!Cans, whom her visions, her predictions
and her deplorable death have rendered an emin-
ent character.
Delaverdy has given an extract of her trial in
which he declares that he has given the very words
of Johanna. -
"At the age of thirteen,'' said she, "I heard a
voice in my father's garden, and saw a great light;
I was afraid at first, but I soon knew it was the
voice of St. Michael who has since accompanied
me, protected me, &c..............Since that time," con..
eludes Johanna, "I have done nothing but by vir-
tue of the revelations I have received, and appa..
ritions I have seen, as well as in this trial, I speak
but what is revealed to me."
THIRD LECTURE.
All this extract is full of facts which might ap4
pear miraculous. Guided by these voices, Johanna
announces in advance what will be the events.
She told the king that she would cause the siege
of Orleans to be raised, and it was raised. She
foretold that the English would be dril'en from
France in seven years; they were so in fact. She
had announced that he lrould be crowned in
Rhcims, and he was crowned in Rheims.
At the siege of Orleans, she assured that it
would be taken and that they would enter the rity
during night by the bridge. And she added,
"Blood will run from my breast."
The next day, the fort was attacked, and Jo-
ltarma was wounded by an arrow. Dunois seeing
his troops fatigued, resolved to sound the retreat.
Johanna's wound being banded, she besought hitn
to wait. She went into a vineyard where she
prayed for a quarter of an hour. On her return,
she seized her standard and waved it, calling the
French soldiers. They resumed the battle: the
English lost courage: the boulevard, the fort, were
no longer defellded, and Johanna entered Or-
leans, at night, by the bridge, as she had pre..
dieted.
\Vhy this sudden retreat ofJohanna in the vine-
yard, if not to collect her senses and put herself
in the desired state, consult her faculty offoresight
on what she had to do to accomplish her first pre-
t1iction?
THEORIES AND llESEAllCHES. n
I will pass over in silence all the deeds of J o-
hanna, they are all of the same nature with these,
and would add nothing to our information on her
sorunambulic faculties.
Johanna was a simple and ignorant girl, brought
up in the country, not knowing how to read. Her
temper was brisk, lively and impatient. All the
actions of her life show she was fnll ofbenevolence;
she was virtuous. Such was the maid whom the
English have burnt alive as a sorceress. A fatal
effect of ignorance, revenge and fanaticism.
A few words upon a somnambulic faculty oL-
served in Scotland and known in that country un-
der the name of secorzd sight. Johnson will not be
a suspected authority.
"The second sight," says the author of the
JToyage £n the Hebrides, "is either an impression
given by the eyes on the mind, or, by the mind on
the eyes, hy means of which distant or future ob-
jects are perceived and seen as if they were pre-
sent.
'"This faculty is passive, it is neither voluntary
nor constant. These apparitions cannot be com-
nlanded, detained or recalled, the impression is
sudden........"
The write1· ad<ls this very sensible reflection:
"'The faculty of second sight is wonderful only
because it is uncommon; for, considered in itself,
it does not imply more difficully than dreams, per-.
haps even no more than the regular exercise of
our fuculties of thinking."
72 rl'HIRD LECTURE.
But, my Hearers, do you want examples brought
,nearer to your sight in order that you may examine
them yourselves; do you wish to sec Mesmer's
Tub, with all its convulsions, spasms, sighs, laugh-
ter, jumping, singing, sleeping, staring eyes and
distorted mouths, magnetism as it was in Europe
before ha,Ting been regulated by a better system,
1ook round you, go in that Methodist church, ot·
still better, go in September next, to a camp-meet-
ing, and you will there have a true representation
of what magnetism was in 1781.
It follows from that observation that the sect of
the 1\tlethodists will constantly go on the increase,
as those who experience these sensations think
they are produced by the presence of a Superna-
tural Being.
As for the philosopher who has studied Animal
Magnetism, he will at once discover that these
sensations are magnetical; and produced by the
fluid put in motion by a regular impulse commu-
nicated on a numerous audience collected with
unity of intention.
After having brought a crowtl offacts before you,
Ladies and Gentlemen, let us see what theories on
Animal Magnetism have been imagined and what
explanation may be the most satisfactory to the
philosophical genius of this age, of this country
and in particular of this audience.
'Ve have seen that the history ofmagnetism and
of somnambulism is as old as the history of man-
kind; that speculative 1nedicine owes its orirrin to
b
THEORIES AND RESEARCHES. Z~
thetn according to the declaration of Hippocrates
and Galien themselves; that the various supersti7
tions and religionswhich succeeded each other had
for foundation their wonderful results presented to
the eye of an ignorant world as communications.
with the Gods. In Egypt, Asia, Greece, Rome
and the Gauls, we have magnetism modified a·c-
cording to the opinion of the time: now what mo-
dification shall it receive fr6m us when it presents
itself in its simple garb, and with its plain name of
.!Jnz"mal ..Yagnetism?
This strange science, or rather human faculty is
not without danger, when introduced to a credu-
lo·us people, the Swedes have adopted opinions oU:
this subject which will appear little concordant
with our present ideas, btit we have promised to
be candid, true and tolerant, we will keep that
promise.
According to the Exegetic and Philanthropic
Society of Stockholm, our diseases are produced
by our sins: crime puts this world under the influ-
ence of the evil spirit, to magnetise is to remove
th~t influence, or rather to cast away these evil
spirits. Magnetism thus considered consists in the
desire to do good tQ man, under the will of God;
1vhose clemency the magnetisor implores. Follow-
ing this idea, they imagine that in the state ofsom-
nambulism a protecting spirit or angel speaks by
the mouth of the patient after having subdued the
evil spirit. This theory which mayappearto us very
extravagant, has· the advantage ofexplaining more
1
THIRD J.ECTURE.
easily the phenomena of somnambulism than any
other. The sight at distance, and the superior un-
derstanding of the oomnambulist is ascribed to tbe
angel; the ·ioss of recollection to his departure.
A short specimen of their way of magnetising, ex-
tracted from their register may perhaps be timely
introduced.
On the I Oth of May, in presence of &c.......was
magnetised the wife of a gardener, who having
fallen in the state of somnambulism, we received
by her organ the following answers : Is the patient
asleep ?-Yes.-Who art thou who speakest by
the organ of the patient during her sleep ?-My
name is l\1aria.-ln what condition art thou ?-1
am in the other world, in a happy state.-How
long since?-These 14 years.-Who wert thou
during thy life time ?-1 died a child three years
old.-Who was thy father ?-He was a joiner in
this city.-His name ?-Lindstrom.-Art thou per-
mitted to give us explanations on important points-
which it is interesting for us to know exactly?-
Yes.-What becomes of man after death ?-He
enters into purification, &c. &c.....
The letter of l\1r Halldin which accompanied
the copy of their register to the French Society,
concludes with these words: ''No consideration,
not even the fear of being branded with the names
<>f visionary, deceitful, and crazy men, hypocrites,
fanatics, heretics, or ofany other qualification they
will be pleased to lavish upon us to cover us with
contempt and ridicule will ever deter u~ from re~
'fliEORIES AND RESEARCHES. ?5
maining faithful to the conviction of the truth, we
have had the happiness to arrive at," &c....
But I think it is enough on the spiritualists of
Sweden.
Getmany has adopted a theory mixed with
spiritualism, religion and philosophy. A letter
written from Carlsrouhe to Mr. Deleuze, will pre-
sent their ideas better than I otherwise could do.
" I an1 not ignorant how many precautions are
necessary in a country where ridicule is so power..
ful, and where materialism is stilJ, in many res-
pects, the reigning philosophy. But it seems to
me not impossible to open the ·way for a more
elevated philosophy in presenting facts which lead
to it, such as they have been given by those who
witnessed them. In the last number of your
journal, you endeavour to preserve your readers
against the system of the northern magnetisors,
who admit spiritual powers as a medium in mag-
netic operations. But if it is true, as we are com-
pelled to admit, that somnambulists have seen
past and future eveuts, if they have seen the in-
side of their bodies and that of others, and fore-
told the result of a treatment, is not this an in-
tellectual perception, different from a physical
one?..... \Vould it be then so ritliculous or so
odious to return, by the very philosophical way
of experience, to the belief of our fathers? If our
ancestors joined to their belief dangerous and
superstitious ideas, let us remove them, but let us
be faithful to our principles, let us respe_s;t facts
THIRD LECTURE.
collected in o-reat numher. which during 6,000
o I.
years have been the ground-work of many re l·
gions, of ours among the number, and attested by
historians, philosophers. fathers of the Church,
and other estimable writers."
The French have not been so far, they have in-
herited from Mesmer the idea of a universal fluid,
which they have animalised by the organs of life,
-and called vital or magnetic fluid. As I have
already exposed, at the beginning of my second
lecture, this fluid, directed by the act of will· on
another individual, cures him, lulls him to sleep,
and frequently produces somnambulism, in which
a new sense, a sixth sense is developed. This
sense opens a new mode of perception, of which
we can have no more idea than the blind by birth
can have of colour. The somnambulist does not
himself preserve any idea of that mode of percep-
tion, as he loses all recollection at his waking up.
Some passages of the answer of Mr. Deleuze,
·this Nestor of magnetism, to the foregoing letter
will be an excellent illustration of the opinion
adopted by the majority of the French school.
"To explain these faculties, Sir, you have re-
course to spiritual beings, but you do not pay at-
tention that in doing so, you neither remove nor
even attenuate them. I suppose, on the contrary,
that in the state of somnambulism a new fa~ulty is
developed in man of which all those we have in
the waking state are but modifications ; that this
kind of inward sense is the centre of all others,
THEORIES AND RESEARCHES. '1'1
the advantages ofwhich it unites. That this mode
of perception is as different from that which we
have by the other senses as the impressions given
by the eyes are from those given by the ears. Let
us not be like a blind man who would agree that
the forms of an object placed at a few yards may
be determined, but who would say that there is
but an intelligence ofsuperior order who may have
the sensation of an object placed in space at a
distance which exceeds that of the Diameter of
the Earth. You see then, Sir, at length I conclude
as Socrates, and as I often heard the celebrated
Lagrange say: I know not."
My Dear Hearers, we must all agree with Mr.
Deleuze that we know not how all these phenome-
na are produced; but if they are produced, take
my word they will be produced by yourselves if
you are not discouraged by want of information
and of perseverance and a few unsuccessful at-
tempts. Do not at first expect wonderful and mi-
raculous effects, but put yourselves in the condi-
tion to obtain them; let not your motives be in-
discreet curiosity, devoid of the intention to do
good.
Act with confidence, perseverance, and the ar-
dent wish to relieve the sufferings of your brother
and you will soon be crowned with a success which
will surpass your most sanguine expectations.
Full of confidence in the importance ofthis sub-
ject, str·ong in the uprightness of my intentions,
I study, I proclairn and I publish the power of thp
78 THIRD LECTURE.
human will, anited with charity: may my zeal ap-.,
pear acceptable and make you conceive a true
idea of Animal Magnetism !
END OF THE THIRD LECTUlU:.
