{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1829__higgins___apology_for_the_life_and_character_of_mohamed.pdf","mytitle":"Apology For The Life And Character Of Mohamed","mylang":"de"}
,. ,Wx
AN APOLOGY
"'
~__,»
THE LIFE AND CHARACTER
CELEBRATED PROPHET OF ARABLM
CALLED
_MOHAMER
OR
I
'EITD8 iElllt5trf0tt§.
BY GODFREY HIGGINS, ESQ.
LONDON:
now1.ANn uvrlnn, 72, sr. nur/s cuuncmumu; uu|v.s'r, CHANCE
.mn co sr l'AUL'S cnuncmmnn; AND RIDGLWAY AND sons
|>|ccA|m.|.Y
1829.
5:2/,__
)'
Kit; ~.»
F Q'
» 5
-? -X
"L-» wil XA
F '<§i3*". *>
»
HIi
PRINTED DY G. SMALLFIELIJ, HACKNEY
T0 THE
NOBLEMEN AND GENTLEMEN OF THE ASIATIC SO-
CIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND.
To you, my Lords and Gentlemen, I take the
liberty of dedicating this small Tract, because I am
desirous of correcting what appear to me to be the
erroneous
opinions which some of the individuals of
your Society (as well as others of my countrymen)
entertain respecting the religion of many millions of
the inhabitants of the Oriental Countries, about the
welfare of whom you meritoriously interest your-
selves; and, because a
right understanding of their
religion, by you, is of the first importance to their
welfare. I do it without the knowledge or
approba-
tion of the Society, or of any of its Members, in
order that they may not be implicated in my senti-
ments. ,
With the most sincere wishes for the welfare ot
the Society, and with great respect,
I remain, my Lords and Gentlemen,
Your most obedient, humble servant,
GODFREY HIGGINS,
M. ASIAT. soc.
~
Sxznnow Gamez, NEAR Doucasrnu,
July, lB29.
»
ERRATUM.
Page 80, line l§, for the "
Aleph," read a Daleth, and for
"
H. M. A.," read IL M. D.
PREFACE.
THE object of the following Essay is to abate
the mischievous spirit of intolerance which has hi-
therto existed between the followers of Jesus and
those of Mohamed, by shewing that the religions of
both, however unfortunately changed by time, are
the same in their original foundation and principle.
If the author 'should succeed in the slightest degree
in exciting or
increasing a
brotherly feeling towards
the professors of the Mohamedan faith, so
many
millions of whom are our fellow-subjects, he will
be amply rewarded.
`
'
"
Mr. Crips, alighting from his horse, killed a
serpent which was
crossing the way; carrying it
to the ambassador, who was seated in his Arabah,
he received a mild but pointed reproof against the
wantonness of depriving an
animal unnecessarily
of life. '
Bey Zadeh,' said /ze,
'
had that poor
viii PREFACE.
serpent done any thing to injure you? Are you
the happier because you have deprived it of life?
Do not carry with you a
proof of your cruelty; it
may be unlucky: the same God who made you
created also the serpent; and surely there was
room enough in this wilderness for both of you !"'*
"
Clarke's Travels, Vol. IV. p. 544, 4to.
......._.T..1._-_-__
A POLOG Y, 8cc.
l. Psm-IAPS in no previous period had the empire of the
Persians, or the oriental part of the Roman empire, been
in a more
deplorable or
unhappy state than at the begin-
ning of the seventh century, In consequence of the weak-
ness of the Byzantine despots, the whole frame of their
government was in.a state of complete disorganization ;
and in consequence of the most frightful abuses and cor-
ruption of the priests, the Christian religion had fallen
into a state of degradation scarcely at this day conceiv-
able, and such as would be absolutely incredible had we
not evidence of it the most unquestionable. The feuds
and animosities of the almost innumerable sects had risen
to the greatest possible height; the whole frame of soci-
ety was loosened ; the towns and cities flowed vith
blood. Well, indeed, had Jesus prophesied when he said
he brought not peace, but a sword. Husband against
wife, children against parents, every house divided against
itself-all domestic peace destroyed, and destroyed, too,
about the most childish and unimportant, yet the most
abstruse and unintelligible points of faith, creating disputes
which were in their very nature interminable. At this
time, in a remote and almostunknown corner of Arabia,
at a distance from the civil broils which were
tearing to
pieces the Roman empire, arose the religion of Mohamed,
a
religion destined to sweep like a. tornado over the face
of the earth, to carry before it empires, kingdoms, and
systems, and to scatter them like dust before the wind.
B
2
2. I know no man concerning whom it is more diiiicult to
form an
opinion than of Mohamed, the celebrated prophet
of Arabia. Bigotry on one side, and malice on the other,
have so obscured the history of this extraordinary person,
that it is very diiiicult to come to a
certainty as to the
truth of most circumstances respecting him. The facts
stated to his disadvantage by Christians, it is clear on
sound reasoning, can no more be admitted as evidence
against him, than those can
against Jesus Christ stated
by Jews; unless in each case this exceptionable evidence
by some other means receive confirmation. On the same
principle, the facts stated of Mohamed to his advantage
in the Koran, taken by themselves, cannot be relied on.
But if we find any facts there stated which are disadvan-
tageous to him, according to the tenets or opinions of his
immediate followers who compiled that book, these state-
ments, I think, will be evidence; because they will, in
fact, come from unwilling witnesses. Thus again, I
think, that such assertions re pecting him as are
agreed
to equally by Jews, Christians, and Mohamedans, may be
received.
3. But it will, perhaps, be said, that if thus the historical
facts respecting him be pruned away, nothing will be left.
Is it not better to have nothing, than to have that which
is false? But I think the consequence will not go so far.
We shall have left much that is neither particularly good
nor bad, but for the truth of which we shall have a strong
probability; particularly if it be not contradicted, but as-
sented to sub silentio, by his enemies, and be in itself
probable and consistent with his general character, that
of those about him, and the circumstances of the times-
and I may add also, consistent with the general character
of human nature, which we learn from experience. But
yet these facts will not be proved like those in which both
friends and enemies agree, and the distinction ought
to be carefully remembered. Besides these, there is a de-
scription of facts which must be admitted with great cau-
tion respecting Mohamed, on account of the peculiarity
`*
3
of his case, though admitted both by his friends and ene-
mies. Thus, for example, when it is said that he profess-
ed or
pretended to be divinely inspired, it is evident, that
though this pretension will injure him greatly in the
opinion of the philosophers of this day, yet his followers,
after his religion once became established, would be very
likely to palm it upon him without any fault of his ;-the
unprincipled part of them, to support their new-formed
government either in church or state, and the mere fool-
ish bigots, because they really fancied it raised his cha-
racter. At the same time that it raised his character in
their eyes, it justified their faith and assisted them in
blinding themselves and dispensing with the use of their
reason. Bigots never reason. The different sects of
Christians and Jews supported the Mohamedan bigots in
this, because it enabled them to stigmatize the man
they
hated for not thinking precisely according to thei creed
which their infallibility had decided to be right, with the
title of Impostor. The philosophers, if any there were in
that day, unfortunately neither thought nor wrote on
the
subject.
4. As experience teaches us to expect, we find Mohamed/
branded, both by Jews and Christians, with the worst
epithets which vulgar bigotry can invent. He is always
denominated an Impostor ; but I think I shall be able to
shew that this is an appellatiou he is not entitled to, at
least to the extent to which it is generally carried. It is
said that he pretended to be SENT as a. Paorx-iE'r from
God. This, I think, is a pretension he might make, and
yet be no impostor. Nothing is so common as for per-
sons to imagine that they are sent or called to preach or
teach reformation to their fellow-creatures, either in mo-
rals, politics, or
religion, and yet to be actuated by no
motives of fraud or deceit-without which a man cannot
'be an
impostor. Besides, being sent may mean
nothing
supernatural. Every man is sent to fulfil the duties of
the station in which God has placed him, and I think
B 2
4
I shall shew that there is no evidence that Mohamed pre-
tended to any thing more than this.
5. But it will be said, that he pretended to be a Prophet
also. I think I shall shew that we have no
proof of this ;
and I beg the reader to remember that the Word prophet
in the time of Mohamed, and long previously, did not
necessarily convey any idea of supernatural power or
intiuence. When we read in St. Paul's Epistle to the
Corinthians, ch. xi. 4, that men
prophesying with their
heads covered, dishonoured their heads, and that women
prophesying with them uncovered, dishonoured them, we
must perceive that by the word prqzlzesying nothing but
preaching is meant. And I think we shall see that, at
least in the beginning of his mission, Mohamed pretended
to nothing more than this -
merely that he was sent by
God, or
inspired, moved in spirit, by God, to preach a
reformation in the idolatrous practices of his country-
menf* As every man
may be said to be moved by God
who feels a wish to perform a good act-as our criminal
indictments say a man is moved by the devil, who wishes
to do a bad one-so the view which I take here of the
prophetic part of his character is strengthened by the
circumstance, that he is not said by his followers ever
to have foretold, or
pretended to foretell, any event.
6. Respecting the word Prophet and the Mohamedan pro-
fession of faith, it has been observed,
"
One element cer-
tainly is to know what this profession of faith is. Its first
member is, that there is no God but God. The second is,
that Mohamed was a sent (resoul) of God: not a
prqzhet
°
The learned Dr. Hyde says,
"
Testiiicatio, ea est communis for-
mula qua quisque se tidei Mohamnnedanae addictum protitetur et tes-
tiiicatur, dicendo-Nonest Deus nisi ispe Deus, et Mohammed en
propheta Dei sen
potius Legatus Dei. Persm addunt, Sed Ali eat
Amicus Dei.
'
"
The word Islam means status aalufis, qui Lat. Islumismus vocari
possit: et statum talem ingrediens est Muslim seu MusIiman."-Hyde's
Tructatua Allferti Bobovii. Oxford, 1690.
5
of God, as sometimes rendered, nor 'rua sent; for the
Word is not prophet, and the delinite article is excluded
by the declaration of Mohamed, that the resouls are
many
and their number unknown. Koran, iv. l63."-West. Rev.
No. IX. p. 226.
7. This at once does away with all question respecting
his being a
prophet in the common
acceptation of the term.
8. I shall abstain from giving any account of, or copying,
the disgusting trash which has been written respecting
the character and conduct of Mohamed by the Christian
priests-some of them (Prideaux for instance) men of
great learning and high respectability--men who, indeed,
ought to have been above such conduct, but whose zeal
in this case has actually destroyed their sense of right and
wrong, and, as it should seem, taken away from them the
use of their understandings. If I were to detail the vul-
gar abuse in which they have indulged, no information
respecting the character of Mohamed would thereby be
conveyed to any liberal or
rqjfecting mind, and the Chris-
tian religion would be wounded by the infamous behaviour
of its professors. The folly of this conduct has been felt
and admitted by the Rev. Dr. White, in the celebrated
Bampton Lectures; and though, as we
may expect from a
Christian Doctor preaching to the ultra-orthodox Univer-
sity of Oxford, he was far from unprejudiced, yet he has
admitted the truth of many of the assertions of the follow-
ers of Mohamed, which a liberal and reflecting mind could
not deny, and thereby done himself the greatest honour;
and from him, as the very first of Christian authorities, I
shall often have occasion to make quotations. _
9. It will instantly be seen that his evidence must be
considered as that of an
unwilling witness.
'
He says,
"
In the various writings of the numerous followers of
Mahomet, his character is uniformly drawn in the bright-
est and most amiable colours : he is held up as the unri-
valled pattern of every mental and corporeal perfection,
and as distinguished by every quality and virtue which
6
can adorn and elevate human nature." Such is the cha-
racter which Dr. White informs us be has received from
his followers-a character probably overcharged by en-
thusiasm, but also probably very far from being entirely
destitute of foundation in truth, as the following quota-
tion from that Rev. Doctor's fourth Bampton Lecture
will decidedly prove:
10. "
The circumstances which attended the earlier years
of Mahomet were certainly such as presented no Hatter-
ing prospects of grandeur, and no probable views of am-
bition -
to his future life. Though descended from the
most honourable tribe of Arabia, and from the noblest
family of that tribe, yet distress and poverty were the
only portionywhich he inherited; a distress and poverty
unsoftened by the tender cares and kind indulgence of
parental aH`ection.--The education which he received, like
that of the rest of his countrymen, was rough and liardy ;
neither tempered by the elegancies of literature, nor even
enlightened by the first and most obvious rudiments of
knowledge; but calculated rather to invigorate the pow-
ers of the body than to polish and enlarge the mind. The
bounty of nature, however, and the exquisite endowments
with which she had so
liberally adorned the future prophet
and monarch of Arabia, abundantly compensated for the
unkindness of fortune. Graceful in his person, easy and
insinuating in his manners, and endowed with a greatness
of mind which could brave the storms of adversity, and
rise superior to the disadvantages of an illiterate educa-
tion, he was in possession of accomplishments more valu-
able in themselves, and capable of producing more illus-
trious effects, than all that the iniluence of wealth, or the
authority of hereditary power, could have bestowed."
11. Such is the character given of this great prophet, con-
queror, reformer, or
impostor, by the Oriental Professor
of the University of Oxford. I shall now proceed to give
a
general outline of his history.
12. In the city of Mecca, on the eastern coast of the Red Sea,
7
in the 57] st* year of the Christian sera, a widow in indigent
circumstances,whose husband had been deceased about two
months, was delivered of a
boy. The uncle of the child,
Abu Taled, a rich man, had compassion on him and sent him
five or six miles into the country to nurse. The babe was
healthy and beautiful to look upon, and as he advanced
in years the sweetness of his disposition rivalled the
beauty of his person. Nature had done for him every
thing, but fortune withheld her favours. He was
poor,
and though his uncle did not choose to leave him to
perish in his infancy, he did not choose to expend any
portion of his wealth to educate him, or to raise him
above the very lowest situation in life. When old
enough, he began to earn his bread as a camel-driver, in
which capacity, for many years, he traversed divers
countries, by which he acquired a
knowledge of men and
things, probably much more valuable than the letters
Which, shut up in a
school, a
pedant would have taught.
This child was Mohamed. As a camel-driver, in the
Service of his uncle, he continued till he was
twenty-
live years of age, when he was taken into the employ-
ment of a widow of the name of Cadigha, whose husband,
a merchant, had died a little
time previously, and by
whom she had left to her great wealth and complicated
mercantile concerns. The business of this lady is stated
to have been very extensive, and her husband to have
been one of the 'first merchants of Mecca, his native
place. From the age of twenty-tive, for about three
years, Mohamed managed this concern as a factor, trad-
ing for her to Damascus and many other places, when
she married him, thereby advancing him from at servant
to be all at once one of the principal men of his country,
from actual poverty to very considerable wealth. Amidst
all the abuse which religious bigotry has lavished upon
Mohamed, it is remarkable that it has not dared to ad-
*
The exact year has been a subject of dispute, like every thing
else respecting Mohamed, but I think this is the most probable. It
is of little consequence.
A
8
vance any thing against him on account of his conduct to
this lady. She lived with him two and twenty years as
his sole wife, and it was not till her decease that he in-
dulged himself, after the manner of his country, in a.
plurality of wives; but shortly after that event he mar-
ried Ayesha, the daughter of Abu Beker; and Sewda,
the daughter of Zama; and some time afterward, Haphsa,
the daughter of Omar; thereby rendering himself son-in-
law to three of the men who had become his greatest
supporters.
_
13. Dr. White says, "From this period (viz. his marriage
with Cadigha) to the time when he announced his mis-
sion as the prophet of the Most High, history has re-
corded nothing conceming the actions and the pursuits
of M ahomet. Fifteen years of his life are involved in the
deepest and most impenetrable obscurity. One historian
only informs us, that God had inspired his prophet with
a love of solitude and retirement. But in this single in-
formation we see a
ray of light suiiicient to clear up the
darkness of this mysterious interval. In a
lonely cave,
in the recesses of mount Hara, he shunned the society of
men."-Wurrs, Ser. IV.
14. Again, Dr. White says, "The character of Mahomet,
according to eastern historians, had been hitherto pre-
served unblemished: his moral qualities, no less than his
other accomplishments, had contributed to raise him in
the esteem of his fellow-citizens; and his integrity in
particular had been honoured with the most flattering
and distinguished testimony of their approbation. That
he might not, however, by too rapid a transition, become
a reformer of those very errors in which he himself had
been involved ; that he might not too suddenly commence
a preacher against that idolatry which he had practised in
common with the rest of his countrymen; and that he
might acquire a
reputation for sanctity in some measure
correspondent with the high and venerable odice which
he was about to assume; he affected to pass a
great part
of his time in religious retirement and holy meditation:
9
he became more grave in his deportment, more profuse
in his charities, and more assiduous in his devotions."
15. Notwithstanding the evil intention attributed in the
above passage to the new
prophet by the reverend lec-
turer of Oxford, on his own surmise only, without any
authority, it is evident that until the fortieth year of his
age, when he first undertook the reformation of his coun-
trymen, his conduct had been irreproachable ; indeed,
such as might well be held up to all as an
example.
Since the general exemplary life of the prophet could not
be denied by the learned Oxonian, but as his merit could
not be admitted without danger by a. Christian divine,
nothing remained but to attribute the conduct of the pro-
phet to hypocrisy, and the most artful and deeply laid
plot or
design. Fifteen years, it seems, he passed in a
voluntary noviciate, before he made known even to his
wife, or his most intimate friends, the object of his pe-
nance or seclusion, before he announced to them the glo-
rious mission with which he was charged. Thus, to the
virtues allowed him by the Doctor, the merit of great pa-
tience at least must be added.
16. I beg the reader here to pause, and consider how dif-
ferent an account may be given of these fifteen years of
seclusion by the followers of the prophet, and when all
his other conduct during this long time is considered, in
all probability, too, given with truth. I could easily give
it from the Mohamedan authors, but, according to my
rule, it is not admissible as evidence.
17. It is not surprising that his wife Cadigha should be
the first of his proselytes, if he were sincere in his profes-
sions, but very much the contrary, if he were an
impostor.
He must have played his part very well for fifteen years
together to have deceived her ;'* for it is admitted, that
she was a believer, and not in the pretended plot, or a
*
It has been said, that no
great man was ever great in the pre-
sence of his valet or his wife. Was Mohamed an exception to _this
rule P
10
hypocrite. After Cadigha, his slave Zayd became his
second proselyte, who was soon after followed by Ali, the
son of Abu Taleb, his uncle. Dean Prideaux says,
"
His
fourth disciple was Abu Beker, who, being one of the
richest men of Mecca, and a
person of great wisdom and
experience, brought with him no small help and reputa-
tion to his cause; and his example was soon followed by
five others, Othman Ebn Aifan, Zobair Ebn'ol Awam,
Saad Ebn Abu Waccas, Abdorrahman Ebn Auf, and Abu
Obeida Ebn'ol Jerah, who were afterwards the principal
generals of his armies, and the chief instruments under
him, by whose help he established both his empire and
his imposture together in those parts of the world."-
PRIDI-1AUX'S LW ofMahomet, p. 12, 8vo. ed.
18. Notwithstanding many striking traits of resemblance
may be perceived between circumstances in the early his-
tories of Jesus and of Mohamed, yet there are
many
others in which they as
decidedly dilfer. The twelve 'first
proselytes of Jesus are allowed to have been uneducated
men,* in the most humble situations of life. On the
contrary, it appears that, with the exception of his slave,
the first of Mohamed's proselytes were persons of high
respectability; and their splendid actions as Caliphs and
leaders of the Mohamedan armies, prove them to have pos-
sessed first-rate talents, and not to have been men
likely to
be easily deceived. In the humble characters of the first
disciples of Jesus, Mr. Mosheim professes to see much
glory to the Christian cause. I am
obliged to confess, if
I must speak the truth, that, on the contrary, it would
have been full as
satisfactory to me to have seen
among
its earliest professors men
possessing such characters as
those of the Antonines, of Locke, or of Newton. But
°
18m-ai, unlearned, men of mean capacities or understandings,
they have been called by some of the early Christian writers, whence,
probably, by no very great perversion of language, our term idiot has
been derived. See the controversy respecting this word betwixt
Priestley and Horsley.
H
f
`1l
this only proves how differently the same object appears
to diE`erent persons.
19. For several years after the beginning of his mission,
(as in future I shall call it,) Mohamed appears not to
have made any great progress : but nothing dismayed
with the insults, the ridicule, or even with the threats of
his opponents, he continued his preaching until the end
of the fourth year, when he is stated by the Christians to
have made, including those before named, only thirty-
nine proselytes : but one of these was Omar Ebno'l Chat-
tab, a man of very high consideration among his oppo-
nents, and one whose talents afterward raised him to the
Califat and the empire of nearly all Asia. His enemies,
the rulers of the state and supporters of the old system,
the chiefpriests and pharisees of his country, finding that
neither ridicule (that generally considered invincible wea-
pon against a bad cause) nor the use of such epithets as
sorcerer, magician, liar, impostor, &c., had any eifect in
preventing the increase of his followers; and finding also
their loaves and fishes in danger, determined to have re-
course to a more effectual measure, and for this purpose
they entered into a combination to assassinate him. This
conspiracy would probably have finished the prophet, if it
had not finished the religion, had it not been discovered
and defeated by his uncle, Abu Taleb, one of the chief
men of the government, who was not a believer in his
mission, but who defended him against his enemies with
more success, perhaps with more zeal, than had been
shewn by Pilate, his brother idolater, on a similar occa-
sion.
20. It is evident from the unwilling admissions of the
Dean of Norwich, that the prophet met the taunts and in-
sults of his countrymen with nothing but mildness and the
most insinuating address and manners: to all ranks of
persons aEable and courteous ; and to the poor kind and
charitable! In his preaching he is said to have had a
°
Prideaux, Life of Mah., p. l9.
12
ready wit, and l think we cannot doubt his having pos-
sessed a considerable share of eloquence. To this line of
conduct and to these qualities, I think we
may attribute
the protection which he received from Abu Taleb, which
was so favourable to the prophet, and so honourable to
the just and liberal-minded idolater.
21. The facts as here stated are admitted by Prideaux,
but to him they are gall and wormwood ; he can see in
them nothing but baseness and infamy: thus religious
bigotry blinds the best of men ; for Prideaux was, I be-
lieve, a
very good man. Well has it been observed by
Profes_sor White, that the conduct of Christians in repre-
senting Mohamed, the man who raised himself from an
humble station to the sovereignty of a
great empire, as
they have often done, to be a
perfect monster of vice, de-
void of both moral and intellectual faculties# and as
contemptible on account of his abject stupidity as detest-
able for his enormous vices, they have not left us, if we
were to believe them, any other, or
scarcely any other
resource, than to admit that his success was the effect of
a miracle ; and they have rendered it difiicult at least, if
not impossible, to be accounted for by any human means.
But this diiiiculty need not alarm the pious Christian.
It does not exist. The unprincipled falsehood and ca-
lumnies of his predecessors, the Rev. Oxoniau allows.
They are, indeed, totally devoid of all credibility.
22. The conspiracy having failed to take oif the prophet,
he fearlessly continued to preach, and kept constantly
acquiring new
proselytes ; until, in the eighth year of his
preaching, the government passed a law, whereby they
forbad any more
persons to join themselves to him. But
he paid no attention to this, which availed nothing to his
hurt. as long as his uncle Abu Tabel lived, but he died
two years afterward, and the chief government of the city
then remained solely with Abu Sophian, of the house of
Ommia, one of his most bitter opponents. How the
*
White, Lecture IV. pp. 164, 166, 8vo. ed.
13
prophet managed to support himself against his enemies
for the next two years does not clearly appear from the
Christian authors, for the idle stories they tell cannot
be received as evidence. But I think we
may believe
Prideaux, that in these two years he retired for some time
to a
place called 'I`ayif, a town of Hagiuz, about sixty
miles from Mecca towards the East, where his uncle
Abbas 'mostly lived. Prideaux says he went there with
an intent to make proselytes and seize the town, but that,
failing entirely in the first object, he returned to Mecca.
It is probable that he retired to avoid the fury of his ene-
mies, and that when it had a little abated, or his party
had obtained some advantage, he returned. Probably when
he was at Tayif he would endeavour to make proselytes,
and probably might fail in his attempt. In the twelfth
year of his mission,
"
some of his followers, to the num-
ber of about one hundred persons, (as Prideaux says,)
having made themselves more than ordinarily obnoxious
to the government, by their practices against it, were
forced to Hy from Mecca to Nagush, king of Ethiopia,
where Mahomet's letters, which they carried with them,
obtained their protection, though the men of Mecca sent
two of their principal citizens after them in an
embassy
to that king, to demand them to be delivered unto them.
And Mahomet, with the rest that tarried behind, found it
very difficult for them to subsist any longer there. For
after the departure of so
many of his faithfullest adhe-
rents into this exile, this farther diminution of hi num-
ber made him still less able to withstand those insults
which his adversaries were continually, on all occasions,
making upon him. But what he lost at Mecca, he got at
Medina, then called Yatreb, a
city lying at the northern
end of Haginz, two hundred and seventy miles distant
from Mecca, which being inhabited the one part by Jews,
and the other part by heretical Christians, and these two
parties not well agreeing in the same city, the factions
and feuds that arose between them drove one of the par-
ties to Mahomet, and on the thirteenth year of his pre-
/
_
14
tended mission, there came to him from thence seventy-
three men and two women, who embraced his imposture,
and swore
fealty to him, whercon he chose twelve out of
them whom he retained awhile with him at Mecca, to
instruct them in his new religion, and then sent them
back again to Yatreb, to be as his twelve apostles, there
to propagate it in that town, in which they laboured with
that success, that in a short time they drew over a great
party of the inhabitants to embrace the imposture : of
which Mahomet receiving an account, resolved to retire
thither, as finding Mecca now grown too hot for him.
For the chief men of the city finding that Mahomet's in-
defatigable industry and cunning still kept up his party,
do what they could to suppress it, resolved, without
further delay, to strike at the root, and prevent the far-
ther spreading of the mischief by cutting off him that was
the chief author of it. Of which he having received full
and early intelligence, and 'minding no other way to avoid
the blow but to Hy from it, ordered all his party, whom
he could prevail with, to accompany him in his banish-
ment, secretly in the evening to withdraw out of the city,
and retire to Yatreb. And when he had seen them all
gone, he and Abu Beker followed after, leaving only Ali
behind, who having set in order some affairs that detained
him, came to them on the third day after. As soon as
this Bight was
publicly known, parties were sent out to
pursue after him, and he diilicultly escaped them, by
hiding himself for some time in a cave till the heat of the
pursuit was over."-Pam. LQ/`e of Mah., p. 55.
23. In this account of the Rev. Dean we see the general
gloss and canting style which are
usually adopted on such
occasions by the priests and rulers, with whom he here
identifies himself, against all such persons as preach up
reformation of the abuses, by means of which, together
with the labour of their fellow- creatures, they live in ease
and luxury. The Dean seems .to know perfectly well,
to entertain no doubts whatever respecting, the private
sentiments of the governors -of Mecca,_ and of Mohamed,
15
and of his followers : nor does he seem the least shocked
with their attempts to murder this hitherto peaceable
preacher. However, we
may receive for true, that a
number of his followers Bed to Nagush, King of Ethiopia,
and that some time afterward, a
deputation having come
to him from Yatreb or Medina, he lied thither himself
with all or the most of his followers. All this is perfectly
natural, consistent with probability and our
experience
of the affairs of mankind. It is what happened in similar
circumstances to Socrates, to Pythagoras, to Moses, to
Luther, and to many others, and even to Jesus Christ*
himself. In order to disguise the fact, which cannot be
denied, that a number of persons of Medina had become
proselytes to his religion, the Dean describes this effect
to have happened in consequence of quarrels betwixt
the Jews and Christians, which compelled one
party to
throw themselves into his arms. It does not appear that
any disorder or bloodshed took place on his arrival at
Medina. His party was so
superior to either that of the
Jews or of the Christians, that he met with no resist-
ance, and immediately proceeded to take possession of
the government.
24. The account of the Bight from Mecca to Medina, at
that time, from its superior state of learning called the
City of the Book, may be read in Gibbon's History, in
chapter fifty of the nncorrupted version.
25. This Bight of Mohamed must not be passed lightly
over. It proved in its effects of incalculable importance
to the future fortunes of a
great part of mankind. From
the day of this Bight, the sixteenth of July, six hundred
and twenty-two of the Christian a-ara, the aera of the
Hegira takes its date. From this date all the numerous
tribes of the followers of Mohamed, wherever scattered,
uniformly reckon their time. This is a curious and im-
portant fact, but it bears no comparison in point of im-
portance to some other consequences which followed, and
were the eH'ects of this cause. It is very certain that
°
Matt. xii. I5; Mark iii. 7, &c.
16
until this Bight the prophet had confined himself, whether
from principle or prudence I do not say, and it is of no
consequence in the argument, to the use of peaceable
means only; to the power of eloquence and persuasion,
for the propagation of his doctrine. By this persecution,
he was driven to take up the sword in his own defence,
and from a
preacher he was converted into a soldier, a
hero, and a
conqueror. From this sera must be dated
not the Hegira only, but the beginning of great revolu-
tions, causing the death of millions of human beings,
the overthrow of great numbers of mighty states and
kingdoms, and the foundation of some of the most
magnificent empires which the globe has ever seen." In
short, from this apparently triding event, the face of the
whole world has been changed.
_
26. Notwithstanding all the glosses and misrepresenta-
tions of Prideaux and other Christian authors, it is very
evident that, until the Hegira, the life and moral conduct of
Mohamed had been correct in a
high degree. Except the
wicked object or intention from which his actions, either
good in themselves or indifferent, are said to have
originated, not a single charge can be brought against
him. After the Hegira I speak not so
decisively on this
point. Had the foolish bigots of Mecca been persuaded
to abolish their idolatry, or been content, like the prophet,
to make use
only of the weapons of reason and argument,
in what a different situation might the world have been
placed at this time! What a stupendous effect has arisen
from the folly of these few miserable priests of a con-
temptible religion! What miseries have been brought on
the world by this pernicious order of men ! In all ages
and in all nations, the priests have been the enemies of
the happiness of mankind. To them may almost all the
great revolutions of the world be traced. As a
society,
they are, as far as in their power, what they always have
been. And what they always have been, they always
will continue : from the nature and constitution of the
order they can be no other. By acquiring an induence
17
over the minds and consciences of kings, they have suc-
ceeded in preventing them from listening to the complaints
of their subjects, and consenting to timely reforms, in
consequence of which most of the revolutions of the world
have taken place, all which may fairly be charged to their
account. It is not to the philosophers and the Carbonari,
that the late revolutions of France and Spain are to be
attributed, but to the murderers of the family of the
Calases, and to the heads of the Inquisition. Nor are
Ferdinand and Miguel the persons to whose charge the
miseries of Spain and Portugal ought to be laid. They
are but the creatures of the priests ; they are
only what
the priests, who have the sole merit or demerit of every
action of 'their lives, have made them. An established
priesthood has all the dangerous qualities of a
correspond-
ing society. All hierarchies have been raised to the
height which they acquire at first by good conduct in the
priests. They rise by the prudent behaviour of good men
in humble life to wealth and power; these once obtained,
bad men get possession of the power, and the order then
becomes the curse of the world.
27. Dr. Prideaux informs us, that the adherents of Mo-
hamed at Medina were chiedy among the Christians, and
that he was received by them with great acclamations;
all this, for the reason he gives, seems
very probable.
After his arrival, as soon as it could conveniently be done,
he built himself a house, which he made his usual resi-
dence to the time of his death. He also built adjoining
to it a
mosque, for the celebration of the rites of religion.
Of what these consisted l have no information. If we
could discover them, no doubt they would be very curi-
ous. The circumstance proves that the persons possess-
ing the government of Medina, whether Jews or Chris-
tians, and they are said by Prideaux to have consisted of
one of these two sects, were favourers of his doctrines.
This was the first city which, as a city, adopted his reli-
gion. A question naturally arises, as to what this religion
could consist of, which could have such an influence ? No
c
I8
weapon had yet been \sed but reason and eloquence;
so that the Christian priests cannot attribute this con-
version to the fear of the sword. It must be recollected,
too, that, if we are to believe Prideaux, this was not a
city of idolaters, as Mecca was, but of Jews and Chris-
tians, who were his first proselytes. It also seems that
he did not go to Medina to make proselytes ; the Medi-
nese came to seek him.
28. War having now
actually commenced betwixt
Mohamed and the people of Medina on one side, and the
governors of Mecca on the other, the prophet, as
might
be expected, (but for the iirst time,) gave orders to his
followers to prepare themselves with arms, and after
having mustered them and enrolled them, to use Pri-
deaux's words, for the war, he gave the command of them
to his uncle Hamza, constituting him thereby his stand-
ard-bearer. After some time, understanding that the
caravan of the people of Mecca was on the road, he sent
out (as Prideaux says) Hamza to attack it with thirty
men. What a prodigious enrolment and muster there
must have been ! But finding it guarded by three hun-
dred soldiers, he made no
attempt upon it. The next
year, the second of the Hegira, on the approach of the
Mecca caravan, guarded by one thousand men, under the
command of Abu Sophian, Mohamed himself marched out
at the head of three hundred and nineteen men, and, not-
withstanding the superiority of the caravan's guard, after
a
desperate battle defeated it, and obtained a
complete
victory. Although a considerable part of the caravan was
saved by the good conduct of Abu Sophian, and escaped
back to Mecca, yet Mohamed took a
very large booty.
29. Of course a
victory like this over so decided a su-
periority in numbers, must have given great spirits to his
adherents.
30. In the year following, the third of the Hegira, we
iind him making war
upon certain Jews or Jewish tribes
of Arabs, commanded by a man named Caab. This is
said to have arisen from some satirical verses which
19
Caab wrote upon Mohamed. It is diiiicult to discover
what truth there may be in this, but it ended in favour
of the prophet, Caab not only making peace with him, but
becoming a proselyte and one of his greatest confidents.
Towards the end of this year, he fought a battle with Abu
Sophian and the people of Mecca, in which he suffered a
defeat, and was wounded. His standard-bearer Hamza
was killed. It is said, that if Abu Beker had not come
to his assistance, he must have been destroyed. Butthe
battle does not appear to have been attended with any
very important consequences, as we find his general,
Omar, in the next year, the fourth of the Hegira, carrying
on a successful war against the Nadorites, a tribe of the
Jewish religion, the whole of which he is said to have put
to the sword. The fifth year of the Hegira is remarkable
for the war of the ditch, as it is called. Abu Sophian and
the people of Mecca having allied themselves to several
other tribes, marched against Medina with- ten thousand
men. This caused the prophet to take the field: but on
his meeting them, he found himself much inferior in
strength, and therefore encamped, and fortined himself
by drawing a. ditch in front of his encampment. His
enemies besieged him many days without success, and at
length were obliged to retreat, their army breaking into
dissensions and returning home, in consequence, it is
said, of some of them being corrupted by their country-
men in the army of Mohamed. Thus the war this year
ended in his favour. In the sixth year, Mohamed having
subdued several other Arab tribes, and linding himself
very much strengthened, changed the plan of the war,
became the aggressor, and marched against the city of
Mecca. The armies met near that city, and a battle
ensued, in which neither party gaining any decisive ad-
vantage, a truce was concluded for ten years. By this
truce Mohamed seems to have gained a very great ad-
vantage, his partisans having permission to go into and
return from Mecca whenever they thought proper, only
coming unarmed and keeping the peace. In this year he
c 2
20
is said to have been inaugurated by the chief men of his
army under a tree near Mecca, to have been declared a
~king, and to have taken the insignia of royalty, at the
same time declaring himself also high-priest of his reli-
gion. This may very probably have been the truth, as
we find all his successors in the Caliphat following this
practice, and uniting in their 'own persons both the cha-
racters of headlof the religion, and of the monarchy, pre-
cisely as the kings of England do at this day. In this
year, the seventh of the Hegira, we are told that he had
-poison given to him by an inhabitant of a town of Jewish
Arabs, called Chaibar, which he had conquered. From
the eH`ects of this poison he never
entirely recovered.
'
31. ln the eighth year of the Hegira, having greatly in-
creased in power, Mohamed alleging in his justification,
how truly l know not, that the governors of Mecca had
broken the truce, marched against them, and in a
very
short space of time obliged the city to surrender at dis-
cretion ; Abu Sophian, the greatest of his enemies, having
_first come over to him along with-his uncle A1 Abbas.
Immediately on obtaining possession of the city, he pro-
ceeded to abolish the idol worship, and to substitute the
worship of one
only God, which has remained to this day.
Soon after- the conquest of Mecca, several of the neigh-
bouring tribes of Arabs, fearing his increasing power,
combined together to attack and reduce him before he
should become too powerful for them. At first they ob-
tained several advantages, but he Hnally succeeded in
completely defeating them, and soon after this all the
remainder of the different tribes of Arabia submitted, to
him; and thus, in the eleventh year of the Hegira, he
became the sole monarch of the extensive, and, now
being'
united, powerful empire of Arabia, or, as it has been
called, of the Saracens. He did not live long to enjoy
this high station, but in the twelfth year of the Hegira
he gradually declined, and died about sixty-one years of
age.
32. He is said to have been aware of his approaching
21
death, and the cool and philosophical manner in which,
when he found his end approaching, he prepared for it
and arranged his affairs, leave no room to doubt that his
mind in that trying moment was undisturbed by the
horrors of remorse. In a word, he may justly be said
to have lived like a hero, and to have died like a
philo-
sopher.
`
33. The account which I give here of the last hours of
the prophet will be denied. It has been too often the
practice of Christian devotees to publish accounts of the
death-bed scenes of their opponents, when even, if true,
in consequence of the failure of the faculties of the mind,
no inference of the least importance could be deduced
from theui. But as long as Mohamed had the undoubted
command of his understanding, his conduct was that of a
hero'and a
philosopher._ After his fever brought on deli-
rium I know nothing about him.
34. Having finished this slight sketch of the life of
Mohamed, in which I have merely noticed such facts as
are admitted, and cannot be denied by either his friends
or enemies, which is all that on
principles of sound cri-
ticism can be admitted,-l shall proceed to make afew
observations upon the doctrines which he taught-a part
of my work beyond all comparison the most important,
and from the discussion of which I have hitherto most
carefully abstained.
35. In the consideration of this part of the subject it is
extremely difficult 'to ascertain what authorities ought to
be received, and what rejected. The very peculiarcir-
cumstances in which Mohamed was placed, as I have
said before, renders even the evidence of his supporters
not always admissible as to facts which we consider
unfavourable to him; for they often considered things
favourable, which we consider the contrary. Thus, for
example, some of his followers, long after his death,
believing that he performed miracles, declared that he
professed to have that power: a
thing he certainly never
pretended to.
p
I
22
'36, The grand piece of evidence, upon which most au-
thors have relied, has been the Koran :
every word, and
even letter, of which is now held by the Mohamedans to
have been written by divine inspiration, and therefore
free from error; as many Christians at this day consider
the gospels. But notwithstanding these very high pre-
tensions, this work is attended with very many and'very
great ditiiculties.
37. This book is said to have been revealed to Moha-
med, chapter after chapter, by the angel Gabriel, and to
have been announced as such by him, as
they were re-
quired by circumstances, from day to day, during a space
of more than twenty years. Now is this true? Was it
thus announced by him, or was it not? If we consider
the matter coolly, it seems very unlikely that any one
should have believed this when he announced it to them;
and to obviate this diiiiculty, his Christian historians have
aiirmed that these revelations were often disbelieved and
treated with contempt-though they are
unwillingly ob-
liged to allow that in the end they were believed. But a
new question arises-do we now
possess the real papers
which he published, if he did publish any P We are told
that when he received any of these revelations he dictated
them to a.
secretary, who wrote them down, not knowing
how either to read or write himself : that then they were
read to his followers until they could repeat them; after
which they were safely locked up in a chest, under the
care of one of his wives, in whose keeping they were at the
time of his death. Concerning these papers Dean Prideaux
says,
"
That soon after the decease of Mahomet, Abu
Beker thought it necessary to publish :these papers, and
for this purpose had recourse to the chest, and partly out
of the papers he found there, and partly out of the me-
mory of those who had learnt them by heart, he composed
the book ; for, several of these papers being lost, and
several so defaced that they could not be read, he was
forced to take in the assistance of those who pretended
to remember what the impostor had taught them, to
23
'
make up the matter, and under this pretence made use of
their advice to frame the book, as he thought would best
answer his purpose." Here we have a. very curious, but
a
very probable, account of this immaculate record, by
which the actions and opinion of Mohamed are to be
tried. I take the liberty of asking any lawyer if he would,
in the trial of Mohamed, permit his case to go to a
jury
upon this evidence? I think he would not. But this is
not all ; this is only the first amended version. After the
prophet had been dead upwards of twenty years, Othman,
Bnding that this version was full of errors, cerruptiom,
and mistakes, (that is, in other words, that it did not
serve hi purpose,) caused all the copies to be called in
and burnt, and published a new one, which we now have,
and which, in his opinion, was
right and correct. If a
lawyer would not receive the tirst version, what will he
do with the second? The facts here stated can
hardly
be doubted, because they seem to be taken by Prideaux
from the works of both Christians and Mohamedans.
Knowing, as we do, the ignorance and bigotry of some of
Mohamed's followers, and the knavery also of others,
combined with the ignorance and bigotry of the former,
we surely can admit no
part of this book to be evidence
against him, except with the most extreme caution.
38. The ditliculty, with respect to these revelations of
the box, is increased by the consideration of a fact which
seems to be admitted by both sides, both Mohamedans
and Christians-namely, that he could neither read nor
write; and various stories are told, and persons pointed
out as the writers of them-persons whom he procured
secretly to write them for him-at one time a Jew, at
another time a Persian. It is allowed that this work is
written in an uniform style, and is in the most elegant
dialect of the Arabian language. This does not look like
the work of several persons. Although the caliphs, after a
little time, became men of high refinement and civiliza-
tion, yet those who were contemporary with the prophet,
are said to have been excessively ignorant and illiterate,
24
though they were
evidently men of superior talent. The
people of Mecca, the native city of the prophet, are said
to have been proverbially ignorant. It seems almost in-
credible that the people possessing within their walls a
temple, which was frequented by all the various tribes of
Arabia to offer sacrifice, (as the Delphi of the Grecks,)
the priests of which had power to make them all lay down
their arms, and keep the peace for two months in every
year, should be so illiterate. In whichever way we look
at the Koran, it is attended with great didiculties. How-
ever, of this I am certain, that although much of the
work may be from the pen, or of the dictation, of Moha-
med the prophet, yet he cannot be made responsible for
a single sentence which it contains to his disadvantage.
39. That the Koran has been acted on in some way or
other, if it be not a
forgery altogether, is pretty evident
from the fact that it is often in itself called by the name
of Koran, a word which means a collection, alluding to
the chapters or loose scraps of which it was
composed?
40. Suppose, for the sake of argument, at present we
exclude the Koran altogether, what evidence then shall
we have respecting him? Truly nothing, but the Chris-
tian bigots on one side, and the Mohamedan bigots on
the other; and I see no other way than balancing the
accounts of one against the other, comparing them both
with what general experience of human nature teaches is
probable, and thus deducing a conclusion as well as we
are able. It is very obvious that the writers we have on
either one side or the other, were
persons very unlikely
to sift and weigh the evidence; every idle story, which
gaping credulity propagated, would most likely be
greedily swallowed. Much of what our writers give us
is taken from a work written by a man called Johannes
Andreas, who was an Alfacki, or a doctor of the Moha-
medan law, who in or about the year 1487, at Toledo, in
Spain, turned_Christian. I confess I take the evidence
'
Vide Erpeu. Nol. ad I-list. Joseph. p. 3; also Maracci de Alcor.
p. 41; Sale, pref. p. 74.
2.5
of a man of this description with very great jealousy and
suspicion; besides, his work betrays the most violent
hatred in every page. He seems to have been to the
Mohamedans precisely what St. Augustine was to the
Manicheans, and would probably as little hesitate at a.
lie to blacken his old companions as the latter, whose
profiigate lies are as notorious as his hypocrisy was dis-
gusting, and yet he is held up by Lardner as the "
cuoav
or AFRICA.
41. It will, perhaps, not be thought surprising that,
under such circumstances, I should suspect such a man
as Andreas, after it is known that Grotius could con-
descend to a
pious lie to blacken the impostor in the
eyes of Christians, as the following note from Mr. Gibbon
proves:
"
The Christians, rashly enough, have assigned
to Mahomet a tame pigeon, that seemed to descend from
heaven and whisper in his ear. As this pretended miracle
is urged by Grotius, (de Veritate Religionis Christiana:,)
his Arabian translator, the learned Pococke, inquired of
him the names of his authors; and Grotius confessed
that it is unknown to thc Mohametans themselves. Lest
it should provoke their indignation and laughter, the pious
lie is suppressed in the Arabic version ; but it has main-
tained an
edifying place in the numerous editions of the
Latin text."1~ If Grotius could stoop to such baseness,
well may we be suspicious of a man in the situation of
Andreas.
A
42. In estimating the character of Mohamed, we have
no more right to assume that he was a most consummate
rogue, hypocrite, liar, and villain, totally destitute of all
principle, than we have to assume that he was a Socrates.
DI*
°
This precious renegade says that he travelled into Ethiopia to
preach the gospel, and that he saw there some men without heads,
but with two eyes in the breast, and others with only one eye in the
forehead. This great crony of Lardner's, the glory of Africa, is a
pretty sample of a missionary priest.
1~ Pococke, Specimen Hist. Arabum. pp. 186, l87; Reland de Re-
ligione Moham. lib. ii., c. xxxix. pp. 259-262; Gibbon, ch. I. p.
249, 4to. ed. ~
26 r
And when I hear him accused of being the former, I
immediately have recourse to the general character and
conduct which both parties agree he maintained in the
early and middle part of his life. I find this to have been
irreproachable. Then am I to believe at once that this
was mere
hypocrisy? Fourteen or fifteen years together,
I am told to believe, that he carried this farce on-from
twenty-five years old to forty. That until he was twenty-
iive years of age his life was that of meritorious industry:
his integrity unsuspected. That at that time great aillu-
ence became his lot as the reward of his honesty and
industry; and that this good fortune at once converted
this honourable and upright man into a most determined
villain. And what was the object which he proposed to
himself by this extraordinary conduct? The indulgence
of two passions, we are told, was his object: the enjoy-
ment of women, and the gratification of the most stupen-
dous ambition, the ambition of a merchant (not a soldier)
of a trading city, to make himself the emperor of the
world ; and that as a
preparative he served a noviciate of
fourteen years of seclusion and irreproachable conduct,
which irreproachable conduct we mu t recollect in his
case,,on account of its hypocrisy, was abandoned prodi-
gacy. Have we in the history of the world any thing
similar, to this? The gratification of the second object of
his desires, the enjoyment of women, is attended with a
very singular circumstance. He married Cadigha, who
was fifteen years older than himself, when he was only
twenty-five years of age, the very time of life when
youthful passion may be supposed to be at its height;
and though, by the laws of his country, he was entitled
to have a
plurality of wives, he neglected to avail himself
of this permission, and continued faithful to her as long as
she lived-twenty-two years, having by her a large family.
The friends of this prqjiigate impostor, I fear, will be so
blind as to see
nothing in this but gratitude to his kindest
friend, the maker of his fortune, unless they should believe
that a young man, possessing every personal accomplish-
'
27
ment, could have an affection for a woman of forty. His
enemies, no doubt, would say that he was devoid of pas-
sion, notwithstanding his numerous
family, if it were not
well known that almost immediately after his wife's death
he married three or four very beautiful young women.
This, his enemies say, was done _to strengthen his party.
It seems rather singular that he did not think of this
before the twelfth year of his mission, when Cadigha was
dead.
43. If ambition were
merely the object of Mohamed,
why did he not by intrigue endeavour to get himself ap-
pointed to be the keeper of the famous Caaba, the temple
of Mecca, formerly held by his ancestors, which conveyed
to the person holding it the first rank and station in the
state, and, indeed, in all Arabia? This was a
very cele-
brated temple, something like that at Delphi, and con-
sidered particularly holy. To it docked great numbers
of pilgrims from all Arabia. As I have before observed,
for two months in the year that the pilgrimage might be
made, all the different tribes ceased from every kind of
warfare ; so that, however base and degrading its idola-
trous rites might be, and Mr. Sale has shewn that they
were
very bad, they were at least attended with one sub-
stantial good. Some authors tell us that this temple was
built by Ishmael, who resided at Mecca, and that the
statue of Abraham was the most distinguished. It con-
tained also those of Noah, Moses, &c., so that the Jewish
religion was at the bottom of it. And it is also said that
the absolute unity of God, the first part of Mohamed's
creed, God is God, was common to all the Arabians be-
fore his time, notwithstanding their adoration of idols.
44. But if ambition were the only motive of Mohamed,
it seems to me that a much finer opening offered itself to
him in declaring himself the Jewish Messiah, than in the
line that he pursued, of professing himself a Christian
or follower of Jesus. I can entertain no doubt that if he
and his successors had adopted this line of conduct, and
had made Jerusalem the place of their abode, that they
28
would have drawn the whole of the unfortunate Jews into
their fold, and as
many .at least of the dock of Jesus as
they obtained by the plan which they adopted; as it
appears to me, the banks of the Jordan are on many ac-
counts well situated for the residence and seat of govern-
ment of the monarch possessing Egypt and Western
Asia. 'With one hand he would have reached the Nile,
with the other the Euphrates.
45. In our endeavours to (ind out the true character of
Mohamed, it is, in my opinion, of the first-rate conse-
quence to inquire what was the general tendency of the
doctrines which all parties agree that he taught. His
morality is allowed to be excellent. There is no moral
precept in the Christian religion which is not found to be
inculcated by the Mohamedan, and, in some instances,
finely ornamented and embellished by the poetic genius of
Arabia. A pretty story is told by Gibbon. A slave of Has-
san, the son of Ali, dropt, by accident, a dish of scalding
broth on his master; the heedless wretch fell prostrate
to deprecate his punishment, and repeated a verse of the
Koran: Paradise is for those who command their anger.
I am not angry, said Hassan/ And for those who pardon
qfences. I pardon your offence. And _for those who re-
turn goodfor evil. I give you your liberty and four hun-
dred pieces of silver.* Whether the story be true or not
is of little consequence ; the doctrine of commanding the
temper and returning good for evil is finely taught.
46. When the numerous, lengthened and almost unin-
telligible creeds of the Christian religion are contem-
plated, a philosopher may perhaps be tempted to heave a.
sigh of regret for the beautiful, plain, intelligible and un-
adorned simplicity of the Mohamedan profession of faith:
I believe in one God, and Mohamed the apostle or messen-
ger of God. In other form: God is God, and Mohamed
is his prophet; or, I believe in God and in the doctrines
respecting him taught by the preacher Mohamed. But
'f
Sale's Koran, ch. iii. note, p. 75.
29
however much this species of simple brevity may be to
the taste of modern philosophy, or of Arabian fradulent
imposture, Divine Wisdom, if we are to believe our
priests, has ordained a more complicated system for the
religion of Jesus. To deny the wisdom of this dispensa-
tion would evidently be profane, though the reality of it
may be doubted, and the discussion of it does not apper-
tain to my subject.
'47, Among the most important of religious duties en-
joined by Mohamed are
prayer, fasting, and alms-giving.
Fivetimes a day every devout Musselman must turn
himself to the holy city of Mecca and utter a' prayer;
"
and in the present decay of religious fervour our travel-
lers are edilied by the profound humility and attention of
the Turks and Persians. Cleanliness is the key of prayer;
the frequent lustration of the hands, the face, and the body,
which Was
practised of old by the Arabs, is solemnly enjoin-
ed by the Koran. The words and attitudes of supplication,
as it is performed either sitting, or standing,or prostrate on
the ground, are prescribed by custom or authority ; but the
prayer is poured forth in short and fervent ejaculations ;
the measure of zeal is not exhausted by a tedious liturgy;
and each Musselman, for his own
person, is invested
with the character of a
priest. Every spot for the ser-
vice of God is equallypure. The Mahometans indiffe-
rently pray in the chamber or in the street. The Friday
in each week is set apart for the useful institution of
public worship: the people assemble in the mosque, and
the iman, some
respectable elder, ascends the pulpit to
begin the prayer and pronounce the sermon. But the
Mahometan religion is destitute of priesthood or sacri-
tice; and the independent spirit of fanaticism looks down
with contempt on the ministers and the slaves of super-
stition." How happy would it have been for Europe if
the religion of Jesus, in a similar manner, had forbidden
the use of priests or
priesthoods ! Only one
single, plau-
sible argument can be found for their use, that is, that they
30
are necessary ; but the Moravians, the society of Friends,
commonly called Quakers, and the Mohamedans, prove
that it has no foundation, that religion can flourish without
them. For surely it will not be said that the religion of
Mohamed has not Hourished. Mohamedism is reproached
with copying its morality from the gospel; a
philosopher,
perhaps, may suspect that when the prophet was availing
himself of the excellent moral precepts of Christianism,
he had sense, not only to take the good, but to leave the
evil; to adopt the morality, but to avoid the hired priest-
hood which, in his day, had filled the world with blood-
shed and misery, and was
rapidly reducing it to a state of
the most debasing ignorance.
48. Persons may speculate upon the reason that caused
the wicked, false, and _fraudulent imposture of the Arabian,
as it is called, to be devoid of this appendage, which the
priests of the true and perfect religion of Jesus have
always held to be indispensable to its welfare, if not to
its existence, and of course different opinions will be en-
tertained; but, for my own
part, I see nothing in the
character of Mohamed to prevent me thinking it proba-
ble that the experience of what he saw
passing around
him determined his conduct in this most important affair.
49. In the days of Mohamed, and some centuries be-
fore them, a rage for celibacy and monachism had spread
itself over the whole world: we read of monks being met
with in bodies of many thousands at a time. Though he
instituted a fast of thirty days to moderate the passions
and to serve as a
purification of the soul by the mortiii-
cation of the body, yet he disapproved the voluntary pe-
nance of the Ascetics,* the torment and glory of their
lives. Works of supererogation were odious to a
pro-
phet who censnred in his companions a rash vow of ab-
staining from flesh, and women, and sleep; and firmly
declared that he would have no monks in his religion.
*
Gibbon.
31
Mr. Gibbon has shewn that the swarms of fakeers, der-
vises, &c., which disgrace his religion (as much as Chris-
tianity is disgraced by its monks), did not appear till
about three hundred years after its institution.
50. Monastic establishments, corresponding societies
the most complete and perfect, and also the most per-
nicious in their consequences to mankind of any that
ever were established in the world, have been called the
outworks, and monks the light troops, of the religion of
purity and truth. The daring genius of the impostor de-
spised such aid, and the religion of Islam Hourished with-
out, and even in despite of them.
51. In reading the gospels my astonishment has often
been excited by the consideration, that the religion of
Jesus should have become the most priestly of any reli-
gion on the face of the earth; when almost every page of
them abounds with expressions of reprobation of priests,
and chief priests, and pharisees, their supporters, uttered
by him, the most perfect model of a virtuous man that
ever existed-a being par excellence excellent, (if tradi-
tion may be believed,) against whose character in the
whole world there does not exist an iota of credible evi-
dence. In the gospels not a word can be found, thatI
know of, to justify or excuse our hierarchies or priest-
hoods. Priests, excellent, worthy, and respectable, as
many of them are, as a
body, always have been and
always will be the enemies, either secretly or
openly, of
the improvement of mankind. The way in which they
have lately incarcerated the Rev. R. Taylor, and the Ma-
terialists the Carliles, the modern Vanini,* in Newgate
and Dorchester goal, prove what they would do if the
power of opinion did not prevent them.
52. Because Mohamed, following the example of the
legislator of the oldest ceremonial religion west of the
*
Vaninus, a professor of Atheism, burnt in France for declaring
his opinion, and refusing to play the hypocrite and profess a. faith
which he did not believe.
"`
32
Euphrates, and as all Christians maintain, of the world,
Moses, allowed his people, the descendants (as they say,
and probably with truth) of Ishmael, the son of the father
of the faithful, a
plurality of wives,-he has been con-
stantly abused by Christians, to use their words, for
pondering to the base pass-ions of his followers. But why
the allowance of a plurality of wives should be visited
with such very harsh censure, I do not know. Surely
the example of Solomon, and David, the man after God's
sown heart, which he had found to filLfil his law, might
plead for a little mercy, particularly as Jesus no where
expressly forbids it in .any one of the twenty gospels
which were written by some or other of the multitude of
sects of his followers to record his commands, Biolo-
gists and natural philosophers have found other reasons
which might serve as some apology for this allowance,
which will not apply to us cold-blooded, frog-like ani-
mals of northern climates, though they may be appli-
cable to the descendants of Ishmael, natives of the scorch-
ing sands of the desert, or of the more favoured Arabia
Felix, the country which became the lot of the interest-
ing youth, an outcast expelled from his father's house,
and thrown under a tree to perish vith his unoifending
mother, the victims of a termagant's zealous rage. lf the
unerring book of divine wisdom had not taught me other-
wise, I have often thought that I should, in the happy lot
of the Arabians, the descendants of Ishmael, so
superior
to that of the miserable and persecuted Jews, have seen
the hand of retributive justice. For surely no one will
prefer the temporal lot hitherto of the favoured people
of God, to that of the wild, independent, high-minded,
hospitable tribes of the never-conquered, virgin country
of Arabia. The world has bowed before the arms and
trembled at the name of the descendants of the outcast
Ishmael, but THEY have never either bowed _or trembled,
and I Hatter myself and hope they never will. The his-
tory and the fortunes of the outcast Ishmael have always
been to me
peculiarly interesting. God forgive the
`
o
33
wicked thought, if it' be wicked; but now
knowing the
ibrtunes of the two, and of their families, I would rather
be the outcast Ishmael than the pampered Isaac, the father
of the favoured people of God.
53. Nothing would give me
greater pleasure than to
see them restored to the state of civilization, and to the
rank they held in the world under their illustrious caliphs;
but I sincerely hope that they will never be civilized by
the European sword.*
54. When Mohamed surveyed the laws and customs of
his countrymen, he found many political or
religious in-
stitutions existing, for which it may be diiiicult to ac-
count. Such as were inoffensive or
thought to be con-
ducive to health, he continued : such as were
pernicious,
as far as was in his power, he abolished: and such of the
latter as he could not abolish, he regulated. Of the first,
circumcision, for the origin of which health is the cause
assigned by the celebrated philosophic Jew Philo,-r is one
instance. The prohibition of the use of swine's Hesh,
considered in those climates to be unwholesome, which he
continued, is another (still continued at Rome in sum-
mer); and the plurality of wives and concubines, which
*
For using a similar expression to this in another work, the author
has been called a fiend by an
anonymous writer, whose bigotry did
not permit him to see the difference between conquest and civiliza-
tion. This learned gentleman, who, the author suspects, could not
read the work he criticised, has been kind enough to chide him for
his ignorance in treating of the moon's period of twenty-eight days, a
period allowed to be taken from the moon, and much used by the an-
cient Egyptian, Arabian, Chaldean, and Indian astronomers. The
author is much obliged to this gentleman, whose name he knows very
weil, and he begs to return his kindness by informing him, that the
moon has two periods, one of twenty-seven days and a fraction, and
the other of twenty-nine and a fraction, and that twenty~eight is the
mean.
In thc same manner he has been accused of ignorance in asserting
that the Targums were written long after the time of Christ, a fact
he inferred from the absence of all notice of them in the works of
Origen or the earlier fathers.
1~ Boulainvillier, Vie de Mahomed, p. 147.
D
34
he 'could not prevent, he restricted by the most severe
enactments, providing for the rights of the wives and the
maintenance and comfort of the concubines.
55. I find it asserted in the Oriental Collections of Sir W.
Ouseley, p. 108, that "
the warm regions of Asia make a
diference between the sexes not known to the climates
of Europe, where the decay of each is mutual and gra-
dual ; whereas in Asia it is given to man alone to arrive
at a green old age." If this be true, it goes far to excuse
Mohamed in allowing a
plurality of wives, and it suiiicient-
ly accounts for the fact that Jesus never expressly declared
himself on this subject, but left it to the regulation of the
governments of countries; as it is evident that what
would be proper for Asia would be improper for Europe.
56. The passages respecting the wives of Mohamed are
evidently contrived by the makers of the Koran to justify
the possession of a
great number of wives by the mo-
narch ;i it carries the brand of the caliph Othman on the
face of it so clearly, that it cannot be misunderstood or
mistaken.
57. It is probable that the necessity of the regulation of
the number of wives did not occur toMohamed till the latter
part of his mission, as we find him exceeding the number
allowed by the Koran. It is said, that in the Koran he
made an exception of himself, because he was the pro-
phet of God, and had a
particular privilege as such. This
is the reason very likely to be given by Othman, the
compiler of that book; but it is much more
likely that
by Mohamed the limitation of the number of wives to
four, was held to be merely a civil or
municipal, but not
a religious, regulation; and the mode in which the Grand-
Seignior and other monarchs, men extremely religious
in other respects, indulge in a
great number of wives
as distinguished from concubines, seems to shew that
they so consider it. Besides, these wives are held to be
strictly legal; for, if the first-born son of the monarch be
from the fourth, the fifth, or the tenth wife, if he be only
the iirst-born, he is looked upon as the legal heir to the
4
35
throne, and the mother receives all the honours due to
the mother of the future emperor.
58. The Arabian lawgiver provides for the honourable
marriage of Jewish and Christian women with Mohame-
dans, but prohibits them as concubines. Have either
Jews or Christians ever
thought of making any reciprocal
provision ? "'
`
59. But if the allowance of a
plurality of wives to his
followers, though guarded with many very strict regula-
tions, may aiford to the Christian priests a
momentary
triumph; yet there are some other of his precepts which
may induce the cool inquirer after truth to doubt, or
perhaps to deny altogether, the charge of pandering to
their base passions. The fast of the Ramadan, which, by
the circulating eB`ect of the lunar year, must often fall in
the hottest period of an Asiatic summer, when the pious
Musselmen are forbidden to taste a morsel of food, or
even a single drop of water to quench their parching
thirst, from morning to evening, for thirty days together,
is surely something not very like pandering to their pas-
sions or
appetites. What will the votary of pleasure, the
indolent son of luxury, say to the pilgrimage to Mecca?
Mohamed surely will not be accused of pandering to
pleasure in ordering, if indeed he did order (which I
doubt), this terrible journey.
60. By the law of Mohamed all games of chance were
expressly prohibited: the beneficial tendency of this law
surely no one will deny. He is refused all merit for his
morality, because it is said that he only copied it from
the Bible. I have not observed the prohibition of this
vice either in the decalogue or the gospels; but as he
admitted the divine missions of both Moses 'and Jesus,
and professed to build his religion on them as a founda-
tion, it does not seem to me that he did any wrong, or
acted in any way inconsistently in adopting such parts of
both these religions as
appeared to him to betheir pure
'
West. Rev. No. IX. p. 221. .
D
2
as
-and unadulterated doctrine. Indeed, as he was in fact a
Christian, I do not see how he could do otherwise.
61. Historians relate that the Arabians, previous to the
'time of Mohamed, were much addicted to drunkenness
as well as gaming. By two decrees of the inqzoslor,
who, as was just now observed, is accused of pandering
to the passions of his people, both the use of wine and
gaming are totally abolished. We find no canting re-
commendation to sobriety and moderation; gaming and
drunkenness are pronounced unpardouable sins, and cut
up by the roots at once. The passions, prejudices,
habits of his followers, are all set at defiance; all must
'be sacrificed, or they could not be this disciples. There
was no stopping half way; no house of rest for the weary
pilgrim; he must go the whole joumey, or he need not
set out at all. As Mr. Gibbon justly observes, the pain-
ful restraints from these seducing luxuries are, doubtless,
infringed by the libertine and eluded by the hypocrite;
.but the legislator by whom they are enacted cannot
surely be justly accused of alluring his proselytes by the
indulgence of their sensual passions. Happy, indeed, I
think it would have been for Europe, if it had been con-
sistent with the ways of Divine Wisdom to have pro-
hibited them in the religion of Jesus. »
62. It is constantly said by the Christians, that though
wine be forbidden, opium is not; and, that the abuse of this
drug is just as bad as the abuse of spirituous or fermented
liquors. This is very true; but perhaps the prophet of
Arabia may be excused when it is recollected, that in his
day the drug was not known probabay, and the abuse of
it was not known certainiy ; and he never pretended to
omniscience or the gift of prophecy. l must abstain,
because it would be .profane, or at least it would give
occasion to malevolence to accuse me of profaneness or
arrogance in presuming to propose an amendment to the
already perfect religion of Jesus, or otherwise I should
have observed, that it appears to my humble comprehen-
37
sion and confined views, that the happiness of mankind.
would not have been lessened if a prohibition of wine,
spirits, and games of chance, had been found in the gos-
pels ; nor would it have been any worse if the omniscience
of Jesus, which he is held to have possessed, but which
Mohamed did not pretend to possess, had induced him to
prohibit at the same time the use of intoxicating drugs,
except in such cases as they were actually necessary as
medicine.
'
'
63. Persons prejudiced against Mohamed may condemn
him for hi ensualparadise; but, in fact, no paradise can
be imagined which is not sensual, because (as Mr. Locke,
has proved) no idea can be entertained by man except
through the medium of his senses; it, therefore, necessa-
rily follows, that if he be to have any idea of a paradise at
all, it must be sensual.
64. But even if we admit the prophet to have taught
that the happiness of a future state consisted of sen-
sual enjoyments, when it is recollected that he (not ad-
mitting the gennineness of St. Paul's Epistles) had not
the benefit of St. Paul's explanation of the dilference be-
tween a
corporeal body and a
spiritual body, it does not
seem an
unpardonable sin that he should have believed it
a
necessary consequence, that, if the real material body
were to rise again to a state of future happiness, its bliss
should consist of those pleasures which human experience
teaches us it, is as a
body only capable of enjoying.
What other pleasures it may be capable of enjoying we
know not; through the medium of our senses, and from
experience, the 071% modes by which we
acquire ideas, we
can derive no information. St. Paul tells us we die a
corporeal body, we shall rise a
spiritual body : this is all
very well in the mouth of St. Paul, who is believed to
have had the benefit of divine illumination to assist him
in understanding it, and may be very well for such as
have the benefit of his inspiration; but if the prophet had
not this assistance, it is no ways surprising that he should
not understand that which in common
language is a con-
tradiction in terms. In common language, without the
38
assistance of divine illumination, a man
may as well say
a round square, a silent noise, as a
spiritual body ; these
expressions would be contradictions in terms, if found
any where but in inspired writings, in which are
many
mysteries, and, as St. Peter says,*
"
things hard to be
understood."
65. But Mohamed was so far from making all the hap-
piness of a future life to consist of low corporeal enjoy-
ments, that the highest pleasure and reward of the faithful
was to consist in the contemplation of the face of God,
which was said to give such exquisite delight, that in
respect thereof all the other pleasures of paradise will be
forgotten and lightly esteemed.-f However, I think an
impartial judge would not say that this was more to be
condemned for sensuality than the account which describes
the mansions of the blessed as a
glorious and magnificent
city, built of gold and precious stones, with twelve gates,
through the streets of which there runs a river of water of
life, with trees which bear twelve sorts of fruits, and leaves
of a
healing virtue ; and which in another place describes
the blessed as eating and drinking at the table of their Sa-
viour.I The reader will please to understand that I mean
to cast no adverse redection on these figurative accounts,
but only to observe, that it is very absurd and unjust to
approve the one, the Christian, and to condemn the other,
the Mohamedan. If he wish to know how the first fathers
of the church considered them, he may apply to Iraaneus,
who describes the bunches of grapes, in the time of the
Millenium, as
crying to the faithful to come and eat them.
66. Though Mohamed admits the families and wives
of the faithful to accompany them to paradise, the latter
are described as the most chaste and virtuous, and devoid
of those passions which give so much offence to the pa-
trons of monastic institutions. In short, all the expres-
sions respecting a sensual paradise, about which they
*
Second Epistle, chap. iii. ver. l6.
+ Ss,le's Prel. Dis., sect. iv. p. 133.
1 Rev. xrri, l0, &c., and xxii. l, 2; Luke xxii. 29, 30, &c.
39
,
are so much reprobated by the Christians, the Mohame-
dans contend are
merely figurative.
67. An energetic and liberal-minded writer in the West-
minster Review,* has so well vindicated the Prophet of
the East, that the author cannot resist the temptation of
giving rather along extract from his essay.
"
After all the
abuse that has been thrown upon Mohamed for his paradise
-and it makes the head and front of every man's vitupe-
rative argument-the simple fact is, that he promised the
restoration of man to the Mosaic Eden; where, if there
were
many Adams, it was equally inevitable there must be
many Eves. This may not reach the elevation of '
what eye
hath not seen nor ear heard ;' but it at all events attains
the point at which the Christian theology sets out. His
words continually are,
'
Theirs shall be the gardens of
Eden :' 1~ and then he proceeds to enumerate, the rivers,
the trees, the apples, and, above all, the '
helpmates
meet," of the Mosaic account. That he excludes women
from his paradise is one of the stupid falsehoods that
have been fastened on him by his enemies ; for he reite-
rates the declaration that '
whoso worketh good, whether
male or female, shall enter paradise,'I where the same
glories are
distinctly promised to both. And lest there
should be any doubt whether the wives of the believers
are to keep them company, he expressly describes the
faithful as
entering the garden of Eden '
vith their fa-
thers, their wives, and their children ;'§ while, in another
place, he says,
'
they and their wives shall recline in
shady groves.'|| But the Eden of Milton is not more
chaste, and is' infinitely less reserved, than that of the
Arabian; and no contrast can be stronger than between
his imagery and that of the Hebrew poetry, which he
might have taken for his model. In his description of the
»
Jan. 1826, No. IX. p. 216.
~|~ Koran, xiii. 25, xviii. 32, xxxviii. 52.
1 Ibid. xvi. 97, xl. 41, xlviii. 5, lvii. l2.
` § Ibid. xiii-. 25. || Ibid. xxxvi. 55.
40
women of paradise, there is nothing to excite a voluptu-
ous idea. 'I`hey are said to be virgins-like the virgin
daughter of Bethnel : and, like the other believers, they
are restored to the prime of youthful beauty, in which
mankind may be supposed to have come from the hands
of the Creator. But they have neither necks like towers
of ivory, nor mouths that cause the lips of those that are
asleep to speak, nor bosoms like clusters of the vine, nor
breasts like t.wo young roes that are twins feeding among
lilies, nor the joints of their thighs like jewels, the work
of the hands of a
cunning Workman. They neither invite
their paradisaic partner to kiss them with the kisses of
his mouth, nor to lie _like a bundle of myrrh all night
between their breasts, nor to turn and be till day-break
like a
young hart upon the mountains of spices, nor to
get him to the mountain of myrrh and the hill of frankin-
cence till the shadows flee away, nor to take a thousand
current coins from '
his vineyard,' while the keeper of the
fruit claims two hundred in return, nor tempt him to the
iields, under promise of there giving their bosoms to his
joy. These are the luxuries of other creeds, the figures
which the nations of Europe think fitted to excite reli-
gious hopes and pious expectations. The spouses of the
Arabian teacher sit with their dark eyes cast dovn mo-
destly in the presence of their husbands, like pearls con-
cealing themselves within their shells ; and even the
patriarchal polygamy seems
forgotten, as something tole-
rable on earth, but not good enough for heaven. The
beautiful pairs recline by the never-failing waters of Eden,
surrounded by the harmless luxuries which constitute
domestic comfort or splendour in the East; and if they
sometimes fill their cup with a richer draught, it is de-
scribed as innocent and harmless, with no
power to dis-
turb the intellect or disorder the mind. Their converse
is unearthly and pure, and tinged with the delightful
consciousness of souls escaped from earth and safe in
heaven :
41
'
1-- "
No vain discourse there heard, nor thought of sin;
But this one word, Peace-Peace!
Koran, lvi. 27, 28.
"
68. Such are literally the words of the much-abused
Arabian ; butstill the Koran must be licentious, and all
the figures of European theologians severe and blameless
and divine; To judge from the outcry, it might be sup-
posed that a whole book of the Koran had been devoted
to the exhibition of voluptuous delight. And because
woman, pure, innocent, and downcast, is found seated 'in
the second paradise by her husband's side, comes this sa-
cerdotal hubbub, and monkish delicacy is up in arms in
defence of the purity of heaven.--If a translation of the
Hebrew Scriptures were published, in which every word
capable of the change was altered from the reserved and
decent one to that which was vulgar and immodest, and
where a licentious commentary was attached to every
passage where the subject could, by any perversion, be
made the vehicle, attended with insupportable mistrans-
lations and misconstructions for the sake of hanging an
odious meaning upon the writer,-it would give some
idea of the medium through which the Koran was intro-
duced to Europe. It was thus that juggling monks
played their low machinery, that what they called the
altar and the throne might flourish, by setting one half of
mankind to hate and worry the other."
69. Though that most Christian and pious emperor,
Theodosius, decreed the destruction of.the beautiful tem-
ples of the ancients, the priests had not the same objec-
tions to their rites and ceremonies. The tawdry, dirty,
disgusting churches of the Romish and Greek Christians
in every part of Europe-their pictures, images, festivals,
processions, and ceremonies, taken from the very worst
"
Non audient ibi sermonem futilem, neque incitationem ad pec-
catam.
Sed tantum modo dictum : Pax, Pax.
Translation of Maracci.
49
parts-the dregs of pagan idolatry--prove that the priests
of the religion of purity could condescend to the basest
of accommodations to delude or to increase the number
of their proselytes, a
practice actually recommended by
the person admitted by a majority of Christians to be the
very head of the religion itselil* Pander to the base pas-
sions of his followers, indeed ! Where can any thing like
this be found in the religion of the mrosroni The preh
judices of the Pagans or of the Christians are
equaily set
at defiance. No holy Water, no relic, no image, no pic-
ture, no saint, no 'mother of God, disgrace his religion.
No such doctrines as the efficacy of faith without works,
or that of a death-bed repentance, plenary indulgences,
absolution, or auricular confession, operate first to cor-
rupt, then to deliver up his followers into the power of a
priesthood, which would of course be always more cor-
rupt and more
degraded than themselves. No, indeed!
The adoration of one God, without mother, or
mystery,
or
pretended miracle, and the acknowledgement that he,
a mere man, was sent to preach the duty of offering ado-
ration to the Creator alone, constituted the simple doc-
trinal part of the religion of the Unitarian of Arabia.
70. Like the gospel of Jesus, the Koran is the poor
man's friend. The injustice of the great and rich is
every where reprobated. It is no
respecter of persons.
And it is to the immortal honour of the writer of that
book, be he Mohamed, the illustrious prophet of Arabia,
or his third successor, the Caliph Otliman, as the author
believes, not a precept in it can be pointed out which
contains the slightest leaning to political servility. And
as the Westminster Reviewer has justly observed, if
there be any thing that ever holds an eastern despot in
check, it is probably an unceremonious verse from the
Koran in the mouth of a
daring remonstrant.-|~
71. Time and human iniirmity in some respects have
'
The Pope at that time, Gregory.
1 West. Rev. No. IX. p. 222.
43
corrupted the religion of Mohamed, the impostor, as
they
are allowed to have done that of Jesus. But if the reli-
gion of the impostor have submitted to the casualties to
which every thing in this world is liable, perhaps a little
allowance will be made when it is considered, that in
much the greatest part of the Christian world, as I have
stated above, the religion of purity and truth, the foun-
dation of Mohamedism, is yet disgracedby the most de-
grading superstitious.
72. The prophet has been accused of the most cruel
and blood-thirsty disposition; but yet it is remarkable
that he extended the duties of charity to the brute crea-
tion ; and the Koran repeatedly inculcates, not as a merit,
but as a strict and indispensable duty, the relief of the
indigent and unfortunate. Mohamed is perhaps the only
legislator who has defined the precise measure of charity:
the standard may vary with the degree and nature of
property, as it consists either in money, in corn or cattle,
in fruits or merchandise; but the Musselman does not
accomplish the law, unless he bestows a tenth of his re-
venue ; and if his conscience accuses him of fraud or ex-
tortion, the tenth, under the idea of restitution, is en-
larged to a 'rifth.*
73. In no religion, except in that of Mohamed, can
any thing like_ this be found. That the Christian priests
should teach, what is not in the gospels, the necessity of
giving to themselves a tenth, is not surprising. But
they forgot the poor, which is there. Not so Mohamed;
he remembered the poor, but forgot the priests.
74. lt is true that the Koran inculcates the merit and
duty of lighting against infidels, and this is indeed what
might well be expected; but Mohamed can no more be
made responsible for what was written by Othman, than
Jesus can for what was taught by Leo IV.-|~ to the Chris-
tians to war against all infidels, enemies of the holy faith,
well exemplified in the crusades and the knights of Malta.
°
Gibbon. 1~ Sale's Prel. Dis., note, p. 190.
44 -
But the battle over, the sword was sheathed, and a triding
tribute was the, price of protection and toleration, never
denied by the followers of Mohamed.
75. The Mohamedans have been accused of placing a
dependance upon their ablutions and puriiications. But
those are condemned who are superstitiously solicitous in
exterior puriiications, avoiding those persons who are not
so nice as themselves, at the same time that they have
their minds lying waste, and overrun with pride, igno-
rance, and hypocrisy.* And though much praying is
inculcated, yet the most punctual observance of the
external rites and ceremonies is held to be of little avail,
if performed without due attention, reverence, devotion,
and hope: so that the Mohamedans must not be consi-
dered to content themselves with the mere opus opera-
tum, or imagine their whole religion to be placed therein.-I*
76. But Mr. Sale admits that it is the constant doc-
trine of the Koran that the felicity of each person will be
proportioned to his deserts, and that there will be abodes
of different degrees of happiness, great advantage being
given in all cases to the poor.1
77. How different this from the modern superstition of
the eflicacy of faith without Works, so
'finely refuted by
Mr. Locke, when he proves that faith is a matter of ne-
cessity, not of choice !
78. The Koran says,
"
Verily repentance will be ac--
cepted with God, from thosevwho do evil ignorantly, and
then repent speedily: unto them will God be turned:
for God is knowing and wise. But no
repentance will be
accepted from those who do evil until the time when
death presenteth itself unto one of them, and he saith,
Verily, I repent now
!"§
79. This text alone is quite enough to account for the
superior state of the morality of most Mohamedan nations
over that of Christian nations: a
mortifying fact, the truth
*
Poe. Spec. pp. 302, &c.; Sale. Prel. Dis., sect. iv. p. l40.
1* Ibid. p. 144. 1 Prel. Dis. p. 129.
§ Sale, ch. iv.
45
of which every unprcjudiced traveller is obliged to admit.
How can any thing but vice and crime be expected
where faith is preferred to works, and where the heretical
doctrine prevails, that a death-bed repentance is to cure
all sin P
A
80. But how can any thing better be expected by those
who give the Bible to be expounded by unlearned me-
chanics, which it is impossible to understand without a
considerable knowledge of Latin, Greek, and Hebrew,
and respecting the proper translation of which no two
doctors have ever agreed?
81. Mr. Gibbon seems to have fallen into a mistake in
supposing that by good works, the prophet only meant
such as were performed by the professors of Islamism.
No doubt a
preference in the heavenly mansions is given
in the Koran, as may well be expected, to its believers ;
but inferior places are
assigned to many others, according
to the good works which they have performed. For great
merit is ascribed to those who perform good works, con-
trary to the pernicious dogmaof millions of Christians,
who hold, as I have often heard it held from the pulpit,
that merit has nothing to do with salvation.
89. The Koran says,
"
Certainly the faithful, (so Mo-
hamed calls his sectaries,) the Jews, the Christians, the
Sabeans, and in general whoever believes in one
only
God, and in a
day of judgment, AND PRACTISES vuvrua'
will be rewarded by God: he need not be afraid."
83. I think if there had been one clear, undisputed pas-
sage in the gospels similar in doctrine to this, we should
not have seen such associations disgracing all civilized
nations as those of the knights of Malta,-bands of
noble and royal banditti_-- pirates, who ought to be
hanged by the Turks whenever they are taken, for the
vow they make never to be at peace with them on
any
terms. The holy allies once wished to re-establish this
detestable order of hypocrites and fanatics, but fortu-
9
*
°
Assem. Bibl. Orient. T.11I, Pt. ii. pp. 611, 612; Beaus. Hist.
Man., Liv. ix. ch. i.; Koran, ch. ii. p. 12; ch. v. p. 135.
46
nately the public opinion and the press of Britain pre-
vented it.
84. Spanheim was a very celebrated man, and no man,
I apprehend, will doubt his piety and learning, justly ap-
plauded by Mr. Sale, who says, though he owned Mo-
hamed to be a wicked impostor, yet acknowledged him to
have been richly furnished with natural endowments,
'beautiful in his person, of a subtle wit, agreeable beha-
viour, shewing liberality to the poor, courtesy to every
one, fortitude against his enemies, and, above all, a
high
reverence for the name of God; severe against the per-
jured, adulterers, murderers, slanderers, prodigals, covet-
ous, false witnesses, &c. ; a great preacher of patience,
charity, mercy, benelicence, gratitude: honouring of pa-
rents and superiors; and a frequent celebrator of the
Divine praise.*
85. The Christian priests, in their writings against
Mohamed, constantly accuse him of making converts by
intimidation; by threats of hell and eternal punishment
to those who do not adopt his religion. This is true
with respect to some
parts of the Koran, and is directly
in contradiction to other parts, where it is admitted that
Christians, Jews, and Sabeans, if they performed good
works, need not be afraid. But admitting that it is
really the doctrine of the prophet, it seems rather extra-
ordinary that it should be brought as a charge against
him by those who receive the gospels and epistles, where
the doctrine is laid down in the broadest language: He
that believeth and is baptized, shall be saved : but he that
believeth not, shall be damned. 1-
86. With more truth the doctrines of fate and predes-
tination may be brought as a charge against him ; of
contriving or
adopting them to increase or encourage his
followers. The doctrines alluded to in the last para-
graph seem to be almost a
necessary appendage to all
religions: but these are not. However, whether right
* Hist. Eccles., sec. vii. lem. 5 et 7. Sale, Pref., p. 6.
1 Mark xvi. l6.'
`_',
47
or
wrong, designed or
undesigned, the belief that every
ball was labelled for its owner, that the utmost excess of
care could not vary or
delay a man's final doom, encou-
raged his followers to iight with astonishing bravery, and
give them the victory in every encounter.
87. In the Koran there is an account of a
journey
which Mohamed took, along with the angel Gabriel,
through the seven heavens to the throne of God. This is
evidently nothing but a dream or vision, (similar to the
journey of Jesus with the devil from the mountain to the
pinnacle of the temple, which divines now defend on the
ground that it is a vision and nothing more,) and, like
most dreams, it is a mass of nonsense. The Christian
priests, who are as much afraid of ridicule, when applied
to their own
religion, as they are fond of applying it to
the religions of others, make themselves merry with the
horse called Borak, on which Mohamed rode in a few
seconds from Mecca to Jerusalem, asking what sort of a
horse Borak could be. The fact is, the vord in the
oriental language means, and ought to be translated, a
_#ash of lightning-a very dangerous horse to ride, indeed,
except in a dream or vision. The angel Gabriel took him
from the side of his wife Ayesha, when she was
asleep,
and he performed the wonderful journey before she
awaked, so that she never knew that he had been absent.
The doctors ofthe law all consider it a vision. A Mo-
hamedan, who cannot be expected to have much respect
for St. Paul, would perhaps observe, that his journey, de-
scribed in 2 Cor. xii., is not very unlike that of the pro-
phet of Arabia.
88. It seems unfortunate for the cause of humanity,
that neither- Jesus nor Mohamed should have thought it
right to abolish slavery. lt may be said, that when
they directed their proselytes to do to others as
they
would be done unto, they virtually abolished it. This
is plausible, but unfortunately it is not in practice
true. The domestic slavery of the Mohamedans is no
doubt indefensible, but what is this compared to the
48.
cruelty and horrors of the African slave-trade, and the
plantations of the West Indies ? We hear enough in all
conscience of Popes of Rome, and Archbishops of Can-
terbury, of councils and convocations, of bulls, articles,
canons, and concordats ; but when did we ever hear of
any public act of these men
against this horrible traiiic?
Shew me the bull, shew me the canon or act of convoca-
tion. The Bishops of Rome and Canterbury themselves
deserve the epithet of panders to the base passizms of their
followers, which they give to Mohamed, for not having,
wheuthe atrocity of this traiiic was clearly proved, ex-
communicated all those engaged in carrying it on, as was
done by the Quakers.
89. I am aware that they may make a plausible de-
fence, by alleging that they cannot excommunicate a
man for the fact of being the owner of slaves, because
the legality of slavery is admitted in almost every page
of the gospels and epistles; as wherever the word ser'vu.s
or 35104 is found and translated servant, the word used
ought to be slave-the word servus literally meaning a
person bought or sold in a market; the freed-man an-
swering to our hired servant. But if domestic slavery be
unfortunately allowed to Christians, it by no means fol
lows that the African slave-trade is allowed,'the horrors
of which could never have been suspected by the an-
cients, and which in every respect differs from their
domestic slavery.
90. Although the prophet did not, as he ought to have
done, abolish that horrid custom, he did not leave it alto-
gether unnoticed; but in declaring that all Mohamedans
are brothers, and that no man should hold his brother in
slavery, he at once liberated a vast mass of mankind.
The moment a slave declares himself a believer he is
free. Although Mahomed did not in this go so far as he
ought to have done, yet he did something, and that was
better than nothing; and while, it has probably induced
some to avow themselves proselytes without conviction,
(on which account it will be reprobated and attributed
49
to a bad motive by the pious Christian, whose zeal is
warmed by a live coal from off the altar,) yet it has
saved from misery millions upon millions. Another mo-
dification of slavery, or alleviation of its evils, is to be
found in the ordinance, that in the sale of slaves the
mother shall on no account be separated from the chil-
dren, a crime committed by our
West-Indians every day.
I have not observed any ordinance of this kind in the
gospels, therefore Mohamed did not copy it from them.
91. We make many professions of a wish to convert
the poor Negroes; I advise our missionary societies to
use their enormous wealth in giving the Negroes their
freedom as soon as converted, declaring them brothers,
after the example of the Mohamedans. I can assure
them that this will make more proselytes than all their
sermons.
92. The Westminster Review says,
"
His law of slavery
is,
'
If slaves come to you, you shall '-not imprison and
then sell by public sale, though no claimant appears, as
in the nineteenth century is the law of Chri tian England
in her provinces, but-' redeem them, and it is forbidden
to you to send them forth." And this was a man stand-
ing up in the wilds of Arabia in the seventh century." 1-
93. Mohamed says,
"
Unto such of your slaves as de-
sire a written instrument, allowing them to redeem them;
selves on paying a certain sum, write one; and if ye
know good in them, give them of the riches qf God which
he hath given you."1 I have not found this in the gos-
pels.
94. The Spaniards, even the avaricious Spaniards, have
acted upon a similar plan with regard to their slaves in
Cuba, by allowing them gradually to redeem themselves..
95. It has been already observed that Mohamed never
pretended to the,power of working miracles, but totally
denied from the beginning any supernatural endowment
"
Koran, ii. p. 85. ff West Rev. No. IX. p. 221. ..
-
1 Col1ier,_Lec. ix. p. 365; Koran, Vol. ll. ch. xxiv. p.» 186.
E
_
50
of this kind. His þÿll1Il'3CI¢-IOYl.Dg'wf0ll0W ¬l'Sonly allow
him to have had revelations from heaven, and in the
Koran the working of miracles is repeatedly disclaimed.
96. When the natural propensity of mankind to the
marvellous is considered, it is no
way surprising that
Mobamedan devotees should have been desirous of dis-
covering miracles in the actions of their prophet to raise
him, as
they imagined, in the estimation of mankind.
Thus, out of his dream of the journey to heaven on the
dash of lightning, they would make a real joumey. But
in general the pretended miracles have been of that na-
ture which at the same time proves the sincerity of the de-
votees and their real occurrence. Thus, when he was hid
in a cave for three days, a turtle dove g
laid her two eggs
in a tree at its mouth. Again, a spider spun her web in
the entrance, and from observing these circumstances,
his pursuers were persuaded that he was not in the cave,
and thus he escaped. I suspect the college of cardinals
would have found out some more miraculous miracles in
order to account for the escape of a Romish saint; but
perhaps the miracle of a spider spinning a web, and of a
dove laying eggs, may be more to the taste of the philo~
sopher.
97. Dr. Lee, of Cambridge, in his work entitled, Con-
troversial Tracts relating to Christianity and Maho-
medism, has given us an argument of the Mohamedans
which is extremely curious, and furnishes grounds for
much redectiou. I have before seen it put into the form
of a mathematical problem; I pretend not to solve it, but
leave it to the mathematicians of the Doctor's Alma
Mater; it is an argument which requires deep conside-
ration.
98. Moharnedanssay,
"
As evidence of Christian mi-
racles is daily becoming weaker, a time must at last
arrive when it will fail of affording assurance that they
were miracles at all: whence would arise the pnecessity of
another prophet and other miracles."* We do not shew
'
Contr. Tracts Christ. and Mahom., by Lee, p. 13.
51
our wisdom in despising the people who could discover
such an_ argument. V
99. Nothing is so common as to hear the Christian
priests abusethe religion of Mohamed for its bigotry and
intolerance. Wonderful assurance and hypocrisy! Who
was it expelled the Moriscoes from Spain because they
would not turn Christians? Who was it murdered the
millions of Mexico and Peru, and gave them all away as
slaves because they were not Christians? What a con-
trast have the Mohamedans exhibited in Greece! For
many centuries the Christians have been permitted to
live in the peaceable possession of their properties,
their religion, their priests, bishops, patriarchs, and
churches; and at the present moment the war between
the Greeks and Turks is no more waged on account of
religion, than was the late war between the Negroes in
Demerara and the English. The Greeks and the Ne-
groeswant to throw od' the yoke of their conquerors, and
they are both justified in so doing. Wherever the Ca-
liphs conquered, if the inhabitants turned Mohamedans,
they were
instantly on a footing of perfect equality with
their conquerors. An ingenious and learned Dissenter,
speaking of the Saracens, says,
"
They persecuted no-
body; Jews and Christians alllived happy among them."*
lfl). But though we are told that the Moriscoes were
banished because they would not turn Christians, I sus-
pect there was another cause; I suspect they, by their
arguments, so gained upon the Christians, that the igno-
rant monks thought that the only 'way their arguments
could be ,answered was by the Inquisition and the sword;
and I have no doubt they were right as far as Tania
wretched powers of answering them extended. In the
countries conquered by the Caliphs, the peaceable inha-
bitants, whether Greeks, Persians, Sabeans, or Hindoos,
were not put to the sword as the Christians have repre-
sented, but after the conquest was terminated, were left
*'
Robinson's Ecc. Res. p. ll3.
E 2
52
in the peaceable possession of their properties and ruli-
gion, paying a tax for the enjoyment of this latter privi~
lege, so trifling as to be an
oppression to none. In all
the history of the Caliphs, there cannot he shewn any
thing half so infamous as the Inquisition, nor a single
instance of an individual burnt for his religious opinion ;
nor, do I believe, put to death in a time of peace for sim-
ply not embracing the religion of Islam. No doubt the
later Mohamedan conquerors in their expeditions have
been guilty of great cruelties; these, Christian authors
have sedulously laid to the charge of their religion; but
this is not just. Assuredly, religious bigotry increased
the evils of war, but in this the Mohamedan conquerors
were not worse than the Christians. But the sword once
sheathed, there was an end of persecution. The Koran
says,
"
If the Lord had pleased, all who are in the earth
would have believed together ; and wilt thou force men to
be believers ? No man can believe but by the permission
of God ;`and nn will pour out his indignation on those
who will not understand."*
lOl. Again,
"
Let there be no forcing in religion;
the right way has been made clearly apparent from the
wrong."'|~
102. Again,
"
Fight in the way of God with them that
iight with you ; but be not the aggressors, for God loveth
not the aggressors. And kill them wherever you find
them, and drive them from whence they drove you. But
if they give over, (be mindful that) God is forgiving and
fnerczful."
103. "
But if they give over, then no hostility, except
against the treacherous."1 I this being
"
cursed with
a
religion which inculcates intolerance" ?§ Read the
account of Moses and the Canaanites ; of Samuel, Agag,
and the Gibeonites; and then compare the two.
"10-1. I request the
impartial reader, if such a
person
*
Koran, ii. 257. -|~ Koran, x. 98.
`
1 Koran, ii. l9l, et seq. § Rev. No. LXXXV. art. 5.
f
"R
53
can be -found, to meditate upon the religious wars of the
Christian sects, which have scarcely ever ceased for the
last eighteen hundred years, and compare them with the
differences which have prevailed between the followers of
Omar and Ali, the two great sects among the Mussel-
men. I call them differences, for they can
hardly in any
case be said to have proceeded to the extent of actual
warfare; and in no case can an instance be produced of
avictim at the stake. I do not deny that the evil pas-
sions of hatred and bigotry exist among Mohamedans ;
but Mohamed is no more to be charged with this, than
Jesus is to be charged with the hatred of the Irish Bruns-
wickers to the Papists.
105. It is a
very great mistake to suppose_ that the
Mohamedau religion was propagated by the sword alone.
Mr. Sale has been generally considered to be well-in-
formed on this subject, and he cannot be supposed to
have had any unfair partiality to Mohamedanism-he was
strictly a Trinitarian Christian-and what does he say?
"
I shall not here inquire the reasons
why the law of Mo-
hammed has met with so
unexampled a
reception in the
world, (for they are
greatly deceived who imagine it to
have been propagated by the sword alone,) or
by what
means it came to be embraced by nations which never
felt the force of the Mohammedan arms; and even by
those which stripped the Arabians of their conquests, and
put an end to the sovereignty and-very being of their
Califs: get it seems as if therewas something more than
what is vulgariz/ imagined in a religion which has made
so
surprising a progress." He then goes ou to say, he
couceives an
impartial version of the Koran to be neces-
sary in order to expose the IMPOSTURIL* The word im-
posture shews, that this evidence in favour of the religion
of Mohamed is that of an unwilling witness.
106. Mr. Gibbon says,
"
But the millions of African
and Asiatic converts who swelled the native band of the
°P. 4.
54
faithful Arabs, must have been allnred, rather than con-
strained, to declare their belief in one God and the apos-
tle of God. By the repetition of a sentence or the loss
of a foreskin, the subject or the slave, the captive or the
criminal, arose in a moment the free and equal companion
of the victorious Moslems. Every sin was expiated,
every engagement was dissolved ; the vow of celibacy was
superseded by the indulgence of nature; the active spi-
rits who slept in the cloister were awakened by the trum-
pet of the Saracens ; and in the convulsion of the world,
every member of a new society ascended to the natural
level of his capacity and courage.""'
107. The first attack, or one of the first attacks, of the
Turks on the Saracens, took place in the latter end of
the eighth century. They came from the North betwixt
the Caspian and Black seas, and were not then of the
Mohamedan religion. But they soon afterward came
over to the religion of the conquered Saracensxf
108. In this conversion of their oonquerors, a most re-
markable and pointed refutation is given to the often-
repeated charge, that Islamism was indebted to the sword
for its success. For here is a
grand proof that Islamism
not only converted those whom it conquered, but also
those who conquered its adherents : it converted its
conquerors.
109. The excessively bigoted character of the modern
Mohamedans may, in a
great measure, be attributed to
the attacks made upon them by the Christian orders of
Knighthood, the Crusaders, &c., and by the intolerant
spirit of the orthodox Christianity, which in its turn pro-
duces intolerance. For though the Mohamedans do not
refuse a place in paradise to the orthodox Christians, the
latter condemn all the former without compunction or
exception.I And though this is the doctrine neither of
*
Vol. V. ch. li. p. 382.
_ 1 Vide Recaut's History of the Popes, p. 139.
I Mark, ch. xvi. 16.
.55
'
Mark nor of Jesus, it is the doctrine taught to our soldiers
and sailors, into whose hands our faulty translations are
put, and who believe the plain English which they find
there. And it is also the doctrine of nine-tenths of the
Romish and Protestant missionariesf*
l10. I know well that Christians are
apt to look down
with sovereign contempt upon Mohamedans, and upon
every thing relating to them and their religion; but let
them inquire, and they will find that the Mohamedans
were, soon after the establishment of their religion, the
most liberal and enlightened race on the earth ; that we
are more indebted to them for useful learning than even
to the ancients; that their religion abounds with pre-
cepts of benevolence and sound morality; and that it is
no more just to charge it with'the crimes of the ignorant
bigots which now
disgrace it, than it is to charge the
Christian religion with the similar crimes of some of its
priests and professors.
111. Europeans are very vain of their present supe-
riority over the Mohamedans in science, arts, and arms ;
and to hear them talk, a person might be induced to sus-
pect, that in no former age had any nations ever risen to
any-eminence in these elegant and useful acquirements.
But in'this he would be much deceived. Except, per-
haps, in some branches of experimental philosophy and
manufactures, there was no branch of art or science which
was not almost in a
great perfection among the subjects
of the Caliphs as they now are in Great Britain.
112. Mr. Richardson, whose authority no one
upon
this subject will question, says,
"
In the eighth, ninth,
and succeeding centuries, when the European world was
clouded with barbarity and ignorance, when sovereign
princes and great feudal lords could neither read nor
write, the Arabians rivalled the Romans of the Augustan
age in erudition and genius: whilst with a more exten-
sive empire, they excelled them in magnificence, and the
*
Vide Athanasian Creed.
56
more refined splendour and elegance of life. The Kalifs
Al Modhi, Al Rashid, Al Mahmoun, and other monarchs
of the illustrious house of Al Abbas, were men of learn-
ing, genius, and politeness. Learning and genius were
found, therefore, the surest avenues to royal favour ;' they
were, of consequence, universally cultivated ; princes, ge-
nerals, and viziers, being not only magnilicent patrons of
literary merit, but holding themselves a
conspicuous rank
among writers of the most distinguished class." Upon
this Mr. Maurice observes,
"
that zeal for the encourage-
ment of learning, which animated the Arabian princes, con-
tinued to glow with almost equal fervour in the breasts of
the Tartar monarchs, their conquerors and successors."*
113. Many Christians will be surprised to learn that
the Koran has been cursed or blessed with probably full
as many commentators as the gospels, which is proved
by thousands and tens of thousands of them yet existing;
they are supposed to exceed forty thousand.
114. Sir W. Jones, in his second dissertation on the
literature of Asia, observes,
"
that the Mohamedans are
expressly commanded by their lawgiver to search for
learning even in the remotest parts of the globe." I think
Mohamed did not copy this from the gospels, nor from
the Romish canons, which prohibit the study of heathen
literature.
'
115. So far are the followers of Mohamed from believ-
ing that he prohibited learning, or from wishing to pro-
hibit it themselves, that one of the sayings which they
preserve of him by tradition is, that "
the ink of the
learned is as good as the blood of the martyrs ;" and it
is presented to this day to the Moslem school-boy for a
copy, in the place of the "
Industry is praised" of our
domestic calligraphistsrf
116. The Christians have made a great outcry against
all the followers of Mohamed on account of the destruc-
*
Maurice, Hist. Hind. Vol. I. p. IO, 4lo.
+ West. Rev. No. IX. p. 222.
57
tion of the library at Alexandria, the act of onesavage
barbarian, a disgrace to his religion and the literary cha-
racter of his Arabian countrymen, M indeed, he did bum
it ; but they carefully keep out of sight the circumstance
that part of the celebrated library of the Ptolemies
was bumt in one of the battles of Caesar, and that an-
other part, if not all_ the remainder, was bumt by a
decree of the Christian Theodosius, when he burnt and
destroyed throughout his dominions the temples of the
heathens for the glory of God.
117. No doubt these pious acts of legitimacy of both
the Christians and Mohamedans had considerable effect
in producing the darkness of the succeeding ages, but
there were two or three other causes much more effec-
tual. The acts of the barbarian Omar only extended to
one
city and one moment of time; but the repeated de-
crees of the Roman Christian emperors for the destruc-
tion of books of both heretics and philosophers, and the
canons of the Councils and Popes of Rome, and the de-
nunciations of the fathers of the church against the wick-
edness of reading the books of the Heathen, were, I have
no doubt, much more effectual. They extended to the
whole world. Add to this the universal practice of the
monks and nuns, for a thousand years together, of col-
lecting manuscripts into their monasteries, for the pur-
pose of erasing from them the works of the wicked Hea-
then, to write their contemptible breviaries and legends
upon them, and there will be no
necessity to seek for any
other cause for the scarcity of manuscripts. For several
centuries the art of manufacturing vellum or skin for
parchment appears, in many countries, to have been lost,
and consequently the price of it became very high.
'l`he Christians boast much of the preservation of manu-
scripts in their monasteries. But they never tell us for
what purpose they were
preserved. How absurd to be-
lieve that the ignorant, bigoted monks would wish to
preserve the literature of the Heathens directly in oppo-
sition to the canons of their church, by which they were
58
forbidden to read them! On the revival of letters, no
doubt many learned priests exerted themselves to pre-
serve the literature of the ancients which was deposited
in the convents, and so far the preservation appears to
have been a piece= of good fortune. But this was done by
enlightened 'individuals in defiance of the decrees of em-
perorsandfthe canons of councils; decrees and canons
the existence of which cannot for a moment be doubted;
but the burning of the library by Omar, Mr. Gibbon has
shewn by very strong arguments is extremely doubtful.
I must fairly say, for my own part,' founding my opinion
on the arguments used by Mr. Gibbon,.I do not believe it.
It is nothing but a Christian calumny, to blacken the re-
ligion of the impostor.
118. At the time when Christian Europe was involved
in ignorance and darkness, as I have just now stated,
the Mohamedan empire of the Caliphs iiourished in a
high state of refinement and civilization. Arts, sciences,
and literature, were carried to a very great degree of per-
fection: and thus -it continued for many centuries, till it
was overturned by the then ignorant and barbarous hordes
of Turks (who had nothing in common with the polished
and enlightened Arabs), barbarians who have equally de-
stroyed the ancient monuments of the Greeks and of
the Caliphs, and have almost reduced the finest parts 'of
the world to adesert. Thus it must not be supposed that
darkness and ignorance are necessary appendages of
Mohamedanism ; of Turkish barbarism they are; but the
history of the Caliphs proves that they are not so of
Moharnedanism. But bad as the Turks are, the remains
of the Greek nation prove, that they are more humane
than the Christian barbarians who extirpated the Moris-
cocs of Spain. _
119. It is a well-known fact, that the enlightened em-
peror Akber, great grandfather to Aurengzebe, dispatched
an embassy, in the year l595, to the king of Portugal, to
request that missionaries might be sent to instruct him
*
Vide Gibbon, Vol. V. chap. li. p. 343. 4to.
59
in the Christian religion, in order that, after he had care-
fully inquired, he might choose the religion which ap-
peared to him to be the true one. Three Jesuits of high
character were sent. When they arrived at Agra they
were
very kindly received, and had a church built for
them, at the charge of the Mogul, with many privileges
and immunities, all which were continued to them by the
successor of Akber, Jehan Guire, in 1604. The Jesuits
published two works for the use of the Emperor and
the Musselmen, which were answered by a Persian no-
bleman named Ahmed Ebn Zin Alabedin. It is very
evident that the followers of the prophet obtained as de-
cided a
victory by their pens, as
they had previously done
by their arms. Prideaux cannot conceal his chagrin.
120. He says that the work of the Jesuits unluckih/
(and why unluckily ?) fell into the hands of this learned
Persian, who, to use his words "made terrible work with
the Jesuits." The priests not liking "this terrible work,"
by orders 'of the pope and the college de propaganda fide
at Rome, a learned friar undertook to answer it. But this
still not being satisfactory, another learned man was
chosen, whose work was translated into Arabic and sent
into Asia, but this, Prideaux says, did "by no means
answer the design." How unfortunate that they did not
send to Norwich! I wonder whether. the learned Dean
would have succeeded better than the Pope, the College,
and the Jesuits.*
121. This whole story is very remarkable. Where among
Christians shall we meet with an example of libcrality
equal to this of the Mogul P In this instance, as well as
many others, the Mohamedans have shewn that they were
not afraid of subjecting their religion to fair examination ;
and it does not appear that they first tkd up the hamhs
of their opponents by declaring, that they must not deny
its truth, for to deny its truth was to revile it, thereby
preventing every thing like fair and free discussion.
*
Dow's preface to his translation of Ferishta, Vol. I. p. 26;
Maurice, Ind. Ant. Vol. IV. p. 4lO; Prideaux, Life of Mali., p. 238.
60
192. The exertions of the missionaries of the Chris-
tians, though evidently allowed the greatest latitude, do
not appear to have had any great success. I have some
doubt as to what would happen even in this _enlightened
age, as it calls itself, if the Grand Seignior was to send
(as our missionaries did a Mr. Drummond to Geneva, to
teach their peculiar doctrines) one of the richest of his
mnftis to build a
mosque, and to preach the doctrines of
the Koran in the centre of London. I suspect a well-
gronnded fear that this would cause a renewal, under
the auspices of the priests, of the tires of the year eighty,
or of those of more recent date at Birmingham, would
cause our ministers to answer him by the mouth of one
of our admirals, who might entertain an opinion that it
was possible to bombard Constantinople.
123. The Christians would do well to recollect, that
the doctrines of Mohamed created a
degree of enthusiasm
in his followers which is to be sought in vain in the
immediate followers of Jesus, and that his religion spread
with a
rapidity unexampled in that of the Christians. In
less than half a
century it became triumphant in many
great and flourishing empires. When Jesus was led to
the cross, his followers Bed, their enthusiasm forsook
them, they left him to perish ; and if they were forbidden
to defend him, they might have remained to comfort him,
patiently setting at dehance his and their persecutors.
'l`he followers of Mohamed, on the contrary, rallied round
their persecuted prophet, and, risking their lives in his
defence, made him triumph over all his enemies.
124. It is worthy of observation that the religion of
Mohamed did not take its rise in an
age of religious
darkness, but, on the contrary, after the Christian religion
had existed a
light to enlighten the Gentiles for six
hundred years. To this it is replied, that the Christian
religionhad become much corrupted, so that it could be
no
longer said to enlighten the world. It seems odd that
it should have failed in the object for which it was sent.
However, this is the very argument used by the prophet,
61
and one which, no doubt, had great weight with his fol-
lowers. He said that 'another prophet or
messenger of
God had become absolutely necessary to reform the
vices of the followers of Jesus, and the corruptions of his
religion: and that this argument was
specious and
plausible cannot surely be denied.
125. The seventh century swarmed with Christian
authors: it seems
very remarkable that not one of them
was bold enough to take up the pen to refute, during his
life-time, or the lives of the first Caliphs, the doctrines,
of the prophet of Arabia. And I believe we have not a
single work of the seventh century in refutation of the
Mohamedan doctrines.
196. The learned and Rev. Professor of Oxford says,
'
No representation can
convey stronger ideas of the
melancholy state of religion in the seventh century, than
the description of the character of a
good Christian as
drawn at that period by St. Eligius, or Eloi, Bishop of
Noyon.' - ~
127.
"'
Bonus Christianus est qui ad ecclesiam frequenter
venit, et oblationem, quae in altari Deo olferatur, exhi-
bet; qui de fructibus suis non
gustat, nisi prius Deo aliquid
oEerat: qui quoties sanctae solemnitates adveniunt, ante
dies plures castitatem etiam cum propria uxore custodit,
ut secura conscientia Domini altare accedere possit; qui
postrerno symbolum, vel orationem dominicam memoriter
tenet. Redimite anixnas vestras de puma dum habetis in
potestate remedia; oblationes et decimas ecclesiis aH`erte ;
luminaria sanctis locis, pista quod habetis, exhibite: ad
ecclesiam, quoque, frequentius convenite; sanctorum
patrocinia humiliter expetite: quod si observaveritis, se-
curi in die judicii ante tribunal zeterni judicis venientes,
dicetis, DA, DOMINE, QUIA nsmmus.
128. A most correct and delightful description of a
good priest-made Christian, no doubt, as
well in the
nineteenth as in the seventh century ! For the religions
I
ll*
'
'
Mosh. Vol. II ; White's Notes, p. vii.
62
of priests are substantially the same in the nineteenth as
in the seventh. The only difference is this, that in the
latter a larger dose of priestly medicine was
usually
administered for the cure of the Christian's diseased soul
than is in the former. It is the same in the Romish and
Protestant Churches at this time: from the peculiar
education of the follower of the Pope, his stomach is
stronger than that of the Protestant, and he takes and
probably requires rather a
stronger dose. The skill of
the priestly doctor consists in correctly estimating the
strength of his patient; he compounds his medicine as
well as he can to suit each respective case; the former
takes rather a stronger dose than the latter, and' that is
all the difference. One takes a dose called transubstantia-
tion, the other a dose called the Athanasian Creed, and
both of them take the following which the bishop utters
in the ordination of a
priest:
"
Receive the Holy Ghost
for the omce and work of a
priest in thepchurch of God,
now committed unto thee by the imposition of our hands.
W/zose sins thou dost forgive, they 'are forgiven ; and
whose sim thou dost retain, they are retained."
129. But, to the credit of the Romish Church, it is right
to state that to this they annex a condition. It is no
excuse for Protestants to say that in another part of their
rites they repeat this with a condition. It is here given
absolutely.
130. It is scarcely possible to conceive any crimes or
misconduct of Mohamed too great to deprive himof the
right of pardon, when a
person considers the anxiety 'dis-
played by him to abolish priests and monks. The decla-
ration that he would have no monks in his religion is
above all praise; and the absence of a hired priesthood
placed his religion in practical effect for many generations
far above all others. The high state of civilization and
polite literature to which the magnificent empires of the
caliphs arose, may probably be attributed to this circum-
stance. Some reason there must be for this state of
things, so different from the state of the kingdoms under
63
the priest-ridden and monk-ridden Christians in the mid-
dle ages. There is none more
probable than this, for
most assuredly the ignorance and darkness of Europe
were caused by the priests, as is abundantly proved by
the numerous decrees of popes and councils against learn-
ing, finishing with the last unavailing effort of the cele-
brated Council of Trent. In reply to this, solitary exanx~
ples will be produced of learned monks and priests, but
these availed nothing for many centuries against the ge-
neral policy of 'run cuuncu. As little avail a few solitary
instances produceable to prove any thing against the
general policy and practice, as avails the present example
of many British and Irish bishops and priests to prove that
a hired priesthood has not, in all ages, from the extremest
boundary of China to John-a-Grot's house in Scotland,
been the greatest evil to mankind, of all the evils which
have ever alilicted them.
131. Religions have been accused by some
philosophers
of having the elfect of working the degradation of man-
kind ; and, indeed, when the state to which the devotees
or ultra pious persons of many countries-the Hindoos,
Spaniards, Portuguese, &c., &c.-are reduced, is consi-
dered, the charge at first seems to be but too well
founded. This effect, however, has not been produced
by religion, but by its corruptious ; and the heaviest part
of the charge which I bring against priests is, that, in-
stead of endeavouring to prevent corruptions, or to cor-
rect them from time to time as
they arise, they have
almost always exerted their inliuence to increase them,
till they at last become intolerable.
132. A most estimable Unitarian priest, a friend of the
author's, has said, that soldiers have been a
greater evil
than priests. I say, no. Soldiers are the effects of the
turbulent passions of mankind, priests are the causes of
them. I desire my reader to look in Portugal, to look
in Spain, and dually, to look at home in Ireland, and
trembled*
*
Written in 1828.
64
133. These declarations will probably raise against the
writer the cry of Atheism. He fears it not, nor its au-
thors. The true religion of the incomparable Jesus, (the
Nazarite, Inns N¢§~P¢#°¢, not Nw§=Mv°¢,) of the city of Naza-
reth, was, in a most peculiar manner, the poor man's
religion. It was the religion of the heart; it required
neither creeds, altars, nor sacrifices; and if there was one
thing more odious to its Founder than another, it was the
cant and hypocrisy of Scribes, Pharisees, and Pnussrs.
Priests and chief priests actually stank beneath his
nostrils, and Mohamed, in abolishing them, proved him-
self a better Gospel Christian than we have ever seen
since. ~
134. The Westminster Reviewer justly observes, "The
man who could take ablutions and fasting, and leave
alone great and small tithes, must have had no incon-
siderable degree of singleness of eye and honesty of pur-
pose."
135. His description of pure religion is the religion of
Jesus himself. He says,
136. "
Religion is not turning your faces to the East
or to the West; but the religious are they who believe in
God and the last day, and give their wealth out of love to
their kindred, and to orphans, and to the poor, and to
the wayfaring man, and to those who ask charity, and for
the redeeming of captives; and who perform their prayers,
and give alms, and who keep their engagements when
they have made them; and the patient under misfortunes
and alilictious, and in the time of adversity. These are
they who are in _possession of the truth ; and these, they
are the pious." *
137.
"
If you make your alms to appear, it is well ; but
#ye conceal them, and give them to the poor, this will be
better for you." 1°
138. Mr. Sale has pointed out a circumstance which
took place in the twelfth year of Mohamed's mission., which
*
Koran, ii. l78. ff Ibid. ii. 272.
65
seems in a
high degree honourable to him, and serves in
some measure as an
exposition of his principles. He
says, "In this year, called by the Mahometans the ac-
cepted year, twelve men of Yatreb, or Medina, of whom
ten were of the tribe of Khazri, and the other that of
Aws, came to Mecca, and took an oath of fidelity to Ma-
homet at Al Acaba, a hill on the north of that city. This
oath was called the women's oath; not that any women
were
present at this time, but because a man was not
thereby obliged to take up arms in defence of Mahomet
or his religion; it being the same oath that was afterward
exacted of the women, the form of which we have in the
Koran, and is to this effect; viz. That they should re-
nounce all idolatry; and they should not steal, nor com-
mit fornication, nor kill their children, (as the Pagan Arabs
used to do when they apprehended they should not be
able to maintain them,) nor
forge calumnies ; and that
they should obey the prophet in all things that were
reasonable."* ~
139. This oath cannot fail to remind the reader of that
taken by the early Christians, described by Pliny in his
letter to the Emperor Trajan; which has always been
considered so honourable to them.
140. I conceive that the opinion which the great Na-
poleon entertained of Mohamed must be interesting ; and
I cannot resist the pleasure of recording it, as it not only
in some measure agrees with what I thought, but with
what I had written, before I saw it. I know not the au-
thority for the date of the Koran which Napoleon seems
to speak of as an acknowledged, well-known fact. "
The
Emperor adverting to the truth of history, expressed his
disbelief of all that was attributed to Mahomet. '
He
must, doubtless, have been like all chiefs of sects," said
he. '
The Koran, having been written thirty years after
his death, may have recorded many falsehoods. The
empire of the Prophet, his doctrine and his mission, being
*
Preface, p. lxii.
F
66
established and fulfilled, people might and must have
spoken accordingly. Still it remains to be explained how
the mighty event, which we are certain did take place,
namely, the conquest of the world, could have been ef-
fected in the short space of fifty or
sixty years. By whom
was it brought about? ~By the hordes of the desert, who,
as we are informed, were few in number, ignorant, un-
warlike, undisciplined, and destitute of system. And yet
they opposed the civilized world, abounding in resources.
Fanaticism could not have accomplished this miracle, for
fanaticism must have time to establish her dominion, and
the career of Mahomet lasted only thirteen years.'
"
*
141. But fanaticism did accomplish it, and to nothing
but fanaticism can it be attributed; at least, without fana-
ticism it could not have taken place.
142. Christians completely blinded, by their prejudices,
to the truth respecting their religion, and the state in
which it was, and the circumstances in which the world
was
placed 'in the beginning of the seventh century, are
surprised at the rapid progress both of Mohamedism and
the empire which accompanied it. The confusion and
extraordinary state of uncertainty into which Christianity
at that time had fallen are almost incredible, particularly
in the East, where the rising despotism of the Roman
Pontitf had not yet taken etfect in crushing down into
one mass the almost innumerable sects, with their almost
innumerable sacred and inspired writings, as
they consi-
dered them,--gospels, revelations, acts, epistles, &c. No
two sects agreed in any thing except in mutual hatred,
and in persecuting their opponents when they had the
power.
143. When this extraordinary, disorganized state of
Christianity is considered, it does not seem wonderful that
a religion should succeed which promised to put an end to
the confusion which prevailed, and by its extreme sim-
plicity seemed upon the plain sound principles of reason
*
Las Casas' Journal, Vol. Il. Part iii. p. 81.
R
67
and common sense likely to unite all parties within its
pale. Speaking of the state of Christianity at this time,
the learned lecturer of Oxford says,
"
Divided into num-
berless parties, on account of distinctions the most trifling
and absurd, contending with each other from perverse-
ness, and persecuting each other with rancour, corrupt
in opinion, and degenerate in practice, the Christians of
this unhappy period seem to have retained little more
than the name and external profession of their religion.
Of a Christian church scarce any vestige remained. The
most proiiigate principles and absurd opinions were uni-
versally predominant; ignorance amidst the most fa-
vourable opportunities of knowledge; vice amidst the
noblest encouragements to virtue; a
pretended zeal for
truth, mixed with the wildest extravagancies of'error; an
implacable spirit of discord about opinions which none
could settle ; and a
general and striking similarity in the
commission of crimes, which it was the duty and interest
of all to avoid." "'
144. Again he says,
"
The images of the saints who had
laboured to disseminate, and the bones of the martyrs
who had died to confirm, the faith, were now, by the arts
of a designing priesthood, and the ignorance of a super-
stitious multitude, held up as proper objects of religious
adoration." 1°
145. Again he says,
"
The blind fury of superstitious
zeal extinguished the tenderest sentiments of nature; the
majesty of the laws was trampled on and violated with
impunity: the cities of the East were deluged with
blood." I
146. The account given by Dr. White is very just, but
can any thing be more shocking? It is not surprising
that any religion should succeed which promised to put
an end to such a state of misery.
`
147. `Dr. White, in the following passage, gives us
some of the reasons urged by Mohamed or his followers.
*
Sermon Il. + Ibid. 1 Ibid.
I
if 2
,lf
_
68
They are very striking; and, coming from the learned
and reverend Professor, I hope will not be disputed.
148. Dr. White says,
"
Mohamed alleged, with much
plausibility, that God had originally given one grand and
universal religion to all the sons of men; that when the
cares and avocations of life had obliterated, or the frailty
or
perverseness of human nature had corrupted this faith,
it had pleased the Almighty in his mercy to send forth
successive prophets, to instruct and to reform mankind,
ever prone to wander from the plain and simple paths of
truth. Such was Moses, whose mission was, by the par-
ticular designation of Providence, confined within the nar-
row limits of one
people. Such, too, was Jesus; whose
more liberal and comprehensive system, proceeding from
a fuller and more
perfect exertion of Divine goodness,
was destined to confer its benefits, without distinction,
on all the widely-extended race of mankind : since time,
however, had unhappily corrupted the doctrines of Chris-
tianity itself, and left men once more to wander in dark-
ness and inerror, it had at length pleased the Almighty
to elect him, as the instrument of his gracious designs;
to commission him to rescue
religion from the corruptions
which obscured its native splendour by making him the
last great restorer of truth and virtue to the world." *
149. And surely some one to reform the religion and
rescue it from its corruptions was manifestly very much
wanting, and the fact admitted by Mohamed of the truth
of both Judaism and Christianity, was
very likely to draw
vast numbers of believers in both into his pale. Though he
admitted the truth of Christianity, he maihtained than it had
become excessively corrupt. In his vision he is made to
represent, that Adam, Noah, Moses, &c., begged him to
intercede with God for them; but that when he arrived in
the last heaven, and met with Jesus Christ, his style
changed, and he begged Jesus Christ to intercede for him
-thus giving to Jesus the precedence; so that it is evi-
,
'*
''||ite's fourth Sermon, p. 179.
69 _
dent from this and many other passages in the Koran,
that every Unitarian Christian, as well as some of those
of other sects, might very consistently become Mohame-
dans. He reminded the Christians that Jesus had pro..
mised to send them a comforter, and it really required no
unusual or
extraordinary degree of enthusiasm in him to
believe himself this person, or to convince others that he
was so.
'
150. The Koran constantly bears testimony to the
divine mission of Jesus, calling him the Messiah; Jesus,
the son of Mary; the sent of God; and his word which
he conveyed unto Mary; and a breath (emanation) from
himz* and insists on the miraculous circumstances of
his birth, in the same identical terms as the Christian
Evangelists.1°
151. In the following extract I perfectly accord with
Mons. Constant's description of the early ages of Moha-
medism: "Nous dirons plus: dans le cour de nos re-
cherches, un fait nous a
frappé, un fait qui s'est répété
plus d'une fois dans l'histoire. Les religions constituées,
travaillées, exploitées par les hommes, ont fait souvent
du mal. Toutes les crises réligieuses out fait du bien.
Voyez l'Arabe; brigand sans
pitié, assassin sans remords,
époux impitoyable, pere dénaturé, l'Arabe n'était qu'un
animal féroce. On peut consulter sur ses anciens moeurs
les observations critiques de Sale, a la téte de sa traduc-
tion du Coran. Les Arabes, avant Mahomet, considé-
raient les femmes comme un
propriété. Ils les traitaient
en esclaves. Ils enterraient leurs iilles vivantes. Le pro-
phete parait, et deux siecles d'héroisme, de générosité, de
dévouement, deux siecles, égaux sous plus d'un rapport
aux plus belies époques de la Grece et de Rome, laissent
dans les annales du monde une trace brillante. Nous
avons a dessein cité l'Islamisme, de toutes les réligions
modernes, la plus stationaire, et par la meme, aujourd'hui
la plus défectueuse et la plus nuisible."
f
Kam, iv. 169. 1 lbid. xix. 20.
70
-
152. When the Christian priests maintain that the doc-
trine of Mohamed was indebted solely to the sword for its
success, they evidently put the cause for the effect. The
sword is of no value without a hand to use it ; and it was
the enthusiasm of the persons who used it which gave
them the victory; and this enthusiasm was produced by a
lively faith in the truth of Mohamedls doctrine. Paradise,
instant and future happiness, and that for ever, was be-
lieved to be the lot of the true believer who fell in the
cause of the one only God, and in defence of his prophet.
How absurd, and unprofitable too, it was, then, not to
brave all dangers, secure the glorious reward, and enhance
the merit by the utility of their exertions in the cause;
particularly when it was known that the final, inevitable
lot of every man was fixed, predestinated before the crea-
tion of the world, which nothing could prevent or
delay !
In the bed or in the field, a man must die in the manner
predestined. No care, no danger, could change the ine-
vitable decree.' The contagious or epidemical nature of
enthusiasm is well known, and in Mohamed's case it
seems to have been exhibited in a
very wonderful manner.
As we have seen, the city of Medina was won before the
Prophet's~ sword was drawn; therefore to the sword the
conquest cannot be attributed. His iirst expedition con-
sisted of only thirty-eight men, a very small force with
which to begin the conquest of the world ; his second of
three hundred; and thus every battle, whether won or
lost, seems to have increased the number of. his soldiers.
It will be said that it is no uncommon thing for victory to
increase the number of a
general's soldiers. This is _very
true ; but he took no recruits into his ranks who did not
ab least profess to believe in his religion-That God was
God, and Mohamed his prophet,-a.plain, simple dogma,
certainly. not diiiicult to comprehend. or to remember.
But the enthusiasm of his followers seems tohave in-
creased with the increase of their number, andthe great.
and numerous armies of his successors had this quality,
so desirable for a
conqueror, in as really high perfection
71
as the smaller armies of the prophet himself. The case
was
evidently this; every victory gave to the preachers
of the holy religion (and every soldier was a
preacher) a
new opportunity for the exertion of his talents, and a
most favourable field to exercise them upon.
153. In addition to happiness in the life to come, li-
berty was the instant reward of the Jewish or Christian
prisoner. To the man whose freedom, by the laws of war,
had become forfeited; who, without entirely giving up his
early Jewish or Christian prejudices, could persuade him-
self to believe that Mohamed was specially ordained to
complete, not to overthrow, his religion, the miraculous
success of the Prophet and of the Crescent was a. seducing
argument. This was no miracle hid under a bushel, but
a
great and burning light, well calculated to dazzle the
eyes and understandings of the thinking, as of the unthink-
ing, part of mankind. To the young and thoughtless was
added wbate ver has been tempting to a soldier's eye-glory,
plunder, women, and, above all, success. To the settled,
peaceable fathers of families in the countries subdued,
ease and security, and the chance of a better government;
for it is evident that in the time of Mohamed very few of
the conquered countries could have had a worse. These
were among the causes which increased the numbers, but
there must have been something else which created the
enthusiasm,
'
154. A person having a
slight inclination towards the
religion of the Prophet might easily persuade himself that
in his doctrine there was
nothing repugnant to the reli-
gion of Moses or of Jesus, nothing directly at variance
with either. Moses had promised, in the Pentateuch,
that a
Prophet greater than himself would be sent by God.
So to the ten tribes of Samaria, who were at this time very
numerous, and who rejected all the other books of the
Old Testament, and who, perhaps, looked for a conquer-
ing prophet, not a spiritual Messiah, there would appear
to be no reason why Mohamed, the descendant of Ishmael,
72
should not be the man. If they asked for a miracle, the
victory of the Cresent is the answer; and the sword of
the conquering and invincible prophet the rod of Aaron,
which was giving to him the conquest of the world. With
the sect of the tribes of Judah and Benjamin he does not
appear to have been so successful as with the rest of the
tribes of Israel; for he seems to have entirely swallo_wed
up the latter. If they be not absorbed among his follow-
ers, what has become of them P Christians and Jews say
that the Samaritans were
nothing but descendants of Cu-
thite idolaters." Cuthites or Israelites, they were just as
bigoted to the law of Moses as the other two tribes, and
must have been very numerous, or
they could not have
sent out armies from time to time to iight, sometimes
with strangers, and sometimes with their brethren of
Judah.
155. After the destruction of Jerusalem, we know that
the Romans sold a
very great number of unfortunate
Jews into captivity; and we may be well assured that
the followers of Mohamed would leave no argument un-
used to bring into the pale of the Prophet the descendants
of these miserable, unoifending captives, as well as such
other of their countrymen as a state of wretcheduess laid
peculiarly open to their attacks ; not the attacks of per-
secution, not the attacks of iire and sword, but attacks of
a much more
dangerous nature-the temptation of ease,
comfort, and happiness, operating upon the exhausted
patience and the disappointed hopes of misery and woe.
°
If it be allowed that the natives of Samaria were descended from
Cuthite idolaters, the history informs us that they were taught the
law of Moses by a
priest sent by the King of Babylon for that pur-
pose, and they had become excessively numerous in the time of the
Romans. They had possessed a mo t magnificent temple on mount
Gerizim to the time of King Hircanus, who destroyed it. They sup-
posed themselves to consist of the descendants of the ten tribes, and
therefore my argument will apply to them just the same, whether they
were rcslly the descendants of the tribes or not. -
73
The experience of all ages has taught, that the blood of
the martyrs is the seed of the church ; and that the
sword and faggot never succeeded in making proselytes.
We occasionally see a Jew really converted to Chris-
tianity ; but it is seldom when he cries Old Clothes, but
when he has become possessed of half a million.
156. With the Christians, Mohamed, the messenger of
the one only true God, must have had less diiiiculty than
with the Jews. His system is built essentially upon the
Christian foundation. No Jew can become a Mohamedan
without first admitting that Jesus was a
prophet divinely
inspired by God. How much more than this is it that
the Unitarian Christian believes? It does not appear
that Mohamed believed any more, or that he required any
more to be believed by his disciples, though they might
believe almost as much more as they chose. But there is
another very striking argument, an argument of the iirst
importance, which aided him very much with the Chris-
tians, which has been recorded both by friends and foes,
but to which the latter have not paid so much attention
as it deserves. It was the universal tradition, as well as
the words of the record, the gospel histories, that Jesus,
before his ascension, promised his disciples that he would
send a person to them, in some
capacity or other; the
Greek of our
Gospels says, as a
Hapanxqfog, translated
Comforter.
157. The Mohamedans maintained, and yet maintain,
that Mohamed was this person foretold by Jesus Christ,
the same as Cyrus was by Isaiah-both by name ;-that
he was called by Jesus, not by a word which ought to be
rendered in the Greek language, as in our gospel histories,
wapawlnfac but w=p»=0~v1'°<. which means not comforter, but
famous or illustrious, and which, in Arabic, is the mean-
ing of the word Mohamed ; that the gospel of the Chris-
tians * had originally the latter of those words, but that
it was corrupted to disguise the truth. They also allege
*
John xiv. 16, 26, and xv. 26, and~ xvi. 7.
74'
that the Christians cannot deny that there are corrup-
tions, or various reading , in their present copies, and
they say that all the autographs were
destroyed to conceal
this passage. 'l`he fact of the loss of the autographs can-
not be denied, and is a fact very diiiicult satisfactorily to
account for; and as for ancient copies, there does not
exist one before the sixth century.
*
158. In reply to this it will be said, thatjit may be
proved, by passages in Tertullian and other ancient fa-
thers, that the true reading of the gospel histories was
anciently, long before the time of Mohamed, as it is now,
and, therefore, that they have not been corrupted. But
it will be necessary to shew that the works of these
ancient fathers have not been corrupted, which they may
have been. Those who would destroy the ancient ma-
nuscripts of the gospel histories, would not scruple
at rewriting a skin of parchment on which an ancient
father's work was written: and it is admitted by the Bret
divines of the Christians that they have been corrupted to
serve other purposes:1~ and those who would do it in
one case would do it in another. That the word be-
ing confessed to be Hebrew, if it be wrong written, it is
much more
likely that the early Christian writers, the
greatest liars upon earth, should lie to serve their own
purpose, than that St. John, a Hebrew, understanding
both Hebrew and Greek, (even without allowing to him
the gift of tongue ,) should have made a mistake, and
rendered the word, by wrong Greek letters, þÿKNT|'° ¬
instead
of »0~w°<-and that, therefore, it follows that the text of
John has been corrupted.
159. 'l`hey further add, that it is a well-known fact that
a person was
expected by great numbers of Christians, in
accordance with the prophecy, from a
very early period,
which shews that the construction put on the passage in
the Acts, by the Roman Church and by Protestants, was
not general. Of this, Montanus, in the second century,
*
Vide Marsh's Michaelis. 1~ Ibid. chap. ix.
75
earlier than Tertullian, furnishes an
example. He was
considered by his followers to be the promised person,
which afforded to his opponents an
opportunity for pro-
pagating the unfounded and malicious report that he pre-
tended to be the Holy Ghost. That it was to meet these
persons, particularly Montanus, that the gospel histories
were falsified, long before the time of the real true para-
clete, or
periclyte, as Mohamed, by his success, is proved
to have been. That after the time of Montanus, but long
before the time of Mohamed, Manes was also held by his
followers, whoconstituted, as Mons. Beausobre has proved,
a
great, learned, and powerful sect, to be the promised
person. These persons seem, of all others, to have been
the most likely to have understood the language in which
Jesus spoke, and they could not discover the person in
the twelve tongues of fire. But the result proved that
Manes was not the person, and that his followers were
mistaken.
160. Tbey also add, that it is perfectly clear that the
Christians might have preserved the precious' autographs,
if they had thought proper, as
easily as
they have pre-
served the relics of great numbers of the saints-the
remains- of St. John the Baptist, the Virgin, the bodies of
St. Peter, Paul, &c., all which are to be seenevery day in.
Italy., .
161. The Mohamedans, who must be heard in. this
case, will not fail to press upon the Christians that :dl
the manuscripts were destroyed- or falsified to conceal
thismistranslation; thatif they were not, why were
they.
destroyed? and the Christians will be put to no little dif-
ficulty to End a
satisfactory answer; for the fact of the-
destruotion of the manucriptscaunot be denied, as
they
do not- exist. But they~will~go further, andallege that,
taking the Christians. on; their. own ground, that a com-
forter was
promised, it is. a mere abuse of language tor
say that the appearauceof. twelve tongues of tirefcan
be this person; that, in fact, Mohamed-answers to this
person, and. that there has- never. been any one. but be-
76
who does. That the Acts of the Apostles, the book of
the Christians, itself by no means says or
implies that
the filling of the apostles with the holy spirit was the
sending of the comforter promised; and that the language
will warrant no such conclusion.
162. That at the feast of Pentecost this comforter or
paracletos is said to have come to the apostles ; but that
certainly a cloven fiery tongue settling upon each apostle,
communicating to them at that moment the power of
speaking all languages, would appear to a person whose
mind was not prejudiced by education, to be a strange
way for a
person to come; and with respect to the mere
endowment with the Holy Ghost, this could not be ne-
cessary, because it appears, from the 22d verse of the
20th chapter of John, that Jesus himself had already
endowed them with this gift a little before his ascension,
not-two months before the day of Pentecost, the time of
which we are
speaking.
163. That the book of the Acts nowhere says that these
fiery tongues, giving them the power of speaking all lan-
guages, were the promised comforter, which it would have
done if so they had been.
164. If, in answer to this, it be said that the gifts re-
lated in Matthew, and the endowment with the Holy
Ghost, recorded in the 22d verse of the 20th chapter of
John, were only temporary and were withdrawn, the
Mohamedan will reply, that this is a mere subterfuge,
not warranted by the text or context. These passages,
from the sacred book of the Christians, the' Mohamedans
have a right in argument to quote against them, though
they do not admit their authority.
165. The argument of the Mohamedans respecting the
translation of the word into wapanlwoc. instead of '"r¢0-71'°¢,
receives a
strong support from the mode adopted by St.
Jerome in the Latin Vulgate in rendering it by the Latin
word Paraclitus, instead of Paracletus. This shews that
the copy from which St. Jerome translated must have had
the word zapanxv-roc, and not 'r¢=w0»n'f°¢- This also strongly
77
supports the Mohamedan assertion relating to the de-
struction of the old manuscripts.
166. Upon the meaning of this word "="P°"0~nf°< much
diversity of opinion has arisen among divines. The cele-
brated Michaelis says,
"
Ernesti has very properly re-
marked, that it signifies neither Advocate nor Comforter;
and adds, Ego certissimum arbitror "WP"*7~'l'f°V| ubi de Spi-
ritu Sancto dicitur, nihil aliud signiticare quam doclorem,
mugistrum, divinaa veritatis interpretem. I agree with him
in his opinion of the impropriety of the common trans-
lation, though, instead of doctor or magister, I would
rather use Monitor.* The meaning which he has given
it has been adopted by many, yet his mode of demonstra-
tion is somewhat extraordinary; for, instead of attempting
to discover vrwpwwlnfvc in a classic author, and explain its
meaning from actual use, he has recourse to the verb from
which it is derived, and the assistance of a
pretended
Hebraism."
167. Respecting this word the learned and venerable
Bishop Marsh observes,
"
We have the choice, then, of
three interpretations of 'If°=P¢0nf°<- l, that of Advocate,
its classical sense, and adopted by the Greek fathers;
2, that of Interpres, given by Ernesti, and grounded on
the authority of the Chaldee word w°'7p"9, which admits
that sense,. and was. probably used by Christ himself;
3, that of Monitor, adopted by our author, on the autho-
rity of a
passage in Philo."
'
Hence it is very evident
that great uncertainty and doubt hang over the meaning
of this celebrated word, and of the nature of this mes-
senger which Jesus had promised to send. This, I think,
cannot be denied.
'
168. Of the gospel of Barnabas, Mr. Sale says, in the
preface to his translation of the Koran, p. 98, "This
book appears to be no original forgery of the Mohamed-
ans, though they have no doubt interpolated and altered
"
Mursh's Mich. chap. 4. sect. 14. p. 188. _
78
it since, the better to serve their purpose; and in par-
ticular, instead of the Paraclete, or Comforter, they have
in this apochryphal gospel inserted the word Periclyte,
that is, the famous or illustrious, by which, they pretend,
their prophet was foretold by name, that being the signi-
Ecation of Mohammed in Arabic: and this they say to
justify that passage of the Koran where Jesus Christ is for-
mally asserted to have foretold his coming under his other
name of Ahmed, which is derived from the same root as
Mohammed, and of the same import."
169. It must be confessed that the word, as written by
Bishop Marsh, and as it is almost certain that it must
have been used (as he observes) by Jesus Christ, appears
strongly to support the assertion 'of the Mohamedans, as
here stated by the very learned Mr. Sale. I am of opi-
nion that the Mohamedans have as much right to render
this word by the word Periclite or Periclyte, as the Chris-
tians have by the word Paraclete. Nay more, l maintain
that the balance of probability is on the side of the Mo-
hamedans, because the Christians cannot be justified in
rendering the Chaldee jod in the last syllable by the Greek
letters = or #1, instead of the letter #~
170. The Chaldee i or jod is the tenth letter of the
alphabet, and has the power in notation of the number
ten, and it ought, if the word is to be literally transferred
from one language into the other, to be rendered by the
letter in the Greek which stands for the number ten, and
was
originally the tenth in the alphabet before the Greeks
lost the digamma, as I have abundantly proved in my
Essay on the Celtic Druids.
171. But I go further than this, and I say that, if the
word used by Jesus was
mbpwp, Pnou-r, and that this
word does mean, as Mr. Sale says, illustrious, then that
the translation of it into the Greek word 1f¢1w0~n1'°c is
wrong (a various reading); and that all the translations
of both Bishop Marsh and Ernesti are
wrong, and that
it ought to be rendered by a term answering to the word
illustrious, which of course must be flpmkwos-
79
179. But this ought not to be translated a
paraclete, as
a-
proper name, but a name of description, as the Moha-
medans do, viz. illustrious. If this were a
Chaldee, He-
brew, or Arabic word, used by Jesus, it ought to have
the sense given to it which 'the word in those languages
means. If it be a Chaldee word derived from an Arabic
root, then it ought to be rendered in the meaning which
the Arabic root conveys, and then it would be illustrious,
or an illustrious person.
173. If my reader will turn to his Scapula he will see
that the word K>vf°c is used, for an illustrious man, both
by Homer and Hesiod. Thus, I think, there is quite
plau ibility enough in the argument of the Mohamedans
to render it no
way wonderful that there should be much
dilliculty in convincing them that they are
wrong. This
is saying the least. But I have not seen their argument
refuted.
174. The following is the passage which the Mohame-
dans say was expuuged: 24nd when Jesus, the son of
Mary, said,
"
0 children of Israel, verily, I am the apos-
tle of God sent unto you, confirming the law which was
delivered before me, and bringing good tidings of an
apos-
tle who shall come a_/Yer me, and whose name shall be
Ahmed." '*
.
175. But l have something still more to say respecting
this celebrated word Prqlit. lt is admitted by Bishop
Marsh, an authority not to be disputed, when quoted in
argument by a Mohamedan, that it is a
Syro-Chaldee
word, or an Arabic word, and not Greek. One or both
of these languages must have been spoken or at least
understood by Mohamed, and there is no reason to
believe that the Greek translation of the word would
ever become a
subject of discussion by him. What had
he to do in Arabia with Gnnnx TRANSLATIONS of the
speeches of Jesus? What ,had they to do there? Of what
"
Koran, Vol. Il. c. lxi. p. 423 and note on ditto by Sale in loc.
S0
A
use could they he to people who did not understand a 'word
of them, but who understood the original spoken by Jesus?
He would take the word as handed down to him by tra-
dition, or if written in the word named by Mr. Sale,
which meant illustrious, and he probably never inquired
any farther. How absurd to suppose that he would go
to writings in a foreign language to explain to him the
meaning of a word in his own! He received the word as
a human person, like many other sects in that day, and
would as little allow it to mean the third person of a
Trinity as the Unitarians do at this day. It is even
pos-
sible that he might receive it in the sense of illustrious,
and might never have any dispute or doubt on the subject.
176.' Thus much respecting the prophecy of Mohamed
in the New Testament. But he was also, as his follow-
ers say, foretold by name in the Old. The Reverend and
very pious Mr. Parkhurst, a most unwilling witness, on the
root gran H MA, says,
"
This word is applied to all
sorts of sacred things, both of the true and false worship,
which were to the respective parties eminently the ob-
jects of their desire and ¢#ctions. See, inter al., Hag.
ii. 7, Am! the desire of all nations shall come : mm
ZWJTI '73 |'°|r3|"I-From this root the pretended prophet
Mohammed or Mahomet had his name."
177. On this passage of Mr. Parkhurst's a Mohamedan
would exclaim,
"
Here you see, that he was
actually fore-
told by name in the Old as well as in the New Testa-
ment,-that the application of this prophecy to Jesus
Christ has, in fact, been a mistake; it was intended, as
the name shews, for the person sent by Jesus himself to
complete his mission, and referred to by him in the word
="°'7'r'7""» Luke xxiv. 49. And for this 1 have the autho-
rity of your own very celebrated divine, Parkhurst. That
it was meant for Mohamed and not for Jesus or the Holy
Ghost, the Holy Spirit or a divine iniiuence, is evident,
because it foretells the former by name. No Mohamedan
corruption of a text can be pretended here."
_
81
178. The exact time when, from ldolater, Mohamed be-
came Christian, I have not been able to discover; for it
is probable that he would be a Christian some time be-
fore he would begin to suppose himself the resoul or the
sent of God. It does not seem at all unlikely that he
should have made considerable progress in converting his
countrymen from their idolatry, before the prophecy of
the Christians led him to believe himself the person fore-
told. But when he contemplated his prospect of suc-
cess, and the striking fact that he bore the name of the
person actually said to be foretold, it does not seem un-
likely that these very circumstances should have had
much induence in confirming him in the belief of Chris/-
tianity. And the fact, that the Greek gospel histories
represented the person foretold by Jesus in a' different
manner from the oriental histories, and the general belief
of the people in his country, might be a
principal reason
for his refusing to receive them. For it must not be for-
gotten that the Montanists, one of whom was the very
celebrated apologist, Tertullian, and all the Cerinthians,
the Marcionites, the Gnostics, and the rich, splendid, and
learned sect of the Manichaeans, refused to receive the
texts alluded to in the sense in which they were received
by the Trinitarians of the Roman church. All these
people believed that the head of his sect was the
sent of God, the person promised. Tertullian did not
join the Montanists till (as is alleged by the orthodox
writers) after he published his Apology for Christianity ;
till he had all the advantage of experience, and was con-
siderably advanced in years. He did not obtain a bi-
shopric by adopting this opinion, as
Augustin did when
he quitted the Manichaeans, and who must have believed
that Mani was the Paraclete as
long as he continued with
them, viz. nine years. When St. Augustin gave up the
opinion that Mani was the Paraclete, and went over to
the Romish faith, he quitted the cell of a monk for the
palace of a
bishop; for the elect of the Manichaaans were,
in fact, monks.
G
S2
.<
179. I request my reader to place himself in imagina-
tion in the situation of, I think I have now a right to say,
this illustrious reformer-this philosophical reformer of
idolatry in the midst of idolaters, and consider what he
would see. On every side he would find himself sur-
rounded with the most base and degrading superstition.
Among the Christians scarcely any thing but idols and
the adoration of bits of rotten wood, relics, creeds and
sects innumerable, and every where civil and religious
warfare :
gospel histories in scores, among which it would
be impossible for him to make a selection : for he could
not select the four from any great pre-eminence of merit,
as, to him, they must have appeared contaminated with
the gross absurdities of demoniacs, and the passages re-
specting the temptation in 'the wilderness, and the pin-
nacle of the temple, which are now allowed to have a
very dilferent meaning from the letter of them, which was
then universally received. This is on the supposition
that he saw the four gospel histories, which is very
doubtful, and which I cannot allow to be taken for grant-
ed, without some show of prooi A few similar loose ex-
pressions in the spurious Koran cannot be admitted as
evidence, even if they should be found; nor even, as
evidence against Mohamed, an actual quotation itself
from that disputed book.
180. lt must be remembered that the sect of Nestorius
prevailed in Arabia; and 1 think, when it is considered
that this sect in the time of Mohamed received the gospel
called the Gospel of the lnfaucy of Jesus, it is very im-
probable that it should have received the Romish four, so
that it is not only very possible, but very probable, that
Mohamed never saw our four.
181. The Nestorians, at least those reconciled or united
to the Roman church, now receive the four, but it is my
opinion that the sect did not always receive tl1em.*
'
See the proceedings of the Portuguese at Goa against the Ma.
labar Christians, who were excommunicated expressly for receiving
this gospel history.
83
182. It is pretty clear that a person called in the
Asiatic languages PaaLl1' was believed by all the eastern
nations to have been foretold by Jesus, whose gospel and
prophecies appear to have been known to, and believed
by, Mohamed ; but it does not appear to be certain that
he was acquainted with the four Romish gospel histories :
therefore he probably did not know, and certainly would
not care, as it no
way concerned him, in what manner
the Greeks had translated into their language 'the eastern
word of his country, which he must understand. He
only knew that a
person was foretold, and it is no
way
surprising, under all the circumstances, that he should
fall into a belief that he was that person. It was not
absurd in him to say,
"
If I be the person foretold, like
Cyrus, God will so
dispose events and the hearts of men,
that success will crown my eiforts in the good cause in
which I am
engaged, and prove the truth of the prophecy.
If I be destined to succeed, the minds of men will be dis-
posed without miracles to receive the truth, and that
without the necessity of using force or violence." And
accordingly we iind no
burnings or
persecutions in the
beginning of Mohamedism.
183. ln this he was also probably sincere, imagining
himself, like Johanna Southcote, Baron Swedenborg,
John Wesley, and many others, to be inspired. The
words of our gospels which seem to convey the meaning
of spirit, were held by him to be corrupt.
184. I have already observed, that the way in which
the several sects declined, in a little time, was in
itself a suiiicient proof of- their mistake in supposing
their leaders to be the promised person, and they gra-
dually became extinct. Montanu has been vililied by
the orthodox priests for calling himself the Holy Spirit.
But this was a
gross misrepresentation. Although he
admitted the gospel of Jesus, he denied the authority of
our four histories, and maintained that the person pro-
mised was not a
spirit, but a human person. This was
G 2
84
the origin of the false charge against him, as has been
most satisfactorily proved by Mons. Beausobre.
185. In the same
way with Montanus, probably Mo-
hamed supposed himself to be the person promised.
Many very extraordinary circumstances united to justify
his belief. In the first place, I repeat, the word Prqlit
had the same meaning as the word Mo-Ahmed; and he
might conceive himself to be thus foretold in Haggai by
name, as
Cyrus was of old by Isaiah. Secondly, the ne-
cessity of some one to reform and correct the abuses
which had crept into Christianity and deluged the world
with blood, was sufficiently evident; and, thirdly, his suc-
cess might appear to him to prove the truth of his mission,
and lead him to exclaim, If this continue, it will continue
to prove that I am, as I believe I am, a resoul or
person
sent by God, or
pre-ordained to this service. Although
I am endowed with no supernatural powers, like Jesus,"'
the reason may be that they are not now required; he
by his miracles may have prepared the way, and the
world, if I be not mistaken, is ready for my doctrines,-
doctrines of truth, with which I Flynn that l am
inspired,
and of which feeling I only can be the judge,-doctrines
which are, in fact, nothing more than the pure, unadul-
terated doctrines of the gospel of Jesus, which have been
lost sight of by the numerous sects which are
persecuting
one another about them. If I succeed, my success
being
without the aid of miracles, the evidence will not be
liable to deterioration from the lapse of time-and uni-
versal success will be the proof of its truth.
186. Christians, to blind themselves, may turn into
ridicule as much as
they please the idea that Mohamed
was the promised person, but this will not change the
fact, that he was so considered, and is yet so
considered,
*
It must not be forgotten that the divine mission, and the truth of
the assertion that Jesus performed miracles, are admitted in almost
every page of the Koran.
as _
by one hundred and Hfty millions of persons.
`
When, as
I have read, forty thousand commentators were at work
on the Koran, it cannot be supposed that every thing
which Arabian skill and sagacity could devise, would fail
to be said. lt cannot be supposed that the subject of
the Paraclete would not
have justice done to it. lt can~
not and will not be denied, that the circumstances of the
world were, in a
very peculiar manner, favourable to the
reception of a reformer of the then corrupted religion of
Jesus; and probably hundreds of millions of those who
received Mohamed, never heard of the words in our Gos-
pels and Acts relating to the Holy Spirit; and if they
had, they would have denied their authority. But even
if they had received them, a short answer might satisfy
willing heaters: "
You say the New Testament teaches
that the spirit of truth should come. True, the spirit of
truth did come; he came in Mohamed, who was
inspired
with the spirit of truth. 'I`his is the true meaning of
your 'figurative expression, and the whole that it will
fairly bear."
A
187. Under all these circumstances, admitting even
that the meaning of this celebrated word is doubtful, it
requires no
very great stretch of imagination to believe
that a
person a little tinctured with fanaticism might readily
persuade himself that he was actually the person prophe-
sied of and sent by Jesus, as we find other persons at
different times actually imagined themselves to be the
person (some of whom suffered persecution, and were
ready to seal, and I believe actually did seal, their faith
with their blood). The life of solitude and retirement
which Mohamed led for many years, was not unlikely to
create such imaginations; and the success of his efforts,
every day opening new and unexpected objects to his
view, was not unlikely to foster and cherish them. The
climate of Arabia, and the peculiar character of its inha~
bitants, always celebrated for the liveliness of their ima-
gination and their poetical genius, strengthen the proba-
bility that the prophet himself might be the victim or
86
dupe of this hallucination. When the circumstances of
his early life, so honourable and pniseworthy, are consi-
dered, it is difiicult to believe in his subsequent
and total want of all principle, and it is also very uncan-
did and uncharitable to attribute his actions to evil mo-
tives, so
long as good ones can be consistently and with
probability pointed out.
188. I am quite certain that no unprejudiced person
can doubt the sincerity of Johanna Southcote, Emanuel
Swedenborg, and John Wesley, to whom I have already
alluded, in the profession of their divine commissions;
and if Mohamed found a
person foretold, who was de-
signated as illustrious, or the desire of all nations, and
his name had the same meaning; when he contemplated
his success in converting the chief persons of his country,
and in overthrowing its idols, can it be wondered at that
he should tum Christian and suppose himself the person
foretold? I confess, under all the circumstances, I can-
not very well see how he could help it.
189. I will venture to say, that there never has been an
instance of any individual who had more powerful reasons
for tuming Christian than were possessed by Mohamed.
He was, if the Koran may be taken as
authority, a be-
liever in the divine mission of Jesus, in the doctrines
which he preached, in his immaculate conception, in the
miracles which he performed, and in his resurrection* and
ascension.
190. However, whether the alleged prophet was the
dupe of mental delusion or not, it is very certain that
he was believed to be, and was held up by his followers
to the Christians to be, the paraclete actually promised by
Jesus; and to the millions of persons in the Asiatic na-
tions who admitted the tradition of the promise of Jesus,
but did not admit the four gospels of the Romish church,
whether corrupted or not, the argument would apply with
'
Although, like many other Christians of his day, he held that
Jesus only appeared to be crucified, but was not so in reality.
87
peculiar force. The promise was not denied, and the uti~
lity, not to say necessity, of some one to heal the dissen-
sions and put a
stop to the endless feuds and bloody
contests of the numerous sects, seemed to admit of no
doubt. Thus I think we
may fai_rly conclude that all the
sects which did not admit our
gospels, soon merged in
the followers of the paraclete of Arabia. Among these
were the Nazarenes, Ebionites, Marcionites, Manichaeans,
and all the different sects of Gnostics, as well as many
others. With the Christians who admitted the four gos-
pels there would be a little more
difticulty ; but the same
arguments which weigh with the Unitarian of this day
to prevent them from seeing the third person of the Tri-
nity in the Paraclete named in the fourteenth chapter of
John and the second of the Acts, we
may readily conceive
would very easily operate upon numbers of the wretchedly
ignorant fanatics of the seventh century, particularly
when aided by the seductive arguments of peace and
liberty.
191. No doubt all these reasons for the success and
rapid increase of Mohamedism will be produced by the
zealous Christian as a
reproach. But how could Moha-
med be to blame for this state of things? It is evident
that it was not the effect of design; it was the effect of
unforeseen circumstances. And the Mohamedan will say
that it is no reflection upon Mohamed that, when God
thought proper to inspire him to promulgate the truth to
mankind-the unity of God and a future state-he did it
in such a
way and under such circumstances as would
insuresuccess. The Christian must take care how he
uses this kind of reproach in argument ; it is a
two-edged
sword, and may cut the hand that þÿl|B ¬S
it.
192. It is a striking circumstance that the Mohamedans
do not deny that our four histories of the gospel were the
works of _the persons whose names they bear ; they only
say they have been so
corrupted by the Christian priests,
that no dependence can be placed upon them: and, un-
questionably, if a Turk were asked for an example, a
88
Christian would iind much diiiiculty in replying to him if
he produced the 7th verse cf the 5th chapter of the First
Epistle of John, the interpolation of which is demon-
strated in the works of Porson and Newton, as well as
some others, which might easily be found in White's Sy-
nopsis Griesbachiaz. ~
193. The gospel history of Barnabas, from which Mo-
hamed is said mostly to quote in the Koran,* had a very
great circulation in the East. In it the coming of Mo-
hamed is repeatedly foretold. Dr. White says it is inter-
polated to serve the purpose of Mohamed. This is pos-
sible. Nor can we be surprised at it when we find Romish
and Protestant Christians have done the same thing, with
the most unblushing elfrontery, in their sacred writings,
in both ancient and modern times.1-
194. For example: the passage of John, named above.
This impudent fraud was
probably executed by the priests
ofthe Romish church. Luther, in the Bible which he pub-
lished, omitted it, and, on his death-bed, is said to have
most earnestly requested his followers not to let it be
inserted with his name. However, this was disregarded,
and in the Bible, said in the title-page to be the work of
Luther, it is inserted by the united authority of the Lu-
theran church of Germany. Thus, if this pious fraud
was begotten by the Romish priests, it was adopted by
the Protestants, who have not been, and are not yet, less
zealous in its protection. This is only one of the thirty
thousand various readings confessed by divines to exist in
the gospels and epistles. The Codex Montfortianus, now
*
White's Sermons, notes, p. xi.
1 It is from Christian authors I learn that the quotations in the
Koran are from the gospel history of Barnabas, not from the Moha-
medans. I am by no means certain that Mohamed knew any more of
it than of the Romish gospel histories, though Othman might. I do
not think Mohamed vould have had any thing to do with so con-
temptible a performance. Persons forget the important distinction
between thc gospel or doctrine taught by Barnabas and the gospel
history supposed to have been written by him.
89
in the public library at Dublin, was forged for the express
purpose of supporting this text.""
_
195. It would be unjust to the Roman church not
to add here the fact, that a version of this epistle was
published at Rome long after the forgery, (with the Papal
authority of course,) in one of the oriental languages, in
which this passage was omitted; which shews that the
forgery might he the act of some low priests, and not of
the Papal church itself.
196. Notwithstanding the eminence both of Dr. White
and Mr. Sale, I take the liberty of saying, that I am not
convinced by their mere assertion that the gospel history
of Barnabas, such as it is, has been interpolated. Unless
they have some variation of manuscripts to plead, or
some other similar substantial reason to assign, I cannot
assent to their opinions and that they have no such rea-
son I am
justified in believing, because they have not as-
signed it. Though, of course, I am no believer in the
divine inspiration of the gospel history of Barnabas, I am
by no means certain that the prophecy was not originally
there; and I am also by no means certain that it may _not
have conduced to its own fulfilment, which has been the
case with many prophecies besides this, both of_ what
have been called sacred and profane. The diiliculty of
interpolating the gospel histories after the third century,
has been very forcibly dwelt upon by Michaelis and Bi-
shop Marsh. All the arguments against the interpolation
of our gospel histories in the third or fourth centuries,
apply with equal, indeed with greater, force against the
interpolation of the gospel of Barnabas in a much later
period-the seventh century. The later it was, the more
difficult it would evidently be.
197. 'I`his gospel was received by multitudes of Chris-
tians long before the time of Mohamed. It seems diliicult
to conceive that the learned Musselmen who swarmed in
the second century of the Hegira, should not have disco-
*
Vide Marsh's Michaelis.
_
90
vered these interpolations, if they had been as gross as
they have been represented. It seems unaccountable that,
on the revival of letters, the Romish priests should not
have discovered some old manuscripts in Greek, in Ara-
bic, Syriac, or Coptic, in which the passages alluded to
were wantingf Considering the triumphant argument
these manuscripts would have afforded to the Christians
in their controversies with the Mohamedans, it is surely
unaccountable that not even one can be produced from
the almost innumerable Christian monasteries of Greece,
Syria, Egypt, &c., &c. On behalf of the Mohamedans, I
challenge the Christian priests to produce a
single manu-
script copy of this gospel in which these passages are not
found. Copies are common in Mohamedan countries,
where there are plenty of Christian monasteries, in which
they must still be if they have not been purposely de-
stroyed.
198. To the diH'erent sects of Christian religionists, I
think we may look for the recruits to the armies of the
prophet; and in the circumstance that they would not
be serving like mere soldiers of fortune, for pay, but
men
actually engaged by principle in his cause, we shall
not look in vain for the reason of the enthusiasm by which
they were actuated. If many, as would certainly be the
case, were lukewarm at first, fanaticism would not be long
before it would convert them heartily to the cause. No-
thing is more infectious than fanaticism; and in this case
it would be aided by the doctrines of fate and predestina-
tion, and by a variety of elf-interested motives, which
are so obvious that.it is unnece sary to point them ont.
199. To the reasons which the reader has seen for the
rapid propagation and success of Mohamedism, may be
added the total abstinence in its followers of persecution,
at least as far as concerned Jews and Christians. As the
Rev. Mr. Robinson has said,
"
Jews and Christians all
lived happily among them." This will surprise Christians
at this day very much, but it is nevertheless true. The
enlightened subjects of the caliphs persecuted none; and
9]
had their empire continued, instead of having been over-
thrown by the Turks, then in a state of barbarism, and
had extended to European Greece, I have no doubt that
the same eifect would have been produced as that which
was
produced in Persia, Arabia, and most parts of Asia
and Africa. Scarcely a Christian would have been left at
this day. Mere barbarism may be thought insuiiicient to
account for the excessive hatred of the modern Turks to
the Christians. I have no doubt that their bigotry and
their hatred of the Christians were in a great measure
caused by the bigotry and the hatred of the Christians
towards them--by the Crusades, the expulsion of all the
Moriscoes of Spain whom the Christians were unable to
murder, and by the perpetual piracies of the pious knights
of Malta. What would the Christians have said if, the
'I`urks had expelled all the inhabitants of Greece when
they took Constantinople, as the Christians expelled the
Moriscoes from Spain, instead of leaving them in posses-
sion of their lands, houses, patriarchs, bishops, priests,
churches, and monasteries? To these causes, joined to
excessive ignorance, may be attributed the difference be-
tween the Turks and their precursors, the Saracens ; and
to the persecuting spirit generated by these causes may
be attributed the fact of the existence of a
single Chris-
tian in Greece. It is this spirit of intolerance which is
increasing the members of the Roman church in Ireland,
and has prevented the propagation of Mohamedism in
Greece.
200. The tolerant spirit of the caliphs appears to be
strictly accordant with that of Mohamed, as may be seen
in the following passage, in which enough escapes to shew
to an
impartial person the true character of the prophet:
coming from Mr. Sale, it is the admission of an
unwilling
witness :-" Hitherto, Mahomet had propagated his reli-
gion by fair means, so that the whole success of his enter-
prise, before his ilight to Medina, must be attributed to
persuasion only, and not to compulsion. For, before this
91;
92
second oath of.fealty or
inauguration at Al Akaba,* he had
no permission to use
any force at all; and in several
places of the Koran, which he pretended were revealed
during his stay at Mecca, he declares his business was
only to preach and admonish ; that he had no authority
to compel any person to embrace his religion; and that
whether people believed or not, was not his concern, but
belonged only to God. And he was so far from allowing
his followers to use force, that he exhorted them to bear
patiently those injuries which were oEered them on ac-
count of their faith; and, when persecuted himself, chose
rather to quit the place of his birth, and retire to Medina,
than to make any resistance." 1*
901. Besides the Koran, the Mohamedans have a col-
lection of what were said to be the sayings of the prophet
remembered by his followers after his death, and forming
thirty books, which is called the Sonnab. To this much
respect is paid, but it is not considered equal to the Ko-
ran. 1 have never seen it, but I presume it contains
nothing prejudicial to Mohamed or his religion, as Dean
Prideaux, though he notices the work, does not notice
any thing of that kind. Though this may constitute pre-
sent Islamism, it evidently no
way concerns Mohamed.
'I`he author of these books was called Al Bochari; he
died A. D. 869. It does not appear to me that any one
of the authors from whom our modern historians have
drawn their information, lived earlier than about two hun-
dred years after the death of Mohamed. There seems
not to be one
contemporary author. Even the Sonnah
was not compiled till about two hundred years after Mo-
hamed. Under these circumstances, how little of what
our bigoted historians have written can be depended on !
Abulfeda, who died A. D. 1345, appears to be the best of
*
This alludes to an oath which, it is said, he exacted from a depu-
tation of proselytes from Medina, that they should be faithful to him
and protect him from his enemies.-Sayle, Pref., p. 63.
1- Pref., p. 64.
93
them, yet his work, in retailing the contemptible stories
of prodigies which took place on the birth of the prophet,
betrays his own
absurdly credulous character.*
202. Severe censures have been passed on several of
the laws of Moses which appear to us to be trifling or
cruel; but in various instances a more accurate know-
ledge of the circumstances under which they were ordain-
ed has taught us that these censures were
unjust, or has
furnished a reasonable apology for these laws; and this,
combined with a consideration of the general character of
Moses and of his laws, seems to raise a fair presumption
that, were We
equally informed respecting the other laws
alluded to of the same kind, we should always find some
satisfactory reasons for his conduct.
903. Thus with respect to Mohamed, satisfactory rea-
sons may be assigned for laws which appear cruel, unjust,
impolitic, or too lenient. For instance: though murder
is forbidden, under the severest penalties to be indicted
in the next life, yet a murder is allowed by the Koran to
be compounded for on payment of such sum as
may be
agreed on betwixt the murderer and the next of kin, and
the giving freedom to a Musselman captive. The object
of this was to prevent the private wars which had hitherto
taken place among the Arabs to avenge murder, by
which, at times, vhole tribes were
destroyed.'|~
204. Thus, when an
enlarged view is taken of the con-
duct of Moses, and of Mahomed, or the writer of the Ko-
ran, they are often even in very doubtful cases found to be
justified. This Christian bigots can allow to be just with
respect to the former, but with respect to the latter they
iix upon some
particular point without regarding the con-
text, the reason, or the circumstances, and thus indulge
their malice for the glory of God. But they are edu-
cated in an habitual hatred of what they believe to be an
imposture, and become blinded by prejudice to their own
injustice! But the ultra pious people, those described
in modern cant as warmed with "
a live coal from off
'
Abulfeda, p. 112. -f~ Sayle, Prel., sect. vi. p. 185.
94
the altar," never reason. They seem to be incapable of
reasoning.
205. Much diversity of opinion has arisen on the ques-
tion whether Mohamed could or could not Write. I am
of opinion, with the Oxonian Professor, Dr. White, that
the adirmative of this question is probable. And I believe
the contrary has been asserted by the compiler of the
Sonnah, and some others of the early and most bigoted
of his followers, merely for the sake 'of making a miracle
out of his ignorance. One of the authors quoted by
Prideaux and the Oxford Professor, was called Jannabi
or Gennabi; he states the Koran to contain sixty thou~
sand miracles. Although some
passages of the Koran
state that Mohamed could not write, there are others
which are in direct contradiction to this. In the 39th chap.
of the Koran, Mohamed introduces God thus addressing
him: "
Thou couldest not read any book before this;
neither couldest thou write it with thy right hand ; for
then had the gainsayers justly doubted of the divine
origin thereof." Although it is said here that he could
write, it is attributed to a miracle. In several places of
the Koran be is called the illiterate prophet.
206. In one
part of the Sonnah he is also said to have
written occasionally. Professor White says,
"
On this
was founded (alluding to Mohamedls ignorancej the most
popular and prevailing argument for the truth of that
revelation which he professed to communicate, to the
world. The elegant style of that revelation, the harmony
of its sentences, and the sublimity of its conceptions, were
universally acknowledged. Was it not then absurd to
imagine, (as the impostor specially argued,) that a work
of such extraordinary beauty and excellence could ever
have been composed by a man who was destitute of
every species of acquired knowledge, and who, by his
ignorance even of the common rudiments of early educa-
tion, had been precluded from the perusal of books and
the use of writing ?"*
°
Sermon IV.
95
207. Again he says,
"
We will not detract from the real
merit of the Koran ; we allow it to be generally elegant,
and often sublime."
208. This is confirmed by Prideaux, if indeed it benot
_copied from Prideaux, who says,
"
It must be allowed
that the Alcoran is, as to the style and language, the
standard of elegaucy in the Arab tongue."*
209. In these arguments of Drs. White and Prideaux,
they assume that the Koran was Mohanxed's as in its
present state. Although I agree with them in the con-
clusion they draw, I cannot admit this assumption. They
forget that the doctrines taught by Mohamed are not
necessarily the same as those in the books. Supposing
them beautiful when delivered by Mohamed, how absurd
is it to imagine that this beauty should continue when
edited by Othman, and made out from the memories of
the faithful after the lapse of twenty years ! This would
be a miracle. Dr. White seems to make a
strange mis-
take in his argument. What he puts in the mouth of the
impostor, as he calls him, he ought to have put into the
mouth of his followers, who lived after the publication of
the Work. The argument which is found in the work, is
a
proof that it is none of Mohamed's.
210. I have as much difficulty to believe in the extreme
ignorance of the Koreish, the inhabitants of Mecca, as I
have to believe in the ignorance of their prophet. Speak-
ing of the language of the Arabians, of whom the tribe of
Mohamed was the most distinguished, Dr. White says,
"
And if we look back for many ages on the history of
the Arabians, we shall easily perceive that pride among
them to have consisted in the knowledge and improve-
ment of their native language. The Arabic, which has
been justly esteemed the most copious of the Eastern
tongues ; which had existed from the remotest antiquity;
which had been embellished by numberless poets, and
refined by the constant exercise of the natives, was the
most successful instrument which Mahomed employed in
planting his new
religion among them." 1'
'
Prid. Hint. p. 29. 1- Sermon VI.
96
E21 I.
"
The superior degree of refinementsvhich the tribe
of Koreish had introduced into their language, arose from
various causes; from their distinguished rank as guar-
dians of the Temple of Mecca; from their situation, al-
most in the centre of Arabia, which precluded them from
such an intercourse with foreigners as
might have cor-
rupted their language; and, above all, by the continual
resort of the several tribes to Mecca, which gave them an
opportunity of selecting from their discourse and compo-
sitions such words and expressions as
they deemed most
elegant, and thus gradually of transfusing the various
beauties of the whole language into their dialect." V*
219. It is ditiicult to believe that a tribe like the
Koreish, taking such care about their language as is
shewn above, can have been in the state of ignorance here
represented-to have been most of them unable to write.
If we admit that Mohamed left various tracts of some
kind or other behind him, yet, after admitting, what can-
not be denied, that they were passed twice through the
crucible, once by Abubeker, and a second time, twenty
years afterward, by the Caliph Othman, they surely can
no longer be called his; as well might we take a golden
cup out of which he had drank, and after twice sending it
to the goldsmith's, and melting it into the form of a
soup
ladle, call it his ladle.
2l3. It is allowed to contain many very foolish things
-things very much out of character with the general
conduct of the prophet's early life, besides many passages
utterly inconsistent with one another. This does not
look like the work of one original compositor, but much
more like what we
might have expected from the history
of the Koran and its two publications, by Abubeker and
Othman. But though the matter of it is discordant and
inconsistent with itself, yet the style is uniformly elegant.
214. This is again what we must have expected. If it
had been the work of Mohamed, interpolated and cor-
rupted merely, the style would not have been uniform
'*
White, Note on Sermon VI.
97
.
as it isfound, but in many parts the corruptions would
have been apparent. But if it were
entirely re-written,
redacted by Othman, it might, and most likely would, be
what we find it. The habits and language of his tribe
would probably give him elegance of style. Let us sup-
pose the Duke of Wellington, whose general talents no
one will dispute, when engaged in his Spanish war, to
have found it necessary to write or
compose, and materi-
ally alter, a
gospel from those we have at present, the
pages and heading of the chapters being destroyed, and
the gospels themselves being in confusion, and reduced
into short scraps or treatises. I think we should find he
would produce something like the Koran-a work con-
taining contradictions and tautologies, but, (if his Grace
had been accustomed to keep the best company, and talk
the most elegant dialect of his country), like the Koran,
we should iind in it one uniform style and the most ele-
gant language.
`
215. ln our endeavours to discover what really was the
character of Mohamed, and what were his doctrines, we
must recollect that, though he was a Christian, with mul-
titudes of other Christians, on account of corruptions, he
rejected the four Gospels, the Acts, and the Epistles,"
and that we have no reason to believe that he was in any
sense what may be called the author of the Koran. If he
did leave any papers in a box, a very questionable matter,
it is inferring rather too much, after knowing, as we have
seen above, that they have been twice through the alchy,
mical fires of Abubeker and Othman, to attribute any
particular dogma of them to him, which may be to his
disadvantage. Seeing that we know much respecting
him that is good and excellent, we shall be acting very
unjustly to receive any thing against him from the pages
of this double-distilled fabrication of two such men as
°
The Christian must not forget that the truth of his religion does
not depend upon the Gospels, the Acts, or the Epistles. If it be tnie,
it was true after the death of Jesus and before they were written. It
would have been equally true if they had never been written at all.
H
98
Othman and Abubeker,-men, though, perhaps, versed
in the poetry and literature of their country, yet deeply
tainted with the superstitious of the age in which they
lived. That the Koran contains much that is excellent,
and in character with what we certainly know of the early
part of Mohamed's life, cannot_be denied; and though it be
not in our power with any certainty to pitch upon any
particular passages, and say, This passage or that is from
him, yet we are bound to give him credit for much of the
excellent moral doctrine which it contains. Suppose, for
the sake of argument, that the Gospel histories were to
be proved spurious,* yet if I believed Jesus Christ to have
lived, and the general character of his life to have been
as it is represented to us in them, I should be obliged to
believe that the moral doctrines which I find in them ac-
cordant with his character, were what he taught. And if
I found any thing in them disgraceful to him, and not
accordant to his general character, I should disbelieve it.
216. It has been said that we have no right to assume
that the Caliph Othman would make any material altera-
tions, since it is reported that he only called in the copies
to correct them from the papers in the box, as they had
got corrupted by transcribers. But it is asserted that he
went to the box for this purpose.'|~ Why did he not go
to .the ,copy in the mosque at Medina, lying on the very
desk, where Abubeker had placed it, in the sight of Oth-
man himself?-thevcopy which could not have been cor-
rupted, except it were corrupted by the two preceding
caliphs. This copy, in the space of the twenty-two years,
could neither be corrupted by transcribers nor rotted by
time. The case is evident. Something must be added,
or something must be subtracted, to make the book speak
°
The reader will recollect that proving the spuriousness of the
Gospel histories does not of itself necessarily prove them false; they
may be forgeries and yet true; They may be true, though not writ-
ten by Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. A
-
1- It must not be forgotten that in the first instance these papers
were obliged to be helped out bythe memories of the faithful. They
could not have been much improved by the lapse of'twenty years.
N
Mai?
triumphant empire of the caliphs, and a
plausible pre
tence must be found to enable the govemment to make
the alteration
217 After Mohamed had made some progress in the
conversion of his countrymen from their idolatry, it is
not at all surprising that he should have been seduced (lf
it be determined that his actions prove the charge) into
an
opinion that the end for winch a thing is
done, in cer
tam cases, will justify the means by winch it is done
When he was copymg, as the priests say, and asl believe,
the Christian morality, that is, the morality of his own
adopted religion, it is not surprising that he should also
have fallen into this pernicious error, which has been
acted on
by the Christian priests in every age. In the
early times of the church of Christ, and, I have little doubt,
of the religion of Mohamed, the doctrine of the end sanc-
tifyin the means was
universally held and defended, 5
practisedf;i'n_the_case fifth;-:`d§ Egen Qrotius defendedA
99
a
language suitable to the existing circumstances of the
L
'°_"`C
E. za it then be a mattm' of surprise if Mohamed per-
suaded himself that the security of the worship of the one
true God was identilied with his possession of the sove-
reign power, freely bestowed upon him both by the inha-
bitants of Medina, and by all the great mass of people
who had deserted the worship of idols, or the equally de-
grading and absurd sectarian doctrines of the Christians,
to join his standard P And in the carrying on of wars and
the causing of bloodshed, the good intention would not
fail, as in the wars of the Christians, to justify the means ;
and holy as well as leamed casuits have never in either
party' been found wanting to excuse them. Though it is
impossible to defend misconduct in Mohamed by miscon-
duct in Christians, yet it is impossible to be blind to the
base hypocrisy of the latter, who pretend to condemn in
their opponents that conduct of which they themselves are
guilty.
'
i
218. Mr. Gibbon has observed,
"
that the manners of
the first four caliphs were alike pure and exemplary; that
their zeal was fervent, and probably sincere; and that,
100
in the midst of riches and power, their lives were devoted
to the practice of moral and religious duties."* These
were the men who formed the first of the congregation of
the Prophet; who came over to his cause before he had
possessed power, or had drawn the sword; when he was
the victim of persecution, and obliged to Bee his country to
avoid assas ination. Their early conversion proves their
sincerity, and their conquests over the empires of the
world prove the superiority of their talents.
219. Now, can
any one believe that men like these
would have attached themselves most enthusiastically,
and have suffered banishment from their country and
persecution, for the sake of a man disgraced by every vice,
and for the sake of a
system of fraud and imposture of the
grossest nature, and directly contrary to the prejudices of
their education and early life? It cannot be believed;
it is contrary, to all probability.
220. With men like these, probably-indeed, I may say
certainly-the pernicious principle of the end sanctifying
the means would justify equally the conquest of the em-
pires of the enemies of God, and the redaction and im-
provement of the Koran, to make it what the premature
death of the prophet had denied to him. And the me-
mories of the faithful-superannuated devotees-would
enable them to make it whatever their' inclinaikn
prompted.
291. That these men were sincere disciples of Moha-
med cannot be doubted.
'
That they were in a
very con-
siderable degree conversant with the poetry and literature
of the Koreish, the most elegant of the Arabians, can
admit but of as little doubt; and when the belief of such
men as Locke and Newton in demons, Sir Matthew Hale
in witchcraft, and the inost enlightened of the Romish
Church in Transubstantiation, is considered, how can
we be surprised that the first caliphs should be tainted
with superstition, or should have thought that there was
no more harm in indulging some of the ancient prejudices
of their countrymen in their renovated Koran, than the
*
Gibbon, chap. l. p. 260, 4to.
101
Christians before them had thought existed in adopting
the Heathen festivals, &c., into the religion of Jesu ?
On- these grounds, and on no other, can I account for the
conduct of the first caliphs, or render it consistent with
probability, the present state of the Koran, and the undis-
puted facts relating to it. Thus, as we might have ex-
pected, we find in many parts 'of it very absurd and
superstitious ideas, but we find them clothed in the most
elegant language of Arabia, and intermixed with the
purest morality and the most sublime ideas of the Deity
which the poetical imaginations of oriental poets could
furnish. Probably the world cannot produce 'finer or
more sublime passages than are to be found in the
Koran.
`
922. Nothing has been more common than for Chris-
tians in all ages to fancy themselves endowed with the
gifts of the Holy Spirit : moved by the Spirit, as the So-
ciety of Friends calls it. What this motion was it is not
very easy correctly to describe, because different persons
probably ascribed to the word different
meanings. It is
not very improbable that Mohamed might really believe
that he had an internal divine sensation, similar in some
respects to the above. This, all his followers tell us,
he pretended -to_ have, and upon this Michaelis maintains
that the whole of Mohamedism is grounded* And he
argues against the pretensions of the Christians to this
endowment, gift, or whatever it may be called, because,
as he justly observes, it will prove the truth of Moha-
medism as well, if admitted, as of Christianity. No per-
son can deny that a man possesses this gift when he
claims it, because no man can be a
judge of it but him-
self. I do not think it impossible that Mohamed believed
that he possessed this gift. Pious and good Christians
believe themselves possessed of it every day.
923. It is evident, I think, that Mohamed may be
placed under one or other of three classes of men. He
may have been a
philosopher, like Socrates or
Pythago-
.ras ; or a fanatic, like John Wesley, Brothers, or South~
*
Marsh's Mich. chap. iii. sect. ii. and note, p. 382.
102
`
cote; or merely an impostor. Of the last, I think, I may
fairly assume that I have already disposed. There is no
probability that he deserved to be called an impostor in
any sense of the word. ,To decide his character in the
other respects will be much more difficult. He may have
been a fanatic or a
philosopher, or a combination of the
two. If we believe the stories of his fancied revelation
from heaven, and his visions, we must undoubtedly give
him the character of a fanatic; but I am
by no means
satisfied that he ever pretended to any such thing. It
does not seem to me
likely that men of the high rank and
talents of his chief and most early associates would have
joined themselves, and have gone into exile, with a man
labouring under a mental hallucination of this kind ; and
yet his seclusion from society for many years seems to
shew a tendency this way. Perhaps this seclusion may
have been much exaggerated. It must be .recollected that
at the time be was said to be living this ascetic life, we
have no reason to believe that he neglected the duties of
society or his family, which was numerous, and, of course,
would require constant attention. We have several ex-
amples of the union in the same character of fanaticism
and philosophy. Priestley was a most amiable man and
a
great philosopher; but I think no
person can acquit
him entirely of fanaticism who reads his letters to Gibbon.
His friends will say it was only zeal. This i but another
name for fanaticism.
224. Wesley was a learned man and a
good man, but
his fancied visions and revelations put his fanaticism out
of all doubt.
225. After circumstances had raised Mohamed to a
considerable degree of eminence, it seems not unlikely
that the accidental coincidence of name in the prophecy
of the gospel of Barnabas (the gospel chiefly received by
the Christians in his country) with his name, and that of
the prophet Haggai, should have led him to believe that
he was the person prophesied of, as Cyrus was of old by
Isaiah. Nor do I think it unlikely that this should have
caused in his character an
union of philosophy and fana-
103
ticism. When he contemplated his success and future
prospects, if he were (as cannot be doubted) a believer in
the gospel of Barnabas, I_can find no
diiiiculty in sup-
posing that he sincerely believed himself to be the person
referred to in the prophecy. Nor does it follow, in be-
lieving that he was a sent of God, that he should believe
that he was any thing superior to a mere man, to the
Messiah Cyrus, that was prophesied of by name in the
book of Isaiah. A simple belief of this kind surely can-
not by the consistent Christian be called fanaticism at
all. Why should not he be prophesied of or foretold as
well as
Cyrus? Can any one read the account of the
state of Christianity in his time, as
truly described by Dr.
White, and deny that the church of God was in as
great
want of a reformer as it was in the time of Cyrus of a
deliverer ?
226. I recollect no fanaticism or even religion which
has not been either clogged with monstrous absurdities,
or with extreme complication, or with both. But of all
the established religions which I have ever read of, that
of Mohamed is at once the most simple and the most
philosophical, and in its original purity the least clogged
with diiiiculties of any kind. Nothing can he more sim-
ple than its creed or confession of faith-God L9 God,
and Mohamed is his prop/'wt (i. e. his messenger or
preacher, resoul, sent of God). A man
may believe every
dogma of every religion in the world, provided he believe
nothing contrary to the moral attributes of God, and yet
he may be a Mohamedan. According to the Koran, he
may practise almost any form and ceremony of other re-
ligions, provided he be only not an idolateraud yet be a
Mohamedan. This looks not like fanaticism alone. Fana-
ticism multiplies its creeds, narrows its gates, excludes
asmany as possible from the mansions only worthy of its
superior excellence: but philosophy reduces .them in
number, and throws open its gates as wide as possible to
all comers.
I
_
227. For all these reasons I am
strongly inclined to
think that in' .the character of this celebrated man may be
_
104
found the union of fanaticism and philosophy, which,
under favourable auspices, produced the Mohamedan re-
ligion, the child not of preconcerted design, but of acci-
dent and circumstance : the origin of most religions.
228. I now
beg my reader, if he be endowed with a
particle of charity, to consider the character of Mohamed
coolly and without prejudice ; and if he do this, I am
quite certain he will perceive that he has no ground to
suppo e 'that this great man considered himself inspired
in any other manner than the learned and virtuous, how-
ever mistaken, John Wesley considered himself, or than
as many individuals of the Society of Friends consider
themselves to be every day, and that therefore he has no
just ground to call him an impostor.
929. The Mohamedan religion has changed like the
Christian, and as all religions have
phanged in long pe-
riods of time ; for the Christians are no
longer what
they were five hundred years ago :
they are not now em-
ployed in casting out devils and burning witches and un-
happy heretics. They no longer, with St. Athanasius, or
at least very few of them, send all the heathen to hell for
having been born in countries where the name of Jesus
was never heard. These considerations, I hope, will in-
duce them to make allowance for the intolerance of a race
who, in consequence of bad governments, have fallen into
a. state of barbarism-a race who were once in a state of
high refinement, when Europe was buried in darkness
and ignorance. Christians I hope will recollect that in-
tolerance begets intolerance, and though this may be ex-
cused in the ignorant barbarian, there is no excuse for it
in those who claim the merit of~ civilization and philan-
thropy.
280. When I contemplate the monstrous absurdities
believed by Christian sects, Methodists, Calvinists, Rant-
ers, Jumpers, &c., &c., I am not much surprised that our
priests should have trembled for their hierarchy, their
tithes, &c., at the more rational system of Mohamed, and
have had recourse to the falsities and misrepresentations
which I have exposed, to keep it from being fairly seen
I
105 -
by their followers. My surprise is still less excited when
Iiind in the nineteenth century a talented and learned
man going over to the Mohamedan faith. The celebrated
traveller Buckhardt, who was educated at the university
of Cambridge, after the most careful inquiry and mature
deliberation, tumed Mohamedan, and, amidst the circle
of his Christian friends, died one. It appears that he
was instructed in the Mohamedan faith, and converted to
it by a learned eifendi at Aleppo,* and that he there pub-
licly professed it, and underwent a close examination
into his faith and his knowledge of the Mohamedan te-
nets near Mecca, when he performed his pilgrimage to
that place, in consequence of which he ever after claimed
the title of Hadji.T His conversion seems to have been
sincere, though generally, I think, concealed from his
Christian friends.
231. I have the pleasure to be acquainted with a
gen-
tleman who now
(May, 1829) holds a
responsible situa-
tion under the British government, but whose name I
have not authority to give, who told me he was present
with Buckhardt a very little time before he died, when
he was gravely assured by him, that he really was a Mo-
hamedan, and would die one. His anonymous biogra-
pher, in his posthumous work, gives an account of his
death, but carefully avoids saying a word on the subject
of his religion. He probably knew that if the truth
came out, the sale of his book would be ruined by the ca-
lumnies of the priests. But one sentence escapes which
is sudicient to confirm what I have said.1 " He died at
a quarter before twelve the same night, without a groan.
The funeral, AS HE nnsuuan, was Mounmnnan, con-
ducted with all proper regard to the respectable rank
which he held in the eyes of the natives." If he were
really a Mohamedan, it yvas natural for him to desire to
he buried according to the Mohamedan law, and certainly
*
Buckhardt's Post. Travels, Pref. p. xli.
-~ lbid. p. lviii. I lbid. p. kcxxix.
1
106
if the Christians had not complied with the request, the
government would have compelled them to do it. It was
not likely that it should permit the Christians to defraud
the M usselmans of the honour of such a
proselyte. But
it is evident that they left him without reserve under the
care of the British Consul and in the hands of his coun-
trymen, who had the fullest opportunity of exercising
their abilities for his re-conversion. He seems to have
had no interest to prejudice him in favour of Mohamed-
ism, but on the contrary, he thought it necessary to con-
ceal it from his Christian employers, from whom he re-
ceived his support.
282. If his biographer may be credited, he appears to
have been a man of the highest principle and most excel-
lent character. Among other amiable traits recorded of
this APOSTATE l.Nr|n1zL, as he will becalled, he reduced
himself .to absolute and complete poverty, by giving up
his patrimonial inheritance, £l000, for the maintenance
of his mother.
233, The confidence which the Mohamedans have
always shewn in the justice of their own cause, as close
examination must convince any one, is very remarkable.
I refer my reader to the case detailed above of the Mogul
in India,-of the mode in which they have always tole-
rated the Christian religion in Greece and the other coun-
tries which they conquered; and, lastly, to the fact taking
place at this time, that the Grand Seignior and the Pasha
of Egypt have sent great numbers of their young men to
be educated in London and Paris without exhibiting any
fear of their principles of religion being shaken.
234. I have been told, by very good authority, that the
son of Ibrahim, the grandchild and heir of the present
Pasha of Egypt, is shortly coming to Paris for education.
235. A young Egyptian, who has been sent to this
country for his education by the Pasha of Egypt, and is
evidently meant for a prime minister of that country,
with whom I have the pleasure to be acquainted, told me
that a
gentleman had been talking to him on the subject
|07
of his religion, telling him that he would certainlybe
damned if he did not change it and become Christian;
and he asked me my opinion-to which I replied,
"
I can_
give no opinion till I know something about the religion
which you profess. Does your religion teach you to
adore one God with profound reverence and resignation
to his divine will; to expect a state of happiness in a
future life if you conduct yourself well in this? Does it
teach you to be just in all your dealings ; to do to others
as you would wish others to do to you ?" He replied,
"
All
these things it teaches." "
Then," I rejoined,
"
remain in
the religion of your ancestors. Be assured that God will
never damn you for an opinion-a point #fait/1, which
must always be a matter of necessity, not of choice ; for a
man cannot choose to believe or not to believe; therefore,
faith can never be a subject of merit, or proper object of
punishment or reward._ I think you have too much sense
ever to believe that a doctrine contrary to the moral at-
tributes of God, like the doctrine of damnation, which
these gentlemen teach, can be true. For, as one of our
most eminent divines, the Rev. Dr. Sykes, has said, no-
thing can be believed contrary to the moral attributes of
God, even though it were enforced by miracles them-q
selves. No person, whose mind has not been corrupted
by education, can doubt the truth of the Hindoo doctrine,
that God is equally present with the pious Jew in the
synagogue, the Christian in the church, the Mohamedan
in the mosque, and the Brahmin in the temple. Those
who wish you to enter upon the question of the truth of
Christianity, I have no doubt are actuated by the best
intentions, but they have very little knowledge of the
subject on which they advise you. When they have read
the essays of two or three writers on the Christian side,
they fancy that they understand the question, without ever
reading the works which have been written against it, so
that, in fact, they are less likely to understand it than if
they had not read at all.-In addition to this, what will they
make of the book of Genesis, respecting the translation of
108
which no two sects, or
scarcely any two persons, have
ever agreed, and which is essential to their religion? If
you mean to understand the question of the truth of the
Christian religion, you must first acquire aiconsiderable
knowledge of Latin, Greek, and, above all, of Hebrew, with-
out some knowledge of the last of _which it is ridiculous
to pretend yourself to form an opinion. After you have
acquired this you must prepare yourself for many hours'
daily study, for several years together, before you can be
master of the subject. If you are not prepared for all
this, be assured that you have not_the least chance of
being able to form a correct opinion upon the ground of
evidence. Therefore, I repeat, if you feel that this proba-
tion is not in your power, place your reliance on the
goodness and justice of your Creator who will never act
unjustly or require any thing unreasonable, and remain
content with the religion of your ancestors."
236. My amiable young friend told me he was
quite
satisfied that my advice was good, and I have no doubt
that he will follow it; and I Hatter myself with the hope,
that some day as primesminister under the command of
Ibrahim, he will restore his interesting country to the
prosperity which it formerly enjoyed under its caliphs.
937. Although this anecdote may be said not to relate
to Mohamed, I have thought that I could not do better
than conclude my Essay by making known the fact so
full of promise for the inhabitants of the oriental coun-
tries, that the present great sovereigns of Constantinople
and Egypt are sending their young men to the West for
education, a circumstance which opens a most Hattering
prospect of improvement to the countries which they
govern, and must give great pleasure to every liberal and
philanthropic mind.
FINIB.
G. SMALLFIELD PRINTER HACKBEY
APPENDIX.
IN the Classical Journal, Vol. XXXVII. p. 227, isthe following
passage:
"
The reply of the Mufti was as follows-' That the utterance of
opinions contrary to Mohamedanism was not necessarily to be re-
garded as blasphemy, or as of the nature of a crime: that since the
Sultan had permitted to his Christian subjects, without any qualifica-
tion, the free profession of their religious belief, they were no more
blameable in promulgating that belief through the medium of the
press, than through that of the pulpit: finally, that it was not diver-
sity of opinion, but the commission of public scandal, that rendered
individuals obnoxious to the penalties of the law."'
The above is the deliberate opinion, given at Constantinople, in
the seventeenth century, by the highest Doctor of the Mohamedan
law-the head Mufti, who answers to our Lord Chancellor. Let
this be contrasted with the laws which existed a very few years ago
in England, and particularly in Ireland, against Papists and Popish
recusants; and I am
quite certain that every candid person must
grant the palm of liberality to the barbarian Turk. Here we see the
same system of toleration and the same absence of all fear of discus-
sion exhibited in Constantinople as we have before seen exhibited in
India bythe Mogul.-The author discovered the above passage after
the Essay was printed.
